
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 90 ' THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22,2007 

SMC sets new residency requirement 
By KATIE KOHLER 
Assistant News Editor 
The President's Cabinet announced a resolution at Tuesday's Board of Governance (BOG) meeting that will require Saint Mary's students to live on campus for six semesters -a change that will go into effect for the incoming class of 2011, but will not impact current stu­dents. 
After several meetings, the President's Cabinet-an adviso­ry council of eight high-ranking members of the administration, including College President Carol Ann Mooney and Acting Vice President Jill Vihtelic ­decided to solidify the identity of Saint Mary's residential life. 
"The President's Cabinet made the decision to clarify its position on what a residential college should be by clarifying the resi­dential requirement for our col­lege," said Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson, a member of the Cabinet. 
The residency program will have exceptions for transfer students and students abroad, as well as local students. Those who permanently reside within a 30-mile radius and choose to live at home will not be subject­ed to the requirements. 
Prior to the passing of the res­olution, Saint Mary's had no res­idential requirements for its stu­dents. 
Johnson said residential life is an important aspect of the col­lege experience and encourag­ing it formally will be a positive change for Saint Mary's. 
"Students who are active par­ticipants in the college environ­ment, and who live on campus, have been shown to be more successful -both academically and co-curricularly," she said. "Students who are engaged in their campus community are more engaged in their academic life." 
Since the resolution does not affect the current student popu­lation, Johnson said no student input was taken into considera­tion during the decision-making process. 
Student board members at Tuesday's BOG meeting did not greet the decision warmly after Johnson announced the Cabinet's resolution. 
BOG admissions commission­
. er, junior Annie Davis, said the imposition would not be well received by the student body. "I-completely agree with the notion that the residence halls are a large part of the college experience," she said. "I would encourage students to stay on 
see SMC/page 4 

Students 'touch tiny lives' in Lesotho 
Senior co-founds organization to aid Africans in fight against HIV/AIDS 
country. 
During his time in Lesotho, Storen regularly took children into his home, making it the headquarters for a safe home and outreach pro­gram. After helping a sin­gle sick child, TTL has grown into a coalition that helps up to 90 chil­dren at a time in Lesotho, home of the world's third-largest HIV/AIDS prevalence rates. 
TTLF, headquartered in Leawood, Kansas, sup­ports TTL through fund­ing, medical equipment and research. 
Notre Dame senior Megan Towle was one of 
see TTLF/page 3 


ByJENNMETZ 
News Writer 
Though not an official Notre Dame endeavor, the Touching Tiny Lives Foundation (TTLF), a non-for-profit organiza­tion dedicated to the fight against HIV/AIDS in Africa, is deeply rooted in the spirit of the school and its students. 
Founded in August 2005, the foundation's main function is to sup­port the larger Touching Tiny Lives (TTL) organi­zation in Lesotho. ND graduate Ken Storen started TTL in the sum­mer of 2004 while he lived in the Sub-Saharan 
Health Services offers cervical cancer vaccine 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 
The commercials show women -healthy, strong, young women -vowing to be ''one less life affected by cervical cancer." 
To be "one less," the women's answer is Gardasil, the first cer­vical cancer vaccine to be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). 
Since Gardasil's approval on June 8, the "1 Less" ads have been encouraging women between ages 9 and 26 to ask their doctor about the vaccine. Some women at Notre Dame have done just that, beginning the three-shot-regimen that is available at University Health Services. 
"We have to be concerned with the prevention of illness," said · Ann Kleva, director of University Health Services. "Cervical cancer is life-threatening." 
Looking to lower the number of deaths by cervical cancer ­which currently hover around 4,000 women per year in the 
U.S. -the pharmaceutical com­pany Merck and Co. manufac­tured a vaccine protecting against types 6, 11, 16 and 18 of the virus known as human papil­lomavirus, or HPV. Of those types, 16 and 18 are the ones that cause 70 percent of the cer­vical cancer. Six and 11 cause 90 percent of genital warts, Kleva said. 
"It's the first of its kind -an anti-viral that can prevent can­cer," she said. "It is protection that's going to carry you into your life." 
• see VACCINE/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Officials defend staff effort 
Affleck-Graves says leaks are preventable 
By JOHN-~AUL WITT 
News Writer 
Already this semester, the University has experienced flooding in dorms, flooding in the library and a gas leak that forced seven evacuations ­not all of which were caused by the severe cold or were even preventable, University Executive Vice President John 
Affleck-Graves  said  
Wednesday.  
Affleck-Graves,  who  is  

responsible for the Department of Facilities Operations, credited the department with adequately preparing the campus for the winter season. He said "none of the problems on campus" were caused by failures in prevention. 
Vice President for Business Operations James Lyphout also said preventative mainte­nance was not the issue. 
"[I am] not aware of any ways to · improve [the University's] winte.r weather preparations," he said. 
In terms of preventative maintenance, the pipes and irrigation systems are flushed before winter, and rooms are checked during break to ensure all windows are secured. 
Lyphout said pipes burst in Keough Hall on Feb. 4 and 5 
see PIPES/page 4 

STUDENT SENATE 

Group debates election procedure 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
Three days after the Student Senate met in a closed meeting to vote on the inconclusive run-off election for student body president, the Senate discussed changing the Student Union Constitution to ease senators' concerns about the fair­ness of the process. 
"Nobody liked what had to happen over the past weekend," said Chris Hollon, chair of the Senate oversight committee. "I know a lot of you aren't happy with what went down." 
The primary election for student body president and vice president was held Feb. 12, but no ticket received the 50 percent plus one vote needed to secure victory. Two tickets -Liz· Brown with Maris Braun and Danny Smith with Ashley Weiss -continued on to a run-off 
see SENATE/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 22, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Farew-ell to ''The OC'' 
I can still remember the agonizing wait freshman year. The need for the warm southern California sun, transmitted via FOX28, to counter the growing cold of northern Indiana winters. The campus positively buzzed on the eve of that first Chris Wilson Thursday; the pre­miere delayed by 
Sports Wire
the Fall Classic until 
Editor

November. It seems so long ago now, "That 70's Show" wrapping up on 24­hour lounge big screens across campus before "Previously on The OC... " carried everyone to Newport for the next hour. 
Of course, by now you all know how this story ends. The second season was­n't nearly as good as the first, and the third season killed off any of the Trey­aided momentum by adding Jeri Ryan, Newport Union, a timeslot change and a month-long hiatus just to jar everyone out of a rhythm. They tried to appeal to fans by killing Marissa in the finale, but the viewership had dWindled to .an irreparable point by then. 
"The OC" dies tonight, burning off the remainder of the episodes for a short­ened season that returned many of the charms of the successful first run, minus the audience. They got back to some of the things that worked so well at first, including putting the Sandy and Kirsten marriage back on a pedestal and realiz­ing Autumn Reeser's deliciously adorable Taylor Townsend was the great support­ing character so many others failed to be following Samaire Armstrong's heart­wrenching exit from the show so many Cotillions ago. 
When you think about it, it's amazing "The OC" managed to thrive like it did. It's not like FOX is particularly adept at marketing anything that doesn't involve Ryan Seacrest, and so many primetime teen soaps have flopped in the years fol­lowing "90210". 
However, "The OC" powered forward, churning through storylines at such a reckless pace -no story arc lasted more than a month before it was time to move on -it doomed itself. The four-season survival is even more remarkable when you consider that one of the stars, Mischa Barton, most often resembled a sulking cardboard cutout as opposed to a leading lady, lacking the ability to make anyone around her any better and generally act­ing as ifshe were the secret love child of Vmny Chase and Ellen Pompeo. 
So as "The OC" airs its final episode tonight to a minimal television audience, I'd like you to reflect on the great things it's achieved. First and foremost, without "The OC", there would be no "Laguna Beach," and I don't need to remind you that with no "Laguna," there's no "The Hills." 
I wanted to write this to remind you that a dear old friend is on its deathbed, and tonight Phantom Planet's "California," the joy of so many freshman dorm parties, gets the last rites, so please tum yourself away from the beautiful hair of both Zach Braff and Patrick Dempsey to say goodbye one final time. 
Ifyou've chuckled at one Seth one­liner, admired Summer's fashion sense or respected how Sandy could solve any problem in front of him with the aid of his amazing eyebrows, the show has earned your attention for the last 60 minutes of its existence. 
California, rest in peace. 
Contact Chris Wilson at cwilson8@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and suives for th~ highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE FACEBOOK GROUP? 

Carlos Amaya Dennis Marion Nicole Medina Sean Fox Stephanie Jazmines 
sophomore junior freshman senior freshman Alumni offcampus P.W offcampus Lewis 
"Mariachi "Kiss my fat "There's no "The Q.P." "White boards 





on doors are for barbarians. Etch-a-Sketch is the future." 
IN BRIEF 
The movie "Heading South" will be shown tonight at 7 in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. The showing is sponsored by the Haiti Working Group as pari of Haiti Awareness Week. 
The Career Center is hold­ing an informational session about careers in writing or media communications tonight at 6:30 in the Notre Dame Room on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
Opera soprano Laura Portune will give a lecture and recital tonight at 7 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. 
Legends presents its Brew and View film, "Man of the Year" tonight at 11:55. The movie stars Robin Williams as a comedian turned presi­dential candidate. The event is free to all NO, SMC and HCC students. ID iis required. 
Stations of the Cross will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 7:15 p.m. Friday. Stations will be held at the Basilica each Friday during Lent. 
The Fenians, an Irish band, will perform at Legends Friday at 10 p.m. to cele­brate an early St. Patrick's Day. · 
Notre Dame ice hockey will play Ferris State at 7:35 
p.m. Friday and at 7:05 p.m. Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 50 HIGH 33 LOW 25 LOW 20 
Vergas de ass. It's Tyra effing way that Tocatu Pepe. .. Banks' group." paper beats rock." 

While temperatures in Indiana rise, Notre Dame snowmen shrink -like this pair on North Quad Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Man uses sword to break up porn 'rape' 
OCONOMOWOC, Wis. ­A man says he broke into an apartment with a caval­ry sword because he thought he heard a woman being raped, but the sound actually was from a porno­graphic movie his upstairs neighbor was watching. 
"Now I feel stupid," said James Van Iveren, who has been charged in the case. "This really is nothing, nothing but a mistake." 
According to a criminal complaint, the neighbor told police that Van lveren pounded on the door and kicked it open without warning Feb. 12, damaging the frame and lock. 

"Where is she?" Van lveren demanded, thrust­ing the sword aiihe neigh­bor, the complaint said. "Where is she?" 
The neighbor told police Van Iveren beeame increasingly aggressive as he repeated the question, insisting that he had heard a woman being raped. The complaint said thai, with the sword pointed at him, the neighbor led Van Iveren throughout the apartment, opening closet doors to prove he was alone. 
Texas residents get billion-dollar utility bills 
WEATHEHFORD, Texas Some people in 
Weatherford got billion­dollar scares this week after they opened their elecirie bills. Richard Redden's bill said he owed more than $24 bil­lion. 
Pam Pearson, of Weatherford Electric, said a printing company made a mistake and nearly 1,400 customers received .erroneous late notices. 
Pearson said customers 
who received the inaccu­
rate bills will get the cor­
rect ones later this month 
and won '1 face any late 
fees. 

Information compiled .from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::z::: 
!;: 
LLI 
3: 
..... 


~ 
<C 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 35 HIGH 25 HIGH 37 HIGH 40
.... 

LOW 22 LOW 22 LOW 25 LOW 37 
Atlanta 72 I 47 Boston 39 I 27 Chicago 40 I 28 Denver 56 I 26 Houston 76 I 52 Los Angeles 61 1 52 Minneapolis 38 125 New York 44 I 34 Philadelphia 47 I 31 Phoenix 77 I 50 Seattle 45 I 36 St. Louis 56 I 34 Tampa 75 I 59 Washington 55 136 
Thursday, February 22, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
TTLF 
continued from page 1 
the co-founders of TTLF, and participated in the founda­tion's early efforts to receive approval from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and build public support. 
"[TTLF] is an incredible organization," Towle said. "In two years, it has expanded its expertise and its scope in Lesotho and the United States." 
Towle is the only student on the Board of Directors, which includes four ties to Notre Dame -alumni, law profes­sors, parents and University President Emeritus Father Theodore 1-Iesburgh as hon­orary chair. 
"The organization is very Notre Dame, but not officially Notre Dame," Towle added. 
But she said she hopes this will change in the future as the University deepens its involvement in the project and adopts it as part of its Catholic mission. 
She said the foundation has four strategic goals -provid­'ing children a safe home, serving as an outreach pro­gram, preventing mother-to­child transmission of 1-IIV and offering academic research opportunities for students regarding the formation of partnerships with internation­al non-governmental organi­zations. 
The safe home provides shelter, nutrition, warmth, medical facilities and nurtur­ing for as many as 20 children at a time. The outreach pro­gram provides nutritional, material, medical and social services to both children who have returned to their fami­lies after living in the TTL safe home and children whose families are unable to support their development without TTL's assistance, Towle said. 
However, the main focus of her efforts with the founda­tion and with TTL in Lesotho is preventing mother-to-child 1-IIV transmission. TTL seeks to reduce child infection rates and preventing mother-to­child transmission is a critical strategy for curbing the pan­demic's impact in Lesotho, she said. 
The program addresses the medical, social and material needs of local women and informs pregnant women about the risk of transmis­sion. This type of education has been minimal in the region until recently, especial­ly in rural villages, Towle said. 
Towle visited Lesotho for about six weeks last summer through the Anthropology department. Sh-e spent most of her time at TTL, located in Mokhotlong, a remote, moun­tainous region in Lesotho ­but she also worked for two weeks in Maseru, the capital city, in the largest pediatric HIV/AIDS center in Lesotho. 

GETUSC.COM .JOINRED.COM 



U.S. Cellular@ gets me._.. even when it's not about me. 
· )RED
(*US.Cellular + • 
MOTORCtA IS APROUD PARTNER OF (PRODUCT)RED'" 
U.S. CELLULAR IS ACONTRIBUTING PARTY TO (PRODUCT)REo·· 
A PORTION OF THE PROCEEDS FROM THIS PRODUCT GOES DIRECnY TO THE GLOBAL FUND, TO HELP WOMEN AND CHILDREN AFFECTED BY HIV AND AIDS IN AFRICA. 
U.S. Cellular and Motorola will collectively make a $17 contribution on the sale of each red MOTORAZR phone to the Global Fund To Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
l/~ Ch~)f ]1:\~ :':1:";f..ff.:if; ~'Iii ~!.lil.:Ek'$~ m=#::: H$1 ? ~--~)~!'rh:!t:.~=~ ,.,-: !'ff.: \r;l:: ct ~f..fl r<:.tj t-..J'_Y((jR.:~~~f: ~~-::..T~ t(; r~~ Gif:tfj~ f.i.ni t:; Fl:Ji:' _,.\_:r'.:), T:.tf;f(~;i(:~~:) wrj M&.:rh :~v W\~\'.;.:r;.;;t:;';f(jJ.:.t..rr:f!S:.t ~-1~'€~.tC~Yf: or fr,.<l{.;.:J~g.itJ.:<Ar:n.r.::g:i:l: ff/ ITrF; ~.t!:.g::. F.:l: r::iit;J ~Yl:.i rr-<:J.:~~t:t:t·: ~~l u~ rffi ~\.{(11{)1-'~.?f~ \-"'3fn ·1~~i ,.,.._,1!< :£f;:.f::;i,~.:..."t:;~·: f·':;:t~~1:X ~ ~ -1/: ~il :j:]:'jlj(:\:i'Y.:J t-..~Jf; )1-':!)Lfo. iJ!XJ ~!·~.:: ~~t·i=~~,<l U i~~p "l='f. :~gl()~.f~}·j h tr:e t: ~). F"Jlm<! Ji>j 'i:;,:0i;ir:jii' Oilk:~; t.!; :';r:"t~f. c::.Xb/tJ :.1.:1:.1 ;:.:.~'.tic:; r~Jmoc ~?.9 HY.J r~·tx.,:zyt~· 0! ~;;j.f :t:of)'J".;i~«J (t<:n:;::.;. ~'V r.tit;;T:t, ~::.; :~r'f.JI. ,.::..~ r~:t:t'S re>y~·-,::~·l (:fl'l:~· ·::i~.l y,ij) ~'<'f.··,-etr 71'-:t\:. a~):et:f:"a1t :J: ~i:f G·¥2::~. :?!:· !!Od'h~1t::1. f.ul f:fNfl~ ~Jf{:<=·t:~:?kl:1b ':.l.i.:,:.:ti ;r; ;;:·?J1 t£-ffi'~fk'"f:.,.-:l1t:t~ (.:t~\1::' 4-t·:;,:V~J r~.i.j=.•~":f.l t:>O ~;f..f:;::':~C:"ll(f.~. f~=.'l.:Y:':~I:) tr~<1!Qt:f:.. i:-e,:;, B!JCfH:~oc. f:'·,'l;":~~'if: 01;lrg:r.;: ood ln.V.f:f (t;.l.~i :):; C:¥lf h\f.iS':i!:.t;; !~.t.<.~'t!)' Ft~ .?:Pf:l::'!>: ~:(: i::. :'l:.~t t: tr:.:c. :.~ :pt!:r±:r:~!t i(\).;..:p~i U;,:;;:-;-p;, i'i:'iW.'Jk i~'f..\~Pi}J :.~::J r~:;t{;t~1~): ff~Jf '.:Ji\'. !},:;".igfJ !:.';J.:f::'!f;(j l.V t:.~ 'l!·~~ [h~t ifm{;:)!.i. :.t~ -."f. :~:-rk}; W:')i'IJ.ik:-;,; .l.~J;p.:;;r~;; c1 ;,l~ ~;;:::lS :1ti ~\'.t;;,'lilir;r~:,. fi~Yt~}~r:r;.(:i ;~i·!'..)''K:: ~' L:tJbfl) if; diJ.i"Qll Pt:'.f.flGi.lf;[(~ :·t:y;s; vik:t !~:;~'{:i,.:;,~ ~:..:rrlxn~ {If $fJ:~I..r\.'\Jg~~ ~-k\\~'\ pl::;r: fff. 
-:.;:.~;~?·':,":';>:,:"'!t~.o;l:'«~ •}' p·-:·,t'; ·.1>.~·t".(:~. !k:•l\;!~f.~).'}j~:. ((;'~':'{';'}" ;~f'•J!;::c. 
The Undergraduate Re­search Opportunity Program, through the College of Arts and Letters, funded the trip with a grant for research on mother-to-child 1-IIV transmis­sion, Towle said. 
Support for the foundation also came after it was fea­tured in the fall edition of Notre Dame Magazine, con­siderably popularizing TTLF's mission, she said. After the feature, many people contact­ed Towle and the foundation to find out how to organize fundraisers in their churches. 
ChaUenges facing TTLF 
The effort to stop the trans­mission of 1-IIV/AIDS in Lesotho is a young one, Towle said. 
The work at the foundation is still very "relational," she added. 
"We're focusing on medical initiatives. We recently sent over 100 HIV test kits. There are materials we have hear that they don't have access to in Lesotho," she said. 
Over the summer, TTLF sent an oxygen machine to TTL in Lesotho, along with other nec­essary medical equipment. 
However, one of Towle's main goals is local, as she struggles to raise awareness in Notre Dame and spark interest around the crisis in Lesotho. 
"It's definitely a crisis ­people are dying -something like [TTL] is needed in the country," she said. 
Students such as Towle's younger brother, freshman Brian Towle, however, have answered the call. He organ­ized a fundraiser when he was in high school, raising $30,000 for the African relief movement. 
But to attack successfully the complex issues surround­ing the transmission of HIV/AIDS, TTFL needs more than money to cover all facets of the HIV pandemic, she said. The foundation is already donating all of its profits to Lesotho -but the prevalence of the virus will require more support. 
"We're starting at the end ­children are already sick ­and need to work to prevent more children from getting sick," Towle said, explaining TTL's efforts are not preven­tive actions but rather dam­age control. 
In her campaign to bring students to the Lesotho relief projects, Towle also chairs the Academic Liaison Committee of the foundation, which helps to get Notre Dame students more involved. According to T·owle, more students have been traveling to Lesotho and the foundation has "become a high profile organization on campus," active in any event that may relate to the African crisis. 
TTLF volunteers like Towle and her brother had the opportunity to speak with Dr. Paul Farmer at the 2006 Notre Dame Forum, entitled "The Global Jiealth CrJsis: Creating Solutions, Forging Change." 
Farmer's healthcare deliv­ery foundation began efforts to prevent and treat HIV/AIDS in Lesotho during 2006. 
"This is a very young, a very life-changing, a very Notre Dame effort," Towle said. 
She encourages interested students to visit TTL's website, www.touchingtinylives.org, to learn more about stopping the 1-IIV/AIDS crisis in Lesotho. 
ContactJenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 22, 2007 
THE POWER TO 



PRESS 
PLAY 

Pipes 
continued from page 1 
because residence hall win­dows were left open. 
"[This allowed] cold air to blow over heating coils that froze and broke, and allowed a piece of pipe and a sprinkler system to freeze," Lyphout said. 
Affleck-Graves said better "education" of students is needed to prevent such inci­dents, because students can best ensure that proper pre­cautions against the cold are taken. 
"We almost always have one or two pipes burst a year," Affleck-Graves said. "The 
problem [with pipes] is that someone will open a window and then leave for a weekend, then the room gets below freezing. Adequate education is necessary for the students -students leave windows open." 
An open window, however, did not cause a pipe to burst in the Hesburgh Library, Affleck­Graves said. 
"We're still trying to under­stand the cause of the pipe bursting in the library," he said. "We couldn't have fore­seen that happening." 
Affleck-Graves said Notre Dame requires almost con­stant upkeep and it is impossi­ble to prevent every mainte­nance issue that arises. 
"We're not a [corporate] type place, where people come in eight hours a day -we're running a little village of ten thousand people living here twenty-four, seven," Affleck­Graves said. 
Affleck-Graves was more concerned about the Feb. 12 gas leak that occurred while work was done on a broken water main. 
"Things like pipes bursting happen -we can handle it. It's not a problem in the nor­mal operations of the University," he said. "I worry most about the gas leak ­about people getting hurt." 
University spokesman Don Wycliff has said the gas leak posed no danger to students, 
and Affleck-Graves and Lyphout both affirmed that it was the result of construction -not something that could have been prevented. 
"The gas leak was the result of excavations to repair a buried water main," Lyphout said. "The gas pipe was acci­dentally hit with the backhoe." 
Ultimately, Afl'leck-Graves said he is satisfied with the amount done to maintain Nvtre Dame's campus. 
"We do seventy to one-hun­dred million dollars of con­struction a year here, and we do more work on preventative maintenance than most other schools," he said. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
campus for at least thren years. However, I do not think that enforcing a rule such as this without the input of students is a good thing." 
Davis said morn student involvement in the decision­making process would have crn­ated more support from stu­dents for the College's dneision. 
"There arn some things that students do not get a say in within the Collegn, and that is completely understandable," she said. "Although this doesn't aJTect mo. I fenl as though, for the future of tlw sehool, this issue should lw addressed by the Board of Governance." 
Davis said the resolution detracted from the positive aspects of living off-campus, which indude fostering healthy relationships with neighbors and thn loeal community. 
"By moving oll'-campus, it ere­ales bettor relationships with the South Bnnd community," she said. "This is something that Saint Mary's is proud of­we volunteer our time at numnrous institutions and become involved with many people throughout the city. Nnighhorly rnlations are at the fornl"ront for off-campus stu­donts." 
Whiln the idea currently seems unattractive, Davis said she is willing to learn more about the new policy. 
"There are definitely benefits to both sides of the issue," she said. "Although, I will give cn~d­it to Karen Johnson for offering to sit down and talk with me about it." 
Davis, who works elosely with the admissions office, said the deeision to keep students on eampus through their junior year would scare away appli­cants. 
Johnson said she did not think the residential program will deter students from attending Saint Mary's. 
"The admissions staff has been involved and does not believe it will hurt our admis­sion numbers," she said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Fusic™ 
byLG® 
Built-in MP3 player 

with FM transmitter Sprint Music Store'M enabled Sprint TV'M enabled Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Bluetooth® technology microSD external memory card 


$49.99 
Save $250 instantly 
Reg. $299.99 each. 

Sprint Music Store 
Wirelessly download digital tracks to your phone. Choose from hundreds ofthousands of full-length songs from virtually every genre and listen to them wherever you go. 

SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  STORE HOURS  
Martin's Plaza  Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge  Sun.....  .... 12pm-5pm  
2035 South Bend Ave.  South of the Mall  Mon.-Fri. ......... 10am-8pm  
574-277-7727  across from McDonald's  Sat............... 9am-7pm  
574-243-2100  
Se habla Espaiiol  

MOTORAZR™ V3m 
by Motorola 
Sprint Music Store'M enabled Bluetooth® technology Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Sprint TV'M enabled GPS enabled 



$Z9.99 
Save $220 instantly 
Reg. $249.99. 
Offers require in-store purchase and activation of anew line of service with a two-year subscriber agreement and Vision. 
Sprinf > POWER UP~ 
PNI.fRRED JU JAilEN~ 

NILES, Ml
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
Basic Communications 
Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
2010 S.llth 51.
52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall 
269-357-0000 
574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd. 574-277-4360 



Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million peo­ple. Offers not available in all markets or retail locations. Add'l terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 2/17/07 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes exclud­ed. Activation at time of purchase required. ©2007 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forward" logo, the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 22, 2007 CoMrruo FROM THE ()nsERVERS WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Olmert exposes 'tough line' with Iran 
JERUSALEM -Israel's prime minister spelled out a tough line Wednesday against Iran, Syria and an emerging Palestinian govern­ment, urging the international community to take a firmer stance against Tehran's nuclear ambitions and saying the Jewish state has no interest in talking to those who support vio­lence. 
Ehud Olmert also defended his much-criti­cized war in .Lebanon and called Muslim com­plaints against Israeli construction near a Jerusalem holy site an attempt to stir up hatred. 
Speaking at an annual news conference with foreign journalists, Olmert said his government would not do business with a Palestinian unity government that refuses to accept the condi­tions of the so-called Quartet of Mideast peace brokers: recognize Israel, renounce violence and accept past peace deals. 
Soldier pleads guilty to rape, murder 
FORT CAMPBELL -A military judge on Wednesday approved a second U.S. soldier's plea to the gang rape and murder of a 14-year-old Iraqi girl and the slaying of her family. 
Sgt. Paul E. Cortez, 24, entered the plea Tuesday to four murders, rape and conspiracy to rape. With the approval of the plea agreement by Col. Stephen R. Henley, Cortez will avoid the death penalty. 
In the plea agreement, read in court Tuesday, Cortez said he conspired with three other soldiers -Pic. Jesse V. Spielman, Spc. James P. Barker and Steven D. Green, who has been discharged -to rape 14-year-old Abeer Qassim al-Janabi. 
The March 2006 killing of the family was origi­nally reported to be the work of insurgents. It was considered among the worst in a series of alleged atrocities by U.S. military personnel in Iraq. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Scientists find no water on planets 
WASHINGTON -Scientists taking their first "sniffs of air" from planets outside our solar system are a bit baffied by what they didn't fmd: water. One of the more basic assumptions of astronomy is that the two distant, hot gaseous planets they examined must contain water in their atmospheres. 
The two suns the planets orbit closely have hydrogen and oxygen, the stable building blocks of water. These planets' atmospheres­examined for the first time using light spectra to determine the air's chemical composition ­are supposed to be made up of the same thing, good old H20. 
But when two different teams of astronomers used NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope for this new type of extrasolar planet research, they both came up dry, according to research pub­lished in Thursday's edition of Nature and the online version of the Astrophysical Journal Letters. 
Teacher's murder tape revealed 
TOMS RIVER, N.J.-A teacher who was killed nearly 11 years ago tried to talk a carjacker out of taking her life, even offering to help him get a job, according to a transcript of her secretly recorded pleas that was released Wednesday. 
Michael LaSane, now 27, went on trial in the death of Kathleen Weinstein, 44, who secretly recorded the exchange before she was killed March 14, 1996. Her body was found with the tape in her pocket. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Derailed train causes diesel spill 
GOSHEN -An eastbound Norfolk Southern train derailed Wednesday and struck the side of a westbound, causing diesel fuel to leak from the locomotives in northern Indiana, authorities said. 
The Elkhart County hazardous material team wa<> at the scene trying to contain the diesel fuel. Rudy Husband, a Norfolk Southern spokesman, said none of the railroad cars were leaking any hazardous materials. 
Fourteen trains were derailed in the accident in Goshen, 25 miles southeast of South Bend. The cause wasn't immediately known, Husband said. 
ENGLAND 


Britain announces withdrawal plan 
Blair declares gradual troop removal and eventual power turnover to Iraqis 
Associated Press  
LONDON British  
troops have achieved  
many tangible successes in  
Iraq -securing oil plat­ 
forms, rounding up rogue  
police units and driving  
smugglers carrying  
weapons and contraband  
from waterways and bor­ 
der crossings.  
Now some of these tasks  
will be ceded to Iraqi  
troops for good.  
Under proposals laid out  
by Prime Minister Tony  
Blair on Wednesday,  
Britain will withdraw  
about 1,600 troops from  
Iraq over the coming  
months and hopes to make  
other cuts to its 7' 1on­ 
strong contingent by late  
summer.  
British troops would  
likely stay in the southern  
Basra region until at least  
2008, training local forces,  
working to secure the  
Iran-Iraq border and  
maintaining supply routes  
to U.S. and coalition troops  
in central Iraq, Blair told  
legislators.  
Britain could further  
reduce its force level to  
below 5,000 once a base at  
Basra Palace is trans­ 
ferred to Iraqi control in AP  
late summer, the prime Prime Minister Tony Blair leaves 10 Downing St. on Wednesday. He revealed to  
minister said. the public his plan for 1,600 troops to begin leaving Iraq in the "coming months."  
"What all of this means  
is not that Basra is how we  what is really the plan for  Anthony Cordes.oman, an  there."  
want it to be. But it does  the country as a whole,  expert on Iraq at the  British troops have  
mean that the next chap­ which is to transfer securi­ Washington-based Center  mounted recent operations  
ter in Basra's history can  ty responsibility to the  for Strategic and  against Shiite militia, most  
be written by Iraqis," Blair  Iraqis as the situation per­ International Studies. The  notably raiding a Basra  
said.  mits," Rice said. "The  decision to pull out of  police station in December  
The announcement, on  coalition remains intact  Basra only underscored  that had been run by a  
the same day Denmark  and, in fact, the British  the political reality of  rogue police squad and  
said it would withdraw its  still have thousands of  Shiite primacy in the  freeing 70 people held  
460 troops, comes as the  troops deployed in Iraq."  region, he said.  captive.  
U.S. is implementing an  British troops have per­ Rear Adm. Richard  Some analysts fear a  
increase of 21,000 more  formed many humanitari­ Cobbold, director of the  militia resurgence once  
troops for Iraq -putting  an tasks -helping open  military think tank Royal  British troops withdraw  
Washington on an opposite  hundreds of schools, fitting  United Services Institute in  and warn Iran may  
track as its main coalition  hospitals with modern  London, said Britain's  attempt to step up its influ­ 
allies.  equipment and replacing  decision to pull back  ence in the region.  
Secretary of State  leaky water pipes -but  "needed to be made."  Blair's official  
Condoleezza Rice played  some say the real British  "I would admit that there  spokesman, on customary  
down the British pullback,  legacy is likely to be a con­ is a sense of uncertainty,  condition of anonymity in  
saying it is consistent with  solidation of Shiite control.  but things are not getting  line with policy, acknowl­ 
the U.S. plan to turn over  British forces already  better with the British in  edged British officials "still  
more control to Iraqi  acquiesced to a "situation  Basra," he said. "The  believed Iranian supplied  
forces.  of quiet sectarian cleans­ British are aggravating  ordinance is coming across  
"The British have done  ing" in the south, said  tensions by just being  the border."  

Jury convicts mother ofchild's murder 
defense attorney, Gregory Cohen, said had wandered off or had been snatched 
Associated Press 
he would appeal. from a park in suburban Cincinnati, 
BATAVIA, Ohio -A jury on "They don't even know my daughter! sparking a search by thousands of vol­Wednesday convicted a woman of mur­None of you even care!" her mother, unteers that lasted several days. When der for causing the death of a 3-year-old Audrey Sims, shouted after the verdict. authorities began to suspect the story foster son by leaving him bound in a Prosecutors said they ·charged Carroll was a ruse, the Carrolls' live-in compan­cocoon of blankets and tape while she with murder because she caused the ion, Amy Baker, told them how the boy went away to a weekend family death of her developmentally disabled died, prosecutors said. reunion. son, Marcus Fiesel, by binding him and The defense portrayed Carroll as 
Liz Carroll, 30, was convicted on leaving him in a closet. They acknowl­quiet and submissive, and married to a seven counts, including involuntary edged, however, it was unintentional. violent bully. manslaughter, kidnapping, felonious Carroll's husband, David Carroll Jr., Baker has not been charged, but assault and three counts of child endan­29, is to be tried separately in March on acknowledged that she helped dispose germent by the Clermont County jury. the same charges as his wife, along with of the child's body. Prosecutors agreed She faces from 15 years to life in prison gross abuse of a corpse. Prosecutors not to prosecute her in exchange for her when sentencing begins Thursday. allege that he burned the boy's body and testimony against the couple, unless evi­
Carroll grimaced and dropped her dumped the remains in the Ohio River. dence shows she had hands-on involve­head as the verdict was read. Carroll's The Carrolls told authorities the child ment in the boy's death. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 22, 2007 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
election Thursday. Again, neither candidate secured a clear majority so, in accordance with the consti­tution. the issue went to the Senate, where senators voted 15­13 in a closed meeting to elect the Brown-Braun ticket. 
But a discrepancy in the word­ing of the constitution caused con­fusion at the closed meeting Sunday and led to approximately 45 minutes of discussion at the Senate meeting Wednesday. 
There was confusion because the copy of the Constitution pos­sessed by each senator said, in the section about election results, that senators could vote freely in the closed meeting. This section was mistakenly added to the constitu­tion and was never voted into the document by past years' Senates, student body vice president and Student Senate chair Bill Andrichik told The Observer Sunday. 
Senators were informed of the mix-up before Sunday's vote, and the correct version of the under­graduate student body elections section of the Constitution was dis­tributed to the senators Wednesday. This version said the senators must vote according to the plurality of their constituency -their respective residence hall -unless there is a tie between candidates within the donn. 
But several senators said they did not agree with that version of the constitution. 
Zahm Hall senator Luke Derheimer introduced an amend­ment to the constitution to allow each senator to freely cast his vote, rather than vote according to his hall's plurality. Since all amendments to the constitution must go through committee before they can be voted on in the Senate, no vote on the proposal took place, but discussion was allowed. 
"I didn't like that we were in there [in the closed meeting] and we were forced to vote one way," Derheimer said. 
Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood said he also felt as though the con­stitution infringed on his ability to vote as he wanted. 
But other members of the Senate said senators should not have the right to vote freely in the closed meetings, because in many cases, including in this year's elec­tion, one or more of the candidates sit on the Senate. 
"It comes down to a lot of per­sonal relationships," said Josh Pasquesi, community relations chair. 
Lyons Hall senator Mariana Montes said she was against the free vote as well, since it opens up the possibility of a senator befriending members of the Senate to further political agendas -such as runs for student body president. 
Montes introduced a separate amendment change proposal to the Senate floor. Her version changed the abstention vote to a symbolic option that would not be included in the final tally of the vote, thereby making it easier for a ticket to get a majority and avoid bringing the issue to the Senate, Montes said. 
OJJ..campus senator Mark Healy said he supported keeping the choice to abstain as an option in the preliminary election and runoff. 
"If someone actually takes the time to go online and to vote and to vote for abstain, that is making a statement that they are willing to become involved in the student government process, but they are not content with the options they have," Healy said. 
Alumni llall senator Danny Smith, who ran for president and lost in the closed meeting vote, 

agreed that abstentions should matter. 
"If enough of the sehool is upset with the two candidates, I would like to see if the abstention vote can beat both candidates," he said. 
Many senators agreed with the spirit of Montes' proposed amend­ment -that in the best ease sce­nario, this deeision should not be sent to Student Senate but should be decided in a popular student body election. 
Andriehik limited discussion or the issue, sineo no vote would take place. at the meeting, but Hollon invited any intorostod senators to attend a menting of the Senate oversight committee to further dis­cuss the issue. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Vaccine 
continued from page 1 
Since August. "maybe 20 women" have gorw to Health Services for tho vaedrw, Kleva said. 
Cardasil was first available at I lnalth Servin~s in the litll alter "a row paronts railed in July and August" to son il' doses of tho shoL'i would be available fi1r their daughters whnn tlw new semns­tnr s tartnd . 
Boeause the throe shots are given over six months -thn first on any date, tlw sneond two months later and the third four months alter the snmnd shot-it was important to many parents and studenL'> that the later doses bn available il' needed during the sehool year, Klnva said. 
A" ol' January, llnalth Serviens began keeping minimum doses available. 
Though IIPV is transmittnd through nitlwr sexual intercourse or genital mntad, Kl!wa said the vaeeine is not about sexual activi­ty. 
"A lot of women havo roeeivod this vaccination that arnn't sexu­ally activo nor do they plan on being sexually a!'.tive in the near futum," Khwa said. "At this point in time, with tho vaccine being so new, thorn arn pnrmptions of why somebody would hn taking it. The assumption is bneause of sexual activity. But we look at prevention of illness. We're not looking at behaviors." 
Kleva said om~ring the vaeeine does not moan thai pre-marital sex or "any type of behavior that is not supported by this University" is being supported, or is even happnning among the women opting to mceive the vae­cinn. Hathnr, she said, the avail­ability shows concern about pre­venting a "very, vnry serious ill­ness." 
For those eonsidering Gardasil, Kleva said I lealth Services pro­vides ndueation and allows "indi­viduals to make up their own decisions" concerning this partic­ular vaccine. 
But at a pricey $1 W pnr injec­tion, she said "nvnryone really needs to eheek with their insur­ance" before getting the injection. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, February 22, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow }ones  12,786.41  -48.23  
up: Some: Down: I,499 149 1,747  Composite Volume: 2,636,908,740  

NASDAg 2 518.42 +5.38 
_. lli:'l,llllllrniiiiiiiiii~JIIIIIIIIIJI:II!IIIIIIII~IIIi'llllll~111ffillll;; 
S&P 500 1,457.63 -2.05 
HI~J!II1!II;IIitllli,lll!lllli!B.III!i 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,357.10 -55.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  +1.14  +0.51  45.19  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.04  -0.06  145.98  
SUN MICRO INC (SUNW)  -1.57  -0.10  6.28  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +1.80  +0.52  29.35  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.26  +0.0 12  4.692  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  5.035  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.19  +0.009  4.789  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.34  +0.0 16  4.681  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.22  60.07  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +23.00  684.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +3.00  104.50  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.0200  
EURO  0.7613  
POUND  0.5120  
CANADIAN$  1.1614  

IN BRIEF 

Security breach larger than thought 
BOSTON -A computer security breach by a hacker who stole T JX Cos. customer data was broader than initially feared, and start­ed 10 months earlier than first thought, the company said Wednesday. 
But the parent of discount retail chains including T.J. Maxx and Marshalls also reported 5 percent sales growth during its fiscal fourth quarter, which ended just 10 days after the breach was disclosed Jan. 17. 
Company executives said they saw no evi­dence of any exodus of customers from T JX's more than 2,400 stores after the data theft. Industry analysts agreed. 
T JX initially believed the intrusion began in May 2006 and ran into last month. On Wednesday, the company said its ongoing investigation revealed the breach started nearly a year earlier, in July 2005. 
Also, T JX said Wednesday that credit and debit card data had been accessed involving transactions at U.S. and Puerto Rican stores from January 2003 through June 2004, and credit card-only transactions at Canadian stores during that period. The company had initially been less certain, saying last month that information "may have been accessed." 
Indiana banks merge in $130 million deal 
SOUTH BEND -First National Bank of Valparaiso and 1st Source Bank are planning to merge in a deal valued at $130 million. 
Christopher J. Murphy III, chairman, presi­dent and chief executive at South Bend­based 1st Source Corp., said merger talks started about three to four months ago when the Valparaiso bank approached 1st Source. 
Murphy said 1st Source was interested in gaining a stronger foothold on the western edge of its market. 
The merger is expected to close by mid­year, pending regulatory approvals, and will add the Valparaiso-based bank's 26 locations to 1st Source's 67 banking centers in Indiana and Michigan. 
First National Bank officials liked 1st Source Bank's commitment to community and its intent to make Valparaiso a regional hub, said Wayne Welter, First National Bank of Valparaiso's chief executive officer. 

Chairman seeks open Russian trade 
Foreign Affairs Committee Chief aims for commerce restrictions removal 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -The chair­man of the House Foreign Affairs Committee said Wednesday he would call for the removal of Russia from the 1974 Jackson­Vanik amendment, which has restricted bilateral trade and remained a key irritant in relations between Moscow and Washington. 
"It's time to put behind us this relic of the Cold War," Rep. Tom Lantos, D-Calif., said at a news conference. "I will spare no effort to bring this about and I have every expectation that I will be successful." 
Moscow has long urged the United States to abolish the Jackson-Vanik amend­ment tying Russia's trade status to whether it freely allows Jewish emigration. President Vladimir Putin and other Russian officials and lawmakers long have criticized Washington for failing to repeal the legisla­tion, saying the refusal to do so undermined trust between the two nations. 
The abolition of the amendment is necessary for the United States to trade freely -with Hussia once it finalizes its bid to join the World Trade Organization. 
Andrew Somers, head of the American Chamber of rights, looks like a clear that his country, a former Some analysts said that Commerce in Moscow, anachronism," "La-zar's superpower, was resurgent the Kremlin would likely hailed Lantos' statement. office said in a statement. after years of post-Soviet see Lantos' statement as 
"It's an extremely positive The statement from demise and stressed that proof that Putin's new statement from the chair of Lantos, a harsh critic of Putin's criticism should not tough tone in relations with the Foreign Affairs Hussia's democracy record stand in the way of the two Washington had been the Committee. It's a major and human rights situation, countries' cooperation. right strategy to force the step forward in U.S.-Russia comes at a time when U.S.­"The United States and United States to make con­relations and will put an Hussian ties have hit a new Russia have far too many cessions. end to this anachronistic low with Putin's speech at a common interests and long­"I think it will be seen piece of legislation," security conference in term goals," Lantos said, here that the message of Somers told The Associated Munich earlier this month referring to global health, Putin's now famous speech Press. harshly criticizing U.S. poverty reduction and in Munich has been taken 
Russia's chief rabbi, Berel global policy. international peace and on board -that the West Lazar, said during a meet­In what appeared to be security. "We certainly will has recognized its mistake ing with Lantos on Tuesday an attempt to strike a con­not allow ... the speech to ... and a harsh, direct that "the preservation of ciliatory note, Lantos said stand in the way of our very approach is the most effec­the (Jackson-Vanik) amend­Putin's statement was a positive attitude towards tive way," said Andrei ments now, when Russia's "fully understandable" Russia and our future coop­Ryabov, a Moscow-based Jews have fully equal attempt to demonstrate eration." political analyst. 

RIAAincreases file sharing complaints 
Associated Press semester-long suspensions from class­odds that you are going to get caught, 
es. it's not something you think about." 

WASHINGTON -College students Ohio University said students caught Classmates who also have been who faced lawsuits for illegally shar­twice sharing music online would face caught "still download illegally," Real ing large music collections over cam­the same disciplinary sanctions as said. pus computer networks increasingly classmates accused of violence or At the request of The Associated risk being unplugged from the cheating: suspension, probation or an Press, the trade group for the largest Internet or even suspended over lesser assignment to write a homework music labels, the Recording Industry complaints by the recording industry. paper on the subject. Ohio said no stu­Association of America, identified the 
In a nationwide crackdown, the dent ever has been caught twice. 25 universities to which it has sent the music industry is sending thousands "When they told me I freaked," said most copyright complaints so far this more copyright complaints to universi­Ryan Real of Louisville, an Ohio school year. ties this school year than last. In some University sophomore who was The group, which has long pres­cases, students are targeted for accused in November of illegally shar­sured schools to act more aggressively, allegedly sharing a single mp3 file ing not music but a popular video said software tools are improving to online. game, "Grand Theft Auto," over the trace illegal file-sharing on campuses. 
A few schools -Ohio University and school's network. Real said he was "We are taking advantage of that Purdue University are at the top of the ordered to delete the game and the technology to make universities aware list -already have received more Bittorrent file-sharing software he was of the problem on their campuses," than 1,000 complaints accusing indi­using from his computer before the said RIAA President Cary Sherman. vidual students since last fall. For stu­school would turn his Internet connec­"They need to be sending a message dents who are caught, punishments tion back on. to their students about how to live a can vary from e-mail warnings to "Everybody does it," Real said. "The lawful life." 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 
Thursday, February 22, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
What we're like
The lmkpmdntt. D.aily,New~JJapllr Serving Nom Dame atul Saint M4ry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN. 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

. MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffm 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 

SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 63!-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 63!-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 63!-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent; daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerrers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gil/oon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday du:uu~;h Friday cn:cpt during txm1 and vacation periods. A subscription m The Observer is. $100 for one a~Adcmic y~::ar; $55 fm one: semester. 
The ObseMr is published at: VOSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556--0779 The Observer 
PeriOOic.al postage paid at Nom Dame P.O.Il<>x 779 

and additional mailing Qffic~ 024 SI)Uch Dining Han 
Nom: Dame, lN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is a mtmber ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc 
t~erved. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Marcela Berrios Kate Gales Amanda Michaels Tim Dougherty Mandi Stirone Michael Bryan Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Erin McGinn 
Brauweiler Graphics Madeline Nies 

Sex kills. So come to Notre Dame and livP forever. 
Student-made t-shirt..'i arc ubiquitous on this campus, and four years ago, one of them proelaimed just that. Or at least, that's what Ed Cohen wrote in his 2003 Notre Dame Magazine article entitled, "Notre Dame Students Today: What They're like." 
At the time, the arti­cle was a noble attempt to describe the then-ND studenl'i, written by "someone nearly as old as som(~ of their parents"-or so Cohen dPscribed himself. 
He wrote about alumni who "dream of seeing their children follow in their fi>ot­steps up the Main Building's stairs." Hence the article's biggest problem-it wasn't written by a student. If Cohen were a stu­dent, he'd surely know the legend­undergrads don't walk up the Main Building steps. If they do, they won't gradu­ate. 
Four years later, Cohen's article is as obsolete as landline phones in the dorms. Heck, he wrote it back when Club Fever was still Heartland, when only one eampus building bore the DeBartolo family name and when Tyrone Willingham was the one commissioned to resurrect the Notre Dame football program. And unless there are any sixth-year seniors out there, no current undergraduates were around when the adnllnistration banm~d in-hall dances, the loss of which Cohen reflelted upon. 
So what are the typical non-Main­Building-step-climbing NotrP Dame stu­dents of the two-DeBartolo-buildings era like.? 
I'm a student. I can tell you. 
As typical Notre Dame students, we enter the Irish aura gushing with arrogance about our intelligence. We reckon no remorse in reporting our ACT scores to everyone sitting within earshot at the Jesus Table in South Dining Hall. Most self­important of all are those of us who are not 

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey Grind 

so-calll~d "legaeies." We suppose we're smarter because we garnered an accept­ance letter without having had a Domer 
mom or dad. 
As typical smarty-pants Notro Dame stu­denl'i, we spend our daytimes with rnquired rnading and our nighttimes with rnquirnd singing-Jon Bon Jovi's "Living on a Praycw" as the dorm party primer. By senior year, we'll spend our daytimes falling asleep on a CoMo couch while attempting to road Tolstoy, and we'll spend our Finncgans' nighttimes belting out "Hocky Top" with an over-priend and over­filled-with-ice pitcher of Hod Bull and vodka in hand. 
Ac.; average Notrn Dame students, howev­er, many of us weren't consumers of cock­tails beforo arriving in the 46556. And sharp though we profess to bn, as typical froshmen we fail to realize that by putting up ineoheront away messages, we've just eonlilsscd to our entire family-disapprov­ing little brothers and sisters included­our newfi>und limdness of the bottle. 
Yet while Cohen eited fake ID carrying as the "prineipal blot on the collective student body's record," most underagers don't use fake IDs. By and large, most of us won't "catch the Fevc" at Mkhiana's hottest nightclub until wn aro, in fact, 21. 
While at somn other collegPs, froshmen seeurn their fakes on their first day of froshman year, as Notrn Dame frnshmen, on the other hand, we'rn too busy worrying about who's standing next to us in tho /(lot­ball ticket lottery line. We were thc·m unaware of the l~tct that nobody actually does the jig in his mal row anyway. 
Some -like the wearers of the student­made sex T-shirt-aro unawaro of the sex that occurs at Notre Dame. But in truth, if sex does kill, a number of us have indPPd sworn away our immortality. 
Ncwertheless, there am still a preponder­ance of prudes on this eampus. Yet even the prudes are not what Cohen makes us out to be. In hL'i piece, Cohen quoted one studPnt who said that alter a night out. "even when one of the parties has a gen­uine romantic interest in the other (it hap­pens), the evnning typieally ends not with an awkward goodnight kiss at the door, but a 'see ya' and a wave." 
What? No awkward goodnight kiss at the door? Clearly, the quoted student went to bed early every night and never had to sidestep the post-parietals lip-lockers while trying to swipe his or her ID card at the quad-side door of Breen-Phillips Hall. 
While some of us are playing tonsil hock­ey in thP vestibule {or in our rooms, brnak­ing parietals-gasp), others of us can be found at one of Notre Dame's late-night campus li~eding holes. The lucky ones of us who live on the South end of campus indulge in scrumptious brick-oven pizzas at Heckers, while those of us in the Stonehenge vieinity select our slice of Sbarro based on which piece looks as though it hasn't been sitting out for more than seven hours. 
Late-night pizza eaters though WP may be, according to Cohen we are also "indus­trious, articulate, rospectful, generous, neat, lit, even bull', not to mention tech­sawy." 
What he doesn't mention is the number of us who arP typically too drunk to make it from our tailgatllS to the football games. Or that during our limr years here, most of us learn more about procrastination than poli­tics. And in 2003, Cohen couldn't have known what an impact the advent of text messaging would have on our communica­tion skills. 
But <L'> Cohen wrote, ND studenl'i are "goal-sntters, goal-reachers." And you know what? After graduation, we'll proba­bly save the world. 
But-t,rraduation'? What? To leave this parietals-fwl paradise under the Dome? 
That's incomprehensible. If you should know one thing about typical Notre Dame studenl'i, it's that we don't want to leave. 
We'd prefer a 2 a.m. slice ofSbarro over the outside world any day. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at eco.ffey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
How will you observe Lent? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
ISubmit aLetter 
:to the Editor at . 
·www.ndsmcobserver.com I 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When George Washington threw the dollar across the Rappahannock River, he didn't realize he was establishing a precedent for government spending." 
Harold Coffin journalist 


r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 22, 2007 page 9 
What Lent means to us 
Yesterday we began our annual celebration of the time at prayer in ohe of the many beautiful places During one of his recent homilies in Rome, our Lenten season of grace and change of heart in the on our campus where we are reminded of the deep­Holy Father Pope Benedict XVI urged Catholics and context of a deeper relationship with Our Lord est longing of our hearts to unite ourselves with other people of good will to pray in a special way Jesus Christ. The ashes which we received on our God so that we might also love and serve one for peace in the world during the 40 days of Lent foreheads reminded us that we can never deepen another more effectively. In addition to places like and to let those who are poor have a special place enough our faith i~ the li~ing Richard v. the Basilica, the Grotto and our residence hall in our lives. We can do this through our monetary presence of Je~u.s m our hves, Warner CSC chapels, we have the privilege of spending a few offerings, through extra acts of service or in many through the mmtstry of the ' moments before the presence of Our Lord through other ways. Church and in our world. The FaithPoint Eucharistic Adoration which takes place from Finally, a special activity which is well worthwhile words which the priest or minister Monday through Thursday in the Notre Dame Our is to spend a little more time reading the Sacred recited as the ashes were used to trace the sign of Mother Chapel in the Coleman-Morse Center and on Scriptures, especially the New Testament and the the cross on our foreheads reminded us that there Friday afternoons in the Lady Chapel of the letters of Saint Paul, and spending a few moments is always room in our life for more prayer, for more Basilica. The Rosary is also becoming more and each day reading a book that deals with the spiritu­concern for the poor and for fasting so that our more of a favorite devotion of our Notre Dame al realities of our lives. minds and hearts might more easily be turned to undergraduate students and in addition to saying it Whatever decisions each of us has made on how the deeper realities of our life. It is truly only when occasionally alone or with friends, we might also we wish to spend Lent, we should also ask Our Lord we "turn to the Gospel" that these deep desires of remember that the Rosary is prayed every day at for the one grace we especially need in order to be ours can become a reality. the Grotto at 6:45 p.m. more faithful followers of Jesus. 
There are many ways through which we can We are asked to fast only on Ash Wednesday and deepen our life of prayer as we prepare for our cel­Good Friday during Lent and to abstain from meat This week's FaithPoint is written by Father ebration of the Easter Triduum and the celebration on other Fridays during the Lenten season. Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry. He of Easter itself, especially as members of the Notre However, it is a traditional practice to voluntarily can be reached at rwarner@nd. edu . Dame-Saint Mary's-Holy Cross community. We have "give up" something simple that will remind us that The views expressed in this article are those of many opportunities to make the Eucharist a special we are living in a special time when God's grace the author and not necessarily those of The part of our Lenten observance· and to spend extra can and will surround us. Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

'Loyal Daughters' letter evokes emotional response 

Argument against Loyal 
Daughters' logic is illogical 
I would like to make a few points with regards to Jon Buttaci's Feb. 20 Letter to the Editor ("Loyal Daughters' humor detracts from true dia­logue"). Buttaci complains of a skit in which a logic professor implements Modus Ponens as a means for equating rape with premarital sex. Buttaci declares that the professor utilizes "false logic to try to point out a con­tradiction in University policy that does not exist." 
However, he failed to include some very important information. The skit, for example, ends with the professor asking his class to take into consideration the following question: "If rape leads to suspension and expulsion, and, consensual sex leads to suspension or expulsion, does it follow that rape is equivalent to consensual sex? Is this valid? Anyone?" 
I don't know about Buttaci, but more than once in my life, I have had professors specifically ask questions that may not elicit clear and definite answers. Sometimes, I have even had professors ask my class questions that they knew were not valid or logical. They did so to provoke careful thought. 
Nowhere in the skit does the professor state that he is making a good argument. Instead, he poses a question which leaves the audience thinking. Buttaci claims that the play's "humor and seemingly innocuous content is much more effective in keeping viewers fro111 any intellectual consideration of the issues than "The Vagina Monologues" was, and therefore is much more dangerous." Mr. Buttaci leads me to believe that he has not seen the subject matter which he so vehemently denounces. 


Several of the skits in "The Vagina Monologues" have left me laughing hysterically; "The Woman Who Liked to Make Vaginas Happy," which details various orgasm sounds, is just one of them. To claim that it has less humor than "Loyal Daughters" is a serious oversight. Buttaci additionally failed to mention that the skit ends on a completely serious, non-humorous note. He claims that "viewers are too busy laughing to actually think, 'Wait a second: this is terrible logic!"' once again causing me to think he didn't even see the performance. Personally, I did not find the ending of the skit to be funny at all. Neither did the other 359 viewers packed with me in the Decio the­atre this past fall. In fact, I clearly remember a dead silence falling across the audience at the end of the skit. To me, this skit was one of the more prominent parts of the play. As I lay in bed that night, I considered and reconsidered the argument, because its possible implications were incredibly stunning. 
My final point is this. Attempting to defame those involved with "Loyal Daughters" and "The Vagina Monologues" through exaggerations and oversights of the material is cowardly. 
If Buttaci is going to attack us, he should attack us for something that we have actually done that is out of line with the Catholic character that he so readily defends. 
Erin Weedon 
senior 
Lyons Hall Feb. 21 

Think about what constitutes 'intellectual discussion' 
I am writing this article in regard to Jon Buttaci's Feb. 20 Letter to the Editor ("Loyal Daughters' humor detracts from true dia­logue"). I played the logic professor you made reference to in your article concerning how "Loyal Daughters" does not address "the issues of sexual assault in an intelligent way, but rather uses humor, stories and catchy tunes to attack Catholic view of 
chastity and Notre Dame." I would like to take this opportunity to point out some flaws just in the one paragraph that made reference to my piece. First of all, the University policy 
from duLac that the logic profes­
sor addressed in his lesson to his class is an 
actual University policy. You stated that the 
policy in debate in my monologue 
"does not exist." I suggest you reread your duLac. Page 94 

of duLac states that "Sexual misconduct, including, but not funited to: 
a) sexual intercourse without 
consent, b) unwelcome touching, or c) other offensive sexual behavior is a serious violation. A student found in violation of this policy shall be subject to disciplinary suspen­sion or permanent dismissal." Now on page 95 of duLac it states that "Because a genuine and complete expression oflove through sex requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage, the University believes that sexual union should occur only in marriage. Students found in violation of this policy shall be sub­ject to disciplinary suspension or permanent dismissal." This is a true University policy, and I stated these policies almost verbatim. 
Secondly, I was not imitating a professor or well-known logician on campus. I am a first­year student and that is how I interpreted the piece. I have never come across a profes­sor or instructor of that nature. Thirdly, the piece of the professor using false logic to try to point out a contradiction in University poli­cy is supposed to make you think as you state it Jon--"Wait a second: this is terrible logic!" How can a logic professor use logic and reasoning to support an illogical University policy? You are supposed to think that the policy is not logical because how can rape/sexual assault and consensual sex have the same punishment when they are two entirely different things? 
Furthermore, it was amazing to note how the audience actually responded to my ques­tion, "Is this logical?" Audience members shouted out "No" because it doesn't make sense to have University policies like that. Fourth, how can you associate "Loyal Daughters" with comedy and toned-down explicit humor? Immediately after my mono­logue, a girl walked out to describe in horror how she was raped by a football player in the library only then to have him ejaculate 
.on her face. Let me remind you that this is a true story. This monologue definitely had me rolling around backstage in laughter. Many of the monologues and short skits in this play addressed difficult issues in a serious light. With the exception of four or five mono­logues out of some 25 monologues and skits, I do not feel this was in any way a comedic play void of intellectual discussion. Fifthly, "Loyal Daughters" represents a variety of views expressed by Notre Dame students and faculty. It is a retlection of over 50 inter­views of the Notre Dame community. This play utilizes many different theatrical and writing techniques like sarcasm and satire along with intense emotional tones to convey the many messages. 
In conclusion, I find it extremely ironic that you attempt to discuss what should or should not be considered an "intellectual discus­sion." You obviously have no idea what you are talking about. I felt one of the messages and purposes of "Loyal Daughters" was to make students think about what we as indi­viduals sh6uld seek and cultivate in relation­ships with people of the same and opposite sex. I am deeply sorry that you missed the many intellectual messages so evident in Loyal Daughters. 
Patrick Tighe freshman Keough Hall Feb. 20 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Thursday, February 22, 2007 
MUSIC fEATURE 

Notre Dame to host 49th-annual jazz festival 
Event will feature noted performers and 13 universities 

The 49th Annual Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival will feature 13 universities and a variety of events and workshops throughout the weekend. 
Trumpeter Mark Flanagan performs "You Do Something to Me'' with the University of Notre Dame Jazz Band II as part of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Writer 

The annual Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz Festival, the oldest college jazz festival in the nation, returns to Washington Hall for its 49th year today through Saturday. Notre Dame will welcome 10 other university bands to the campus. They will be judged by five acclaimed jazz musicians who provide critiques and advice, both with the bands one-on-one and with the general public in a series of workshops. 
The Notre Dame Collegiate Jazz festi­val would be a wonderful event if only for the music and culture it brings to South Bend, but it also serves as a pro­moter of jazz music throughout the country. 
Since 1959, the festival, hosted by the Student Union Board, has invited many famous jazz musicians to the Notre Dame campus. These have included Bill Evans, Quincy Jones, Julian (Cannonball) Adderley, Herbie Hancock, Ray Brown, Wynton Marsalis, Dee Dee Bridgewater and John Clayton. 
Over the years many different univer­sity bands have been invited to Notre Dame. These have included those from somewhat lesser-known schools, increasing the variety of the festival and helping to encourage jazz music everywhere. This also makes the festi­val a wonderful source of new talent. Recordings of many of the past per­formances, dating all the way back to the first festival, can be found in the University Archives at the Hesburgh Library. 
While the festival is an invitation­based event, it is non-competitive, alternatively centering on education. Instead of ranking the bands, judges select an outstanding musician from each group and then provide the group as a whole with feedback about their performance. 
Workshops and clinics, offered to anyone who wishes to attended, fur­ther emphasize the learning aspect of the festival. These clinics are hosted by the judges as they talk about their craft ' and give advice to the participants. All of this makes for a more constructive result compared to a simple competi­tion. 
This year's twelve invited universities include Western Michigan University, Indiana University, the University of Illinois, Roosevelt University, Alma from Chicago who also teaches at Northwestern Univnrsity and the University of Illinois. She has toured in Italy, Sweden and 

. Denmark with the Jazz Members Big Band and been awarded two National Endowment for the Arts grants and an Illinois Arts Council grant in music composition. Her discography includes "Between the Lines" and "Soulmates." 
Rodney Whitaker is an associ­ate professor of double bass and thn Director of Jazz Studies at the Michigan Statn University School of Music as well as a memb!lr of the Lincoln Center Jazz Ordwstra and a conductor and consultant for the Detroit Symphony Orchestra Civic Jazz Orchestra. lie has also tournd internationally with the Hoy Hargrove Quintet, written a film seon~ for PBS's "China" and serv!ld as a professor at 
Director Larry Dwyer conducts the Notre Dame Jazz Band II at a preview concert Julliard Institute of Jazz. Wednesday in the LaFortune Ballroom to kick off the Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival. Whitaker has been featured on 
College, Shenandoah University, Jon Faddis, known internationally for Slippery Hoek University, Southern his ability to play in the high range of Illinois University, Columbia College, the trumpet, is eurr.nntly the director of 
and Capital University, as well as Notre Dame. 
The Notre Dame 
Not every group is a full band -octets, quin­Collegiate Jazz Festival tets, and percussion 
would be a wonderful
ensembles are also fea­
tured. Furthermore, as event ifonly for the music 
each band comes from and culture it brings to different areas and influ­
South Bend, but it also 
ences and will be doing 
serves as a promoter of
their best to display a wide range of styles for jazz music throughout the the judges, many differ­
country.

ent jazz sounds will emerge over the course of the weekend for the audience to hear. 
This year's judges are Jon Faddis (trumpet), James Carter (saxophone), Joan Hickey (piano), Rodney Whitaker (bass) and Carl Allen (drums). Eaeh judge speeializes in a different instru­ment so that the eollege bands ean be critiqued from a variety of viewpoints. This also allows certain sections of the band to be examined for their own merit apart from the whole. 
Best of all, Friday night the judges will take the stage together, without rehearsal, to play and exhibit their prowess. 
the Carnegie llall Jazz Band. His discography includes "Teranga" and the Grammy nominated "Remembrances." 
James Carter has mastered several jazz instruments, but is best known for the saxophone. He has received the Dr. Alaine Locke award, one of the nation's greatest cultural honors, named after one of the beacons of the Harlem Renaissance. llis diseography includes "Chasin' the Gypsy," "Layin' in the Cut," "Jurassie Classies" and "Gardenias for Lady Day," a tribute to Bille Holiday. 
Joan II ickey is a freelanee pianist 
both the Chieago Jazz Ensemble and the Jon Faddis Jazz Orchestra and is a teacher and artist­in-residence at the Conservatory of Music, Purehase College-SUNY. lie has played with Charles Mingus, the Thad Jones/Mel Lewis band, the Dizzy Gillespie Alumni Band and hundreds of albums. 

Carl Allen is an acclaimed drummer and the co-founder of Big Apple Productions. !lis discography includes "The Pursuer" and "Testimonial." He regularly gives clinics at universities and music stores which his website says covers topies such as: time and it's variations, playing from a melodic per­spective, soloing and Grooves, baek to basics (for all levels). keeping the gig (after you have gotten it) and the busi­ness of being a musician, S!) look for­ward to that for his workshop. 
All events of the Notre Dame Jazz Festival are open to the public and free of charge for students and those under 
18. Tiekets are required for adults for the Friday and Saturday sessions ($7 for both nights or $5 for one night) and are available in advance at the LaFortune box offiee. 
For the 49th year, not only will Notre Dame get to witness some of the nation's greatest collegiate jazz bands play their best, but the university will also provide a forum for their develop­ment and the encouragement of jazz as a whole. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Festival is one of Notre Dame's best traditions, <;~.nd should not be missed. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
JEFF ALBE"T"'h«•n•c• 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, February 22, 2007 
page 11 

positions and camera movement -in their brains or brawn to 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
fact, while Sebastien is playing the escape their plight. In "13 
Scene Editor 
game, he rarely speaks at all, with Tzameti," however, most of the story told through the cam­Sebastien inherently under­
A man walks into a room, having fol­era and through the characters' move­stands that there is no lowed the directions on a mysterious ment and facial expressions. escape, and he has no package. Once there, he is given a The acting is quite good. Georges choice but to play the game number, a gun and a bullet. Along with Babluani, the director's brother, has and hope for the best. 12 other men, he is instructed to load star potential as Sebastien, embodying The film has a lot of philo­the gun, roll the cylinder and place it the character's confusion and despera­sophical ideas floating against the temple of the man in front tion. Georges Babluani's character is around, but the brief run­of him. He and the 12 other men stare the clear focal point of the film -it's ning time means that some at an unlit light bulb in the middle of as close to first-person narrative as are not explored as closely. the room. When the light bulb goes on, cinema can be. Unfortunately, however, as they could be. they are told, they must pull the trig­this means that his character is the Throughout, there are ger. only one fully developed. interesting shades of 
Such is the crux of the narrative of "13 Tzameti" starts slowly, even nihilism and, at times, exis­"13 Tzameti," a gripping French leisurely, as the tentialism, espe­thriller from first-time director Gela opening sequences cially in the way
Yet, as a tense film noir,'
Babluani. Tense and effective, "13 concentrate on the which human Tzameti" is a unique examination of meager, poor exis­"13 Tzameti" is an life becomes the dark underbelly of aristocratic soci­tence of Sebastien merely another
effective piece of 

ety, and the lengths that impoverished, and his family. commodity.
accomplished cinema. Far
desperate men will go to in order to Reminiscent the The film is gain wealth. look and feel of removedfrom the shockingly non­Sebastien (Georges Babluani) is a films by Bresson chalant in its
overblown indulgence of 
poor and simple 22-year-old carpenter and DeSica (and, handling of
blockbuster cinema, it is a
struggling to support his family. While at times, of the death, which is laying the roof of a house, he overhears French New simple tale, but one that is a reflection of ­a conversation about a package that Wave), its realistic the brutal char­
well-written. 

promises riches. When the man for approach draws acters portrayed whom the package is intended dies of a the viewer into in the film. The drug overdose, Sebastien intercepts the Sebastien's world, which makes his ending of the film, however, Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC package and assumes the dead man's descent into the bizarre underground seems inspired by the pes­When: Friday, 7 and 10 p.m. identity. Following the instructions of more compelling. simism and shocking sud­Director Gela Babluani will be present at both screenings the package, he finds himself part of a At 90 minutes long, "13 Tzameti" is a denness of the French New deadly game, in which rich aristocrats short film, though it is more effective in Wave, with its sense of logical has a lot of untapped potential. place bets on the lives of the partici­its brevity. As straightforward as nar­inevitability. Still, as a tense 'film noir,' "13 pants. ratives come, it wastes no time on sub­While its simplicity as a story belies Tzameti" is an effective piece of 
"13 Tzameti" is amazingly accom­plots or story diversions. Instead, it its thematic complexity, "Tzameti" may accomplished cinema. Far removed plished, especially for a first-time remains focused, concentrating on the have benefited from some additional from the overblown indulgence of director. Gela Babluani plight of Sebastian and the development. If the film were longer, blockbuster cinema, it is a simple tale, gives the film a stylish, ["13 Tzameti"J is bizarre, clandestine world some of its themes and several charac­but one that is well-written. darkly seductive he is entering. ters could have been explored more The film has been received well criti­
shockingly nonchalant 
appearance, with gor­This is especially evident fully, lending to a better portrait of cally, especially on the film festival cir­geous black-and-white in its handling of in the dynamite second act, Babluani's themes and ideas. cuit where it won "Best First Feature" cinematography. His death, which is a which revolves around the "13 Tzameti" doesn't have the gloss at the Venice Film Festival and the cov­sense of camera move­game itself. The pacing and of a big-budget Hollywood film, which eted "Grand Jury Prize" at the
reflection ofthe brutal 
ment is impressive, tension is at its apex, and is a good thing. It gives the film a grit­Sundance Film Festival. Though "13 and there are several characters portrayed the open-space beauty of ty, realistic feel. It's a dark and often­Tzameti" was Gela Babluani's first fea­truly fantastic shots. in the .film. the landscape -which was disturbing film, which may not sit well ture, he previously directed a short Many of these shots so prevalent in the first act with some viewers. called "A Fleur de Peau" in 2002. recall the best of classic 'film noirs' in -gives way to grimy claustrophobia. Yet Gela Babluani has a great eye "13 Tzameti" will be screened in the the choice of settings, and in the shots' The audience is able to sympathize and good sense of craft and story. Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo sparse, stark appearance. with Sebastien, who seems a victim of Though "Tzameti" often feels like an Performing Arts Center Friday at 7 
The film is in French, though it's not circumstances, and his struggle for independent film, it's entirely conceiv­p.m. and 10 p.m. Director Gela a very dialogue-heavy film. Instead, it survival is contingent almost entirely able to believe that it --despite being Babluani is scheduled to be present. relies on visual panache to tell the on luck, rather than skill. This sepa­an excellent film --will probably not story. In a case of less is more, "13 rates "13 Tzameti" from typical be his best. It has such creative energy Contact Brian Doxtader at Tzameti" benefits from its strong com-thrillers, in which characters rely on that it's more than likely that Babluani bdoxtade@nd.edu 



"13 Tzameti" is the critically acclaimed feature debut of director Gela Babluani, who will be present at both of the DPAC's screenings Friday. 
I 
I I page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 22, 2007 
Bouts  The first round started off fairly organized, as the two fighters seemed to have some  As the bell marked the beginning of' the l'irst round, both fighters were blocking  of punches. Ward started the final round blocking and counter punching  and landed a string of combi­nations. In the second round,  
continued from page 20  sort of strategy to foil their opponents. Bruen was able to  extremely well and patiently waiting for an entry in their  much better than he had in the previous two rounds. lie began  Feduska displayed great foot­work and head movement to  
moment, Sayles quickly struck back with a flurry of punches, many landing to the head. In the third round, Chapman settled down a bit, and began to land some punches. Fatigue, however, showed from both fighters, and the match ended with Sayles sealing the deal as he landed several power punches.  land some punches to the head, causing the referee to stop the fight for a standing eight count. Bruen turned to his jab in round two in an attempt to set up some of his combinations. The ref was forced to stop the fight after Rivera connected with a solid head shot, causing blood to trickle from Bruen's nose.  opponent's defense to attack. Oddy landed several power punches in the round and was able to effectively use his jab to set up his straight. Maher was on the defensive for the majority of the round and was not able to land as efficiently as Oddy. In round two, Oddy was tar­geting his opponent's head, accurately landed several  to use his jab to compliment his other punches. However, as fatigue set in, both fighters slowed down. Ward finished off the round with solid combi­nations which stemmed from his effective and forceful jab. Connor Cain def. Chris Ulad Cain, a freshman from Morrissey, won in a unanimous decision over Ulad, a senior  avoid Sarna's blows. Feduska continued to work the jab to set up his combinations, earn­ing him points with the judges. Sarna's defense grew worse throughout the round, and he w~s eventually forced into a standing eight count. In the third round, Sarna displayed a sense of urgency and came out firing punches, to which Feduska was able to  
Nathan Serazin def.  In round three, both fighters  punches. Oddy was determined  from Stanford.  block and counter effectively.  
Dan Brannan  traded wild punches, as Bruen  to finish the l'ight in the third  Hight off the bat, Ulad start­ The sophomore from Siegfried  
Serazin, a junior from Siegfried, won a split decision over Brannan.  landed most of his. The fresh­man from Sorin seemed to become more patient as the  round as he came out firing punches. In the final round, he successfully attempted to bring  ed the first round with nice combinations, in what was a patient opening. Both lighters  dominated the final round landing a barrage of punches, forcing Sarna into another  
Brannan, a sophomore from Fisher Hall, looked to be win­ning the first round of the fight. After the bell rang, Brannan was more patient and attacked when Serazin's guard was down. Also, the sophomore was working both the head and the body with his punches. However, a late surge by Serazin scored some points with the judges. Round two started with both  round went on, as he tried to incorporate his jab in the fight. Both fighters had bloody noses as the match came to an end. 1351b. Chris Lee def. Jason Hensler Lee, an off-campus senior, defeated Hensler, a sophomore from Zahm, in a unanimous decision. Round one began with Lee throwing a wild fury of punch­ his jab into the fight, which set up his other punches. Maher was able to come up with a series of counter punches, but Oddy landed a straight shot to knock out Maher. Chris Cugliari def. Glenn Gutierrez After two straight knock outs, Cugliari, a freshman from Dillon, reinvigorated the crowd with a split-decision win over Gutierrez, a sophomore  analyzed their opponents' style, as Ulad began to work both the body and the head. However, Cain was able to make a surge of' his own, despite his poor blocking. Round two started a little more chaotically than the first, with Cain landing some power punches. Throughout the mid­dle of the round, he continued to land a flurry of blows, as Ulad seemed to back off from his opponent. In the end,  standing eight count. Hight before the bell sounded ending the fight, Feduska sealed his victory with a forceful upper­cut. Christopher Hanlon def. Greg Abbracciamento Hanlon, an off-campus sen­ior, knocked out Morrissey freshman Abbracciamento. Round one started with Hanlon immediately going to his jab to set up his combina­ 
fighters weighing each other out. Brannan connected with  es, which eventually caused the referee to hold Hensler to  from Knott. In round  one,  Gutierrez  Cain's long reach worked to his advantage, as punches  tions. Abbracciamento attempted to defend Hanlon's  
some power shots to the head and the body, as Serazin moved about the canvas to flee  a standing eight count. Hensler, a southpaw, seemed to confuse Lee at first, but the  started swinging in a disorder­ly manner, causing Cugliari to put up his guard. Cugliari  were traded to end the round. The third and final round saw Cain landing several  punches but couldn't. This resulted in furious punches landing on Abbracciamento's  
the punches. Both fighters dis­played excellent footwork in the ring. In the third round, Serazin improved his blocking and defensive strategy, and as a result was able to land more  victor was able to adapt well. In the second round, Lee continued his string of wild punches, as Hensler tried to block the assault. However, due to the high amount of thrown punches, both fighters  played de(ense well and held off the barrage. Although Gutierrez started out the round landing more hits, the freshman from Dillon began working his jab more accu­ratety and started to score  straights to Ulad's head. 140 lb. Joey Brown def. Paul Aleman Brown, a sophomore from Morrissey used his jab to set  head, causing a standing eight count. Abbracciamento tried to recuperate lost points with his own combinations in the sec­ond round and may have done so with sloppy defense dis­ 
counter punches.  appeared fatigued as the round wore on. Towards the  points with the judges. Round two saw Gutierrez use  up other combinations in a unanimous victory over  played by both fighters. The third round lasted only a  
- Danny Wemple def. Dymtro Aponte Wemple, a freshman from Siegfried, won a unanimous decision over Aponte, a law student from Fisher.  end of the round, Hensler was able to land a solid counter­punch to Lee's head. In the third round, Hensler landed some counterpunches, but it appeared that Lee's dis­ an unorthodox method of' blocking punches with relative success. Cugliari was able to alter his strategy and turned his focus to landing body punches, which slowed  Morrissey sophomore Aleman. Soon after the first round started, several wild punches were exchanged between both fighters, with Aleman getting his licks in. Brown finished  minute thanks to a command­ing uppercut haymaker that drew blood from Abbracciamento's nose. Mark Weber def. Greg Antell  
The fight started with wild punches being thrown. Aponte defenselessly charged at Wemple, who took advantage of open holes on his opponent. Wemple was able to use his height and reach over his opponent to his advantage, landing his jab with frequency. With his overly aggressive style, Aponte was able to land some punches, but hit air more he hit Wemple. In the second round, Aponte continued his aggressive charge, and Wemple was able . to connect some power punch­es to the face.  orderly punches were too much for the sophomore to handle. On Feb. 26, Lee will face Brian DeSplinter in the quarterfinals. Mike Howard def. Michael Reeve Howard, a sophomore from Stanford, recorded the first knockout of the night, domi­nating Reeve, a sophomore from Dillon. In the first round, Reeve was fighting aggressively, trying to get in Howard's face. However, Howard's long reach enabled him to keep his room -and  Gutierrez down substantially. The third round saw both fighters exchanging punches to the crowd's delight. Rick Ward def. Mark Hincapie Ward, a sophomore from St. Ed's, outlasted Stanford fresh­man IIincapie in a battle between two patient lighters. The first round started with both fighters weighing each other out and analyzing an entry for attack. llincapie was the first to strike, landing sev­eral quick blows to the head. Ward was having some difTi­ the round with a strong surge that set the tempo for the rest of the tight. As round two commenced, both fighters traded away punches. Brown used his jab to lower Aleman's defenses and get closer to his opponent. Regardless of what Brown threw at Aleman, the Manorite was able to defend well. The third round saw Brown let loose punches to which Aleman had to defend and block. Aleman landed some counterpunches, but the unfazed Brown took the victo­ry.  Keenan sophomore Weber won a split decision over Antell, a freshman from Carroll. Round one started with sev­eral solid jabs from Weber. Antell seemed to l'ight conserv­atively, not punching or block­ing as effectively as his oppo­nent. The second round com­menced with both boxers trad­ing punches between each other. Antell's performance improved, as he began to settle down and land more al:curate­ly. However, Weber was able to counterpunch and use a med­ 
The third round went on  punish Reeve.  culty fighting ofT and defend­ ley of jabs and hooks to weak­ 
much like the first two, as Wemple was able to land sev­eral power punches while avoiding Aponte's charges. At one point, Aponte was charg­ing blindly, with his long hair obstructing his yision.  The second round didn't last very long. Again it started with Reeve charging at Howard. Reeve seemed to be connecting some more punches until Howard landed a right hook, knocking B.eeve out 30 seconds into the second round.  ing IIincapie's punches in the first round. However, Ward was able to land several coun­terpunches to finish out a dose round. Round two saw 1-lineapie moving around the ring ef'fi­eiently, landing his one-two  Eric Feduska def. Johnathan Sarna Feduska, a sophomore from Siegfried, beat Carroll fresh­man Sarna in unanimous fash­ion. Hound one started with sev­eral wild exchanges in which  en his opposition. Antell started the third round with some combina­tions, althDugh they were slightly uncontrollable punch­es. Weber's defense seemed to get worse as the fight pro­gressed, but a strong finish  
Walter Bruen def.  combinations. llineapie  was  Sarna  landed  some  power  from the Keenan sophomore  
Steven Rivera  Paul Oddy def. Joey Maher  also  able  tH  bloek  Ward's  punches. To counter his oppo­ sealed his victory. For Antell it  
Bruen, a Sorin, won over Rivera, St. Ed's.  freshman from a split decision a freshman from  Keenan sophomore Oddy knocked out Maher, a senior from Dillon, one minute into the third round.  punches. However, Ward mus­tered a late surge in the round, to which llincapie responded with his own streak  nent, Feduska tried to improve his blocking and work the jab with more frequency. To finish the round, he cornered Sarna  was too little too late. Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. TheObserver reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME· AREAS,BETTER DEALS. ONE WHO IS? 
BlueGoldRentals.com
WANTED FoR SALE FoR RENT PERSONAL 
You do not have to be alone. We 

Condo For Sale in SB 2 bdrm House available for 2007-2008. Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? want to help. Winter/Spring Positions Available! twnhse great condition & neighbor-Very Large, Close to Campus, Just bdrm,3 bath homes,trpls,2-car Earn up to $150 per day! hood new sun room call 269-445-Renovated. Contact garages. Do not go it alone. If yo.u or some-Call our 24 hour confidential hotline 
2765. Mac Swain@ gmail.com Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-one you love needs confidential at 1-800-No·ABORT or visit our Exp not Required. 5038. support or assistance, please call website at www.lifecall.org 
$93,000 andersonN Drentals.com Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For Undercover shoppers needed To Roorn for rent in huge home 1 block more information, visit our web site Dear Tytania, thou shalt not from Judge Retail and Dining · 2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR-Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 east of campus. Very clean, sate & at this grove till I torment thee 4 this Establishments QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. private. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-injury. Lv, Oberon 
CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE $600/Bed/mo. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Call 800-901-9370. OWNER,$6,500. CALL 243-5454. 574-360-2569. Great student price. 239-707-2025. in The Observer. Siegfried Hockey dominates. 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, February 22, 2007 Cor.A.PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
PGA TouR 

NCAA Hockey, USCHO.com/CSTV fop 20 
team record points previous 
1 NOTRE DAME 26·5·3 780 1 2 Minnesota 25-5.•3. 774 2 3 New Hampshire 22•6·2 791 3 4 St. Cloud Slate 18·6·6 649 4 5 Boston University 17-5·9 641 6 6 Clarkson 20-7·5 560 9 7 Denver 20-11-3 532 8 8 North Dakota 17•11-4 . 471 10 9 Miami (Ohio) 22-10·4 446 12 10 Michigan 22·1H 438 11 11 Boston College 18-11·1 428 13 12 Maine 19·10·2 417 5 13 Michigan State 18-11-3 334 6 14 St. Lawrence 19-11-2 315 15 15 Colorado College 16-13·3 232 14 16 Cornell 14-9·4 206 18 17 Vermont 16-12·4 185 16 18 Massachusetts 14-11-5 76 19 19 Wisconsin 14-15·3 45 NR 20 Qufnnlpiac 16·11-5 44 20 
NCAA Hockey USA Today Top 20 
team record points pretJious 
1 NOTRE DAME 26·5-3 496 1 2 Minnesota 25·5-3 489 2 3 New Hampshire 22·6·2 424 3 4 Boston University 17·5-9 418 6 5 St. Cloud Stale 18·6-6 373 4 6 Clarkson 20·7-5 324 9 7 Denver 20-11-3 314 8 8 North Dakota 17-11-4 221 12 9 Miami (Ohio) 22•10-4 221 1.1 10 Michigan 22-11-1 212 10 11 Maine 19-.10-2 201 7 12 Boston College 18-10-4 153 13 13 Michigan State 18-11-1 100 5 14 St. Lawrenee 19•11-' 
g 15 Colorado College 16-13~3 16 Cornell 14·9-4 17 Sacred Hearl 19·9-4 18 Vermont 16-12-4 19 MassachuseHs 14-11-5 20 Wiseonsin 14-15~ 

NCAA Hockey CCHA· Oonference<s~,o<tillg':Et 
conference overall 
team 

record record 
1 NOTRE DAME 20-3·3 26·5-3. 
2 Michigan 17~8~1. 22•1 
3 Miami (OH) 15·7•4 22-10· 
4 Michigan stale 14-9-3 18·11·3 
5 Western Michigan 13-12-1 16·15·1 
61 Nebraska-Omaha 11-11-4 14-14·8 
Ohio Stale 11·11-4 13·14-5 8 Lake Superior 10·13·3 16·15·3 9 Ferris State 9-15-2 12·19·3 10 Alaska 7-14-5 9·17-6 11 Northern Michigan 9-16-1 12·20·2 12 Bowling Green 4-21-1 6·26·2 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Duke at Clemson 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Chicago at Cleveland 7 p.m., TNT 
Miami at Dallas 
9:30 p.m., TNT 


Associated Press 

MARANA, Ariz. __:__ On a course where it was important not to fall behind, Tiger Woods found himself among the cactus and desert shrub left of the second fairway looking for an escape. His oppo­nent already was on the green, 12 feet away for birdie. 
"It looked like he was going to take a 1-up lead and get some momentum on his side early," Woods said. "And it just never happened.". 
Woods went from the desert to the fairway and made a 20-foot par putt to halve the hole, setting the tone for a 3-and-2 victory over Ryder Cup teammate 
J .J. Henry in the first round of the Accenture Match Play Championship. 
One match down, five to go if the world's No. 1 player wants to stretch his PGA Tour winning streak to eight. 
After one round at The Gallery, it figures to be a wild ride. 
For the second straight year, the shortest day belonged to Stephen Ames. He was on the los­ing end of a record rout by Woods last year at La Costa, but experienced the flip side of this fickle tour­nament by making seven birdies in 11 holes to bury Robert Karlsson of Sweden, 8 and 7. 
Seven matches went the distance, including fourth­seeded Phil Mickelson holding off fellow lefty Richard Green of Australia. 
Four matches went overtime, none more shocking than No. 3 seed Adam Scott making a birdie on the 18th hole to extend his match, only to three-putt the 21st hole to lose to Shaun Micheel. 
Jim Furyk, the No. 2 seed, was trailing at the turn until he ran off three straight birdies and out­lasted Brett Quigley, 2 and 1. 
And while the Match 
.. 
Play left soggy San Diego for the high desert north of Tucson, that didn't help Ernie Els. For the fifth time, the Big Easy was ousted in the first round, making only one birdie in his 4·-and-3 loss to Bradley Dredge. 
Thomas Bjorn of Denmark summed it up for 31 other guys headed for the airport after losing, 6 and 5, to Trevor Immelman. 
"Disappointed to come all the way for that," he said. 
Woods was 5 under in the 16 holes he played, making only one bogey. But it was a tougher day than the result showed. 
IN BRIEF 

Illinois retires controversial 
mascot Chief Illiniwek 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -The student who had just performed Chief Illiniwek's last dance stood in a tunnel just off the basketball court, still in costume and grimacing to fight back tears. 
After 20 years of pressure from activists who found the University of Illinois mascot offensive, the school did away with Illiniwek and his antics. Dan Maloney, a gradu­ate student who portrays the con­troversial American Indian mascot, performed for the final time in front of students and fans at a men's basketball game Wednesday night. 
"If this is the last time -and I stress if," Maloney said. "I couldn't think of a better way for it to end." 
The school's decision led the NCAA to lift sanctions that had barred Illinois from hosting post­season sports since 2005. 
Pacers Daniels, Tinsley
charged in February bar fighl 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers guard Jamaal Tinsley and teammate Marquis Daniel.s were charged Wednesday in a Feb. 6 bar fight. 
A Marion County grand jury indict­ed Tinsley on a felony charge of intimidation and misdemeanor counts of battery, disorderly conduct and intimidation for the fight at 8 Seconds Saloon, said Matthew Symons, spokesman for the Marion County prosecutor. 
Daniels was charged with battery and disorderly conduct, both misde­meanors, Symons said. 
Tinsley and Daniels were expected to surrender to authorities Wednesday night, Symons said. 
The Pacers play a home game Wednesday night against the Milwaukee Bucks, and team spokesman David Benner said Tinsley and Daniels both were expected to play. 
Manning restructures contract 
to save Colts cap room 
INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning has agreed to restructure his contract with the Indianapolis Colts to save the team nearly $8 million in salary cap space. . 
The Super Bowl MVP was to receive a $10 million roster bonus during the offseason but by converting the money jnto a regular signing bonus, the Colts can prorate that amount over the remaining four years of his deal. That saves Indianapolis space under the cap, which is $109 million. 
The restructuring was disclosed to The Associated Press on Wednesday by a person familiar with the negotia­tions who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deal had not yet been signed. 
Colts spokesman Craig Kelley said the team had no comment. 
Manning signed a $98 million con­tract in March 2004, the season after he shared the league's MVP award. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 22, 2007 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Hartstein topples White in 140 lb. slugfest 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Defense was optional in the match between Keough junior White and Hartstein, a freshman Roo. Hartstein beat White when the ref stopped the fight one minute into the third round. 
Round one started with the dorm mates flinging thunderous punches at each other. Although White made an attempt to block some punches, Hartstein connect­ed on a higher percentage of his blows. 
In the second round, Hartstein connected with a fury of power punches, forcing White into a standing eight count. White's inability to block and protect his head helped Hartstein control the fight. Hartstein forced White into standing eight count. 

Crazy punching continued in the last round, as Hartstein landing shots to both the head and body. 
Michael Johnson def. John Thomson 

Dillon freshman Johnson beat Thomson, a sophomore from Fisher, in a split decision. 
The first round saw Johnson corner Thomson and land an array of punches early in the fight. Johnson made it a point to target both the head and body to make Thomson's blocking more difficult. Although Johnson was taking control of the round, he was having trouble defending, and Thomson was able to land some combinations. 
In the second round, Thomson connected several blows forcing Johnson to stumble about the ring. Johnson responded with a string of hooks and jabs, forcing the referee to stop the fight momentarily due to blood on Thomson's face. 

In the third round, Thomson began throwing several combina­tions af Johnson, who was able to successfully counter, due to his quick head movement that enabled him to avoid punches. Johnson finished the match strong with a set of combinations, even­tually earning him a split decision . 
.­
Nate Dyer def. R.J. Jacobi 

In the end, it was Dyer, an off­campus senior, won a unanimous decision over O'Neill sophomore Jacobi on one of the night's most entertaining fights. 
Dyer landed several combina­tions in the first round, forcing Jacobi to block and defend. Dyer also did an excellent job of danc­ing around the ring to avoid blows and eventually countered with some power punches. 
The second round started with the crowd roaring chants of "R.J." that fired the boxer up. However, Dyer stole the thunder from the crowd and fought back with determination, landing several
-
jab-hook combos. Dyer proved to 
be the flashier fighter, blocking 
punches well. 

Dyer worked Jacobi's body in the last round. However, Jacobi fought on with a serious string of counter punches. Dyer displayed excellent footwork, as Jacobi improved his blocking in the end of the fight. However, his lack of opportunities gave Dyer the nod. 
1451b. 
Hull def. Ben Fotsch 
In a battle between two Bouts rookies, the Zahmbie freshman Hull took out St. Ed's freshman Fotsch una.niillously. 

Round one started with Fotsch swinging punches with a lack of control, to which Hull blocked and countered effectively. Fotsch worked the body, but Hull's reach proved to be useful when attack­ing his opponent's head. 
Both fighters traded power punches in the second round, with Fotsch landing the majority of his attempts. In what was a very close round, Hull continued to use his reach, but his defense deterio­rated causing him significant trouble. 
The third round began with Fotsch landing several combina­tions. However, Hull countered with a straight right to his oppo­nent's chest knocking him off his feet. This was the swing of momentum Hull needed to earn him a unanimous victory. 
Matt Posluzny vs. Matthew Ireton 
Posluzny, sophomore from St. Ed's, pulled off a unanimous over Ireton, an off-campus senior. 
Posluzny started with a flurry of strong punches against his oppo­nent. Posluzny used his height and his reach to frustrate Ireton throughout the fight, causing him to resort to blocking and defensive fighting. 
Posluzny came out swinging in the second round. Ireton coun­tered with some punches, but not enough to inflict sullieient dam­age. Posluzny continued a bar­rage of combos, causing the refer­ee to stop the fight f(Jr a standing eight count. The sophomore from St. Ed's went to a well-timed jab­uppercut combo that caused the crowd to roar -and blood to trickle form Ireton's face. 
Ireton resorted to desperate defensive tactics in round three. However, Posluzny's punches proved to be too strong for his opponent. Rival crowds began to get involved and fire up the fight­ers. Posluzny's supporters had more to cheer about once he lin­ished ofl' the match with a solid combination. 
Conor Douglass def. Kent Gonzalez 

Douglass, a sophomore from Sorin, recorded a unanimous win over Gonzalez, a sophomore from O'Neill. 
Both boxers traded combina­tions and counter punched eflec­tively in the lirst round. They also displayed poor defense in the early going of the match. Douglass attempted to work the body and landed solid hooks inflicting a standing eight count. 
Hound two saw Douglass land a solid punch, dazing Gonzalez early. I Iowever, the sophomore from O'Neill fought back coura­geously landing some counter­punches. However, it was hi<> lack of defense that enabled Douglass to bleed from the nose forcing another count. 
Douglass' windups connected more often than Gonzalez in the third. Gonzalez lost control of the fight aller Douglass continued to pinpoint his bloody nose, causing the referees top award the fight to Douglass. 
Patrick Kibbe def. Charlie Jain 
Kibbe, a sophomore from Knott, unanimously eliminated Jain, a freshman from Zahm. 
Kibbe used his long arms in round one to work his jab and his one-two combinations. The soph­omore from Knott also displayed excellent footwork in the ring, as he landed a solid straight forcing Jain into a standing eight count. 
Hound two saw Kibbe land another wild flurry of punches. Jain tried to counter several times and was only able to do so with a low percentage. Once again, Kibbe used his reach to his advan­tage, giving his opponent difficulty to get inside and land many punches. 
A solid haymaker hook from Kibbe started the final round, and the sophomore began to work the body as well. Jain tried to land some body punches, but his inability to defend Kibbe's combos cost him the fight. Kibbe finished the match with an excellent combo stemming from his jab. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


What is the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative & what is the Millennium Villages Project? 
Are you wondering what the Millennium Development Initiative is all about? 
Are you wondering how Notre Dame intends to make a difference through its participation in the Millennium Villages Project? 
Are you willing to think about and discuss how Notre Dame might most effectively promote human development? 
Come to an information session and discussion about the Millennium Development Initiative conducted by Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC and Tim Lyden. 
Friday, February 23, 4pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Refreshments to follow in the Great Hall of the Hesburgh Center. 
Thursday, February 22, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


fRIOA Y fEBRUARY 23 at 4 pm COLEMAN MORSE LOUNGE 
Paolo Mandnem from Rome, Italy, v«i!l speak about the t1iStOfv a of H1e Community 
A COMMUNITY OF SANT'EGIDIO PRAYER WILL FOLLOW AT 5:30P.M. IN THE COLEMAN MORSE CHAPEL 
The Community of Sant'Eoidio, begun in Rome in 1968, is a Catholic Lay Association, a movement of lay people cledicated to prayer, charity, and Hving the Gosoel message. Today there are over 60,000 members 1n more than 70 countries. In 2001 tr1e Community of Sant'Er.Jiclio received the Notre Dame International Award 
Solidarity and Friendship with the Poor.t Prayer. Communicating the Gospel. Abolition of the Death Penalty. International Peace Negotiations. The Dream Program In Africa To Combat AIDS. 
For more Information contact Michael Driessen at 
mdriesse®hotmail.com or Richard_Lasalvia 

TENNIS 

Henin advances over Paszek in Dubai Open 
Associated Press Martina Hingis, the 2001 
winner, also struggled to 
DUBAI, United Arab advance, beating Anabel Emirates -Defending champi­Medina Garrigues 5-7, 6-3, 6­on Justine Henin advanced to 4. tho quarterfinals of the In contrast, second-seeded Women's Dubai Open on Amelie Mauresmo romped past Wednesday, beating Vera Dushevina 6-2, 16-year-old qualifi­"/ wasn't feeling 6-2, setting up a er Tamira Paszek quarterfinal with No.
very comfortable, 
4-6, 7-5, 6-1. 8 Daniela Paszek was one very nervous Hantuchova, a 2-6, 6­point from serving 4, 7-6 (4) winner over
in fact." 
for the match in the Maria Kirilenko 2-6, second set. 6-4, 7-6 (4). 
Justine Henin 
"I wasn't feeling In other second­very comfortable, tennis player round matches, very nervous in third-seeded Svetlana fact," said tho top-seeded Kuznetsova beat Meghann Benin, undefeated in four Shaughnessy 6-1, 7-6 (4), fifth­appearances in the event. seeded Jelena Jankovoic edged 
Henin will face Eleni Mara Santangelo 6-3, 7-5, and Daniilidou in the quarterfinals. sixth-seeded Patty Schnyder Daniilidou beat Ai Sugiyama 5-overcame Alicia Molik 4-6, 6-2, 7, 6-1, 7-5. 6-4. 


2hrslO.r~<pnaf'l1zza ~n JOam I 
Since 1951 

$2 off Any Size Pizza* 
-
Eat·ln Only 

Expires March 30, 2001 Limit one per group 
537 North St. L<,>uis • South Bend, IN 574-233-2464 
.------------;-------------------------------­
.--page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 22, 2007 BENGAL BOUTS 
Hicks outlasts Wang in unanimous decision 
By PAT O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
The fists were flying right off the bat as junior Philip "The Spaniard" Hicks beat sopho­more Justin Wang in three­rounds by unanimous decision. 
Both fighters landed a variety of punches in the first round, 
• but by round two it was all Hicks. Wang put up a good fight, but Hicks' speed was too much. 
Steven Sushinsky over 
Ryan "Sub Zero" Frost 
Senior Sushinsky came out with a few haymakers that gave sophomore Frost a bloody nose to start the three round match. Sushinsky won by unanimous decision when he landed a few more tough jabs in the third round. 
Lawrence "The Boston Massacre" Sullivan def. Jim "The Camden Buzzsaw" Duffy 
The referee ended this one in 45 seconds as the junior Sullivan overpowered his oppo­nent. 
150 lb. 
Tommy "One Two Three" Forr def. Andrew "Sliced Bread" Klein 
The referee stopped this one­sided match early in the second round as Forr, a senior, dis­played his experience over Klein, a freshman, as soon as the bell rang. 
He came out swinging, and the referee stopped the fight three times before finally calling it. 
Paul Mower def. Fran Tolan 
Mower, junior, and Tolan, sophomore, fought an equal fight at the beginning, but at the fmish, it was Mower who landed more punches and got the judges vote as the unanimous winner in the three rounds. 
He proved to have the edge as his speed and skill took over. 
Dan "Straight Shooter" McGowan def. Michael 
Valluzzo 
In a split decision that involved early falls and punches throughout the fight, McGowen, senior, overcame Valluzzo, jun­ior, in a pure nail-biter. 
Three rounds of punching were almost not enough ro decide this fight's true winner. However, McGowen won the judges over after managing to _ corner Valluzzo and land criti­cal uppercuts. 
Alex "Speedy" Gonzalez def. 
Blake Jones 
While sophomore Jones stayed in the fight by landing a few punches, Gonzalez was faster, stronger and connected his blows en route to a three­round unanimous decision. 
The fight had to be halted once to stop the bleeding of Jones' nose. As the bout contin­ued, Jones did not seem to fatigue, but Gonzalez proved to be too much. 
Joseph "Thor's Hammer" Leary def. Mark Dummett 
In a unanimous decision, the sophomore Leary laid his thun­derous hammer down on Dummett, a junior 
The jabs were flying, and Dummett could not get away from Leary's power. Leary bloodied Dummett's nose in the third round on a late hit. 
Leary signaled that he did not hear the referee's whistle, but the fighters made amends after the match. 
Kevin Hederman def. 
Marty "Ribman" Sandberg 
By unanimous decision, the senior Hederman beat freshmen Sandberg. The fight was fairly even, but Hederman threw too many punches on the freshmen. 
Brian Tyrell def. 
Ryan "The Southwest Southpaw" Loughrey 
There was a lot of dancing early on in this light, one that was closer than the unanimous decision indicated. 
Loughrey, a freshman, landed a few key punches and forced a hold from Tyrell, a senior, late in the match. However, Tyrell showed his experience, which proved to be an important fac­tor on the first day of the bouts. 
He landed a few too many jabs for Loughrey to overcome. 
Jesse "Wolverine" Brawer def. Tomas "The Second Coming" Castillo 
Castillo, sophomore, put up a valiant effort late in this match, but the three rounds proved Brawer, junior, was the stronger fighter-winning the unani­mous decision. 
As soon as the match began, Brawer showed his brawn and refused to let up even with the third round second wind from Castillo. 
1551b. 
Brian Donoghue def. Brian Droste 
In a fight that started with hesistation, Donoghue, a sopho­more, won the three-round fight that appeared to be more lop­sided then the judges' decision indicated. 
Both fighters landed blows, but Droste appeared to tire out faster. The split decision most likely occurred when Droste landed a few punches late in the third round. 
Dan "You're In the Lion's Den Now" Rodgers def. Phil MacCart 
In this referee stopped con­test, Rodgers dominated MacCart with many haymakers and jabs -ending the fight in the first round. 
Barely allowing his opponent to move, the furious punching from Rodgers made sure that this bout stopped early. 
Mike "A Dish Best Served Cold" Suso def. Alec Rackish 
Suso, a senior, came out swinging in his split decision instant classic victory. · 
It looked as if he would domi­nate the match as he easily won the first round over the sopho­more Rackish. Suso seemed to take control of the second round as well, giving Hackish a. bloody lip. However, near the end of the second, Suso began to tire as Hackish stayed strong. 
The third round opened with a tired Suso desperately trying to land punches on Rackish. Rakish countered on tho exposed Suso, giving him a bloody nose. On an attempted punch by Suso, both boxers lost their balance and fell to the ground. However, the late attempts by Rackish could not help his cause as much as he needed. 
·Jordan Runge def. Dom Robertazzi 

Runge, a senior, and fresh­man Hobertazzi went punch­for-punch early on in this light; however, conditioning and experience took over in senior's favor. 
Runge bloodied Hobertazzi's nose in the second round, and the referee was forced to stop the fight in the third. 
Mark "The London Blitz" Bond def. Brandon Stewart 
Bond, sophomore, ousted graduate student Stewart in a second-round referee stopped contest, fWen though the fight was close throughout. 
I lowever, Stewart appeared to be hurting while holding his abdomen and right arm. The referee noticed this and stopped the light to talk to Stewart. 
lie could not go on in tho bout, and Bond was eroditnd with tho victory. 
Nate "The Closer" Barbera 
def. John Maier 

Barbera, senior, dominated the fight until the third round when Maier, freshman, fought back by landing some faeial jabs. Ilownver, Barbera landnd enough punches to pull out the unanimous decision. 
Barbnra got Maier in thn cor­ner early, and a third round onslaught also helped to seal the victory. 
Bret "The Mail Never Stops" 
Shapot def. 
Avery "The Iron Fish" Scott 

The punches came out fast, b_ut the junior Shapot quiekly took the advantage by showing his strength and skill while the freshman Scott struggled to got anything going. 
Shapot cornered his opponent many times, and he also landed his share of punches. The rnfer­ee stopped the fight on numer­ous occasions, but this unani­mous decision lasted tho full three rounds. 
160 lb. 

Terry "Don't Blink" Howell def. Jason Miller 
This freshmen matchup dis­played true boxing prowess as Howell started out with a nice first round of punches. Miller stayed tough in the split-deci­sion, bloodying Howell's lip. 
Ryan "Seoul Man" Smith def. 
Kevin "Double D" Goodwin 

This unanimous decision was an even fight early on, but as the rounds wore on, Smith, a senior, separatP.d himself from freshman Goodwin. 
Smith once again displayed that experience is essential in Bengal Bouts. Goodwin stuck in 
tho match and showed his determination in the third round by not giving up his ground. 
James "Cupcake" Devereaux def. Kevin "What the Thunder said" Hattrup 
Sophomore James Devereaux came out strong in the first round, landing punches on 
graduate  student  Kevin  
llattrup, en  route to  a  unani­ 
mous decision win.  

I lattrup, however, did not give up as he started strong in the second round. The punches exehangod, but Devereaux landed more and was the clear, unanimous winner. 
Hunter "The Wonder" Land def. Frank "The Tank" Barra 

Though senior Barra landed some niee jabs, junior Land proved to be the stronger and more skilled lighter in his unan­imous decision victory. 
Barra cornered Land a few timns, but was plagued by foot­ing problems on the canvas. In the end, Land connected with morn punches in this battle of talent. 
Nicholas Ponzio def. James "Everything But the Kitchen" lrcink 

This three-round boxing match between freshmen Ponzio and lreink turned out to be one sided as the judges awarded Ponzio the victory in a unanimous decision. 
Ponzio continued to corner lrcink and force him into the side ropes. Ircink was helpless as Ponzio landed numerous jabs and haymakers on his opponent throughout the fight. 
Parfait Mwez def. Corey Brisee 

This senior bout was right down to the wire as Mwez received the split-decision victo­ry in three rounds. 
The bout was characterized by periods of rapid punches and then instances of dancing around each other. Brisee slipped to the floor in the first round, but made up for it with a huge haymaker on Mwez. 
In the end, Mwez landed just a few more punches according to the majority of the judges. · 
John "The Highlighter" O'Connell def. R.J. "II Titano" Tursi 
This battle of sophomores turned into another nail-biter as O'Connell received the split­decision vote from the judges. 
Southpaw Tursi came in strong, but O'Connell finished with more contact on his oppo­nent. 
The whole light was charac­terized with a lot of missed punches by both contenders, especially in the third round when the fighters' fatigue began to slow down their movements. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.eduu 

NOTRE MHE HAEITAT FOR. HtJHANrT'I "FR.02E.N FIVE" Sit ~ 

\ 
•
f.)

~ 
~.f~ZS 
@ Sorin Room of LaFun 
f.?.~~ 10:00M1­~~11:00M1­f.?.~~ .a -w-w-w.,J..Ik./ -~ f"'U :t-~ M.J. t-J. fvww~ 
Open to ND students, faculty, staff, & families 
Free Delivery On Campus 
LiroitP.d timE< offer. Prices, tax, d~liver)' areas & charges. n~ay v:lry by Jo(.ation. Excludes other offer!>. Good ot parlir.1pating lo<ations dnly. 
52750 IN 933 
N. of Cleveland Rd. 574.. SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S

Pizza 


Thursday, February 22, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

< L/ 
e:..5::? 

Announcing the Year 2007 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to·a generous gift from the Albert Rm'arino fnmily, the Itnlian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2007 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign study in-Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3.()0(). and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who arc planning to pursue research or a formal program ofsummer study in Italy arc invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year ofItalian language_ The course work will nonnall:v be in Italian: will involve the study of Italian language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola UniYersity in Rome Boston UniversitY in Padua. UCLA in Pisa. Miami Uniyersitv in Urbino, Columbia Unive;·sitv in Scm1diano~ Interested students arc encouraged to cot~ult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: n' an explanation of how the proposed resea•·ch or fm-eign study will enhance their degree pwgram at Notre Dame; 
2) a personal statement indicating their bacl•ground, interests, and long-term goals; 
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow:  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved:  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a transcript showing all grades and courses completed  •  

7) a list of other sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) fo,-the same project 
(i.e. Office of International Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.) 
Application Deadline: Ft·iday, February 23, 2007 Albe11: Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notre Dame 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore 
Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Friday, March 2, 2007. 
Hoyas 
continued from page 20 
I thought we looked for her a little bit more and we found her." 
Although D'Amico had improved in the past two games, she was coming off a rough stretch. 
"I told myself not to get down," she said. "We won a couple of big games. My teammates have confidence in me, and my coaches do." 

get an offensive possession together before losing the balL 
"[Forcing turnovers is] the thing we do best," McGraw said. "There's been three teams that didn't turn the ball over twenty or more times against us this year. Our pressure's been good, our presses have been good, and we're just really active defensively." 
Notre Dame's 29 forced turnovers were the second­most for the team this sea­
son. The Irish 
forced 30 against
"There's been three 
The Irish dou­Michigan on Dec. 
bled up teams that didn't 1. 
Georgetown on turn the ball over The only way points in the Georgetown
20 more times
paint, scoring could run any 36 to the against us this semblance of an Hoyas' 18. Part year.. offense was when of that can be Notre Dame's attributed to defense was not
Muffett McGraw
Notre Dame's entirely set -an defense, which instance that,
Irish coach 
kept the ball outside of the arc for a good portion of the game. 
"We did a nice job in man­to-man, I thought, pressur­ing the ball," McGraw said. 
Even when the Hoyas got the ball inside, they had little success. Georgetown shot 
33.3 percent from field goal range, the second-lowest percentage for an Irish oppo­nent this season. Only Providence shot worse, hit­ting 32.5 percent of their field goal attempts on Feb. 17. 
Guard Melissa Lechlitner also had a strong perform­ance, scoring 11 points on 4­of-9 shooting. 
"As the season goes on, you get more reps in, you get more comfortable," Lechlitner said. ''I'm looking for my shot, and my pull up is really starting to falL It's a confidence and comfort thing." 

Notre Dame laid down the law early, employing a full­court press from the Hoyas' first offensive possession. The press was effective; two quick turnovers helped the Irish jump out to a quick 11­0 lead in the first five min­utes of the game. The Hoyas' first points came with five minutes gone in the first half on a jumper from guard Shanice Fuller. 
Turnovers plagued the Hoyas early. They couldn't 

even with the Irish full-court press, did not happen often. 
To offset this, the Hoyas tried to increase the pace of their offense, which to some extent worked. They drew some offensive fouls, but were unable to convert many of the attempts Georgetown shot just 37.5 percent from the line in the first half. Hoyas guard Kristin Heidloff started run­ning the court and pushing the tempo, but the Irish defense kept the ball on the perimeter and made getting the ball in the paint almost impossible. 
The only thing keeping Georgetown in the game was their perimeter shooting. Georgetown was 7 -of-16 from three-point range on the night, led by guard Kate Carlin, who hit five and led the Hoyas with 15 points. 
At one point, the Hoyas went on a 16-3 run to bring the score to 22-13, thanks to free throws and three-point­ers by Heidloff, Carlin and guard Meredith Cox. After that, the Irish went on a 10­5 run to close out the half. 
"I don't know if I've ever had a team overachieve as 
much  as  this  one  has,"  
McGraw said. ''I'm  so  proud  
of where we are."  

Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


liD®®~ W®Wrnl JP~HOO@l 

1rrnnIf) oo®WAW 
Sample fares From South Bend to: Sample fares From Chicago to: 
Chicago $131 London $273 
Minneapolis $131 Amsterdam $307 
,, 



page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 22, 2007 


Explosion of Diversity 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
since joining the conference. 

In addition to the team's record­breaking trip to the semifinal<>, sev­eral Saint Mary's players broke individual records in the victory. 
Sophomore forward Erin Newsom pulled down an MIAA tournament-record 21 rebounds to go along with 14 points -her sixth double-double of the season. Senior Bridget Lipke also set an MIAA tournament record, dishing out 11 assists. Junior Alison Kessler led the Belles with 20 points, and in doing so set the Saint Mary's single-season scoring record. Kessler's 484 points so far this season surpassed the 12-ycar­old record of 476 set by Jennie Taubenheim. 
I lope advanced to the semifinals with a solid performance at home, routing Tri-State 85-61. In a com­plete team effort, all 15 Flying Dutch players scored and grabbed at least one rebound in the win. The Flying Dutch shot 50 percent from the field for the game and posted a strong defensive effort with 15 steals. 
The win extended Hope's streak of semifinals appearances to 13 in a row, an MIAA record. 
Saint Mary's and Hope met twice in the regular season, with the Flying Dutch winning both games. The first meeting in November was the conference opener for both teams, and Hope easily defeated the Belles at home 67-42. The sec­ond game, the Belles 79-71 loss Feb. 17, was a much closer con­test. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Baseball 
continued from page 20 
Myrtle Beach, S.C. this week­end to take on UNC-Wilmington, TCU and Coastal Carolina. Despite dropping two of their first three games to warm weather teams, the Irish do not think that they are faeing a dis­advantage. 
"I don't necessarily look at it as a struggle or a disadvantage," Notre Dame coaeh Dave Sehrage said of the weather con­ditions. "I think the more days you eould be outside is benelieial to your team, but we have a great indoor facility situation." 
The team has been practicing at Loftus to prepare for the games that lay ahead. Schrage said that he thinks working out indoors poses few problems for the team. He said that the tmtm is just as strong defensively as if it were practicing outside -the only ehallenge the team faces is at the plate, and oven that seems minimal. 
"The biggest disadvantage really comes when you're talk­ing about your hitting, but last week we didn't look like a team that had not been outside," he said. 
Ironically, practicing in Loftus also presents the Irish with the advantage of being accustomtld to a field similar to the ones they will faee in Myrtle Beach. 
"Most of tl1e fields down south are short grass and the balls very similar to what we face here [inside]." Schrage said. "That's what we have to deal with and you have to deal with it in a positive way, and you have to deal with it positively with your team." 
It seems the main focus for Notre Dame is maintaining a positive attitude, considering the Irish had to replace a head coach and their entire three­man weekend rotation this ofl'­season. But to Notrn Damn those an~ all just details -the main focus is on the start of conf'nr­encc play and not what might be holding the team bac:k. 
"If the players go into a game thinking that ... we am at a dis­advantage, its not the right approach, so we don't look at it that way," Schrage said. "We'ro looking at each wneknnd that wn get to get outside to evaluatn if we got bettor from thn wnekcmd before. Our guys arn trying to get better and we're getting focused to open the mnfercmee season." 
Schrage noted that weather isn't the only factor ailing tho Irish. The team has played l'ar less games than many or its coming opponents -Notre Dame's next opponent, UNC­Wilmington (3-5), has already played eight games while thcl Irish have only played three. 
Dnspite the forces working against them, Schrage is eonli­dent that the team will perf(Jnn well down South before it cmters ito; Big East season. 
"I want tb make sure we're playing our better baseball come conference time and at the end of' our season than wn are right out of the shoot," he said. "Hight now we are more focused on how we arn playing each game, all the stufl' that we aro working on inside, we can adapt to out­side." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

From Our Own Experiences" 
Keynote Address "How I Came To See I Had a Privilege and What I'm Learning I Can Do With It" 
Peggy Mcintosh, Ph.D., is the associate director of the Wellesley Centers for Women, and the founder and co-director of the National S.E.E.D. (Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity) Project on Inclusive Curriculum. Mcintosh directs the Gender, Race, and Inclusive Education Project, which provides workshops on privilege systems, feelings of fraudulence, and diversifying workplaces, curricula, and teaching methods. 
To register please contact: 
Office of Multicultural Affairs Saint Mary's College 214 Student Center Phone: (574) 284-4721 DSLC@saintmarys.edu 
Student Diversity Board • Saint Mary's College • Notre Dame, IN 
~March 1-3, ~ 2M~ 
• 
Identify the challenges and underlying prejudices that exist in various social institutions 

• 
Develop education and interactive skills to transform the challenges of diversity into opportunities 

• 
Become empowered leaders actively promoting the advantages of diversity 


Thursday, February 22, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
-
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLACK DoG 
IT~ (201 A\..L T~E:. 
H\, I'M. A RE:.P f"ROI"\ C:LA'5SIC..S I L:lj<...E:. 
SocK.'STo~e:.. I'D u.,._e:. M'f f'l-\11...0 \01 
10 BLA'j IOO CoPtE.S ol= ESSA\.j bN 
'{OUfl.. SocK. \ 1-\0PE vot-IAI~E:. ANI::> 
DoNT MINt:> lfO WE. M'/ C.~"" PIECE. 
C.I1Ar-1(;:<; €: -r~-~e:. -nn.E ON DE:.FoRESIP\ft -ro "100 '{E.~S 0~ l>A~f. FboTe,...u. C::t u.ft.'f 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

candy 27 So 28 Extra action 
-:+-7+.:::+:::-1 22 Like cheap lipstick 23 Flat peppermint 
29 Camus subject 30 "Rah!" 
59 Jackie Robinson wore it 60 Required 61 Sized up 
62 Fiend ... or a hint to this puzzle's theme 
DOWN 1 TV ET 2 Mens 
(criminarTntent, in law) 3 Bud 4 Devoted 5 Not very potent potable 6 Substituting for, with "of" 7 Kind of nest 8 It's to the left of# 9 "Goblin Market" poet Christina 10 Stick on 11 Way to get home 12 Son of Ramses I 13 Not legis. or jud. 14 Part of CBS: Abbr. 20 Harvard's motto 
21 Rabbi's text 
WILLSHORTZ 

31 Glimpse 43 Fast-food giant 51 Bleu parts of French maps
34 Media co. 45 Creature with a symbol on the crest 52 "_ you one!" Big Board 
46 Any of the 53 Squeezed (out) 35 1944 battle site 
Apennines 

56 First name in 
37 Group whose 47 Young haddock tyranny
1946 song "The Gypsy" was #1 49 Chesterfield, 57 "The Office" for 13 weeks e.g. address? 
38 Made merry 50 Wall St. intros 58 Firmed up 
-For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these tour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BUICT 

I I I (] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CHOUP 
1 

rJ (] 
KEBORN 
j

ri I I
1 
www.jumble.com
tCLEMPO 
J I I 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

;?.-;22 
WHE:N THE: DINE:!< 5/\ID, "WE:L-1..-DONE:," 

I-t: MSNT PRAISING-­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: 
Jumbles:
Yesterday's 
Answer: 

riiJri I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) ENSUE FLANK FILLET PRAYER What he saw when he visited the print shop-ALL "TYPES" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Charlotte Church, 20; Jennifer Love Hewitt, 27; Kelsey Grammer, 51; Tyne Daly, 60 
Happy Birthday: Don't let laziness hold you back. You will have the perfect opportunity to do something you've wanted to do for some time. A financial gain is evident if you are willing to go the distance. Your own insecurity and lack of confidence in your abilities will be what hold you back. Your numbers are 4, 15, 22,38,40,46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Ifyou are on the go from morning to night, progress 
will be made. Financial gains look very positive. Good fortune and luck are in your 
corner. You will have the competitive edge.***** 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): Your kindness and generosity will impress others 
and lead to greater self-worth. You will gain respect and receive rewards for your 
selfless actions. Someone may take advantage of you by trying to get you to pay 
for his or her mistake. *** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't count on things running smoothly. You will 
take things the wrong way if you let your emotions get in the way of rational 
thinking. Rushing to finish something will not prove to be the most efficient means 
of getting things done. *** 

CANCER (June 2I-Juiy 22): Love and romance are looking very positive but 
avoid getting involved with someone you work with. A setback may be upsetting 
but, ifyou are detennined, no obstacle will stop you from reaching your goal. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make things happen that you've been trying to 
get off the ground for some time. Cold calls, interviews, pitching an idea or even 
just barreling ahead with your plans will bring you good fortune. You don't have 
to show off in order to impress others. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug, 23-Sept. 22): You may not like what you see but refrain from being 
critical. Putting pressure on someone you care about will backfire. Self-improvement 
will bring far better results than trying to reform others. Meddling will lead to a 
series of negative events. ** 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Visit someone who can enlighten you about something 
you want to do. Do your own research and carefitlly cover every aspect of whatever 
it is you want to do. Be careful, too many things on your mind will result in minor 
accidents. **** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The less risk, the better. Don't let anyone know 
what your plans are --today is about taking others by surprise. Brainstonning may 
result in discovering a gimmick that will be marketable. You are on the right track.** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Change is upon you even ifyou aren't relishing 
the thought. For now, it's best to let things unfold naturally. Your motives may be 
questioned if you aren't upfront about what you want to do. ** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Ifyou are too open, you will give your competition 
the upper hand. Drastic measures will not be the answer once a problem is set in 
motion. Keep a low profile, be observant and stay in control. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Let your humanitarian side shine through. Being 
a spokesperson for a problem you have had first hand experience with will do you 
good. Your inventive ideas will help to bring about long overdue changes.**** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Being cocky about what you know and can do will 
not impress anyone. You are likely to face an unsavory situation ifyou let someone 
corner you about your past. Lashing back or trying to cover up will only make you 
look guilty. ** 

Birthday Baby: You have an explosive personality. You are a doer, determined to make your mark. You are giving, loyal and a trooper when it comes to lending a h'elping hand. You have great strength and courage. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadyice.comforfon, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Big name in menswear and cologne 

7 Sticking points 15 Lightener 16 Fit of rage 17 Day spa 
treatment · 18 Breaks 19 "Buckle up" or "Passengers, keep your hands 
off the radio!"? 21 Sugar meas. 24 Some contests 25 Phoenix-to-
Albuquerque dir. 26 Not in it for the 
money 28 Reg. 29 Senior Tour 32 Oblivion 33 L., B. or J. 35 Hardly four-star 
cuisine 
36 Order to act one's age? 

39 "A God in Ruins" novelist, 1999 
40 N.BA's Robinson 

41 Author of "Jed, the Poor House Boy" 
42 Do stuff? 
43 Work cycles: Abbr. 
44 Encamp 

46 Enero, para uno 
47 Utah lily 

48 Noted Australian sprinter 
49 "The Odd. Couple," for one? 
54 Welcome indicator 

55 1970's best seller "Dr. Diet Revolution" 
[_­
' ~ 
THE OBSERVER 
PO·RTS
Thursday, February 22, 2007 
page 20
...­
BENGAL BOUTS 

Sayles rings opponent's bell in first fight of '07, defeats Chapman 
By LORENZO REYES Spons Writer 

In the first fight of the tour~ nament, the freshman Michael Sayles pulled out a unanimous victory over the St. Ed's soph­omore Ricky Chapman in the 129 lb. division. 
See Also 
As the 
"Harstein

round one b e l I Topples chimed, 
White"

the wild punches page 14 started the 
tourna­ment. Sayles, who lives in Sorin College, landed several jabs, setting up his right hooks. 
Round two saw Chapman start off throwing punches, but the freshman in the blue corner was able to block most of them. Once Chapman dropped his guar? for a 
see BOUTS/pagel2 

JACC-ed up 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish easily defeat Hoyas 
D'Amico puts up 15 as ND cruises, 73-48 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

Center Melissa D'Amico had 15 points and seven rebounds during Notre Dame's 73-4H home victo­ry over Georgetown Wednesday in a game characterized by stifling defense and sharp ofTen­sive production. 
Guard Charel Allen, the high scorer for the Irish in each of the past six games, had only 11 points. The focus of the offense was on D'Amico, who was 6-of-8 from field goal range and hit :~-of-4 free throws. 
"Mel's playing really well, she's shooting the ball better than anyone on the team," Irish coach MufTet McGraw said. "We need to get her thn ball more. Tonight was a t.irnc 
see HOYAS/page 17 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Third try 
Hopes to be chartn 
Belles face Dutch again in tourney 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's last faced con­ference rival Hope less than a week ago, falling 71J-71 in a tight regular season game at home. In today's conference tournament matehup, much more will be at stake -a place in the MlAA championship. 
No. 3 seed Saint Mary's (12­12, 11-6 MIAA) will travel to Holland, Mich., to No. 2 seed Hope. The Flying Dutch (22-3, 13-3) is ranked No. 5 national­ly in Division III and is looking to defend la<>t year's MIAA title. 
The Belles advanced to the semifinals last Tuesday with a historic win at home over Alma. St. Mary's 66-54 win propelled the team past the first round of the MIAA Tournament for the first time 
see BELLES/page I 8 
BASEBALL 

Notre Da111e looks to shake off southern rust 

By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 

Unfortunately there is no spring training in college baseball becausn Notre Dame's annual early season trip south has start­ed sour. 
The Irish first testnd the south­ern weather last weekend when they traveled to San Antonio, Texas to take on Prairie View A&M and Texas State. Notre Dame started strong defnating Prairie View A&M I 5-H on Saturday but the Irish fell to Texas State 2-1 and 6-0 Sunday to drop to 1-2 on the year. 
Notre Dame will head south to 
see BASEBALL/ page I 8 

PGA TOUR

BE~GAl BOUTS TEN~ IS 
NBANCAA BASKETBALL NFL 
LLI (.,) Opening Night Dubai Open World Match Play Illinois Mascot Pacers Bar Fight Colts salary cap
z 
Championships 

Peyton Manning
Lawrence "The Boston The Illini retire theirDefending champion Jamal Tinsley faces
::5 

restructures contract to= Tiger Woods wins '3­Massacre" Sullivan Jus tine Henin struggles dancing Chief Illiniwek felony charge and give team more roomknocks out Jim "The 
past qualifier Tamira 
and-2 over J.J. Henry, after 20 years of pressure Marquis Daniels looks at 

c::a: 

under $109 millionCamden Buzzsaw" Paszek. 
and Phil Mickleson beats from activists. 

misdemeanor charges. 
limit.
Richard Green in 18.

Duffy in 45 seconds.
!:i 

page 16 page 15 
page 13 
page 13 page 13 page 16 






