
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 38 THURSDAY. OCTOBER 18,2007 
STUDENT SENATE 
Leaders address course packet costs 
Citing student concern, senators want Hammes Bookstore to stop selling packets 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Hecognizing student dissat­isfaction with high course packet prices this semester, Student Senate unanimously passed a resolution Wednesday recommending course packets no longer be sold at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore but instead be sold at existing or future campus copy locations. 
Course packets have been sold in the past at copy cen­ters around campus, includ­ing shops in Decio and O'Shaughnessy Halls. This 
semester, all course packets were sold from the book­store. Articles in Scholastic magazine and The Observer have reported student unhappiness with the price increase for course packets, a change which resulted from the bookstore's markup for copyrights and profit. 
Senate Academic Affairs chair Carol Hendrickson researched the issue for the past several weeks. She and Fisher senator Stephen Bant presented the results of an e­mail survey they conducted in a PowerPoint presentation to the Senate. 
The survey was e-mailed to 
a random sample of 800 stu­dents from all four classes, with 272 responding. Of the respon.dents, 67.5 percent said they were very dissatis­fied with the cost of their course packets. Another 15.9 percent said they were some­what dissatisfied with the cost. Responses were also charted omitting the fresh­men response, since they could not compare the price they paid for course packets this year with previous years. 
Without freshmen input, the percentage of people very dissatisfied or somewhat dis­satisfied with the cost of course packets this semester was 88.3 percent. 
The survey also asked stu­dents what they thought about the convenience of purchasing all books and course packets at the book­store, rather than at copy centers around campus. 
Of the respondents, 34 per­cent said it was essential or very important to have the convenience of purchasing course packets in one loca­tion rather than many copy centers on campus. Thirty­four percent said it was somewhat important, and 32 percent said it was not 
see SENATE/page 4 


Panel discusses religion in Ireland 
Representatives speak about peaceful relations between faith groups within Catholic nation 
new religions," he said. "This is something of a convenient truth for people of other religions because it is a way of liberating them." 
Echoing the current national opinion of freedom of religion in Ireland, McGarry quoted Irish president Mary McAleese saying, "We don't enforce religion on anybody. We had our day with that." 
McGarry said the Irish govern­ment of Ireland is an "aggres­sively secular" institution and works to enforce the separation of church and state. 
It is also important, McGarry said, to be sensitive to those who don't assign themselves to a par­ticular faith. The number of peo­ple who don't consider them-
see IRELAND/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NDAsian program_ 
•


grow-1ng 
Student interest in coursework increases 
By DAN JACOBS News Writer 
Over the past several years, student interest in Asian Studies has grown -prompting the University to expand its aca­demic offerings in the subject. 
Notre Dame's connection to Asia began nearly 30 years ago, as University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh traveled there to cre­ate a stable interconnection and exchange with academics in China. 
In 1996, eight faculty mem­bers founded The Center for Asian Studies on campus. Now in its 11th year, the Center is made up of more than 40 facul­ty and staff members with its own office. It now supports more than a dozen courses in many diverse fields of study. 
The central mission of the Center is to promote and offer interdepartmental support for classes and research relating to Asian studies and Asian­American studies. 
Director of the Center for Asian Studies and Anthropology professor Susan Blum is excited for the opportunities that lie ahead. 
"Asia, of course, has 60 per­cent of the world population so anyone who is attentive to world affairs is aware of the impor­tance of Asia," she said. Blum said this is an opportunity to expand the program's presence on campus even more. 
see ASWpage 9 

Students, officials debate rally interest 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
Though the Student Activities Office said student attendanc!l at pep rallies is still strong, many upperclass­men have slopped going ­saying they are too tired or discouraged about Notre Danw's disappointing football season. 
"We appreciatn the student support and attendance and fnel that is has been strong this year and consistent with previous seasons," said .Josh Bnrlo, director of athletic tick­et operations. 
Berlo also said the general public attendance, which 
includes alumni, was "really strong" at the three rallies this fall. · 
"We have had lines that wrapped all the way around the stadium." he said. 
The Student Activities Office does not provide breakdowns of what class levels are best represented at pep rallies, said Peggy Ilnatusko, director of Student Activities program­ming. 
But some upperelassmen believe the pep rallies have lost their appeal. 
.Junior .John Watkins said he hasn't been to a pep rally "in a really long time." 
"It is ·always the same thing 
see RALLIES/page 6 
..... 


Alliancend plans den1onstration 
Gay/straight group continues to promote tolerance, inclusion 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
National Coming Out Day came and went last Thursday without the stu­dent activism that, in the past, marked the day with bright orange "Gay? Fine By Me" T-shirts. 
But Alliancend, the unrec­ognized gay-straight group that typically organizes events to raise awareness about homosexuality at Notre Dame, has plans in pla·ce for a demonstration after fall break. 
Alliancend co-president Alex Renfro estimates that 
see ALLIANCE/ page 4 By KATIE PERALTA 


News Writer 

Although Ireland has seen an influx of different religions in recent decades, a panel discus­sion Wednesday, featuring three representatives from different faiths, said the predominantly Catholic nation has allowed them all to exist peacefully with little interference from the gov­ernment or Roman Catholic Church. 
Patsy McGarry, religious affairs correspondent for the Irish Times in Dublin, said a reli­gious revolution is taking place in Ireland. 
"It could be said that the long [religious] tradition of 19th-cen­tury Ireland is finally thawing and allowing an emergence of 
--------------------------------~----------~-~----~~---­
Thursday, October 18, 2007 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A lotto be thankful for 
It's midtPrms week and I am holed up in tlw library. It's so late tlw jan­itor has lwgun to sweep the l"loor in eirdes around me. As I look at the gleaming l"loors and start to appre­ciate tlw job 
John Whittythis man is 
doing, thoughts 0 r gratitude .c-;porls Wire 
invade my mind; Editor 
as well thny should, because 
this student has a lot to· be thankful 
for. 
An odd thank you to the football team: For their first victory of the season ov1~r UCLA. Although I was rnisnrabln over the 0-5 start, no one 1~ould pay me to give up the experi­ence of rushing out of my dorm, along with what seemed like the rest of campus, to.tlw inevitable gathering at Stoneheng1~. I didn't care that we were going bnrserk over a single win that was long past dun, or that Jimmy Clausen didn't actually throw a touchdown. No onn 1~ould havP dampennd the feeling that. night. Forget freshman or transfer orinntation icebreakers, if you didn't feel a s1mse of community after that night. you have a screw 
loos1~. 
A special shout-out and thank you to my f"rinnds from Cavanaugh and Welsh Family who, just a month aJtnr nweting thmn, surprised me on my birthday with my favorite pres­ent: A cookiP cake. Without people like this, Notre Dame wouldn't he tlu~ tight-knit community that wn all rnly on in times of nend and cele­hratn with in timns of triumph. For thesn friendships, I am grateful, as well as tlw fact that my birthday candles didn't set ofT thn Cavanaugh fire alarm. 
Thank you to everyone's favorite prPsidPnt enwritus, Fatlwr lleshurgh, for responding to my mnail, nweting with me, and telling mn tlw most lwlpf"ul thing I can say or think is, "Come lloly Spirit." I can only hope in my years at Notre Damn and beyond that the Spirit works through me hall" as much as it does through him, and that I leave a footprint a fraction the size or his. 
Last, though they are not physical­ly at Notre I>anw with me, I would lw rmn iss if" I didn't thank my par­ents for everything from day one. It occurs to nw that upon finding I was accnptnd here as a transfer student., I rwver actually asked if I 1:ould attl~nd school lwre: I know thny · wnrn nxr.itnd for me, but I just assunH~d it would all work out and f"ort.unatnly it has beyond my groat­est expectations. For this, I can only thank tlwm for caring enough about my dreams to hn in..a position to finarH~e. provide, and support a Not.r·n Damn ndueation. 
Orw final thought as wn lwad into a weekend. that some may think, willlw another letdown on tlw grid­iron: !lave you ever nolicod that as thn sky gets ominously dark and morn threal!ming by the minutn, the Colden Dome shines brighter? As long as Our Lady is on the Domn, thnrn will always bn hope. Co Irish, boat Trojans. 
11w t'iews uxprt'ssed in the Inside Column are thosr' oflhP author and not necessarily those qf'11w Ob:·wnwr. 
Contact John Whitty at jwitty0lnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The ( lbscrver regards itself as a professional publication and strives f(>r the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: As A CHILD, WHAT DID YOU SAY YOU WANTED TO BE WHEN YOU GREW UP? 



Andrew McKinley junior Keenan  Jaime Amrhein junior Lewis  Don Taynor junior Carroll  Joe Serafin sophomore Dillon  John Hennessey junior Sorin  
"A basketball player."  "A tree -I used to  "A leaf-I still do. "  ''A hell ofan engineer.  ''A mailman. "  




practice." 


Dancing cockatoo loves a boy-band beat 
SCIIEHEHVII.LE, Ind. ­Snowball the cockatoo can't get enough of' the Bad<stnmt Boys. Tim 11-year-old mndi­um sulfur-crested cockatoo lifts his legs, squawks and bobs his head, 11ashing his bright ynllow ernst to the beat of the boy band's "Everybody (Backstrnet's Back)." 
When Snowball was givnn to a bird rescue shelter a fnw months ago, the man includ­ed the CD and instructions to watch his rnaetion. 
Irnna Schulz said she almost fitintnd at the sight. ''I'm thinking, 'What on Earth is this? Tllis is unreal,"' 
said Irena, who runs Bird Lovers Only Hnscue with her husband, Chuck. 
The couple said they have benn contacted by peopln from around the world who have watchnd Snowball on the video-sharing Wnb site YouTube. 
NYC woman finds python in the toilet 
NEW YOHK -There was no Halloween bogeyman in the closet for one Brooklyn woman -just a 7 -foot-long python in her toilet. Nadege Brunaeei was washing her hands in her bathroom before dawn Monday when shn glanced back and saw the slithering serpent peeking out from her toilet, most of its body hidden in the pipes. 
"I turned on the light and screamed," Brunacei, 38, told the New York Daily News. "It still makes my heart race." 
Brunacci slammnd down the lid, put a heavy box on top of the toilnt and began calling fi1r hnlp, which came from her landlord and firn­f"ighters. Plumbers had to tear apart the downstairs neighbor's pipes to capture the snake, she said. 
It's unclear how the snake made its way into the pipns. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 

..... 
<[ 
(.) 


IN BRIEF 

Scholar Anu Chakravarty will speak about "Surrendering Consent: The Political Conscquem~es of the Genodde Trials in Hwanda" today from 12::~0-2 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
First Year of Studies is sponsor­ing a monthly luncheon series featuring womm1 at Notrn Dame. Oetober's fireside chat will take plw~n today from 12::~0-1::~0 p.m. in thn Colnman-Morse Study Lounge and will filature Carolyn Woo <md Martin J. Gillm. 
A letter-writing campaign to urge senators to support the DIU<:AM Ad will take place today at 5 p.m. in fhmt of the Center for Social Concerns. Lnttnrs, stamps and pi:t,Za will bn provid­ed. 
The lilm "American Idealist: The Story of Sargent Shriver" will be shown at the DeBartolo Perfonning Arts Center today at 7 and 10 p.m. as a part of the Solidarity Film Series. Tickel'i are $3 for students. 
The Chief Exm:utivn Ofl"ieer of OfliceMax, Sam Duncan, will speak Friday as a part of the Boardroom Insights Lecture Series fhnn 10:40 a.m. to 12:15 
p.m. in thn Jordm1 Auditorium in tlw Mendoza College of Business. 
The Competitions Kickon· and Elevator Pitch Competition as part of NASDAQ training ses­sions will occur from :J-5 p.m. Friday in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed inJbrmation about an event to obsnC'ws@nd edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 





60 
40 

.,9 HIGH 80 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 48 
LOW 55 LOW LOW LOW LOW 35 
58 42 

67 50 
73 HIGH 45 LOW 

Atlanta 79169 Boston 701 55 Chicago 77 I 61 Denver 58 I 39 Houston 92 I 73 Los Angeles 77 I 55 Minneapolis 61 I 55 New York 76 I 62 Philadelphia 78 I 60 Phoenix 89 I 62 Seattle 54 I 45 St. Louis 76 I 66 Tampa 89 I 76 Washington 77 I 62 
~--,_______..... ____....... _. -~-.. ----------............----~----............-.----.-.-~-----..-........... ..-.... ,... _ ..___~.,_ ___ j 

Thursday, October 18, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Echo Night 
Tuesday, Oct. 30th 
1st Floor LaFortune {Dooley Room} 7:00-1 O:OOpm {drop by any time} 
Whether you are a post-grad options or an looking ahead, Echo you to discover the varlous dimensions: 
*Academic Formation *Communal Formation*Pastoral *Serving the Church 

Prof. speaks on marriage 
By LIZ HARTER 
News Writer 
A wedding is not the most important day in a person's life, a religious studies pro­fessor said during Wednesday's Theology on Fire discussion at Saint Mary's. 
"You're the same person the day after your wed­
"d i n g , 
"Singleness was not a 
Religious 
burden but something 
Studies pro­
fessor Anita to give the world.,, Houck said. "Your finan­
Anita Houck
cial status is 
religious studies professor 
different, your sexual Saint Mary's 
life may be different, but you're the same person and your husband is the same person." 
Instead of focusing on the wedding, she said, society should begin to focus more on the vocation, and, more specifically, on the vocation of the single person. 
Houck defined vocation as a calling, the path to heaven, God's will, and a direction. She specified that there are two different types of voca­tions: The universal voca­tion, which is the overall calling that all people have to live in the image of God, and the particular vocation, which relates to work that you do or the four life states of single life, marriage, vowed holy life and priest-
was for me." 
Houck was single for 44 years and after one of her relationships failed, she began to view being single as her own vocation. 
"Singleness was not a bur­den but something to give the world," Houck said. "I had the clearest sense in my life of vocation, everything hood. 
"I had spent some time chasing a vocation [when I was younger)." Houck said. "I had wanted a vocation in my life, but it just didn't seem like it that I had and everything that I was, whether I was crazy about it or not, became something to give to the world." 

A vocation does not have to be a permanent state, Houck said, and for many people, including herself, singleness was not perma­nent. 
"Single life rocks," said Houck, who married a little more than a year ago, "Marriage, when you're with the right person and it's the right things -as far as I can tell -rocks." 
One of the greatest capaci­ties that human beings have is the idea of permanent commitment, she said. 
"It's a tremendous thing and it's too bad that we don't have that for single people," Houck said. "Not that you want to commit yourself as a single person permanently because most people don't." 
She added that the great­est gift a single person has is the time and ability to focus on their spirituality. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SUB works to bring hit films to campus 
By KATE McCLELLAND News Writer 
Recent rescheduling controver­sies for Student Union Board (SUB) weekend movie showings have not affected attendance, SUB officials said. 
"We try to get movies that have been popular at the box office or that we personally have heard good reviews about," said Meghan Kelly, co-director of programming for SUB. "We like to bring them to students before they come out on DVD." 
There was a problem, however, surrounding the showing of "Hairspray," which was originally scheduled to be shown during the first weekend in October. It has now been pushed back until the weekend after fall break. 
Many students were excited about seeing the hit musical and planned to attend, but were disap­pointed when "1408" was shown instead. Ironically, it was the film's success that caused the delay. 
"We felt really bad," Kelly said. "But there was really nothing we could do. The movies we are able to show depend on what movies are being released by the motion picture companies. The company that produced 'Hairspray' [New Line Cinema] decided at the last minute not to release the picture to Swank [Motion Pictures] because it was still so successful in the theaters." 
All of the movies SUB presents come from a company called Swank Motion Pictures, Inc., which buys the rights to films directly from motion picture companies. The company in turn rents the rights and the filmstrips to SUB on a per night or per weekend basis. 
That is why there is a $3 admis­sions charge for students, Kelly said. 
"We have to charge because the rights and the movies are quite expensive," Kelly said. "The pro­ceeds from admission prices go directly toward paying Swank for the movie." 
Many students feel the price is right -especially in comparison to the cost of a movie in a regular movie theater -and attendance at SUB movies this semester has been solid, Kelly said. 
"Attendance depends on what movie is showing and what else is happening on-campus on the same nights as the movie," she said. "Attendance has been pretty good so far this semester, but there has also been a lot of other events going on." 
Still, students turned out in high numbers for "Ratatouille" this past weekend and, while the official numbers have not been calculated, it was probably the most success­ful film yet this semester­although "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End" and "Ocean's 13" had fairly high turnouts as well. 
"We definitely try to get the best movies that we can, and to make them fun for people to go to," Kelly said. 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcclell@nd.edu 
<echo.nd.edu> 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 18, 2007 
Senate 
continued from page I 
important to have all the eoursn packets available at onn location. When freshmen responsns were omitted, 25 perennt said it was essential or very important to have onn-stop shopping, and 75 percent said it was somewhat important or not important. 
"Students prefer lower prices to one-stop shopping," Bant said. 
The ability to charge eourse packets to a student account was deemed essen­tial or very important by 39 percent of respondents and somewhat important or not important by 61 percent of respondents. 
The option to charge pur­chases to a student account was given as one of the rea­sons to sell all course pack­ets through the bookstore, 
D 
the resolution said. 

"However," the resolution reads, "the capability to charge to student accounts could be added to existing campus copy centers." 
Sorin senator George Chamberlain commended Hendrickson and Bant for their work on the survey and the resolution. 
"I think it's really impor­tant for the student govern­ment to do important, mean­ingful things for the student body," he said. 
Hendrickson and Bant will present the resolution to the Arts and Letters Course Packet Review Committee at its meeting today, on which they are student representa­tives. Hendrickson also plans to forward the resolution to Dan Skendzel, the director of administrative services of the office of vice president for business operations. Hendrickson said Skendzel is directly in charge of the course packet process. 
"They don't have to go with what we say," she said. "It's just a recommendation, say­ing what the student body thinks." 
She said she hoped the Senate's resolution could influence decisions about where course packets will be available in the spring semester. 
The survey also asked for students' opinions about making more readings avail­able through electronic reserves. The Academic Affairs committee hopes to present a resolution regard­ing electronic reserves at the first Senate meeting after fall break, Hendrickson said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Student body president Liz Brown and vice president Maris Braun will make a presentation to the Board of Trustees today in Saint Liam Hall. They will discuss issues surrounding the ordinance recently passed by the South Bend Common Council and future community relations initiatives, Braun said. 
+ 
The student government will organize Sexual Assault Awareness week Nov. 12-14, to coincide with the perform­ances of Loyal Daughters. 

+ 
The Hesidence Life com­mittee is exploring expand­ing Domer Dollars off cam­pus and talking with Food Services about holding free laundry nights, said chair Mariana Montes. 

+ 
The Oversight Committee passed a resolution that amended the Student Body Constitution to include the Student Union Endowment and to change the amount allocated from the Charity Fund to the Rector Fund from $35,000 to $60,000. 


Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


MY DORM WINDOW WITH MY HEAD TILTED 45 DEGREES TO GET RECEPTION. 
U.S. 
Cellular"' offers you a 30-Day Network Trial that gives you the space and the freedom to make sure your phone works where you want to use it and not just where you're forced to use it. 

U.S. 
Cellular is wireless where you matter most~M 




~US. Cellular. 
getusc.com 1-888-BUY~uscc 
Kyocera Strobe 
30·0ay Guarantee: Customer is responsible for any charges incurred prior to return. Q 2007 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 



Alliance 
continued from page I 
there are 40 openly gay stu­
dents at Notre Dame and 
another 500 that have not 
come out about their sexual­
ity.. 
In two weeks, Alliancend 
will host a major poster 
demonstration in 
O'Shaughnessy Ilall, which 
will seek to reach out to 
these "closeted" individuals, 
Henfro said. 
"There will be giant 
posters reading, 'We're glad 
you're here,"' Renfro said. 
"It was the same message 
that was sent to the first 
women on campus and now 
we're trying to extend it to 
the closeted community here 
at Notre Dame." 
In the past, Alliancend set up a giant closet outside South Dining Hall and encouraged students to "come out" about some aspect of themselves ­whether as a multi-racial student, an artist or a non­homosexual, among others. 
But Renfro said the closet 
was stolen this year. 
The Student Activities 
Office does not recognize 
Alliancend as a club, though 
the group has applied for the 
status -which would allow 
them to tap into Student 
Activities funds -for sever­
al years. 
The University-sponsored voice for homosexual stu­dents on campus is the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students, a 12-member group of faculty, staff, administrators and students that advises Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman about gay and lesbian student needs. 

"Notre Dame's stance on giving us club status is that the Core Council already accomplishes what Alliancend would do," said senior Stacey Williams, one of the group's co-presidents. "But many students, espe­cially undergraduates, feel that there is not enough sup­port for the gay and lesbian community here at Notre Dame." 
Alliancend has applied for and been denied club status each of the last two years. According to a Marel1 22, 2005 article in The Observer, similar proposals have been denied nine times in the last 10 years, with no gay and lesbian student group suc­cessfully securing official status. 
Still, the group plans to apply again this spring. 
"The University has to reach out to students instead of students reaching out to them," Henfro said. "The issues of the gay and lesbian community are often misun­derstood at Notre Dame, and instead of being against us, the entire community should realize. that we are just try­ing to create a more tolerant environment for all students at the University." 
Alliancend leaders have other events planned for the school year, all of which will attempt to build the spirit of tolerance on campus. 
"This is an issue that has been very polarized in the community," said Williams. "We are just trying to bring peop)e towards a common ground in order to foster a spirit of tolerance." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 18, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,, TI--lE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVJCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Tmkey allows cross-borderattack on Iraq 
ISTANBUL -Parliament authorized the government Wednesday to carry out a cross­border attack on Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq, approving an offensive that would put Turkey at odds with the U.S. There was no sign of an imminent invasion. 
Washington and Iraq have pressured Ankara to show restraint and Turkish leaders signaled that they would not immediately give the order to send in the 60,000 troops, armor and attack helicopters into a region that has large­ly escaped the chaos of the Iraq war. 
The crisis along the Turkey-Iraq border, where the Turkish forces have massed since sunimer, has drivfln up oil prices along with tnnsions between Ankara and its NATO ally, tim Unitfld States. 
Transportation strike hits France 
PAHIS -French President Nicolas Sarkozy's first real test after five months in oflice comes at rush hour Thursday, with a strike disrupt­ing !lights, trains around Europe and stripping Paris of public transport -all because of anger over plans to trim some retirement packages. 
The strikes, which began late Wednesday and were to last through Thursday, are meant to srmd a warning that deeper reforms will come at a cost. 
Sarkozy is facing a number of challenges as the economy lags despite his pledges to invig­orato it, and signs of discord arise within his party over the president's policies. His rocky marriage also is front-page news. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Clinic charged for illegal abortions 
KANSAS CITY -A Planned Parenthood clinic was charged Wndm~sday with providing unlaw­ful abortions and other crimes by a county pros­ecutor who had engaged in a high-profile battle with the clinic when he was Kansas attorney general. 
Johnson County District Attorney Phil! Kline charged the Overland Park, Kan., clinic with 107 eounl'i, 23 of them felonies. Besides 29 misde­meanor counts of providing unlawful late-term abortions, the clinic is charged with multiple counts of making a false writing, failure to main­tain records and failure to determine viability. 
Case documents have been sealed, according to a court order. The first hearing is set for Nov. 16. 
Kline's office did not immediately comment on the charges. 

Drug crimes threaten Texas border 
AUSTIN -Deteriorating security in Mexico and clashes between cartels will make this the deadliest year yet for that nation's drug-related crime, and the violence is spilling into the United States, according to a report released Wednesday. 
U.S. law enforcers have trouble battling drug smuggling and its related violence because of poor coordination, corruption and lack of resources, according to the report by the Austin consulting firm Stratfor. 
"The deteriorating security situation has pro­found implications not only for Mexico but also for the United States, since drug violence increas­ingly crosses the border," says the report, submit­ted to Gov. Rick Perry's Texas Border Security Council. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Lawmakers criticize Honda hiring limi1s 
INDIANAPOLIS -The geographic limits Honda Motor Corp. placed on hiring for some 2,000 jobs at il<> new Greensburg factory are under criticism from state lawmakers who represent areas exduded from the applicant pool. 
Five Democratic lngislators have sent a letter to the Indiana Economic Development Corp. saying they disapproved of using state incentives to attract a company that limit'> its hiring to a por­tion of Indiana. 
llonda announced this summer it would look for workers who live within a 20-county area around the southeastern Indiana factory. That ranges from Marion and Henry counties in cen­tral Indiana south to Switzerland and Jefl'erson eounties near Cincinnati. 
ISRAEL 

Rice pushes Israel-Palestine diplomacy 
Two sides have vastly different expectations for U.S.-hosted Mideast conference 
Associated Press 

JERUSALEM -Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Wednesday that Israelis and Palestinians have a new "moment of opportunity" to forge peace despite the eruption of fresh tensions between the two sides over preparations for a U.S.-hosted Mideast con­ference. 
Even as President Bush said he was optimistic about the conference and the cre­ation of a Palestinian state, Rice faced growing diflicul­ties in her efforts to organ­ize the meeting set for November or December to launch formal Israeli­Palestinian peace talks. 
Rice cautioned the going would be tough as she wrapped up four days of intense shuttle diplomacy during which she met twice with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas to bridge wide gaps over a declara­tion the conference is to endorse. 
"I do think it is moment of opportunity, but there is very hard work ahead," Rice told reporters at a news conference with Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, who's leading the Israeli negotiating team. 
Underscoring the chal­agreement. he could accept a more issue of the 1967 borders lenges, the Palestinians A senior Palestinian offi­vaguely worded statement, but warned that excessive accused Israel of not being cial said Abbas was disap­which would not mention expectations that serious enough and Abbas pointed by U.S. suggestions the 1967 lines, said the Palestinians might have if said Israeli actions, includ­that he significantly scale Palestinian official, who the document is detailed ing West Bank military back their demands for the spoke on condition of could lead to "frustration raids, were damaging the joint statement to address anonymity because he was and violence." pre-conference atmosphere. Israeli concerns. not authorized to discuss Livni also appeared to 
Israel is "hindering the The Palestinians want the the meeting with reporters. suggest that the matter of endeavor to reach a docu­document to include at least She also asked whether Palestinian refugees could ment with substance," a sentence or two on how to the Palestinians were will­be resolved by them return­Abbas said after seeing Rice solve each of the issues of ing to drop a mention of ing to the future Palestine, a at his office in Ramallah, dispute, such as borders Palestinian refugees, anoth­position that has infuriated stressing little time is left and Jerusalem, the er key issue for the the Palestinian side in the for the meeting. "We must Palestinians have main­Palestinians, from the docu­past. not waste time." tained. ment, the official said. But she also reiterated 
The Israelis and The Palestinians' core Rice did not address the Israel's commitment to a Palestinians have vastly dif­demand is that the future Palestinian complaints, but two-state solution and said ferent expectations for the border between Israel and Livni appeared annoyed the Jewish state would conference, where they are Palestine be based on .the when asked about them and make difficult compromises to present a document that pre-196 7 Mideast War lines, said she would not stoop to if the Palestinians would, would start negotiations to with modifications through "play the blame game" or too. She said her negotiat­create a Palestinian state. land swaps. Israel captured divulge sensitive informa­ing team would have a sec­The Palestinians want a the West Bank and other tion about negotiations over ond meeting with their detailed document. The areas in the 1967 war. the document. Palestinian counterparts Israelis favor a general Rice asked Abbas whether Livni did not address the this week. 

Bush scolds Dem.ocratic Congress for inaction 
Associated Press  for Congress' failure to act, Bush said,  to ensure that I am relevant; that's one  
"I think it is their fault that bills aren't  way to ensure that I am in the process.  
moving."  And I intend to use the veto."  
WASHINGTON  -President Bush,  With his presidency in its final 15  Bush  said  Congress,  under  
weakened by record-low poll ratings,  months, his approval ratings at just 31  Democratic control for nine months,  
asserted he is still politically relevant  percent in the latest A'isociated Press­ has not "managed to pass many impor­ 
and  scolded  the  Democratic-led  Ipsos poll and Democrats running  tant bills. Now the clock is winding  
Congress on Wednesday for having "lit­ Congress, Bush has little clout to push  down and in some key areas Congress  
tle to show for all the time that has  his own agenda through Congress.  is just getting started." Congress should  
gone by."  However, he can stop the Democrats'  act on mortgage relief for homeowners  
Trying to shape the political debate,  proposals with his veto since Congress  hit by the housing crisis, trade deals  
Bush used a midmorning news confer-·  has been unable so far to override his  that would strengthen allies, legislation  
ence to lecture lawmakers about their  rejection of troop withdrawal deadlines  expanding U.S. markets and aid to mili­ 
failure to complete action on any  in  Iraq  and  expanded  stem  cell  tary veterans, Bush said.  
spending bills to keep the government  research. The House on Thursday is  ''I'm looking forward to getting some  
running or to send him legislation deal­ expected to fail to override his veto of  things done for the American people,"  
ing with education, housing and other  an expansion of a popular children's  Bush said. "And if it doesn't get done,  
matters.  health insurance program.  I'm looking forward to reminding peo­ 
Saying he did not share any blame  Bush said his veto pen was "one way  ple as to why it's not getting done."  

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October I 8, 2007 

Rallies 
continued from page I 
anyhow," Watkins said. "Charlin talks. Players talk. Tlwrn arn only so many ways you can say, 'Go team go,' befurn it gets old." 
Watkins said lw thinks 
pop rallins "arn morn for 
alumni to gnl back into tlw 
fnPI of campus." As a frnsh­
man. hownvnr. lw attendnd 
pep rallies regularly. 
Attlmdancn at pop rallies could also be thrnatPned by t lw I n t n r n n t t h e Univ1~rsity has started air­ing tlw rallies on the Notre Damn Athletics homepage. 
.Junior Kristen Brickley watdwd tlw Boston Collegn game pep rally from lwr dorm room on the live Internet fend. 
"I found out about it from a friend." slw said. Tlw fnpd is easy to access. Brickley said. 
"It is displayed right thorn in tlw center of the Notre l>anw Athletics homepage," slw said. "All you have to do is hit play." 
For some studPnts. how­nvnr. the idea or pep rallies is not appnaling. 
''I'm not the type or fan to jump up and down and scream my hnad off. I guess I'm just not that p11ppy." junior Buck Andrews said. 
OfT-campus senior Colin Ethier also said he thinks pep rallins are more for underclassmen. 
"I wnnt when I was younger and had a good time with it but now, for nw, they have just lost tlwir lustnr." he said. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Kathle1m Collins and junior Laura Kleinschmidt, blame busy Fridays for not attending the pep rallies. 
"I just want to relax on a Friday afternoon. look for­ward to the game and save my ennrgy," Collins said. 
"I don't go as much as I did freshman and sopho­more year because when Friday comes, I am ready for a break," Kleinschmidt said. 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO I @saintmarys.edu 


Ireland 
continued from page I 
selves bound to any religion has risen in recent years by as much as 34 percent, according to one recent national cnnsus, he said, induding numy people of younger gennrations. 
Tlw arrival of thousands of 
immigrants to the country, 
McGarry said, n11cessitates free­
dom of religion and ongoing dia­
logue between dillimmt faiths. 
"Fil'tenn percent of' the Irish pop­ulation is comprisl~d or foreign nationals," McGarry said, "and they practice religions ranging from Islam to Judaism to Methodism." 
Tolerane11 of dill"nrent religions is widespread among the Irish . McGarry said, as thn Irish people tfmd to n~membnr tlw plight of tlu~ir aneostors who emigrated and nndured racism whnn they arrived in America. 
One such religious group that enjoys solidarity in lrnland is the Orthodox Catholic Church, which came from tho eastern United Kingdom and Hussia. 
Supporting the popularly held belief that Ireland is a Catholic nation, McGarry said there are roughly 3. 7 million Catholics among Ireland's 4.2 million total people. Ninety-two percent of these Catholics, hn said, are Irish nationals. Student.'> of all faiths are acc11ptnd into the Catholic schools that are commonplace in urban Imland. 
The ~-,rrowth of other religions is also evident in thn education sys­tem. McGarry said. In the past year, Ireland has seen 20 new multieultural schools, live new Muslim school<; and only two new Catholic schools. 
"All faith groups semn to want ttwir own schools," hn said. 
Islam, the third-largest rnligion in Ireland, has more believers than some Christian groups and has grown fourfold in recent years. Ali Selim, secretary of the Islamic Cultural Centro of Ireland, said Muslims in lrnland eurrently number around 40,000 and have contributed greatly to its current interlitith dialogue. 
Solim, an Egyptian native, said Muslim migration has been wel­comed at various levels. 
"Muslims in Ireland have not been exposed to an extreme amount of racism," Selim said. "There seems to be a huge · amount of commonalities between Muslim immigrants and Irish 

Please recycle The Observer. 

nationals. They share a sense of family." 
Emphasizing the belief of uni­versal nquality, Selim said people cannot be divided into "we" and "they" mentalities. 
'"We' includes everyone who 
lives in Ireland regardless of religion," Selim said. "Muslim presence in Ireland can be traced back to the 1950s with a student influx making up a large percent­·age [of the Muslim popula­
tion!." 
African 
Pentecostals arn 
erecting new 
"There seems to be a huge amount of commonalities between Muslim immigrants and Irish nationals. They share a sense offamily." 
Ali Selim secretary Islamic Cultural Centre of Ireland 
Irish, Ugba said. · "You have 
to Ireland seeking asylum," Ugba said, adding that the next most popular reasons for migration are study and work. The sudden increase in Africans surprisnd tl1e 
to remember Ireland's prox­imity to the United Kingdom, which has large 
numbers  of'  
Africans,"  he  
said.  

African 
Pentnc~ostal immi1,rrant.'i, like their Muslim counterparts, have con­tributml grnatly to the rnultieul­turalism of Ireland, making 

schools and churches for incoming it a div11rse nation. immigrants to Ireland, said Abel "There are between 30,000 and Ugba, a Nigerian native of' the 35,000 Africans in lrllland, and University of East London. their largnst chureh is the 
"Most African immigrant.<; came Hedeemed Christian Church of God," Ugba said. 
Irish people on tim whole have been very accepting or African migrant.'>. 
"It is a very complex relation­ship," Ugba said. 
Because Pentecostals do not drink or swear, many saw thnm as dill'erent from thn Irish, but thn two groups have, hn said, "created a parallel social and cultural uni­verse," whern they peacefully nxist. 
"!The Pnntneostal churches of Africans] give us a voice and visi­bility. They provide solidarity and a safe place [for immigrants!." Ugba said. 
As part of the conference titled "Hace and Immigration in the New Ireland," the panel, titled "Jleligion in the Nnw Ireland," took place in the McKenna llall auditorium and was moderated by Notre Damn professor Patrirk Gall'ney. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 




Large Pizza 
Cheese &2 Toppings 
$ 

ONLY 

99 
Free Delivery On Campus 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 


SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 
® 

574-243-1122

P1zza 

Visit us on the Web at www.rnarcos.com C2007 Marco's Franchising. LLC S724ND·1007 

.--------­
Tl··lE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Thursday, October 18, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,892.54 -20.40
.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
909 98 2,353 3,182,911,288 
AMEX 
NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&P 500 

NIKKEI 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.31 +0.47 154.25 INTEL CP (INTC) +4.87 +1.24 26.72 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.29 +0.68 53.55 CITIGROUP INC (C) -0.29 -0.13 44.66 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.34 -0.109 4.655 13-WEEK BILL -5.70 -0.235 4.125 30-YEAR BOND -2.10 -0.103 4.912 5-YEAR NOTE -3.02 -0.131 4.342 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.21 87.40 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.50 762.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.75 85.33 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 116.4700 EURO 0.7037 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.97499 BRITISH POUND 0.4901 
IN BRIEF Savers exceed federal deposit limits 
NEW YORK -When the $2.5 billion NetBank was closed by federal regulators last month, some 1,500 of accounts in the online bank had balances that exceeded federal deposit insurance limite;. 
The owners of those accounts, with deposits totaling $109 million, won't necessarily lose all their money because federal insurance may cover some. and they'll share in the proceeds of the sale of the failed bank's assets. Still, it could take time for the bank to be liquidated, and they may not get 100 percent of their money back. 
The fact is, consumers don't have to take that kind of risk. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., which insures bank and savings bank deposits, and the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, which covers credit union accounts, make sure consumers get all of their money immediately if a bank fails-if savers abide by the deposit limits. 
This is increasingly important as consumers' accounts grow in size, especially those ear­marked for retirement, and as fmancial institu­tions nationwide struggle amid rising mortgage loan delinquencies and tighter credit markets that have made it harder for banks to raise cash. 
SEC examines lender's stock sales 
WASHINGTON -The Securities and Exchange Commission is examining sales of company stock by the chief executive of Countrywide Financial Corp., the nation's largest mortgage lender, a person familiar with the matter said Wednesday. 
The informal SEC inquiry of stock sales by CEO Angelo R. Mozilo has been underway for a while, the person said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the probe has not been made public. 
The inquiry was reported Wednesday after­noon by The Wall Street Journal. 
Mozilo sold some $130 million in Countrywide stock in the first half of the year through a pre-arranged 10b51 trading plan. These plans allow a company insider to set up a program in advance for such transactions and proceed with them even if he or she comes into possession of material non-public informa­tion. 
iPhonetohavethitd-partyapplications 
Jobs gives up controlling programs put on handsets byconsumers; several lawsuitsfiled prior 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE -In an appar­ent about-face, Apple Inc. will allow third-party appli­cations to work directly on the iPhone, Chief Executive Steve Jobs said in a posting on the company's Web site Wednesday. 
Apple infuriated develop­ers and some iPhone users when it issued a software update Sept. 27 that disabled unofficial programs installed on the handsets. 
Until Wednesday, Apple had tried to control which applications consumers had on their iPhones. 
Now, Jobs said the compa­ny intends to release a soft­ware development kit in February that will let coders create applications to work directly on the iPhone and the iPod Touch. The Touch is the new iPod portable player that resembles the iPhone but lacks the function of a cell phone. 
"We are excited about cre­ating a vibrant third-party developer community around the iPhone and enabling hundreds of new applications for our users,"Jobs said in the posting. 
It is easy to find many unofficial programs for the 

Apple CEO Steve Jobs talks about the new Apple operating system Leopard in San
iPhone on the Internet; users 


Francisco on Sept. 5. The iPhone will now work with third-party applications. 
just had to take the risk of installing them, knowing that users have "unlocked" their company's position on keep­sold. any damage to the iPhone handsets to work on other ing the iPhone compatible Apple had allowed devel­stemming from unofficial carrier networks. The Sept. only with AT&T's network in opers to build applications programs was not covered 27 software update reported­the United States, Kerris that run on the iPhone's by Apple's warranty. ly disabled those phones. said. Safari Web browser but did­
''I'm thrilled," said Erica It was not clear from Jobs' Two lawsuits were filed n't let programs work direct­Sadun, a Denver computer statement whether the move against Apple on Oct. 5, ly on the iPhone software programmer. "I hope it is was a response to the grow­accusing the company of platform, which could make exactly as they say, full third­ing discontent around engaging in monopolistic them easier to create and party development." Apple's iron grip over its behavior and unlawfully make them work more 
A Mac enthusiast and blog­portable gadgets. restricting consumer choice smoothly. ger-and a critic of Apple's Apple spokeswoman by preventing users from Palm Inc. has always wel­decision to restrict the Natalie Kerris declined to say "unlocking" their iPhones. comed third-party develop­iPhone to carrier AT&T Inc. why Apple made the change, The iPhone, which com­ers to create applications for in the United States -Sadun noting instead that Jobs said bines a cell phone with a its handheld computers, or predicted Apple's change of the process of opening the multimedia and wireless personal digital assistants. heart will ultimately help the iPhone to third-party pro­Internet device, was released They have created hundreds company sell more iPods and grams will take time. in late June amid a flurry of of programs ranging from iPhones. Apple's change does not anticipation. More than 1 medical dictionaries to 
An unknown number of affect the Cupertino-based million iPhones have been astrology predictions. 





Oil, credit cause tension on Wall Street 
Capital Management said third-quar­securities backed by mortgages
Associated Press 

ter earnings are expected to be issued in the first six months of this 
weak, and lackluster forecasts for year. They were valued at $23.35 bil­
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended a future quarters are unnerving lion. volatile session mixed Wednesday as investors. The Dow fell 20.40, or 0.15 per­investors' concerns about sluggish "We're not getting very strong cent, to 13,892.54, paring the ses­housing and tight credit intensified guidance numbers, and at the same sion's worst losses. The Dow fell their uneasiness over a motley batch time last week we were at new more than 130 points in earlier trad­of corporate profits. Rising oil prices highs," Dunay said. ing. only added to the market's malaise. The Dow and the Standard & Broader indexes rose. The S&P 500 
Earnings reports from Yahoo Inc. Poor's 500 index both hit records last index climbed 2.71, or 0.18 percent, and Intel Corp. were upbeat and week, but Wall Street has pulled to 1,541.24, while the Nasdaq gained incited some buying in the technolo­back cautiously since then, exhibiting 28.76, or 1.04 percent, to 2,792.67. gy sector, which drove the Nasdaq nervousness about the slowing econ­Wall Street's mixed movements composite index sharply higher. omy. On Wednesday, the Federal come after two days of broad 
But the Dow Jones industrial aver­Reserve said in its Beige Book that declines. age dipped, with investors uncertain growth cooled in the third quarter. In another sign that the economy about how well corporate America Investors are als6 jittery about accel­could weaken further, the Commerce overall will fare going forward -erating inflation -which could pre­Department said new home construc­particularly after International vent the Fed from lowering rates tion slowed to the weakest pace in 14 Business Machines Corp. reported again -after oil prices momentarily years during September. Bond prices modest software sales and United touched a fresh high of $89 per bar­rose sharply on the news. The yield Technologies Group Inc. said 2008 rel. on the 10-year Treasury note, which will be challenging. And the lending landscape contin­moves inversely to the price, fell to 
Peter Dunay, an investment strate­ues to deteriorate. Standard & Poor's 4.55 percent from 4.66 percent late gist with New York-based Leeb cut the ratings on 1,713 classes of Tuesday. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 18, 2007 
BREW AND VIEW 12AM 
Sure, you have DVDs in your dorm rooms. But do you have a 60-inch plasma screen and a $300,000 sound system? Nah, didn't think so. Get to Thursday night Brew and Views f(lr the office a FREE flick, food, drinks, and fun. 

How much would you pay to watch a movie and grab a bite to eat? Oh, $15, real1y? Good, well, pocket that and get your butt to Legends and pay nothing. We're screening The Office. Do you remember when Dwight introduced Ryan to fear? 
BEST OF ACOUSTICAFE 10 PM 
Come to Legends to see the best student performers strut their song stylings for you. These are your classmates, hallmates, and even that odd kid you see at'SDH all the time. And they are good too! 


PREVIOUS PERFORMERS 
Ben K weller, Plain White T's, The I-Iush Sound, Flogging Molly, Scott Weiland, Match­book Romance, Jon McLaughlin, Sara Bareilles, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah, ~ DJ Logic, DJ Sticky Boots, Gavin DeGraw, OK Go. Jim Galligan, Greg Giraldo, Demetri Martin, Mike Birbiglia, John Rccp, and many, many more. 
This Friday: Half-Pint Jones. 





LEGENDS 
How much would you pay to see Flogging Molly, Dierks Bentley, or the Plain White T's? $25 sound like a good price? Well that's okay because Legends brought them. and continues to bring big acts right to you for the easy price of $0. That's 4 easy payments of NOTHING. 
NO COVER 
NO. SMC, HCC 10 REQVIRED 
Getting into Legends is FREE, people. Do you understand that? No cover charges-ever. Okay, glad we got that cleared up. 
$2 DRINK SPECIALS 
Where else can you go with no cover, professional entertainment Thursday through Saturday, amazing drink specials ($2 Thursdays), and not have to leave campus? How much would you pay to get into a club to dance for a few sloppy hours, get drinks, and take a taxi home? $30? You must have something worse than a fever since you can do that at Legends for free, get $2 drinks, and walk home. 
ALEHOUSE  R  L  F  G  E  N  D  s  M  B  
IIES1AURANT  M  E  F  R  E  E  u  w u  M  
NIGHTCLUB  
MOVIES  T  M  s  z  R  s  .I  L  N  0  
COMEDJ'  Q  w H  T  I  v  c  T  u  v  
.HUSfC  E  L  L  c  A  T  R  A  R  
PREE  p  Q  A  G  H  u  F  c  E  
T  z  E  (}  0  M  R  N  M  s  
c  v  c  0  X  J  A  T  X  
G  N  y  D  E  M  0  c  N  T  
A  L  E  H  0  u  s  E  s  T  

Thursday, October 18, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Asia 
continued from page 1 
At the forefront of the Center's offerings is the supplementary major in Asian Studies or the minor in Asian Studies. Currently about 10 students are pursuing this supplementary major, with numbers expected to grow rapidly. Many students choose to take on this particular major or minor with a language such as Chinese. Others choose fields in which knowledge of Asia would be beneficial, such as business, Blum said. 
"A lot of students are interest­ed in Asia and want to demon­strate that they have a broad knowledge of Asia, but they do not have time in their schedule necessarily to have a major," Blum said. "So they can demon­strate their expertise and their knowledge and their commit­ment to Asia by having a minor or a supplementary major, so I'm expecting our numbers to increase substantially in the next few years." 
Currently hundreds of stu­dents are taking Asian Studies and Asian-American Studies courses and Center members hope to see even more interest in the near future. While many students choose to study eastern Asian nations, such as China and Japan, the Center also engages in studies of cultures such as those in Korea, India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Thailand, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia or Malaysia. 
The Center also supports pro­grams outside of the classroom as well, sponsoring both under­graduate and graduate Asian Studies groups. 
SPnior Jacqueline Collins, a Chinese major and a Theology minor, said she would like to see even more of a student presence and opportunities for academic research. In the summer follow­ing her sophomore year, she participated in a Center for Social Concerns program titled, "To Serve an Ancient Village in China: Historical Preservation, Heligious Life, and Teaching English," partially funded by the Center. 
"That service trip was a piv­otal experience in my study of China," she said. "It gave me a bnhind-the-scenes glimpse at life in rural China -a quality of life that the government does not want foreigners looking into." 
The Center and other related groups also bring in speakers from across the world, such as Vodaphone Chairman Sir John Bond, who spoke recently. The Center also sponsors the Asian Film Festival in March, which brought in four Chinese direc­tors to present their films earlier this year. The Center hopes to increase student involvement in many of their outreach produc­tions to create a greater expo­sure and sense of ownership for the students, Blum said. 
As the interest in Asia has grown, support for the programs and opportunities has required more coordination. In response, this summer, the University appointed Jonathan Noble, a professor in the Department of East Asian Languages, as advi­sor to the Provost on Asian ini­tiatives. 
Noble said the newly created position creates an opportunity to contribute toward better organization of the University's offerings to students, as well as developing and coordinating even more expansive opportuni­ties both on campus and abroad. Noble travels to Asia frequently and said he is always looking for and developing new initiatives for students wanting to become more knowledgeable of the Asian cultures. 
"Overall, Americans are being exposed to Asia more, and so students coming even to Notre Dame are talking about how Asia might fit into what they plan to learn at Notre Dame, and how it may impact their careers in some way," Noble said. 
The University has also increased its support in its study abroad programs in Asia. Popular Asian programs exist in Shanghai and Beijing, China, as well as Tokyo and Nagoya, Japan. A new program at Fu Jen Catholic University in China began this summer, sending three students to study Chinese over a two-month period. The University also plans to begin an exchange program with the Chinese University of Hong Kong in the fall of 2008, Noble said. 
"Clearly," Noble said, "there's an indication of greater interest in Chinese language, because they see it, I think, not only because it's practical, but also in terms of entering the popular imagination." 
Contact Dan Jacobs at djacobsl@nd.edu 
ITALY 
Benedict natnes 23 new cardinals, one in Texas 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -Texas is getting its first Roman Catholic cardinal -a nod to the influx of faithful from Mexico and Central America. 
Archbishop Daniel N. DiNardo's appointment was to some degree unexpected, but Vatican watchers say it shows Pope Benedict XVI clearly understands where the American church is growing -and who is behind the growth. 
"It says something about Texas and how wonderful Texas is in the terms of the growth of our Catholic faith," DiNardo, leader of the Galveston-Houston archdio­cese, told reporters in Houston on Wednesday. 
DiNardo was among 23 new cardinals appointed Wednesday by Benedict, who tapped Vatican officials, aca­demics, diplomats and arch­bishops from five continents. Eighteen of the new cardinals are under age 80 and eligible to vote in a conclave; five oth­ers, including the patriarch of Baghdad, were named in recognition of their service to the church. 
The appointments .of DiNardo and another American bring the number of 
U.S. cardinals to 17 -second only to Italy -and increases the American contingent's clout in any conclave to elect a future pontiff. 
Benedict said he would give them all their red hats at a Vatican ceremony Nov. 24. 


Bush meets with Dalai Lama 
White House, Congress ignore Chinese protests in awarding Gold Medal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The White House vigorously defended President Bush's plan to meet with the Dalai Lama Tuesday, brushing aside China's warning that it would damage relations between Washington and Beijing. 
Both Bush and members of Congress -who are presenting him with the prestigious Congressional Gold Medal on 

"I have no doubt this 
Wednesday -The Dalai are stirring will give tremendous Lama's special 
anger in China encouragement and envoy, Lodi 
by honoring the Gyari, said earli­
hope to the Tibetan 
Dalai Lama, the er that the presi­exiled spiritual people., dent of the leader of Tibet's United States Buddhists. standing side by
Lodi Gyari
"We solemnly side with the

Dalai Lama's special 
demand that the Dalai Lama at 
U.S. cancel the envoy the ceremony 
allowed to the meeting that Bush was having with the Dalai Lama later Tuesday in the pri­vate residence of the White House. 
While the Dalai Lama is laud­ed in much of the world as a fig­ure of moral authority, Beijing reviles the 1989 Nobel Peace Prize laureate and claims he seeks to destroy China's sover­eignty by pushing for independ­ence for Tibet, where the Dalai 
Lama is consid­
ered a god-king. 
extremely wrong arrange­ments," said Chinese Foreign Minister Yang Jiechi in Beijing. "It seriously violates the norm of international relations and seri­ously wounded the feelings of the Chinese people and inter­fered with China's internal affairs." 
At the White House, presiden­tial spokesman Tony Fratto said: "We understand the concerns of the Chinese." But he also said Bush always has attended con­gressional award presentation ceremonies, has met with the Dalai Lama several times before and had no reason not to meet with him again. 
"This is a meetin& with a spiri­tual leader. This is not a meeting with a, for example, a head of state," Fratto added. 
No media access was to be would send a 

clear message that "people do care about Tibet. We have not been forgotten." 
"I have no doubt this will give tremendous encouragement and hope to the Tibetan people," he told reporters ahead of the visit. It also "sends a powerful mes­sage to China that the Dalai Lama is not going to go away." 
The Dalai Lama says he wants "real autonomy," not independ­ence, for Tibet. But China demo­nizes the spiritual leader and believes the United States is honoring a separatist. The Dalai Lama's U.S. visit comes as China is holding its important Communist Party congress. 
Chinese diplomats have worked doggedly since the con­gressional award was voted on last year to get the ceremony and meeting with Bush scrapped and to "correct this mistake," Wang Baodong, spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in Washington, said in an inter­view. 
A U.S. State Department offi­cial said Monday that China was protesting U.S. honors for the Dalai Lama by pulling out of an international strategy session on Iran sought by the United States and planned for Wednesday. 
China objected to participating in the meeting on the day that the Buddhist leader is to receive the congressional honor, said the 
U.S. official, who spoke on con­dition of anonymity to describe another country's motives. · 
Wang Baodong, a Chinese Embassy spokesman here, did not directly dispute the U.S. depiction but said that the date for the Iran meeting was "not suitable" for the Chinese delega­tion. 
The State Department also played down the visit. Spokesman Tom Casey said this week's events are unlikely "to change the basic shape and structure of U.S.-Chinese rela­tions." 
Congress has long champi­oned the Dalai Lama; lawmak­ers also regularly criticize Beijing for human rights abuses and a massive military buildup and claim that China ignores abuse by unsavory foreign regimes in Sudan and Myanmar in its pursuit of energy and busi­ness deals. 
The Bush administration also finds fault with China but is usu­ally more measured as it seeks to manage a booming trade relationship and a desire to enlist Chinese cooperation on nuclear standoffs with North Korea and Iran. · 


Abit ofIreland in your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, heartyfood and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all the~ames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates Lodge has hotel roomsat reasonable rates mr upcoming NO-fOOtball weekends.) 

THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, October 18, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Exploitation and legislation 
P.O. Box 779, Notre D•me, IN 46556 024 South Dining Holl, Notre Dome, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' 
Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ken fowler Kyle West 
A~ST, MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
Ass1~ MANAGING El>ITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VmWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris !line 
SCF.NE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nJ.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 
631-5323 obsncws.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 
631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 


(574) 631-4543 spons.l @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @lnd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the indepmdcnt, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not govern~"<.! by policit-s of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer rt-servcs the right w refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, A<sistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the vk-ws of the amhors and not m-ct-ssarily those ofThe ( )hserwr. 
Vit-wpoint space is available to all readers. The frt-e expression ofall opinions through letrers is encouraged. Lcrrcrs to rhe Editor musr be signed and must include mntact intr>rmation. 
Qrmrioll.J rr:garding Observer polici(S should he dirrcted to Editor in ChitfMnddir Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11tc ~)\~r~r (USPS ~·)C) 2-4000) il pubh•hcd Mouday 1hruugh frkl.&y cx.::c:pt tiurmg t'lllitnl .md Vil~'lllinlll%'fiu..U. A Jlth'tCfiJllinn IU l'lu· ot~rYt:r ill $100 fur nne o~caJrmic yc.tt; $" lur IIIIC' I(ITIUICf 
l'h(' OMo;rvc:r i$ publtd\C\I•r POSTMASTER 
014 S.ourh Dt!tinali.UJ St-nJ .1ddn:u cotK\.tinru to: 
Ntllrt! [):~me, IN <tM"l(l-0779 'llK:Ohw:rvtr 
l'cn•I<IK.d pust~~ p.ud ,u Norrc Do~mc r.o. Bmtn9 
And adduiunalmailing uffi,es. 01.1 South Du1ing H.UI 
Nntrc n"mc, IN il1'S'i6·0779 
Tht< Ohterver b 11 RK'mhcr ot rhc A-~eu.ttti Pta.\, All reproduction u!(hrs •rc 
""""""· 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Jenn Metz Chris Khorey 

Maureen Mullen Greg Arbogast John Tierney Chris Hine Claire Reising Kate Arnold Graphics Viewpoint Matt Hudson Jordan Gamble Scene Analise Lipari 
I'm guessing Mike Gundy isn't a big fan of the GOP these days. 
Gundy is the Oklahoma State football eoach whose surprisingly eloquent tirade in defense of one of' his players made him a YouTube.com celebrity. In the rant, John Everett Gundy expresses his displeasure with a 
Kids These 
columnist who had 
Days
insulted the Cowboys' backup quarterback. lie insists that the newspa­pers take up their issues with him and not the players, saying, "Come after me, I'm a man, I'm 40. I'm not a kid." 
The player Gundy chose to defend is a college sophomore, meaning his status as a "kid" is somewhat in question. One wonders then what level of outrage Gundy reached when right-wing colum­nist'>, talk-show hosts, and bloggers began attacking 12-year-old Graeme Frost. 
Graeme and his sister Gemma were seriously injurnd in a car aecident. Graeme's brain stem injury and his sis­ter's cranial fracture required extensive medical trnatment and rehabilitation, which continues to this day. Both might not be alive today if their parents were not covered by the SCJIIP healthcare pro­gram. 
The SCI liP program is intended to cover healthcare eosts for parenl<; who earn too mueh for Medicaid but can not all'ord to buy health insurance. Graeme's father and mother combine to make less than $50,000 a year and cannot afford to purehase insurance. 
In an effort to convince a reluctant President Bush not to veto a bill set to drastically increasing funding for SCHIP, the Democrats turned to Graeme to give the party's weekly Radio Address. Since then, Graeme and his family have come under scathing attack, simply for utilizing a government program which saved them hundreds of thousands of dollars and 
their children's lives. 
The Baltimore Sun chronicles how the Frosts have been the recipient of right­wing vitriol labeling them too rich for gov­ernment healtheare and implying that they are socialists for accepting it. Mark Steyn of the National Review refers to Gramne, a seventh-grader, as "fair game," maintaining a sense of righteous­ness as he attacks the political sensitivi­ties of a 12-year-old who supports a pro­gram which saved his life. 
E.J. Dionne of The Washington Post and others have extensively detailed the mis­calculations and wrong assumptions which have led to what many liberals are calling the "swiltboating" of Graeme and the Frosts, referring to the questionable campaign to smear Sen. John Kerry's record in Vietnam. Dionne answers the criticisms methodically, pointing out that the family does not pay for the private educations that Graeme and Gemma receive. as Graeme is on scholarship and Gemma's tuition is covered by SCHIP. as the school is designed to serve her special needs. Referring to a blogger's claim that homes in the Frosts neighborhood sell for over $400,000, Dionne reveals that Graeme's father paid $55,000 for the family house seventeen years ago. 
Delving fully into the intricate finances of the Frost family might be a fun little game for gotcha journalists and trigger­finger bloggers to play, but in the end it is really a meaningless gesture. Graeme's and Genna's procedures have already been paid for, and the government has already determined that they qualify for SClUP coverage. The debate about whether or not to extend the program, or how far to stretch it, is really the only thing that should matter. 
There is really no need to lower impor­tant legislative debate to the level of "If you don't vote my way, kids like this will die!" The statistics on children without healthcare in this wealthy nation are, or should be, staggering enough to make the Democrat<; argument. Harry Heid and Nancy Pelosi could rightly be criticized for using Graeme's story in an etl'ort to demo­nize their opposition in congress and tho Whitn I louse, so why amn't they the ones being bombarded'? 
The answer, as it usually is in Washin1-,rton, is hypocrisy. Or in this ease, a fear of' being chargnd with it. Those Hepublicans who attempt to assassinate the character of a hard-working small­business owner's son do so becausn they can not criticize the practiee of making politics personal. They do it too often themselves. 
Why should the nstate tax bo rnpoaled? Because Farmer X is about to lose the family farm becausl) he cant pay oil' the taxes. Why should stem cell research be halted? BecausP we can possibly create morn babies with them and give them to people. Never mind that there an) plenty of' orphans waiting to be adoptod, you wouldn't want to search for a cum to Parkinson's if it meant killing babil$, would you'? Just look at all thnse babies. 
Every bill, no matter how well-inten­tioned, has effects that negativnly impact the lives of certain citiznns. A legislator has to weigh the balance, and should not be haunted with the visages of people whose lives he has altered. It is the only way he or she can do the job right. Let's leave the 12-year-olds to Little League, and have Congress debate on the issues. 
John Everett is a senior English major. 1/e is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years ofage. lie is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered can­tankerous. Ifyou haue any information regarding his whereabouts, please con­tact jeuerett@nd. edu 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Small jokes, big responses 
If you ever had a sibling around your age, remember being like six years old on a long car trip, and you'd make goofY faces at him or her because you knew you'd get a reaction. And, of course, it would work, and about an hour into it your little sister or brother would get mad and either start erying or throw their juice box at you? · Notre Drune, you've just been hit witl1 a twin-barreled lli-C from Elizabeth Karle and Katin Shea. 
Don't get me wrong, I look forward to Saint Mary's-based comic-related­Viewpoint-I late-Mail-season almost as much a<; college basketball sea<;on, but if I could, I'd like to make our Saint Mary's friends aware of an important point. The biggest stereotype that exists about Saint Mary's College is: (drumroll, please) that ya'll are phenomenally defensive about being sternotyped. Small jokes; big, angry responses. 
I can't speak for the writers of 'Tastes Uke Failure: but I'd guess that it's highly likely that the punehline of that comic was­n't found in their three panels (you can't form a complete thought in a comic strip, let alone any kind of a judgment about entire groups of people), but in Ms. Shea's letter referencing literary analysis and cal­culus equations. I'd also guess that the goal of said comic wa<; to elicit that response. 
When something meant entirely in jest draws that kind of a response, it's really, really funny, even if the comic wasn't. So therein lies the catch, especially for those who think like M'i. Karle and Ms. Ballinger who say such statements are "vile", "bit­ter", or used for "oppression". 
Bitterness and oppression imply fore­thought and malie1J, I'd ballpark that about 95% of Saint Mary's "stereotypes" are used completely glibl~ to generate a response. Turns out, while there will always be some truly hateful people, just about every Notre Dame student I've met who actually knows Saint Mary's girL'> doesn't buy into the truth of any of those stereotypes, but that still 
OBSERVER POLL 
Who should be the starting quarterback? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


doesn't mean the over-the-top reactions to them aren't funny. 
Thi'i is the same mason we call Boston College "Backup College" despite the fact that it's universally recognized that Boston College is a darn good school. 

So members of the Notre Dame commu­nity are making faces at you, Saint Mary's, respond how you will. But if your responses to offhand jokes fall along the lines of "stop this vile hate and oppression," just realize that the mindset you're attacking is one that most Notre Dame students don't pos­sess. 
And you'll be feeding the biggost Saint Mary's stereotype a<; well. The rea<;on, Ms. Karle, that same stereotypes exist now that did 20 years ago ha'> more to do with the same hypersensitive rnactions to them than anything else. 
Matt Wallace 
semor 
offcampus 
Ocr. 17 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Some people like my advice so much that th_ey frame it upon. t~e wall znslead ofuszng zt. 
Gordon R. Dickson writer 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, October 18, 2007 page 11 
Move on to forgiygness 
Do you remember Marion Jones? The sprinter everyone loved to love at the 2000 Olympics in Sydney? She won five medals, thrnp, gold and two bronze, and won us all ovflr because not only was she 
fast. she was beauti­ 
l'ul, articulate, conli- Kate Barrett  
dent, and -so we  
thought ­all we could ask for as the  FaithPoint  
public fao~ of  
America during  
those Games.  

So you've probably heard during the last two weeks that those medals had a little P.xtra somP.thin' behind them, and it wasn't flaxse.ed oil. 
Now that Jones and the rest of her relay teams have had to return the medals (the 1OOm individual gold now apparently going, ironically, to.Katerina Thanou, her­self convicted for doping and perjury at the Athens games in 2004); now that Jones is apparently broke, medal-free and facing jail time; now that she has retired from track and field and certainly has lost any hope of finding work in the fields of product endorsements or public speaking; now what do we do? 
Or at least, have we learned anything? 

I would propose three take-home thoughts. One, maybe we ought to reevaluate this whole "athletes as heroes" thing we seem so compulsively attached to as a nation, but that would be a subject for another column. Two, I think Marion Jones is actually a big winner here. And three, we should all forgive her, if we haven't already. It's good practice. 
When I first talked with one of my sons about the story after Jones pleaded guilty and publicly confessed, he was horrified. "But now she has to give up her medals!" he said. True, she did. And she has to live with an even bigger asterisk after her name than, ahem, Barry Bonds, because on the greatest, most storied athletic stage on the planet, her victories were a sham. 
I do believe, though, that'however late her confession, it may be the best deci­sion she's ever made. Now at least she has been honest with herself and the rest of us. 
As she said about the first time she was questioned on her possible steroid use in 2003, "I lied to protect myself. It was an incredibly stupid thing to do. I made the decision to break the law and have to take full responsibility for doing so. All of 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Holy Cross cotntnunity 
This is not a response to the comics the street, and thus remain wholly -as far as I'm concerned, they were unseen by the Notre Dame community. never (and still aren't) worthy of a Those of us who go over to Notre Dame response. Since we've opened the regularly do so largely to share in a dif­issue, however, I feel compelled to ferent style of Mass, take part in an respond to the personal views organization that's unique to a larger expressed in Viewpoint, namely those school, pray at the Grotto, or visit some of Jordan Beltz ("Belles: Give me a rea­of the many wonderful and accepting son" Oct. 17). Saint Mary's women read students we've encountered at the this paper and its comics because The University. I am not so blind as to claim Observer is supposedly "serving Notre that the negative stereotypes have been Dame and Saint Mary's" and we have pulled from air -there are women every right to do so. We read to find among us whose behavior can reaffirm out about events at our own college, the frustrating images associated with not just at Notre Dame. Saint Mary's Saint Mary's. However, they are merely already exists on its own: We are a a small percentage of our population. warm and vibrant community, and we So many Domers already know the are proud of our school, its incredible truth in my assertions and ignore the faculty, rich traditions, and exceptional negative stereotypes of Saint Mary's women. women. But the others-like Jordan 
We do not break ties from the Beltz -have already made up their University because our schools have minds not to even give us a chance. been inextricably linked since Blessed And honestly, these close-minded judg­Basil Moreau first envisioned this com­ments go both ways. I have witnessed munity. We, along with Holy Cross firsthand the disrespect shown by both College, build upon the Holy Cross students of Notre Dame as well as Saint foundation together with Notre Dame. Mary's toward the other, and it needs Saint Mary's College neither expects to stop. Let's let the comics be (and Notre Dame to pander to our students, really, they're just comics), and focus nor do we need them to -we simply instead on all that we can gain if only expect to be treated with the respect we learn to treat each person, regard­and dignity that we deserve as sisters less of school identity, as a brother or in the Holy Cross community. sister in Christ. 
Our women thrive within our Saint 

Mary's community academically, athlet­Sarah King 
ically, and spiritually. A great number junior 
of our women simply don't have the McCandless Hall 
time or desire to even venture across Ocr. 17 this was after my attorneys had specifi­cally told me several times the need to be totally truthful with the agents." 
Imagine living with that lie and others for four years, even lying again and again to keep up the pretense, and now fmally being able to look at herself in the mirror and know she at long last acted with integrity. 
She has publicly taken, as she says, "full responsibility" for her actions. In a statement she read before entering the courtroom to file her plea she spoke of her "great amount of shame." 
Yes, though you could certainly argue that it took her far too long, you might also say that she has finally truly set a good example. 
Why should we forgive her? I have no idea if or how Jones' faith played into her decision to come clean, but our Christian tradition teaches that we are all sinners, that we all need God's forgiveness. In the Catholic Church, the acts of confessing our sins and receiving forgiveness are so important that the Sacrament of Reconciliation recognizes them as an effective sign of God's grace in the world and in our lives. 
Remember, too, however, that when his disciples ask Jesus to teach them to pray, he teaches them these words: "forgive us our sins, as we forgive those who sin against us." Jesus wasn't messing around, and neither should we. Clearly God expects us, if we seek forgiveness, to extend it to others as well. 
Most likely none of us reading this arti­cle will ever fall from quite the same unique and very public heights as has Marion Jones. I said earlier that it would be good practice to forgive her. Why? Because that would actually be much eas­ier than forgiving your roommate, or lab partner, or best friend or colleague or spouse who has truly cut you to the quick. 
So start with Marion, and move on to forgiving those closer and closer to your heart. For whenever we have the courage to apologize for one of the mis­takes we have made or will make in our universally imperfect lives, won't we hope to be forgiven? 
Kate Barrett is the director ofresources and special projects at Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tradition unites schools 
This letter is in response to Jordan done this, but it is surely important to Beltz's letter, "Belles: Give me a reason" some students here on campus. (Oct. 17). Jordan, your comments repre­Jordan, you make a point about comics sent the most ignorant point of view I poking fun at every group on campus. As have ever seen on this campus. The an engineer, I am not offended at some­involvement of Saint Mary's students at one making fun of engineers, but that is Notre Dame seemed obvious to me, but I my opinion. will spell it out for you. This teasing is much different than 
Tradition: Saint Mary's was founded making fun of a group that cannot only two years after Notre Dame. Ever change its identity. Making fun of women since the conception of our university, is no better than making fun of a race. Saint Mary's has been there with us. I am sure that people would be Throughout history, the students at both extremely offended ifthe comic made a schools have been able to participate in derogatory comment about a specific each other's activities. Coming from the race, so tell me, how is this different? It's school where tradition might matter not. I suggest you reexamine your point most out of any school in the country, it of view and put yourself in their place. would not be unreasonable to expect you You would be offended, too. to realize this on your own. Saint Mary's students are an integral 
Involvement: Saint Mary's students and part of this university and students on Notre Dame students share each other's both sides share each others activities, clubs and activities. Both Saint Mary's time, and fun. There's a reason they are and Holy Cross send students to partici­called our sister school. Comics should pate in our marching band. I assume be funny, not offensive. Comics in your (like most here) that you enjoy football paper at home are not offensive yet are game days. Without those two schools' still humorous. involvement, our band would not be the Why, then, should our comic writers same. Our band is great partially feel the need to be offensive? Is it ·i because of its size. If you take away because they cannot think of anything those students, our band just simply is amusing without being offensive? I hope not quite as good. The student section it became a little clearer why Saint then would not be able to hear the band Mary's plays such an important role in as clearly. How would you like to never our school. do the jig? 
There are many examples of Notre Todd Henkel Dame students taking classes at Saint junior Mary's because the classes simply are Knott Hall not offered here. You might have never Oct. I? 

Comics not meant to be personal 
In response to Jordan Beltz's letter ("Belles: Give me a reason" Oct. 17). Thank you for finally bringing to the table the sub­ject that everyone wants to talk about but is afraid to. WP-completely agree with your opinions. 
We think that Saint Mary's students should stop claiming Notre Dame as their school. They did not get into Notre Dame, they do not pay Notre Dame tuition, they do not have the same workload that Notre Dame students carry, but they do continue to steal our Notre Dame men, our Notre Dame football tickets, and the association with this University that they are not earn­ing. 

The comic strips poke fun not only at Saint Mary's girls but at Notre Dame girls as well. Although some of us may get upset at the comic strips that make fun of the Notre Dame girls, most of us laugh it off because that's what comic strips are there for. Why would somebody take a comic strip personally? Comic strips aren't meant to be personal. And ifyou want to stop seeing yourselves made fun of in our comic strips then maybe stop making the stereotypes of Saint Mary's girls a reality. You only bring it on yourselves. Stop complaining that you have such a bad reputation. The reason that reputation lives on is because of the way a lot of Saint Mary's girls choose to act. 
We personally did not have a bad impres­sion of Saint Mary's coming into Notre Dame, but the longer we're here, the worse our impression gets. There's a reason Notre Dame girls don't like you. We know that not every Saint Mary's girl necessarily acts in this manner, but it's the ones that do who ruin it for the rest of the student body. 
We're not trying to make enemies out of any Saint Mary's girls, but we do think you need a serious wake-up call about how you're portraying yourselves and the bad impressions you're giving off to everyone else. 
Katie O'Connor 
Alex Chavez 
juniors 
Farley Hall 
Oct. I? 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 18, 2007 

amount of energy without thnir last By JESS SHAFFER release's morose (and frankly boring) Scene Writer anger. The whiny anxiety of 2004's 
"Futures" has disappeared from their 
Needing a little p<+st-midterm, pre­sound, and they've returned to their break trnat? Cheek out Jimmy Eat melodic rock style. The grousing of their World's "Chase This Light," originally last hit, ''Pain," is out, and their classic rnlnased Monday. sound, found in hits like 'The Middle," is 
After a wnek of hiding in your room, baek in. thn library or Co-Mt1 in eomplete silence, "Chase This Light" is tailor-made to this album is just what the doctor danee ofT that last Milano cookie that you ordernd. It has enough noise to get you needed to get through your chemistry amped to mjoin the human raee without exam. Arter a week of stress-eating incapacitating you from rock-shock. habits, this album is perfect to help you 
.Jimmy Hat World definitely got it right fit back into the designer jeans that don't with this album. harnessing the perfect go quite past your thighs anymore. So make a new Jimmy Eat World playlist and 
Chase This Light Jimmy Eat World Released by: liny Evil 

head to the gym. Tracks like "Let It Happen" and "Feeling Lucky" are perfect for a jog or two -or even three. The high power of 
the album also makes it
Recommended Tracks: "Here It Goes," "Big · 
Casino" and "Uke She'll PJways Be" 

There's no question I dread more in the world than, "So what kind of musie do you like?" 
That single question takes away any hope I havn of looking "hip" or "down with it." My answers an~ inevitably tlw 
Cassie Belek

Spice Cirls, Mariah 
Car1~y and Broadway 
Assistant

show tunes. After a 
Scene Editor 

brief. awkward pause fillnd with judgmnnt. I add, "You know, I like thn lleatles too. And Kanye." Everyone likes Kanyn. 
I evnn got my own WVFI show sopho­morn year with tlw hope that I could diversify my musieal tastns and be able to rambln oil' all the supnr hip and supnr unknown indin bands I listmwd to. lnstnad. I rPiied on my eo-host to choose the propnr undnrground music, while I played a show tune of the week and talked about Britney Spears. We did re­enaet scenes from "Walker, Texas Hanger" and "The O.C." one timn. Our fivn listeners nnjoynd it. 
But even though I hate b1~ing judged on my love for Christina Aguilera and K1dly Clarkson, I have a nasty habit of judging others on the television shows thny wateh. Just like some bnlieve that musit~al tastns revnal everything about a p1~rson 's pnrsonality. I helievn that tete­prime impromptu "dance party" material for letting loose. 
"Chase This Light's" lyrics have a little bit for everyone: love and romance, loss, sweet erushes and even the oeca­sional rant. Overall the 
vision tastes tell me whether we're 
going to be best friends, or whether 
you're going to be that person I some­
times say "hi" to on the quad. 
For example, if you tell me that you don't have a lot of time for TV so the only shows you wateh are "Grey's Anatomy" and "Desperate Housewives," wp,'re probably not going to be "besties" ofT the bat.. I'II admit that I don't watch these series myself. I try to watch "Grny's" occasionally, but Meredith is too mueh of' a floozy and I'm still freaknd out by Izzie going all crazy dur­ing that whole Denny storyline. 
So when Miss North Face 2007 tells me that she only watehes "Grey's" and "Despnratc," my heart breaks and a sin­gle tear runs down my eheek. 
"She doesn't know what she's miss­ing." I say to myself, and I leave her in peace as she picks up her hot pink iPod and go1$ for a run around the lake. 
But then there are those people who fill my soul with joy when they tell me th1dr favorite show is "Arrested Developrnnnt." We're instant friends, and we talk about "Bob Loblaw" this and "Mrs. Featherbottom" that. Or if you tell me you absolutely love "The Ollien." Bonus points if it's the BBC ver­sion, and double bonus points if you know all the words to "Free Love on the Free Love Freeway." 
lyrics tend to have a wise positivity, and the group seems to have discovered a great formula: smart lyries coupled with unique vocals and an upbeat sound. 
With this eombination, .Jimmy Eat World has some hits on their hands. It won't take long for these traeks to start making appearances in shows like "The Hills" and "The Real World." In faet, "Like She'll Always Be," with its rhythmic snap­
More applicable to real 
ping and bouncing pace, sage is pretty clear. This is an ideal fit for shows life, "Chase This Light's" song should come with a like these -ones that warning for being too
tracks fit anyone's

need good music to memorable.
personal soundtrack.
make up for their lack Even aftnr its first 
of eon tent. 

More applieable to real life, "Chase This Light's" tracks lit anyone's personal soundtrack. They serve as great theme songs for any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student. For example, let's say that last exam didn't go so well. "Eleetable (Give It Up)" is an exeellent remedy for the pain. With lines like, "I eame up like everyone, they taught us all the same/ I said what they told mn to say, and then from that they grade," it's easy to lind material for a diatribe against organized edueation or grades. 
Better yet, crank up the entire album. One of its greatest assets is its cohesive variety. No two tracks are quite the same, 
Then again, everyone watch­es NBC's "The Ollice" now (except for those unfortunate people who ehoose to watch "Grey's" during tha1 time slot), so my new test of instant friendship has oxpand11d to shows such as "30 Hoek" or "Friday Night 
Light~." 
Maybe I have a special place 

in my heart for those underdog shows that 11irt with cancellation year in and year out. Everyonn can quote from "The Olliee," but not everyone can sing along to Tracy Jordan's "Halloween Bar Mitzvah" on "30 Hoek" with me. 
Impress the heck out of me, future friends. 
But even if our television tastes don't line up right away, I can still beeome friends with someone who watches "Private Practice." It just means we ean't have meaningless hour-long con­versations about "Ugly Betty" and "How 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

and Jimmy Eat World thankfully avoids the redundancy that most groups fall into. 
Their elegant, rhythmic and authentie style unites this album's diverse eollee­tion. The first traek, "Big Casino," is a highlight with its get-up-and-go fnel. With lines like "(Get Up, Get Up) Turn on igni­timll (Get Up, Get Up) Fire up the system/ Play my little part in something big," the mes­
upbeat traeks, "Chase This Light" keeps listeners interested with varying tHmpo and emotion as it flu­idly transitions from optimism to longing and mild angst. The band doesn't front­load the album by putting its best efl'orts only at the start, eithnr. Thern are great songs throughout. and two of the best traeks, the titln track and fan favorite "IIere It Gons," help bring th1~ album to a dose. 
Overall, "Chase This Light" is an nxcel­lent addition to Jimmy Eat World's collec­tion. Definitely invest the $10 to purchase this album, because you won't regrPt it. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe I @nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of journaldesseries.com 

NBC's "30 Rock" recently won an Emmy for best comedy. Unfortunately, its Nielsen ratings still have room to grow. 
I Met Your Mother." Onee I'm done judg­ing you. I'll bn able to move on and see the real you. 
At least meet me halfway, though. If you wateh even onn npisode of "Freaks and Gecks," I'll probably fall in love with you. 
Or we can just put in a Spice Girls album and have a dance party. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen:er. 
Contact Cassie !Jelek at cbelek@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER ..: 
CENE
Thursday, October 18, 2007 
page 13 

Zbikowski knocked UCLA quarterback Ben Olsen out of commission in NO's lone win this year), perhaps we could have a game which, despite technically being just one hour of game time, regularly stretch­es into over four hours of real time. 
That's four hours of standing, yes "shoulder to shoulder" as the student shirt reads, but more accurately: crammed in like crayons in an all-green Crayola box, swaying and teetering as the intoxicated morons next to you threaten to pass out on you and almost passing out yourself after four hours of watching football. 
The saddest part of this whole sordid affair is that now, more than ever, Notre Dame seniors need marshmallow fights to put the fun back in Notre Dame foot­ball. With an abysmal 1-6 start, an ane­mic offense and perhaps worse, increas­ing apathy among the student section, seniors need a collective pick-me-up during home games. 
For most of us (barring, of course, Architecture majors who retain a coveted fifth year of eligibility to watch home games) this is the last year to watch Notre Dame home games from the cozy confines of the student section. And it hasn't been a pleasant last hurrah. 
As the losses mount, we 
Win or lose, no matter the score, come halftime of any Fighting Irish home game, a different war is waged in the student section of Notre Dame Stadium. As NBC's camera crews cut away to the studio and provide detailed analysis of Notre Dame football at halftime. the senior portion of the Notre Dame student section turns into a maelstrom of marshmallows, as seniors engage in so-called "marshmallow lights." 
Or they used to, 
Tae Andrews

anyway, before the so­callnd "Marshmallow curtain" descended, Scene Editor suffocating the tradi­tion and sucking the fun out of home games. In recent years stadium security has cracked down on students concealing the bite-sized treats on their persons, resulting in ejection from the stadium and the confiscation of the offending student's ticket booklet, denying them admission to all subsequent home games. 
What's all the trouble over the delec­table dollops of sugary goodness, you ask? 
Well, the seemingly innocent shenani­gans took a dark turn in recent years when security officials found foreign sub­stances embedded within the mallows -items such need something to reinvig­
The saddest part of 

as pennies and pebbles, orate the student section designed for harm rather this whole sordid and to restore a sense of than for humor. These affair is that now, fun to our home games. indiscretions caused the We need to unleash some
more than ever, Notre

marshmallow fights to turn halftime havoc on friends malicious, creating the cur­Dame seniors need and foes alike. There's rent situation. in which marshmallow fights something cathartic about possession of marshmal­pasting a pal in the pate 
to put the fun back in 

lows is an offense resulting with a perfectly placed in the same punishment Notre Dame football. puff, even if the Irish are 
one would imagine for hav­ing a concealed firearm or other sort of weapon while trying to enter Notre Dame Stadium. 
Another added impetus for the marsh­mallow lockdown was a series of com­plaints from NBC officials to stadium security-they claimed that the offend­ing confectionary projectiles were striking camera equipment. Well, perhaps the malicious pranksters were attempting to hit the despised "TV timeout" official, who sits on the field with his bright orange gloves and makes sure NBC milks every penny out of its airtime commercial breaks. 
Maybe they were thinking that, should they manage to knock the TV timeout guy of the game Gust as Irish safety Tom 
getting creamed on the field. Let the healing begin, or we'll all spend our time in the student section drunk, depressed and dour. 
Of course, this is not to say we should be tossing bad mallow bombs out there. As seniors in our fourth year of college, we should know better than to try and put junk inside of our marshmallows. That's just plain mean-spirited. 
Now more than ever, we need the marshmallow fights. Lift the curtain, sta­dium security. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 



·-page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 18, 2007 
MEN'S TENNIS 


Squad focuses on doubles in Parbhu's absence 
f'ew nicks f'rom practice this how important it is," Sachire
By KATELYN GRABAREK 

week. There shouldn't be any said. "It sets the tone for the 
Spons Writl'r 

maj o r s e t b a e k s , unl e s s t h e rest of the match. It can nicks turn into bigger prob­either m.ake or break a team 
f.:ven though senior f:aptain lnms." because you play doubles Shnnva l'arbhu was away at Tho other team consists of f'irst. It is hard to win four tho ITA AII-Anwrican champi­juniors Brett llelgoson and singles matchos off' of any onships in Tulsa, Okla.. last Santiago Montoya. Tho Irish team in the eountry, the dou­wnnk, Notrn Damn continued will also send out tho fresh­bles point is crucial." practicing its doubl11s skills man doubles duo of' Tyler Thn team has come a long and lnarr1ing to work as a Davis and Stephen llavnns. way this fall f'rom its opening toarn to prnparn f'or thn ITA The otlwr t11am will bo f'rnsh­match in Chicago. There have Midwnsl Championships man Matt Johnson and a part­bnen a few surprisPs, but today. rwr to bn named Ialor. overall Sachire and Bayliss 
Parbhu. tlw lorw Irish rnp­"We focused on moving are pleased with the rnsnntativo at tho prnstigious together, and producing a progress. c h a rn pi on ships, f'n II in t lw l'luid game," Sachire said. "W11 have a number of qual­orwning and consolation "We also worknd on team­ity tennis players and good rounds. WhiiP he was gone, work and learning what our guys," Sachire said. however, tlw team continued partners strengths and weak­"Everyday the guys bring it to horw its skills. nesses are. Movmnent is key and are in it togethPr. They 
"Wn f'oeus1~d on doublos to doubles. We rnally want really see the big picture.
' 
competition," assistant coach the guys to gel. and communi­Everyone is competing at a Hyan Sachire said. "We essen­catf1 on eourt." high level and really feed ofT tially dev!dopnd four strong The doubles matehes may of each other. Last year we doubles teams that wn will only count f'or one point of' the had a lot of talent, but there send to regionals." total seore in a team match, was a elear break off from 
Tho l'irst pair consists of but both Sachire and head the top six to the rest of the Andrew Hoth and Parbhu. coach Bobby Bayliss know the team. This year we are all 
"Hoth is ready to play sin­importance of getting the one team." 
gles and doubles this week­point and have stressed it to 

end," Saehirf) said. "Overall the younger players. Contact Katelyn Grabarek at 
we're pretty healthy minus a "The upperclassmen know kgrabaO1@saintrnarys.edu 
..... 
MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL -GOLD LEAGUE 

Playoff seeding at stake for Dillon against -winless Alunmi 

game against Dillon always spoil their season. The roles Hust is a definite concern for ning a sloppy game against a
Battle of the Chapel 

gives them reason to come out are reversed this year and they the Knights, who have not mediocre Keough team matches unbeaten and play. are looking for some revenge," played a game in a week and a Sunday. "It's obvious right now that Duffy said. "It's a rivalry game half. "It should not have been as
Stanford and Keenan we have nothing to play for and it's lnterhall football. "We have been working on a close as it was. We made a lot except pride," Alumni captain Anything can happen." lot of offensive line [play]," of mistakes," senior captain Bret Shapot said. "What makes Burns said. "We do not want to Rob Huth said. 
By ERIC PRISTER and JARED this game even bigger for us is Keenan vs. Stanford change too much, and we want The Stanford defense has ]EDICK it is against Dillon. When we Gold League powerhouses to be ready." been just as strong as Sports Writers play Dillon, it makes no differ­Keenan and Stanford meet Freshman Brian Castello, Keenan's, holding opponents ence whether we are 3-0 or 0-tonight at 8 in the Battle of the who Burns said has been play­seoreless until the fourth quar­
Dillon looks to gain some 3" Chapel to decide who will fin­ing very well, will call the sig­ter against Keough. momentum going into the play­Alumni will look to finish the ish the season undefeated. nals for Keenan. The Griffins' defensive line, offs as it takes on archrival season strong and begin "It is always good to beat "He is really getting used to led by sophomore defensive Alumni tonight at 7 at Hiehle preparations for next year. Stanford. In fact, our rector the whole interhall thing," tackle Rob Huguelet, has been Field. "All our younger guys are pulled me into his office and Burns said. especially solid. 
"We want to go into the play­going to play a big role in this told us to win," sophomore Leading the Knights' rushing The Stanford offense has a offs elieking on all cylinders," game," Shapot said. "At the captain Pat Burns said. attack is junior Alex Gonzalez, good mix of new and old faces, Dillon senior captain Alex same time, the veterans are The naming rights for the who is talented enough to be including several explosive Duffy said. going to get one final shot on chapel shared by the two playing varsity ball, Burns players at the skill positions, 
Dillon will also look to the field. Everyone's going to dorms is up for grabs, as is the said. highlighted by junior quarter­improvn its playoff seed with a make a contribution, and if we No. 1 seed in the playoffs. The Knights have relied on back Brian Salvi and senior win. can come away with a win, Keenan (3-0) is coming off its their strong defense for much running back Tregg Duerson. 
"This game has to do with that's all I can ask for. Then bye week after rolling over of this year, however, having "If we want to win this being the No. 8 or the No. 7 Alumni can ride that into next Alumni, 26-0. But Burns said only given up six points in game, we are going to have to seed," Duffy said. "Either way year." his team still has work to do. three games. have a complete game," Huth we have a tough opponent, but Duffy stressed the impor­"We made a lot of mistakes," Countering Keenan is an said. I would much rather be a tance of keeping his team Burns said. "We need to try equally talented and potent lower seed." focused. and cut out the holding penal­Stanford (3-0) football team. Contact Eric Prister at 
The Dawgs come into "Last year we came into the ties and move the ball for­The Griffins enter tonight's eprister@nd.edu and Jared tonight's game at 0-3, but a Alumni game 0-3 and helped ward." game on short rest after win-Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Moving on with my life Moving in UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do with yours. Lake St. George is your not go it alone. If you or someone 
FoR SALE new home With an almost view of FoR RENT TICKETS PERSONAL you love needs confidential support the dome Sleep in one of three or assistance, please call Sr. Sue suites Taste the city water. It is Dunn, OP. at1-7819. 
3bdrm, 1.5 balh condo. sweet New. New Everything You Cozy 3 bedroom house. walk to WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX. IS YOUR DAD A RADIOLOGIST IN Close to ND. can have it for some bling Not too carnpus, washer/dryer, landlord PLEASE HELP! BOSTON? For more information, visit our web­Immaculate move-in condition. bad for $345 thousand Call Jan does the yardwork. $750/month. No 574-251-1570 site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart­Prefer to sell totally furnished w/ Lazzara on her band 574-233-6141. pets. No section 8. Looking for ND students father who ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi­linens, etc. FSB0-6.2 miles to NO-Colonial 574-250-1266. FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. is a Radiologist in the Boston, MA weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. All new & like-new furniture. 2story home 4bdr 2-1/2 baths close ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. area. This Dr. assisted my client 
to schools county tax many xtrs. Blue & Gold Homes Now Showing www. victorytickets.com with CPR on an airplane on 3/15/07 PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­Extremely reasonable, $130,000. 574-291-2899 2nd Semester & 08/09. 1-9 departing Detroit to So.Bend. ONE WHO IS? Bedrooms. bluegoldrentals.com ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. Family would like to extend thank Not furnished $115,000. you and ask questions, You do not have to be alone. We Large house available for 2009-574-288-2726. want to help. Call our 24 hour confi­Woodbridge Condos. 2010. Full renovations completed Please call Mark Matthes at dential holline at 1-800-No Abort or
WANTED 

this year. Great location onE Buying BC/USC tix. visit our web site at Call 574-272-0360, Marion. Large common areas, 5 800-261-2305. www.lifecall.org 
Notre Dame items. Rockne. Leahy, bathrooms. Also available:5 bdrm 2 574-277-1659. cell574-274-8359 Ara, Holtz. Helmets, Uniforms, bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008-If you or someone you care about for appt. to see. Footballs, Old Programs & Tickets. 2009. Need 2 USC tix & parking pass. has been sexually assaulted. visit superproofer.com For your convenience. appt. hrs on Call 574-257-0039 or 574-277-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. Fri & Sat 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sun. 9-3. NDND Contact MacSwain@gmail.com 574-276-8507 . shtml NDE #95 Red Group-Live the 4th 
.Jft'l(ll .r.IJ'W l'iJi Hll.lti ILi•.f(IIO:J lUI N .tiOUH'WJW 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, October 18, 2007 
NCAA Women's Volleyball CSTV/ AVCA Coaches Poll 
team  record  previous  
1  Nebraska  16·0  1  
2  Penn State  16·2  3  
3  Stanford  17·1  2  
4  usc  16·2  6  
5  Washington  17·1  8  
6  Texas  12·3  7  
7  UCLA  15·3  4  
8  Wisconsin  16·1  9  
9  California  14·4  10  
10  Florida  16·1  5  
11  Hawaii  15-3  12  
12  Dayton  21·0  13  
13  Minnesota  12·6  11  
14  Kansas State  14·5  16  
15  Michigan  16·4  15  
16  San Diego  14·5  17  
17  Duke  14·4  13  
18  New Mexico State  17·3  20  
19  Oregon  14·6  19  
20  Ohio  15·4  21  
21  Colorado State  13·4  23  
22  StJohn's  21-3  22  
23  Oklahoma  15·4  25  
24  Cal Poly  11-7  24  
25  LSU  15·4  18  
USCHO.com/CSTV Div. I  
Men's Hockey Poll  
team  record  previous  
1  North Dakota  1·0·0  1  
2  Miami  2·0·0  4  
3  Minnesota  2·0·0  5  
4  BC  1-1-0  2  
5  Denver  2-0·0  13  
6  Michigan  1-1-0  10  
7  Clarkson  2-1·0  7  
8  New Hampshire  0·0·0  6  
9  Michigan State  0-1·0  3  
10  Colorado College  0·0·0  11  
11  NOTRE DAME  1·1·0  8  
12  Ohio State  2-0·0  19  
13  Wisconsin  1·1·0  15  
14  Quinnipiac  0·0·0  14  
15  StLawrence  2-1·0  16  
16  St Cloud Slate  1·0·1  17  
17  Maine  0·2·0  12  
18  Boston University  0·1·1  g  
19  Cornell  0·0·0  18  
20  Massachusetts  1·1·0  NR  
USA Today /USA Hockey  
Magazine Div. I  
Men's Hockey Poll  
team  record  previous  
1  North Dakota  1·0-0  1  
2  Miami Ohio  2·0-0  4  
3  Minnesota  2·0·0  6  
4  BC  1·1-0  2  
5  Denver  2·0·0  10  
6  Michigan  1·1-0  9  
7  Clarkson  2·1·0  13  
8  New Hampshire  0·0·0  5  
9  Michigan State  0·1-0  3  
10  Colorado  0·0-0  11  
11  NOTRE DAME  1·1·0  7  
12  Ohio State  2·0·0  NR  


around the dial 
BASEBALL Red Sox at Indians 8 p.m., FOX 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL South Florida at Rutgers 7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Seattle at LA Lakers 10 p.m., TNT 

CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVIR'S-WIRE SERVICES 
NHL 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -A six-game losing streak to start this season put Bob Hartley's job in danger. A quick ouster in last season's playoffs did not help his cause. 
Hartley was fired Wednesday as coach of the Atlanta Thrashers, the only NHL team without a victory. General manager Don Waddell will coach the team until a replace­ment is found. 
Waddell said the Thrashers were playing as if they have not recovered from losing four straight games to the New York Rangers in the first round of the playoffs last season. 

"The emotions were so high last year going into the playoffs and we went out quickly and to be hon­est I don't know if we've recovered from that yet," Waddell said. "If you look we've lost 10 games in a row now, including the last four last year. That's where I believe a change has to be made." 
Waddell said he has no timetable for a hiring and indicated he may look for a coach who is less intense than Hartley, 
"Maybe we've got to back off a little bit and let the players have some fun in the game," Waddell said. 
"Certainly Bob has been here a long time.... We 
IN BRIEF Cabrera recovers to win 
Grand Slam of Golf 
TUCKER'S TOWN, Bermuda-U.S. Open champion Angel Cabrera over­came an atrocious start with a spec­tacular finish Wednesday to win the PGA Grand Slam of Golf, outlasting Padraig Harrington in a playoff. 
Cabrera recovered from a triple bogey on the opening hole that put him five shots behind with a birdie­eagle finish to close with a 2-under 68 and get into a playoff with the British Open champion at Mid-Ocean Club. 
He finally beat Harrington on the third extra hole with another boom­ing tee shot and a 4-iron into 18 feet on the par-5 18th. Cabrera took two putts for birdie, which was all he needed when Harrington hit into a deep bunker off the tee and still had 4 feet for par when the Argentine tapped in. 
It was the first time Harrington, who closed with a 69, had trailed all afternoon. 
weren't getting the most, particularly out of our vet­eran players, and that was a concern," he said. 
Hartley did not attend Wednesday's news confer­ence and did not return a phone message. 
Michael Gearon k, who represented the ownership group at the announce­
.ment, said there was great concern the team was los­ing all momentum gained from winning the Southeast Division last season and making its first playoff appearance, The Thrashers have been outscored 27-9, including a 4-0 loss at Philadelphia on Tuesday night. 
"From our perspective, it's important to see 

MSG asks judge to reduce 
award in harassment case 
NEW YORK -Madison Square Garden and Knicks coach Isiah Thomas have asked a judge to reduce the $11.6 million in punitive damages a jury awarded to a former team executive after concluding she was sexually harassed and fired out of spite. 
Anucha Browne Sanders was awarded the damages this month after a three-week trial that portrayed the Knicks' offices as a dysfunctional clubhouse where Browne Sanders endured profanity-laced conversations. with Thomas before he turned unwanted affection toward her. 
In court papers filed late Tuesday, lawyers for MSG and chairman James Dolan said constitutional limits require the punitive award be trimmed from a "grossly excessive" amount to a figure in the tens or hun­dreds of thousands of dollars, in line with comparable awards. 
page 15 

progress," Gearon said. "From the start of this season we're not seeing that. 
"This is an important time for the franchise. It's not taking one step for­ward last year and two steps backward. The point is to keep moving forward and to be competitive for a long time." 
Added Gearon: "Clearly, there needed to be a change." 
Waddell was 4-5-1 as an interim coach after he fired Curt Fraser during the 2002-03 season. Waddell then hired Hartley. 
Waddell indicated this interim stint could last longer, 
Derby winner Street Sense 
pre-entered for BC Classic 
NEW YORK -The top three Kentucky Derby finishers --Street Sense, Hard Spun and Curlin-will meet again in the $5 million Breeders' Cup Classic in a race that most likely will settle Horse of the Year. 
"This is possibly the deepest Breeders' Cup field if not the deepest we've ever had," Breeders' Cup president Greg Avioli said Wednesday after nine horses were pre-entered for the 1.25-mile Classic at New Jersey's Monmouth Park on Oct. 27. 
Add two other formidable 3-year­olds in l'faskell Invitational winner Any Given Saturday and Goodwood Handicap winner Tiago, plus leading older horse Lawyer Ron and European standout George Washington, and it's easy to see why most will agree with Avioli's assess­ment. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 18, 2007 
MLB 

After celebrating, Rockies go back to work 
Team will have eight days off to prepare for Indians or Red Sox as break draws comparisons to Tigers last season 
Associated Press 
DENVEH -Todd Helton and 
the Colorado Hockies returned 
to work Wednesday a carefree 
buneh. 
They're going to the World Series, that's for sure. Whether they're headed to Jaeobs Field or Fenway Park next week, that c~an wait. 
The Hoekies took a mueh­
needed break after elinehing 
their first NL pennant Monday 
night with their 21st win in 22 
games. llelton said he spent his 
day ofT "baskally sleeping." 
"We didn't get home until 2 or 3 in the morning. It wasn't too easy to sleep," he said. 
Helton said it's been sueh a whirlwind that he hasn't had time to savor what's ahnad after a decade of disappointment in J>nnver. 
"I don't evnn know if it's sunk in ynt. It may take a littln while longnr," he said. "But I don't want to pineh mysnlf. I don't want to wake up. It's a magieal ridn and I want to stay em it as long as possible." 
Tlw Hoekins practiced for two hours in 56-degren, partly r.loudy weathnr, their last work­out until a simulatnd game Friday at Coors Field. 
Colorado will start the World Snrins on the road next Wednesday. ClevPiand leads Boston :~-1 in the AL champi­onship sPries going into Game 5 Thursday night. 
With a rPcord t>ight days off, tlw Hockies had plcmty of time to get rnady. Last year. l>ntroit had six days' rest, then played poorly in losing tlw Series in live garnns to St. Louis. 
"f'vp alrcmdy had six or seven pcwpln bring to my attnntion that tlw Tigers had a long layoll' last ynar and didn't play very well," manager Clint llurdln said. 
llurdlo noted that sevcm of the I 0 teams that had to wait live days or more before the Series actually won it all. 
"So, if you look for good, you'll lind good. If you look for bad, you'll lind bad," Hurdle said. "We're of the opinion this is an opportunity. just like any other one we've had this season. We're going to meet it. It can provide some ehallenges, but it's going to provide some opportu­nities and we'll be ready to play." 
The Hockies will play simulat­ed games of between four and eight innings Thursday through Sunday. They'll have a regular workout Monday before flying to the AL ehampion's city. 
"This is ground breaking," 
Hurdle said. "The other option 
is we could have lost a couple 
more games, we could have got­
ten on a plane, we could have 
made another flight and that 
would have really cut down on 
all this down time. 
"And maybe put us in a posi­tion where we would have had four months of down time," he said. 
The Rockies decided against 11ying to Tucson and working out at their spring training com­plex in the Arizona desert. They chose the Hocky Mountains' cooler weather, sure, but also their own warm beds. 
Once they got to the ballpark on Wednesday, many players tore open big boxes of World Series caps and polo shirts in their lockers. They said it was amazing that the smell of cham­pagne and Coors Light no longer permeated the place. 
Most of them spent their time oil' Tuesday resting or recuper­ating. They tried to get away from their buzzing Blaekberries and iPhones long enough to cut ofT the calls and text messages from family and frinnds sending eongratulations -and seeking World Series tiekets. · 
"I don't know how they've got­ten the numbnr, but thny're call­ing," reliever Matt llnrgcs said. 
"Ynah. I kind of fnol like I'm writing a wndding plan again," rookie Jell' Baker oll'nrnd. 
Who's in? Who's out? Wherc's the cutoll'? 
"It's going to be tough to go through the list and pick and ehoose who gets a tieket and who doesn't," Baker said. 
Not that any of them mind the hassln, just like they'rn not fret­ting over this long break. 
NFL teams get seven days. So, what's one more? 
''I'm not too eoneerned about the layoff," shortstop Troy Tulowitzki said. "If anything it will be nice to rest up, I'm a lit­tle banged up. We're going to be here at the field pretty much every day swinging the bat and facing some pitehers, so I don't think it will affeet us too much at all." 
Here's the big debate: Will the time off be harder on pitchers or hitters? 
"Fielders," suggested Brad Hawpe. 
"The toughest thing is going to be making sure we keep our legs strong," the right fielder said. "We can go out there and practice and do sprints and stuff, but it's not like standing on your feet and playing through the 4?-hour games we've been playing in the play­offs." 

Several of the Hockies planned going to have to end up dealing to take in the ALCS. As for who with the same issue that we're they're rooting for, they're going going to have to deal with and to remain neutral. that's having some. time off," 
"If Cleveland does end up Baker said. "But if it does go winning tomorrow, they're seven and Boston comes back 
and they battle it out, that's only going to help us. They'll beat each other up, hopefully get some bullpens tired and that could be an advantage for us." 


NOW ACCEPTING 
NEW CLUB PROPOSALS 
Students interested in starting a new club must submit a proposal by November 1, 2007. Details on proposal contents may be found on the SAO website: 
http ://sao. n d .ed u/stude ntg rou ps/1isti n g 
Questions? Contact Mary Kate Havlik at 
mhavlik@nd.edu, or by calling 631-7308. 
ITUDEIT ACTIYmH
BAD 
IAD.ND.EDU 


Thursday, October 18, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Red Sox try to overcome odds against Indians 
Beckett looks to continue postseason dominance, help Boston emulate 2003 Marlins comeback against Cubs 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -History gives Josh Beckett and the Red Sox a pretty good shot. They've come back from big postseason deficits. 
Then again, they didn't do it against these Cleveland Indians. 
Down 3-1 in the AL champi­onship series, Beckett and Boston will try to save their sea­son when they face C.C. Sabathia on Thursday night. It's a rematch of the opener, the only game the Red Sox won. 
"I don't think there's anyone in the league that we'd prefer on the mound for our team in this situation," Boston third baseman Mike Lowell said. "We can bolieve all we want, but we have to get hits off Sabathia and hold them down." 
In 2004, the Hed Sox ended an 86-year World Series champi­onship drought with a four­game sweep of St. Louis. First, though, they had to overcome a 3-0 deficit in the ALCS against the New York Yankees. 
The Hed Sox became the first tfmm to win a postseason series after losing the first three games. · "When you see something that's never been done before, you can believe in anything," first base­man Kevin Youkilis said. "For us, it's all about winning one game." 
Only seven players from that World Series team, including David Ortiz and Manny Hamirez, are still with the Red Sox. 
One who wasn't there also came back from a 3-1 LCS deficit. 
Beckett started Florida's come­back in 2003 with a two-hit shutout against the Chicago Cubs in Game 5. He struck out 11 and walked one, a remarkable NLCS performance that was soon over­shadowed. 
Working on three days' rest, he pitched a World Series-clinching, five-hit shutout in Game 6 against the Yankees. 
"It's kind of like a party in 2003," Beckett said. "It was fun. It was a bunch of young guys, and we were just out having fun." 
The Marlins exceeded expecta­tions that season. Anything less than a championship would be an emotional blow to the Red Sox and their passionate fans. 
As is Rafael Betancourt cares. 
"With the confidence we have playing right now, we're going to do it on Thursday," said the for­mer Boston farmhand, now a lights-out reliever for Cleveland. "We don't want to go back. We want to finish it here." 
To do that, the Indians will have to break Beckett's postseason spell. 
He won the first round opener over the Los Angeles Angels with a four-hit shutout. Then he out­pitched Sabathia, who said he wasn't aggressive enough, in Game 1 of the ALCS. 

"I didn't even give us a chance the other day," Sabathia said. "I look to stay calm and stay in con­trol and not try to overthrow and do so much and I think I'll be fine." 
Beckett's back stiffened up on the chilly night. Red Sox pitching coach John Farrell said on Wednesday's off-day that Beckett is feeling fine and his back is not an issue. 
"His bullpen (session) two days ago was as strong as others throughout the course of the sea­son," Farrell said. "So there's no restrictions of any kind going into tomorrow." 
After losing the opener 10-3, the Indians took the momentum with a 13-6 win in 11 innings at Fenway Park. They won the next two games in Cleveland behind their third and fourth starters, Jake Westbrook and Paul Byrd. 
They scored seven runs in the 11th in Game 2, and another seven in the fifth of a 7-3 win in Game 4, four scoring on homers by Casey Blake and Jhonny Peralta. 
"We just got hot at the right time," Sabathia said. "It doesn't matter how you play during the season. It matters how well you're playing right now." 
The teams did tie for baseball's best record, 96-66, and Boston won home-field advantage by winning the season series with 
Cleveland. play," he said. "We'd love to do it That means nothing to Indians here at home, but the heartbeat manager Eric Wedge. and the pace and the way we "It's not about where we play or play, it needs to be "the same who we play. It's about how we we've been doing all year." 

TRIBECA 
5-PASSENGER
$319 PER MONTH LEASE/ 36 MONTHS 

·IIHS Top Safety Pick' 
$2,593.64 Down Payment 

• All-Wheel Drive standard
$0 Security Deposit 

• Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC)
$0 Acquisition Fee 

with Traction Control
$319 First Month's Lease Payment 

• 256-hp 3.6-liter Subaru 
$2,913 Total Due at Lease Signing 

Boxer engine 
(1'1odei8T/1) 
2(108 SUlW<u 

IMPREZA 
2.5i 

•IIHS 
Highest possible crash test ratings 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

•173-hp 
Subaru Boxer engine 

• 
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 


$248 PER MONTH LEASE! 36 MONTHS 
$0 Down Payment 
$0 Security Deposit 
$0 Acquisition Fee 
$248 First Month's Lease Payment 
$248 Total Due at Lease Signing 
(~bdei8.!Bl 
(~)-1Q ~' JR~D!;
2

u0.TBACK 

Top Safety Pick includes the 2008 Tribeca. 2Government frontal and side crash tests are part of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) New Car Assessment Program. See safercar.gov for more detail. Subaru Tribeca and Outback are registered trademarks. Leases based on 10,000 miles per year plus tax, title, license and doc. Rebates to dealer. With qualified credit. Offers expire October 31st, 2007. 
• 5-Star highest government crash 
test rating? 

•
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
6 standard airbags 




• 4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 
$248 PER MONTH LEASE/ 
120 w. McKinlev Ave. 
42 MONTHS 
$1.751.24 Down Paymenl
MISHAWAKA 
$0 Security Deposit 
$0 Acquisition Fee 

$248 First Month's Lease Payment
5 256~5 1 
$1,999 Total Due at Lease Signing 

GurlevLeepSubaru.com 


page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 18, 2007 
BASEBALL 

Korpi, Dupra shine in intra-squad series 
David Phelps. Notre Dame's ace ball in play," Schrage said.
Blue and Gold squads 

last season, took the loss while "We'd like to make him a utilitysplit first two games giving up five narn11d runs in 4.2 player and h1~ played left and innings. played well today." of annual 3-game set ''I'm not worriod about Phelps Phelps was able to avoid fur­
because he's pitched very well ther trouble in the first thanks to 
this f'all," Schrage said. "I think a sliding catch by snnior left
By FRAN TOLAN 

he made a few fielder floss 
Sports Wriler 

bad 0-2 pitches Hrezovsky and a today. But he's running grab by
"Wade's been 
In the f'irst game of Notre going to be a sophomore center Damn's annual intra-squad lead1~r f'or the dominant all fall, like fielder Bill Bltw-Cold snrins Tuesday. senior tnam in the Warrender. Korpi, 
you saw today."
lnf't-handm· Wadi' Korpi won the spring." meanwhile, hattl1~ Iwtwnnn thP top two Irish Tlw Blue tnarn almost lost his starting pil1~hPrs. loading tho jumped on Dave Schrage shutout in the Blun learn to an S-1 win over th11 Phelps early Irish coach first, but the Blue (;old learn. wlwn lnadotl' hit­team displaynd 
Korpi struck out six in 4.2 ter Brett Lilley some stellar innings of' work. while allowing lined a single to dnfense of its just four hils and holding the right. The sPnior shortstop eanw own. Cold learn scorl'll'ss. around to scow when the next The Gold lead oil' battnr, sopho­
"Wadn's bnPn dominant all fall. battnr. sophomore left f'ieldPr more designated hitter Matt likP you saw today," Irish coach flynn lntlekofnr, drilled a double Grosso, reached base on an I>avn Sdmtgl' said. "lin did some into tlw lnft-cnntnr l'iPid gap. infield single. Gold sophomorn work with !Irish pitching coach lntlekof'Pr went 2-f(lr-5 and also second basnman IIerman Slwrard ClinkscalllSI on his readwd on an nrror and scon1d Petzold then lrind to bunt Grosso hrPaking hall and ho's throwing a run. to sncond but reaehnd on an that pitch for a strikl'." "Hynn's a good scrappy guy at error by Korpi. After Phelps 
<;old ll'arn junior right-hander tlw plate who always puts the errantly thmw to first, the Gold 
BASKETBALL 
Harangody to Iniss 3-6 vveeks vvith injury 
the situation in throe weeks," it
By CHRIS KHOREY 
said. 
Sports Ediwr 
At minimum. the sophomore will miss Notre Dame's first Sophomore forward Luke exhibition game against Saint llarangody will miss three to Ambrose on Nov. 2. If' six weeks with a torn ligament llarangody is held out f'or a full in his right thumb, Irish coach six weeks, he will also miss the Mike Brey announced in a second exhibition game against statenwnt WPdnesday. Saint Edward's, as well as the 
llarangody was injured in opening game of' the season practiee Monday, the statement against Monmouth and the said. Doctors evaluated him on team's trip to the Virgin Islands Tuesday and dl'tnrmined the for tho Paradise Jam tourna­ligament was torn. ment. 
The slall'mnnt said llarangody averaged 11.2 llarangody will be en-evaluated points and 6.2 rebounds per after thrne wnPks. game last season. He also had 
"t\ linwtablo f'or his return seven double-doubles. has yet to bP dPtPrminPd, but doctors and nwn's basketball Contact Chris Khorey at trainer Skip MPyPr will evaluate ckhorey@nd.edu 
The Bistro features the freshest seafood, steaks and much more .... 
Parisi's 2nd location Newest fine dining with aEuropean flair located 1mile from the stadium 
After dinner relax in our Martini Lounge 

team had runners on first and third with nobody out. 
Brezovsky came up next and hit a 11y ball into short center field. Blue junior center fielder 
A..J. Pollock made the catch. When Grosso tagged up and tried to score, Pollock cut down the runner at home. 
Pollock, who started at third base for the Irish last season, then made a full-extnnsion div­ing catch in right-center field to end the inning. 
"t\.J.'s just a great athlete, and hn 's already a solid defensive outfielder," Schrage said. "We're going to usn his spPed to hnlp us win some games." 
t\t the plate, Pollock reached base in three-of-four plate appearances stoln a basn and added an HBI. 
t\fter tho early scare, Korpi rolled through the Gold order, fadng just 19 batters in his 4.2 innings. 
"I was getting ahead of batters and that was the key," Korpi said. "I was throwing my fastball for strikes so I was also able to throw my oll'-speed pitches." 
The Blue squad scon1d two runs in the third, fifth and sev­enth innings to put the game out of reach. Jeremy Barnes picked up an HBI in the third, with Pollock and Blue freshman first baseman Ty /\dams driving in runs in the fif'th. 
Blue fn~shrnan catcher Cameron McConnPII hit lhP first horne run of' the Blue-Gold series when he nailed a solo shot down the left field line in llw sixth. 
In the second garnn of' the series. Gold won 3-1 behind strong pitching from Brian l>upra, who wont 5.2 innings and allowml just one run while striking out th n~e. Grosso, BrPzovsky and cPnler fipfdnr David Mills all seored f'or the Gold squad. 
The third game in the BluP­Gold SeriPs will bn playPd today at 4:30p.m. at Eck Stadium. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


and enjoy live music 

-·---------------------------------------........, Thursday, October 18, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Kobe back at practice, expected to play today 
Associated Press 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -Kobe Bryant returned to practice after sitting out the previous three days, and coach Phil Jackson said he expects the disgruntled Los Angeles !.akers' star to play in an exhi­bition game Thursday night. 
"Yeah, we'll probably play him, get him out there," Jackson said after practice Wednesday. "lie seemed all right, sure did." 
The Lakers face Seattle in Bakersfield on Thursday night in the first of six exhibition games in nine days. They lost their first two exhibition games to Golden State last week in llonolulu. 
Bryant hadn't practiced since Saturday because of a sore knee. lie didn't speak with reporters Wednesday, but made his feelings clear a day earlier in his only formal inter­view since Lakers owner Jerry Buss stated he "would certainly listen" to trade offers for the two-time defending NBA scor­ing champion. 
"One thing I said at training camp was that I didn't want this to be a distraction," Bryant said Tuesday. "It's our under­standing not to bring up the situation and not talk about it. We just wanted to keep things quiet and go about our busi­ness. It kind of caught me off guard a little bit." 
Bryant asked to be traded 4? months ago, then avoided speaking about the Lakers until the beginning of training camp Oct. 1, when he talked more positively, saying he was look­ing forward to the season. 
It seemed the parties had put negative feelings behind them before Buss made his com­ments to three beat writers last week. 
Jackson said it was essential­ly business as usual Wednesday, although Bryant wasn't involved in scrimmaging at the end of practice. 
"l-Ie was extremely helpful with young players today, help­ing them with the offense," the coach said. 
"It was good -he was out there smiling and looking good, helping guys," teammate Kwame Brown said. "He was out there working, hopefully that means he's going to play. We want him to play, we need him to play." 
Brown said the Lakers haven't been distracted by the fact that Bryant missed prac­tice the previous three days and his apparent differences with management. 
"We didn't know what was going on. We thought it was his knees," Brown said. "Hopefully, they can handle that upstairs." 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2008, SPRING 2009, A Y 2008-9 University College Dublin Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING with 
Kevin Whelan, Director Keough-Naughton ND Center, Dublin 
Thursday, October 18,2007 
5:30 pm 129 DBRT 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2007 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-09 Applications Available www/nd.edu/-ois 
VOLVNTEER~ WANTED 
Do you want to make adifference in someone'slife? Holy Cross House is looking for energetic, outgoing volunteers to assist with and or lead activity groups for our retired priests and brothers. Do you have an hour a week or couple hours a month to share your time and talents with us? 
Then join us for our open house Thursday, October 18,. from 9:00-11:00 A.M. or 3:30-5:30 P.M. 
Holy Cross is located on Douglas Road just west of Juniper. 
Come tour our house, enjoy refreshments and see the faces ofHoly Cross House. 
Ifyou have any questions please call Tricia at 631-3957. Thank you! 

.-------------------------------------------------­
The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 18, 2007 
Hoosiers 
continued from page 24 
classmate Joseph Lapira. Lapira took a touch and then fired the ball low and to the left, beating goal­keeper Chay Cain for a 1-0 lead. 
"I think I'm feeling a bit more comfortable," Lapira said. "I've been coming on and off of injuries all year and hopefully I'm coming into it now." 
Lapira, who now has six goals on the season, scored two for the Irish for the sec­ond straight game. He also had two in a 3-3 tie with No. 1 Connecticut Saturday. Last year's Hermann Trophy win­ner has struggled to pro­duce offensively so far this year but seems to be hitting his stride as the postseason nears. 
"Hn is doing exactly the same thing. l-Ie's just putting them in the net now," Clark said. 
Lapira's second goal tied 
WU VUE/The Observer 

the gamn at 2-2 with just
Siegfried running back Marcus Young heads upfield in the 

under 17 minutes remain­
Ramblers' 26-6 win over Fisher Wednesday. 

ing. 
Zah01 
continued from page 24 
corning out in thn sneond half," Zahm coach· T.l Stouder said. "We were playing for pride on both sides of the 
ball." 
Tlw . Babid Bats (2-1-1) knpt thnir sna­son alive in a dPI'ensive bat­tle. 
The turning point camn whnn Zahm made a defen­sive stand in the last five minutes. On tho rwxt play, Ossei-Anto's 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 

Irish forward Joseph Lapira rockets a shot during Notre Dame's 3-2 loss to Indiana Wednesday at Alumni Field. 
Clark said. "I think that was defense had surrendered the difference in the game three ()r more goals only today." · · · . once before this season in a 
The game winner, like 3-0 Joss to Maryland Snpt. Noschang's goal, came after 2. the Hoosiers won a free ball Notre Dame will look to in transition. Noschang took solidify its defnnse against over at midfield, and he and Seton llall Sunday in its Neil Wilmarth sprinted final home game of the rng­down field with two Irish ular season. defenders. Both defenders "I think we'ro very good at collapsed on tho ball, leav-bouncing baek from lossos,'' ing Wilmarth wide open for Lapira said. "I think we'll an easy finish. come out on senior d€1-Y and 
"That's two games in a show why we've be<jn here row we've given up three for four ~.ears kicking some goals, so we need to look at rear end. ourselves,'' Clark said. -----------­
Prior to the 3-3 tie with Contact Dan Murphy at Connecticut, the Irish dmurphy6@nd.edu 
On the next play, sopho­morn running back Brody Kane ran for the touchdown and provided all of the offrmse requin~d. Kane had just switched to playing run­ning bjLC:k and started prac­ticing halfway through the wonk. 
Murphy converted the two­

Indiana had taken the lead only a few minutes earlier when Eric Alexander found Kevin Noschang on a transi­tion play. and Noschang was able to sneak it under a div­ing Chris Cahill to give the Hoosiers a one-goal advan­tage. The senior forward leads the Hoosiers with five goals so far this season. 
"We have lots of momentum after this game. We are real con­fident in our chances in the playoff<;." 
T.J. Stouder Zahm coach 
point attempt 

The lead vanished tem­
on an end­

porarily when Indiana soph­
around. 

omore Kevin AJs·ton mis­
Sorin's 

played a ball in the box, 
attmnpts to tie 

allowing Lapira to put in his 
the game 

second of the game, but the 
ended when 

Hoosiers answered quickly. 
Zah m forced a 

"We don't pick up second 
fumble, seal­

balls, and their midfield 
ing the victory. 

really did a great job in 
"We have 

picking up second balls," 
lots of momen­


run gavo it tho l'if~ld position it rwednd. 
Following Ossei-Anto's run, the Habid Bats were still 35 yards from the end zone, but carne 30 yards doser when frnshman Xavier Murphy caught a pass that put Zahm at first and goal on the 5­yard line. 


tum after this game. We are real confident 
in our chances in the play­offs," Stouder said. "There are a lot of strong teams out there, and we hope to show that we can be one of those teams." 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu and Pete Reisenauer at preisena@nd.edu 

Thursday, October 18, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
,, 
~ 

A NDvsUSC
HAf\.1Mf".!'l ~~'~ NOTRE DAME'":~ BOOKSTORE 

BOOK SIGNING& OCTOBER 19 Be 20 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19 
IN "HE f-C"~ Cl'NTf;R 
• .\ Cll'c ol' C;~nlllt:~ 
. \;:li 
.·-·.·.·'o'·'), 
·:·_.~:t\ .... --...· _..:)·
~:.
~ . --·---· 
t 
11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 
DOROTHY CORSON 
':4 Cave ofCandles" 






SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20 
9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 
RUDY RUETTIGER 


9:30a.m. to 9:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. U:30a.m. to 
"Rudy's Insights for Winning in Ufe" 

11:30a.m. 1:30 p.m.
JOHN HEISLER ANN THERESE DARIN
So that we can accommodate the greatest number of people during Rudy's limited visit with us, the following guidelines CONNIE McNAMARA PALMER '73, '75MBA DIGGER PHELPS
"University of
will apply: 

·Signing limited to two (2) items, one (1) of which must be "Go Irish" Notre Dame AMY KRUHER '88 "Undertaker's Son" purchased at The Hammes Notre Dame BOokstore. 
Football Vaulr 

· Signature only. Personalization will not be available. and MARY HESBURGH ·No photos with Rudy during his brief signing time. 
RAHER1Y'79 
· Signing line will be closed as deemed necessary to assure event ends at 11:30 a.m. 
thanking FatherTed" 
·Pre-sales /Item Holds are not available for this event 


> 
jibbitz"" shoe charm (sold separately) 
crocsbn 

cOLLEGIATE 
crocs...everthing you never expected them to be. now that's comforting. 
crocs.com 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, October 18, 2007 
Roberts 
continued from page 24 
I'm a captive and I just have 
to deal." 
For the man who called Notre Dame football games from 19H0-2005, his best chanee might eome soon. 
Westwood One, Notre Damn's radio broadcast part­ner for 40 years, is nnding its exelusive deal with the Irish after this season. The two sides failed to come to terms on an agreement that would have extended the only national eontract in college football. 
"The Notre Dame relation­ship was a long and mutually benelieial relationship, but I would categorize it as a mature property with us depending on how one want­ed to look at it," Westwood (hw CEO Peter Kosann said in an August conference call to discuss the company's earn­ings. "It was a low cash flow deal at bHst and. you ean argue, could be unprofitable if we had. quitn frankly, agrned to their terms going forward." 
So now, Notre Dame must look for a new radio partner. 

In June, several media out­to Roberts' departure is likely lets roported Notre Dame was to remain. Heisler said Notre dose to a deal with ISP Dame wants to have "great Sports, but nothing has come faith" in its new radio partner of the rumored relationship. to make content and business Associate Athletic Director decisions in the best interest John Heisler said the of both the school and the University is engaged in nego­company. tiations and would announce That seems to indicate that a deal once it is complete. if Roberts were to come back, 
Under the Westwood One it would be the result only of contract, Notre Dame games Notre Dame's new partner 
have been broadcast in all 50 states "Ifit wasn't for Notre and overseas. 
Dame, I wouldn't 
The contract 

have a career. Notre
also allowed for Roberts' Dame made my departure career. without the University hav­
Tony Roberts
ing a say in the decision. Former Notre Dame 
According to broadcaster terms of the deal, Notre extending an invitation to 
him. 
That's an invi­tation at which Roberts would jump. 
Roberts remembers the days when Tim Brown and Rocket Ismail were the speedy return men for Irish 

Dame allowed the radio dis­teams battling for national tributor to choose the on-air titles. personalities. "That was so much fun. It's 
Westwood One replaced wonderful to be there with Roberts with Don Criqui, a the best. If it wasn't for Notre Notre Dame graduate who Dame, I wouldn't have a works NFL games for tlw career. Notre Dame made my company and was the play­career," said Roberts, who by-play man from 1974-76. now does work with the Web 
And while companies may site Blueandgold.com. "I've change, the provision that led done a lot of nice things ... 
CHECKING 
r-Hatrfmaf'epoueheerl 
()pen a Notre Dame I~ederal Credit Union.Chcck.ingAccount today and we'll treat you to an awesome Tailgate Party Package, including chair, umbrella, cooler, scat cushion, and football. 
Plus, we'll enteryour name in a drawing for offour portable, football grills. 
And if that's not enough, you'll also receive: 
• FREE Checks 
• One FREE NSFFee 
• FREE Online Bill Payment 
r4. NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
11/l~&~e ?ntJM6eu '117tfit:e4. 
574/631-8222. 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 
THIS WEEK IN ~~J 0'RD~.··~
..· 
Women's S~occer , 
';. ' 

before I got the Notre Dame 
job. But Notre Dame was the 
chocolate sauce, the whipped 
cream and the cherry on top 
of the sundae." 
Roberts says he isn't trying 
to be greedy, but he firmly 
believes he will have another 
shot at the dessert. 
"I don't want to sound 
pious, but if you can't pray 
and you don't have faith, they 
might as well dig the hole and 
put you in the box," he said. 
Before being replaced at 
Westwood One, the biggest 
criticism of Roberts had been 
that he didn't tell the down 
and distance or the score 
often enough. Roberts thinks 
that perception is, well, hog­
wash. 
"I carry an egg timer with 
me that goes about 2 minutes 
and 45 seconds," he said with 
a hint of indignation, stress­
ing that he always went 
through the details by the 
time the timer went off. 
Even among those who had 
their complaints, Roberts was 
-and probably still is-a 
favorite for his emotional out­
bursts at dazzling plays. 
''I'm rtalian-you're sup­
posed to be passionate," he 
said. 
And he's still passionate 
about at least one thing: his 
belief that he can still call a 
football game. 
Whether Notre Dame's new 
radio partner, whoever that 
may be, believes the same will 
shape his future. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those of the 
author and not necessarily 
those of The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at · kfowlerl@nd.edu. 
Pioneers 
continued from page 24 
made 46 saves on 50 shots for a 
2.00 goals-against average. 
"He was unbelievable [against Wisconsin]," Van Guilder .said. "He was amazing. He was stop­ping 2-on-1s, 3-on-ls,-he stopped a 2-on-0. He got rewarded with a shutout on Saturday, which he really deserved." 
The netminder for the series' second game, however, will depend upon the result of the first game. If the Irish win, either sophomore Tom O'Brien or freshman Brad Phillips may be seen between the pipes. 

"I do need to see one of these other guys play soon," Jackson said. "And a lot of it depends on how our team is playing around them." 
Denver swept No. 17 Maine at home last weekend by scores of 2-0 and 3-1, leapfrogging eight spots in the early national rank­ings to No. 5. In the second weekend of last year's season, the Irish faeed another high­ranked team, No. 1 Boston College, and came away with a 7-1 win before going on to league regular season and play­off titles. 
"It's big to play those teams and it's big to bnat thoSI) teams," Van Guilder said of playing top­ranked tnams in the early sea­son. "That sprung our season last year wlwn we beat Boston Collegi)." 
The puck will drop at 7::W 

p.m. for tlw game tonight and friday at the Joyen Centnr. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
P ~v~
~ALlAN 
KITCHEN 

'Han classics and contemporary creations in a comfortable, casual setting. 
Cult•ring for er;ery tlet·asion . 
www PapaVmosCale·:ng com 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka (574) 271-1692 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 
Early arriving fans will receive a free knit cap Friday! 

Thursday, October 18, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

58 Hint to 17-, 28­and 43-Across 60 Hospital dept. 61 YouTube feature 62 Hardly futuristic 63 A.L. city, on scoreboards 64 A lot 65 Beaker 
Down Kind of tank 2 First name in 
tate-night 3 Over near 4 Old New York 
paper, for short 5 Artist Frank_, pioneer in Minimal ism 6 Org. that lends to countries 
7 Arrive with authority 8 Nickname· 
among major­league sluggers 9 It has many 
pictures 1 0 Boomer, once 11 Director 
Michelangelo 12 Warranty feature 13 Muslim honorific 18"_me" 22 Emmy-winning 
Phil 25 Trial position, for short 27 Like out of hell 28 Late editorial cartoonist Bill 29 Carol starter 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Daniel C. Bryant 

30 Abbr. on an 41 Like wedding 52 "Cross the envelope to attendees, often Brazos at Mexico 44"-U" (1964 country 
31 Flat sound 4q Tennis great hit) 32 Radio feature Stefan 
54 _-approved33.Eieanor 48 Dreadlocks 
56 Turgenev'sRoosevelt's first wearer home in Russia

name 

49 Anatomical 34 Certain notes passages 58 Emergency rm. sights
37 Work hard 50 Old PC standard 38 Doubter 51 Smooth 59 Sister of Helios 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I NYSAP I 
1 1
rJ rJ 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
t 
All Rights ANCOP Reserved. 
I 
_J rJ
1
tRUFTUE 
IIJ 
www.jumble.com 
GHOTUB 
page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


WHAT THE= PHO­TOGI<APHE=R USr::D TO TAKE= PIC.TURE=S OF THE= NE=W C.AR. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
[ I J I I 
Answer: 

"r I I I J" rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: . SUEDE TRAIT DAHLIA NETHERYesterday's 
Answer: How the farmer knew the cows were ready for milk­ing-HE HEARD THE HE~D 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITffiS BORN ON TIDS DAY: Wade Robson, 25; Mark Brunell, 37; Rita Rudner, 54; Cassandra Peterson, 58 
Happy Birthday: This is a great year to update your sldlls or to grow in new di­rections. Don't let anger get in the way of making the right decision, especially with family matters. Remember that the best way to get what you want is by com-. promise and bard work. Your numbers are 6, 24, 26, 29, 34, 46 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): It's one step forward and two steps back, however, progress will be made if you don't give up. Money is in the stars and an unusual opportunity will bring you closer to one of your life-long dreams. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A look at what you can do for others will help you realize how well off you are. An older friend or relative will appreciate whatever you can do to make their life easier. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be torn between an emotional issue and doing what's necessary. Stop putting off the inevitable. Once you've put things behind you, new doors will open and the chance to meet new people and start new relationships will unfold. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Take stock of things and you will realize you are doing just fine. A little romance or doing things with family will help you con­vince everyone around you to do things your way. Don't be fooled by someone who is using you to find out personal information. 5 stars LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Get out and have some fun but don't let it cost yon too much. Emotional matters will be difficult to deal with. Put them on the back burner until you have a better handle on how you actually feel. Don't commit to something you are unsure about. 2 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Matters that concern your living arrangements may be challenged. Upset and anger will not solve the problem but being understand­ing and compassionate will. You can count on a relative's or close friend's sup­port. 4 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your fast reaction will be what saves you from making a costly mistake. Travel may be enticing but do what you can over the phone or Internet. Do something nice for someone and you can count on receiv­ing help in return. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll be pulled in too many directions, especially where money matters are concerned. If you take on too much ofa financial burden, you will have difficulty recovering your losses. Focus on positive changes that will cut your overhead and reduce stress. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let your emotions get the better of 
-
yon. Yon will be quick to blame everyone around you for your own shortcomings. Before you dig yourself into a hole, do a reality check and make some minor ad­justments along with a couple of apologies. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't lend, donate or take on someone else's responsibilities. You have enough to contend with already and there is money to be made if you spend your time working on a deal. Don't get sidetracked. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take advantage of any opportunity to learn something new, make extra cash or land an exciting job. The time is right to expand your horizons and move on to bigger and better things. Put your heart into whatever yon do. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Think again if you have plans to travel or make expensive changes to your surroundings. You have tube more prudent if you don't want to end up in a tight financial spot. Someone with more experience will be able to guide you. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are enthusiastic and eager to bring about change. Yon love a challenge. You are charming when you get your way and relentless when faced with adversity. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Burns's tongue 6 Popular 
desktops since 1998 11 Camel's end? 14 Cul-de-sac 
15 Wearer of the Yankees' retired #9 
16 3.2 million-member org. with a pi in its logo 
17 Wardrobe malfunction? 
19 Atlantic City hotel, informally, with ''the" 
20 "Blah blah blah blah blah" 21 Start of a musical scale 22 Arias, usually 
23" Time" (1952 million-selling Eddie Fisher hit) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
24 Unit of punishment 26 Result of punishment 28 Mood after a military victory? 32 Polling results. e.g. 35 Tries 36 Beastly 39 Ranges 40 Akin 42 Estuaries 43 Where porcine pilots arrive? 46 Narc's discovery, maybe 47 Believed 48 Grand Canyon area 51 Early English actress Nell 
53 Not just threaten 55 Threats to World War shipping 
57 Certain southeast Asian 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 18, 2007 
page 24 
MEN's SoccER 

Slip Sliding away 
ND falls to Indiana, is now -winless in last three contests 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Spons Editor 
For the third straight game, Notre Damn failed to put a tally in the win col­umn. 
The No. 4 Irish lost to No. 12 Indiana :1-2 in a back­and-forth ganw Wednesday night at Alumni Field. The Irish (S-3-3) are now 4­4 against their in-state rivals since Bobby Clark took ovnr the rt~ins in 2000. 
Things looked good for Notro Damn narly on. Thn Irish came out and dominat­ed tho first 15 minutes of play, but the pace of' the game slowed to a lull after that. 
The Irish struck first when snnior forward Kurt Martin slipped a pass through a Hoosier defender's legs to 
see HOOSIERS/page 20 


FooTBALL ANALYSIS 
•
Old VOICe 111ay co111e back soon 
Roberts could be part ofnew ND radio deal 
Almost a year and a half after Westwood One forced him out of' the job he loved, Tony Hoberts is praying to get back behind the microphone. 
The Chicago Ken Fowler native who grew up a 
Sports Writer 
fan of the Fighting Illini but made his namfl as the voice of the Fighting Irish said he hopes he can come back to Notre Dame's national football broadcasts. 
"There has never been a day that I haven't thought about coming back to Notre Dame," Roberts said in a recent tele­phone interview. "It's like being in prison and waiting for your freedom. Right now 
see ROBERTS/page 22 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Fisher falls to Siegfried for first loss of season 
Zahm blanks Sarin, 8-0, qualifies for playoffs after break 

-By LAURA MYERS and PETE REISENAUER Spons Writers 
T lu~ tid P t u r n n d on t h n undnf'natl'd <;rnnn Wave Wndnnsday wlwn Siegfried dnfnatnd Fislu~r 26-6. 
Thn HamblPrs used thnir running garnn to great effect and took advantage of' four Fisher turnovers. 
On tlw HambiPrs' first pos­session of the sncond quarter, Siogf'rind freshman quarter­back Mikn Garcia put his tnam nnar tlw goal line with a !i :~-yard pass and seo red two plays latPr with a quar­terback snnak on second-and­inches. 
Now leading 6-0, the Hamblnrs quickly ended Fishm·'s rwxt two possessions with turnovers. Siegfried returrwd tlw sneond one, a rurnbln, for a touchdown. 
"Thn y wo n t lu~ t u r n o v n r ganw tonight," (;renn Wavn coach .lohn Donovan said. "Whoever gets the turnovers is going to do wnll." 
But tlw tur11ovnr ganw was 11ot ov«>r. On Fishnr's first possession, junior Tom Owm1s intnrcept«>d <;rePn Wave jun­ior quarlPrback Kevin Habit's pass. 
On lhP ensuing Siegfried 
p o s s ns~ ion, junior Marcus Young ran tlw ball five times for 41 yards and a touch­down. putting thn Hamblers up 20-0. 
"Wn did a good job running tlw ball tonight," Young said. "Tiw turnovers put us in good position." 
But the Hamblors still wnren't donn. On sncond-and­11, Habit's pass was tipped into the arms of Siegfried junior l'atriek McMaster for Habit's third interception of tho night. This turnover led to another touchdown, a 26­yard pass to sophomore Xavier Burton, a punter mak­ing his first offensive start of thn season. 
The win put the Hamblers at 3-0-1 for the season, giving them a solid position heading into the playoffs. 
Fisher was able to seore a touchdown late in the fourth quarter as senior Pat Gotebflski caught three pass­es for 35 yards, but it was too little, too late for the calmed Groen Wave. 
Zahm 8, Sorin 0 
Al't1~r being stifled all game, Th11o Ossni-Anto finally broke loose. 
Zahrn's junior running back brokn a 60-yard run in the l'inal two minutns to sot up Zahm's only touchdown in an S-0 win ovnr Sorin Wednesday. 
"Wn had lots of momentum 
see ZAHM/page 20 

HOCKEY 
National power visits JACC 
Irish open home series against No.5 Denver tonight 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
·There were no red practice 
jersoys at No. 11 Notre Dame's practice W11dnesday to signify injured players who couldn't be touched, but banged-up icers have prevented the team from ·forming cohesive lines and defensive pairings already this 
season. 
The Irish (1-1) play host to No. 
5 Denver (2-0) tonight at the 
Joyce Center in the first 
matchup of a two-game series, 
less than a week after Notre 
Dame surrendered three third­
period goals in a 4-1 loss to No. 
13 Wisconsin. Irish coach Jeff 
Jackson said the vibe and chem­
istry of the lines in that game 
were out of whack, and the 
team will be hard-pressed to fix 
them until the return of injured 
sophomore center Dan Kissel. 
"Where we put Danny Kissel 
is going to have a lot to do with 
everything up there, because 
before we started the season we 
were anticipating him to be a 
top two-IinP guy potentially," he 
said. "I don't think anything, 
until I find out where he fits in 
the puzzle, will be finalized." 
One line, howevnr, impressed 
.Jackson -that of Irish captain 
Mark Van Guilder, freshman 
Ben Ryan and junior Garrett 
Hegan. They combined for four 
out of Notre Dame's livn goals in 
the two-game Letly McFadden Invitational last weekend (three for Van Guilder, one for Regan) and had three assists, all by Hyan. Most of' thn scoring came in a 4-0 shutout of Mercyhurst Saturday. 

Injured playnrs aren't Notre Dame's only obstade to tight­knit I(Jrward lines and def(msivo pairings. Jackson said he didn't prepare the team enough for the level or pressure that the Badgers put the Irish under last weekend. lie said he has tried to get the players used to th(~ up-tempo game he expects out of them, and that tlw Pioneers will bring to tho series this weekend. 
"What do we haw unc!Pr our belt? Six prac:tiees? So it's rl'ally hard when you throw lthe tnaml right into tlw mix without hav­ing a lot of' pmparation time," he said . 
Irish goalie Jordan Pearce will start in net lilr the Irish tonight, Jackson said, al'tor the junior 
see PIONEERS/page 22 





