
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Da_me and Saint Mary's 
OlUME 41: ISSUE 123 MONDAY, APRil23, 2007 
Committee focuses on environment 
Administration makes conservation a main priority; others say still more work ahead 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
When Earth Day was cele­brated Sunday, people world­wide took note of conserva­tion and environmental issues -and while Notre Dame said it has been doing that for a long time, University officials also say they have recently renewed their focus. 
According to a press release from the newly­established Energy and Environmental Issues Committee, the University has always made environ­mental stewardship part of its mission, and the new com­mittee hopes to boost con­servation efforts on campus through new initiatives and increased awareness about current ones. 


"Growing concern for the environment, continued growth of campus ... and volatile energy prices have brought a renewed focus on reducing the University's energy and environmental impact," the press release said. 
The committee, formed this January under the guidance of Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves, is chaired by Vice President for Business Operations Jim Lyphout and comprised of administrators, faculty and two students. 
Junior Kerry O'Connor, who serves on the commit­tee, said it exists to spread awareness about initiatives the University has underway and to advise University leaders on environmentally sound options in any number of decisions. 
Being a part of the commit­tee has allowed O'Connor to see that the administration is concerned about the environ­ment, something he thinks is a common misunderstanding among students. 
see ENERGY/page 8 

1 Sea of green' returns for 2007 season 
fans who lined up to pur­chase it, the 18th edition of The Shirt features a kelly green base color, a gold lep­rechaun silhouette and the slogan "Together as one." 
The back of The Shirt fea­tures the Notre Dame mono­gram, which is colored with a collage of various Notre Dame football images, including the Irish Guard, Touchdown Jesus and cheer­ing fans in the stadium. The back also includes the words, "Shoulder to shoulder chant­ing her golden name" which are lyrics from the song "Hike, Notre Dame." 
"I think this year's design was significantly better than those of the past years because it incorporated more than just the football aspect -[it included] the Irish 
see SHIRT/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

MDG8 
•

vvill raise avvareness 
Inaugural year sees task force expand 
By KATIE PERALTA 
News Writer 
In its first year at Notre Dame, the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) task force has expanded beyond its foundation, attracting more than 80 students and looking forward to its upcoming MDG Awareness Week, set to kick off today and run through Friday, organizers said. 
Sophomore Joella Bitter, presi­dent of the task force, said the Global Health Forum last fall and Notre Dame's partnership with an Ugandan village helped spark interest on campus about the Millennium Project. 
The United Nations (UN) com­missioned the Millennium Project in 2002 to form a plan of action to carry out the Millennium Development Goals; which aim to eradicate extreme hunger and poverty around the world, Bitter said. 
At Notre Dame, Bitter and her classmates -sophomores Ashley Mayworm, Jane Lee and Thomas Weiler -joined the effort after taking an introducto­ry peace studies class last spring. Together they founded the task force, an ad-hoc group at the Center for Social Concerns inspired by similar groups at other universities, including Middlebury College's Mid 8, she said. 
The group, Bitter said, referred to the eight Millenium 
see MDG/page 6 

South Quad 'Shack City' benefits children 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Students walking along South Quad Saturday evening may have noticed cardboard boxes scattered along the lawn, triggering nostalgic memories of childhood forts and tunnels. 
But far from child's play, the cardboard huts this week­end were a conscious reminder of the millions of underprivileged children that are forced to live on the street in similar boxes. 
The display, known as Shack City, is an annual event organized by Notre Dame's Habitat for Humanity chapter each spring. 
"Shack City is a night of raising awareness about the substandard housing condi­tions of the world," said sen­ior Ryan Iafigliola, who began the event his freshman year. "We invite the general public to participate and assist us in raising funds, and this year we gained over $2;ooo in sponsorship." 
Focusing on children in poverty, the Habitat team invited speakers and showed a documentary to portray the growing problem of homeless children. 
"Habitat's mission is to pro­vide affordable housing for all people, and we wanted to focus on children and how they are affected by home­lessness," said sophomore 
see SHA'CK/page 8 
Dance Marathon doubles earnings 
Event raises more than $47,000 Saturday for children's hospital 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
The second annual Dance Marathon at Saint Mary's was a rousing success, event organizers said, raising almost $50,000 amid swing, techno and hip-hop tunes. The event, which benefited Riley Hospital for Children was held Saturday night in the Angela Athletic Center. 
Fundraising and alumni rela­tions chair Sarah Voss was very proud of the night's activities, calling them an "absolute suc­cess, more than we could've ever dreamed for." The Dance 
see MARATHON/page 6 


By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The Shirt 2007 was unveiled Friday outside of Hammes Bookstore to a cheering crowd of approxi­mately ~.000 people happy to see the "sea of green" set to return to the student sec­tion for next football season -though in a darker hue. 
"I thought it would be received well, but I didn't know it would be received that well," said sophomore Brad LeNoir, president of The Shirt project. "I had heard that a lot of people wanted to go back to green, but we weren't sure they would like this color green. ... The color has gone over exceptionally well." 
Garnering a positive response from students and 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 23, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Listen to 
'The Lorax' 

Yesterday marked the 37th annual Earth Day. Traditionally, one would cele­brate by partaking of decidedly vegan fare and enthusiastically embracing trees, all while wearing an assortment of hemp products. In spite of this widely Jessica lee accepted tradition, I spent my own Earth Day playing Photographer in mud, eating "mud" (chocolate pudding with crushed Oreos and gummy worms-a culinary work of genius), and watching Dr. Seuss's, "The Lorax­a sing-along." 
At the broadest level, "The Lorax" is a story about environmental awareness. But oh, my friends, and oh my foes, there is so much more to this Seussan classic. First, I offer a brief summary. The "Once-ler," a capitalistic entrepre­neur arrives via wagon at the pristine Truffula tree land. Recognizing the raw value of Truffula tree tuft, the Once-ler starts to produce "thneeds," obscure knitted creations that seem to have more practical·use than your mother. 
As the Once-ler's enterprise develops into a full-blown industry, the Lorax, the protagonist protector of the entire ecosystem, objects in horror as he watches the original inhabitants being ousted from their homes due to increas­ing environmental declination. The moral conscience ofthe film, the Lorax continually hounds the Once-ler to decrease pollution (or more appropriate­ly, "schlupp schlapp and glop") while there is still hope. When the last truffula tree falls, the Once-ler is left with a bar­ren landscape and a very devastated Lorax, who also leaves the Once-ler to ponder the consequences of his greed. 
To say that "The Lorax" is a cinemato­graphic masterpiece would be a gross understatement. It features a treasure · trove of 70's psychedelic style songs comparable only to similarly animated gems (found exclusively in VHS form) such as, "The Hobbit-The Musical," and David Bowie's "Labyrinth" in its oh­so-transient 25 minute duration. The story is punctuated by these songs and offers pearls of wisdom such as, "People aren't fish, so they can't understand," and "They say I'm old-fashioned, and live in the past, but sometimes I think progress progresses too fast!" 
Though it may seem like I'm mocking the simplicity of the Lorax, I'm actually applauding the delivery of its message. I mean, what better way to make a fairly grim reality appeal to a mass audience than via a stream of nonexistent rhyming words and oddly shaped crea­tures? The Lorax speaks of problems inherent in our own exploitation ofthe environment and the consequences we reap such as global warming and pollu­tion in well-received nonsensical prose. 
Simply put, the Lorax's message is, how many more "thneeds" do WE need before we're overcome by our own schlupp? In response and I guess, the ultimate way to spend earth day is to lis­ten to our inner Loraxes with an open ear and become better stewards of the environment. That way, we too will be able to speak for the trees -truffula and oak alike. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jessica Lee at jlee13@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE NO MEMORY SO FAR THIS SEMESTER? 



Emily Balthasar Steven Sushinsky Ashley Congjuico Michael Wakim Marissa Buck 
sophomore senior senior junior junior Pasquerilla East Sarin Badin Dillon Cavanaugh 
"NDEN0.94 "I touched both "Going to the "Meeting the "Having my was pretty a squirrel and a dunes on a photographer ... room raided and awesome. Plus, duck in the Sunday.'' that took this having it caught 



now I can cross same week.,, 
it offmy T-shirt list of things to do before I graduate. ,, 


Members of the "Jorts" -a cross between jeans and shorts -team face their opponents during a mud volleyball game at the Holy Cross fields, as part of Keenan Hall's Muddy Sunday. 
OFFBEAT 

Thief snatches piggy bank 
with $600 

LINCOLN, Neb.-This little piggy had $600. Its rightful owner now has none. A pink ceramic piggy bank filled with quarters, dollar coins and some bills was stolen from the counter of the Smokehouse Deli, the owner reported Friday. 
The 8-inch tall pig weighed about 30 pounds and was filled about halfway with per­sonal change, owner Beth Borgmann said Saturday. 
Lincoln police had no sus­pects, but believed the pig was stolen sometime Wednesday evening or early Thursday, Capt. Genelle Moore said. 
"It was just my personal loose change," Borgmann said. "That was my vacation money." 
Borgmann said she had spent between one and a half and two years avidly filling the bank. She had planned to visit the Bay Islands of Honduras, where she has a house, she said. 
"It's hard to get away when you run your own business," Borgmann said. 
Teen pockets $25,000 in texting contest 
NEW YORK -OMG! Thirteen-year-old Morgan Pozgar, of Claysburg, Pa., was crowned LG National Texting champion on Saturday after she typed "supercalifragilis­ticexpialidocious" from "Mary Poppins" in 15 seconds. 
''I'm going to go shopping and buy lots of clothes," the teen said after winning her $25,000 prize from the elec­tronics company LG. 
Morgan defeated nearly 200 other competitors at the Roseland Ballroom in Manhattan to become East Coast champion and then beat West Coast champion Eli Tirosh, 21, ofLos Angeles. 
She estimated that she sends more than 8,000 text messages a month to her friends and family. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 :::1: 
!ci: 
1.&.1 
== 
..1 
<
CJ 





0 

HIGH 68 HIGH HIGH HIGH
.... 

LOW 47 LOW LOW LOW 
58 37 
65 47 
51 40 



picture.,, on film.,, 
IN BRIEF 

SUB presents SNL speaker, Keenan Thompson tonight at 8 in 102 DeBartolo. The event is free and open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with a valid ID. 
Notre Dam·e men's baseball will play Ball State tomorrow at 6:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. For tickets, call the Athletic Department ticket office at 631-7356. 
Notre Dame women's soft­ball will play Northwestern tomorrow at 7 p.m. at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 
SUB will show the movie "Jaws" tomorrow at 9 p.m. on North Quad. The event is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents. This is a free event. 
Notre Dame men's baseball will play Valparaiso Wednesday at 6:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. For tick­ets, call 631-7356. 
Notre Dame women's soft­ball will play UIC Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 
The Ballroom Dance Club will host the Spring Ball on Wednesday from 8 to 10:30 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Dancers of all skill levels are invited. The cost is $4 per night or $35 for the semester. The club is open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with a campus ID, as well as facul­ty and staff. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu: 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 81 I 57 Boston 80 I 57 Chicago 68 I 44 Denver 62 I 38 Houston 83 I 69 los Angeles 71 I 53 Minneapolis 72 I 46 New York 84 I 60 Philadelphia 84 I 56 Phoenix 81 I 58 Seattle 60 I 46 St. louis 86 I 61 Tampa 84 I 62 Washington 86 I 61 
Monday, April 23, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Mcllduff, Siefert proud of term 
By LIZ HARTER NewsWrirer 
As new Saint Mary's student body president and vice presi­dent Kim Hodges and Kelly Payne prepare for their sec­ond Board of Governance (BOG) meeting after the board turnover, outgoing president Susan Mcllduff and vice presi­dent Maggie Siefert said they are proud of the year they spent as the College's student leaders. 
"Maggie and I fulfilled all of our platform goals," Mcllduff said. "We ran on the idea of a checklist, and we checked off all of our items with the stu­dents' best interest in mind." 
Among those goals was the continuance of Heritage Week, an event 
"Heritage week is a
Mcilduff was involved in great week that creating dur­
allows us to tie 
ing the 2005­
together our past
06 school year as vice presi­with present." dent, alongside then-president 
Maggie Siefert 

Kelly Mitros. 
former student body
"Over the past two years vice president 
there have def­initely been some major additions to the week and I only hope that [future administrations[ con­tinue to make it a stronger tradition within this great col­lege community," Siefert said. 
One-year memorial to be held at Taylor 
Associated Press 

UPLAND, Ind. -Taylor University will hold memorials this week for four students and a school employee who were killed in a highway crash a year ago. 
The parents of two girls whose identities were mistaken­ly switched after the crash are expected to attend one of the memorials in Upland on Thursday, the anniversary of the crash. The families of Whitney Cerak and Laura VanRyn have refrained from public comment since the accident. 
Five weeks after the April 26 crash, authorities announced they had mixed up the identifi­cations of 19-year-old Cerak of Gaylord, Mich., who was severe­ly injured but survived, and 22­year-old VanRyn of Caledonia, Mich., who had been killed. 
Cerak, a sophomore, returned to Taylor as a full-time student in August and is living on cam­pus. 
"I ran into her on campus recently, and she looks fabu­lous," Taylor spokesman Jim Garringer said. "You would never know that she had been through this ordeal, based upon her physical appearance. And I understand from a number of different sources that she's doing quite well." 
As a result of the misidentifi­cation by the Grant County coro­ner's office, the Indiana General Assembly is considering legisla­tion that would require cor,oners to be certified in death investi­gations or forfeit their pay­checks. Currently, there are no requirements for coroners other than living in the county where they work and being at least 18 years old. 
The truck driver accused of falling asleep at the wheel and causing the collision is sched­uled to stand trial in August. 
Robert F. Spencer, of Canton Township, Mich., near Detroit, was charged in September with five counts of reckless homicide and four counts of criminal recklessness. Authorities say he had driven at least nine hours more than allowed under feder­al rules before he fell asleep and his semitrailer slammed into a Taylor van on Interstate 69 mid­way between Fort Wayne and Indianapolis. 
Spencer is being held in Jay County, where the trial was moved after a judge decided in January the publicity of the crash and the mix-up was too great for him to get a fair trial in Grant County, where the acci­dent occurred. 
The students killed in the crash were: VanRyn, Bradley J. Larson, 22, of Elm Grove, Wis., Elizabeth A. Smith, 22, of Mount Zion, Ill. and Laurel E. Erb, 20, St. Charles, III. 

"Heritage week is a great week that allows us to tie tog~.ther our past with pres­ent. 
Siefert was also a part of the past leadership teams. 
For Mcllduff, the end of her term coincides with the end of her years as a Saint Mary's student. But Siefert, a junior, 
ongoing Student Academic Council's apprais­al of the College's general education requirements, an initiative that Payne will over­see in the upcom­ing year. 
"I hope that through the Student Academic Council, she, with the SAC represen­tatives, will con­tinue to have a 
"We ran on the idea ofa checklist, and we checked offall ofour items with the stu­dents' best interest in mind." 
Susan Mcllduff former student body president 
will continue to serve the College as a student repre­sentative as she assumes the role of Elections Commissioner in the Hodges-Payne administra­tion. 
Siefert said she did not run for presi­dent because 

powerful voice in the evalua­
tion of the cur­rent general edu­cation program," Siefert said of Payne. "With the combination of student and fac­ulty input, I defi­nitely see this evaluation mak­ing big progress." 
Mcllduff did not 
discount  the  
value  of  her  
board  and  the  


contributions of past student government boards in the suc­cess she had. She called her term a "watershed year," say­ing her administration's suc­cess fed off the foundations of she felt that she would not have the time to devote to the office that the student body deserves. 
"Next year I will be student teaching and this will be tak­ing up a lot of my time that I will not be able to give to being the Student Body President and for that reason it is not fair for the women of this institution," she said. 
She said that even though she will not continue in an executive position next year, she will remain an active leader helping work "toward the betterment of Saint Mary's College." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

----------------------------------------------. page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 23, 2007 
Shirt 
continued from page 1 
Guard and the band," Cassandra Wilarski, Hammes Bookstore events manager, said. 

According to Wilarski, the bookstore and the two varsity shops on campus made an ini­tial order of 20,000 shirts, and by Saturday night they had sold approximately 17,000. The Shirt 2007 may become the most successful shirt in the 18-year tradition, she said, since The Shirt 2006 took three weeks to sell through its first order last year. 
Wilarski credited the 

64-foot grill for Johnsonville brats and B100, a local live broadcast radio station, helped to get the entire community involved. 
"Being able to reach outside of the Notre Dame community was very instrumental in get­ting a lot of people there," LeNoir said. 
Sophomore Andrew Parnell, designer of The Shirt 2007, said he was glad to see such a positive response to the shirt after working on the project for one year. 
"It was kind of weird walk­ing around seeing everyone wearing the shirt that had been in my mind for the last year," Parnell said. "I smile every time I see people with it on." 
Parnell said he and LeNoir developed the basic design for 
The Shirt 2007 in one night, and The Shirt committee later made revisions concerning The Shirt's slogans. 
Parnell also said the com­mittee's main goal was to cre­ate a shirt that focused on the fans' unity -an essential aspect of Notre Dame foot­ball. 
"We talked about what was the best way to think of unity," Parnell said. "The longest process was deciding exactly what we wanted the 
front [to say]."  
Many  students  and  fans  
were  excited  about  The  
Shirt's green color.  

"I think [The Shirts] are 
awesome. 
students of The 
"It was kind ofweird
Shirt committee for The Shirt's walking around success in its seeing everyone first weekend. 
wearing the shirt 
"[The Shirt 
committee] did that had been in my a lot more to mindfor the get more peo­
last year., 
ple out there," she said. Wilarski said Andrew Parnell bringing in a The Shirt designer 
I like how they went with a darker green and the slogan is great," freshman Joe Helfrick said. 
Freshman Kate Zinsmeister, who was standing in line to purchase The Shirt at the unveiling cere­mony, said she wasn't sure about the slogan, but she was happy The Shirt committee 

brought back the sea of green. 
Joan Lennon, wife of Alumni Association President Chuck Lennon, was also pres­ent at The Shirt unveiling. 
"I love [The Shirt] .... The design and the color are out­standing, especially when you will see the whole stadium in green," she said. "I think the color will be picked up by others as well." 
Junior Alex Wulz, a member of the Notre Dame band who performed at the unveiling ceremony, also thought The Shirt's design was a success. "I think it's awesome -the best shirt we've had in the last four years." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
InauguralJoyce avvards given to 17 professors 
Special to The Observer Seventeen University faculty members have been selected as recipients of the first Rev. Edmund 
P. Joyce, C.S.C., Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching, and three faculty and staff members have been selected to receive the first Dockweiler Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Advising. 
The Joyce Award, formerly known as the Kaneb Teaching Award, was established this year and is named for the late execu­tive vice president of Notre Dame. It honors faculty members who have had a profound influence on undergraduate students through sustained exemplary teaching, and, in particular, recognizes pro­fessors who create environments that stimulate significant student learning, elevate students to a new level of intellectual engage­ment, and foster students' ability to express themselves effectively within their disciplines. The award was funded through an endowment established by the Notre Dame class of 1937, of which Father Joyce was a mem­ber, on the 70th anniversary of his graduation. 
The Dockweiler Award, also established this year, recognizes faculty or staff members who have demonstrated a sustained commitment to Notre Dame undergraduates through out­standing mentoring, academic advising or career counseling services. It was created through a gift from the Julia Stearns Dockweiler Charitable Foundation. 
The Joyce Award recipients are: Sunny Boyd, biological sciences; Yu-Chi Chang, management; Kathleen Cummings, Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism; Paul Down, art, art history and design; Jan-Liider Hagens, German and Russian lan­guages and literatures; Louis MacKenzie, Homance languages and literatures; A. James McAdams, political science; Jeffrey Miller, accountancy; Carolyn Nordstrom, anthropology; Rev. Mark Poorman, C.S.C., theol­ogy; William Ramsey, philosophy; Siiri Scott, film, television and the­atre; Michael Stanisic, aerospace and mechanical engineering; Jeffrey Talley, civil engineering and geological sciences; Hichard Taylor, chemistry and biochem­istry; A. Peter Walshe, political sci­ence; and Michael Wiescher, physics. 
The Dockweiler Award recipi­ents are: Carl Ackermann, finance; Rev. James Foster, C.S.C., preprofessional studies; and L. John Roos, political science. 
Sign up foza the Lectio@Eieven 
READING SLAM! 
Tuesday, May 1 
10:30 p1n • Midnight Reckel''s 
A five-~ninute public l'eading of any text could win you a $200 gift cel'tificate to the Ha~n~nes ND Bookstol'e! 
Musical intel'ludes by: D'Oscal' Ezain Duquette 
Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Cabal'et fol' the Soul 
For more information or to sign up: Jonathan Couser (574) 631-3923 or jcouser@nd.edu 
Sponsored by Firsl Ycar of Studies 
SKIP YOWELL 
CO-FOUNDER OF JANSPORT 
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25 7pm 
Speaking and signing his book at the Eck Notre Dame Visitor's Center 
Adjacent to the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Skip Yowell co-founded JanSport in 1967 while in search of the perfect hiking pack (now the number one selling day pack in the world). Today Skip Yowell holds the title, Vice President of Global Public Relations at JanSport and consults with JanSport International businesses in Europe, Asia and South America. 
Join us for an exciting slideshow of Skip Yowell's mountain-climbing adventures! 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME "iJ, 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574} 631-6316 • www.nd<atalog.com 
Events are subject to change. Please call (574) 631-5757 to confirm. 
0701HF.Q11907·A 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~---------­

ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 23, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Quake causes landslide in Chile 
SANTIAGO, Chile -An earthquake in remote southern Chile shook free a landslide of rocks, sending them smashing into a nar­row fjord and causing massive 25-foot waves that swept away 10 beachgoers. Two bodies were recovered Sunday. 
Rescuers were searching the cold Pacific waters for the other missing people from the beach after the 6.2 magnitude quake the day before, authorities said. 
Oscar Catalan, the mayor of the nearby town of Puerto Aysen, saw six people at the shore pulled away by the current, according to the Chilean newspaper El Mercurio. 
A correspondent for television network Chilevision, Orlando Adriazola, also reported seeing a man and his young daughter dragged into the water by a large wave. He said he was at the beach to install an anten­na for his station. 
Hamas calls for new offensive 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -Hamas militants called Sunday for a fresh wave of attacks against Israel after troops killed nine Palestinians in weekend fighting, straining a five-month-old cease-fire. 
In response to the bloodshed, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas' more moderate Fatah movement urged him to consider break­ing off contacts with the Israeli government, despite his pledge to the United States to hold regular meetings with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert. Hamas and Fatah are partners in a coalition government. 
Among the nine Palestinians killed in the weekend upsurge of violence were two gunmen and a 17 -year-old who died Sunday in the West Bank. The fighting also included a Palestinian rocket attack on the southern Israeli town of Sderot that damaged a home. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Congresswoman dies of cancer 
LOS ANGELES --Rep. Juanita Millender­McDonald, a seven-term congresswoman from southern California, died early Sunday of cancer. She was 68. 
Millender-McDonald died at her home in Carson, said her chief of staff, Bandele McQueen. 
The congresswoman had asked for a four-to six-week leave of absence from the House last week to deal with her illness. McQueen couldn't immediately provide details on what form of cancer Millender-McDonald had, but said she had been receiving hospice care. 
She represented a heavily Democratic south­ern California district that includes Compton, Long Beach and parts of Los Angeles. 
VA Tech students return to campus 
BLACKSBURG, Va. -Still grieving and increasingly wary of the media spotlight, Virginia Tech students returned to their beleaguered campus Sunday, preparing to salvage the final weeks of a semester eclipsed by violence. 
The scene on campus resembled move-in day in late summer, with parents helping their children carry suitcases into dormito­ries. There were tears and hugs goodbye. But instead of excitement for the year ahead, there was simply determination to endure and regroup in the fall. 
When classes resume Monday, the univer­sity will give students three choices: They can continue their studies through the end of the semester next week, take a grade based on what they have done so far, or withdraw from a course without penalty. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Lottery lease offer at $2 billion 
INDIANAPOLIS -Republican Gov. Mitch Daniels said Friday that at least two companies are willing to pay the state more than $2 billion upfront and then $200 million a year to operate the Hoosier Lottery and collect its profits. 
That figure is more than twice the estimate Daniels gave in December when he proposed leasing the lottery to a private company, with the upfront payment being used to fund higher edu­cation initiatives. 
CoMPru:o FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
Navy investigates Blue Angel crash 
Military identifies pilot killed in air show, investigators sift through wreckage 
Associated Press 

PENSACOLA, Fla. ­Investigators looked through wreckage Sunday to deter­mine what caused a Navy Blue Angel jet to crash dur­ing a maneuver, while the military identified the fallen pilot as a 32-year-old who was performing in one of his first air shows with the team. 
Lt. Cmdr. Kevin J. Davis of Pittsfield, Mass. was in his second year with the Blue Angels, the team known for its high-speed, aerobatic demonstrations, Lt. Cmdr. Garrett Kasper said. 
At Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort, the site of Saturday's crash, a somber crowd watched Sunday as six jets flew overhead in for­mation. Smoke streamed behind one of the jets as it peeled away from the others to complete the missing man formation, the traditional salute for a lost military avia­tor. 
The spirit of the pilot is in the arms of a loving God, said Rob Reider, a minister who was the announcer for the air show. 
The crash happened as the team was performing its final maneuver Saturday afternoon during the air show. The team's six pilots were joining from behind the crowd of thousands to form a triangle shape known as a delta, but Davis' jet did not join the formation. 
Moments later, his jet crashed just outside Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort, hitting homes in a neighbor­hood about 35 miles north­west of Hilton Head Island, 
S.C. Debris -some of it on fire -rained on homes. Eight people on the ground were injured, and some homes were damaged. 
The squadron's six, F/A-18 Hornets routinely streak low over crowds of thousands at supersonic speeds, coming within feet, sometimes inch­es, of each other. The pilots, among the Navy's most elite, are so thoroughly trained and their routines so prac­ticed that deadly crashes are rare; the last one happened in 1999. 

The Navy said it could be at three weeks before it announces what may have caused the crash. The squadron was scheduled to return to its home base of Pensacola Naval Air Station late Sunday. 
Ernie Christensen, a retired rear admiral and for­mer Vietnam fighter pilot who flew with the Blue Angels and later command­ed the Navy's Top Gun fight­er school in California, said he did not want to speculate about what could have caused Saturday's crash. But he said the intense flying leaves no room for human or mechanical error. 
When you are working at high speeds, close to the tational forces. The suits ground and in close proximi­inflate around the lower ty to other aircraft, the envi­body to keep blood in the ronment is extremely unfor­brain, but that could cause a giving. That is the reason pilot to bump the control they practice so many thou­stick -a potentially deadly sands of times, said move when flying inches Christensen. from other planes. 
The last fatal Blue Angel After the deadly 1999 crash was in 1999, when a crash, the Navy's air training pilot and crewmate died chief ordered the Blue while practicing for air Angels to consider wearing shows with the five other G-suits. An investigation Blue Angels jets at a base in determined that the most Georgia. Saturday's crash likely cause of that crash was the 26th fatality in the was that the pilot was team's 60-year history. momentarily impaired 
The Blue Angels are because of a prior rib injury. unique from other jet avia­Pain from the rib injury tors because they don't wear might have kept the pilot the traditional G-suits that from tensing his abdominal most jet pilots use to avoid muscles during a turning blacking out during maneu­causing him to suffer tunnel vers that exert strong gravi-vision. 
IRAQ 

Gunmen kill23, PM denies civil war 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Gunmen shot and killed 23 members of an ancient religious sect in northern Iraq on Sunday after stop­ping their bus and separating out fol­lowers of other faiths while car bomb­ings in the capital killed at least another 20 people. 
Prime Ministflr Nouri al-Maliki, in Egypt to drum up support among Arab leaders for his Shiite-led government, told Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak that Iraq was not embroiled in a civil or sectarian war. Key Arab leaders pres­sured him to step up reconciliation efforts to include Sunni insurgents if he expects Arab support. 
In the northern Iraq attack, armed men stopped the bus as it was carrying workers from a textile factory in Mosul to their hometown of Bashika, which has a mixed population of Christians and Yazidis _ a primarily Kurdish sect that worships an angel figure consid­ered to be the devil by some Muslims and Christians. 
The gunmen checked the passengers' identification cards, then asked all Christians to get off the bus, police Brig. Mohammed al-Wagga said. With the Yazidis still inside, the gunmen drove them to eastern Mosul, where they were lined up along a wall and shot to death, al-Wagga said. 
After the killings, hundreds of angry chanting Yazidis took to the streets of Bashika in protest. Shops were shut­tered and many Muslim residents closed themselves in their homes, fearing reprisal attacks. Police set up additional checkpoints across the city. 
Bashika is about 80 percent Yazidi, 15 percent Christian and five percent Muslim. 
Abdul-Karim Khalaf, a police spokesman for Ninevah province, said the executions were in response to the killing two weeks ago of a Yazidi woman who had recently converted to Islam after she fell in love with a Muslim and ran off with him. Her relatives had dis­approved of the match and dragged her back to Bashika, where she was stoned to death, he said. 
A grainy video showing gruesome scenes of the woman's killing was dis­tributed on Iraqi Web sites in recent weeks, but its authenticity could not be independently confirmed. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 23, 2007 
Marathon 
continued from page 1 
Marathon raised $47,129.60, Voss said, which more than doubled last year's total. 
After 12 hours of continuous dancing, organizers revealed the total amount of money that was collected. The co-president of the Dance Marathon, Pauline Kistka, said her fellow organizers displayed each fig­ure in the grand total by taking off their sweaters and reveal­ing a T-shirt with a number on it. The Dance Marathon increased it's fundraising total by around $26,000, she said. 
Kistka also described the event as a success, although approximately one fourth of the dancers left throughout the night. A lot of people had to leave early but at one point there were about 216 people in attendance, Kistka said. 
They would've wanted to see more dancers and less people yielding to exhaustion, but the important part of the night was to raise money for the hospital, she said. Organizers were sur­prised that some dancers didn't show up but "a lot of people who were there wanted to be there," Kistka said, referring to the enthusiasm and commit­ment of the dancers who did not sit down during the night. 
"I had so much fun," sopho­more Libby Singelyn said. "The entertainment.committee did a great job of providing everyone with enough to do all night long." 
The organizers were only trying to beat last year's goal, and they had no idea they would double last year's funds, Kistka said. 
"It's a really good feeling," she said. 
She said organizers wanted to give their feet a day of rest before they started planning next year's marathon. Kistka also said they would avoid set­ting a monetary goal in the future, because they don't want to focus solely on the money. 
They want to try to do some more year-round fundraising to have a more consistent inflow of funds, but there is no set goal, she said. But bringing the total donations up every year will continue to be the team's main objective. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

tion among students and faculty The task force will condude the for each of its objectives, focusing week Friday with food, booths
MDG 
on one or a few of the eight goals and speakers at a community continued from page 1 each day of the week, Bitter said. block party at the Fieldhouse Mall 
Monday will bring George open to all students. hunger and the establishment of Srour, the founder of Building Because one of the major focus­universal primary education, gen­Tomorrow, a nationwide initiative es of the MDG is malaria eradica­der equality and the empower-that encourages students to raise tion, Wednesday will mark ment of funds and Malaria Awareness Day, Bitter women, a awareness for said. Since last fall, the task lbrce 
reduction of "We really aim to bring 
the benefit of has been accepting $10 donations child mortality, all goals together in a children in sub­for bed nets in Africa to protectthe improve­Saharan Africa villagers against the mosquito­
framework of
ment of mater­to campus to borne disease. Bitter said malaria 
nal health, the sustainability. " 
speak about his weakens the immune system,advancement work in pover­making the contraction of the of the fight Joella Bitter ty-stricken AIDS virus ea<;ier as well. against Uganda, She said the malaria issue, com­
H I v1A I D s , Millenium Development Goals according to bined with the gender equalitymalaria and task force president 
the organiza-problems and the other MDG other diseases, tion's Web site. goals offer students a broad spec­environmental The group trum of fields that may interest sustainability and a global part­scheduled a banquet Tuesday at them, making the movement nership for development. the Coleman Morse lounge and a appealing to all majors. 
"We really aim to bring all goals discussion of worldwide hunger "The main idea of MDG is to together in a framework of sus­and poverty, led by Father Paul express to students that there is a tainability," Bitter said. Kollman, to accompany it. role for all areas of study," Bitter The UN set 2015 as the target On Wednesday, Father Bill Lies said. "It is not just for peace stud­
year for the completion of the will preside a candlelight vigil at ies, social sciences, etc. Medical eight goals, which are focused on the Grotto, followed by a movie researchers, pre-meds and others developing countries -especially screening and a discussion with all can be engaged." those in Africa. biological sciences professor
This week the task force hopes David Lodge at the helm Contact Katie Peralta at to raise awareness and apprecia-Thursday. kperalta@nd.edu 

Fajita'Rita 
Mot1days. 
If it's Monday You've got to do Chili's! 


• Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to close. 

ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTSII! NOW OFFERING HALF·YEAR LEASESII 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
•• 4 and 5 Bedroom lownhomes ., 6 Btocks from Campus ,. 2 B!Hh rooms 
It's a whole new placel 
.rvew locaf ownership &managrnent Nevvly remodeled for 2007~2()()8 
www.kramemouses.com 
Renting fast· call today for 2007. 2008 

Contact Kramer at f574J 315-5032 or f574J 234-2436 
Monday, April 23, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow }ones  12,961.98  +153.35  
Up:  Same: Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,507 127 727 3,367,728,358 



S&PSOO 1 484.35 +13.62 
:-ll!llllillloor••••~••llilllllllllll• 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,486.80 +46.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.94 +1.39  148.62  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  +0.55 +0.25  45.40  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +1.15 +0.33  29.02  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +0.68 +0.04  5.93  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.60 +0.35  22.16  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.04 +0.002  4.672  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.21  -0.0 I 0  4.835  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.19  +0.009  4.845  
5-YEAR NOTE  0.00  0.00  4.569  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.55  63.38  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +7.50  695.80  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.13  105.00  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.7100  
EURO  0.7360  
POUND  0.4997  
CANADIAN$  I. 1240  

IN BRIEF 
Google leads Dow's high earnings 
NEW YORK -Wall Street bounded high­er Friday after Google Inc. led a series of stronger earnings reports that propelled the Dow Jones industrials further into record terrain and toward its first assault on the 13,000 mark. 
In midmorning trading, the Dow Jones industrial average was up 119.54, or 0.93 percent, at 12,928.17 after setting a new intraday high of 12,950.44. The blue-chip index has hit 33 record closes since the beginning of October last year. 
After tempering their expectations for the first-quarter, investors have been pleasant­ly surprised by the initial torrent of earn­ings reports, helping major indexes rebound from February's market plunge. The Nasdaq composite and Standard & Poor's 500 are both at six-year highs. 
So far, 16 of the 30 Dow components have posted financial results for the first three months of the year -with ten surpassing analyst forecasts. Dow components Honeywell International Inc., Pfizer Inc., Caterpillar Inc. and McDonald's Corp. all reported results before the open. 
Oil reserves in Iraq could be larger 
WASHINGTON -Taking into account the untapped potential of Iraq's western desert, the war-torn country's oil reserves could be nearly twice as large as previously estimated, containing more than 200 bil­lion barrels, a new analysis of Iraqi oil resources says. 
The consulting firm II-IS Inc., in a report released Wednesday, said there may be an additional 100 billion barrels of oil beneath the surface in the western part of the coun­try. The report estimated the country's cur­rent reserve base to be 116 billion barrels. 
The U.S. Geological Survey has been less optimistic about Iraq's untapped potential, estimating there exists an additional reserve base of 45 billion barrels. 
The II-IS report also said Iraq's daily pro­duction, which now stands at 2 million bar­rels per day, could rise to 4 million barrels a day if conflict subsides and new invest­ments in oil infrastructure are made. 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Chinese company strikes it rich 
Suntech Power Holdings Ltd. goes public on NYSE, sells solar equipment 
Associated Press 

SHANGHAI, China ­
Physicist Shi Zhengrong 
spent the 1990s in an 
Australian lab studying solar 
power, a field he picked by 
chance. He expected to 
devote his life to science. 
Still, Shi saw signs of a 
blossoming industry as 
Germany, Japan and other 
countries invested in cleaner 
power. Excited by a trip 
home that showed him 
China's rapid development, 
he startled friends by abrupt­
ly moving his wife and two 
Australian-born sons to his 
homeland in 2001 to launch 
a solar equipment company. 
Four years later, Shi's con­
fidence paid off when his 
Suntech Power Holdings Ltd. 
went public on the New York 
Stock Exchange and 
investors snapped up shares, 
turning him into a billionaire. 
Last year, Shi ranked No. 7 
on the Forbes magazine list 
of China's richest tycoons, 
with a $1.4 billion fortune. 
Today, he has traded his 
research smock for blue 
business suits, a CEO's 63rd­
floor corner office and a role 
advising the Chinese govern­
ment on renewable energy 
policy. 

"We believed the share 
price would go up, but not so 
quickly," said Shi, a 43-year­
old with a boyish face, 
chuckling at what he says 
was a rise marked by lucky badly polluted air and water. work force at four sites in risen to be the world's 
breaks and timing. "I never Chinese leaders also are pro­China produces photovoltaic fourth-largest solar cell 
thought I would be a rich moting renewable energy in cells, the delicate, hand-size maker, according to an 
guy." hopes of reducing mounting black silicon panels that can annual ranking by Photon 
Shi is the leader of an dependence on imported oil, transform sunlight into elec­International, an industry 
emerging group of Chinese which they see as a strategic tricity. magazine. Japan's Sharp 
entrepreneurs who are strik­weakness. At a time when China's Corp. Is the market leader 
ing it rich by meeting fast­"The technological communist leaders are trying and other competitors 
growing demand in China prowess of China is growing to turn lumbering state com­include Q-Cells AG of 
and abroad for cleaner a lot faster than people in the panies into nimble global Germany, Kyocera Corp. of 
power. West reckon," said Andrew competitors, Suntech already Japan and BP Solar, owned 
They are getting a boost Wilkinson, co-manager of a goes head-to-head with by British oil company BP 
from China's efforts to curb fund at investment bank Japanese and European PLC. 
environmental damage after CLSA Emerging Markets that rivals in foreign markets. Shi Worldwide, experts expect 
two decades of breakneck invests in Asian clean-energy says all its technology comes the industry's sales to grow 
growth that have left it with industries. from its own labs. by 20 to 40 percent annually ·some of the world's most Suntech's 3,500-strong By last year, Suntech had in coming years. 

Maine's fishing industry in jeopardy 
I'm looking for nine," Dewey says in precious allotment of fishing days to
Associated Press 

rapid-fire fashion as he auctions off a steam to bountiful fishing grounds to 
batch of pollock. "Anyone have nine?" the south. Unlike Massachusetts, 
PORTLAND, Maine -The forklifts For the next hour, a nod of a head or Maine charges fishermen sales taxes zig and zag through the chilled ware­a raised pingpong paddle marks the on diesel fuel. house, their forks balancing plastic bidding on 56,000 pounds of fish that Maine lawmakers last month crates filled with cod, haddock, pollock, will make its way to restaurants and scrapped a proposal to let trawler fish­flounder and other catch hauled from retailers across the United States. ermen sell lobsters they inadvertently the North Atlantic. But there's not as much fish being catch in their nets. Instead, they must 
The smell of fresh fish hangs heavy sold in Portland as a few years ago. toss the lobsters back or go to in the air on a recent Sunday as more There aren't as many boats unloading Massachusetts where they can be sold. than a dozen buyers for seafood their catch here, either. Times are so The net effect: The future of the processors and wholesalers slide into tough that the fish auction is releasing Portland Fish Exchange is about as their seats at the Portland Fish Dewey from his job to save money. certain as New England's fickle weath­Exchange, the commercial fish auction "I give the commercial fishing indus­er. that's been around for 21 years. try in Maine about two years." said Bill When the Portland Fish Exchange Spread on the tables before them are Gerencer, a seafood buyer for opened in 1986, it was said to be the sheets listing the types and amounts of Massachusetts-based M.F. Foley Co. first wholesale fresh fish display auc­fish to be sold. Telephones are pressed "Not just the Fish Exchange, but the tion in the U.S. to their ears. entire industry." Today, Hank Soule, the auction's gen­
They've already inspected the catch Maine fishermen are battling against eral manager, points to a chalkboard so auctioneer Paul Dewey begins the strong currents that put them at a that lists the fishing vessels that are bidding, just as he has for the past 20 decided disadvantage to their counter­scheduled to deliver their catch to the years. parts in Massachusetts. auction in the next week. The board is 
"I have 88 cents, looking for nine. Fishermen have to use more of their blank. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 23, 2007 
Shack 
continued from page 1 
Erica Sanchez, who organized the event this year. "Poverty 
housing is the main issue of Habitat and empowering people toward that end is the main focus of our organiza­tion." 
Guest speakers included Vice President for University rela­tions Lou Nanni, who once served 
"We provide students with duct tape and scraps of cardboard and just let them use their imagination. " 
Erica Sanchez Shack City organizer 
as the director for the South Bend Center for the Homeless, and Beth Morlock, a represen­tative from the Hope Rescue Mission homeless shelter. 
Additionally, participants viewed an educational video ­"My Own Four Walls," a docu­mentary produced by Diane Nealon that showed interviews with homeless children across the country. 
"It was really stunning," Iafigliola said. "To think about how substandard housing is such a largely ignored issue on college campuses, since we don't have to worry about where we're going to live each 
"When he 
night." 
Iafigliola made a ref­erence to one home­less student, depicted in the docu­mentary, who earned a college degree while living on a park bench. 
had finally 

received his diploma, he simply returned to the bench and real­ized he had nobody to cele­brate with," he said. "So our hope wasn't to try and pretend like we were being homeless, but by using the boxes, speak­ers, statistics, etc. -we're bringing consciousness to the situation." 
Approximately 125 students 

Students camp out on South Quad Saturday night to raise awareness for homelessness as part of Habitat for Humanity's annual Shack City event. Approximately 125 students participated in the event. 
attended the event Saturday, and about 100 of them volun­teered to construct their own cardboard homes and spend the night sleeping out on South quad. 
"We provided students with duct tape and scraps of card­board and just let them use their imagination," Sanchez said. "We were really fortunate to have nice weather, because that allowed more people to come, ask ques~ions, and leave with a better understanding about the situation. Overall, it was fun -but in a serious way." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 

Energy 
continued from page 1 
"It's been very refreshing to know that the University ... is taking strides to work on 
program has been an achieve­ment. 
"It's one of the University's biggest success stories, in terms of environmental initia­tives," he said. 
Other recent University ini­tiatives include "From Old 2 
environmental issues, O'Connor said. 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA) president Morgan Dill ­who does not sit on the commit­tee -said its formation is "a step in the right direction." 
''I'm glad they're taking the initiative," 
"It's one ofthe University's biggest success stories, in terms of environmental initiatives.'' 
Kerry O'Conner Energy and Environmental Issues Committee 
Dill said. She emphasized the importance of bringing envi­ronmental issues and any existing environmentally­friendly options to the atten­tion of students. 
"They do a lot of things that the public isn't aware of," Dill said. 
One such initiative may be the University's recycling pro­gram. 
In 1990, the University started "Recycling' Irish," a program that recycles nearly 133,000 pounds of aluminum, newspapers, glass and plastic every year. Today, not only have the types of qualifying waste increased, but in recent years more than 13 million pounds of waste have been recycled, according to the press release. 
Building Services Director and "Recycling' Irish" coordi­nator Alan Bigger said that typically the University recy­cles around 60 percent of its total waste, and this academic year the school has recycled around 65 percent. 
"That rate -and the rates of recent years -exceeds most of the national norms, and peer institutions," Bigger said. 
O'Connor agreed that the 
Gold," a resale pro­gram that sells food and items donated by students ­as well as "NDSurplus," a program that sells any furniture and other equip­ment Notre Dame's departments no longer use, the commit­

tee's release said. 
Both initiatives are designed to reduce the waste stream coming from the University. 
Another recent initiative, involving Notre Dame's use of fuel, led to the purchase of a hybrid vehicle for the University motor pool, a col­lection of vehicles that can be rented for campus events. 
Perhaps one of the 
neering building, scheduled to break ground this November. 
"It's definitely one of the most important [initiatives]. We build so much here on campus," Dill said. 
She said with any new con­struction it's important to look at the impact of new facilities on the environment and the University' sustain­
ability. 
O'Connor said a representa­tive from the Office of the University Architect recently told the committee that when­ever the opportunity arises, they will make all new build­ings LEED-certifled, a nation­al certification for environ­mental design. 
The "green" design of the engineering hall will address water protection, water effi­ciency, energy efficiency and conservation of resources. 
While these initiatives are altogether positive and encouraging, Dill thinks there is plenty for the committee and the University to work on and consider. 
"We need to focus on where we're getting our energy," Dill said, and "consider what kind of energy we're getting" from the University's power plant. 
Dill also said older campus buildings could be retrofitted to include updated energy­saving devices like light sen­sors, among other environ­mentally-sound changes. Energy-saving techniques across campus -putting cluster computers to sleep overnight, for example -also 
need attention, 
she said. 


most promis­The University,
"It's going to be a long
ing initia­Dill said, should 
tives, Dill process for Notre also consider 
said, is the Dame, but it's increasing the environmen­number of cours­
something that we're 
tally-friendly es it offers that
striving for. " 
design focus on environ­planned for mental issues the new Kerry O'Conner and conserva­multi-disci­tion.
Energy and Environmental
plinary engi­O'Connor said
Issues Committee 
the committee will hear sugges­tions like these and work with 
groups like SEA during a campus-wide green campaign scheduled this fall. 
Dill said she is pleased the administration will involve students. 
"I think that's really key," Dill said. "The intent of a committee like that is to serve the students and University community." 
Embracing student groups and working from the bottom­up -not just top-down from the administration -is important, she said. 
O'Connor said the campaign will focus on ways students can directly become involved in conservation on campus, from reducing energy con­sumption to increasing recy­cling, among other things. 
"It's something that we're 
9(espighi & (]3eethoven 
Sunday, April 29, 2:30p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center University of Notre Dame 
Featuring Jacqueline Schmidt, piano Respighi: 'The rBinl.s Paul Johnson: '17u: ''Wilt! Sn~ans al (.-:aol" Beethoven. ~Piano Concerto ~No. :5 
TICKETS: 574-631-2800 

really looking forward to, as a committee," O'Connor said. 
A sustainable campus in the near future, he said, is one of the committee's goals, but he recognized achieving it is a long way off. 
"It's going to be a long process for Notre Dame, but it's something that we're striving for," O'Connor said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd.edu 

7oradze Piano Jnstitule 
Saturday, May 12, 8:00 p.m. 
Morris Performing Arts Center Featuring Alexander Toradze and three generations of Piano Studio performers 
Gershwin: .:J £iol 'J~I'!fthm, :.mwpsml!l in 'Blue Copland: 'J\ano Concalo Rachmaninoff: ':Rlwpsody ou 11 'Themr of ':Pagnnini Bernstein: Jl-h,quc from .;;I,JI; of..'An.tidy Ravel: ':Piano Coru:erlo 
Spring :family Concert 
Sunday, May 20, 3:00 p.m. Everest-Rohrer Auditorium, Bethel College 
"A Celebration of Youth in Music" 
featuring the Side-by-Side Orchestra and 
Young Artist Competition winners. 
Talented high school musicians from Northern Indiana and Southwest Michigan play alongside our own veteran Symphony musicians in what has
f' become one of our favorite concerts. 
lflvanted fer !i!e 
Tickets $10 Adults $8 Seniors 65+ and $5 lor Kids 


r-----------------------------------------~--~~~~-----------------~~---------------. 
Monday, April 23, 2007 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
fRANCE 
Voters put Royal, Sarkozy in French presidential run-off 
Nation faced with choice between conservative leader, socialist; leftist would be country's first female head of state 
Associated Press Both Sarkozy, a Hungarian two ideas of the nation, two pro­immigrant's son, and Royal, a mil­grams for society, two value sys­
PARIS -Nicolas Sarkozy and itary officer's daughter who beat tems, two concepts of politics." 
Segolene Royal advanced to a Socialist heavyweights to win her Despite Sarkozy's lead, he faces 
runoff in Sunday's presidential party's nomination, are in their a powerful "Anything But 
election, presenting France with a 50s and have traveled long, ardu­Sarkozy" push by those who call 
fundamental left-right choice ous roads to get to this point. him too arrogant and explosive to 
between a conservative who could The winner's task will be tough: run a nuclear-armed nation. He 
push his anxious nation toward France is a troubled nation, still once called young delinquents 
painful change and a socialist who haunted by the riots by young "scum," a remark that outraged 
would be the country's first female blacks and Arabs in poor neigh­the residents of poor neighbor­
leader. borhoods in 2005. hoods and has dogged him politi~ 
Royal is the first woman to get Decades of stubbornly high cally. 
this close to the helm of this major unemployment, increasing compe­"It won't be a walk in the park" European economic, military and tition from economies like China's, for Sarkozy even though he is in a diplomatic power after a cam­and a sense that France is losing strong position heading into the paign marked by suspense, sur­influence in the world made this a runoff, said Bruno Cautres, prise and unusually dynamic can­passionate campaign. Both Royal researcher at the prestigious 
didates who lured voters to the and Sarkozy have promised to get Institute for Political Sciences. ballot box in near record num­France back on its feet -but offer Royal, a lawmaker and feminist bers. starkly different paths for doing who says she makes political deci­
Sarkozy has the advantage that. sions based on what she would do heading into the May 6 runoff. Sarkozy would loosen labor laws for her children, shot to popularity Results from the Interior Ministry and cut taxes to invigorate the by promising to run France differ­early Monday, based on all polling sluggish economy, while Royal ently. stations except those voting in would hike government spending But she has stumbled on foreign embassies overseas, had Sarkozy and preserve the country's gener­policy. In one gaffe, she praised first with 31.1 percent followed by ous worker protections. the Chinese during a trip to Royal with 25.8 percent. Turnout Royal, too, champions change Beijing for their swift justice sys­was huge at 84.6 percent -the but says it must not be brutal. tem. highest in more than 40 years and "I extend my hand to all those Many voters question whether just shy of the record set in 1965. women and men who think, as I she is "presidential" enough to run 
Either way, France will get its do, that it is not only possible but France. frrst president with no memory of urgent to abandon a system that With results for the nearly 1 mil­World War II to replace the 7 4-no longer works," she said. lion French voters registered year-old Jacques Chirac, who is The runoff offers "a clear choice abroad still trickling in early die ground and others who desert­five presidential elections. Partial stepping down after 12 years to between two very different paths," Monday, turnout fell just short of ed the left and right in favor of results had him at 11 percent. usher in a new generation of can­she said. the record of 84.8 percent for a farmer's son and lawmaker Royal's score was the highest for didates. Outside Socialist Party head­first round, set in 1965. That year, Francois Bayrou, one of the big a Socialist since Mitterrand in 
Sunday's first round of voting quarters in Paris, supporters modern France held its first direct surprises of the campaign. 1988. But she could struggle to shut out 10 other hopefuls, from reacted to the result with joy, presidential election, with World He placed third on Sunday, with make up the gap with Sarkozy in Trotskyists to far right leader chanting, "We're going to win!" War II Gen. Charles de Gaulle and 18 percent, accordiHg to the par­round two. Candidates to her left Jean-Marie Le Pen. Le Pen had Sarkozy told cheering support­Socialist Francois Mitterrand tial results. together scored about 11 percent. hoped to repeat his shockingly ers Sunday night that by choosing reaching the runoff that de Gaulle In the runoff, Sarkozy should be They immediately swung behind strong showing of 2002 but him and Royal, voters "clearly went on to win. able to count on votes from the far her after their elimination, but 

instead finished a weak fourth marked their wish to go to the with 10.5 percent. very end of the debate between 
INDIA 
Concern raised as India reserve loses 8 tigers 
-showing eight adult tigers
Associated Press missing from the count, the NEW DELHI -Eight tigers newspaper added. are missing from a reserve in "The sex ratio has improved a western India, raising new con­lot and we have a very good cerns about the country's dwin­year with cubs, but all is not dling big cat population, a news well," Fateh Singh Rathore, a 
report  said  former  conser­ 
Sunday. The rare adult  'The sex ratio has  vator at the tiger reserve, told the  
tigers have van­ished from the Ranthambore National Park,  improved a lot and we have a very good year with  newspaper. "We need better patrolling and tracking by the  
which covers 60 square miles in the western state  cubs, but all is not well.,,  park manage­ment if we are serious about  
of Rajasthan, The  saving the tiger."  
Indian  Express  Fateh Singh Rathore  In 2001, the  
newspaper report­ed. citing the Wildlife Institute of India.  former conservator Ranthambore National Park  U.S. National Geographic Society estimat­ed that 5,000 to  
India has laws to  7,000 Bengal  - 
protect  wildlife  or  Indian  - 

and imposes severe punishment tigers existed in the wild, about on violators. But lax enforce­half in India. ment, high prices for tiger skins However, conservationists and the use of their bones and believe official estimates of claws in traditional medicine in tigers in the wild are grossly neighboring China have created exaggerated and that the true a thriving trade. figure may be closer to 2,000 ­
According to a census held in or as little as several hundred. August 2005, Ranthambore had This is not the first time that a a total of 26 big eats -21 adult large number of tigers have tigers and f'ive cubs younger gone missing from than 20 months. By October Hanthambore; in early 2005 2006, another census showed a news reports had said that as total of 31 tigers in the reserve many as 18 big cats had van­but only 18 adults and 13 cubs ished from the park. 
For Royal and Sarkozy, a scram­right, whose champion Le Pen suf­their votes alone will not be ble is now on for voters in the mid-fered his second-worst showing in enough to put Royal in power. 
ESTONIA 
Soviet symbols to be removed 
Associated Press shed the last vestiges of commu­died in the Holocaust. The Poles 
nism. vehemently rejected this, saying 
TALLINN-The life-size statue Russia views the Soviet troops those victims, mostly Jews, were of a Red Army soldier stands at a as heroes who rescued the three from territories occupied by the crossroads in this Baltic capital, Baltic states from a racist Nazi 
Soviet Union in league with the fist clenched and head bowed, regime. Estonians, Latvians and Nazis between 1939 and 1941. 
marking the spot where Soviet Lithuanians say the Soviet Sergei Mironov, a senior war dead are buried. regime that held sway over them Russian lawmaker, called theBut the statue is engulfed in for 45 years after Polish decision "sac­bitter debate over the Soviet World War II was rilegious," and its
army's place in European history, even more reasoning "stupid." 
"This is not a
which could come to a head this repressive. 
After regaining
week if the Estonian government "This is not a monument to the independence, the goes ahead with plans to dig up monument to the victors of the war 
communist bloc
the tomb and move the statue to victors of the war 
but a monument to nations tore down 
a park outside Tallinn. but a monument 
statues of Lenin,
the destruction of
Russians are appalled, and the to the destruction Stalin and the ideal­
Kremlin has warned of "irre­of the Estonian the Estonian 
ized socialist labor­versible consequences" for rela­Republic," said Republic.,, 
er. But respect fortions with Estonia. lawmaker Mart the Soviet role in
Estonia is not alone. These Laar. 
defeating Hitler was
days, throughout formerly The problem, Mart Laar 
not entirely erased.
Soviet-controlled eastern says Eugeniusz Estonial'l lawmaker 
In Hungary and
Europe, a battle of symbols and Smolar, head of Lithuania, many ofmemories is being waged-over the Center for 
those statues now 
statues, street names, the ham­International Helations, a Polish 
stand in parks and are major
mer and sickle, even Auschwitz. think tank, is that "Russia has tourist draws. 
Now firmly entrenched in the never come to terms with its his­In Estonia, there are scores ofWest through NATO and tory." Hussians continue to see Soviet monuments that stir noEuropean Union membership, themselves only as victims of anger-one-third of the popula­many countries are showing World War II, he said, and ignore tion is ethnic Russian -but therenewed eagerness to erase the the dictatorial systems they 
Bronze Soldier stands out 
more visible vestiges of commu­imposed on the countries they because it has become a popularnism. liberated from the Germans. 
staging point for pro-Hussian ral­
The dispute underscores the Opposing interpretations of 
lies. 
opposing views of the Soviet history clashed earlier this Poland's governing Law and 
legacy in Hussia and its former month in Auschwitz, where Justice party has called for satellites. Hussia's resurgent Polish curators of a museum at changing street names that have patriotism under President the former death camp refused a communist taint. Homania has 
Vladimir Putin has only widened to let Russia to open its exhibit. issued a 650-page report detail­the gap as countries from the Russia claimed that hundreds ing and condemning communist Baltics to the Balkans seek to of thousands of "Soviet citizens" atrocities. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 23, 2007 
THE OBSERVER If I were a valedictorian ... 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDIIDR BusiNESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDIIDRS: Chris Khorey 
Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574)631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. 1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and. objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The 0~ (USPS 599 2-4000} ~~ puh!isht:'d Monday through Friday c.n:cpt durin~ rxam and v.teation pt::riuds. A sub;cription ro Titc Observer i~ $1 00 for om: ac:u:h:mic year; $55 fur one scmQOter. 
The Observer is published ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addres5 corm;dons ro: Notte Dame, IN 46556--0779 Th< Ob.crvtt 
Periodkal postage paid at Notre Dame: P.O. Boxn9 and addidonal mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
Tite Observer is a member of the .As:sm:iarcd Press. All reproduction rights ar~ rcscrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Marcela Berrios Chris Hine Katie Kohler Chris Khorey liz Harter Fran Tolan Becky Hogan Bill Brink Viewpoint Ellyn Michalak Alyssa Scene Brauweiler Erin McGinn Graphics Madeline Nies 
Ladies and gentlemen of the Class of 2007: Congratulations. Each of you has spent the past four years being slapped around like Tina Turner by the harsh rig­ors of Notre Dame academic life, the cus­tomary foibles of Notre Dame athletic life and the indescribable awk­wardness of Notre Dame social life. We've laughed together at Paul Hornung's racism and loose pants, we've cried together at bowl games under whichever coach decided to take us to Tempe, and we've vomited together under Forty Ounces Indiana State Excise to Falco Police on horseback at tailgates. The important thing, however, is that we have all survived-as they say­to begin the next chapter of our lives. 
Unfortunately, life is not a book. There are no pages, no illustrations, no dust jack­ets and certainly no chapters. llie, boiled down to its very essence, is nothing more than acase ofbeer. Sure, some lives are mere racks of Natty or Keystone-fre­quently quite bitter, and tPnding to go down in huge gulps so as to ease the pain of consumption. Others, like that of this year's commencement speaker, GE CEO Jeffrey Immelt, are tiny four-packs of Guinness Extra Stout-smooth. rich and impressive to drink in public, yet at the same time extremely dark and only at their best when lightened up with some Irish cream. The rest of us, though, with our bright futures and lamb-skin diplomas (unless you're a lamb-hugging hippie who ordered a paper one), are merely amor­phous variety packs-filled with the potential for both great success and bitter disappointment depending upon the choic­es that we make over the coming years. 
While college may have been "the best four years of our lives," it is highly unlikely that they will go down as the most defin­ing. Sure, we have been given countless opportunities to sample the variety of choices available at the open bar of life ­medicine, law, business, engineering, aca­demia, service or whatever it is that Arts & Letters majors do to make money-but the next two to five years will truly be our chance to put those sampled choices to the test. 

Some of you might run from this Midwestern sanctuary of Catholicism, red­heads and dive bars for the heathenism and debauchery of New York City or Los Angeles. While there, you will probably reach into your variety pack of life and start with a trendy Belgian or German brew-perhaps a Stella Artoi.<; or a St. Pauli Girl-and sip slowly on this Western European wonder while pondering your existence from the lonely back wall of a chic tapas bar on the corner of Wall and Water Streets in Lower Manhattan. As you casually nurse one of these frothy, golden lagers, most likely from the chilled rim of a peculiarly feminine and stemmed beer glass, you will soon fmd yourself battling with the true questions and goals of your post-collegiate life. Are 100-hour weeks crunching numbers at Goldman Sachs worth the personal costs? Is it possible to find love or start a family in a big city? Is marketing a real job or just an outlet for B.S.? And why is Stella Artois always served out of these girly wine glasses? 
Some of you will likely be spending the next two to five years engaged in service toward the world's neediest people. While treating malaria patients in Afriea, teach­ing impoverished schoolchildren in the rural South or building community infra­structure in Third World countries, you will most likely fmd yourself too busy at times to even think about experimenting with your variety pack of beer. When you do have a free moment, though, one can imagine that you would probably grab for a 25-ounce oil can of Fosters as you battle with the stresses of service. A million ques­tions will certainly rattle through your head as you imagine your i-banking friends in New York casually sipping on their nine-dollar glasses of Stella Artois as they consider whether to buy the Tiffany earrings or the Cartier bracelet for their next black-tie gala. Am I truly happy giving myselfto these people whom I barely know and receiving minimal compensation in return? Will I continue seeking personal fulfillment through community service for the rest of my life, or willl begin searching for a traditional job when my time here ends? And why do Australians feel the need to drink out of such enormous beer cans? Are they trying to compensate for something? 
Many of you, as well, will continue to test your academic mettle at graduate schooL Here, in the often pretentious milieu of even higher standards of learning, you ·might grab an Amstellight after a long day of organic chemistry at med school, reach for a Bud light to calm you down after a stressful week studying torts at law school or pound six or seven Rolling Rocks to break up the grind of your tedious, yet rewarding Ph.D. work in Anthropology or Psychology. Similar questions will bounce through your head as you continue to sit in the same types of college bars that you've sat in since you first snuck into Boat Club as a Notre Dame freshman. Will my future career be worth the $50,000 in loans that I'm accumulating here? When will I get the chance to settle down and start a fami­ly with 10 more years of this hectic "Grey's Anatomy" lifestyle in store? Will I be one of those people who forces everyone to call me "Doctor" because I have a Ph.D.? And why am I still drinking Bud light? This stuff tastes like Aquafina. 
In the end, we will all be grappling with the same types of questions, no matter where we move, no matter what we do and no matter which beer we decide to pull out of our variety packs. Forrest Gump's mama may have been right about a number of things, but she was wrong about one: Ufe is certainly not like a box of chocolates. 
Ufe, with its endless choices that we have earned after four years of learning at Notre Dame, is like a case of beer. You do have the power to know what you're going to get. You only need to have the will to reach in and grab a beer, the faith in your­self to trust your choice and the humility to dive back in for a second, third or eigh­teenth can if you're dissatisfied with the first. 
Once again, congratulations, Class of 2007, on an amazing four years, and good luck to everyone with whatever you decide to do for the next sixty. 
Bottoms up! 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. He can be reached at 
ifalco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 

Do you plan to donate money to a political campaign? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
· s··

! ·.·.······_h•• ,,·_.··a·t 1•-.······ tt•e~
h:t:Edii:r'af 
·www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The fashion wears out more apparel than the man. " 
William Shakespeare English playwright 
------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, April 23, 2007 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
More mottos to live by 
James Breen wrote: "Finish what you start. That's what my mother always by it (isolationism at home and shame abroad, not to mention a war memorial taught me about life" (April 19 Letter to the Editor, 'Iraq pullout not logical'). with too many names). 'Start what you finish' is a good motto for life. I would He also compared the disastrous departure (or should we say "fleeing"?) from like to offer two other mottos to keep in mind about the Iraq war, though: 1. "If Vietnam with potential withdrawal from Iraq. There are obviously more paral­it ain't broke, don't fix it," and 2. "You broke it-you bought it." lels to be drawn between the two about the reasons we went to war (democra­tize people, fight the bogeyman of the times over there and not over here, mili­Mary Ann Hennessey tary-industrial complex?), what we didwhile in those countries (including not class of 1990 only reconstruction but also rape, murder and destruction) and how· much it Weyersheim, France costs us (in terms of life, money and reputation), and finally what we achieved April20 
U-WIRE 
All-nighters: A survival guide 
As my first year of college comes to an end and I look back on all that I've experienced -the ups, the downs, the good times and bad-I can't help but think to myself: My god, how many all-nighters did I pull? 
I knew they would be inevitable. The trend of putting off schoolwork till after dinner, after a lengthy nap and after The O.C. became more and more popu1ar as my high school career pro­
Jamie France

gressed. And as all the glittering teen media wou1d have it, all-nighters are supposed to happen in col­University of lege. They're the u1timate college-work-ethic Pennsylvaniastereotype. But it wac;n't until I sat here in deep Dailyreflection that I realized they're more than just a Pennsylvanianstereotype. They're a way of life. 
As we stare into the face of death (a.k.a. fmal exam week), I've decid­ed to devote my final column to that which has facilitated so many sleepless nights for college students near and far; that which will contin­ue to be there for us through the ups, the downs, the good times and bad; and that which hac; been my personal savior: 
Caffeine. 
It has come to my attention that caffeine, after being viewed with sus­picion for years, is starting to make a serious comeback. Word of its newfound health benefits has been circu1ating in newspapers and the Web for the past couple of weeks. Evidently, there's new proof that caf­feine defends against diabetes, Parkinson's disease, asthma symptoms, post-workout soreness and even hunger pangs. 
So, in light of this most-welcomed revelation, I've decided to share with you the knowledge that cou1d carry you through the rest of the semester. Cut it out and stick it on your fridge: 
The top eight most popu1ar and most effective sources of caffeine, with -as an added bonus -the fewest calories. 
1. 
Diet Coke: The only diet, caffeinated beverage you can get in Van Pelt after Mark's Cafe closes, thanks to the 24-hour vending machine. A standard can contains 45 mg of caffeine, 0 calories, various flavorings and colorings and not much else. 

2. 
Water Joe: The perfect fix for the closet-caffeine addict. The only ingredients are artesian water and caffeine; no additives, no carbona­tion. I can't say I've tried it, nor does it sound very appealing, but a 16.9­oz. bottle contains 60 mg of caffeine and, as cou1d be expected, 0 calo­ries. 

3. 
Red Bull: This shouldn't be surprising. An 8-oz. can provides you with 80 mg of caffeine and 110 calories. It contains carbonated water, artificial flavors and colors, some vitamin B and loads of sugar. "Red Bull gives you wings!" 

4. 
Tab Energy: The energized version of Coca-Cola's original low-calo­rie cola brand, TaB; however, it's not a cola product. Fashion Week Daily describes it as a "sweet and sour beverage" with a flavor "reminiscent of a liquid Jolly Rancher." A 10.5-oz. can contains 95 mg of caffeine and only 5 calories. 

5. 
Enviga: The sparkling green tea that's "proven" to help you burn calories, yet somehow has sparked a mess oflawsuits and investigations of this very claim. Regardless, a 12-oz. can contains 100 mg of caffeine and 5 calories, plus 20 percent of the suggested daily value of calcium. 

6. 
Rocket Chocolates: For the chocoholic in all of us, these candies have more boost than a standard cup of coffee. One piece of Rocket Chocolate contains 150 mg of caffeine and 70 calories. They come in fla­vors like mint, toffee latte, peanut butter and mocha latte, and they're individually wrapped so you can stash a few in your pocket. 

7. 
Starbucks Coffee: My euphoria. Sure, it's commercialized and potentially even overrated, but the fact is there are two Starbucks on campus, one right next to the library, and their coffee will keep you awake. One tall (12-oz.) cup of plain coffee contains 280 mg of caffeine and 0 calories; ofcourse the latter varies with what you add to your drink. Starbucks' brew averages twice the caffeine of a standard 8-oz. cup of coffee, so take advantage. 

8. 
Spike Shooter: Desperate times call for desperate measures. I've personally never heard of it, but any 8.4-oz. can that can house 300 mg of caffeine without a single calorie has my approval. Note the label that reads, "Don't drink if under 18," and "Drink only half a can at a time." 


I realize that columns about stimu1ants usually end with a disclaimer about not abusing them ... but who are we kidding? Happy studying! 
This column originally appeared in the April20 edition ofthe Daily Pennsylvanian, the daily publication at the University ofPennsylvania. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not 
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Gee whiz, get over your dam cursing problem 
I used to have a problem with cursing. Well, per­haps I shou1d rephrase: I used to have a problem with the notion of cursing. 
For one, it was what bad men and non-Baptists did. In the movies, the bad guys were the ones cursing -either Ben Humeniuk them or the non-educated folk. 
Baylor

If you were a good guy, you 
University

were supposed to have the abili­
The Lariat 

ty to express your anger cre­atively. So you punched people out of saloons instead -but only when they deserved it. Apparently, I watched too many John Wayne flicks, which may explain my occasional temptation to call folks "pilgrim." 
My movie intake ended up being swear-free because it was selectively screened by my parents, who were not fans of bad words. 
And you need to know that my parents are eerily psychic. If I even whispered a wordy-dird under my breath, my folks wou1djust know. Dad wou1d have a lecture ready in five minutes, plus a paddle in 10. 
In retrospect, I don't know how logical this punish­ment wac;. Paddling inevitably causes one to yelp out even more choice words, thus making Dad paddle you harder, and you yelp more, and so on. 
Scientists and English majors call this a "Catch­22," which is ironically about how many swats you'd get before Dad's arm got tired. 
And when Dad's arm gets tired, then he starts wanting to curse, too. That's when Mom comes in and washes everyone's mouth out with Dial. 
So in holy fear, I learned not to curse. Then I saw the movie Boondock Saints and became desensitized for life. 
At first, I was a bit confused, and just assumed spraying a mess of bad words was a trait of the Irish, a genetic deal like red hair and leprechau­nism. 
Then I heard how a guy who came to Chapel said a four-star bad word to make a point and knew all bets were off. Plus, he was from Philadelphia. 
Now cursing is impossible to escape. For example, I now know Beetle Bailey, something I have faithfully read since I was 5 years old -is a dirty, dirty comic strip. 
There's this character, a grouchy old soldier named "Sarge," who continually abuses BP-etle Bailey, both physically and verbally. And a lot of times, he'll say nonsensical stuff like "$#@o/o&." 
That used to mystify me. Was he practicing code­talk? Or was it just common military practice to call someone a no good piece of "ampersand-colon-per­cent sign-pound symbol?" 
Then it hit me that Army guys swear like sailors, which makes me hope they don't feel like copycats. Now that I've realized the truth, I hope parents never let their kids read Beetle Bailey again. 
It honestly hasn't been funny since the Reagan administration anyway. Those guys shou1d obviously read my stuff more often. 
Of course, being mature, I've come to terms with the four-letter world I live in. 
Ifpeople are going to curse, let them curse. Ifyou think about it, words are really just a bunch of ran­dom sounds anyway. 
They're only a big deal if you put meaning to them, which is why I am always unfazed when Russian-speaking people cuss me out. This actually happens more often than you might think. 
So I've decided to be cool if other folks say naughty words. And for my part, I figured I'd go countereu1­tural and try out 'Leave it to Beaver' -style talk. 
And ifyou don't like that, you can go gee-whiz yourself. 
This column originally appeared in the April20 edition ofThe Lariat, the daily publication at Baylor University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Students confront the media 
Walking around campus students and facu1ty alike bear witness to a sea ofcamera crews penetrating the VIrginia Tech campus. From the Roanoke Times to CNN, reporters can be seen on the Drillfield and sidewalks recounting Monday's events. The VIrginia Tech campus has become a 
Staff Editorial

hotspot for gaining information, and most especially, interview­Virginia Tech ing students. After Monday's The Collegiate tragedy, student narration and Times personal accounts have proved themselves valuable to all news stations and reporters. Students' personal stories are the closest many reporters get to the action. 
After such a tragedy, it would seem that students wou1d find it difficu1t to talk about a tragedy that has affected them on such a personal level. Everyone around the world is feeling the traumatic effects of Monday's shootings, but for those who had classes in Norris, friends that passed away or teachers that lost their lives, the pain is all the more real. It is impossi­ble to be completely unaffected. 
When approached by reporters, students have handled themselves with the utmost maturity and honesty. It can be overwhelming to be constantly approached by reporters but students have handled the situation graciously and represented VIrginia Tech well. After experiencing such a traumatic event, the last thing so many of us want is to replay specific memories over and over again. 
Whether mourning the loss of a friend at the Burruss memorial, or signing the commemorative signs on the Drillfield, students are finding different ways to cope with loss. But even then, when approached by the media so many students have selflessly provided information to reporters. 
At times the media may seem insensitive, but they really are just trying to tell a story, to show the truth to the world. It is through our words and stories that we enable top news sources to broadcast the VIrginia Tech tragedy. Through the actions of so many students, the world is seeing what kind of school we tru1y are. We are a place that rises up in the face of adversity. We are a school that, despite everything, still believes in the power of kindness and love. 
We at the Collegiate TIIlles appreciate all of the people who have confided in us, shared their stories and allowed us to share so many individual perspec­tives with the community. Students on campus have given a voice to those who can no longer speak for themselves. The victims would want their story to be known. Although it is painful, the VIrginia Tech com­munity has been incredibly brave in sharing the truth and in never letting Monday's events be forgot­ten. 
This editorial originally appeared in the April20 edition ofThe Collegiate Times, the daily publication at Virginia Tech. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
-
..------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 23, 2007 
CD REVIEW 
'Awakening' brings new life to musical genre 
By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 
"Spring Awakening," a new Broadway show written in part by '90s singer-song­writer Duncan Sheik, is probably unlike anything you've ever heard coming from a musical. 
The music is fresh, the harmonies are sublime and the subject matter is surprising and unexpected. The play, based on an 1891 work by German playwright Frank Wendekind that was banned in its home country for decades, is a nuanced and com­plex look at youthful innocence, burgeoning sexuality and the fallout between the two. 
"Spring Awakening" takes place in Wendekind's stifling original setting of German society, and from this repression a lush and beautiful score springs forth -a collection that stands solidly on its own as an album. 

"Spring Awakening" ehronicles a small set of German youths that, d@ to the sud­den, unexpected advance of pubnrty, are fumbling through adolescnnce. The inquisi­tive Wendla Bergman (Lea Michele), the quietly rebellious Melchior Gabor (Jonathan Groll) and the tormented, but sweet Moritz Steifel (John Gallagher Jr.) make up the conflicted trio at the play's center. 
Michele and Groff play the central young lovers and Gallagher as Moritz, Melchior's best friend, is a figurative lost boy who finds himself falling victim to tl1oughts and feel­ings he doesn't understand. A<; these char­acters grow in knowledge and experience, tinged by both destruction and growth, the play deftly describes their journeys through Sheik and writer/lyricist Steven Sater's haunting, joyous and downright beautiful music. 
The soundtrack opims with "Mama Who Bore Me," Wendla's confused musings to her traditional mother. The play's female characters then take up the song again, wiili increased energy and a faster pace, in a reprise that highlights the irony of a gen­eration of mothers who chose not to teach their children about thfl most human of urges -sexuality. It's not the first time on a soundtrack that the music voiees critieism of society, and "Mama Who Bore Me" sets that precedent well and with subtlety. 
Another early number, "The Bitch of Living," is a frenzied, fi·enetic explosion of the frustrations that Moritz, Melehior and their fellow schoolboys feel in their stifled environment. The song is anchored by quick, energetic guitar riffs and the impas­sioned, strained voices of each boy's strug­gles. Its female counterpart, the subsequent "My Junk," describes the girls' inereasing sexual awareness as they crush from afar. 

While taking a more exuberant tone than "The Bitch of Living," "My Junk" coi1tinues in a similar vein of misunderstanding and confusion. 
As the play continues, the music subse­quently grows darknr and more complex. Decisions are made, deeds are done and consequences am sometimes harshly faced or violently avoidnd, and the soundtrack aptly reflects this evolution of theme and sound. 
Moritz's manifesto of indepemienee and depression. "Don't Do Sadness," is coupled with the mournlul nostalgia of social rebel lisa's (Lauren Pritchard) "Blue Wind." "Totally F***ed" takes up the play's earlier sense of irony as iL'> "blah blah blah" verses and powerful vocals express the youths' feeling that life's lim:cs arc working against them. The play's final track, "Purple Summer," is a genuine, lovely and lushly written hymn of exultation. 
What really strengthens the play's sow1d­track is the flp,shing out of each song by most (if not all) of the east members. Each track is carefully written with sophisticated harmonies, adding to the commonality of their struggles 
Each song simply works. The music is both 1mergetic and eontemplative in turn, and the layering and sophisticated sound, when coupled with straightforward, emo­tional lyries, ernate a seductively addicting eolleetion. 
A'> a Broadway musical soundtrack, the "Spring Awakening" album is probably unlike anything you've ever heard, and yet familiar and engaging at ilie same time. It is, in a word, wonderful. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

Looking for relationship drama on Facebook 
facebook htlm"' St'·i~(_h Q! 
My Personal Info 
Basic Contact Info 
Courses 
My day always starts with ilie same rou­tine. I check my email to find out about ilie latest necessary and important OIT all­hands meeting, I check CNN to see what's going on outside of the Notre Dame bubble, and I check Facebook for ilie latest gossipy relationship updates. 
Facebook relation­ships -and ilieir per­taining choices -are the cause of all sorts of drama and controver­sy. While iliey may cause pain and frus­tration (and occasion­ally happiness) for iliose involved, for out­siders they can be quite entertaining. Watching casual friends travail the land between "It's com­plicated" and "ln a Relationship" several times in one day is far superior to any drama a soap opera could ever offer. 
There's a great deal of analysis and strat­egy iliat goes into making your initial selec­tion wiili regards to what you are "looking for" in your own profile. Does only looking 
-for "Friendship" come off as being too unapproachable to an interested party? Does "A Relationship" scare off potential casual daters? How far down on ilie skanky-scale does selecting "Random Play" knock you? And then there is the option of "Whatever I c;an get," which i<; a whole other issue all together. 
It's hard enough to try to label your own desires -it gets more interesting when there is anoilier person involved. Facebook 

Erin McGinn 
Assistant Scene Editor 
doesn't have an option for "casual dating," which means iliat iliere comes a point where you have to select a relationship option ifyou no longer consider yourself ilie sole oceupant of single-ville. The initial deci­sion is whether or not to classifY it as "open" or not. This can cause all sorts of drama since the defmition of what qualifies as an "open relationship" can vary drasti­cally from person to person and couple to couple. 
And what can potentially cause even more trouble than the "open relationship" is setting your status to "it's complicated." This can mean anything from an on-again, off-again couple, to a regular hook-up from ilie Backer. ln the worst-case scenario (or best, depending on your view), this setting is used in relationship warfare between a couple. 
For example, it's always easy to tell when "Joe" and "Katie" are fighting, because one of them will angrily change their status from a "relationship" to "it's complicated." 
The question ofcourtesy ean also factor into all ofiliese decisions. Close friends ean get upset when they find out about a break­up/new relationship from their news feed, as opposed to ilie aetual person. 
Nothing is quite as irritating as discover­ing that an ex is dating someone else, but that irritation is easily exacerbated by first hearing about it on your homepage. But at the same time, there are few greater feel­ings in the world than witnessing the bro­ken heart image appearing next to his name. 
Sometimes, Facebook relationship status­es are ilie best way to find out wheilier iliat drW1ken confession oflove will still stand 
Interested in: looking for. 
Relationship 


C.' Women 
CJ Friendship C' Dating ~A Relationship 0 Random Play C.: Whatever I can 

Photo courtesy of royals-te.ds 
Facebook settings, with options including "Random Play" and "Whatever I can get," can cause drama and entertainment for both couples and viewers. 
true in the sober light ofday. "Megan" and "Mike" might have made out at ilie Feve, but is iliat going to translate into an actual status ("it's complicated," perhaps)? 
It could just end up as a poke. 
In the world of Facebook relationships, pokes are the most private gesture since (fortunately) they don't show up on ilie feed. Mueh like ilie status, pokes can mean dif~ fenmt iliings to difl'erent people. 
Whole Facebook groups are devoted to determining how pokes should be used and who should actually get poked. Is it a friendly gesture? Is it indicative of a non­duLac approved desire of intimacy? Your idea of poking and the viewpoint of the per­son who you are poking (or who poked you) might not be the same, and that could lead to a potentially complicated situation. 
So if you happen to be involved in a high­profile Facebook drama-fest, try not to fret over your complicated relationship -just think about how riveting your life is to those secretly watching it unfold on the Facebook feed. 
And drama-fans and voyeurs alike, please remember to practice safe poking. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

O
THE Monday, April 23, 2007 BSERVER Gold 10, Blue 6 
Golden on the ground 
More than 50,000 see Gold take down Blue 10-6 in run-dominated spring game 
By KEN FOWLER SportS Writer 
On the day Notre Dame's four inexperienced signal callers were supposed to have their coming-out parties in front of more than 50,000 fans, David Bruton and Junior Jabbie had other ideas. 
Bruton, a reserve free safety in 2005 and 2006, and Jabbie -Notre Dame's fourth-string tailback the last two years ­stole the show from the four young Irish quarterbacks in front of a record-setting crowd at Notre Dame Stadium for Saturday's Blue-Gold Game. 
Dedicated to running the ball, Irish coach Charlie Weis kept quarterbacks Jimmy Clausen, Demetrius Jones, Zach Frazer and Evan Sharpley in check. 
Jabbie took full advantage of this ground-oriented play call­ing. The rising senior had 52 yards on seven carries in the first half before finishing with 87 yards on 13 attempts. 
"That's what we've seen out 

of Junior the whole spring," 
Weis said of Jabbie. "He's defi­
nitely played himself into ... 
deserving to be in contention." 
And while Jabbie failed to 

find the end zone on any of his 
runs, Bruton had better luck 
from his position in the second­
ary. 
The rising junior on the Gold team put the first points of the game on the board with his 35­yard pick-six off a wobbly and errant pass from Jones. Bruton grabbed the ball in mid-air, cut interceptions and a lone touch­thrown out of bounds to avoid the chance for heroics was just a chance to get better and left and found a seam to the down. Wide receivers caught sacks, and Sharpley was 5-of-7 gone. work on the things we weren't end zone, where he flipped over just three passes, with every for 31 yards. · Such was the game, which sharp on in the spring." the goal line before leaping into other completion going to either Clausen had a chance to be featured slow, consistent play The Blue team responded to the crowd in the southeast cor­a running back or a tight end. the hero for the Blue squad more than anything else. The Bruton's score halfway through ner of the stadium. Though Jones finished with with two minutes left, but a most noteworthy solid action the second quarter with a scor­
"I got a good break, and then the only touchdown pass, only dropped pass and offensive may have been from the defen­ing pass from Jones to rising I ended up over-breaking it, so I Clausen escaped the afternoon pass interference call by John sive back-four. sophomore Robby Parris. had to step back and catch it unscathed. Rising senior defen­Carlson stymied the drive. The secondary's performance Ilit on the arm, Jones' throw and take off running," Bruton sive lineman Justin Brown· Starting at its marked a dis­came out short, but Parris said of the return. "I was just forced_ Sharpley to fumble late own 35, rising tinct contrast to adjusted to catch the ball at the going to stick the ball out, then in the first quarter, though the senior Travis the last time two and scurried in for the I just decided to throw the flip quarterback recovered the Thomas rushed "I did not expect to see Bruton and touchdown. in and do the Lambeau leap. I loose ball. Jones had a fumble four yards on a starting strong After fifth-year senior corner­
a defense that was as
had always wanted to do that -recovered by fifth-year sen­delay on first safety Tom back Ambrose Wooden illegally
physical and played as 
and took advantage of the situ­ior tight end John Carlson -to down. Next, Zbikowski, also blocked the point-after attempt ation." go along with his seven-point Carlson well as they did in the on the Gold (Blue-Gold Game rules prohibit Bruton's interception and the interception, and Frazer threw dropped a pass spring game. team Saturday, rushes on extra points), walk­play of the entire Irish second­a woefully inaccurate ball that could have played most of a on kicker Nate Whitaker missed ary impressed Gold team hon­picked off by rising junior Ray gone for a first game side-by­the second try wide left, giving
Lou Holtz
orary coach Lou Holtz. Herring of the Gold team and down, and then side. Southern Gold a 7-6 lead it held through 
"I think defensively, you have returned to Blue's 23-yard line. Clausen had to Gold team honorary coach California quar­halftime. to be impressed," Holtz said. Of the rising sophomores, throw the ball terback John Rising sophomore kicker "The secondary moved well. Frazer finished 0-of-4 with the away under David Booty Ryan Burkhart finished the Very well coached. I did not interception, while Jones was pressure on third down. On completed 17 -of-28 passed for scoring with a 29-yard field expect to see a defense that 3-of-6 for 23 yards and a pick fourth-and-six, he hit Carlson 265 yards and two scores last goal capped a 59-yard drive for was as physical and played as but scrambled for 31 yards on on the right side, but the veter­Nov. 25, when Bruton filled in Gold that ended at the Blue 6­well as they did in the spring one play to convert a third-and-an was flagged for the 15-yard much of the game for former yard line. game." 19. penalty. Clausen's desperation Irish safety Chinedum Ndukwe. 
The four quarterbacks fin­Clausen finished 3-of-7 for 23 attempt to the left side on ''I've tried to get better day by Contact Ken Fowler at ished just 11-of-24 with two yards, including two balls fourth-and-21 was short, and day," Bruton said. "Right now is kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

player of the game 
Junior Jabbie 

The rising senior ran for 87 yards on I 3 carries for the Gold team and won offensive MVP honors. 
stat of the game 
11-for-24, 1 TD, 2 INT 
The combined passing statistics of the four quarterbacks competing for the starting job in Saturday's run-heavy contest. 
play of the game 
David Bruton's interception return 
The rising junior's touchdown after picking offDemetrius Jones gave the Gold team a lead it wouldn't relinquish. 
quote of the game 
"None ofthe four [quarterbacks} I would say ever played themselves out ofcontention. " 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, April 23, 2007 

and 24 pass plays. Rising sen­of mistakes. His numbers sive breakdown to pick up a Corwin Brown appears to
No passer stands out in 
ior Junior Jabbie's 87 yards were not as solid as third-and-long on a 31-yard have instilled a ferocity in the defensive, run-heavy on 13 carries made it clear Sharpley's (3-for-7 for 23 scamper. He also threw the defense that has been missing that he should get some yards), but some of those game's only touchdown pass, since at least 2002, if notBlue-Gold contest action next season, but what incompletions were throw­but Parris had to make a since the Holtz Era. is more unclear than before is aways that seemed mature great play on the ball to catch And the entire team seems 
Saturday's Blue-Gold Game who should be handing off to beyond his years. He also had it. more relaxed without last was going be the unveiling of him, fifth-year Travis Thomas, the best single throw of the Fans barely saw rising year's incredible expectations the four quarterbacks com­rising sophomore James day, a 12-yard out route to .sophomore Zach Frazer. He on their shoulders. peting to replace Brady Aldridge and early-entry wide receiv-attempted Because of all that, so long Quinn. Or freshman Armando Allen. er Robby just four as whoever wins the quarter­so most 
With all the rushing Parris. passes and back derby feels comfortable
In fact, with Ara Parseghian 
Notre attempts Saturday, it was Clausen didn't com­running the offense and does­
and Lou Holtz roaming the 
Dame fans hard to get a bead on where had an plete any to n't make mistakes, Notre though. the four _quarterbacks stand. opportunity sidelines, the game resem­his own Dame will be just fine next But Irish Weis said that no one played to bring the bled a three-yards-and-a­team. This year. coach himself "out of competition," Blue back perform­And since Weis will narrow
cloud-of-dust contest that 
Charlie but none of them was truly from ance is no down the race from four to Weis had spectacular either. behind, trot­either ofthose two may reason to two at the end of May, he will other The best quarterback ting onto the write him have all summer to prepare
have called. 
ideas. Saturday was rising junior field with off, howev-the starter and first backup 
As part Chris Khorey Evan Sharpley. He went 5-for-two minutes er. While his for game action. of instilling 7 for 31 yards through the air left and interception Even after that, however, "a tough-and oversaw the most com­down by to safety Irish fans will have to wait ness on Sports Editor plete drive of the day by four, but the drive stalled Ray Herring was a poor deci­and wonder, and maybe bust offense I either team -the Gold quickly due to a penalty on sion, his other three passes out the rosary beads a few think squad's 15-play, 59-yard field­tight end John Carlson. were solid throws that got times, before a starting quar­we've been missing the last goal march in the fourth Rising sophomore Demetrius dropped. terback finally takes the field couple years," Weis heavily quarter. He also had a swing Jones had an up and down Obviously, none of these against Georgia Tech. skewed the play calling of pass to Jabbie for 16 yards game, looking nervous early guys are Brady Quinn -at And then whoever it is can both the Blue and Gold squads that wasn't counted in his on and throwing an ugly least not yet. But judging by begin the four-year long toward the running game. stats because it was tossed interception on his first pass other elements of Saturday's odyssey of trying to replace 
In fact, with Ara Parseghian backward. attempt that safety David scrimmage, they may not have Brady Quinn. and Lou Holtz roaming the On the other hand, Sharpley Bruton returned for the Gold to be. sidelines, the game resembled did take a sack that cost his squad's only touchdown. Weis wants to focus on the The views expressed in this a three-yards-and-a-cloud-of­team a chance at a field goal Jones was basically unable running game offensively and, column are those of the dust contest that either of at the end of the first half and to use his running ability if the line gels, that could be author and not necessarily those two may have called. fumbled once. since he was more or less huge in taking some of the those of The Observer. 
The Gold and Blue squads Early-entry freshman Jimmy playing touch football, but he weight off of whoever wins Contact Chris Khorey at combined for 54 run plays Clausen avoided those types did take advantage of a defen-the starting job. ckhorey@n d. edu 
--------------------------, Monday, April 23, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Weis concentrates on run game 
Coach wants to instill 'toughness' offensively 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
A record crowd of 51,852 filed into Notre Dame Stadium for Saturday's Blue and Gold game expecting to see an exhibition from next year's four potential replacements for Brady Quinn. 
But those that came to see the changing of the guard might have seen another kind of change -a change in philosophy. 
Saturday's scrimmage included a total of 54 running plays and 24 pass­ing attempts -a marked departure from the pass-heavy playcalling Irish fans were accustomed to with Quinn under center. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said after the game that he wanted to control the number of throws each quarter­back had on the field, but no matter who starts behind center in September, Weis said Irish fans could expect to see a more balanced attack. 
"I kept the number of passes to a minimum because I wanted them to come out there and run the football," Weis said. "I think the one thing, one of the main things I wanted to come out here in the spring was establish a toughness on the offense that I think we've started to get away from a little bit. 
"That's why I want to see a heavy dose of running." tle bit and we're trying to get back to back September, Weis seems to be 
Weis said over the past two years that." moving in the direction of a more run­his team relied too much on Quinn's Saturday, the power running game oriented offense. right arm to lead Notre Dame to victo­was on display. Gold squad rising sen­But over the summer, one of the four ry, but inexperience at key positions ior Junior Jabbie tore up the Blue quarterbacks could prove that he is on offense may necessitate a change team for 87 yards on 13 carries. capable of leading Notre Dame's in the gameplan this season. Aside Jabbie -whose name had been for­offense as Quinn dfd for the past two from the quarterbacks, no starters gotten by many in the running back years. And Weis has always been return at wide receiver while only two position battle -earned offensive known for his unpredictability as a starters at offensive lineman -center MVP honors for his performance. play caller. . John Sullivan and right tackle Sam Thomas had 36 yards on nine carries, So while opponents will start gear-. Young-return. while early-entry freshman-Armando ing for a power rushing attack from 
The Irish, however, do have experi­Allen had five carries for 19 yards for the Irish, Weis and company could enced players coming back at tight the Blue team come out throwing the ball in a five­end and running back. Rising fifth­Thomas and Allen, however, gained receiver set with an empty backfield. year seniors John Carlson and Travis their yardage against a Gold defense Or, they could split the running back Thomas both return. that included returning starters out wide -as Weis did with Allen 
"So if we can establish a mentality Maurice Crum Jr. and Trevor Laws­more than once Saturday -to match where we can run the ball with power, two of Notre Dame's top defenders him up against a linebacker and then the whole offense opens up," Weis from last season. Jabbie and rising throw it deep down the sidelines. said. "Now you have play action, now sophomore James Aldridge, who fin­Regardless, Weis said, Notre Dame you can throw a drop back. But the ished with 34 yards on nine carries, will have more "toughness.' first thing is first, you have to be able had the luxury of having Crum and to run the ball with power, and I think Laws wear white for the scrimmage. Contact Chris Hine at that we've gotten away from that a lit-No matter who starts at running chine@nd.edu 

•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Gold 7 0 0 3 10 Blue 0 6 0 0 6 
First quarter Gold 7, Blue 0 
David Bruton 35-yard interception return with 
3:20 remaining. (Ryan Burkhart kick) 
Second quarter Gold 7, Blue 6 
Robby Parris 15-yard reception lor Demetrius 
Jones. (Nate Whitaker kick failed) 
Drive: 4 plays, 22 yards, 1:51 elapsed 
Third quarter ,.., No scoring Fourth quarter 
Gold 10, Blue 6 
Burkhart 24-yard field goal. 
Drive: 15 plays, 59 yards, 9:40 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards  
rushing yards  
BLUE  70  
GOLD  106  
passing yards - - 
GOLD  .  ·....  311  
first downs  
GOLf)  10  

time of possession 
-

~0-70 rushes-yards 34-106 6-13-1 comp-att-int 5-12-1 3-37.3 punts-yards 3-41.0 1-0 fumbles-lost 1-0 4-31 penalties-yards 0-0 4 first downs 10 
passing  
Clausen Jones  3-7-0 3-6-1  Sharpley Frazer  5-7-0 0-4-1  

rushing  
Thomas  9-36  Jabbie  13-87  
Jones Allen Schmidt  3-21 5-19 1-3  Aldridge Schwapp Frazer  9-34 7-29 1-(-5)  
Clausen  2-(-9)  Sharpley  4-(-39)  
receiving  

Carlson  3-14  Reuland  3-21  
Parris  2-28  Jackson  1-6  
Allen  1-4  Jabbie  1-4  

punting 

Price 3-37.3 Maust 3-41.0 
field goals 
1-1

Whitaker 0-1 Burkhart 
interceptions -return yards 
Herring 1-13 Bruton 
1-35 
fumbles -lost 

Jones 1-0 Sharpley 1-0 

tackling  
Brockington  11  T. Smith  9  
Vernaglia  8  Bruton  4  
J. Brown  7  Crum  4  
Hand  4  Kuntz  3  
S. Brown  4  Ryan  2  
Quinn  3  Wooden  2  
McCarthy  3  Laws  2  
Herring  3  Ferrine  2  
Anello  3  Zbikowski  1  
Mullen Lough  2 2  Lambert Olsen  1 1  ....  
Wade  2  Gordon  1  
Prince  2  Stephenson  1  
McNeil  2  S. Smith  1  
Gaines  1  Washington  1  
Richardson  1  Tisak  1  

Sullivan suffers only high ankle sprain 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Fifth-year center John Sullivan suffered a high ankle sprain on the third drive of the second half, Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
In his post-game news con­ference, Weis said Sullivan's X-rays came back negative. If the injury had occurred in mid-season, Weis said, Sullivan would likely miss two to four weeks of action. 
"But I'm listing him as probable for Georgia Tech," Weis said with a laugh, refer­ring to Notre Dame's season­opener with the Yellow Jackets on Sept. 1. 
The injury came on a 6­yard run up the middle by early-entry freshman Armando Allen. 
Weis receives monogram 
Monogram Club President Julie Doyle, vice presidents Marc Kelly and Joe Restic, Athletic Director Kevin White and Monogram Club Executive Director Jim Fraleigh presented Weis with an honorary monogram prior to Saturday's scrimmage. 
Weis joined both honorary coaches for Saturday's game -legendary Irish skippers Ara Parseghian and Lou Holtz -and Presidents Gerald Ford and Ronald Reagan among the approxi­mately 200 honorary mem­bers of the Monogram Club. 
Crowd sets record 
Saturday's crowd of 51,852 easily eclipsed the 2006 Blue-Gold Game crowd of 41,279 as the most-attended spring game in Notre Dame history. 
By comparison, defending national champion Florida drew 47,500 fans, while Ohio State brought in 75,310 for their spring games. 
But the attendance champ for 2007 was Alabama, which turned people away from its "A-Day" game in Bryant-Denny Stadium. The Crimson Tide sold all 92,138 seats in their stadium and had fans watching from ramps and concourses for coach Nick Saban's first con­test at the school, USA Today reported. 
Alabama's previous high for a spring game was 51,117 in 1988. 
Before Weis' arrival, the largest crowd for a Blue-Gold Game was 35,675 in 1981 for then-coach Gerry Faust's first spring game. Holtz's first year saw 32,071 fans attend the Blue-Gold Game. 
Honorary captains 
Former Irish quarterback Tony Rice, who led Notre Dame to the 1988 National Championship was the hon­orary captain for the Gold team. 
Ross Browner, a College Football Hall of Farner who played defensive end for Notre Dame from 1973-77 under Parseghian and suc­cessor Dan Qevine, captained the Blue squad. 
While Rice was the only offensive starter on the 1988 national championship team not to play in the NFL, Browner played nine years with the Cincinnati Bengals and a final season with the Green Bay Packers. 
Rotating quarterbacks 
As part of Weis' plan for giving equal competition for the starting quarterback job, he had the four quarterbacks participate in coin flips to see who would play what series. 
Irish quarterbacks Evan Sharpley and Demetrius Jones lost coin flips the week before the game, which made Zach Frazer the starter for Gold and Jimmy Clausen the starter for Blue. The quarter-· backs rotated every series. 
Weis said the four had nearly identical repetitions during the spring's 15 prac­tices, ending with Saturday's scrimmage. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, April 23, 2007 


TRENCH WARFARE 
Aiming to "establish a toughness on offense that I think we've 
started to get away from a little bit," Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis had both the Blue and Gold squads run the ball, run it again -and then run it some more. The result was a defensive battle punctuated by a long, game-clinching drive by the Gold team. More than 50,000 fans came out to see the four quarterbacks, but the running backs and defense stole the show-especially Junior Jabbie, who had 87 yards rushing on 13 carries, and David Bruton, whose interception gave the Gold team its only touchdown. 

Photos by CASEY CARNEY, VANESSA GEM PIS and QUENTIN STENGER!The Observer Top left, Blue team running back Travis Thomas heads upfield. Top right, Gold team fullback Asaph Schwapp fights for extra yardage against Blue team defensive end Paddy Mullen, left, and linebacker Anthony Vernaglia. Center, Gold team cornerback Ambrose Wooden, left, and linebacker Toryan Smith sandwich Blue team running back Armando Allen. Bottom left, Gold team quarterback Evan Sharpley looks for a receiver. Bottom right, Gold team running back Junior Jabbie cuts upfield. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April23, 2007 
page 13 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Senior Staff Writer 
"With great power comes great responsibility" is the mantra that drives Peter Parker's dual lives, but it also can be just as aptly asked of Sony Pictures, the movie studio that made "Spider­Man" and "Spider-Man 2" the summer movie events of 2002 and 2004. 
With each progressive film in the arachnid superhero's saga costing more and more to make, the onus is on Sony to make the third installment of Sam Raimi's trilogy the most extravagant and exquisite hero adventure yet. And to drum up further anticipation for the massiwly-hyped, $258-million "Spider­Man :~." Sony has released an extended cut of the first Spider-Man sequel on DVD. which runs eight minutes longer and is billed as "Spider-Man 2.1." 
This sequel picks up two years after the events of the first "Spider-Man" lilm. Peter (Tobey Maguire) has drifted away from high school pal Harry Osborn (James Franco) and love interest Mary Jane (Kirsten Dunst). He precariously juggles two part-time jobs while major­ing in physics. All this takes a back seat to his pursuits as Spider-Man. 
Complicating matters is Peter's new­found friendship with Dr. Otto Octavius (Alfred Molina}, a brilliant physicist who believes his fusion experiments could provide cheap, renewable energy for all of New York City. But when the experi­ment goes wrong and permanently bonds four artificially-intelligent metal 
-
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com The "Spiderman" franchise has been extremely successful, and many people are looking forward to the third installment, which will arrive in theaters on May 4th. 
arms to his body, Octavius goes mad and begins wrecking havoc on the city as Dr. Octopus. Peter's now charged with stopping his one-time idol, while fighting aside lingering doubts about the costs of his double life. 
Unlike many sequels, "Spider-Man 2" improves upon its predecessor with startling ease and grace. Sure, its action sequences are more thrilling, but that is an expectation of almost any second attempt. Bigger is not always better, but "Spider-Man 2" towers over many of its superhero compatriots because it has that rare mix of heart, character and humanity that makes us care for Peter Parker, the college student, as much as Spider-Man, the superhero. 
By grounding the action around Peter's hard-luck life, Haimi invests his main character with a complexity that is missing in far too many summer block­busters. And Maguire, to his credit, matches Raimi's directorial skill by making us ache for his perpetually arms-length love for Mary Jane, the evolving relationship that remains the heart and soul of the franchise. 
True to their word, Sony Pictures' new "Spider-Man 2.1" DVD improves upon the film's theatrical cut. It's amazing to see how far Raimi, who supervised many of the re-additions, manages to stretch those eight minutes. On paper, that number doesn't sound all that impressive, especially against the formi­dable 50 minutes Peter Jackson added to "The Return of the King" on that film's extended edition. 
But just about every addition here is a solid one. Nearly every scene in the movie benefits from a few extra shots, and "Spider-Man 2.1" benefits from this even distribution. Mostly, this accounts for quiet character-revealing moments such as the scene where Peter sits alone in his cramped one-room apartment, listening to a police scanner while fight­ing thoughts of Mary Jane and a quieter life. 
For bonus features, "Spider-Man 2.1" includes a new commentary track with writer Alvin Sargent and producer Laura Ziskin. While not as engaging as the track with Raimi and Maguire, it reveals more about the all-important story and character choices that made this film so special. 
Among the new featurettes is "With Great Effort, Comes Great Hecognition," a compelling look at the Academy Award-winning special effects team that keeps the franchise on the cutting edge of its field and "Visual Effects Breakdown," which reveals how the spectacular train sequence was accom­plished. 
"Spider-Man 2.1" is the third release for the film on DVD. This fact alone should set spider-senses everywhere tingling, particularly since movie studios swindle away a fortune on re-releases. But rest assured Spidey fans, this one may actually be worth a fair shake. It makes a great movie a little bit better, and sets the bar that much higher for the wall-crawler in "Spider-Man 3." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 



Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 
The young lovelorn couple of Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire) and Mary Jane Watson In "Spider-Man 2," Spider-Man (Maguire) faces Doc Ock (Alfred Molina), a brilliant (Kirsten Dunst) always encounter problems because of Parker's secret identity. scientist who uses his invention of mechanical tentacles to attack Spider-Man. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 23, 2007 
MLB 

Tigers beat White Sox in extra-inning thriller 
Bonds moves one home run closer to Aaron's record; Rangers use Blalcok's two-run single to take down A's 
ing ovation, tipping his cap as
Associated Press 

he made his way to his spot. 
DETROIT -Marcus Thames Fans bowed over the left-field hit a tying homer with two outs fence. in the ninth inning, Placido Petit, called up from Triple-A Polanco singled home the win­Tucson· before the game to ning run in the 12th and the make his second major league Detroit Tigers rallied to beat the start, became the 438th pitcher Chicago White Sox 6-5 on to give up a homer to Bonds. Sunday. Bonds flied out and struck out 
Thames hit a two-run shot off looking in his other two at-bats, David Aardsma to tie the score but his home run and Pedro at 5 and help the Tigers avoid a Feliz's shot leading off the third three-game sweep against their led the Giants to their season­AL Central rivals. Chicago man­best fifth straight victory. ager Ozzie Guillen rested sever­al overworked relievers, includ­Rangers 4, Athletics 3 ing closer Bobby Jenks. Hank Blalock hit a two-run 
Wilfreda Ledezma entered in single and Texas scored three the ninth and pitched three times in the eighth to beat scoreless innings before Jason Oakland. Grilli (1-1) worked a perfect Eric Gagne got one out in the 12th. Detroit ended a season­ninth for the Rangers before worst three-game skid. leaving with a strained right 
Ivan Rodriguez drew a leadoff hip. walk, his first of the year, in the He landed awkwardly after 12th against loser Nick Masset throwing a pitch to Mark Ellis. (1-1). Gagne eventually limped off the 
The Tigers lost their previous field and is day to day. Akinori three extra-inning games at Otsuka came on for his second home this year and hadn't won save. one in Detroit since June 24 Blalock's third hit of the game against St. Louis. came on an 0-2 pitch from 
Jon Garland was dominant Oakland closer Huston Street
-
after giving up three runs in the with the bases loaded. It was first and the White Sox came Street's first blown save in live back to take a 5-3 lead on Joe opportunities. Crede's two-run homer in the Losing pitcher Justin eighth. A.J. Pierzynski also con­Duchscherer (1-1) walked Royals 3, Twins 1 Indians up 6-4. Braves 9, Mets 6 nected for Chicago. Sammy Sosa in the eighth to Jorge De La Rosa pitched a Stokes got the chance for his Kelly Johnson started the day 
force in a run. Willie Eyre (1-0) career-high eight innings and first career save because closer with a home run against Tom Giants 2, Diamondbacks 1 pitched 1 2-3 shutout innings retired 16 in a row during one AI Heycs, who is 6-for-6 in save Glavine and finished off the Barry Bonds is beginning to for the win. stretch to lead Kansas City over opportunities, had pitched in Mets with another homer off 
close in on Hank Aaron -fast. Shannon Stewart hit a two­Minnesota for its first series vic­the previous two games. Aaron Heilman (1-2). 
Bonds hit his 7 40th home run run homer in the fifth to give tory of the year. Tom Mastny (1-0) got his first Johnson homered on the first Sunday, connecting for the sec­Oakland a 3-1 lead. De La Hosa (2-1) allowed five major league win and Joe pitch of the game, then hit a ond consecutive game and help­hits, struck out four and walked Borowski earned his seventh tiebreaking, three-run drive in ing Matt Cain earn his first win Angels 6, Mariners 1 one. Joakim Soria earned his save. the eighth inning for Atlanta. of the season in the San Ervin Santana allowed one second save. Jhonny Peralta hit a two-run A sellout crowd of 55,671 Francisco Giants' 2-1 victory run over seven innings and Los homer for the Indians. came out on a sunny spring over the Arizona Angeles completed a three­Indians 6, Devil Rays 4 afternoon to watch Glavine face Diamondbacks. game sweep by handing Seattle Hyan Garko hit a go-ahead, Orioles 7, Blue Jays 3 John Smaltz, his golfing buddy 
Cain (1-1) pitched a three-hit­its sixth straight loss. three-run homer in the ninth Nick Markakis and Miguel and former teammate. Jose ter for his third career complete Santana (2-2) scattered six inning and Cleveland rallied Tejada each had three HB!s, Heyes' three-run triple in the game and first since a one-hit­hits, struck out live and walked past Tampa Bay to overcome an and Baltimore beat Toronto to sixth put the Mets ahead, but ter last May 21 at Oakland. He one. outstanding pitching perform­complete its first three-game Edgar Renteria erased a 6-3 struck out four and walked four. The only run against him ance by James Shields. home sweep of the Blue Jays in deficit in the seventh with a 
Bonds moved within 15 came in the fifth when Adrian Shields matched a Devil Hays 13 years. three-run homer off Scott homers of Aaron's record. With Beltre led off with a tape-meas­record with 12 strikeouts and Steve Trachsel (1-1) allowed Schoeneweis. two outs in the fourth inning, he ure homer into the rock forma­B.J. Upton hit a tiebreaking sin­one run in 5 1-3 innings to earn Ex-Met Tyler Yates (1-0) sent the first pitch from tion in left-center. gle in the eighth to help Tampa his first victory with the Orioles, pitched a perfect seventh and Yusmeiro Petit (0-1) into the Jeff Weaver (0-3), facing the Bay take a 4-2 lead. who have won four straight and Bob Wickman got three outs for seats in the right-field arcade Angels for the first time since But in the ninth, Victor eight of nine. his sixth save in six chances. for his sixth homer of the sea­they traded him to St. Louis last Martinez made it a one-run It's Baltimore's second four­Smoltz allowed six runs and son. July, allowed three runs and game with a one-out RBI single game winning streak of the sea­nine hits in 5 2-3 innings. 
The 42-year-old Bonds seven hits over three innings -off Brian Stokes (1-3). Garko son; the Orioles won four in a Glavine went six for the Mets, walked out to left field in the and actually lowered his EHA then sent a 2-2 pitch into the row only once last year -in giving up three runs and seven top of the fifth to a loud stand-from 15.75 to 13.91. left-field stands to put the August. hits. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for  New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to  OFF CAMPUS HOUSING: House  Adopt: A young loving couple long  
WANTED  07/08 school year. On line see rent-nd.com or mmmrentals.com.  campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus  for rent 1/2 mile from ND. 3 bdrms & 2 full baths, A/C. Newly remod- FoR SALE  to share their Hearts and home with a newborn & will provide Endless  
Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­ util. 914-232-3328.  eled. Must see! Call Darin 574-255­ love. Expenses paid call Eileen &  
SUMMER WORK - spot. net or phone 574-277-4759.  8935.  *ND CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath  Ed at 1-800-718-6577  
$15.50 base-appt.  2-6 BDRMS HOMES.  condos Minutes from campus Starting  
flexible schedules. no  Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt  GREAT RATES.  Across the street from ND, Corner  in $130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcon- If you or someone you care about  
exp.needed,customer sales/service,  loc.Spac.Lower.2b/2b incl.all appli.  574-329-0308  Lot. 4 BR,2 full baths. AIC & heat.  dos.com Reserve Yours Today!  has been sexually assaulted, visit  
conditions apply, all ages 17+, posi­ A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 +  Extra parking.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape  
lions throughout the US, apply now, start after finals,  util. 630-417­8763/MCL214@aol.com  5 Bedroom House; 1 05 Marquette Ave;  269-362-0498.  PERSONAL  to learn about resources at ND and in South Bend.  
Great Neighborhood,close to cam- 1-bdrm apts.  
www. workforstudents.com  Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9.  pus;232-6964.  Quiet historic neighborhood.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Evergreen Self Storage. Both eli- 
Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms.  Laundry & security.  not go it alone. If you or someone  mate and non-climate controlled.  
Sitter for 11-year-old girl in Granger  Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896.  WALK TO CAMPUS!! JAMISON  you love needs confidential support  Sizes from 10x10 to 10x20. Located  
and sometimes older sisters, 15 &  RESIDENTIAL 3 BDRM 2 BA LUX­ $575/mo.  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  in the Princess Way Industrial Park  
17. Days, 30-40 hours/week now  For rent: Nicest house in area. 4  URYCONDO.  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  in Granger at 12575 Sandy Drive.  
through summer.  bedrooms,AIC, security. 5 blocks  ACROSS B-BALL STADIUM FROM  574-532-8718.  information, visit our web site at  
Reply:  from campus. 289-4071.  CAMPUS.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- Mention this ad and save 10% off  
Linda.Harmon1 @comcast.net  SLEEPS UP TO 4 STUDENTS.  Room in beautiful home overlooking  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  your lease. Call 574-243-4608 or  
Very large home for rent for next  EXCELLENT RENTAL FOR 2  private golf course. 1.2 mi to ND.  in The Observer.  574-272-0618.  
~  FOR RENT  school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4  GRAD STUDENTS OR FOR PRI­VACY. CONVERT 3RD BEDROOM  Privileges include kitchen for light cooking. WID.  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ 2 bedroom, 3 bathroom house for  
huge bedrms/3 full baths/large  TO STUDY. CAB,NET,GAS,ELEC,  $275/mo.  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to  sublet  
andersonN Drentals.com  kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3  INCLUDED.  Call574-232-7564.  be alone. We want to help.  Summer2007  
decks overlook huge fenced yard.  $1600 PER MONTH BEGINNING  Avail. now and/or for 07-08.  Call our 24 hour confidential hotline  1 mile from campus  
BETIER HOMES,BETIER  Very private & safe!  6/1.  Add I room avail for football week- at 1-800-No-ABORT  Call 847 340-3207  
AREAS,BETIER DEALS.  Must see!  CALL MARK@  ends  or visit our website at  
BlueGoldRentals.com  239-707-2025.  310-940-9444.  at $125/night  www.lifecall.org  Happy 21st Birthday Maddie!!!  


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 23, 2007 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

team 
Boston 
Toronto American League, Central Division 
team record pet.···· · gb Minnesota 1H .611 Detroit 10-8 .556 1 Cleveland 8-7 .533 1.5 Chicago While Sox 9-8 .529 1.5 Kansas City 6-12 .333 5 
American league, West Division 

team record pet. gb 
Oakland 9-9 .500 LA Angels 9·9 .500 Texas 8·10 .444 1 Seattle 5·9 .357 2 
National league, East Division 

team record pet. gb 
Atlanta 12-6 .667 NY Mets 11-6 .647 .5 Florida 8-10 .444 4 Philadelphia 6-11 .353 5.5 Washington 6-13 .316 6.5 
National League, Central Division 

team record pet. gb 
Milwaukee 11-7 .611 Houston 9-8 .529 1.5 Cincinnati 9-10 .474 2.5 St. louis 8-10 .444 3 Pittsburgh HO .412 3.5 Chicago Cubs M 1 .389 4 
National League, West Division 
record pet.

team 
LA Dodgers 13-6 .684 San Diego 11-8 .579 San Francisco 9~8 .529 Arizona . 10-10 .500 Colorado 8-11 .421 

NCAA Women's Softball Top20 
team record 

1 Tennessee 42-2 
2 Oklahoma 41-4 
3 Alabama 40-4 
4 Arizona 28-8 
5 TexasA&M 3H 

6 lSU 39-6 5 
7 Northwestern 31-7 7 
8 Michigan 28-6 8 
9 Baylor 36-9 11 
=~:·:·: 

10 Arizona Slate : 36-10 9 11 Oregon 37-6 12 12 Stanford 27-9 10 13 Texas 28-10 13 14 DePaul 24-7 16 15 UCLA 26-10 15 16 Washington 23-10 11 17 Oregon Stale 29-12 18 18 Hawaii 40-8 21 19 Illinois State 30-9 19 20 louisiana-lafayette 34-11 14 

around the dial 
NBA 
Magic at Pistons 7 p.m., TNT 
Jazz at Rockets 
9:30 p.m., TNT 
NHL Sharks at Predators 9 p.m., Versus 
CHAMP CAR 


-
-
-
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -Sebastien Bourdais couldn't stop his car toward the end of the Champ Car Grand Prix of Houston. 
Not a bad problem for a driver when he's trying to win a race-unless he's totally out of controL 
But if the 28-year-old Frenchman was having car problems Sunday, he hid them well, winning in Houston for the second straight year and grabbing the inside track for his fourth consecutive Champ Car title. 
"There was just no bite anymore on the brakes," he said. 'It wouldn't slow down. I don't know what happened. It was a weird feeling, very uncomfort­able." 
His car was still the best of the field. 
Bourdais earned his 25th career win in his 62nd start, continuing his unprecedented dominance of the circuit. Brakes or not, Bourdais decided to finish his second win of the sea­son in style, turning his fastest lap (58.018 seconds) on his 93rd and final trip around the 1.69-mile street course next to Reliant Stadium. 
Bourdais has won 14 of his last 24 starts. With his victory Sunday, Bourdais overtook points leader Will Power in the standings. Power, who started on the pole, damaged the nose wing on his car three times and finished 11th. 
Beyond his own car prob­lems, Bourdais got some luck at the end when anoth­er one ran out of gas. 
Bourdais went for a pit stop on the 68th lap, while rookie Tristan Gommendy stayed on the track, gam­bling that he wouldn't have to stop again for fueL 
If a caution flag had come out, the drivers would've held their positions and Gommendy would've been able to save gas and cruise to victory. 
But like they do most time§ in Champ Car these days, things went Bourdais' way. The yellow never came and Gommendy ran out of gas on lap 87 as Bourdais slipped past him. 
"I had the feeling where it's either going to go our way and we were going to win it," Bourdais said, "or it's going to go his way and he's going to win it. That's racing, I guess." 
Bourdais cruised from there with rookie Graham Rahal,his teammate, pro­tecting him in second place. The 18-year-old Rahal, who skipped his senior prom in Ohio to race in Houston, fin­ished 4.819 seconds behind Bourdais and became the youngest top-three finisher in series history. 

IN BRIEF  
Another first-timer takes top prize at Zurich Classic  IQng proves her worth in ten­nis match, singing  IUSB coach heads to Butler University  
AVONDALE-Nick Watney offered·  DELRAY BEACH -With Serena  INDIANAPOLIS -Butler has  
a slight wave to the applauding  Williams sidelined, Fed Cup team­ hired Micah Shrewsberry as its  
crowd as he walked away from his  mate Vania King showed she can do  coordinator of basketball opera­ 
par putt on the 17th hole, then took  more than sing.  tions, the university said Sunday.  
a deep breath, his cheeks puffing as  The 18-year-old King won raves  Shrewsberry, who had been  
he exhaled.  for her rendition of the national  head men's basketball coach at  
There was only one hole to go for his  anthem to start the weekend, then  Indiana-South Bend, replaces Joel  
first career PGA triumph, not to men­ substituted Sunday for Williams and  Cornette, who left to join former  
tion a check for nearly $1.1 million.  sealed the U.S. team's victory over  Butler head coach Todd Lickliter  
He was nervous, he admitted later,  Belgium.  at Iowa.  
but not that nervous.  King beat Kirsten Flipkens 4-6, 6­ "Micah brings a wealth of expe­ 
"I loved being in this position,"  4, 7-5, giving the Americans an  rience," said Butler coach Brad  
Watney said. "That's one of the  insurmountable 3-0 lead in the best­ Stevens. "We feel very fortunate to  
funnest things about it is to be in posi­ of-five match. Serena and Venus  add a person to our staff who has  
tion and pull it off and conquer your  Williams won in singles Saturday,  had experience as a head coach  
nerves.'  then became cheerleaders from the  and who is an Indianapolis guy."  
. Five strokes later, the lanky, clean­ bench rooting for King .  Shrewsberry played basketball  
cut Californian tapped in for another  "It's a great feeling, because  at Cathedral High School in  
par on No. 18, smiled broadly as he  they're champions I really look up  Indianapolis and played college  
raised his arms, then hugged his cad­ to," King said. "It's really honoring."  basketball at Hanover, where he  
die. The 25-year-old, now in his third  Serena Williams pulled out a few  was a three-year starting point  
year on the tour, had prolonged a  hours before she was to face  guard.  
recent pattern of first-time winners at  Flipkens, citing slight inflammation  He has guided Indiana-South  
the Zurich Classic.  in the right knee.  Bend the past two seasons.  

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 23,2007 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles defeated by No. 50 Albion 
By ELLYN MICHALAK SportS Writer 
The Belles couldn't pull off a victory to maintain their sec­ond place standing in the MIAA, falling 8-1 Saturday to national No. 50 Albion at Saint · Mary's. 
The Belles now hold an over­all record of 10-12 and an MIAA mark of 5-3. After the loss to the Britons Saturday, the Belles now are fourth in the MIAA, sitting behind Kalamazoo, Hope and Albion. 
"I think that our team is a lit­tle disappointed in the outcome of Saturday's match," freshman Camille Gebert said. "On a per­sonal level it was a really good win to pull out going into con­ference tournament. [Briton freshman Holly HuthJ was a really tough player, and the conditions were kind of rough. It boosted my confidence to go into [the MIAA Tournament] this coming weekend." 
The Britons dominated in

-
singles, as the Belles only earned one victory. That came in the No. 2 singles spot where Gebert defeated Britons fresh­man Holly Huth 6-2, 6-1. 

-
At No. 1 singles, Britons sen­ior Emily Stocker defeated Belles senior captain Kelly McDavitt 6-2 and 6-1. In the 
third singles match of the day, Belles freshman Lisa Rubino fell after a tie breaker 6-4, 7-6 to Britons freshman Michelle Mulder. 
Belles senior Tara O'Brien fell to Britons junior Emily Gundersen 6-2, 6-0 at No. 4 singles. Saint Mary's junior Cassie Quaglia fell to Britons junior Jenny Bringham 6-4, 6-2 in the fifth singles spot. In the fmal singles match of the day, Britons freshman Anna Gundersen defeated Belles sen­ior Grace Gordon in straight sets 6-2, 6-2. 
The Belles went scoreless in doubles play as well. In the first doubles match, the duo of McDavitt and Gebert were nar­rowly defeated by Britons Huth and Stocker 8-6. Belles netters O'Brien and Gordon were shut out 8-0 by the Britons duo of Mulder and Bringham at No. 2 doubles. 
In the fmal doubles match of the day, the Belles freshman duo of Erin Kaplan and Rubino fell to Britons sister duo of Emily and Anna Gundersen 8­6. 
The Britons now boast an MIAA conference record of 6-1 
Sa'turday 
May5 
lloOO -5o00 

11 Galleries 
C:::olf.dJx Avenue cntd Lincoln Way West Arts <.orrid.Or--s 
Downt'own Sout"h Bend 

storage
space
• Lighted &Paved 
• Free Lock with Every Unit 4Mon:n soeclal Mav mrougl'i August For Notre Dame Students 5X10 ...$14!'3.1· OEP 
10 X10 ...$199 +OEP Cali 57<t:24VB05 
Between Notre oame ana Airport atthe comer of Mayflower & Ed!Sori 

and an overall record of 11-5, good enough for third place. 
The Belles have one more match in the regular season. They travel to Aquinas today in advance of the MIAA tourna­ment that will take place at Kalamazoo, Mich., this week­end. Last season, the Saints narrowly defeated the Belles 5­4. 
The match will begin today at 3 p.m. in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 
O'Brien leads Belles to fifth place 
Third round delayed; play will resume on Tuesday at Tri-State 
By KATE ARNOLD . Sports Writer 
The Belles faced tough com­petition this weekend. 
Saint Mary's traveled to The Medalist Golf Club in Marshall, Mich., to compete in the MIAA NCAA qualifying tournament Friday and Saturday. With two rounds completed, the team is in fifth behind Olivet, Albion, Hope and Tri-State. 
Shooting a score of 374 
Friday and 386 Saturday, the two-day total for the Belles is 760 -72 strokes more than first place Olivet. They were 42 strokes better than their near­est competitor, Kalamazoo. Although originally scheduled to participate, Adrian, Alma and Calvin did not compete. 
Junior captain Katie O'Brien led the Belles, firing an 84 Friday and 81 Saturday, put­ting her in the top-1 0 for indi­vidual golfers in both rounds. Sophomore Meredith Fantom followed next on the team, with a total of 192. 
Last fall, Saint Mary's fin­ished fourth in the tourna­ment, with a three-day total of 1484. After this weekend, the Belles were performing slightly better this year, scoring 739 in their first two rounds. Sophomore Perri Hamma is tied for 23rd after firing rounds of 95 and 98. 
The third and final round was postponed and will be played at Tri-State University's Zollner golf course Tuesday. The team with the lowest cumulative score after all three rounds will then advance to the NCAA Championships held May 8-11 at El Campeon Golf Course at the Mission Inn Resort & Club in Howey-in-the­Hills, Fla. 
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 


Insight comes from all ir ti ns. 
You bring something unique to the table, and at Ernst &Young, 
you'll be encouraged to speak up and contribute. Because we 
know that bringing together people with different backgrounds 
and perspectives lets us deliver quality results for our clients. 
It's why we've created a work environment of mutual respect 
that promotes your personal and professional growth and 
success. So visit us on campus or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 
TO WORK FOR~ 

Monday, April 23, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

E·WORD 
·EMY 
Corpus Christi 
Dir. of Campus Ministry Master's degree in Catholic Theology, 3 yrs. exp. & Spanish fluency prefd. Send resume to deleona(ib,iwacc. or2 or fax 361-883-2185 www.I wacc.ora
---·--·--= 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles take down Comets 
By REBECCA SLINGER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's moved up two spots in the MIAA rankings to No. 6 after blasting conference nemesis eighth-place Olivet 13­7 and 9-1 at Gainey Field Saturday. 
Beating the Comets (15-12, 3­8 MIAA) was no easy job for the Belles (18-6, 3-5 MIAA). Olivet hit 

Saint Mary's hard "It was win every Comets managed in Davison. out of the gate, inning. That was just two hits off The Comets attempted to scoring seven her. score in the fifth to stop the
our goal -win 
runs in the first The rest of the slaughter rule from taking
every inning." 
inning, including a team came out effect but they had little chance first-pitch leadoff swinging too, against the Belles' defense. home run from driving in nine Peterson made a spectacular
Erin Sullivan 
Olivet sophomore runs and 10 hits. dive to catch a foul ball but just
Belles coach 
shortstop Kacie Rosecrants off Belles sophomore pitcher Calli Davison (3.66 ERA). 
The Belles went hitless until the third when sophomore flrst baseman Katie Rashid homered and knocked in senior desig­nated hitter Laura Heline. Sophomore catcher Ashley Fusaro continUfld the Belles comeback as Heline scored on an error. Sophomores Cathy Kurczak and Rashid also scored unearned runs in the fourth. 
Davison, who gave up just four hits after the first inning, struck out Comet second base­man Heather Jones to end the game at 13-7. 
Belles head coach Erin Sullivan said the team's strate­gy to close the 7-0 deficit in the first inning was simple. 
"It was win every inning. That was our goal -win every inning," she said. 
In the second game, the The Belles continued their Belles had five hits on Comets dominance in the fourth and pitcher Danielle Kapral. Kapral fifth innings. Miesle, Corrigan, was replaced by reliever Haley Rashid and Heline all scored to Van Epps after the third, but make the score 6-1. In the fifth, the Belles could not be stopped, freshman second baseman plating three more off Epps in Maureen Healy singled to two innings. knock in Rashid. Healy scored The Belles' 9-1 pounding of on Davison's double after she Olivet in the second game was stole second. Healy now leads largely due to sophomore the team in stolen bases with pitcher Kristin Amram's (1.05 three. The Belles brought the ERA) near-perfect score to 9-1 later in the inning form the when Miesle doubled and ran 
In the first, junior missed. The miss didn't matter 
designated hitter as Amram struck out three bat-M c K e n n a ters and gave Corrigan singled up only one hit to score fresh­to end the game
"Ifeel like everyday
man outfielder 9-1 in five Ashley Peterson, we're readyfor innings. and Heline Sullivan said
a game. 
knocked in senior the change in shortstop Sarah the team's atti­Miesle on a sin­Erin Sullivan tude on the gle. The Comets Belles coach field came from 
responded with one run in the first. 
But the Belles' retooled line­up and work in practice allowed them to keep pounding away at the Comets' pitching. 
"We ... made some changes in our lineup. We switched around the top three which gives Mo [Healy] more chances as a slapper," Sullivan said. "We practiced like we were warming up for a game. I feel like everyday we're ready for a game." 
their past per­

-' 
formances. 

"[The team feels] very good obviously," she said. "It was a good confi­dence boost. We came back against Goshen [April 19] so strong that it carried into today." 
The Belles will next face MIAA rival Albion (10-20, 3-9 MIAA) Tuesday at 3:30 p.m. at Gainey Field. 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SENIORS: 
TRADITIONNEVER GRADUATES! Support Your Senior Class Gift. 
You should be receivingyour 2007football ticket lottery application soon. Ifyou make a gift of$100 by December 31, 2007, you will be eligiblefor the 2008football ticket lottery. You can support any organization, program, or event officially sponsored by the University. Visit supporting.nd.edu to make yourgift online. Email gift2007@nd.edu with any questions. 

_j 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 23, 2007 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Saint Mary's College 

ND loses heartbreaker 8-7 
Cuesf performer 
lim Richard 
Irish fall to Rutgers after leading with under two minutes left 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
No. 6 Notre Dame finished the regular season in tough fashion Saturday, losing its sec­ond straight game -this time 8-7 to Rutgers -a week before the inaugural Big East champi­onship this coming weekend. 
In a close game that featured six ties and five lead changes, Notre Dame led the Scarlet Knights 7-6 with less than two min­

utes remaining. "We ,re really game gave the Rutgers senior determined to Irish a two-goal midfielder Katie lead, the largest
move forward from 
Batiuk, who leads either team the Big East in this game." would enjoy all points, scored an afternoon. As was unassisted goal the case all game, 
Tracy Coyne 
with 1:43 remain­the lead did not
Irish coach
ing to tie the game at 7-7. Then, with only eight seconds left, Batiuk scored off a loose ball in front of the Irish net for the game winner. 
After Rutgers struck first with a Mary Cryan goal, the Irish responded to take a 2-1 lead with goals from junior Caitlin McKinney and sophomore Jillian Byers. The Scarlet Knights quickly matched the Notre Dame goals, however, 

taking a 3-2 lead. replaying the Vanderbilt game 
Two more goals from Byers in instead of playing Rutgers, sec­the final three minutes of the ond-guessing ourselves and half gave the Irish a 4-3 lead at playing tentatively," Coyne said. 
the break.  The five goals by  
Scarlet Knight  Byers gave her 55  
attack  Nina  "Everyone,s back  on the season, sec­ 
Frankowski's 38th goal of the season tied the  on a level playing field in the Big  ond-best in Notre Dame history. McKinney provid­ 
game  at  4-4  to  East tournament."  ed the other two  
open the second  goals for the Irish,  
half after a 10­minute scoring drought. Byers,  Tracy Coyne Irish coach  and five Notre Dame players each had an  

who led the Irish offense, took the lead back for Notre Dame with a goal off a pass from senior attack Lena Zentgraf. 
McKinney's sec­ond goal of the 

last long. Rutgers scored two quick goals to tie the game at 6-6. 
Byers' fifth goal on the day gave the Irish a 7-6 lead that looked like it might hold up. Down the stretch, however, Batiuk and the Scarlet Knights took the victory. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said she thought the team was con­centrating too much on last week's close loss at Vanderbilt. 
"In a lot of ways we were 
of Nevv York Dance Connection 
at 7:30P.M. 
Guest Choreographer 
April28
lisa Frank 
at 2:30P.M. 
Artistic Direction 

lndi Dieckgrafe O'laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $9-Adult $8-Senior Citizen 
-f%1­
SAINT 

$7-SMC/ND Staff
MARY'S 
$6-Student
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 

MoreauCenter.corn 


For tickets, visit the Box Office or call (574) 284-4626. 
assist. 

Batiuk led Rutgers with three goals and an assist, and junior Katy Lawrence also added a goal and a feed. The Scarlet Knights outshot the Irish 26-23 and received 12 saves from goal­keeper Erika Paige. 
"We're really determined to move forward from this game," Coyne said. "We've renewed our commitment since the loss, and everyone's back on a level playing field in the Big East tournament." 
With the loss, the Irish ­who entered the game in a three-way tie for first in the Big 
East  - finished tied for third  
with a  3-2 conference record.  
With  Rutgers  taking  the  

tiebreaker over the Irish based on Saturday's match, Notre Dame will be the No. 4 seed in the Big East tournament. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Did you know that Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and entering Grad students can join Army ROTC and receive afull scholarship? Did you know that Army ROTC only requires about 5 hours of your time per week? Did you know that ROTC scholarships cover full tuition, fees, $900 per year for books and pays a monthly stipend? Get the facts; contact Captain Kelley Osborne at (574) 631-4656 or eosborne@nd.edu. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Monday, April 23,2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Team posts 41 top-10 marks 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Four Notre Dame athletes won their respective events and 41 placed in the top-1 0 this weekend as the team ­spread from Michigan to Oregon -headed toward the end of the regu­lar season 
before the Big "If you go out and Mideast future," Weber said. "You East champi­improve, it Regionals, always keep looking towards onships. · something he that and you always keep
motivates you 

Some team hopes to looking towards the Big East members com­to go out the achieve at the meet." peted in the next meet and Big East cham­She threw for 53.46 meters 0 r e g o n pionships. in the hammer. Although she
just do better."

Invitational and Junior Kyle has thrown shot put since others made the Annen won the high school, she puts most of trip to the Eric Quick hammer by her work in practice into the Central Irish freshman throwing for a hammer. 
Collegiate championship in Ypsilanti, Mich. It was in Michigan that the Irish had the most success; the men's and women's teams both came in third place overall. 
Freshman Eric Quick won the long jump with a leap of 
6.97 meters. Usually a triple­jumper, Quick was nervous about competing in long jump, but said both he and his coach were confident. 
"We were hoping for the best, and it ended up work­ing out," he said. "I worked on a little bit of technical stuff throughout the week and ended up pulling through at the meet." 
With his jump, Quick set a 
new season-best distance, tance of 39.63 meters. which in track can prove Sophomore Anna Weber very helpful. finished second in both the 
"It's a huge aspect of com­hammer and the shot put. petition," he said. "If you go She threw for 14.20 meters out and improve, it motivates in the shot put, setting a new you to go to the next meet personal-best distance for and just do better." the second week in a row. 
Quick is currently just "If you can keep progress­under 40 centimeters short ing each meet, you know if 
of qualifying for you're getting second now 
the NCAA that there's a first in your 
distance of "Hammer's my new event, 
56.88 meters. so in practice you just kind of Senior Garet Koxlien finished concentrate on the new," she 
fourth, throw- said. "I don't  
ing for 53.92 meters. Junior Jake Watson won the 5,000  "If you can keep progressing each meet, you know if  know. It just seems natu­ral to me, I guess." Junior  
meters, finish­ing with a time of 14:51.95. Junior Mike  you're getting second now there's a first  Brie nne Davis placed second in the 100-meter  
Popejoy came  in your future. "  dash,  cross­ 
in third with a  ing the line  
time of 15:06.30. To round out  Anna Weber Irish sophomore  in 12.68 sec­onds. Senior Ann Mazar  

the first-place finishers, freshman Elise Knutzen won the javelin throw with a dis-
On Campus Graduation Weekend Special Mayl9-23, 2007 
Come early, stay late, same price! Sacred Heart Parish Center has rooms available for your parents. Weekend donation is $100.00 per parent, Whether you stay Two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday through Sunday. For reservations call574-631-7512 or 574-631-9436 
SOFTBALL 
TUESDAY, APRIL 24TH @7:00PM VS. NORTHWESTERN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25 @6:30PM VS. UIC (FINAL HoME GAME) 
took second in the 5,000 meters, finishing in 18:32.43. Sophomore Lauren Bascardi tied for second in the high jump, clearing a height of 1.63 meters. Sophomore Becca Bauman capped the second-place fin­ishers for the Irish, running 
11:24 in the 3,000 meter steeplechase. Junior Liz Philipp came in third in the event, running 11:30.41. 
Out in Oregon, freshman Jaclyn Espinoza took third in the discus with a throw of 146 feet 9 inches. Junior Jake Watson took sixth in the first section of the 1,500 meters, finishing in 3:43.59. 
Senior Kurt Benninger and sophomore Patrick Smyth finished sixth and seventh, respectively, in the second section of the 1,500 meters. Benniger finished in 3:47.07, with Smyth right behind him at 3:47.15. 
Senior Todd Ptacek finished sixth in the 3,000 meter stee­plechase, ending with a time of 8:49.55. Senior Thomas Chamney also took sixth in the 800 meters, finishing with a time of 1:49.67. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish fire record score in Big East first round 
Squad leads seven-school field after first round; Louisville in second, six strokes back 

By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Notre Dame shot a Big East championship record round of four-over-par 292 Sunday to give the Irish a place atop the standings for the first of three rounds in the seven-team tournament at the Oxmoor Country Club in Louisville, Ky. 
Louisville is in second place, six strokes behind the Irish, while South Florida's perform­ance has the Bulls 12 shots back in third place. 
Notre Dame freshmen Annie Brophy and Julie Kim paced the Irish, as both golfers shot season-best rounds of even­par 72. 

Kim led the team with 14 pars on the day, including matching the scorecard on her first 13 holes. She also fin­ished with two birdies. Brophy had two birdies and 11 pars, but also carded the team's only eagle on the par-S fifth hole. The pair of freshmen are in a three-way tie for second place. 
Notre Dame senior Noriko Nakazaki shot a one-over-par 73, putting her in a tie for fifth for the tournament. The senior co-captain carded a team-high four birdies on the day. 
Irish freshman Kristin Wetzel shot a three-over-par 75 on the day, placing her in a tie for ninth. Rounding out the list was sophomore Lisa Maunu, who earned a five­over-par 77, good enough for a tie for 11th. 

First-year Irish coach Susan Holt, who previously coached at South Florida before joining the Irish, said there's still room for improvement. 
"We played well today," she said. "We had a couple bogies that were unnecessary so we could have been even better, but I am really happy with how we played. We still have two days to go, so we need to refocus and try to widen our lead." 
Holt mentioned she talked to her team about the mental focus it lacked at times this season, and they were able to overcome that roadblock on Sunday. 
"We had a really good team meeting last night and I just told them to focus on the little things that they've been work­ing on all year," Holt said. "They have been focused, but just not for an entire 18 holes. They start out well and then kind of fall back and that's a mental thing. They just have to be patient and accept what happens and deal with it. I was very pleased with how they did that today." 
The second round begins today at 8 a.m., and the final round will be held Tuesday. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at 
lreyez@nd.edu 
ON£ LucKY Gow RusH MEMBER WILL WIN ATRIP ToiRnANn! 
~" ~~~ylrdld

BASEBALL 
TUESDAY, APRIL 24TH @6:05PM VS. BALL STATE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25TH@ 6:05PM VS. VALPARAISO 
THIS WEEK's GAMES BROUGHT ro you Bv: c::;;::_;;y AN .AIVERICAN 

NOTRE DAME
R=vouJTION 
FEDERAl. Clft'Dif UNION 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 23, 2007 
SOFTBALL 

Conference foes sweep reeling Irish 

By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame struggled this weekend, dropping a pair af dou­bleheaders to conference foes South Florida and Louisville at Ivy Field. The Irish fell to 9-5 in the Big East and 24-18 overall. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame lost both games of a doubleheader to Louisville, 8-2 in the first and 5-0 in the second contest. The Irish offense couldn't get a substantial amount of support to foil the Cardinals' pitching. 
Louisville got out to an early, two-run lead in the first inning after Cardinals freshman Melissa Roth brought in an RBI with a double and sophomore Kristi Cunningham singled to bring in Roth. 
After Irish senior Stephanie Brown reached base with an error in the bottom of the first, she eventually advanced to third on junior Katie Laing's single. Freshman Christine Lux came through with the big hit, allowing Brown to cross the plate. 
In the third inning, Louisville senior Courtney Moore homered to give the Cardinals a 3-1 lead. Later in the fourth, the Cardinals added two insurance runs to give them a four-run lead. 
Sophomore pitcher Brittney Bargar added another run for the Irish with an infield single that scored classmate Linda Kohan, who reached base on a single of her own. Bargar's hit extended her hitting streak to three games. 
Louisville took care of the rest of the game's offense with a three-run inning in the sixth after two Irish errors on the field. 

In the second game, senior Kenya Fuemmeler took the loss as Louisville scored the only five runs of the game in the third inning. Moore singled in the frame with the bases loaded, driving in two Cardinals. 
Red-shirt sophomore Brooke McCrain drove in two runs when she doubled down the left-field line. To end the scoring rally, freshman Rebecca Saksefski sin­gled in a run. 
Fuemmeler pitched well the rest of the game, but the damage was already done and Louisville leapfrogged the Irish in the Big East. 
an insurance run when Danielle Urbanik singled to left field, driv­ing in the third run of the game. Smith, the left fielder, threw out a South Florida runner at home trying to score on Urbanik's sin­gle. 
That was all the offense on the day, and the Irish dropped their fourth consecutive, as Fuemmeler's record worsened to 8-9. 
Notre Dame's will face No. 8/10 Northwestern Tuesday for a non­conference doubleheader. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
MEN's GoLF 

Golfers in fourth at Big East tourney 
By CHRIS DOYEN SportS Writer 

Before the start of the 2007 Big East championships, Irish coaeh Jim Kubinski believed that all of the pressure rested squarely on Louisville. 
The top-seeded Cardinals, playing on their home course at the Cardinal Club in Louisville, Ky., handled the pressure with ease in the opening round Sunday, enjoy­ing a six-stroke lead after the first of three rounds. 
The Irish ended the day within striking distance ­they sit in fourth place ­only eight strokes behind the Cardinals after scoring a three-over-par 291. St. John's and Marquette stand between the Irish and Louisville after posting scores of 289 and 290, respectively. 
Kubinski was expecting big things from his two stars, senior co-captain and All­America candidate Cole Isban and last year's tourna­ment clincher, sophomore Josh Sandman. The best round of the day, however, came from Irish co-captain, senior Adam Gifford, who is playing in his first-ever Big East championship. 
Reclaiming the magic from his eighth-place finish at Augusta State earlier this month, Gifford finished the day in third place on the individual Jeaderboard, shooting a three-under-par 69, tying his career best mark for the third time in the past six weeks. Gifford was the only Irish golfer to end the day in the top-1 0 and was the only one to shoot under par. 
Fortunately for the Irish, the closest thing to a bad day anyone had was Isban's four­over-par 76, which was good enough to keep him in the top half of the individual leaderboard. Sunday's open­ing round marked just the second time that Is ban's score did not count toward the team's total. 
Sandman contributed a one-over-par 73, good enough to put him in a tie for 13th heading into Monday's second round. Rounding out the lineup for the Irish were freshman Doug Fortner and junior Greg Rodgers, who shot a two-over-par 74 and a three-over-par 75, respec­tively. 
If Gifford maintains his momentum while Isban and Sandman solidify their posi­tions as two of the top golfers in the conference, the Irish could put themselves in excellent position by the end of Monday's second round. The Irish will tee off at 8 a.m. this morning. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

On Sunday, South Florida took both games 3-1. 
In the third frame, Bulls fresh­man Cat Olnick drove in two runs with a bases-loaded double, which was set up by three con­secutive singles. 
Notre Dame responded with a run in the bottom half of the inning on a single by Laing, scor­ing senior Gessica Hufnagle, but that was all the Irish would get. 
Later in the seventh, South Florida added an insurance run when junior Kit Dunbar doubled to bring one home. 
Bargar took the loss, dropping her record to 16-9. 
In the second game of the dou­bleheader, the Irish captured an early lead in the second inning when junior Sarah Smith singled to bring in a run. 
The lead stood until the fifth frame when South Florida put up a three-run rally with two outs. Sophomore Britta Giddens sin­gled home a run after a pair of singles. 
Freshman Tara Toscano hit an RBI infield single, giving the Bulls the lead., South Florida gained 
Com.e and Listen Com.e and Read Com.e and Play Lectio@Eievea 
A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
April24: A Fireside Chat by FYS Dean Hugh Page Music by Joey and the Matchmen 
Lectio(ct;Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 

Monday, April 23, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS ·page 21 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
Catrina Thompson lost the first of the final three match­es at No. 1 singles. After split­ting the first two sets with South Florida's Shadisha Robinson, Thompson grabbed the first game of the third set and jumped out to a 40-15 lead in the second game. B Robinson rallied, scoring four straight points to capture the game then using that momen­tum to down Thompson. 
"[Robinson] got a little con­fidence and rolled on [Thompson]," Louderback said. "[If Thompson] wins that second game, goes up 2-0, she's in control but she just let her serve slip away. She played a bad game and that hurt her." 
But even with Thompson's defeat, the Irish still had rea­son to believe they could pull out the win. Freshman Cosmina Ciobanu was still on the court. All season, Ciobanu had not lost a match -until Sunday. Ciobanu dropped her first match of the season in a 
three-set thriller to Gabriela Ouch 3-6, 6-3, 7-5. 
"She didn't play as well as she normally did. She won the first set then didn't play a very good second set. She got behind 4-1, and was fighting back the whole time," Louderback said. "Then, the third set she did the same thing, got down 4-1. After winning the first set she played behind the rest of the match and that's not like her. That's tough to do. She got back into the third again_ down 4-0 and was 5-5 but couldn't finish it." 
Katie Potts represented Notre Dame's last hope. Like Ciobanu, Potts took her match with South Florida's Iciri Rai to a 5-5 score in the third set before losing the final two games, giving South Florida the title. 
"[Potts] won the game to go up 5-4 and serve, and lost four points quickly and [Rai] got some confidence," Louderback said. "She didn't play very well the last three games but got in position to win it 5-4." 
The Irish began the match by gaining the doubles point as the senior All-American tandem of Catrina and Christian Thompson were able to defeat Southern Florida's Jessica Sweeting and Ouch by a score of 8-4. 
In addition, Ciobanu and freshm11n Kali Krisik earned an 8-4 victory over the Bulls duo of Liz Cruz and Rai. 
Junior Brook Buck and sophomore Kelcy Tefft tied Shadisha Robinson and Courtney Vernon 7-7, but the Irish had already clinched the doubles point to gain an early 1-0 lead. 
The Bulls won the first sin­gles point as Courtney Vernon handled Christian Thompson in straight sets, 6-1, 6-1. 
Freshman Colleen Rielley then stepped up for the Irish and regained a 2-1 advantage in the match 6-1, 6-3 victory over Southern Florida's Jessica Sweeting. 
Sophomore Kelcy Tefft pushed the lead to 3-1 with a 7-5, 6-1 triumph over Liz Cruz at the No. 4 singles spot. 
The Irish earned a berth in the finals after defeating Connecticut and Marquette 4­0 in the quarterfinals and semifinals, respectively. 
Title 
continued from page 24 
David Simon and Robert Rotaru defeated the Irish duo of junior Sheeva Parbhu and sophomore Brett Helgeson 8­2. 
With doubles tied at one apiece, Bass and Keckley bat­tled at the top spot against No. 22 Damar Johnson and Slavko Radman. The match was back and forth for over an hour until Bass and Keckley broke serve to take the win 9-7. It marked the second time this season that the Irish duo has knocked off the No. 22 Cardinals duo. 
With the doubles point in hand, Brett Helgeson quickly polished off Kenneth Nordheim at No. 3 singles. 
Helgeson defeated Nordheim in straight set victories 6-1, 6­0. 
With the 2-0 lead, Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss noted that Louisville began to feel the need to step it up. 
"Brett really set the tone when he got off the court so quickly," he said. "He put a lot of pressure on the Louisville guys." 
Following the tone set by Helgeson, King was off the courts next for the Irish. King made quick work of Robert Rotaru as he defeated him 6­1, 6-1 at the No.4 spot to bring Notre Dame within one point of the win. King domi­nated play with his aggressive on all ends. 
"He dictated off the ground, got to the net, and asserted his authority in good solid all court play," Bayliss said. 
Bass once again stepped up for the Irish at No. 1 singles as he clinched the win for Notre Dame with a 6-3, 6-2 win over Slavko Radman. It was the second time in the past month that No. 9 Bass has defeated No. 68 Slavko Radman. 
Bass has been a guiding force on the Irish squad this year. 
"It's exactly what you want to see as a coach," Bayliss said of Bass. "To assume that amount of responsibility and take the ball." 
Notre Dame defeated Villanova and St. John's by scores of 4-0 and 4-0 en route to the championship against Louisville. The 4-0 win over the Cardinals guaranteed the Irish an automatic berth in the NCAA Championship. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
Pick up our2 
Tuesday, April 24: 


"It'd be nicer to have a cou­ple of tougher matches lead­ing up to the finals, but there's no excuse for us to lose to South Florida," Louderback said. 
The Irish will look to get 

back on track in time for the NCAA Team Championship beginning May 11. 
Contact Dan Maloof at dmaloof@nd.edu and Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

CoiDIDits 
continued from page 24 
ing Weis' offense before the coach moved to Notre Dame in 2005. His uncle Christian Fauria played tight end under Weis with the New England Patriots from 2002-2004 when the coach was the Patriots' offensive coordinator. 
Fauria also said that playing at Notre Dame was a dream come true and a goal he has had since childhood. 
"Just being on campus just ensured everything that I thought about it and even more so. I loved everything about it; I couldn't find anything negative about it," he said. "And I've always wanted to be a part of it, and now I am." 
Notre Dame also landed Demetrius Fleming, a 6-foot-2, 

ea 


12-5 in 108 LaFortune (Sori:n Annex--adjacent to n1ain lounge) 4:30-7:30 at North Dining Hall (south porch) 
W cdnesday, April 25: 12-5 in 108 LaFortune 4:30-9:30 at South Dining Ilall (rnain lobby) 
Thursday, April 26: 12-5 in 108 LaFortune 
• 
No charge to undergraduates (just sho"v lD). (;r~d students and others may purchase for $29 at Laf....ortune.lnformation Desk.. 

• 
2004, 2005 and 2006 yearbook." win be available in 108 LaFot·tune \Vhile supplies last.. (No charge to undergrads).. 

• 
Students who are abroad nuty have a friend pick up a copy for them, or they may come to 315 LaFortune next fall. 

• 
For more information, or to inquire about working on the 2008 Dome, e-mail Domc@nd..edu or phone 1-7524.. 


Thank you and enjoy youryearbook 
219-p.ound linebacker and defensive end from St. Rita High School in Chicago. 
Fleming has put up impres­sive statistics in his high school career, including 105 tackles, with 15 for a loss, nine sacks, four forced fumbles, three fum­bles recovered and six tipped passes in his junior season. 
Frank said that Fleming ­who reminds him of incoming Irish linebacker Kerry Neal ­will be a strong presence in Notre Dame defensive coordi­nator Corwin Brown's new 3-4 defensive scheme. 
"I think he's perfect for this 3-4 look defense because he's kind of a tweener," Frank said. "He's an excellent outside line­backer prospect for this defense." 
Fleming is also confident about his ability to fit in the 3-4 defense. 
"I think it's going to be great. I'm going to be playing outside linebacker. I'll be showing my athleticism a little more than I am right now rat defensive end]," he said in a telephone interview with The Observer. 
Fleming said that there were many factors in his decision to commit to the Irish this week­end, the foremost of which was the football program itself. The linebacker also mentioned Notre Dame's academics and the opportunities Notre Dame will give him after graduation. He also said location and the personnel were important. 
"And, it's close to my parents so they can come see me, and I can go back home, that really had a big effect on me," Fleming said. "And also the people like the coaches and the players, and the players that are going to be in my class." 
Brown, a Chicago native, was crucial in recruiting Fleming. Fleming said his interactions with Brown helped with his decision to come to Notre Dame. 
''I'm looking forward to play­ing with him because I know he's doing a good job," he said. "The defense that he's bringing in is going to work hard espe­cially in the seasons to come. He's bringing in some real good players, and I think we can be really good." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
r---· 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, April 23, 2007 
Series 
continued from page 24 
West Virginia Friday, Irish sophomore David Phelps accomplished what few have been able to this season. 
The right-hander slowed down a Mountaineers' lineup that featured eight starters with averages over .300 head­ing into the contest. 
Phelps threw 144 pitches in nine innings of work, striking out six and surrendering just two earned runs. 
"He's our best guy right now," Schrage said. "And we're going to ride our best guy." 
The Irish did ride Phelps, even after he surrendered a two-run, two-out rally in the third inning and ran up his pitch count as the game wore on. 
"He had that look in his eye like he wanted the ball," said Schrage. "So we kept letting him go out there." 
Phelps held the Mountaineers hitless over the first two innings but ran into trouble in the third. After second base­man Jason Pape singled with one out, Phelps got center field­er Adam White to fly out to center. 
But West Virginia came up with a pair of key two-out hits to take the early lead. Shortstop Tyler Kuhn stroked a two-out triple to the fence in right center field to plate the first run of the contest. Then left fielder Justin Jenkins, who came into the game with a .429 batting average, lined a single up the middle to score Kuhn for the 2-0 lead. Phelps surren­dered one more single before striking QUt first baseman Jordan Yost to end the inning. 
But the Irish put together a two-out rally of their own in the bottom of the third to even the score. After Mountaineers 

happy with the way we came back." · 
The three-run cushion gave Phelps a noticeable boost on the mound as he retired nine of the last 10 Mountaineers bat­ters he faced. 
''I'd have loved one [run] but [the offense] got me three, which was huge," Phelps said. 
Phelps recorded four strike­outs in the final three innings, including two to close out the game. 
Notre Dame 17 West Virginia 6 
Notre Dame opened up an offensive game early against West Virginia Saturday. Dressman started the Irish drive with a single down the left field line, and Dury fol­lowed up with a two-run homer to give the Irish the early 2-0 lead. Within the next 10 min­utes, two more Irish batters got on base and Pollock added another home run to bring the Notre Dame lead to 6-0. 
The Mountaineers responded to Notre Dame's second with a strong showing in their half of the third. Irish pitcher Kyle Weiland held West Virginia to just two hits in the first two innings, but the Mountaineers were able to break loose in the third. West Virginia drove in three runs off four hits. 
The bats ·didn't quit for the Irish against West Virginia pitcher Matt Yurish in the bot­tom of the third. Dury singled and Smith walked before Trent Ridgley relieved Yurish from the mound. 
A pitching change couldn't stop the Irish at the plate, and Pollock doubled to drive in a run before Matt Weglarz stepped up to the plate with the bases loaded. Weglarz smacked a grand slam, his second home run of the season, to bring the score to 11-3. 
Notre Dame went on to explode for another offensive flurry in the bottom of the runs. 
The Irish added to their lead in the bottom of the second on a monster solo home run by designated hitter Ryan Smith. 
West Virginia responded in the top of the fourth, tying the game on a bases-clearing dou­ble by first baseman Jordon Yost and taking the lead 5-4 when a throwing error by Pollock allowed Yost to score. 
The lead didn't last long. Center fielder Danny Dressman singled to lead off the inning and scored when Mountaineers left fielder Justin Jenkins bob­bled a base hit by first baseman Mike Dury. Dury scored one batter later on a single by Smith to give the Irish the lead back, 6-5, and force Durst from the game after just 3.1 innings. 
But once again the team couldn't keep a lead. The Mountaineers went up 7-6 in the top of the fifth on a two-run single by Yost. 
The Irish evened the game in the bottom of the sixth on an RBI single by Brett Lilley, but West Virginia went back up again in the seventh, this time on a squeeze bunt by designat­ed hitter Trent Ridgley that scored Jenkins. The Mountaineers added two more runs in the inning on an HBI double by third baseman Vince Belnome and an HBI single by catch Mike Schmidt. 
West Virginia knocked in another insurance run in the eighth on consecutive doubles by Jenkins and right fielder Austin Markel. 
Notre Dame loaded the bases in the bottom of the eighth, but Brezovsky flew out to center to end the throat. 
The Mountaineers added live more runs in the ninth to pro­vide the final margin. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu, Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu, and Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
ter and a half, making 10 saves and allowing two goals.
Blowout 
"[This game] brought us one step closer to completing
continued from page 24 
our goal, which is winning game was out of reach as our league," Kemp said. play continued to get sloppy "Every game, our goal is to with more incomplete passes. have that big goose egg [for 
Irish sophomore goaltender the opponent] on the score­Scott Hodgers, who took over board." for junior Joey Lehigh (4-9) Kemp midway was led by sen­through the third ior midfielders
"{This game] 
quarter, made David Gaunt 
some key saves brought is one step and Matthew that prevented closer to complet­Hichborn, who Lehigh from scored one
ing our goal, which
making a late goal apiece. comeback. is winning our Senior attack 
"Scotty is a very league." David Walsh talented goalie as added two shown in the last assists. Senior
Joey Kemp 
few games," goalie Dusty
Irish goalie 
Kemp said of Granet picked Hodgers. "He up the loss in really pushes me, one half of and I push him to do better." play, He made six saves and 
Sophomore attack Ryan gave up eight scores before Hoff had two scores and one being replaced by junior assist for the Irish. Freshman goalie Eric Spirko in the sec­midlielder Brett Vecchio net­ond half. ted two goals while junior Notre Dame hopes to midfielder extend its over­Michael Podgajny all winning
"Every game, our
added one goal streak to seven and an assist. goal is to have that games next Sophomore Saturday when
big goose egg [for 
attack Peter the Irish con­
the opponent] on 
Christman, senior tinue league attack John the scoreboard." play at Ohio Greaney, sopho­State at noon. more midfielder 
Joey Kemp 
Davey Leach and Notes: 
Irish goalie 
sophomore ·mid­+ The Irish fielder Dan held a 47-33 Gibson all aided advantage in with a goal each. Sophomore shots while junior midfielder midfielder Kevin Cullinane, Taylor Clagett went 8-for-12 senior midlielder Hyan Cunn, on face-offs against Lehigh. freshman attack Neal Hicks, senior midfielder Lucius Polk + Yeatman picked up his and freshman attack Will team-high 37th point. He also Yeatman each had a helper in leads the team with 19 assists the contest. to go along with his 18 goals. 
Kemp finished the day with Hoff is the team-leader in eight saves, zero goals goals with 30. against, and was credited with his ninth win of the year. Contact Pat O'Brien at Hodgers played the last quar-pobrien2@nd.edu 
starter Levi Maxwell retired the first two batters, he appeared to be headed for another score­less inning before the Irish bats finally came alive. 
Shortstop Brett Lilley and third baseman A.J. Pollock both reached on singles to keep the inning alive. Left fielder Ross Brezovsky followed with a run­scoring single up the middle to cut the deficit to one. The Irish then knotted the score at two when Mountaineers second baseman Jason Pape misplayed a grounder by Irish catcher Matt Weglarz. Pollock, who had gone to third on the Brezovsky hit, scored his 22nd run of the season on the error. 
Phelps got back on track after the rocky third and the score remained deadlocked until the sixth, when the Irish finally struck again. Dury led off the inning with a double over the head of center fielder Adam White. Dressman immediately followed with a double down the right field line to plate Dury and give Notre Dame the 3-2 lead. Barnes then reached base when first baseman Jordan Yost booted his grounder and let the ball roll into right field, allowing Dury to score for the 4-2 edge. 
But Barnes and the Irish 

..... 
were not finished yet as they took advantage of another West Virginia defensive miscue to make the score 5-2. With Irish designated hitter Ryan Smith at the plate, Barnes stole second and took third on a throwing error by Mountaineers catcher Justin Parks. Smith then knocked in Barnes with a groundout to second base. 
"We took advantage of their mistakes,n Schrage said. ''I'm sixth. Jeremy Barnes hit a home run to lead off the inning and bring the round tripper tally to four for the Irish. Pollock added two RBis in the inning and Brezovsky and Weglarz added one apiece before West Virginia finally retired the side. 

West Virginia's last glimmer of hope came in the top of the ninth inning. Mountaineer catcher Mike Schmidt's doubled to right center field to drive in two runs. 
West Virginia 16 Notre Dame 7 
West Virginia reliever Chris Enourato allowed just one run in 5.2 innings as the Mountaineers took the third game of a Big East conference series with Notre Dame Sunday. 
Enourato, who entered the contest for starter Kenny Durst in the fourth inning with his team trailing 6-5, allowed just three hits and earned the win for his long-relief performance. 
"He threw his slider for strikes," Irish coach Dave Schrage said of Enourato. "It kept us off-balance." 
The Mountaineers banged out 20 hits off four Irish pitchers. Right-hander Dan Kapala took the loss for Notre Dame. 
The 16 runs were the most allowed by Notre Dame at home since 2001. 
West Virginia put the first run on the board when center field­er Adam White singled and scored on a sacrifice fly by right fielder Austen Markel. 
Notre Dame bounced right back in the bottom of the inning, getting its first four bat­ters on base 1.1nd scoring three 

•
I 


Helvetica 

ntar il 
7pm • April26, 2007 • Snite Auditorium 
Free cookie for first 200 attendees. Official film poster raffle. www.helveticafilm.com Sponsored _by NDesign, The Snite Museum of Art, and the Department of Art, Art History and Design 
---~-----~--~~-~----­
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 

LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

68 Fork prong 69 Washington daily 10 _ Ste. Marie, 
Mich. 71 Went fast 72 Aussie jumpers 73 Rose Lee 
Down 
Happen 2 Pilotless aircraft 3 Sign for a jury 
selector? 4 Suffix with differ 5 Seedy loaf 6 Eventgoer 7 Party thrower 8 Uphold 9 Prickly seed 
cover 10 Religious time 11 French 
girlfriend 12 Room 
connector 13 Skating jump 18 Science guy 
Bill 19 Cool cucumber 24 Letters before an alias 25 Twists to be worked out 27 Eye-catching 
designs 30 Enough 32 Sign for a 
sunbather? 33 Went fast 34 Oxen connector 35 Currier and 36 Companion of 
the Pinta and Santa Maria 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Kevin Der 
37 Plowmaker John 39 Pretty maiden of Greek myth 42 Mousse and mud pie 45 Exposed to 
oxygen 47 Consume 50 Skin art 

53 Go quickly 55 _-Magnon 56 They're stirred 
in the fire 57 Meower 58 Many urban 
homes: Abbr. 59 Annoyance from a faucet 
60 "The Ranger" 

62 In that case 
65 E.M.T.'s skill 
66 "No 

{Chinese menu 
notation) 

67 It's pitched with a pitchfork 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

JJIJJMIIDlbJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REZIP 
j

I I [ [] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
[~f~fj 

I I 
TEAQUE b
[J I 
www.jumble.com 
TALBOC 
rJ 
1 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
11!1 
WHAT TH~ ~L-~C.­TRIC.IAN GAY~ TH~ CUSTOMER VVHE:N ~ FINISHg) TH~ JOB. 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: [ 

I I I I JA" l I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GROIN PIANO THRUSH BUNIONSaturday's 
Answer: A play on words can be this ­"PUN-ISHING" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Maddie Hanna, 21; Daniel Johns, 28; Peter Frampton, 57; Jack Nicholson, 70; Glen Campbell, 71 
Happy Birthday: Look back at your past and you will find the answer you are looking for. This is a good time to tell it like it is. Not everyone will like your decision or what you have to say but you will rid yourself of the burden you have been carrying so long. Taking action is what's required this year. Your numbers are 9, 12, 21, 33, 38,42 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Take a short trip to your favorite destination or visit someone who will inspire you to take on a new project. You will have the discipline to overcome any challenge and can deal with the people who require your help or are causing you problems. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get together with friends or relatives today. Someone will offer you a chance to make a change that will give you a new lease on life. You will discover that you are further ahead than you realized. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Stick to doing for others and don't leave any room for error. Today can be difficult if you have to deal with money matters or with someone coming to collect an old debt. Relationships aren't likely to run smoothly, so stay calm. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have everything in place but your confidence, so stop making excuses. Once you take the first step, everything else will fall into place. Do and say what you think and don't rely on others. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Plan a party or an outing that will get together all the people you enjoy. You will be the center of attention and that's where you can get everyone on your team. This is a great day for taking on a challenge. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be able to rely on acquaintances not loved ones today. Get involved in something that allows you to contribute to your community. Avoid family discussions, disputes and anyone who is overindulgent. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone may not like your choices today but you have to follow your heart. A love connection looks promising and the chance to travel or discover something new will bring greater clarity to a situation you want to resolve. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Stop procrastinating and take a leap of faith. Standing still will only lead to regrets and wasted time. Be honest about why you haven't been able to make a move or find success. Good things will happen if you believe they will. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Before you jump into something, make sure you have done enough research. You are likely to get things wrong or mixed up today. Someone who interests you may have ulterior motives. Don't be too quick to get involved in a partnership. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be a little emotional. Expect to face some opposition. It's best to get these talks out of the way so you can feel free to continue with your plans. An interesting new idea to make money looks promising. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do everything in your power to please the ones who mean the most to you. An interesting view of the younger and older people in your life will influence you in an unusual way. Learn by what you see and experience. 3 stars 
-
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A chance to do something out of the ordinary will grab your attention. Don't let a love connection mess up your plans. Consider taking an interest in a product or service for your home. There is money to be made. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are an ideas person. You aren't afraid to make a decision and quickly follow through. You are sensitive, intuitive and understanding. 
Eugenia's Web sires: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialasr.comfor confidential consultations 

-
-
CROSSWORD Across 
1  More eccentric  
6  "Moby-Dick"  
captain  

1o Reaction to a knee-slapper 
14 Old pal 
15 Food that may come in small cubes 
16 Giant-screen film venue 
11 Sign for a person in therapy? 
20 _, due, tre ... 21 Abominable Snowman 22 Turtle's covering 23 Like college aptitude tests, for many 
students 26 Highway 28 Compete in a 
slalom 29 Moist 
31 Lawyer: Abbr. 
35 Together 
38 "Well, then ... " 
40 By way of 
41 Sign for a 
recovering alcoholic? 43 Annoy 44 Completely cover 46 "Hmmm ... " 48 Japanese drink 49 Numbered hwys. 51 Faux 52 Perlman of 
"Cheers" 54 Comedian's gimmick 
58 Candidate Stevenson of '52 and '56 
61 Level 63 Rhetorical question, possibly 64 Sign for a gangster? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Monday, April 23, 2007  The Observer+ TODAY  page 23  


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, April 23, 2007 
page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Tvvo 111ore recruits give verbal conunibnents over vveekend 
. 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
NO TENNIS 
Men's squad avenges 
loss to Louisville to 
capture this year's title 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame may have lost

.. 
last year's Big East champi­onship to Louisville, but that was a mere memory Sunday when the No. 4 Irish cruised past the Cardinals 4-0 to cap­ture the 2007 Big East title. 
Senior Stephen Bass proved why he holds not only the cap­tain's position but also the No. 1 singles and doubles spots. Bass aided Notre Dame in its win by capturing the deciding singles point and the deciding doubles point with senior part­ner Ryan Keckley. 
The No. 3 duo of senior Barry King and junior Andrew Roth opened up doubles play for the Irish with and 8-1 rout of Chris Herrlinger and James McArthur. Louisville battled back at the No. 2 spot when 
see.TITLE/page 21 
BASEBALL

-
Irish take series from Mountanieers 
By CHRIS KHOREY, FRAN TOLAN and DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writers 
It was two steps forward and one step back for Notre Dam& this weekend. 
The Irish extended their sea­son-long win streak to five with victories Friday and Saturday over West Virginia, but then 

-
saw that streak end Sunday against the Mountaineers in a conference series at Frank Eck Stadium. Notre Dame (21-18, 6-8 Big

-East) now sits in seventh out of 
twelve Big East teams. 
Notre Dame 5 West Virginia 2 
In Notre Dame's victory over 
see SERIES/page 22 

Win some, lose some 
No. 39 South Florida upsets No. 2 Irish to claim Big East crown 
By CHRIS HINE and DAN MALOOF Sports Writers 

Notre Dame thought it had everything under control. 
Ahead 3-1 against No. 39 South Florida, all the Irish had to do was win one of the remaining three singles matches to clinch its third straight Big East champi­onship. 
But South Florida had other plans. 
The Bulls swept the final three matches and shocked the No. 2 Irish 4-3 to claim the Big East tournament title. 
"After we won the doubles, I felt like we should win three singles," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "They're a good team, but against a team like that we should not lose four singles matches." 
see UPSET/page 21 
Defense prevails in blowout victory 
performance. When our goalies do that well, you can afford more mistakes on defense." 
The Irish (9-3) used a strong defensive start to carry a 2-0 lead into the second quarter. Then Notre Dame erupted by scoring six straight goals en route to an 8-0 halftime edge over the Mountain Hawks. In the third quarter, Irish defen­sive stops paved the way for a 12-second span in which Swezey netted two of his four goals. 
Lehigh finally got on the board early in the fourth quar­ter to cut the deficit to 10-1. But both teams knew that the 
see BLOWOUT/page 22 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
Not all the action was on the field at Saturday's Blue-Gold Game as Netre Dame added two more top recruits to the class of 2012 -tight end Joseph Fauria and linebacker Darius Fleming. 
Overall, the Irish have landed 10 prospects for the class of 2012, including two other line­backers -Anthony McDonald 

and David Posluszny-and one tight end -Kyle Rudolph. Players cannot sign binding letters of intent until February. 
Fauria, a 6-foot-7, 250-pound high school junior from Encino, Calif., played well last season at Crespi Carmelite High School. In his junior season, Fauria caught 22 passes for 339 yards and four touchdowns. 
Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for Irisheyes.com, said Fauria is a great fit with Notre Dame 
coach Charlie Weis' offense mostly because of his soft hands. 
"[Weisl wants a guy who's pretty athletic, who can stretch the field deep and cause some problems," Frank said. "And there's nothing better than third and six when you got a big 6-foot-7, 225-pound tight end you can just throw· to and who's got great soft hands and is just a real physical mismatch for any linebacker that's out there. And that's really what he is." 
Frank also said Fauria's size is another important factor in how the tight end will fit in with the Notre Dame offense. 
"He has just really nice hands and does a really good job of getting open and he's such a big target, a quarterback can throw the ball up fairly high and nobody will be able to get it but him," he said. 
Fauria said one of the main reasons he wanted to come to Notre Dame is because he likes 

I 

Irish second baseman Jeremy Barnes went 4-for-14 with 3 RBis as Notre Dame took two of three from West Virginia this weekend. 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame held the Mountain Hawks of Lehigh scoreless in the first three quarters of Saturday's game at Moose Krause Stadium and took a 14-2 victory to extended the team's school-record home winning streak to 13 games. 
Sophomore attack Duncan Swezey aided the effort on the offensive end with a career­high four goals and an assist. 
"This was a great win for us on the tail end of the home stretch," Irish junior defender Hoss Zimmerman said. "It was another great team defensive how Weis keeps the tight ends involved in the passing game. 
"And just watching the [Blue­Gold Gamel the tight ends got the ball quite a lot, so, you know, that ensured it even more," he said in a telephone interview with The Observer. "I knew how Charlie Weis runs most of his offense, and I love how he gets the tight ends the ball." 
Fauria had experience watch-
see COMMITS/page 21 



