
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
1Ragtime' reflects racial integration 

Black students involved in non-athletic events challenge stereotypes 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Assistant News Editor 
While students and profes­sors who see a broad-shoul­dered young black man in class may quickly assume he is a football player -a com­mon Notre Dame stereotype­the gradually increasing involvement of black and minority students in non-ath­letic organizations and events could help change that mind­set. 
"Historically, the exposure for African-American men at Notre Dame has always been relative to sports," said Chandra Johnson, director of Cross Cultural Ministry. "That's where the stereotype comes in, and I think many African-American young men don't realize how much that misconception is entrenched in the Notre Dame community and in those who come from outside, especially during home football weekends, and how the stereotype permeates the experience of many African-American men here." 
Johnson, who served as assistant to University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy, has worked with minority students on interracial issues at Notre Dame for more than a decade. 
In the last five years, she said she has witnessed the presence and leadership of 
see RACE/page 8 


Leaders meet for community summit 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Student leaders from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and Indiana University-South Bend joined forces with civic and professional leaders from the South Bend-Mishawaka community Friday to discuss poor communication betweeln the groups -a meeting that student body president Lizzi Shappell said has "never hap­pened before." 
To address one of the Shappell administration's pri­mary goals-improving com­munity relations -student government members organ­ized a Community Summit to encourage discussion about the "strained" relationship between college students and community members. 
Held at Notre Dame Downtown, offices for the University's community rela­tions department, the meeting drew representatives from local organizations including both the South Bend and Mishawaka mayor's offices, Downtown South Bend, Inc. and the South Bend Common Council. 
The most important objective achieved -and the summit's primary goal -was relation­ship building, Shappell said. 
"Never before had that vari­ety of student and community constituencies been in the 
see SUMMIT/page 6 

Black catnpus leaders give -wotnen advice 
elists who spo-ke about aBy EMMA DRISCOLL 
specific topic tailored to 
News Writer 
black women, and was fol­lowed by the opportunitySix prominent black for the audience to ask women within the Notre 
questions.
Dame community gathered "I am here to just sort of
Sunday to discuss issues 
talk about choices and therelevant to young women of 
choices that you make,"color -health, finances, 
said Executive Assistant to
spirituality, professions in 
the President Frances
higher education, communi­
Shavers, a certified yoga
ty involvement and politics instructor who spoke about -in an effort to commemo­
health and fitness. "Your rate Women's History body is the only one you
Month. 
get."

Shades of Ebony and Shavers emphasized theWelsh Family Hall spon­importance of thinking
sored "Faces of the Ages: 
about the preservatives
Addressing the Trends and 
found in food, as well as the
Concerns of African quantity and type of food
American Women Today" in the Coleman-Morse lounge. The event featured six pan-·see ADVICE/page 9 
'' 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Alito to address SMCgrads 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alita will deliver the 2007 Saint Mary's com­mencement address, College officials announced Friday. 
"It is an honor and a privilege to welcome a United S t a t e s Supreme C o u r t Justice to Saint Mary's 

A lito 

College," College President Carol Ann Mooney said in a statement Friday. 
Alita was nominated to the Supreme Court by President George W. Bush and was sworn in on Jan. 31, 2006, after previously serving as a judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit -a position he was appoint­ed to by President George H. Bush in 1990. 
Alita has also held many high-profile positions, includ­ing Assistant to Solicitor General Rex E. Lee, Deputy Assistant to Attorney General Edwin Meese and U.S. Attorney for the District of New Jersey. 
Mooney recently worked as a committee member with Alita on the Judicial Conference Advisory Committee on the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure 
see AUTO/page 6 

Mcintosh examines oppression 
White privilege discussed at Diverse Students' Leadership Conference 
tially been hesitant to meritocracy" to describe the 
By MANDl STIRONE believe. way whites and males are 
News Writer 
During her keynote speech raised to beli·eve that they 
"for the Diverse Students' had earned and deserved 
For Peggy Mcintosh, the Leadership Conference, everything they had, some­prevalence of racism was not Mcintosh 
thing she said is not entirely something she was taught to said she had true. see. been taught "[We are] born into the sys­
Speaking to 300 partici­that "knowl­tem that preceded us," she pants in the edge is said. "We didn't construct Carroll white" and this. We can't be blamed for
See Also

Auditorium that she was it."
"College holds

Saturday, "superior to This system, however, was­Mcintosh, second DSLC" her col­n't limited to race and can be assistant leagues of applied similarly to gender
page3

director of color." Mcintosh stereotypes, she said. Wellesley T h e Mcintosh said she first College's oppressiveness, she said, is came to understand the Center for ingrained in a person's oppressive system in place at Women, highlighted her upbringing through the a conference she chaired experiences studying white "myth of meritocracy" -about feminism in education. oppression of blacks -some­something she said she expe­The men at the conference thing that she, as an upper rienced. class white woman, had ini-Mcintosh uses 1!he "myth of '•· see MCINTOSH/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, March 5, 2007 
...I  25 HIGH  40  HIGH  48  
20 LOW  29  LOW  31  
Atlanta  47 I 40 Boston 39 I 22 Chicago 32 I 28 Denver 48 I 42 Houston 61 I 55 Los Angeles 82 I 72 Minneapolis 30 I 20  

INSIDE COLUMN 




Selling 111y soul 
On a chilly, rainy day three Novembers ago, I sold my soul to jour­nalism. 
The University had fired Ty Willingham, and 
that afternoon, those were the only words out of anyone's mouth. My editors, rush­ing to cover each angle as it broke, decided to take a chance on an 

eager freshman. I Maddie Hanna hustled out of class, excited and 
nervous and Editor in Chief determined -I naively approached Darius Walker in LaFortune, not thinking the football team had probably been instructed not 
to comment-and showed up breath­less at the Main Building, notebook in hand. 
As I forced my numb, uncooperative hands to furiously take down quotes, praying the words wouldn't be too blurred by rain, I was cold, over­whelmed and still a little nervous ­but thrilled. 
Two and a half years later, I'm no longer an anxious-beyond-belief rookie reporter whose heart would pound faster than she could scribble. But that thrill is still there. It's the feeling that hits my gut when there's big news to tackle. It's how my stomach always gets a little uneasy before an interview, trying to guess what the person might say. It's when my mind races into an unfolding story and suddenly sees how to put it together. 
Most of all, it's why I can't imagine doing anything else with my life. And that's why taking over as editor in chief of The Observer is both satisfying and nerve-wracking, a reward and a responsibility. 
It's the greatest feeling when the front page of The Observer reaffirms its importance on this campus. It's the worst to see a glaring headline mis­spelling, to miss a story that would have meant something to readers, to hear an accusation of misquoting. 
Those mistakes are dishearteningly avoidable. They do, however, keep edi­tors grounded. After all, journalism is challenging -and not always exciting. It's rare to have a "Monk moves on," "Willingham fired" or "Jenkins delivers verdict" kind of day. Bombs don't drop often. National championship seasons come and go, but newspapers print forever. It makes the everyday stories important. It means finding thrills in the small things. It pushes us to better serve readers on a daily basis, to put events into context, to treat each story both accurately and truthfully. 
I'm frequently questioned about my attachment to this job. What people don't usually see is the way my suppos­edly inexplicable obsession mirrors one of their own. Why do·some people commit their lives -and bodies -to a sport? Why do others devote them­selves to a subject, a cause, a belief? Why does anyone fall in love? 
Point is, we can't help it. Selling my soul was never my choice, so I don't regret it. I'm just thrilled. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS BETTER: LAFORTUNE OR RECKERS? WHY? 






Brad Monroe Casey McGushin Kara Davey 
freshman freshman sophomore Zahm Sarin Pangborn 
"LaFortune "LaFortune "LaFortune 
because ofthe because you because ofthe freedom one can relax at the all around has to run BK lounge." variety. " through it 
naked.,, 
Nudists sweat it out at 
Dutch gym 
HETEREN, Netherlands­
A dozen middle-age and eld­
erly men were game enough 
for a Dutch gym's invitation 
to work out nude. But they 
were vastly outnumbered by 
the dozens of journalists 
watching them lift, row and 
cycle in the bufl'. 
Fitworld owner Patrick de 
Man allowed the media in 
for the first session of 
"Naked Sunday" after 
receiving inquiries from as 
far away as Russia and 
Australia. 
The response from nudists 
was more lukewarm. 
A smattering of men trick-
TODAY 
a:: 
LLI :I: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
<( (,) 
0 

New York 37 I 30 Philadelphia 37 I 32 Phoenix 71 I 65 Seattle 53 I 48 St. Louis 43 I 38 Tampa 70 I 64 Washington 37 I 30 
led in and out throughout the day at the gym in the small town of Heteren, 60 miles east of Amsterdam. They found the exercise room packed with photogra­phers, TV crews and reporters who jostled for interviews and pictures while the nudists hit the machines and free weights. 
Body parts delivered to couple's home 
CASCADE TOWNSHIP, Mich. -Two packages con­taining human body parts­including a liver and part of a head-meant for a med­ical research lab instead were delivered to a home. 

• 
•

~ 

Pat Quine  Vu Nguyen  Will Culligan  
freshman  freshman  freshman  
O'Neill  Alumni  Dillon  
"Reekers  "Reekers  "LaFortune  
because Kyle  because there  because the  
Cutler works  are more  pizzas are  
there. ,,  wrecked people  bigger.,,  
at Reekers. ,,  

The body parts, sent from China, were mistakenly dropped off Thursday at Franck and Ludivine Larmande's home by a DI-lL express driver who believed the bubble-wrapped items were pieces to a table. 
"My husband started to unwrap one and said, 'This is strange, it looks like a liver,"' Ludivine Larmande said. "He started the second one, but stopped as soon as we saw the ear. 
"Something wasn't right. It was scary, and I'm glad I didn't open them." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A blood drive will be held at Saint Mary's Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the Student Center. It is their third annual blood drive and walk-ins are also welcome. 
The College Libertarians will be showing the movie "Busted: The Citizen's Guide to Surviving Police Encounters" at 8 p.m. Tuesday in 144 DeBartolo. Arter the movie, there will be a question-and-answer ses­sion regarding civil liberties with a criminal defense attor­ney. 
David Cortright, Kroc Institute Hesearch Fellow and former executive director of the Committee for a SANE Nuclear Policy, will give the lecture "The New Nuclear Danger and the Imperative of Disarmament" Tuesday at 
4:15 p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Angela Ndalianis, an asso­ciate professor of cinema studies at Melbourne University in Australia, will speak at 4 p.m. Wednesday in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on "Podcasts, Mobisodes, and ·the TV Experience." 
David Solomon, Director of the Center for Ethics and Culture, will be speaking at Wednesday's Theology on Tap at 8:30 p.m. in Legends. The topic for the discussion is "Right to Full Life. Consistent Ethic of Life." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY


TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
Monday, March 5, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Naval ROTC hosts leadership conference 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
More than 100 midshipmen arrived on campus Friday with 40 of the 56 ROTC programs in the country to participate in Notre Dame's 12th annual Naval Leadership Weekend. 
The ROTC mem­sion about what it means to be a leader in our field," Gund said. 

Military ethics were also a focal point, especially in Saturday's panel discussion featuring Daniel Dell'orto, a Notre Dame graduate and Deputy General Counsel for the Department of Defense. 
"The main question throughout 
[the panel discus­
sion] was, 'Can you 

bers, who were "It was basically a sacrifice some ethics mostly junior under­packed weekend of for the security of graduates, came 
our country? Where

lectures, talks and
from across the do you draw the country to listen to discussion about line? Where can you speakers discuss what it means to 
bend it and where what leadership and 
can you break it?"'

be a leader in our
ethics mean to mili­Gund said. 
tary officers. field." In addition to "[The speakers] Dell'orto, four other were by far the panel members to
Chase Gund 
provided different

biggest names we've 

battalion operations 
perspectives aboutbeen able to have 


officer 
the balance of

come in all year so it was a big weekend for all of us," said Battalion Operations Officer Chase Gund, the event's coordinator. 
The cast included Notre Dame graduate Brigadier General Michael Brogan of the U.S. Marine Corps, four-star Admiral Kirkland Donald of the U.S. Navy, Major General Michael Ennis of the Marine Corps and retired Navy Seal Chuck Pfarrer. 
Topics ranged from giving gener­al advice to young members of Naval ROTC to leadership and "sea stories," Gund said. 
"It was basically a packed week­end of lectures, talks and discus-national security and 
ethics, Gund said. 

Gund said Brogan discussed the delicate balance between ethics and security during his talk as well. 
"One thing that stuck out in my head from the weekend was the one line I took away from Brigadier General Brogan," he said. "It was, 'The difference between ethic and morals is that morals is choosing between right and wrong, whereas ethics is choosing between right and right."' 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 



College holds second DSLC 
Students from local colleges, high schools attend 3-day event 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
More than 200 people partici­pated in workshops at Saint Mary's this weekend on topics ranging from the Ku Klux Klan to HIV/AIDS, white privilege and diversity in the media as part of the College's three-day Diverse Students' Leadership Conference (DSLC). 
"My personal goals for the conference were exceeded," said Kim Hodges, Saint Mary's student body president-elect, Student Diversity Board vice president and conference chair. 
Since the conference ­which is designed to show par­ticipants the challenges within and benefits of diverse academ­ic, social and professional set­tings -began a year ago, Hodges said the number of workshops, as well as the qual­ity, has increased. 
Hodges said participants came from Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, Notre Dame and Indiana University South Bend, as well as two local high school groups from Young Life and the Charles Martin Youth Center. 

Saint Mary's alumnae both participated in and attended the conference. A portion of prospective students also came to check it out, Hodges said. 
The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership brought several guests to cam­pus, including Ann Bettendorf Freeman, Class of 1988, who gave the talk "Lehman Brothers: Women in the Work Force." 
Though there were about 22 activities offered, ranging from lectures to workshops to meet and greets, many people only showed up to see Peggy Mcintosh's keynote address Saturday about white suprema­cy. 
Nearly 300 people packed the Carroll Auditorium for Mcintosh's lecture, Hodges said. The reaction to Mcintosh's speech was mixed, with stu­dents both enjoying and dislik­ing how she presented her message. 
The conference was partially funded by Lehman Brothers and Walgreen's, who doubled their contributions from last year, Hodges said. To obtain funding, Hodges even went to Chicago in February to meet with Freeman to discuss the conference. 
Next year, the conference will be run by junior Adriana Lopez, who will take over for Hodges as chair of DSLC and vice president ofSDB. 
"I definitely love the variety of topics that they have, when we say diversity a lot of people think of race and ethnicity but it's a lot more than that," Lopez said ofthis year's conference. 
For next year, however, she wants to add a few ideas of her own. 
"I also think that outside from that we can also bring women from our [South Bend] community because I think that that would personalize it," she said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Bookstore Basketball 2007 Tournament 

Register Your Team: March 1st-gth 

Sign up at www.nd.edu/--bkstr 
·--------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 5, 2007 



Fonner psychology chair dies at age 70 
Special to the Observer 
Naomi Meara, the Nancy 
R. Dreux Professor of Psychology emerita at Notre Dame, died Wednesday at St. 
Joseph Medical Center in South Bend after a brief illness. She was 70. 
A native of Columbus, Ohio, Meara 

s t u d i e d Meara English and education at Ohio State University, and earned her master's degree in student personnel administration from Syracuse University and doctorate in psychology from Ohio State. Before join­ing the Notre Dame faculty in 1986 she had taught at the University of Wisconsin, LaCrosse; Ohio Dominican College; and the University of Tennessee. 

In addition to teaching undergraduate and graduate courses at Notre Dame, Meara chaired the psycholo­gy department from 1988 to 1991 and served on numer­ous University committees. She also was the author of dozens of articles on psycho­analytic counseling and the achievement and career development of women and co-author with M.J. Patton of the textbook 
"Psychoanalytic Counseling." 
Meara's teaching, research and publications particularly concerned the application of virtue ethics to the educa­tion of psychologists. A soft-spoken woman admired by her students and col­leagues for her keen intel­lect and sense of humor, she insisted that the virtues of prudence, integrity, respect­fulness and benevolence were ind ispensabln to the practice of her profession. 
According to John Borkowski. Andrew J. McKenna Professor of Psychology at Notre Dame, Meara exemplified those virtues as well. In a tribute published in the May 2001 issue of The Counseling Psychologist, Borkowski wrote that "among Naomi's many contributions to coun­seling psychology, the one that stands out in my mind is her sensitive, selfless and purposeful style of leader­ship ... If only we had more leaders like Naomi in the profession, in academia and in government, we would all be better off. Can Naomi's leadership style be packaged and distributed to organiza­tions in need?" 
Visitation was Sunday at Welsheimer Funeral Home in South Bend. A funeral Mass will be celebrated 
today at 9:30  a.m.  in Notre  
Dame's  Basilica  of  the  
Sacred Heart.  

Correspondences Through 
Word in Women's Studies." One example in her paper, continued from page 1 she said, was that she could 
be pulled over for speeding were "nice" and "pretty and be fairly sure of getting brave for attending," she off with a warning because said, but had been taught she was an elderly Caucasian "knowledge is male." woman "with my hair in a 
Mcintosh 
Such oppres­siveness, Mcintosh said, had been taught to men and was a subconscious action. 
"It's not their fault," she said. 
The message of this discus­sion was that those with positions of privilege should use it 

bun." 
Healizing that she had "[We are] born into the advantage 
system that preceded wasn't enough 
for Mcintosh,
us. We didn't construct 
who took this. We can't be action by writ­
blamed for it." ing to compa­
nies like Crayola
Peggy Mcintosh 
demanding assistant director that they pro­Wellesley College duce more skin-toned
Center for Women 
crayons, and to different supermarkets 
to undermine the oppressive to insist that they include system they lived in. "soul food" in the shelves. 
In her own life, Mcintosh In an attempt to demon­said once realized she had strate that everyone in the this privilege, she spent room had been oppressed in three months trying to to see some way or another, if she really did have Mcintosh then paired audi­unearned advantages as a ence members together to result of being white. After talk about instances where those three months, she said they had unearned disadvan­she found 46 examples, tages and advantages. which she wrote about in her paper "White Privilege and Male Privilege: A Personal Contact Mandi Stirone at Account of Coming to See astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
2007 Endowed Spring Lecture Series 
Tuesday,March 6, 2007 4:00P.M.,Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Spirituality for aGlobalizing World Vincent Miller, Ph.D. Associate Professor,Theology, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. 
Thursday,March29,2007 7:00 P.M., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall Spirituality and Sexuality:The Marriage ofEros and Grace James D. Whitehead, Ph.D.,and Evelyn Eaton Whitehead, Ph.D. 
Fru..'Ulty atLoyolaUniversity Chicago and at Fudan University, Shanghai 

SaintM$sColleg~
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality www.saintmarys.edu/Nc;fs (574) 284-4636 E-mail: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 

--------------------------; 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, March 5, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssERVER'S WlRE sr:RvKrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
China increases defense budget 
BEIJING-A top U.S. envoy on Sunday urgod China to be more open about its military spend­ing, hours after the government announced a 
17.8 percent increase in its defense budget-the biggest in more than a decade. 
The $44.9 billion budget for 2007 would mainly be spent on higher wages and living allowances for members of the armed forces and on upgrad­ing armaments "in order to enhance the mili­tary's ability to conduct defensive operations," Jiang Enzhu, a spokesman for China's national legislature, said. He did not give any details. 
China's 2.3 million-strong military is the world's largest and has been criticized abroad for not being open about its spending. Unlike the U.S., where Congress is required to approve the mili­tary budget, China's military is secretive and rarely releases information on it<; spending. 
The Pentagon believes China's total military spending may be much greater since the announced budget does not include key items such as weapons purchases. 
The 2007 budget marks an increase of $6.84 billion over last year and is the third highest jump since 1990, surpassed only by increases of 21 percent in 199 5 and 18 percent in 1994. 
Arab League to negotiate with Israel 
CAIRO, Egypt -Arabs will relaunch a 2002 land-for-peace offer in an effort to end the decades-long conflict with Israel at a summit later this month, but without changes Israel has been pushing, the Arab League's Secretary­General said Sunday. 
Amr Moussa's remarks to a meeting of Arab foreign ministers came as Saudi Arabia announced that hard-line Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad offered support for the initiative during talks with Saudi officials, though Iran denied the two discussed the peace plan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Walter Reed conditions criticized 
WASHINGTON -Lawmakers promised a quick response and sought an independent com­mission as they expressed outrage Sunday over the poor conditions at Walter Reed Army Medical Center for soldiers wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
"To think that men and women are serving their country in the most honorable and coura­geous way possible and all we give them is a dilapidated, rat-infested, run-down building to recover is a disgrace," Sen. Charles Schumer, D­
N.Y. in a letter Sunday to Defense Secretary Robert Gates. 
Gates also dismissed Army Secretary Francis J. Harvey, who had fired the medical center's pre­vious commander, Maj. Gen. George Weightman, and replaced him with Lt. Gen.. Kevin Kiley, the Army's surgeon general and a former com­mander of Walter Reed. Gates said that Harvey's response was not aggressive enough. 

Prosecutor fired after Senator's call 
WASHINGTON -New Mexico Sen. Pete Domenici acknowledged Sunday that he called a federal prosecutor to ask about a criminal investigation, but insisted he never pressured nor threatened his state's U.S. attorney. 
The prosecutor, David Iglesias, was fired by the Justice Department in December. Iglesias says he believes he was dismissed for resisting pressure from two members of Congress before last year's election to rush indictments in a Democratic kickback investigation. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Canal pollution concerns Hoosiers 
EAST CHICAGO, Ind. -Residents who live near the Indiana Harbor Ship Canal are wor­ried that a project set to dredge tons of taint­ed sediments from the waterway will only spread its industrial legacy of chromium, PCBs and other toxic substances. 
East Chicago environmental activist John Bakota doubts the effectiveness of the meth­ods that will be used to dredge the canal and eventually dispose of the toxic muck. 
"Will the cure be as bad or worse than the disease? Right now we have a dirty canal, but could we end up with a still dirty canal and a dump besides?" asked Bakota. 


IRAQ 

Coalition advances in Sadr City 
Shiites commit to peaceful removal of militants from Baghdad neighborhood 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -U.S. and Iraqi troops poured into Baghdad's main Shiite mili­tia stronghold Sunday, encountering no resistance in the one-time Sadr City combat zones but testing the Shiites' commitment to the U.S.-promoted cam­paign to drive militants from the capital. 
Outside Baghdad, U.S. soldiers described a raid last week that uncovered a suspected Sunni '"torture site" and the rescue of two Iraqi captives, who appar­ently had been spared immediate execution because the militants' video camera broke and they wanted to film the killing. 
The quiet but dramatic advance in Sadr City ­involving nearly 1,200 U.S. and Iraqi forces who didn't fire a shot-marked one of the most significant devel­opments in the security clampdown in Baghdad since it took effect nearly three weeks ago. 

But it only received the green light after drawn-out talks between U.S. com­manders and political allies of radical Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr and his powerful Mahdi Army. Both sides are watching each other for any wrong moves on the same streets where really bad folks have gone campaign of his mother, searches and only call in they battled in the past, into hiding," said Lt. Col. Cindy Sheehan. U.S. units if they faced including intense urban David Oclander shortly Last week, U.S. and Iraqi resistance. He called the warfare in 2004. after troops moved into forces began pinpoint raids front-line U.S. role a 
Al-Sadr's militiamen low­Sadr City's teeming grid of into Sadr City seeking sus­"provocative act." ered their profile under low-rise buildings in north­pected leaders of Shiite Al-Sadr, too, has com­intense government pres­east Baghdad. death squads blamed for plained about the heavy sure to give the security Oclander said "not a shot thousands of execution­U.S. role in the raids operation a chance to root was fired" as troops style slayings of Sunni around the city. In a state­out both Sunni and Shiite entered the area -which rivals in recent years. Since ment last week, he also extremists. U.S. military was constructed in the Friday, military planners decried the sec~rity plan's leaders, however, must 1960s to house poor Shiites have worked inside a Sadr inability to stop car bombs walk a fine line as part of seeking work in the capital City police station in appar­and other attacks blamed the tacit truce. They are and was known as Saddam ent preparations to create a on Sunni insurgent groups seeking suspected Shiite City until the former Iraqi permanent outpost, police against Shiite civilians. ­death squads leaders, but leader's fall in 2003. said. The comments raised must keep from squeezing As the insurgency picked Despite the calm crossing worries that he could order al-Sadr's militia too hard­up steam in the past few into Sadr City, some quickly his Madhi Army to confront and risk collapsing the years, Sadr City became the protested the strong U.S. forces carrying out the entire drive to reclaim site of frequent battles. presence. security operation. But he Baghdad from extremists Among the U.S. casualties An al-Sadr ally, lawmaker didn't attempt to raise the and gangs. was Spc. Casey Sheehan, Falah Hassan, claimed the stakes -a possible sign of 
"The indication that we whose death on April 4, Sadr City pact called for newfound caution from al­are getting is a lot of the 2004, began the anti-war Iraqi forces to lead the Sadr. 


NAACP president quits amid strain 
Gordon said he will give up his organization, with the board approv­
Associated Press 

duties before month's end. He spoke ing strategy and policy," Gordon said. 
NEW YORK -NAACP President by phone from Los Angeles, where he "But the NAACP board is very much Bruce S. Gordon is quitting the civil had just attended the taping of the involved." rights organization, leaving after just NAACP Image Awards. Gordon said he made the decision 19 months at the helm, he told The Dennis C. Hayes, general counsel of in recent weeks and told the board at Associated Press on Sunday. the Baltimore-based National its annual meeting in New York City 
Gordon cited growing strain with Association for the Advancement of in mid-February. board members over the group's Colored People, is expected to serve NAACP leaders were surprised by management style and future opera­as interim president, Gordon said. his decision and engaged in hours of tions. Hayes filled the same role after discussion, he said. 
"I believe that any organization Kweisi Mfume resigned the presiden­"They expressed disappointment," that's going to be effective will only cy in 2004 after nine years. Gordon said. "We attempted to see be effective if the board and the CEO Gordon said that while the NAACP whether there was a way to continue are aligned and I don't think we are is an advocacy organization, it needs but that didn't happen." aligned," Gordon said. "This compro­to be more focused on service and Gordon sounded weary as he mises the ability of the board to be as finding solutions. boarded a flight home to New York effective as it can be." ''I'm used to a CEO running an City on Sunday. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 5, 2007 
College community to. submit graduates and their guests at expressed concern that the from someone with a connec­
ideas, which are researched the May 19 ceremony in the male judge might not relate tion to Saint Mary's, but I am
Alito 

by Dampeer and  Court of LeMans  as well to the female student  not  disheartened  by  the  
continued from page 1 -an experience that allowed  reviewed by the academic council and Board of  "It is an honor and a privilege to  at noon. Dampeer said the College  body. "I think it is exciting that such a big name is speaking,  choice," she said. Gorman said she was also impressed by the selection,  
her to develop a friendship with Alito and Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts, Executive Assistant to the  Trustees, Dampeer said. Alito, who is the 11th Catholic  welcome a United States Supreme Court Justice to  works to "get someone promi­nent who would deliver a memo­ but I am a little bummed it is not a woman," she said. Dampeer said throughout the years there has been an  which she said "shows how mue!; pull Saint Mary's really has. Alito, a New Jersey native,  
President Susan Dampeer said. Dampeer said Mooney sent a letter to Alito asking him to  to serve on the Supreme Court and the fifth on the current  Saint Mary's College."  rable message to the students and their families." Like many stu­ equal mix of male and female speakers, and she said she thinks the judge's message will be inspirational.  graduated from Princeton University in 1972 before attending Yale Law School. He was editor of the Yale Law  
speak at the 2007 commence­ Court,  will  Carol Ann Mooney  dents,  senior  Senior Grace Guebert said  Journal and  graduated in  
ment ceremony -an invita­tion he cordially accepted.  attend the College s  College President  Bridget Gorman was enthusiastic  she was impressed by the selection, but wished a Saint  1975.  
The usual commencement  Baccalaureate  about  the  Mary's alumna was giving the  
speaker nomination process  dinner and reception  on  May  announcement  of  a  well­ address.  Contact Kelly Meehan at  
allows  members  of  the  18  before  addressing  the  known speaker. However, she  "It might be nice to  hear  kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu  


SniDIDit 
continued from page 1 
same room to start these con­versations," she said. 
Shappell said student partici­pants will be debriefed and fol­low-up meetings will be arranged for certain possible ini­tiatives -a starting point for future work. · 
"We will not see all of the ini­tiatives discussed at the summit achieved before I graduate," Shappell said. "However, that was not my intention. The sum­mit's goal was to start the con­versation." 
Because there is nothing "cen­tralized" between the groups and the four campuses, Senate Community Relations committee chair Josh Pasquesi said the dis­cussion was crucial in helping initiate communication. 
Pasquesi also said that leaders from all four campuses will select initiatives they would most like to work on and meetings will be arranged for these initia­tives. 
"People were very excited about the initiatives that came out of this or possibly will come out of this," he said. 
For Shappell, the summit was crucial -one of the "corner­stones of my administration," she said. 
"In just two years, we have seen a significant change in the relationship.... I am pleased how we are leaving the state of community relations for future administrations," Shappell said. "I am optimistic about the emerging push for collaboration and more consistent communi­cation." 
Such relationships are neces­sary to build on these ideas and push for such collaboration, Pasquesi said. 
"Now it's up to other to bear fruit on these initiatives," he said. 
Problems, solutions discussed 
Small group discussions led by Notre Dame student leaders and a large group wrap-up session broke up the summit. 
One of the main themes of dis­cussion -poor communication between campuses and commu­nity members -generated pos­sible solutions, including the cre­ation of a central Web site where students could go to gath­er information about events and opportunities in the local area, and where community members could go to get information about events on all area cam­puses. 
Without a specific agenda, the event generated discussion of various problems and ideas for possible solutions. 
Small groups formed to dis­cuss four topics: improving and expanding freshman initiatives, balancing service and profes­sional opportunities for students, promoting better neighbor inter­actions and better integrating community members into area campuses. 

Freshman initiatives 
+ 
In a small group session led by Shappell, Notre Dame senior Meghan Wons described the sue­cess of the first ever "Explore South Bend" tour oiTered during Freshman Orientation. Group members discussed expanding the program to the other three colleges and offering a similar program to parents. Wons is a news writer for The Observer. 

+ 
Several groups discussed the possibility of creating a South Bend student guidebook, including information from area restaurants, businesses of inter­est and recreational opportuni­ties. 

+ 
A small group led by Notre Dame Pangborn senator Sheena Plamoottil talked about the pos­sibility of sending a weleome let­ter to incoming freshmen and their parents from South Bend and Mishawaka community leaders. 


Service and professional oppor­tunities 
+ 
All groups debated ways to prevent "brain drain" from the larger community. Shappell said while community service is emphasized there is little emphasis on occupational opportunities in the area. 

+ 
Shappell's small group gen­erated the idea of bringing com­munity businesses to career fairs at Notre Dame to promote internships and professional opportunities. 


+A small group led by student body president-elect Liz Brown discussed the idea of bringing together the service groups between all area campuses to better provide services and pre­vent duplication. 
Promoting better neighbor rela­tions 
+ 
In Shappell's small group, Hobinson Community Learning Center volunteer Margaret Taylor described her experience in mentoring students who vol­unteer at the center. Mentoring provides for a two-way learning relationship, she said. 

+ 
In the wrap-up session, Wons talked about creating a forum for both students who are residing ofT campus and their neighbors to bettor educate both parties. 

+ 
Saint Mary's student body president Susan Mellduff said in the wrap-up session that most students aren't introduced to law enforcement officials until football weekends. Fostering better relationships between these groups and breaking stig­mas between groups is essential, she said, noting that Iloly Cross students recently invited some area police officers to participate in an intramural football league. 


Integration of community mem­bers 
+ 
In both small group and large group settings, Taylor said Notre Dame "is not a warm and fuzzy plaee" for community members. 

+ 
Melldull' said in the wrap-up session that inviting community members to events put on by Notre Dame's Student Union Board and comparable groups at other schools would promote better relations. 


Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Visit your college bookstore or dummies.com to find out more! 
!iL;X~?~f<~'"i; 

This j!; a pi,Keholdet lor legalese.This is a111\llWilEYj pldc.eholder for h:~galese. nlis ~~ a pld.ceholder 5!2007; for legalese.nlis I~ a pla<.eho!der for l~alese. 
·~ •.,~,n~,.,.,.,~ 


574-272-8110 574...272-8114 FAX www.cppj.com 
Specials! 
Basketball 
CasUEa Point Apartments 18011 Cleveland Road South Bend, Indiana 

o.,:.,:eufn 



THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, March 5, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 
12,114.10 -120.24
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 813 100 2,451 3,312,406,160 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -1.51  -0.65  42.48  
ISHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  -2.08  -1.63  76.80  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.89  -0.37  19.22  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -1.3 I  -I .84  138.67  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.90  -0.041  4.515  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.40  -0.020  4.970  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.62  -0.029  4.650  - 
5-YEARNOTE  -1.11  -0.050  4.450  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.36  61.64  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -21.00  644.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.58  106.20  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  116.7400  
EURO  0.7578  
POUND  0.5145  
CANADIAN$  1.1771  

IN BRIEF 
Ibuprofen works best in children 
CHICAGO -Deciding which medicine to give a child in pain just got easier: The first head-to­head study of three common painkillers found that ibuprofen works best, at least for kids with broken bones, bruises and sprains. 
Available generically and under the brand names Advil and Motrin, ibuprofen beat generic acetaminophen and codeine in an emergency room study of 300 children treated at a Canadian hospital. 
The youngsters, aged 6 to 17, were randomly assigned to receive standard doses of one of the three medicines. They then periodically rated their pain. Half an hour later, ratings were simi­lar in the three groups. But starting an hour after taking the medicine, children who got ibuprofen reported substantially greater pain relief than the other two groups. 
Children rated their pain on a 100-point scale before and after taking the medicine. At 60 min­utes afterward, scores for children who got ibuprofen had dropped 24 points, compared with 12 points for the acetaminophen group and 11 points for the codeine group. The differences remained at 120 minutes. 
Unpaid U.S. taxes amount to billions 
WASHINGTON -Think of the uses of $300 billion, the annual gap between what taxpayers owe and what they pay. 
It would more than cover the federal deficit for a year or the extra money President Bush wants in 2007 and 2008 for Iraq and Afghanistan. 
It would pay for the $125 billion that Congress has agreed to spend on Hurricane Katrina relief, with enough left for three years worth of federal education programs. 
Such are the hopes of lawmakers asking the IRS to get-aggressive about reducing what is known in Washington as "the tax gap." 
Skeptics, however, scoff at the notion that there is a pot of gold waiting to be claimed. They say it is an illusion as long as nothing is clone about the complicated federal tax system. 
An IRS study last year concluded that the tax gap in 2001 was $345 billion. Of that, $197 bil­lion came from underreporting on individual income tax returns and $88 billion from under­reporting by corporations and the self-employed. The rest came from those not filing. 

Treasury head optimistic on trade 
Despite 'soaring' deficit, U.S. relationship with China a 'benefit to both countries' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Trea­
sury Secretary Henry 
Paulson says the economy 
is healthy, inflation seems 
under control and the U.S. 
should not perceive China 
as an economic enemy. 
After a week in which the 
Dow Jones industrials post­
ed their worst weekly per­
formance in more than four 
years, Paulson said in a tel­
evision interview broadcast 
Sunday he felt good about 
the economy and discount­
ed the chance of an eco­
nomic downtown. 
"Markets never move in 
any one direction forever in 
a straight line. And so I look 
at it and put it in perspec­
tive and say, over the last 
year, the Dow's up almost 
11 percent, the S&P's (the 
Standard & Poor's 500 
index) up 9 percent, and I'll 
take it," Paulson said. 
U.S. stocks dropped 416 points last Tuesday after big declines in China and other countries. Wall Street's tumble rattled investor confidence about the state of the U.S. econo­my. 
The sell-off followed com­
ments a day earlier by for­
mer Federal Reserve 
Chairman Alan Greenspan 
that the economy might slip 
into recession by year's 
end. Just weeks ago, the 

current chairman, Ben successfully making the So I'm feeling good about multifaceted and it's a very 
Bernanke, gave Congress a transition. the U.S. economy." important relationship for 
mostly upbeat assessment "The consumer's strong. Paulson, who this week the U.S. And I don't believe 
of the economy's prospects. Exports have been greater makes his third visit to we need to make China an 
"Clearly, no one's got a than imports for quarters China as treasury secretary, enemy," Paulson said. 
crystal ball. So there's running, and they're adding said it is essential that both "I think China is -this 
always a possibility that to our growth," the secre­countries have strong eco­relationship is an important 
there will be a downturn, tary said in an interview nomic ties. The former relationship, and the eco­
always a possibility," taped Friday for "This head of the investment nomic relationship is an 
Paulson said. "But I don't Week" on ABC. company Goldman Sachs important part of the over­
see it. I think we have a "We've got a very healthy has said China is moving all relationship," he said. 
healthy economy in the U.S. labor market. Inflation too slowly in overhauling its "And if we manage that 
"You know, a year ago, seems to be contained. And currency system and crack­relationship properly on a when the growth rates what really makes a differ­ing down on copyright pira­long-term basis, and if we were much higher, I was ence to me is the average cy. U.S. businesses blame manage the relationship ­concerned. I said, 'Is this worker is now beginning to these factors for the soaring the overall relationship ­going to be sustainable? feel the benefits. Real U.S. trade deficit with with China properly, it's Now I'm looking at it and income is up 2.1 percent for China. going to benefit both of our I'm seeing a situation the average American "I would say that our countries for a long time to where it looks like we're worker over the last year. relationship with China is come." 

BRAZIL 

Bush seeks foreign ethanol 'alliance' 
sugar cane-based ethanol production "For the Brazilians, the tariff has
Associated Press in Central America and the Caribbean utmost priority," said Cristoph Berg, an SAO PAULO -Just an hour's drive to meet rising international demand. ethanol analyst with Germany's F.O. outside this traffic-choked metropolis Across Latin America's largest Licht, a commodities research firm. where President Bush kicks off a Latin nation, Brazilian media are billing the "They will agree with developing biofu­American tour Thursday, sugar cane Bush-Silva meeting as a bid to create a el economies around the world, but the fields stretch for hundreds of miles, new two-nation "OPEC of Ethanol," first thing they will say is 'We want to providing the ethanol that fuels eight despite efforts by Brazilian and do away with that tariff."' out of every 10 new Brazilian ears. American officials to downplay the No one is expecting Bush to give In only a few years, Brazil has label amid concerns that whatever ground on the tariff. The politically turned itself into the planet's undisput­emerges would be viewed as a price­sensitive issue essentially subsidizes ed renewable energy leader, and the fixing cartel. American corn growers who are rapid­highlight of Bush's visit is expected to Meanwhile, political and energy ana­ly ramping up ethanol production amid be a new ethanol "alliance" he will lysts warn that any agreements Washington's encouragement of forge with Brazilian President Luiz reached between Brazil and the United renewable biofuels to ease U.S. Inaeio Lula da Silva. States are unlikely to have short-term dependence on imported petroleum. The deal is still being negotiated, but effects. And the deal itself could end up But the visit will help Bush and Silva the two leaders are expected to sign an largely symbolic because of reluctance join forces to promote the politically accord Friday to develop standards to by Washington to address a key point popular issue of renewable energy help turn ethanol into an international­of friction: A 53 cent-per-gallon U.S. simply by gathering in a place where ly traded commodity, and to promote tariff on Brazilian ethanol imports. ethanol is king. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 5, 2007 
sophomore Ashley Cook, also 
said the talents of the black
Race 
community on eampus went continued from page 1 relatively unknown outside 
that community until black and minority students "Hagtime" came along. expand across the eampus' "Every ethnie group has its arts and student government own show here, and that's realms -an observation con­great because it strengthens firmed by the Pasquerilla East the sense of cultural identity, Musical Company's (PEMCo.) but the problem is that your produetion of "Ragtime" last talents are displayed only to month. your racial group," she said. 
"Ragtime" organizers Sophomore Floyd Hose said assembled a cast that was he had stayed within the approximately one-fifth black, blaek eommunity until he par­
making it one of the ticipated in "Hagtime." University's most racially "I've always been sheltered integrated collaborations out­in my own eommunity, but side a football field or a bas­when you branch out it's real­ketball court in recent years, ly a wonderful experience Johnson said. because you meet so many 
Junior Anna Mazig, director wonderful people from all eol­of Acting and Outreach for ors who really eare about you "Ragtime," said a handful of and want to work with you to black students were hesitant achieve something bigger," he to participate or objected to said. the show during its organiza­tion, a result of the language Group-specific programming and the themes it touehed. Iris Outlaw, director of 
However, she did not Multicultural Student receive any complaints fol­Programs and Serviees lowing the pre-(MSPS), said miere of "Hagtime" was "Ragtime." able to incorpo­
"I haven't "I believe 'Ragtime' rate different heard a single was the tip ofthe ethnicities negative thing because the
iceberg. I belie1!e it's
about the show, production's
already happening 
even from the script taekled individuals who because there is a the theme of were initially racial lines and
socially conscious 
skeptical consequently
population of
t o vv a r d s called for a '·Ragtime,'" majority and multi-racial Mazig said. cast.
minority students." 
Sophomore She said she Kyle Carter, who thinks the chal­played lenge ahead is
Chandra Johnson Coalhouse director integrating non­Walker in Cross Campus Ministry white perform­
"Ragtime," said ers in produc­the production tions that don't was an important stride necessarily discuss ethnicity. toward exposing the artistic Different groups from dif­abilities of black students to ferent racial backgrounds the rest of the University already participate in events community. that don't directly pertain to 
"I already knew the African­their ethnicity, she said, citing Amerieans many people saw past appearances of the Saint for the first time in 'Ragtime' Mary's Irish Dance Team and were accomplished perform­the black First Class Lady ers, because in what you Steppers in Latin Expressions, would call 'the black commu­a celebration of Hispanic tra­nity' they've had plenty of dition. stage experience in high Junior Michelle Mas, one of school, Black Images or Black the masters of ceremonies at Koffeehouse," he said. the upcoming Latin "However, no one else on the Expressions, said there is a campus would've knovvn tradition of cross-racial col­about their talents vvithout laboration in Notre Dame's 'Ragtime."' ethnic programming. 
Another "Ragtime" co-star, Under the umbrella of the 
The Sweep DETOUR 
Begining on Monday March 5th, the Sweep will detour from the regular route due to construction. 

Changes are as follows: exit the ND Library Circle on ROTC Drive, turn north (left) on Leahy, turn east (right) on Bulla, turn south (right) on Twyckenham, turn west (right) on Edison, turn north (right) on Notre Dave Avenue resuming the posted route. 
~ZiJJA'!J~~ 
For more information 
call (574) 233-2131 
MSPS, she said, a variety of newspaper headlines that ethn icities come together have steered. their career because "we understand the courses. importance of each other's "Within the last five years I cultural heritage, but more have noticed a marked shift importantly, beeause I don't in the type of student that think these group-speeifie eomes to Notrn Dame. I eall programs are targeted at spe­this gennration the post-9/11, cific groups anymore." post-Enron generation," she 
"Everybody intermingles said. simply beeause it's the natu­Johnson said Enron exposed ral thing to do since those the fraudulent activity in the racial barriers from the past business world and its disre­arc being broken a little more spect for thn eommon worker every day," Mas said. at the hands of high-ranking 
Mas said junior Anya officials, while Sept.ll Hershberger and exposed the senior Jason country's vul­Laws will ehoreo­nerabilities at
"This is what Notre 
graph eertain the homeland
Dame could be in 
acts in Latin security level, Expressions, the future. A place relative to the though neither citizens' fear of
where we could all 
student is strangers and
accept each other 
Hispanic. foreigners. 
However, and respect each She said Outlaw and other's gifts and today's students Johnson agreed are in tune with 
come together as
there is a need on the politics and campus to pro­one.. the needs or the mote entertain-planet -but ment program­unlike their par­
Floyd Rose

ming that ean ents and grand­
sophomore

feature students parents, they of all colors -are not afraid to outside of ethnie cross racial lines contexts-to compliment the to reach their goals. 
segmented programming already in plaee, which includes Latin Expressions, Black Images and Asian Allure, among others. 
"I think the group-speeifie programming that happens on earn pus is very important beeause it strengthens the identities of the diiTerent eth­nie communities hero -and from there, the majority stu­dents can ineorporate," Johnson said. 
That incorporation, she said, is now simply a matter of time. 
"I believe 'Ragtimn' was the tip of tho iceberg," Johnson added. "I believe it's alrnady happening because there is a soeially conscious population or majority and minority stu­dents." 
The shift to inclusiveness 
Johnson said she bolieved thn engine powering the increase in the number of black artists.and student gov­ernment leaders on campus is tho student body's growing aeceptance of cultural differ­encns. She attributed the move to the upbringing of Notre Dame students and the 
"What girds Ameriea right now is the fear of the stranger and the new genera­tion is saying, 'We're taking the best or the best from whatev11r group they come from and we're going to attempt to do a better job,"' Johnson said. 
She applauded senior ·class president Sheldon Dutes and newly eleeted student body president Liz Brown and viec president Maris Braun -as well as the electorate -for breaking biases that in the past could have prevented blaek or remale candidates from serving in leadership roles. 
"While it is true that the misconception is that most African-American students here are athletes, I feel that it is important ror the ND commu­nity to recognize the contri­butions and involvement of African-American students in other areas besides athletics," said junior Tristan Van Voorhis, president of the Black Cultural Arts Council. 
Johnson said she expects more events like "Hagtime" in Notre Dame's future, but 

thinks they will have to be created by students. There aren't many shovvs that exist in American entertainment that replicate that degree of ethnic integration, she said. 
Johnson praised PEMCo. for its outreach to the black com­munity and its willingness to engage in racial dialogue. The eollaboration between majori­ty and minority students is a positive step, she said. 
"It's a higher social con­seiousness from the majority students that is breaking down the barriers that have separated them from the minorities -and minority students are coming with the same desire to be a part or a broader community," Johnson said. 
That desire is evident in at least one student group. Mazig said several of the black cast members who first collaborated with PEMCo. on "Ragtime" -as well as minority students who sat in the audience and enjoyed the production -told her they want to permanently join the musical company. 
That's the case for Carter, Cook and Hose. 
At the beginning, Carter said, the blaek cast members who were new to the compa­ny -as vvell as the first-year and Saint Mary's performers -felt estranged and dis­tanced from the returning PEMCo. artists. However, stu­dents gradually grew acquainted with each other and became a "family," he said. 
Cook said she hoped more students from more ethnic pools will be encouraged to participate in PEMCo. and other non-mi1iority groups in light of Hagtirne's successful racial integration and display of teamwork. 
She -as well as Carter and Hose -said she's planning to stay with the eompany and participate in its musieal revue this spring. 
ln light of "Hagtime," Hose was optimistic about the com­ing years. 
"This is what Notre Dame eould be in the future," he said. ";\place where we could all accept each other and respect each other's gifts and come together as one." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Monday, March 5, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
dents for improving the elected officials of color from University from the past. "I 2001 showed, "a little more



Advice 
see [female African than one third of total black continued from page 1 American] students who elected officials were 
come to campus, and you female." consumed. She also men­own it." Every time there is a new tioned a survey in Women's As Shropshire admired the election, she said, the pro­Health magazine that said ability of black women to portion of black females that black women are less own their roles on campus, elected becomes higher. likely to exercise. Director of Multicultural Pinderhughes told audience 
"Think about what you eat, Student Programs and members that they can be how much you eat," Shavers Services Iris Outlaw urged part of this. said. "Just move, get some them to become more active "You have a role in that exercise." in the community. She sug­ahead of you," Pinderhughes 
During the question and gested seeking opportunities said. answer session, Shavers to mentor others or becoming Pinderhughes, who suggest­advised women who feel busy involved in boards accom­ed that black females consid­with the demands of college plish this goal. er the roles of elected offi­to start taking steps toward Taking an active role in the cials, appointed officers and making better health choices community can "help you see roles in administrative agen­now, but to take things slowly beyond just Notre Dame and cies, expects black women to and allow themselves "to sort you going out and getting a play an increasingly impor­of mess up without blaming job," Outlaw said. tant role in the future of poli­yourselves." Also encouraging black tics. 
In another question from females to take an active role "One of our hypotheses is the audience, panel members outside of their immediate that black women will be were asked how they "cope" surroundings, political sci­important in developing with the challenges posed by ence and Africana Studies political coalitions," she said. both their gender and race. professor Dianne Law student Tina Ferguson, 
"Whenever I think I am Pinderhughes recommended who helped establish Shades having a tough time, I that black women consider a of Ebony in 2002, moderated remember there is so much career in politics -a topic the discussion. to be grateful for," Shavers that she said is organized said. "Even in challenges, around her research. Contact Emma Driscoll at there is so much opportunity Pinderhughes said data on edriscol@nd.edu to grow." 

Sample fares From South Bend to:  Sample fares From Chicago to:  
Chicago  $131  London  $273  
Houston  $182  Amsterdam  $298  


Focusing on another aspect of personal well-being, assis­tant professor of marketing Constance Porter examined financial issues faced by black women and financial risk taking. Porter, who never planned on entering the teaching profession, has worked as a banker and con­sultant. 
Porter said in a recent study controlled for age and education, black women were investing their money too conservatively. 
"I was shocked to find this out, barring age, barring education and barring income levels," she said. 
Looking at issues involving black women and religion, Associate Director of Campus Ministry and Director of Cross Cultural Ministry Chandra Johnson spoke about spirituality, something she cultured in herself from family experiences that included both pain and love. 
"As a spirit-filled woman of African descent, I depend on my ancestors to tell me what I need to know to sustain my relationship with God into the twenty-first century," Johnson said. "God has a relationship with each and every one of you in a particu­lar way." 
To Johnson, spirituality gives a sense of resilience. 
"Because we're made in God's image and likeness, there is nothing in this world that could destroy you unless you let it," Johnson said. 
A similar idea of resilience was echoed in College of Business advisor Gina Shropshire's advice to take advantage of all available academic opportunities ­even though she acknowl­edged it can be frustrating being the only black student in a given classroom. 
Since women were still new to Notre Dame when Shropshire started at the University as an undergradu­ate, the thought of pursuing a career in higher education as a female never really crossed her mind. Now, she urges young black females to give the profession serious thought. 
"We need the intellectual­ism, we need the fresh ideas," she said, commending current female black stu­
2007-2008 Center for Applied Mathematics Graduate Fellowship Poster Session 

Tuesday, March 6, 2007 lO:OOAM-12:00PM Hurley Building Foyer (with the globe) 
Presenters: 
Ashraf Al-Khateeb Sagnik Basuray YongJin Cho Scott Christley Baoyang Deng Richard Gejji Jonathan Hauenstein Diana Hou Joel Jimenez-Lozano Dayu Lv Shashank Maiya Jason Mayes Jason Nightingale Krishnan Padmanabhan Charles Penninger Srinath Puducheri Sundaravaradhan Gianluca Puliti Fang Qi Su Su Charles Vardeman II Sundeep Venkatraman Haitao Wang Ki Hyuk Yee Wenlong Zhang Jianfeng Zhu Zach Zikoski 
For further information, please contact Andrew Sommese Director, Center for Applied Mathematics. 

THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, March 5, 2007 
THE OBSERVER Critne and punishtnent at Notre Datne 
1'0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instimrion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obsc:;rvt:r (USPS 59<) 2-4000) is published Monday rhruugh Friday except during exam and V".tcatiun periods. A subscription to The Oh&ervc.r is $100 fur on~· academic year; $55 fm one !>t:mc.m:r. 
The Ohstrvtr is published at; POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall &nd address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46S56.-0n9 The Observet 
l'-criodical posugt paid ar Nom~ Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offic-es. Ol4 Soulh Dining Hall 
Norrt Dame, IN 46"556-0n9 

The Observer is a membt:r ofthe Associated Press. AJI reproduction riR.hts are 
CC$CfVc.d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kate Autonacce Chris Khorey John-Paul Witt Dan Murphy 
Viewpoint Lorenzo Reyes Lianna Scene Brauweiler Marty Schroeder Graphics Madeline Nies 
In some ways, much of Notro Dame lilil is structured around a complex bureau­cracy whose sole purpose is to distribute punishmenlc; to all of the bad little boys and girls on campus. Penal institutions like DuLac, ResUfe, Rectors, AHs, HAs. NDSP, Bill Kirk and the Ninth Circle of IIell all serve to warn the stu­dent body that just because college is a parentless sanctuary doesn't mean that we all get to run around naked worshipping a pig's head on a stick. Unlortunately, acting up here will get you far more than a spanking and a time out in your bedroom. Just ask Kyle McAlarney. 
Still, in many ways, we have it good. WP can drink in our dorms (sorry Morrissey), tailgate ourselves into cirrhosis and lead social lives that arc -for the most part ­unrostrained. Sure, there's that much­mali!,rned sex elause in the rule book, but until HesLife starts strapping chastity belts onto all incoming freshmen, s<~xual promiscuity will remain about as easy to enlorce here as it always has been in thn Oval Office. 
At the very least, we certainly have it better than our predecessors at Notre Dame did. 

In the first few decades of the University, particularly when the campus contained both grade school boys and collegians, lili.l was more reminiscent of a mod11rn prison camp than a modern college. Every single second of a student's day was regulated and overseen by a prefect or Brother. The acts of waking up, eating, using the bath­room, dressing, praying, studying and sleeping were all strictly regimented to such an extent that Father Arthur Hope, author of "The Story of Notrn Dame," wrote that "no one at Notrn Dame had any freedom." 
Perhaps the most intensive ellorts to govern student life, though, came as a means of preventing them from traveling into the city of South Bend and visiting places like Chafin's-the predecessors of Corby's, Finnegan's and Club Fever. In the words of Father IIope, "The most frequent complaint against students, as the college grew, was their tendency to imbibe." 
The best record for these early "drunk 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 

' I . ,~ 
-GlP­
..--· ..... 
stories" of Notre Dame is a detailed ledger known as the "Black Book"-still avail­able li>r perusal in the University Archives­which notes the many student misdeeds which occurrnd betwmm 1 S67 and 1 S81. Maintained by the Pm(ilct of Discipline, the Black Book o!l'ers a hilarious look into the often absurd penal systmn in place at Notre Dame during the early years of the administration of the Congregation of the Iloly Cross. 
Nearly every page of the Black Book contains at least one story of a student who travelnd to South Bend and returned to campus drunk. Since $2 cabs were not dutifully waiting at Main Circle in those days, studnnts had to bo much mom inventivn when it camo to planning their escape. Many, li>r instance, would lake an illness and go to the inlirmary. When tim attendant lhnre had gonn to sleep for the night, tho students would sneak out and run the two or thren miles into town. The tales of their subsequent expulsions spoak volumes about the rigid ponal system in place at the time. 
In Septmnbnr of 1 S67, according to the Black Book, "two students went to town ... and both <:arne back intoxicated .... On the morning of the 24th, in a meeting of the Presid<mt, Vice President and ProJect of Discipline, it was deeidod to send them home-which was accordingly done." Now imagino Father Jenkins, John Aflleek-Graves and Bill Kirk gathering together every time a student returnod to campus drunk today. They would be locked in a room 24 hours a day with all the expulsions they would have to distrib­ute. 
In 1 S6S, one student "was expelled for going thrne times to South Bond and returning the last time boastly drunk." Another "had a thirst li.>r whiskey and would go to South Bend to get it. Decembor 17th [he] was sent to where he could obtain plenty of it" (home). The next year, a similar fate met "a young man who seemed to have an unquenchable thirst li>r whiskey," and another who was "expelled for eontinual drinking." 
Clearly, even the most heroic seven­night-pnr-week drinkers on campus today owe their ability to avoid expulsion to the valiant ell'orts of tho "beastly drunk" men of the 1 S60s who would even defy the great Father Sorin in their efforlc; to satisfy an "unquenchable thirst li>r whiskey." They may not have their portraits hung in the Main Building alongside the likes of Father Badin and Father Corby; they may not have a cheeseburger named after them at CJ's along with the Four llorsemen of the Hockne era; they may not have statues honoring them on campus like Father Hesburgh, Father Joyce, and Frank Leahy. Nevertheless, to much of the Notro Dame student body, these were cer­tainly some of the first campus heroes. 
Of course, not every punishment record­ed in the Black Book relates to drinking. By my estimation, botween 1S67 and 1SS1, over 150 students were expdled from Notre Dame -and this at a time when Father Sorin dreaded expulsions because of the tarnishing effect that it had on the reputation of both the student and the school. Some were expelled for "inso­lence, disobedience and profanity." Some were "good for nothing fellows," "very poor specimens," or "very bad young men." One porn-peddler was kickod out "!i>r having in his possession an obscene book which was capturnd." Some tem­peramontal studonts were even "abusive and impertinent toward ... t11achers." 
Ono 187 4 student in particular caught my eye, as the Prefect wrote, he "was extremely addicted to grwnbling. He thought that there was too much religion here and not liberty enough for youths of his age. lie declared his intention of being expnlled." Certainly, before today's stu­dents make similar complaints about the University's religiosity-which many of us have-it would bn useful to put ourselves into the shoes of this poor man who had it infinitely worse than we ever will. 
In the past 135 years, much has obvi­ously changed for the better about the Notre Damn penal eode, yet being college students, that doesn't stop us from being "extremely addicted to grumbling" about those rules. Perhaps, though, we should be a little more thankful that we don't live in 1868 (or in Morrissey today) and begin to appreciate our hard-earned freedom to get "beastly drunk" without the risk of expulsion, among other things. 
Beeauso let's faee it: It's no fun getting banned !rom this amazing place. Just ask Kyle MeAlarney. 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy minor. 1/e can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER PoLL 
What are you doing for spring break? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

1Submit aLetter 1to the Editorat 

lwww.ndsmcobserver.com' 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A kiss is a lovely trick designed by nature to stop speech when words become superfluous." 
Ingrid Bergman Swedish actress 


THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Monday, March 5, 2007 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't punish allergy sufferers 
I would like to ask that The Observer submit Patrick Wolohan's Letter to the Editor ("Sympathy for allergy sufferers," March 2) to the Office of Residence Life and Housing or be brought to the attention of someone who could rectify this situation. It is absolutely unreasonable for any dorm to have a pet if some of its residents may be allergic to that pet. 
Wolohan makes an excellent point in that students with allergies are often placed in the newer air-conditioned dorms such as PE to prevent severe allergic reactions. These dorms specifically are much more like­ly to have residents who are allergic to a dorm pet because of this, and should not have to put up with the possibility of the hall staff suddenly getting a new pet they're allergic to. 
Wolohan suggests that there be specific dorms for animal lovers. While this could be a valid solution it perhaps goes too far in that it would require selection of a dorm, which Notre Dame obviously has done away with. Instead there should be some sort of University policy that dorms they are specially placing students with allergies in should not be allowed to have pets that a resident could possibly be allergic to. 
People may not realize this, and I may not be fully aware of how the dog's presence affects the girls' allergies, but here at Notre Dame your dorm is supposed to be your second home. Voluntary transfers from dorm to dorm are not very commonplace here because of this. Thus, forcing students with allergies to either leave the dorm or deal with whatever allergic reactions they may have is the equivalent of a pun­ishment for having an allergy and that's not right. 
James Breen freshman Zahm Hall Mar. 2 

More faulty logic surrounding Saint Mary's policies 
In the March 2 Staff Editorial ("New housing policy problematic"), the Editorial authors accused the Saint Mary's administration of "faulty logic" in their recent decision to require incoming stu­dents to live on campus for six semesters. I would like to respectfully note that, whatever the status · of the administration's logic, The Observer's editorial itself suffers from faulty logic, which I see in two primary places. 
The editorial begins by noting that no college student likes to be told what to do, and that there­fore the Saint Mary's residential policy decision "will undoubtedly create problems for the entire College community." This statement's premise is an over-generalization; further, "undoubtedly" and "entire" are strong terms, which communicate that the authors presume to know how each Saint Mary's community member will respond to the policy after a reasonable examination of its pros and cons. 
Then, toward the end of the editorial, the authors imply that freedom of residen1jal choice is a plus in the minds of all current and prospective students. As one who (happily) chose to attend a liberal arts university with a six-semester residential requirement, I am not certain that the new policy "will frustrate students and scare off some top applicants." Current students are able to choose how they will respond to the policy, and some prospective students may choose to apply precisely because of the enhanced community experience they think will ensue from the six­semester requirement. 
I certainly agree that students' behaviors are not solely determined by proximity to a campus. I also agree that the policy's reception would likely have benefited from a greater inclusion of stu­dent input. If this new policy is implemented (and I make no judgements as to its appropriateness), the reaction to the policy by current students (those not directly affected by the policy) will influ­ence the attitudes of future students (who will be affected) as the two groups interact in the next three years. As we have recently been reminded, Saint Mary's students are proud members of their community; they should not allow this type of faulty thinking to influence their own independ­ent decision-making regarding their campus and its policies. 
David Kneip graduate srudem off-campus Mar. 4 

U-WIRE 
Learn to live with others 
Living, as I do, in an accommodating community and attending an accommodating university, I sometimes forget just how unreasonable some people can be when it comes to their beliefs. I forget that there are people who can't stand the fact that others have different opinions about the eternal destination of their soul. I ~or-Joanna Lees 
get that there are people who don t know how to stand firm in their own 
Ball State 
system without imposing it on some­
University
one else. 
Daily News 
Unfortunately, it's never long before something comes along to remind me. 
For instance, last week a religious group in Great Britain issued a list of demands asking Britain's public school sys­tem to ban activities that did not follow their religion. Among these activities are dancing, art that depicts human figures, music lessons, science lessons, sex education, swimming, required vaccinations and playground games. 
The group also demanded that all students be required to learn about the religion in question -but students of this religion would be allowed to leave the room when informa­tion about other religions was taught. 
To top it off, this religious group-which will stay unnamed because ifI name it I'll get nasty comments, and I can do without the stress -is a relative newcomer to Great Britain and is comprised mostly of immigrants. This adds insult to injury as they seek to impose their system on the nation which took them in. One wonders how well an English religious group would do in this group's countries of origin. 
The bigger question, though, is why can't the people in this group-hear me out, now-just quietly assimilate? 
Stop screaming and let me explain. 
Immigration is when a person leaves his home country behind and moves to a new country. The idea behind this is that conditions in the new country will be better than the conditions in the old country. 
Nowhere is it written that the newcomer gets to make the rules. There's no reason immigrants can't keep their reli­gion peaceful; plurality is part ofwhat makes the West unique among world cultures-but there's every reason for him not to force it on his neighbors. Such action only breeds resentment and ends in bitterness and violence. Plus, it's just not nice. 
One major indicator of a culture's development is its toler­ance for other cultures. Personal maturity is likewise indi­
cated by an individual's ability to stand firm in his own beliefs without feeling threatened by an opposing viewpoint. Ifsomeone moves to another country and feels his reli­gion threatened, maybe his faith wasn't as strong as he'd 
· thought. If a person is always cocooned in a comforting blanket of like-minded people, he has no reason to examine his faith. Exposure to other ideas, however, can have one of two effects: It either tempers the man's faith like water on hot steel, or it shatters it. The way to avoid shattering, of course, is to learn more about one's own faith and learn to stand as an individual. Unfortunately, some don't seem to have grasped this con­cept, choosing instead to silence those who disagree with them -a reaction equal with stuffing their fingers in their ears and shouting "I can't hear you!" when free discourse should be valued above silence. Let's try that way. 
This column originally appeared in the March 2 edition of the Daily News, the daily publication at Ball State University. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, March 5, 2007 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
Whitaker dominates 'Last King of Scotland' 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Critic 
When a great actor seizes control of a career-defming role, he does more than mimic actions and words. He lives, eats and breathes that person's life. 
Screen legend Marlon Brando was renowned for the depths to which he'd sink in pursuit of honing his craft. For his first screen appearance in the 1950 film "The Men," Brando spent a month in bed at a veterans' hospital to prepare himself for the role of Lieutenant Bud Wilozek, a bitter paraplegic and World War II sur­vivor. Brando... did more than play Wilozek. He became him. 
Fifty-six years later, Forest Whitaker went to the same lengths in his pursuit of brutal Ugandan dictator Idi Amin for "The Last King of Scotland." Whitaker mastered Amin's East African accent and learned Swahili. He met Amin's family and friends. He spent hours poring over books and watching documentary footage, studying the man and his meth­ods. For five months, Whitaker delved further and further into the deep, dark recesses of Amin's mind to bring his 
The Last King of Scotland 

.../.··'.·...' 
l!PJ::::;,f 

Director: Kevin MacDonald 
Writers: Peter. Morgan and Jeremy Brock 
Starring: Forest Whitaker, James McAvoy, 
Kerry Washington, Gillian Anderson ­tyranny back to life. 
The results are astounding, as Whitaker's brilliantly raw turn here is one of the great screen performances of the past decade. His Amin is baleful and benevolent, savage and sympathetic. For the first 60 minutes, Whitaker beguiles us so skillfully that his monstrosities in the film's climax alarm us that much more. 
For all the press surrounding him, Whitaker's Amin isn't even the central character in this story. The moral center to "Last King" is Nicholas Garrigan (James McAvoy), a young, idealistic Scotsman who arrives in Uganda to aid a rural hospital. When he's called upon to treat a minor injury to Amin, Garrigan impresses the newly appointed Ugandan president with his candor. 
The feeling is mutual, as Garrigan is in turn drawn by Amin's charisma. An admirer of the Scots, Amin takes on Garrigan as his personal physician and advisor. But as the years pass by, Garrigan can no longer ignore Amin's increasing paranoia and moral corrup­tion, which gives way to the slaughter of thousands of Ugandans, the very people Amin had sworn to protect near the film's start. 
McAvoy has one of tho hardest tasks in this picture, and he deserves a lot of credit for not being engulfed by Whitaker's masterful performance. Amin cajoles, bullies, flatters and menaces Garrigan, but McAvoy's character never plays a secondary role to Whitaker's Amin in the overall plot of the film, which is both an asset and a distraction for director Kevin MacDonald's film. 
The problem with this movie, ironically, is that Whitaker is too good. Having recently been crowned with a Best Actor Oscar for his work. Whitaker delivers the performance of a lifetime here. ln multi­ple scenes, he transitions seamlessly from a booming, mirthful laugh to a fren­zied rumble when angered, his face con­torting with rage. 

Whitaker's Amin can never be ignored, and his absence in the film's midsection is palpable as the narrative drags with­out him. Sadly, Garrigan is a footnote in his own story as he slips further into Amin's grasp. We are so enamored of Whitaker's Amin that we wait with baited breath for the lion's return each time we're tested with Garrigan's misfortunes. 
Fierce, domineering and captivating, Whitaker's performance in "The Last King of Scotland" will outlive the film itself in the years to come. Like Brando and the great screen actors of old, Whitaker does more that play Amin in this biographical effort. He becomes him, stamping his fearsome visage upon Amin's face before our very eyes. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
'23' chills audiences despite acting, writing flaws 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
Humans have 23 pairs of chromo­somes. The earth is tilted at a 23­degree angle. Psalm 2 3 is tho best­known Psalm. In Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar," Caesar was stabbed 23 times. Michael Jordan wore the number 23, and Dr. Pepper has 23 flavors. 
It's clear that there is something strange about the number 23. Joel Schumacher's "The Number 23" high­lights much of the folklore surrounding 23 in an exciting, fast-paced mystery­thriller. 
Walter Sparrow (Jim Carrey) is a mild-mannered dogcatcher who leads a happy life with his wife Agatha (Virginia Madsen) and son Robin (Logan Lerman). While chasing a particularly vicious dog one day, Agatha stumbles into a used booksellers and discovers a red book entitled "The Number 23." Written by Topsy Kretts, Agatha becomes intrigued and passes the book along to her husband. Entranced by the novel's narrative, Sparrow becomes obsessed and begins seeing the number 23 appear in world events and his own 
The Number 23 


Director: Joel Schumacher Writer: Fernley Phillips Starring: Jim Carrey, Virginia Madsen, Logan Lerman, Danny Huston personal life. 
The script, written by first-time scribe Fernley Phillips, is alternately clever and idiotic. Why he felt the need to give everyone ridiculous names is almost unfathomable -the wife's name is Agatha (Sparrow, not Christie, though the reference is obvious), the son's name is Robin Sparrow, the professor's name is Isaac French and the book author's name is Topsy Kretts (get it?). We spent a good portion of the film gig­gling over the fact that Sparrow could­n't figure out what "Topsy Kretts" really meant and the rest of it aghast that he would actually name his son Hobin Sparrow. 
In actuality, though, "The Number 23" isn't nearly as bad as everyone says. Instead, despite its inherent goofiness, the film is a lot of fun to watch and is surprisingly intriguing. The number 23 does have a lot of significance in numerology, and some of the coinci­dences pointed out in the film are interesting (9/11/2001, 9 + 11 + 2 + 1 = 23, for instance), but the film often stretches to make it all work. 
Still, "The Number 23" clips along at a nice pace until its bizarre resolution. The scenes that occur within the nar­rative of the novel "The Number 23" are stylish and well-directed. On the whole, however, "The Number 23" is closer to "Phone Booth" than it is to "Batman· and Robin" and that's a very good thing -Schumacher keeps his excesses in check, especially in the scenes set in reality. 
It's obvious that Jim Carrey is trying to stretch out his acting muscles into more dramatic roles, an extension of his well-received turn in 2004's "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind," which co-starred Kate Winslet. He does himself a bit of a disservice here because his performance really isn't all that good. Virginia Madsen, however, manages to reel him in a bit with a steady, straight-faced perform­ance as Agatha, but doesn't offer the character to act off of that Winslet did. None of the other characters have much to do, though Danny Huston is quickly establishing himself as a capa­ble character actor in the vein of John 


C. Reilly. Although "The Number 23" is adver­tised as a scary movie, it functions far better as an unraveling mystery movie, closer in vein to Christopher Nolan's "Memento." It certainly falls to a distant second when compared to the far supe­rior "Memento," but even with its numerous faults, "The Number 23" is still an enjoyable ride that brings both laughs and chills to the audience -it wanted to bring the chills but not the laughs. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, March 5, 2007 
page 13 
WASHINGTON HALL REVIEW 
'Oregon Trail' revels in wacky ride to the West 
ByTAEANDREWS Assistant Scene Editor 
A snappy script, a grab bag of slapstick gags and a whole lot of improvisation combined to make "The Orego.n Trail" the rootin'est tootin'est comedy this side of the· Mississippi. Based on the popular children's computer game which enjoyed it~ heyday during the 1990s, the play fol­lows the eccentric antics of a wagonload of wacky characters as they ford rivers, hunt animals and fend off Native American attacks all in the name of Manifest Destiny. 
Written by A.J. Allegra and put on by the St. Edward's Hall Players at Washington Hall this past weekend, this crazed comedy captured the fun of the computer game while managing to ridicule it at the same time, all in the spirit of the wild, wild west. 
After loading up his wagon "like Wilkes Booth loaded up Lincoln," frontiersman Ezekiel (Drew McElligott) takes his family on a crazy joyride out West in pursuit of a better life. Along for the ride are Ezekiel's wife Martha (Laura Godlewski), his snowpants-wearing son Judah (Mike Anderson) and flamboyant and scantily­clad drama king Jebediah (Nathan Morse). In addition, Crazy Fingers (Steve Iwanski), a heavily bearded schizo­phrenic with a penchant for profanity and making love to scarecrows, some­how manages to find passage aboard Ezekiel's wagon. 
Peppered throughout with commentary from Matt (Jeff Eyerman), the mustached store proprietor who narrates this intrepid tale, hilarity ensues when the rations get reduced to "meager" and the tempo speeds up to a grueling pace as the play races to its wild conclusion. 
As irreverent as it is inappropriate, "The Oregon Trail" entertains with a smattering of salty language, a series of comic interludes and asides and more lewd moments and homoerotic interplay than you can wag a wagon tongue at. There are a slew of truly bizarre moments in the play that can barely be explained and many of which aren't fit to be printed here. Some bf the high­lights of the ones fit for print include: 
+The play's absurd hunting scene, in which a slew of beasts from the animal kingdom (and a few not from it, such as a pair of unicorns thrown in for good measure) are mowed down by Ezekiel and Jebediah while recreating a scene from "The Lion King." 
+The unforgettable and utterly inex­plicable appearance of "Stemmy" (Patrick Vassel), a nymphomaniac stem cell who arrives to save the day when Ezekiel and Judah find themselves at an impasse late in their journey. 
+A lengthy debate over the proper pronunciation of the word "dysentery," a debilitating and common disease for both 
. players of the computer game and char­acters in the titular play. What makes "The Oregon Trail" so funny is its talented and creative cast, which uses its flexibility and creativity to keep coming up with spontaneous moments of ridiculousness on the fly. In addition, the play used some rather unconventional stage conventions to set the stage, such as the use of a moving tree (Beth Melia) to present the image of 

movement as Ezekiel kick-starts the wagon's three-dozen oxen into gear. The play also used a myriad number of cos­tumes to keep the gags coming, as a near-naked Dancing Indian· (James Gower), the Statue of Liberty (Emily Balthasar), a can of Spam and all man­ner of strange animals make it into the mix. For the audien{;e, the main chal­lenge of "The Oregon Trail" was keeping up with its wild and crazy cast as the jokes kept flying on this wild ride. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 

Dave Matthews gives UK some American jam 
In the United States, Dave Matthews is famous for his bohemian brand of rock music that blends jazz-influ­enced jams with funky acoustic gui­tar. With his summer tours, Matthews has sold out amphitheaters and Bob Costa stadiums around the country ­
drawing thousands Scene Writer 
of college and high school student rev­elers to parking lots and mas-sive lawns all over the US. Due to his American successes, Matthews has won three Grammy awards and sold millions of albums. 
Yet in the United Kingdom, Matthews is able to walk into a pub anonymously. Just as British pop star Robbie Williams was never able to break big across the pond, so too has Matthews struggled to build a fan­base on the UK and Europe as a whole. 
Despite this, he recently played a concert in a tiny theater that is a part of Newcastle City Hall in northern England, playing to a small crowd of Brits and a few dedicated American fans that made the trek. 
The concert was listed as a solo acoustic performance, but he sur­prised the audience by having his long-time friend and guitar accompa­nist Tim Reynolds join him for the entire show. Reynolds is notable for sharing the top billing with Matthews on the multi-platinum 1999 release "Live at Luther College" and for encouraging Matthews to start a band after teaching the young South African bartender a few things about playing the guitar during Matthews early days as a musician in Virginia. 
More mature in both appearance and sound, Matthews has grown visi­bly older since the heady days of his early career that revolved around sex and drugs. The magic of Matthews' music is still strong, though it seems to have lost some of its quirky song­writing seen on classics like "What Would You Say"·-songs like "Oh" and "Smgoth Rider," although pleas­ant, are by no means anthems like past hits "Ants Marching" or "Tripping Billies." 
It became clear during the show, especially during complex numbers like "Satellite" and "Lie in our Graves" that it was wise to bring Reynolds along to deepen Matthews own sound. Matthews reveled in play­ing his newer songs, especially those from his solo album "Some Devil." He also debuted a yet-to-be-named song during the encore that could indicate a new DMB that is venturing into alt­country territory for their next studio album, adding a little spice to the normal DMB formula. The other unreleased songs played were "Sister," a touching ode to his sister Jane and "Cant' Stop," a slightly mournful up-tempo tune he played on his electric guitar instead of his signature acoustic. 
The point of this tour is not to pro­mote a specific record, although Matthews did play a few tunes, including the autobiographical "Old Dirt Hill" off 2006's "Stand Up", but to reach a new audience. Matthews tried hard to connect with British and European fans at the show, even resorting to local patois during his riffs on everything from little-known British beaches he's visited to acting and playing piano with British televi-sion star Hugh Laurie during ~atthews' g~est appearance on Fox's 

House M.D. 
Before the show, Matthews, who now lives in Seattle, was in a Starbucks near Newcastle's town cen­ter, getting a cup of American coffee in a small corner of northern England. No bodyguard, no screaming fans -just a normal guy getting a coffee while Brits read their newspa­pers. 
Matthews is building his British and European fan-base, albeit slowly, at his own pace, playing in tiny, off-the­beaten-path venues and eschewing expensive advertising. 
Talking to him briefly after the show, it's clear h~ likes it like that, giving the Brits some jam with their tea and bread -winning them over on their terms, not his. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 5, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

St. John's beats Friars, ends Big East season 
Louisville finishes second in the conference; North Carolina downs rival Duke; Clemson spoils Hokies' ACC title run 
Associated Press a 38-32 lead at the break. nieal fouls and an early exit for Calhoun closed a 15-5 run to Seton Hall coach Bobby 
NEW YORK -Qa'rraan start the second half with a 3-Gonzalez. Gonzalez was ejected Calhoun had 21 points to help St. pointer, increasing the Red after pieking up his second tech­John's snap a 10-game losing Storms' lead to 53-37 at 14:05. nical foul with 51 seconds streak to Providence with a 77-Eugene Lawrence and Mason rnmaining. 64 win Sunday in the Red added 3-pointers in the run. "We wanted to go down swing­Storm's regular-season finale at ing, go down lighting," Gonzalez Madison Square Garden. Louisville 86, Seton Hall 71 said. "That's what our tnam did 
Anthony Mason added 1 7 A year ago, during Louisville's all ynar. That was our identity." points for the Red Storm (16-14, tumultuous transition to the Big By the time Gonzalez began 7-9 Big East), who had lost their East, coach Rick Pitino wondered the slow walk to the locknr room, last three games. if the Cardinals truly belonged in the Cardinals had linally shaken 
Herbert Hill scored 27 points one of the nation's toughest con­the Pirates, who stayed closn on 12-of-16 shooting for the ferences. behind a career-high 29 points Friars (18-11, 8-8). Dwain He doesn't wonder anymore. from Brian Laing and some red­Williams added 12 points and The 16th-ranked Cardinals hot shooting. The Pirates made Sharaud Curry had 10. capped their remarkable turn­10 of their first 13 3-pointers, but 
St. John's, which has not around season with a win over cooled off down tlw stretch, played iri the conference tourna­Seton Hall on Sunday, propelling missing their last eight as ment since 2003, will face Louisville (22-8, 12-41 into sec­Louisville relied on its depth to Marquette in the opening round ond-place in the Big East and pull away. Wednesday at Madison Square erasing any lingering doubt "It was close, they tried t"o Garden. Providence faces West Pitino had about his team's scrap it out," said Louisville VIrginia. toughness. guard Brandon Jenkins, who 
Red Storm center Lamont "We're now a legitimate Big scored four points in his final Hamilton hyper-extended his left East team, and we weren't last game at Freedom llall. "But in knee in a collision with Mason at year," Pitino said. "In just eight the end, this is something that 
6:07 of the first half and did not months we've changed that can help us." return. An MRI is scheduled whole mindset." Monday for the. team's leading It's a mindset Pitino thinks will North Carolina 86, Duke 72 scorer (13. 7) and rebounder serve the Cardinals well in the Blood poured from his nose 
(6.7), but he is expected to play upcoming Big East tournament, and onto his lip, chin and the in the tournament. and one they showcased against court. The latest bruised face of 
A three-point play by Hill gave a game Seton Hall squad that college basketball's nastiest rival­the Friars their last lead of the hardly looked like a team playing ry belongs to North Carolina's game, 18-17, at 9:22 of the first out the string. Tyler I Iansbrough. half. The Pirates (13-16, 4-12) near­"Just a little bump and bruise," 
St. John's went on a 21-14 run ly matched the Cardinals shot for teammate Reyshawn Terry said. the rest of the half behind shot -and blow for blow -in a "Nothing that a little ice can't Mason's eight points, which physical game that saw plenty of handle." included a pair of 3-pointers, for pushing and shoving, four tech-Hansbrough had 26 points and 
17 rebounds before sull'ering an injury that looked worse than it really was in the closing seconds restrained from Duke's players percent from 3-point range. or the No. 8 Tar Heels' win over while he was taken to the locker "This is a tough road win, as 14th-ranked Duke on Sunday, room. The oflicials reviewed the good a win as we've had all clinching the top seed in the play and ejected HenderSOf!, then year," said Tigers coach Oliver Atlantic Coast Conference tour­later said in a joint statement Purnell. nament. that under NCM rules he would Zabian Dowdell led Virginia 
Terry added 15 points in his be suspended for one game. Tech with 25 points. Jamon final home game for the Tar Gordon added 14 points. Both Ileels (25-6, 11-5), who swept Clemson 75, Virginia Tech 74 are seniors who were among five the regular-season series with Clemson showed it could take honored by Tech at the begin­the Blue Devils for the lirst time the heat. ning of the game. in 11 years, avoided their lirst The Tigers withstood second­"It's a line line between win­three-game slide under Hoy half pressure from No. 21 ning and losing," Hokies coach Williams and gave the homespun Virginia Tech on Sunday for a Seth Greenberg said. "We were coach his 1DOth victory at his victory that prevented the Hokies in position. We just weren't tough alma mater. from capturing a share of the enough on one or two plays 
But perhaps the lasting image Atlantic Coast Conference's regu­defensively." of the intense rivalry is lar-season title. Except at the very beginning, llansbrough's bloodstained face, "We're not a clutch team, but the' llokies didn't lead until a scary-looKing picture that we needed this win and we got Dowdell stole the ball and ran evoked memories of center Eric it," said K.C. Hivers, who led the the length of the court for a bas­Montross' bleeding, shaven head Tigers (21-9, 7-9) with 22 points ket to make it 66-65 with 5:48 after he took an elbow in 1992. and scored the decisive basket remaining. Clemson took the The latest injury came with 14.5 with 18 seconds remaining. lead back when Hammonds hit a seconds left, when llansbrough Rivers, whose season average is basket and a 3-pointer, and led leaped for a layup. After the ball 13 points, was 5-for-~ from 3-70-66 with 3:10 left. left his hand, he was struck in point range and hit all three of Dowdell then had four points the face by Gerald Henderson's his second-half attempts. as the Hokies went on a 6-0 run right elbow. Cliff Hammonds added 17 to regain the lead at 72-70. 
"He got our guys in the air, and points and six assists for the Rivers made a 3-pointer to give 
came down on him," Tigers in the ACC regular-season Clemson a one-point lead with Henderson said. "It's unfortunate finale for both teams. 2:11 left, only to have Dowdell that it turned out like it did, but I "We made a couple of big plays respond with a jumper to give wasn't trying to hurt the kid or down the stretch," said Virginia Tech a 7 4-73 lead with anything. It just turned worse Hammonds, who had three 3-4 7 seconds left. than it was." pointers. The Tigers built a 26-11 lead, 
Hansbrough crumpled to the The Tigers shot 61 percent in thanks to a 15-0 run, with 10:08 ground, his nose bleeding onto the second half, including 7 5 left in the first half. But Dowdell the floor and down his face, percent from behind the arc. The then got hot, scoring 15 points as before he jumped to his feet Hokies (20-10, 10-6) shot 64 per­the Hokies narrowed the deficit menacingly and had to be cent after halftime, but only 33 to 35-32 at halftime. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Now leasing for 2007/8. Great hous­UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­es close to campus. not go it alone. If you or someone ONE WHO IS? You do not have to FoR SALE FoR RENT Anlanproperties @comcast.net PERSONAL you love needs confidential support be alone. We want to help. Call our 
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­Oakhill condo-andersonNDrentals.com OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. Puck: Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 800-No-ABORT-or visit our website 3-4 bdm,3 full baths,2 levels, large Bumbaca houses offer you BIG Pis. check out bank where wild information, visit our web site at at www.lifecall.org deck. BETIER HOMES,BETIER Savings for 2 or 3 year lease. Visit thyme grows. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­312-933-7234 or email AREAS,BETIER DEALS. our web site Bumbacahouses.com. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Write for Observer Sports! mstacey1 @nd.edu. BlueGoldRentals.com Call Cosimo 574-277-1875. Oberon. in The Observer. Email Chris at ckhorey@nd.edu $210,000 obo. 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, March 5, 2007 CoMPILED fROM Tl·IE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pts. last 10 
New Jersey 40-18-7 87 6·3·1 Pittsburgh 35-21·9 79 6·4-0 NY Islanders 33-23-9 75 7+2 NY Rangers 31-27-7 69 5·3·2 Philadelphia 17-37-11 45 3·4·3 
Eastern Conference, Northest Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Buffalo 44-16·5 93 8+1 Ottawa 38·23·5 81 7·1-2 Montreal 33·29·6 72 4-6-0 Toronto 31-26·9 71 4·4·2 Boston 31·28·5 67 6-3·1 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Tampa Bay 37·26·4 78 6·2·2 Atlanta 34-23·10 78 4·5·1 Carolina 33-28·7 73 5·5·0 Florida 27-26·13 67 7-1-2 Washington 24·30·12 60 1-5·4 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Nashville 44-18·4 92 6-3-1 Detroit 41-16-9 91 6-1-3 St. Louis 28-27-10 66 6-2-2 Columbus 26-33-7 59 4-4-2 Chicago 24-33-9 57 2·6·2 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Vancouver 37-27·5 79 7-2·1 Calgary 35·21·9 79 6·3-1 Minnesota 36·23·6 78 7-1-2 Colorado 32·29·5 69 5-4-1 Edmonton 30·30·6 66 2-6-2 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Anaheim 38-17-11 87 5·2-3 Dallas 38-22-5 81 5·2-3 San Jose 39-25-2 80 3-6-1 Phoenix 27·35-3 57 2-7·1 los Angeles 22-33-10 54 4-3·3 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse Inside Lacrosse Media Poll 
team points prev. 
1 Princeton 290 3 
2 Georgetown 285 4 
3 Duke 270 6 
4 Cornell 250 7 
5 Virginia 216 8 
6 Maryland 198 5 
7 Johns Hopkins 192 1 
8. Navy 186 10 
9 Syracuse 179 2 
10 North Carolina 167 14 
11 NOTRE DAME 163 11 
12 Albany 122 NR 
13 Hofstra 97 18 
14 Delaware 96 15 
15 Towson 84 13 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL VCU vs. George Mason 7 p.m., ESPN 
Santa Clara vs. Gonzaga 9 p.m., ESPN 
Niagara vs. Siena 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 
HOUSTON-The Houston Texans agreed to terms with free agent running back Ahman Green on Sunday. 
The 30-year-old former Green Bay Packer will likely become the starter for a team that struggled at the position last season after Domanick Williams, formerly Davis, missed the year with knee prob­lems. 
Green will be introduced at a 1 p.m. news confer­ence in Houston on Monday, said Texans vice president of communica­tions Tony Wyllie. Terms of the contract were not immediately available. 

Houston also has a trio of inexperienced running backs in Wali Lundy, Chris Taylor and fellow former Green Bay player Samkon Gado. They also hope to re-sign free agent Ron Dayne, the 1999 Heisman Trophy winner, who excelled late last season after years of struggles. 
Green had 266 carries for 1,059 yards last sea­son after returning from a torn right quadriceps in 2005. He missed two games last season because of lingering effects from the injury. 
He has 8,491 yards and 54 touchdowns in his nine-year career that 
began with Seattle. Before the injury two years ago, Green gained more than 1,100 yards in each of the previous five seasons. 
Green, who has been with the Packers since the 2000 season, has close ties with former Packers head coach Mike Sherman, who is the Texans' offensive coordi­nator and assistant head coach. Along with Gado, former Packers teammate Mike Flanagan also plays for the Texans. 
Green spent the week­end in Houston, visiting the Texans and taking in a Houston Rockets game on Saturday night. 
''I'm just looking for a situation where I feel comfortable around the players and the coaches, where I can be myself," Green said Sunday before the deal was announced. "Come down here and just play football and have fun. That is what I'm look­ing for." 
Green did not immedi­ately return a message left on his cell phone by The Associated Press. 
After meeting with Denver and Houston, Green told reporters in Houston earlier on Sunday that he was can­celing other scheduled visits to teams and could "possibly" make his deci­sion in the next 24 hours. 
IN BRIEF 

MontQYa ~ins out teammate, 
wins Buscli Series race 

MEXICO CITY -Juan Pablo Montoya spun teammate Scott Pruett to take the lead with eight laps left, then held off Denny Hamlin to win the Busch Series race on Sunday for his first NASCAR victory. 
Montoya, the Colombian star who jumped from Formula One to NASCAR late last season, recovered from a bad pit stop to aggressively move from 19th to first, taking the lead when he sent Pruett's car spin­ning on the 72nd lap of the Telcel­Motorola 200. 
''I'm very sorry about what hap­pened with Scott," Montoya said. "I thought he saw me and when he came across I had no room to go." 
Montoya said he would personally apologize to Pruett. 
"Of all the people to take out ­your teammate," Pruett said. "That was just lowdown, nasty, dirty driv­ing." 
Weekley misses 3-foot putt,
chance to win first PGA event PALM BEACH GARDENS, -Boo Weekley missed a 3-foot par putt on the fmal regulation hole of the Honda Classic, wasting a chance to win his first PGA Tour title. 
He'll have to wait until Monday morning to get a shot at redeeming himself. 
Weekley, Camilo Villegas, Mark Wilson and Jose Coceres went into a four-man playoff Sunday night, one that they couldn't fmish before dark­ness fell on PGA National. 
Each player made par at the par-5 18th, the first playoff hole. Wilson made a spectacular par, driving his tee shot into the mud and scrambling to the green before making a 30-foot putt to keep him in contention, and Coceres' birdie try that would have ended the tournament hit the lip and rolled away. 
Weekley made a 3-footer to earn his trip to the second playoff. 
PiP..pen and former coach 
Jacl<son talk about comeback 
PHOENIX -Los Angeles Lakers coach Phil Jackson says he has talked to 41-year-old Scottie Pippen about making a comeback with the team. 
"I did get in touch with Scottie," Jackson said before the Lakers played the Phoenix Suns on Sunday, "but it was just preliminary talk about how he's doing, where he's at and how he feels." 
Jackson coached Pippen while both were with the Chicago Bulls during their title years. Jackson said Pippen is interested in coming to Los Angeles. 
"I would say he kind of talked about the parameters of what he thinks he can do to help," Jackson said. 
Pippen and Michael Jordan led the Bulls to six NBA championships. He was with the Bulls for 12 seasons, from 1987-98. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 5, 2007 
MEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

ND set to take on Huskies 
Irish lose to Big Red 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sporrs Writer 
No. 8 Notre Dame will look to finish its home indoor sea­son undefeated when it takes on No. 15 Washington today at 4 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Even thought the team has gone 
the match. 
'Tm more concerned about Washington than what our home record is," he said. 
The Huskies, who have sev­eral left-banders on their ros­ter, will challenge the Irish from the beginning. Seniors Alex Slovic and Daniel Chu are two of the left-banders likely to test Notre Dame on the courts at No. 1 doubles. 
"They play great doubles," Bayliss said. "They serve big and they try to take away the middle of the court, they have a very aggressive style and we need to counter that well." 
Chu will also present a prob­lem for Notre Dame at No. 3 singles. 
"[Chu] is a very smooth play­er," Bayliss said. "He doesn't than anybody and he's been a 

for third straight year 
hit the ball big, but he is a very pretty effective number six as 
6-0 at home, post­'They serve big he is comfort­to be prepared to answer with 
lost to Cornell 13-8 

ing wins over top­and they try to able playing strong rallies. 
Saturday in 

balanced player with good well as playing good doubles." transition skills." Even though Bayliss expects No. 84 Slovic will take on the the team to do well in both 
By PAT O'BRIEN No. 1 singles spot for the doubles and singles play, Notre 
Sports Writer Huskies. Senior Stephen Bass Dame will still look to make a (No. 11) and junior Sheeva powerful showing against 
Notre Dame will have to wait Parbhu (No. 27) have both Washington. The Huskies are 
another year to defeat Cornell. played at No. 1 singles for likely to challenge the Irish 
After falling twice to the Big Notre Dame, from the beginning, and 
Hed by one and three goals in and Bayliss said Bayliss said his team team has 
the last two years, the Irish 
added an assist. Senior attack­er Brian Hubschmann once again tallied two goals of his own in the defeat. Junior mid­fielder Michael Podgajny con­tributed one goal and an assist, while sophomore attacker Ryan Hoff, senior midfielder Lucius Polk and sophomore attacker Peter 

Hewlett, N.Y. "We came out flat Christman all
ranked teams either one "We really need to hold our
take away the
including No. 22 against Slovic. ground and try to be as 
Cornell (3-0) had andjust got out­aided with a
middle ofthe
Michigan, No. 12 "[Bass and aggressive as we can and push 
the Irish down 12-goal each.
played in all
Duke and No. 10 court.'' Parbhu] have them around a little bit," he 
3 in the third "This shows 
Florida State, alternated some said. 
quarter on two 5-aspects." us a lot about 
Notre Dame coach all year -both A win over Washington 
goal streaks. The what we need to
Bobby Bayliss 
Bobby Bayliss is are number one would mark the seventh win at 
last quarter and a improve," Polk
Joey Kemp 
Irish head coach
focused solely on players," he home for the Irish in the 
half featured a said. "The loss
Irish goaltender 
said. indoor spring season -a task 
Notre Dame (2-1) 

Bayliss is also confident in Bayliss said is vital to the 
streak of five goals 

the rest of the singles lineup. 
"We really need to 

Sophomore Brett Helgeson hold our ground and 
and seniors try to be as aggressive
Ryan Keckley 
as we can and push

and Barry King can all them around a little 
play at No. 3 bit." singles and have alternat­
Bobby Bayliss 

ed throughout 
the season. Irish head coach The only set player is jun­
team's overall 
to the Big Red's one, but it was 
success. 
too little, too late. 

"We would 
"We came out flat and got 
like to see a 
outplayed in all aspects," Irish 
higher percent­
junior goaltender Joey Kemp 
age of first 
said. "They generated a lot of 
serves, more 
offense from their midfield, 
aggressive net 
and we didn't do so as much." 
play and the 
Attacks David Mitchell and 
ability to count­
Brian Clayton led the Big Red 
er on returns," 
with four points apiece, while 
Bayliss said. 
fellow attacks Eric Pittard and 
"It's important 
John Glynn added two goals 
that we really 
and one assist. Midfielders 
conclude the 
Henry Bartlett and Chris Finn 
ior Andrew Roth, who anchors  indoor portion of our schedule  each netted two more goals in  
the Irish at the No. 6 position.  with a strong win."  the win.  
"[Roth] has really been our  The Irish were led by fresh­ 
sparkplug this year," Bayliss  Contact Deirdre Krasula at  man  attacker Will Yeatman,  
said. "He's got more energy  dkrasula@nd.edu  who scored  two  goals and  

is bad, but we now know how to get better." 
Notre Dame continues its five-game road trip with a visit to Chapel Hill to play No. 10 North Carolina (3-1) Saturday. 
Notes: 
+Kemp played the whole match this time, and he made 13 stops on the day. His coun­terpart, Cornell's Matt McMonagle, had an impressive 15 saves in the game while letting up only 8 goals. 
+Cornell held a 48-34 advantage in shots. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 


Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Its a whole new place! New local ownership &management -Newly remodeled for 2007 -2008 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 


• Off-Street Parking 
• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security System 


Renting fast-call today for 2007-2008 

.... 
Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or (574) 234-2436 


Monday, March 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO SWIMMING 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish take do-wn t-w.o
Divers struggle on Day 2 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
In the span of a few hours, 
. Notre Dame went from having two divers in the NCAA Championships to having zero. After the preliminaries for three-meter diving, held Saturday morning, sophomore Michael Bulfin occupied second place with 339.90 points while teammate Sam Stoner was one spot behind with 337.15 points. Bulfin and Stoner needed only to maintain their current posi­tions in order to earn automatic bids to the NCAA Tournament. The two divers, however, could not replicate their morning per­formances. In the three-meter finals held Saturday evening, Bulfin tallied 
312.20 points giving him a total score of 614.15 points that dropped him to a fifth place fin­ish. Stoner managed only 277 points in the finals, dropping him 
Do you want to be the next... 
JUDICIAL COUNCIL PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT OF ELECTIONS OR VICE PRESIDENT OF PEER ADVOCACY? 
The Judicial Council is now taking applications for President, Vice President of Elections and Vice President of Peer Advocacy, as well as general interest in the Judicial Council concerning elections and as a Peer Advocate. 
Applications are available outside of the Judicial Council Office (214 LaFortune Student Center) 
and on the Judicial Council website. Applications will be due in the Judicial Council Office (214 
LaFortune) by next Wednesday, March 7, 2007 at 5 p.m. 
For more information on the Judicial Council, please visit: www.nd.edu/-jcouncil. 
For any questions or concerns, please email jcouncil@nd.edu 
Do you vvant a great on-campus surnrner job? 
2007 SUMM RESIDENCE HALL 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
Phone: 63'1-5878 E-Ma,l:: orlh@nd.edu
off&fi 

'F.. ~ .,. • • .: 
all the way to 11th place. The third Irish diver to compete over the weekend, junior Steven Crowe, finished in 18th place with a combined score of 549.45 points. 
The failure to hold a top-three spot, which would have guaran­teed a spot in the national tour­nament, was especially disap­pointing for Bullin who appeared poised to obtain the berth for the second consecutive season. In 2006, Bulfin qualified by finishing fourth in the three-meter diving with a combined total 634.40 points. 
Notre Dame did manage to achieve two additional top-10 fm­ishes this past weekend, both coming in the one-meter diving. With a combined total of 600.25 points, Stoner picked up the high­est finish of his career in the Zone C Diving Meet with a sev­enth place finish. Bulfm finished one spot behind his teammate tallying a combined total of 
597.20 points. · 
top-25 teams at hon1e
The Irish women also failed to 
qualify a diver for the NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame sent freshmen Tiffany Hobak and Natalie Stitt to compete for the 
By CHRIS HINE nine available NCAA slots in Zone 
Sports Writer 
c. 

Hobak taUied the pair's best fm­
Notre Dame kept rolling this ish accumulating 490.95 points 
weekend, soundly defeating two off the one-meter board -good 
more top 25 opponents. The No. enough for a 12th place finish. 
2 Irish knocked off No. 23 Texas Stitt finished 16th in one-meter 
A&M 5-2 and No. 19 Texas 7-0, diving with 468.55 total points. 
improving to 12-1 in dual match Indiana's Christina Louka won 
play. the event with 652.10 points. 
Against the top-25 this season, Off' the three-meter board, nei­
the Irish are 9-1 and have now ther Irish diver managed to qual­
won 27 consecutive matches at ify for the finals. Hobak found 
home -a new school record. herself in 28th place after the 
"We played O.K. against prelims with 216 points while 
A&M," Notre Dame coach Jay Stitt finished 40th tallying 171.65 
Louderback said. "They're a points. 
scrappy group and their tough to Neither men's coach Tim Welsh 
play at times, but I thought nor women's coach Carrie Nixon 
against Texas we played very could be reached for comment 
well. following the weekend's events. 
"We won a lot of close matches against a team that's very good." Contact Greg Arbogast at 
Against the Aggies, the Irish garbogas@nd.edu 
had trouble grabbing the dou­bles point. No. 5 seniors Christian and Catrina Thompson feel behind 5-2 to Texas A&M junior Tiffany Clifford and senior Sarah Foster, while No. 15 soph­omore Kelcy Tefft and junior Brook Buck fought Texas A&M's No. 34 team of seniors Anna Lubinsky and Nicki Mechem neck and neck. 

In practice the last two weeks, Louderback has spent a lot of time working with his doubles teams. 
"We made a lot of errors. We tried to overhit the ball instead of using a little bit more feel and throwing the lob in," Louderback said. "We did start doing it even­tually." 
The Thompsons stormed back and captured six of the next seven games to grab an 8-6 vic­tory, while Notre Dame's third doubles team of freshmen Kali Krisik and Cosmina Ciabanu clinched the doubles point with an 8-3 victory over Aggie junior Anna Blagodarova and freshman Michelle Simmons. Ciobanu and Krisik ended the weekend with a 10-3 record in their doubles play for the season. 
"Our one and two doubles teams are pretty strong and so when we play teams, we tend to see some pretty good No. 3 teams because they figure they can beat us there," Louderback said. "[Opponents] tend to load up at No. 3 doubles and [Ciobanu and Krisik] play very well there." 
Buck and Tefft eventually lost their match 8-6 but Notre Dame still took a 1-0 lead. The Irish then continued their season long strong singles play against the Aggies. Notre Dame freshman Colleen Rielley pulled off a hard­fought three set victory against Foster 3-6, 6-4, 6-4 to give the Irish their fourth point and the victory. 
"She just started slow. The match before that she did that too," Louderbeck said. "Once she gets going though, she can get on a roll and games go by pretty fast." 
"She came back in that match and that was big because at the time, we needed that." 
At No. 1 singles, Catrina Thompson retired to Lubinsky in -I. the third set after the match had already been decided and Tefft dropped her match to Blagodarova giving the Aggies their two points. 
Against the Longhorns, the Irish again captured two of three doubles matches to claim and early 1-0 lead. Tefft and Rielley each dispatched of their oppo­nents with relative ease to make the score 3-0. Catrina Thompson then clinched the victory with a 7-6 (3), 6-4 victory against Texas freshman Vonja Corovic. 
Christian Thompson held off a surge from Texas junior Courtney Zauft to win 6-1, 2-6, 6-3 to give the Irish a 5-0 advan­tage. 
Buck then won her match against Longhorn senior Ristine Olson 6-2, 6-7 (4), 7-5 to improve to 8-1 this season. 
Ciobanu rounded out the scor­ing with a grueling, three-hour long, 7-6 (6), 7-6 (5) win over Texas freshman Stephanie Davison. Ciobanu has now won all 13 of her dual matches this season. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 5, 2007 
SOFTBALL 

Irish win three of four 
. inJacksonville road trip 
13 Annual 

Mini-Medical School Lecture Series 
Presented by the Indiana lJniversity School of Medicine-South Bend 
Sponsored by the Medkal Education Foundation 
Join us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors, professionals and university/medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free of charge and open to the general public. 
Medical professionals attending the lectures may receh·e 2 CME credits per session. Tbe Indiana Universit~· School of Medicine is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuin!l Medical Education to provide continuinJieducatioii for ph~ sicians. 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame found its winning formula this weekend at the Jacksonville Tournament, taking three games and suffering only one close loss in Florida. 
The Irish (7-7) started the tour­nament Friday with a 4-1 win over Virginia (8-14). Sophomore Erin Glasco connected with a two­run double off Cavaliers hurler Coty Tolar in the first inning, giv­ing the Irish all the runs they would need. 
Irish sophomore Brittney Bargar gave up only one unearned run in the fourth inning. Bargar scattered six hits while going the distance for the win. 
Notre Dame infielder Stephanie Brown continued her hot hitting, going 3-for-4 with a run scored. 
The Irish finished their day with a 7-2 win over tournament host Jacksonville. Notre Dame again got off to a fast start, scoring four runs in the first. The Irish fol­lowed that inning with three runs in the second, jumping out to a seven-run lead that was too much for the Dolphins ( 4-17) to over­come. 
Senior Kenya Fuemmeler pitched a nearly perfect game, giving up no hits and one walk in four scoreless innings. Fuemmeler picked up her first win of the sea­son, and sophomore Christine Farrell finished off the Dolphins for her first career save. 

ment schedule for the Irish. Instead of a second game against Jacksonville, Notre Dame faced VIrginia again Saturday. . 
After falling behind 3-0 to the Cavaliers, the Irish rallied in the bottom of the fifth inning. Consecutive doubles by Linda Kohan and Heather Johnson drove home three runs to tie the game at three. 
With two outs and two aboard, sophomore Erin Glasco then smashed the game-winning home run. The timely homer was Glasco's first of the season. 
Bargar had another strong per­formance on the mound, throwing 5 1/3 innings and allowing just one earned run. Fuemmeler, a day after picking up her first win, recorded her first save of the sea­son and sealed Bargar's sixth vic­tory. 
The weather-related changes to the tournament also shortened Sunday's scheduled doubleheader with Michigan to a single game. The No. 13 Wolverines (19-1) squeaked out a 1-0 win over the Irish in the last game of the tour­nament. 
Bargar threw another complete game for the Irish but took the loss, despite giving up just one run on six hits. Michigan ace Lorilyn Wilson improved to 10-1 with the performance, allowing just one hit and striking out 13 in the shutout. 
No players were available for comment following the games due to travel. 
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. (E.S.T.) Place: Indiana University School of Medicine-South Bend Raclin-Carmichael Hall 1234 Not1·e Dame Avenue South Bend, IN 466.17 (The southeast corner of the Notre Dame main entrance at Angela Blvd.) Free parking in the lot adjacent to the building. To re ister, or for more information, call Jami at 574 647-7389. 
Inclement weather struck on Contact Michael Bryan at Saturday, changing the tourna-mbryan@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

·ND takes down Big Red 13-9 on the road 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
The No. 7 Irish rebounded quickly from Thursday's 18-10 loss at home to Northwestern with a 13-9 win over No. 16 Cornell Sunday in Ithaca. 
Playing on a snowy Schoellkopf Field, the Irish responded to an opening goal by the Big Red with a streak of four straight goals to build a 4-1 lead. Cornell cut the lead to 4-3 with goals by Katherine Simmons and Noelle Dowd. 
That was the closest the Big Red would come, however, as Notre Dame got two consecutive free­position goals by midfielders Jillian Byers and Caitlin McKinney. 
The Irish took the 6-3 lead into the half, then scored two quick goals to start the second and take a commanding 8-3 lead. Cornell countered with two goals of its own, but it was the last threat from the Big Red. 
A three-goal burst by Notre Dame stretched its lead to 11-5 with only 15 minutes remaining in the game. Both teams traded goals down the stretch, but Cornell couldn't catch up. 
With the snowy weather delay­ing Notre Dame's plane, the Irish didn't arrive in Ithaca until mid­night on game day and had very little time on the field before the game. 
"I was really proud of our men­tal toughness," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "We were faced with so much adversity -the travel, miserable playing conditions and weather, and it was our third game against a ranked team in a week. We were very happy just to get out of there with a win." 

The Irish were led by McKinney, who contributed three goals and three assists. Byers and midfielder Lena Zentgraf also netted three goals apiece in the winning effort. 
Simmons led the Big Red with three goals, and six other Cornell players scored at least once in the game. 
Sophomore Erin Goodman had a career-best 14 saves. Goodman recorded 11 saves in the first half, allowing Notre Dame to take a 6-3 advantage. 
"Erin was really in the zone in the first half," Coyne said. "I really think she kept us in the game and helped us take the lead at points." 
Notre Dame was also dominant in draw control, winning 20-of-24 for the game. Kaki Orr and Zentgraf led the way with five draw controls each. 
The Big Red out-shot the Irish 27-26 for the game, and Cornell goalkeeper Renee Hughes had six saves. 
The win improved Notre Dame's record to 3-1, with all four games to start the regular season played against ranked teams. 
Next up for the Irish is a trip back to the northeast to face Canisius in Buffalo. The Griffins are 3-2 after a 13-10 win Saturday over Vennont. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Session I, Wednesday, Februarv 21, 2007 
''Wome11 's Health and Hormone Replacement Therapv" 
Sloan Shah, MD South Bend, Indiana 
Session 3, Wednesday, March 7, 2007 
"Autism: Unlocking the Cause With Hope to rhe Future " Elizabeth Berry Kravis, MD, PhD Chicago, Illinois· 
Session 5, Wednesday, March 21.2007 
"Pe~lormance L'nhancing Dmgs Among Professional Athletes: The BALCO Investigation-Not Just BarlJ' Bonds" James Moriarity, MD Notre Dame, Indiana 
Session 2, Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
"Alzheimer's Disease: A Looming Epidemiologic Nightmare " Diana Kerwin, MD Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Session 4, Wednesday, March 14, 200~ 
"Avian Flu Epidemic: Are We Prepared For a JJisasler?" Joseph J. Contiguglia, MD, Colonel USAF Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi 
Session 6, Wednesday, .March 28, 2007 
"Diahetes: Everybody's Got It, What Do We Do Now?" 
Mary Ann Emanuele, MD Maywood, Illinois 
UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME DEPARl'MENT Of MUSIC PRESENTS 

SCI--IOLA MUSICORUM 
8:30 &. 9:30 P.M. WEDNESDAY. MARCil 7, 2007 
REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL MARIE 1'. DEilARTOI.O C!·NT!-R I'·C>R 'I' HE I'U\I'ORMIN(i t\RTS
r:±l 
~ 
FREI' AND Ol'J:·N \U THE l'lllli.IC

UNIVERSITY 01' 
. 'I ICKrTS $J ,Jt>'%, D E B A R T 0 l 0 
NOTRE DAME 
DEPARTMENT OF MtTS1C I'H(lNI 574·631·2800 FOR IICK!fS "'~~ -!»~ PfRfOR!A/NG Alff5 CEN rER 

r----------------------------------------------------­
Monday, March 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
TRACK AND FIELD 
Records broken at Loftus 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
The men's 4x400 meter relay team set a school record Saturday at the two-day Alex Wilson Invitational, held at the Loftus Sports Center, with a time of 3:08.38. 
The relay team's mark, which qualified it to possibly make the NCAA Championships this Friday in Fayetteville, Ark., was one of several school, meet and personal records set over the weekend. 
"I just think the mile relay was the race of the day for us," Irish coach Joe Piane said. "It's been a long time coming for those guys to get qualified for the NCAAs." 
The team, composed of senior Jordan Powell, junior Austin Wechter, junior Bob Kueny and senior Ryan Postel, finished sec­ond in the race. Ranked No. 12 in the nation after Saturday's race, they find out tonight if they will compete in the NCAA Championships. 
The distance medley relay also performed well, finishing in 
9:35.71 -good for the ninth­fastest time in the country. Wechter, senior Todd Ptacek, jun­ior John Cavanaugh and junior Jake Wilson placed seventh in the event Saturday. 
'That was fantastic. They did a great job," Piane said. "And it ensures that they're going to be at theNCAAs." 


Irish runners had success in the individual events as well. Fifth­year senior Molly Huddle won the 5,000 meters with a time of 
16:31.54. This was only Huddle's second race of the year, since she missed a large portion of the sea­son with a foot injury. 
"It means a great deal to her, certainly for her self-satisfaction," Piane said. "To the team itself, it means that Molly is back. She's been injured for quite a while and now she's obviously healthy and ready to compete for the highest level." 
Postel ran the 400 meters in 
47.23 seconds, his best time on the season, and finished in sixth place. That time is the second-fastest in Notre Dame indoor track history and also qualifies him for the NCAA Championships. Sophomore Patrick Smith posted a career-best time of 8:01.32 in the 3,000 meters. 
Having previously qualified for the NCAA Championships in the 5,000 meters, Smith has now qualified for the NCAAs in two events. 
Wilson has also qualified for the NCAAs in the mile and senior Thomas Chamney will run the 800 meters at the Championships. 
In total, the meet saw 83 NCAA provisional qualifYing tin1es post­ed. · 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Turtle Creek Apartment Ho01es 
Join us at the Clubhouse on Wednesday, March 7th for a 
"Break B4 Break" Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dive into a BUFFET of 
Delicious GOODIES & Treats 
EQUAl. HOUSING OPPORTUNITY 
Enter Our Drawing for: 
$50 Gift Certificate to Houlihan's 1-Pod Shuffle $25 Gift Certificate for 1-Tunes 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 
FENCING 

Irish finish second at Midwest Conference 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame played bridesmaid once again. 
A year after finishing second in all six disciplines at the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships, the host Irish were runners up once again Saturday at the 2007 edition of the event. 
Defending champion Ohio State took first place, while the Irish fin­ished a close second. 
Notre Dame's top team finish was a win in the women's epee with a 5­3 victory over the Buckeyes in the final. 
The Irish finished third in men's epee, second in men's foil and men's sabre and third in women's sabre, women's foil and men's epee. 
Notre Dame fenced without sen­ior sabreist Patrick Ghattas, who was competing in Bulgaria on the international circuit. 
Junior Ryan Bradley, who prima­rily took Ghattas' spot in the lineup, said he was glad to get in, even ifhe wished he had fenced better to push the Irish to a higher finish. 
"Obviously with Patrick gone, it was a good experience for me to fence against some good competi­tion," he said. "I really enjoyed it." 
Other than the win in women's epee, Notre Dame's best perform­ance might have been in the women's sabre competition, where the Irish fell to eventual champions Ohio State 5-4 in the semifinals. The Buckeyes went on to capture the title in that event and three oth­ers. 

Notre Dame's victory in women's epee final and Northwestern's win in women's foil championship were the only blemishes on Ohio State's otherwise perfect record. 
In Saturday's individual competi­tion, the Irish took three of six titles. 
Sophomore Adrienne Nott domi­nated the competition in women's foil, surrendering only 18 touches in her final three 15-touch bouts. After topping Ohio State's Holly McKibben 15-2 in tl1e quarterfinals and Northwestern's Jessica Florendo 15-1 0 in the semifinals, Nott thrashed the Wildcats' Samantha Nemecek 15-6 for the crown. 
On the men's side, junior foilist Jakub Jedrkowiak battled his way to the final, where he topped Ohio State's Joe Streb, 15-4, for the title. 
Irish freshman epeeist Kelley Hurley also continued her winning ways, easily capturing the crown in her discipline. Hurley defeated Ohio State's Alexandra Obrazcova 15-11 in the title bout after earning 15-11 wins in both the semifinals and quarterfinals. 
Men's epeeist Karol Kostka, foilist Mark Kubik and sabreist Matt Stearns also turned in top perform­ances, reaching the semifinals. 
But the gutsiest performance of the weekend for Notre Dame might have been Valerie Providenza's sil­ver medal showing. The senior bat­tled bronchitis throughout the week and emerged from pool play as the sixth seed in women's sabre. She fought to reach the semifinals, where she fenced Ohio State junior Eileen Grench in one of the day's most competitive bouts. 
Grench took a quick 4-1 lead, but Providenza rattled off three touches in a row. Deadlocked four touches later at 6-6, Providenza landed three attacks in a row before Grench went on a 7-2 run for a 13­11 lead. Providenza then responded with four touches in a row to secure the victory. 
While Providenza's semifinal was marked by dramatic momentum shifts, the final started out with a tit­for-tat. Providenza and Ohio State All-American Siobhan Byrne alter­nated touches for the first 13 scores of the match. With Providenza clinging to a 7-6 lead, Byrne went on a 6-1 run to take a 12-8 advan­tage. Providenza responded with five touches of her own, but after she took a 13-12 lead, her calf began to cramp and she walked with a noticeable limp to the on­guard position. With Providenza exhausted, Byrne collected the final three touches for the win. 
"Given that I didn't feel well, I'm happy I got second," said Providenza, who has been using an inllaler for her broncltitis. "I was a lot more tired in my bout with Eileen. I just tried to throw all I could at the final." 
Note: 
+Jedrkowiak beat Ohio State's William Jeter 15-13 in the semifi­nal. Jeter, whose emotional out­bursts earned him warnings at January's Notre Dame Duals, near­ly received a black card -an ejec­tion from the competition -for grabbing the mask of Cleveland State's Liran Gross during Jeter's 10-9 victory over Gross in the quar­terfinal. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Want to spend your summer living and working in the Hamptons? 
You'll have a once in a lifetime opportunity to work inthe Hamptons for two summers! Earn a partial scholarship plus a weekly stipend. 
Looking for a motivated, self-starter that enjoys working with people. Must be freshmen or sophomore that is able to do light manual labor and work outside. 
If interested, send a resun1e and a briefcotnposition to shumphre@nd.cdu, explaining why you would be a great candidate for the internship by Thursday, March 9. 
~· .. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 5, 2007 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I Cave
I I 
I 
continued from page 24 
I 
I Irish pre-empted the visit. I "I think he was going to get I a lot offers," Frank said of
I 
Cave. "I don't know if he's 
going to be a

I five-star guy, but he'll be a four­
I 
star guy." 
Frank said he didn't think it was a coinci­dence Notre Dame hosted jun­iors from around the country as the team's for­mer players pre­pared for the 
April 28-29 NFL Draft. NCAA rules prohibit the high school prospects from watching or participating in the workouts, but Frank said the presence NFL personnel and former player is a boon to recruiting for the Irish. 

While both commits were in­state prospects, Frank said the juniors came from Texas, California and Nebraska, among other states. Frank said the commitments are a testa­ment to the efforts of recruit­ing coordinator Rob Ianello, personnel development coordi­nator Dave Peloquin and Hon
"They are so much further ahead this year than they even were last year. 
Mike Frank lrisheyes.com 
Powlus, formerly the director of personnel devel­opment and cur­rently the team's quarterbacks coach. 
"They are so much further ahead this year 
than they even 

were last year," Frank said. "They are the guys who get them in the position where they can offor all these players." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 

Loftus plays host to NFL workouts 
Brady Quinn throws for scouts for the first tilne since Sugar Bowl 
Associated Press 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -Brady Quinn finally let NFL scouts, general managers and owners get an up-close look at what he can do on the field. 
Quinn, whose only workout at the NFL combine was bench pressing 225 pounds 24 times, took part in a half-hour work­out Sunday at Notre Dame's pro day, throwing a variety of passes with a representative from every NFL team watching on. 
"We threw everything people wanted to see," 

weakened since the end of the season as NFL teams reviewed the way he played, partieularly in the Sugar Bowl. Quinn said he can't understand how peo­ple are saying his stock is going down. 
"We haven't done anything since then and people are sit­ting there saying, 'You're stock's going up, you're stock's going down.' It's kind of comi­cal in that sense," he said. "You're just working out, doing the best you can every day." 
NFL personnel at the pro day Sunday said they were impressed. 
"Really he made more throws here than you'd think about making at the combine. I think he threw about 60 balls here today and it takes a little bit of 
endurance to be 

Irish coach able to do that and
''The fact he could 
Charlie Weis said. he did it pretty
make all his throws, 
"We put him rapid fire succes­through every both right and left, sion," Vikings throw that any he's a polished coach Brad 
NFL organization Childress said. 
quarterback. " 
would want to see Cleveland -from moving in Browns coach the pocket, to Romeo Crennel Romeo Crennel moving from the said Quinn had zip
Browns coach 
pocket, to three­step, to five-step to seven-step. I think now they have enough information to make a critical evaluation, if they didn't have enough on tape already." 
Quinn, who had fluid drained from his right knee at halftime of the game against Southern California and aggravated the injury in the Sugar Bowl against LSU, didn't take part in any of the agility drills, like the 40-yard dash or the 60-yard shuttle run. He said he'd do that at Notre Dame's next pro day on March 22. 
"I want to be 100 percent. I'm not quite there yet, but I will be soon," he said. 
Quinn has been the Cflnter of much draft speculation, partic­ularly over whether the Oakland Raiders will use the No. 1 overall pick to take him or LSU's JaMarcus Russell. 
Some draft analysts have said Quinn's draft status has been on his passes. 

"The fact he could make all his throws, both right and left, he's a polished quarterback. He's smart. Whnn you watch him on tape you can see he knows where to go with the ball. He will at times throw it away when he has to," Crennel said. "So we think he's a good young prospect." 
Quinn threw 63 passes, con­necting on 58 of them. Twice former Irish receiver Matt Shelton got his hands on passes but couldn't pull them in. Hhema McKnight couldn't catch a 35-yard pass or a 20-yard pass he dove for. Quinn over­threw tailback Darius WalkHr on a 25-yard pass. 
"I thought there were f'our catchable balls and one crum­my throw to the right hand side," Weis said. 
Quinn said he was pleased with his performance, although he thought he could have done better. 
Peggy Dibble Aesthetician 
Call Peggy TODAY! 
574.282.2020 
for all of your skin care & hair removal needs come to our South Bend location just a couple miles from campus on North Michigan street. Peggy is a licensed Aesthetician and specializes in Bikini, Bra4ilian, and full leg wax. From lip to ~egJ Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth and soft so you are ready to hit the BEACH! 
Peggy is available 
• 
Monday -Friday 9am-Spm 

• 
Saturday 8:30am -12:30pm 



...and don't forget to mention this ad!! 
& FACIAL PLAS'riC SURGERY 401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 

t 

Benefit for the TommyZ9 Foundation, Hannah and Friends, Make-A­Foundation, and Cystic Fibrosis. All proceeds go to these organizations. 
10 BOUTS 
7:30 
• 
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Doors open at 6:30 

For Ticket Info Call 
Monday, March 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
up seven runs. in the seventh to enact the 10-two runs in the bottom of the through adversity even though "We really executed offensive­run mercy rule and end the seventh, giving the home team you lose a tough game and they
Lilley 
ly," Schrage said. "We were able game. the go-ahead run. responded in a great way 
continued from page 24 to get our bunting and running Sunday's win over Nebraska Notre Dame struggled from [against Nebraska]," Schrage game going a little bit and we marked the highlight of the the field as well. Right-hander said. got some clutch hitting. We put Stetson Joey Williamson Iowa scored in five of the first 
real catalysts for us." pressure on [Nebraska] and they Invitational for pitched only one six innings before the Irish With strength behind the plate made some mistakes against us the Irish. Stetson inning -senior could rally to post a single run from Lilley and Pollock, the Irish and that was a big factor in the rallied from a 4-right-hander Dan in the sixth. Iowa took the lead
"We were really
jumped out to an early 5-1 lead win." 0 deficit to take Kapala relieved the early finishing the match up in in the first inning and never Sophomore pitcher David the 5-4 win executing junior to help the six innings with an 8-1 win after looked back. Phelps gave up one earned run Friday, and Iowa offensively.,, Irish protect their the game was called early due 
Every starter for Notre Dame in his five-plus innings -Jake followed with an lead part way into to heavy rain. earned at least one RBI includ­Opitz's three-run homer over 8-1 victory the fifth inning. While Schrage was satisfied
Dave Schrage 
ing big two-run plays from Matt the rightfield fence. Phelps' win Saturday. Sophomore right-with the way the team played
Irish coach 
Weglarz, Tony Langford and was his second victory over a "We played a hander Brett Graffy from behind the plate, he said Ryan Connolly. Langford and top-ranked opponent -he led great game was charged with he would like to see more con­Connolly each added two in the the Irish from the mound as Friday night and the loss after he sistency on both ends. sixth inning to bring the lead to they defeated No. 12 Texas it was a tough allowed the go-"Hopefully we're getting our 13-5 -the highest scoring Christian Feb. 24. heartbreaker to lose," Schrage ahead run in the seventh inning. bats rolling a little bit," he said. inning for the Irish, who racked Notre Dame posted three runs said. Stetson's Casey Frawley and "But we need to show up our 
The Irish posted four runs in Brian Pruitt each posted an RBI defense a little bit better yet. It the first inning Friday with dou­off Graffy for the win. will be good next weekend to bles from Lilley and Ross Notre Dame struggled again get into a groove." Brezovsky, but that was the only on Saturday against Iowa, The Irish will embark on a action Notre Dame saw from falling 8-1. seven-game road trip over behind the plate. Stetson "We came out flat on Saturday spring break. remained steadfast and earned after that tough loss [Fridayl one run in each of the first three and we talked a lot about Contact Deirdre Krasula at innings before finally posting resiliency and how to battle dkrasula@nd.edu 
DeiDons 
continued from page 24 
end of Saturday's game. 
Despite the close finish, the Irish couldn't hang with 
American Hair 
Cutters 
574-273-1286 
rncn:-..nrle men's Cuts. 
Ladies Style: 

Cuts/Perms/Color/Waxings. 
On the corner of SR 933 and 
Brick Rd. 

STUDENT DISCOUNT 
-with ID. 
Walk-ins or Appointments 
Welcome 

For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, March 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay, lesb1an, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame fam1ly, their fnends, and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 


CfrRE Cflll~C!L FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 
DePaul for the entire game. Early in the second half, the Blue Demons dominated play, outscoring Notre Dame 20-4 over a seven-minute span. DePaul spread the ball around during the run with five differ­ent players scoring points. 
Blue Demons guard China Threatt led the offense during this stretch, 

knocking down "! thought Charel tracked down loose both of her 3-came through for balls and forced point attempts. turnovers through­
us at that point.,, 
Threatt delayed any Irish come­back attempts with her threes. Her second triple extended the Blue Demon lead to 10 points as 

out Saturday's game. Muffet McGraw "The biggest part Irish coach of our defense was 
DePaul 
appeared in complete control of the game. 
But even though the Irish were floundering, they did not sink. 
Notre Dame responded to DePaul's run with one of its own, scoring 10 straight points over the next two min­utes, led by freshman Ashley Barlow and junior Charel Allen. 
"I thought Charel came through for us at that point," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "Ashley Barlow got a couple of rebounds. I thought it was mostly rebounding." 
Barlow made the most of her 5-foot-9 frame, fighting for 

much different game," McGraw said. "It would have put more pressure on them, but when it's a tie game you don't have that same pres­sure." 
The Irish played a tough man-to-man defense, led by guard Breona Gray. Gray has been Notre Dame's top defensive player all season, and 
to continue playing 
hard. We never 

wanted to give up," Gray said. "Wherever the ball was, I was there and so were the rest of my teammates." 
Although Notre Dame forced 19 turnovers, at times it played too aggressively and was in foul trouble throughout the game. Notre Dame fin­ished with 21 team fouls and had both of its point guards ­senior Tulyah Gaines and freshman Melissa Lechlitner -foul out late in the second half. 
With the loss, the Irish are eliminated from the Big East tournament and now await the NCAA Selection Committee's decision March 12 on whether they will be in the 
Tournament. 
DePaul current-

rebounds during "Wherever the ball ly finds itself in a the Irish run in similar position to 
was, I was there 
order to get put­the Irish on the
and so were the
back layups. bubble for the Barlow finished rest ofmy NCAA Tourney. with nine points teammates.,, The Blue Demons and seven lost 63-55 to rebounds, but Rutgers in the 
Breona Gray 
entered the lock­second round er room at half­Irish guard Sunday night, 
time scoreless on 0-of-5 shooting. 
"I think she prefers to come off the bench," McGraw said. "In the first half she was real­ly out of sync and I thought in the second half she played more like she's played all sea­son long." 
At the tail end of Notre Dame's 10-0 run, the Irish failed to convert on two chances to swing momentum in their favor. Allen was sent to the line twice for the Irish -once with a chance to take the lead and once to tie -but made only one of the two foul shots. 
"I was disappointed, and I thought if we had gotten the lead it would have been a 
hurting their 

chances of impressing the committee enough to secure a spot in the bracket. Both teams will have to wait until next Monday before they learn their post­season fates. 
Notes 
+ Allen was named to the all-Big East first team this weekend. She was Notre Dame's only player selected to the team. 
Center Erica Williamson and guards Barlow and Lechlitner were all named to the Big East all-freshman team. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, March 5, 2007 
Bye 
continued from page 24 
only previous appearance during his career. 
"My freshman year they beat us, and they beat us in the Big East tournament my sophomore year to keep us out of the NCAA Tournament," Falls said. "So fin­ishing up my regular season career with a win against them is a pretty cool thing." 

Falls has scored more than 20 points in three of his last six games and has scored in double figures in each of the last 12. He credited the scoring outburst to extra motivation in his last month of college basketball. 
"As a senior, your career is winding down and you want to go out strong," he said. "The adren­aline gets flowing and you get in a rhythm." 
In addition to Falls, Notre Dame had three other starters in double figures -senior guard Russell Carter with 17, junior for­ward Rob Kurz with 13 and freshman forward Luke Harangody with 10. 
Point guard Tory Jackson was the only starter not to score in double figures, finishing with six points, but the freshman made up for it with nine assists. 
"He was distributing the ball well," Falls said. "He was getting in the lane, tinding shooters and finding cutters." 
Notre Dame scored the first six points of the game and never looked back, leading from start to finish. The Irish got up by as much as 13 at 44-31 two minutes into the second half, but Rutgers made a run and cut it to live at 62-57 with less than six minutes remaining. 
Seeing the lead slipping away, Notre Dame went on a 6-2 run and coasted to victory. 
"They kept making runs at us, but we kept rsponding," Falls said. "We just kind of ground this one out." Forward Adrian Hill led the Scarlet Knights with 16 points and 18 rebounds. Notes: 
+ The Irish will play at 2 p.m. 
Thursday in Madison Square Garden in New York City in the Big East quarterfmals against the winner of Syracuse and Connecticut, who will play on Wednesday. 
The first round bye gives Notre Dame an extra day to prepare for the tournament. 
"We're going to soak up the city and the environment and get ready to play at the Garden," Falls said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 24 
and then just wail on me, Navare said. "This year I kept my distance, you know, 'you come in first, see what happens.'" 
1321b. 
Paul "Squints" Oddy def. Chris 
"Cougar" Cugliari 
Although Oddy won the fight in a unanimous decision, neither fighter took a clear advantage in the first round. Both threw accu­rate punches and hit home with some of them. 
In the second round, Oddy's right hand helped him land some straight shots to Cugliari's head. Oddy would wait until his oppo­nent attacked and then counter­punch with his right. Cugliari came back in the third round, pressuring Oddy all over the ring, but Oddy ended the round in dra­matic fashion, landing four straight hard rights to Cugliari's head as the round expired. 
1401b. 
Kris "EI Azteca" Perez def. 
Christopher Hartstein 
Perez's power led him to a unanimous victory. 
Perez put a lot of pressure on Hartstein, forcing him around the ring and using his exceptionally hard punches to keep Hartstein from accomplishing anything offensive. 
The second round saw more of the same. Perez would capitalize on the opening every time Hartstein threw a punch. 
Hartstein started landing some punches in the beginning of the third round, but by the end Perez's power was too much for him. Perez was too quick defen­sively for Hartstein as well, bob­bing his head and keeping Hartstein from getting a bead on him. 
1451b. 
Lawrence "The Boston 
Massacre" Sullivan def. Mike 
"I'm On the Poster" Hennig 
Sullivan won one of the most exciting fights of the night in a unanimous decision. 
Hennig's upper-body movement was very good in the first round, keeping Sullivan from landing many punches to the head. The fighters used the entire ring and moved quickly and often. Sullivan took advantage of Hennig's low­ered defenses at the end of the second round and was finally able to land some hard punches. 
Both fighters were exhausted in the third round and struggling just to throw a punch, but Sullivan had more stamina. Both fighters wrapped up often, forc­ing most of the punches in the round to be thrown from close range. 
Sullivan said conditioning played a large role in the match, and thought his training with the Marine ROTC aided him greatly. 
"Running with the Marines every morning is good -it leaves you no choice but to get your road work in, which helps me," Sullivan said. "[Hennig)'s in great shape. He was pushing the pace, and when he wasn't, I was push­ing the pace." 

1501b. 
Tommy "One Two Three" Forr 
def. Joseph "Thor's Hammer" 
Leary 
Forr's superior height and reach were large factors in his victory by unanimous decision. 
The first round of the fight dis­played Forr's size advantage. His height and reach kept Leary from landing many of his strong left hooks. The second round started quickly and fiercely and gave Forr a chance to pepper Leary's body with his uppercuts. Forr's power also kept Leary at a dis­tance. 
The third round again started fast but slowed, and neither fight­er was able to pressure the other significantly. 
1551b. 
Dan "You're In the Lion's Den 
Now" Rodgers def. Bret "The 
Mail Never Stops" Shapot 
Rodgers' size and hard right hook led the way in this win by unanimous decision. Rodgers put Shapot on the mat in the middle of the first round with a hard right, but Shapot bounced right back up, smiling, and the fight continued. 
Rodgers had a slight height advantage over Shapot, meaning most of Shapot's best punches were body shots. It also meant Rodgers landed more shots to the head. Shapot overcame this to land some strong lefts to Rodgers' face in the second round. 
Rodgers landed two successive hard rights to the side of Shapot's head early in the third round. Later in the round, he would take complete control, landing numer­ous hard rights over Shapot's lowered gloves. The referee stopped the fight and looked like he was going to call it, but at Shapot's insistence, he let it con­tinue. 
Despite his insistence on going the distance, Shapot was unable to make up any ground on the score sheets. 
Parfait Mwez def. Ryan "Seoul Man" Smith 
Mwez won the split-decision bout that saw many changes in momentum and no domination by either fighter. 
Mwez's combinations were working well in the first round. Although Smith hit Mwez hard in the second round, Mwez's jab became a larger factor and helped his combinations become even more effective. Smith con­tinued to be aggressive, taking advantage when Mwez lowered his hands. 
Smith came out hard in the third round and threw his hooks hard and often, striking Mwez with a good number of them. Mwez was exhausted at the end of the round and had trouble throwing a punch, but had done enough in the earlier rounds to convince the judges. 
"The deciding factor of the fight was scoring a lot of points early and taking that Jirst round," Mwez said. "I feel like I was able to throw many high impact punches when both of us were fresh and as result I found myself in a position of maintaining the lead as opposed to playing catch-up." 
1631b. 

Chris Calderone def. Alex Duffy 
Calderone, the more aggressive of the two fighters in this bout, threw enough jabs and power shots to Dufly's body to give him the split-decision victory. 
Calderone alternated between a right-handed and left-handed stance and was able to dodge most of Duffy's power punches until the third round. Duffy mounted a charge late in the rinal round but Calderone had scored enough early to withstand the comeback. 
"It was tough to win once and even tougher to win twice because everyone's going after you," said Calderone, a senior who was also a champion last year. "It's just a great way to go out, knowing that I'll probably never step into a ring like that again." 
1651b. 

Preston Carter def. Michael 
Smith 

After Carter landed an array of hooks and straight power punch­es to Smith's head, the referee was forced to slop the fight 1:15 into the third round. 
Carter came out firing, landing several devastating combinations in the early rounds. Even after having his own nose bloodied in the second round, Carter did not relflnt, attacking his overmatched opponent's face and body. 
"It felt really good," said Carter, who also garnered Best Boxer honors for the tournament. 
"It was a good light, so it was very satisfying to win." 
1701b. Steven Hansen def. Conor Mclaughlin 
Hansen set the tone for this fight soon after the opening bell as he trapped McLaughlin against the ropes several times and repeatedly pieced together overpowering combinations. The referee stopped the fight 1:57 into the second round after Hansen cornered his opponent and launched a series of techni­cal punches to the head and body. 
"It felt amazing to have all that hard work and training pay off and not have to go to a third round," Hansen said. 
1751b. 

Mike Lee def. Andrew Massari 
Lee landed a monster one-two combination 1 :48 into the final round, making it his third light in a row that had to be stopped pre­maturely. 
Massari had a reach advantage but was unable to keep his oppo­nent away from his body throughout the bout. Lee used both hands effectively to land hooks and keep Massari off-bal-

Kris Perez, left, and Christopher Hartstein trade punches during the 140-pound final Saturday. Perez won a unanimous decision. 
ance. Lee appeared to tire in the third round but was still able to bloody his overmatched opponent before the fight was ealled. 
1801b. Dan Ward def. Leo Rubinkowski 
Dan Ward won a unanimous decision to take homo his second title in three years. 
In the first round, Ward, a sen­ior captain, defended himself well against the taller Rubinkowski and countered most of the punch­es his opponent threw at him. As the light went on, Ward remained in control and landed several long combinations on his way to victory. 
Ward displayed good ofl'ensive technique in the decisive third round and was able to bloody Rubinkowski's face. 
"That's a great way to cap off my Bengal Bouts career," said Ward, who was the default cham­pion as a sophomore and a split­decision loser in the finals last year. 
"It's an incredible feeling of personal fulfillment to win an actual championship bout." 
Heavyweight Stu Stypula def. Pat Burns 
Both fighters came out of their corners aggressively, and the two traded punches for much of the first two rounds. But the quicker Stypula was able to land more punches early on before com­pletely overmatching his oppo­nent in the third round. 
Midway through the second, Stypula landed a long combina­tion, paused and stepped back, then landed a straight left that sent Burns sprawling to the can­vas. Stypula tried to put his oppo­nent away soon after but Burns responded with a powerful com­bination of his own just before the bell sounded. 
Stypula regained his compo­surfl and dispatched his opponent early in the final round, forcing the referee to stop the fight 34 seconds in. 
Super Heavyweight Tony Cunningham def. Pat Mcinerney 
Cunningham gained the upper hand early and held on to earn the split-decision victory. Cunningham landed several com­binations to Mcinerney's body in the first round and used powerful right hooks to keep Mcinerney away from him as the fight wore on. 
Mcinerney appeared to have more left in the tank during the third round, but Cunningham landed enough punches to bloody his opponent and get the win. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu and Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


Limited time offers for students: $5 off a Delux Pedicure & $5 off a Full Set of Nails 
Monday, March 5, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 • 
CROISSANTWORLD 
'fEA\-\~ 'IOU. IA\..'f=... A \.oT oF "TM'51·\. eo'~ I'M CA\...\...INb '/OU.~ ~\..Uf"F, 
ASSHOLIO:. lK\S Soo"-.STA \j S W!Ti--\ 
ME UNT\L I !;R11'Jtl 
1\' BAc.K. • @!~!%~} 
BLAcK DoG 
MAN, l HAT£ STEPAN. tT LooKS LIKE SoME KtNb 
OF ALIEN Po]), 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
TE.Ll.. ME AB.ovT t<. Hf's G-oNNA l3c:!MIS 
THE EXAM. 
LIAMMORAN 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ1YMIID11rn. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
MEHRY 
1 
rJ 


©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
t5~rl] 
I TEYQUI ±
I [l J 
www.jumble.com
tORISEE t

IJ I J I 
A: A 

.. rI I I J" rI I JOF rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SQUAB EXACT FORBID HAZINGSaturday's 
Answer: The couple was always in debt because they couldn't -"BUDGE IT" 

WHAT AN "UPPITY" WAIT!:!< 15 BOUND 
TOGfl 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Margo Harshman, 21; Patsy Kensit. 39; Jason Newsted, 44; Tim Kazurinsky, 57 
Happy Birthday: Don't let your personal life stand in the way of your professional progress. You will be torn between following your heart and your head but, if you do what's truly best for you, in the end things will turn out. Learn to rely on yourself. Your numbers are 13, 19, 22, 27, 36,40 
ARIES_ (March 21-April19): You may have a bit of explaining to do if you didn't give your best effort. Travel the distance to tum any wrong into a right. Someone from your past will make a difference. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone you meet will help you jump into a new position. You may be a little offended at first but, once you stop and think about what's transpired, you will realize the advice you are given is worth listening to. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone is likely to give you a hard time today. If you feel you are being taken advantage of, force the issue or walk away completely. A short trip to be with people who are more receptive will do you good. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): What a perfect day to gather everyone together and have some family fun. Or, if you prefer, have friends help you with a project you've been planning. The changes you make will give you a new lease on life. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Try something a little different. Travel to an exotic destination or get involved in activities that will open your eyes to a different way of living. What you learn today will help you immensely in the future. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Au'g. 23-Sept. 22): Emotional matters will rise to the surface whether you like it or not, so deal with them head on and move on. Someone may exaggerate, but that's OK. It will give you a chance to walk away, knowing you did the right thing. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't waste the day thinking about the things you'd like to do --get moving. You will be able to share ideas with friends, network and come up with answers you've been searching for. Physical activities will be tiring but rewarding. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have to rely on someone you trust in order to get things done. Don't spend money on items that aren't necessary in order to appease someone. Ulterior motives are apparent. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Emotional matters will cloud your day if you stick around home or get involved with relatives. Instead, do things with friends who like the same activities you do. Don't let someone from your past put a damper on your day. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Money, financial deals or personal papers should be put in order today. The better prepared you are, the more financially stable you will become. A change in your direction will make a difference to your earning potential. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may feel as if you are being pushed and pulled in different directions because of emotional issues. Try to get to the bottom of things before they spin out of control. Honesty will be necessary if you want to clear the air and make things right. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be upfront and open about your feelings. Your emotions will be hard to control but, in the long run, by sticking close·to home and avoiding situations that could damage your reputation or position you will spare yourself grief. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are very inventive, clever and a forerunner, regardless of the path you choose. You are all about change and improvements. You are a humanitarian and a powerful persuader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenia/ast.comfor confidential consultations 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 M-1's and AK-47's
1 Poppycock 40 Slender nails
4 Explorer_ Polo 41 Life story, in brief
9 God of love 42 "The stage _"13 Daredevil 43 Child's request
Knievel 44 Road sign #4
.15 Reside 46 Oolong and
16 Himalayan others
priest 49 Racehorse, to a
17 Road sign #1 
bettor 19 Genesis garden 
50 Road sign #5 20 Actress Verdugo 
54 Wood nymphs,of "Marcus in mythWelby, M.D." 

59 Stately tree 21 Renter's 60 Bogged downagreement 62 Really love23 Item scrambled something, with or poached 

"up" 24 Will's subject 
63 Willowy 26 Road sign #2 
65 Road sign #6 28 Santa's helper 67 Proctor's call 
30" harm" 68 Snakes in the (medical maxim) road? 
31 Road sign #3 69 Prefix with byte 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70 Observed 
71 Songstress Della 
72 Whom you might see in your rearview mirror if you ignore the above signs 
DOWN 1 Gen. in the 
Confederacy 2 Flattened circles 3 Doctrine 4 Roman 1,550 5 Wanted soldier 6 Stitch again 7 Cloudless 8 Fatherland, 
affectionately 
9 Hearty brew 10 Degraded 11 Alpha's opposite 12 Slender and 
long-limbed 14 Horne of "The Lady and Her Music" 18 Takes care of the food for the 
party 22 Musician Brian 25 Lodge member 27 Grind, as teeth 29 Little lies 31 "Peacock" 
network 32 " ... man 
mouse?" 33 Show silently 34 Fancy goodbye 
WILLSHORTZ 

35 Tiny criticism 36 Thug  48 Fast pitch with a curve  56 Cellar's opposite  
38_culpa 39 Regulation: Abbr.  50 Homes in trees 51 Kukla, Fran and  57 San __, Calif. 58 Rein, e.g.  
42 "Amen!" 45 Cushion 47 Supplier of PIN money?  52 Jagged, as a leaf's edge 53 All keyed up 55 Yin's opposite  61 Fawns' mothers 64 Fraternity members 66 Mao _-tung  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 ~ears: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, March 5, 2007 
page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Weis nabs two Indiana recruits over weekend 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame landed its sec­ond and third verbal commit­ments of the Class of 2012 at the team's junior day Sunday. 
Both Fort Wayne wide receiver John Goodman and Mishawaka offensive lineman 

Braxton Cave said they would play for the Irish See Also 
on the day f o r m e r "Loftus hosts 
N ° t r e NFL workouts"
D a m e q u a r t e r -page 20 back Brady Q u i n n worked out for NFL scouts on campus. 
Goodman is a 6-foot-4, 185­pound junior at Bishop Dwenger High School. He caught 44 passes for nine touchdowns and more than 800 yards last season. 
His frame, agility and com­plexion remind some of former Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija. 
"The comparisons already 
start -its Jeff Samardzija all over again," said Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for IrishEyes.com. "He's got a very, very similar type of game that Jeff had. He's a guy who's faster than a lot of people think he should be. lie's really quick. You also don't often see a guy his size move side to side the way he does." 
Cave, a 6-foot-4, 290-pound center at Penn High School, also had an offer from Michigan. Frank said Cave had scheduled a trip to Florida, where the Gators likely would have offered him a scholarship to play in Gainesville, but the 
see CAVE/page 20 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish make quiet exit in first round; NCAA bid no longer a given 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
HARTFORD, Conn. -With 
5.5 seconds remaining and DePaul leading by three, Blue Demons guard Allie Quigley sank a pair of free throws to ice a 76-71 win Saturday over Notre Dame in the first round of the Big East tournament. 
Down the stretch, Quigley hit several key shots for DePaul, scoring her team's last eight points. She finished with 28 points on 7-of-14 shooting and made all 12 free throws she attempted. 
"Taking it to the basket, I felt confident knowing that my teammates were going to be there to get the rebound and move the ball around," Quigley said of her play at the 
see DEVILS/page 21 

Bedeviled 

BASEBALL 
Irish beat Nebraska to save trip 
By DEIRDRE KRASU:LA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame dropped its first two games in the Stetson Invitational Friday and Saturday but looked like a dif­ferent team as it sailed past No. 7 Nebraska Sunday. 
Junior Brett Lilley led the Irish from the lead off position going 4-for-5 from the plate en route to the 16-6 victory over the Cornhuskers. 
The Irish scored five times in the first inning and seven in the sixth. Freshman A.J. Pollock, back in the lineup at the No. 2 spot, hit 3-for-4 with a walk, three runs scored and an RBI. 
"[Lilley and Pollock] were on base all the time -running the bases well," Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage said. 'They were 
see LILLEY/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Falls drops 22 in final regular season game 
Notre Dame defeats Rutgers on the road to finish 23-6 overall 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
As far as Notre Dame's Big East 
tournament position was con­
cerned, Saturday's game was 
meaningless. 
Just a few minutes before tip­
off, Villanova defeated Syracuse, 
giving No. 17/22 Notre Dame 
fourth place in the Big East and a 
bye in the conference tourna­
ment no matter what happened 
against Rutgers at the Louis 
Brown Athletic Center in 
Piscataway, N.J. 
But the Irish found their own motivation and dispatched the . oyermatc.Q.ed. Scarlet Knights 73­

66 anyway. 
The win improved Notre Dame's record to 23-6 overall and 11-5 in the Big East. The 23 wins are the most in a regular season in coach Mike Brey's tenure and the 11 conference vic­tories are tied for the most in Irish Big East history. 
Senior captain Colin Falls, who led the Irish with 22 points Saturday, said .Notre Dame dropped a few games it could have won, notably against St. John's and South Florida, but overall he was pleased with the team's season. 
"There were a few that slipped away, but we're pretty happy with our record," Falls said after • the win Saturday. 
Falls also said he was happy to get a win at the Brown Center, where Notre Dame had lost its 
see BYE/ page 22 

BENGAL BouTs 
Bouts champs are crowned 
Navare avenges 2006 loss to Izaguirre with split decision victory 
By BILL BRINK and 
FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writers 
Sagar Navare took the first fight of the night Saturday in a split decision against Chris Izaguirre. 
Both lighters fought the first round conserv-atively and although Navare was slightly more aggressive, neither landed many punches. The fighting opened up near the end of the round, when Izaguirre landed a few combinations. Izaguirre took over in the second round, three times landing a body-to­head combination that culmi­nated in a left hook to Navare's head. 
The third round became much more intense -Navare landed year in the quarterfinals, so two successive shots to Navare felt he had a better idea Izaguirre's head, and Izaguirre of how Izaguirre would attack. struck home with several solid "Last year, he'd let me come hooks and crosses. 

The two fighters fought last see CHAMPS/page 22 .... 
. •. ' . . .
. ' .. 
.. . ·.. ·
..
'' ... 


.. 

. . ·, . 
. ,• .• .. ' 

page 2 The Observer+ BEN GAL BOUTS Friday, March 2, 2007 
Despite missing frosh Bouts, Stypula still captain 
By ERIC RETTER Associare Sporrs Ediror 
Senior captain Stu Stypula's friends didn't box his freshman year. 
As a result, neither did he. 
"I kinda wussed out and decid­ed not to do it," Stypula said. "I didn't really want to do it alone because I didn't know anyone doing it." 
By the time boxing season rolled around the next year, Stypula was ready to put on the gloves. 
"I remembered I had thought about doing it freshman year," he said. "I decided to go f<>r it just !or the heck of it, see what it was all about." 
In that one-year interim, Stypula was also able to recruit some of his buddies, including Steve I lansen and Mike I Iennig ­both of whom are also now cap­tains -to at least t:heck out the program. 
They all liked what they saw. 
"[When] we started going over, it turned out to be pretty awe­some, so I stuck with it," Stypula said. 
That year, Stypula advanced to the quarterfinals be!i>re falling to graduate student Doug Bartels in his sncond light. 

"He rmninded me of Drago from Rocky, and he took it to me," Stypula said. "I prided myself on that light on being pretty much the only opponent ol"l Bartels! that didn't get knocked out other than his finals light against [ehampion Jiml Christoforetti." 
Since his opening lights, Stypula has worked extensively on his technique and ring strategy. A self-described "brawler" in his novice year, Stypula has focused his elli>rts on improving his pres­ence of mind in the ring. 
"My focus is on my boxing tech­niqun and trying to bncome a bet­ter boxer," he said. "Not necessar­ily a stronger boxer or a faster boxer, but what you would call a smarter boxer, being able to pull off eombinations and havn a repertoire ofpunehes." 
Toward that end, Stypula fi:1els that he has made serious strides. 
"Sophomore year, I used to ... throw punches and kind of hope not to get hit as much as the other guy," Stypula said. "Now I feel like I can plan out my lights a IHtle bit and go in with a few tricks up my sleeve of things I want to work on dming the light;" 
One of those tricks was for Stypula -a natural lefty -to teach himself how to light right­handed. In his quarterfinal bout against Andrew Lorenz, Stypula briefly switched from his south­paw style and fought from a tradi­tional stance. 
"I actually feel! have a stronger jab right-handed," Stypula said. "If I can switch [stances! quickly and get some punches on·. they'll have to take some time to re­adjust their entire defense and ommse and hopnfully by that time, I can switch again." 
llowever, Stypula feels that the major advantage from his ambidextrous efl'orts has come in practice. Being lnf't-handed, he would get turnnd around while trying to demonstrate proper technique to rig/Hies. 
"It turned out that the biggest advantage for me was when I was working with other guys," Stypula said. "I could hold targets in a right-handed stance, and it helped me not get quite so confusnd." 
Among other things, holding mitts and working with younger boxers is one of Stypula's roles a..c; a captain. lie feels both of those things have helped him grow as a boxer. 
"It poses a sort of challengn, but at the same timn I'm exposed to a lot more, as opposed to being a lit­tle morn isolated as an individual boxer," hn said. 
The work has helped him improve over last season, when he advanced to the semifinals before losing to eventual champi­on Jell' Golen. And this season, he is the most confident he ha..c; been. 
"I sort of got stuck in the middle of losing the lights I was supposed to lose and winning the fights I was supposed to win, so I never really broke out," he said. "!Monday] night was my first fight where I felt good about it." 
In addition to getting his daily workout in, whieh is often upward of three hours, Stypula spends another hour doing administrative work. As a result, the captain said he doesn't do much else outside of school and boxing. 
"I was going to do Swing-Club, but I ended up not getting to as many meetings as I wanted to ­a Ia zero," he said. 
In a way, his singular locus has helped Stypula prepare for his ultimate objective -advancing to his first Bengal Bouts finals and winning the tournament. 
"It's a pretty big deal for me," he said. ''I'm excited about a chance to get to the finals, and I think this is probably my best chance, and obviously it's my last chance." 
A contingent of his family plans to be on campus this weekend, and Stypula anticipates lighting in front of them Saturday evening in the finals. 
"It's sort of a lot of.pressme, but !like the challenge," he said. 
In striving toward his goal, a part of Stypula wishes he had ven­tured to the Joyce Center alone as a freshman to begin his boxing eareer. 
"It's not that I regret !not box­ing!, but I feel like if I had done it, it would have been a lot differ­ent," he said. "I feel like I definite­ly would have benefited from competing freshman year ... at least my progression would have gotten me to the point where if I was junior year where I am now, I feel like my senigr year would have been a lot stronger." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Former hockey player Hennig vents aggression in the ring 
follow a similar route as he credited his success that year best experience at ND, and in Chicago next year, HennigBy GREG ARBOGAST searched for a Division III to his "natural tenacity." other than the money that said he hopes to return to 
Sports Writer 
school that would allow him to "Watching the Bouts my goes to charity, the training is Notre Dame during next year's 
continue his hockey career, but freshman year helped me real­the best part of the Bouts," Bouts to give advice to the new 
His arm reared back, ready he ultimately decided to sacri­ize how much of" it is natural Hennig said. "I think pushing class of Irish boxers. to strike, and the end result fice hockey for the opportunity tenacity," !Iennig said. "Seeing yourself and pushing others -Hennig also talked of finding was a blow of such force that to attend Notre Dame. the success people had just working toward the common a gym in Chicago that would the victim needed stitches. "It came to down to hockey being aggressive made me goal of improving yourselves allow him to continue boxing 
Two-year old Bobby Hennig at a Division III school or going realize that I could be success­-brings you all closer togeth­in some fashion. had just been hit by a to Notre Dame, and it really ful even if I wasn't the best er, and I have met some of my For someone with the atti­launched toy car, and the wasn't a hard decision," technical boxer." best friends through boxing." tude of Mike Hennig, that's just thrower, older brother Mike, Hennig said. "Notre Dame That's not to say that Hennig The solidarity that llnnnig the outlet he needs. was in a lot of trouble with his gives you so much more was unconcerned with the feels with the other boxers will parents. opportunity." finer points of boxing. His loss keep him involved with Bengal Contact Greg Arbogast at 
Nineteen years later, senior With hockey no longer in the to McCann left him hungrier Bouts after graduation. Living garbogas@nd.edu co-captain Mike picture, Hennig than ever to improve his tech­Hennig is throw-needed to find a nique with the goal of taking ing punches new scratch for his success one fight further. 
"Watching the 
instead of projec­his aggressive Over the next year, Hennig tile,s, but the Bouts my itch. The answer transformed himself into a tenacity and freshman year came during his smart boxer to complement his aggressiveness freshman year tenacity, competitiveness and
helped me realize
that caused when Hennig aggressiveness. lie learned to Hennig to fight how much ofit is attended Bengal dictate the pace of the fight by with his two natural tenacity." Bouts and real­conserving his energy rather younger brothers ized the emotion than throwing as many punch­on a daily basis is inherent to the es as he could. This change still present more Mike Hennig competition. left Hennig fresh rather than than ever. Bengal Bouts captain "It was really exhausted in the final round. 
Initially, Hennig intense and The end result was a smart, found an outlet for exciting, and you hungry and technically sound his aggression in another sport could tell the guys were com­boxer, and the results were with high levels of physical peting with all their heart," seen the following year. In his contact -hockey. A figure Hennig said. "That's ultimately junior year, Hennig dominated skater growing up, Hennig's what sports are about." the 140-pound weight class mom enrolled her sons in fig­With a new outlet for his winning every fight by unani­ure skating at age two. From aggressive side in hand, mous decision or knoek-out on the moment he saw other kids Hennig set out to learn a sport his way to the title. This sea­playing hockey, Hennig real­in which he had never partici­son. Hennig has moved up to ized he was only meant to be pated save for the occasional the 145-pound division, but on the ice if he was holding a punch thrown between sib­the results havn changed little stick. lings. Hennig joined Bengal as he has breeznd his way into 
In high school, Hennig Bouts his sophomore year. the semi-finals. played for his school's team all along with close friends and While Hennig admits to fenl­four years, and he also was a now fellow captains Stephen ing more pressure to pnrform member of a club AAA team Hansen and Stu Stypula. this year, the title(s) will not from his sophomore through Although a rough and unfin­even be his fondnst memory of his sei1ior year. Many members ished product the spring of his his participation in Bengal of AAA teams proceed to play sophomore year, !Iennig man­Bouts. That honor instead goes one year in Juniors before aged to make the finals in the to thn elose relationships that obtaining a scholarship with a 140-pound weight class before Hennig has formed with his Division I school. falling in a split decision to fellow boxers. 
Hennig appeared ready to junior Mike McCann. Hennig "Bengal Bouts has been my 

-------;-. 
. '• 

Friday, March 2, 2007 · The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
An unlikely president 

to forget what you've learned -a lot of guys will step into that ring and get overwhelmed with their emotions." 
McGill lost to his more experi­enced opponent in a split decision. His opponent went on to win the weight class, but that didn't con­sole McGill. Looking back, he said he was frustrated that he forgot his style of boxing once he got into the ring and didn't fight as well as he could have. 
"One of the big obstacles I learned [to adapt to] was not to let the whole environment take over you," he said. "You have to step into that ring and acclimate your­self to the environment but also remember everything you've learned. You have to take that rush and use it to build up the adrena­line." 
Those months of training had gone for just a few minutes in the ring. For McGill, it was dishearten­ing at first, but eventually, he used the fight as motivation to train even harder for the next year. 
"I had worked so hard to achieve something, and I didn't get there," he said. 
A'l a sophomore, McGill made it to the semifinals before losing, again to the eventual champion. 
Finally, last year, he won his weight class. Going into senior year, however, his focus wasn't just on fighting and winning again. He was named president, and that brought a whole new set of duties into his ring. 
"As president, your tasks increase enormously" 
Devotion to the Bengal Bouts program has been key for McGill. 
"Boxing -especially with Bengal Bouts, and especially as captain and president, it's really about commitment," McGill said. "You have to be really committed to the program and to the training. You may win a match, but you won't win the tournament." 
The long-term goals of Bengal Bouts especially resonate with its fundraising aspect. This year's tournament, according to McGill, had raised over $100,000 before expenses. McGill has been involved with various service organizations for years. In high school, he was in the Key Club and did other volun­teer work. As president of the Bengal Bouts, he recognizes the importance of raising money for the Holy Cross mission in Bangladesh and has used his lead­ership role to educate others about this. 
"You only realize this when you get to be a senior -all the money that's raised goes such a long way," McGill said. "We've done a huge amount of fundraising so far. Knowing that all this money is going toward such a great cause really inspires you to go out and encouraged me to keep putting in all this time to help these people." 
In Bangladesh, the Holy Cross mission runs a university, hospital and shelter for women, among other projects. 
"It's such an extensive mission and without the Bengal Bouts they wouldn't be able to accomplish half as much as it does right now," McGill said. "That's very reward­ing." 
The goal itself was also reward­ing for McGill. He said that as a freshman, he set a goal of being president of the Bengal Bouts. 
"My favorite memory of the Bout<; was when I first found out I was going to be president," he said. "It was a goal I had commit­ted myself to when I decided I was really going to do boxing.... I always looked up to the guys, my freshman and sophomore year and junior years. I was amazed at 
McGill disobeyed his father to join the club he now heads 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
Driving away from Zahm's freshman orientation, Andrew McGill's father's last words were about the Bengal Bouts. 
They were an admonition to his son not to compete in the boxing tournament. 
"One of the last things he said to me when he was leaving campus was that he didn't want me to join Bengal Bouts," the senior president and captain recalled. "He thought I would join the club and break my nose, hurt myself all the time ­that it wouldn't be good physi­cally for me." 
McGill had already expressed an interest in the Bouts thanks to a fellow Erie, Pa., native ­Rob Joyce, who had boxed at Notre Dame before McGill enrolled in the University. 
At the first activities night, despite his father's stern warn­ing, McGill decided to join the boxing club. 
"A couple of my friends and I decided we would sign up and join the club, but we never real­ly planned on actually boxing in the tournament," he said. "I originally wanted to get in shape and learn how to box, but I thought I'd actually just get beaten up by all the people who were part of the program." 
McGill now finds himself lead­ing more than 200 amateur boxers through grueling work­outs, fighting techniques and fundraising activities as well as organizing the event with other leaders. 
He wouldn't have it any other 

---'-----~--~'~­
way. 
"I realized these guys weren't that much better than I was" 
McGill had played soccer and golf and skied prior to his Bengal Bouts experience. But nothing pre­pared him for the first punches and that inaugural trip into the ring. 
His freshman year was an eye­opening experience, as he joined the squad to get in shape and learn to box as a workout, not as competition. 
"Once we started throwing punches [in practice] and learning how to block them, I realized these guys weren't that much better than I was," he said, recalling his first boxing practices. "They had more skill, but I could compete with them -and if I committed myself to the program, I would be able to do well in the program." 
McGill threw himself into train­ing. 
"That was the turning point when I decided that I was going to do it and would work to winning [the tournament] eventually," he said. 
Mter months of work, McGill entered the tournament seeded third in the 140-pound weight class after a first-round bye. 
His opponent was a veteran fighter who had already won his preliminary fight. 
"Getting in the ring, stepping in there under the lights, hearing the crowd and knowing that every sin­gle pair of eyes is looking right at you ... it really changes all the dimensions of the fight," he said. 
Adjusting from training in the basement with your teanunates to fighting in front of arena crowds was difficult -a common experi­ence for beginners. 
"It's really exciting but it also makes you incredibly nervous to be in that environment and experi­ence those people watching you," McGill said. "You have a tendency how they could juggle all the dif­ferent tasks that went into Bengal Bouts as well as have a social life and do well in school. They've been such great boxers, such great people." 
As president, McGill has invested a huge amount of time in the Bouts, describing his job as "mak­ing sure it works as smoothly as possible." 
He said he trains for about three hours every day, and spends sever­al more hours working with the managers, captains, coaches, RecSports and other boxers to coordinate the tournament. 
For example, during the tourna­ment it is imperative to have EMTs present and to ensure that both boxers in the ring have someone in their corner to offer water, advice and encouragement. 
There's always something for McGill to be working on -but he manages to keep it going by being organized. 
"[Bengal Bouts] really helps you with time management," he said. "I have to organize my entire life around being down in the boxing gym. I have to make sure I can do well in school but still spend a few hours every day in the gym work­ing on technique or helping other guys, and also working on the logistics of the tournament." 
Do all those hours of responsibil­ity pay off? For McGill, it's an unconditional yes. 
"It's a huge responsibility, but it<; well worth it," he said. "You see how much money you've raised and,You can help out so many peo­ple. 
Moving on 

After this year, McGill will join the thousands of Bengal Bouts alumni around the country. 
"Each person who's been part of the Bengal Bouts is willing to go completely out of their way to help you out," he said. "Joining that community is such a great group 
of people, it's neat to be a part of 
that." 
Two alumni have been particu­
larly influential to him: Tom 
Suddes, who travels to campus 
from his hometown of Dublin, 
Ohio, to help train boxers, and 
Terry Johnson, a lawyer from 
Chicago who helps finance and 
organize the tournament. 
"They really support the cap­
tains and take a lot of the work­
load off us," McGill said. "Without 
these two guys, the Bengal Bouts 
would definitely not be as success­
ful as it has been." 
When McGill took a job with 
British Petroleum in Chicago, he 
knew he would be able to come 
back for the Bouts -something he 
said was a factor in the decision. 
For McGill, the memories of 
Bengal Bouts are something he 
will take with him forever, and he 
looks forward to coming back and 
helping as an alumnus. 
"I couldn't even really tell you what classes I took or who the pro­fessors were for each class [fresh­man year]," he said. "But I can tell you minute-by-minute the first time I stepped into the boxing ring and how that felt and the emotions that were involved with that. I look down the road ten years from now, ·and I know I had a great tin1e at Notre Dame and that I challenged myself academically, but some of my fondest memories will be goof­ing out down in the gym and step­
ping into the ring and boxing." 
And what about his dad, who 
will be in the stands with other 
family members this week? 
"He's come to be very comfort­
able with me in the ring every day 
boxing other guys," McGill said. 
"He agrees that joining Bengal 
Bouts is the best thing I could have 
done at Notre Dame with the peo­
ple I've met and the things I've 
been able to accomplish." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 


Bengal Bouts president Andrew McGill demonstrates his pull-up technique. McGill fell to Dan Rodgers in a split decision Wednesday. 
page 4 The Observer+ BEN GAL BOUTS Friday, March 2, 2007 
129-pounds 

PICKS 
PAT O'BRIEN 
Izaguirre 
LORENZO REYES 
Izaguirre 
BILL BRINK 
Izaguirre 

Izaguirre received a bye in the first round and defeated Nathan Serazin in the quarterfinals in a lopsided fight. Next up was defending champion Matt Gelchion. Izaguirre was not intimidated and pulled out a split-decision victory. Izaguirre's strength proved to be his ability to block counter-punches. -
Navare also was able to rest during the first round and went on to best Danny Wemple in the quarterfmals. In the semifinals, Navare claimed a victory over Will Marra through the use of his pow­erful jab-hook combinations. Navare, however, will have to work on his defensive tactics against the accurate, pinpointing Izaguirre. 
KRIS PEREZ VS CHRIS HARTSTEIN 
PICKS 

~: PAT O'BRIEN
i Hartstein 
"''LORENZO REYES
~~~:.: 
Perez 
BILL BRINK 
Hartstein 


Perez sent Joey Brown to the mat in the quarterfi­nals and unanimously defeated Eric Feduska in the semifinals. Perez has been known to target both the head and the body, and effectively counterpunch. When his opponents dropped their hands, Perez made them pay. 
Hartstein entered the finals with a unanimous vic­tory over Michael Johnston in the semifinals. Although Hartstein did not defend well in his first fight, he improved his technique and became a stronger fighter. He also exhibits quick one-two com­binations stemming from his jab. Hartstein will need to continue his defensive improvement when he faces the quick and powerful Perez. 
150-pounds 

PICKS 
PAT O'BRIEN 
Forr 
LORENZO REYES 
Forr 
BILL BRINK 
Forr 

Senior Tommy "One Two Three" Forr is one of the most feared fighters in the Bouts. He won in the preliminaries in a one-sided match stopped by the referee in the second round. His next fight foatured more of the same as the official had to pause the match numerous times .after the right-hander land­ed huge haymakers in the late rounds. 
Sophomore Joseph "Thor's Hammer" Leary pounded his opponents so far, winning all of his early fights. His second fight was the most impres­sive as Leary took down senior Kevin Hederman in three rounds. Leary's combos were too much for Hederman's single punches. Forr will have to use his power to attempt to stop the multiple blows from Leary. 

145-pounds 

PICKS 

PAT O'BRIEN 
Hennig 

LORENZO REYES 
Sullivan 

BILL BRINK 
Hennig 

Hennig used his speed and agility to dominate his way through his first two fights. His punches land with such quickness that opponents are rarely able to defend themselves. 
Sullivan knocked out Jim Duffy in the first round, but had more of a stuggle in defnating Steven Sushinsky on Monday. The two fighters dealt punches back and forth that almost made it a draw. Sullivan bounced back to earn a unani­mous decision over Phillip llieks in the semis. 
Sullivan will try to slow the tempo of this fight, but Henning's speed may not allow him to do so. If Sullivan can slow the pace, Hennig may get frustrated. 

155-pounds 

PICKS 

PAT O'BRIEN 
Rodgers 

LORENZO REYES 
Rodgers 

BILL BRINK 
Rodgers 
.(j 
r.~ 

This fight features two freight trains on a colli-i sion course. 
Hodgers did not see the second round in the first two fights. His preliminary and second-round fights had to be stopped early due to Rodgers' speed and punching ability. The shocker came when Rodgers beat Bengal Bouts president Andrew McGill in a split decision Wednesday. 
Junior southpaw Bret Shapot has done much of the same in the Bouts this year. He hammered his opponents in two unanimous decisions and a match stopped in the second round. 
This could be the best fight of the finals. 

Photo illustrations by Dustin Mennella and Jeff Albert 
Friday, March 2, 2007 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS page 5 
160-pounds 
PARFAIT MWEZ VS RYAN SMITH 

PICKS Mwez and Smith come in to this fight with simi­lar resumes. Both are seniors that have won three
PAT O'BRIEN 

close bouts. In fact, both fighters have won two Mwez split decisions and each has one unanimous three­round victory to his credit. 
LORENZO REYES 
Mwez will have to use his footspeed and quickMwez punches effectively if he wants to beatSmith. Smith needs to come in punching hard and not
BILL BRINK 

lose any of his energy going into the third round. If Mwez he gets a lead, he has to fmish solidly. 
-poun s 

RESTON CARTER VS MICHAEL SMITH 

PICKS PAT O'BRIEN  Carter knocked off Jeff Skorup and Matt Decker on his way to the finals. Carter's strengths include his footwork and his agility as well as his quick  
Carter LORENZO REYES  combinations. His defensive tactics are also sound, creating opportunities for his counterpunches. Smith unanimously defeated all three of his oppo­ 
Smith BILL BRINK  nents. Smith has scored early, and then relied on his defense. He likes to comer his opponents against the ropes and finish them off. This fight should boil  
Smith  down to who wants the championship more.  

175-pounds 
MIKE LEE VS ANDREW MASSARI 

PICKS Lee is a quick, powerful fighter who puts his oppo­nent on the defense from the first bell. Lee can strike
PAT O'BRIEN 

haid with both hands and his superior footwork pre­Lee vents his opponent from getting within range. Massari's defense sets him apart from other fighters-getting a
LORENZO REYES 
solid shot on him is difficult and done at his opponent'sLee peril. He boxes smart and waits for his opportunities to attack. Lee, more of a free swinger, will face a tough
BILL BRINK 

defense, but Massari may have to abandon his conser­Lee vative style to counter Lee's hooks. 
eavyweig t 
STU STYPULA VS PAT BURNS 


PICKS Stypula has a quick fighting style and employs lots of movement and change of direction. Because he is aPAT O'BRIEN lefty, his punches will come from a different angle than Burns is used to. Burns' punches are quick, powerful
Burns 

and relentless. He doesn't let up on his opponent, forc­LORENZO REYES "ing him around the ring and into the ropes as he lands Stypula shot after shot to his head and body. · Burns has a size advantage over Stypula and if he
BILL BRINK 

can keep up with Stypula's ring antics, he should pres­Burns sure him well. 

-poun s 
CHRIS CALDERONE VS ALEX DUFFY 
PICKS Calderone defeated James Creighton to advance toj:( the semifinals, where he earned a split-decision vic-· ~· 
PAT O'BRIEN 
tory over Bryan Marek. Calderone has been the Calderone aggressor in his fights, however his blocking tactics seem to come second to his offensive attack at times. ·
LORENZO REYES 
DuffY has displayed great patience and excellent Duffy tactical technique. He uses his jab masterfully to set up his right hook. He also displays incredible foot­
BILL BRINK 
work. DuffY will try to use his precise jab to upsetCalderone Calderone. 
170-pounds 
STEVE HANSEN VS CON OR MCLAUGHLIN 
PICKS Hanson depends on his power, specifically his hook, to throw ofl' his opponents and take con­PAT O'BRIEN trol of the fight. He can attack, then wait until 
McLaughlin his opponent throws a shot to capitalize. McLaughlin also has a powerful right hook and
LORENZO REYES. 
a technically sound style. He put an opponent on Hansen the mat earlier in the bouts by taking advantage of his momentarily low defenses. 
BILL BRINK 
Both fighters hit hard; expect a third round full Hansen of solid head shots. 

-poun s 
DAN WARD VS LEO RUBINKOWSKI 
Ward has a long reach and good footwork, effec­tively keeping his opponents in the outside part o the ring. His punches are quick and accurate. 
Rubinkowski has a strong left cross with superi­or reach, that wreaks havoc on opponents who try to get inside. Since Rubinkowski is left-handed, his jab comes from the opposite side, which prevents opponents from effectively using their own jabs. 

Ward will control the ring, but if Rubinkowski can land his cross, Ward will be in trouble. ~;. iliill±:~~~~~~ 
Super Heavyweight 
TONY CUNNINGHAM VS PAT MCINERNEY 




PICKS Cunningham has a very deliberate fighting style, not moving much and often waiting until his opponentPAT O'BRIEN attacks to retaliate. When he does attack, however, hi'> Cunningham punches are. accurate and some of the hardest in the tournament. Mcinerney's defense is strong, rarely
LORENZO REYES 
allowing a solid shot to the head. He has a solid left Cunningham hook that keeps opponents at a distance and punishes them when they try to come close. Mcinerney has a size 
BILL BRINK 
advantage, but Cunningham's power may be too much Mcinerney for him ifthe contest becomes a dogfight. 
page 6 

The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS Friday, March 2, 2007 
Former wrestler learned his boxing from Golden Gloves 
junior captain and moved up But baek in high school,
Calderone worked out 

eight pounds for his senior sea­things were diiTerent. in Hempstead, N.Y. son. Calderone finished second in Now he's an administrator­New York in his wrestling
after freshman Bouts boxer, working on a second weight class as a high school consecutive crown -a far cry $fmior. from his grappling days on When he eamo to Notre
By KEN FOWLER 

Long Island. Dame, a former wrPstling
Sports Editor As a senior captain, he teammate at Chaminade Iligh spends an extra hour or two a School in Mineola, New York ­Chris Calderone came to day in the gym to take care of Stephan Vorovina -prodded Notre Dame as a wrestler, but the business and charity him to join the Bouts. those days are long gone. aspects of Bengal Bouts. He "I thought it was tho elosest Calderone, one of five senior even found himself in the thing to wrestling," Calderone captains for this year's Boxing depths of the Joyce Center late said. "I actually fell in love with Club, is the man to beat in the on a Saturday night squeezing it more than I did wrestling." 163-pound weight class. in a workout whenever he Calderone said he likes being He took the title at 155 as a could. in the limelight of a spectator 

Senior Bengal Bouts captain Chris Calderone celebrates his 155-pound championship last year. Calderone trained at the Golden Gloves gym in Hempstead, N.Y. before his sophomore Bouts. 
sport. In high school, he would have a few friends watch his wrestling matches. In Bengal Bouts, the arena lights are dimmed on hundreds of fans as the spotlight shines on him and an oppo­but the [other! guys knew what they were talking about." 
Calderone might not have been in a comfort zone at first, but the 'talent around him and his new men­tors made it a perfect fit. He 

nent. Before he joined the club,  "/ thought it was the closest thing to  learned proper techniques and styles at the gym  
ho was hardly a boxing fan. Now  wrestling."  and came back to Notre Dame  
he watches "Friday Night Fights" every  Chris Calderone Bengal Bouts captain  on par with the juniors and sen­iors. rather than  
week  and  his sophomore  
scours YouTube  classmates.  
and  ESPN  "I got the feel  

Classic for clips of Muhammad for how they did in Golden Ali's bouts. Gloves fights," Calderone said. But it's taken time to get to "I put in a hell of a lot of work." that point. During that second season of 
As a freshman, he took to the boxing, he lost to two-time regimented workouts and the champion and former Boxing thrill of the competition. Club president Galen Loughrey 
"Any time I got in the ring, I in the semifinals after earning a expected to win," he said. knockout in the first round and 
That year, Calderone won his a decision in the quarters. first bout on a decision in three I le honed his skills as a junior rounds but fell in the quarterfi­and took the title in the 155­nals to Colin Kerrigan. Kerrigan pound weight class. went on to win the weight elass. "Last year my technique kind 
"To lose really sets you back of came together," he said. "I because you go from a senior in became less of a brawler and high school to the lowly fresh­more of a boxer." man out there," Calderone said. In essence, he studied the 
After a week of low spirits fol­sweet science rathnr than box­lowing the loss, Calderone ing with abandon. pieked himself up and deeided lie remembers the two losses he better start tr·aining for his he's had and takes them as a sophomore Bouts. He worked lesson. out on campus for the two "In order to succeed, you months following Bengal Bouts need to lose a few times," he and then joined a gym half an said. hour from his home in Floral That's why he's happy he Park, N.Y. joined early. 
Every weekday, he would lie took his lumps from the train from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. -best and learned from the after his workday -with the defeats. lie has gotten rid of two professionals and the slew most of the .wrestler and of' Golden Gloves fighters at the replaced it with a boxer. facility in Hempstead, N.Y. His wrestling days are gone, 
"The first year wa~ really but he's still got one more fight motivating," Calderone said, left in him. elaborating on how the summer helped him. "I was the only Contact Ken Fowler at white guy in the whole place, kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Ward experienced the sweet science early in life 
Former Bouts fighter James Ward showed his brother, current senior Dan, the ropes in impromptu home battles 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
When Dari Ward's older brother, James, was a student at Notre Dame, he would come home looking to practice the boxing he had learned. 
More often than not, the elder Ward, who participated in the Bengal Bouts for three years and advanced to the semifinals his senior season, would turn his attention to his brother ­who was three years his junior. 
"He would want someone to practice on, and so he would beat up on me," Dan Ward said. 
As a result, Dan Ward was exposed to boxing in high school, and he felt drawn to the sport. 
"I really liked the physical aspect of the sport," he said. "And I needed a means to defend myself from my brother, so a combination of the two [drew me to boxing]." 
Since that initial exposure, Ward has made quite a name for himself in the Bengal Bouts. After not boxing freshman year because of a scheduling conflict, Ward won the tournament as a sophomore, and advanced to the finals as a junior. He will compete in his third champi­onship bout Saturday night. 

Since those brotherly rumbles years ago, Ward has come a long way. 
"When you put gloves on the first time, you lose awareness of boxing as a sport and you look at it as a light," he said. "I think that was the learning lesson for me. I would just be trying to physically hurt Imy brotherI. and boxing is a sport with a scoring system." 
Now, Ward is known for his studied approach to the sport. 
''I'm much more a student of the sport than I used to be," he said. "I watch my opponents pretty carefully, find their weaknesses, then find ways to exploit those weaknesses." 
Ward compares the mental approach to boxing to that of wrestling, his best sport in high school. 
''Mentally, wrestling is a great preparation," he said. "It's just you and the other guy out there on the mat, very similar to being in the ring." 
In fact, Ward would likely have tried to follow wrestling if Notre Dame fielded a team, and as a result may never have set foot in a ring. Still, Ward finds that the comparison between the sports has its limits. 
"Boxing is different than any other sport," he said. "You could be in great shape, you could be in marathon shape and eome to a boxing_ workout and be aead in a half an hour just because the workout's differ­ent." 
In his first year as captain, Ward has found satisfaction in leading those workouts for the younger boxers. 
"I like helping guys develop and seeing the progress they've made and watch them build a stronger sense of confidence," he said. 
Still, Ward found the role to be initially daunting. 
"When you have a bright-eyed bushy-tailed freshman ask you how to throw a punch or what type of diet you should be get­ting ... you cant say 'I don't know,' even though you may not know,'' he said. "You're expect­ed to give an answer. I still feel very amateur to the sport. It's a little bit of an eye opening expe­rience." 
But that shock wore off' quick­ly. 
"I feel very comfortable with the program and with the box­ers [now!." he said. "You see the program from the inside out and why things are done the way they (J.re and how much work is actually involved getting something like this organized." 
If' anyone, Ward would know something about being organ­ized. In addition to the daily hours in the boxing room work­ing out and training other fight­ers, Ward, who was president St. Edward's Hall last year, is an Aerospace Engineering major, a member of the Air Force HOTC, and has participated in interhall soccer and football for four years. 
"I've also got a girlfriend, which is pretty much like another three credit class in terms of time commitment," he joked. 
As a result, Ward has had to wisely spend his hours, but at the same time, he couldn't live by a schedule that wasn't busy. 
"I've kind of been of the mind­set that if you're sitting around at your house watching TV at four in the afternoon, you're doing something wrong," he said. "This is the only time of your life where you have the opportunity of an adult but the freedom of a kid, and I'm of the mindset that you should take full advantage of that." 
Next year, Ward will head off to Vandenberg Air Force Base in Santa Maria, Calif. He com­pared the base experience to that of a college campus. 
"All your necessities are right there," he said. 
For at least the next four years, Ward will live and work at the base in southern California -which is the West Coast equivalent to Cape Canaveral and specializes in launching satellites. 
''I'll be an Astronautical Developmental Engineer," he said. "That's my duty title but I really don't know what that means." 
Right now, Ward plans on ful­filling his four-year commitment and then entering civilian life, but he has not ruled out a mili­tary career. 
"I've been to a lot of retire­ment ceremonies where guys have been in for 30 years and they'll start out their speech by going, 'you know, this was only supposed to be a four year run," he said. "Right now I'm just leaving it open ended. I'm gonna do my four years and if I like what I'm doing I'll stay, if I don't, I'll do something else." 
Contact Eric Retter at 
eretter@nd.edu 

Friday, March 2, 2007 The Observer+ BENGAL BOUTS. page 7 
Hansen bounces back from sophomore illness 
Captain sat out 2005 with mononucleosis 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sports Editor 
After months Of training for his first Bengal Bouts tourna­ment in 2005, only one thing could keep Steve Hansen out of the ring -mononucleosis. 
"Two or three weeks before the tournament they told me I couldn't fight, so that was a huge letdown," he said. 
Hansen joined the Bengal Bouts squad as a sophomore after playing football and club rugby in high school. 
"I was looking for an activity and a good workout, and a few of my friends were doing it too, and then from there'it just kind of escalated," Hansen said. 
After recovering from mono, the senior captain was 1-1 last year, losing in the semifinals of the 165-pound weight class, and won his preliminary match this year at 170. 
"''d definitely say it's motiva­tion, having lost last year," he said. "You definitely want to come back and definitely want to win the tournament this year for my weight class." 
But for Hansen, it's not just about winning -it's about the entire Bengal Bouts experi­ence. He was particularly moved by a speech one coach gave at the beginning of the season, when he pointed out that half of the people in the club would train for months and fight only a few minutes in the tournament. 
"You should realize that the journey that you're going on ... is one of the rewarding aspects too," Hansen said. 
The Milwaukee native said he enjoyed the training for Bengal Bouts. 
"I love being in practice and getting in the ring with my teammates," he said. "Sometimes I feel like I could spar all day long. The physical aspect of it and the sporting competition aspect is my favorite part of it." 
The relationship with his teammates in Bengal Bouts is · also a draw for Hansen. Some of his friends got involved when he did sophomore year, and he found that competition and working with teammates was part of what kept him coming back into the ring. 
''I've made some of my best friends through boxing," he said. 
Hansen also has taken on a leadership role as a senior cap­tain -which means more than being featured on posters around campus. As captain, he works with younger boxers. 
"The first time someone goes into the ring they don't do very well -they kind of get beat up," he said. "That's why we like to encourage people to get in for the first time with the captains, so the captains can help them improve." 
Taking on a leadership role has also meant more of a time commitment for Hansen. The mechanical engineering major has learned both leadership and time management through his role at the Bouts -some­thing he said has come up at job interviews. 
"People are pretty impressed," Hansen said. "It's kind of like having a sport on your resume and you're still able to hold good grades ­they know you're able to man­age your time well." 
Hansen has already accepted a job with General Electric and will be working with MHI scan­ners near Milwaukee. The comfort of having post-gradua­tion employment means that he can relax and devote more time to training for the Bouts. 
"I still do my coursework but I've decided that I really want to put a lot of time and energy into boxing," he said. 
For his senior season, he will have a cheering section of both family and friends at the Joyce Center. 
"My mom and dad are com­ing down for most of [the fights]," he said. "All my house­mates come and watch, I've got some family flying from D.C. on Wednesday and coming in from Pittsburgh." 
That's quite an entourage, but this is Hansen's final year of fighting, and he said his fam­ily has been very supportive. 
"I would say more people are coming out this year since it's my senior year and I'm a cap­tain -my family fan-base is a little bigger," he said. 

Looking back, Hansen said some of his best memories are of his work with the Bengal Bouts. 
"I really enjoyed the work­outs and it was for a good cause," he said. "It caught on as a great way to release ener­gy and an exciting way to com­pete with other people." 

Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

...· 


_. 
• I ~ •
' ' .· 








