
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 91 FRIDAY, FEBRUARY23,.2007 

SMC announces new vice president 
By KATIE KOHLER Assistant News Editor 
The nearly yearlong admin­istrative search at Saint Mary's came to an end Tuesday as the College named Patricia Fleming to the position of vice president for academic affairs and dean of faculty. She begins her duties on July 1. 
Prior to her appointment at Saint Mary's, Fleming taught philosophy at Creighton University in Omaha, Neb. since 197 7. There, she focused on environmental and medical ethics and the philosophies of science and 

social science. In 2001, Creighton appointed Fleming to senior associate dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. 
Fleming also recent­ly served on a National· Academy of Science committee and cur­rently main­


tains a Fleming White House approved appointment on the Veterans Board on Dose Reconstruction. 
"In addition to being a gift­ed administrator, Dr. Fleming is nationally and internation­ally known for her research on the ethical implications of nuclear waste disposal," College President Carol Ann Mooney said in a statement Tuesday. 
"Her extensive involvement in Catholic higher education, her scholarly standing, and her administrative skills make her a perfect fit for leading the faculty at Saint Mary's, and I am excited about working with her." 
Fleming said she looks for­ward to working at a women's college and hopes her previous experiences have prepared her for this task. 

"There is an abundance of research that proves the value of a single-gender edu­cation for women, especially in the greater access it gives women to develop their tal­ents," she said in a state­ment. "I have met many impressive students and alumnae who demonstrate Saint Mary's extraordinary success in that arena." 
While the opportunity is new for Fleming, she said she is ready to take on the chal­lenge. 
"It is clear to me, when standing outside Saint Mary's, that it is the number 
see FLEMING/page 6 

Oass elections vary from close to unopposed 
Notre Dame senior, junior officers win without race 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 

With tickets for Junior and Senior Class Council each running unop­posed, the Student Senate voted­unanimously Wednesday to susptmd the elections and declared the candi­dates the winners of their respective classes. However. four tickets will run for Sophomore Class Couneil Monday. 
Bridget Keating, Chris Doughty, Megan O'Hara and Kathleen Coverick were declared Senior Cla~s president, vice president, secretary and treasurer, respectively. 
The Junior Class Council ticket wa~ composed of Bob Reish, Joey Brown, 
see COUNCILS/page 6 


GLBTQ retreat builds on community, faith 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 

While public debate often places the views of Catholicism and those of the gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender and ques­tioning (GLBTQ) community in opposition, organizers of the 10th annual GLBTQ Retreat say that is not an issue in this week­end's event, which begins tonight. 
Notre Dame's Core Council and Campus Ministry hope their joint effort will provide community and an opportunity for spiritual development -in a Catholic faith context -for members of the GLBTQ community and their friends. 
The theme, "Never Alone," was chosen by student ·leaders and addresses several different 
issues, said Campus Ministry intern Madelein-e Heck, who helped organize the retreat. "Never Alone" stems from the idea of the Christian "footprints" prayer, which describes Christ's presence in difficult times. The prayer has special meaning for those who struggle often, Heck said. 
"We hope it speaks to the feel­ing of loneliness sometimes felt )within the GLBTQ community)," she said. "This year the retreat is geared for the GLBTQ communi­
t} and their friends." . 
Both students who are mem­bers of the GLBTQ community· and their friends are welcome, Heck said. Having friends pres­ent will help to show that there are people "to walk with these students on their journey at 
see RETREAT/page 6 

Sophomores square off for Saint Mary's board 
By LIZ HARTER and MANDl STIRONE News Writers 
Saint Mary's students are preparing for another round of elections -this time not for who will lead the student body, but for who will represent the individual classes. 
Students gathered in the West Wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall Thursday night for a ques­tion and answer session and a chance to meet the candidates for Sophomore, Junior and Senior Class Board. 
Elections commissioner Christin Molnar introduced and ques­tioned the candidates, then 
see ELECTIONS/page 3 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


NDto change degree tradition 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The University will hold a separate commencement cere­mony for Master's and Ph.D. graduates from the Graduate School in May, breaking from its tradition of one ceremony for undergraduates and gradu­ates. 
University Registrar Harold Pace said Thursday the cre­ation of a separate ceremony for graduate students -a decision made last semester ­should shorten the undergrad­uate commencement on Sunday by approximately 30 minutes. 
In past years, Pace said, the ceremony has run about two ho.urs and 15 or 20 minutes. The ceremony this year should last under two hours, he said. 
The change, while not widely publicized outside the Graduate School community, took place last fall. In a letter to the Graduate School com­munity in November, University President Father John Jenkins said he made the decision to hold a separate ceremony along with Provost Tom Burish and Dean of the Graduate School Donald Pope­Davis. 
Since this is the first time graduate students will receive 
see GRADS/ page 8 

College Trustees return to campus 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's welcomed 30 Trustees to campus Thursday for the B·oard 's quarterly two-day meeting. 
Committee meetings took place Thursday, and the full Board meets today. All of the meetings are closed and all official announcements from the Board will come from College President Carol Ann Mooney. 
"The agendas of the Board meetings are not released prior to the meet­ing," Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer said. "But the Chair 'of the Board sends a letter detailing what hap­pened at the meeting imme­diately after, typically with­in a week." 
The Board meets four times a year in October, February, April and June. Trustees use one of those meetings as a retreat, Dam peer said. 
T h e entire Board of Trustees includes 33 mem­bers and 3 emeritae 

Mooney
members, only 30 of which are attending meetings this week. 
The College's Board of Trustees is unique in that it contains a student who has full voting rights as a com­mittee member. This year's trustee is senior Julia Malone. 
"Being on the Board of Trustees has been one of 
the most valuable experi­ences during my time at Saint Mary's," Malone said. "Having the opportunity to represent the students has 
been a humbling and gratify­ing experi­ence that has only 
strength~ 
ened my apprecia­tion for the 

CoIIegc. " Malone The posi­tion of student trustee is open to rising seniors, and Vice President for Student Affairs Karen Johnson-is now accepting applications for next year. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Friday, February 23, 2007 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
LAURIE HUNT!The Observer 

Irish hockey players line up against Alaska-Fairbanks Dec. 3 in the Joyce Center. Notre Dame will play its last home game Saturday against Ferris State. 
OFFBEAT 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Food for thought 

My junior year of high school was my most difiicult year. What got to me wa<>n't the homework, or the hormones, or havoc from extracurricular activities. Rather it wa<> another H-phrase: hunger pangs. 
At my beloved 
Rohan Anand 

alma mater, an all­male Jesuit high school in Dallas 
Wzre Editor

hosting 250 mem­bers per class, our lunch rotations were divided into three separate blocks to fiJI the bellies ofravenous young men as quickly as possible. freshman would eat last, around noon, preceded by sopho­mores, who ate around 11:15. 
For the juniors, however, we were the first diners at 10:30 a.m. Seniors could select any ofthe three lunch periods, as part oftheir "privileges." We, however, were shunned by eating in a lunch win­dow during which we could have sneaked across the street and still caught the Chick-fil-a breakfast service. 
At first, the juniors were delighted to be the first to dine in our cafeteria. We could use the microwaves before they were marred by the obtuse freshmen who still hadn't understood why foil doesn't belong in that particular appliance. We could hoard the best Gatorade flavors from the vending machines or stock up on unlimit­ed breadsticks first. We had a leg up on those silly underclassmen. 
But we were clearly misled. By the third day ofschool, we noticed that our growl­ing stomachs seemed to form a chorus during our last classes, since it had been at least five hours since our previous n1eal. For those last few minutes ofthe day, we spent more time focused on the clocks than the blackboards because of our starvation. 
It was particularly bad for me as a par­ticipant in athletics. As a former rower, I eouldn't possibly grab some munchies during those 30 minutes in between the last bell and arriving at practice. Not only did I lack the time, but also I feared that my snack could potentially reappear on the rowing machines, in the weight room, or out on the water in a mid-workout. 
So, I had to come up with a counter­attack, and then the idea hit me: in-cla<>s meals. Of course, the Jesuits were by no means lenient if students were caught red handed with a PB&J. It wa<> distracting­and tempting-the teachers and stu­dent<>. So I had to be a<> surreptitious as possible, but a<> long a<> I pulled it off, I maintained sanity. 
Is the story any different in college? Well, ifyou're booked for cla<>s from 11-2 and find yourself in a similar dilemma, try some of these trick<> I've acquired ifyou're eonstantly feeling famished and hopeless: +The Camouflage: The healthiest and sneakiest hunger buster. Blend fruit smoothies at home and put them an opaque container. People, including the teacher, will mistake your "berry mad­ness" for H20. +The Hide-behind-the-Binder: The trump card in large-lecture classrooms. Sit in the last row, prop up a textbook to hide your snack and chow dGwn. +The Stall: Bathroom stalls are always safe havens for a quick snack between classes. +Share: Get caught? Okay, just play it cool. om~r your profa nibble ofearrot cake a5 an olive branch. Maybe you'll get permission to bring some in every day. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a profe\Sional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mis­takes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can amect our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW MANY HOURS OF SLEEP DO YOU GET EVERY NIGHT? 

Levi Checketts 
freshman 
Stanford 
"Six at most. •• 

Atlanta 63 I 36 Boston 30 I 16 Chicago 33 I 22 Denver 21 I -7 Houston 75 I 63 Los Angeles 60 I 46 Minneapolis 46 I 23 New York 36 I 21 Philadelphia 38 I 18 Phoenix 62 I 44 Seattle 44 I 38 St. Louis 48 /26 Tampa 75 I 57 Washington 42 I 22 

Michelle Rosenbaum  Marisa Villano  
freshman Lyons  freshn;zan Lyons  
..On average, I would say about four and a half.,  ..Either five or ,,nine hours.  




Jung Hwan Shin Jason Carley Billy Salvaggio 
sophomore sophomore sophomore 
offcampus Knott Knott 
··1 6 hours at ..Sleep is for the ..I don •t sleep ... 
most.,, 


Man does 40 squat thrusts on elephant 
CHIANG MAl, Thailand­New Yorker Ac;hrita Furman looked around for a record he could break, and settled on doing the most squat thrusts in one minute. Then he decided on a place -the back of an elephant in north­ern Thailand. 
He achieved both goals Thursday ac; he climbed onto a platform on the back of an obliging pachyderm in blaz­ing heat and powered through 40 of the vigorous kicks in a minute. The previ­ous squat thrust record ­achieved on level ground in Britain without an elephant in sight-was 30. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY a:: 
LLI 
:::t: 
~ 
LLI 

•3: ..J <C (.) 

-1 0 HIGH 32 HIGH 22 HIGH . 33 HIGH 36 LOW 20 LOW 10 LOW 29 LOW 28 
Furman, 52, is accustomed to setting bizarre records. He holds 54, and these include the record for the fa<>test 11 yards on a space hopper -a heavy rubber balloon on which children bounce ­and the fastest mile balanc­ing a cue pool on his fmger. 
"To me the real beauty of this record is that I did it on the back of a live elephant," he said. "I've had this dream of doing a record on the back of an elephant f9r many, many years but I've had no way ofreally accomplishing it until I came to Thailand." 
Police warn men about 'Hugging Bandit' BUFFALO, N.Y.-She's a 

200-pound-plus hugging machine, but her affection comes with a price. Police are warning men about the "Hugging Bandit," who heartily embraces men com­ing out of downtown bars and leaves them wallet-less. Dozens of men say they have been victims. Police say oth­ers are too embarrassed to admit it. 
"She doesn't just go up to you and hug you," said Detective Sgt. Tom Donovan. "She actually grabs (them), tries to talk them into some­thing more, and there goes their wallet." 
lnfonnation compiled from the Associated Press. 
weak.,, I wait.·· 
IN BRIEF 
Stations of the Cross will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 7:15 tonight. Stations will be held at the Basilica each Friday during Lent. 
The Fenians, an Irish band, will perform at Legends tonight at 10 to celebrate an early St. Patrick's Day. 
Notre Dame ice hockey will play Ferris State at 7:35 tonight and at 7:05 p.m. 
tomorrow  at  the  Joyce  
Center.  
Notre  Dame  Women's  

Lacrosse will play Stanford Saturday at noon in Moose Krause.. Stadium. Admission is free. 
Notre Dame Women's Basketball will play Rutgers Saturday at noon at the Joyce Center Arena. Ticket informa­tion can be obtained by calling 631-7356. 
The 49th Annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will be held Saturday from 6 p.m. to 11 at Washington Hall. Eleven col­lege jazz bands will perform. 
-This event is open to the pub­
lic. Tickets are free for stu­dents. For the general public, tickets are $5 for one night and $7 for Saturday and Sunday. 
Legends will host the Carbon Leaf concert Saturday night at 10 p.m. Open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. IDs are required. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsn ews@n d. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
Friday, February 23, 2007 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Edith Stein Project to address ways to heal 
By LAURA WILCZEK 
News Writer 

Its goal last year was to "redefine feminism," but when the Edith Stein Project begins today, organizers hope to help women dealing with violence or societal oppression heal both body and soul. 
Today and Saturday Notre Dame will host a two-day con­ference entitled "The Edith Stein Project: Toward Integral Healing for Women and Culture." 
The conference started last year when a group of under­graduate women planned "The Edith Stein Project: Redefining Feminism." This year, both male and female students organized the event with help from Notre Dame faculty and members of the South Bend community. 
The focus on healing as an underlying and unifying theme in the conference is a shift from last year's focus, which tried to address the vocation of women in the modern world. 
The goal of this year's con­ference, according to the Center for Continuing Education Web site, is to "encourage and empower both men and women to understand the types of healing that need to occur, and to be healers in their families, communities and throughout society." 
The conference plans to uti­lize Notre Dame's strong sense of Catholic tradition and will focus on a holistic approach to healing as guided by the Catholic faith. The attention to healing on a physical and spir­itual level corresponds to its namesake, Edith Stein, a woman who valued her faith. 

This year's topics -which include sexual assault, pornography, women's sexual health and eating disorders ­will be discussed in conjunc­tion with how women can cope with and heal from such plights in contemporary cul­ture. 
The conference will feature multiple speakers, including Brandi Lee, editor-and-chief and co-founder of True Girl magazine; Dr. Jennifer Roeback Morse, author of "Smart Sex"; Paolo Carozza, associate professor of law at Notre Dame Law School; and Dr. Pia de Solenni, awarded the Pontifical Prize of the Academies by Pope John Paul II. 
The conference will close Saturday with a 5 p.m. Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and a banquet. While there is a registration fee for visiting guests, the c·onference is free for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents and faculty members. 
Contact Laura Wilczek at lwilczek@nd.edu 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
opened questioning to the stu­
dent body. 
The rising sophomore and sen­ior classes each have tickets run­ning unopposed. 
Camille Gebert, the current freshman class president, is run­ning for sophomore class presi­dent along with Emily Young, Jennie Iliatt and Caitlin O'Brien as vice president, secretary and treasurer, respectively. 
Gebert's top goal for next year will be to get more members of the Class of 2010 involved in campus activities. 
"A big thing is people don't really know what's going on around campus," she said. "We. need to try to get the word out. I want to try to get fliers and maybe go door to door." 
Colleen Kielty, Erin Hogan, Elizabeth Bush and Shawn Hedington are 
running unopposed . 

../can't imagine a
running for The candidates on Senior Class Saint Mary's the Antonelli!Pabst Board. ticket said they
without me on 
Hogan is cur­wanted to continue
board.,
rently upset with to be involved on the lack of the Junior Class involvement on Sarah Voss Board if at all possi­campus from all sophomore ble. classes and 
presidential candidate "I would want to 

wants to work on improving it. Kielty also emphasized a higher degree of participation. 
"It's so easy for everyone to get involved," Kielty said. "It's actu­ally my favorite thing about Saint Mary's." 
Something new that the senior ticket wants to implement for next year is sending out surveys to the class seeking new ideas for senior week, such as a banana split night. 

The only class that has compe­tition is the rising junior class. Jenny Antonelli, Taryn Pabst, Katie Putz and Jessica Kusack are running against Sarah Voss. Sarah Dalton, Clare Heintz and Allison Cooney. 
All of the members on both tickets currently hold positions on the Sophomore Class Board 
with the exception of Antonelli, who is the public relations com­missioner on the Board ofGovernance. 
One of Molnar's many questions for the Junior Class Board candidates was how they would continue their cam­pus involvement if they lost -a differ­ent scenario from the other class tickets, s i n c e they are 
remain involved with board," Pabst said. "I have also 

been thinking about joining BOG, so I have a few options if we don't win." 
The other ticket also expressed an interest to stay involved. 
"I want to stay involved. I can't imagine a Saint Mary's without me on board," Voss said. 
Both tickets expressed an interest in allowing those who have been abroad for a semester or the entire year to feel that they will still be an important part of the junior class. 
The Voss/Dalton ticket wants to implement "town meeting" type sessions to field questions from the student body. 
The Antone IIi/Pabst ticket brought up the idea of imple­menting abroad dinners for stu­dents to talk about experiences 
"/want to relate [the experiences] back to Saint Mary's, and as a class we can make abroad programs more visible at school.·· 
Katie Putz sophomore secretary candidate 
oversees. 
"I want to relate [the experi­ences] back to Saint Mary's, and 
as  a  class  
we  can  
m  a  k  e  

abroad pro­grams more visible at school," Putz said. 
The ques­tion and 
answer session taking place in the West Wing differed from last year, when the answers were broadcast over the PA system for the entire dining hall to hear. The session normally takes place in the West Wing, but due to the annual Board of Trustees meet­ing, last year's session was held in the main dining room, Assistant Director of Student Activities Abby Van Vlerah said. 
Voting will take place on Monday from 12 a.m. to 12 a.m. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @sain tmarys.edu and Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



Lafayette Squ_are Townhomes 
Its a whole new place! New local ownership & management -Newly remodeled for 2007 -2008 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
424 N. Frances Street 

• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes · 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus • 2 Bathrooms 

• 
Off-Street Parking 

• 
Washer and Dryer 

• 
Dishwasher 

• 
Central Air 

• 
Security ~ystem 



Renting fast -call today for 2007 -2008 

Contact Kramer at (574) 315-5032 or f574J 234-2436 

Friday, February 23, 2007 

page 4· The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Friday, February 23, 2007 Co,"1PILED FROM THE OBsERVER's \YlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran to expand uranium program 
VIENNA -Iran has expanded its uranium enrichment program instead of complying with a U.N. Security Council ultimatum to freeze it, the U.N. nuclear watchdog agency said Thursday in a finding that clears the way for harsher sanctions against Tehran. 
"Iran has not suspended its enrichment-relat­ed activities," the International Atomic Energy Agency said in a report. 
Although its information was based on mate­rial available to it as of Feb. 17, a senior U.N. offieial familiar with Iran's nuclear tile, speak­ing on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak on the issue, suggested the IAEA's conclusion remained valid as of Thursday. 
New Italian government discussed 
ROME -The Italian president began talks with political leaders Thursday to discuss form­ing a new government after the resignation of Premier Romano Prodi's nine-month-old administration. 
Prodi stepped dovvn Wednesday evening after an embarr~ssing parliamentary defeat of his government's proposed foreign policy program, including its plan to keep Italian troops in Afghanistan. He is staying on in a caretaker role. 
The consultations at the presidential palace are aimed at determining which political lead­ers, if any, might be able to muster enough sup­port for a parliamentary majority and thus avoid a new election. 
President Giorgio Napolitano might ask Prodi or another leader from his coalition to form a new center-left government. He also could ask an institutional figure above the political fray to form a government, possibly with broad support from both coalitions, or he could call elections. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
New passport rules not for children 
WASHINGTON -Children will be exempt from new rules that will require travelers to show passports when entering the U.S. at land or sea borders, the Bush administration announced on Thursday. 
The new passport requirements will take effect as soon as January 2008. In a change from earlier plans, children aged 15 or younger with parental consent will be allowed to cross the borders at land and sea entry points with certified copies of their birth certificates rather than passports. 
Children aged 16 through 18 traveling with school, religious, cultural or athletic groups and under adult supervision will also be allowed to travel with only their birth certificates. 
Smith to be buried alongside son 
FORT LAUDERDALE-Anna Nicole Smith will be buried in the Bahamas, alongside her dead son, it was announced Thursday after a tearful judge left the decision up to the guardian for the model's baby daughter. 
Richard Milstein, the court-appointed guardian of 5-month-old Dannielynn, announced the plans not long after a judge gave him control ofSmith's fmal resting place. He gave no timeframe. 
Circuit Judge Larry Seidlin steered a surpri'ie middle course in a dispute that became more urgent by the day when the medical examine warned that Smith's body was rapidly decompos­ing. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Two police shot, suspect found dead 
GHEENWOOD, Ind. -Two police officers were shot and a suspect was killed during a traffic stop in a suburb south of Indianapolis, police said Thursday. 
Officer Eric McElheney was in stable con­dition at Wishard Memorial Hospital fol­lowing surgery for multiple gunshot wounds, said Greenwood Police Chief Joe Pitcher. The other officer, Jay Arnold, was treated for a gunshot to the leg and released. 
The unidentified suspect was pronounced dead at the scene. 
ENGLAND 

'Party prince' will be sent to Iraq 
Royal officials announce Prince Harry will set out with regiment in May or June 
Associated Press 

LONDON -He's the red­ 
headed son of the late  
Princess Diana, the rowdy  
royal known more for dancing  
until dawn than vvaking for  
battle. But Britain's party  
prince, Harry, is getting his  
wish and is being deployed to  
Iraq this spring with his 13lues  
and Hoyal'i regiment.  
Royal officials announced  
Thursday that the 22-year-old  
prince would fight for his  
country, confirming feverish  
tabloid speculation about the  
future of the best-recognized  
tank commander in Britain.  
Hi<> regiment L'i expected to set  
out in May or June f()r a six­ 
month tour.  
Harry, a second lieutenant,  
has been trained to lead a  
team of 12 men in four  
armored reconnaissance vehi­ 
cles and could become the  
first British royal to see com­ 
bat since his uncle, Prince  
Andrew, flew as a Hoyal Navy  
pilot in the Falklands War  
against Argentina in 1982.  
Word of the deployment  
comes one day after Prime  
Minister Tony Blair said  
British troop numbers in Iraq  
will be cut by 1.600 in coming  
months. The tabloid newspa­ 
per, the Sun, opined-"1,600 AP  
out ... One in." Britain's Prince Harry salutes at the Royal Military Academy after receiving his first  
Britain will hand over much commission in 2006. The Ministry of Defense said Thursday that he will be sent to Iraq.  
of its security responsibilities  
to Iraqi forces, concentrating  that he will be shadowed by  character.  "These things (are) just to  
its troops at Basra Palace and  budyguards. But a source  "He's a very brave young  beautify the picture ... The  
Basra Air Base in southern  close to the prince, speaking  man and he's a very deter­ British government wanl'i al'io  
Iraq.  on condition of anonymity  mined young man who wanl.-.;  to boost the (morale) of their  
Iraqi insurgents might seek  because he was not author­ to be part of his regiment and  troops," said Sabah Ali, a 35­ 
to target Cornet Wales ­as  ized to speak to the media,  part of the army," Blair told  year-old worker at the Iraqi  
Harry is known in the Blues  told The Associated Press that  the British Broadca<>ting Corp.  Oil Ministry.  
and Royals. That has led to  I larry would not be given any  "And I think that shows a very  In joining the military, Harry  
some concern that his pres­ special protection.  special character on hL'i part."  followed royal tradition. In  
ence could bring an extra risk  Col. Bob Stewart, a former  Others thought fighting in  addition to Prince Andrew's  
to fellow soldiers.  British commander, said he  Iraq was an appropriate task  Falkland'i War service, Harry's  
"In a sense, his celebrity  was certain Harry would be  for the man who is third in  father, Prince Charles, was a  
might be a factor in making  safe.  line to the throne.  pilot with the Royal Air Foree  
the security situation for his  "The Blues and Royals will  "It's a bit dangerous for him  and Royal Navy, and a ship  
troop more dangerous," said  take great pride in making  ... but it's good," said Lee Wills,  commander. His grandfather,  
Michael Oarke, a professor of  sure no one gets near him,"  20, of London. "The royal  Prince Philip, had a distin­ 
war studies at London's King's  he said. "I can't think of better  family's got to do its bit for  guished career in the Royal  
College.  security than having a regi­ their country."  Navy during World War II.  
Britain's MinL<>try of Defense  ment of British soldiers  But in Baghdad, IraqL'i, who  Even Queen Elizabeth II  
has previously said Harry  around you."  have endured much pain  served before becoming  
could be kept out of situations  In Britain, Harry's upcoming  since the 2003 U.S.-led inva­ monarch -she was trained  
where his presence could  deployment was taken in  sion, described the deploy­ as a driver in the Women's  
jeopardize his comrades.  stride. Blair described I larry's  ment as a public relations  Auxiliary Territorial Service  
There has been speculation  decision as in keeping with his  stunt.  during World War II.  



Perry defends cancer vaccine order 
around the state, said the contribu­issue the Feb. 2 executive order
Associated Press tions were just a small share of the requiring the vaccination for sixth­HOUSTON -Gov. Rick Perry on $24 million he raised and had no grade girls, Perry snapped: "I wish Thursday angrily defended his rela­effect on his decision. you all would quit splitting hairs, tionship with Merck & Co. and his "When a company comes to me frankly, and get focused on are we executive order requiring that 11-and says we have a cure for cancer, going to be working together to find and 12-year-old girls receive the for me not to say, 'Please come into the cure for cancers. No, I can't tell drugmaker's vaccine against the sex­my office and let's hear your story you when." ually transmitted cervical-cancer for the people of the state of Texas, In issuing the order, the governor virus. for young ladies who are dying of made Texas the first state to require The Associated Press reported on cancer,' would be the height of irre­the vaccine Gardasil for all school­Wednesday that Perry's chief of staff sponsibility," the Republican gover­girls. But many lawmakers have had met with key aides about the nor said. "Whether or not they con­complained about his bypassing the vaccine on Oct. 16, the same day tributed to my campaign, I would Legislature altogether. And the dis­Merck's political action committee suggest to you, are some of those closure regarding the campaign con­donated $5,000 to the governor's weeds that we are trying to cut our tributions could add momentum to campaign. way through." an attempt by legislators to repeal Perry, touring cancer centers Pressed on when he decided to Perry's executive order. 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
page 6 

Fleming 
continued from page 1 
one Catholic residential col­lege for women in the nation today," she said. "I am hum­bled by Saint Mary's choice in my candidacy and am proud, at the same time, to help the College continuo to do its important work." Fleming attended Holy Names University in Oakland, Calif., and earned her bachelor's degree in philosophy and sociology from Marygrove College in Detroit, Mich. She earned her master's and doc­torate in philosophy from Washington University in St. Louis, Mo. Fleming will replace interim Vice President and Dean of Faculty Jill Vihtelic, who Mooney and the recruitment search committee selected last spring to serve in the position for one year. The position originally opened because previous dean, Patrick White, accepted the head role at Wabash College last year. 

Last spring, the College also named professors Joseph Incandela and Deborah McCarthy as associate deans of faculty and academic strategies, respectively. Jncandela and McCarthy will each serve for three years. 
The final appointee last spring was Karen Johnson, who now holds the position of vice president of student affairs. Johnson replaced Linda Timm, who accepted a head role at Mount Mary College in Milwaukee. 
people each student's identity," Heck 
acceptance where ever they are said.
Contact Katie Kohler at 
kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
on their life journey." Carey said retreat participants 
Friday, February 23, 2007 
will look at "the image they have of themselves, the community's image of them, and how their faith helps them." 
Aiding students' faith develop­ment, "wherever they are on their spiritual journey," is always a goal of Campus Ministry retreats, Carey said. 
"In many ways, it's quite simi­lar to all the other retreats," he said. 
The retreat will feature three different presentations, including talks by a student member of the GLBTQ community and a friend, Carey said. Students will also be encouraged to use time for dis­cussion, reflection and Mass. 
As of Thursday, 16 students had signed up for the event, Heck said. Any interested stu­dents should call Campus Ministry for more information. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 


Councils 
continued from page 1 
Callie Pogge and Alvin Adjei. 
Last year's Class Council races all featured at least two tickets, and Judicial Council president Liz Kozlow said it was "not expected" to see a ticket run unopposed. 
"It is surprising especially because it happened for two class­es this year," she said. 
And while four tickets may seem like a lot in comparison, Kozlow said it's "common" to see more tickets running for sophomore class positions. Five ran last year. 
"Students are excited to get involved and feel ready to lead their class," she said. 
The four tickets competing for Sophomore Class Council are David Landry, Nick Abercrombie, Laura Bodien and Dan Dixon; Adam Mathews, Jenna Adsit, Kathleen McDonald and Mike Hose; Grant Schmidt, Jeff Lakusta, 

Retreat 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame -both in regard to thr,ir sexuality and their faith," she said. 
In addition, Heck said, the retreat will attempt to show stu­dents that not only do they have friends on their journey, but they are also "always joined by Christ." 
For Father Joe Carey, assistant director of Campus Ministry, the theme of this year's retreat is about providing support. 
"The theme is based on the need for community, and support within the community through faith," he said. "Having friends attend makes a connection to the whole community, and makes 
realize that there's 

Joy Hwang and Kim Kyrouac; and Frank Vento, Cristina Romano, Sean Callinan and Gavin Green. 
A fifth ticket was also running, but dropped out of the race on Wednesday after two members decided they no longer wanted to run. 
The four tickets include mem­bers with a variety of different backgrounds and activities-ath­letics like men's varsity lacrosse and women's water polo to aca­demic clubs like Anthropology Club to religious organizations like Freshman Peer Leaders and Gospel Choir. 
All of the tickets hope they will be able to get input from their class as to what event<> should be planned and what the council should accomplish next year. 
"We'd like to bring things to the class and allow them to have input," presidential candidate Mathews said. 
Fellow presidential hopeful Schmidt said it was "so beneficial" to interact with his classmates and 

Con~.e and Read 
find out what they want from stu­dent government. 
"Even though there are so many people, you'd be surprised by how many people are in agreement," he said. 
While all of the platforms differ in certain plans, one theme is shared: improving class unity through a class formal, class trips and more apparel. 
Despite the long list of ideas on his ticket's Web site, Schmidt admitted it wasn't unique. "Our platform is extremely generic and we did it for a reason. There's so many ways you can go with things," he said. "We're not look­ing to change the world, but there's lots of fun things you can do and a lot of impact you can make." 
Although some of the ticket<> arc already involved in student gov­ernment, others see problems with the current Freshman Class 
Council and want to rectifY things. "The major problem this year was communication between the 

That's a kind of acceptance that isn't always felt within the Catholic community, due to a lack of awareness and under­standing, Carey said. However, he emphasized that the Catholic Church "does not reject anyone based on orientation." 
More important than orienta­tion is personal worth as a human, Carey said. 
"One of the things ... is realiz­ing the dignity that everyone is created with, within God's image," Carey said. "That dignity is to be lived out within the Notre Dame community." 
Both Carey and Heck said the retreat's emphasis would not be specifically on Catholicism, but. rather on considering faith in a personal journey. Organizers also hope to help students "explore the inclusive spirit and 
Freshman Class Council and the actual freshman class," presiden­tial candidate Vento said. 
Vento also said this year's Freshman Class Council "wasn't a good representation of the class" since freshmen voted so early in the first semester. 
Mathews criticized the lack of transparency this year. 
"This year's Freshman Class Council did a lot of good things, but [the freshmen] didn't really know what was going on or what was happening during proceed­ings," Mathews said. 
This dissati<.;faction with current conditions motivated some of the tickets. 
"We wanted to offer a different ehoice than is usually available. We wanted to present a ticket of students who were responsible in doing their job, but would also have fun with it and really relate to students," presidential candi­date Landry said. 
Kozlow is hoping for at least 50 percent turnout by freshmen to vote for their class council. 
"Since it's their first time to real­ly vote [for their class council lead­ers), they're hopefully going to take it seriously," she said. 
Freshmen will be able to vote Monday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on the Judicial Council web site. 
As for the unanimously chosen Junior and Senior Class Council tickets, the election process was much smoother. But new class presidents Keating -who also writes news for The Observer ­and Heish said they were not as surprised as Kozlow about run­ning unopposed. 
"We feel we've proved our­selves. We didn't need to beat another ticket this year to prove that," said Keating, who served as junior class president this year. 
"I think it just attests to how we did this year," said Reish, the class vice president during both his freshman and sophomore years. "Our ticket definitely deserved it since we:re very experienced." 
Reish said his ticket was com­posed of individuals from "a wide variety of groups on campus." lie plans to "hit the ground running" and not only plan events for the rising junior class but also "focus on co-sponsoring events with other classes." 
Keating praised the Judicial Council and Kozlow tor how they handled the elections. 
"I've always known the Judicial Council and Liz Kozlow to act pro­fessionally and in accordance with the [Senate] Constitution," she said. 
Keating said she looks forward to focusing on "both those time­honored Notre Dame traditions and ones that the Class of 2008 has already made their own." 
"We're class council veterans and dedicated to serving the class with diverse talents and perspec­tives,'' she said. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 


Lectio@Eieven A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
February 27 featuring: Music by The Lazy Susans Reading: Plato in Dialogue 
!Jectio(ifjE!even brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser atjcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Ycar of Studies 



Friday, February 23, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,686.02 -52.39
}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite VolumE I,481 185 1,702 2,634,753,250 

fTSE. I OO(London) 6,380.90 +23.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) 45.4"
+0.51 +0.23 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
-0.08 -0.11 145.8" SUN MICRO INC (SUNW) 
-0.16 -0.01 6.2· MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 
+0.14 +0.04 29.3' 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.81 +0.038 4.73 13-WEEK BILL +0.20 +0.01 5.045 30-YEAR BOND +0.86 +0.041 4.83 5-YEAR NOTE +0.96 +0.045 4.726 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.88 60.9! GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.00 683.01 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.50 105.01 
Excha Rates 

YEN 121.535 EURO 
0.762 POUND 0.511 CANADIAN$ 
1.162 

IN BRIEF 
Fewer seek unemployment benefits 
WASHINGTON -The number of laid-off 
workers filing for unemployment benefits 
dropped sharply last week after having been 
driven higher the previous week by storm­
related layoffs. 
The Labor Department reported that appli­cations for jobless benefits totaled 332,000 last week, down by 27,000 from the previous week. 
The prior week jobless claims had jumped by 46,000, the biggest one-week increase since September 2005 in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. Part of that big increase occurred because of winter storms that boosted layoffs in such industries as con­struction. 
The four-week moving average for claims edged up from 326,700 to 328,000, the high­est level for this average since early December. 
But economists cautioned that the current jobless claims figures may just reflect the difficulty the government has in seasonally adjusting the numbers at this time of year when major winter snowstorms can alter the number of people showing up at claims offices in any one week. 
Ignored finances worsen tax process 
NEW YORK-Compiling a small business income tax return is rarely a pleasant experience, but for those company owners who have neglected their finances for the past year, it can be torture. 
Typically, the owners who struggle the most have poor records or discover during the course of filling out the return they don't havc the cash to pay their tax bills. Chances are, an owner in eithnr scenario doesn't have a good handle on the overall business, let alone the company's taxes. 
"It's very hard to run a business without reliable financial information," said Gregg Wind, a certified public accountant with Wind Bremer Hackenberg LLP in Los Angeles. "You could be spending too much in a certain area, or set goals in a certain area, but you 'II never know how you are doing." 





Analysts: Apple unlikely to share 
Cisco Systems primarily sought collaboration in trademark-infringement dispute 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE -The short­
lived legal battle between 
Cisco Systems Inc. and Apple 
Inc. over the "iPhone" name 
was only on the surface a 
trademark-infringement dis­
pute involving identically 
named multimedia tele­
phones. 
Cisco has maintained since 
the start of the squabble six 
weeks ago that the dispute 
was not about money, even 
though it stood to profit 
handsomely from any settle­
ment. 
Instead, the networking gear maker said it was trying to pressure Apple to break its attachment to closed, propri­etary systems and begin col­laborating with Cisco on imaginative future products that can communicate with each other. 
But industry analysts said Thursday the settlement between the Silicon Valley tech giants does not mean that Apple will suddenly open up its most lucrative tech­nologies, particularly the iTunes library that has helped catapult Apple into the top ranks of music reta.il­ers worldwide. 

The more likely scenario, they said, is that Cisco and Apple could partner in the near-term on lower-profile Analysts cautioned against research analyst with invest­products might come from projects that leverage the expecting any type of major ment bank Piper Jaffray & the settlement, which allows respective strengths of the concessions from Apple con­Co., said talk of collaboration Cisco and Apple to both use world's largest networking cerning ils proprietary tech­is "noble language" but he is the iPhone name worldwide equipment company and the nology, citing the vague joint not expecting any block­to sell their phones. new darling of digital enter­settlement statement from buster joint products to They would only say they tainment. the companies that raised emerge from the partnership. are going to explore opportu­
Some of those efforts, they more questions than it "Apple wanted that to bn nities for "intcropcrability" in said, could include integrat­answered. the impression because they the areas of security, con­ing Cisco's Voice over Internet "As far as concessions go, get a lot of pressure for being sumer and business commu­Protocol, or VoiP, technology from Apple's point of view, is closed," he said, adding that nications. into Apple's iPhones, which there a downside to making he suspects money played a Cisco sued Apple last are currently designed to their products work better more crucial role in the nego­month in San Francisco fed­operate only over the cellular with Cisco's networking tiations than either company eral court claiming that network; improving the abili­gear? I don't see a downside let on. He estimated that Apple's use of the iPhone ty of Apple computers to for them," said Charles Apple paid Cisco between name violated a trademark work securely with wireless Golvin, principal analyst with $25 million and $50 million Cisco has held since 2000 home routers from Cisco's Forrester Hesearch Inc. "If for rights to the name. and is using on a line of Unksys division; or generally anything it makes their prod­Both companies have Linksys phones that make developing ways for both ucts that much more attrac­refused to comment on terms free long-distance calls over companies' products to work tive." of the deal and are staying the Internet using VoiP tech­seamlessly with each other. Gene Munster, senior tightlipped about what future nology. 

Iran's uranium affects Wall Street 
Associated Press six-year highs. and finished past the 2,524.31 half-way 
Analog Devices Inc., which gave an mark of it<> all-time high of 5,048.62 set 
NEW YORK-Wall Street turned in a optimistic outlook about improving on March l o, ;woo. mixed performance Thursday as Iran's business conditions, drove chip stocks. Overseas, Japan's Nikkei stock aver­refusal to suspend uranium enrichment Investors were also encouraged about age closed up 1.09 percent, making il'> rattled investors and tempered a tech takeover activity this year as Whole first foray above 18,000 in nearly seven rally spurred by a strong outlook from Foods Market Inc. said it will buy rival years; investors were cheered by the chip maker Analog Devices Inc. Wild Oats Markets Inc. in a $565 mil­Bank of' Japan's decision to raise inter­
Investors were uneasy after a U.N. lion deal. est rates, indicating its confidence in official said Iran did not agree to "With the lack of real markPt-moving the long-flagging Japam~se economy. At Security Council demands to suspend news traders are taking a look at the the close, Britain's FTSE 100 was up its nuclear ambitions. Also hurting Iran thing and the technical break­0.37 percent, Germany's DAX index stocks was a U.S. government report downs and we're seeing a little bit of a was up 0.46 percent, and France's that showed a larger-than-expected pause on that," said Jody Giraldo, vice CAC-40 was up 0.23 percent. drop in gasoline and heating oil inven­president of equities at vFinance. The aftermath of Wednesday's tories, causing crude prices to bound The Dow Jones industrial average fell stronger-than-expected consumer infla­above $60 a barrel. 52.39, or 0.41 percent, to 12,686.02. tion figures from the government sent 
This chilled the mood among Broader stock indicators were mixed. bond yields higher for the second day. investors who at first were encouraged The Standard & Poor's 500 index was The yield on the benchmark 10-year by upbeat corporate announcements down 1.25, or 0.09 percent, at Treasury note rose to 4. 73 percent and a rally in foreign stock markets. 1,456.38. The Nasdaq rose 6.52, or from 4.70 percent late Wednesday. The Strength among semiconductor stocks 0.26 percent, to 2,524.94; the tech­dollar was mixed against other major drove the Nasdaq composite index to dominated index is at a six-year high currencies, while gold prices fell. 
page 8 Friday, February 23, 2007 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Grads 
continued from page 1 
degrees separate from the undergraduate commence­ment ceremony, "the unknown can be a little unnerving," Jenkins said in the letter. 
"I am very confident, howev­er, that the new and separate ceremony will honor our grad­uate degree recipients in a more meaningful way than the Sunday main commence­ment," he said. 
The decision stemmed from suggestions of faculty mem­bers and deans of other col­
leges, he said. 
The reason for the change, Jenkins said in his letter, was to create an event that could focus more on the accomplish­ments of the graduate stu­dents. 
In the new ceremony, there will be 
time to recognize all doctoral and Master's degree recipi­ents. In addition, there will be time to present the Eli J. and Helen Shaheen Graduate School awards, rather than just listing aloud the winners as has been done in the past. 
Graduate Student Union vice president Amber Handy echoed that reasoning in a posting on the Graduate School Web site. She empha­sized that the change was made to set aside more time to honor graduate student accomplishments. 
Another reason for the sepa­speak more directly to the Master's and Ph.D. recipients. 

Pope-Davis will lead the cer­emony and the deans of the colleges will announce the names of the degree recipi­ents, according to information posted on the Graduate School's Web site. 
First Year of Studies Dean Hugh Page will deliver the invocation, and Jenkins will attend the ceremony. 
The implications in terms of attendance changes aren't clear yet, but fewer graduate students at the ceremony could mean more tickets allot­ted to each undergraduate, 
Pace said. 
·7 am very confident, however, that the new and separate ceremony will honor our graduate degree recipients in a more meaningful way than the Sunday main commencement.·· 
Father John Jenkins University president 
"We antici­pate that out­c o m e because there will be fewer gradu­ate students attending," Pace said. "That's a great out­come for undergrad u­ates." 
T h e Graduate School's cere­

mony will be held May 19 at 1 
p.m. in the Leighton Hall of DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Each graduate student will receive two guest tickets ­and possibly three -depend­ing on how many students will be attending. Leighton Hall seats approximately 900. 
Graduate students can still attend the University com­mencement ceremony May 20 in the Joyce Center. But they will not walk across the stage or receive their degree at this ceremony. 
rate ceremony, Jenkins said in his letter, will be to have a Contact Kaitlynn Riely at keynote speaker that can kriely@nd.edu 
Peanut butter causes salmonella 
Outbreak sickens 329 in 41 states since August; lawsuits to ensue 
Associated Press 
OMAHA, Neb. -Testing of opened peanut butter jars obtained from people sickened by salmonella has confirmed the presence of the dangerous germ, the Centers for Disease Control said Thursday. 
ConAgra Foods Inc. last week recalled all Peter Pan and Great Value peanut butter made at its Sylvester, Ga., plant after feder­al health officials linked the product to a salmonella out­break that has sickened at least 329 people from 41 states since August. No deaths have been confirmed, although a Pennsylvania family filed a law­suit Wednesday claiming a rela­tive died from eating tainted peanut butter. 
Federal officials linked the peanut butter to the outbreak by surveying people who became ill, but until now, there had been no lab results to con­firm the connection. 
State health departments asked sickened people to bring in opened jars of peanut butter for testing, and jars in New York, Oklahoma and Iowa test­ed positive, said Dave Daigle, a spokesman for the CDC in Atlanta. 
"Now the question becomes, how did the salmonella get in the jar," Daigle said. 
ConAgra learned of the test results Thursday, spokesman Chris Kircher said. 
Gary Rodkin, chief executive of Omaha-based ConAgra, said Thursday that the company will take "aJI reasonable steps to remedy the situation." 
"We are truly sorry for any harm that our peanut butter products may have caused," 

Hodkin said in a news release. 
Government and industry offi­cials have said the contamina­tion may have been caused by dirty jars or equipment. Peanuts are usually heated to high, germ-killing temperatures dur­ing the manufacturing process. The only known salmonella out­break in peanut butter_ in Australia during the mid-1990s _ was blamed on unsanitary plant conditions. 
ConAgra has said none of its previous routine testing of plant equipment and peanut butter has tested positive for salmonel­la. The Food and Drug Administration last inspected the plant in February 2005 and found no problems. 
The Sylvester plant is the sole maker of the nationally distrib­uted Peter Pan brand, and the recall covers all peanut butter produced by the plant since May 2006. Shoppers are being asked to toss out jars having a product code on the lid begin­ning with "2111," which denotes the plant. The jars or their lids can be returned to the store where they were pur­chased for a refund. 
Great Value peanut butter is a Wal-Mart Stores Inc. house brand made by several manu­facturers. Great Value peanut butter that does not have the "2111" code is not included in the recall. 
Salmonella, which commonly originates from the feces of birds and animals, sickens about 40,000 people a year in the U.S. and kills about 600. Jt can cause diarrhea, fever, dehy­dration, abdominal pain and vomiting. 
In the Pennsylvania case, the family of Roberta Barkay alleges in a negligence and wrongful-death lawsuit against ConAgra that salmonella-taint­ed peanut butter killed her and sickened her husband and daughter. 
Barkay, 76, had been hospi­talized with gastrointestinal problems, then developed a bacterial infection before she died Jan. 30, said her lawyer, Rob Peirce. 
Her husband, William, was sick with similar symptoms late last year, after the Barkays bought the peanut butter, according to the lawyer and the lawsuit. Their daughter also got sick after eating the peanut but­ter while at her parents' home for her mother's funeral, Peirce said. 
Roberta Barkay was not test­ed for salmonella, but Peirce said the peanut butter the fami­ly ate was part of the batch ConAgra recalled last week. The lawsuit seeks unspecified dam­ages. 
"We're working to get in touch with that plaintiff's attor­ney to learn all we can," Kircher said Thursday. He said he couldn't comment on the specifics of the lawsuit. 
Across the country, at least four other lawsuits claim negli­gence by the company led to the salmonella illnesses. 
To get a refund, consumers can return the product at the place of purchase or mail in lids with their names and addresses to CdnAgra Foods, P.O. Box 3768, Omaha, NE 68103. For more information, call (866) 344-6970 or visit ConAgra's Web site at http://www.cona­grafoods.com 


Hour-s: 
1813 South B~nd Avenue 
~1onday-Sattn•day 10ilm-8pm 
South Bend, :JN 46637 
Sunday 12pm-5pm 

(574) 271'-"4990 Limited time offers for students: $5 off a Oelux Pedicure & $5 off a Full Set of Nails 

c 
lVIuslin1 Prayer Wednesday. February 28th 7:00 -7:45 pn1. 330 Coletnan-l\l1orse 
Experience an evernng of Mm.lim p~<~yer and meditation as the fourth iu a series exploring the beliefs and practices ofrhe world's great faith tradiuons: 
"Au Evening of Prayer frotn.~.;\round the \Vorld" 
Sponsored by: ND Muslim Student Assoctatiou. Campus Ministry, FOG Graduate ~sidences, GSU. ISSA. University Village 


Friday, February 23, 2007 page 9
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 


Judge wants Smith to be buried in Bahamas 
in guardianship, probate Associated Press 
and mediation, according to 

FORT LAUDEHDALE, Fla. the firm's Web site. -Anna Nicole Smith will be The dispute over the bur­buried in the Bahamas, ial was one of many sur­alongside her ·son, it was rounding Smith. Stern is announced Thursday after a listed as Dannielynn's father tearful judge left the deci­on the birth certificate, but sion up to the attorney for Birkhead said the girl was the model's baby daughter. his. 
Hichard Milstein, the A California judge is han­court-appointed lawyer for dling the paternity case, but 5-month-old. Dannielynn, Birkhead's attorneys plan to announced the plans not ask a Florida family court long after a judge gave him judge on Friday to order a control of Smith's final rest­sample of Dannielynn's DNA ing place. He gave no time­to be collected in the frame for the burial. Bahamas, or require the girl 
Circuit Judge Larry Seidlin be brought here for DNA steered a surprise middle testing. course in a dispute that The judge began became more urgent by the Thursday's hearing with a day when the medical exam­long diatribe, saying Smith's iner warned that Smith's relationships with her moth­body was rapidly decompos­er and Birkhead soured ing. because of overuse of pre­
"Who is entitled to custody scription drugs, and of the remains of Anna referred to Stern as "maybe Nicole Smith?" Seidlin wrote an enabler." in his ruling. "There can be "We have Stern. Is he a only one proper and equi­bad guy or is he a fellow table answer to that has some that question: form of a love Dannie lynn, for her? We 
"J want her buried 

Anna Nicole don't know," 
Smith's only with her son in the Seidlin said. 
child, heir and "Whatever rela­
Bahamas. I want 

next of kin." tionship he had
them buried 

The ruling with her, he came a full two together.·· would be called weeks after maybe an Smith died at a enabler."
Larry Seidlin 

Florida hotel at Birkhead tes­
Florida circuit judge

age 39 of still­tified earlier undetermined that he attempt-causes. . ed to curb the Smith's estranged mother starlet's drug use by urging
Is God Calling You? 
wanted her buried in her her to seek treatment. When native Texas, while Smith's he visited the Bahamas Come Explore the boyfriend wanted her laid to home Smith and Stern rest in the Bahamas. shared last year, he said hfl The judge, who choked up became increasingly con­
Congregation of Holy Cross frequently and sometimes cerned about her medicine 
b 1 ubbe r e d as he expJ a ine d use.
Priests and Brothers his decision, compromised "They kept bringing more and gave custody to and more drugs in the Milstein. And the judge house," Birkhead said,
With an evening of prayer and conversation made it abundantly clear adding that Smith told him 
what he felt should be done. she needed the prescriptions
with Holy Cross religious and other discerning men "I want her buried with to live. When he suggested 
her son in the Bahamas," he Smith enter drug rehabilita­said through tears. "I want tion, he said she told him:
Blessed Brother Andre, C.S.C. 
them to be together." "I'm not a drug addict and Smith's boyfriend, attorney quit calling me one."
Dinners 

Howard K. Stern, had been Testimony in the case has hunched over a table with been peppered with details his hands folded as he lis­of Smith's sexual liaisons
5:30-7:30pm 

tened to Seidlin's ruling and and the deals allegedly
Begins at Log Chapel, Dinner to Follow 
wiped away tears afterward. being pursued to profit from Smith's mother, Virgie the deaths of the starlet and Arthur, covered her eyes. her son.
Friday 

Outside court, Stern joined Also Thursday, celebrityFebruary 23rd Arthur and Smith's ex­news Web site TMZ.com Holy Cross Charism boyfriend photographer posted a video of Smith hug­a:od Mission Larry Birkhead before· ging and being kissed by a dozens of reporters, and shirtless doctor, who is
wirth Fr. Jim King, esc 

they pledged to work togeth­under investigation by the
and Fr. Ausitn Collins, esc 

er on funeral arrangements. California state medical "It's a family affair. You board for unspecified possi­
?•

Friday guys can go home," said ble misconduct related to Krista B<1rth, the attorney Smith. In the video from a
March 2nd 

for Stern. nightclub, Stern and 
Discerning a 

Smith's motlwr planned to Birkhead watch as Smith Vocation appeal the judge's order, and Dr. Sandeep Kapoor with Fr. Mark Poorman, esc according to one of her cuddle on a seat. attorneys, Tom Pirtle. Messages left for Kapoor's
and Den. Pete McCormick, esc 

Seidlin teared up earlier Los Angeles publicist Mark Thursday when he abruptly Saylor, on his cell phone and cut short the proceedings to at his office, we r fl not
(574) 631-6385 

vocation. l@nd.edu say he had made up his returned. A message was mind. In a sometimes ram­also left for Kapoor's Los
vocation.nd.edu 

bling statement, he said Angeles attorney, Ellyn "I've been trying to figure Garofalo. out, in a spiritual sense, Smith married Texas oil how to bring it all together." tycoon J. Howard Marshall 
Milstein was appointed by II in 1994 when he was 89 Seidlin last week. He works and she was 26 and she had for the Miami office of the been fighting his family over Akerman Senterfitt law his estimated $500 million firm. He has 30 years of fortune since his death in experience and specializes 1995. 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Mike Gilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Alben 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINIS,TRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 



Transparency key in·fighting apathy 
If student government truly wants to fight apathy, it can is a legitimate concern in an organization where many of take a much-needed first step in the next three weeks by the members are friends, and the ties run deeper than addressing the embarrassing confusion and unfortunate what's presented in debates or on campaign posters. secrecy surrounding last week's student body elections. With that in mind, the next question is simple: Why does­
The trouble began when senators received inaccurate n't the Judicial Council publish the results from each dorm copies of the constitution at the beginning of their term. immediately following the run-off? When so many students took the effort to vote "abstain" in Since the goal of the constitutional provision is to require the run-off election for student body president and vice senators to vote according to the constituents, the Judicial president, the election went to the Student Senate. Council should eliminate the arbitrary suspense that fol­Senators thought they could then vote for the lows sequestered results. The process should 
O 
tJhe

ticket they personally supported -a proce­be open and organized, not closed and con­
userver 
dure listed in the faulty constitution. But stu­fused. dent body vice president and Senate chair Bill An amendment to the constitution that (a.)
Editorial
Andrichik informed representatives of the dis­explicitly clarifies the voting provisions in the 
crepancy. In fact, senators must vote accord­ing to their dorm's results. A senator only chooses his own preference when a dorm's tally results in a tie. 
After sorting out the mess, the Senate voted behind closed doors Sunday, following constitutional protocol. But that procedure is problematic. 
First, if senators are obliged to follow the dorm's results, why are the votes kept secret? Some students found out whom their senator voted for; others didn't. With the cur­rent process, every student deserves the right to know which candidate his dorm picked and an open Senate hear­ing to ensure accountability. All that the closed door keeps out of the voting is oversight to guard against political maneuvering and votes contrary to the dorms' tallies. This 
event of a non-majority, (b. l mandates that the Judicial Council publish dorm-by-dorm results in the run-off, and (c.) opens the Senate vote to the public would well serve the student body. 
If student government wants to mean something at Notre Dame, it must be transparent. The current voting proce­dures are anything but. 
The system is broken -it is inefficient, unorganized and unnecessary. It's time student leaders fix those problems and address the issues that prompt so many students to: take the time to vote "abstain." 
If they cannot meet the challenge, their inability to enact change will tell students that apathy is indeed the best response to student government. 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(57.4) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK, .. 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www. ndsmcobserver.cDm 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qurstiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'!'he (lbsaver (USPS S99 2-4000) is publiili<d Monday rhroug!t Friday exccp< during c:x.am and vau.rion pc:riotb. A sUlxo.cription to 1bc ObKrvc:r is S 1 00 for mie aadcmll: year; $~5 ft,r om· 'it"mnr~r. 
'!'he Oh.<m:r i. publiili<d at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall Se-nd addt't$5 corr«riom ro: 
None Dame, IN 46}56-0779 '!'he Ob.crver 
Periodical postage paid at Nolr~ D•me P.O. Box TN anti ~ddit1onal mailing l)fficcs. 02~ Sourh Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 465S6-0n9 

1be ~rver is • member oftht A.i.sociatc:d Ptes$, All reproduction righn an:: rcsc:rvcd. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Support earned for basketball's final home game 
Going into this season, the Notre Dame men's basketball team was all about question marks. Would they finally play good defense? Would they finally rebound? Coach Mike Brey was viewed as a "dead man walk­ing," and there wasn't much enthusi­asm about the prospects for the season because the team was expected to disappoint. 
The results so far this year have been anything but disap­pointing. They're in fourth place in the Big East, and playing a very exciting brand of basketball. Energy and enthusiasm are evident on both ends of the court. 
Their game on Saturday is critical. Marquette is one of Notre Dame's biggest hard­wood rivals. Saturday's game will be the 1 08th between the schools, which is more games than Notre Dame has played against any other program. A win against the Golden Eagles likely will sew up both a bye in the first round of the Big East Tournament and an NCAA bid, not to mention put the team within five wins of the all-time record for consecutive victories at the Joyce Center. And the game will be broadcast to more than three quarters of the nation on 1\BC. 
The team needs an intimidating home court to help get a win, and the program needs to be shown to a national television audience as vibrant if it wants to continue to 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY Katie Kohler Jay Fitzpatrick Liz Harter Deirdre Krasula Viewpoint Becky Slinger Kara King Scene 
"Hell is full ofmusical amateurs."

Graphics Analise Lipari Tom Hanculak Illustrator 
Geor~e Bernard Shaw Robin Fallon lr1sh dramatist 
~ttract quality talent. Although the game is a sellout, conventional wisdom indicates a not-insignificant per­centage of those tickets were bought by Marquette fans early in the season. So I call upon the Notre Dame student body to support Colin Falls and Bussell Carter in their final home game. Those young men, like all their teammates, have been busting their butts this year to put a quality product on the court. They deserve a quality send-off. Regardless of how you feel about how previous seasons 
ended, this one looks like it's going to end well and they need your help to do it. Regardless of how you 
feel about a coach, this 
program is bigger than any 
one coach because it's owned by you, the Notre 
Dame family. It's 3:30pm on a Saturday in February. I can't think of a single viable excuse. Show the nation (and the adminis-, tration. who will be making decisions on seating for the post-renovation Joyce Center) Notre Dame deserves and will support a big-time men's basket­ball program. 
Michael Coffey 
alumnus Class of 1991 Feb. 22 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

1SubmitaLetter, "Never exceed your rights, and they will soon become unlimited."
~ to the Editor at ~ Jean Jacques Rousseau French political philosopher 
,www.ndsmcobserver.com I 
. ~­

Neither a just war nor just the war 
Sometimes even the most penetrat­ing conversation, the most illuminating ideas, seem mere distraction from a darker truth at which one cannot bear to look. Just when we think we are addressing a grave problem, we find James our deepest sor­Matthew rows hide some­Wilson where else, a few syllables beyond The Treasonous what we are capa­Clerk ble of saying. For instance, this last Tuesday, I sat in on a panel discussing "Requiem," the new exhibit of photographs from the Vietnam War being held at the Snite Museum of Art. The. photos included in the exhibit were taken by journalists who died in that war. Throughout the proceedings, for all my interest, I felt something heavy in my gut. 
The invited speakers probed the question of how a photograph, an image, relates to the reality of war it represents. David Griffith addressed primarily the photos at the center of the Abu Ghraib Prison scandal. In his recent book, "A Good War Is Hard to Find," Griffith argues that those now infamous pictures of Iraqi prisoners forced to pose in humiliating positions in fact betray an obsession with pornography and violence beating at the heart of American culture. The snapshots do not merely expose the imaginations of a few sick persons. They are not merely symptoms of the frustration and anxiety inevitable to soldiers during wartime. Those prison­ers piled naked on top of each other, or leashed to a smirking Lynndie England, Griffith suggests, testify to a culture that feeds on spectacle, the more obscene the better. 
The unlooked-for evidence of cultur­
. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Academic freedom 'alive and well' 
A year ago the University community wa.•;; engaged in a debate over academic freedom. The campus performance of "The Vagina Monologues" was the focal point of that debate. As an alum I welcomed the opportunity to con­tribute to the discussion and offered my thoughts in a letter to University President Father John Jenkins. I suggested then that Notre Dame could and should offer so much more to the discussion surrounding violence against women than an annual performance of"Monologues" could pro­vide. I suggestRd a broader "conference" setting which could include a variety of opportunities for dialogue, including not only the "The Vagina Monologues" but also the Edith Stein Project and others yet to be identified. 
Well, last fall an original production called "Her Loyal Daughters" was offered in an aca­demic setting. The Edith Stein Project returns for il'> second year next week. And "Monologu£'s" will be offered off campus next month. I believe that academic freedom i'> alive and well at Notre Dame, and the topic of vio­lence against women is getting more and more attention that it certainly deserves. Well done, Notre Dame. 
Jack Fremeau alumnus Class of 1971 Feb. 16 
al decay that silently frames the Abu Craib photos provides an analogy to my own discomfort with the panel at the Snite. The panelists had been invit­ed to talk about war and war photog­raphy. In the daily news cycle, myriad journalists and politicians chatter of whether the President's strategy is failing, has already failed, or can be rehabilitated. Sometimes one hears debate over whether a war to topple a longtime dictator was just. Sometimes one hears debate over whether a pre­emptive war is just. And occasionally one even hears questioned whether any war could ever be just. 
From our elected leaders, we hear clumsy or oddly speculative rhetoric. Sen. Kerry suggests that poor grades will get one sent to Iraq, and then he apologizes. Sen. Obama indicates that soldiers who die there have wasted their lives, and then recants. Sen. Reid speaks of this war as a foreign policy "mistake." 
As the war gets worse, the press spins ever faster from its bowels new analysis and rhetoric about certain features of it. As public opinion turns ever more against it, democratic sena­tors stick their polemical toes in the pond to test the waters of opinion, venturing bold statements about the injustice being done to our troops only to retract them in a day or two. The subject of all this talk is of course the war, but what it dances around it much more serious. 
Some irrational persons would prob­ably oppose any war any government waged. Some wise persons are partic­ularly able at determining when a country has met the criteria for a just­war. And finally, just about everyone now feels comfortable second-guessing the Bush-Rumsfeld strategy in Iraq. 

These speculations, obvious in impor­tance though they are, have the effect of keeping our minds focused "just" on the war. They keep our minds turning about the war as if it were a photo­graph to be studied, with one viewer complaining about the exposure and another that it isn't a painting in oils. 
Behind or beyond that photograph is a vision so dim that, as a nation, we can't look at it for more than a moment. We can talk about this war as often and in as many ways as we like, but most of that talk will remain dis­traction from this vision: that is, from our suspicion, indeed, our probable cause to believe, that we are at war because the Bush administration deceived Congress and lied to the American people. 
One cannot call the Iraq war a "mis­take." To do so, one would have to be in basic agreement with the priorities and goals of the Bush Administration, and to call this or that particular course an "error" that hinders its reaching those goals. More than an error in strategy or one poor executive decision is at stake in Iraq. 
We are at war not because our gov­ernment believed strongly in the just preemption of a madman, or the just removal of an autocrat. We are at war be_cause certain members of our gov­ernment want to ensure that the 
. United States remains the dominant military and economic power in the world, and to do that we need the sup­port of the Saudi government, Saudi oil and the continuation of an other­wise incapacitated and chaotic Middle East. We are at war because (pardon 
the crass nomenclature) neo-conserva­tives believe American interests are the world's interests, .and because executives in the military-industrial 
complex accept that other Americans 
need to be sacrificed for their inter­
ests. This war is an incidental episode 
in the long and programmatic expan­

sion of a teetering empire. It is not just 
the war that is the problem, but the 
program. And thus, we are at war 
because of greed and because of lies. 

An intrinsic duty of any state is to protect the life and common good of its people. War i9 sometimes a just instru­ment for the exercise of that duty. But the Bush administration has rendered such axioms superfluous. War is not the issue. The details of this war are not the issue. What distracted me last Tuesday and sickens me as I write is the fact that no honest philosophical or political debate can matter right now. 
I fear that lurking behind every pho­tograph of every fallen American sol­dier is the dark print of a deceit. Just as a widespread, little discussed, obsession with the obscene lurks behind the images from Abu Ghraib, a narrow and secretive hunger for money and power haunts -and betrays -the portraits of the dead. It is a hunger so vile even Americans will not look at it straight. Some few corpo­rations and persons, to perpetuate a political and economic system that benefits them at the expense of mil­lions, do not care how much ink gets spilled discussing this war, or how much blood gets spilled in it, so long as they are left quietly to profit, just beyond the photo's edge. 
James Matthew Wilson is a Sorin Research Fellow. He can be contacted at jwilson5@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



Questioning the value of meatless dining halls 
Sacrifice should not affect paying non-Catholics 
As a recovering Catholic, I understand the whole Lent thing. I get that, as an act of sacrifice, Catholics are encour­aged to fast on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday, as well as refraining from eating meat on Ash Wednesday and all Fridays during Lent. I think that's fine, just great. My ques­tion is, why don't they serve meat in the dining halls on Fridays or on Ash Wednesday? It's true that, as a Catholic university, maintaining a Catholic identity is important, but there is a difference between maintaining a Catholic identi­ty and needlessly limiting the options of the student body. 
If there was a tradition that on Holy Thursday everything you eat had to contain meat, and the dining hall made sure every item it offered had meat in it, vegetarians would be up in arms, and rightly so. We paid for a meal plan expect­ing that each meal offered would have a balanced selection of foods, and this is not what we are getting. 
I know some people will say that I could just go to Reekers or LaFortune, and this is true, but this is beside the point. I shouldn't have to spend Flex Points because my din­ing hall refuses to offer proper balanced meals. If the din­ing hall wants to refuse meat to the student body in order to avoid tempting those who choose not to eat it, that's fine -but they should discount those meals, because they clearly aren't as complete, and give me some of my damn money back. 
Greg Howard junior Alumni Hall Feb.21 
True meaning of _sacrifice lost 
·This Lenten season, just like last Lenten season, 
I sure will miss meat on Fridays. Yeah, its hard 
giving up those delicious homestyle chicken pat-· 
ties, but showing repentance is a vital part of 
Lent. This year though, it just won't mean as . 
much. I'm still going to deny myself on Fridays, of 
course, it's just that so will everybody else on cam­
pus whether they want to or not. They don't have 
a choice-the dining halls don't serve meat on 
Fridays. 
I have multiple problems with this. Mainly, the 
sacrifice of abstaining on Fridays becomes entirely 
unremarkable. Not just because everyone else is 
doing it -my penance is entirely between God 
and myself-but because it just seems too easy. 
It's no longer proving anything. To show that 
you're truly sorry for your sins, you should have to 
make a conscious decision to abstain, and you 
sh'Juld be strictly devoted to following through. 
This year, Notre Dame is making that decision 
for us, and making it almost impossible to not fol­·low through. Self.denial should be difficult to be meaningful, and this year it is neither. So please, 
dining halls, save Lent and serve meat on Fridays. 
Catholics and non-Catholics alike will be grateful. 
Daniel Trumble freshman Siegfried Hall Feb. 22 


page 12 Friday, February 23, 2007 
DVD REVIEWS 
Latest release enlivens timeless 'Paradiso' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
Giuseppe Tornatore's 1988 film "Cinema Paradiso" is a movie about the movies, made for movie lovers. A fondly nostalgic look at the power of the cinema in a small Italian setting, "Paradiso" originally opened to excellent commercial and critical recep­tion, and it remains one of the cinema's most beloved treasures. The film has just been re-released in a lavish Limited Collector's Edition, which includes two dif­ferent versions of the film. 
Set in a sleepy village in Post-WWII Italy, "Cinema Paradiso" is the story of a boy named Salvatore (Salvatore Cascio), who finds refuge from the grim harshness of reality in the world of cinema. He befriends the town's film projectionist, the curmud-· geonly Alfredo, whose job is to censor all the "kissing parts" of films. "Paradiso" then jumps to an adolescent Salvatore (Marco Leonardi), who falls in love with the beauti­ful Maria (Antonella Attili), only to have his heart broken. Years later, an older and wiser Salvatore (Jaeques Perrin) returns to his home village to say goodbye to an old 




'Maltese Falcon' remains prototypical'film nair' 
It's easy to see why "The Maltese Falcon" made a star out of Bogart. He epitomizes "hard-boiled" protagonist, with a certain toughness and intelligence to go along with his razor-sharp wit. The film is deeply engaging because while everyone is trying to outsmart everyone else, Bogart always seems to be one step ahead. Spade's detached, almost aloof attitude and always­professional demeanor put even Quentin Tarantino's screen heroes to shame. 
Of course, the film holds up due to Hammett's original novel being as good as it was. "The Maltese falcon" adheres pret­ty faithfully to the book, and there's a shocking amount of cynicism, especially for Hollywood in 1941. It's amazing to think that 'The Maltese Falcon" was released in the same year as "Citizen Kane" and only a year before "Casablanca." This trio of films illustrates just how sophisticated Hollywood was capable of being during this time, and how adult and far removed from treacly sentimentalism it had become in the post-Depression era. 
The new three-disc special edition of "The Maltese Falcon" is a huge improve­ment over the original one-disc release. The picture, which has been digitally transferred from "restored elements," looks very clean, especially for a film 
that is over 60 years old. The audio is, appropriately enough, the original mono track, which also sounds quite good with clear, up-front dialogue. 
Special features include a commen­tary by Bogart biogra­pher Eric Lax, which 

By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
"The Maltese Falcon" is the prototypical "film noir," a gritty and hard-boiled detec­tive story with a stone-faced star and dou­ble-crossing femme fatales. The film made stars out of Humphrey Bogart and director John Huston, both of whom would go on to make a number of classic films. Warner has just released "The Maltese falcon" in a three-disc special edition set loaded with special features, many ofwhich help illumi­nate the film's context and impact. 
The 1941 version of "The Maltese Falcon" is actually the second film based on the eponymous novel by Dashiell Hammett, though Huston's film is considered far superior to the previous version. The plot revolves around San Francisco private eye Sam Spade (Humphrey Bogart}, who is asked for protection by the mysterious Miss Wonderly (Mary Astor). When Spade's part­ner turns up dead, he finds himself embroiled in an international scandal involving Joel Cairo (Peter Lorre) and Ka-.per Gutman (Sydney Greenstreet), all of whom are searching for a jewel-encrusted statue, the "Maltese Falcon" ofthe title. 
The Maltese Falcon 

Warner Home Video 

friend. 
"Cinema Paradiso" is a warm, memo­rable film with an excellent setting and warm performances. Coupled with a great score by the legendary Ennio Morrico~e (who also -composed the scores for "The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly" and "The Untouchables," among other classics}, the nostalgic images hearken back to a lost age. Almost 20 years later, the film contin­ues to resonate, which is a clear testament to both it-. cinematic grace and its timeless­ness. 
The Limited Collector's Edition is a well­made set that does justice to the fllm's clas­sic status. The film has already been released twice on DVD -once in its original cut, and once in the "new version" (or director's cut) in 2002. This new set is com­prised oftwo DVDs and a CD ofMorricone's score, along with some one-sheet and lobby card reproductions. The set also includes a pair of new documentaries: "Exploring a Timeless Classic," which explains the impact that "Cinema Paradiso" has had on subsequent filmmaking, and "Little Italy Love Story: Cinema Paradiso Style." The extras are worthwhile additions, but the film itself is the main draw to the package. 
The second disc houses the original 170-minute director's cut, which was origi­nally released in America in 2002. Unfortunately, this is a case in which the longer cut is not an improvement, as it eschews the focus of the two-hour theatri­cal version, causing the film to drag at 



"Cinema Paradiso" tells the story of one man's lifelong love affair with the movies. The film's latest DVD release includes the 170-minute director's cut. 
times. In some ways, it does enrich the development and depth of the story, espe­cially in terms of character, but the overall pacing suffers tremendously. The original is · superior, especially since it is this version of "Paradiso" that has become such a highly regarded classic. 
Oddly enough, the picture and audio quality differ between cuts. Both cuts are presented in anamorphic widescreen, but the director's cut looks sharper and cleaner 
(perhaps due to its more recent release). It also has a 5.1 Dolby Digital track, which sounds much richer and fuller, as opposed to the theatrical cut's 2.0 Dolby Surround. Both versions are in Italian, with English subtitles. 
"Cinema Paradiso" is a cla'lsic -a film that truly celebrates the movies. The Weinstein Company's new edition immedi­ately usurps previous DVD editions and renders them obsolete. It's easily the best way to experience "Paradiso," a film that will likely enthrall viewers for generations to come. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


is informative but heavily leans toward information about Bogart rather than the film. It's unfortunate that Warner was unable to get critic Roger Ebert to do a commentary, a-. his tracks for "Casablanca" and "Citizen Kane" are both phenomenal. More information about Hammett would also have been welcome, though Lax's knowledge of Bogart is impressive. 
There is also a substantial amount of archival material, including several inter­esting shorts, trailers and information about 1941, which gives the film another layer of context. There's also a documen­tary, "The Maltese Falcon: One Magnificent Bird," which forms the bulk of one of the special features discs. The onJy disappoint­ing aspect of the set (and really, it's a minor nitpick) is that there is a lack of information regarding Huston. 
'The Maltese Falcon" has finally gotten the treatment it deserves on DVD. As the archetypal film noir, it still holds up over half a century later, thanks to the sure­handed direction of Huston and the iconic performance of Bogart. The three-disc spe­cial edition comes highly recommended. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 


Tt.-IE OBSERVER 

E

Friday, February 23, 2007 

page 13 





Anna Nicole, Paris Hilton redefine 'celebrity' 
Marilyn Monroe is arguably America's first and most recognized celebrity icon. She dominated the 1950s with her terrific movie career, and, although she was a tal­ented actress, she is perhaps better known for being the original "blonde bombshell." She appeared in the very first edition of "Playboy," was mar­ried to both Joe DiMaggio and Arthur Miller and was rumored to have h·ad an affair with President Kennedy (her friendship with the president also spawned one of the greatest renditions of "Happy Birthday"). 
Flash forward to 1992, when small-town American girl Vickie Lynn was discovered by Hugh Hefner and decided to make a name for herself. And make a name for herself she did: Anna Nicole Smith. In the vein of Marilyn, Anna Nicole modeled for Playboy and was infamous for her mar­riage to an 89-year old billionaire oil tycoon. Where Marilyn legitimately made herself into a star through her popular film career, Anna Nicole was famous solely for being herself. She later went on to have her own reality television show ("The Anna Nicole Show") and became the spokesper­
. son for Trimspa, a dubious weight loss drug. Despite these "achievements," she never had the same amount of true per­sonal success that Marilyn enjoyed, despite being a bona fide celebrity. Essentially, she was popular for being popular. 

Erin McGinn 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The "Anna Nicole syndrome," where celebrities are seemingly created out of nothing, is an omnipresent phenomenon today. New stars are promoted daily out of the rising success of reality television shows. People like Trista Rehn and Ryan Sutter ("The Bachelorette"), Amber Brkich and Rob Mariano ("Survivor: All-Stars") and Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth ("The Apprentice") are famous for being famous, even though they arguably accomplished nothing. 
At the pinnacle of this talent-free mix sits the reigning queen, Paris Hilton. Daughter of a hotel monarch, Paris lived the innocuous life of a decadent socialite until she decided that she wanted to be famous. In 2001, Paris came into power as the quintessential party girl. When her first sex tape ("1 Night in Paris"} was "released" in 2003, she solidified her place at the center of the pop culture universe. Falling victim to the "Anna Nicole syn­drome," Paris has tried to move on to some semblance of a "real" career. 
She has starred in Fox's reality series 'The Simple Life" with fellow celebutante Nicole Ritchie, playing off of their public persona.'> as talented, spoiled socialites. She has also acted in films ("House of Wax" and the upcoming "The Hottie and the Nottie"), recorded an album ("Paris"), "designed" perfumes and even partially wrote a book, the aptly titled "Confessions of an Heiress: A Tongue-in-Chic Peek Behind the Pose." 
So what happens to these celebrities when they·have no talent to fall back on? Networks like MTV constantly feature legions of contestants seeking their 15 min­utes, then doing whatever they can to 


Photo courtesy of celebslam.com 

Recently deceased Anna Nicole Smith, right, is one of several pseudo-celebrities to grace American magazines and TV despite a seeming lack of talent. 
retain the little fame that they have. Enter Anna Nicole Smith claim8d that she shows like the "Real World/Hoad Hules planned to be "the next Marilyn Monroe," Challenge," where former contestants are and Paris Hilton has been quoted as saying able to perpetuate the illusion that they are that she is "the iconic blonde of the still important. decade," comparing herself to figures like 
To stay in the public eye, it is necessary Monroe and Princess Diana. Although both for such faux-celebrities to act out in their claim to be following in the footsteps of personal lives. Even after her death, the Marilyn, Ms. Monroe had one attribute that controversy over the patemity of her infant her successors seem to lack-talent. 
-~j~~t~lt~~~;~6~ha~~~~~~~~t6~. ·· ·::' ... Co~tact Erin Mcl;inn (It erncginn@nd.edu having realized that she was sUpping off of The views expressed in this column are the public radar, found her third sex tape those ofthe author and not necessarily "leaked" to the public. those ofThe Observer. 
Spears' struggles raise concern among fans 
Nine years ago, no one would have thought that Britney Spears -the former Mouseketeer-would be on the brink of total breakdown. 
Along with fellow Mouseketeer alums Justin Timberlake, J.C. Chasez and Christina Aguilera, Britney burst onto the late nineties pop scene with near­instant success. She was quickly dubbed a princess of pop and experienced an un­precedented level of growth in popularity with her albums " ... Baby One More Time," "Oops! ... I Did It Again" and "Britney." 
Starting in 1998, America swooned over the young love between Britney and Justin. Too good to be true, their four-year relationship fell apart in 2(X)2, and Britney's slow but steady derailment began soon thereafter. 
Although she continued in her music career, recording "In the Zone," she also did things that the " ... Baby One More Time" Britney never would have dreamed of. In 2003, a newer, edgier Britney kissed pop icon Madonna on stage at the MTV Video Music Awards. She shocked the world in 2004 when she married her child­hood sweetheart Jason Alexander in a spontaneous ceremony at the Uttle White Wedding Chapel in Vega.'> -a union that was annulled less than 55 hours later. America started to worry about their pop princess. 
She was still all right, though -fans believed that Brit could still get her life baek on track. The down-home heroine of 

Erin McGinn 
Assistant Scene Editor 
teenage girls across the States, who prided herself on her wholesome image and fiercely maintained her alleged virginity, had once been at the height of popularity. Brit certainly wasn't the rrr.st celebrity to think that an ill-fated Vegas wedding was a smart idea, and most fans seemed willing to excuse her antics with the hope that she might return to top form. 
Enter K~Fed. 
Apparently seeking the polar opposite of Justin, Britney began her ill-fated relation­ship with her back-up dancer, Kevin Federline. She was engaged only six months after her overnight wedding mis­take, and eight months later she was mar­ried ... again. Her tumble from her promi­nent place·in the eyes of the public picked up speed. 
Britney abandoned her music career in favor of starting a family. Her hubby had gotten a head start on her with one child -and another baby on the way -with actress Shar Jackson. Britney and Kevin, in light of fellow celebrity couple Nick Lachey and Jessica Simpson's success, decided to star in their own reality show on M1V in 2005, "Britney and Kevin: Chaotic," which ended after five episodes. Later that year, Britney gave birth to her first child, Sean Preston. 
It didn't take long for Britney to sink into controversy over her parenting skills, with tabloid pictures of her driving with her infant son sitting in her lap beginning to surface. She used the plea that she grew up in the country to defend her actions, argu­ing that she was a good mother in an inter­view with Matt Lauer. 
A year later she gave birth to her second son, Jayden James, and only a couple of months after his birth, Britney and Kevin filed for divorce in November of 2006. 


Three months later, the princess of pop seemingly fell off the brink of sanity. A week ago, Britney checked in and out of rehab in less than 24 hours. The next day she walked into a hair salon and asked to have her head shaved. After employees refused, she went to the back of the salon and shaved it herself (if you have a million dollars, you can buy some of her hair on buybritneyshair.com). Britney has recently been spotted in a heinous, ill-fitting blonde wig. She even tried rehab again -for 24 more hours. 
The latest rumor is that she shaved her head in a panicked move to avoid drug testing threatened by K-Fed in order to gain custody of their two sons. In response to Kevin's allegations, Britney must remain in rehab for at least 30 days to retain cus­tody of her children. Prior to her entering rehab, there were photos taken of her beating on K-Fed's SUV with an umbrella. 
To both fans and critics alike, there appears to be something justifiably wrong with poor Britney Spears. Unfortunately for her, her cries for help are becoming little more than tabloid fodder. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Friday, February 23, 2007
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Creighton's speed catches Laughlin off balance 
would force Murphy to the ropes, Joe "The Red Rocker" Langenfeld into the comer with sharp combi­Ludwig spent most of the round on By BILL BRINK but Murphy would land a head def. Andrew "OD" O'Donnell nations. Hansen's power proved to the defensive, trying to find a spell Sports Writer shot to free himself. Ahmed's Neither fighter had a decisive be too much in the end, and after between punches to put something 
smaller size hindered him in the advantage in the first round. Hoffman weathered many hard together. 
James "Turkey" Creighton was third round; most of his punches O'Donnell once put Langenfeld on punches Hansen finally landed a The third round was much of the too quick for Paul "The General" were thrown at Murphy's chest the ground, but it was the result of head shot to put him on the mat, same. Hagmann landed a left to Laughlin, taking the first win of the level, allowing Murphy a clear path a shove rather than a punch. causing the referee to stop the the side of Ludwig's head that 163lb. weight division. to his head. In the second, round, Langenfeld fight. forced Ludwig to stumble, but 
Creighton took over the first took the early lead, landing many Ludwig was able to keep fighting. round, twice peppering Laughlin Patrick "The Chicago Drago" shots to the head. O'Donnell, Matthew Hopke clef. Philip "Red with flurries of punches. Laughlin SaM def. Tristan "The Mountain unable to protect himself, repeat­Rose" Kirchner Ryan Simmons def. Jordan Bucci was unable to land many punches, Man" Hunt edly shoved Langenfeld. Hopke started the first. round In a fight that could have gone becoming flustered after being hit. The first round was a defensive O'Donnell continued attacking with wild punches, but a good deal either way, Simmons won in a split Laughlin's form broke down mthe struggle as neither fighter was able Langenfeld, but lacked good of them hit. In the second round, decision. Simmons' quick jab and 
second round, and he was unable to land a decisive shot or form a enough form to land punches. Hopke again came after Kirchner, Bucci's sharp right cross made the to protect himself. combo. Late in the round, pressure showering him vvith head and body first round an even match. Bucci 
In the third round, Laughlin by Salvi forced Hunt off-balance, Joe Raupp def. Daniel "EI Volcan" shots and forcing him to wrap up. landed a strong right cross to again started fast, but sloppy foot­and he fell to the canva<>. Salas Kirchner forced Hopke ~gainst the Simmons' face in the opening sec­work kept him from getting any­In the second round, Salvi had Raupp won the contest in a ropes and was able to land some onds of the second round, but thing going. Creighton's combina­the advantage, forcing Hunt unanimous decision. Raupp struck stomach blows, but again had Simmons quickly rebounded with a 
tion of body and head shots kept around the ring until finally land­first, landing a left to the face, trouble protecting himself. left of his own. Near the end, Bucci Laughlin off balance. ing a straight shot to the face send­which set up a flurry of combina­Hopke landed a strong left hook landed another right to the side of ing him to the ground. Another tions against the ropes. After duck­to start the third round, but Simmons' head, giving hin1 control. Brian Marek def. Alex Moore shot to the face knocked Hunt to ing a combo from Salas, another Kirchner came right back with his The match,started quickly, each the canvas a final time, forcing the left put Salas on the mat. Salas own combo. Conor Mclaughlin def. Tom 
fighter sacrificing his body in order referee to end the fight. could not stop the jab in the first Hardman to throw as many punches as pos­round, but remained in the fight, Stephen Klein def. Nicholas McLaughlin took advantage of sible. The boxers settled down, but Alex "Spider Monkey" Duffy def. putting together some combos of Zehrbach Hardman's low defenses in the first Marek was the more aggressive of Kevin Archer his own. Zehrbach had a longer round, landing strong rightc;; to the the two, backing Moore around the The fight was aggressive and Raupp began to employ body wingspan, which he used to his head. Hardman fought back, forc­ring. evenly matched in the first round, shots in the third round, coupling advantage to keep Klein out of ing McLaughlin to cover as 
In the third round, Moore found with both boxers landing big head those with head shots when Salas range. Hardman threw body shot after his jab, but a right hook from shots. At one point, Archer had dropped his gloves. In the second round, Klein was body shot. Marek caused him to stumble. At DuffY wrapped up, but DuflY land­able to get inside Zehrbach's reach After numerous body shots from this point, the referee stopped the ed three straight head~shots to sep­Jon "Duck" Kelly def. David "D and land some head shots, at one both fighters, Hardman landed a fight. arate himself. Neither fighter could Gunz" Wattel point knocking Zehrbach off-bal­left to McLaughlin's head midway 
protect himself in the second Wattel's unorthodox fighting ance. At the end of successive through the second round. In the Matt Kernan def. round, but it was Duffy who landed style coupled with his shorter punches by both fighters, Klein third round, McLaughlin threw a Sean McFarlane the crucial head shot. The blow stature forced him to punch blindly caught Zehrbach with a right that hard right a few seconds into the 
Form was sacrificed for enthusi­made Archer woozy, causing him at Kelly's midsection while driving sent him backwards into the ropes. round, knocking Hardman to the asm in the first round as fighters to stumble around and forcing the him backwards with his legs. At mat for the win. threw any semblance of a punch referee to stop the fight. one point, Kelly stepped aside to Jon "Trash Can!" Parry def. Bryan they could muster. McFarlane got dodge a punch and Wattel tumbled "The Mongoose" Grissinger 1751bs. the early advantage, twice knock­1651bs. across the mat of his own accord. A quick start saw Grissinger hit ing Kernan off his balance. Kelly landed many punches on the mat, but bounce right back up Kevin "Aircraft" Carrier def. 
Kernan had the better form in Jeff "Delaware Destroyer" Skorup Wattel's back. because that was all and hit Parry with several body Charles "The Sicilian Southpaw" the third round and landed a few clef. Aidan "Boximus Maximus" that was exposed to him. shots. Several seconds later, Cossell head shots, but McFarlane's rough McKieman Three head shots in a row took Grissinger sent Parry to the Carrier quickly put Cossell style caused Kernan problems. McKiernan seemed to have the the life out of Wattel, who was ground. against the ropes and hit him with Although backed up against the early advantage, peppering Skorup unable to land many punches in Grissinger's right hook helped three straight body shots, but ropes, Kernan landed a head shot with head shots, but Skorup the third round. him start the second round strong, Cossell fought back, slinging to back McFarlane up. He went on caught him straight in the face, but Parry battled back and landed punches at Carrier from every to land two more successive head causing McKiernan to fall back­Michael Smith def. Patrick "Q successive head shots. Parry coun­angle. In the beginning of the sec­shots, drainfng McFarlane of any wards. Neither fighter was con­Ball" Martin tered Grissinger's right hook with ond round, Coss~ll took advantage energy he once had. cerned with defending himself; Smith won the contest by unani­his own in the third round, landing of his quicker style and forced 
both let their gloves fall to chest mous decision and took control body shots to keep Gri'iSinger from Carrier up against the ropes. In the Matt Gimlett def. Frank DiRocco level. Skorup came out firing in the early, landing many strong head getting too close. third round, both men started 
Gimlett was quick with his second round, forcing McKiernan and body shots, including a head strong, firing punches at each punches in the first round, but against the ropes and landing four shot that forced Martin against the Craig "The Are Sennon" Woelel other until eventually wrapping up failed to land any big hits. DiRocco straight head shots before the ref­ropes. The quick combinations def. Andres Villalba against the ropes. landed a good body shot in the eree stopped the fight. were difficult for Martin to counter. Woelfel started quickly, chasing beginning of the second round and Smith dominated the first part of Villalba around the ring and over­Mike Cimino def. Dan "The pressured Gimlett more, but Matt "I'm Gonna" Decker def. the second round, his combina­powering him into the ropes. Just Danimal" Fallon Gimlett countered with his quick Andrew "Make It Rain" Whiting tions striking both Martin's head as it looked like Woelfel would put Cimino caught Fallon with a jab. Neither fighter could land Although Decker was quicker, and body. Martin fought back at him away, Villalba· landed a right hard hook to the side of the head much near the end of the round. Whiting's footwork helped him the end of the round, however, to force Woelfel away. early in the first round. Fallon 
Gimlett's footwork made it diffi­avoid Decker's attacks until mid­dodging a cross and coming back In the second round, Villalba fought back, catching Cimino with cult for DiRocco to get a bead on way through the third round, when with a few combinations of his came out attacking Woelfel. land­a body shot, then a head shot in him, but DiRocco caught up. Decker caught him on the side of own. ing quick shot after quick shot. the comer ofthe ring. Both fighters 
the head. Woelfel was taken aback, but relied on their big right hooks to do Nazur "Naz Tee Nasty" Ahmed Decker's jab gave Whiting prob­170 lbs. fought back and landed a straight their work for them, giving up on def. Dan "Dante's lnfemo" lems in the second round, breaking shot to Villalba's face. the jab entirely. Murphy Whiting's defenses and opening the Steve "Ogje" Hansen def. Tom "T­The fighters started using their 
Ahmed pushed Murphy against door for the right cross. Whiting Time" Hoffman Joe "Joe-Pacalypse" Hagmann left jabs and hooks in the second the ropes again and threw every landed some solid jabs of his own, Hansen's superior footwork and def. Kevin "The 'Stache" Ludwig round, the better to clear the path punch he had at him, but Murphy but was unable to control the form gave him a slight advantage Hagmann had the advantage for their ever-present right crosses came out of it and landed three direction of the fight. in the fairly even first round. early, forcing Ludwig back on his and hooks. successive right hooks. Decker started the third round In the third, Hansen unleashed a heels with numerous quick punch­
The second round was more of with a ja~ to Whiting's face, but barrage of punches on Hoffman, es. Hagmann again threw Ludwig Contact Bill Brink at the same. Ahmed, visibly bleeding, Whiting, unfazed, continued to jab. but he eventually forced Hansen off with his flurry of punches. wbrink@nd.edu 
The Observer accep£S classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BEITER HOMES,BETTER  PREGNANT  Dear Hermia,  
FoR SALE  FoR RENT  AREAS,BETIER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com  PERSONAL  OR KNOW SOMEONE WHO IS?  My rich aunt is willing me her money. Let us get married at her  
You do not have to be alone.  house! Lv,Lysander  
House available for 2007-2008.  Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
Very Large,  bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2·car  Do not go it alone.  We want to help.  2 weeks  
Condo For Sale in SB 2 bdrm  Close to Campus,  garages. Call 574-232·4527 or 269·  If you or someone you love needs  till  
twnhse great condition & neighbor- Just Renovated. Contact  683·5038.  confidential support or assistance,  Call our 24 hour confidential hotline  Spring Break!  
hood new sunroom call 269·445­ MacSwain @gmail.com  Please call  at  
2765. $93,000  Room for rent in huge home 1 block  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For  1-800·No·ABORT  Go Jaytar:  
Luxury townhome,walk to NO.  east of campus. Very clean, safe &  more information, visit our web site  the second coolest Filipino in  
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­ 3or4 bed/3.5 bath.  private. Great student price. 239­ at  or  section Jacobs.  
QUIS LS. 4·DOOR. EXCELLENT  07-08,08·09.  707-2025.  http:l/osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg·  
CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE  $600/Bed/mo.  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  visit our website  Go Eric Retter!  
OWNER,$6,500. CALL 243·5454.  574-360·2569.  andersonNDrentals.com  in The Observer.  at www.lifecall.org  Sports' last, best hope.  


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, February 23, 2007 Colv\PILED FROi\1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record con[ div. 
Toronto 29·25 20-11 
8-2 New Jersey 25·30 19-14 6·4 New York 24·31 14-19 2-6 Philadelphia 18·36 13-18 4-5 Boston 13-40 9-24 4-7 
Eastern Conference. Central Division 
tearrt record conf div. 
Detroit 34-19 24-10 5-4 Cleveland 32-22 19-14 4·4 Indiana 29-24 20-13 7-4 Chicago 30-25 21-10 7-2 Milwaukee 19·36 9·23 1-10 
Eastern Conference. Southeast Division 
team record conf dilJ. 
Washington 30-21 20-10 6·1 Orlando 27·28 15-19 6-6 Miami 26-27 13-15 3·3 Charlotte 21·33 13-20 3·7 Atlanta 21-33 12-21 4·5 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record conf diu. 
Utah 35·18 20-11 6-3 Denver 26-26 11-18 5-5 Minnesota 25-29 15-19 5-5 Portland 24-32 . 15-17 5-4 Seattle 2h32 10-20 2-6 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record conf diu. 
Phoenix 41·13 20-10 7-2 LA. Lakers 30-25 17-11 6-0 Golden State 26·29 • 14-17 3~7 L.A. Clippers 25·29 14-18 3-6 Sacramento 23·29 12·21 2~6 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
·'·~u6~nmlk'ik?tmfft.J$~if. DJJlf(azo~,.~;.t·,,, 
Dallas 44-9 30-6 12-2 San Antonio 37·18 22~11 ·8-4 Houston 34·19 19·17 7·6 ·New Orleans 26-29 15-19 4·7 Memphis 14"42 8-27 1·13 

NCAA Men's Basketball Big East Rankings 

overall team 

record pet. 
1 2 3  Pittsburgh Georgetown louisville  24·4 21·5 20·8  .857 .808 ,714  
4  NOTRE DAME  21-6  ,778  
5 6 7 8  Marquette Syracuse West Virginia Providence  22·7 19·8 20-7 11·9  .759 .704 .741 .654  
9  DePaul  16-12  .571  
10  Villanova  18·9  .667  
11  Connecticut  17-10  .630  
12  St. John's  15-13  .536  
13  Seton Halt  12-14  .462  
14  USF  12-15  .444  
15 16  Rutgers Cincinnati  10·17 10-17  .370 .370  

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL St. Peter's at lena 7 p.m., ESPNU 
Lafayette at American 9 p.m., ESPNU 
GOLF WGC-Accenture Match Play Championship 2 p.m., GOLF 
NBA 


Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Dennis Johnson, the star NBA guard who was part of three championship teams and combined with Larry Bird in one of the 1-,rreat postseason plays, died Thursday after collapsing at the end of practice while coaching a developmental team. He was 52. 
Johnson, coach of the Austin Toros, was uncon­scious and in cardiac arrest when paramedics arrived at Austin Convention Center, said Warren Hassinger, spokesman for Austin-Travis County Emergency Medical Services. 
Paramedics tried to resus­citate him for 23 minutes before he was taken to a ho~pital and pronounced dead, Hassinger added. Mayrc. Freeman, a spokes­woman for the medical examiner's office, said there will be autopsy. 
The Toros postponed home games Friday and Saturday nights, the NBA Development League said. 
Johnson, a five-time All­Star and one of the top defensive guards, was part of the last Boston Celtics dynasty. He spent 14 sea­sons in the league and retired after the 1989-90 season. He played on title teams with the Celtics in 1984 and 1986 and with the Seattle SuperSonics in 1979, 
IN BRIEF 
Kidd stays with Nets as NBA 
trade deadline passes 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­Jason Kidd remained with the New Jersey Nets as the NBA trade deadline passed Thursday amid concerns about his health. 
The team confirmed reports on Thursday that Kidd has a cracked rib in addition to the back injury 
that  forced  him  to  miss  two  
·games  and  the  NBA  All-Star  
game.  

Nets coach Lawrence Frank defended the team's decision not to publicize the rib injury, saying it didn't force Kidd to miss any games and was only discovered when Kidd's back was being examined. 
"The implication was that it was being concealed, which would be a falsehood," Frank said. "We're not going to disclose every nick, bruise or bump that's not pre­venting a guy from playing." 
when he was the NBA final<> 
MVP. 
"Whether he was leading his teams to NBA champi~ onships or teaching young men the meaning of profes­sionalism, Dennis Johnson's contributions to the game went far beyond the basket­ball court," NBA commis­sioner David Stern said. 
'"Dennis was a man of extraordinary character with a tremendous passion for the game." 
Johnson was a favorite teammate of Bird's, and the two w ere part of one of the most memorable plays in Celtics history. 
During the fifth game of the 1987 Eastern Confer­ence finals against Detroit, Bird stole Isiah Thomas' inbounds pass under Boston's basket and fed Johnson, who drove in for the winning layup. Boston won the series in seven games but lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in the NBA finals. 
"Dennis was a great play­er, one of the best team­mates I ever had, and a wonderful person," said Bird, now president of the Indiana Pacers. "My thoughts and condolences are with his family at this difficult time." 
Bill Laimbeer, the center on that Pistons team, remembered Johnson as a "great player on a great ballclub." 

Piazza starts training with the 
A's as full-time DH 
PHOENIX. Az. -Mike Piazza appears perfectly comfortable with his new gig, even if he's really not. 
He smiled Thursday as he made his way onto the field minus catching gear for the first time in his career, the last member of the Oakland Athletics to get outside for stretching as he embarked on becoming a full-time designated hitter. 
At 38, Piazza is ready to begin a new baseball life. The A's don't want him to catch at all to ensure that he stays healthy -and man­ager Bob Geren asked him to take it easy in drills Thursday. 
Piazza stood in the back of the group once he was on the field, doing some warming up on his own before the A's got going because he couldn't stay still on Day 1. 
Ripken receives reception
from House Speaker 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. -Cal Ripken received a big reception from Maryland lawmakers on Thursday, a month after being voted into baseball's Hall of Fame. 
House Speaker Michael Busch, who said he had tried to recruit Ripken for the House of Delegate's basketball team, introduced him as "one of Maryland's great sons." 
Hipken, who spent his baseball career with the Baltimore Orioles, got a big standing ovation from lawmakers. He told them the last time he received that big of an ovation, he had to run around Camden Yards, referring to when he bro·ke Lou Gehrig's consecu­tive-games played record. 
"You don't expect me to take a lap do you?" Ripken said. ''I'll say what. I said then: 'I don' t think I can make it.'" 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 23, 2007 

Friday, February 23, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Ward defeated Allare after win. Spencer Feran def. Tim a senior from Fisher, contin­
the referee stopped the fight "Thin Lizzy" Chilcote ued to hold his own in the Rafael "Don't Call Me Feran defeated Chilcote by second despite giving up a Ralph" Diaz def. Moses unanimous decision after large advantage in height and "Chocolate Bear" Papier three intense rounds. reach. Both fighters traded 
In a clean first round, Feran, an off-campus sen­punches in the final round of Morrissey sophomore Diaz ior, appeared slightly ahead a match that came down to seemed to be on top, evading at the end of close first the final bell. many of Papier's punches and round. Chilcote, an off-cam­drawing blood from his oppo­pus graduate student, was Chris Nanovic def. Tim nent's nose. In the second unable to use his long reach "Silky Smooth" Latham round, Papier, an off-campus in the second and spent most Nanovic, a senior from junior, was forced to stop of his time avoiding Feran's Alumni, appeared to hold a temporarily as the bloody punches. Feran took total slight advantage after a slop­nose continued. Diaz contin­control in the third, trapping py first round. Latham, a ued to pound away at Chilcote in the corner and Knott freshman, gained Papier's face in the third, landing jab after jab to momentum in the second, driving the referee to stop the Chilcote's midsection. effectively countering match. Nanovic 's blows. Nan ovi c 
Karl Kadon def. Jason Miller came out very aggressively in Leo Rubinkowski def. Adam Kadon bullied Miller, an off­the third, forcing Latham on "The Prosecutor" Pabarcus campus graduate student, the defensive and sealing the 
Rubinkowski used his long around the ring in the first victory. reach to his advantage in the round, relentlessly pursuing first round, landing a strong his retreating opponent. An Super heavyweight left hand that caused off-campus senior, Kadon Pabarcus to stumble back­remained on the offensive in Mike Kaiser def. Ben "The ward and lose his balance. a quieter second round. Iceman" Frost Pabarcus, a senior from Miller began the third with The first round was a Keenan, repaid the favor to an inspired effort, but could defensive battle, with Kaiser open the second, causing not do enough damage to holding Frost away with his Rubinkowski to trip back­Kadon to make up any long reach and taking a small wards. Rubinkowski recov­ground. advantage. Kaiser, a sopho­ered quickly, however, and more from Morrissey, contin­still appeared to take the Pat "Third Degree" Burns ued to grind away while round. Rubinkowski dominat­def. Raphael Flood keeping Frost, a freshman ed the third, drawing blood Burns won a very close from Dillon, at a safe dis­before the referee ended the match over Flood by split tance. Frost landed seve raJ match. decision. punches to the body in the 
Flood, an off-campus law third, but Kaiser was able to Heavyweight student, controlled the first hold him off for the win. 
round with a series of strong Andrew Lorenz def. Liam jabs. Burns, a freshman from Joe Vittoria def. Eamon Moran Keenan, made up ground in Cantwell 
Lorenz defeated Moran, a the second with his agility, Vittoria took control of the senior from Alumni, after the proceeding to knock Flood off first round, landing strong referee called the match mid­balance near the end of the blows over and over on way through the second round. With Flood tiring in Cantwell's stomach and head. round. the third round, Burns Cantwell, a graduate student, 
Lorenz, a sophomore from appeared to be in control could not avoid Viitoria's Fisher, appeared to win the before a last-second knock­strong rights, and the second first round, battering Moran down by Flood. round again went to Yittoria. with a flurry of punches Cantwell continued to receive 
before the bell. Joe "The Unfriendly a battering early in the third 
Lorenz continued to domi­. Possum" Siler def. Jerremy until the referee stopped the nate in the second round, "The Mariachi" Moreno fight. landing a huge right hook In a very clean first round, that left Moran staggering neither fighter appeared to Contact Michael Bryan at against the ropes. take the advantage. Moreno, mbryan@nd.edu 
Bouts 
LEARN ABOUT THE 
COMMUNITY of SANT'EGIDIO 
at 4 pm 

continued from page 24 
junior from Dillon, was unable to stop Brown's punches to the face, bloody­ing Gleason's nose. The refer­ee stopped the fight after the lopsided opening round. 
Scott Vitter def. John 
Williams 
Vitter defeated Williams by 
unanimous decision after 
three intense rounds. 
Vitter, a freshman from 
Alumni, and Williams, a jun­
ior from Fisher, fought a very 
even first round, both 
exchanging punches. In the 
second round the fight 
became a brawl, with both 
fighters tiring and letting 
down their defensive guards. 
Vitter opened the final round 
with a strong effort, landing 
multiple punches to the jaw 
of Williams. Both fighters 
ended a strong third round 
with blood dripping from 
their faces after a hard­
fought battle. 
Brhm "The Candy Man" 
Kantor def. Andrew 
McConvey 
Kantor defeated McConvey when the referee ended the fight after two rounds. 
Both fighters came out swinging in a sloppy first round, with Kantor, a Keough sophomore, bloodying McConvey's nose early in the round. McConvey, a freshman from Zahm, closed the first round with more patience ­and blood seeping from his nose. Both fighters were more patient and defensive in a much cleaner second round, but McConvey's bleed­ing nose caused the referee to end the fight at the round's conclusion. 
Brendan Neary def. Andrews 
"Rage" Massari 
Neary defeated Massari in a unanimous decision after three rounds. 
Alumni sophomores Neary and Massari fought a very clean first round, with both fighters holding up their defenses and throwing strate­gic blows. Both came out more aggressively in the sec­ond round, but Massari appeared to hold the advan­tage throughout. The third round was a very even con­test, with both fighters show­ing incredible fitness and landing strong punches. 
Dan Ward def. Patrick Allare 
• 

before the start of the third 
round. 
Both Ward and Allare 
fought a very technical first 
round, each boxer probing 
for the other's weakness. In 
the second round, Ward, an 
off-campus senior, appeared 
to take control, drawing 
blood from Allare and tem­
porarily stopping the fight. 
Allare, a Keenan sophomore, 
fought hard but was not 
allowed to continue after two 
hard-fought rounds. 
Adam "Alpha Fox" Frisch 
def. Chris Schaal 
Frisch, a senior from St. Edward's, appeared to win the first round, landing many well-placed punches and staying out of reach of Schaal's blows. The second round featured more of the same, with Schaal, a fresh­man from Dillon, unable to land a solid blow. Frisch stayed in control during the third round to ensure the vic­tory. 
Alex Lough def. Steve 
Gallagher 
Lough appeared to be in control after a solid first round, taking advantage of Gallagher's wild punches. Gallagher, a senior from Stanford, landed a few glanc­ing blows in the second, but still seemed behind. Lough and Gallagher exchanged blows in the third round, with Gallagher taking the worst of the beating. 
Tom Digan def. Ken 
Shamrell 
Digan defeated Shamrell, a sophomore from Siegfried, after the referee· stopped the match midway through the second round. 
Digan, an off-campus sen­ior, showed his intensity in the first round and landed many strong blows to Shamrell's head. Digan began the second round with a huge right, knocking Shamrell off his feet. After Shamrell began bleeding from his nose, the referee ended the fight. 
John Soltis def. Andy "Doogie" Houser 
Midway through a seeming­ly even first round Soltis, a sophomore from Morrissey, landed a huge blow that knocked down Houser. 
In the second round, Houser, a senior from Alumni, appeared to recover, trading blows in an even round. Soltis slipped near the beginning of the third, but quickly recovered to earn the 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 6 PM CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
for more information about the Peace Corps, visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 312.353.4990 

--· 
page 18 Friday, February 23, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS 

MEN'S LACROSSE 
No. 11 Irish travel to Happy Valley 

By PAT O'BRIEN Sporrs Writer 

A week after an impressive home victory against then-No. 13 Loyola (Md.), the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team will travel to Happy Valley, Penn., to take on Penn State this Sunday at 1 p.m. The Irish will 
try to start strong on the road after finishing 4-5 away from home last year. 
Notre Dame (1-0} used last week to prepare for the Nittany Lions. Usually, the Irish face Penn State in the season opener, but the matchup is their second game this year. 
"This will be another hard fought game," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "The games against them have been rarely decided by more then a few goals." 
Penn State (0-1} started its season with a 10-5 loss to Denver last weekend. The Lions led 5-3 at halftime but were outscored 7-0 in the sec­ond half. Still, Penn State freshman sensation Chris Hogan made an immediate impact by netting a team-high two goals. 
Along with Hogan, senior captains Pat Heim, Dan Saltsman and Matt Mulqueen will be important factors for the Nittany Lions. 
Penn State received five votes in the latest Inside Men's Lacrosse Magazine Division I Poll, meaning that they have remained in the top 25 teams. Last week, they were placed at 17. 
"Penn State will be hungry to win this one after losing to Denver," Irish junior goalie Joey Kemp said. "We have to travel, and this game should not be taken lightly." 
For senior attacker Brian llubschmann, the game is "a big rivalry." 
Penn State senior attacker Brian Boyle transferred as a freshman from Notre Dame, but Hubschmann said he and Boyle have remained friends. 
"[Our relationship) has added more to the rivalry," Hubschmann said. "It's not bad blood, but he used to go lto 
Notre Dame.] That makes me want to win even more." 
Notes 
+ Joey Kemp was named Great Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) Player of the Week for Feb. 12-18. He played a key part in the victory over Loyola (Md.) by making nine saves and holding the 
Greyhounds scoreless in the last quarter and a half of the game. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at 
po~rien2@nd.edu 
ERASMus BooKs 

• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 02 7 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 


MEN'S TENNIS 

Team takes on two top-50 rivals 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame \'\ill look to main­tain its home winning streak as it takes on two nationally ranked opponents this weekend. The No. 9 Irish will face off with No. 22 
Michigan today and  No. 45  
Northwestern Sunday.  
Notre Dame (8-2)  returns  

home after a 2-1 showing at the USTNITA National Team Indoor Championships. The Irish fell early on to No. 8 Pepperdinc 4-2, but rallied to post 4-0, 4-1 wins over No. 66 Pennsylvania and No. 16 Texas, respectively. The win over Texas marked the end of a 10-match losing streak against the Longhorns. 
Despite losing to Pepperdine, Notre Dame remained at No. 9 in the ITA team rankings. 
The Irish saw movement in the individual rankings, however. Senior Stephen Bass climbed from No. 14 to No. 11 in singles ranking, and junior Sheeva Parbhu moved from No. 30 to No. 27. Sophomore Brett Helgeson broke the top-1 00 for the first time this season, placing at No. 94. 
Notre Dame saw improved doubles rankings as well. Senior Ryan Keckley and Parbhu broke the top 10, moving from No. 11 to No.9. 
Michigan started its season with a 6-0 run and in the process defeated No. 16 Texas 5-2. The Wolverines only loss came when they fell 2-5 to No. 4 Virginia. Michigan comes to South Bend after defeating Northwestern ­Notre Dame's opponent this Sunday-5-2. 

The Irish will face challenges from the start when Keckley and Parbhu face No. 3 Brian Hung and Matko Maravic. The duo most recently defeated No. 27 Matt Christian and Willy Lock from Northwestern, bringing its record to 7-1. No. 44 Maravic also saw victory at No. 2 singles with a 6-3, 2-6, 6-4 win over Northwestern's Willy Lock. 
Northwestern will host No. 59 Oklahoma today before traveling to take on the Irish in South Bend Sunday. Northwestern's defeat to Michigan marked the third con­secutive loss for the Wildcats, who fell to No. 4 Mississippi and No. 44 Pe1m State. 
Notre Dame will look to take advantage of its home court schedule for the weekend, hop­ing to continue an undefeated streak at home. 
The Observer was unable to reach coach Bobby Bayliss Thursday night for comment. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http:IIosa.nd.edu 
Nonzinations are due by Friday, March 2, 2007. 

" 
' 
Friday, February 23, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
BASEBALL 
Irish head south for tournament 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame will look to rebound from two consecutive losses to Texas State as it travels to Myrtle Beach, S.C. for the Baseball at the Beach Tournament. The team hopes to find consistency this weekend. 
"I've never had a team play better coming out from inside to outside than we did last Saturday," Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage said. "Sunday we didn't play very well, so it was kind of what team do we have here? Each weekend we will be looking for improvement." 
The Irish won't find any easier challenges in Myrtle Beach this weekend. Notre Dame takes on UNC-Wilmington out of the gate and then faces formidable games against No. 12 Texas Christian as well as Coastal Carolina. The Irish, currently 1-2, will look to get up to at least .500 before con­ference play begins. 
• 

"If you look at the history [Notre Dame has) hovered around .500 early in the season and then by thA time conference came around started to play bet­ter," Schrage said. 
The Seahawks will start fresh­man Daniel Cropper to face the Irish in their matchup. 
Notre Dame will be challenged from the mound again on Saturday when it takes on the Horned Frogs. The Irish will face either senior Chance Corgan or sophomore Chris Johnson but will evade the threat of Jake Arrieta. Arrieta -who pitched this summer for Team USA ­will pitch today against Coastal Carolina to open play for the Frogs. 
But Notre Dame has its own power from the mound to counter UNC-Wilmington and TCU. Junior Wade Korpi will likely open the tournament for the Irish when they take on UNC-Wilmington today. Sophomores David Phelps and Brett Graffy will start for Notre Dame on Saturday and 
Sunday, respectively. Schrage is confident in the starting rotation. 
"I like our three starters in our bullpen going down there this weekend against anybody," he said. "I was really pleased with how [our starting pitching] threw [last weekend], and I think as the season evolves you will notice that we have some pitching depth and we have a lot ofguys that we can use." 
Notre Dame heads down to Myrtle Beach with the hopes of improving before the swiftly approaching conference season. Schrage said the team welcomes the opportunity to get as much playing time as it can. 
"We are excited to get outside and play some great teams," he said. 
No. 12 TCU, one of the best overall teams in the country, will certainly test the strength the Irish on all levels. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

,,-~~-----------~----------------------------~,
I \ Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ with the purchase of a $5 To Go Pizza. 

· Coupon required tor 99¢ 2 liter. No coupon required for $5 To Go Pizza. 
AP'JI'•·••,.,. Not to be used W<th any otMr coupon or discount. Coupon has no cash value. P!ease present this coupon before ordering. Limit one per customer. Only valid at LaFortune Sbarro. Offer expires February 28, 2007. 
',

--------------------------------------------',' 
ND SOFTBALL 
California to pose challenge on road 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Wrirer 
Notre Dame heads west this weekend to play in the Palm Springs Classic for the third time in program history. The Irish are slated to play double­headers this afternoon and Saturday before finishing their trip with an early Sunday morning matchup with Ole Miss. 
The team struggled in its last two appearances at the tournament that consistently draws the top teams in the nation. In its first appearance in Palm Springs, the team went 1-3 with big losses to Pacific (12-1) and the U.S. Olympic team {10-0). The Irish did not fare much better the following year, held to three runs in their first four games 

Sbarro accepts o-fr)'E""" 
Turtle Creek Apartment Homes 
Hey, Hey What's NEW? 
New Management Company! New Staff To Serve You Better! New Easier & Faster Leasing Process! New look (Especially our NEW OUTDOOR POOL!) New Flexible Leasing Programs! New Saturday & Sunday Hours! 
Now leasing for 2007-08! Don't Delay, Stop ln & See Us! 


1710 Turtle Creek Drive 

EQUAL HOU~ING OPPORTUNITY 
South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 57 4-272-8124 

Open Monday thru Friday 9-7 Saturday I 0-4 Sunday 12-4 
-all losses. However, they 
did salvage the trip by beating 
No. 5 Tennessee 5-2 in the 
final contest. 
"You find out very quickly 
where you are at early in the 
year," Irish coach Deanna 
Gumpf said. "Some things 
aren't eompletely worked out 
but it helps us locate our 
weaknesses early." 
Notre Dame, who opened up 
the season with a 2-5 record 
at the Tiger Invitational last 
weekend, will face tough 
opponents again in California. 
·Today will be the team's 
toughest day as they square 
off against No. 10/12 
Oklahoma and No. 11/17 
California. The Sooners (11-0) 
won their past three games by 
a combined score ·of 37-3. 
Junior centerfielder Jamie Fox 
has led the recent onslaught 
with eight RBI. 
Sophomore pitcher Brittany 
Bargar will have her work cut 
out for her in shutting down 
Fox and the rest of the power­
ful Sooner lineup. Bargar 
went 2-1 last weekend, throw­
ing complete games in both of 
her wins over hosts Auburn 
and Tennessee Tech. 
"We have to slow them down with great pitches," Gumpf said. "If we put the ball in the right places we should be OK." 
Senior Kenya Fuemmeler will get the start in the second game of the day against the Golden Bears. Cal enters the tournament with a 7-4 record and a three-game win streak of its own. However, run pro­duction has been streaky for the Bears so far this season ­they have failed to score more than two runs in five of their games so far. 
Saturday games against UNLV and Cal State Fullerton round out Notre Dame's schedule for the trips. The Irish played both team in the Las Vegas Classic at the start of the 2006 season. They han­dled the Runnin' Rebels with no problems in a 9-3 win. Then-freshman Linda Kohan's second career home run gave the Irish a comfortable lead early in the game. 
The following day, the offense slowed down against Fullerton, losing 3-2 in a pitcher's duel. 
This year another freshman has taken over the home run crown for the Irish. Third­baseman Heather Johnson started out her Notre Dame career with a walk-off home run against Tennessee Tech in only her third collegiate game. 
"She is just a good ball play­er. She didn't get nervous, she was nice and relaxed the whole weekend," Gumpf said. 
Johnson currently leads the Hig East conference in batting average (.500). on base per­centage (.500) and slugging percentage (.750). Her eight hits and four RBI are also both good enough for fifth on the early conference leader board. 
Gumpf said she hopes the Irish can continue to hit well while working out some of last weekend's kinks by shoring up their defense. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 23, 2007 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to continue 
wllming streak at home 
The Interrace Forum 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
After taking on some of the best teams in the nation, the Irish get a break. 
No. 2 Notre Dame will face No. 59 Iowa Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The match will be the first for the Irish since defeating No. 20 Wake Forest last Sunday, the third of three wins over top-25 opponents for Notre Dame last week. 
"We still have to work quite a bit on our doubles," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "Even though we won all three against Wake, we still struggled a little bit against North Carolina." 
The Irish (9-1) defeated the No.5 Tar Heels, the Demon Deacon's and No. 24 Michigan within a span of five days. Against North Carolina, Notre Dame lost the doubles point for only the second time all season. 
"We had all three doubles teams working on things they struggled with," Louderback said. "We worked on different types of pat­terns and shots. [Seniors Christian and Catrina Thompson] were hurt a lot by lobs. We worked on things to counteract the lob." 
Louderback also said he used the time off to heal some injured players, including sophomore Kelcy Tefft, vvho has been suffering from a pulled stomach muscle. 
"Kelcy is close to full strength," Louderback said. "A couple of our players have been sick like every­body else on campus." 
The Irish will try to keep their win streak alive against the 
presents 

Interracial Dating 
Wednesday, March 7 @ 5:30 P.M. Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
RSVP by Friday, March 2 by e-mail: msps@ nd.edu or call 574-631-6841 
llawkeyes (3-3). Sophomore Merel 
Beelen leads Iowa with a 6-0 dual 
match record this season. 
"Their top three are older and 

have been around, so we've seen 
them some. But their lineup is 
good," Louderback said. "I think 
their lower kids were freshmen a 
year ago and now they're a year 
older. I think they'll be good. They 
seem like they always play well 
against us." 
In the latest version of the ITA 

computer rankings, Notre Dame's 
doubles teams of Thompson and 
Thompson and Tefft and junior 
Brook Buck are ranked No. 5 and 
No. 15, respectively. Catrina 
Thompson rose from her presea­
son ranking of No. 41 to No. 16 
while freshman Colleen Hielley 
slipped from No. 31 to No. 73 in 
singles. 
Missing from the rankings is 

freshman Cosmina Ciobanu. 
Ciobanu is a perfect 10-0 on the 
season and has an overall record 
of 20-4 since joining Notre Dame. 
"We were a little bit surprised. She's beaten kids that arc ranked and hasn't lost a match. That's a little surprising. You just never ·know," Louderback said. "The rankings are strange anyway, especially early in the year. The team rankings are a little better because there's voting, but the individual rankings are dune on computer, so you just never know, 
especially early in the year." 
The match Sunday begins at 10 

a.m. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Byers to lead team 
•
tn season opener 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Last year the Notre Dame women's lacrosse team went a perfect 9-0 at home -an achieve­ment the team will try to repro­duce this season, starting with Saturday's home opener against No. 18 Stanford. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said the team doesn't plan on the home winning streak ending any time soon. 
"We're taking the streak very seriously," she said. "We always have a lot of pride playing at home." 
The No. 5 Irish (1-0), started the regular season last Saturday with a clutch 10-9 sudden-death over­time win over No. 12 James MadLson. 
The Irish trailed most of game, and were just 19 seconds away from defeat when junior Caitlin McKinney netted an unassisted goal in the final moment., of regu­lation. The Dukes took a 9-7 lead in the opening half of the six­minute overtime period after two goals by senior Kelly Berger. 
Notre Dame responded quickly in the second half of overtime, however, with an early goal by sophomore Jillian Byers. Then, with just nine seconds left in over­time, McKinney scored another clutch goal to tie the game at 9-8 and advance to sudden-death. 
Both teams played strong defense in the sudden-death over­time. 
"Vith 16 seconds remaining sen­ior Lena Zentgraf assisted Byers for the game-winning goal, the sixth of the game for Byers. 
Notre Dame was led by Byers six goals, and McKinney's two clutch goals. Senior Meghan Murphy also added two goals in the winning effort. 
Coyne said the experience against James Madison will help the team going into the match with Stanford. 
"That game gave us confidence, and a motivation to start out fast," Coyne said. "We always play a close game with Stanford and we expect another battle." 
The Cardinal (1-2) started off the regular season with a tough 10-6 loss at Oregon. Stanford then rebounded against Saint Mary's (Cali.) with a dominant 22­6win. 
The Cardinal then dropped their home opener in a 14-8 loss to No. 2Duke. 
In last year's matchup at Stanford, the Irish rallied from a 9-4 deficit for a 12-11 double­overtime win. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


.55-DAY 

SIIARE CER'IlFICATE 
~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
021 Lafortune Student Center 574/631-8222. 800/522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 
*,\nnual Percentage Yield (APY). SIO,OOO minimum opening deposit, new money, and checking an:ounl with t:lire<:t deposit required to earn 5.5S%APY. Without new money and ched..ing account with direct deposit, Al'Y of 5.30% appliel;. Certain restrictions, such r::::::.'::~::::;:=· .....l as early withdrawal penalties, may apply. Hate is subject to change without i NCUA notice. Independent of the Univer~ity. i ·•• ­
Friday, February 23, 2007 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

The OIT novv provides telephone support for campus computer users until 10:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday and betvveen 3:00 p.rn. and 
8:00 p.rn. on Sundays. 
Phone 574-631-8111 or visit the Help Desk vvebsite at http://oit.nd.edu/helpdesk. 
The nevv hours vvill rernain in effect during the n::?gular acadernic year vvhen classes are in session. 
3 p.rrL -8 p.rn.
Sun. 
(NEVV Telephone support only) 8 a.rn-10 p.rn. (NEVV telephone
Mon. --Thurs. 
supr:.)ort: only s·p.ni.-10 r:>.rn.) 
(Closed V\led.12 p.r-n. -1:30 p.rn.) 

r:­
8 a.rn. -::> p.rll. 
Saturday Closed 
~ ~~/O.pr ltE:s:r;AvM£ 
(·_:lf:-ficc of' Inf-<·»rrn.ado:n 'Technol<·:~>gies 
(!:?) 2007, University of Notn~ [)arne http://oit. nd.edu 
#l HocKEY 
FRI, FEB. 23RD@ 7:30PM SAT, FEB. 24TH @7:00PM vs. FERRIS STATE 
#5 WoMEN1SLAcRossE 
SAT, FEB. 24TH @12:00PM vs. STANFORD 
#23 MEN's BAsKETBALL SAT, FEB. 24TH @3:30PM 
vs. MARQUETIE 

FENCING 
Notre Dame keeps up hard work for Duals 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Ediror 
Two days before the team's penultimate regular season com­petition, Notre Dame was going after it. 
The upper third ofjunior epeeist Greg Howard's shirt was drenched in sweat. Senior sabreist Valerie Providenza used the dry spots left on hers to wipe off her brow.. From end to end in the Langford Gym, the Irish went from station to station, working on technique and anaerobic condi­tioning. 
The focus: Work on technique when the body's tiring. "It was very intense training," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
Bednarski said the Irish would continue to train in short, intense seg·ments as the season draws to a close. 
Howard, whose back looked like an ink blot by its symmetric sweat stain, said the Irish have focused more on conditioning this season than in the past. That training could play a key role in Saturday's 15-team Northwestern Duals in Evanston, Ill. 
The field includes Penn State, Ohio State, Northwestern and Temple. The Nittany Lions own the No. 1 ranking on both the men's and women's side national­ly, and the Buckeyes are No. 2 and No. 5, respectively. The Wildcat women are tied for No. 6, and the Owls are No. 9 on the women's side. 
"It's important that we do well 
FSU 
continued from page 24 
"First of all, Ferris is playing really well in the last month, and secondly is that there are reper­cussions in the big picture." 
The big picture that Jackson referred to was the NCAA Tournament field, which is deter­mined by a NCAA Selection Committee based on a rating sys­tem known as the PairWise Rankings (PWR). 
Notre Dame, despite being No. 1 in all media polls, is currently third in the PWR behind Minnesota and New Hampshire due to a weak strength of sched­ule that has only gotten worse as marquee teams that the Irish have beaten -like Boston College -have struggled this yea~ . 
The PWR are used to deter­mine not only which 16 teams make the Tournament, but also where they are seeded. As long as Notre Dame sits in the top four of the PWR, it wHI receive a No. 1 seed in one of the four regionals when the Tournament begins. 
"Our stren!:,rth of schndule has killed us, arid our strength of schedule is not going to go up this weekend," Jackson said. "So the only way that we can stay where we are, or move up, is to win." 
In practice Thursday, Jackson bore down hard on his players when they could not break the puck out of their defensive zone -a recent problem for the Irish. Jackson said the defensemen have been tentative with the puck, and the forwards responsi­ble for supporting the breakout down low and on the wings have not been there. 
"If anything has come down in our game over the last half of the 
against Penn State because 
they're a big rival of ours," 
Howard said. "I think everybody 
knows what they have to do ­
everybody's pretty focused." 
North Carolina, Wayne State, Johns Hopkins, Cleveland State, Detroit, Fairleigh Dickinson, Lawrence, Michigan and Michigan State also will be competing this weekend. 
For the Irish, traveling to Northwestern rendezvous "'ill be a rematch. The Notre Dame women grabbed a 14-13 victory over the Wildcats in the NYU Duals Jan. 28. On that day, the women's epeeists' 7-2 edge­including senior Amy Orlando's clinching, 4-3 overtime victory in the match's last bout -put the Irish over the top. 
"We had a strong tournament against them," Bednarski said. "Now ... I am sure they are 
.. 
stronger. 

This time, Northwestern coach Laurie Schiller said, the Wildcats' hope to reverse the results. In a telephone interview with The Observer, he said his freshman fencing twins -epeeists Christa and Kayley French -have adjust­ed since the NYU Duals to the ... quick pace of five-touch college bout.c;. 
But Irish junior foilist Rachel Cota said Notre Dame isn't going to be looking back Saturday. 
"Saturday's a new day," she said. "I think everyone is really excited." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
season, it's that our puck support is not as good as it was," Jackson said. "Whether it's on the break­out, or in the neutral zone, or on the counterattack or on the 
.. 
eyele. 
Irish captain TJ. Jindra recog­nized that Notre Dame has strug­gled on the breakout lately, but said this weekend will be a chance to fix any problems. 
"Our goal is to be the best we can here at the end and some­times some things are clicking well and sometimes other things aren't clicking that well," Jindra said. "The last couple weeks our breakout has been maybe not that great, but this is another weekend for us to work on it and get ready for the playotls." 
Jackson has not decided if he will deploy Irish goalie Dave Brown for both games or split time with sophomore backup Jordan Pearce, who earned last Saturday's 3-2 overtime win against Alaska. 
"We're going to have thirteen, fourteen days off before our next game. So I want to make sure IBrown is) sharp going into the second round of the playoffs -. because he's not fatigued," Jackson said. "I've had no instinct from him, or from what I see, that he's tired." 
The Irish, who have only lost twice since Dec. 2, will be off next weekend while the fifth through 12th place teams in the CCIIA play best-of-three first round series. The teams will all be re­seeded after the round is over, with top-seeded Notre Dame to play the lowest-remaining seed. 
The puck will drop tonight at 7:35, while Saturday's regular­season finale and Senior Night will begin at 7:05 p.m. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.ed u 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, February 23, 2007 
RAIN. SNOW. SLEET. PERFECT DRIVINGt~CO_NDITIONS. IT'S WHAT MAKES ASUBARU,-ASUBARU. 
e e eFINAL CL() ------ON ALL 2007 TRIBECA'S! 
AtLeast~~,()()() OFF EVERY TRIBECA IN STOCK! 

120 W. McKinlev Ave. •MISHAWAKA 
574-256-5427
SUBARU~ 
GurlevleepSubaru.com 

lmpreza Sign & Drive payments based on $0 cash down, 42 months, 10,000 miles per year plus tax. Forester lease payments based on $1 ,999 due at signing. 24 months, 10.000 miles per year plus tax. $0 security deposit. With approved credit. 
#9MEN 


#2 WoMEN --FRI, FEB. 23RD @ 4:00PM ·······•·•··· '~· VS MICHIGAN
SuN, FEB. 25TH@ 10:00AM t::;~~~w •
·"···j;:::Y 

vs. IowA 
SuN, FEB. 25TH@ 2:00PM 
VS. NORTHWESTERN 


Eagles 
continued from page 24 
over  the  Blue  Demons  
Tuesday.  
"We have  a  chance to do  

something really impressive Saturday and finish undefeat­ed at home," senior guard Colin Falls said. 
The Golden Eagles come into Saturday's matchup after los­ing three of their last four, but Brey said he thinks Marquette's 80-67 win over Villanova Monday gave them their confidence back. 
"They're back in gear," he said. "They're really, really talented." 
The Golden Eagles are led by sophomore guards Dominic James, Jarel McNeal and Wesley Matthews, who are averaging more than 40 points per game this season. Because 


2007 FORESTER 2.5 X 
AS LOWAS 

I 
l .~ 
$ 


all three are quick, they pres­ent match-up problems for the Irish. 
Freshman Tory Jackson and senior Hussell Carter will probably man-up two of them, while Falls and forward Zach Hillesland will most likely rotate on the third. 
Inside, Marquette is weaker, with junior Ousmane Barro leading the big men with 8.4 points per game. Irish for­wards Hob Kurz and Luke Harangody will look for the ball early and often on offense and will try to clog the lane against the quick guards of the Golden Eagles on defense. 
With Notre Dame's advan­tage in the low post, Brey said he wants to make Saturday's contest a physical struggle similar to the 66-63 Irish vic­tory over Villanova Jan. 27. 
''It'll be really physical, probably Villanova-like," he said. "The two teams are 
going to go at it on Saturday." 
Brey said after the DePaul game that he wanted his team to relax in the days leading up to the showdown with Marquette. He gave the team Wednesday off and scheduled light workouts Thursday and today to make sure they were fresh for Saturday. 
"Our guys are pretty good now," Brey said. "We can pace them and be smart about it." 
In order to keep his team loose, Brey said he down­played the importance of Saturday's game despite the high ranking of the two teams. The Irish are still likely to make the NCAA tournament , he said, and can still get a bye at the Big East tournament even with a loss. 
"It's not the end of the world," he said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

2007 IMPREZA 2.5i Sign & .,,,, 
$ 
Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
player, pestering opponents all season long. But unlike previous seasons, the senior guard has become increasingly more involved in the Irish's offensive scheme. 
"I think she has really achieved her potential and at times over­achieved what we hoped that she would be for us," McGraw said. 
Although Erwin has not received as much praise as Gray this year, McGraw said the for­ward has played unselfishly all season long. 
"She doesn't care about indi­vidual accolades -she just wants to do whatever she can to help the team," McGraw said. 
In order to prep.are for Saturday's game, McGraw focused her attention on improv­ing the team's offense. She said the most important things to work on are the team's press offense and man-to-man offense because of Hutgers' style of play. 

"It's playing against a team that will be similar to what Tennessee did against us, and we haven't played against teams like that in a while, so we really need to work on playing against a pressure defense," she said. 
With two games remaining in the season, the Irish can clinch a first-round bye in the Big East tournament if they win out. Notre Dame could also clinch with a win and losses from West Virginia and Louisville. 
"It's going to be really difficult to accomplish that with the two teams we have left, we might need some help from some other people," McGraw said. "But it's great to be in control of your own destiny." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 


Friday, February 23, 2007 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 
A WEEK AFTEfZ-. 
\I tJ\ \rv.PRESS'f.D '{OU 
\ 'Do~T V.,.Nt>W 'soul B£NbAL BouTS. • 
~U..'{, , .........""f'~ FUNt-J'f I 

E\JEN SHowe.c UP. 
-n-\,o..."1'. e.~-r ,..-r l£..A~-r rrs
&<:AU S~ I'VE. Be£ N 

"'-lC:> HOS.IS 'THE'.. 
I ''llf. ~,.._, I ~ltJ 
'f'l.A \ S I1'-1 A \-\C.\..l..uvA 
AU... f"C>ft.. C...H All."'f· 

l..E~st::P-.-\c:'..)-.}0\/'J ,.,J 
A IZ.EP.L ME.~N 
MEA to-J &1 ~t> R\ CI\-\T 1£-NuA1,.. Co<..I<..~ 
S\~t:> HE.~.:a " u1"'"1'\..C.' 'f'-E-rn-\ 
I 
f' tui-\T'S.. 
ult.~..J" P.ND HE. 's bo-r A IV\E.AN ..,.-W\1"'c..H foR_ K\ C.K.It-.J' O'THE.~ tt.oosn:.. ~t-Ass. 

BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
EAT THI~ SIZfA.!): 11" IS My ~o!>'( 
\v'HA-T?
{)RINK. THI$ C...VP: li IS MY f3Lt>OD. 1-r WILL BE SHED FoR.. Yov:;:..::=-.....1.1.!.:~' S/tJ~ MkY BE rt>J2.6-/ 
L1 ~Tel"; WI11C.\"'1 ~~'~E oF U $ 1$ ~D kBtE? 
LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
ACROSS 16. 1980's sitcom: Punky __ 19. People who live in glass 10. What day is it? 
4. 
Darius should enter the draft not 17. Are you satisfied wrth this cross­houses shouldn't throw 11. Captain Morgan's 

5. 
Mrle-Club word puzzle? ... Light commanding officer, Admiral 

6. 
"Too little too 18. "America is all about speed. Hot, 


12. Maybe I shouldn't have 7. __ Dog is good. nastry, _ ..._speed." DOWN 

gotten ................. before boxing that 

13. Yellow cake batter and 1. Edward _____ Hands dude. 
chocolate icing is a badaH 2. Peers Inspiring Listening, 14 What are you eating today? 
flavor or ·Learning & Responsible
.h-+-+-+---,15. Lean wit 1t, Socializing accr. 
..._...__...._-+-+--' 3. Choosy moms choose_ 
........+--+--,----. 4. Mammals that can't 
live on land 
'---f--1---'---' 8. It becomes difficult 
'--t-t--+--,--t--t--. creating clues for this __ 
..__+--1--'---'--...1.--' word puzzle 
9. ''I like g1rls that wear Abercrombie and 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 

-
to form four ordinary words. 
ZALEH 

CIJ 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
VEVER ~ 
rrr I I 

± 
tRAWHOR I WHAT THE GIRL GOT WHEN THEYJ [J [] FROLIC..KED IN 
www.jumble.com 
THE OC..EA.N. SHRAID 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: CUBIT POUCH BROKEN COMPEL Yesterday's Answer: 

When the diner said, "Well done," he wasn't prais­ing -THE COOK 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Patricia Richardson, 55; John Sandford, 62; Peter Fonda, 66; Kristin Davis, 41 
Happy Birthday: You will show great potential this year in saving tor your future. Set up a budget and a plan. A little will go a long way if you are organized and smart about the way you do things. An innovative approach to life and what you decide to do will pay off. Your numbers are 2, 5, 18, 26, 32, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Trying to team something will be frustrating. Refrain from pointing the finger at someone else or complaining about something you know little about. Take a break if possible away from everyone else and rethink your strategy.** T AlJRUS (April 20-May 20): You will come across an opportunity to make some extra cash. You can take a bit ofa risk if you do your research properly. Be thorough but don't shy away from a good thing because of your own insecurities.***** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You will have reason to worry about someone you are close to. Before you say something, think about the consequences. Once you've said what you think, you can't retract it. Reevaluate your motives before you take action. *** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Productivity should be your intent. You may not be happy with some of the things going on in your personal life hut now is not the 
• time to falter when it comes to how you earn your living. Responsible action will lead to advancement. * * LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Make the physical and mental alterations that will raise your sett:.esteem, putting you back on top ofthings. Your vision of where you see yourself in the future should help you strategize your path to success. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take time out to help the younger and older people in your life. Neglecting your roots and personal lite will not help you get ahead. An opportunity is present but the cost involved may not be worth it ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You won't be able to count on others today. Focus on what you do best and avoid taking on anything that requires asking for help. Secret affairs are prevalent and, although you may be flattered by the compliments you receive, it is best to decline.** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Talk to someone in promotion and marketing. You can turn an innovative idea into a cash cow if you follow the proper procedures and get the right backing. This is an ideal time to turn your dreams into a reality.**** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't~ suckered into doing things for people who are capable of doing for themselves. You will be blamed for anything that goes wrong today. Ifyou have borrowed money or possessions, expect the person you owe to ask for their return. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Change is necessary if you want to brighten up your personal life. Backtracking won't be easy if you do make a mistake, so be sure before you set your plans in motion. Follow your instincts and you aren't likely to make a mistake. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have to make opportunities tor yourself. Set up a game plan for the future and stick to it Create a position that will suit you or start your own business. Your attributes are far more serviceable than you realize.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be too eager to give your secret plans away. 

-.,
A void being railroaded into donating or lending money. Offer support through your services, time or suggestions. Truly put your et1orts into yourself and your future. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are channing, bright and full ofcreative ideas and plans. You attract attention and lots of friends. You are giving, intense, solid and responsible. 
Eugenia~5 Weh sites: astroadvice.comfor fun. eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Declare one's intentions publicly 
16 Job for one doing character studies? 
17 Be in a very advantageous position 
18 Old roadside name 
19 Indication that one is being rubbed the right 
.. way 
20 String along 
21 Physics units 
23 Deadlines on eBay are given in it: Abbr. 
24 Verdi's "Un in Maschera" 
38 Locales of frequent injuries 39 "F Troop" role 40 Fire, to Flavius 41 Point (to) 42 Old cable inits. 45 They're not in 48 Like some mail or traffic 52 Amorous bit 53 Image: Var. 57 Longtime La Scala conductor 60 It can take a lot of heat 
61 Summer resort area famous for recreational boating 
DOWN 1 "Am Man" (1960 Jackie 


28 River in 'The Wilson hit) 
22 Falling-out --------------------------­
Divine Comedy" Puzzle by Sherry 0. Blackard
2 Cramped urban 

24 Kind of crime 
32 Quadrennial accommoda-37 It flows in 47 Joins in space 53 On Wilshire observation tions, for short 25 Ending to avoid? Flanders Blvd., say 49 Cabriole
26 Actor wbo 42 Thomas Paine's 
54 Furnace
performer's

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
roared to fame? "Common 27 Brother of Sense," e.g. wear 55 Like a line, briefly
Nintendo's Mario 43 Grammy-50 Dwarf planet winning Jones just beyond the
29 Rank 56 Quibbles
Kuiper Belt 


-
44 Cracked

30 It's good to 
58 World

graduate with 46 Big name in 51 "Cannery Row" them wine woman 59 Not fare well 31 Transfuse 
33 It means "red" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a in Mongolian credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
34 Kidney secretion 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 35 Village, in 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000

WOrzburg 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 36 Tennis star Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Huber solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
3 "Do the Right Thing" pizzeria 4 Release 5 What that might be in Spain 6 Quiet 7 Where "Otello" premiered 8 Almost too late 
9 Book between Ezra and Esther: Abbr. 
10 Hot 11 Something that's often 
made up 12 Series ender 13 Some cough 
medicine: Var. 14 Lincoln in-laws 15 Kickoff 21 Sharp turn 
WILL SHORTZ 


.. 
THE OBSERVER 
p

Friday, February 23, 2007 

page 24 
HOCKEY 

ND looks to finish strong against Ferris State 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

It's been a long time since unranked Notre Dame plucked then-No. 1 Boston College 7-1 in the second game of the season, hut not much has changed for the Irish since that statement game four months ago. 
"When you're winning, [time] always seems to fly by," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said Thursday, a day before his team was set to begin its last regular­season series. "It seems like it drags a little bit more when you're not." 
The No. 1 Irish (26-5-3, 20-3-3 CCI-lA) will play Ferris State (12­19-3, 9-15-2 CCHA) at the Joyce Center this weekend in their last two games before the CCHA tour­nament. 
The Irish will also take time to honor their senior class at Saturday night's game. From the first-ever NCAA Tournament berth in 2004 to a miserable five­win season the year after and right back up to a No. 1 ranking, CCHA. regular-season title and a guaranteed NCAA berth this year, the eight seniors -including jun­ior-year transfer Tom Sawatske -have seen the best and worst of Notre Dame hockey. 
"This class has got a lot of tal­ent and a lot of character," Jackson said. "I wouldn't dare compare them to any other class -they're different in their own right." · 

Ferris State is in ninth place in the league standings, hut the Bulldogs have a 5-1 record in February, including a 2-1 win Feb. 13 over No. 13 Michigan State. The Bulldogs are in the hunt for the last home playoff spot in the first round of the CCHA playoffs, trailing eighth­place Lake Superior State by three points. 
"I don't want anyone to think that we can afford to take these games lightly," Jackson said. 
see FSU/page 21 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Eye of the Bengal 
I', 
' 
I,,· 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 

I. 
Sports Writer 

I;I 
:< 
Nothing Corey "El Diablo Blanco" Betker did I could stop Colin "The Flavor Station" 
I 
:~. 
~. Dougherty, who won in the opening fight of the l 175 lbs. division Thursday. 
Dougherty, a law student, started aggressive­ly, landing punch after punch in the openfng round. Betker, a senior from Morrissey, was 
I I able to counter with a few jabs but took a beat­
'')
,I,
,., ing in the process. 
II· 
~ ;> Thirty seconds into the second round, the ref­'"I• eree stopped the fight and awarded it to 
I· I· 
I Dougherty. 
I• 
I 
I, 
I Greg "Busta" Brown def. John "Nieves" 
I, 
I' I •, Gleason 
:II • 
Brown defeated Gleason after just one round 
I. 
of aggressive fighting. I Brown, an off-campus senior, dominated the : :~ i first round with his aggressive style. Gleason, a 
I~ 
I.­
1 
see BOUTS/page 1 7 ' 

'' 
: j
' ( 
' < 
II'' 
> I
,l 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
'' 
'' 
' 

(
'' 
'
'. 
I I 
Notre Dame, Rutgers put streaks on the line 
I I 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Two teams riding winning streaks will collide Saturday in the Joyce Center as Notre Dame faces No. 21/22 Rutgers at noon. 
The Irish (19-8, 10-4 Big East) have won their last five games, including a 73-48 drubbing of Georgetown Wednesday night. The Scarlet Knights (18-7, 11-3 Big East) have been just as impressive of late, winning four in a row and nine of their last 10, falling only to No. 4 Connecticut 60-50 Feb. 6. 
The Irish have been strong at 

KELLY HIGGINSffhe Observer 

Tim Latham, right, and Chris Nanovic exchange punches during Nanovic's preliminary round win in the heavyweight division Thursday at the Joyce Center. 
home this season, beating three ranked teams already -No. 18 Bowling Green Nov. 13, No. 15 Purdue Dec. 6 and No. 23 Louisville Feb. 7. Despite the success Notre Dame has had in the Joyce Center, coach Muffet McGraw understands the chal­lenge Rutgers poses. 
"It's an important game for us because it's a chance for us to beat a ranked team," she said. "And the crowd's really helped us at home, hut it's going to be a really challenging game for us." 
The Scarlet Knights come to Notre Dame with three playe~s scoring in double figures ­guard Epiphanny Prince {13.8 


LAURIE HUNT/The Observer 
Irish defenseman Noah Babin skates against Nanooks wing Kyle Greentree during Notre Dame's win Dec. 3 at the Joyce Center. 
points per game), center Kia Vaughn (13.3) and forward/guard Essence Carson (12.8). Vaughn has been a pres­ence inside for Rutgers all sea­son, adding 9.8 boards per game along with her double­digit points. 
"Kia Vaughn, one of the most improved players in the league inside, is a tough matchup for our pos s, t " Mc('Jraw sa.'d. "She s ' 
L 
strong and can rebound and score." 
Prince and Carson lead a potent three-point attack for the Scarlet Knights, averaging .410 and .324 from beyond the arc, 
"Their guards are fast ­they're good three-point shoot­ers, which is probably their biggest improvement because we've always kind of packed in a zone against them," McGraw said. 
The game has extra emotion for the Irish as they finish out their home schedule. This game will he the final time that sen­iors Breona Gray and Crystal Erwin have the opportunity to play in front of their home crowd. 
Gray has once again been Notre Dame's top defensive 

respeetively. see RUTGERS/page 22 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish, MU battle for fourth seed 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

Riding a three-game winning streak and looking to sew up a bye in the Big East tourna­ment, No. 23 Notre Dame will take on No. 16 Marquette at the Joyce Center Saturday. 
The Irish (21-6, 9-5 Big East) and Golden Eagles (22-7, lJ-5) are tied for fourth place in the conference and in the race for a bye in the tournament in New York that goes with it. 
Notre Dame can clinch a bye with a win and a Syracuse loss to Providence Saturday, while Marquette needs a win and two losses by the Orange to bypass the first round of the Big East tourney. 
"There's a lot on the line," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "I think our guys will be ready to play. Marquette and Notre Dame brings back a lot of memories." 
The Irish are also looking for their fourth straight victory after defeating Providence, Cincinnati and DePaul in a six­day stretch earlier this week. 
"We're going into the big game on Saturday feeling good about ourselves," junior for­ward Rob Kurz said. 
Notre Dame has a chance to finish 18-0 at the Joyce Center this season with a win Saturday. The Irish set the school record for home wins in a season with 17 in their win 
see EAGLES/page 22 

FENCING ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
ND WOMEN'S LAX 
BASEBAllND SOFTBAll 

BENGAl BOUTS 
1.1.1 

James Creighton 's
Northwestern No. 59 Iowa at Stanford at No.5 
Palm Springs Baseball at the 
flurry of punches knocks out Paul 
z Duals No. 2 Notre Dame Notre Dame Classic Beach

a: ~ :3 c.) 

Laughlin in the third
Saturday Saturday, Noon Today-SundaySunday, 4 p.m. 

Today-Sunday

== round of the
The Irish join 14 other 
Notre Dame tries to 

Notre Dame will face 
The Irish will take on preliminaries. 
The Irish look to stay 

teams to compete in No. 10 Oklahoma and
perfect at home against 
extend its home winning 
UNCW, Coastal Carolina 1:1-!ci Chicago this weekend. 

No. 11 California.
the Haw keyes. 
streak to 10 games. 
and No. 12 TCU. 

page 14page 19page 21
en 
page 20 
page 20 
page 19 
'l ..
·. 


..... " 
0 I o ~ 

.· .• .... ' . . .· .· . 
. 
.. 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 23, 2007 
Seniors have one final chance to leave mark 
With two regular season would be the first NCAA The next season brought high affair. would give the Irish a bye, which games left in the careers of sen­Tournament of Falls and Carter's expectations, but, even as Falls A loss would not be disastrous would help, but this will be the iors Cnlin Falls and Russell careers -a goal they've both broke the sophomore three point for the Irish. After all, the last chance for Carter and Falls Carter, it's an appropriate time talked about since October. record, Notre Dame lost five of Golden Eagles are a to exorcise to consider the legacy they are Play reasonably weB against its last six and bowed out in the top 25 team. But a their Garden leaving 
Marquette, first round of the win would almost The conference demons of behind. Rutgers and at NIT. assure an NCAA bid, tourney has been a late. 
Falls set the the Garden, and Last year, Carter and these are the kind After that, 
house ofhorrors for 

school record the Irish are in. A loss would not be became a major of games that Falls if all goes for three­Play very well disastrous for the scoring threat and and Carter have seen the seniors -they well, come pointers by a and they're look­Falls broadened his slip away in past haven't won there games the 
Irish. After all. the

sophomore, ing at a high game away from years. magnitude of 
since their 

then made seed. Golden Eagles are a just jump shooting, A week later comes which Carter 
freshman year

more threes Fall apart and top 25 team. But a but close losses and struggling Hutgers in and Falls as a junior, that dream that a 1-8 start in the a game that should be when Falls buried have not
Chris Khorey win would almost 
then set the the seniors have conference meant an easy win, even experienced
a three to beat 

career record chased since assure an NCAA the Irish barely got though it's on the before-the
West

as a senior. Associate 2004 will slip bid. to New York, much road. However, if bright lights Carter Sports Editor away forever, less the NCAAs. Notre Dame loses to Virginia. ofthe NCAA worked his even more In their fourth Marquette, a win tournament, way into painfully this and final season, against the Scarlet national tele­becoming one of the Big East's time because this season looked Carter and Falls have led the Knights becomes imperative. vision, an unfamiliar opponent top five scorers in 2006-07 (17 .0 so promising. Irish to a 21-6 record and fourth Once again, Falls and Carter will and all the pressure of single points per game) and is being While expectations were much place in the Big East at 9-5. need to come through where elimination. mentioned as one of the higher during Falls and Carter's Things are looking other senior class­After 120 games at Notre favorites for league player of the freshmen and sophomore sea­up. es have failed -Dame, for Carter and Falls, their 
..After I 20 games
year. sons, 2007 has been their first But now comes they will need to biggest ones are still ahead of But despite what they've year with more than 20 wins. It's the tricky part. at Notre Dame. for lead their team to them. already accomplished, their been the first year they've seri­Notre Dame a win in a game The Dance is being set up and
Carter and Falls,
most important games in Irish ously contended for a bye in the faces the No 16 with NCAA impli­the limo is coming around the
their biggest ones
uniforms are still ahead of them. Big East tournament. Golden Eagles cations. corner. After three years of frustration And it's the first time they've Saturday in a are still ahead of The next week Are the Irish seniors ready to and NIT bids, this year's team been in serious contention for game that will its the Irish travel to lead their team into the
them." 
appears to be headed for a spot the Big Dance this late in the toughest home Madison Square Tournament in their final oppor­in the NCAA Tournament. The season. matchup since the Garden for the Big tunity? Irish have nine Big East wins In 2003-04, their freshmen Irish hung 99 on East tournament. Only time will tell. with two remaining -a home year, the Irish won their last Alabama back in December. But The conference tourney has game against Marquette (the three regular season games and Notre Dame had Kyle McAlarney been a house of horrors for the The views expressed in this Irish are 17-0 in the Joyce one in the Big East tournament then, and Marquette's quick seniors -they haven't won column are those ofthe author Center this season) and a road and were able to campaign for a guards will create problems on there since their freshman year and not necessarily those ofThe contest against struggling bid, but at 18-11 and just 9-7 in defense. Both seniors will have when Falls buried a three to Observer. • Hutgers (the Scarlet Knights conference, the committee to shoot well in what will proba­beat West Virginia. Winning the Contact Chris Khorey at have three conference wins). It turned them down. bly be a high-scoring, fast-paced Marquette and Rutgers games ckhorey@nd. edu. 
Walk-on Piller helps Irish improve through practice play 
coach Martin Ingelsby called said. "It was funny, because I By CHRIS HINE Piller to tell him he had played went to one tryout the year I Sports Wrirer 
well enough in try-outs to made it and didn't play well. I 
earn a spot on the squad as a was out of shape, kind of went 
When Notre Dame guard walk-on. in thinking they weren't going Kieran Piller graduated from "I was doing what I normally to take anybody. I went in with Union-Endicott High School in do on Sundays -which is a couple of buddies just for upstate N.Y., he was prepared sleeping," Piller said. "The call fun." to leave his basketball playing woke me up, and I didn't know Immediately after the phone days behind 
what was going call from him. on at first. ·It Ingelsby, Piller, a 
Piller, who was Coach double major in averaged Ingelsby. A week economics and
"The call woke me 

16.5 points later, I was sit­American stud­
up, and I didn't 

and 7.0 ting on the ies, began to put rebounds per bench for the know what was up with the game during first game. It going on at first. It demands of his senior was pretty being a Notre
was Coach Ingelsby. 

year, turned crazy." Dame student­
Pliler

down offers Piller had A week later, 1 was athlete. from local already tried sitting on the bench "Last year, it Division III colleges to attend out his sopho­was tough," he
for the first game,. 
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

Notre Dame. more year and said. "I was in 
Irish senior guard Kieran Piller drives to the basket in Notre
"I wouldn't say I gave up. I had gotten the the meat of the 
Dame's 78-54 win over DePaul Tuesday. · knew throughout my career coaches' atten­Kieran Piller hard courses in that I wasn't going to get any tion, but had not Irish guard both majors. But 
• 

Division I scholarships. I knew earned a place this year, or two times, I just care that But when asked how he feels that. I'm small, don't shoot the on the roster. because I got so the team wins. I'm not sitting about a possible trip to the Big ball particularly well," Piller "I tried out much out of the there, 'Oh, I hope they get up Dance, the conversation said. "I knew if I was going to once before, and way at the so I can get in,' I'm completely quickly turns from Kieran play it was going to be at a the coaches told me, many beginning of college, it hasn't content just sitting back there. Piller, individual, to Kieran small Division III school, but I times, they saw me and made been bad at all. I've just Whenever I get in the game, Piller, teammate. 
.,·.,
also knew that I a note I was there, enjoyed basketball and am the game's out of hand any-"[Making the tournament] wanted to go to and that I could enjoying my sen-way." would be incredible," he said. a bigger school. play," Piller said. ior year." The senior has "For me, I've grown close to I just went '"They knew the fol­"They knew the On the court, made the most of both Colin Falls and Russell ' 
..I knew through­~.. 
through some lowing year ifthey following year if Piller takes pride his few opportuni­Carter. They've both been in workouts with they needed some­in making the out my career ties, however. He the battle for three and a half
needed somebody 
schools and body there was a Irish a better that I wasn't made his only col­years now. They've both been decided it was there was a good good chance that team through his lege fi~ld-goal contributors to the team and
going to get any
time to concen­chance that rd be I'd be the guy." hard work and attempt earlier they have not yet played in the
Division 1 
trate on school. In his junior dedication in this season against tournament and for me, I
the guy.,. 
"I always year, Piller felt practice, rather scholarships ... Stony Brook and would really like them to be wanted to go (to that he didn't live than basking in sank two free able to have that." Notre Dame) -Kieran Piller up to expectations the few games he throws last year Piller does not expect to play
Kieran Piller 
a bigger envi­Irish guard at try-outs. But gets into during against Fordham in any of Notre Dame's upcom­
Irish guard 
ronment where I the coaching staff the season. -the only two he ing Big East and NCAA can be a student remembered him ''I'll talk to my has taken. Tournament games, but he and a fan." from the year friends and par-Piller is an inte­certainly helped them get 
But all that changed with a before. ents and they'll ask, 'Did you gral part of an Ir1sh team that there. Sunday afternoon phone call "It turned out that last year get in' and I'll be like. 'I don't has a chance to earn its first during the fall of his junior they needed somebody, and I really care,"' Piller said. "It's NCAA Tournament berth in Contact Chris Hine at year, when Irish assistant was the guy they took," Piller cool or whatever, but after one four years. chine@nd.edu 


..........
... . ' . . .. . ' . .·.. 
' ..
. .. 

Friday, February 23, 2007 page 3 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 

Falls develops into complete offensive threat 

shot that would win him noto­saw shooting as the way to do
By CHRIS KHOREY 
riety at Notre Dame, that was­that," Falls said. 
Associate Sports Editor ­
n't all he could do. And shoot he did. 
Falls was easily the Averaging 16 minutes per Colin Falls can shoot. Hambler's best player, averag­game and earning eight starts, Notre Dame coach Mike ing 25 points, seven rebounds, Falls hit 3 7 threes his Brey knows it, opposing teams and four assists per game. Freshman year, averaging 4.6 know it and Irish fans know it. When the time came for points per game. He stayed But the senior guard, in his choosing a col-mostly behind last year in 
lege, Palls the arc, however, South Bend knew what he attempting just and his last was looking 21 two-point
..I think initially the 

chance to get for. shots all season to the NCAA "I wanted to reason my niche on and making 10. Tournament, 
go to a school the team was as a In his sopho­
has done that had a more year, Falls
shooter was because

much more prestigious became a regular than that this academic and I wanted to be on the in the starting season. athletic tradi­court and I saw lineup, beginning
Falls

Falls, who tion," he said. 22 games in the
shooting as the way 

was appoint-Plenty of backcourt along­
to do that ... 

ed captain before the season, those schools side Thomas and has been a steady leader for a came calling, Quinn. But while young team that counts four including the two Chris'
Colin Falls

freshmen and three so·pho­Northwestern, slashed to the 
-
Irish guard 

mores among its 10 scholar­Marquette, basket, Falls ship players. Michigan and came off screens 
"[Colin] a great basketball G e o r g e and looked for IQ," Irish coach Mike Brey Washington. jump shots. He said Tuesday. "He knows our Princeton even offered the hit a sophomore record 93 system and knows what to chance for a free Ivy League threes that season and aver­do." education and an offense that aged 12.6 points per game. 
The senior has also shot plenty of three pointers. But he struggled on his few branched out his game, going But after Falls visited Notre ventures inside the arc, mak­from a pure spot-up shooter Dame, the recruiting process ing only 8-of-36 two-point his first three was over. attempts. 
years to a more DAN COOPER/The Observer 
"Once I got on Falls said that he wasn't ini­

versatile form campus I fell in tially worried by the one Irish senior guard Colin Falls drives to the basket in Notre that allowed him love with the dimensional nature of his roll. Dame's 99-85 win over Alabama Dec. 7 at the Joyce Center. to score 51 "I realized I needed guys and the "I got comfortable in that 
• points in a high to expand and do coaching staff," roll, which wasn't necessarily a tough thing." points. He significantly school game. Falls said. a good thing," he said. Falls has even made tactical improved his scoring from two
some other things for 
That sudden When he In his junior year, Falls adjustments on the fly. In point range, shooting 65 per­change in his this team to win showed up for moved into the starting shoot­Notre Dame's 78-54 win over cent inside the arc. playing style has games.,, practice his ing guard roll alongside DePaul, he noticed that Kurz Aside from making him a allowed Falls to freshman year, Quinn. Falls improved his was being left unguarded at better player, Falls said being lead the Irish in Falls found that scoring average to 14.8 points the three point line. He called a captain has also made him a points in each of Colin Falls Notre Dame's per game and hit a school­the junior over and told him to better person. ­the last five Irish guard guard positions record 102 three pointers, but look for the outside shot. "It's been a great experi­games and has were well-the team struggled, losing It worked to the tune of ence," he said. "I wouldn't his team -and stocked, with eight of its first nine confer­three second half 3-pointers trade it for anything." it is "his team" junior Chris ence games. for Kurz. -on the brink Thomas and Meanwhile, Falls was having "Colin was like, 'step up and Aching to dance of the Big Dance for the first sophomore Chris Quinn start­his own problems. His shot hit them'," Kurz said. "He said With Falls' leadership and time since 2003. ing, and senior Torrian Jones was inconsistent. Still shoot­'you're wide open' and it his improved play, this year 
coming off the bench. ing mainly from beyond the worked out because I hit the has been the most successful Finding his niche Fails knew he had ~to find arc, he scored 25 points in a shots." season for the Irish in his 
Falls was born in Chicago something to set him apart in 73-57 loss to DePaul and then Falls said that the pressure four years. At 21-6 and 9-5 in and grew up in the suburb of order to earn playing time. did not hit a field goal and of being captain magnifies the the Big East conference, Park Hidge, northwest of the "I think initially the reason only scored two points in a team's successes and failures Notre Dame is well on its way city, attending Loyola my niche on the team was as 72-70 loss to Villanova. even more, making it even to its first NCAA bid since Academy. a shooter was because I want­Falls then discovered that he more important for him to 2003. 
While he displayed the jump ed to be on the court and I needed to branch out in order maintain and even keel. First, the Irish have to get for he and the Irish to be suc­"[As captain,] you're really past No. 16 Marquette, .a cessful. taking a team Fails and "I realized I needed to pounding men-his fellow sen­expand and do some other tally and it iors have never
FALLS 
things for this team to win kind of drains beaten, and games," he said. you. Losses Notre Dame hurt more," he ..Ifwe don't get to the also needs to Becoming a leader said. "But I NCAA tournament, I win a game or After the graduation of think wins, you two in the Big 
THROUGH 
THE YEARS 
would look at my

Quinn and forwards Tarin appreciate East tourna­Francis and Rick Cornett last them more career ment, where
2003-04 (FRESHMAN) 
spring, Falls became Notre because you the Irish are
alnzost as a 

Dame's unquestioned leader. feel like you're just 1-3 since
POINTS: 4.6 
disappointment. ,,

He was appointed captain at doing more for 2003.
OVERALL FIELD GOALS: 47 
3-POINT FIElD GOALS: 37 
the beginning of the season. your team." Fails said he o/o 0 F Fl ELD GOALS 
Being team captain meant But being a Colin Falls andCarter have THAT WERE 3-POINTERS: 79% 
that Falls suddenly had the leader meant Irish guard drilled the responsibility of teaching the more than just importance of
2004-05 (SOPHOMORE) 
ropes to a young team. Brey talking. Falls the next few called upon him to direct traf­couldn't be the weeks into their
POI NTS: 12.6 
fic on the floor and make sure. passive jump teammates.
OVERALL FIELD GOALS: 101 
young players like freshmen shooter that he "I think the
3-POINT FIELD GOALS: 93 
Luke Harangody and Tory had been his first three years sense of urgency is height­
%OF FIELD GOALS 
Jackson and sophomores Zach on the squad. ened because everyone knows
THAT WERE 3-POINTERS: 92% 
Hillesland and Luke Zeller So over the summer he what's on the line," Falls said. 2005-06 (JUNIOR) 
were always in the right spot. worked on other parts of his "We're going to do everything But it was in the locker game, returning to the driving we can to put ourselves in a 
PO I NTS: 14.8 
room where Falls made his and cutting style that he dis­position to win." . 
OVERALL FIELD GOALS: 129 
biggest impact, with his still­played in high school and Because for Falls, the next 
3-POINT FlELD GOALS: 102 
fresh memories of 2005-06's improving his defense -he's few weeks won't just deter­
%OF FIELD GOALS 
roller coaster ride still in his averaging almost twice as mine if this season is a suc­
THAT WERE 3-POINTERS: 79% 
IS 

head. many ~teals per game this cess. "As a basketball player, season compared to his They will determine how he
2006-07 (SENIOR) 
there are so many ups and career. will view his entire career. POINTS: 14.9 downs," he said. "You have to Falls has still hit his share of "If we don't get to the NCAA OVERALL FIELD GOALS: 111 stay consistent and confident threes, breaking the school tournament, I would look at 3-POINT FIELD GOALS: 77 throughout your career. You career record against my career almost as a disap­%OF FIELD GOALS can be overconfident and Cincinnati Sunday with his pointment," he said. · 
THAT WERE 3-POINTERS: 69% under-confident. 305th. But he has only made "Keeping an even keel 73 shots from outside the arc Contact Chris Khorey at throughout a college career is despite averaging nearly 15 ckhorey@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, February 23, 2007 
Carter's perseverance makes him stand apart 

By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

Notre Dame guard Russell Carter walked out to meet the media for an interview before practice Feb. 1. He held a ball under his right arm and wiped his brow with his sweat­drenched practice jer­sey. Practice was still 30 minutes away, but someone for­got to tell that to Carter. 
"Yeah, I was just working out a little bit," he said. "Hard work gets us these wins. I'm not the only one sweating. As you can see, everyone's out there shooting." 
Sweating? Before practice? It makes sense given Carter's pedigree -his father, who had recently finished a 14-hour work day in his home state of New Jersey, was too tired to field questions about his S(}n over the telephone Wednesday. 
But Carter's sweat is not the only thing he has given to the Irish this season. 
Whether he holds three fin­gers in the air after draining a three or becomes angry after making a turnover, Carter is an emotional leader. His smile on the floor infects his teammates and brightens the Joyce Center. He loosens them, reminds them to have fun and elevates their play. His anger fires them up and adds a sense of urgency when things are not going so well. 
These characteristics are inherent to Carter's personali­ty. It's the way he's played 
since  he  was  a  child  in  
Paulsboro, N.J.  - a suburb of  
Philadelphia  - and it's the  

way he will continue to play once his career moves beyond South Bend. 
But the Jersey native and sociology major claimed that college has changed him as a person -even if what drives him remains intact. 
"Four years at a prestigious institution does nothing but change you." Carter said after Tuesday's 78-54 win against DePaul. "There's different types of people just interacting. There's a lot of people where I'm from you probably would never see, but to be able to interact with them, talk about anything is good. 

"It's good when people can put away their differences and just have a conversation." 
And most importantly. his work ethic has remained intact -and that's why he's been busy sweating, not only before practice 
three weeks ago, ..Unless there are down., Carter but for his entire turned to two
immortals out 
career at Notre sources to help
there, I have 
Dame. him through this It's also how nothing to fear. " rough patch. he's evolved from "I talked to my a benchwarmer parents," Carter
Russell Carter
freshman year to said. "I've been
Irish guard 
one of the most talking to them 
feared and admired players in the Big East. 
Before Notre Dame 
In high school, Carter over­came a knee injury caused by decaying bone marrow. But despite the injury, and the sub­sequent surgery, his mentality toward basketball remained the same. 
"It didn't affect [my attitude]. Injuries happen. You've got to play. Once you go on the court. there are no excuses," he said. "If you're going to acknowl­edge your weakness, you might as well not play." 
The injury took a while to heal and as a result, Carter was not highly recruited his senior year -despite averag­ing 30 points, 11.2 rebounds and 3.4 assists and leading his team to the state finals. 
"Just around the area, schools [recruited me] and that was basically it," Carter said. "During the middle and end of my senior season, Notre Dame came on board." 
Once the Irish called, Carter said the decision to enroll was simple. 
"The team was in the tourna­ment the previous three years and it's Notre Dame, the aca­demics speak for themselves," he said. "Good athletics. great academics, it was an easy deci­sion." 
Early years with the Irish 
During his freshman year, Carter played in only 11 games, averaging just 2.1 min­utes per contest. His sopho­more year, however, he saw more playing time (24 games, 
8.5 minutes per game) but felt he should be playing more. 
"I expected to play right away, but it didn't happen that way," Carter said. 
With his spirits 
since the day I 
was born and I 
feel comfortable talking to them, and to [former Irish assistant] coach [Lewis] Preston, who's no longer here, but it was mainly them that helped me through it." 
Still, through the tough times, Carter was determined to prove to Irish head coach Mike Brey that he could play. That same high school kid who fought through physical injury now had to overcome the men­tal frustration of not getting the playing time he thought he deserved. 
"I just went to practice and practiced hard and figured I'd continue working until I'd be able to play," he said. "I just felt if I got a chance to play I could show what I could do. It just motivated me to keep working." 
Getting his chance 
Carter earned that elusive spot in the starting lineup his junior year, starting in 28 of Notre Dame's 30 games, and averaging 13.3 points per con­test. But it's been his play this season -17 points per game on 41 percent shooting from 3­point range -that has gar­nered the attention of the national media, NBA scouts 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
..--.,.· I 
CARTER··h . 
THROUGH 
THE YEARS 
2003-04 (FRESHMAN) 
2.1 MINUTES PER GAME 
0.8 POINTS PER GAME 
2004-05 (SOPHOMORE) 
8.5 MINUTES PER GAME 
3.5 POINTS PERGAME 
2005-06 (JUNIOR) 
28.7 MINUTES PER GAME 
11.5 POINTS PER GAME 
2006-07 (SENIOR) 
29.9 MINUTES PER GAME 
17.0 POINTS PER GAME 
Graphic Illustration by Jeff Albert 
and opposing defenses. 
When asked to summarize how he thinks the year is going, he framed his answer from a team perspective, not an individual one. 
"This year has gone how I predicted. No one gave us a lot of credit," he said. "At the beginning of the year we were picked eleventh. Now we have the ability to get a bye [in the first round of the Big East tournament]. I felt the Big East was a wide-open conference." 
But Carter has still had his share of adversity this year despite his statistics and Notre Dame's record. For the past few weeks, a right hip flexor has hampered Carter's quick­ness and effectiveness on both ends of the floor. 
"It's getting better," he said Tuesday. "I'm out there though, so I don't use it as an excuse." 
Carter still averages 17 points per game, which ties him with Villanova forward Curtis Sumpter for second in the conference. Besides his offensive improvement throughout the past four years, Carter has worked equally as hard on his defense -some­thing for which he feels he deserves more credit. 
"I don't know if they notice my defense. When people score a lot of points, their defense is overlooked. If people pay attention they can see I'm a good defender," he said with a big grin on his face. "Not only certain plays, like a steal and dunk, there's a lot of little plays that go unnoticed. 
"That's always going to hap­pen. Offense in basketball is more notable than defense. I don't take it as offense, but if you try to score on me then I guess you'll find out." 
Looking ahead 
For Carter, playing in the NBA could not be farther from his mind at this point despite his noticible athleticism and rare, given his age and experi­the NCAA Tournament. 

"It would mean everything. I've never been there," he said. "Colin [Falls] has never been there. No one on this team has been there. To get there, just speaks volumes about our sen­ior class. We kept it moving." 
Carter's journey has been filled with his fair share of obstacles, molding his person­ality in the process. 
But some of his traits will never change, namely, his sense of humor and straight­forward attitude. 
A few years ago, when his dorm mates in Fisher Hall were designing a shirt in honor of Carter, they asked him for a quote. The first attempt that did not make the cut read, "If I was three inches taller, I'd be playing for the Clippers right now." 
Today, while he speaks with a polished demeanor beyond his years, the humorous kid still shines through when reflecting on that time. 
"I was just being stupid because I always thought I'd grow up to be 6-foot-6 like [Michael] Jordan," he said. ''I'm like 6-foot-4, 6-foot-3 and a half, so if I had a couple of more inches -I'd be amaz­ing." 
Whether Carter will one day be "amazing" in the NBA, only time will tell. If his basketball career fails to pan out, two things are for sure. 
One, only circumstances beyond his control will prevent him from playing in the NBA. It will have nothing to do with hard work and dedication. And two, regardless of what hap­pens, he won't make any excuses. 
"When I'm on the court, there's really nothing to fear," he said. "I mean, you're a guy just like me, you put on your pants just the same way I do. If I knock you down hard enough you're going to bleed. Unless there are immortals out there, I have nothing to fear." 
Irish guard Russell Carter drives to the hoop in Notre Dame's 67-66 loss at DePaul Feb. 8. Carter ence, untapped potential. Right Contact Chris Hine at is averaging 17.0 points per game, tying him for second in the Big East. now, he has just one focus -chine@nd.edu 




