
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
USC game: 31 arrests, 31 citations 
failings the result of alcohol-related offenses 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Thirty-one people were arrested for al~ohol-related offenses and taken to St. Joseph County Jail on Oct. 20, the date of the USC football game, said Phil Johnson, director of Notre Dame Security Police. 
The arrests were made by a joint force of NDSP, Indiana State Excise Police, St. Joseph County Police and South Bend Police. 
The alcohol-related offenses include public intoxication and minor consuming alcohol, Johnson said. 
Johnson provided this infor­mation through an e-mail. He did not release the names of the individuals arrested or specify if any were students of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
At least 27 of the arrests were made in the stadium. 
One person was also trans­ported by ambulance to a local hospital for treatment of intoxi­cation, and three people were asked to leave the stadium for violating stadium rules relating to alcohol, Johnson said. 
Additionally, 28 citations were issued to adults and three to juveniles for alcohol-related offenses during the tailgate. Those offenses include minor in consumption or minor in pos­session. 
see ARRESTS/page 8 
and not on the official list of 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
conference participants.
News Writer 
The University community was not 
U.S. Supreme Court notified Justice Antonin Scalia made that a an unpublicized appearance Supreme at the Notre Dame Law Court jus­School on Oct. 19 to speak tice would at a conference for law stu­speak in dents on the separation of accor­powers in federal govern­dance with ment. a request 
Though notice of the con­by Scalia, 


ference was made on the said Law Scalia Law School Web site, School Scalia's name appeared only spokesperson Melanie on the conference schedule McDonald. 
"The reason we did not publicize it was because that was Justice Scalia's preference," McDonald said. "He wanted the conference to be an educational endeavor, and if it was pub­licized that he was going to be there, it would have become a mob scene." 
In addition, it is common protocol not to widely publi­cize the event when a Supreme Court Justice will be attending, said law pro­fessor A.J. Bellia, a cospon­
sor of the conference. "This really was not a 
public lecture," Bellia said. "It is the preference of the 
U.S. Marshals, who are responsible for Justice Scalia's security, that we didn't openly publicize that he would be there." 
Organizers also desired to keep the conference's focus on law rather th'an politics, he said. 
"It really was not a politi­cal conference where we just discussed Justice Scalia's viewpoints, and it· involved many other highly-
see SCALWpage 4 


Can1pus speakers chosen despite controversy 
Lecturers picked chiefly for academic merit, not adherence to Catholic, campus values 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
President of Iran Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's visit to Columbia University in September gave way to some of the year's biggest headlines and a popular "Saturday Night Live" skit, as he said tlwre weren't any gay peo­ple in his country and ques­tioned whether the Holocaust really happened. 
Ahmadinejad's appearance at Columbia Sept. 24 drew hun­dreds of protesters to the streets, but Columbia President Lee Bollinger defended the school's decision to invite the controversial leader to speak, citing the university's commit­ment to furthering dialogue, 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Scalia speaks at ND law conference 
Supreme Court Justice's campus visit went unpublicized by University at judge's request 
especially on global issues. 
"[Columbia] is committed to confronting ideas -to under­stand the world as it is and as it might be," Bollinger said in a statement about Ahmadinejad's visit. "Necessarily, on occasion this will bring us into contact with beliefs many, most or even all of us will find offensive and even odious." 
Similarly, Notre Dame's mis­sion statement says one the University's goals is to provide a forum where, "through free inquiry and open discussion," students can pursuit truth in every discipline -with Catholic values in mind. 
So in the spirit of pursuing truth and understanding, what 
see SPEAKERS/page 6 



Basilica hosts annual Blue Mass 
Service honored police officers, firefighters, and other civil servants 
By NICHOLAS BOCK News Writer 
The seventh annual Blue Mass to honor public safety personnel was held Monday night at the Basilica of the Sacrnd I !cart. 
The Mass is celebrated to honor firnfighters, police officers and emergency medieal personnel, aetive. retirPd, living and dead, who dndieate their livns to "protnet and ddnnd tlw communities we livn in." said Father l{iehard Warner, director of Campus Ministry. who delivered the homily. 
In addition to the numerous civil service members. all dressed in their blue uniforms, the Basilica 
see MASS/page 4 


Author speaks about body in1age at SMC 
Martin examined statistics, dieting trends 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Wrirer 
Courtney Martin, author of the book "Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters: The Frightening New Normalcy of Hating Your Body", and winner of the Elie Wiesel Prize in Ethics. spoke at Saint Mary's Monday about women's body image. Martin discussed the trend of women hating their bodies and what a young generation of women can do to reverse this development. 
Speaking to a packed audience of students and faculty, Martin gave statis­

tics about American women and girls and their views on body image. For example, women spend about 100 minutes a day obsessing about their bod­ies, she said. Also, there are around seven million women and girls in this country with an eating disorder, Martin said. 
Martin focused her talk into two parts: how women began to think this way, and what can be done to change it. 
Body image, Martin said, is always related to the relationship between mothers and daughters. 
see AUTHOR/page 8 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 30, 2007 

INSIDE COLUMN 

lvvanna be n1ade 

"Katie, you makn these sweeping generalizations about us. I love it," says my frinnd .Inn, a sophomore PLS major. This statenwnt, like all those made by I'LS majors, is a true one, but my observational 
Katie Peralta 

expertise comes 
from a solid year 
of experience at News Wire 
Notre Dame. 
Editor 

PLS, the popu­lar acronym for the Program of Liberal Studies, is a unique liberal arts degree in which some of my smartest friends are majoring. I decided early on that I was not cut out for it, and ever since have admired those who brave the thou­sands· of novnls, poems, and musical compositions required to be read. 
Anothnr PLS friend of minn, Madeline, routim•ly discusses with Jcn various PLS assignmnnts that I cannot even pronounce. It seems not evnn to phase thnm that thny read !Wnrything from Plato to Poe to Bnethoven. I also dedded narly on that this finld of study is not only a major in thn academic sense, but als~1 more of a way of life.. 
Thinking about tlw experience I have with PLS majors and thoir respective lifnslylns, I got to thinking. If MTV had to makn nll' into anything, it would not bo tlw typical ch1wrleader, Samurai fighter, or motocross racer. Hatlwr, I would want to be madn into a PLS maj<1r. 
Wlwn .IPn walkPd into Spanish class oncP donning nwssy Fn•nrh braids and a honwmade scarf loosely lind, I could not lwlp but say aloud, "Wow. That is so I'I.S." What, many would wonder, might such a slatnrnnnl nwan'? 
I'LS, as I havn notic:nd, is a look. One ran easily idPnlify a PLS studcmt from across tlw quad by sPvnral giveaway articles of clothing, like (most impor­tantly) scarves, lhirk-rimnwd glasses, lorn jeans, Boho skirts, and any other hommnadn pieces. 
I'LS students would n1w1•r bn caught dead in l.acost1' polos with poppnd col­lars. MTV's f"irst move would be to pitch the Vera Bradley umbrella I bought over break. 
Not. only do these intellectual aristo­erats dress difTnrnntly from us, but they also spend thnir fren time quite difTnrnntly. While the rnst of us arc playing beer pong and flip cup at cer­tain at.hletn housns and ofT-campus apartmnnts, tlw I'I.S nlite arn rnading poetry and onjoying finn winn at thnir parties. I have never been privileged nnough to partake, but only have !ward n~eaps from my friends in Spanish class. 
I jnalously imagine a Dnad Pont's Sodnty-styln get-together, and how dif­fnrnnt ynl thoroughly more intellnctu­ally stimulating they must be than thn average collllge party. MTY ";",ould have to somehow get mn thn tn to thnse gathnrin!{s and make sure I condueted mysnlf in a thoroughly acadnmic and mature mannnr. 
Maybe my fascination with this scholarly bunch is a strange one. Maybn I havn a tenny bit of an inferior­ity complex. Maybe the little things I noticn about them is not true of each and every PLS major. But who can blame mn for wanting to bn made into one'? 
The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are thost' ofthe awhor and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Con tact Katie Peralta at kperalta(wnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publicarion and strives tor rhe highest standards of journalism at all times. We do. however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4S41 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST THING YOU DID DURING FALL BREAK? 







Brittany Burgeson  John Ashley  Lilly Civantos  Phil Black  Rachel Roseberry  
freshman McGlinn  freshman Carroll  freshman Lewis  freshman Fisher  freshman Farley  
"/plead the Fifth."  "/put my hair in a ponytail."  "Baked a pie. ,  "Visited my girlfriend ... ,  ".S'aw my friends!"  


Couple dead serious about selling their house 
WEXFOHD, Pa. -It could be thn deal of a lifetime. A Pittsburgh-area couple, Bob and Hicki Husick, arc otler­ing anyone who buys their home full cash-back upon their death and even their full inheritance, currently worth at lnast $500,000. 
The llusieks have been trying to sell thnir home for almost a ynar, but have failed to do so in the currnnt shaky market. 
Bob Husirk said he's ask­ing $399,900 for the four­bndroom, three and a half bath home-about 20 miles north of Pittsburgh. 

According to the Husieks' otTer, the buyer would get the money back when the couple dies. And if thn buyer agrees to care for them in old age, they could also inherit their retirement home in Arizona, bringing the estate's current value to about $500,000. 
Baby giraffe named in honor of Red Sox 
BOSTON -To honor the Heel Sox four-game World Series sweep of the Colorado Hackies, staff at the Franklin Park Zoo on Monday named a baby giraffe "Sox." 
In a statement, Zoo New England President and Chief Executive Officer John Linehan said the stan· ehosn the name because of thn female calf's long, lanky legs. 
Other names considered were "Hed," "Fenway," "Champion," and "Boston." 
"Sox" weighed 154 pounds at birth, standing 6 feet 2 inches tall. 
The calf was born after Boston's Game 1 victory, but staff held off naming it because they didn't want to jinx the team's chances, according to the statement. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT HALLOWEEN THURSDAY 

.... 
oct 
(.) 

IN BRIEF 
A blood drive will be held at Holfs Sports Hecreation Center today from 9 a.m. to :{::{0 p.m. Donors are asknd to call HecSports at (>31-61 00 to register. A numbnr of qualifi­eations apply. 
Ernesto Verdeja, 2007-OX Kroe lnstitutn Postdoctoral Scholar, will dnliver a lectun• on "Aceounting for Evil: A Theory of Modern Genocide" today at 4:15 p.m. in thP llesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Thn lnstitutn for Latino Studins and the Cr·ea tivn Writing Program will present Chloe's Cabaret tonight at 7 
p.m. at t.hn Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It is a free but ticketed event. Anyone interested ·can call the Ticket Office at 631-2800 to reserve tickets. 
The men's basketball team presents Leprechaun Legion Tip-Off tonight at 8 p.m. at the Joyce Center. Student sea­son basketball tickets will go on sale at 9 p.m. Student tick­et booklnts will also go on sale online beginning at 11 p.m. at www.und.com/tickcts 
A collection of Douglas Kinsey paintings is on display in the Great llall of O'Shaughnessy llall through Nov. 29. 
Thn hockey team will play Lake Superior State Thursday at 7::{5 p.m. at the Joyce Center Ice Rink. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY GAME DAY 




HIGH LOW 
0 

HIGH 66 54 HIGH 64 HIGH HIGH 55
...I 

LOW 54 47 LOW 39 LOW LOW 40 
53 32 
56 HIGH 37 LOW 

Atlanta 66 I 39 Boston 57 I 41 Chicago 65 I 44 Denver 74 I 50 Houston 77 I 52 Los Angeles 70 I 57 Minneapolis 66 I 47 New York 62 I 43 Philadelphia 63 I 36 Phoenix 87 I 66 Seattle 52 I 41 St. Louis 70 I 47 Tampa 82 I 72 Washington 52 I 41 


Tuesday, October 30, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
College to hold career expo 
Fair to provide students with alumnae networking opportunities 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's will hold a Career Insights Expo next week, alumnae commis­sioner Christine Darche said Monday at the Board of Governance meeting. 
The fair, to be held from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Nov. 6, will feature 28 alumni rep­resenting 21 different majors. she said. The event will be an opportunity for juniors and seniors to meet 
people  in  the  business  
world, she said.  
"These  are  our  own  

women doing really power­ful things," student body president Kim Hodges said. 
The alumni will hand out business cards and talking about the work they do. 
BOG members also dis­cussed co-sponsorship pro­posals. A representative of the Monthly Anime Dosage: SMC Style Club asked for support with their llallowcen dance to be held Wednesday night in Haggar Parlor. 
In other BOG news: 
+ "BPcyclcd Percussion" will b1~ playing Tuesday in ()'Laughlin Auditorium, said Cassie Calion, pn~si­dcnt of the Student The proceeds will benefit South Bend residents. 
+ Hinchy a s o announced that in honor of Disabilities Awareness Week, the Student Diversity Board will collect pre­scription eye­glasses and sunglasses for people 
who cannot afford them. The eyewear will be sent out and fixed before they are given away. 
+ Colleen Kielty. presi­dent of the Class of 2008, said a Saint Mary's cook­book is being put together. Saint Mary's students and faculty are askod to submit recipes by e-mail to Allison Greene. Proceeds from the 
"These are our own women doing really powerful things. '' 
Kim Hodges student body president 
hall during lunch and din­ner. The movie Heal Women Have Curves will be shown Thursday night in Vander Vennet Theater in the base­ment of the student center at 6 p.m. There will be a belly dancing class Friday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharneO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Studies com­missioner. A Body Forum Coffeehouse will be held in the Women's Resource Center tonight at 8 p m Thursday will be "Ditch Your Diet Day!" and there will be stickers and candy avail­able outside the dining 

OIT vvarns can1pus of e-111ail phishing sca111s 
By DAVIS RHORER, Jr. News Writer 
Scam artists who practice phishing, or attempting to gain personal information by send­ing e-mails under the guise of legitimate corporations, are increasingly targeting e-mail users across the country, an Office of Information Technology spokesperson said. 
OIT warned University users through an e-mail Thursday to be wary of phishing scams. 
No data is available to OIT about scams directed at campus accounts, said Michael Chapple, an information security profe­sional for OIT, but general trends in phishing have been increasing recently worldwide. 
"[Phishing] is not something specific to Notre Dame e-mail accounts," he said. "[Itl is a general trend on the internet." 
He emphasized Notre Dame was vulnerable only in that it. like other organizations, has an extensive e-mail network. 
Phishing is becoming a more precise and dangerous practice, Chapple said 
"We're seeing these attacks become more targeted," he said. 
Old styles of phishing relied on sending out mass numbers of e-mails disguised as a legiti­mate company to a large but random group of people, Chapple said. This was dom1 in hopes of encountering a small percentage of the group associ­ated with the company that would respond to the e-mails by sending the requested personal information. 
Newer approaches involve targeting a more specific group, such as those people with accounts all ending in "nd.edu," Chapple said. A common dis­guise that phishers use for Notre Dame students has been that of the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, he said. 
While OIT spam filters direct suspect e-mails to the quaran­tine mailbox set aside for each individual account, Chapple list­ed several other signs of a potential scam. An e-mail from any business that asks for per­sonal information about accounts including a social security number, an online password or a credit card num­ber is most likely fraudulent, he said. 
"That's just not the way a legitimate organization does business," Chapple said. 
He stated that links sent in e­mails are potentially dangerous. 
"E-mail in and of itself is not encrypted and not secure," Chapple said. "If you send an e­mail across the internet, anyone along the way can read it, simi­lar to a postcard in the mail." 
Tips for identifying potentially dangerous c-mails are found at secure.nd.edu 
Contact Davis Rhorer, Jr. at drhorer@nd.edu 
Activities Board. Admission is free to students. 
+ Abby Hinchy, Student Diversity Board president, announced the Hunger Banquet will be held on Nov. 14 at 6 p.m. in the West Wing of Saint Mary's Dining Hall. Students will give their 10 numbers and donate a meal to the needy. 
cookbook sales will be given to charity. 
+ 
Hodges told Board members that Tuesday will be Soul Food day in the dining hall for dinner. Off­campus tickets will be sold at the front desk. 

+ 
This week is Love Your Body Week, said Renee Woodward, Women's 




page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
was filled with family members, students, citizens and scattered military personnel. University President Father John Jenkins celebrated the Mass. 
The Blue Mass has been cele­brated every year since Sept. 11, 2001, to commemorate the contribution provided by civil service personnel. This year's Mass was celebrated in remem­brance of three Indiana civil safety officers who died this year. Cpl. Nick S. Polizzotto of the South Bend police depart­ment and Indiana state trouper David E. Hich were both killed in the lirw ofduty. The Mass also honored Notre Dame Security Police Director Rex Rakow, who died in March after a long ill­ness. 
The Mass began with a pro­cession of active fire fighters and police ollicers. After read­ing the Beatitudes, Warner said the ehalhmges of "being merci­ful and compassionate in the face of need" are ones we "all try and hope to emulate." 
lie said that civil service mem­bers "do everything with courage and confidence," and that they "respond with training at the professional level and with courage and integrity at a personal level." 
This is done so that we can have communities where "peo­ple can live safe and protected lives twenty-four hours a day," he said. 
Stephen Healey, the chief of the Princeton police depart­ment, delivered a concluding message. lie said fire fighters and police officers "share a spe­cial bond because we have all dedicated ourselves to a com­mon caus1~ and realize that we too may one day be called to make the ultimate sacrifice." referring to the hazardous and life-throatnning situations inher­ent to their jobs. 
Healey said those who died are remmnbered "not because of their deaths. but beeause of thnir livns." 
Quoting a police department memorial. llealny concluded that "in valor them is hopn." 
Warner said this mass was lwld "to rnmind [emergency personnel) that your work does not go unnoticnd ... and to show how much we dnpend on your silnnt and dndicat1~d serv­ien." 
Lindsay Williams, a sopho­more, said after tlw Mass that slw has "always been amazed at what pnople will do to sacrifice li1r other pnopln that they do not nvnn know, people who arn will­ing to make the ultimate sacri­lic:n." 
Thn Mass ended with a reeep­tion for lirn lighters, police olli­enrs and nmergnney medical personnd in Coleman-Morse. 
Contact Nicholas Bock at nbock@nd.edu 

ernment and analyzed sev­eral cases that have gone
Scalia 

before the court, McDonald continued from page 1 said in a press release. After 
the talk. Scalia responded to respected scholars," Bellia questions and then met said. "It was a meeting of informally with students, some of the best judicial McDonald said. minds in order to discuss The conference's topic was 
the relation­ship of the federal powers and what role 
"The reason we did not 
the judicial 
publicize it was because
system should play that was Justice Scalia's 
in that rela­preference. " 
tionship." S c a l i a 
Melanie McDonald 
delivered 
the confer­Law School spokesperson ence's open­ing lecture on the importance 

or structure in constitutional should play in the govern-interpretation. lie spoke ment. about the function of the "The goal of this confer­judiciary in American gov-ence was to address funda-
IN THE SAME POCKET. 
U.S. 
C~tllulat"' introduooa the MOTOROKR""-a phon• and MP3 player In one almplt, atyllah plug-and-play form. It oome1 with everything you need to got atarted right out of the box, e~long with a SO·Oay FREE Napater To Go trial. Wl'tloh make• It, literally, muelo to your eare. 

U.S. 
Cellular Ia wtreleaa wh~~tre you matter moat~ 



j:_ US.Cellular. 


U.S. Cellular Corporation. 

free trial offer valid for new subscribers only. Credit card or PayPal information required. ~you cancel your membership anytime before the end of your free 30 days, you will not be charged. After 30 days, continue using Napster To $t 4.95 per month. An active subscription is required to play tracks downloaded and transferred to your phone from Napster To Go. Offer expires 12131108. C 2007. Napster logos are registered trademarks of Napster, U.C. 
chosen by the graduate students who run the Notre Dame Law Review, and focused mostly on how federal courts should inter­pret the con­stitution and what role t h e American legal system 
mental questions of The conference, entitled American constitutional gov­"Separation of Powers as a ernance," Belli a said. Safeguard of Federalism," Questions of how federal was sponsored by Bellia and 
courts should inter­pret legal texts, whether fed­eral courts should enforce structural limits on congression­al power and what place inter­national law takes in the American federal sys­
tem have been debated by courts, scholars and politi­cians during recent years, he said. 
"These are not just ques­tions of our day; these are questions of the American ages," Bellia said. 

"The goal ofthis conference was to address fundamental questions ofAmerican constitutional governance. 
A.J. Bellla law professor 
USC Gould Schools of Law, George Washington University Law School and University of Texas School of Law. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
the Notre Dame Law Review. 
The con­ference also included prominent legal schol­ars from Yale Law School, Harvard Law School, Columbia Law School, Georgetown University Law School, 

,--------------------------------------------------­
----------------------~ 
ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran, U.N. begin final uranium talks 
TEHRAN, Iran -Iranian and U.N. nuclear watchdog officials began a third, final round of talks in Tehran on Monday aime!f at resolving remaining questions on centrifuges that are used to enrich urani­um. 
The Tehran talks are critical because they will provide the basis for a progress report on Iran by the U.N. agency's chief, Mohamed ElBaradei, planned for mid­November. 
"In this new round of talks, we hope we'll be able to conclude our negotiations," Iranian state television quoted Mohammad Saeedi, deputy head of the country's Atomic Energy Organization, as saying. 
The discussions are the latest attempt by the Vienna, Austria-based International Atomic Energy Agency to address out­standing questions on the Iranian pro­gram, which the United States and some other Western countries believe masks nuclear weapons production. Iran insists its nuclear program is for peaceful energy production. 
China cracks down on fake goods 
BEIJING -China said Monday that it had arrested 774 people in a crackdown on substandard goods, part of ongoing efforts to ealm international worries over the quality of the eountry's products. 
The General Administration for Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine said the arrests were the result of 626 criminal investigations nationwide into the manufacture and sale of fake or sub­standard food. medicine or agricultural products between August and mid­October. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Critics feel teen sex laws too 
harsh 
ATLANTA -The tough Georgia law that sent Genarlow Wilson to prison for having oral sex with a fellow teenager has been watered down. But in Georgia -and in many other states -it's still a crime for teenagers to have sex, even if they're close in age. 
Legal experts say it's rare for prosecutors to seek charges. But, as the Wilson case illustrates, they can and sometimes do. 
And the rising popularity of sex offender registries can often mean that a teen nabbed for nonviolent contact with someone a year or two younger might face the same public stigma as a dangerous sexual preda­tor. 
"It's ludicrous," Wilson's lawyer B.J. Bernstein said. "In order to look tough on crime they (lawmakers) are criminalizing teen sex." 
Wilson was freed Friday after the Georgia Supreme Court found that the 10-year mandatory sentence he received for having oral sex with a 15-year-old girl at a New Year's Eve party in 2003 when he was 17 was cruel and unusual punishment. He had served almost three years in prison. 
Georgia's law has since been rewritten to make the same act a misdemeanor punish­able by up to a year in prison. 
Across the country, ages of consent range from 14 to 18. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Court rules gun lawsuit can proceed 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana Court of Appeals ruled Monday that a lawsuit by the city of Gary against several gun mak­ers can proceed to trial. 
The court ruled :~-0 that a provision in the federal Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act of 2005 does not bar the case from going forward in state court. Tho fedflral law grants the indus­try broad protections from municipalities and victims seeking damages for gun­related violcnee. 
Californians begin to rebuild lives 
Fires destroyed more than 2,000 homes; FEMA has received 8,300 aid applications 
Associated Press 
RAMONA, Calif. Nichole Booth's hands were stained with ash from picking through the black­ened and twisted pieces left of her life after an inferno engulfed every­thing she owned. 
She tried not to cry in front of her four children. But in the few moments she can steal away, the tears spill down her cheeks. 
Like so many others, Booth took the first steps toward rebuilding her life Monday, a week after a firestorm destroyed her San Diego County home and business. 
"I feel ashamed. I've never had to ask for help. I don't know what to say to people," Booth says, her voice dropping to a whis­per. 
The wildfires, which destroyed more than 2,000 homes, continued to burn Monday. With more than a dozen blazes fully sur­rounded, firefighters were trying to gain control of six others that were at least half contained. The flames have killed 14 people and blackened 809 square miles from the Mexican border to Los Angeles. 

In the weeks ahead, the Booths and hundreds of other families who lost their homes will be at the their house before their agencies to .step in, too," FEMA apparently learned mercy of the federal gov­eyes as they pulled out of said FEMA spokesman lessons from the confusion ernment for grants, loans the driveway. Michael Raphael. that arose after Hurricane and other assistance. The family lived in a Typically, only homeown­Katrina about where to 
Some help can be offered modest home that was ers are eligible for FEMA's turn for federal assistance. quickly, but larger deci­passed down to her hus­maximum $28,200 payout The agency has sent sions about the future will band, Robert Booth, from for lost property. But scores of neatly dressed take weeks, and be decided his father, and they never Raphael said the agency agency representatives to by federal workers shuf­put their names on the may be able to bend the the San Diego area. Large fling mountains of loan deed, which could delay rules if they were paying signs and tents bearing the applications in Ft. Worth, tens of thousands of dol­the mortgage. agency's name direct vic­Texas, and suburban lars in aid. FEMA has already tims to one-stop centers Maryland. In the meantime, the received nearly 8,300 where victims can redirect 
A week ago, the Booths Booths will have to depend applications for aid and their mail, apply for build­ran for their lives -carry­on charity. The Red Cross visited 641 homes to assess ing permits and register ing only the essentials: a is the only agency still pro­damage in the seven coun­for FEMA disaster assis­change of clothes for the viding hotel assistance for ties declared a major fed­tance. children, and oxygen fire victims. eral disaster area. As of But the scale of the dis­tanks, a wheelchair and "For them, I think the Monday, the agency had aster here is much smaller medication for a daughter wrinkles can be worked paid out $600,000, and than in New Orleans, paralyzed by brain tumors out, but it's going to take was on pace to settle about where hundreds of thou­who survives on life sup­many agencies, and proba­7 5 claims a day. sands of people were left port. The fire swallowed bly going to take volunteer Fire victims have said homeless. 

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 

Storm kills at least 20; more missing 
Associated Press Haiti hardest but veered toward the Ramon Franco of the Dominican 
Dominican Republic, apparently emergency services agency said at 
SANTO DOMINGO -Tropical catching residents offguard. least 20 people had died and anoth­Storm Noel lashed the Dominican "We didn't know that it was going er 20 were reported missing. Republic with heavy rains on to be like this, it took us by sur­Three of those killed died when Monday, causing flooding and mud­prise," said Guarionex Rosado as he they were swept up by a fast-mov­slides that killed at least 20 people left his home in La Cienaga, one of ing river in San Jose de Ocoa, and left another 20 missing, officials Santo Domingo's most affected southwest of the capital. Three said. neighborhoods. more -a couple and their child ­
Noel was expected to dump up to Schools and shops closed across were killed in a mudslide in the port 20 inches of rain on the Dominican the Dominican Republic and many city of Haina, officials said. Details Republic and Haiti, which share the roads were impassable. of the the other deaths were not island of Hispaniola, as it heads Communication was cut between immediately available. northwest toward the Bahamas. many small towns and the capital. International aid workers believe Forecasters said it was likely to In Santo Domingo, the storm the death toll is certain to rise as veer cast, away from the United knocked down trees and signs and reports come in from remote areas States. flooded streets, forcing people from of the Dominican Republic and 
The storm had been forecast to hit their homes. Haiti. 
...---------------------~~-------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 30. 2007 
~~~·---~~==================================================================== 
lures focused entirnly on skin ment with victims or hundreds of be heard. He callod the audience that readiness to invite such stmn enlls and their prod uetion clergy abuse eases -a bill that to a level of reasoning beyond speakers has not been influ­
Speakers 
or skin and hair -a study the will bn partly covered by the sale cheering or booing for difl'fmmt !meed by the school's morn con­continued from page 1 Conferonen of Bishops calls "eth­of a local convent, the Los opinions. servative, rnligious alliliation, he 
ically responsibln .stem cell Angeles Timns reported in said. kind of spt~aknrs dons Notre research" because it dons not SnptPmbnr. The nuns who lived Political figures cause divi­Beatty said the University's Damn invito'! involvn the use or human in thn convent used it to help sions Catholic character donsn 't play a 
Snveral proli~ssors from diller­embryos. poor, undocumented immigrants One speaker who caused a fair role in the Institute's speakor lmt finlds said that while the Fuchs" presence on campus, and were served an eviction amount of eontroversy on cam­selection processes. University has not had someone nonetheless, might have set a notice to make the space avail­pus in recent years was Gerry "We simply look for spnakers as contmvnrsial as Ahmadirwjad prneednnt for bringing to sp!mk­able for sale -an incid(mt that Adams, president of the Irish who an~ at the forefront or politi­visit, it does not moan Notrn nrs to campus whose insight and made the news. political party Sinn Fein, who cal activity or researeh on Dame dons not wPkomo outside work -though it may be at "The people in eharge of put­spoke at Notre Dame in March themes central to Kellogg's mis­opinions that may challeng11 or odds with the University's ting together the forum were not 2004, sparking objections from sion," he said. eonriict with its own Catholic Catholie character -is eonsid­unaware of the swirl of contro­students, faculty members and And there's always a chanee character. cred a valuable academic addi­versy in Los Angeles," University alumni who disapproved of his some people will strongly agre1~ 
tion to the campus' intellectual spokesman Don WyelifT told The possible involvement as a leader or disagree with any given Stem cell research discussed lili:l. Fuchs' lectures, Kulpa said, Observer before the forum. of the Provisional Irish speaker, he said. One of the on campus arn further proof that a rnsume "Their purpose was to find an Republican Army (IHA) and its Kellogg Institute's upcoming 
While the Catholic Church has that may not be 100 percent in articulate, forceful speaker for violent campaigns to unite speakers is Ignacio Walker, said certain types of stem cell line with Catholic tradition does Catholic Social Teaching on the Ireland in the 1970s. Chile's Minister of Foreign research are morally wrong, not detract from a speaker's immigration issue, and there Whether despite of, or because Affairs, a member of Congress professor Charles Kulpa, chair of potential to bring to the was no one better in that role of, this controversial association, and a human rights lawyer the department of biolohrical sci­University valuable and profes­than Cardinal Mahony." students and professors filled under the Pinochet dictatorship. ences, said one of the most suc­sional insights. The forum also featured Washington llall to hear Adams Someone will likely disagree cessful leetures held by the another speaker whose stances speak, prompting the organizers with something he's said or done College of Science in recent Immigration debates and legislative actions toward from the Keough-Naughton throughout his earecr -but his years was delivernd last April by The Notrn Dame Forum, held immigrants have been widely Institute for Irish Studies, which experience in Chilean politics Elaine Fuchs, a leading eell biol­on Oct. R, focused on the topic of criticized for their harshness. brought him to campus, to call make him an "interesting and ogist who specializes in immigration by bringing togeth­Louis Barletta, the mayor of Adams' appearance a success. engaging" speaker, Beatty said. n~searching stern cells, both er four public ligurns from vari­Hazleton, Pa., signed an ordi­Professor Edward Beatty, Similarly, professor Heidi mnbryonic and non-embryonic. ous areas of leadership across nance that would punish interim director of the Kellogg Ardizzone, who has been in 
The Vatican has opposed the country to share their employers and landlords that Institute for International charge of arranging speakers for ornbryonic stern cell research respective viewpoints with stu­knowingly hire or house undocu­Studies, said he wasn't at Notre the Ameriean Studies depart­multipln times, and the U.S. dents and faculty members. mented immigrants, a piece of Dame when Adams visited, but ment for the last two years, said Confnrnnen of Catholic Bishops Keeping with the University's legislation whose constitutionali­he understands why sometimes the criteria to select speakers has said tlw Church "opposes Catholic character, one of those ty is currently being fought in colleges must bring to campus are not based on the persons' any rnSIHtrch that oxploits or figures was Cardinal Hoger the courts. figures that may cause ideologi­adhewnce to Notrn Dame's own destroys human embryos." Mahony, the archbishop of the And while many of Barletta's cal divisions among people, like values, or the level of controver­
Though some of Fuchs' Arehdiocesn of Los Angeles. And statements about immigrants Adams. sy they may create. rnsnarch gons against Catholic though his perspectives on the during the forum -which tend­"The essential purpose of any "We simply bring in academic teachings, the moral angle was heated immigration debate, ed to focus on the criminality of university is to extend knowl­speakers to address intellectual not the focus of her lecture, modeled in light of the Gospels migrants -were greeted by edge by presenting views, opin­issues," she said. Kulpa said. and Jesus Christ's message of booing from the audience, mod­ions and informed perspectives The eonsnnsus among the dif­
"She talked about her compassion toward strangers erator Ray Suarez, a senior cor­on a wide range of issues, and ferent professors is that if these res11arch using strictly scientific and foreigners, wen~ not inflam­respondent for The Newsiiour by doing so, to stimulate debatn academic spnakers are also pub­tnrms, and she went into both matory, Mahony has encoun­with Jim Lehrer, was quick to and learning," Beatty said. lie icons or the source of contro­the pros and the cons," he said. tered controversy in his role as remind the attendees that the lie said universities should try versy, it's merely incidental. 
Fuchs foeusnd primarily on archbishop of Los Angeles. forum was designed precisely to to invite speakers that challenge 
her non-controvnrsial research, In July, his archdiocese create a space where the dill"er­the views and assumptions of Contact Marcela Berrios at 
Kulpa said. One of her two lee-reached a $660 mill ion settle-ent opinions on the matter could students. And at Notre Dame, aberrios@nd.edu 


Echo Night 

Tuesday, Oct. 30th 1st Floor LaFortune 
{Dooley Room} 
7:00-1 O:OOpm 
{drop by any time} 
Whether you are a senior exploring your 
post-grad options or an underclassman 
looking ahead, Echo Night will enable 
you to discover the Echo program in its 
various dimensions: 
*Academic Formation *Spiritual Formation 
*Communal Formation *Pastoral Formation *Future Pathways 
<echo.nd.edu> 
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,870.26 +63.56
Jones 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,595  121  1,658  3,239,092,183  
AMEX  2,514.80  +28.78  
NASDAQ  2,817.44  +13.25  

NYSE 10,256.22 . . +67.09 S&P 500 1,540.98 +5.70 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,668.80 -::29.28· FTSE 100 'London' 6,706.00 +129.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.31 -0.46 34.57 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.33 +0.51 154.13 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.43 +0.23 54.16 YAHOO INC (YHOO) -5.47 -1.84 31.79 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.14 -0.006 4.503 13-WEEK BILL +0.52 +0.020 3.640 30-YEAR BOND -0.43 -0.020 4.779 5-YEAR NOTE +0.30 +0.012 4.153 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.67 93.53 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.10 792.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.05 80.53 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 114.6450 EURO 0.6934 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9540 
IN BRIEF 
Two new nuclear reactors planned 
WASHINGTON -The Tennessee Valley Authority is expected to file an application, per­haps as early as Tuesday, with the Nuclear Hngulatory Commission to build two new nuclear power reactors at a site in Alabama. 
The TVA, the nation's largest public power provider, plans to build the reactors at the site of the partially completed and then mothballed Bdlefonte nuclear power station near Scottsboro, Ala. The TVA, in conjunction with an industry eonsortium called NuStart, has been working on the proposal for two years. 
The application will be the second filed with the NBC for new nuclear power plants in just over a month. NHG Energy Inc. submitted an application on Sept. 25 to build and operate two new reactor units at its Bay City, Texas, power plant site. 
Prior to the NHC application, there had not been an application for a new nuclear power plant in the United States since before the Three Mile Island accident in Pennsylvania in 1979. The NHC says it expects as many as 21 applications fiJr 30 reactors over the next couple of years. 
Ollir.ials at TVA, the Energy Department and NuStart scheduled a press conference for Tuesday afternoon to "tout" TVA's application plans, according to an Energy Department advi­sory. 
Kroger workers preparing to strike 
CINCINNATI -The union representing nearly 

11.000 workers in Kroger Co.'s home region mvoked a contract extension on Monday, and both sides say they are getting ready for a strike. 
The action by the United Food and Commercial Workers union means workers could go on strike as early as Friday morning. An earlier extension had been set to expire Saturday night. Workers voted overwhelmingly this month to authorize union leaders to call a strike. 
The workers are in 77 stores in southwest Ohio, northern Kentucky and southeastern Indiana. 
The union set a rally for Tuesday evening in downtown Cincinnati and said union representa­tives will bo meeting with store workers to dis­cuss strike preparations. 

Tl·1 EOBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Credit and oil concerns hurt stocks 
Homebuilder discounts boost housing sales; barrel prices hit all-time high 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK ­Wall Street  
closed slightly lower in  
erratic trading Thursday as  
investors uneasy about the  
eredit markets and record­ 
high oil priees took little sol­ 
ace from reports on new  
home sales and durable  
goods orders.  
The Commerce  
Department said sales of  
new homes rose 4.8 percent  
in September from August's  
levels. The market initially  
popped on the data, as  
eeonomists had predieted a  
decline. But it eventually  
pulled back because the  
sale·s increase was due to a  
big downward revision in  
August's decline, and that  
homebuilders had offered  
discounts in September to  
move inventory.  
"The sad part is, even  
with the discounts, we still  
have inventory overhang.  
And that's a problem," said  
Michael Strauss, chief econ­ 
omist at Commonfund. He  
noted that home priees are  
still falling, as are sales of  
existing homes, whieh make  
up the majority of the hous­ 
ing market.  
Another report showed  
that orders of big-ticket  
items, one gauge of busi­AP  
ness spending, fell 1.7 per­High gas prices are posted at a Union 76 gas station in Berkeley, Calif., on Oct.  
cent in September, following 23. Oil futures surged after government stockpiles unexpectedly shrank.  
August's 5.3 percent drop.  
The economic data drew  might suffer eredit eosts  or 0.86 percent, to  bank will be compelled to  
close attention by Wall  weighed on the Dow Jones  2,750.86.  lower interest rates again to  
Street as investors look for  industrial average, which  Treasury bond prices  boost spending. The central  
clues to determine if the  later rebounded from its  stalled as investors moved  bank reduced rates last  
Federal Heserve will lower  lows.  in and out of the stock mar­ month by a half-percent­ 
rates at its meeting next  The Dow fell 3.33, or 0.02  ket. The yield on the bench­ age-point.  
week.  percent, to 13,671.92 after  mark 10-year Treasury  Many seem to believe the  
Meanwhile, investors also  changing direction several  note, which moves inversely  Fed will cut rates several  
had to contend with higher  times. The blue chip index  to the price, was unchanged  times over the next six  
energy prices -crude oil  was briefly down more than  at 4.35 percent from its  months to keep the econo­ 
spiked to an all-time high of  100 points.  close on Wednesday and  my moving forward, said  
$90.60 a barrel before set­ Broader stock indicators  then rose to 4.38 pereent in  Paul Nolte. director of  
tling slightly lower -and  also fell. The Standard &  after-hours trading.  investments at Hinsdale  
credit worries continued to  Poor's 500 index fell 1.48,  Investors appeared  Associates. However, there  
dog the market. Speculation  or 0.10 percent, to  unsure both about the  does remain some doubt  
that insurer American  1,514.40, while the Nasdaq  direction of the economy  about the Fed's economic  
International Group Inc.  composite index fell 23.90,  and whether the eentral  plan.  

Supre111e Court to rule on Exxon case 
Exxon Mobil, based in Irving, learning of the court's action. 
Associated Press 

Texas, is the world's largest publicly But the justices said they would 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme traded oil company and last year consider whether the company Court agreed Monday to decide posted the largest annual profit by a should have to pay damages at all whether Exxon Mobil Corp. should U.S. company -$39.5 billion. That under the Clean Water Act and cen­pay $2.5 billion in punitive damages result topped the previous record, turies-old laws governing shipping. to victims of the huge Exxon Valdez also by Exxon Mobil, of $36.13 bil­The court has frequently sided with oil spill that fouled more than 1,200 lion set in 2005. business interests in punitive dam­miles of Alaskan coastline in 1989. Arguing against Supreme Court ages and other cases of corporate 
The high court stepped into the review, lawyers for the plaintiffs, liability. long-running battle over the dam­some of whom have died, said the John Paul Jones, a University of ages that Exxon Mobil owes from the damages award is "barely more than Richmond law professor and expert supertanker accident in Prince three weeks of Exxon's net profits." in maritime law, said the court was William Sound that was the worst oil The plaintiffs still living include right to jump into the case because spill in U.S. history. The Exxon about 33,000 commercial fishermen, lower courts long have been divided Valdez ran aground on a reef, erack­cannery workers, landowners, on some of the issues peculiar to the ing its hull and spilling 11 million Native Alaskans, local governments laws coneerning accidents on the gallons of oil. and businesses. They urged the court water. 
Hundreds of thousands of seabirds to reject the company's appeal, say­"The decision in this case could and marine animals died as a result. ing, "After more than 18 years, it is dictate the outcome of a significant 
It is a ease filled with superlatives. time.. for this protraeted litigation to number of cases," Jones said. The award, even after it was cut in end. Exxon said that even if the eourt half by a federal appeals court in Mike Webber of Cordova, Alaska, a finds some money is due, it should December, would be the largest Native Alaskan artist and eommer­rule that the $2.5 billion award vio­punitive damages judgment ever. A eial fisherman, said any money lates the Constitution because it is jury in Alaska awarded $5 billion in would be insufficient. "I ... would too large. The justices said they damages in 1994 and the company have been able to make twice what I would not consider that argument has been appealing the verdict ever make now if the fisheries had stayed when they hear the case early next sinee. healthy," Webber said Monday after year. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
Author 
continued from page 1 
Daughters learn to love or 
hate tlwir bodies based on 
what thny obs!lrVIl from 
their mothers, she said. 
Ma r t i n a Is o p o i n t s to a skew1Hl view of feminism in this gnnnration as a factor for poor body image. Daughters of the younger generation saw their moth­nrs being busy and involved and making their crazy lives look glamorous. 
"Just bncause the door is 

opnn doesn't mean we have 
to walk through it and 
make it look llffortless," 
Martin nxplains. 
Womnn today are also influnncod by the mndia telling thorn that beauty is all in their hands, she said. 
"We are all socialized to bnlinvn that if we have enough power or money we can all look like Nicole Bichie, which is a fallacy," Martin said. 
Martin said changes can be made and that women can help to revPrse thn cur­rent trond of negative body imagn. She said spirituality is one way to do this. 
"Anyway we can ereate lspirituall rituals f'or women. men •. hoys and girls that lwlp us rneonrHH~t our­snlvPs. the bettPr ofT wn'll lw,' Martin said. 
She oiTnrod some advice about dinting. " N n v n r d i n t , " s h ll s a i d . "Never, rwvnr. rwver." 
Dieting, Martin said, is a $30 billion industry, and, 95 pereent of thn time, diets fail. 
Martin also advised all students with eating disor­ders to seek help immedi­atoly, and for all students to find ways to llxercise that they onjoyed, and that "mako your body happy." Martin told all women to find frionds that make them fool beautiful, and avoid people who do not. 
"I nHtlly truly believe that if naeh woman in this room made a 1:onseious effort to chango, we could change tho world," she said. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Please recycle The Observer. 
Physicist accomplishes rare feat 
Garg has two papers published in influential physics journal 
Special to The Observer 
It is not often when a physi­cist has an important paper published in Physieal Heview Letters. considered the most influential journal in physics. So consider the feat achieved by University of Notre Dame nuclear physicist Umesh Garg, who had not one, but two, papers published, baek 
to back, in PHL in October. 
llis first paper, published Oct. 15, measures nuclear incompressibility -an important comporwnt of the Equation of State (EOS) of nuclear matter that relates to measurements of neutron stars, the most dense objects in the universe. Ilis second paper, published Oct. 23, allirmcd a property of the nueleus of an atom, ealled chirality (pronounced ki -rality) and put to rest recent con11icting data that had cast doubts on the nature of chirality in nuclei. 
"Having important papers publislwd in two concurrent research initiativos means things are going extremely well with our research," Garg said. 
In chemistry, a molecule is (~hiral if its mirror image is opposite. It is aehiral if its mirror image is the same as the object itself. 
In particle physics, the chirality of a particle is right-handed if tho direction of its spin is the same as the direction of its motion. It is loft-handed if the directions of spin and motion are opposite. 
Both in chemistry and partiele physics, space inversion changes left-hand­ed into right-handed sys­tems. For a long time, physicists have considered atomic nuclei as achiral. 
But the nucleus of an atom is not a simpln, static object. 
Garg's Notre Dame col­league Stefan Frauendorf showed some timn ago that 

certain nuclei can be viewed more accurately as a clock­work of gyroscopes with all three axes being unequal. His new view of chirality of a nucleus is based on evidence that reversing time converts left-handed configuration of a nucleus into a right-handed one. 
That view of chiralty had been called into question. 
So Garg and his Notre Dame colleagues, including Somsundar Mukhopadhyay, a research visitor from India, went to the Gammasphere, 
Argonne National Laboratory's premier facility for research with gamma­rays, and made preeise meas­urements of electromagnetic transition probabilities. 
"These measurements have affirmed the chiral character and put to rest the doubts expressed recently about the chiral nature of the observed bands in the nucleus of the element praseodymium (Pr) because the electromagnetic transitions did not conform to expectations from chiral bands," Garg said. 
Arrests 
continued from page 1 
NDSJ> will continue to work with area police offieials for the remain­ing three home football games, .Johnson said. 
Law  enforcement offi­ 
cers  will continue  to  be  
on  the  lookout  for  

underage drinkers on campus and at tailgate parties and will arrest those in violations of the laws. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
r-····· 

SAINT JOHN BOSCO 
J>ATRON SAlN'r OF THE YOlJNG
I 

l¥ith good reason the Church made Saint .John Bo!<iCO Patron (Jf the 
young. He cared fin· the homeless youngsters who roamed the city 
street, andfounded a Society, the Salesian,~·, to continue hi."i work. 
T·he Salesians are now the 
Allen continues, ''St. John second largest Religious l~osco became a tireless cat­Order in the Catholi(: Church echist among the young. and hdp the young and the hearing confessions. saying poor in 134 countries. Masses_ and organizing 'ora­
To quote John Allen, the tories· where his boys could Vatican Correspondent For the ·play. study and worship... National Catholic Reporter, 'l'hus the Salesians pastoral "the great Orders have usual­model was forged: solid. ly been born in response to orthodox Catholic piety; an some crisis-the Franciscans, 'in-the-trenches' commitment for example, to urbanize and to lhe young. the poor, and lo the need to evangelize the education; and a smiling cities. the .Jesuits to the Reformation, and closeness to the people." the need for a Catholic counter-offensive. fn describing St. John Bosco's order today F'or the Salcsians it was the Industrial John Allen writes, ''Till:: Salcsians arc seen as Revolution. especially the zones of robustly reliable-not theological innovators, despair, turmoil and revolution on the but down-to-earth, pastors and educators, outskirts of the great industrial cities." and generally with a good sense of humor." 
To r·ead .John Allen's full ar·ticlc about the Salesians, visit: http://nationalcatho.lic rcportcr.m·g/word/pfw063006.htm 
If you are thinking about dedicating your life to the service of the young and poor, consider joining the Salcsians of St. John Bos<.~o. Fot· more infm·mation visit us at: \'VWw.salcsianvocation.com 
m· write to: SALESIANS OF ST..JOHN BOSCO, 315 Self Place, South Orange, N.J 07079 Email: salvoc@}aol.com. Phone: (973) 761-0201 
"/believe that the Salesian.\' pla.'·ed an important role in thefcwmation qfm_v vocation."-Pope John Paul II 

FROM 60LDENDOMETO 60LDENDACHL 
The Central European Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Academic year and semester options 

• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION with Dr. Gernot 0. Guertler, Director of the Central European Studies Program, and CESP returnees on 
Thursday, October 4th and Tuesday, October 30th 5:30PM -120 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15,2007 
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Catholic Digest natnes prof ''hero'' 
Shrader-Frechette acclaimed for environmental justice work 
Special to The Observer 
Kristin Shrader-Frechette, 
F.J. and H.M. O'Neill Professor of Philosophy and concurrent professor of bio­logical sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has been selected by Catholic Digest magazine as one of 12 "heroes for America" ­laypeople living or working in the United States who are performing exemplary work in the spirit of the Catholic faith. The magazine cited her work on behalf of environ­mental justice. 
Shrader-Frechette and the other honorees are profiled in the October issue of the magazine. The only other university professor selected as a Catholic Hero is Paul Farmer, the Harvard University physician and medical anthropologist who is the cofounder of Partners in Health and who was the recipient of an honorary Notre Dame degree last May. 
"The environment is not necessarily a social justice issue, but environmental effects of pollution are social justice issues," Shrader­Frechette said in an inter­view accompanying the Catholic Digest feature. "Environmental injustice ­and by that I mean dispro­portionate pollution forced on children, poor people, minorities and workers -is a social justice issue, because unfair pollution burdens take away not only poor people's money, but something that's even more important: their lives and their health." 
The magazine also cited Shrader-Frechette for involv­ing students in the fight against environmental injus­tice. 
"My students and I (in the Center for Environmental Justice and Children's Health at Notre Dame) work mainly with poor, black, Latino, Native-American, and Appalachian communities," she said. "We simply try to provide some scientific help so that the people are able to protect themselves, especial­ly their children. We can do maybe 30 projects a year, pro-bono. That's a lot, but only because the Notre Dame students are so generous, so brilliant, and so committed to social justice. They're just wonderful." 
Although cancer annually kills 600,000 Americans, Shrader-Frechette says many of these premature deaths are preventable by avoiding scientific errors in impact assessment and by enforcing pollution laws. Government and U.N. groups agree, not­ing that up to 90 percent of cancers are "environmentally induced and theoretically preventable." 
Children are more sensitive to pollutants, Sharder­Frechette said, and their annual cancer incidence rates are increasing 40 per­cent faster than those of adults. She points out that minority cancer rates also are much higher, partly because most industrial pol­luters locate in poor or minority neighborhoods, and minorities must breathe air that is typically twice as pol­luted as in white neighbor­hoods. 
Working with local commu­nity members, Shrader­Frechette and her students revealed both scientific errors and ethical problems in the impact assessment used when, without commu­nity consent, a multinational corporation attempted to site a substandard uranium­enrichment plant in the African-American community of Homer, La. The case is regarded as the first major victory against environmen­tal racism in the United States. 
In 2004, Shrader-Frechette became only the third American to win the World Technology Award in Ethics. The U.S. National Science Foundation has continuously funded her research since 1982. 
Shrader-Frechette, who also is a fellow of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, joined the Notre Dame facul­ty in 1998. She has held sen­ior professorships at the University of California and the University of Florida. An award-winning teacher as well as a researcher, she has published more than 350 articles and 15 books that have been translated into 11 languages. Her 2007 book, "Taking Action, Saving Lives," published by Oxford University Press. has just been nominated for a National Book Award. 
Shrader-Frechette earned her mathematics degree from Xavier University and a doc­torate in philosophy of sci­ence from Notre Dame. She has done post-doctoral work in biology, in economics, and in hydogeology. 

University plans to honorLenz,Lauck 
Special to The Observer 
Sister Jean Lenz, O.S.F., assistant vice president for student affairs at the University of Notre Dame, and the late Rev. Anthony J. "Tony" Lauck, C.S.C., profes­sor of art at Notre Dame, will have their names added to the University's Wall of Honor on Thursday at 1:30 p.m. during a ceremony on the ground floor of the Main Building. 
Notre Dame's president, Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., will preside at the ceremony, and Sister Lenz, along with family members of the late Father Lauck, will be in attendance. 
The Wall of Honor was established in 1999 in the Main Building to mark its reopening following a two­year restoration project. It now features the names of 25 men and women whose con­tributions to Notre Dame life have been "lasting, pervasive and profound." 
A Chicago native and a Franciscan sister of the Congregation of the Third Order of St. Francis of Mary Immaculate, Sister Lenz, who earned a master's degree from Notre Dame in 1967, was among the first women rectors on campus following the University's transition to coeducation in 1972 after 130 years as an all-male institu­tion. 
She headed Farley Hall from 1973 until 1983, when she became the rector and chaplain of Notre Dame's London Program. Since 1984, years she also served as an adjunct instructor in theolo­gy. She is the author of "Loyal Sons and Daughters," an account of her years as an administrator, teacher, men­tor, minister and alumna of the University. 
Father Lauck, who died April 12, 2001, was graduat­ed from Notre Dame in 1942, studied theology at Holy Cross College in Washington, D.C., for four years and was ordained to the priesthood on June 24, 1946. Before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1950, he studied sculpture at the Corcoran School of Art, Columbia University, State University of New York, the Cranbrook Academy and Alfred University and made a yearlong study tour of European art museums. From 1950 to 1973 he taught at Notre Dame and served on the staff of Moreau Seminary, where he also lived. He was chairman of Notre Dame's art department from 1960 to 1967. After his retirement, he continued his art work and remained in residence at Moreau until his declining health required him to move to Holy Cross House in 1998. 
Works by Father Lauck abound on the Notre Dame campus. Among the most visi­ble are a massive replica of his statue of the Visitation on the south side of the Eck Visitors' Center, the stained glass windows in the chapel and library of Moreau Seminary, the statue of Our Lady of the University at the Main Circle of the campus, and the statue of Blessed 
o•o The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and
•o• 
The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide !
o•o 
I 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Business and Human Rights" 
Klaus Leisinger Chairman Novartis Foundation 
Wednesday, October 31, 2007 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

she has served as assistant Brother Andre Bessette, vice president for student C.S.C., in the Basilica of the affairs, and for many of those Sacred Heart. 


r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
1'0. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Norrc Dame, IN 46556 
Emma IN CHIF.l' Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGF.R Ken rowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity Ass·1: MANAGING EI>ITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen L1ngley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDimRS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCFNF. EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madelim· Nics 
AllVEifi1SING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AI> DK~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROU.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obst•rvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) (,j1-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
('i74) 631-)303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Ob~rver is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The ntws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsign~d editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Comnwnrarics, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is ~ncouraged. l.cners ro 1he Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qu~tioiiS TYgarding Obsm1er polici~s should b~ dir«Ud to Editor in ChiifMnddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Olht<rvc·r (lJSP~ W9 .2-41100) i• publi.hcd Mnnd~y chruu~h Frklo~.y c~r.ccp1 cl11rinK ClWll and V,\~olliunlt~,.'rtmh A a•h"'nJlfiun 111 The l)J"Js<;rver i• $1 f)() lin unr ,,~,.,,~lcmk Vcar;$~11iu IIIICICIIICAh'l 
t'\11: {)b"':rv.:r II puhit•hc.-f At POSTMMTIR Ol4 Sotuh Diuina lbll Send ~ddf'Q..'I t:UUC\111111!\ 10: Nn1rt-P.uuc, IN 4f,~r,(~U771J Tht"Oh~rvt"r 
l'cr«'<lk.alt'<lfl.tt(<' p.z1<l01: Nuur D.tmc ro St,xn9 ~nd .uhintou.clm.ulin!C utliu:.. 024 South Dining ltJII Nom: n.mu:, IN ·l(,SSh-11719 
Tht' Ot-.Krvt·r 1~ .a nu:mhcr <~t 1lw: "-o...::wu:J l'l~;"a.\. All rcpwrlu.:uun nWtt\ .uc n:~c:rvcd. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY Karnn Langley Jay Fitzpatrick Maureen Mullen Michael Bryan 

"Wtth a stop light, green means 'Go· and yellow means
Brian McKenzie Matt Gamber 

'Slow down'. With a banana. however, it is quite the 
Graphics Scene 

opposite. Yellow means 'Go·. green means 'Whoa, slow
Matt Hudson Chris McGrady 

down·. and red means 'Where the heck did you get that 
Viewpoint Tae Andrews 
banana?'"
Michelle Johnson 
Mitch Hedberg comedian 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The only winner ofthe War of1812 was Tchmkovsky." 
Solomon Short comedian 
Holiday movie extravaganza 
Tomorrow is Halloween. and that means the holiday season lurks right around the corner. Yes, it used to start with Thanksgiving, but the extra twenty-odd days of November free up a lot or time for mar­keting. And what could usp, the hype more than relent­lessly ground out. tired Hollywood action Iii ms? 
In order t.o facili­tate everyone's enjoyment of the impending movie rush, I've compiled this little list of promising features. Here's a taste of four upcoming visual masterpinces -three action lilms and a eomedy -that will surely whet your appetite for the approaching holiday cinema season. I encourage everyone to look up the trailers for thesP movies on YouTube or their official sites. Wlwn!wnr a two-hour film is boiled down to two minutes chock full of cheesy one-liners, overdone special effects and melodramatic music, even the best description cannot match up. 
"Beowulf" 
This one comes straight out of' the "movins that should never be made unless pnrhaps the BBC does one of those television miniseries" depart­ment. Picture this: Take the most famous Old English epic poem ever, watch "300" a few times. and combine the two. Add Angelina Julie's lips, give her a tail thing and throw in Anthony Hopkins sporting a blatant rip-off of Gimli's dwarf costume. Finally, center the movie around the epic line "I am Beowulf!" screamed by a shirtless hairy guy. 
The film's director, Robert Zemeckis, is behind films like the "Back to the Future" trilogy and "Forrest Gump." I love both of those. Unfortunately. he is now about to ruin one of the most ancient and hallowed pieces of English 

James Dechant 
foregone Conclusion 

literature. Congratulations, Bob. 
"National Treasure: Book of 
Secrets" 

Nicholas Cage plays himself, unlock­ing more American secrets. But hasn't he had this same role before? You know, in movies like "Gone in 60 Seconds," "The Rock," "Con Air," "Face/Off." "8MM," "Matchstick Men," "Lord of War," "Ghost Hider," "Next," the first "National Treasure... " need I go on? 
Well. in this one, Cage once again finds himself on the wrong side of the law. lie plans to kidnap the President of the United States of America in order to steal the "President's Book of Secrets." That book contains informa­tion on the JFK assassination, the Watergate tapes, and Area 51, or so Harvey Keitel tells us. Apparently Nicholas Cage's grandfather was involved in the assassination of Lincoln. lie discovers this when Ed Harris -playing the same CIA dude he plays in every movie -reveals to him missing pages from the diary of John Wilkes Booth. Nick Cage sets out on a quest to unlock the mystery "the world isn't ready to believe." No, I don't think we are ready. Please, please not yet. 
Director Jerry Bruckheimer should probably not be allowed near a cam­era, nor should anyone else remotely involved in the creation of "Bad Boys II," "Coyote Ugly" or this film. 
"Fred Claus" 
Paul Giamatti, Vince Vaughn. The first plays Santa Claus, the second plays Santa's brother Fred. 
I was willing to give this one a chance because I like Paul Giamatti, and I can stand Vince Vaughn. I was ready to ignore certain factors that would seem to foredoom this movie ­how almost every Christmas movie besides "A Christmas Story" bombs, the fact that the plot centers around Santa Claus's brother, etc. 
Then I saw the trailer. Then I real­ized that the movie relies on midget humor (dancing elves, ninja elves. dis­gruntled elves), on the slapstick inter­actions between Vince Vaughn and Santa's helpers as Fred visits the North Pole. Then I realized that, in a better world, this movie would never· have advanced beyond the pitch to producers, and hopefully not beyond the idea in some money-hungry writer's head. 
"Rambo" 
"In the heart of the jungle, blood will flow, and a warrior will come." What? They already made "Hambo" back in the 80s. didn't they? 
Yes. But not like this. 
In the latest story about this action ... hero ... a group of Christian missionaries wants to rent out Hambo's boat and services so he can transport them upriver into Burma. Along the way, many of them are eap­tured and murdered, and Hambo gets the chance to start killing things. lie takes full advantage of this new opportunity to shoot machine guns, swing machetes and kill a buneh of Burmese soldiers. 
Sylvestnr Stallone obviously enjoys his chance to jump back into the com­plex psychological persona of Hambo. You can appreciate his skill in the per­forming arts when he brings his actor's mind to bear on such poignant lines as "Live for nothing ... or die ... for something." Eloquent. Eloquent and profound. 
Make sure you check out the uncen­sored trailer, in which Rambo kills at least twelve people (by my count), including one soldier whose throat Rambo literally rips out with his bare hands. 
Oh, and there are snakes. Cobra snakes. I can't wait for January. 
James Dechant is a senior English and theology major. Questions, com­ments and rude remarks can be sent to him atjdechant@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reconsidering the Victory March 
We write to you today as mother and daughter, alumna and student of Notre Dame. We write about something very dear to the Notre Dame family: The Victory March, or fight song. if you will. Last week­end, we attended the USC game and, along with thousands of other cheering fans, belted out the fight song. Caity, the student, got the chance to sing it with both the student body and with her family. And believe it or not, she sang two different ver­sions. The student body finished off the fight song with. " ... while her loyal sons are marching onward to victory." Our family, however, finished it off with, " ... while her loyal sons and daughters march on to victory." 
You see. Caity and her seven siblings are the proud legacies of two 1980 Notre Dame grads, who taught their kids the latter version. Yes, in the years from 1976-1980, at least some of the members of the Notre Dame student body sang a gender-inclu­sive fight song! So, why the regression to the sexist. exclusive version we sing today? Or at least, why didn't the inclusive version catch on? We have absolutely no idea. It is simply shameful that the Notre Dame student body is perpetuating the cur­rent version, and·we think it's high time we include the loyal daughters of Notre Dame in our Victory March. Coeducation at Notre Dame began 35 years ago, and women now make up nearly 50 percent of the student body. We don't care that only men play football; we sing the song at Notre Dame events of all kinds that include both men and women. 
We suggest that the current history-making pair of female student government leaders take this on and make even more history by including women in the fight song. After all, what a shame it is that male students get to raise their hands in the air on "sons" and female students have to raise their hands on "her," which refers to Our Lady, and not to the women of Notre Dame. 
Caity Schneeman 
senior 
Cavanaugh Hall 
Erin Burns Schneeman Class of 1980 Sr. Paul, Minn. Oct. 27 
Legion Tip Off tonight 

Dear Students: On behalf of the will be held that night, starting at 8 players and coaching staff, I'd like to p.m. in the Joyce Center. This year's thank you for your support last season. event will officially kick off the 2007­With your help, our team was able to 2008 season, featuring special guests, prove many people wrong,_ as we took prizes, team introductions, contests, fourth place in the highly competitive free food, and much more! The 2007­Big East and earned a bid to the NCAA 08 Leprechaun Legion shirt will also be tournament. Don't underestimate the available for free with your purchase impact that your presence and enthusi­of a student booklet. Thanks for all you asm has on our team and on the out­do to make the Joyce Center a true come of the game. The Leprechaun home court advantage, and we look Legion has been instrumental in help­forward to seeing you on Oct. 30. Go ing us move towards the home winning Irish! stnmk record (20 games and count­ing!). Upon return from fall break, be Mike Brey sure to save the date for Tuesday, Oct. Men's basketball head coacb 
30. The Leprechaun Legion "Tip Off' Oct. 15 
Stay classy at games 
During the second half of Saturday's integrity. To those that were chanting game with USC, Pete Carroll challenged -shame on you for not respecting a Notre Dame first down catch while yourself, your classmates or your his team was up 30-plus points. At the future alma mater enough to refrain time, I felt like this was a petty thing to from being loudly vulgar. And to those do on his part, and it upset me, as I'm around them who let them chant ­sure it did a lot of Irish fans. But what shame on you for not having the upset me more was what I heard in the integrity to te1l them to stop. Even background on the TV broadcast of the when we lose, we should still strive to game. During the review of the play, represent Our Lady well and that does­you could pretty audibly hear the stu­n't include chanting classless things at dents chanting an expletive about Pete opposing coaches. No matter how petty Carroll. On a disappointing day, that and annoying they might be. was the only moment where I truly felt embarrassed to be a Notre Dame alum. Andrew Sarna We might lose football games -but we Annapolis, Md. should never lose our self-respect and Oct. 22 
Immigration issue needs more consideration 
"Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled mass­es yearning to breathe free ... " This is the beginning of the inscription on the Statue of Liberty, one of the United States' proudest monuments. It's amazing how much our attitude has changed towards immi­grants since this symbol of hope was erected in 1 S84. Today, presidential candidates' strength on the issue is judged by how tough their policies are on "illegal aliens," rather than on how humanitarian or, at the very least. pragmatic they are. 
Last year I went to El Paso on a trip with twelve other Notre Dame students to get a first-hand look at the immigration issue, and I came back to South Bend with many insights. First, because of how bureaucratic and expensive the legalization process is, it is much easier (and makes much more sense) for immigrants to enter our country illegally. Second, a Border Patrol officer who we met with admitted that of the hundreds of thousands of potential immi­grants apprehended by the El Paso border patrol over the past ten years, zero were suspected terror­ists. Third, when fences went up in Tijuana in the 1990s to prevent immigration flows into California, Latin Americans began entering through the deserts of Arizona, New Mexico and Texas. This treacherous journey has led to hundreds of deaths annually in the deserts of the Southwest. While these facts are overlooked by the popular media in our country, we are constantly bombarded with possibly false claims of how immigrants are putting a strain on our public 
resources. 

What I remember most about my time in El Paso was our group's meeting with two Mexican teenagers who had crossed from Mexico the day before. When asked why he risked so much to come to the United States, one replied that he needed to support his girlfriend who he had just gotten pregnant, and had no opportunity for work in Mexico. The proposed $7 billion dollar fence along the U.S.-Mexico border would attempt to keep thousands of desperate peo­ple like him out. However, history has shown that the fence would probably cause them to lind another, more dangerous way into our country. Why are we willing to go to such lengths to deny help to those in the world who need it most? 
Charlie Cummings JUniOr off campus Ocr. 29 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 Tuesday, October 30, 2007 


MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

You won't find any Go-Go music on rates himself from the other cookie­opening up the entire musical scale on By CORBIN HICKS "Back of My Lac"', which has become a cutter pop acts and displays depth with the song's ending. Scene Writer staple of D.C., Baltimore and the sur­his songwriting. "Pimp In Me" symbolizes the case 
rounding areas. You also won't find The next song is the chart-topping with which one ean relate to the songs. 
Washington, D.C. is not only the any guest appearances on the album. single "Bed." This song has undoubted­Although the majority of tho topies on home of our nation's capital. but it also On songs that seem to beg for a rap ly been added to evnry baby-maker this album have been covernd before, produces really good H&B music from breakdown. Holiday provides his best play list, as J. lloliday does his part to fnw have been done with the amount of time to time. attempt at rapping so as to not disrupt combat low birth rates. He also tries genuineness, ingnnuity or freshness 
Following in thn footstnps of Raheem the continuity of the project. This pro­his hand at making that .I. lloliday provides. DeVaughn, the next great artist to vides an easier listening experience a few dub hangers, It's the universal come from the political capital of our and helps the transition of the album with the tracks following in the footsteps appeal that sticks out the country is .1. Holiday. Despite being from song to song. "Come llere" and most about .I. Holiday.
ofRaheem DeVaughn, the 

deeply entrenched in his I>.C./northnrn The album begins with the title track, "Be With Me." But Somn may not liko the Virginia roots. .J. Holiday has rnleasnd which signifins the upcoming sonic he is able to make next great artist to come occasional use of profan­
an album that is devoid of any regional expnri11nee. You are basically riding an fmtertaining from the political capital ity in their H&B music, llavor. shotgun, in a Cadillac or ricin of your song without the but the songs on this
ofour country is J

ehoicn, with a young man usual vulgarity, album are impossible to who is not afraid to show lewdness and Holiday. overlook in the down­difTnrent emotions. attempts to "make it right beauty that they
Back of My Lac' 

Despite the usual sus­rain." · provide. 
poets in the life of erime, The next song is "Suffocate," in There hasn't been this type of non­gangbanging. and other which hn is figuratively unable to gimmick soul music by a new artist in a 
J. Holiday 
Label: Capitol 

staples of today's urban breathe without being in the presence very long time, let alone an artist that music, Holiday isn't afraid of his signil1cant other. The song works sits on the top of tho pop musie charts.
Recommended Tracks: "Come Here," 

to show a tender side and well, without being overly mushy or For those people who constantly harp
"Suffocate," "Betcha Never Had" and "Bed" 

sing about love and happy soft, and provides a smooth touch after on the declining quality of musie and emotions from time to the upbeat tracks. the lack of a decent artist, "Baek of My time. Another standout track is "Pimp In Lac"' is a reassuring effort from a 
lie follows up the first Me," in which he claims to be willing to musician that should have a future track with two introspec­settle down monogamously after meet­produeing quality music for a long time tiVI) songs, "Ghetto" and ing a woman with the body of a call to come. "Thug Commandments." girl and tho mind of a teacher. lie uti­With these songs, he sepa-lizes his full vocal range on this track. Contact Corbin Hicks at chicks2@nd.edu 

By CORBIN HICKS 
Scene Writer 
l~ven if you worn familiar with the works of Herbie Hancock, Hoger Troutman, T-l'ain. teehno, and ?O's-1~ra disco musk, you still wouldn't under­stand Chromeo musically. 
Chromoo is a duo hailing from Montroal. ()w~bnc, made up of artists P­Thugg and Dave. Thny bring a style of musk that resides in its own gnnrn dun to an infusion of many types of m usie. Tlwy combine guitars, keyboards, syn­tlwsizers. jazz horns. otlwr techno sta­plns and a synthesizing "talk box." 
c ra11ea brl ·IS lllllesa ld across the border 
Imagine tho guy from the hook on 2Pac's "California Love" with the lyri­eism and style of T-Pain. and that gives you a taste of what P-Thugg brings to the tabln. On top of that, you have the traditional harmonizing and voeal skills of the other half of the group, which combine for a musical joyride. 
"Fancy Footwork" is the duo's second releasnd album. and is the follow-up to tlmir debut record "She's In Control." In the three years lwtween releases, Chromeo bncame more eomfortable with their genre-bnnding style of music and display their confidence proudly throughout the album. 
With the album featuring more instru­
mnntation and singing, and less of the talk box, you have to feel that Herbie Hancock is smiling some­where, knowing that somn­one else is able to internal­ize his style of music and combine the same elements of jazz and eleetronic funk in a manner that feels natu­ral. 
The four-minutP, 11-song offering that is "Fancy Footwork" begins with an intro track fit for the Super Bowl. The instrumental is reminiscent of the Chicago 


MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

Bulls theme song during the year they and a groove that an~ surn to make any­went 72-10, and the chanting gives it, as one get up and start dancing and would Kanye West would say, "Stadium be perfect for an early morning jazz Status." workout. 
This leads into the two singles that The next song. "Momma's Boy," is 
were  released from  Chromno's lonn attnmpt to  
the  album,  stray from their proven  
"Tenderoni" and the title track. The for­ While this type ofsound  formula. The song focus­es on the lyrics and the  
mer does enough to keep your attention, gradually introduc­ing you to the trade­ may iwt initially be appealing to all people, the music takes over,  singing rather than the instrumentation, and it's donn v11ry well. The lead singer harmonizes per­ 
mark sound of the  and its excellence  fnetly with the music, and  
duo. The title track, however, is Chromeo  shines through.  the lyrics will undoubtedly put a smile on anyonn's  

at its best, as the upbeat tempo is complemented by the singing of Dave 1. 
The lyrics don't attempt to overpower the musical experience but are intended to add to the landscape of sounds that pleasantly swirl around your ears. The next song is "Bonalied Lovin," which the duo reeently performed on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!". There are a couple of shorter traeks after this song, robbing Chromeo of the opportunity to get funky with thfl music. But then you reach another peak of the album. 
"Opening Up" would have undoubtedly been a hit in the 80's, with hints of the timeless catalogs of Madonna, Prince and Morris Day. The song has a melody 

faee as he sings his heart out to a girl calling him a "Momma's Boy." 
The subsequPnt tracks do well to close out the album on a high note, and the best is "100%." It's almost as ifChronwo donsn't want the party to end, and baits you into restarting the album due to the short duration ofthn songs. 
While this type of sound may not ini­tially be appnaling to all people, the music takes over. and its excellence shines through. Despite not litting into one category, "Faney Footwork" appeals to fans of all genrns and should be given a chance to win ovnr any listener. 
Contact Corbin Hicks at chicks2@nd.edu 
Fancy Footwork 

Chromeo Label: Vice Records 
Recommended Tracks: "Momma's Boy," "Opening Up," "Bonafied Lovin'" and "1 00%" 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
page 13 

MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

said. By TAE ANDREWS According to the New York Times, the Scene Editor controvery surrounds a pair of nooses 
draped over a tree at Jena lligh School 

Furor over the ongoing court cases of in Jena, La., dating back to August of the Jena Six has ignited racial tensions 2006. The nooses were hung over a tree throughout the South and made head­known as the "White Tree," a campus lines across the nation throughout this gathering spot for white youths at the past year. Now the commotion has high school. reached Notre Dame. Although the school administration 
The Multi-Cultural Affairs Committee ended up arresting three students for of Student Government, paired with the their involvement in the afl'air, the inci­
campus chapter of the  dent sparked hostilities  
NAACP, hosts a t-shirt sale tonight in the ·taFort une Student  T-shirt Sale LaFortune Student Center  throughout the commu­nity. Continued com­plaints from school par­ 
CnntP.r from 7 to 10 p.m. and on Thursday from 7 to 9:30 p.m. The n~d with white  Tonight 7 to 10p.m. Thursday  ents prompted an inves­tigation from the United States Attorney's office and the Federal Bureau  
lettering shirts will eost $10 each. The proeeeds from the  7 to 9:30p.m. Shirts $10  of Investigation, but nei­ther agency pressed hate-crime charges  
rnd-with-white-lettP.r­ against anyone.  

ing t-shirts will go to support the Jena In December of last year, the afore­Six Legal Fund through the Color of mentioned "Jena Six" got into an alter­Chang!), an organization which works cation with a local white youth named for social justice. Justin Barker and ended up beating him 
The two groups started planning on up. The injured Barker went to the hos­selling the shirts immediately after the pital, received treatment and was later Jnna Six trials which began in mid­released on the same day. SP.ptP.mbP.r, but due to the design process Local authorities arrested the Jena and having to plan the Six, five of whom were distribution the clothing then charged as adults wasn't finished until with second-degree
"Since we can't be there

about two weeks before murder. The sixth, th!) fall hn"lak, prompt­physically, we want to Mychal Bell, was origi­ing the Committee to help out as much as we nally convicted of delay the sale until after aggravated second­
possibly can" 

the recess. degree battery 
"We didn't want to charges, but was later have to rush it," Lai-Nin Lai-Nin Wan acquitted on the Wan, the chair of the chair grounds that he had Multi-Cultural Affairs been mistakenly tried
Multi-Cultural Affairs 

Committee of student as an adult, although a
Committee

government said in an local judge refused to interview Monday after-release him on bail. noon. On September 20 of 
The eommitteP made 120 shirts for the this year, over 10,000 people thronged sale, with plans to ereate and sell anoth­the streets of .Jena, La., (population er batch should the first run sell out. 3,000) in protest of perceived unfair This will gP-nPrate betwPen $600 and treatment of the six youths. $800 in revenue after expenses should "We're hoping the sale will go well and the t-shirts sPII out. sell out," Wan said. "Since we can't be 
"Student GovPrnmfmt and NAACP there physically, we want to help out as would like to promote tolerance that much as we possibly can." P-xtends past race and the view of a morp, aceepting, global community," Wan Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 


Protesters show their support for the Jena Six on Sept. 18 in Atlanta, Ga. The case has drawn widespread attention and support from around the country. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 30,2007 
NHL 

Jagr breaks teeth, then scores -winning goal in Rangers vvin 
Ovecl~kin scores two as Capitals rout defenseless Maple Leafs; Sharks come from behind over Stars with three late goals 
There wore smiiP.s all around victory.
Associated Press 

the Hangp,rs dressing room after "Jags going, the power play NHW YOHK-Jaromir Jagr the game that produced as many was going ... there were so many lost his teeth tlwn linmd tim net. goals as they'd scored in four good things," Lundqvist said. 
Bloodied in tiH~ mouth in the previous contests combined. "We've been playing great as a sncond rwriod by either the puck The late goals sncured New team but you want to feel like it or an !~rrant stick. the Hangers York's second win in seven pays off, too. And it finally did. captain netted tho winning goal games (2-4-1 ). Nigol Dawes net­It's easy to stay patient when you in the third pPriod or New York's tnd the first for the Hangers, know it's going to pay o!I." :~-I victory over tlH! Tampa Bay who have an NIIL-low 19 in 11 Lightning on Monday night. gamos. Capitals 7, Maple Leafs 1 
lie almost had tlw goal Vincent Lecavalier netted his To Alexander Ovechkin it was rnmovnd as painfully as his tnnth sixth on a seeond-pnriod penalty just another chance to score when Nlll. officials closely shot, but the Lightning -5-0-1 against the Toronto Maple Leafs. reviewed videotape more than at home -fell to 0-4 on the For five other Washington an hour after tlw ganm to sen if road as they started a three-stop Capitals it was a night to finally tho shot got through deanly or trip in the New York area. score. was dnllectnd in by teammatP Their best player was Johan Ovechkin scored his seventh Brnndan Shanahan. llolmqvist, who made 32 saves and eighth goals of the season 
Eith1~r way, the hard one-timnr but couldn't ovorcome four Monday night and five snapped a tie and provided the penalties taken by teammates in Washington players got their winning margin. the third. first in the Capitals' victory over 
The shot came elose to "Our goalie gives us a chance Toronto. Shanahan's skate, and both after two periods and we can't Brian Sutherby, Matt Bradley, players would gladly take cn~dit put 20 minutes of disciplined, Jeff Schultz, Matt Pettinger and for the goal seon~d with 9:15 left. hard hockey together," coach Boyd Gordon all scored their The pair of 600-goal scorers John Tortorella said in an exple­first goals of the season for the and Schultz skated into the slot had two assists, and put the have been struggling otl'ensively tive-filled tirade. "We don't Capitals while center Michael untouched two minutes later for Sharks ahead 3-2 at 14:27. in the early going this season. deserve anything. We spend Nylander had three assists. the goal that chased Toskala. His San Jose added an insurance 
Shanahan scored an undisput­more time looking at referees for "We played very well tonight, team outshot 13-3 to that point. goal 17 seconds later from Steve nd power-play goal 2:44 later to calls, instead of playing. all four lines played well, every­Bernier. stretch the lead to 3-1 and give "It's very frustrating to see one body scored and our goalie Sharks 4, Stars 2 The Sharks scored their final him his seeond of the season -guy show up." played well," said Ovechkin, who Ron Wilson was surprised the three goals on three consecutive one fewer than Jagr. llenrik Lundqvist rebounded has nine goals in as many career Dallas Stars lost a late lead. shots. 
"Broken skatP, broken glove, from a 4-1 loss to Toronto on games against the Maple Leafs. Imagine the San Jose coach's Setoguchi could have easily broken tenth. What a night," Saturday with a 21-save effort "I think we deserved tonight's astonishment that it was a rook­had three goals, but he missed said Jagr, who has two goals in and allowed one goal or fewer win." ie who led the Sharks' rally an open net in the first. two games. "Break my skate, for the fourth time in five games. Olaf Kolzig stopped 32 shots Monday night. "I was definitely nervous in the first period. Second, my glove. His only blemish was for Washington. Devin Setoguchi scored two first period," Setoguchi said. "I Then my teeth. Lecavalier's goal. Alexei Ponikarovsky scored for goals in the third period of his was just kind of scrambling out 
"I didn't see "myself yet. It's Although frustrated by the one the Maple Leafs, who have first NHL game to help the there. But I settled down and llalloween tomorrow. I don't that got away, Lundqvist was allowed an NHL-high 51 goals Sharks come from behind and Coach gave me a chance in the have to buy a mask." pleased with the much-needed this season. They continued their beat the Stars. third." 
poor play at home where they "We're playing a team that's Setoguchi stole the show from have won only three times in like Tupperware. Once they Dallas center Mike Modano, who nine games (3-4-2). This was dose the lid and burp it, you're moved within one of tying the their second 7-1 loss at home, done," Wilson said. "In the past, NIIL record fiJr most poinL<> by a also getting routed by Carolina we haven't had games like this U.S.-born player. Modano had an on Oct. 9. where we've stormed back on assist in the second period to 
"Just: collectively, for some rea­Dallas." give him 1,231 points, behind son, we're very fragile at home," The Sharks came into the only Phil Housley. Leafs captain Mats Sundin said game 24th in the league with 25 "I want to get it behind us and following the latest loss at Air goals, and they had scored just move on," Modano said of Canada Centre. one in each of their last two loss­approaching the mark. 
~·How do I explain it'? I can't," es. Evgeni Nabokov stopped 27 Sundin said. "Just too many The slump continued as San shots for San Jose. Turco, who bmakdowns all over the ice.... Jose trailed 2-1 despite firing oil' faced 16 shots in the first period. We did a lot of good things on 25 shots through two periods on made 31 saves. the road but it seems we're tight Dallas goalie Marty Turco. Matt Niskanen, the 28th over­at home, we try to do too much." But the 20-year-old Setoguehi all piek in the 2005 draft, scored 
Andrew Raycroft, replaced scored twice in a span of 2 min­his first NIIL goal thanks to a starting goalie Vesa Toskala utes, 34 seconds to turn a one­fortunate bounce at 5:14 or the after Washington's fourth goal. goal deficit into a 3-2 lead. second. 
Gordon, standing alone in "It's definitely thrilling," Modano passed the puck to front of the net, re-directed a Setoguchi said. "I never would Niskanen, who lofted a shot from pass from Bradley to make it 1-0 have dreamed for it to happen near the blue linn. The puck at 3:19. Ponikarvosky tied it 31 this way." changed direction after it hit a seconds later, only to see Setoguchi, the eighth overall San Jose defender's stick and Pettinger give the Caps the lead piek in the 2005 draft, tied the went into the net past Nabokov. for good at 5:26 when he flipped game at 2 when he beat Turco at That gave the Stars a 2-1 lead 
AP a rebound over Toskala on a 11:53 of the third. after two periods. This was the power play. He then took a pass in front of third time this season that Dallas Ovechkin made it 3-1 at 11 :57 the net from Joe Thornton, who has lost a third-period lead. 



The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 r.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classitleds is 2 p.m. AI classilieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classitleds for contelll without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Moving on with my life Moving in  Large house available for 2009­ FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME·  
WANTED  with yours. Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of  2010. Full renovations completed this year. Great location on E  ALL HOME GAMES. 574·232·0964.  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our  
the dome Sleep in one of three  Marion. Large common areas, 5  www.victorytickets.com  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  24 hour confidential hotline at 1·  
Granger family seeking babysitter  suites Taste the city water. It is  bathrooms. Also available: 5bdrm 2  Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more  800·No Abort or visit our web site at  
for two boys. Once per week, either  sweet New. New Everything You  bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008­ NO tickets for sale. Best Prices.  information, visit our website at:  www.lifecall.org  
Tues or Thurs afternoons.  can have it for sorne bling Not too  2009. Contact  574·288·2726.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg·  
Call247·1194.  badfor$345thousand  MacSwain@gmail.com  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  superproofer.com  
Secretary help. Computer savvy. typing, organizing, light cleaning.  Call Jan Lazzara on her band 574-233-6141.  Charming home now available for Navy,AF & Duke. Reserve now for  PERSONAL  in THE OBSERVER. If you or sorneone you care about  Adopt: a young loving couple long to share their hearts and home with  
Call Terry 360-4192. Pays well.  FOR RENT  JPW and Commencement! Great reviews, wonderful place & reason- Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free.  has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  a newborn. Will provide endless love. Expenses paid. Call Eileen  
""'  FoR SALE  Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to  able rates! 574-286-9995.  Call for group discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed!  shtml  and Ed 1·800·718·6577.  
1990 Volvo Station Wagon. Only  campus, washer/dryer, landlord does the yardwork. $750/month.  TICKETS  Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas,  j willys bar and grille www.jwillys.com Monday: 35 cent  Do you need childcare? Lena s Little Angels has 1 opening. I spe·  
103k. Good shape, Reliable,  No pets. No section 8.  S.Padre, Florida.  wings Tuesday: $1 tacos Thursday:  cialize in infants; 2 blocks south of  
Cheap. Classic! Asking $1950. Dan  WANTED· NO FOOTBALL TIX.  800·648-4849 or  happy hour buffet 5-?pm. Now  campus. $110/week. 261-5435  
Lindley (Fac.) 574·631-3226  57 4-250·1266.  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  www.ststravel.com  hiring servers  Angelena  



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 CoMrtLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Women's Soccer Coaches' Poll 
team  record  previous  
1  UClA  11+2  1  
2  TexasA&M  13-2~1  3  
3  Virginia  10+4  4  
4  Purdue  14+2  5  
5  Stanford  10·2·2  2  
6  Portland  10·3·0  7  
7  North Carolina  13·3·0  9  
8  Texas  11-2·3  6  
9  usc  11+2  10  
10  Florida State  10·3·2  12  
11  Santa Clara  10·3·3  11  
12  Tennessee  11-2-2  13  
13  Penn Stale  12·3·1  8  
14  Boston College  9·3-3  14  
15  NOTRE DAME  11-4-1  22  
16  Missouri  11-4·0  16  
17  San Diego  11-1·3  18  
18  Connecticut  11·3·1  15  
19  West Virginia  11-4·1  25  
20  Georgia  12·2-2  17  
21  California  8·4-0  19  
22  Wake Forest  8·5-3  NR  
23  BYU  12·2·2  21  
24  Florida  9·4-2  NR  
25  Clemson  8·4-4  20  

NCAA Men's Soccer Coaches' Poll 
team record previous 
1 Wake Forest 11-0-2 2 2 Connecticut 12-2-1 1 3 Santa Clara 9-1-4 3 4 Virginia Tech 8-1-4 5 5 SMU 9-2-2 6 6 Brown 10"1-1 8 7 NOTRE DAME 9-3•3 4 8 Creighton 8·1-4 10 
g 
Northwestern 9·2·2 9 10 Virginia 8-3-2 7 11 Indiana 9-4-2 16 
12  Boston College  8·3-1  13  
13  Harvard  9-2-2  11  
14  Tulsa  8-2-2  21  
15  Saint louis  7-2-3  12  
16  Michigan State  10-h3  19  
17  Akron  10-2-2  23  
18  Furman  13~2;0  14  
19  UCSB  7-3-3  15  
20  west Virginia  9-5-0  20  
21  New Mexico  9-3-1  22  
22  South Florida  9-3-2  18  
23  California  8-4·1  24  
24  Duke  7·5·0  17  
25  Ohio State  9·3·3  NR  


MIAA Women's Soccer Standings 
team  league  Qverall  
Calvin  9·0-0  1H-1  
Kalamazoo  6-2-1  11-4-2  
Albion  6·2·1  12·3·2  
Hope  6-2-1  1o-7-1  
SAINT MARY'S  3-4-2  7-5-5  
Alma  3-5·1  8·8-2  
Adrian  2-7·0  5·12-1  
Olivet  1-6·2  6•9·3  
Tri·State  0·8·0  0·15·2  


around the dial 
NBA 
Trail Blazers vs. Spurs 9 p.m., TNT 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Major League Baseball had this message for Alex Rodriguez and agent Scott Boras: Shame on you. 
Boras announced during Game 4 of the World Series on Sunday night that A-Rod was opting out of the final three seasons of his contract with the New York Yankees. The timing left baseball offi­cials livid. 
"We were very disap­pointed that Scott Boras would try to upstage our premier baseball event of the season with his announcement," Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer, said 

Monday in an e-mail to The Associated Press. 
"There was no reason to make an announcement last night other than to try to put his selfish interests and that of one individual player above the overall good of the game," DuPuy said. "Last night and today belong to the Boston Red Sox, who should be cele­brated for their achieve­ment, and to the Colorado Rockies, who made such an unbelievable run to the World Series." 
Red Sox fans sure took notice fast. After their team won the title for the second time in four sea­sons, they stood behind the visitors' dugout at Coors Field and chanted: "Don't 
IN BRIEF Girardi offered Yankees' 
vacant managerial spot 
NEW YORK -The New York Yankees picked experience over popularity, offering the manag­er's job to Joe Girardi at the risk of watching Don Mattingly walk away from the franchise. 
Beloved as team captain, Donnie Baseball was the early favorite to replace Joe Torre and openly coveted the spot. After finding out Monday he didn't get it, Mattingly told the Yankees he had no interest in returning next year as bench coach or in any other coaching position. 
"Don was extremely disap­pointed to learn today that he wasn't the organization's choice to fill the managerial vacancy," Mattingly's agent, Ray Schulte, said in an e-mail. "Instead, he was informed the organization offered the position to Joe Girardi." 
sign A-Rod!" 
"Kind of strange timing," Red Sox president Larry Lucchino said after Boston completed its sweep of Colorado. 
New York, which failed to make the World Series in all of Rodriguez's sea­sons, maintained Monday that it will not attempt to re-sign A-Rod now that he has opted out. 
"No chance," Hank Steinbrenner, George's son, said Monday at Legends Field. "Not if it's made official." 
Hank Steinbrenner did not make much of Boras' timing. 
"It doesn't matter to me," he said. "But I'm sure there's a lot of people that 

.. 
aren't very happy about it. Other baseball people, the commissioner's office, the Red Sox." 
Hank Steinbrenner said the team left messages with Rodriguez, and "we really wanted to meet with him." 
"We wanted him to stay a Yankee. We wanted to let him know how much we wanted him," he said. "The bottom line is ... do we really want anybody that really doesn't want to be a Yankee? How the heck can you do that? Compare him with (Derek) Jeter. Jeter, since he was a little kid, all he ever want­ed to do was play short­stop for the Yankees. That's what we want." 
Cowboys lock up quarter­
back Romo for six years 
IRVING, Texas -Tony Romo didn't have to wait until the off­season to get his big payday from the Dallas Cowboys after all. 
Romo has agreed to a six-year, $67 million deal that will be announced Tuesday, according to a person familiar with the deal who requested anonymity because the contact has not been announced. 
The contract, which will become effective this week and provides salary cap relief for Dallas, includes $30 million in guaranteed money. 
"It's a great feeling you have when the organization and the people stand behind you, and you can be the quarterback for a long, long time," Romo said. "It's a neat feeling that, 'You're our guy, we like you.' ... It makes you feel good as a person and a player." 
World Series celebrations 
cut short by 37 arrests 
BOSTON -Police in riot gear cleared several large crowds gath­ered around Fenway Park early Monday after the Red Sox won their second World Series title in four years. Police said they made 37 arrests, mostly for disorderly con­duct. 
Thirteen people were arrested after they refused to leave the Kenmore Square area near Fenway Park, police said. After police told a large crowd to leave, several officers were struck by rocks and bottles. Sixteen cars in one area were van­dalized. 
No serious injuries were reported. 
Young people sprayed each other with beer and some climbed street signs or utility poles. 
"Two World Series in four years is pure heaven," said Andrew Dumas, a Boston University student from West Boylston. 
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

.. 

i . 
f 
I I I 
.... 
~. 
~--., .. ~, 


~Amy's no ugly betty.* pW C • tVI© [h)~ 
The Firm now playing on Channel 2. 
*connectedthinking 
C 2007 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. •connectedthinking is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Alun1ni, Dillon resun1e rivalry 
By ERIC PRISTER & JARED ]EDICK Sporrs Writers 
Dillon and Alumni resume their game tonight at Riehle Field that was stopped on Oct. 18 due to a tornado warning at the half. 
The Big Red have already clinched a playoff berth, but they want to make sure that both sides of the ball are ready to go when the postseason starts. 
"We want to go into the play­off's clicking on all cylinders," Dillon senior captain Alex Duffy said. 
Dillon will also look to improve its playoff seed with a win. 
"This game has to do with being the eighth or the seventh seed," Duffy saitl. "Either way we have a tough opponent, but I would much rather be a lower seed." 
Duffy stressed the importance of keeping his team focused. 
"Last year we came into the Alumni game 0-3 and helped spoil their season. The roles are reversed this year, and they are looking for some revenge," Dully said. "It's a rivalry game and it's interhall football. Anything can happen." 
The Dawgs come into tonight's game at 0-3, but a rivalry game against Dillon always gives them reason to come out and play. 
"It's obvious right now that we have nothing to play for except pride," Alumni captain Bret Shapot said. "What makes this game even bigger for us is it is against Dillon. When we play Dillon, it makes no differ­ence whether we are 3-0 or 0­3." 
Alumni will look to fmish the season strong and begin to pre­pare for next year. 
"All our younger guys are going to play a big role in this game," Shapot said. "At the same time, the veterans are going to get one final shot on the field. Everyone's going to make a contribution, and if we can come away with a win, that's all I can ask for. Then Alumni can ride that into next year." 
Keenan vs. Stanford 
The Battle of the Chapel, orig­inally schedule for Oct. 18 but postponed due to weather, will conclude tonight on Riehle Field as Keenan and Stanford play for the chance at an undefeated season. 
"It is always good to beat Stanford. In fact, our rector pulled me into his office and told us to win," sophomore cap­tain Pat Burns said. 
The naming rights for the chapel shared by the two adjoined dorms is up for grabs, as is the No. 1 seed in the play­offs. Keenan (3-0) is coming off its bye week after rolling over Alumni for a 26-0 victory. The team remained humble, howev­er, and does not want to over­look a strong Stanford squad. 
"We made a lot of mistakes. We need to try and cut out the holding penalties and move the ball forward," Burns said. 
Rust is a definite concern for the Knights, who have not played a game in a week and a half. 
"We have been working on a lot of offensive line [play]," Burns said. "We do not want to change too much, and we want to be ready." 
Freshman Brian Castello will call the signals for Keenan. 
"He is really getting used to the whole interhall thing," Burns said. 
Leading the rushing attack is junior Alex Gonzalez, who Burns said is talented enough to be playing ball on a varsity team somewhere. 
The Knights have relied on their strong defense for much of this year, giving up only six points in three games. 
Countering the potent Knights is an equally talented Stanford (3-0) football team. The Griffms come into the game on short rest and after winning a sloppy game against mediocre Keough. 
"It should not have been as close as it was. We made a lot of mistakes," senior captain Rob Huth said. 
The Stanford defense has been just as strong the Knights', holding opponents scoreless all season until the fourth quarter against Keough. 
The defensive line, led by sophomore defensive tackle Rob Huguelet, has been espe­cially good for the Griffms. 
The Stanford offense has a good mix of new faces and old, including several explosive players at the skill positions, highlighted by junior quarter­back Brian Salvi and senior running back Tregg Duerson. 
"If we want to win this game, we are going to have to have a complete game," Huth said. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu, Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles prepared for conference tourney 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
After going 2-3 in their matches over six days, the Belles will head into the MIAA tournament tonight against Tri-State with one day of rest. 
Saint Mary's began fall break with two matches Oct. 20 against conference foe Kalamazoo and Defiance. The Belles swept by Kalamazoo 3.-0 (30-28, 30­27, 30-27), but rebounded to beat Defiance 3-0 (30-26, 30-22, 30-25). 
"We lost [junior middle blocker] Cathy Kurczak for the season due to illness. So, Kalamazoo was our first match without her that first day of break," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "We had some adjusting to do [junior] Kaela Hellmann moved from the outside attacking position to the middle and [sophomore] Kathleen Mills stepped into the outside position that Kaela vacated." 
The Belles had only one day off before they took on Alma on Oct. 22, and they were in for a shock in the opening game. They, howev­er, pulled the game out and defeated Alma 3-1. 
"Our strongest game lof the week] was against Alma," Schroeder-Biek said. "Alma had made some line up changes and were so much 
stronger than the last time we played them earlier this sea­son. They caught us off guard that first game of the match and beat us solid.Their block­ing was incredible. Games two through four though, we came out strong, determined to win and made them chase 
us." 

With the win versus Alma under their belts, they had only one more day off before taking on first-place Calvin. 
No. 16 Calvin took out Saint Mary's 3-1, but three Belles had 10 or more kills. Hellmann had 13 kills to go along with her team-best 14 digs. Freshman outside hit­ter Andrea Sage notched 12 kills and tied Hellmann with 14 digs. Sasgen also had two solo blocks and three block assists. Sophomore middle blocker Lorna Slupczynski rounded out the double-fig­ure kills with 11. 
In the final match of the week against Tri-State ­who will be the first team Saint Mary's will face in the MIAA tournament -Saint Mary's lost 3-1 (30-26, 30­23, 27-30, 30-22). 
To get ready for the tour­nament, Schroeder-Biek said the Belles will need to put everything into perspective. 
The fifth-seeded Belles will play fourth-seeded Tri-State tonight at 7 p.m. in Angola, Mich. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO1@saintmarys.edu 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 
Men take fourth, vvon1en place sixth at Big East 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sporrs Writer 
At the Big East championship meet at the E.P. "Tom" Sawyer State Park in Louisville, Ky., the Notro Dame moil's and women's teams finished fourth and sixth, respectively, in the first install­ment of the postseason. 
The men, who entered the meet ranked No. 13 in the USTFCCCA poll, finished with 93 points, 38 more than conference champion Louisville. Georgetown (60 points) and Providence {74 points) also finished in front of the Irish. Junior Patrick Smyth once again led the way for his team, finishing with a time of 23:28.50 and finish­ing third on tho individual leader­board. Senior Bobby Curtis of Villanova won the individual title with a time of 23:08.85. 
Senior Jake Watson finished second for the Irish and 12th overall with a time of 24:05.65. Both Smyth and Watson received All-Big East honors for their efforts. 
Senior Brett Adams (20th), sophomore Jake Walker (26th), and freshman Dan Jackson (32nd) rounded out the scoring for the Irish, while seniors Dan Curran (33rd) and Mike Popejoy (36th) posted two of the three fastest times in the meet that were not factored into team scores. 
This was the 12th year of Big East competition for the Irish men, and they have never failed to finish in the top five in confer­ence. 
On the women's side, the Irish finished sixth with 142 points, while conference champion West Virginia finished with 77 points. Providence, Georgetown, Syracuse and VIllanova rounded out the top five. 
Sophomore Lindsey Ferguson posted the best time for the Irish, finishing in 21:13.35, good enough for 14th overall as well as All-Big East honors. Freshman Marissa Treece (26th), junor Becca Bauman (28th), and senior Ann Mazur (32nd) finished sec­ond, third and fourth for the Irish, respectively, separated by just over four seconds. Junior Emily Wauford was the fifth and final scorer, fmishing 42nd overall with a time of21:56.70. 
Both the men and the women will be back in action on Nov. 10., when they will travel to Bloomington, Ind., to compete in the NCAA Great Lakes Regional meet. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Irish drop three over break 
cessful. (5-5), the Irish were unable to By ELLYN MICHALAK The Irish first traveled to pull off the win. Sports Writer Baton Rouge, La., to compete "Their defense just took us 
in a non-conference match apart. UConn just played out­
Notre Dame easily won a against LSU. The Irish nar­standing defense, which is conference game to start off rowly lost the match 3-2 (30-very frustrating to see in an its fall break schedule before 27, 28-30, 30-16, 26-30, 15-opponent," Stasiuk said. dropping three straight road 15), after battling for five Phillips again led the Irish games against top teams. games. offense, but her 14 kills were 
The Irish began the week on "We had a really slow start not enough to defeat the Oct. 19 by defeating DePaul 3-against LSU in the first tough Huskies defense. 0 (30-12, 30-13, 30-15). The game," Stasiuk said. 'The rest On Sunday, the Irish complet­Irish dominated, and sopho­of the match we were playing ed their fall break trip by more middle catch-up. going to New York with hopes blocker Kim Even though of beating No. 22 St. John's. Kristoff's five "Even though we we fought The Red Storm is currently aces combined hard in the second in the Big East with a
fought hard in the
with freshman end, we could 9-1 conference record and an libero Megan end, we could never never make overall record of 24-3. St. Dunne's nine up for the first John's outstanding .594 hit­
make up for the first 
digs to aid the game." ting percentage ultimately
game.
Irish victory Stasiuk led allowed them to dominate the over the Blue the Irish in Irish defense, and the Red Demons. Adrianna Stasiuk the match Storm ultimately swept the "Against with 15 kills match 3-0 (30-21, 30-24, 30­
Irish captain
DePaul, every­and 21 digs, 23). one was moti-placing her "St. John's middles ran a vated from point one through third in Notre Dame's all-time very fast offense, and they the end of the game," senior dig history. Sophomore out­were very efficient hitters," captain Adrianna Stasiuk side hitter Serinity Phillips Stasiuk said. "Their defense said. "It was a total team also recorded top marks with and aggressive serving were effort. There were no let ups, 20 kills and 17 digs. Despite tough to beat." and consistent energy." senior setter Ashley Tarutis The Irish will continue their 
Although freshman middle aiding the offense with 57 conference season this Friday blocker Kellie Sciacca earned assists, the Irish weren't able with a home match against the Big East's freshman of the to win the close fifth game. Georgetown, followed by week award for the second The Irish then traveled to another home match on time this season, Notre Storrs, Conn., with hopes of Sunday against South Florida. Dame's team efforts in the beating Connecticut, but three road games this past despite having the same con­Contact Ellyn Michalak at week did not prove as sue-ference record as the Huskies emichala@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
~======~==========~~========~~~========~============~==========~ 
NFL 
Codefendents may weaken O.J. case 
Associated Press 
LAS vm;AS -Cutting deals with ~~o-ddPrHlants to tflslif'y against 0 ..1. Simpson could undnreut pros1~cutors if' they nvnr rwnd to eonvi nco a jury llw f'ormnr football star is guilty of' snrious crinws. legal nxpnrts said Monday. 
But that rould happen only if' 
llw casn makes it past a prnlirni­
nary !waring nnxt wonk bd'orn 
a judgn whosp main concnrn 
will hn what the evidnncn is 
rallwr than wlwrP it came from. 
or tlw l'ivl' men chargnd with 
Simpson in a hotl'l-roorn !~on­
frontation with sports rnmnora­
bilia dnalPrs. thmn havn agreml 
to plnad guilty and tnstif'y 
against him. 
"This is a basic prosecution l<u~tic that is wry nll'ectivn," said . Jody Armour, lL criminal law prof'nssor at thn University of' Soutlwrn California. "Its great­nst wnaknnss is that tlw jury is going to lwar from thn dnfnnsn that tho only rnason tlwy'rn tns­tii)Jing is bncausn thny cut a deal that can bnrwlit tlwm." 
Simpson co-ddimdant Michael Md:linton told a judge Monday that hn will plt~ad guilty Nov. 13 to robbery and conspiracy to commit roblwry. The 49-yoar­old Las Vngas man could nnd up bning tlw star witrwss. 
M<~Ciinton's lawynr said he can tnstif'y that Simpson asked him to bring guns to a room at a l.as Vngas casino hotel to get itnms that Simpson said was his. That would contradict Simpson's elaim that no guns wnn~ involved. 
McClinton wielded a gun and actnd likn a polke ol'fker Sept. 13 when Simpson and the oth­ers allegedly robbed collectibles dealers Bruce Fromong and Alfred Beardsley, according to policn rnports. McClinton's lawyer said his dient worked as a Sf)curity guard and had a con­cealnd wnapons permit. 
Authorities say memorabilia taken included football game balls signed by Simpson. Joe Montana lithographs, baseballs autographed by Pete Hose and 
Duke Snidnr, photos of' Simpson 
with the lleisman Trophy, and 
framed awards and plaques, 
together valued at as much as 
$100,000. according to police 
rnports. 
New York dnfense lawyer 
Michael Shapiro called prosecu­
tion ol"fnrs of plea deals and 
immunity "a standard way of 
building your ease." 
"Ultimately, it will 1~ome down 
to wlwther a jury will believe 
wHrwssns who have cut deals to 
testify," said Sha:piro, who pro­
vidnd telnvision commentary 
during the trial in which 
Simpson was aequittnd of mur­
der in the 1 994 slayings of his 
wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, 
and her friend, Honald 
Goldman. 
McClinton's agreement to enll)r a plea was not a surprise. said Simpson lawyer Yale Galanter. who said he believed McClinton will bn thn Jinal coop­erating witness. 
Walter Alexander, 46, a Simpson golring buddy from Mesa. Ariz., has plnaded guilty to conspiracy to commit rob­bery, and Charles Cashmom, 40, a union laborer from I,as· Vegas, has pleaded guilty to felony accessory to robbnry. 
"What this comns down to is the real bad guys are pointing a linger at O.J., and the prosecu­tion is giving away the court­house to try to shore up their case," Galanter told The Associatnd Press. "We look for­ward to cross-examining these witnesses." 
Simpson and eo-defendants Clarence Stewart and Charles Ehrlich each f'aee 12 criminal charges in the preliminary hearing beginning Nov. 8, ineluding kidnapping, armed robbery, assault with a deadly weapon, conspiracy and coer­cion. A kidnapping conviction alone could result in a sentence of life in prison with parole. 
McClinton could get no more than 11 years in prison under his plea deal; Alexander faces six years at most and Cashmore Jive years. All could receive pro­bation after testifying. 

MLB 

Tigers acquire Renteria from_ Braves 
Associated Press 

DETROIT -The Detroit 
Tigers made the first splash in 
baseball's offseason as they 
addressed a pressing priority. 
Again. 

Detroit filled its No. 1 void 
Monday, acquiring shortstop 
Edgar Renteria and cash from 
the Atlanta Braves for two 
prospects. 

Shortly after reaching the 
World Series last season, the 
Tignrs pulled ofT the Jirst major 
move when they traded for 
Gary Sheflield. 

"The Tigers don't wait around for tho winter meet­ings, when all the owners and agents get involved," All-Star catcher Ivan Hodriguez told The Associated Press. "We got Sheffield early last year and now we got Henteria right away. 
"I think this was a good move because Renteria is a great player, who is a winner with a championship under his belt." 
Detroit hopes this year's deal at the start of the offseason, necessitated by shifting Carlos Guillen to first base, helps the franchise get back to the post­season after falling short this year with 88 wins. 
"We were able to address our biggest need, heading into the winter, with one of the best shortstops in the game," Tigers president and general manag­er Dave Dombrowski said on a conference call. 
Henteria, a five-time All-Star, hit .332 with 12 homers and 57 RBis in 124 games with Atlanta this season. 
In exchange for the 32-year­old Henteria, Detroit gave up right-hander Jair Jurrjens and 
minor league outfielder Gorkys 
Hernandez. 
"We gave up a couple of good 
players, but in order to acquire 
a player like Edgar we knew 
we had to give up some tal­
ent," Dombrowski said. 
With Dombrowski running the front office and eurrent Tigers manager Jim Leyland in the dugout for the Florida Marlins, Renteria ended a thrilling World Series Game 7 in 1997. Ifis hit with two outs in the bottom of the 11th inning gave Florida its l'irst World Serio~ championship with a 3-2 win over the Cleveland Indians. 
''I'm real happy to be a Detroit Tiger player," Rent(~ria said. "I know Dave and Jim Leyland and I think I'm going to be comfortable in Detroit." 
Leyland said the Tigers aro "thrilled to death" to add Henteria. 
"lie was a part of the biggest night of my life in 1997," Leyland said. "To be reunited with Edgar is a thrill." 
The Braves were willing to part with Henteria in what was Frank Wren's first major move since taking over as general manager because they have shortstop Yunel Eseobar, who turns 25 later this week. 
Wren replaced John Schuerholz, who moved up to team president after serving 17 years as GM, and made the deal with Dombrowski, whom he worked with in Florida and Montreal. 
"John is the president of the club, and you deal with him like any dub president," Wren said. "You inform him what you are doing, but don't neces­sarily give him a blow by blow." 
Wren said the deal was only 
the first of the Braves' oll'sea­
son moves. 
They are eager to bolster 
their starting rotation, which 
was basieally John Smoltz, Tim 
Hudson and pray for rain this 
past season. Getting rid of 
Henteria's salary provides llex­
ibility to make additional 
deals. 
"This trade wouldn't make 
much sense in a vacuum if it 
was tho only deal we were 
going to mako," Wren said. 
Wren wouldn't reveal the amount of cash sent to Detroit to eover part of Henteria's con­tract, but said it wasn't as much as the $8 million that Boston agreed to pay wlwn it. traded him to thn Braves after the 2005 season. Thn Hnd Sox agreed to cover the $3 million buyout if' Henteria opts out of' his $11 million option for 2009. 
Escobar show<~d enormous promise in his rookie season. Tlw Cuban dnl'eetor played all over the inl"ield and batted .326 with five homers and 28 HB!s. 
"We felt like this was the one area whore we could aequire talent as well as put ourselves in" position to make other moves," Wren said. 
.Jurrjens started snven games with Detroit last year and was 3-1 with a 4.70 EHA. lin was 7-5 with a 3.20 EHA in 19 starts for Double-A Erie. 
The native of Curacao allowed one hit in his second major league start, he Iping Detroit beat th<~ AL-ehampion Cleveland Indians 2-1 in latt~ August. 
"For a young kid, he's got a good arm," Cleveland's Casey Blake said after the game. 


University of Notre Dame's Study Abr·oad Progran1 in 
Angers, France 
"'Should I stay or should I goT" 
INFORMATION 
MEETING 
FINAL INFO SESSION BEFORE AJ>PLJCATJON DEADLINE 
\Vith Angers' Progran1 Cooa~dinator and returnees of the program 

·················--·-··-------­
Thursday, Novetnber 1, 2007 5:30 -(1:45 PlVI )!~ ....!~.~!~~~:tolo Classrootn Buil<f..i..r.~g 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15" 2007 For Academic Year 2008-2009 Fall 2008 and Spring 2009 Applications available: W\V\:v.nd.cdu/~ois/ 


Tuesday, October 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

NFL 
Favre TD pass tops Denver 
Jennings catches 82-yard bomb in overtime for Green Bay victory 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Graybeard Brett Favrn certainly isn't running low on arm strength or signa­ture moments. 
On the first play following the kickotl' in overtime, Favre con­nected on an 82-yard touch­down pass with Greg Jennings and the Green Bay Packers defeated the Denver Broncos 19-13 on Monday night. 
"I feel like I've been on some better teams, but it's hard to doubt this team," Favre said. "That was fun. I can't wait to watch the tape." 
Denver had tied the score at 13 on .Jason Elam's 21-yard field goal as time ran out in regulation, setting the stage for yet another Favre comeback. 
Green Bay won the coin toss and on the first play, Jennings was matched up in man-to­man coverage on the left side. Favre, who threw a 79-yard touchdown pass to James Jones in the first half, hit Jennings in stride at the Denver 40. Cornerback Dre' Bly had no shot at catching the speedy wide receiver who trot­ted into the end zone as Favre rushed to celebrate Green Bay's first 6-1 start in five years. 
It was the second-longest TD pass in NFL overtime history. On Nov. 10, 1985, Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Ron .Jaworski and wide receiver Mike Quick combined on a 99­yard play. 
"WP. knew if we could get by thmn we'd have a chance to scorn," Jennings said. "That's 
A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 
Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, heartyfood and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates l..odge has hotel roomsatreasonable ratesfur upcomingND-fuotballweekends.) 
Waterford 
estates lod:5e 
52890 S.R. 933, just north of the Notre Dame campus and minutes from downtown South Bend. Call toll free at 877-783-8496 or online at www. waterfordestateslodge.com. 
, 
what happened with James... Some people say we don't have speed but today we made it happen." 
Some people were also say­ing Favre didn't have any more of those kinds of passes left in his arm. · 
Even Favre has suggested he's losing some zip. 
"Brett will say, 'I don't know if I have anything left in the tank,' and we're thinking, 'What is this guy talking about?' He's 70 years old and overthrowing us in practice ­a lot," Jennings said. 
The Monday night stage has provided some of the best moments in Favre's career, from the incredible game in Oakland following the death of his father, to his game-winner to Antonio Freeman in over­time against Minnesota. 
Add this to the list. Maybe it belongs at the top. 
It was the Packers' first win in six trips to Denver and their first overtime win on the road since Dee. 12, 1983, at Tampa Bay, in Howard Cosell's last tel­evision broadcast. 
The Broncos (3-4) sent it into overtime with a drive that began at their own 7 with 2:27 left. 
Out of timeouts, the field goal unit scrambled onto the field and Elam calmly nailed the kick, just as he did two months ago when the Broncos ran the same fire drill to beat Buffalo as time expired in the opener. 
"It's tough. Come down there tie it up and have a chance to win," Broncos' quarterback Jay Cutler said. "First, play, they win it. That's Brett Favre. I·le's a quarterback that knows how to win and has been doing it for many years. It's still tough." 
Favre, who had only thrown 20 passes over 20 yards all season as the underneath game worked so well, had but­terflies when Elam tied it up. 
"I was nervous as heck," he said. "I haven't been in too many overtime games. We got the ball and I figured we prob­ably had one chance. If we don't go down and do some­thing, this is probably it. Don't screw it up, whatever you do." 
Denver almost had to share the spotlight with the Colorado Rockies, who were scheduled to play Game 5 of the World Series on Monday night at Coors Field before they were swept by the Boston Red Sox Sunday night. 
Instead, they shared it with Favre, who was criticized for a series of underthrown passes against Washington last week. 
Now he's 6-1 for the third time in his career. 
In 1996, Favre and the Packers parlayed a similar start into their Super Bowl title. The Packers also started out 6-1 in 2002, when they fin­ished 12-4 but were done in by injuries and bounced out of the playoffs in the first round by Atlanta. 
Looking nothing like his 38 years, Favre outshone Cutler, widely considered the only passer in the league whose arm strength can rival his. 
Favre finished 21-of-27 for 331 yards and a 142.4 passer rating. 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles fall in first round of MIAA tourna111ent 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's drew its season to a close Saturday after a 1-0 loss to Hope in the first round of the MIAA tournament. The Belles fmished their season with a con­ference record of 3-4-2 and over­all at 7-5-5, landing them in fifth place for the conference. 
The Belles played their last game Saturday in their third match against Hope this fall, and had their third loss against the Flying Dutchmen. They didn't score, but junior forward Lauren Hinton had three shots on goal and sophomore midfielder Katie Wehrli and sophomore defense­man Bridget Ronayne both came up with one. 
Hinton finished conference play with four goals, placing her in the top 12 of the conference. She was followed by Wehrli and Katy Durkin, who both had three goals for Saint Mary's, and Bridget Ronayne and Julia Gragtmans with two. 
The Belles scored 13 goals dur­ing conference play this season. Julia Gragtmans, Sarah DuBree and Wehrli all had two assists in the MIAA. 
Saint Mary's was led on offense by Lauren Hinton, who was side­lined with injury at the start of conference play, but made a strong comeback the rest of the season. 


Her injuries, and those of soph­omore Micki Hedinger, gave new players a lot of playing time and a chance to show their talent on the field. Freshman midfielder Gragtmans was a key player for the Belles this season, with six goals and multiple assists. 
Senior goalkeeper Amy Mahoney made over 67 saves and helped the Belles win a tough match against Kalamazoo at the beginning of league play, and tie Albion, another strong team. 
Scoring 29 total goals and a record of 7-5-5 is not a record­breaking season for the Belles, but they defmitely showed them­selves to be a team who didn't stop competing when they were down. 
Saint Mary's will say good-bye to seniors Justine Higgins, DuBree and Amy Mahoney, but it has a powerful group of players remaining who are looking ahead to next year. 
-
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmacys.edu 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Golfers not in top spot for first titne 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Wrircr 
Notrn Dmnn wa-; kept busy over fall break. taking part in two tour­naments. finishing in second and in a tie for fourth. The Lady Paladin Invitational, which took place Oct. 19-21 saw thn Irish fm­ish below first place for the first timn all sna'i<Jll. 
After the first day. it looked a-; though the lri-;h would struggle at thn Furman University (;olfCourse in Greenville. S.C., shooting 311 leaving them in a tie for eighth plaen. Notre Dame, however, shed six strokes oil' during Uwir second round and linblwd UH• invitational with a tournament-best round of six-over par 294, putting them in snmnd place out of Um finld of 1 S. 
"In Funnan. WP rna.lly got oil' to a poor start and dug oursnlVI)S a pn)tty big hole," coach Su.•.;an I loll said. "Wn WPI'n able to recover from it though. Wn got bntter nach day. and it lwlpPd our confidnnen going into Alabama." 
TCU took tlw till!• during the thrnn-day tournament shooting an X% (:mo-21J7-21JIJI. 
Continuing lwr solid frnshman campaign, So-llyun Park lml the Irish golf()rs wiU1 a ninn-ovnr par 22S (X0-72-73llnaving lwr in a tie for snvnnth plaen, marking tlw sncond t.inw shn hw.; lnd thn tmun all smL-;on. 
Fnllow lrnshman Kalin Conway finislwd snmnd f(n· the Irish and 1 lth ovnrall with hnr I 1-ovnr par 227 (7S-71J-7:~l. Conway and Park both paced Notre Damn on thn final round with onn-ovnr par 73 showings. 
Sophomore Kristin Wetzel fm­i'ihnd third for thn Irish with her score of 230 (81-75-7 4), putting her in 17th-place. whiln ju.nior co­captain Lisa Maunu fired a 16­over par 232 (75-80-77) for a 23rd-place tie. 
Rounding out the Irish golfers was sophomore· Annie Brophy. who finished tied for 49th with her mark of 21-over par 237 (84-79­74). 
Notre Dame then headed to Tuscaloosa. Ala .• for the Ann Rhoads Intercollegiate at the North Hivnr Yacht Club. which took placn from Friday to Sunday. eonduding the first half of Notre Dan1e's sea'ion. 
The SEC held the top t.Irren spoL'> of the tournament as Arkansas took the title with an 886 (295­300-291 ), followed by Auburn's 894 (301-300-293) and Florida's S% (307 -300-289). 
The Irish, shooting a score 897 (298-:~00-299) linbhnd in a tie fiJr fourth with fellow Big Ea-;t rival Louisville, who cardml an 897 (297-299-:~01 ). 
"Wn filcnd an extrPnwly diflicult course in Alabama." Holt said. ''l'vf) bnen coaching golf for night­mm years now and that wa.-; in the top-five toughnst eoursPs J'w ewer fitmd. It W<L<; dnmanding." 
Park once again led all Irish golliws marking the t.l1ird time all sea-;on with her two-uvnr par 215 (n-72-70). In all of her tourna­mnnL-; this SI'<L'>On, thn freshman ha-; fini-;hnd in thn top-sevnn. 
Maunu was the sneond top-1 0 finisher for Notre Dame as she carded a nine-over par 222 (75­74-73} on the tournament for lOth place. 

Conway's top score of the tour­nament on the final rou.nd helped place her in 46th with her collec­tive effort of 231 (77-78-76). 
Brophy wa'i in fourth place for the Irish and 47th overall, as she shot a 232 (75-76-81). while Wetzel finished in a seven-way tie for 54th, firing a 234 (75-79-80). 
Now that the fall portion of the season ha'i concluded. Holt does­n't want her players to get rusty over the ofT.<>eason. Thanks to the Robert and Marilyn Rolfs Family All-Season Varsity Golf Facility, she won't have to worry about t.lmt any longer. 
"The new facility will allow us to practice indoors everyday," llolt said. "We can putt. chip and drive indoors whnn there is snow on the ground. whieh will help us avoid rust. The new facility has helpnd us keep up with everyone else around the nation." 
In terms of her preseason expectations, Holt ffmls a-; though her team is whero they want to 
b!). 
"I think we're right on target," she said. "TIHlY set lofty goals, and what they'vn achieved lets them know they'rll spot on. Our goal is to go all the way. I think thPy will come out motivated in tlw spring. We all have one goal in mind -t.o make it to the NCAA Hegionals and play ii1 that second week of May." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.cdu 
ND MEN'S GOLF 

Irish tied for sixth after two rounds 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's fall season has been filled with ups and downs. and the roller coaster ride continued Monday at the UNCG Bridgestone Collegiate Championship in Greensboro, N.C. 
Playing at Forest Oaks Country Club, Notre Dame looked to be in contention after a first round of four-over (292). Beginning the second round tied for first with College of Charleston. the Irish fell back five places with a 295 late Monday afternoon, tying them with No. 23 Central Florida. 
North Carolina stands in first place after 36 holes, leading Kent State and Louisville by a single stroke. The Tar Heels lead the Irish by s1wen shots with a team score of four-ovnr. 
Loading NotrP Dame was junior Josh Sandman. a GrnnnsboriJ nativn. who fin­ished the day tied for second. Irish coach Jim Kubinski said he had anticipated a good per­formance from Sandman in his homecoming. 
"We were excited to see what Josh could do on his home course," Kubinski said. 
Sandman shot an opening 
round of 68 to tie for first at four-under. After cooling off with an even-par second round, Sandman trails Louisville's Derek Fathauer by two strokes. 
Sandman has been the first­half leader of the Irish. firing rounds 73 or below in 10 of his first 12 starts this fall. The junior's 68 was the low round for the Irish so far this season. 
Senior captain Greg Hodgers and sophomore Doug Fortner tied for second out of Irish players with totals of four-over. The pair of Notre Dame starters sits in a tie for 29th overall. 
Sophomore Kyle Willis is tind for 49th after rounds of 7 5 and 
76. Willis's four-over second round was punctuated by an early triple bogey on the par-4 third holn. 
Kubinski said tho differcmce in the two rounds was getting enough good seores to knep the Irish on top. · 
"Our goal was to post four good scorns naeh round. that's always tlw kny," Kubinski said. 
An overnight frost advisory in Greensboro will push up Tuosday's tee times for thn third and final round. with the Irish now set to go ofT at <J::~o. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

-
FIRST GAME: OFFICIAL GOLD RLISI-1 T -51-IIRT FIFTI-1 GAME: ADIDAS tANYARD TENTI-1 GAME: NOTRE DAI\t1E CROCS 
AND FOR TI-lE STLIDENT VVI-10 ATTENDS TI-lE MOST GAI\t1E5... GRAND PRIZE: ROLIND TRIP AIRFARE FOR TVVO TO IRELANDI 
PRESENTED BY: 

Qlcrocs· 


Tuesday, October 30, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Hanks 
continued from page 24 
as well as a 10-game win streak. 
During the streak, the Irish have outscored opponents 34­5 and taken 188 shots to their opponents' 67. Junior forward Brittany Bock scored 10 goals and had three assists during the streak, while Hanks scored five goals and had nine assists. 
The Irish have played the last four games without senior captain and forward Amanda Cinalli and the last eight games without sophomore defender Haley Ford. 
Notre Dame 4, Providence 0 
Hanks opened the scoring in the 34th minute on a penalty kick. Friars senior keeper Laura Elfers slide-tackled Hanks in the left side of the box as Hanks chased a through-ball, and Hanks put the shot past Elfers in the right-hand side of the net. 
The score remained 1-0 until the second half, when junior midfielder Rebecca Mendoza slid a shot from the far side inside the near post in the 47th minute. Mendoza scored again, in the 54th minute, when the ball rebounded after a corner kick to the top of the box. Mendoza shot the ball into the near-side corner. 
Senior forward Susan Pinnick scored the final goal in the 86th minute. A long pass from sophomore midfielder Micaela Alvarez led Pinnick into the offensive third behind the defense, and Pinnick faked right before shooting the ball 
low and to the left of Elfers into the far side of the net. Mendoza's goals doubled her previous career total. 
Notre Dame 2, Connecticut 1 (OT) 
Huskie sophomore midfield­er Annie Yi struck first, scor­ing in the 26th minute. Yi found an opening on the right side of the box and put a tough shot into the far side of the net. 
The score stayed at 1-0 until the 86th minute on a corner kick that found the upper right-hand corner of the net. Four minutes into the overtime period, junior defender Elise Weber's cross found Bock in the box, whose header found the back of the net for the game-winning goal. 
The Irish are now 17-4-3 all­time against Connecticut. 
Notre Dame 3, Seton Hall 1 
Weber, Pinnick and fresh­man defender Lauren Fowlkes, who had combined for five goals before the game, each scored a goal in the victory. 
Weber scored first in the 37th minute on a direct free kick from the left side. The ball skipped off the wet ground and found the right corner of the goal. 
Pinnick scored just after halftime on a cross from Hanks. Driving down the right sideline, Hanks crossed the ball from the end line to Pinnick in front of the net. Pinnick's shot went inside the far corner to make the score 2-0. 
Seton Hall scored after a handball outside Notre Dame's box in the 70th minute. The ensuing penalty kick hit the Irish wall, and after a rebound from freshman midfielder Nikki Gross' shot, sophomore forward Kate Andreski put the ball past senior keeper Lauren Karas to cut the deficit to one. 
In the 83rd minute, Bock redirected a Hanks free kick to Fowlkes on the far post, where Fowlkes controlled the ball and shot it inside the post to make the score 3-1. 
Notre Dame 3, Rutgers 1 
Rutgers didn't have a shot on goal until the second half dur­ing the latest of Notre Dame's wins against conference oppo­nents. 
Rutgers held the first lead over the Irish in the past 10 games when they scored in the 20th minute. Junior forwards Kristen Edmonds put a high pass from sophomore forward Jennifer Anzuvino past Karas to take a 1-0 lead. 
Hanks again scored on a penalty kick after a slide-tack­le from behind. She shot the ball into the corner of the net in the 32nd minute to tie the game. 
Pinnick gave the Irish the lead in the 38th after a Hanks free kick. Junior defender Carrie Dew redirected the kick with a header that bounced off the post, and Pinnick put her shot past a charging keeper. 
Mendoza scored on another assist from Hanks in the 71st minute. Hanks brought the ball up the middle of the field and passed to Mendoza, who chipped the ball over the keep­er. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

the net and Yoshinaga deflected it low for his second goal of the
Big East 
season. continued from page 24 "It was good to see him get 
another goal, I hope there is Providence notching a late goal going to be a few more of those to tie it up. Lapira found senior before the year is over," Clark defender Ryan said. Miller for the The win ended
"Our destiny lies in 
second Irish goal a three-game in the 65th our own hands, and winless streak minute. you can ,t ask for for the Irish, 
Notre Dame who lost games
anything more
was unable to to Indiana and hold on to the than that. ,, Michigan State slim lead and and tied No. 1 the game ended Connecticut.
Bobby Clark 
after two score­The team
Irish coach 

less overtime stayed hot with periods. another big indi­"We were playing well, and vidual effort in their 3-0 win that's the key," Clark said. "If over the Panthers. Sophomore 
you play well, nine out of ten midfielder times you will come out on 
"[Morrow has] two 
top." The Irish good feet and great 
played well in wheels. He is really 
their first two 
starting to become an 
games during 
the break com­impact player. ,, ing away with a pair of shutouts 
Bobby Clark 
over Seton Hall 
Irish coach 

(2-0) and Pittsburgh (3-0). 
Senior Alex Yoshinaga scored his second goal of the season, as well setting up a Seton Hall own goal in a win over the Pirates on Oct. 21. 
The Irish took the lead in the 18th minute when Yoshinaga took a free kick from the left side that deflected off a Pirate and past Seton Hall keeper Paul McHenry for a 1-0 advantage. 
Yoshinaga put one in on his own in the second half when he tipped in a Besler throw-in. The long throw reached the front of 
Justin Morrow buried two goals in the first five minutes of the contest to put it virtually out of reach for Pittsburgh. 
"[Morrow has] two good feet and great wheels," Clark said. "He is real­ly starting to 

become an impact player." 
Lapira picked up assists on both of the goals, bringing his season total to six assists and 18 points, both team highs. 
Notre Dame will play its fmal regular season game at Georgetown on Saturday with a chance to guarantee a Big East Championship and top seed in the upcoming conference tour­nament with a win. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
irislwy1~s.com. said the coaching stall" did a grnat job telling Floyd and Gray that the future looks bright, despite a 1-7 pnrli1rmance so litr this season. 
"It's really quite amazing to have a loss like that they were abln to land two of these guys on an unollicial visit." Frank said. "I think that says a lot about the eoaching stall' and their ability to sell thn futurn of this program. Thorn wasn't a whole lot to grasp onto in that game, so they had to do an ex1:111lnnt job selling them on the futum of the program." 
Floyd was one of Notrn Dame's top targets from the beginning. Tho 6-f(Jot-3, 200-pound receiver should add more size to Notre Dame's receiving eorps. Aside from tight end John Carlson, Notre Dame's leading reeeivers an1 6-foot-4 sophomore Hobbie Parris and 6-foot-5 freshman Duval Kamar<t. Floyd's size and athletidsm should make him a eontnnd1~r to play right away. Frank said, and his r.omrnitment to Notre I >ame lwlrwd Jill its need for a top-tior receiver in this class. 
"The sky is tlw limit for him." Frank said. "t\ lot of peopln have said a lot of things about him but to me, he reminds me a whole lot of Terrell Owens. He's a big, phys­ical kid that moves a lot faster than a lot of people think ... He has unbelievable potential. He's a good route-runner, good in spe­cial teams. He's just going to be a great player. That was such a big commitment for Notre Dame. That's just a huge commitment for Notre Dame. That was proba­bly the best thing that could've happened to Charlie Weis other than beating USC." 
While the Irish ofl"ered Floyd a scholarship as soon as NCAA rules said they could, they were reluctant at first to ofler a schol­arship to Gray because he did not attend Notre Dame's camp for prospective recruits over the summer. 
In August, Gray committed to Nebraska. But since former coach Tom Osborne became athletic director at Nebraska, the future of current coach Bill Callahan's job is in question, causing Gray and other recruits at Nebraska to take back their commitments. The unstable situation at Nebraska, combined with the longtime affection Gray has for Notre Dame, eaused him to com­mit once the Irish made the ofl"er. 
"lin went to Nebraska and real­ly lihd the coaching staff and really liked the players and said 'I like what I see hern,' and he went ahead and pulled the trigger with 
on thn snason. Notrn Dame anSWPI'!HI with
Jackson 
goals from junior c;arrntt Began continued from page 24 and snnior Evan Hankin. Junior cnntnr Erik Condra finally 
ThP normal coiJpgp sclwduln l~appNl the Irish o!Tnnsn with a fPaturPs WPnkPnd ganH'S allow­shorthandl'd goal four minutes ing tlw t.Pams to practit·n iuto tlw third. Monday through Friday. but so Notn' I>anw looked solid dur­far this snason Notw Dame has ing a :~-2 win over Fnrris State playptJ mid-WPI'k on Friday uight. ganu~s in narh of Hankin, sopho­
tlw first ! wo "It's important that more wing Byan 
WePkS of I.IH' SPa­Thang and fresh­
l.lle get down to some
SOil. man Bnn Hyan "Hight now it's basics. Next week will all scon1d for the about gl'lting a Irish. who held a
be our.first.filllweek 
littln morn 3-0 lnad with 10
ofpractice. " 
patil'nt with tlw minutes left in puck and doing thn game. sonw morn crn­Jeff Jackson Hyan has had a al.ivn things." hot start to his
Irish coach 

.Jackson said. 
Tlw oiTnnsP had troubln gntting on track in tlw ir snco nd ganw against 1>1•nvm·. 

Pionnnrs forward t\lnx Maiani scored a goal midway through tlw lin;tl pnriod to break a 1-1 tiP with his sneond goal of the ynar. Maiani stull'nd home a long rnbound artnr Irish goaltender Jordan l'nan~e turrwd away thP initial chance. l'narcn madn 25 savns on 27 shots and Denver added an nmpty-not goal in the linctl minute of tlw game. 
"ll'ean:nl has donn a great job for us. lin puts us in a good position to win nvnry night," Irish coach Jell' Jackson said. 

Pearce has started all snven games bntwnen thn pipes this s1mson and has racked up 163 savns with a goals-against aver­agn of 2.1 (, -good enough for fourth in the 1~onfnrencn in both catngories. 
l'earcn and the Irish opnnnd play in tim CCII!\ whnn they travnlcd to Bowling Creen. 
Four di!Tnrnnt playnrs scornd for NotrP Danw induding goals on tlw powPr play and penalty kill. 
Snnior captain Mark Van CuildPr got things startnd with a goal on thP IHIWPr play-his fourth of Uw ynar. Van Cuildnr's goal lind Urn scorn at 1-1 in tlw linalminutns of thl' first pnriod. 
Tlw J!aJcons took tlw lnad hark narly in tlw sncond pnriod wlwn t.lwir own captain, Dernk Whitmorn. tippPd a l>an Snxton pass by I'Parcl' for his third tally collngiatn r.areer 
with two goals and livn assists in his first sev1m games. 
"I In competes extrnmoly hard. lie's not afraid to got physical and lw gets his nose dirty," .Jackson said. 

Nebraska," Frank said. "Then when things there got a little bit shaky, Notre Dame said, 'Hey why don't you come take a look down here. Just take a look.' I think we all had a suspicion that if they offered him, Notre Dame would be a tough school to beat because he just had such a high opinion of Notre Dame." 
With the slow start and lack of offensive production this season, the coaching staff gained 23 ver­bal commitments from highly­touted recruits by selling the fact that they can come in and make a difference right away. It also helps that Notre Dame has other attractions to offer its recruits, Frank said. 
"They did a good job of letting these kids now that, 'Hey we're going through some times right now that really aren't a whole lot of fun, but look at the talent that we had coming in, look at our track record, look at what we're doing on defense. We're not afraid to play young guys, and if you come here, you can play right away,"' Frank said. "Of course, Notre Dame has a lot of advan­tages when it comes to academics and things like that already built in, so you throw that in with the opportunity to play early, play on national television." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

"lie is only one point b~~hind Miami's Justin Mereier and Carter Camper for the confer­ence lead in points." 
Byan and the rest of the Irish o!Tensn were unable to get any­thing going in the second game against Bulldogs goalie Miteh O'KePfe. who racked up 37 saves to pick up his first shutout of tJw SIWSOn in a 3-0 Win. 
"IO'Keefnl played well against us last February," Jackson said. "EvPry time we've played him lw playnd well against us. It's just a matter of us having to create morn situations." 
Notre Dame was 0-for-1 0 on power-play opportunities ou the night and failed to create any traffic in front of the Ferris State crease. 
The Irish will have another shortened week of practice bnfore playing Lake Superior State on Thursday night at the Joyee Center. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Minnesota hands Irish road dual 111eet loss 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
In their second dual meet 
of the season and their first 
away from Notre Dame, the 
Irish women fell to 
Minnesota 199-101, winning 
four of the meet's 16 events. 
"I thought we did really well," Notre Dame coach Carrie Nixon said. "Minnesota is a really tough team, and we knew it would be a tough meet. But we had some really great swims from a few girls." 
Junior diver Laura Hings took two of the four events the Irish won, beating Minnesota's Alex Barstad in the one-meter and three­meter diving competitions with scores of 270.97 and 279.0, respectively. 
"Laura just r.ame back from a two-year hiatus from the sport," said Nixon. "And she's done an incredible job as a team leader." 
Sophomore Natalie Stitt also beat out Barstad in the one-meter dive and finished in seeond place, while fresh­man Heidi Grossman linished third in tl1e three-meter divn. 
The other two first-place finishPs for tht\ Irish belonged to freshman Katie Casey and junior Christa Higgins. Casey won the 200­yard butterfly with a time of 2:01.09, besting Minnesota's freshman Molly Belk by I.H seconds. 
Nixon has bnen pleased with Casey's performanr.n so far this year. 
"She had mono for thn majority of the summer. and slw 's done an inercdible job coming off of that illness and training really well." Nixon said. 
Higgins won the 200-yard freestyle, Linishing in 1:49.29 and beating out Goldnn Gophers junior Jenny Shaughnessy by .18 seconds. Both Casey and Higgins improved on the times they posted in the previous dual 
meet against USC and earned NCAA 'B' cut times. Higgins also posted solid third-place finishes in the 

50-yard  and  100-yard  
freestyle events.  
''I'm  insanely  proud  of  

fHigginsl." Nixon said. "She's enjoying the whole swim­ming atmosphere and has stepped into a leadership role. She is a joy to coach and has been really receptivo in making changes to some of her strokes." 

Freshmen Lauren Sylvester and Amywren Miller also turned in solid performances for the Irish. Sylvester fin­ished second in the 1 ,000­yard freestyle with a time of 9:59.47, just over eight sec­onds behind Minnesota jun­ior Yuen Kobayashi. Sylvester was able to beat out Minnesota junior ChristinP Jnnnings by a mere .12 seconds to hang on to her second-place finish. Miller earned her second-place fin­ish with a time of 23.42 in the 50-yard freestyle, only .21 seconds behind Minnesota junior Stacy Busar.k. 
Freshman Sam Maxwnll was tho source of two morn bright spots for the Irish. lin­ishing secoml in two of lwr races. In the 100-yard brPaststroke, she cloekPd in at I :03.40, 1.6 snr.onds bnhind Minnesota freshman Jillian Tyler. Tyler was also victorious in the 200-yard bn~aststrokn, but Maxwell stayed r.loser, posting a tinw of 2:1fdll. only .61 seeonds ofT Tylpr"s p;u:n. 
Nixon said tlw Irish accom­plished a lot against tlw Goldr;n Goplwrs. ovnn though thny weren't ahln to pull out the victory. 
"Obviously you always want to try to win," she said. "But we lnarned a lot, and it was important to conw out of the nwet with somnthing good. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

Tuesday, October 30, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLACK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

DEUCES MANOR 


HENRl ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRJON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
I'm making a cover for my /cast 
C.AN BE: KNITTE:O WHIL-E: ME:NDING. 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

Ans:A[IIIIIJ[IIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow)  
I Jumbles:  DERBY  LIVEN  UPROAR  BEMOAN  
Yesterday's  Answer:  What the pro wrestler got when he won the match  
-"PIN" MONEY  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  

CELEBRITffiS BORN ON THIS DAY: Amit Paul, 24; Winona Ryder, 36; Kate Jackson, 59; Richard Dreyfuss, 60 
Happy Birthday: Change what isn't working for you. It's the uncertainty of not knowing where you are heading that plays on your nerves. Develop a strategic, well-thought-out means to achieve your goals. Your backup plan will be equally important and will give you strength and courage. Your numbers are 10, 19, 27, 30,35,41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Rid yourself of guilt or the feeling that you can't do something. It's time for you to try something new. Make a move if it will lead to a more exciting future. Change will inspire and exhilarate you. 4 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You've got the added discipline needed to get things done. Talk to people in the know and you will get the answers required. A serious look at something that someone else presents may lead you in a new di­rection. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): You will tend to change your mind a Jot, confusing the people with whom you talk about work, money and finances. It may be that you don't want anyone judging you for the purchases or choices you make. Face your responsibilities. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Say what's on your mind. You may feel emotional about a lot of different things going on in your life today but, keeping your thoughts locked up will not solve your problems. Deal with each issue as it arises. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Help the people who count most--the ones you live with or hold close to your heart. This is a perfect time to sign or negotiate a con­tract that is of a personal nature. A decision you make will help you achieve greater stability in your life. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You've got plenty to think about today but, if you let your emotions take over, you may find yourself in the center of a sticky situa­tion. Changing your mind or getting involved in something you know little about will lead to criticism. 2 stars LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): By taking a creative approach to something you want to do, you will stir up a lot of interest. You should be able to get both the pros and cons thrown at you by those who can help you make it to the next level. Openness will be your ticket to success. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be too quick to invest in something that ounds good but that you know little about. Stick to what you know and do best. Impulsive purchases will lead to financial arguments with the people you are in­valved with. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't spend on love, trying to attract some­one who isn't likely to be impressed with your financial irresponsibility. Put your money into something that helps you get ahead. You may be charming but, with­out closing deals or saving, you will not get ahead. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stage meetings or get involved in a convention or tradeshow that will honor something that you want to learn more about. You can increase your income if you aren't impulsive. Financial security will be yours if you are cautious. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everything is turning in your favor today but don't take advantage of others. Now is not the time to push everyone to do things your way. Back off and let people come to you. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will tend to be unreasonable when it comes to emotional matters. Take a step back and fully understand your position and the position of those who oppose you. Don't make a f'mal decision thoughtlessly. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You take life seriously and formulate and execute your plans 
carefully. You are unique, emotional, sensitive and have widespread interests. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comjor confidential 
consultations 
JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RON ED 
I I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved.  
ENMOY j  
1  ex- I I  
BRAMKE  
1 rJ www.jumble.comtTECJOB  j 
I J r  I I  


CROSSWORD 
Across 

38 Philosophy of Inane 
bare existence? 5 scan 39 Log-in info (biometric 41 Writer Waugh authentication 
42 See 32-Across 

method) 46 Like good pianos 
9 Districted 
and engines14 Cynic's comment 
48 Levitated 15 Payload delivery 
49 Versatile fabric 

org. 
51 Lives on 16 Beam 56 Spade 
i 7 Helpful person's line ensembles 
20 Spiral in space 
60 Coterie 21 Most comfy 61 Helpful person's 22 Jazz dance 
line 64 Popular place for 

23 Vice squad 18-Down
arrestees, perhaps 65 Tied up 
66 Reel in 27 Autumn bloomer 67 With cunning 25 Perturbation 
32 With 42-Across. 68 St. Andrew's helpful person's Day observer line 69 Virtual mart 
37 Mesa tribe 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Down Small jobs for a body shop 2 Kriegsmarine vessel 3 _ Park (noted lab site) 4 Substitute players 5 Annual racing 
classic 6 Squealer 7 Prefix with tonic 
8 "Hello. Dolly!" jazzman 9 One of the 
Gabors 1 0 Bygone Dodge 11 Giant in footwear 
"12 Graceful shaders 13 It's repellent 18 Sojourners 
abroad, for short 19 Darlin' 23 Elbow 
24 Prospecting find 26 1989's Prieta 
earthquake 28 Flushing stadium 29 Having a hard 
time deciding 30 Like "Paradise Lost" 31 Ferris wheel or 
bumper cars 32 Swarm member 33 "To Sir With 
Love" singer, 1967 34 Mideast harbor city 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Chuck Deodene 
35 Cubes at 50 Dough producer, 57 And others, for Harrah's briefly short 
52 Airplane seating request 
36 Bother 58 Cockeyed 
59 Clipper's sheet 40 Artois beer 
53 Fowl entree 60 q;
43 Agrees 54 deaf ear to 55 Not yet 62 Piping 
44 Sellout letters gentrified 
compound, 45 Lithium-briefly
-56 Much of abattery 
waitress's 63 Fierce type, 47 Stylish income astrologically 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: i-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, October 30, 2007 
page 24 
HocKEY 

Growing pains 
Jackson says practice tilne will help team gel 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sporrs Ediror 
No. U Notrn Damn opnrwd up eonfnrnnce play with two wins and a loss during fall break, another week in which tho Irish hav1~ had littln time for practice amid a ganw-punrtuatml narly s1mson schPCiuln. 
Tho Irish (4-3, 2-1 CCII!\) boat Bowling Croen 4-2 on Oct. 23 before splitting a WIHJkend serins with Ferris Stato last week. 
The t1~am also dropped a 3-1 decision to No. 5 l>enV!lr Oet. 19 to start tlw week. 
Irish coach .Jeff .Jackson attributt1d the team's early struggles to youth and a lack of praetiee limn. 

"It's important that we get down to some basies," he said. "Next week will be our first full week of practice." ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 
Irish center Kevin Deeth takes the puck up the ice during Notre Dame's 4-3 win over No.7 see JACKSON/page 22 Denver on Oct. 18 at the Joyce Center. 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Irish add recruits over break 
Floyd, Gray conzn1it after loss to Trojans 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Following one of tho most his­toric losses in Notrn Damn's his­tory, Michael Floyd and Jonas Gray reminded Irish fans that shutout losses to USC and Miehigan should b11 a thing of the pa<>t. 
Floyd, a wide receiver from Saint Paul. Minn., and Gray, a running back from Bevnrly I !ills. Mich., verbally committed to Notre Dame last week after USC's 38-0 drubbing of the Irish, and added their names to the top­rated recruiting class in the country. Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for 
see RECRUITS/page 21 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles take fourth at MIAA for best season ever 
Bnllns, cL'> she ha'> in every meet for Bauters said. "I knew she wanted behind Calvin, the dominant con­because tlmy ean." 
By MATT GAMBER thn past two years, finishing sec­to break into the top five after fin­ference champion, Albion and Hegardless of what happens

Sports Writer 

ond ovnrall and grabbing first team ishing sixth at the IMIAAI I lope. from horn. tho eonfimmce success all-eonli~rnnce honors li1r the sec­Jamboree, but I wasn't sure how Though MIM competition has thl' tnam sha.rnd will not be lost on 
It's ol"lit:ial -this season has ond ronsnrutive stmson. big a !nap shn'd make. It was excit­eome to a dose, nine Belles run­Gray-or thn mst of thn program, lwen the bnst in Saint Mary's histo­"I tend to go into nach race with ing to watch her tako the lmtd of ners will continue their sea'ions by fi1r that mattnr. ry. tho attitudA that it's just another the paek and never lose it. She's in training for the NCAA Division Ill "I can't stross enough how amaz­
With a fourth-place finish in run," Gray said. "When the raee unbelievable shape heading into Hegionals, held at Calvin on Nov. ing IBautorsl has br1tm a<> a eoaeh," Saturday's MIAA rhampionship start11d, I just ran how I lillt, and I the rngional meet." 1 0, with the hopes of qualifying fi1r Gray said. ''I've bn1m on this tlmm nwet, thn BnllllS securnd th11 f(n~rth li1lt good, strong -and it worked Solid finishes from freshmen the national meet Nov. 17. fi1r fi1ur ynars and have just smm it spot in t.lw final sncL<>on standings, out w11lllilr me." Sam Wieczorek (22nd plaen), Catie "I'd love to qualify again, but I blossom under her control. I'm so surpassing last y11ar's f1f"th-plcu~e Bnlles roach Jaekin Bautcrs Salyer (2:~rd) and Stephanie Waite just want ttlhave a good race and nxdtnd to sen when~ this pro).,1J'all1 finish cL'> tops in tlw prowam's his­praisNI Gray's pPr/(Jrmanee, espe­(27th) and sophomore Megan feel strong," Gray said. "''d say the will be hnaded in the li.1turn." tory, and accornplislwd a goal that cially considering its setting in a McClowry (25th I allowed Saint same for the other girls on the hcL'> bPPn the t11arn's lilrus all year. erudal mPd. Mary's to pull away from firth­team -it's a 3.67 mile run that I Contact Matt Gamber at 
SPnior Megan (;ray led the "Megan ran an amazing race," place Kalamazoo, while finishing know they ean rock, and they will mgamber@nd.edu 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Hanks shines in Big East vvins 
By BILL BRINK 
SportS Writer 
.Junior forward Kerri IJanks became the 19th player in NCAA history to rnaeh 50 goals and 50 assists Sunday wlwn slw scornd a goal and had two assists in NotrP Damn's 3-1 win ovnr Hutgers. 
llanks is only tlw third playPT twnr to reach thn milnstonn bnforP lwr senior season; tlw otlwr two Wf're Notre Damn's .lnnrlV Strtdfi"Pr and North Carolina's Mia llamm. 
Tlw Irish won four games over thP brPak, against ProvidPnee and CmllltH~tieut at honw and against Seton llall and HutgPrs on tlw road, to conclude tho rPgular snason undnfeatnd in Big East play. Thny hav11 a n~rord of 13-4-l as well as a 10-gamn win 


MEN's SoccER 

Squad undefeated in conference play 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
No. 7 Notre Dame returned to its winning ways over fall break, going 2-0-1 in three Big East contests and gaining solo possession of first place in the confnrenee. 
The Irish (10-3-4, 7-0-3) are the only unbeaten elub in the confernnce and currently hold a two-point lead over Connncticut with one regular season game left to play. 
"One of our goals is to win the leagun championship -it is a true measure. of your sueeess," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Our destiny lies in our own hands, and you can't ask for anything mom than that." 
Notrn Damn eould have elinehed the title with a win over Providnnen on Sunday, but the game endnd in a 2-2 draw. 

Junior captain Matt Besler got the scoring started when he headed in a Joseph Lapira f"I·pe kick from thn left side. 
The Friars kept it dose in the back-and-forth battle by putting onn in with under a minute rnmaining in thn first half. .Junior Niek Cianci scored tlw goal for Providence and .Jonathon Mndealf was credited with the assist.. 
The second half went much the same way as the first, with Notre Damn scoring J"irst and Providnnce notching a late goal to tie it up. Lapira found senior 




