
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 22 WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER26, 2007 
Course packet prices skyrocket 
Students, professors outraged; Bookstore cites copyright and production fees for new costs 

COLEMAN COLLINSffhe Observer Peter Balestracci waits while a bookstore employee rings up his purchase Tuesday. Prices rose for course packets this year. 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore is defending its pricing of course packets, which increased nearly to the equivalent of textbooks and angered students and professors alike, saying increased copyright and production fees were responsible for the new prices. 
Copyright clearance fees and production costs con­tribute to the overall cost of the packets for students, but the Bookstore also adds a certain percent markup, said Keith Kirkpatrick, director of retail manage­
ment for the Bookstore. Kirkpatrick said this markup is the same as that on other course materials, but said he could not dis­close an exact figure. 
Professors, many of whom apologized to students for the extra cost have few options -besides course packets and the libraries' online reserves -to dis­tribute additional class materials, so the demand for the packets remains strong. 
The legal basis for the copyright costs is more than a decade and a half old. 
In 1991, a federal court ruled that the reprinting of 
see PACKETS/page 4 
Book of letters to Hesburgh released 
By NICOLE O'CONNOR News Writer 
CHICAGO -About 60 Notre Dame alumni gathered at the University Club here Monday to celebrate the release of "Thanking Father Ted: Thirty­Five Years of Notre Dame Coeducation 1972-2007," a book sponsored by the Notre Dame Alumni Association in celebration of former University President Father Theodore !Iesburgh and his decision to admit women into the University. 
The keynote speaker, 1967 graduate Jim Lynch, was the same man that 40 years ago led the crusade to keep women Besides the notoriety he gained from to the University. as the captain of Notre Dame's 
"Bless me, Father 1966 national championship [Hesburgh,] for I football team, Lynch have sinned," Lynch 
was an originator of said. "The 1967 
the "Better Dead transgression I'm 
Than Coed" move­referring to was my 

Thanking 

ment that swept the boneheaded, 
campus in 1967. wrong-thinking 
Only after the opposition to the 
merger talks broke decision to make 
down in December Notre Dame coedu­
of 1971 did cational." 
Hesburgh make the When Notre 
decision to open Dame announced 
undergraduate stu­plans to merge with 
dent enrollment to Saint Mary's 
women in the fall of College, much of 1972. -the all-male student body at "Thanking Father Ted" con­the time voiced its opposition. tains 150 letters written by 
NDTV launches year's lineup 
Student-run television station increases original shows to seven 
By NICOLE TAYLOR 
News Writer 
NDTV, Notre Dame's stu­dnnt-run telnvision station, is getting a facelift this year with a new lineup of shows and a new leader behind the switchboards. 
Executive Director Nick Andert, a sophomore, said hn's excited about the changes coming to the net­work, which kicked off its new season with a two-hour live broadcast Tuesday. The feed featured a Guitar Hero con­test, a performance by a live band, previews of the new lineups and call-ins to the sta­tion. 
see NDTV/page 6 Notre Dame alumnae to Hesburgh, telling him how their lives have been impacted by their undergraduate experi­ences at Notre Dame. 


Included in the book are let­ters from the top 25 University administrators in 1972, the first undergraduate women who attained leadership roles on campus and famous ·mem­bers of the Notre Dame com­munity -including Regis Philbin, Lou Holtz and Anne Thompson, chief environmen­tal correspondent for NBC News. 
The book retails for $26.95 and is available for purchase at the Hammes Notre Dame 
see BOOK/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
COR 
Fundn1ay 
•


see raise :m• allocation 
Expenses covered for students who need it 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed raising the amount of money allocated to the Rector Fund at its meeting Tuesday. 
The Rector Fund is used to cover expenses for hall events, football tickets, JPW event tickets, performance tickets and service trip regis­trations for students who are financially unable to meet these costs, Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman said in a let­ter to student body president Liz Brown. 
Eligibility for the fund is determined by the Office of Financial Aid, but it is administered to students through their rector. 
Since its inception in the 2001-02 school year, the amount of money used by the Rector Fund each year has increased from $10,454 to $60,663 last year. More than $53,376 has already been allocated to 230 students so far this school year. 
Currently, the Rector Fund receives $35,000 per year from the first $100,000 The Shirt Charity Fund collects. 
This year, the. Rector Fund has already spent more than 
see COR/page 4 


ND among top schools 
for service program 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 

Notre Dame, a university that strives for academic excellence and social serivice, remains one of the top feeder schools for post­graduate service leader Teach for America. 
The national organization works to create future leaders and eliminate educational inequalities between low-income communities and the rest of the nation by recruiting college grad­uates to teach in urban and rural schools for a minimum of two years. 
Last year 2,900 recent college graduates -including 44 Notre Dame students -were placed in classrooms across the country through the program. 
"People are taking much more interest in making a difference, especially in a society where New Orleans still remains in ruins, millions of people go without medical insurance and 38 per­cent of fourth graders cannot read at the basic level," said jun­ior LuLu Meraz, one of four stu­dents who are working this year as campus coordinators for Teach for America. 
"The younger generation is looking for a way to better the country and make an enduring impact that can dramatically affect things on a systematic and fundamental level, and Teach for 
see TEACH/page 6 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ORIGINAL SHOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE ON NOTV? 
First signs of apocalypse? 
Thorn arn li~w things in ihn world thai can really makn mn sad. 
Pnopln oating babies. Hadsm. Thosn hugo 'XOs-inspirnd b«>ll<> ~rirls wear with­out realizing I 0 years down tim road tlwy'll look back at the picturos 
Marcela Berrios 
and wish Limy 
had mad Thn 
Associate News 
Observnr to 
Hditor
know bntinr. 
Thesn things make nw wondnr about ilw l'utun~ of our soeinty and if bringing a child into this ill­liltnd world is just eruel. 
It all saddens me, but I can carry on with my (ifi) lhr now. 
But thnn thorn arn a few narth-shai­inring nvnnl'i that destroy what optimism I have IPil in mo. 
Kiefi~r Suilwrland was arrested on a I>UI again. Honaldinho's pnrf(mnance this ynar is mnmly good a<; opposnd to spnd.acular. "Hock of Lovp" ends on Sunday. 
Thesn arn all tragic evenl<> that I'm not suro I'm strong 1mough to handh 
But onn partimlar nvent Tunsday real­ly did worry mn and at the same time got mn thinking about morn than how stupid Hnal Madrid is leading the Spanish soceor lnah'l.W. 
Bolivian PrPsident Evo Morales was a gw~st on "Tho I >aily Show with John Stowart" and, whiln thn man is undmli­ably lind to tlw politiml turmoil of an nntirn nation, lw WlL'i grnotml with laugh tor in tlw sanw way Goorgn Cloonoy would havc• bonn. 
Now I actually do stop back and won­dor what llw world hlL'i c:onw to. 
I won't liSP this spaco to talk about my pnrsonal opinions on Moralos' national­ization of tlw natural g<L<> industry, his socialist t~mnomk polidns, his l'riondship with Vnrwztwla's llugo Chavoz, Cuba's Jo'idol C.t<>tro and El Salvador's lain Shcafik llandal, or how his prnsideney IHL'> prompt.Pd n)rtain Bolivian stains' push fiw autonomy. 
Lovn him or hatn him, the man is a synonym liw unrnst-but hn W<L<> on Conwdy Central Ttwsday night making poopln laugh at the fad hn had a transla­tor. 

orcourse he had a inUlslator. lle ~rrew up lL'> a fiLrmer without any lilrrnal ndu­cation and now he's running a country. 
Sp!)aking English is just one of the many things hn doesn't know how to do. 
But Amnrka thought that wa<> funny. 
And what's nvnn morn disturbing, that W<L'> probably the first time many ptHlpln had nvnr hnard him spnak fill' an nxtend­ml pt~riod of timn. 
Sadly the intnrvinw wao:; simplistic and did not do justice to thn levnls of chaos Moralns rnprnsenl<; fiw Latin Amnriea. 
It took a serious issue and turrwd it into an ongoing gag. 
A man that h<L<> so much to lUlswnr to, so rnw:h to nxplain-and who holds thn fittn ofan entirn country on his hands­W<L'> rndlll:nd to being yet another guest on a lain show. 
lin w<L'> another Tom Crui<>n, Kelly Clarkson or Ushnr giving a light-hnarted interview on late night 'IV. 
And whnn sodety rear:hes the point where a punr:hline matters morn than tim lives of all thn pnopln who live in Bolivia, you know wn have bigger prob­lmns than those awful bnll'i. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsenwr. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at alwrriostamd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the St-pt. 25 t'tiition, South Bend ( :ommon Council member Ervin Kuspa was incorreccly identified a.< limothy Rouse on a photogrJph accompanying the smry "Council passes revised ordinance." The Observer rt-greL< thi.< error. 




Caitlyn Ranagan  Jessie Robbins  Lauren Theiss  
senior Opus  freshman McCandless  sophomore LeMans  
"The Fun Nun Hour."  "Inside Edition: Kitchen Style.,,  "College Musical.,,  





MacKenzie Sheets Noreen Sherred Shannon Hansen 
junior offcampus 
''The Real Wold: Dorms. ,, 


KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer The tuba section of the Band of the Fighting Irish plays "America the Beautiful" before kick-off at Saturday's home game against Michigan State University. 
OFFBEAT 

restaurant, Chuck E. Cheese. 
The more than a dozen girls, between 13 and Hi years old, went berserk in the restaurant's lobby Saturday night, police said. 
Witnesses said the fight erupted with two girls using profanities near the front entrance and ended with several girls involved in a physical fight. 
The group had apparently been dropped off and left alone at the restaurant, known for its singing and dancing animatronic rodents. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Nerds to auction them­selves to women 
PULLMAN, Wash. ­Looking to recruit more women, and perhaps date some sorority girls, the largest computer club at Washington State University hopes to hold a "nerd auc­tion." The idea is to trade their computer skills to sorority girls in exehango for a makeover and, possibly, a date. 
"You can buy a nerd and he'll fix your computer, help you with stal'> homework, or if you're really adventurous, take you to dinner," Ben Ford, president of the Linux Users Group, said on its Web site recently. 

Ford acknowledged that some of the group's 213 reg­istered members may not be ready for the auction block. 
"The problem is that we're all still nerds. Let's face it, guys. If anyone's going to bid on us, we'll need some spic­ing up," he wrote. "And who better to help with that than sorority girls who like noth­ing better than a makeover?" 
Police break up brawl at Chuck E. Cheese 
GULFPOHl~ Miss. -Police were called to break up a weekend fight among a rowdy group of teenage girls at the family-themed pizza 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 





•••A 6 ~ •
...I 
< 
(..) 0 

HIGH 70 65 HIGH 67 HIGH 75
..... 
LOW 53 48 LOW 45 LOW 48 

senior junior LeMans LeMans 
"Life as a "The campus Bachlorete. '' squirrel." 
IN BRIEF 

"Between Figurative and Abstract," will feature paint­ings by Gao Xingjian. The exhibit will run from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in O'Shaughnessy Galleries West in the Snite Museum today. The exhibit will end Nov. 11. 
There is a Post Graduate Service Fair today from 5 p.m. to X at the Joyce Center. Hnpresontativns from over 70 service programs will be prns­nni for students who wish to commit to a year or morP of full-time serviee after gradua­tion. The nvPnt is sponsornd by the Centnr for Soeial ConcPrns. 
Stephanie Black's f'ilm "Life and Debt" is playing tonight at 7 in Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Fall intramural foes will start being eolloeted Thursday. MonPy ean be dropped ofT at Holfs SportsHec Center. CoHee basketball is $50 per team and lnt1~rhall volleyball is $20. The final deadline is Oet. 4. 
Tho film "EI Norte" is play­ing Thursday at 7 p.m. in Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Director Gregory Nava is scheduled to be present. Tiekets are $3 for students. 
Award-winning filmmaker Stephanie Black, a pioneer in documenting migration, will speak about her work in Room C-1 O:l of the Hesburgh Ccn tcr at 4: 15 p.m. Thursday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


76 73 53 42 

Atlanta 85 I 66 Boston 90 I 67 Chicago 70 I 57 Denver 88 I 51 Houston 92 I 67 Los Angeles 89 I 60 Minneapolis 80 I 66 New York 85 I 67 Philadelphia 88 I 63 Phoenix 92 I 76 Seattle 62 I 50 St. Louis 91 I 67 Tampa 88 I 75 Washington 85 I 62 
r-------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~-~~--------~-~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~--------~--~~--~~~------------------~----~----. 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Ecology lecture focuses on environmentalism 
Professors, politicians discuss the importance of 'being green' as a part of a faith-based college community 
hosted by Saint Mary's
By KATIE STAAK 
Campus Ministry in an effort 
News Writer 
to promote environmental awareness as an important Four ecologically conscious aspect of a faith-based college. panelists stressed the impor­"As a people of faith we have tance of adopting a green a responsibility to our commu­lifestyle Tuesday in an event nity, an environmental respon-

sibility," said Regina Wilson, assistant director of Campus Ministry, before introducing the panelists in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. 
The speakers ranged from Saint Mary's faculty members to members of the Saint Joseph's County Valley Green Party. 
Tuesday's panel, titled "What Difference Does it Make to be Green?" was split into three sections that lasted about 15 minutes each. The first speak­er, biology professor Naida Lehmann, began her segment by explaining what led her to join the Saint Mary's faculty. 
"l struggled finding ways to educate the community that they need to be aware of their environmental actions," she said. 
The College has allowed her to share her research with students who will contribute to shaping the future of a world on the brink of an ecological crisis, Lehmann said. She lamented how the world views nature as an object, or some­thing that can be controlled. 
She said she hopes the future will allow for a more intertwined relationship between humans and the nature that surrounds them. 
To help students understand the relationship between human actions and the ecolo­gy, Lehmann asked audience members to close their eyes and imagine a world where people are literally tied to each other -and every step a person takes affects everybody else. 
"Next time you are in the dinning hall, rather than see­ing individual people think they have an elastic string tied between each of them," she said. "Every step taken either tightens or loosens the strings." 
She said humans' smallest actions have serious repercus­sions on the environment. 
The second part of the lec­ture had members of the coun­ty's Green Party speak about their experiences working closely with the city to improve the South Bend resi­dents' knowledge of the envi­ronment. 
Kathleen Petitjean, an occu­pational therapist who is run­ning for office, encouraged students to take personal steps toward environmental friendli­ness because small, daily actions can add up to mean­ingful contributions in the long run. 
Petitjean said she tries to buy locally grown produce and rides her bike for fuel efficien­cy purposes. 
"If you change yourself peo­ple will notice and even your small efforts may make a dif­ference," she said. 
Karl Hardy, another member of the Green Party running for public office, said he believes the world is heading towards an ecological crisis if society does not change its ways. 
"Participatory democracy is a must for a ecologically sound community," Hardy said. 
He urged the students in the audience and their generation to think socially and to take steps towards making an eco­logical difference throughout the community and the world. 
The final speaker was Director of Facilities Bill Hambling, who shared with the audience his opinions on how each building on campus is suffering from the wear it undergoes by the environ­ment. 
Hambling said Saint Mary's is taking action to reduce this deterioration and create an ecol-ogically sustainable cam­pus. 
Spes Unica Hall, the new academic building scheduled to be ready for the 2008-09 academic year, has many aspects that are environmen­tally conscious, he said. Some of the green features are the hall's dual toilets, designated recycling areas and motion detector lights, to help con­serve energy. 
Contact Katie Staak at kstaakO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



AGOURMET BURRITO. 
IT'S KINDA LIKE A LUXURY PICKUP TRUCK. 
e; C~inotle.
r

MEXICAN GRILL 
MAIN &·DOUGLAS 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
l'ied prior to production if a 
packet will cost more than

Packets 

$50. continued from page 1 The second problem, he 
said, is "the outrageously copyrighted materials for sal11 high" bookstore markup ­in aeademie course packets "in that it adds no value to did not fall under fair use students. unless it's worth and that permission was $20 for the convenience." r11quired, according to the Kirkpatrick has be£m at his Stanford University Libraries position at the Bookstore for copyright and fair us11 Web two months and said hn could sitn. Thn case, Basic Books not compare current Inc. v. Kinko's Graphics Bookstore policy to the poli­Corp.,l'orees institutions to eins of the old Copy Shop in obtain copyright dParancn thn LaFortune Studnnt Center for aeadnrnic course packets. basemnnt, which regularly 
"Fair usn" is dPfined as any produ1:ed course packets in rnproduetion or copyrighted previous years. material for a "limited and Tim Wright of' Copy Wright, 'transl'orrnativn' purpose," Inc.. owned the Copy Shop, according to the Web site. whieh closed its doors last Distinguishing distribution of March after a long legal bat­nHttPrials as fair usn can be tle to renew the lnase on the used as a defense against University premises. eopyright inl'ringnnHHlt. Whnn he produced course 
No eopyright pack1~ts for pro­elnaranen fessors, hn oe1~urs in-hous1~ said, he tried to at th n "/ didn 't like keep tho aver­Bookstore; age cost to $50
high-priced
ratlwr. rnall~ri­for course 
course packets.
als "are snnt packets. out of retail They didn't help "I didn't like w a I I s . " high-priced
the kids and 
Kirkpatrick eoursn pack­
they didn't 
said. Tl111 eopy­ets," he said. right fen is help us." "They didn't deterrn ined by help the kids the number of and they didn't
Tim Wright
references in a help us."
Copy Wright, Inc. 
givnn article on lie used the 
a "per incident per use" basis and depends on the publisher. 
English professor Chris Va n d ~~ n Bo s s c h e s a i d t h e eopyright fens paid for each of his paeknts was $28.24. 
"I was told the bookstore thnn addnd 25 percent," he said. 
That additional cost, com­binnd with printing fnes, would bring the packet total to $59.69, Vandnn Bossche said. But tlw final cost of the packPt. wa'S $65. 
"Tlw bottom linn is that my students had to pay $65 for a packet that would have cost t h n rn $ I (> Ias t spring." he said. 
Vanden Bossclw snes major problems wilh thn increase in paekPt prien. First, hn said, thnre were errors in paying the copyright fpns. 
lin said lw was not consult­ed n~garding "all itnms and fees that were charged for materials that an~ in the pub­lie domain." Tho Web site states professors will be noli-
COR 

continued from page 1 
tlw $:{5,000 it nH~nivnd from T h ~~ Shirt Charity Fund . Additional funding has conw from tho monPy that was not spnnt during the fund's initial four ynars of opnration. 
To sustain tho fund's viabil­ity. J>oo rm an proposnd increasing tlw $:{5,000 annu­al allotment to $60,000, lwginning in Ortolwr. 
Most CO H nwrn bn rs agrnnd with Poorman's proposal, whirh would moan tho Shirt Charity Fund -which lwlps studPnts pay for mndieal bills -would rncnivn $25,000 loss nvnry ynar. 
This tradeoff, hownvnr, snnmnd fair and reasonable 
Copyright 
Clearance 
Center to ensun1 permission to use the materials. The organization charged an administrative fen, which -like in the book­store production process ­added to the overall cost of the packets. 
Still. course packets were vnry profitable for the Copy Shop, Wright said. Whnn packets would be extremely expensive due to copyright fees, Wright would sell the packets for thn pricn of print­ing only. 
"Wn did a pretty credible job at getting things cleared, getting it done quickly and at thn least amount of' cost to students," he said. 
Tho Bookstore oversaw the production of about 120 elassns' coursn packets this semnster, Kirkpatrick said. Thnrn are othnr copy centers on campus that can handle the copyright clearance of' matnrials and printing. but all retail sales takn placn in the bookstor·e. 
to most COH members. 

"A demonstrated tangible need should take precedence over an unexpected or improbable medieal expense," senator George Chamberlin said. "It's not completely the school's responsibility to take care of mndiral bills." 
But the Council noted the final decision to ehangn the Shirt Charity Fund's allot­nHmts is beyond their control as tlw fund's needs vary each year,. depending on the spe­cific mndieal conditions that students encounter. 
"You rwver 1:an bn at a safe amount of the Shirt Charity Fund," Student Union Board trnasurer Kadeja Gaines said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierneI@nd.edu.edu 
The Notre Dame Business Operations Web site lists sev­eral benefits of course packet sale through the bookstore and its recent agreement 
Arts and Letters committee that will investigate the course packet issue in October. 
His goal is to see if there is 
with FedEx Kinko's. T h e Bookstore 

''The bottom line is 
becomes a 

single point of that my students 
con tact for had to pay $65 course packet 
for a packet that
submission and purchase, 

would have 
so students cost them $ r 6 can charge 
last spring. " 
course pack­ets to their student Chris Vanden Bossche 
accounts English Professor and faculty and staff need not spend time obtain-
a way to return to the old system, where course packets were sold at the cam­pus copy eent1H where they were printed, like in Flanner Hall, O'Shaughnessy Hall. Decio Faculty Hall and 
the  old  Copy  
Shop.  
Though  he  is  

not optimistic, Bant said. he is currently investi­gating elnctronic means of distri­
ing their own copyright clear­ance. 
Through this system, the University "bears no copy­right elnarancn liability" and is not responsible for excess inventory.. 
University Custom Publishing (UCP) c'onduets the copyright clearance and, in doing so, collncts royalties and copyright fees from the Bookstore that contribute to the price of the course pack­ets. Due to the "comprehen­sive copyright clearance by UCP," the Web site says, fac­ulty may see an increase in the cost of their packets. 
The average turn-around time for production is three weeks. 
Student Government has taken on the issue of course packet prices as one of its projects this semester. Stephen Bant, Fisher Hall senator and a member of the Academic Affairs Committee, is leading the initiative. 
"It feels like everyone is being ripped off." he said. In his research, he discov­ered plans for a College of 
bution like the '"electronic reserve" In-reserve) system on the University Libraries' Web sitn to lower student costs. 
llis committee is currently working on a student opinion survey that will come out next week so students like freshman Jim Hasson can make their opinions on the matter heard. 
Hasson acknowledged the convenience of "one-stop shopping" but complained of the high prices of course packets. 
II asson's philosophy course packet cost $45, which he said was "way too much money for a bunch of photo­copies." lie did appreciate the option of charging the packet to his student charge account at the Bookstore. 
As a result of student out­cry and his own discontent 
with  the  price  increase.  
Theology  professor  Brad  
Malkovsky  now  posts artieles  

for students on e-reserve through the Library. 
Last year, his tlu~ology packet was less than $30. 
This year, the prie11 skyrock­eted to $93. 
"I am not blaming anyone in particular for gouging our students, hut I did apologize to my studnnts on the first day of class for the price increase," he said. 
lie was told by people at the Decio copy center that one of the articles he wanted to use. roughly 25 pages in length, would cost each stu­dent $8. Another article would cost $6. The publish­ers, he said, arc behind these usage and copyright costs, which contributn to overall packet priee. 
With e-reserve. students can decide how much of the material they want to print out. which is a method cheapnr putting tho artiel11s into packets. 
"I think students are much happier paying for the cost of paper instnad of $94 for a packet," hn said. 
"One of ln-rnservn'sl advan­tages is that I am legally able to use a higher pertentage of a book's pages for elass mate­rial than when I was submit­ting material for a hard-copy packet," he said. 
According to the Business Operations Web site, copy­right laws also apply to elec­tronic media, but the University Libraries pur­chased licensing agreements that allow linkages to E­Heserves or reproduction. If the materials to bn put on e­reservc fall outside of fair use guidelines, copyright clear­anco is maintained. The turn­around for that process is 
about ten days.  
"J  will  never  use  a  hard- 
copy  packet  again,"  

Malkovsky said. 
Meg Mirshak contributed reporting to this article. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 COJ'vW!U:D FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Myanmar warns protesting monks 
YANGON -Myanmar's military government issw~d a threat Monday to the barefi1ot Buddhist monks who led I00,000 people marching through a major city in the strongest protests against tho repressive regime for two decades. 
Tlw warning shows the increasing pressure tho junta is under to either crack down on or compromise with a reinvigorated democracy movcmont. Tho monks have taken their tradi­tional role as tho conscience of society, backing tlw military into a corner from which it may lash out again. 
The authorities did not stop the protests Monday, even as they built to a scale and fervor that rivaled the pro-democracy uprising of 1988 when the military Jired on peaceful crowds and killed thousands, terrorizing the country. The government has been handling the monks gin­gerly, wary of raising the ire of ordinary citizens in this devout, predominantly Buddhist nation. 
Iran ignores U.N. Security Council 
UNITED NATIONS -Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced Tuesday that "the nudear issue of Iran is now closed," and indicated that Tehran will disregard U.N. Security Council resolutions imposed by "arro­gant powers" and demanding suspension of its uranium enrichment. 
Instead, he said, Iran has decided to pursue the monitoring of its nuclear program "through its appropriate legal path," the International Atomic Energy Agency which is the U.N.'s nuclear watchdog. 
The U.S. delegation was absent during the speech except for a note taker. 
The Iranian leader spoke hours after French President Nicolas Sarkozy warned the assembly that allowing Iran to arm itself with nuclear weapons would be an "unacceptable risk to sta­bility in the region and in the world." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Utah polygamist leader convicted 
ST. GEORGE, Utah -The leader of a polyg­amous Mormon splinter group was convicted Tuesday of being an accomplice to rape for performing a wedding between a 19-year-old man and a 14-year-old girl. 
Warren Jeffs, 51, could get life in prison after a trial that threw a spotlight on a rene­gade community along the Arizona-Utah line where as many as 10,000 of Jeffs' followers practice plural marriage and revere him as a mighty prophet with dominion over their sal­vation. 
Jeffs stood and, like his 15 followers in the courtroom, wore a stoic look as the verdict was read. 
Prosecutors said Jeffs forced the girl into marriage and sex against her will. 

FBI investigates boat incident 
MIAMI -Four crew members were missing from a boat found adrift and two passengers, one of them a fugitive from Arkansas, were being questioned by federal authorities Tuesday after they were rescued in the Florida Straits near Cuba. 
Kirby Logan Archer, 35, of Strawberry, Ark., and Guillermo Zarabozo, 19, of Hialeah, were found in good condition Monday morn­ing on a life raft. 
They were brought back to land and FBI spokeswoman Judy Orihuela said they were 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana sees improved test scores 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana's fourth-and Pighth-graders improved their scores on national math and reading tests this year and continue to do bettor than the national aver­age. 
The seores are based on the National Assessment of Educational Progress, a test used to compare student progress across state lines. 
Indiana scores increased this year for stu­dents in eighth grade and fourth grade in both math and reading, although eighth-grade reading scores improved by an amount not statistically different than 2005 scores. 

Katrina reconstruction remains slow 
Paperwork continues to hinder execution of FEMA rebuilding efforts 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -Nearly 2,000 pages spell out in excruciating detail some­thing that is plain to Virgil Tiller but not the Federal Emergency Management Agency: His school was destroyed and needs to be rebuilt. 
The pages are a piece-by­piece inventory of everything wrecked by Hurricane Katrina -from the roof right down to the bathroom fixtures -at Alfred Lawless High School in New Orleans' devastated Lower Ninth Ward. 
But FEMA has yet to find the school is 51 percent destroyed -the clerical benchmark that must be reached before the agency will pay to completely rebuild something. And so, two years after Katrina, while the state and federal government haggle over the extent of the damage, the school lies empty, a ruin of toppled bricks, sagging roofs and missing window panes. 
"The kids here were used to disappointment. Leaving this school like this is anoth­er form of disappointment, not just for them, but for the entire community," said money hasn't been spent?' said. "And the focus should federal Stafford Act, which Tiller, a 30-year-old former And the money's been spent be on providing the money to has governed disaster music teacher at what was building mountains of get public services restored. rebuilding since 1988. That the only public high school in paper," said Andy Kopplin, But what we've got is a sys­law says that federal money the Lower Ninth. "How can executive director of the tem where we have thou­can be used only to replace anyone look at this and say it Louisiana Recovery sands of federal, state, local what was damaged, not is not 51 percent destroyed?" Authority. and contract employees improve a facility, or even 
The answer to Tiller's About 20,000 project exchanging paperwork alter it cosmetically in many question lies in "project worksheet reports, common­before the first nail can be cases. worksheets," forms that are ly over 1,000 pages each, hammered." So for Alfred Lawless, used to inventory damage to have been written since the Gil Jamieson, FEMA's No. 2 reams of project worksheet a facility down to the small­storm. According to the LRA, administrator for Gulf Coast pages take stock of items as est pieces, and often go 83 percent of the state's recovery, does not agree. He minute as "five 4-foot two­through multiple versions as 13,200 general construction maintains that while the tube fluorescent ceiling light they wend their way through projects have been haggled project worksheet system fixtures, three vitreous wall the bureaucracy. over at least once, tying up was slowed by early prob­hung urinals, four plastic 
The PWs -which meas­$469 million in rebuilding lems, such as a high rate of laminate partition stalls with ure the rebuilding needs of funds. turnover among the FEMA four wall hung vitreous toi­thousands of Gulf Coast Kopplin has looked at workers who fill them out, lets." schools, roads, hospitals, cases like Alfred Lawless and they ensure money is not All the damaged items firehouses and other public called for an overhaul, argu­overspent. accounted for at the school projects -are the red tape ing that the system was ill­"The story could be written add up to $28 million in fed­that politicians and policy equipped to handle a disas­that the federal government eral funding that the school makers bemoan when they ter on Katrina's scale. is nitpicking," Jamieson said. district can count on toward speak of the slow rebuilding "There could be a cata­"The other side is that we're rebuilding, Jamieson said. from Katrina. strophic earthquake in trying to be good stewards of All but two of the buildings 
"People look at Louisiana California. There could be the taxpayer dollar." on campus have reached the and say, 'Where is all the other unforeseen disasters, The worksheets are 51 percent benchmark, he rebuilding? How come all the and terrorists attacks," he designed to comply with the said. 
JAPAN 

Fukuda elected nation's prime minister 
Associated Press our opponents, if they are willing to ment's powerful lower house, Fukuda 
engage with us," Fukuda said in his was defeated in the upper house, 
TOKYO -Yasuo Fukuda swept to first news conference after winning which voted for opposition leader power as Japan's prime minister election in parliament. "I believe the Ichiro Ozawa. It was only because of Tuesday, promising to use his skills as government and all parties can come a law that favors the lower house a negotiator to win approval for together to the negotiating table." that Fukuda was named premier. extending Tokyo's contentious mis­But Fukuda, a proven survivor who It was the first time that parliament sion in support of U.S. troops in became the nation's longest-serving had split in a vote for prime minister Afghanistan. chief Cabinet secretary in 2000-2004, since 1998, and only the fourth time 
The 71-year-old, who studied back­faces daunting challenges at the helm since World War II. room politics at the knee of his prime of the world's second-largest econo­Ozawa, head of the Democratic minister father, cast himself as the my: a parliament split by opposition Party of Japan, made clear, however, steady hand Japan needs after the control of the upper house and rock­that he was interested in wresting scandal-scarred one-year term of his bottom public support for the long­power from the ruling Liberal youthful predecessor Shinzo Abe, time ruling party. Democratic Party, not helping Fukuda who abruptly resigned two weeks One glaring sign of the troubles achieve his agenda. The opposition is ago. ahead was his election Tuesday. pushing for snap elections for the 
"There is room for discussion with While easily triumphing in parlia-lower house. 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 26, 2007 

Teach 
continued from page 1 
Arnnrka is a perfnet opportunity to do so," she said. 
And Notre Damn students have answered that call to servien with 1-{n~at enthusiasm in past years, said Patrick llerrel, dirnetor of tho Lakn Michigan recruitment team for Teach lilr Ameriea. 
"Notre Damn's Catholie culture and tho commitment to social justice that it instills have always created a strong sense of obliga­tion in the student.-;," llerrel said. 
lin said Notre Dame's 44­tnadwr contribution last ynar was tho fourth largest from any single sehool -and the three schools that produced morn vol­unteers than the University at lnast tripled Notrn Damn in the sizn of their studm1t bodies. 
"Wnndy Kopp, tho CEO and founder of Teach for America, has been so impressed by the work Notre Dame students have donn that she is actually leomingl to the University on Oct. 9 to host a student leader reception," I Ierro! said. "Hfmlly, the work the University has donn through things like the Center for Soeial Conenrns has made Notrn Dame onn of Teach for America's top rm:ruiting schools." 

llnrrel said the Lake Michigan recruitment team is hoping to recruit 60-70 Notro Dame seniors filr thn program this year. 
"One of" our major goals is to increase our Notre Dame num­bnrs," llerrol said. "Notre Dame students have always shown a great eommitment to giving the childron a quality education. And it is lilr that reason that they are always in dnmand." 
Meraz said the program looks for "outstanding eollnge seniors who havo dnmonstrated strong leadership in all areas, possess strong critical thinking skills and have maintained a GPA of at least 2.5." 
After eompleting their two-year eontraet with Teaeh for America, past recruits have gone on to earners in and out of the class­room. Currently, there are more than 12,000 TFA graduates working all over the country in fields ranging from medicine to business to law, I Ierro! said. 
Sixty-five percent of former program partieipants choose to stay in education, with many opt­ing to beeome teachers. Some, however, attempt to further address education problems as principals or school ehancellors, he said. 
One Notre Dame graduate and former TFA teacher, Jim O'Conner, reeently established a Knowledge is Power Program (KIPP) ehartnr school in Chicago. KIPP is a national network of free college-preparatory public sehools in under-rosoureed com­munities throughout the United States, according to its Web site. 
TFA teachers that choose a dif­ferent career path than education have dillerent options available to them, including the possibility of returning to school for an advanced degree at a lower cost -a result of their work with Teach for Anmriea. 
The Notre Dame Law School, for example, will give a $5,000 per year scholarship to any fi>r­mer TFA teacher. 
But for most students that choose to sign up for the two­year eommitment, the motivation is not monetary compensation. 
Teaeh for America is an oppor­tunity to help out in some of the poorest, most downtrodden areas of the country. 
Senior Matt Gibson, another TFA campus eoordinator, said he needed only to look in Notre Dame's own baekyard to realizo something had to bn done about underprivileged sehools. Gibson said 96 percnnt of students at PerlHy Elerllfmtary School on Eddy Street qualify li>r free lunch and only half of fourth graders passed state exams in math and reading. 
"Many of tho students that attend Notrn Dame went to great public schools or private schools,'' he said. "For students that grow up in low-income com­munities, going to a school like Notre Dame is not possible because of tho poor education they will receive." 
Teach for America, he said, is "a part of" Notre Dame's call to service that resonates with us all. We ean and should make a diller­ence by helping to correct America's greatest injustice." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Book 
continued from page 1 
Bookstore and online at Arnazon.eom and Barnes and Noble. 
The book's editor, 1973 grad­uate Ann Therese Darin Palmer, explained the idea behind the book and the goals tlu~ lntters hope to aehieve among the younger Notre Dame genera­tions. 
"Last Saturday, whnn Jim Lynch unveiled the statue of" Ara Parseghian, Ara said he hoped his former play1~rs over tho years would stop by and visit the statue," Palmer told the crowd at the book launch. 

"'Tell your children or grand­children your own story about bning part of this history,' Ara said. 'Stop a while and try to lis­ten to the echoes. They'll be horn."' 
She said Parseghian, who eon­tributed a letter to the book, eould have just as easily been talking about llesburgh and his contribution to the history of Notrn Dame. 
"We'vn got a similar goal. Besides thanking Father Ted for the tremnndous gift he gave us, we wantnd to tell our ehildren, grandchildren, other Domer alumnae, particularly recent graduates and women on cam­pus today, what it was like to be one of Notre Damn's co-ed pio­neers." Palmer said. 
Several of the gathered alum­nae read from their own letters, ineluding 1972 graduate Mary Davey Bliley, the University's first female to receive an under­graduate degree. Illinois Appellate Court Justice Sheila O'Brien -a 1977 and 1980 graduate and the winner of this year's Hev. Edward Sorin Alumni Association Award for Distinguished Service to the University -and B.oxanne 
Martino O'Brien-a 1977 grad­uate. president of the Mendoza College Business Advisory Couneil and the president and CEO of Harris Alternatives, an $11 billion Chicago-based hedge fund -expressed their grati­tude to Hesburgh. 
University President Father John Jenkins will give a spnech here on "Notre Dame Coeducation: The Past, Present and Future" here on Oct. 22. 
Palmer said the event will be open to all Notre Dame stu­dents, parents and alumni. Guests at the luneheon, she said, will include Board of Trustees Chairman Hichard Notebaert and many Chicago­based trustees. 
In addition to the newly released book, the Thanking Father Ted Foundation is sell­ing two posters for $16.95 each. All profits from the poster sales will bennfit the Notre Dame Gender Helations Center. 
Tho first poster is a reprint of the 1972 poster recruiting the first undergraduate women to apply to the University. The sec­ond poster commemorates the 35th anniversary of Notre Dame coeducation. 
Contact Nicole O'Connor at noconno1@nd.edu 

NDTV 
continued from page 1 
Andert said one of" this fall's 
new additions is NDTV's first 
studont-produced sitcom, "On 
Campus." The show is in 
"mockumnntary" style, he 
said, similar to the popular 
NBC series "The Office," 
whieh in turn was a spin-off 
from a popular BBC show of 
the same name. 
"On Campus" follows a girl named Sarah and her transi­tion to Notre Dame as a fresh­man, Andert said. She has eanwras following her through her adjustment to the campus life, documenting the realiza­tion of" her droam to attend Notre Dame -and the con­trast bntwenn what she nxpnctnd and what she reeeivos. 
"On Campus" will air a nnw episode weekly, starting next week, on Thursday nights. Writing, producing, and taping an nntirely NDTV-produeed siteorn was always an idea f"loating around the studio, Andt~rt said, but it was difTi­t~ult to accomplish logistically for years. 
"We shoot whnnever thn east is available,'' he said. "It ean be anytime during tlw wnnk. We've nven shot on Sunday mornings bPf"ore." 
The show's producer, sopho­more John Minser, said devel­oping and filming "On Campus" is a challenge finan­cially and in time-wise, but he said tlw east and crew is exeited about the upcoming season. 
"It's a prntty ambitious proj­ect," he said. "We havn an ext1n1sive cast and erew and have been able to pull in the biggest budget yet. We're hop­ing to be able to have a nnw half hour episodn every woek." 

That goal is key to one of the main purposes of "On Campus,'' which is to create a show with an ongoing plot to hook viewers and keep them tuning in every week, Andert said. 
"We hope that On Campus draws a steady audience and that it draws people to our other shows as well," he said. 
Some of the other shows that will premiere on NDTV this season ineludn "Talk it Out,'' a debate show. The show will feature two groups debat­
ing a  hot issue before a  mod­ 
erator  - sophomore  Dan  
Hotar.  
In  addition  to  the  new  

shows, all of the station's old programs will return with new episodes, bringing NDTV's original-show-count up to seven. 
NI>TV News and NDTV Sports were merged into one hour-long program, Andert said. 
"Final Cut,'' a movie review show, will rnturn to the lineup this year, and new episodes of "Humor Artists,'' a live taping of the campus improvisational comedy group of the same nanw, will be airing as well. 
The interview show "Office llours" is also baek with a season opener that will fea­ture an interview with the hand Plain White T's, who played at Legends on Sept. 
14. It will also include a inter­view with members of local band Umphrey's MeGee. 
NDTV's signature late show, however, has a new host and a new name. "The Mike Peterson Show" has been replaced by "Late Night ND," which premiered Tuesday with new host junior Joe Kwaczala. 
Anderst said tlu~ NDTV staff is also working on a new Web site for the station that will havo a new streaming video section. The date for the site's launch is still unknown, but he said it could be as early as accomplished at NDTV so far ming. We hope to improve the later this week. and what is in store. production values as well, so 
And while many of the "It's our biggest lineup yet. our shows look and sound bet­shows and the initiatives he We are expanding quickly, and ter." has in mind are still in the have a lot of members," he developing stages, Andert said. "We are trying to expand Contact Nicole Taylor at said, he is proud of what has and improve our program-ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 



{jJ; When it's the @@lfiJ@~(ID[J@[fiJO[?J~ 
prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1·yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 2, 2007. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end ofMay, 2008) an NO degree? No east-Asia experience? For more infonnation, contad Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nrnee@nd.edu) 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,778.65 +19.59
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,318 91 1,917 3,187,767,487 
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE 

S&P 500 1,517.21 -0.52 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,401.73 0.00 FTSE 100 'London~ 6,396.90 -69.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.20 -0.30 151.39 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.95 +0.48 51.07 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +1.65 +0.48 29.56 EM C CP (EMC) +1.95 +0.40 20.91 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.22 -0.010 4.614 13-WEEK BILL +0.54 +0.020 3.690 30-YEAR BOND +0.18 +0.009 4.886 5-YEAR NOTE -0.91 -0.039 4.259 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.42 79.53 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.50 738.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.23 88.73 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 114.6300 EURO 0.7073 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0044 BRillSH POUND 0.4954 
IN BRIEF 

Clear Channel buyout approved 
SAN ANTONIO -It took just about three weeks for the nation's biggest radio station operator, Clear Channel Communications Inc., to accept a buyout offer after announcing last fall that it was considering "strategic alternatives." 
It took another 10 months for sharehold­ers to finally approve the deal. 
On Tuesday they gave the OK to a $19.5 billion buyout offer from a private equity group led by Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital Partners LLC. 
The offer was first announced in November but was swee.tened after some large shareholders signaled they would oppose earlier offers. 
The latest offer was $39.20 per share in cash or stock in what would be a privately owned company. Current shareholders could end up with as much as 30 percent of the new company. 

Consumer info exposed to hackers 
BOSTON -Hackers stole millions of credit card numbers from discount retailer T JX Cos. by intercepting wireless transfers of customer information at two Miami-area Marshalls stores, according to an eight-month investiga­tion by the Canadian government. 
The probe led by Canadian Privacy Commissioner Jennifer Stoddart faulted TJX for failing to upgrade its data encryption sys­tem by the time the electronic eavesdropping began in July 2005. The break-in ultimately gave hackers undetected access toTJX's cen­tral databases for a year and a half, exposing at least 45 million credit and debit cards to potential fraud. 
Credit card associations have declined to disclose total damages from thefts that are believed tied to the T JX breach. But some banks have said they've learned of fraudulent purchases as far away as Hong Kong and Sweden. 




U.N. debates emissions solutions 
Bush looks to voluntary company reductions rather than accept Kyoto-style mandate 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 
"Arnie" and "AI," 
Republican and Democrat, 
shared the world spotlight 
to press for climate action, 
adding a touch of star qual­
ity to the staid proceedings 
of a U.N. summit. 
The two headliners, California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger and for­mer Vice President AI Gore, also highlighted by their presence President Bush's absence from the eight hours of high-level speech­making Monday on what to do about global warming. 
Bush, who did take part later in a small, private 
U.N. dinner with key play­ers on climate, rejects the idea of international treaty obligations to reduce emis­sions of carbon dioxide and other "greenhouse gases" blamed for global warming -an idea central to U.N. climate negotiations. 
The Republican Schwarzenegger, on the other hand, has taken the lead on emissions caps at the state level, signing leg­islation mandating such reductions in California. 
"One responsibility we all have is action. Action, action, action," the former Hollywood action star said as he helped open the sum­mit, winning warm applause from the assem­annual U.N. climate treaty sions caps say a break­research on clean-energy bled presidents and pre­conference, scheduled for through is needed at Bali to technology as one answer. miers. December in Bali, ensure an uninterrupted On Thursday and Friday, 
The Democrat Gore -a Indonesia, where the transition from the Kyoto Bush will host his own Hollywood figure himself as Europeans and others hope deal to a new, deeper-cut­Washington climate meet­the lead in the Oscar-win­to initiate talks for an emis­ting regime, something that ing, limited to 16 "major ning climate documentary sions-reduction agreement almost certainly would emitter" countries, includ­"An Inconvenient Truth" -to succeed the Kyoto require a change in the ing China and India, the took his star turn at a sum­Protocol in 2012. position of the U.S., long first in a series of U.S.-led mit luncheon, where he The 17 5-nation Kyoto the world's biggest emitter gatherings expected to cited a lengthening list of pact, which the U.S. rejects, of greenhouse gases. focus on those themes. global warming's impacts, requires 36 industrial Bush objects that Kyoto­"The Washington meeting from the shrinking Arctic nations to reduce the heat­style mandates would dam­is a distraction," Hans ice cap to disappearing trapping gases emitted by age the U.S. economy and Verolme, climate cam­lakes in Africa. power plants and other says they should be paigner for the Worldwide 
'"The need to act is now," industrial, agricultural and imposed on fast-growing Fund for Nature, told 
Gore told delegates to the transportation sources. The poorer countries such as reporters here. The Bush 
one-day summit, which 1997 agreement set rela­China and India in addition administration needs "to 
drew more than 80 world tively small target reduc­to developed nations. He show they are serious and 
leaders. "We need a man­tions averaging 5 percent instead is urging industry implement domestic legis­
date at Bali." below 1990 levels by 2012. to cut emissions voluntarily lation to reduce emissions," 
He was referring the The advocates of emis-and is emphasizing he said. 

Consumer confidence, home sales fall 
Associated Press by a report from the National after hurricanes Katrina and Rita 
Association of Realtors that sales of devastated the Gulf Coast. 
NEW YORK -Crumbling con­existing homes declined for a sixth "Weaker business conditions com­sumer confidence and slumping straight month in August, pushing bined with a less favorable job mar­home sales could prove to be a bad activity to the lowest point in five ket continue to cast a cloud over combination for retailers, and for years. The Realtors showed a rise consumers and heighten their sense the broader economy going into the in median home prices, but a sepa­of uncertainty and concern," said holiday shopping season, if the rate report done by S&P/Case­Lynn Franco, director of The labor market contracts further and Shiller said home prices fell 3. 9 Conference Board Consumer chokes off spending, economic data percent in July in its 20-city index. Research Center, in a statement. showed Tuesday. Economists said that decline was "Looking ahead, little economic 
But markets took some heart from probably a better :r:eflection of improvement is expected, and with the warning signs, hoping that they where the market stands now. the holiday season around the cor­would goad the Federal Reserve to The New York-based Conference ner, this is not welcome news." lower interest rates more. Board said its Consumer Confidence The Present Situation Index, 
Worries about jobs and the econo­Index fell to 99.8, an almost 6-point which measures how shoppers feel my flared in September, driving a drop from the revised 105.6 in now about the economy, declined to key barometer of consumer senti­August. The reading was below the 121.7 from 130.1 in August. The ment to its lowest level in nearly 104.5 that analysts had expected. Expe~tations Index, which meas­two years, a private research group It marked its lowest level since a ures shoppers' outlook over the said. 98.3 reading in November 2005, next six months, declined to 85.2 
The bad news was compounded when gas and oil prices soared from 89.2. 
TLlE OBSERVER 
page 8 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Assyrian suffering overlooked in Iraq 
l~ll. flox 779. Noire I lame, IN 46';';6 021 South I lining H.tll, Notre Dame. IN '16116 
ElliTOR IN CIIIEI' Maddie !Ianna 

MANAGINl; EDITOR BtrSINF.~s MANAtam 
Ken Fowler Kyle West 
Ass-1: MANA! aNI; EDI I'OR: Kyle Cassity 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen langley 
VII'WPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SroR rs Enrrolt~: Chris Khorcy 
Chris Hine 
SUNI' EDITOR: Tat· Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

l'IIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mcnndla 
GRAI'IIIC.S EnrroR: Madeline Nics 
AOVEilTISING MANAGER: Jessica Conez 
All 1>1'.\IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRXfOR: Christian Saganli.t 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) ().31-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-()927 
ADVERTISING 

(~74) (,31-6900 ohservad@)nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.31-4541 nhsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.31-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.t•du 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.!@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 6.31-4543 spons.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540scenc.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) ()31-8767 obsphow@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
TilE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 

The Observer is rhc indepcndem, daily newspaper published in prilll and online by the students of the Univcrsiry of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advcniscments, is not governed by policies of the administrarion ofeither institution. The Oh.-;ervcr reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. LJa,igned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of rhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, AISisram Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit'Wpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofJll opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contacr in(i.,rm<uion·. . 
Qumiom regarding Obsm1apolides should be dirt'cted to Editor in CIJiefMaddie Hmma. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Il'IC UMc:rvc:r it 1"\PS ~')') ! 400(1) '' puht.dtcd Mnnd01.y rhruugh Fnd....y cnc:pr durint' cum .u1d Vll(: . .uturJ peno..ls./\ wbt..r•puon tl\ The: (Jbscrvcr is SilK) t\or one ~!emit yt-.ar.l\'i for one IICmntc:r. 
11K"0lw:rVt:rl'l'"hi•.J,'"'I .., I'OSTMASTI~R 

(1.[4 Suuth OminK ff.all Semi add!O.\ UltrCCIIUib In: 
N1111"\" lhmc. IN ·•Wi16-0Trl ·nu:Oiwtver 
l'cruMiie~ljHl\Uit(C jt,ud .u Nuu~r Do~me fl:O.I\nx77'J .ami ohl..lu/tll\.ilm.Uhu~utlil.l':\. Ol4 Somh DimnM, I111.11 

Nuen: Dam~;, IN 4M~-077lJ 
Thr Oh~~erv..-r i~ .& uu·ml~<"r of iht A.J.w.k:i.arcd PrN. All rcprrltlu.·riutl riKitr\ .ur u·acrval. 
The Assyrians havP lived in Iraq since 5,000 B.C. Ethnieally distinct from Arabs and Kurds. they are Christians and spnak nco-Aramaic, similar to tlw language of' Christ. Tlwy indude Chaldean Catholic. Apostolic Charles Rice Catholic and Syriac Orthodox churchns. 
Hight or

"In Iraq," 
Wrong?

Chaldean 
Archbishop Louis 
Sako. of Kirkuk, said last April, 
"Christians arc dying, the Church is 
disappearing under ... porsecution, 
threats and violence ... by extremists 
who are leaving us no choice: conver­
sion or exile." 
Last Jun1~. the Assyrian International News Agency (AINA) issued a report, "Incipient Genocide: The Ethnic Cleansing of Assyrians in Iraq." In 2003, Christians and smaller non­Muslim groups wore about one million of Iraq's 26 million peopln. Probably 50 percent have now fled the country. Persecution began after the Gulf War and escalated after the fall of Baghdad in 2003. AINA reported that from 19<.!5 to 2002 there were 1<) murders of Assyrians in Iraq. with none in 1996, 2000 and 2001. From 2003 to June 2007 there were 370. Assyrians and other Christians have been attacked by Sunnis, Shiites. Kurds and al-Qaeda in every part of Iraq. The Assyrians, with no tribal structure, military or militia, are defenseless. Since the coming of Islam in 630 A.D., noted AINA, Assyrians have suffered thirty "geno­cides at the hands of Muslims," several in the 20th century. They experienced comparative safety and tolerance under the oppressive but secular regime of Saddam Hussein. 
Since the fall of Saddam, the perse­cution has intensified, with the added motive that many Iraqi Christians who speak English have worked for Americans. The AINA study, however, confirms that the persecution is pri­marily religious. Last October, for instance, Ayad Tariq, a 14-year-old Assyrian in Baquba. was accosted at his place of employment by insurgents who asked if he was a "Christian sin­ner." "Yes." he replied, "I am a Christian, but I am not a sinner." The 
insurgents quickly pronounced him a 
"dirty Christian sinner" and, shouting 
"Ailahu akbar!," beheaded him. Also 
last October, Father Paulos lskander 
was kidnapped in Mosul. I lis head, 
arms and legs were severed from his 
body. 

AINA graphically described many attacks since 2003, which wn can only summarize here. Fivepriests have been kidnapped and relnased after ransom was paid. 33 churches have been attacked or bombnd sine~~ Junn 2004. At least 13 young womnn have been abducted and raped. causing some of them to commit suicide. Female students have been targeted in Basra and Mosul for not wearing veils; some had nitric acid squirted on their faees. Elders of a village in Mosul were warned not to send females to univer­sities. The Madhi Army circulated a letter warning all Christian women to veil themselves. Al-Qaeda moved into an Assyrian neighborhood and began collecting the jizya tax and demanding that females be sent to the mosque to be married off to Muslims. Assyrian businesses have been targeted, espe­cially stores selling aleohol, radios, TVs and music. On the night of Sept. 7. 2005, a fire. with arson suspected, destroyed or damaged more than 500 Assyrian shops in Dora. The lire trucks did not arrive for hours. The owners had to watch from their homes. If they violated curfew, they would be shot. Property of Christians has been confiscated by Kurds and Shiites. The Kurds blocked foreign aid for Assyrian communities and diverted water and other resources from Assyrians to Kurds. Kurdish forces blockaded Assyrian villages. Children have been kidnapped and transferred to Kurdish families. 
The Assyrians and their supporters urge, in the words of Doctor Nina Shea of the Center for Religious Freedom, the "establishment of a new autonomous district," in the Nineveh Plains "that would be jointly gov­erned" by Assyrians and smaller reli­gious groups. Unfortunately, as Shea stated on Aug. 27, 2007. "there has been no progress" on creating "a Nineveh province" and "U.S. policy ... runs counter to the initiative. When askml about such a havnn, the Statn 
Dnpartmnnt's Iraq policy coordinator, 
David Sattnrfinld, told me that it is 
'against U.S. policy to further sectari­
anism.' The administration has not 
even brought together ... JeadPrs of 
Iraq's non-Muslim minorities to dis­
cuss solutions." 
Mmtnwhile, the mayhem eontimws. Fatlwr Hagheed Ganni and thrne dna­eons wnrn assassinated by gunmen as they drovn from a church in Mosul after Mass on .June :1. 2007. Tlwir car was bobby-trapped by the gunmen to prevent rntrieval of the bodies. On June 19, at a Mass for Father c;anni and the dn;u:ons in Southlinld, Michigan, Chaldean Catholic Bishop Ibrahim N. Ibrahim callnd for tlw withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. Bishop Ibrahim has a point. One result of' the Iraq War has been to exposn the Assyrians and othnr Christians to genocidal rnprnssion by all the major Muslim groups who appear to be of one mind on this. But tlw U.S. should not leavn Iraq without ensuring the safety of those minorities in their honwland. 
Bishop Ibrahim is entitlt~d to makn his point. because in December, 2002, he warned thn United States against "going to war, whieh will be a disaster f'or the whole region, not only f'or the Iraqi people." Nor was he the only Chaldean prelate to do so. On Jan. 9, 2003, Chaldean Bishop Shlemon Warduni of' Baghdad warned that "the war threatens our children, our elder­ly, our sick and our young." We can now add to that list the Christians who are about to disappear from Iraq. As Shea put it, "The very existence of these non-Muslims within Iraq may soon be extinguished under pervasive persecution that the U.N. High Commissioner on Hefugees says is tar­geted against them due to religion." President Bush should have listened to the Chaldeans. 
Professor emeritus Charles Rice is on the faculty of the Law School. lie can be reached at rice.J@nd.edu or (574) 63.1-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Mareela Berrios James Costa Mandi Stirone Viewpoint Dan Jaeobs Bethany What restaurant would you most 
Graphics Whitfield "No one sees anyone as he
like to see on campus? 
actually is . . . they see all sorts 
Madeline Nies 

ofthings ... they see themselves. " 
Sports Dan Murphy Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Virginia Woolf 
Michael Bryan American writer
at www.ndsmcobserver.com
Kevin llenry 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Campus workers deserve stronger voice 
In the all-stafl' town hall meetings con­Jiant one -though it is not a new concept of the Church's rich tradition and social prides itself on service learning, justice ducted this week, Executive Vice President for this campus; it is something dozens of teaching? A right to organize, a right to and faith put into action. John Aflleck-Graves is quoted as saying, students have been doing for the past two bargain, a right to participate at the table I hope that visitors to campus pause and "It is critical and essential every member years, though their efl'orts have often been where decisions get made that affect your consider the people serving in the Subway of the Notre Dame family feels respected, oflittle success in attracting serious atten­life (the technical Catholic social teaching line or cleaning up our mess after tailgat­valued and understood." tion or recognition from the University. term is subsidiarity) and a right to speak ing -more than that, I hope we will be 
I couldn't agree more, and I applaud the They too have sought to give an "NO on your own behalf without fear of reper­moved to stand in solidarity with workers Univnrsity's ell'orts to measure employee Voice" to employees who otherwise feel cussions in performance reviews, unjust in the Notre Dame family whose voice has satisfaction by conducting the NO Voice that they have no say in the decisions that consequences from supervisors or risk of yet to be fully proclaimed. surveys, as well as the development of directly affect them and their experience termination. These are rights that mem­staff-generated action plans that seek to at work. bers of the Campus Labor Action Project Casey Stanton address concerns in the work force. How do we ensure that all members of -staff, students, faculty and alumni like Alumnus 
Similarly, the proposal for top adminis­the Notre Dame family do in fact feel myself-are committed to upholding at Class of2007 trators to shadow stafl' members is a bril-respected and valued? Especially in light Notre Dame, an institution that so greatly Sept. 20 
Legal education, institutional learning 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Call for lighter enforcen1ent 
f. , ,.., -,J-..... c ....,.._ 
www.cagelcar1oons comfespanol 

unreasonable 
I would like to comment on Tuesday's argument, although I doubt the administra­Viewpoint letter by Carla DeMarzo-Sanchez tion has the ability to rewrite Indiana law ("Reasonable regulation is key,"). I take it with regard to underage drinking, any she would like the administration ("Notre more than it has the power to convince Dame, please listen ...") to put pressure on upcoming Notre Dame opponents to let the South Bend Police Department so that Notre Dame win, thus creating happier students who break underage drinking alumni and a healthier endowment. Nice laws will not be cited. try, though. 
According to her, this will lead to happier alumni who will contribute in direct pro­MaryWaggoner portion to the positive memories garnered Notte Dame staff in their undergraduate years. Interesting Sept. 25 

Need to ensure proper recycling 
I want to congratulate all of the volunteers that put together the recycling campaign for the Michigan State game. It is great to see that type of activity happening on campus. 
That being said, I hope the students ensure that the bags of recyclables are being properly recycled by Notre Dame. In 1999, at the request of students, Notre Dame installed recycling containers in Reekers, but it was only later discovered that the university was actu­ally just disposing of all of the separated trash in the same dumpster, regardless of the fact that the trash had been sorted and labeled according to recycling stan­dards. 
Matt Hudson alumnus Class of2000 Sept. 24 

Shirt solidarity day shovvs activisn1 
In the past, Notre Dame students have generally not been known for large-scale activism. With so much schoolwork, it's hard to pay attention to much else. But then an organized response to the proposed South Bend "party ordinance," boldly led by student government heads Liz Brown and Maris Braun, defied that reputation of complacency. 
Brown and Braun didn't stop there, though. On Friday, they brought us together yet again, this time clad in green t-shirts, to stand in solidarity with our Irish foot­ball team. As their campus-wide email instructed, _hundreds of stu­dents showed their spirit and proudly "battl[edl the adversity of an 0-3 start" by wearing The Shirt a day early. 
Friday's day of football solidarity proved that Observer columnist Andrea Laidman was wrong several weeks ago when she claimed in this news­paper that Notre Dame students only get organized and active when our social life is threatened ("You gotta fight for your right," Sept. 3). Cynics like 
Laidman must now find a way to explain how-if Notre Dame students are indeed so apathetic and politically inactive -such a day of solidari­ty was so successful. 
It might be too early to tell, but it appears that solidarity, activism and battling adversity together will be this student 

government's legacy. Brown and Braun should be praised for their forward thinking and tireless pur­suit of unity and justice. 
Mike Laskey 
senior 
Dillon Hall Sept. 23 

Forty years ago this autumn I began law school. Between then and now I graduated, picked up two additional graduate degrees, successfully practiced law, raised a family, owned a nice home, suffered the losses that come with living and joined vowed religious life. On the strength of the nostrum that even blind squirrels find acorns, I offer what I know in retrospect about legal education and institutional learning in general. 
First, relying on external rewards will produce neither satisfaction nor happi­ness. Hather, those who place a primacy on a relationship with God, while accom­modating personal growth and caring for others, find both satisfaction and happiness. So avoid the single-minded focus on securing the highest grades and 

and the role of faith 
the greatest institutional honors, the best job and highest salary or meeting the expectations of others for they only create anxiety and frustration, impede learning and, ironically, impede becom­ing a good lawyer. 
Satisfaction and happiness in life, learning included, comes more readily to those who do work they enjoy, or work that they find virtuous. Like it or not, a happy and satisfied life requires that one knows who he is uniquely made by God to be, and to follow that divine reality. 
Second, forget perfectionism. Disabuse yourself of any notion that you will not make mistakes. Humans err and wisdom comes over time, often as a result of mistake and failure. Hence be patient with others and yourself. Do not assume people will meet your expectations; avoid being judgmental. Cultivate and maintain a faith life and relationship with God, for absent this you will come to depend on your own intelligence and ability, a losing wager as no one plays a fault-free, tragedy-less game of life. In short: Trust God, do not worry, and be forgiving. 
Third, be leery of being an objective participant in life and learning. Do not fall victim to thinking like a lawyer. Do not let acquiring the analytical skills required to practice any occupation sep­arate you from a pre-canonical sense of moral order, your values, ideals, instinct, imagination, your conscience, feelings or emotions or, most significantly, from your faith. To do otherwise is to lose contact with your self, to become a lost soul, to participate in your own de­humanization. 
The point is this: Do not be institution­alized or willy-nilly acculturated. Do not live another's life. God made you a full human -use all your endowment and relish the liberating faith reality that you need not adopt the impossible burden of authoring a perfect, self-designed life of self-engineered success. 
God made you to know happiness and satisfaction. He seeks only your faithful­ness. Put God at the center of your life and proceed with confidence. 
Br. Bob Sylvester Sept. 20 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page I 0 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
Notre Dame Kicks o 
•

Fall Fas 
IOU 

She's wearing: Frosh 0 She's wearing: Forever She's wearing: Urban He's wearing: Gap shirt, She's wearing: Fisher t­Shirt, Old Navy flip flops 21 shirt, AE jeans Outfitters dress, flip flops Adidas shoes shirt, Old Navy bag 



She's wearing: Parisian scarf, AE jumper, boots Name: Kevin Garcia He's wearing: Polo shirt, AE jeans, sandals 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
page 11 




J.CREW 
.·~ RALPH 
LAUREN 
eason 
FASHION BOUTIQUE OFFERS "INSPIRED" STYLE 
By AMELIA THOMPSON 
Scene Wrirer 
For the avid Notre Dame shopper, it's easy to come up short at good ol' University Park Mall. Sure, the addition of Cache. Coach and a shiny new Forever 21 are appreciated, but for the true devotee to fashion, South Bend is lacking. 
Well, thanks to boutique owner Jeanne Skelton, South Bend's fashion future looks a little brighter. Located in down­town South Bend on Colfax and in Granger, Ind., on West Cleveland, Inspire Me is one of the city's secret gems. 
The boutique carries chic clothing, funky accessories and shoes, and plenty of fun gift items. With a long list of high­end lines that is rivaled by none other in the city, including LaRok, Nanette Lepore, French Connection and Diane Von Furstenberg. Inspire Me's Granger location is a sort of Saks Fifth Avenue for South Bend. 
Going strong for 13 years, it strikes a perfect balance between lavish formal­wear and the luxuriously casual. According to Skelton, Inspire Me Granger "has incredible dresses and 
STYLIN' SENIORS PRESENT 10 THINGS To "FALL" INTO 
By BRITTNY FLINT and AMELIA THOMPSON 
Scene Wrirers 
Even though that Fergie tune is beyond played out, this season it is still all about the G-L-A-M-0-R-0-U-S. Here is a list of 10 tips that will help you stylishly embrace the upcoming fall season. 
Steppin' out 

This season is all about the wide leg jean and trousers. From the darkest denim to a refined tweed, this sophisti­cated style dresses up any look. But hold on ladies, don't throw away the skinny jean just yet; both styles can transform any fall outfit from blah to breathtaking. 
Heavy metal 

Two seasons ago we became enam­ored with metallics and that love affair is still going strong. Keep piling on the bangles, Parrings and other accessories for some extra shine. 
A member of the metallic family, sequins also adorn everything from going out tops to nighttime dresses. Flashy, fun and funky; these precious suits for when the mood is more dressy, but there are still Michael Stars tees, Rebecca Beeson tops, Vince cashmere sweaters and great casual dresses by Velvet 
Locations: 

to choose from." 
But the high-end 312 W. Cleveland Road lar-than-ever True names found at Inspire Religion. Striving to
Grange~ lnd.46530 

Me shouldn't scare bring all of the potential shoppers coolest lines and lat­away. Inspire Me also 520 &528 E. Colfax Ave est, freshest fashion features affordable lines trends to South Bend, 
South Bend, Ind. 46617
such as Tulle, Kensie, Skelton and her 
B.B. Dakota, Free People, Lacoste and Sugar Lips at its Colfax locations for the more cash­strapped college coed. 
Skelton makes an effort to get great labels that are priced at $100 or less to encourage Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to patronize the store. The introduction of a student discount card this fall gives Notre Dame and St. Mary's students the opportunity to save even more when shopping at Inspire Me. 
With a valid and recent school ID, and the Inspire Me discount card, student shoppers can save 10 percent off regular price purchases. The downtown location also specializes in the latest denim trends with go-to brands such as 7 For 
metals can make the dullest of outfits sparkle. 
Bright not black 
The change in South Bend weather can rattle even the most fashionably faithful. Bring the sunshine back by accenting simple outfits with bursts of orange, yellow and shades of green. 
Make a statement with your jewelry 
When your go-to pearls just won't do the job, make a statement with your jewelry by wearing eccentric pieces that speak for themselves. A heavy necklace or a dramatic ring can make you stand out in any crowd. 
Boot-a-licious 
With dresses, skirts arid those skinny jeans we told you to hold onto, a chic pair of boots are a great way to transi­tion from a flirty summer to a fashion­able fall. With the addition of Macy's and an Aldo to the University Park Mall this look can easily be attained. 
Reach for the sky 
Don't be blue, get blue! Shades of cobalt, royal and sapphire are just a few options for this trend. With this fresh alternative to last season's red, you'll definitely discover blue's hues. 
Making the band 
Headbands are a fun way to acces-
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 
All Mankind, Citizens of Humanity and 
AG Jeans. For a funkier flair on denim, Inspire Me also offers Rich&Skinny Jeans and the more popu­
assistant buyers attend shows and buying events, such as the recent Coterie show in New York City, as well as shows in Los Angeles, Dallas and Chicago. 
Some of Inspire Me's new items to brighten the dreary South Bend winter include wide-legged jeans from Hudson and J Brand Jeans, embPllished hoodies and tees from Christian Audigier and fun going-out pieces from Alice & Olivia. 
So, now when you're moping past Cinnabon at the UP Mall praying desper­ately for some sort of fashion inspira­tion, you can head to Inspire Me. 
Contact Amelia Thompson at athomps6@nd.edu 
sorize any casual outfit. From elabo­rate prints to solid colors, this trend is a great way to be fashion forward with little effort. 
Go goth for nails 
As the saying goes, the darker the berry the sweeter juice. This season the same applies for the latest nail col­ors. Deep reds, purples and near blacks embody fall sophistication. 
Get juicy 
This fall treat yourself to a comfort­able yet stylish pair of lounge pants. We suggest Juicy Couture or even Juicy look-a-likes for those casual class days. 
Pile it on 
Remember last winter? Because we sure do. The upcoming months will be frigid and cold, but that doesn't mean you have to be frigid or cold. Layer up this season by combining comfy tanks with lightweight sweaters and cozy hoodies. With this stylish yet highly practical trend you will be able to weather any storm as South Bend snows approach in the coming months. 
Contact Brittny Flint at bflint@nd.edu and Amelia Thompson at athomps6@nd.edu 
AE 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
MLB 

Manny, Schilling return as Red Sox detnolish Athletics 
Willis leads Marlins past NL Centra/leading Cubs; Texiera, Chipper homer in Braves 10-6 win over Phi/lies 
David Ortiz's two-run homer, 
his 33rd. 

Oakland scored twiee in the 
ninth on Jaek llannahan's dou­
ble and Kurt Suzuki's sacrifice 
fly. 

The game was the first 
betwenn the teams sino~ June 7 
when Schilling came within one 
out of his ·first no-hitter. 
Shannon Stewart broke it up 
with a line single to right with 
two outs in the ninth at 
Oaklahd, but the Hnd Sox won 
1-0. 
Marlins 4, Cubs 2 

Ninety minutes before Tuesday's game, Lou Piniella sat in the Chicago Cubs' dugout reeiting a familiar mantra few believe. 
"There's no eurse," Piniella 
said. "There's no curse." 
Keeping say it, Lou. 

Eager to sew up the NL 
Central, Piniella's Cubs instead managed only two hits in eight innings against Dontrelle Willis and lost to the last-place Florida Marlins. 
Given the Cubs' tradition of collapses, it takes little imagina­tion for their long-suffering sup­porters to envision another one this week. More than an hour after the Cubs lost, their lead was trimmed to two games when second-place Milwaukee beat St. Louis 9-1. 
"That's why we had a three­game lead when we came," Piniella said. "Now we squan­dered a piece of it. You can't win every day. You want to, but it just doesn't happen." 
Chicago's magie number for clinching the division remained four. 
"We've been playing really good baseball lately," right !ielder Matt Murton said. "We ran into a good piteher tonight. · We've got five more games. We're still in a good position." 
Florida knows all about the supposed Cubs curse. Four years ago, Chicago blew a three-games-to-one lead against the Marlins in the NL championship series. 
The Cubs had won 1 0 of their past 12 games and four in a row, but bad luck -an omen'? -helped beat them Tuesday. Consecutive bloopers by the Marlins fell for hits in short right-center field during their four-run second inning against Ted Lilly. A sharp grounder by Amaris Hamirez became a dou­ble play. 
Worst of all for Chieago, Willis (1 0-15) delivered perhaps his best performance in a disap­pointing season. He struck out seven to set a franchise earenr record, and won for only the third time in 15 decisions since May 29. 
Braves 10, Phillies 6 
Mark Teixeira hit a three-run homer and Chipper Jones had a two-run shot, helping the Atlanta Braves keep their slim playoiT hopes alive with a victo­ry over the Philadelphia Phillies on Tuesday night. 
The Phillies remained two games behind the NL East-lead­ing Mets, who lost 10-9 to Washington. Philadelphia fnll 1/2 game behind San Diego in the wild card race, pending the Padres game at San Francisco later. 
Jimmy Hollins hit a solo homer to become the second player in team history with :{0 homers and 30 stolen bases in the same season. Hyan lloward, Jayson Werth and Chase Utley also connected for the Phillies (SS-72). 
Atlanta (83-74) needs to keep winning and get some help to reach the playoffs after a one­year absence. The Braves won an unprecedented 14 straight division titles, before missing out last season. 
Pat Burrell's sacrifice ny off Jeff Bennett (2-0) gave the Phillies their !irst lead, 5-4 in the fifth. But Atlanta answered quickly against Jamie Moyer (13-12) in the SiXth. Jeff Francoeur doubled to start the 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Manny Harnirnz rnturrwd to tlw Boston Hml Sox lirwup after a 24-game absenee a rr d lw ltw d eu t tlw i r m a g i e numlwr to four to dineh thn /\L l~ast titiP. 
/\f'tnr !wing sidl'lined by a strairwd musdt> in his left side, Hamirnz singlnd and scored Boston's l'irst run in tlw l'irst inning, then walknd to start a two-run l'if'th in a 7-:~ vietory oVIH' the Oakland /\thlntics on Tuesday night. 
Curt Sehilling also had plenty of n~st and it paid ofT with his tir·st win sir11:n Aug. 24. 
l'itehing for the first timn in nine days so manager Terry Franeona could arrang1i his rotation for thn playoffs, Schilling (9-S) allowed one run and left afl.er six innings with a 3-1 lead. lin struck out six and allowed six hits and no walks. 
But it was Hamirez's return that nxeited the crowd that eamn to Fnnway Park with the Hnd Sox having lost six of nine games and holding a two-game lnad in the division over the Nnw York Yankees. With five games left, the Hnd Sox had already clinclwd a wild-card lmrth. 
Batting second for just the serond time in his 1,995 games so hn could get an extra at-bat lwforn Franeona followed through on his plan to rmnow1 him, Hamirez walked to tho plate with one out in the first as tho fans chanted, "Manny, Manny." 

lin rnsponded with a linn­drive single to right and scowd on Mike Lowell's doubln that tied thn game 1-1. After pop­ping out to second baseman Mark J·:Jlis in the second, Hamin1z led off the fifth with a walk on a 3-and-2 piteh. 
Franeona sent in Brandon Moss to pinch run. Chad Gaudin ( 1 1-13) thnn walked the next thrnn batters with the last, J.D. Drew, forcing in a rur1. Ellsbury's sacrifice fly drove in Ortiz for a 3-1 lead. 
Knvin Youkilis pineh hit for Erie llinske and poppnd out to end tho inning. Youkilis had missed the previous seven games with a bruised right wrist sustained when he was hit by a pitch from Chien-Ming Wang of the New York Yankees on Sopt. 15. 
The only run Schilling allowed was Darie Barton's third homor of thn snason in the first. Barton has rnaehod base in all ·14 garnns hn's played since being eallnd up from Triple-/\ Saeramnnto on SPpt. 10. 
Jacoby Ellsbury singled in a run in tho bottom of the soventh and tho Hnd Sox pulled away with three runs in the eighth on Bobby Kielty's sacrifke fly and 
AP 

inning and /\ndruw Jones fol­lowed with an HBI single to tie it. 
Moyer pitehed to one more batier, retiring Brian MeCann on a bouncer to the mound. Geoff Geary entered and Matt Diaz lined his first piteh for an HBI single to give the Braves a 6-5 lead. After Yunel Escobar doubled with two outs, Edgar Henteria hit a two-run single to make it 8-5. 
Utley's solo homer off Manny Acosta in the seventh eut it to S­
6. Chipper Jones connected off Tom Gordon in the ninth for insurance runs. 
Desperate to see thnir Phillies end a 14-year playoff drought, a erowd of 39,129 cheered wildly and frantkally waved white­and-red "Fightin' Phils" towels. But they left disappointed. 
Moyer gave up six runs and six hits in 5 1-3 innings. Tho 44-year-old left-hander has one win in five starts this month, though he pitchnd well in his previous two outings. 
Bravns starter Chuck .James didn't farn any bettor. lin allowed four runs and three hits 
- all  homers  - in  3  2-3  
innings. Bennett gave  up  one  
run in I 1-3 innings.  

After Hollins hit a leadoff homer, Jamns cruised until the fourth. lie rntired 10 straight, striking out live, before running into trouble. 
The left-hander walked Burrell on four pitches and fell behind Howard 2-0, prompting a visit from pitching coach Hoger McDowell. Whatever he said didn't help. 


Red Sox outfielder Manny Ramirez swings In the on-deck circle Tuesday during Boston's 7-3 win over the Athletics. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifleds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
STUDENT WORK $12.75 base-Brick ranch w/walkoul LL,gourmet 2bdrm house w/basement. wash-NO tickets for sale. Best Prices. If you or someone you care about appt. Flexible schedules, no experi-kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like er/dryer. Corby at Eddy 574-288-2726. has been sexually assaulted, visit WANTED ence needed, customer sales/serv-street. Close to NO. 574-217-1557 574-232-9084. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 
ice. conditions apply, all ages 18+, Tatiana Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. shtml School bus substitute needed. 574-273-3835. 3 bdrm house. Walk to NO. Washer SELLING NO-PURDUE TIX. Responsible. dependable, www.workforstudenls.com Call me for a list of properties near & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighbor-574-289-8048. MARKETING OPPORTUNITY safety conscious grad NO. 574-217-1557 Tatiana hood. Landlord does yard work. No Positions available in the marketing student sought to drive a school PART TIME help needed for small Pets. No Section 8. WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX. department of a nationally known bus for a private south-side SB womens retail shop downtown Call574-250-1266. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 sales and marketing company. school. South Bend. Approximately 10-15 FoR RENT Hourly wage + bonuses for telemar­
hours a week. Must be able to work HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2008-keters and canvassers. Income Must be available when needed Saturdays. Apply in person: Laura LODGING FOR FOOTBALL 09: 3-9 BEDROOM HOMES. PERSONAL potential to $25.00/hr or morel Call (flexible) from 7 a.m. to 8:15a.m., Lees. 121 S. Michil!an Street GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Mr. Brown at 574-522-0500 from and 3:15p.m. to 4:30p.m. trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Call Bill574-532-1896. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 1:OOpm to 6:00pm ONLY Each trip pays $33. Need a Breakfast Accommodations. Non-not go it alone. If you or someone Commercial Driver License -FoR SALE smoking, Private Baths. Full you love needs confidential support Lessons in percussion. drum set, will train around your schedule Breakfasts. TICKETS or assistance, please call Sr. Sue timpani and mallets. For informa­and pay for your COL training, but Awesome rivertronl new construe-Dunn, OP. at 1-7819. For more tion. call574-272-3987. must have residency in Indiana. lion 12 min. to ND. 4 bdr.4bath,mar-Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. information, visit our website at: 
ble.ceramics,h/w floors. Walk to ND. 574-876-7341. For ALL HOME GAMES. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-I hope they never find out that For application/interview Jacuzzi,deck,pier. 574-217-1557 Football weekends. call 574-232-0964. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad lightning has a lot of vitamins in it, call574-291-4200. Taliana 574-532-1408. www.victorytickets.com in THE OBSERVER. because do you hide from it or not? 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
NCAA Football 

AP Top 25  
team record  previous  
1  usc 3-0  1  
2  LSU 4-0  2  
3  Oklahoma 4-0  4  
4  Florida 4-0  3  
5  West Virginia 4-0  5  
6  California 4-0  6  
7  Texas 4-0  7  
8  Ohio State 4-0  8  
9  Wisconsin 4-0  9  
10  Rutgers 3-0  11  
11  Oregon 4·0  13  
12  Boston College 4-0  14  
13  Clemson 4-0  15  
14  Kentucky 4-0  21  
15  Georgia 3-1  22  
16  South Carolina 3-1  12  
17  Virginia Tech 3-1  17  
18  South Florida 3·0  23  
19  Hawaii • 4·0  19  
20  Missouri 4-0  25  
21  Penn State 3-1  10  
22  Alabama 3·1  16  
23  Arizona State 4-0  NR  
24  Cincinnati 4·0  NR  
25  Nebraska 3-1  24  
NCAA Football  
USA Today Poll  
team record  previous  
1  usc 3-0  1  
2  LSU 4-0  2  
3  Florida 4-0  3  
4  Oklahoma 4-0  4  
5  West Virginia 4-0  5  
6  California 4-0  8  
7  Texas 4-0  6  
8  Ohio State 4-0  9  
9  Wisconsin 4-0  7  
10  Rutgers 3-0  11  
11  Boston College 4-0  12  
12  Oregon .4-0  13  
13  Clemson 4-0  14  
14  Virginia Tech 3-1  17  
15  Kentucky 4-0  23  
16  Georgia 3-1  21  
17  Hawaii 4-0  18  
18  South Florida 3-0  24  
19  Penn Slate 3-1  10  
20  Missouri 4-0  25  
21  South Carolina 3-1  14  
22  Nebraska 3-1  22  
23  Michigan State 4-0  NR  
24  Alabama 3-1  20  
25  Arizona Stale 4-0  NR  
25  Purdue 4-0  NR  
MIAA Volleyball  
Standings  
team  league  overall  
Calvin  6-0  11-3  
Adrian  5-1  8-6  
Hope  5·2  10-5  

Tri·State 4-2 6-8 SAINT MARY'S 3·4 6-8 Kalamazoo 2-4 5-8 Albion 1-4 3-10 Alma 1-5 5-13 Olivet 1-6 2-13 
around the dial 
MLB 
Braves at Phillies 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 

CoMPILED fROJvt THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 

AP Michael Vick talks in a news conference in Richmond, Va., after announcing his guilty plea for a federal dog­fighting charge. Vick now faces more jail time from state charges. 
Vick looking at tnore jail titn_e frotn state 
Associated Press 
SUSSEX, Va. -Michael Vick, already looking at a federal prison term for bankrolling a dogfighting operation in rural Virginia, now faces two state charges that could get him more prison time if he's convict­ed. 
After a Surry County grand jury indicted the Atlanta Falcons quarter­back and three co-defen­dants Tuesday, Vick's lawyers indicated they will fight the state charges on the grounds that he can't be convicted twice of the same crime. 
The NFL star, scheduled for sentencing Dec. 10 after pleading guilty to federal dogfighting conspiracy charges, faces state charges of beating or killing or caus­ing dogs to fight other dogs and engaging in or promot­ing dogfighting. Each felony is punishable by up to five years in prison. Arraignments are set for Oct. 3. 
The grand jury declined to indict the 27-year-old Vick and two co-defendants on eight additional counts of killing or causing to be killed a companion animal, felonies that would have exposed them to as many as 40 years in prison if con­victed. 
Vick defense attorney Billy Martin said in a state­ment that the state counts concern "the same conduct covered by the federal indictment for which Mr. Vick has already accepted full responsibility." 
Martin said he will "aggressively protect his rights to ensure that he is not held accountable for the same conduct twice." 
Vick was convicted of a federal conspiracy count while the state indictment deals with the act of dog fighting, said Steven Benjamin, a Richmond defense lawyer who is not involved in the case. The prosecution will argue that's enough of a differ­ence to allow the charges to proceed, he said. 
Surry County Commonwealth's Attorney Gerald G. Poindexter had told The Associated Press on Monday night that he would seek indictments on different crimes than the ones Vick admitted to in federal court. He did not elaborate to reporters out­side court Tuesday. 
The charges are the frrst leveled against Vick in the county where he built a home that became the base of the dogfighting opera­
. tion, where local investiga­tors first uncovered evi­dence of the enterprise. 
None of the defendants nor their lawyers were at the Sussex County court­house, where the grand jury met because the court­house in neighboring Surry County is closed for renova­tions. 

IN BRIEF 
Pirates hire new general 
manager 
PITTSBURGH -Neal Huntington, a former Cleveland Indians assis­tant general manager who was moved to a mostly scouting role two years ago, was hired Tuesday as the Pittsburgh Pirates' general manag­er. 
The 37-year-old Huntington replaces Dave Littlefield, who was fired earlier this month after failing to produce a winning season since being hired in July 2001. The Pirates are finishing up a 15th con­secutive losing season, one short of the major league record, and their fifth with 90 or more losses since 2000. 
Huntington once worked under Littlefield in the Montreal Expos' minor league system. 
Huntington was the surprise choice of new Pirates president Frank Coonelly, who has been on the job less than two weeks. 
Carl Edwards' car fails 
inspection, docked points 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. Carl Edwards was docked 25 points Tuesday because his race-winning car failed inspection at Dover International Raceway. 
The penalty drops Edwards from third in the Chase for the champi­onship standings to sixth. He's now 28 points behind series leader Jeff Gordon. 
Team owner Jack Roush, who celebrated his tOOth win Sunday with Edwards' victory, also was docked 25 owner points and crew 
chief  Bob  Osborne  was  fined  
$25,000.  
Edwards'  No.  99  Ford  was  

deemed to be too low following post-race inspection. Although NASCAR determined the height infraction was not intentional, the team still was penalized in accor­dance with NASCAR's strict inspec­tion policy. 
Rex Grossman could be 
benched for next game 
LAKE FOREST, Ill. -Rex Grossman still had his health when he walked off the field. But he may not have his starting job much longer after his latest meltdown. 
Grossman threw three intercep­tions as the Chicago Bears fell to the Dallas Cowboys 34-10 on Sunday night, and he did not get a vote of confidence from his coach a day later. 
Now, the question is: Will he start this week at Detroit? 
"Will Rex Grossman start Sunday?" coach Lovie Smith asked on Monday, repeating the question. "Well, our evaluation process is going on right now, and if you come out to practice Wednesday, you'll have a better idea of who will be starting at all positions." 
Has Smith made a decision? ''I'm always thinking ahead," he said. 
..-----------------------------------------~ ---------­
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
NFL 

McAllister out for year, again, with torn ACL 
Associated l'rcss 

NI·:W OBI.I~ANS -In Deuce 
McAIIistnr's lcwkPr, front-and-cen­
ter on thn top slwll', is a gold­
paintml woodnn carving of' tho 
word: "Bdiovo!" 

Allor his socond season-ending 
krwe injury in tlm~P seasons, tho 
Saints' 2S-ynar-old all-timn lnad­
ing ruslwr wants to hnlievo he 
will wturn to tlw N·FI. as an dite 
running back. It won't bn easy, 
and lw knows it. 

"Obviously. tlw qunstions: Will 
you 1wnr lw tlw sanw'! Will you 
nvnr he thn back that you once 
wnrn'! Those are the diiTnrnnt 
thoughts that obviously run 
through your mind as a playnr," 
MrAIIist1w said. 

"I bnlinvn in mysnlf'. It's just a 
mattnr of nw putting tho limn in 
and mn putting tlw work in." 

MeAllistPr said an MHI nxam 
Tunsday conl'irnwd his worst 
f'nars: lin torn his lol't anterior 
cruciate liganwnt in Monday 
night's 31-14 loss lo Tcmnnssee. 

During thn sncond quarter, 
McAilistnr landPd awkwardly 
aftpr nttching a short pass from 
Dn~w Brnns. M1:Allistnr walked 

oil" tlw lield on his own. but hav­
ing torn his right ACL in 200!i, he 
was worrind. 

"I just told mysPII' to got up oil" 
tlw ground. Onn lnsson I learned ·growing up was to rmver let your opponent see you hurt. H1~gardlnss of' what it is, if' you can walk. walk ofT that liPid," McAllister said. "Oncn I got to tim 
sid!~lirw. I knew it. I didn't want 
to bnlinw it. but just taking thn walk to tho lurker room I could !(~PI it just kind of giving way a lit­tin bit and that was just kind or rnminiscnnt of' how thn othnr onn f'nlt." 
MeAIIistPr said thm·n was also sonw damage to his medial col­latoralligamont. 
Fivn ganws into the 200!i smi­son, MeAllistnr torn his right ACL during a run in Crmm Bay. After reconstructive surgery, he rnturnnd to rush for 1,057 yards in 2006, lwlping the SainL'i to tho NFC South titll1 and starring in their playoff' victory over Philadelphia. 
Now McAllister nneds recon­structivn surgery on thn other krwn, liknly a patnllar l!mdon graf't. l'ollowPd by tho long, painful rehabilitation that will last almost until 200S training ramp lwgins, if not longPr. 
In bntwnnn. thnrn will be an oll'­season, when uncomfortable rnmind11rs that the NFL is a busi­rwss resurface in grnater fre­qunncy. McAIIistnr is in tho third ynar of an night-year. $50.1 mil­lion contract. And tlw SainL'i also havn Heggin Bush, who in his sec­ond s1mson will now bn the undis­puted !"natured running baek in Nnw Orleans f(lr the rnmainder of this ymu·, at least. 
Bush. who had two short touchdown runs Monday night but otlwrwise has struggled to find his game-breaking form this snason, dedined to speak with mportnrs Tuosday. 
Fullback Mike Karney, who has blocked fi1r McAllister sincn 2005, chok11d up while talking about his teammate's latest setback. 
"I huggnd him and startnd cry­ing," Karney said, taking a deep brnath. "It's tough to see a great guy, first and foremost, a great player, have to suff'M another scason-nnding injury.... lie's the bnst I've been amund. It's sad. It's hard to take ... I play the game for !-,'1.1ys like him." 
Ilnad mach Soan Payton said it is "way too premature to start talking about where (McAllisterl is from a career standpoint." 
"He was able to come back oil" the right ACL. lie's the type of guy that has the convietion and the belief," Payton said. "If he puts his mind to it, and I know he will ... it's going to take a long time and he's som1wne who's tough nnough to handle it." 
If McAllister hmves the Saints, lw'll do so with every significant carenr rushing record in fran­chise history. Although he playml sparingly his rookie season behind then-starter lUcky Williams, and although he missed most or 2005, he has rushed for 5,67H yards and 44 touchdowns. 
lie is among the most popular players the Saints have evnr had, having grown up a eouple hours away near Jackson, Miss., and having been a star at Ole Miss. 
Although sor~1eone with his money easily could spend ollsea­sons in Miami, Malibu or the French Riviera, he continues to make his permanent home in Jackson, lie owns car dealerships there, is restoring a historic downtown hotel, and runs his charitable Catch-22 foundation, so named for his collnge jersny number. 

As for this Simson, it's a poten­tially devastating blow to the Saints, who are 0-:~ and in des­perate nnnd of a victory to have any hope of rallying back into posL<>eason contention. 
"You fool holpless becausn it's about making plays," McAIIistnr said. "I can't do that right now." 
Those who can are fellow run­ning backs Bush. Aaron Ste1:kor and Pinrm Thomas, an undral'tnd rookie out of Illinois who mad11 the active rostnr as a long shot following a string of impressive runs and kick returns in the pre­season. 

Uganda Information Session 

Morot\­
~o~ot~ .
Masindi* 
·s~•cMbale* 
Fort~ortal • 
, " 
Mbarara
* 


Informatjon Sessjon: 
~~ Interested in Africa? 
Interested in challenges and 
issues of developing nations? 
Interested in Holy Cross work in 
East Africa? 
Don't miss this study abroad opportunity through the School for International Training (SIT)! 
Semester and Summer Options. 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 Room 215 DeBartolo 5:30 PM 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FOR ALL PROGRAMS IS NOVEMBER 15,2007 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Fresh111an Devine returns ho111e 
West Virginia phenom returns to south Florida to face No. 18 Bulls 
Associated Press 
MOHGANTOWN, W.Va. ­Before Noel Devine became a YouTube sensation, he lost both his parents to AIDS, witnessed a friend's murder, rejected Deion Sanders' attempts to adopt him and became a father of two. 
Ilis years of bouncing from home to home, which included a brief stop at Sanders' Texas ranch, eventually landed the former Florida prep star at West Virginia, where four games into his college career Devine has proved worthy of the hype that followed him out of high school. 
In a way, Devine's journey comes full circle Friday night, 120 miles from where he grew up, when No. 5 West Virginia (4-0) will play at No. 18 South Florida (3-0) in a key Big East matchup. 
"Look where he is now. It's a success, in my eyes," said .James landoli, Devine's coach fathered two children with dif­at North Fort Myers High. "I ferent mothers. He saw a 15­don't wish the path that he had year-old classmate shot in to take on my worst enemy. December 2004 during a con­
"I guess the old saying is, frontation with a rival group. what doesn't kill you only School officials brought the makes you better. And I believe incident to the attention of he's becoming a wonderful Sanders, a 1985 graduate of young man." North Fort Myers. 
The attention of being a high­Sanders got to know Devine ly touted football recruit can be and brought him to training head-spinning to a 19-year-old, camp with the Baltimore but it's not much compared to Ravens in 2005. Devine then what Devine has been through went to Sanders' ranch in outside of football. A past that Prosper, Texas, with the intent the polite, shy Devine prefers of starting over. not to talk about. "We wanted to give him guid­
Ilis father died when he was ance and structure, something an infant and his mother was not afl'orded him at the time," gone before he was 12. His Sanders said in a recent tele­maternal grandmother became phone interview. "We just felt his legal guardian, but he that at that point in his life he thought she was too strict and needed a tremendous amount he moved in with the family of of structure and discipline." an ex-teammate. With the approval of Devine's 
As a teenager, Devine grandmother, Sanders intended 

CENTER I~ SPIRffUALI'fY SAINT MARY'S OOLLEGE 
Education ofthe Mind and Heart 
Saint Mary's College and Doxology Why? How? Where? When? 
Thursday, Septen1ber 27 
4:00P.M. 
Stapleton Lounge Le Mans Hall 

John Haughey, S.J., S.T.D. Senior Fellow Woodstock Theologial Center Georgetown University 
\\f. ·h' "[")(.....
as 1ngton .... __, 
Free and open to the public. 

to adopt Devine. But the teen quickly returned to Florida, leaving one of Sanders' sport utility vehicles at the curb at the Dallas-Fort Worth Airport, the engine still running. 
"It devastated our family," said Sanders, who has remained in contact with Devine. "To get your family on board isn't easy. We made con­cessions ... it was tough. You can't allow someone into your home without allowing them into your heart." 
Devine, whose ability to change directions with little loss of speed has drawn com­parisons to another Sanders ­Barry -finished out his career where it started. 
Recruited since he was a high school freshman, Devine's video clips made him an Internet prodigy, and a must­see for football fans on 
YouTube. He compiled 2,148
rushing yards and 31 TDs as a senior at North Fort Myers. 
He also found trouble. A school confrontation prompted a two-game suspension and a locker room incident forced Devine to miss a postseason all-star game. 
"He's no different than any other high school football play­er I've ever had," Iandoli said. 'The only difl'erence is he was in the limelight. He's national news and everyone wants to put it all over the paper. Everyone wants to pass judg­ment." 
West Virginia coach Rich Hodriguez said his only worry after getting to know Devine was about his grades. 
"The school had a plan for him and he was very deter­mined to make it. So we hung in there with him," he said. 
Pushed by Iandoli and others, Devine avoided prep school by qualifying for NCAA eligibility on his third attempt at taking the ACT. He then set aside overtures from Bobby Bowden at Florida State and other schools and ended up in Morgantown, a decision Sanders let Devine make on his own. 
"I didn't want to entice him. He would blame you for the rest of his life," Sanders said. "If it doesn't go well, he can't fault anyone but himself." 
So far, it's been a great fit on 
--------------------__.thefield. 
GOLF 

Players prepared for Presidents Cup 
Associated Press 

MONTREAL -One cup is over. Another cup is about to begin. 
The question is whether a world-class collection of players at Royal Montreal have enough left to fill the Presidents Cup with the kind of golf that has made these matches so com­pelling over the last few years. 
Tiger Woods, who plays fewer golf tournaments than any other star, will be competing for the sixth time in nine weeks. Ditto for Phil Mickelson, who usually shuts it down this time of year. Even an ironman like Vijay Singh has spent an awful lot of time inside the ropes, skipping only two weeks since August. 
Blame that on the FcdEx Cup, a four-week bonanza that ended only nine days ago for 16 play­ers in the Presidents Cup. It only figures to get tougher next year, with the Ryder Cup scheduled for the week after the Tour Championship. 
As much as players are curs­ing the schedule, it could turn out to be a blessing. 
"You would think that you're pretty prepared to be here, maybe more so than years past, because of playing so much golf recently," David Toms said Tuesday. "I think that's some­thing they need to take a look in the future, how much golf is being played at this particular time. For us this year, I know we have a lot of guys who are com­ing in and playing well, and it should be an advantage for us." 
Indeed, the FedEx Cup could be a good barometer for these matches when they get under way Thursday. 
Woods is playing a lot of golf, but playing well. He has won four of the five tournaments he has played dating to the Bridgestone Invitational, includ­ing his last two to easily win the FedEx Cup. The other two play­off events were won by Phil Mickelson (Deutsche Bank) and Steve Stricker (Barclays). 
Since all 24 players from the United States and International teams are PGA Tour members, an even better barometer might be the 30-man field at the Tour Championship. 
Ten Americans were "at East Lake, the exception being Toms (No. 32) and Lucas Glover (No. 35). The International team had only six players in the Tour Championship, and two of the players -Mike Weir and Retief Goosen-didn't even qualify for the 70-man field the previous week at the BMW Championship. 
"Our team has been really playing well," U.S. captain Jack Nicklaus said. "I think they are well prepared." 
Nicklaus tried to make the case the International team is stronger on paper, which is usu­ally the norm. Comprised of players from all but European countries, the team has an aver­age world ranking of 18.5, with Weir the lowest at No. 46. The United States has an average ranking of 21.9, with Glover the lowest at No. 61. 
International captain Gary Player, however, was quick to point out the United States was top-heavy in the world ranking with Woods, Mickelson, Jim Furyk and Stricker the new "Big Four." It is believed to be the first time in the 21-year history of the world ranking Americans have occupied the top four spots. 
While the International team looks good on paper, it hasn't looked good in competition late­ly. The most recent winner is 
K.J. Choi at the AT&T National in July. Angel Cabrera hasn't done much since his U.S. Open victory in June, and Singh played five consecutive tourna­ments over par until fmishing 10 under at easy East Lake. 
Even so, Player had reason to believe "the stage is set for another great match." 
The last two have been so close they essentially were decided by one shot -Chris DiMarco's 15-foot birdie putt on the final hole of the fmal match in 2005 at the Robert Trent Jones Golf Club in VIrginia. The matches ended in a tie in South Africa in 2003. 
"I think that the whole 'on paper' is kind of a farce," Furyk said. 
BIG PICK 


AP 

Irish safety David Bruton intercepts a Brian Hoyer pass Saturday in the Spartans' 31-14 win over Notre Dame. 
page I 6 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
MLB 
Devil Rays postpone celebration 
Win over Yankees keeps New York from clinching playoff berth 

Devil Rays players mob catcher Dioner Navarro after his walk off home gave Tampa Bay a 7-6 win over the Yankees Tuesday. New York needs one win to clinch a playoff berth. 
Associated Press 
ST. PETEHSBUHG, Fla. ­Nothing 1~omns easy for the Nnw York Yankmls this season, especially against the Tampa Bay I>cvil Hays. 
.Jorge Velandia hit a grand slam for his first earner homer and I>ionnr Navarro addnd a solo shot in the 1Oth inning to lift lasl.-place Tampa Bay over New York 7-6 and prevnnt the Yankens from clinching a play­ofT berth on Tuesday night. 
"I can't really rPmembnr us having an nasy time," Yankcns captain I>Pn~k .Jntnr said. "Hegardlnss of who you're playing, no onn likes to see you 1~elnbrate. They'rn going to play you tough." 
Couplnd with Boston's 7-3 vktory ovnr Oakland, Nnw York fell thren gamns behind runs. "Wn're going to get back to the postseason, and we're goin~. to bn going on all cylin­ders. 
/\-Hod's homer was his major league-leading 53rd, a shot that ended his longest homerlnss drought in more than a year. lie has 151 HBis, the most by a Yankee since Joe DiMaggio's 155 in 194X. 
Gary Glover (6-5) pitched one scoreless inning for the vietory. Eight Yankees pitchers yielded a total of five hits, but hurt themselves with 11 walks. 
/\-Rod, who had gone 55 at bats since last homering on Sept. 9 a Kansas City, circled the bases to a standing ovation after driving an 0-1 piteh from Jason llammel off one of the catwalks that support the roof at Tropicana ~ield in the 
thn l'irst-placn "We're going to get third inning. Hnd Sox in the The stretch
back to the 
i\L East with without a
postseason, and
f'ivn gamns to homer was /\­play. The we're going to be Hod's longest Yankees lnad since he also
going on all 
I>ntroit by 4 went 55 at bats
cylinders."
gamns in the without one wild-1:ard nu~n. from May 27­and their Johnny Damon June 15 last magic number year.
Yankees outfielder 
to clinch a playoff lwrth for thn I :Hh wnse1~utive ynar rnmairwd at one. 
Tlw Yanknns trailnd Boston by 14 1/2 games on May 29 and havn salvaged tlwir sea­son by going a major lnagtw­lwst 47-24 since tlw i\11-Star lmmk. But tlwy'rn just H-H this ynar against thn pPsky I>nvil Hays, who havP baseball's worst rncord. 
Vnlandia's grand slam off Brian Brurwy finished a six­run sixth and ol'f'snt a Hodrigw•z slam that gave Nnw York a 5-0 load in thn third. Navarro, who had a HBI dou­blo in thn sixth, hit tlw winner on a 2-0 pitch from .JPI'f Karstens (1-4). 
"It's not easy, but we're going to get the job done before too long," said the Yankees' Johnny Damon, who was 5-for-5 and seornd two 
The ball was 
still rising when it hit tlw ring about 115 feet above th1~ field. The Devil Hays estimalNl the grand slam ­tlw Il>th of Hodriguez's earner and third this year -travele~ 42H feet. 
Trailing 5-0. the Devil Bays rallied to take a 6-5 lead in the sixth. 
Navarro doubled oiT Edwar Hamirez to drive in Tampa Bay's first run, and Bruney walked i\kinori lwamura with the bases loaded bnforo giving up llw first homer the 32­year-old Velandia had in 20S major league at bats spread out over six seasons. 
"It's a helpless feeling, there's no question," Yankees manager Joe Torre s.aid of the six walks issued by his bullpen. "You don't give your­self a chance to get guys out. You look up there and they have four hits and we've got double digits, and we've got the same number of runs. That's when you know you're in the charity business. 
New York tied in the eighth on Melky Cabrera's sacrifice fly ofT Dan Wheeler, but the Yankees wasted an opportuni­ty to regain the lead when Jeter struck out with runners at the corners after Damon singled. 
"We've stood toe-to-toe to all the contenders: Boston, to Seattle, to L.A., then Boston and New York here, and I like the way our guys have gone about their business against them," Devil Rays manager Joe Madelon said. "It's not about being the spoiler, it's about learning how to play this time of the year. And our guys have risen to occasion." 
Kei lgawa, standing in for scheduled starter Roger Clemens, pitched five scoreless innings before New York's bullpen let the Devil Hays back in the game. 
Clemens was scratched because of a lingering left hamstring injury. lie tweaked the hamstring while running last Thursday and has pitched just once since Sept. 3, side­lined initially by a tender right elbow that required two corti­sone shots. 
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman said the 45­year-old, seven-time Cy Young /\ward winner could have pitched Tuesday if it had been a must-win game. 
"We're just playing it smart," Cashman said. "We're looking at the big pieture, and giving it more time to heal. The point is he'll be bdter ofT with more time, and we'll go from thorn." 
lgawa made his first start since pitching poorly in a loss at Kansas City on July 26. lie worked out of a jam in the first after walking two and allowing the runners to move up on a wild pitch, then clung to New York's 5-0 lead whon he got Delmon Young to fly to center with the bases loaded in the third. 
Philadelphia GM notretunnUngUn'OS 
Associated Press 

PIIIL/\DELPIII/\ -Philli1~s general managnr Pat Gillick doosn't plan to rnmain with the team al'ter his thrnn-yoar eon­tract expires following next sea­
SOIL 

"This is it for me," Gilliek said in Tuesday's Philadnlphia Daily News. 'Til fullill my contract. It's time to think about doing somn othnr things in Iiff~." 
Tho longtime baseball man will be 71 by tlw time his eon­traet is up. lie wasn't immedi­ately available to reporters before the Phillies played Atlanta. 
Gillick's situation could affect manager Charlie Manuel, who is in the final season of his con­tract. Manuel has done an out­standing job keeping an injury­depleted team in the playoff race. 
The Phillies were tied with San Diego for the NL wild-card lead and trailed the East-lea.ding Mets by two games. 
Manuel insists he's not con­cerned about his job status, and he won't talk about a contract extension until aftnr the season. 
"It's not about me," he said. "It's about the team. I don't have to worry about anything else." 
Assistant GM Ruben Amaro Jr. 
is widoly eonsidnred the most likely candidate to rllplac.e (;illick. Amaro's contract is up aftl'r this snason, and ho has intnrvinw1~d for othnr jobs. 
Gillick brought a winning pedi­gn1e to Philadl'lphia whl'n lw r11placed Ed Wadn al'tnr tlw 2005 sl'ason. llis impressive resume as a gnrwral managPr indudns two World Series titles with Toronto, snvnn division championships and nino playoll' appnarancos with threo toams -thn Blue Jays, Baltimore and Seattle. If tho l'hillins mako it to tho postseason, ho'll he 4-for-4 guiding dubs to the playofl's. 
Gillick has come under heavy scrutiny fi1r a few of his pnrson­11111 decisions. liis biggest mis­take was trading for Freddy Garda last oll'season. The two­limn All-Star righty was 1-5 bnforn nending snason-nnding shoulder surgery. Garcia cost tho Phillies $10 million this soa­son. 
Gillick's two biggnst f'rne-agent acquisitions last offseason ­third baseman Wes lielms and catcher Hod Barajas -didn't pan out, either. Both were role­gated to bench duty down the stretch. 
Some of Gillick's best moves involved utility players and relievers. 




Information Meeting 
September 27, 6:00PM 
Center for Social Concerns 
for more information visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 800.424.8580 
-----------~--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS 

led to the release of former said. defensive coordinator Rick One player that has been sur­Minter. prisingly absent from the pass­
Weis said some of the defen­ing game is fifth-year senior sive issues are caused by an tight end John Carlson. Carlson 
Practice 
continued from page 2(} 
both the team and the coach­ing staiT, he wants to keep the team hitting each other at least once a week going forward. 
"Last week's schedule was different than anything we've ever done," Weis said. "And I think that this might be more like the way we're going to go the rest of the way, where we at least dedicate part of Tuesday's practice to have ones going against one." 
Players grasping defense 
Weis said that, after four games, the defense is starting to feel comfortable in Corwin Brown's 3-4 personnel scheme. 
"Some of these guys are get­ting better just by pure reps out there playing," Wcis said. "It's one thing to just practice it, but I think another thing is actually playing in the games." 
Thn Irish have given up more than :30 points to each of their first four opponents and more than 230 yards per game on the ground -both worse than the 2006 defensive effort that offense that holds the ball for was Notre six minutes less than the oppo­sition every game. 
'The better we run the
"I think that last year there ball, the better the were a lot of 
protection is, the more
times you could 
we'll throw the ball." 
count on the defense not being on the Charlie Weis field nearly as 
Irish coach 
much," he said. 
Notre Dame has improved on pass 
Dame's leading returning receiv­er coming into the year but has only seven catches for 63 yards so far this season and has 
· often been kept in to block on pass plays. But, Weis said, Carlson is being patient. "He knows the year's not over," Weis said. "All 
defense, giving up fewer than he wants to do is anything he 120 yards per game through can to give us the best chance the air. of winning." 
Pass catchers not griping Game time announced 
While they haven't seen many The kickoff time and televi­throws due to the offensive's sion coverage for Saturday's line struggles and the switch to contest with the Boilermakers a power running attack against was announced Monday. the Spartans, Notre Dame's The game will begin at 12:02 wide receivers aren't complain­p.m. and will be carried live on ing, Weis said. ESPN. 
"The better we run the ball, the better the protection is, the Contact Chris Khorey at more we'll throw the ball," he ckhorey@nd.edu 

Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Disgraced American cyclist Floyd Landis says he won the Tour de France fairly and that he's 
NBC 

-OLYMPICS INTERN PROGRAM BEIJING, CHINA 
NBC Olympics is looking for enthusiastic students with a passion for Sports and 
the Olympic Games. Television Broadcast experience and proficiency in Mandarin are preferred but not required. ALL MAJORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO APPLY. 
ASSIGNMENT AREAS Accommodations, Audio, Executive Offices, Information Technology, Press, Research, Production Support, Sports Venues and the Runner Pool 
ASSIGNMENT LENGTH Positions are approximately 4 weeks. The earliest start date is July 24, 2008 and latest end date is August 27, 2008. 
COST AND LOGISTICS The cost of the program is $2,500 per student and must be paid prior to the assignm~nt 
start date. This fee covers airfare, airport transfers in China, accommodations and meals. 
TO APPLY-Access Go IRISH on The Career Center website http://careercenter.nd.edu/ for a more complete description and application requirements. Online applications and hard copies must be submitted to The Career Center by noon on Sept.28th. Questions? 574-631-5200 
INTERVIEWS-Interviews will be held on-campus in The Career Center Oct. 15th and 16th. NBC will hold an Information Session from 10:00 am-11 :30 am Oct 15th to provide additional internship details. 
page 17 

.. 
SMC GOLF 

Belles finish 4th in MIAA tourney 
Belles remain in 2nd place heading into conference tourney 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's finished fourth Tuesday but held onto sec­ond in the conference stand­ings at the third and final MlAA Jamboree of the fall, held at Buck's Run Golf Course in Alma, Mich. 
The Belles posted a total score of 351 Tuesday and failed to gain any ground on first-place Olivet College, which held on for the lead. Saint Mary's dropped 27 strokes in the overall MIAA standings but kept its overall spot in second. 
Olivet College led the day with 324, Hope College fin­ished second with a 345 and Tri-State University came in third with a 349. Rounding out the top five was host Alma with a 376. 
Senior captain Kate O'Brien once again led the way for Saint Mary's with a final round of 84, which was placed her sixth overall. Unfortunately for the Belles, five Olivet players scored as well or better. Hope senior Julie Hoogerhyde was the medalist, 10 strokes ahead of O'Brien at 74. 
Belles freshman Emily Gore continued to impress in her rookie season as she fin­ished second for the te-am two strokes behind O'Brien. Three more freshmen round­ed out the scorers for the Belles-Rosie O'Connor shot an 89, Michelle Hird posted a 92 and Amanda Mainstone entered the clubhouse with a 97. 
Saint Mary's junior Meredith Fantom scored an 85, freshman Meghan Lehr shot an 8 7, and junior Perri Hamma came up with a 94 in the individual competition. 
The Belles now stand in second place in the MIAA conference with a total of 1,029 strokes in three Jamboree events. They trail Olivet by 41 strokes. 
The conference champi­onship is decided by the combined scores of the three previous Jamborees and the two championship rounds on Oct. 5-6 at Battle Creek, Mich. 
No players or coaches were available for comment fol­lowing the Jamboree Tuesday night. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
CYCLING 

Landis sticks to story, says he did no wrong 
not losing sleep over a deci­sion to strip him of his title following a positive drug test. 
A defiant Landis reiterated on Tuesday earlier claims that the anti-doping watch­dogs, and not him, are the ones not playing by the rules. 
''I'm angry about the split decision ruling against me last week," Landis said. "I can sleep at night knowing that I won the 2006 Tour de 

-
France fair and square. I will al~ays consider myself the rightful winner." 
Landis won the 2006 Tour but tested positive for a steroids during the event. That forced Landis to go to an arbitration hearing against the US Anti-Doping Agency. 
Last week the arbitration panel ruled two-to-one against the San Diego-based cyclist officially stripping him of his title and slapping him with a two-year ban for using synthetic testosterone. 

The verdict comes almost four months after the longest anti-doping hearing in US history, a rare public session in which Landis' lawyers questioned the chain of com­mand from the French labo­ratory that handles Landis' ­
testing. 
"We have shown that the anti-doping system is corrupt, inefficient and unfair," Landis said. 
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
.... 
Chaos 
continued from page 20 

on running plays for both oiTenses. 
Walsh 14, Howard 12 

!\ little rain and a lot of mud t:ould not slop thn Walsh oiTonsn as tlu~ Wild Wonwn ran ovt~r lloward 14-12. 
Scattnrod showers, which lwgan an hour btd'orn tlw gamn, causPd many slips and slidns on both sidns of the ball, but tlw tnams' oi'I'Pnsos Wl'rt~ abln to rreatP many long drivns. 
"Wo loVP playing in tlw mud," Walsh junior di'I'Pnsive back Mary CampiH'II said. 
Camplwll playPd an integral part in holding the Ducks to two touchdowns, including broaking up a long pass nnar tlw ond of tlw ganw. 
Walsh, which is now 4-0 and in lirst placo in thn Blul' 


"We love playing in pass 
l.nagun. won Giezeman. For tho toss and the mud." the game, Bishop PlnctPd to start was 14-of-1 Y. 
o IT w i t h t lw "We showed a
Mary Campbell
footbalL But lot of promise on
Walsh junior
lloward junior offense," Ducks 
I. a u r a 

(;iozeman intnr­c:Pplnd Walsh snnior quartPrbaek Mary Sullivan's soeond pass to give tho ball to tho Ducks. 
!\!though facing a short liPid, tlw lloward ollnnsn, led by 
frnshman quartnrback Kayla the extra point. Bishop, was unabln to score. Walsh defensive coaeh 1\f'tnr rl'eovnring the ball on Jeremiah IIerman was pleased tlwir own 20, it took thn Wild with the win. 
w0 !liP II 0 nIy thnH~ plays to rnareh down tlw l'itdd and scorn a touch­down on a run by sophomorP Mnghan lladlny. 
"Thn offense was vnry good with staying with the play until tlw whis­
"The guarantee definitely gave us some motivation and has us fired up. " 
Jenny Rolfs Farley junior 
"Thesn are the games you're sup­
-posed to win," he said. "We eame in No. 1, lloward carne in number two. We really made a state­ment." Jenkins had one final thought for the Wild Women. "We'll see them in the playoffs," 
tln blnw," Walsh oiTnnsive eoat:h Chris Cugliari said. "l~vnn if tlwre wasn't an open­ing right away, they waitNI and found ont~." 
Tho Ducks took over and put tognthnr a nine-play touch­down drivn but were unable to t·onvnrt the extra point. During tho drivn, Bishop completed seven-of-eight passes. ineluding a touchdown to 
sophomore cap­tain Mary .Jenkins said. 
"We made several good pass­os." 
Both tnarns scored again in tlu~ sm~ond half, with the Ducks once again failing to convert 
she said. 

Thn Ducks' next opponent is Farley on Sept. 30, and the Wild Women hope to remain unbeaten as they take on the Finest on Oct. 2. 
Farley 7, Pasquerilla East 0 
Defense was the name of the game in this one. With a great team effort, Farley beat Pasquerilla East 7-0 Tuesday night and moved to 2-0-1 for the season. 
"Our defense has been amaz­ing, our whole defense from last year returned to play this year and their experienee has been key," Farley junior cap­tain Jenny Holfs said after the game. 
Holfs said that she felt the ofl'ense was improving as well. 
"Passes are starting to be caught and people are startinr, to eome on the same page, Rolfs said. 
Pasquerilla East's defense though was not shabby, either, 
the Belles will be foreed to play people in different posi­tions. 
"We're still trying to sort it all out," MacKenzie said. " ... We're figuring out that other people can put the ball in the back of the net, which is a good thing with injuries." 
To keep their place as some of the top competition in their conference, Saint Mary's will rest these few days before starting the weekend games. 
"I hope we're patched up enough to go out and win on Saturday," MacKenzie said. "Today we did what we had to do to secure the tie, and I liked our effort down the stretch." 
pitching a shutout until Farley scored near the end of tlw see­one! half. But the unit's pre­game guarantee of a win did not pull through for them. 
"The guarantee definitely gave us some motivation and 
Loss 

continued from page 20 
ior middle blocker Kaela Hellmann tallied eights of her 
own to go along with four serv­ice aces and a team-best 15 digs. 
Schroeder­Biek was proud of her starting 
blockers.  
"  K  a  e  I  a  
[Hellman]  did  

have a good game. She played niee and aggressive in all aspects of her 

game," Schroeder-Hick said. "She played to win from begin­ning to end. The stats tell her game well ... very few errors, good kill percentagP, team high had us 11rcd up," Holf's added with a smile. 
Contact John Whitty at jwhitty2@nd.edu, Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu, and Kevin Henry at khenry@nd.edu 
Britons 
continued from page 20 
The tin brought the Be lies overall record to 5-1-3, and their eonl'erenee record to 1­
1 0 
With the ball constantly ehanging possession, it was no wonder Saint Mary's couldn't find a rhythm. The ga rn ~~ w a s phy si c a I , w i t h multipiH hard tumbles on both sides. Senior Justine Higgins received a yellow eard in thn 3Yth minute and was sent ol'f' because of a second eard in the first over­time. She will miss the Bolles' nnxt eontest. against llinton and Mieki lledinger wnre knpt from the game. llinton is recovering from an ankle injury, and lledinger recovering from a hip injury. 

"In a long term view, we hope to be more versatile in our attack when they come baek," MacKenzie said. "But short term it's tricky to find some eonsistent play up top." 
" ... Playing physically the way we have been, we're always going to be fighting some injury, but right now wn're a little roughed up," MacKenzie said. " ... We had thn best outcome we could have hoped for being down a player, we stuck in it as well as we could and ended with a tie." 
With Higgins gone from the OlivH Sunday. game. as well as her team­Contact Meaghan Veselik at Loading seoror Laurnn mates !linton and lledinger, mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
-
-

Sophomore midfielder Samanta Goudreau marks a Calvin forward during the Belles 0-0 draw with the Knights Sept. 12. Saint Mary's picked up their third tie of the season Tuesday. 
digs, team high service aees, team high solo bloeks. She and Lorna were our two most efl'ee­tive attackers." 
The Knights improved their record to 11-3 and a perfect 6­0 in Mil\!\ play. Saint Mary's dropped to 6-8 and 3-4, respec­
tively. 
The Belles 
have some work 

"Kaela [Hellman/ did to do in the next few days before
have a good game. 
matching up

She played nice and 
with Tri-State aggressive in all and Bethel over the weekend.
aspects ofher game. " 
Schroeder-Biek was 

Julie Schroeder-Biek 
focused on Belles coach improving one 
thing. 
"To put it sim­
ply, our fight, our competitive spirit," she said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at @nd.edu/saintmarys.edu 


Proprietors Warren & Linda 
?irs/Orrjinai.:Azza in Joam I 
Since 1951 
Specializing in Italian Entrees 
Tues.· Thurs.: 5:00PM· 11:00 PM Fri.-Sat.; 5:00PM-1;00 AM 537 North St. toui~ • South Bend, IN 374 :.!H-24()4 



Wednesday, September 26, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 
CAPTAIN ..lD&L.E.~S, ON A MIS~ ION, To G-E.T SoME. c.ASH To I'A'C ~AC..K I-\ IS TUITION -1 
EVEJ~..Y DAY HIS wAL.LH's Ll ANYSODY NEE.tl A. F-~EELANC.E w~ITI:.R 7 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 
If l to 2 drinks once 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

WILLSHORTZ 
51 Evenhanded 

57" Enchanted" (Gail Carson 36 List ender -­
52 It's hinged with Levine book)40 [How boring!] 
the humerus

42 Rabin's 
58 Place for a seat predecessor of honor
53 Red ink entry 43 "Go ahead, tell 62 Dissenting me" 54 Meadow mamas chorus 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 

JJWIW®Ihl! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SENWY ± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved.  
KARCC ~ I I rtLAHRDY ~ J 1 r  (] (]  
www.jumble.com  
I CROSCHjI ri  I I  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
WHY THE CON MAN PLANTED TREES IN HIS BACK YARD. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

~Is" rI I I I ]" ( I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: FACET COWER SOOTHE ADJUST 
Answer: What happened to the rumor of free 
drinks? -IT WAS "SCOTCHED" 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Catherine Zeta-Jones. 38: Will Smith. 39: Scottie Pippen. ~2: Aida Turturro, 45 
Happy Birthday: There may be a lot on the line this year. Don'l be afraid to make a move or to change your mind if things aren't going according to plan. Nurture any relationships you have. Your numbers are~-10, 19, 21, 33, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Something is going on behind your back. Be aware of the people around you who can influence yow· position. A settlement can he made hut don't do so for emotional r~asons or you will get less than you should. 3 stm·s 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may want to change your mind or your opinion about something or sumeone you have backed in the past. Do your research and dun't be afraid to switch your beliefs. ~stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be pushed and pulled in several different dire,·­t-ions today. Choose wisely. Although a love interest may be enticing., gauge whcth~..~r nr not it is good to get involved. Secrets will lead to deception. :! stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You've got so much going for you but. if you are afraid to make changes, you may miss out. Travet discovering new opportunities and making a move are all in a high cycle. so stop pnJlTastinating and proceed. s· stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll he tempted to overspend on friends. family and chil­dren. Avoid any deals that put you in the lender's position instead of on the receiving end. Do your best to give advice. not cash, and refrain thm1 paying for other people's mistakes. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let someone who can't make up his or her mind lead ynu astray. Do what's best for yourself. You can only wait so long for others to make a decisio11. Some of the people in your life should be set free to fend fnr them­selves. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Make demands and force issues that have been pending today. Instead of being the one waffling. be the one pushing for change. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everything is turning around for you. You can make changes and revamp your strategy for the future. Tite more you do to make things the way you want, the more energy you will have to follow through with your plans. 5 stars 
SAGfiTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You won't get away with anything today. so don't boiher trying. Concentrate on what you can do to advance but stick to the facts, not fiction. If you emhellish, someone will set you bac·k big-time. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are in the driver's seat, so get things done to your own specifications. No\\' is the time to make changes.. advance and follow your own instincts. Follow through and you11 find success. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Starting your own small business will bring you re­spect as well as more cash. Love is on the rise and taking an imaginative approach will win the heatt of the one you fancy. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Now is not the time to be a risk-taker. You will be easily led astray if you refuse to see the facts. Don't believe evetything you hear or tmst someone who is trying to get you to make an impulsive move. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are emotional, sensitive and caring. You have stantina and are dedicated to your beliefs and traditions but are not afraid to question when in doubt. 
Eugenia's Wt•b sUes: astroadvice .com for fim, eugenialast.com for confidenrial consultations 
-
CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Mideast ruler: Var.

Did one leg of an lronman 38 Ingenuous competition 39 Flight info, for 5 Mike holder on a 
short film set 40 Subject for a chiropractor

9 Luxuriant fur 
41 Feudal serf 14 Wheeling's river 
42 Headline, part 3 15 Castaway's spot 
44 Stung 16 Ballerinas' skirts 
46 I. in old Rome 17 Queen of 47C.I.A. Carthage who predecessor . loved Aeneas 
48 Lanka 18 Part of a blind 
49 Something that 19 Paradises may be drawn in a fight
20 Start of a newspaper 51 End of the 
headline about a headline workplace 59 Soothing plants mishap 

60 Shook, maybe 23 HBO competitor 
61 Panache 24 U.N. workers' 
63 Map detail grp. 
64 Beige25 Mil. decoration 

65 Muse of history28 Special_ 
66 Blacksmiths' 30 Not subtle at all 
tools 34 Headline, part 2 67 Bubble source 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
68 Soviet news agency 
Down Greenskeeper's 
supply 2 Caprice 3 "Celeste 
(aria) 4 Gazes dreamily 5 Knights' 
neighbors 6 1952 Winter Olympics site 7 Minnesota's St. _College 8 Hand (out) 9 Designer McCartney, daughter of Paul and Linda 10 Sound recording 11 Bingo call 12 Broadway's _­
Fontanne Theater 13 Brand name 
that's coincidentally Italian for "it" 21 Alternative to 1% or 2% 22 Easter decoration 25 Beach sights 26 Twitch 
27 Great Wall site 29 Lieu 30 Astronomer 
Tycho_ 31 Protein acid, for short 32 Boys, in Bogota 

.. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 26, 2007 
page 20 
FOOTBALL NOTEBOOK 
Weis stays with tough schedule early in week 
By CHRIS KI-IOREY Sports Editor 
Artnr snning improvement in the running ganw Saturday against Michigan State, Notrn Damn coad1 Charlie Wnis has decided to stay with the formu­la that brought that improve­mont-up to a cnrtain point. 
Last wnek. thn Irish spent thren praeticns just hitting each otlwr -including on Sunday. a day usually reserved for weight lifting and film study. This week, Notre Dame again practknd on Sunday and spent thn lirst hour of Tuesday blocking and taekling. 
But, Weis said. that will be the extent of physical practices before the winless Irish take on undef"natnd Purdue Saturday in West Lafayette, Ind. 

"We still have elements of last week in there, because I think last week helped us," Weis said. "I didn't do full spend, take-them-to-the­ground on Sunday, because I had a bunch of guys beat up. It becomes counter-productive." 
Weis said that while the more physical practices are new to 
see PRACTICE/page 17 

Hitting hard 

SMC SOCCER 
Brits score late goal to force dra-w 
SMC drops to 1-0-1 in MIAA after tying Albion on home turf 
By MEAGI-IAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
After playing two periods overtime, Saint Mary's and MIAA foe Albion finished in a 1-1 draw Tuesday night. 
The Belles struck first with only three minutes remaining in the first half. Sophomore Katie Wehrli broke the score­less tie when she took a pass over the middle from Mandy Thompson and buried her second goal of the season. 
The Belles couldn't keep the Britons scoreless for long, allowing a goal past senior goalie Amy Mahoney 12 min­utes into the second half. 
"I thought we played slug­gish today," Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "It was hard for us to find a rhythm, and one of the most physical games we've played this season." 
see BRITONS/page 18 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Belles drop below .500 in league 
Cavanaugh holds 
No. 15 Calvin takes down SMC in three consecutive matches 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD Sports Writer 

Calvin came to Saint Mary's Tw~sday and stole the show ­the No. 15 Knights swept Saint Mary's (:~0-17, :w-2:{, 30-25). 
Knights senior outside hitter Kristen Kalb tallied a mateh­high 17 kills to go along with lwr 12 digs, senior middle hit­ter Molly KrikkP had 16 kills and a match lwst .4H4 hitting pereentagP in tlw winning ni"J"ort, and junior l.ibero Lauren l)n(; root post1HI a match high 17 digs in the vic­tory to round oiT Calvin's big pnrfornumcP. 
The seasonPd vetl\rans were just what Saint Mary's wach Julin Schrondnr-Bink wantl~d hnr team prepared for, but the Belles simply never found a rhythm. 
"Play tonight was on tlw 11at side. Then\ wen\ definitely good things happening but wo just didn't build on those things," she said. "lWei didn't get excited about those things enough to build our momen­tum." 
The same Belles team that saw four players post double­doubles in the last two match­
.. 

ns was not on the court tonight was missing tonight." to f"aee the No. 1 squad in the Despite the loss, some Belles conference. stood out individually. 
"Calvin is a good team, but I Sophomore outside hitter felt that overall our play Lorna Slupczynski notched a lacked heart tonight," team-high 11 kills, while jun­Schroeder-Biek said. "There was that little extra spark that see LOSS/page 18 
on with defense 
Walsh, Farley come away with wins on sloppy Riehle ·Field 
By JOHN WITTY, LAURA 
MYERS and KEVIN HENRY 
Sports Writers 

Two winless teams, plenty of' high spirits and a dash of' rain made Tuesday night's game between McGlinn and Cavanaugh a close defensive struggle that went down to the wire. 
In the end, Cavanaugh claimed its lirst win of the sea­son with a 6-0 victory on a controversial last-second call. 
"We're really excited for our first victory," Chaos sonior Kim Halpin said. "Our offense was stringing plays together and it was our lirst shutout this sPa­son." 
With seeonds remaining, McGlinn's offense scrambled to line up near the Cavanaugh (1­
2) end zone, but the Shamrocks couldn't get a final play off' before the whistle. Junior quarterback Sarah deGroot hurriedly took the snap, then sneaked the ball iHto the end­zone as the McGlinn (0-3-1) sideline erupted, only to hear the signal from the referee that time had run out before deGroot had hiked the ball. 
"Unfortunately, we used all our last limo outs," McGlinn eoach Brendan Hyan said. "We had an issue with thn refnrne, but we just neednd a bit more time." 
The only offensive production for either team eamn lall\ in the seeond half whnn Cavanaugh drove down the field with two long passes, two fourth down eonversions and a touchdown pass from quartnr­back Kalin Dunn to team eap­tain Tarah Brown. 
After a failed extra point attempt. the score stayed (>-0 in Cavanaugh's favor the rest of the game. 
"This was our best offensive game by far," Chaos senior Katie Zedler said. "But we also stopped them in the red zone and had a couple intercep­tions." 
Cavanaugh pressured the MeGlinn quarterback all night, and McGlinn's defense came up with two interceptions of its own. The wet eonditions at Hiehle Field also contributed to some dropped balls and slips 
see CHAOS/page 18 


An Invitation to Post-Graduate Service 
Greetings! On behalfofthe like the Peace Corps and Center for Social Concerns, Jesuit Volunteer Corps, to I invite you to considn con-national teaching programs tinuing your commitment to like ACE and Teach f!1r service and justice through America, to local Amcri­
post-graduate service. This year, the Center is celebrat­ing its 25th anniversary, but the tradition ofgraduates committing to post-graduate service star1ed long before then. Post-graduate service oflcrs you an opportunity to enter into relationship with a new community whne you will continue to learn and share the gilis and 


Fr. Bill Lies, C.S.C.
talents you have nurtured at Notre Dame, Saint l'vlary's corps projects and Catholic and Holy Cross College. vVorker houses. They go on It would be a chance to to become teachers, law-challenge you rsel r to be yers, doctors, community transformed and, in return, organizers, social workers, transfr)rm the world. politicians, CEOs, mothers, Annually, over 200 gradu­lathers and so much more. ating seniors from Notre Consider joining this group Dame, Saint Mary's and ofoutstanding graduates. Holy Cross commit to a There are opportunities to year or two ofpost-graduate serve among the young, the !{ervin~ at over 100 sites old, the sick, the hungry, the across the nation ancl world. homeless, the imprisoned, They serve with a range the lonely, the poor and the orprograms and agen-oppressed; Lo learn about cie-s, from internationally a new culture, language recognized organizations or perspective on li fc; to build relationships with new friends and communities; to change your world. As we seek to live in soli­darity with our sisters and brothers, we remember 
Jesus called love the greatest 
orall commandments--to 
love the Lord God with all 
our hearts and to love our 
neighbor as ourselves (Mark 
12:28-31). It is not easy, 
but it remains no less our 
challenge and call. lt is the 
foundation on which we will 
build the justice we seek and 
the peace we long for. 
Be a part ofthe transfonna­
tion we are called to, and be 
transformed. Give yourself 
away. One or more of the 
opportunities on these pages 
could quite possibly change 
you forever. You are in my 
prayers. God bless you well. 
Yours, 

Father Bill Lies, C.S.C. Executive Director Center for Social Concerns 
Post-Graduate Service Fair 
Tonight September 26 5-8pm Joyce Center 
ABOUT THE FAIR 
Considering post-graduate service? Be sure to come to 

• the Post-graduate Service Fair tonight, September 26, from 5-8 pm in rhe Joyce Center. You will have the chance to explore domestic and international service opportunities and speak to 
A-ZGUIDE 
POST-GRADUATE 
SERVICE 
ALUMNI STORY 

representatives from more than 80 organizations (whose profiles are in this insert) that offer short and long term service opportu­nities. 
WHO SHOULD ATTEND? 
The fair is not only for se­niors, bur all students who 
A-ZGUIDE (CONT'D) 

are interested in service. Some placements are avail­able for summer service. 
QUESTIONS? 
Contact Liz Mackenzie. 
Mackenzie.l2@nd. edu 
[p] 574.631.5779 
[w] socialconcerns.nd.edu 

A SPECIAL OBSERVER INSERT 
Index 
post-graduate service organizations (<Jrouped by region) 
USA-NATIONAL AmeriCorps*VISTA Claretian Volunteers Dominican Volunteers USA FOCUS (Fellowship of Catholic 
University Students) Lasallian Volunteers Lutheran Volunteer Corps Mennonite Mission Network NET Ministries Notre Dame Mission Volunteers 
Americorps Providence Companions in Mission 
USA-EAST ASimple House of Sts. Francis 
and Alphonsus Bethany Catholic Worker House Bon Secours Volunteer Ministry Capuchin Youth & Family Ministries Change a Heart: Franciscan 
Volunteer Program Covenant House Faith Community Franciscan Volunteer Ministry 
USA-MIDWEST Amate House Christian Appalachian Project Franciscan Outreach Association Franciscan Volunteer Program Gateway Vincentian Volunteers L'Arche Chicago MercyWorks-Mercy Home for 
Boys & Girls Misericordia Home Notre Dame Campus·Ministry Share Foundation Sister Maura Brannick Health Center St. Joseph Worker Rrogram Su Casa Catholic Worker Vincentian Service Corps -Central 
USA-SOUTH Casa Juan Diego Catholic Volunteers in Florida San Antonio Catholic Worker 
USA-WEST Bend Volunteer Corf)s Colorado Vincentian Volunteers Jesuit Volunteer Corps -Northwest Maggie's Place 
USA & INTERNATIONAL ALIVE: A Lay Invitation to a Visitation Experience Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps 
USA & INTERNATIONAL (CONT'O) Cabrini Mission Corps Christian Brothers Lay Volunteer Program FrancisCorps Good Shepherd Volunteers Holy Spirit Lay Missionary Program Humility of Mary Service Incarnate Word Missionaries Jesuit Volunteer Corps/Jesuit 
Volunteer International Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly Marianist Volunteer Program Mennonite Central Committee Mercy Volunteer Corps Missionary' Cenacle Volunteers Providence Volunteer Ministry Puerto Rico Center for 
Social Concerns 
INTERNATIONAL Amigos de Jesus Farm of the Child Friends of the Orphans Maryknoll China Service Project Maryknoll Lay Missioners Passionist Volunteers International Peace Corps Rostra de Cristo Salesian Lay Missioners 
TEACHING Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE)* ECHO Inner-City Teaching Corps Jesuit Alumni Volunteer Program Lalanne* LU CHOICE* Lutheran Education Alliance with 
Parochial Schools (LEAPs)* Magis* operation TEACH* Pacific Alliance for Catholic 
Education (PACE)* PLACE Corps* Providence Alliance for 
Catholic Teachers (PACT)* Red Cloud Volunteers Response-Ability St. Ignatius Loyola Academy Teach For America The David School The Haitian Project, Inc. The Neighborhood Academy University Consortium for 
Catholic Education (UCCE) 
* uCCE program 
~~UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Center for Social Concerns 


Post-Graduate Service Opportunities 
ASimple House of Sts. Francis and Alphonsos Bon Secours Volunteer Ministry 
contact: Ry~n Hehman asimplehouse@fastmail.us Contact: Shannon Curran shannon_curran@bshsi.com 
[P] 202.678.5898 [w] www.asimplehouse.org/ [P] 410.442.3161 [ w] www.bonsecours.org/bsvm Goal of Program: To wonderfully and radically fall upon the Goal of Program: Lay women and men offer "Good Help" to cross of Chnst for grace and support, to serve the poor, those in need. Emotional and spiritual growth are encouraged volunteers, and sponsors by proclaiming the gospel through and supported through living in a small Christian community acts of faith, love, and charity, and to sanctify volunteers with other volunteers, and service focuses on the Bon Secours through friendshiP w1th the Lord, observance of poverty, ~nd charism of Healing, Compassion and Liberation. obedience to the Holy Catholic Church. Typo of Placement: Health care, human services, Typo of Placement: Ministry, especially to those who suffer and education. from drug use, prostttutton, and/or homelessness. Length or Service: One year
l
Length of Service: 10 months 

Cabrini Mission Corps ALIVE: ALay Invitation to a Visitation Experience Contact: Gina Pultorak cmcorps@aol.com Contact: Sr. Manlyn Medinger ALIVEwithCNDs@aol.com [P] 610.971.0821 [ w] www.cabrini·missioncorps.org (p] 708.359.9299 [w] www.cnd-m.com Goal of Program: Missioners strive to be in solidarity with our Goal or Program: In partnership with the Sisters of the 
sisters and brothers throughout the world, especially poor and Congregation de Notre Dame, you will work in educatiOnal 
marginalized women, children, 1mm1grants, refugees and the settings and share community and prayer. Your ministry and 
elderly. Missioners collaborate with the Missionary Sisters of community living are seen ~sways of visiting: being present to, 
the Sacred Heart to bring the love and mercy of Jesus into listening to, and serving others as the Christ among us. 
every situation in which they minister and in so doing, promote Typo or Placement: Adult literacy, art/music education, 
Gospel values. element~ry/secondary education, Latino community mimster, public 
Typo of Placement: Education, elderly outreach, health care, relations, social work, yotdh mimster and others as the need arises. 
immigration and refugee services, child care, Hispanic Length of Service: One ye~r 
ministry, youth ministry, parish ministry, pastoral ministry, and 
social services. Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) Length of Service: One year (USA) Two years (lllfE,r<~ational) Contact: Chnstopher Kowalski Kowalski.34@nd.edu [ p J574.631.3386 [ w] http://ace.nd.edu/ Goal of Program: ACE recruits and trains htyhly motivated and talented students from all academic and religious backgrounds to teach in under resourced Catholic schools in order to help strengthen and sustain Catholic education. Typo of Placement: Two years in a Catholic elementary or secondary school while working toward a M~ster of Education degree from the University of Notre Dame. Length of Service: Two years 
Amate House 

Contact: Lisa Wolff lwolff@amatehouse.org [ p]773.376.2445 [w) www.amatehouse.org Goal of Program: lnsptred by the soctal misston of the Catholic Church, Amate House supports and develops men and women rooted mfaith, dedtcated to service, and committed to building a more lUSt and lovmg society. Typo of Placement: Elementary and high school teaching, youth milllstry, homeless services, work w1th immigrants and refugees, legal clinics, public health, community orgamzing, work with women. children and elderly. Length of Service: ll months 
AmeriCorps*VISTA Capuchin Franciscan Volunteer Corps 
Indiana State Contact: IN@cns.gov Contact: Shelly Roder capcorps@thecapuchins.org (p]317.226.6724 [w] www.cns.gov (P] 414.374.8841 ext. 29 [w] www.capcorps.org Goal of Program: AmeriCorps*VISTA (Volunteers in Service to Goal of Program: In the spirit of Jesus Christ and Francis of America) provtdes full-time members to nonprofit, fatth-based Assisi, the Cap Corps is a community of women and men who and other community orgamzations, and publtc agencies to serve among people in need as full time volunteers, sharing create and expand programs that bring low-mcome individuals common prayer and simple living. and communittes out of poverty. Type of Placement: Environment~!. Social Services, Homeless Typo of Placemenl: Volunteer Recruitment, Resource Services, Teaching, Tutoring, Community Organizing, Parish Development, Capacity buildmg of non-profits to help bring and Youth Ministry, legal Services, Health Care Services, and communities out of poverty. Engineering Projects. Length of Service: 12 months Length of Service: One year (IJSAl 18-24 months t:lntE>rrmtinn;•ll 
Amigos de Jesus Capuchin Youth & Family Ministries 
Contact: Kate Retter director@amigosdetesus.org Contact: Br. Lake Herman brolake@cyfm.org [ p )610.644.8237 [ w) www.amigosdejesus.org/ [P ]845.424.3609 [w] www.CYFM.org Goal of Program: To foster and model a Christtan lifestyle of Goal of Program: CYFM Lay Assistants serve as positive role sptntualtty, Amigos de Jesus provides education and health for models for our youth, giving witness to their faith, and sharing their children. Amigos de Jesus is a Catholic home for children, in our mission of reaching out to young people and their school for technical school and advancement, agricultur~l families. Volunteers g~in experience in le~dership and ministry community, and presently IS 111 the process of building a while living and working in a Christian community that is Catholic primary school. supportive of their development as men and women of faith Type or Placement: Construction workers, health professiOnals, and action. teachers, soctal workers and business/computer workers. Typo of Placement: Youth ministry Length of Service: 12-24 months Length of Service: One year 
Bend Volunteer Corps Casa Juan Diego 
Contact: Charlotte Roe charlotte@bendvolunteercorps.org Contact: Mark and louise Zwick info@cjd.org [p )541.318.4636 [ w] www.bendvolunteercorps.org/ [P ]713.869.7376 [ w] www.cjd.org Goal of Program: BVC needs people like you to carry on the four Goal of Program: To live out the Gospel by receiving in hospital­core values of simple living, social justice, community and ity and assisting immigrants and refugees, especially from sptntuality. Your challenge will be to integrate these values with Latin-America. those 1n need by working 111 Chnstian faith With other volunteers and 
Type of Placement: To live as a Catholic Worker in the tradition by examtrung the causes of social injustice in the Central Oregon area. 
of Dorothy Day, living and working with immigrants in need. Type of Placement: He~lth care, peace, and working with 
Immersion in Spanish. Htspanic, homeless. and youth populations. 
Length of service: Three months to several years Length of Service: One year 
Catholic Volunteers in florida Bethany Catholic Worker House 
Contact: Candace Thompson cthompson@cvif.org Contact: Donna Ecker rbethan1@rochester.rr.com 
[p]407.382.70n [w] www.cvif.org [p ]585.454.4197 Goal of Program: CVIF is dedicated to providing people the Goal of Program: Bethany House in Rochester, NY, offers opportunity to live out their faith by serving those with the emergency housing for homeless women and women with greatest need. Volunteers work towards justice and peace, children. We also run an emergency food cupboard, a clothing 
positively transforming the commumties they serve as well as room, and a drop-in center during daytime hours. 
themselves. Type of Placement: Live·in staff person (female) to be in 
Type of Placement: Community organization, health care, legal, community with poor and marginalized women and children. 
teaching, youth ministry and service with Hispanic, homeless, We offer room. board, health insurance and a small stipend. 
and youth populations. Length of Service: One year 
Length of Service: One year 
ECHO
Change a Heart: Franciscan Volunteer Program 
Contact: Michelle Basista volunteer@millvalefranciscans.org 
Contact: Leonard Delorenzo delorenzo.2@nd.edu 
[ p] 412.821.0861 [ w] www.changeaheartvolunteers.org/ 
[p ]574.631.291S [ w] http://echo.nd.edu Goal of Program: As they serve with the poor, rooted in the 
Goal of Program: Participants in Echo have the opportunity to spirit of St. Francis and the mission of the Sisters of St. Francis 
engage in ongoing academic, professional-ministerial, of Millvale, PA, volunteers are invited to accept the challenge 
communal, and spiritual formation while serving at a parish in of experiencing the power of God through relationships which 
one of our partner dioceses around the United States. This empower the powerless, promote peace and transform the 
ongoing formation and hands-on experience enables world around them. 
apprentices to develop the skills, insights, and capacities that Type of Placement: Education, Health care, Social Services, and 
help promote the catechetical mtssion of the Catholic Church. Hispanic mimstries. 
Type of Placement: Full year placements in CatholiC parishes Length of Service: One to two years 
within partner dioceses. Length of Service: Two years 
Christian Appalachian Project 
Contact: Amy Schill volunteer@chrisapp.org 
Farm of the Child 
[p)l.800.755.5322 [w] www.chrisapp.org 
Contact: Felicia & Sean O'Brien felicia@alumni.nd.edu Goal or Program: CAP strives to meet the needs of the Appalachtan 
[p} 574.247.1018 [ w) www.farmofthechild.org people while fostering their self-sufficiency. CAP offers a 
Goal of Program: To care for and improve the physical, strong cultural experience, an assortment of service placements, 
educ~tional, spiritual and social needs of orphaned, abandoned distinctive community living, and aflexible time commitment. 
and neglected children of Honduras so that they may become Type of Placement: Long-term: Volunteers needed year-round 
productive, Christian members of Honduran society. to serve in a variety of programs, including child and family Type or Placement: Teachers, medical professionals, social development centers, adult education, elderly services, workers, pastoral ministers, construction/maintenance supemsors, housing and home repair, youth services, substance abuse house parents, administrators, and business/finance skills. recovery center, domestic violence shelters, outreach services, Length or Service: 27 months educational programming, disability services. Length of Service: Nine months to one year (long-term) FOCUS (Fellowship of Catholic University Students) Volunteers needed for summer camps and throughout the Contact: Angela Telthorst atelthorst@focusonline.org year. Minimum stay of three weeks (al>ort-t<!rml [P] 314.596.8100 [w] www.focusonline.org 
Goal of Program: FOCUS is a national outreach to college Christian Brothers Lay Volunteer Program campuses, to secular and Catholic schools. Through small Contact: Br. Bob Koppes christianbrosvp@sbcglobal.net group Bible studies, large group leadership traimng, and 
[ p] 773.298.2520 [ w] www.cbvp.org one-on-one discipleship, FOCUS brings the fullness of life and Goal of Program: Grow spiritually, experience community living, truth in the Catholic Church to college students and gives the work with the marginalized in educational or social service ministries. tools to help them share this good news with thetr lnends. Typo or Placement: Teaching, youth ministry, social services, Type of Placement: Full-time. missionaries on umversity/ alternative school, and ministries with the Hispanic population. college campuses. Length of Service: One year (iung~tcrrn' 6-8 summer weeks (shnrH~nn} Length of Service: Two years 
ALUMNI REFLECTION Andrew Coleman (NO '04, BS in Biology)· 
As I confront a new set of challenges as a first-year medical student, I often think back on my t1me spent in Southern Haiti as a public health volunteer and remember how overwhelming and frustrating my first few months were. After only a few days of working for Program Filariose, an organization seeking to eliminate lymphatic filariasis from Haiti, I developed an understanding of the innumerable problems firmly entrenched within Haitian society. I recall thinking, "How can anyone possibly make a difference here?" 
Over the course of the year, however, with the encouragement and guidance of a very committed and passionate group of people, I found many niches where I could effect positive change. I simplified and enhanced accounting practices in the guest house where I lived and coordinated mobile clinics and workshops for visiting medical professionals. I became an English instructor at a local school and spent a few hours each week tutoring my four Haitian orphan housemates. I revamped the serology lab at Hopital St. Croix and trained Haitian lab techs to perform body chemistry analyses, ELISAs, and manual CD4 counts. I served as the hospital HAART Program liaison, facilitati119 communication with and procurement of materials from the USAID and CDC. 
Through my work, I contributed, if only on a microscopic level, to a program that has in the face of extraordinary obstacles improved the quality of life of an entire country. 
Andrew smvelf as apublic health volunteer working for the Notre Dame flalfi Program and the Lymp/Jiltic hlanas1s Elimination Project In Leogane from September 2004 to June 2005 wh/Jfl he was evacuated as a result ollhe polllical unrest. He Is now in his second year ol medical school at Duke Uni-..JrSJ()I 
Claretian Volunteers Franciscan Outreach Association 
Contact: Deana Brewer volunteers@claretians.org Contact: Danielle Simonetti danielle@franoutreach.org 
[ p] 312.236.7782 [ w) www.claretians.org [ p] 773.278.6724 [ w] www.franoutreach.org Goal of Program: We invite young adults to lay leadership by Goal of Program: To provide a sole and established opportunity collaborating in service and ministry with the Claretian for volunteers who wish to help the city's poorest and most Missionaries. Volunteers strive to grow spiritually within a neglected people with basic human needs of food and shelter community of peers and in solidarity with the poor and those wtth respect and compassion. This setting provides the on the margins of society. opportunities for volunteers to develop relationships with our Typo of Placement: Business, construction, cmnmun1ty organizing, guests and persons with untque challenges and strengths and health care, envtronment, legal, peace, teaching, youth ministry, 
the complexity of being poor and homeless. working with Hispanic, homeless, and youth populations. 
Typo of Placement: Agencies serving people who are Length of Service: One year 
homeless. Length of Service: One year 
Colorado Vincentian Volunteers Franciscan Volunteer Ministry
Contact: Bill and Mary Frances Jaster cvv@covivo.org 
Contact: Katie Sullivan fvmpd@aol.com Goal of Program: We are a community of faith and action that [p)303.863.8141 [w) www.covivo.org 
[P )215.427.3070 [ w) www.franciscanvolunteerministry.org responds to the Gospel call in the spirit of St. Vincent de Paul. Goal of Program: FVM provides a setting for volunteers to grow Our year-long program offers an opportunity for spiritual, in faith, love, and hope by serving the poor and working for emotional, professional growth, and a way of discerning and social justice. We provide a setting where gifts and talents are living one's Christian vocation. exchanged with the people of God in a loving and joyful Type of Placement: Community organization, construction, Franciscan spirit, always being aware of how much we can environment, health care, peace, teaching, and service with learn from and are blessed by the poor. the homeless, Hispanic, and youth populations. Type of Placement: Adults' and Children's Activities Length of Service: One year Coordinator, Community Organizer, Elementary School Teacher 
I Aide, ESL Instructor, Immigrant Minister, Medical Clinic Covenant House Faith Community Assistant, Mentor and Tutor, Music Minister, Outreach to Contact: Paula Rote faithmail@covenanthouse.org Shut·ins and Hospital Patients, Parish Assistant, Pastoral 
[P] 212.727.4149 [ w] www.covenanthouse.org Counselor, Prison Minister, Soup Kitchen Staff, Women's Day Goal or Program: Faith Community offers people the opportunities Center Staff, and Youth and Elderly Outreach. to serve homeless, runaway, and at-risk youth of Covenant House; Length of Service: One year live in a community living setting with other volunteers; and to spend time in daily personal and communal prayer/reflection. Franciscan Volunteer Program Typo of Placement: Direct care with Covenant House youth as Contact: Sr. Kathy McNulty frariVol@aol.com resident advisors, youth workers, or case managers: Health [ p] 312.628.1254 [ w] www.thefriars.org/volunteers services, kitchens, and various administrative/corporate areas. Goal of Program: Community, Stmplicity, Spirituality, Service, Length of Service: Three, Six, and Twelve months Outreach, Franciscan Life. 
Type of Placement: Social services, education, elderly and Dominican Volunteers USA HIV/AIDS ministry, peace and JUstice mmistry, pansh ministry, Contact: Anthony Butler domincanvolunteers@gmail.com clerical duties, elder and child care and home repair. (p] 708.524.5985 [w] http://dvusa.org Length of Service: One year Goal of Program: Together, we respond to the needs of our sisters and brothers, especially those who are poor and marginalized. We live out the Dominican mission of proclaiming the gospel through our ministry, common life, prayer and study within a diverse, intergenerational community. Typo of Placement: Community organizing, environment, health care, legal, peace, teaching, and working with Hispanic, homeless, and youth populations. Length of Service: 10 months, 12 months, or 24 months 
For more information visit SOCialconcerns.nd.edu 
FrancisCorps 
Contact: Br. Jim Moore francorps@gmail.com 
[ p] 315.426.0481, [ w] www.franciscorps.org Goal of Program: FrancisCorps volunteers are lay men and women committed to preaching the Gospel of Jesus Christ through their actions: direct service to the poor. Volunteers live a simple lifestyle in community with other volunteers in the spirit of Sts. Francis and Clare of Assisi while serving the temporal needs of the local community. Type of Placement: Youth programs, drop·in elementary programs, refugee resettlement, teaching, social services, developmentally disabled adults, women's shelter, medical and legal clinic. Length of Service: One year 
Friends of the Orphans 
Contact: Katherine Harig kharig@friendsus.org 
[ p] 847.690.1700 [w] http://friendsus.org Goal of Program: We send qualified individuals, couples and families to support the staff and children living in the homes of Nuestros Pequelios Hermanos/ Nos Petit Freres et Soeurs (Our little Brothers and Sisters). Type of Placement: Teaching, childcare, construction, gardening, social work, therapy, medicine, dental and speech therapy. Length of Service: One year or two months is~;mnwn 
Gateway Vincentian Volunteers 
Contact: Jim Ryan gatevol@aol.com 
[P] 314.771.1474 [w] www.vincentianvols.org Goal of Program: Ta provide young adults with an experience of living in community and working with the poor in the spirit of St. Vincent DePaul. It is our goal that by living in the spirit of Vincent, these young adults will develop a consuming commitment to improving the lives of the poor and marginalized in our society. Type of Placement: Education, Mental Health Services, HIVI AIDS Services, Immigration and Refugee Services, Social Service Work in an Inner-City Parish, Prison Ministry, Social Services and Poverty Relief, Social Work, Soup Kitchen and Food Distribution, Emergency Shelter, Teacher, Tutoring and literacy Programs, Work with at-risk youth. Length of Service: 11 months 
Good Shepherd Volunteers 
Contact: lindsey Conlin gsv@goodshepherds.org 
[p] 888.668.6478 x 780 [w] www.gsvolunteers.org Goal of Program: GSV, in collaboration with the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, provides long-term volunteers with the opportunity to work in social service ministries and to use their God-given talents, serving women, adolescents, and children affected by poverty, violence, and neglect. Type of Placement: Alternative Education High School, Residential Group Homes, After School Program, Domestic Violence Shelter, Foster Care and Adoption Services Program, Fair-Trade Program, and Congressional Lobbyist. Youth Services, Human Services, Health Services, Economic/ Psychological Empowerment Programs, Community Development, Education, Collaborative efforts with other local non-governmental and non-profit agencies. Length of Service: One year (USA) 2 years (International) 
Holy Spirit Lay Missionary Program 
Contact: Ray Gavin gavin_101@msn.com [P] 847.441.0126 ext. 609 Goal of Program: Anew program that allows women to become involved with the Holy Spirit Missionary Sisters as a lay volunteer. Volunteers will live in community with the Sisters and engage in meaningful ministry. Type of Placement: Teaching, peace, youth. Length of Service: One year or Summer 
Humility of Mary Service 
Contact: Sr. Kathleen King, HM kking@hmministry.org 
[P] 4403335373 [w] www.humilityofmary.org/join_serv_OLhtrn Goal of Program: The program provides women and men who are desirous of serving among poor and marginalized persons an opportunity to work with Sisters of Humility and/or their colleagues in ministry as volunteers. Through a process that includes mentoring and shared reflection on the expenence of service, the program fosters a lifelong commitment to Gospel values and to bringing more abundant life to God's people, especially the poor. Type of Placement: Social work, community outreach, home nursmg, legal aide to Haitians, housing and homeless services, literacy project, education, inner city neighborhood ministry, jail ministry, parish ministry/outreach. Length of Service: Two months to two years 
Incarnate Word Missionaries 
Contact: Meghan Green Meghan.green@amormeus.org [ p] 210.828.2224 ext. 228 
[ w] www.incarnatewordsisters.org/iwmis.sionaries.htm Goal of Program: An opportunity to respond to your baptismal call to mission, and share in the mission, spirituality, and charism of the Congregation. Volunteers receive the gift of a cross-cultural community, and they are placed in ministry and support services. Type of Placement: Environment, community organization, healthcare, teaching, peace, work with Hispanic, homeless, and youth populations. 
Length of Service: One year (USAl 2 years {Int~~mation~l) 

Inner-City Teaching Corps 
Contact: Bridget Hogan teach@ictc-chicago.org 
[P] 312.491.9100 [w] www.ictc-chicago.org Goal of Program: By combining teaching and involvement in after-school activities, such as coaching, we offer excellent opportunities to channel your enthusiasm toward children from inner-city neighborhoods. Members live a simple lifestyle in community residences and participate in an Alternative Teacher Certification Program. Upon successful completion of requirements, Corps members earn a Stale of Illinois teaching certificate. Type of Placement: Full-time teaching positions in inner-city Catholic elementary schools in Chicago. ICTC schools primarily serve /ow-income families in African-American and Latino communities. Length of Service: Two years 
Jesuit Alumni Volunteer Program 
Contact: Katie Mitchell kmitchell@cristorey.net 
[P] 773.890.6800 [w] www.cristorey.net Goal of Program: We strive to become men and women for others through our service to the family of Cristo Rey, our dedication to simplicity and community life, and our commitment to spiritual development. Type of Placement: Cristo Rey is an innovative new Jesuit High School which serves the low-income, predominantly Latino immigrant population of Chicago's southwest side. Volunteers serve the school in a number of ways, including teaching positions, facilitating student transportation and providing supervision, coaching sports, coordinating student activities, anrJ implementing service projects. Length of Service: Two years 
Jesuit Volunteer Corps­Jesuit Volunteer International 
Contact: AJ Cabrera eastrecruiter@jesuitvolunteers.org 
[ p] 410.224.1733 [ w] http:/ /jesuitvolunteers.org/ 
Jesuit Volunteer Corps -Northwest 
Contact: Leah Dahlin ldahlin@jvcnorthwest.org 
[p] 503.335.8202 [ w] http:/ /jvcnorthwest.org/ Goal of Program: JVC offers men and women an opportunity to work full-time for justice and peace by serving the poor directly and by workmg for structural change. Volunteers live a simple lifestyle in community with other volunteers and seek to develop spiritually. Type of Placement: Teacbing, youth mmistry and mentoring, homeless advocacy, domestic violence and sexual assault counseling, prison ministry, legal aid, farm worker outreach, refugee resettlement, elderly outreach, addiction recovery services, nursing and hospice ministry, AIDS services and community organizing. Length of Service: Dne year (USA) 2 years.Onlornahonali 
Lalanne 

Contact: Jacinta Mergler jacinta.mergler@notes.udayton.edu 
[p] 937.229.3778 [w] www.udayton.edu/-/a/anne Goal of Program: Lalanne teachers are assigned faculty positions in urban Catholic schools and live in community for a supportive environment that fosters personal and professional development, and includes opportunities for spiritual growth in order to make a positive impact on the lives of students. Type of Placement: K-12 Education in urban Catholic schools. Length of Service: Two years 
L'Arche Chicago 
Contact: Alexandra Conroy larchechicago@sbcglobal.net 
[P] 108.863.1273 [ w] www.larchechicago.org Goal of Program: L'Arche is an international federation of communities where men and women with developmental disabilities and those who choose to share life with them live, work, play and pray creating a home together. Core members, persons with disabilities, make up the heart or core of our communities. The assistants are those who live and share life with them. Type of Placement: Faith based community living with adults with developmental disabilities. Length of Service: One or more years 
Lasallian Volunteers 
Contact: Seth Whetzel swhetzel@cbconf.org 
[P] 202.529.0047 [ w] www.lasallianvolunteers.org Goal of Program: To respond creatively to the educational needs of the poor by providing volunteers who are generous and talented, well trained and supported, from diverse backgrounds across the U.S., a unique and rewarding experience. Type of Placement: Teacher/tutor in elementary schools, middle schools, high schools, adult education programs, outdoor education programs and after school programs. Case Managers/Social Workers; Campus Mimstry/Retreat Work/ Service Outreach coordinating; Development: Putllic Relations/Grant Writing/Fundraising; Coaching Sports Teams; Adventure-based Recreation Leader, Support Staff at Homeless Shelter and Soup Kitchen. Length of Service: One year 
Little Brothers -Friends of the Elderly 
Contact: Christine Bertrand cbertrand.chi@littlebrothers.org 
[P] 312.455.1000 [ w] www.littlebrothers.org Goal of Program: Little Brothers-Friends of the Elderly (LBFE) is a national network of non-profit, volunteer-based organizations committed to relieving isolation and loneliness among the elderly. We offer to people of good will the opportunity to join the elderly in friendship and celebration of life. Type of Placement: Work with elderly and Hispanic populations. Length of Service: One year 
LU CHOICE 

Contact: Lee Hubbell /hubbel@luc.edu [p ]312.915.7049 [w] www.luc.edu/schools/education/choice Goal of Program: To serve the·needs of under-resourced Catholic elementary schools by recruiting, training, placing, and supporting talented, highly motivated, enthusiastic men and women as teachers in these schools. Participants are enrolled in Loyola University Chicago's School of Education. Upon successful completion of their studies, they earn an M.Ed. with certification. Type of Placement: Elementary school teachers within Catholic schools in the Archdiocese of Chicago. Length of Service: Two Years 
Lutheran Education Alliance with Parochial Schools (LEAPS) 
Contact: Mary Ann Dudzinski Maryann.Dudzinski@valpo.edu [p] 219.916.9368 
[ w] www.valpo.edu/gce/graduate/programs/med-il-leaps.php Goal of Program: This program provides talented people the opportunity to explore teaching as a lifelong vocation while seriing as apprentice teachers in rural and urban parochial schools. The program has three components: academic and teaching preparation, community living experiences while serving the teaching needs of parochial schools, and exploration of spirituality and faith in the context of service and vocation. Type of Placement: Teaching. Length of Service: Two years 
Lutheran Volunteer Corps 
Contact: Eric Bjorlin glakes@lutheranvolunteercorps.org [P ]202.387.3222 [ w] www.lutheranvolunteercorps.org Goal of Program: Volunteers are matched with non-profit organizations in ten metropolitan areas across the United States. They work full-time in various positions ranging from direct social services, to political advocacy, community organizing, education, and activism while living in intentional community. Type of Placement: Community organizatiOn, environment, health care, legal, peace, teaching, youth ministry, and work with Hispanic, homeless, and youth populations. Length of Service: One year 
Maggie's Place 

Contact: Becky Fair mpstaff@maggiesplace.org 
[P] 602.262.5555 [w] www.maggiesplace.org Goal of Program: Maggie's Place is a house of hospitality for expectant women who wish to achieve their goals in a dignified and welcoming atmosphere. As a community, we challenge one another to strive toward personal growth, to welcome the gifts of every person who enters our door, and to promote positive social change. Type of Placement: Direct service to pregnant women, new moms and newborns in need. We also share the administrative duties necessary to run the homes. Length of Service: l3 months 
Magis 

Contact: Molly Davies mollydavies@creighton.edu 
[ p] 402.280.3491 [ w] http:/ /puffin.creighton.edu/edu/MAGIS/ Goal of Program: MAGIS is centered on community living, aca· demic coursework, and Ignatian spirituality that prepares and supports highly motivated faith filled teachers to serve in under-resourced Catholic Schools. MAGIS recruits talented individuals from under-graduate programs who have a desire to teach in grades 7-12. Type of Placement: Students are placed in under·resourced Catholic schools in the Omaha metro area and rural schools in Nebraska. Length of Service: Two years 
Marianist Volunteer Program 
Contact: Daniel Richter drichter@sm-usa.org [p ]314.533.1207 ext. 229 [w] www.marianist.com/mvp Goal of Program: MVP provides opportunities for men and women of faith to share in the Marianist Charism by building a community in mission for peace, justice, and solidarity with the poor and marginalized. MVP provides opportunities for faith, spiritual, and personal development; empowering a diversity of volunteers to be partners for peace and justice; experiencing the Marianist vision of lay leadership and community; living out an option for the poor and marginalized through a simple lifestyle and cross cultural service. Type of Placement: Education, social services, youth and parish ministry, health care, peace and justice advocacy/com· munity organizing, services for the homeless, services for women and children, and other services. Length of Service: One year (USA\ 2 years (Mexkll) 
Maryknoll China Service Project 
Contact: Maretta McKenna chinaserveusa@msn.com [P ]973.889.1557 [w] www.chinaserv.org Goal of Program: Maryknoll is a Catholic orgamzation which is deeply committed to service work in the People's Republic of China. We seek to place active and committed Christians in universities where their dedication and personal example will be of service to the students and faculty. As a result of dedicated language teaching, we hope that foreign teachers will understand more about China and its people, and the Chinese will understand more about the West and its values and culture. Type of Placement: ESL teachers. 
Length of Service: One year Oong term} 5weeks (:;~.:rr:m:?r pt{lflf~lm) 
... Sept~f'DQ~f.2007 

Maryknoll Lay Missioners 
Contact: Kathy Wright kwright@mklm.org [p] 800.818.5276 Ext.ll4 [w] www.mklaymissioners.org Goal of Program: Maryknoll Lay Miss1oners is a Catholic organization inspired by the mission of Jesus to live and work with poor communities in Africa, Asia, and the Americas, responding to basic needs and helping to create a more just and compassionate world. Type of Placement: Lay and community formation, education, health/AIDS, peace and justice advocacy, pastoral work and technical/vocational instruction. Length of Service: Three and a half years. Some Mission Awareness trips offered, 5 to 15 days (visit www.friendsacrossborders.org). 
Mennonite Central Committee 
Contact: Mary Ann Weber mweber@mcc.org 
[P] 574.534.4133 [w] http://mcc.org Goal of Program: MCC seeks to demonstrate God's love by working among people suffering from poverty, conflict, oppression and natural disaster. MCC serves as a channel for interchange by building mutually transformative relationships. MCC strives for peace, justice and the dignity of all people by sharing our experiences, resources and faith in Jesus Christ. Type of Placement: Community organization, peace, teaching. Length of Service: One week to three years 
Mennonite Mission Network 
Contact: Neil Richer neilr@mennonitemission.net 
[ p] 574.523.3060 [ w] http://mennonitemission.net Goal of Program: MVS attempts to match human resources to human needs in obedience to Christ. MVS works to change oppressive social structures. Christians from many denominations serve with MVS. Type of Placement: Accountants, after-school workers, business and clerical workers, carpenters, construction workers, child care workers, staff for emergency intervention services, poverty relief services, group home staff, elderly ministries, environmental, migrant ministries, immigration/refugee service workers, teachers, social workers, peace and justice workers, public relations person, volunteer coordinators. Length of Service: Two years preferred; one year minimum 
MercyWorks -Mercy Home for Boys & Girls 
Contact: Elizabeth Dayton eliday@mercyhome.org 
[P] 312.738.9526 [w] www.mercyhome.org Goal of Program: Highly motivated individuals who are mission-driven and wish to make a diHerence in the lives of our children. Volunteers are provided the opportunity to grow in their faith and spirituality through prayer and reflection while being committed to a process of building community and living in simplicity. Type of Placement: Residential youth care worker; case worker; admissions case manager; volunteer coordinator; education & employment coordinator; family services representative. Length of Service: One year 
Mercy Volunteer Corps 
Contact: Maureen Kubicek ContactUs@MercyVolunteers.org 
[P] 215.641.5535 [ w] www.MercyVolunleers.org Goal of Program: In partnership with the Sisters of Mercy of the Americas, lay women and men of MVC, enter into relationship with people who are economically poor and marginalized. In a spirit of mutuality, volunteers cultivate mercy and justice in the world by embracing compassionate service, social justice, spirituality and a simple lifestyle in community. Type of Placement: Community development, education, hunger and homeless outreach, prison ministry, domestic violence services and counseling, addiction recovery services, hospice ministry, AIDS/HIV care, elderly outreach, programs for individuals with special needs, border and integration ministries. Length of Service: One year (USA'! 2years (Int"matin,.,ai) 
Misericordia Home 
Contact: Joe Ferrarra joef@misericordia.com 
[p] 773.273.3054 [ w] www.misericordia.com Goal of Program: To support individuals with developmental disabilities in maximizing their level of independence and self-determination within an environment that fosters spirituality, dignity, respect and enhancement of quality of life. We promote development of natural family and community support, community awareness, education and advocacy. Type of Placement: Support individuals with developmental disabi lilies. Length of Service: 6 ·12 months 
Missionary Cenacle Volunteers 
Contact: Maureen Masterson mcvmaureen@aol.com 
[p] 216.252.4727 [ w] www.tmc3.org/mcv.html Goal of Program: To help Catholics and others become apostles by growing spiritually while in service to the poor of all America. Type of Placement: Long-term: Catechists; teachers and aides; pastoral ministry; office workers; retreat ministry; youth and young adult outreach; maintenance; material assistance; migrant ministry; soup kitchen; group home staff; Hispanic ministry; Native American ministry; social service; homeless shelter; community development; thrift stores. Short-term: Camp and recreation; family ministry; youth 
-
ministry; summer Bible school; parish summer programs; "alternative breaks." Length of Service: 9·12 months (iong te,mj 2-8 weeks (short turon 
For more information visit SOCialconcerns.nd.edU 
• 
The University of Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns' Post-Graduate Service Guide September 2007 
NET Ministries 

Contact: Mary Gabriel mary@netusa.org Ip] 651.450.6833 [ w] www.NETusa.org Goal of Program: To challenge young Catholics to love Chnst and embrace the life of the Churr.h by proclaiming the Gospel of Chnst through a personal w1tness of laith; inviting young people to live for Chnst; forming yoong people 1n Christian character through Ihe study and pract1ce of our fa1th: equipping youth workers and young adults w1th the ministry SkillS needed for evangelization. Type of Placement: Volunteers serve on teams which travel the country proclaiming the Gospel through fun, high-energy retreats. The retreats Incorporate large group talks, small group d1scuss1on, music, drama, personal faith shanngs and the opportunity for each retreatant to respond to Christ in prayer and/or through the Sacraments of Eucharist and Reconc11iat1on. Length of Service:' 10 months 
Notre Dame Campus Ministry 

Contact: Darrell Paulsen Darreii.R.Paulsen.1@nd.edu 
[P] 574.631.5827 [ w] http://campusministry,nd.edu Goal of Program: Collaboration with the permanent full-t1me Campus Mmistry staff members on programs for Notre Dame students. Type of Placement: Internship Length of Service: One academic year 
Notre Dame Mission Volunteers Americorps 

Contact: Knsln1 M1odonski kristinmio@gma,l.com [p]773.273.6367 [w] www.ndmva.org Goal of Program: To empower the economically disadvantaged and oppressed through education and personal hands-on support. Our program holistically a1ms to strengthen the community through the~r families; every person has an 1mportant role to play. Type of Placement: Tutoring; after school programs; conflict resolution; parent eff~ctiveness; adult literacy. Educat1onat service may be in conJunction with Latino m1grant worker ministry, social services, volunteer coordination, AIDS mmistry, counseling, credit uniun and environmental agencies. VISTA pos1l1ons: public relations; development; senior and college volunteer recruitment; career couns~l111g; computers and web design/maintenance. Prom1se Fellows: community and college volunteer recruitment; serv1ce-learmng coordination; tutoring. International placements are available in Kenya mpartnership with Lay MISSIOn Helpers. Length of Service: One year 
operation TEACH 

Contact: Sr. M. Karen Kelly mkkelly@ndm.edu [p]410.5325326 [ w] www.ndm.edu/academics/nd__abt_opTeach.clm Goat of Program: Operat1on TEACH (Teachers Enlisted to Advance Catholic Heritage) seeks to develop a corps of h1ghly motivated ,md committed young educators to meet the needs of the Ballnnore area Catholic elementary and secondary schuols. Type ot Placement: TEACH IS a two-year commitment in a Catholic elementary or secondary school, while earning a graduate degree in education, and s•mple living in a small commumty of TEACH participants. Length of Service: Two years 
Pacific Alliance for Catholic Education (PACE) 
Contact: Damel Adams adams@up.edu [p ]503.943.7417 

[ w] http://educat•on.up.edu/delault.aspx?cld =4322&pid =278 Goal of Program: To strengthen Catholic schools by providing talented educators committed to the vocation of teaching as service; to provide college graduates, mcluding both those who have majored in the field of education and those who come from other academic disciplines, with graduate degrees in education on scholarship; to provide participants with the opportunity for l1ving m a supportive commumty of fellow professional educators. Type of Placement: Each PACE teacher earns a graduate degree 111 education; serves tor two years ~s a full·time teacher 111 a Catholic school in the Northwest; grows through the expenence of Simple, intentional, commumty livmg; act1vely participates 111 h1s/her own SPiritual growth and the spintuality of the1r community. Length of Service: fwo years 
Passionist Volunteers International 

Contact: Karen Kosmsk1 karenlkosinski@yahoo.com 
[ p] 708.2563013 [ w] www.passionistvolunteers.org Goal of Program: PV! mv1tes people to share the~r qifts and t.31ent> walkmg with the poor and accompanying the sufle11ng "' ;, eros~ '"ltur,1l settn1g. The Volunteers have the opportumty to ""rich their lives and enable their serv1r.e by livmg 1n commumty, shanng sp~r,tuahtv ·Jnd la1th. They serve '"collaboration with the 
PaSSIOIHSt Commun1tv. 

Typo of Placement· <:chootneeds for children and renwdml educat1onalneed~ for adults. caring tor the s1ck, VISitlllQ the home-bound; tr;mung 111 hyg1ene Jnd prevent1ve care; youth mn11stry-organwny, coJr.hmg, mentonng; housing ·bU1Id1ng and repa1r: onson mn11stry. Length of Service: One year 
Peace Corps 

Contact: L1z Ateyou eategnucq)peacecorps.gnv 
[PJ 312.353.77471 w j www.peacecorps.gov Goat of Program: Peace Corps Volunteers live and work at a gr~ss roots level 111 a commumty that has requested assistance with their soc1al, economic and human development. Type of Placement: Bus111ess, wmm11111ty organizmg, c.onstructlrlll, enVIronment, health care, teaching, youth. Length of Service: 27 months 
-
PLACE Corps 
Contact: Matthias Schildwachter mschildw@lmu.edu 
[ p] 310.338.3774 [ w] http://lmu.edu/Page25802.aspx Goal of Program: To provide elementary and secondary schools 111 the Archdiotese of los Angeles w•th highly motivated teachers. Corps members earn their Master's degree in education ancl preliminary California teaching credential wh1le serving as positive role models for another generation of students and live a single lifestyle in supportive communities. Type of Placement: Full-t1me elementary and secondary school teachers in under-served schools while attending classes at Loyola Marymount University one or two evenings per week. Length of Service: Two years 
Providence Alliance for Catholic Teachers (PACT) 
Contact: Brother Patrick Carey pact@providence.edu 
[ p] 401.865.2657 [ w] www.prov1dence.edu Goal of Program: To develop a corps of highly motivated and committed young Catholic educators to teach and to serve in grades K-12 in understaffed Catholic inner-city elementary and secondary schools throughout New England. Type of Placement: Teaching. Length of Service: Two years 
Providence Companions in Mission 
Contact: Sister Judith Connor cdpjudith@hotmail.com 
[ p] 412.931.5241 [ w] www.divineprovidenceweb.org Goal of Program: An opportunity for Catholic women to fully participate in the community, prayer, and mimsteriallife of the Sisters of Divine Providence. Type of Placement: Health care, peace, teaching, youth ministry, legal services, retreats, and work with Hispanic and youth populatiOns. Length of Service: One year, renewable up to six years 
Providence Volunteer Ministry 
Contact: Julie Szolek-Van Valkenburgh jszolek@spsmw.org [p]3l7.577.2477 [w] www.P-V-M.org Goal of Program: PVM provides opportunities for volunteer service and sp~rilual growth 111 partnership with the S1slers of Providence of Saint Mary-of-the-Woods. Our volunteers through works of love, mercy and justice give witness to the spirit of Providence in a world that is in need of hope, healing and transformation. Type of Placement: Education and Day Care; Health Care; Organic fanning and Eco-Justice: Social Services; Youth Ministry and Hispan1c Ministry. Length of Service: One year or Summer Program 
Puerto Rico Center for Social Concerns 
Contact: Sylvia Henriquez puertoricocenter@gmail.com [p]787.944.4444 [wl http://prcsc.org/ Goal of Program: Committed to improvmg the quality of life i.n communities with limited resources through education snd socio-economic development with the support of professional volunteers. By matching volunteer interests and skills with the needs of the community, the PRCSC promotes the well-bemg of the residents while providing enriching expenences for volunteers. Type of Placement: Community organizing, environment, health care, teaching, work with Hispanic and homeless populations. Length of Service: One or two years 
Red Cloud Volunteers 
Contact: Ian Mitchell, SJ redcloudvolunteers@gmail.com [p]605.867.5888 Ext. 216 [w] www.redctoudschool.org Goat of Program: Dedicated to the education of the Lakota (Sioux) children on the Pine Ridge Reservation, traditional Lakota values are fostered in a positive academic atmosphere. Volunteers integrate their faith through serv1ce to others, the challenges of livmg "'a cross-cultural enviro11ment and sharing a simple lifestyle in community. Type of Placement: Native American mmistry worker, teacher, tutor, bus Driver, communications and public relations. coaching, education. Length of Service: One year 
Response-Ability 
Contact: Mary ScheuermJnn teach@ravolunteers.org 
[p] 610.6261400 Ext. 313 [ w] www.ravolunteers.org Goat of Program: A ministry ol the Soc1ety of the Holy Child ,Jesus, Response-Ailility trams, coaches, and mspires mnovative volunteer teachers lo provide quality education in inner CitY schools and mternationat sites. L1ving "'commumty, volunteers ach1eve spiritual, personal and professional growth. Type of Placement: Full· time teacher and co-teacher positions in '"ner-city Catholil elementary and middle schools. Length of Service: One or two years 
Rostro de Cristo 
Contact: Dan Kiers dkiers92l@gmall.com [ p ]216.397.1571 [ w] www.rostrodecristo.org Goat of Program: We mvite participants to lead a simple lifestyle; build an intentional Christia11 community; be in relatio11Sh1p with the Er:uadorliln people and rellect on the face of Christ111 lhe~r joys anc.t struggles; and work with the Ecuadorian people to lind long-term solut1ons to the problems of poverty and together seek opport11n1t1es to improve the lives of the people. Type of Placement: Education, child care, religious education, tutoring, working in soup kitchens, leading retreat groups, ass1sting 111 parish activities, working at a hosplldl for Hansen's disease, VIsiting orphanages and nursmg homes, and other social serv1ces. Length of Service: One year 
Salesian Lay Missioners 
Contact: Adam Rudin slm@salesianmissions.org [ p ]914.633.8344 [ w] www.salesians.org/slm Goal of Program: Salesian Lay Missioners seek to answer God's missionary call 111 their own lives by dedicating themselves to working 1u11-t1me for the human development and evangelization among the poor and abandoned youth. Type of Placement: Youth ministry, teaching, child care, religious e~ucation, staff for recreation/camp services, counseling, pastoral/parish mmistry, health care, social work, building trades, Hispanic ministry. Length of Service: One to two years 
San Antonio Catholic Worker 
Contact: Janet Trevino-Eiizarraraz janetelizarraraz@yahoo.com 
[P] 210.532.0002 [ w] www.sa-catholicworker.org Goal of Program: To prov1de care, comfort, and support to the homeless of San Antonio through our ministries of offering a temporary home to homeless families and a weekday soup line to individuals in need. We clo our work following the philosophy of the Catholic Worker Movement which emphasizes faith-centered act1on, personalism, community bUilding, nonviolence, simple living, and a respect for the environment. Type of Placemertt: Peace, working with Hispanic and homeless populations. Leogth of Service: Six months to over a year 
Share Foundation 
Contact: Robert Hess rhess@sharefoundatlon.org [P] 219.778.2585 [ w] www.sharetoundat1on.org Goat of Program: To provide a peaceful, loving community for developmentally disabled adults where people's self worth can come to the surface and they can share in the joy of being valued for who they are, not what they can do. Type of Placement: Live-in house manager, prov1ding companionship and guidance to two mildly to moderately mentally retarded adults. Teach daily living and vocational skills. 
Volunteers live in one of 9 homes on site and share in the joy of living in community. 
Length of Service; One year tlong·!t-rmi 6 weeks (!>ilff'Hll!!>r) 
Sister Maura Brannick Health Center 
Contact: Anne-Marie Rick annemarie.rick@gmail.com 
[ p] 574.239.5255 [ wJ www.sjmed.com/svc_outreach_HC_SB.htm Goat of Program: Provides primary healthcare services to uninsured residents of St. Joseph County, IN. Our for.us is on the unemployed Or WOrking poor, prOViding SerViCeS for thoSe that fall below 150% of the federally-designated poverty level. The Health Center addresses issues pertaining to prevention of disease and illness and focuses on the overall health and well-being of each patient. 
Type of Placement: Health care ilk rom D'>o!;~y Ser..,.k~? J\w,:;rdJ 
Length of Service: One year 
St. Ignatius Loyola Academy 
Contact: Christopher Wilson chris.wilson@saintignatius.org 
[P] 410.539.8268 [ w] www.saintignalius.org Goal of Program: An independent, tuition-free Jesuit Catholic middle school for boys of families of modest means, diverse races, ethnicities and religions. The Academy's mission is to draw from and share with its students the very best spiritual ideals and moral values, knowledge and learning skills, discipline, character formation, and personal care, thereby providing its graduates the opportunity to pursue an excellent secondary educat1on that will lead to college and to lives in which they will be Men For Others. Free tuition to the Loyola College in Maryland department of education provided. Type of Placement: Teaching, coaching, and advising middle 
school boys. Length of Service: Two years 
St. Joseph Worker Program 
, Contact: Suzanne Herder, CSJ sjw@csjstpaul.org 
[P] 651.696.2762 [ w] www.stjasephworkers.org Goal of Program: Work for justice within diverse communities doing direct service that meets the needs of the poor and margmalized and act1vety work toward system1c change. Provide mentoring for young women to be leaders/change agents workmg for social and spiritual transformation mthe world. Assist the Workers to deepen their own spirituality throU(Ih retreats, prayer, and other experiences with the support of the Sisters of St. Joseph and others. Develop mtent1onal community focusing on living simply and blllldmg just relationships w1th others and the earth. Type of Placement: Working with 1mmigrant commumties, cornmuruty organizing, health care, homeless, elderly; justice education and advocacy. Length of Service: ll months 
Su Casa Catholic Worker 
Contact: Cha11tel deAicuaz sucasacwG:i)gmail.com 1· p]773.376.9263 [ w ·1 http://sucasacatholicworker.blogspot.com Goat of Program: Su Cas111s a house of hospitality 111 the Catholic Worker tradition that provides a space of healing and hope to displaced Hispanic families. Responding to the Gospel call to compassionate action, we are committed to a simple, non-violent lifestyle as we live and work among the poor. Type of Placement: Business, communications, ·community organizing, enVIronment, peace, and work with Hispanic, homeless, ond youth populations. Length of Service: One year 
Teach For America 
Contact: Patrick Herrel patrick.herrel@teachforamerica.org 
[ p] 312.254.1000 ext. 381 [ w] http://teachforamerica.org Goal of Program: To close the achievement gap that exists between children growing up 1n 1ow-111come areas and the1r peers in higher-income areas by placing recent college graduate into rural and urban classrooms. Type of Placement: Teaching in all academic subjects and all grade levels. Length of Service: Two years 
The David School 
Contact: Danny Greene info@davidscllool.org 
[ p] 606.226.9911 [ w] www.davidschool.org Goal of Program: To prov1de non-traditional high school programs to low-income youth who have dropped out of publ•c educat1on. It provides opportunities for academ1c, and vocational tranung as well as community service. Summer programs mclude Vacation Bible School and Campus Improvement. Type of Placement: Teaching, coaching, volunteer recruitment & coordinator, development. office, public relations. Length of Service: 6-24 months 
The Haitian Project 
Contact: Reese Jarret Grondin thp@ids.net 
[p]4Dl.35l.3624 [w] www.haitianproject.org Goal of Program: THP provides a free secondary education to students from the poorest areas of Port Au Prince who are academically gifted and demonstrate a commitment to service and leadership in their commumty. Located in the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, the mission of the school is to maximize the potential found in its students and enable them to work toward building a Haiti where justice and peace thrive. Type of Placement: Teacher/Staff at Catholic Boarding School. Length of Service: 10 months 
The Neighborhood Academy 
Contact: Jessica Blose jessica.blose@theneighborhoodacademy.org rp 1412.362.2001 [w] www.theneighborhoodacademy.org Goal of Program: In addition to classroom responsibilitieS, Teaching Assocmtes direct athletic and arts programrn111g, run the meal program, proctor evening study, and support the daily running of a grassroots nonprofit organization with the goal of breaking the cycle of generational poverty through education. Type of Placement: Education, youth. Length of Ser-vice: 10 months 
Vincentian Service Corps-Central 
Contact: Sr. Teresa Daly cwitzofsky@dcwcp.org [P] 314.533.4770 ext.l03 [w] www.vscorps.org Goal of Program: To provide opportunities for women and men who want to serve the poor, live in community with other VSC members, and experience a simple lifestyle. While working directly with the poor, VSC members are called to deepen their faith, grow in charity, work for justice, celebrate life and develop close bonds. Type of Placement: Adult literacy, AIDS/HIV ministry and outreach, case work for shelters and/or mentally ill, child care, coordinating volunteers, cris1s counseling, fund·raising, health care, immigration/refugee counseling, maintenance, nursing home, outreach to the homebound elderly, work with phySically and developmentally disabled, skilled labor, social work, teaching and teaching aides, parish social ministry, work with emotionally disturbed youth, work with the Society of St. Vincent de Paul. Length of Service: One year. 
Network Organizations 
Catholic Network of Volunteer Service 
Contact: Katie Eberhard keberhard@cnvs.org [P ]301.270.0900, ext.ll [w] www.cnvs.org Goal of Network: CNVS is a national membership organization of Chnstian volunteer and m1ssion programs that fosters and promotes full·t1me nat1onal and international service opportunities lor people of all backgrounds, ages and skills. Type of Placement: Busmess, communications, community organization, construct1on, environment, legal, health care, service with the Hispanic, homeless, and youth populations, youth rnin~stry, teaching, peace, heallh care, and more. 
St. Vincent Pallotti Center 
contact: Jennifer Taylor pallottl@pallotticenter.org [ p ·]202.529.3330 [w] www.pallotticenter.org Goat of Center: To promote lay volunteer service that challenges the la1ty, clergy and religious to work together In the mission of the Church. Our goal1s to support lay volunteers before, during and after their term ot service. Type of Placement: Business, communications, community organizing, env~ronment, health care, peace, youth nlloistry, and work with Hispanic, homeless, and youth popul8t1ons. 
University Consortium for Catholic Education 
ace.1@nd.edu [p ]574·631-3165 [w Jwww.ucceconnect.com Goal of consortium: The consortium establishes and supports o collaborative cadre of pnmarily Catholic colleges and umversi!les as they design and 11nplement graduflte level teacllmg servir.e programs for the purpose of supporting Catholic/Parochial education in the United States. Type of Placement: Education (Catholic teacher semce corps) Length of Service: Two years 
4 
For more information visit SOCialconcerns.nd.edu 
• 



