
THE 
Trafficking victim speaks out 
'Katya' describes her enslav~ment after leaving Ukraine for U.S. 
By CLAIRE REISING News Writer 
When she traveled from Ukraine to the U.S. three years ago, the woman known for her safety as "Katya" planned to study and work. Instead, she was forced into bonded labor at a strip club for six days a week and 12 hours per day. She had no contact with the oul'iide world for months. 
"We didn't have any rights," she said. 
Katya told her story yesterday at "Bought and Sold: Human Trafficking and Bonded Labor in the U.S.," a Center for Social Concerns symposium held in the Notre Dame Law School courtroom. 
see KATYA/page 4 

Opinion page stance on executions detailed 
Chicago Tribune editorials support moratorium 
By KATIE PERALTA News Writer 
The editorial page editor for the Chicago Tribune spoke Monday night about the paper's conversion to supporting the moratorium on the death penal­ty. 
The speech by Bruce Dold, the editor, was part of a lecture series hosted by Notre Dame Against State Killing (ND ASK), a campaign pushing for a morato­rium on capital punishment in Indiana. 
Dold started as a reporter for the Tribune in 1978. He was appointed to the paper's editorial board in 1990 and was named editorial page editor in 2000. The paper has had a long history for its liberalism, Dold said, citing an instance in the 1940s when Tribune reporters, under then­editor Robert McCormick, reported on America's cracking of Japanese codes during World War II. 
Despite this, the paper has an almost 150-year-long history of support for the death penalty. 
This stance changed, however, in March of2007, when Dold for­mally announced a shift in the Tribune's position. The paper's editorial page emphasized its support for the Illinois moratori­um, or temporary suspension, of executions. The state announced the moratorium in 1999, Dold 
see NDASK/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
BOG 

SMCto unveil rally T-shirt 
Ceremony planned to celebrate release 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 

The Board of Governance is pro­moting a new T-shirt for Saint Mary's students to wear during the College-hosted pep rally before the Nov. 17 football game against Duke. 
The shirt will be unveiled Nov. 15 at 8 p.m. in the Atrium of the Student Center, Board of Governance secretary treasurer Courtney Kennedy announced at the BOG meeting Monday. 
Two surprise guests from Notre Dame will be at Saint Mary's to unveil the shirt, which is modeled after Notre Dame's The Shirt. 
"I think it is really nice to have an SMC shirt that is in support of Notre. Dame," Kennedy said later Monday night. BOG is encouraging students to wear it to the Saint Mary's co­hosted Duke pep rally on Nov. 16. 
Inspiration for the shirt came in early October. 
"We were talking about how the pep rally attendance has been dis­appointing, and we wanted to give some incentive for SMC students to go to the pep rally we are co-host­ing," Kennedy said. 
The BOG has sold more than 600 shirts, though no purchasers have known what it will look like. Few clues have been given about the shirt's appearance, but it is the 
see BOG/page 4 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 

Siegfried senator Jim Lockwood has drafted an amendment to the Student Body Constitution to give senators more power in dictating what the student body president says at meetings of the newly formed Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC). 
In an e-mail to Siegfried resi­dents Monday, Lockwood said the amendment was part of a "master plan" to turn the stu­dent body president into a "pup-
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 

University Architect Doug Marsh spoke about current campus construction projects and the seven tenets of campus planning at the Campus Life Council meeting Monday. 
"We find ourselves now at a precipice," he said. "How do we expand but keep what is pre­cious to us?" 
Current campus development projects include the expansion and renovation of the Law School and construction of Stinson-Remick Hall. Duncan 
pet" at the meetings. Later, he sent a second e-mail to his con­
stituents saying he "exaggerat­ed" and was trying to get stu­dents inter­ested in student 


g o v e r n  - Lockwood  
ment.  
Lockwood,  a senior, did not  

offer The Observer details on his "master plan." 
''I'd like to see the senator 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Senator calls for ~puppet' rule 
Siegfried's rep wants controls over presidential statements; senators to discuss Wednesday 
Hall, Geddes Hall and the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. 
The seven tenets of campus planning included in the Campus Plan published in fall of 2002 help the Office of the University Architect expand the University campus without for­getting values and tradition, Marsh said. 
They include such titles as "Catholic Heritage and Sacramental Vision" -which reminds planners that Notre Dame is a place of prayer ­and "Campus as Home and 
see·CLC/page 4 

position be strengthened to some extent before I graduate," he said Monday night. ''I'd like to see the position have more say in what is going on in the campus and have a bigger voice." 
Student body president Liz Brown told The Observer Monday she had concerns with the proposed amendment. 
"You can't have people acting as puppets," she said. 
Lockwood first introduced the amendment at the Student Senate meeting last Wednesday. It was sent directly to the Senate Oversight committee and is on the agenda for consideration at the Senate meeting Wednesday. 
In his first e-mail to Siegfried residents, Lockwood explained the purpose of the amendment. 
The amendment would require the student body presi­dent to report to the Senate all activity that occurs during CCAC meetings. 
The CCAC is a coalition of city, resident, student and college representatives from South Bend. Its goal is to help the South Bend Common Council identify neighborhood concerns 
see PUPPET/page 4 

Group discusses ca111pus construction projects 
University architect presents on new dorms, buildings, seven tenets of grounds planning 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Reexatnining genderatND 
In light of the rnennt hoopla surrounding 
l111j controversy ov1~r tlw lyrics oflhe fight 
song, I've decided I'm allli1r r.han!-,ring the 
lyrics to "while her loyal sons and daughters 
marrh on to victory." After all, it's not like 
wn only have men 
outthero on tho Tae Andrews 
li1otball field, actu­
ally playing tlm Scene Editor 
garnn in question. 
Wn have plenty of 
tnarn trainers, chlll'rleaders and band mmn­
bnrs of' thn fimmle Jlllrstmsion who happen 
to be on tho field as well. Lot's honor tlwrn 
with sonw lyric changes. 
But whiln wl''rp at it. let's not stop thorn. 
Thorn an• a grnat many gender inequities 
swirling around tllis cmnpus that need to be 
rnsolvmf. and pronto tonto. 
For one, I rnsnnt refilrring to this gmat campus as our alma mater. Plnnty of men go horn too, you know. Be eonsiderate and try to think of' those who am dimmmt from you. Why should wn stick witll tllis timl~­honornd tradition in describing our school? Why should wn bn eonstrainnd by antiquat­ml g1mdnr roles dnsi!-,rned to pigeonhole us into strailjacknl<> of' politka.l correctness so tight we c<m hardly breathe? From now, I suggest we rlllilr to Notre Dame as our alma pater. Or <L'> a gender-neutral bning, like (;od il<>nll: 
On to the sncond order of business. The Shirt. In ynars p<L<>t, wn've had exdusively men on it. you know, guys in pads and hel­nwl<>. So what if' lllny'rn thn onns actually playing tho ganw'! I propose a new Tho ShirL I proposP a Tho Shirt which nschews tho traditionalrnaln-dominatnd sexist colors of' green or blue and nominal!\ a nnw Thn Shirt. one which is hot pink and featurns ninn grnmlins (to cnlebratP Title IX, of' eoursnl and thn new lyril~'> to tho fight song, "While her loyal sons and daughters march on to victory." 
For that matter, why stick to tradition at all'! Why do WP filnl wn even have to liPid a fi10tlmll learn every ynar'! I propos!\ next year wn can tlw ll10tballteam and trot out a m-nd lidd hockey team. compl1~tn with blue and gold knit skirl<> (we can wear !-,>Tmm against USC). Only to makn the game f~tir and account fi1r thn natural di!Iimmces in biology bdwnm1 the sexes, all l11e main play­ers havn to bn tranquiliznd befill'e kickofl", wnar blimlliJlds and get spun around bnlim~ the ganw starl<> until thny !'all down, much like a ganw ol' pin the tail on the donkey, only with ~~andy cane shaped sticks and a really hard ball. 
In all seriousness tlmugh, this latest lcr­vent discussion is, in a word, balderdash. Or perhaps poppycock. Eitlwr way, last time I dweked, NotrP DamP has yet to field a limmle fi1otball player. so until that glorious day arrivns, let's stick with tho tried and true light song. Lest you call me a chauvin­ist, I'm all !i1r changing tim lyrics for our fimmln sporl<> tmuns. By all means, ehangP away. I've heard the argument that beeausl) wn have fimmlns man~hing on the linld (in tho band. fi1r nxampln), wn should ehangn thn lyrics. Once again. nonsense. Our band doesn't adivnly compete on the finld. Nnitlwr do tlw cheerleaders. If I want to see marching bands competing, I'll go rent "Drumlinn." If I want to sen cheerleaders competing, I'll go watch "Bring It On." 
But whiln I'm at Notre Dame Stadium watching fiJOtba.ll, I'd like to keep llle lyrics tho way they am and have been. II' nollling else, let's compromise. If' we keep the lyrics to the fight song llle same, I promise not to try and changn tlw words to llle alma mater. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of'11w Obseruer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at t.andrew 1 (p)nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Tht• ()bscrvcr re[;ards itself as a professional publication and strives for the hi[;hest standards of jour­nalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will makt• mistakes. lf we have made a mistake. please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE NO SPORT AND WHY? 







Brian Dolinar  Emily Meyer  Jason Samikkannu  Undsay Williams  Marie Sydlik  
sophomore 5'iegfried  senior Breen Phillips  senior Zahm  sophomore offcampus  sophomore Welsh Family  
"Sprinkler  "Friday night  "Men 's club  · "Bungee  "Squirrel  
obstacle  frisbee because  volleyball ...  jumping offthe  hunting,  
course  I can turn my  though without  Dome, because  because there's  
because I  feet black  Nolan Kane, I  it's a great  too many of  
don't like  running  don't know  ,stress remover.  them."  
being wet when it's cold  barefoot in ,Loftus.  about this , year.  
out."  

IN BRIEF 

The Journal of Law, Ethics & Public Policy will hold its fall symposium today at 5 p.m. in the taw School courtroom. The topic will be "Lost Innocence: Can Minors Find Redemption in the Juvenile Court System'?" 
United Nations Foundation senior advisor Gillian Sorensen will speak today at 6 p.m. in lim Hcsburgh Center auditori­um. She will spnak about "The State of Women Internationally: Where Are We and Where Are We Going'?" 
i\nti-sexism activist Jaekson Katz will spnak today at S p.m. in thP llesburgh Ubrary audi­torium. !lis talk, "More Than A Few Good Men: A Lecture on Amcriean Manhood and Violcnee Against Women" is sponsored by Men Against 
Violem~e. 

The event Pizza, Pop and Politics: The Haec to the Primaries will take place today at 8 p.m. in the Center for Social Concerns classroom. Speakers will include Father Edward "Monk" Malloy on Christian ethks, John Hoos on political thnory and Mary Ellen O'Connllll on intnrnationallaw. 
Internationally known advo­cate against the death penalty Bud Welch will speak Thursday at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. llis spench, "Vengeance Solves No Problems" will draw upon his experiences losing a daughter in the Oklahoma City bombing. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

Members of th~ Progressive Student Alliance sat outside Burger King last Wednesday to ra1se awareness of farm workers who they believe face adverse conditions daily. Their masks say that Burger King exploits farm workers. 
OFFBEAT 
Wisconsin boy, 3, finds woolly mammoth tooth 
lA CHOSSE, Wis. -Gary Kidd had a pretty good idea that what his 3-year-old grandson had found was no rock. but the tooth of a wool­ly mammoth. That's becausll he had found one himself ninn years ago. Kaleb Kidd was chasing squirrels Monday at a family friend's property near La Crosse when he spotted what looknd like an unusual rock. 
"Grandpa, what's that?" Kaleb asked. 
lie told his grandson it looked like the tooth of the extinct woolly mammoth. 
Next stop was the 
Mississippi Valley Archaeology Center at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, which confirmed that it was, indeed, the tooth of a mammoth. 
Connie Arzigian, the cen­ter's Jab director, said it could be 10,000 to 30,000 years old. It weighs 2 pounds and measures 6 inches long and 3 inches wide. 
Texan sets record with 87 snakes in tub 
DUBLIN, Texas Another day, another bizarre world record for Jackie Bibby, the "Texas Snake Man." Bibby spent about 45 minutes in a see­through bathtub with 87 rat­tlesnakes Monday, fully clothed, shattering his own record by 12 snakes just in time for Guinness World Records Day, which is Thursday. A Guinness offi­cial certiliod the record. 
The snakes crawled under his arms, between his legs and anywhere else they could slither, Bibby said. None bit him. 
"They can go wherever they want as long as they don't start biting," Bibby said. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY GAME DAY 
....I <( 
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 45 HIGH 37 HIGH 42 HIGH 49 
LOW 38 LOW 32 LOW 33 LOW 37 

48 HIGH 32 LOW 

Atlanta 59 I 30 Bos~on 54 I ~0 Chicago 45 I ~9 Denver 58 I 39 Houston 68 I 50 Los Angeles 71 I 54 Minneapolis 37 126 New York 53 I 41 Philadelphia 52 I 38 Phoemx 93 I 54 Seattle 58 I 47 St. Louis 51 I 26 Tampa 80 156 Washington 56 139 




Tuesday, November 6, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

12 arrests, 19 tickets issued at Navygame 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Assistant News Editor 
Police made 12 custodial arrests and issued 19 arrest tickets Saturday during or around the time of the Notre Dame-Navy game, said Phil Johnson, director of the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP). 
At the stadium, Johnson said in an e-mail, police made 12 arrests for alcohol-related offenses. The offenders were taken to St. Joseph County Jail. Most of these offenses were for public intoxication, and some were for minor con­sumption of alcohol and for intoxication, he said. 
Along with the Indiana State Excise Police, the St. Joseph County Police and the South Bend Police, NDSP issued 19 arrest tickets to adults for alcohol-related offenses, including minor consuming and minor possession of alco­hol. 
NDSP arrested one man for public intoxication and fight­ing in a parking lot after the game, Johnson said. The man was taken into custody and driven to the St. Joseph County Jail. 
During the game, 13 people were asked to leave Notre Dame Stadium for violations of stadium rules involving alco­hol, Johnson said. Alcohol is prohibited in the stadium. 
Johnson said NDSP will remain on patrol along with local police officials for the remaining two home games this Saturday and Nov. 17. Law enforcement officers will continue to enforce underage drinking laws, he said. 
In his e-mail reply, Johnson did not respond to The Observer's inquiry about police enforcement of the ban against marshmallows in the stadium. 
At least one student was evicted from the game during a halftime senior section marshmallow melee. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Expert colTI11lends Supreille Court 
Professor comments on 'humility' of lethal injection decision 
Special to The Observer 

For Richard W. Garnett, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., associate professor of law in the Notre Dame Law School, the Supreme Court's last-minute stay of execution for Mississippi death row inmate Earl Wesley Barry indicates a heartening self-restraint. 
"Executions in the United States are coming to a h a l t , " Garnett said. "Last month was the first month in several years without a single execu­tion. In effect, we are now in a capital-pun­ishment moratorium, 

and, indeed, many promi­nent lawyers and commen­tators are urging a more explicit adoption of such a moratorium." 
According to Garnett, it is unclear how long the mora­torium will last. 
"The Supreme Court is going to consider this term a challenge to a particular method of lethal-injection," he said. "Even if th·e court 
"The Supreme Court is going to consider this term a challenge to a particular method of lethal-injection." 
Richard W. Garnett associate professor of law 
concludes that this method is unconstitutional, such a ruling will not invalidate the death penalty across the board. Still, it could have a powerful effect on the public debate, on legis­latures, on prosecutors, and on jurors. 
"Thirty-five years ago, the justices of the court overreached, and struck 
their arguments and reject capital punishment. Instead, the legislatures of most states quickly reen­acted new death penalty statutes and, a few years later, the court agreed that these new laws satisfied the Constitution's require­ments." 
Garnett observed that the court has recently paid close attention to the ques­
down every death penal­ty statute in the country. No doubt, some of t h e m expected that their decision simply rep­resented m o r a l progress, and that the public would be con­vinced by 
tion of capital punishment. 
"In a string of cases, the justices have limited the death penalty's use, and also indicated an increased willingness to hear inmates' claims of trial error and innocence," he said. "What is worth not­ing, though, is that the court is proceeding careful­ly, and incrementally. Chastened, perhaps, by the reaction to its arrogant decision in Roe v. Wade, in which the court assumed for itself the authority to resolve a difficult moral question on which reason­able people can and do dis­agree, it appears that, this time around, with this par­ticular vexing issue, the court is choosing to engage in dialogue with the politi­cal branches of govern­ment, and with public opin­ion. Even those who oppose, on moral grounds, the use of capital punish­ment, can welcome the court's humility and respect for the democratic process." 
A member of the Notre Dame law faculty since 1999 and a former clerk for the late Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, Garnett teaches courses on criminal law, criminal pro­cedure, First Amendment law, and the death penalty. 


Academic A 
A day of insightful panels and n 
9:30-10:45 a.m. Careers Educating Children Sponsor: Education Department Location: Madeleva 328 Focus: Teaching, Youth Work, and Charader Development 
11 -12:15 p.m. Profitable Careers in Business Sponsor: Bus. Admin. & Economics Location: Madeleva 247 Focus: Banking. Accounting, and Graduate School 
2-3:15 p.m. Careers in Timeless Values: Truth, Justice, & Philanthropy Sponsor: Philosophy Department Location: Madeleva 245 Focus: Journalism, Law. and Philanthropy 
S-6 p.m. 
8:30-10 p.m. 
Insights Day 
r 6, 2007 
academic majors to exciting careers 
Focus: Museum, Health, and 
Entrepreneurship 

Beautiful Careers for Beautiful Minds Sponsor: Humanistic Studies Department Location: Madeleva 238 
Focus: Teaching. Higher Education, and Librarianship 
Careers & Internships in Writing Sponsor: English Department Location: Conf. Room D, Student 
Center 

Focus: Book Publishing. Government Service, and Summer Internships 
4·6 p.m. Alumnae Career Insights Exposition Location: SMC Student Center Lounge 
Saint Mary's alumnae link their majors to successful careers: 
Accounting Art History 

• 
Biology Business Administration Chemistry Communications Economics Education English Literature English Writing Finance Government History Humanistic Studies Management Information Systems Mathematics 

• 
Music 

• 
Nursing Political Science 

• 
Psychology Sociology 



Sponsored by the Division of Academic Affairs and the Board ofGovernance at Saint Mary's College. For further information call 574.284.4775 or write to the Center for Career Opportunities at cco@saintmarys.edu. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
"We have to be praetical about ator for Siegfried, said his Brown said she was "commit­cannot undnrstand what all stu­this," he wrote. "What we can do amendment is meant to update ted" to representing the interests dents are thinking. Senators, he

Puppet 

is turn Liz or any pn~sident of the the Constitution by providing of studonts to the CCAC and did said, should be the ones "prima­continued from page 1 
student body lintol a puppet in guidelines as to how the student not think Lockwood's amend­rily involved" in community rela­
the meetings [whose I strings are body president should interact ment was necessary. tions. given their intimate knowl­rnlat<~d to tlw local colleges, pro­eontrollnd by the student !repre­with thl' CCAC. "[Student body vice president! edge of their constituents' con-pose solutions and devnlop long­sentatives!. That is my goal." "It's not targeted at anyone," M a r i s cerns. term strategies. IL'i crnation was Mandating he said. "It's [Braun] and "I just think a final amendnwnt to the party that the not malice I were eloet­the senators pormit ordinance passml by the president toward any­ed by the "[Student body vice should have Common Council on Sept. 24 bring back one." student thn ability to
"We have to be practical president/ Maris [Braun/ and
afler weeks of' deliboration. all the docu­Lockwood's body, and not only hear 
Thn ordinance contains the mentation about this. What we can do proposed we were I were elected by the student what is pre­language for, but does not mmct, from the is turn Liz or any president amendment elected to body, and we were elected to sented. but legislation that would rPquire CCAC meet­ofthe student body /into] a calls for the serve their also a say in
serve their interests and
rnsidnnts of' homes whern morn ings could be student body interests it," Loekwood
puppet in the meetings 
than two unn~lated peoplo livo to a problem, presidnnt, or a and con­concerns, and I think at said. "As it file a permit with tiH~ city bof'ore Brown said. /whose/ strings are representative cerns, and I some point students have to stands right holding gathnrings at which 25 "I don't controlled by the student that she may think at now, since
put their trust in 
or morn pnopln would havn know that send to the some point lthe CCACI is m:coss to akohol. everything /representatives/. CCAC meeting students representatives to make the such a new
That is my goal.''
Lockwood said in tlw o-mail that is talked in her place, have to put right decisions." committee, that he would rwxt introduce an about in to provide the their trust in there is no amendment that n~quires thn these moet­Student representa­precedent
Jim Lockwood 
Liz Brown
Snnato approve the activitins and ings should Senate with tives to insidn thn

senator 
student body president 
statenwnts made by student bn complete­"any and all make the Studnnt Body

Siegfried Hall
body presidnnt Liz Brown at thn ly revealed, doeumenta-right deci­Constitution, CCAC rrwntings. just due to tion pertaining sions," she so anything 
"If' tlw Senate doesn't approve eonlidnntiali-to the CCAC." said. can be said in that council meet­of' what she says, or said at the ty rmtsuns," she said. "But I am "This shall inelude (but shall Lockwood said the nature of' ing, and the senators have no last nweting, the Senate will in support of reporting back to not be limited to) agendas and the office of the president, right, eonstitutionally, to know drafl a rnsponse or statmnent to the stud~nt body anything that minutes, speeches and presenta­whether at a national or local what is going on in that meet­be rnad by I.iz at the meeting," happens. tions, discussions and debates level, is to enjoy having authority. ing." Lockwood's e-mail mad. "Failure Lockwood later rnsdnded his and the introduetion and passage ''I'm not pointing my finger at The inaugural meeting of the to read this statmnont will bo a "puppnt" comment. of' any measures," the proposed Liz; I'm pointing my fingnr at the CCAC has not yet been sched­violation of' the Constitution." "I don't mean an actual pup­amendment reads. "The student office," Loekwood said. uled, but Brown said she expects 
Lockwood said in his e-mail pet," he told The Observer. "I just body president must provide said He said he wants the voice at it will take place this month. that neither the CCAC nor the want students to be able to have documentation to the Student the CCAC meetings to be the city ordinance will go away any­their own views." Senate at is first regular meeting voice of all students, not just one. Contact Kaidynn Riely at time soon. Lockwood, a second-term sen-after any meeting of the CCAC." One president, Lockwood said, kriely@nd.edu 
Marsh said. Duncan llall, currently under
CLC 

construction near West Quad, continued from page 1 will contain about 230 beds, he 
said, and will be ready for Acadomy" -which encour­occupancy in the next school agos plannnrs to be mindful of' year. The University is current­tho fact that the "stay-in-hall" ly deeiding how to move men systmn has creatPd a f'nnling of' into tlw new hall. Once stu­honw on campus for studnnts. dents am reloeatPd, work will 
Th<~ 2002 plan adopted what begin to convert dorm rooms is callml the "bluo line," which back to their original purpose establishes the ultirnatn limit of' of' lounges and social spaces in the walkahle Notrn Damn cam­existing halls, Marsh said. pus, Marsh said. "Walkable" is "Our plan after four nnw dofirwd as a I0-rninutn walk, buildings is to give students lw said. morn square footage," lw said. 
"We don't want to Geddes extend time between Hall will classes or have to lw a new rely on shuttles I to Cnntnr for 
get to class on "Our plan aj~er four Social time I," ho said. new buildings is to Concerns One of tho plan's (CSCI and
give students more
main goals was to Institute ken p th n 1:a m pus square footage." r 0 r from "sprawling," Church lw said. "Wn want Life (ICL)

Doug Marsh 
LaFortune to be building

University architect 
both the geographi­
l:al and social 1:nntnr 
of' earn pus." 
Still. campus con­struction is humming along. 

Tim S5,000-squarn-foot acldi­tion to tlw Law School currnnt­Iy undnrway will take an esti­mated I:~ months to completiL Tlw finished building will con­tain a grand arch under whieh pmlnstrians can walk and the Band of thn Fighting Irish can march, Marsh said. 
When 1~onstruction on the addition is linishPd, classrooms and of'fil:es in the existing building will IH~ relocated to tlw nnw building, and the <~xisting building will be reno­vatml to contain a law library, lw said. 
"We want to make the entire building look like> it's bonn tlwre f(m~VPr," Marsh said. 

In t.IH' rwxt WPI'k, a fence will go up around tlw old UnivPrsit.y Club building on Not.n• Damn AvP., wlwn~ eon­strurtion will b<'gin on Stinson­llmnil:k llall, a multidiscipli­nary honw for Pngirwering. Thn projPrt will last about two years. Wlwn finished, tlw building will house a First. Year of Studies ll'arning center as WPII as a rPsnarrh center, located at 
the site of 
the cur­

rent esc building. When construction begins in January, the esc will tern porarily relocate to the old HOTC building. 
Marsh acknowledged the construction could prove both­ersome to buildings that neigh­bor the esc. 
"Brnnn-Phillips and Siegfried will have to be patient," he said. 
Geddes Hall will bn four sto­ries and will inelude "flex spaco" -with room for the CSC or ICL to expand or to house journals internsted in working with the organiza­tions. 
Morn than 600 trnns were plantnd on campus during the summer. Marsh said. Many worn planted on South Quad, in ordnr to return that part of campus to its appearanee bnforn Dutch !dm disease thinnnd the eanopy of elm trnns that lined thn quad's pnrinwtnr. he said. 
Tlw nnw tn~es, f'unch·d by an anonymous donor. "dm1sn up tlw trnes around tlw quad by half," he said. The group indudes various kinds of' elms resistant to Dutch elm disease. 
The Oftice of the University Architect is participating in the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) system, a voluntary aecrndita­tion program through the United States Green Building Council. 
Buildings are accredited based on points on a score­card, Marsh said. The University adopted LEED as a planning tool for new design and construction. A LEED cer­tification is being sought for the new engineering building. Marsh and staff members of his offiee are studying for the LEED aecreditation exam. 
The number of Indiana buildings considered LEED certified was 19 as of July 200b, while California was home to 480 certified build­ings. 

In other CLC news: 
+ 
Task force leaders gave presentations on their work over the last week. Chief exec­utive assistant Sheena Plamoottil presented on the Task Force on Campus Environment, which is evaluat­ing its first Green Summit. She said the next two summits are tentatively scheduled for Nov. 12 and Nov. 27. 

+ 
Student body vice presi­dent Maris Braun, chair of the Task Force on Student Development, said she is in ini­tial discussions about a poten­tial February Honor Code awareness week and is work­ing to coordinate efforts with tho Notre Dame Code of' Honor Cornrnittoe. 

+ 
Kennan senator Gus Gari presnntPd on the Task Foree on Community Relations. whir.h is finalizing the text of Notre l><une's version of the Good Neighbor Guide, modnlod aft!~r a University of Virginia pamphlet of' the same name. lie said the group is conduct­ing primary research on the issue of taxis on campus and is looking at and evaluating taxi policies at other universities. 


Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
BOG 
continued from page 1 
same color green as the Notre Dame shirt. 
Kennedy attributes th1~ high salns to the cost, $5 per shirt, and Saint Mary's students spreading the word. 
"We are expecting a big turnout," she said. The pre-ordered shirts will be handed out afl.nr the unveiling. 
In other BOG news: 
+ It is business week at Saint Mary's, student body vice pmsidnnt Kelly Payne said, and them will bn evenl'i every day this week except Thursday. Wednesday night will bn movie night in Science 105 at 7::~0 
p.m. On Friday morning, there will be Panera bagel<; in Le Mans lobby from 8 a.m. to 10:30. 
+ Student Activities Board eoor­dinat.or Cassie Calion said them will be a spa day on campus before exams Dec. 16. Activities will be free to Saint Mary's studonts. 
+ 
Residence Ilall Assoeiation president Cassie Quaglia said thn week leading up to the Saint Mary's pep rally will be Jlall Spirit Wenk. Each day will have il<i own theme. 

+ 
Quaglia also said that the "Girl<; Fight Back" program will be today at 7 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. Erin Wm~d will b1~ the speaker.

+ 
Studmt Diversity Board direc­tor Abby llinchy said the I Iunger Banquet will be on Nov. 14 at 5::m p.m., rather than 6 p.m., as was prnviously announmd. Studenl'i will be able to sign up during dinner Friday, Monday and Tuesday in tlw dining hall, and tho day of the bwl­quet dwing lunch. All proceeds will go to a charity organization of tlw board's choiee. 

+ 
Alumnae commissioner Christine Darehe reminded the board that thn Career Insighl'i Expo will be from 4 p.m. to 6 Tuesday. 


Contact Ashley Charnely at acharneO1@saintmarys.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wtRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Flood refugees run low on provisions 
VILLAHERMOSA, Mexico -Hungry and dehydrated victims of one of the worst floods in Mexico's history scrambled for govern­ment packages of food and medicine, while at least 20,000 people remained trapped Monday on the rooftops of homes swallowed by water. 
Hesidents were running dangerously short of food and water after nearly a week of floods left 80 percent of the Gulf Coast state of Tabasco under water and destroyed or damaged the homes of about half a million people. Gov. Andres Granier ordered central stn~ets in the state capital of Villahermosa dosed to all but rescue workers to prevent looting. 
Authorities said two more bodies were found Sunday in the brackish waters cover­ing much of the region. If the deaths are con­firmed to have been caused by the flooding, the disaster's death toll would stand at 10. 
Frre in Russian nursing home kills 31 
MOSCOW -Fire tore through a nursing home in Russia, trapping patients in fast­moving flames and choking smoke at a facili­ty cited for numerous safety violations including no fire alarm, officials said Monday. At least 31 people were killed. 
Horrific fires at state-run facilities have underscored the negligence, mismanage­ment, corruption and crumbling infrastruc­ture that persist despite an oil-fueled upswing in Hussia's fortunes under President Vladimir Putin. Nearly 18,000 people are killed in fires in Hussia each year, several times the per capita rate in the United States and other Western countries. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. food inspection inconsistent 
OMAHA, Neb. -Peanut butter is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration. But chicken pot pies are the U.S. Department of Agriculture's responsibility. Frozen cheese piz­zas -FDA. But if there's pepperoni on them, USDA has jurisdiction, too. 
Critics of the nation's food safety system say that it is too fragmented and marked by over­lapping authority, and they say that may help explain why dangerous foods keep slipping through and why contamination scares are handled in sometimes inconsistent ways. 
"One of the underlying problems is the bifur­cation of the regulatory system," said Caroline Smith DeWaal, director of the Center for Seience in the Public Interest's food safety divi­sion. 

Modern-day slavery victim testifies 
CENTHAL ISLIP, N.Y.-An Indonesian ser­vant for a millionaire couple accused of mod­ern-day slavery testified Monday she was forced to eat her own vomit and was scalded with hot water for misdeeds such as sleeping late and pilfering food. 
The 51-year-old woman, identified only as Samirah, said through an interpreter that she was also repeatedly poked with a knife and that her ears were twisted until they bled. 
The fear of being abused caused her to involuntarily urinate, she said, for which she was punished further. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana native wins highest award 
WASHINGTON -Brian Lamb, a Lafayette, Ind., native who is the founder of C-SPAN, will receive the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Bush in a White House ceremony. 
The honor is the nation's highest civilian award. It goes to people who've made remarkable contributions to culture, world peace or to national security and other national interests. 
C-SPAN televises sessions of Congress and covers politics and other public affairs. 
Lamb says he will accept the medal on behalf of the cable TV industry, which cre­ated C-SPAN in 1979. 
PAKISTAN 


Musharraf defies allies on crackdown 
General orders thousands of dissenters arrested, threatens country's ties with West 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD, Pakistan­
Police fired tear gas and 
clubbed thousands of 
lawyers protesting 
President Gen. Pervez 
Musharraf's decision to 
impose emergency rule, as 
Western allies threatened to 
review aid to the troubled 
Muslim nation. Opposition 
groups put the number of 
arrests at 3,500, although 
the government reported 
half that. 

Musharraf, who took 
power in a 1999 coup and is 
also head of Pakistan's 
army, suspended the consti­
tution on Saturday ahead of' 
a Supreme Court ruling on 
whether his recent re-elec­
tion as president was legal. 
He ousted independent­
minded judges, put a stran­
glehold on independent 
media and granted sweep­
ing powers to authorities to . crush dissent. 
The attorney general 
called Monday for the polls 
to be held on time, but 
Prime Minister Shaukat 
Aziz left open the possibility 
for a delay. 

Under intense pressure 
from the United States and 
other Western allies to hold 
elections as scheduled in 
January, Musharraf said 
Monday he would relinquish 
control of the military and lion people, which has been promises to "take off his rent plans to change the 
return the country to "the under military rule for uniform." $493 million it has budgeted 
same track as we were much of its 60-year history, "I want to be very clear," in aid to Pakistan over three 
moving" but he gave no but demonstrations so far she said, as a team of U.S. years. However, "the whole 
indication when the vote have been limited largely to defense officials postponed world will be watching to 
would take place. activists, rights workers and plans to travel to Islamabad see how the transition to 
"I am determined to lawyers -angered by his for talks Tuesday because of democracy that is so impor­
remove my uniform once attacks on the judiciary. All the crisis. "We believe that tant for our own security ... 
we correct these pillars -have been quickly and the best path for Pakistan is and the security and stabili­
the judiciary, the executive, sometimes brutally stamped to quickly return to a consti­ty of Pakistan itself is re­
and the parliament," out. tutional path and then to established," said Foreign 
Musharraf was quoted by Secretary of State hold elections." Secretary David Milliband. 
state-run Pakistan Condoleezza Rice said Defense Secretary Robert The Dutch government 
Television as telling foreign Washington was reviewing Gates suggested that mili­suspended development 
ambassadors Monday. its assistance to Pakistan, tary aid may not be affected assistance, becoming the 
"I can assure you there which has received billions because the Bush adminis­first country to do so. 
will be harmony ... confi­of dollars in aid since tration does not want to dis­Aziz left open the possibil­
dence will come back into Musharraf threw his sup­rupt its partnership with ity that the vote would not 
the government, into law port behind the U.S.-led war Pakistan in fighting al-Qaida be held in January, telling 
enforcement agencies and on terror after the Sept. 11, and other militants. The journalists "the next general 
Pakistan will start moving 2001, attacks. country has been hit by a elections will be held 
again on the same track as At a news conference in string of suicide bombings according to the schedule or 
we were moving." the West Bank on Monday, in recent weeks blamed on a program that will be final­
Public anger was mount­she urged the army chief to extremists. ized after consultation with 
ing in the nation of 160 mil-follow through on past Britain said it had no cur-all the stakeholders." 


White House aides being subpoenaed 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -House Democrats threatened Monday to hold President Bush's key confidants in contempt of Congress unless they comply with subpoenas for information on the Justice Department's purge of federal prosecutors last winter. 
The White House shrugged off the ultimatum, saying the information is off-limits under executive privilege and that the aides in question ­White House Chief of Staff Joshua Bolten and former presidential coun­selor Harriet Miers -are immune from prosecution. 
"It won't go anywhere," predicted White House press secretary Dana Perino. 
Congressional Democrats nonethe­less submitted their 102-page report, and a Republican rebuttal, to the House clerk on Monday afternoon. The report accused Miers of con­tempt for failing to appear and testify as subpoenaed. She and Bolten were charged with failing to produce docu­ments on whether the prosecutors were fired at the White House's behest. 
Also in the sights of House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, D-Mich.: Karl Rove, the architect of Bush's rise to the White House and a top political adviser who left last summer. 
House Democrats were trying to round up a majority to pass the cita­tion, said two House officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because the process was ongoing. 
In a separate letter, Conyers urged White House Counsel Fred Fielding to comply. 
"As we submit the committee's con­tempt report to the full House, I am writing one more time to seek to resolve this issue on a cooperative basis," Conyers said in a letter to Fielding. 
The Congressional Research Service, Conyers added, reported that in at least 7 4 instances, sitting White House advisers have testified before Congress once there was a committee contempt vote. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
NDASK 
continued from page 1 
said. 

The state went on in 2003 to n~form many facet-; of its judicial system. making thn dnath penalty morn dillkult to implnmnnt. For nxampln, Dold said. the state can­not. impose tlw dPath penalty on an inmalt~ simply on the lPstimony of orw nyPwit.Iwss, sin1:n that one pl~r­son's testimony is oltPn unreliable. 
1-'lrrt.her, l>old said, policP haw 
IH~gun taping 

"You do not have to
int.Prrogations of and who dins," suspects to prP­take a life to save a Dold said. 
vnnt ralsn ronfi•s­['/' WhiiP the
{e. " 
sio n. a r1 1111 n11 111 Catholic Church's PITOI' in dPath t1~arhings about 
Bruce Dold 
p1•nalty ronvir­tlw right to lifi~ is t.ions. editorial page editor oftPn discussed at Tht• IWWSJHI­Chicago Tribune Notn• Dame. Nl> 
rneent rnfi1rm of the criminal jus­tice system. Complete abolition, he said. is very dillieult fill' people to fathom, but there is generally trmnendous support fi1r a morato­rium. 
Inmates are no longer nxeeutnd for having "dime store," or lnss capable, attorneys, he said. 
People in !~tvor of capital punish­ment. Dold said, may believe cer­tain ITimes arn so heinous that they dnsnrvn no other punishment hut death. But them am problmns with that. thinking, hn said. 
"No government 
is llawlnss nnough 
to dncidn who livns 
pnr's annourH"P­mPnt last spring was mPant to sPnd a mnssagn of Pditorial con­dPmnat.ion. 
"You do not haw to take a lili• to saw a lili>," l>old said. "I do not think that this is an ambiguous qunstion anymorP." 
Hvnn though thP TribunP adopt­Pd this nPW stanrP, not all otlwrs have. Citing last month's (;allup poll. l>old said (,1) pnrr<'nl of /\rnnrirans do support Uw death pPnalty in rasPs or murdPr. /\dditionally, (,(, pnn:Pnt of tlw nation lwliPves thl' practice to be morally acePptahlP. and SO percent of /\nwrir.ans say tlwrn should bn mon• dnath pnnalty eonvidions. 
"WP an• going to have the death pnnalt.y. we an• just going to havn 
t.o hn mon~ rarl'f'ul about how WI~ usn it," Dold said. rPfi~rTing to the 
ASK dirPetor 
AndrPa !.aidman 
said st udPnts don't pay much att!'ntion to tlw dPath pt>IHLity. 
"Most studPnts lwrP are 'pro­lili~.' but arP tlwy n~ally l'ommittl'd to it'!" said !.aidman, a senior. "Thev S!~Pm to not want to take a stan;:!'. Tlwse issues should bn about. tlw same thing." 
Nl> ASK continuns its lncture sPriPs this WPdru~sday and Thursday with talks by Bud Welch. an inlPrnationally known advocatP against tlw death penalty whoso daughter was killnd in the Oklahoma City bombing. 
More information on tho cam­paign is available on it-; Wnb sill~. www.ndask.org. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 



Man'strialdelayedin wife's disappearance 
Associat~d 
p...,,. 

0/\KI./\NI>. Calif. -The open­ing of tlw trial for a computer programmnr accused of killing his wifn -whose body was never found -was postponed Monday, and lawyers on both easns would not nwcal the rna­son for the delay. 
Opnning statements were rnsdwduled for Tunsday in the murdnr trial of llans Heiser, who plans to testify in his own defonse. according to his lawyer. 
Nina Hnisnr. 31. disappeared last year allnr shopping for gro­eeril~s and dropping her two !'hildrnn ofT at her estranged husband's housn in a quiet sne­tion of the Oakland hills. ller minivan was found six days later with hnr purse and gro­ceriPs still insidP. 
l'ros!~nrtors say thnre's no gn~at mystnry about what hap­pnrwd; they believe blood and other IWidi'IH~e provns llans Heiser kiiiPd tho woman, IWPn though lwr body hasn't bePn rncovnn•d. Tlw dnfense main­tains that there is no proof Nina Hnis1~r is dnad. let alone slain. and that she may very well be seen~tly living in her native Hussia. 
llans Hniser. 4:{. is wnll known in computPr enginm~ring circles. 1>1~fense attorney William l>u Bois said that H1~iser wants to testify hut that lw has qualms about how much of an asset his diPnt will he. HPisnr has memo­riznd hundrnds of pages or pro­trial dorunwnts, l>u Bois said. 
"Wn arn apprnlwnsivn to some degrne, because wo don't know how he will eome across bneause of' his intellect," he said. "It would be easy if he did­n't testify. but it may be that he has to testify." 

Prosecutor Paul Ilora dedin11d to discuss the ease. 
The challenge faeing prosecu­tors is to build a eonvineing ease out of the DNA and circumstan­tial evidnnee, said attorney Ivan Golde, who brinl'ly discussed joining in Heiser's del'ense but ultimately did not get involved. 
"You just start adding up block alter block," he said. "At tho end of' the day, will it bn strong enough? You never know how it will play out." 
Investigators say they found small amounts of blood match­ing Nina's DNA at llans' home. They also rnported finding her blood in his car. which was missing the front passnngnr seat and had a floorboard soaked with water wlwn policp, round it. 
Seven-year-old Hory Heiser latnr told polieP hn newer saw his mother leaw~ t.hn housn. But during a prntrial !waring. the boy tnstified that he saw his mother drive away. .Jurors aren't likely to hear either story, sincn both thn boy and his sister are now in Hussia with their maternal grandmother, who has begun custody proenndings. 
Nina. a trained doctor, and Hans had nwt in Hussia and married in 1999. Tlwy were separated by 2004 but had nnv1~r divorcnd. Tlwy worn lighting ovnr custody of the chil­dnm. 
Katya 
continued from page 1 
The symposium also featured Notrn Dame law professor Bridgettn Carr, i\ngus Lowe, sen­ior special agent of U.S. Immigration and Customs, and junior Kathnrine Dunn, who has nneountnred human trafficking victims during service-learning internships. 
Ka tya's tnstimony recounted how a Ukrainian acquaintance trkknd her into leaving Virginia Bnarh, whore slw was working, and going with him to Detroit. whnre two nHm enslaved her. She said the men took away her lngal documents and passport and rlainwd shn owed them thousands of dollars fill' trav1~l. At age 19, lwr life consisted of working at Cheetah's strip dub and Pnduring abuse l'rom her !:apt11rs. 
"Many times they sereanwd at us. They bnat us." Katya said. "It was n~ally s1:ary. I never saw my mom li1r tlm~n years. For mn, it was n•ally hard bncause at that point, I was only 19." 
Months latPr. Katya and anoth­er victim she lived with managnd to nseapn when a patron of' the strip dub eontactPd Lowe and !wiped tlw womnn 11scape to a hotnl 
"Thn first hours when I ran away worn the scariest hours of my lifi\" Katya said. 
Carr explainod that the l'nar human trallieking victims experi­ence also inhibits thmn from try­ing to oscapo. 
Tho speakers told the story of a woman who escaped from Katya's captors. Tho men reaetPd by having an aeeompliee attnmpt to firebomb her car. 
"Tiwy thought thoroughly through how they would psyeho­logirally terrorize these women so they would never think of escaping," Carr said. 
Lowe, who helped prosecute Katya's ease. p,xplained that the father of one of the criminals managed Eastern European women at a dub in Athens, and his son, "i\lex," startnd a similar system in the U.S. i\lex usnd sev­eral of his father's tnchniques, sueh as sexual assault. arbitrary 
debt  and  brandishing  of  
weapons.  
"lie liked  to  point guns at  

women," Lowe said. 
Lowe said Alex was snntnn1:nd to 14 ye.~r~ in,yr!son. and his partnc~r. Mike, Will SPfVO SIWnn and a half years. /\lex's father is still at large in tho Ukraine. 
Katya said she will 1'11ar those mnn after thny lnav!~ prison, especially sinen her mothnr is still living in the Ukrairw. 
''I'm scared that wlwn he gnts out. hn'll try to do somnthing." slw said. 
Katya continues to light Jurman trafTicking and has testil'ied bnfore a Jlousn .Judiciary Committne that. is working to reauthorize thn Virtims of Trafl'icking and ViolencP Protection /\ct of 2000. Carr said some Congrnss mernlwrs havn not supportnd a provision of thl' bill that would allow family mombnrs of victims to 1·omn to the U.S. They beliPve it would givn p1~opln an inwntive to allow thnmsdws to ))(' trallkkPd, shn said. 
"I don't buy ltlw opposition!,'' Carr said. "I think that it's quill' a stretch to say that you will bn a slave. hopo that you ean nscape, hopn that you will run into a law nnl'orcnment pnrson likn /\ngus, hope that. you can nscape bnlim~ you're killed ·and hop!~ that you can bring your family in." 
Although women aro often used for prostitution or snxual tourism, Hache! Tomas Morgan, director of international s11rvico learning and justice nducation at. the Cnnter for Soda! Concerns, said human trallicking is not just a women's issue. 
"It is a violation of human right<;," Morgan said. 
Ordinary citizens ean help solve human traflkking casns by learning how to rneognizn these situations and reporting them to oflicials, Carr said. 
In Katya's case. Lowe nxplained that most workers and patrons at tim strip dub ignored that she was working six days a wp,ek fi1r 12 hours a day, until the patron who roscund hnr contact­ed ollicials. 
"IOrdinaryl people eall the right law enfon:emnnt ollieers, who can help p11opln like Katya," Carr said. 
Dunn has nncounternd human trallirking victims through sum­nwr s11rvien lnarning programs in MPmphis and Bangkok. WhilP serving in a hornnless sholt11r in Tnnnnssne, slw bol'rinnd11d a human traflkking vktim from /\l'rica, whos11 l'athPr and undo took lwr ithmtilication and sub­jPdnd lwr to fim:Pd labor. 
"Siw wus abusnd in 1wnry way possibln," Dunn said. 
Dunn also nmphasiznd eorn­munitins' rnsponsibility to stop human trallkking lwntusl' rom­munitins. particularly thosl' in dPwloping countries, profit from virtims. 
"Tiw wholn community is in on it." slw said allnr tlw parwl. "Tiw whoII' town makes IIIOIH~Y ofl' or it lweausP if you haw snx tourism, morl' ))('opln will stay at hotl'is." 
Morgan said Notrn Danw will eontinuP to raise awawness or human traiTirking. 
The Family .Justicl' Cnntnr and BridgPttP Carr plan to continun eonvPrsations with nwdil'al worknrs and legal prorPssionals to ronsidnr training pnopln to identify victims of human tmf­lieking in thn community, Morgan said. 
CSC Exm:utivn Dimetor Father William Lies introdu1:ed the panel, part or tho CSC's 25th anniVPrsary thmnn or solidarity. 
"We bnlinvn this nvnnt eaptun~s the kind of collaboration that is nnndnd to dli~ct.ivnly do justiee,'' he said. 

Contact Claire Reising at creisinl@nd.edu 

Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,543.40 -51.70
Jones 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,500  92  1,717  43,451,295  
AMEX  2,494.29  .:J0.49  
NASDAQ  2,795.18  -15.20  
NYSE  9,948.82  ~93.44  
S&P 500  1,502.17  -7.48  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,253.88 ;,}5;04 FTSE 100 'London~ 6,461.40 -69.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) -4.85 -1.83 35.90 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.76 -1.15 150.05 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.64 -0.35 54.07 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -1.79 -0.57 31.27 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.63 +0.027 4.318 13-WEEK BILL +2.29 +0.080 3.580 30-YEAR BOND +0.46 +0.021 4.616 5-YEAR NOTE +0.71 +0.028 3.945 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.95 93.98 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.30 810.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.45 84.05 
Exchange Rates 
YEN 114.4700 EURO 0.6908 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9326 BRITISH POUND 0.4804 
IN BRIEF 
Bayer suspends heart surgery drug 
Wi\SIIINGTON -The government has askPd Bayer Pharmaceuticals to suspend sales of a drug used to prevent Pxcessive bleeding dur­ing heart bypass surgery that may increase the risk of the patient's death. 
The Food and Drug Administration said Monday that Bayer AG has agreed to stop sell­ing the drug. Trasylol, pending detailed review of preliminary results from a Canadian study that suggested an increased risk of death. The study comparing the safety and efficacy of the drug, Trasylol. with two others was recently halted. 
Trasylol. also known as aprotinin, works by blocking enzymes that dissolve blood clots. 
TherP are not many treatment options for patiPnts at risk for excessive bleeding during cardiac surgery, the FDA noted in its announcement. The agency said it was work­ing with Bayer to phase Trasylol out of the markPtplace in a way that does not cause shortages of other drugs used for this purpose. 
Airline performance worst in 13 years 
Wi\SIIINGTON-Travelers wnre less likely to bP stuck on a delayed flight in September, but the airline industry's on-time performance so far in 2007 remained the worst in 13 years, according to gow~rnment data released Monday. 
The nation's 20 largest carriers reported an on-time arrival rate of 81.7 percent in SeptPmber. up from 76.2 percent in the same month a year ago and up from 71.7 percent in August, the Department of Transportation's Bureau of Transportation Statistics said. 
Better weather was partly to credit for the improw~d results. More than 34 percent of late flights in September were delayed by weather, an improvement from a year ago when more than 40 pnreent of those flights experienced wnather-n~lated delays. 
Despite thn improved September results, more than 24 percent of flights arrived late in the first nine months of the year. The industry's on-time performance this year remained the worst sinee eomparable data began being col­lected in 1995. 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 
Time Warner under new leadership 
Jeff Bewkes takes over media conglomerate, hopes to increase stock value 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Jeff Bewkes will succeed Dick Parsons as the CEO of Time Warner Inc. on Jan. 1, the company announced Monday, completing a widely anticipated succes­sion at the top of the world's largest media con­glomerate. 
Parsons, who is 59 years old, will stay on as chair­man. He had taken over in 2002. just as the company was reeling in the after­math of its disastrous deci­sion to be acquired by AOL. !\ former lawyer and skilled negotiator, he helped restore the compa­ny's stature and rebuild its relations with Wall Street. 
Bewkes, who is 55, was chief executive of IIBO for seven years and helped transform the cable TV channel into a hugely prof­itable network that also consistently won critical acclaim with original pro­gramming including "The Sopranos" and "Sex and the City." 
Investors will now be 
looking to Bewkes to take 
dramatic action to revive 
the company's long-suffer­
ing stock, which is still 
stuck at about the same 
level as when Parsons took promised by the deal above $20 for several fended off a challenge 
over five years ago. never materialized -the months this year, the stock from the activist investor 
Bewkes had long been company had to take later fell back below that Carl Icahn in 2006 to groomed as Parsons' suc­multibillion dollar write­level in July, and edged up break up the company. cessor, with only the exact downs, and later faced, down 7 cents to end at He pared the company's timing of the changeover and settled, shareholder $17.81 Monday. debt and sold off several yet to be finalized. Bewkes lawsuits and federal inves­The company's credibili­businesses, including was named to the Time tigations stemming from ty had been battered after Warner Music Group and a Warner board this year, fraudulent accounting it failed to deliver on book publishing business, and took the title of chief practices at AOL that aggressive financial goals to clarify and streamline operating officer two years appeared to inflate rev­and promised various syn­the company's structure, ago. enues. ergies from AOL's online which had been criticized 
Parsons, one of the most The company's stock expertise and Time as unwieldy. prominent black execu­went on a downward spi­Warner's traditional media While Parsons has a tives in corporate America, ral from the $47 level it properties. Parsons helped smooth, diplomatic style has spent much of his saw in January 2001, restore Time Warner's that served the company tenure repairing the dam­when the deal closed, and reputation on Wall Street well during its struggle age from Time Warner's stayed under $20 a share by sealing back on promis­through the aftermath of combination with AOL in until late last year, wiping es and making more real­the AOL merger, Bewkes is 2000. out billions in shareholder istic forecasts. more of a hands-on busi­
The grand synergies wealth. After struggling He also successfully ness operator. 


U.S. service sector growth quickens 
Associated Press the 55th consecutive month in October," Bernard Baumohl, managing director 
said Anthony Nieves, chairman ofiSM. of the Economic Outlook Group. said the 
NEW YOHK-An increase in new The report's components showed strength of thn survey was a surprise orders helped drive the U.S. services growth in orders and slower expansion but cautioned that the state of the serv­sector to a faster-than-expected growth rates in employment and prices. Nine ices sector is not always the best har­rate in October, but economists warned non-manufacturing industries, including binger of an economic turning point. the data didn't foretell that economic mining, retail trade, construction, real "To determine a turning point in the growth would pick up soon. estate, rental and leasing, professional, economy you have to look at the goods 
The Institute for Supply Management scientific and technical services, report­producing sector," he said. said Monday that it<; index gauging the Pel increased activity in October. "People tend to still go to the dentist health of non-manufacturing industries The report got a mixed reception in and the doctor even when things turn registered 55.8, up from 54.8 in the markets. It helpnd stocks trim their down," he said. "But you can put otl' a September. !\ reading above 50 indi­losses and allowed the ailing dollar to purchase of goods." cates expansion, while one below 50 rebound a bit against the yen. But those Last week the Labor Department said shows contraction. effect<; were short-lived. the economy in October created far 
The result was stronger than the 54 In afternoon trading, the Dow Jones more jobs than had been expneted and reading analysts had expected. industrial average fell 113.97, or 0.84 other reports also have shown the econ­
The services sector -such as air­percent, to 1:3,481.1:3. omy holding up. Yet many economists lines, hair salons, accountants, doctors, Broader stoek indicators also fell. The think that in time the strains of rising dentists and plumbers -has been help­Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 14.32, defaults on below prime home loans ing to prop up the economy even as or 0.95 percent, to 1 ,495.33, and the and falling home prices will affect large manufacturing ha<; slowed. "Non-manu­Nasdaq composite index fell 26.32, or numbers of consumers and slow their facturing business activity increa<>ed for 0.94 percent, to 2,784.06. spending. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
Guard investigated for wildfire bribes 
Associated Press 

SACHAMENTO, Calif. -A military police company from tlw California National Guard has been sequestered pending an investigation into whether troops took donations intended for Southern California wildfire victims, (;uard ol'ficials said Monday. 
Senne soldiers who were offered a shower and a snack by volunteers ended up taking away cartons of' snacks and dia­pers, according to an official dose to tho investigation who spoke on condition of' anonymi­ty bec<wsn tlw ollicial was not authorizod to speak on the record. 
Thirty-six soldiers from the :BOth Military Police Company wen~ being bused from the National City Armory rwar San Dingo to their home base in Ontario. east of Los Angeles. National Guard oiTicials said tlwy wen~ c~xpeetnd to be released Monday night.. 
Orw Guardsman had already becm relicwnd of' duty pending t.lw outconw of' tlw invc~stiga­tion. (;uard oflic:ials said they had not decided whnt.hnr to seek any punishnwnt. 
The Guard launelwd thn invnstigation last week after voluntoers called the San Dingo County SheriiT's Departnwnt to roport Guardsmnn taking sup­plies intnndnd for displaced fire victims near the U.S.-Mexico border. 
Guard spokesman Lt. Col. .Jon 
Siepmann confirmed that the Guard was investigating com­plaints that soldiers "were in possession of relief supplies beyond those they wen~ author­ized to usn as part of their mis­sion." 
All the supplies have been identified and returned to the relief agency, Siepmann said in a statement. 
"The California National Guard takes all allegations of improper conduct seriously and will take action, to indude dis­ciplinary measures, against any soldiers who may have acted inappropriately," Sicpmann said. 
The unit had been providing security in Potrero, about 40 miles east of San Diego. 
TIH~ ofl'idal who spoke on eondition of' anonymity said that tlw troops had been sleeping in t1~nts near a lire station being used by the Anwrican Heel Cross, and that volunteers at the firn station thought some of the soldiers took more than an acceptable amount of supplies. 
Peyton Hoberts, a spokes­woman for the American Hod Cross, said no ono from her organization reported eontact­ing the Sheriff's ol'fien. The relief nf'fort at the lirn station was coordinated by a local group, she said. 
Gov. Arnold Schwarznnegger deploynd 1,500 mmnbnrs of the California National Guard on Oct. 21. In all, 2,500 Guardsmen assisted in disaster rnlief'. 

Manwhokilledwife, judge pleads guilty 
Associated Press 
I.AS VH;As-A man accusml of killing his wife and shooting the judge who was handling their bittnr divon~n rPadwd a ploa dcml Monday, abruptly ending his trial. 
Darren Mack, 46. pleaded guilty to lirst-degn~n murder and entered an Alford plea to a rhargn of' attempted murder as the ddi~nse was to begin 1~alling witrwsses. 
Mack was on trial for the June 12, 2006, stabbing of his nstrangml wili1, Charla, at Mack's town housc~ in south Heno. Authorities said that after the killing, Mark drove to a down­town parking garage and shot Washoe Family Court Judge Chuck Weller through tho third­floor window of the judge's chambnrs. The judge survivnd. 
Mark admittnd in court that he shot Wellor, but invoked the Alford plea, in whirh a defendant acknowledges there is nnough nvidence lilr a convietion without admitting guilt. 
"I do understand right now in my state of mind that shooting at the judieiary is not a propnr li1rm of political redrnss." Mack said. 
.Judge Douglas Herndon set a two-day sentencing hearing, Jan. 17-1 H, saying he wantnd to allow time for statements, and Mack made it dear he wanted to speak. 
"There are some very impor­tant things to say, and I've rmnained quiet through this whole thing," Mack said. 
During the hearing Monday, Mack apologized for shooting Weller, who watched from the first row behind the prosecution. 
"This dark night is over, or at least a portion of this dark night is over," Weller said afterward. 
In oxehangn fiw Mack's admis­sions, prosecutors agrend to rec­omnwnd a sentence of' life in prison with possible parole after 20 years. The judge is not bound by that agreement. 
Mack, whose family owns a well-known pawn shop, also faces two to 20 years on the attemptod murdf1r charge. Under Nevada law, his sentnnce auto­matically \Viii be doubled bec~ausc a deadly wnapon wa.'> involvnd. 
Prosecutor Hobert Daskas noted that Mack's agreement waived his right to appeal. 
"Our goal going into this case was to see Darren Mack eonviet­ed of premeditated murder and of attempted murder," J>askas said. "Whethcw it was by jury ver­dict or f.,TUilty pleas was insignifi­cant to us." 
David ChesnoiT, one of Mack's lawyers, said he was pleased that Mack likely will have a chance to be released on parole. 
Charla Mack's mother, Soorya Townley, said she was pleased with the outeome. She called Mack a "sociopath" who "hypno­tized himself' into believing he's justified and he's the victim." 
Writers Guild strikes against TV 
Prime-time may suffer while reality shows can flourish 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -David Letterman has time to make another guest appearance on "The Oprah Winfrey Show." Jon Stewart can try out his satiric jokes on his family before unleashing them on a national TV audienee. And Jay Leno can take long motorcycle rides or tinker with his collec­tion of antique cars. 
All three talk-show hosts will have more free time after the Writers Guild of America went on strike Monday against TV networks and movie studios. 
Late-night eomedy was the l'irst casualty of the walkout that left the shows with no one to fashion clever quips about the issues of the day. 
The first strike by I Iollywood writers in nearly 20 years got under way with noisy pickets on both coasts after last­minute negotiations Sunday failed to produce a deal on payments to writers from shows oll'ered on the Intnrnet. 
No new nogotiations were scheduled. although tho writ­ers guild negotiating commit­tee did plan a meeting of its members. 
Nick Counter, chief ncJgotia­tor for the Alliance of Motion Picturn and Television Producers, said he expeeted a long standoll'. 
"We're hunkered down for a long one," he said. "From our standpoint, we made every good faith effort to negotiate a deal, and they went on strike. At some point, conversations will take place. But not now." 
Writers said the next move was up to the studios. 
"My hop11 is that it won't be too long," said John Bowman, chief negotiator for the writers. "We have more reason to get together than not." 
Bowman said behind-the­scenes communication was occurring between the two sides with the hope of arrang­ing more meetings. 
The strike will not immedi­ately impaet production of movies or prime-time TV pro­grams. Most studios have stockpiled dozens of movie scripts, and TV shows have enough scripts or completed 
shows in 
hand to last 
until early 
next year. 
However, some pro­ducers were torn about trying to shoot those finished scripts. 
Tim Kring, a producer and writer of' the NBC 
h t 
"lleroes," joined about a dozen writers on a picket line in an effort to from the strike, reality shows could flourish because they don't usc union writers, despite an aggressive attempt by the writers guild to organizo the staffers on the programs. 

Viewers could also cheek out more entertainment on the Internet, ranging from user­generated fare on YouTube to professionally produced shows such as "Quarterlife." 
One site, "Break.com," is oll'ering a $5,000 prize for the most-viewed video created by a striking writer. 
"We're hunkered down for a long one. F'rom our standpoint, we made every good faith effort to negotiate a deal, and they went on strike. At some point, conversa­tions will take place. But not now. " 
Nick Counter chief negotiator Alliance of Motion Picture and Television Producers 
Disruptions by strikers ended filming at a Studio City cafe being used as a location for the CBS show 
"Cann." 

Tom Hogan. a location manag­nr for the show. said the filming began hours before the 20 piekllts arrived and involved a seript that was finislwd several weeks ago. 
No other major problems were reported at stu­dios or filming 
shut down the show. locations. 
"It's very surreal," he said. 

Kring said he had to revise the ending of the 11 th episode of "Heroes" on the ehance that it might be the last one to air this season. 
"Fortunately we were able to hustle back," he said. "TIHl audience won't be left in a lurch." 
While scripted shows suffer 
At the CBS lot in Studio City, about 40 people hoisted signs and applauded when pkketing began. 
Hobert Port, a writer for the TV show "Numb3rs," said he was as ready as possible for what could be a long walkout. 
"We live in Los Angeles, your bank account can never really be ready for this," he said. 
U.S. AIR FORCE 
R•O•T•C 

IF YOU SPEAK A FOREIGN LANGUAGE, SEE THE WORLD. 
If you speak a foreign language or are currently learning one, we have countless opportunities awaiting you in Air Force ROTC. 
• 
Tuition assistance • Officer commission 

• 
Monthly living allowance • See the world. 


Our current language needs include Chinese, Persian, Hindi, Indonesian and countless others. 
Call1-866-4AF-ROTC or visit AFROTC.COM. 

Tuesday, November 6, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Cartel leader Arellano goes to jail 
Mexican drug lord sentenced to life in prison in southern Calif. 
According to his plea agree­
Associated Press 

ment, Arellano Felix and his 
SAN DIEGO -Mexican drug partners murdered informants lord Francisco Javier Arellano and potential witnesses and Felix was sentenced to life in paid millions of dollars in prison without parole Monday bribes to law enforcement and 
for running the notoriously vio­lent cartel that bears his fami­ly's name, which the judge said "will live in infamy." 
"The effect on this country of what you and your fami­ly have done is disastrous," 
U.S. District Judge Larry A. 

"I tell you today, man to man, that even ifI had the discretion not to impose a life sentence in this case, that's what I'd find most reasonable. " 
Larry A. Burns 
U.S. District judge 
military person­nel. He pleaded guilty after prosecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty. 
In a letter translated into 
English  and  
read  by  his  
lawyer  at  the  

sentencing hearing, Arellano Felix asked people on 
Burns said as he gave Arellano Felix the mandatory sentence for running a criminal enter­prise and conspiring to laun­der money. 
"I tell you today, man to man, that even if I had the dis­cretion not to impose a life sentence in this case, that's what I'd find most reason­able," Burns said. 
The Arellano Felix cartel emerged as a drug trafficking powerhouse in the l980s in Tijuana, across the border from San Diego, though its influence is widely believed to have waned in recent years as its leaders have been killed or captured. 
Arellano Felix, at 37 the youngest of the cartel's seven brothers, pleaded guilty Sept. 
7. lin admitted in court that he helped run the cartel as it smuggled into the U.S. hun­dreds of tons of cocaine and marijuana and laundered hun­dreds of millions of dollars. 


both sides of the border to for­give his "wrongful decisions and criminal con­duct." 
"I am very 

called Supermax prison in Florence, Colo., where the nation's most violent criminals are held. The decision on where Arellano Felix will be housed rests with the federal Bureau of Prisons. 
The cartel was once led by seven brothers and four sis­ters, but Francisco Javier's brother Ramon was killed in a shootout with police in 2002. His elder brother Benjamin was jailed in Mexico the same year; federal prosecutors in San Diego are seeking his extradition. 
Prosecutor Laura Duffy said she was pleased to have extracted a plea from Francisco Javier because it allowed the government to keep its evidence secret ahead of any proceedings against his 
older brother. 

Francisco 
Javier Arellano 
remorseful and '7 am very remorseful Felix, who had personally accept been held
and personally
responsibility for without bond,
accept responsibility 
my actions," he agreed to for­wrote. ""If I had for my actions." feit $50 million the power to and the yacht change and undo he was cap­
Arellano Felix 
the things that I tured on, the
former drug lord 
have done, I would." 

U.S. authorities captured Arellano Felix in an August 2006 raid on a sport­fishing yacht off the Baja California coast. The arrest followed an intense manhunt, during which the State Department had offered a $5 million reward for the drug lord's capture. 
Defense lawyer David Bartick said after the sentenc­ing that Arellano Felix was prepared to be sent to the so-Dock Holiday. 
His right-hand 
man, Manuel Arturo Villarreal Heredia, who also had been on board, plead­ed guilty to racketeering and conspiracy and faces up to 30 years in prison at sentencing, set for January. 
Since the yacht raid, Arellano Felix's older brother Francisco Rafael and two sen­ior cartel capos have been extradited to the U.S. and sen­tenced on drug charges in San Diego. 
The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Act with Integrity and Value Your People" 
James Owens CEO and Chairman Caterpillar 
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

Super X-ray can showheart disease 
harden, and doctors worried 
Associated Press 

that such findings could look like 
ORLANDO, Fla. -A type of blockages and bias results. "super X-ray" showed promise The remaining 291 people in its first big test as a potentially were given the new CT scans, cheaper, faster and painless way then standard angiograms. to find out whether certain peo­Nine out of 10 patients with ple with signs of heart disease blockages were identified by the actually have it and need treat­scans, as were 83 percent of ment. those without blockages. The 
The scans might eliminate the scans ruled out heart disease in need for some of the 1.3 million half of the patients -people cardiac catheterizations done who could have been spared the each year in the United States to pain, expense and risk of check for clogged arteries, said catheterization, Miller said. Dr. Julie Miller of Johns Hopkins The ability of the painless University. scans to rule out problems is 
But the newer scans are con­"exciting," but questions remain troversial. Medicare and private about how they would do on a insurers are debating whether fuller range of patients, said Dr. to pay for Timothy them, and Gardner, a many heart "I don't buy it. Ifyou do Delaware car­
specialists diologist and
a CT and you find 
oppose them, heart associa­
anything, you'e got to do
partly t i o n because they a catheterization spokesman. supply a big The associa­
anyway.
dose of radia­tion recently tion. sent Medicare 
That raises Dr. Steven Nissen officials a letter the risk of former president opposing the cancer and scans for
American College of 
might spur screening peo­
Cardiology
thousands of additional cases if the scans were widely used in the population, said Dr. Michael Lauer of the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute. 
Speaking at an American Heart Association conference where study results of the scan were presented Monday, he called on doctors not to use the scans until research proves they save lives. 
"I think he went a little over­board" and was reacting to wor­ries the scans would be used to screen people with no symp­toms, rather than the more lim­ited use tested in the study, said Miller, who led the research. 
This new CT scan technology came on the market two years ago and is already used by many hospitals. Because it uses 64 detectors to produce and com­bine images, the scans are called "64-slice CT." The images are so detailed that one doctor described them as an almost surgical view. 
In the new study, the scans were tested against the current gold standard method of check­ing a patient for heart disease: angiograms done in a cardiac catheterization lab. A tube is placed in a blood vessel in the groin and maneuvered near the heart, and a special dye is infused that makes the arteries show up on X-rays. 
These can reveal who has blockages and needs treatment with bypass surgery or an artery-opening procedure called balloon angioplasty. 
The new scans deliver 10 times more radiation to the patient than a standard angiogram. Though the technol­ogy has been in use, its accuracy hasn't been proved. 
Miller's international study was the first direct comparison. It was funded by scanner maker Toshiba Medical Systems, and Miller has had research grants from the company. 
Researchers started with 405 people suspected of having heart disease and eliminated about one-fourth because they had high amounts of calcium in their artery walls. This is common as people age and the arteries ple with no 
heart disease 
symptoms, but saying they could be considered for those with symptoms or to check for heart defects, said Dr. Raymond Gibbons of the Mayo Clinic, a former heart associa­tion president. 
Others said the study did not change their opposition to the new technology. 
"I don't buy it," said Dr. Steven Nissen of the Cleveland Clinic, former president of the American College of Cardiology. "If you do a CT and you find anything, you've got to do a catheterization anyway." 
Researchers also "cherry­picked" the kind of patients most likely to have heart disease to test in the study. 
"It's not for the walking well" who worry they might have hid­den problems, said Dr. W. Douglas Weaver, a Detroit heart specialist and president-elect of the College of Cardiology. 
The new scans cost under $1 ,000; angiograms from catheterization cost $2,500 or more. Advanced scanners offer­ing 128-and even 256-slice images are coming into use, so the issue will grow as images become more detailed. 
The debate involves a turfwar between cardiologists who do the current angiograms versus radiologists who do the new scans. 
Also at the heart conference Monday: 
+New research has doctors excited again that experimental drugs that boost good choles­terol can help cut the risk of heart attack. 
New details on why Pfizer's failed drug torcetrapib raised the risk of death showed that its problems were unique and don't appear to apply to other medica­tions being tested by Merck & Co. and Swiss drug maker Roche Holding AG. (Pfizer Inc. abandoned its $800 million investment in torcetrapib last December.) 
"It looked very gloomy for this method of raising 1-IDL. I am not gloomy for the prospects for this class anymore," said Nissen, who headed one of the stopped Ptizerexperiments. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Hold on to your faith 
P.O. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining flail, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EmToR IN CmEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
Ass·1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass·!~ MANA(;JNG EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen L1ngley 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hine ScENE EUITOR: Tae Andrew~ 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EmTOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAP!IICS EmTOR: Madeline Nics 
Anv1m:ns1NG MANAGER: Jessica Corte-L 
An DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6.31-6900 obmvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 6.31-5323 obsnews.1 @nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Uniwrsity ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refitse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A<Sistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentarit'S, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe ( )bscrvcr. 
Vi<wpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. L<·trers to the Editor must be signed and must include contact intonnarion. 
Qumiow "f(arding Obsrrvrrpolicirs should br dirmrd til l:ditor in ChiifMaddit• Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
n... l Jh...-rvrr (liSI'' "'ll" I J-4UIMH ••JIII~Iud\(·tl Mullll~ty lluoujth trki.ly c:x~:cpt Jurm~: n.ull .1nd v~.IIII•IIJ't'lu~ A tulhC.rJIII"IIIIII.llu I liM~t.'rvt'l j, $100 lin alii(' :l~.&.ltmi~ vur S'i-'lli1rom: ~<~:111{11<'1 
!'he< lhw-rv~r h pubhahr.lo~r POSTMASTF.R lll.ol ~umh I )uung ll.all 'W:nci oiJdrN mrrt..lltltu w Nnrrt' l>.alnr.IN 4f,~'\(t-OT•J ·nK' Ohwrvcr l'cru.d•~al pli~I ..C: p.ud "' Nnlre r),lf)lf 1'0. 1\nx niJ .ami .uldinun.&luullm~ (ltli..TOo. Ol1 Smnh flinin~ H.&JI 
Num l>.amc. IN 4b5S6·0779 
l11c Ol~rwr ".& Ultf11bc:l nl rhc Aa.o!.~.&ttd l'rN. All rcpmdut:unn ugtu~ arr 

ltxiVt'oJ 
Though I graduated just eight years ago, I often fnel very old compared to today's undergrads. It seems things were much different when I was in school. For example, "Saturday Night Live" was very funny. 
One skit I remem­Greg 
ber was something Yatarola 
like "Civil War 
Dome and

llistory as told by 
Domer

high-school 
dropouts." I think it 
was Chris Farley who described how 
the South won one battle with nco­
Nazis and ninjas. 
That skit's probably a fitting metaphor for what I say or write ­going in way over my head trying to look smart. But this time I'm really out of my depth. I'll go ahead anyway, though, and if I'm totally wrong, maybe I'll at least be ridiculous. 
There's been a spate of new books recently attacking religion. "The God Delusion" and "God is NOT Great" 1~ome to mind immediately, but there's more. I won't pretend I've read any, but I've seen a few interviews of Christopher llitchens, who wrote one of them. 
A favorite pose of his, and one I've come across often, is that inasmuch as faith is a crutch, a pacifier, "opiate of the masses" as Marx claimed, he and his kind are brave for their willingness to forgo such infantile supports as religion provides. 
Not so. Sure, there are plenty of peo­ple for whom faith is nothing but a useful illusion. They pick their belief's to suit themselves, discarding whatev­er they find unsettling, and turn belief into a kind of emotional experience. But this is not the Catholic faith. 
Put simply, faith is arduous. It's not just an easy assent to simple proposi­tions. The doctrines our Church pro­poses for belief surpass-but don't contradict-our limited reason. We can never fully understand them. That's why we can't just rest our minds peacefully in them as we can, say, in theorems of geometry-which, once demonstrated, cause no unrest. Faith does cause mental restlessness, though, as the mind tries to wrap itself around truths whieh, by their nature, cannot be wrapped around by created intellects. So belief entails not an easy acceptance of the mysteries of our faith, but a tenacious clinging to them. 
A main eomponent of this tenacious clinging is prayer. Being an imperfect form of knowledge, faith requires that we regularly call to mind and make present to ourselves those realities which we can't see or logically deduce, but which we profess nonetheless. This is one of the func­tions of prayer-for example, saying the Angelus. And as anyone who's tried knows, prayer is work. Usually, I'd rather spend 10 minutes pedaling a stupid exercise bike than kneeling silently in the dark by my bed. The lat­ter takes much more effort. 
I've mentioned prayer because in some ways it's equivalent to faith. Pray and you'll believe, said Mother Teresa. But neither what she said nor what I've written should be taken to mean that we cause our own faith. Prayer isn't self-brainwashing. Faith is a theological virtue, beyond man's natural eapacity, and is the result of God's activity in our souls. As Catholics, we simply realize that we must correspond to God's free gift of grace and not reject it. 
When atheists aceuse us of childish­ness, though, it's not so much about the act of belief as about the contents. Now, it'd be beyond wicked of me to deny that there are profoundly consol­ing elements of our faith. God loves us so much that, after asking to be born of an innocent young virgin, He died on a cross for us. And God wants us to be happy for all eternity -made us for that very purpose. 
Though all are created for beatitude, not all make it. And maybe that's not altogether so dreadful. St. Thomas Aquinas speeulated that one of the joys of the righteous will be knowing of the torments of the justly damned. I bet most of us ean think of at least a few people we wouldn't mind seeing in Dante's rings. Ex-boyfriends/girl­friends, Stalin, II itler, otc. I know I can. But then I remember-there's no guarantee I won't join them. Worse still, chances are I will. For the gospels seem to suggest (and so Sts. Augustine and Thomas Aquinas understood them) that not only are some people damned, but most arn. 
So the perdition of individual souls is eternal, but just probable. The ruin of this world, however, while not eternal, is certain. Our faith doesn't tell us exactly how the world will look at the end, but we're told we wouldn't want to be around for it. As the great Catholie writer J.H.H. Tolkien put it, human history is one long, slow defeat. This doesn't mean we should­n't work for good in this world. But we mustn't kid ourselves-until Christ returns, the shadows will only length­en. This truth, like the truth about our souls' terrible peril, is one it takes more than a weak-souled coward to accept. 
Atheists have their own tough row to hoe. It must be terrible facing the prospect of absolute annihilation, both of oneself and of one's loved ones. I personally suspeet many atheists would rather look forward to nothing­ness than to face judgment, but that's my opinion. In any case, they have no right to accuse us of weakness for holding fast to our faith. Let's not give them reason to. 
Greg is a '99 alumnus. He suggests the Victory March be replaced with Nirvana's gender-neutral acoustic classic, 'Jesus don't want me for a sunbeam.· You can reach him at greg­py@hotmail.com, but please don't. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
News Sports Karen Langley Chris Khorey Liz Barter Ellyn Michalak 
Charlie Weis' future? 
Nikki Taylor Fran Tolan 

"Seeing ourselves as others see us
Graphics Scene 

would probably confirm our worst Matt Hudson Chris McGrady Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. suspicions about them. " Viewpoint 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Franklin P. Adams

Michelle Johnson 
journalist 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

No right to judge gay students 
On our glorious campus, it is disgraceful to see so depressing and appalling a sight as one that many saw on Nov. 1. What was this sight that shocked and offended many? Men with shirts stating, ''Gay? Go To I Jell." When several of us went up to a couple of the men trying to see what their point was, their reply was that they were trying to take the attention away from the "Gay? Fine by me" shirts. How did these shirts do this? How do they portray a message besides one ofjudgment and prejudice? Regardless of pnrsonal opinion, we learn in the Catholic teachings that man is not perfect, and one of the many lessons that Jesus teaches is that one should not judge others for no one is perfect. Since these men were using the Catholic religion for their reasons, they should follow one of the most popular doctrines of the Catholic reli­gion: We should accept others as they are and not judge, for who are we to judge? 
Furthermore, they stated that they didn't want groups like the Core Council to be part of the organi­zations on this campus because they promoted inter­course between homosexuals. If that was the case then why do we have SYRs and other dances? Don't they promote interaction and dating that in most cases leads to intercourse between girls and boys in the long run? What is the difference besides the sex of the couples? That is not a logical reason. 
This shirt was also disrespectful because this cam­pus is home for many students and as a home, why should the homosexuals and their friends on this campus be forced to endure such prejudice? Why should they endure being told by people that don't 

Stay loyal to Weis 
This letter is in response to the negativity and general ill will being directed at Charlie Weis, his staff, the play calling and personnel decisions made this season. First, let me say that I am not innocent of blaming Coach Weis, at least in part, for this debacle of a football season. In addition, the ridicule from our crit­ics and rivals stings me just as bitterly as anyone else. With that being said, give the guy a break. It is true that questionable coaching decisions have been made this sea­son. but they are no different than the deci­sions that were made while Quinn was under center and Samardzija was blowing our minds with his extraordinary catches. The only di.fference is that the current team is young and lacks game time experience from years past. And by the way, they're getting that experience, even at 1-8. 
When he arrived in South Bend, Weis' gun­slinger mentality and high-risk, high-reward style of coaching made Notre Dame football exciting to watch, and we were once again among the elite of college football. Now peo­ple are trying to run Weis out of town, no doubt the same people who only a few months ago were sporting the "Weis is my homeboy" T-shirts and trying to figure out how to canonize the man a saint while he was still alive. A winning football program takes several years to develop, and to suggest that we scrap the current coaching staff and start over is a ridiculous proposition. One bad sea­son does not define a program. How can we expect to return to our winning tradition when every head coach we hire is fired after three years? 
So to all the fair-weather fans: Take your hypocritical and defeatist attitudes else­where, to another school where loyalty applies only when the football team has a winning record. As for me, I'm sticking around, and I intend on being here when our team returns to the form we got a glimpse of during Weis' first season. 
Dan Behrens junior Dillon Hall Nov. 5 


Keep cadence cheer classy 
This is in response to the letter calling for the student body to show respect to Navy and Air Force by not saying "Suck it [mascot]" in the drum cadence ("Hespect academies," Nov. 1). I have a better idea: How about eliminating that newly added line altogether? That is not traditionally how that cheer goes, and it only makes the student body look bad when others in the stadium hear it. I was at the Boston College game sitting behind the student section and had just finished explaining to a first-time visitor why Notre Dame fans are different and why we can't stand BC fans for all their past transgressions when that cheer came up, complete with the "Suck it Eagles" line. Needless to say that un-classy ad-lib did not help support my argument backing the team and our fans. 
Let's get back to being classy folks, whether the opposition deserves it or not. Trust me, "We are ND" is the ultimate cheer-let's keep it that way. 
Colleen Ryan Class of 1998 Nov. 2 

even know them that they will go to hell in their home? There is a freedom of speech that each person has a right to but to what extent does one have this right if he impedes on a person's right to a home? Though there were other aspects of the conversation, most were so deficient in factual content and over­bearing in their ignorance that they are not worth mentioning. There is one thing that it all comes down to: Whether it is a Catholic university, or a religious discussion, whether it is, in our opinion, right or wrong, we have no right to judge. 
Cinthya Mabee 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
Nov. 2 

Never prouder to 
be a Domer 
I was present for the Notre Dame victory over Navy in 2005. Many times since that game I have told the story about how much I enjoyed the game not for the result, but because of the true sports­manship, respect and class shown by the Notre Dame team and fans and the Navy team and fans, highlighted by the teams both paying their mutual respects to each other and their fans after the game. 
I often remarked when telling this story, however, that I didn't know how Notre Dame fans would react ifNavy were to win the game. Now I know the answer to that question. By my estimation, 90 percent of the fans at Saturday's game with Navy remained after the final play, standing at attention and listening to the Navy Hymn. And then the applause broke out-clapping for the Navy cadets and team, congratulating them on their class and their historical victory in a truly entertaining game. This moment crystallized for me again why I am so proud to be a Domer, a member of this Notre Dame family. Thank you, Notre Dame. 
John Maxwell Class of 1991 Nov.4 

New study abroad oppotunities 
Last Thursday, I was very glad to see the front page article, "Study abroad program options grow" (Nov. 1). I was disappointed, however, that three new study abroad sites were neglected. Through funding from a U.S. Department of Education grant to the Kellogg Institute, a new exchange program offers opportunities for students to attend three universities: the University of British Columbia (in Vancouver), the University of Montreal, and el Colegio de Mexico (in Mexico City). All three are participants in a program entitled "Mobility, Society, and Governance in North America." Through this program students will get a unique opportunity to focus on the major issues currently facing the U.S., Canada, and Mexico. Further information on these new opportunities can be found at http://kellogg.nd.edu/students/FIPSENA/index.shtml 
Ted Beatty history professor interim director, Kellogg Institute Nov. 2 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 

By CAITLIN FERRARO Scene Writer 
If daring enough to journey "Across tlw Universe" in Julie~ Taymor's film. one will encountnr bltwding strawberries, bowling-alloy dandng and an underwa­ter ballot. The viower is on a voyage across time into a world of stunning visual techniques. inspiring character performances, 1960s history and the songs of the BPatles. 
And while the film may not be added to tlw shnlves of classics like "The Sound of Music" anytime soon, it is still 
Across the Universe 
Director: Julie Taymor Starring: Evan Rachel Wood, Jim 
a visually stimulating modern movie musical. 
The young talented cast is led by Evan HacheI Wood. Wood plays Lucy, the young hometown girl who transforms into an anti-war hero that falls in love with Jude (Jim Sturgess), an English ship welder. Jude comes to America to lind his father, only to lind Lucy. 
Wood is a beauty on camnra with a matching set of vocals and is rumored to bn in thn studio soon for hnr lirst album. Sturgess has an incredible voicn and-an uncanny resemblance to a young Paul McCartney. The supporting cast is fan-. tastic, with Lucy's older dropout brothnr 
Max (.Joe Anderson), who 

Sturgess, Joe Anderson and Dana Fuchs 
(T.V. Carpio). 
is drafted into tho army; two aspiring musieians played adeptly by Martin Luther McCoy as a llendrixian-inspired Jo-Jo and Dana Fuchs as the Joplinesque Sadie; and the lovelorn lesbian Prudence 

By NICOLE EGGENBERGER 
Sn·nc Writer 
Unlike most eonwdians who try to star in romantic conwdies, Steve Carell suc~eneds in balancing his wild side with his scmsitivn side in the film "Dan in Hnal J.if'e" -but bamly. 
l>an Burns (Carnll), a f'amily-advien .columnist. ironil:ally strugglns to raise his thrnn relwllious daughters after the loss of' their motlwr. Af'll~r arguing with nac:h of' his daughtl!rs. l>an drags them to his parents' home on the Hhodn Island shorn for a family reunion. Unlike other movie clans in similar 
Dan In Real Life Director: Peter Hedges 
Most of the movie's 133­minute run is filled with Bnatles hits, and thn basic plot is that of boy meets girl. boy falls in lovn with girl. boy screws it all up. But the beauty of the film 

plots. the Burns family is not dysfune­
tional; surprisingly, it is filled with lots 
of' lovn and afffH~tion. Dan drives into town his first morn­ing there to get a newspaper and meets the beautiful brunette Marin (Juliette Binoche), who gives him joy he thought he had lost. The tender Marie exhibits everything a woman would have to in order to be with a widowed man with three daughters. Arter talking for hours, Dan eonvinees her to give him his number, even though she has a boyfriend and then returns back to the reunion to tell everyone about the amazing women he met. Surprise, sur­prise: The boyfriend is his brother Mitch (Dane Cook), and she is staying with them 
for the weekend. 
Dan loves his brother too mueh to interfere but sul'fers throughout the weekend to suppress his 
feelings for Marie. It's a

Starring: Steve Carell, Juliette Binoche, Dane 
family reunion consumed 

Cook and Alison Pill 
by bonding activities such as talent shows. competi­tions and pan<~ake break­fasts. In a series of sweet and funny evnnts, the family works out its problems quitn easily. 


The movie's plot and 
is that writers Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais masterfully craft a story to match the Fab Four's songs. Rather than foeus on dialogue, the scenes are depicted by gigantic creative illustra­tions to a Beatles song. 
Hardcore Beatles fans are by no means thn only ones who will enjoy the soundtrack -rather, seript -to this film. In fact, many of the songs are hits the general public will recognize. Sometimes the songs arn performed in the same vein of the Beatles, but some­times they are dramatically altered. Taymor reinvigorates the popular anthem "I Want to Hold Your Hand" in a creative and original way. Instead of the upbeat rhythm of the original, Prudence sings a much more somber song because the one person with whom she wants to hold hands has no idea of her feelings. And that is the beauty of this film, because it displays both the unchangeable power of "All You Need is Love" ~-while completely reinventing other songs. 
In a word, the visual creativity in Taymor's project is stunning. In the number "I Want You (She's So Heavy)." Max and his fellow drafted soldiPrs are pressured by a giant Uncle Sam, ordered around by Gl Joe commanding officers, stripped to their skivvies and 
east had the potential to be great as both a romance and a comedy, but. the film was not pushed far enough in either direction. It isn't terribly funny, nor terribly romantic. Many scenes seem to be cut short of' any true drama or comedy 
that eould have The film follows the statnmont at her father: resulted. The tal­standards ofall good "You arc a murderer of ented cast members love!" Meanwhile, she
romantic comedies but 
were not utilized chases her boyfriend's and were treated fails to bring anything car as it pulls away. more like extras new to the already Tho f'il rn follows the than past Go I den standards of all good
crowded table. 
Globe nominees and Osear winners. Dianne Wiest (Nana), John Mahoney (Poppy Burns) and Amy Ryan (Eileen) appear on screen as m1-1rely a tease. It was slight­ly unsatisfying to sec the potential for a great movie that nnver materialized. 
Carell's humor portrayed eutesier than in his other movies, but it works out nicely. lie has his wild moments, but they are tamed by his character's serious role as a lovely father of three. Many of his eomedie lines are the sar­castic one-liners he is known for, but in a less graphic manner than usual. 
The almost show-stealer is Dan's daughter. Cara Burns, played by Brittany Robertson. As a very harmon-
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
foreed to carry the Statue of Liberty ­and boy, is she heavy -over a minia­turized Vietnamese jungle. The metaphors in this choreographed piece are endless and intriguing. 
There is no doubt that Taymor was trying -trying to be dill'erent, trying to make something radical and fresh. She only fell short in a few scenes whern slw went a bit far. For instance. after riding a Magic Bus with Bono (sporting an interesting 'stache), the eclectic group meets the crazy Mr. Kite (Eddie Izzard). Sure, the youngsters were out on a hip­pie trip all hyped up on drugs, but that does not mean most of' the audience of the film was. Bottom linn: The sequence "Being for tho Bnnelit of Mr. Kite," was just plain weird. 
"Across the Universe" is more than a movie, or a musical; it is an experience. An experience all should share. If you piek up on the subtle rnf'erenecs to the Beatles like the nude sketches of Lucy a Ia Lennon and Yoko or rool'top concerts, you are ahead of the game. 
For the most part this film is one~ to sit back and enjoy, because in the end, if you do not walk into tho theater singing these songs, you will surely walk out humming them. 
Contact Caidin Ferraro at cferrar 1 @nd.edu 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
al young teenagP girl, Brittany plays her role perfectly. She spends nearly every secne shrinking and crying to Iw with her boyfriend, Marty, whom she passionately loves within three days. She captures a boy-crazy girl perfectly when she screams one ridiculous 
romantic: comedies but 
fails to bring anything 
nnw to the already crowded table. 
B11ing that it is a Carell f'ilm, it could have been pushed further in its story­line to give more than just a shrug-of­the-shoulder experinncn. It has tlw typical. predietabln romantic-comedy plot, but has the unpredictable east that could have brought more to table than the pancakes thny served. 
Still, "Dan in Heal Life" is a true feel­good movie. If it is viewed in that way and not as a elassie Carnll comedy, it won't disappoint. 
Contact Nicole Eggenberger at neggenbe@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
page 13 
Spill Canvas disappoints 
By ANALISE LIPARI Scene Wrirer 
With two albums under its belt. the Spill Canvas should arguably have its act together. But "No Heally, I'm Fine," the third studio album from this Sioux Falls. S.D. alt-rock band seems more like an uneven, freshman effort. 
"Wfl tried to just to concentrate on a lot of' dif'f'erent styles that we're able to do," lead singer Nick Thomas said in a recent interview with drivenfaroff.com, "and we kind of just went for it in ever aspect." The album definitely varies stylistically, calling to mind bands as diverse as Maroon 5 and SH-71, with the occasional ska-like trumpet work thrown into the mix. Unfortunately for the Spill Canvas, the venture is ulti­mately less successful than the band wishes it were. 
"No Heally, I'm Fine" feels confused -it's as though the band members hired Pat Sajak to spin a Wheel of Music Styles each day in the recording studio. Yes, there is a general aesthetic that carries through most of the album, but not in a way that makes it feel as coherent as it could and should have boen. 
The album opens with "Reckless Abandonment," a Lostprophets-esque track about what the band sees as the world's current state of affairs. Hather than buy into the corporate war machine, Thomas's grainy voice ironi­cally asks his listeners to fight the pow­ers that be in their own way. The cho­rus closes by asking listeners, "So fill your shoes with cement! And kiss the one you love/ With reckless abandon­mnnt." It's a strong track with a frus­trated f'enl, but the prototypical, alt­roek social message is kind of tiresome. 
The second track, "All of You," 
switches things up stylistically with a slightly mellower mood, and with the key word being "slightly." With a slow­er opening and more straightforward guitar work, the instrumentation com­plements the emo feel of the lyrics well enough. 
"Hush Hush" feels like a strange combination of the occasional Adam Levine falsetto with angry guitar and bass. With this track especially, the final result of blending these "different styles" is an album that's going through a kind of identity crisis. 
"The Truth," the album's fourth song, again calls emo-rock bands like Lostprophets to mind with its moan­like vocals and energetic electric gui­tar. The lyrics jump wildly from a carpe diem message to a bitter, post-breakup indictment. "Forget what I said/ You're only good in bed/ Or on your knees, knees/ Time doesn't wait for anyone." 
The strongest track on "No Really, I'm Fine" is probably "Appreciation and the Bomb," an eclectic little ditty that gets the band's desired style-bend­ing just right. With drums, irregular vocals and even the occasional jingle bells, "Appreciation and the Bomb" is a good track, even if only for the fun of seeing what the band will throw at you next. 
Some other highlights include "Battles," a track that adds to its melancholy mood with a slight south­western-feel in the guitar work. Additionally, the track "Saved," which opens with an almost Coldplay-like style, feels like it belongs on a sound­track for the junior high years ­though it's unlikely that you'll ever hear it on an episode of "Hannah Montana." Finally, "Connect the Dots" is a strong effort as a slow, whispery love song with a seamy underbelly to its lyrics. 

No Really, I'm Fine Spill Canvas Label: Sire/London/Rhino 



Recommend~ Tracks: "Lullaby," "Battles," "Connect the Dots" and ''The Truth" 
The album closes with "Lullaby," playing to the near-opposite of "Heckless Abandonment" with traces of banjo and violin. If "No Heally, I'm Fine" were a stronger record, this might be considered a full-circle progression. But with an ultimately confusing style and near-exhausted sub­ject matter, the Spill Canvas just feels like a regression in boredom. 
Contact Analise Lipari at 
alipari@nd.edu 


SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 


Broadcast Yourself " 
rwoke up to a or full of screaming eople? When this n-to-be-groom 
kes up to just that, 
is reaction is priceless. 
hot happens when. ou combine aterrible hooting hunter, and 
brain-dead deer? 

ilarity. 
For those who took piano lessons as akid, you probably played some of these songs at 
rrecitals. Not like this though... 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS . Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
NHL 

Sabourin's 20 saves aid Penguins in shutout 
Rangers top first-place Flyers, win fourth straight game; Carolina's Stillman completes a hat trick to defeat Capitals 
added second period goals as
Associated Press 
the Penguins padded the lead 
NEWAHK -The Pittsburgh to 4-0. Penguins finally hnld on to a The Sykora goal at 5:48 was two-goal lead. putting an end a turning point. Pittsburgh had to a two-ganw losing streak. blown two goal loads in the 
Sidney Crosby scored twice last two games. resulting in a and l>any Sabourin made 20 pair of losses. The third goal saves for his first shutout to gave the Penguins needed lnad the PPnguins to a 5-0 win breathing room. It also deflat­over the Now .Jersey Devils on ed the Devils, who had gone 2­Monday ·night. 0-1 in their last thrno games. 

Pittsburgh squandered two The score by Sykora was set goal leads in both losses. a !'act up by a great pass by Evgeni limy did not dwnll on. Malkin who centered a feed to 
"W1~ really didn't talk about slot despite being knocked to it," Sabourin said. "We played his knees. like it was 0-0 all the timo. Christensen completed a That's why we had success." give-and-go with Maxime 
Penguins eo<ll~h Michel Talbot at 11:18 for the fourth Therrien did not mention the Penguins goal. Pittsburgh dom­two-goal lwx until they had inated the period, outshooting built a 4-0 lead al'ter two peri­the New Jersey 10-3. ods. Crosby connected again at 
"We have to learn from our 3:28 of the third, sending mistakns." Therrien said. "I Brodeur to tho bench with was really improssed with the Kevin Weekes coming in to fin­wa~ we played tlw third peri­ish up. Brodnur gave up the od. live goals on 24 shots. 
Adam llall. l'etr Sykora and The only remaining suspense I·:rik Christenson also seored was Sabourin's bid for the their record to 2-2 at their new despite having forward Simon with the puck," Stillman said. for Pittsburgh. shutout. He preserved it with a home, the Prudential Center. Gagne back from a four-gamn "That ends up showing on tho 
Crosby and Hall had f'irsl. snnsational glovn save on Paul ''I'm not going to sugar coat absence due to dizziness. stat sheet after you have a period goals to give the Martin midway through the it." Sutter said. "Our commit­New York has scored an win." Penguins the 2-0 lead. Crosby, poriod, the toughnst of the 6 ment. tonight was unaccept­NIIL-Iow 25 goals this season Erie Staal added two goals tlw Nlll. loadPr in power-play shots he faced in the final peri­able. This was a big divisional and is tied with Columbus for and Hay Whitney and Matt points. irnprovml his total to 12 od. game. To come to the rink like best in the league with 23 Cullen had two assists for the by snapping a rnbound past ''I'm pretty happy to get the that doesn't cut it. I am sur­yielded. Hurricanes. who improved to Martin Brodeur at 12:09. shutout, but it was a big night prised, to be quite honest." "The guys really worked in 5-1-1 at home. 
Hall scored on a baekhand !'or the team," Sabourin said. the third period and didn't Cam Ward made :15 saves for doflection of a shot by Brooks "They played well in front of Rangers 2, Flyers 0 allow Philly to create much," the Southeast Division-leaders. Orpik at 16:19 to give me all night." The questions thrown at Lundqvist said. "We've played All three of Ward's regular Pittsburgh a two-goal advan­Devils coach Brent Sutter llenrik Lundqvist are posing like a team that's ahead 10-0 season shutouts have come tage. found few positives in his more of a challenge than the in the third period." against the Capitals. · S kora and Christensen team's effort which dro d pucks he is deflecting with rel­Philadelphia has lost eight of "It seems like I've had those ative ease. 11 to the Rangers, who tired a opportunities to get shutouts. 
There is no dear-cut reason season-high 45 shots at Martin but it always seems like they why the third-year goalie has Biron. It marked the fourth get a late one or something been so good and so durable so time in seven games the Flyers like that," Ward said. "It's niee far in the young season, but he gave up more than 40 shots to get rewarded." isn't pressing for answers. and the eighth straight first Washington dropped to 2-9-0 
Lundqvist earned his fourth period they were outshot -in its last 11 games and suf­shutout of the season, stopping this time 22-11. fered its first Southeast 30 shots, and Jaromir Jagr and "It's frustrating," l'orward Division loss. Alexander Somin Brendan Shanahan accounted Danny Briere said. "We'rp, try­(ankle), Chris Clark (ear) and for the offense in the New York ing to contain early in the Tom l'oti (groin) missed the Rangers' victory over the game instead of being the tnam gamn for the Capitals. Philadelphia Flyers on Monday that should put the pressure. "Any time you go on a stn~ak night. We wait until the second or like this losing. it's mwer fun," 
Not only has Lundqvist third period to start doing that. Matt Pottinger said. "It's still looked incredibly sharp, he has It's cost us a few games. early, but we have to do some­shown no signs of fatigue "It puts a lot of pressure on thing to right this ship. You despite playing all 14 games Marty back then~ to hold the don't want to get too far for the Hangers (7-6-1 ). fort. It's definitely unaccnpt­behind the night ball." 
"I don't know what to say," ablo." Stillman battled shoulder the 25-year-old Swede said. trouble last season. posting "Going into the season every­Hurricanes 5, Capitals 0 only 27 points in 43 games. body was talking about our The Carolina Hurricanes are Finally healthy after a torso offensive game. But we've been making it easy for Cory injury forced him to miss the playing a really strict game, Stillman. lirst four games of this season, defensive hockey, smart hock­Stillman scored a hat trick Stillman is showing the form of ey. The good part is it starts to just 11:28 into the game as two years ago when h1~ had 7o pay off." part of a four-point effort to points and helped Carolina win 
New York, which struggled help the Hurricanes beat !he the Stanley Cup. during a 2-5-1 start, won its Washington Capitals on Even after missing those four fourth straight to finish a 5-1 Monday night. games, Stillman has 19 points 
AP homestand. The first-place "The team's winning, we're to rank in the top 10 in the Flyers (8-5) were shut out for producing, we have eonfi­NHL. He's has at least one the first time this season denee, we have eonfidence point in the last eight games. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2j1.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
superproofer.com  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Omelet John,  
FoR RENT  TICKETS  PERSONAL  jwillys  not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support  former St. Mary s dining hall cook, invites  
bar and grille  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  his friends  
Blue & Gold Homes  WANTED • NO FOOTBALL TIX.  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- www.jwillys.com  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  to visit him at  
now showing  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  ONE WHO IS?  Monday:  information, visit our website at:  Bistro 933 in  
08·09 & 09-10.  You do not have to be alone.  35 cent wings  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg·  the Hilton Garden Inn,  
Bluegoldrentals.com  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  We want to help.  Tuesday:  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  most evenings.  
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester  ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964.  Call our 24 hour confidential hotline  $1 tacos  in THE OBSERVER.  The food is Bootylischous.  
sale.  www. victorytickets.com  at  Thursday:  If you or someone you care about  
$200 P/S just off campus 'alumni  1·800-No Abort or visit our web site  happy hour  has been sexuall)! assaulted, visit  Kim Fitzgibbon is  
owned".  ND tickets for sale. Best Prices.  at  buffet 5-7pm.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  really really  
Bluegoldrentals.com  57 4-288·2726.  www.lifecall.org  Now hiring servers  shtml  ridiculous good looking.  




OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team rf)cord pts. last 10 
Philadelphia 8·4-0 16 7-3-0 NY Islanders 7-4-0 14 6-4-0 NY Rangers 6·6-1 13 5-4-1 Pittsburgh 6·6-1 13 5-4-1 New Jersey 5·6-2 12 4·4·2 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts. last lO 
Ottawa 12·1·0 24 9-1-0 Montreal 7·3·3 17 5·3·2 Boston 7·5·1 15 6·3·1 Toronto 6·6-3 15 4-4-4 Buffalo 5·6·1 11 5·4·1 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Carolina 8-3-3 19 6-2·2 Florida 6·8-0 12 5-5·0 Tampa Bay 5-7-1 11 2-7-1 Washington 5·8-0 10 2-8·0 Atlanta 5-9-0 10 5-5·0 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last 10 
Detroit 11-2-1 23 8-2-0 Columbus 8-3-2 18 6-2-2 St. louis 7-6-0 14 5-5-0 Nashville 7-7-0 14 5-5·0 Chicago 7-7·0 14 5-5-0 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last 1 0 
Minnesota 8-4-2 18 4·4-2 Colorado 8·5-0 16 6-4-0 Calgary 6·5-3 15 5·3-2 Vancouver 6-8·0 12 4·6·0 Edmonton 5-9-0 10 3-7-0 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts. last 10 
San Jose  7-6-1  15  5-5-0  
los Angeles  7-8·0  14  6-4-0  
Anaheim  6-7-2  14  5·4-1  
Dallas  5-6-2  12  4-4-2  
Phoenix  5·7-0  10  4-6-0  

USCHO.com/CSTC Div. 1 Hockey Poll 
team  record  previous  
1  Miami (49)  8-0-0  1  
2  Michigan  7-1-0  3  
3  North Dakota  4-2-1  2  
4  Michigan Slate  6-1-0  6  
5  Denver  6-2-0  7  
6  New Hampshire  4-1-0  4  
7  Boston College  3-1-3  5  
8  Clarkson  6-2-0  11  
9  Colorado College  3-3-0  9  
10  Wisconsin  4-2·0  10  
11  Maine  4-2-1  12  
12  Noire Dame  6-3-0  14  
13  Michigan Tech  5-3-0  13  
14  Minnesota  4-4·0  8  
15  Minnesota-Duluth  4-1·1  15  
16  Rensselaer  5-2-2  17  
17  St. Cloud Stale  4-2-2  19  
18  Princeton  3-0·0  NR  
19  Niagara  5-2-0  18  
20  Massachusetts  3-2-2  20  

around the dial 
NBA 
Clippers at Bulls 
8:30 p.m., COMCAST 
MLB 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Standing on a center-field stage at Dodger Stadium, Joe Torre pulled on his new cap and jersey for the first time Monday as the sun peeked through an overcast sky. 
"I hope it stays out," Torre said with a smile, presumably speaking figu­ratively as well as literally. 
Only minutes earlier, the ballpark was shrouded in fog, similar to the past 19 seasons for one of base­ball's most storied franchis­es. Los Angeles has one playoff victory since win­ning the 1988 World Series, but its new manager hopes to change that. 

"The expectations are high here," said Torre, who rejected a one-year offer to stay with the New York Yankees last month. "I think we're going to make everybody proud of the product we put on the field." 
Flanked by Hall of Fame manager Tom Lasorda and broadcasting great Yin Scully, Torre received a lav­ish welcome to the Dodgers' family and immediately paid tribute to their win­ning tradition. 
"I didn't sleep all night," he said. "It's just a great feeling to be here. This is one of a handful of organi­zations you automatically 
IN BRIEF 
Johnson returns to Bengals
after injuring neck 
CINCINNATI -Chad Johnson winced when he got up from his locker Monday and walked stiffly into the trainer's room, showing the effects of a strained neck suffered during the Cincinnati Bengals' latest loss. 
Coach Marvin Lewis said the Pro Bowl receiver could play Sunday in Baltimore, assuming the neck con­tinues to heaL 
"He's fine," Lewis said. 
Sure didn't look it. Or sound like it. 
Johnson was hit by Bufl'alo's Donte Whitner while he tried to make a diving catch during the closing min­utes of a 33-21 loss that left the Bengals stranded at 2-6. Johnson lay on his chest for several minutes, and was carted off the field as a precau­tion. 
A test at a Buffalo hospital found no serious injury, and Johnson flew back to Cincinnati with the team. 
say yes to." 
But he also pointed out he'll have a lot to learn in his new job. 
"I don't know my team, obviously," said Torre, who replaces Grady Little in the Dodgers' dugout. "I've been in the American League the last 12 years." 
The 67-year-old Torre won big in New York, guid­ing the Yankees to four World Series champi­onships, six AL pennants and playoff appearances in all12 years as their manag­er. He becomes the second person to manage the Yankees and Dodgers, join­ing Casey StengeL 
Torre grew up in Brooklyn when it was home to the Dodgers. But he root­ed for the rival New York Giants, a fact he apologized for right away Monday. 

"You look at this uniform, I remember when it was Brooklyn," Torre said while looking down at his No. 6, the same number he wore in New York. "These things are very vivid to me. Carl Furillo wore No. 6. There was a certain pride factor that I associated with this organization." 
Torre said Don Mattingly and Larry Bowa will accompany him from New York as two members of his coaching staff in Los Angeles. Mattingly lost out to Joe Girardi for the Yankees' managerial job. 
Wade practices for first 
time in six months 
MIAMI-Dwyane Wade's surgically repaired knee survived its first real test with no setbacks. 
During Wade's first full-contact prac­tice this season with the Miami Heat, rookie center Joel Anthony threw his 6­foot-9, 260-pound body toward the 2006 NBA finals MVP as the guard headed toward the basket. 
Wade didn't mind whatsoever. 
After six months, he was more than anxious to see how he'd handle getting fouled again. 
"It fmally came," Wade said. "I need­ed to go get that first hit and I appreci­ate Joel for that." 
The good news for the Heat was that Wade reported no problems related to his left knee or left shoulder -both of which were operated on May 15 ­after practice Monday. 
The bad news for the franchise is that Wade still doesn't know when he'll be ready to return to the Miami lineup. 
Feedback causes unusal 
noise during Colts broadcast 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts contend the debate about the decibel level in the RCA Dome is merely noise, and now they have the NFL taking their side. 
A day after some unusual sounds were heard during the Colts-Patriots broadcast Sunday, the NFL issued a statement saying what sounded like simulated crowd noise was actually created by the CBS production crew, not the Colts. 
"CBS has informed us that the unusual audio moment heard by fans during the Patriots-Colts game was the result of tape feedback in the CBS production truck and was isolated to the CBS broadcast," the league said. "It was in no way related to any sound within the stadium and could not be heard in the stadium." 
Network officials did not give any additional details. referring only to the league's statement. 
Tuesday, November 6, 2007

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
I  -­ 
'  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  
i  - 




MEN AGAINST VIOLENCE PRESENTS: America's Leading Anti-Sexist Male Actilist 

on 

More Than aFew Good Men: ALecture on American Manhood 
and Violence Against Women 
An educator, author and filmn1aker, Jackson I<atz 
is internationally recognized for his groundbreaking work in the field of gender violence prevention education with tnen and boys, particularly in the sports culture and the tnilitary. He has lectured on 
hundreds of college and high school campuses and has conducted hundreds of professional trainings, seminars, and \vorkshops in the U.S., Canada, Australia and Japan. He is the co-founder of the ~fen tors In Violence Prevention (~;fVP) program, the leading gender violence prevention initiative in professional and college athletics. He is the director of the first world\vide domestic and sexual violence prevention progran1 in the United States Niarine Corps. l-Ie is also the creator and co-creator of educational videos for college and high school students, including Tough Guise: Violence, !v1edia, and the Crisis in Masculinity (2000), Wrestling With !v1anhood (2002) and Spin the Bottle: Sex, Lies and Alcohol (2004). His new book, The Macho Paradox: \Vhy Some ~fen I-Iurt Won1en and Ho\v 1\ll j\fen Can Help, was published by Sourcebooks in 2006. 
Tuesday, November 6th, S PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
President's Office, Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention, Men Against Violence, Gender Relations Center, Gender Studies, Student Government, Graduate Student Union, IDND, Feminist Voice 
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Roethlisberger's 5 TD passes dominate Ravens 
Steelers QB ties Pittsburgh's single-game record; Baltimore loses chance to lead AFC North, beat Steelers for fourth straight time 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Halfway through the first quarter, the overwhelmed Baltimore Havens probably thought they were playing today's Steelers and all of Pittsburgh's Super Bowl stars of the past. 
Turns out they were. 
Bon Hoethlisberger tied the Steelers' single-game record with five touchdown passes in the first half and Pittsburgh put on a Steel Curtain-like defensive show forcing four turnovers before halftime in a 38-7 victory over Baltimore on Monday night. 
The Ravens (4-4) had a season, whooping it up and chance to tie for the AFC North pounding each others' backs 
lead by beat- with every big hit  
ing  the  and turnover.  
Steelers (6-2)  "It was a magi­ 
for a fourth straight time dating to 2005.  "I wouldn ,t even know how to begin to characterize this. ,,  cal night to have those guys come and show their support," said  
In  reality,  Hines Ward, him­ 
they had no chance at all.  Brian Billick Ravens coach  self a member of the Steelers' all­ 



Not with all the big names -Mean Joe Greene, Jack Ham, Franco Harris, Terry Bradshaw -who gathered to celebrate the Steelers' 75th 
time team that 
was honored at 
halftime. "You 
want to put on a show for those guys." Did they. The Steelers forced three 
fumbles in the first quarter, with James Harrison hitting All-Pro safety Ed Reed so hard on a punt return the ball flew nearly 15 feet before Pittsburgh recovered. Four plays later, Hoethlisberger found Santonio Holmes for 15 yards on the first of their two opening-half touchdown pass plays and a 14-0 Steelers lead. Holmes had 110 yards on four receptions. 
Right about then, it was becoming obvious this wouldn't be a repeat of Baltimore's two routs of the Steelers by scores of 31-7 and 27-0 a season ago. 
Then, Roethlisberger was sacked 14 times and threw four interceptions. 
This time he was near per­fect, going 13 -of-16 for 209 yards with no interceptions. 
"I wouldn't even know how to begin to characterize this," Ravens coach Brian Billick said. ''I'm just glad it's a short week and we don't have time 




Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Now Leasing for 2008-2009 
424 N. Frances Street 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 


(574) 234-2436 

To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 


to dwell on this." 
Harrison, a non-drafted free agent once cut by Baltimo-re, became a starter this season after former Pro Bowl line­backer Joey Porter was released. He seemed to tor­ment Ravens quarterback Steve McNair on nearly every down. 
Harrison had two forced fumbles, a fumble recovery and interception and 2 1/2 sacks before halftime in a Jack Lambert-like performance. Lambert, coincidentally, was one of the few members of the Steelers' 75th anniversary all­time team who didn't attend. 
"I haven't seen anyone play a game like that since high school -not in college or the NFL," linebacker Larry Foote said. "But we knew we were going to dominate. You could just tell in practice." 
Harrison could tell when the game started. 
"To tell you the truth, it seemed like everything was working," Harrison said. 
and Harrison recovered him­self at the 20. Roethlisberger responded by stepping out of the Ravens' pass rush to hit tight end Heath Miller on a 17­yard scoring pass midway through the first quarter. 
A familiar pattern then set­tled in: the Ravens would turn the ball over, and the Steelers would score in a hurry as Hoethlisberger also threw two TO passes to backup Nate Washington. 
Harrison and Anthony Smith forced another fumble apiece, and Harrison jumped a McNair pass for an interception. McNair was 13-of-22 for 63 yards before being pulled in the fourth quarter, about the time the early departing fans from the crowd of 63,457 were creating a huge traffic jam around Heinz Field. 
"It ain't hard to correct what's wrong. Just don't turn the ball over and make people beat us," linebacker Ray Lewis said. "They got the ball four 
times inside the 
30. You can't do 

"It was a little that and play
"To tell you the truth, 
more satisfying championship because it was it seemed like football." Baltimore and everything was It was a bad they cut me." night all around
working.,,
Former coach for the Ravens. Bill Cowher got Running back the crowd James Harrison Willis McGahee going by mak­Stealers linebacker was pulled with 
ing a previously unannounced on-field appearance shortly before the opening kickoff as a steady rain fell. 
Once they got started, the Steelers lived up to coach Mike Tomlin's pregame prediction they would feed off the noise and enthusiasm. 
"Coach Tomlin said all week the team that was more physi­cal would win," Ward said. "Last year Ben got beat up against them but today we were more physical." 
Harrison's hard hit caused Steve McNair to fumble on Baltimore's first possession a concussion 
after gaining 50 

yards on 12 car­ries, and will be evaluated Tuesday. 
Roethlisberger, still in the game with the Steelers holding a 28-point lead, was pushed to the turf by Terrell Suggs on a 45-yard completion to Holmes in the third quarter, but returned early in the fourth quarter after having his right hip examined. His five TO throws gave him a career­record 20 in half a season, two more than his previous single­season high of 18. 
"It's OK, I'm fine," he said after the game. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
NFL 
Cutler's injury not -worst case scenario 
MRI shows no stress fracture in left leg 
Associated Press 
EN(;LEWOOI> -Broncos quartnrback Jay Cutlnr donsn't havn tho hairlirw fr<u:ture in his lofting lw fearod. 
An Mill on Monday was nng­ativn. hut coach Mike Shanahan said lw didn't know if Cutlor would practiep mueh this wonk or bo undnr ctmtnr Sunday at Kansas City. 
"lin doesn't have a stress f'radun~. which is a positive," Shanahan said. "Tho X-rays wm·11 rwgativn, tho Mill was nogativo. So, we'll son how sorn lw is. Hight now he's quito so n~ . And we'll gnl a ehancn to son and Tennessee's VineP Young. IIn took over the starter's job from Jake Plummor with live weeks lpf't in the season and became the first rookie in league history to throw for multiple touchdowns in each of his tirst limr gamns. 
Patrick Hamsey replaced Cutler and would start against the Chiefs if' Cutler ean't go. Tho Broncos would have to sign anothPr quart.nrbaek in that case, and onn possibility is practice squad player Darrell llackrwy. 
Because the Broncos keep only two quarterbacks on their 
53-man roster. 
long-snappPr 
Mike Lnaeh was 

how ho fnnls "fie doesn't have a rwxt in line () n Sunday had
stress fracture, which 

Wndrwsday." Hamsp,y gotten
is positive. " 

Cutler. who hurt. dec Ii rw d to "Nothing c o rn rn ~~ n t Mike Shanahan against Miko, Monday. took but he's never
Broncos head coach 

a lwlmnt to his lownr leg, which was badly bruised. in tlw lirst half of tlw Broncos' 44-7 loss at l>Plroit on Sunday. lie was carted ofT tlw field and although immediate X-rays were negative, Cutler said he fean~d his leg was brokon. 
"You rwver know for sure until you get an MHI if thorn's a stress fracture," Shanahan said. "Tiwrn's no strnss frac­ture. Thnrn is a bruise. It's badly bruised. We'll sen what the recovery time is." 
I>densivP Pnd Cory Rt~dding dived at Cutler helmet-first at the end of the play in which Shaun Hogers sacked the sec­ond-year quarterback. Shanahan said he didn't see the hit, but "if he did do some­thing illegal, obviously, he'll get lined for it." 
Cutler was the 11th pick in last year's draft out of Vanderbilt. tlw last of the "Big Three" quarterbacks chosen behind Arizona's Matt Lnincrt taken a rPp at 
quartnrback and 
I was going to do everything I could to stay in there and finish tho game for us," said Ramsey, who com­pleted 29 of 46 pass11s for 263 yards with one touchdiJwn and one intp,renption. 
Leach was practicing taking snaps on the sideline late in the game. 
"Someone referred to it as a 'break glass in case of emer­gency' kind of situation," Leach said. "And you know there's not a lot of high expec­tations at that point, so I just go out and do my bPst and see what happens." 
Leach would have simply handed ofT, but he did throw a pass once at William & Mary, completing a 9-yard toss on a fake punt.. 
Also, X-rays were negative on wide receiver Glenn Martinez (ribs), who has got­tnn plenty of playing time with No. 1 receiver Javon Walker recovering from knee surgery. 


MLB 



Veteran gets a major chance 
Former third-base coach succeeds Tracy as Pittsburgh's manager 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH -John Russell 
is a humble guy who spent 
rn ueh of his career in the 
minors. He lacks a marquee 
name or a big-time resume, 
and he was fired as a coach 
two years ago by the Pittsburgh 
Pirates. 

Is this really the best person that very same Pittsburgh team could find to become its new manager-someone the dub's pnwious leadership let go? 
Pirates president Frank Coonelly and general manager Neal Huntington insisted Monday that's exactly why they hired Hussell, who has man­aged at every levPI of baseball except the majors. 
Specifically, because he is the best man for a job many think is next to impossible: remaking the Pirates into consistent win­ners again even though they're coming off 15 consecutive los­ing seasons. 
"I know the system we have will work." said the 46-year-old Bussell, known in the minors for getting the most from his teams. "There arc a lot of areas in which we can improve, but we have the pieces here to win games. And we're here to win." 
As for his previous tiring by the Pirates, he said: "Two years ago was two years ago. It's a different time. What happened back then was back then." 
Russell promises no team in the majors will work harder than his, and everyone in uni­form will be accountable on a daily basis, from the manager on down. The idea is to stretch the Pirates' arguably thin tal­ent to the maximum and squeeze out victories any way possibln. 
Or, exactly what Coonelly and Huntington wantPd to hear during a long managerial search that began Oet. 5, when Jim Tracy was lirnd aftP.r two seasons and 189 losses. Husstdl was hired exactly a month later. 
"It's being a tireless instruc­tor. it's being a tireless comrnu­nicator," Huntington said, explaining Hussell's qualities. "It's instilling pride and expect­ing things to be donn the right way. It's holding the staff aecountable and the players accountable." 
Thn Pirates haven't won more than 71J games sincP 1992. ynt Hussnll suggnstnd he's tired of !waring why Pittsburgh c:an't win. No doubt he heard plnnty of sueh talk as the Piratos' third basp, coach from 2003-05 under former managtw Lloyd MeCltmdon. 



. : Goffee at the Gomo 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesbran. and bisexual members of the Noire Dame family. their friends, and. supporters to an rnformal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Evef)'l)ne is welcome and confidentialtty Is assured. 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 

STUDENTS 

Tuesday, November 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
KC's running back sustains foot sprain 
Johnson injured during game vs. Green Bay 
., 
NBA 

Dallas wins in close game 
. 

Terry's 31 points carry Mavs past previously unbeaten Rockets 
Associated Press  
DALLAS  - After  being  a  
starter most of his first eight  
seasons  in  the  NBA,  Jason  
Terry is coming olT tho bench  
this year.  
And he's thrilled.  
Heturning  to  a  role  he  
excelled at in college, Terry  
showed how much of a spark  
he  can  provide with his per­ •  
l'ormance Monday night. scor­ 
ing 31  points and guiding the  
Dallas Mavericks on a late 14-4  
run that carried them past the  
Houston Horkcts 107-98.  
"lie just had that look in his  
eye and his shot really looked  
good," coach Avery Johnson  
said. "We  an~  very surprised  
when he misses; we'rn kind of'  
spoiled these days."  
A starter for Dallas in the  
finals two years ago and on the  
club that won  67 games last  
season, Terry showed his lead­ 
Prship late in the third quartPr,  
seoring snven straight points  
with Dirk Nowitzki and Josh  
Howard  on  the bPnch in foul  
trouble. Then he opened the  
fourth quarter with a 3-pointer,  
a  personal 10-0 run that took  
the Mavericks from down by  
five to leading by five.  
"Not that I can flip  a switch,  
but without those guys out  
there, I've got to look for my  
shot." Terry said.  
Dallas  was  up only 91-90  
when Terry started the winning  
burst with two free throws. He  
also fed Nowitzki on two bas­ 
kets and hit two  more  free  
throws to cap the spurt with  
the Mavericks in control 105­ 
94.  
Nowitzki had 19 points on 7­ 
of-20 shooting, including a  3­AP  
pointer that bounced in off the Rockets center Yao Ming defends against Mavericks center  
front rim for a  big emotional DeSagana Diop in Dallas' 107-98 win Monday.  
boost during the gamebreaking  
run.  He  also  had  nine  Adelman hopes to put the les­ in league history before getting  
rebounds.  Howard  had  21  sons learned to good use right  bounced in the first round of  
points  and  DeSagana Diop  away.  The  Spurs  play  in  the playoffs.  
added 10 points, 13 rebounds  Houston on Tuesday night.  Johnson has tweaked things  
and  four  blocks.  Jerry  "It's tough but that's our chal­ this year, making Devin Harris  
Stackhouse scored 16 points on  lenge," he said. "We have to  his starting point guard and  
his 33rd birthd~y, including five  learn how to beat a good team  Terry his first sub. Johnson has  
in the final rally.  and get more people involved."  shown his commitment to the  
The Rockets came in riding a  The Rockets shot 42 percent,  plan by keeping Terry as his  
3-0 start and  a  nice roll by  and that was boosted by hitting  top reserve even though Harris  
Tracy McGrady, who earlier  50 percent in the opening quar­ has missed the last two games  
Monday  was  named  the  ter. They also were hurt by  with a bruised left thigh. J.J.  
Western  nobody other  Barca started both games; after  
Conference's  than McGrady  a  terrific performance last  
first player of the week for this season.  "''m going to go out there and give us what  and Yao crack­ing double dig­its.  time, he struggled this time, with Terry starting the second half.  
While he had 35  we need, a good punch  McGrady,  Terry started 558 of the first  
points and eight assists, and Yao Ming had 21  off the bench every night."  who came in as the league's leading scorer,  654 games of his career, including 80 each of the last two seasons, but he embraced  
points  and  11  was 12-of-31.  Johnson's  plan,  reminding  
rebounds, it wasn't enough to prevent  Jason Terry Mavericks guard  He had 28 points through three quarters,  everyone he won a national championship as a sub at Arizona. l-Ie's also set a goal of  
Houston from its  but  managed  winning the Sixth Man award.  
first loss under new coach Rick  only seven more with the game  He's off to a good start. having  
Adelman.  to be won.  averaged 20 points over the  
"We've  got  to  be  smart,"  The Mavericks are 3-1, which  games before this one.  
McGrady said. "They did some  is notable only because they  ''I'm very comfortable in this  
different things and we weren't  were 0-4 at this point last sea­ role," Terry said. "''m going to  
able to adjust.  ... It's a learning  son, with  a  41-point loss to  go out there and give us what  
process.  We've  only  been  Houston mixed in. Dallas went  we need, a good punch off the  
together for about a month."  on to match the fifth-most wins  bench every night."  

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY -Larry Johnson spent Monday under­going treatment and tests on his injured right foot amid fnars Kansas City's Pro Bowl running hack could he side­lirwd for an extended period. 
The Chiefs said Johnson sustained a mid-foot sprain wlwn lw was tackled from lwhind after a short gain in the fourth quarter of Sunday's :n-22 loss to Green Bay. lie was !wiped o/T the f'ield by two trairwrs and was unable to put any weight on thl' foot. 
The firth-year back. who set an NFL rPrord last season with 41 (, carries, has bonn off' to a slow start after missing ('amp bnl'orP signing a six­yPar. $45 million contract. 
I lis ahsPnre could be a blow to what is already one or the league's fePbi(~St offenses. It would also elevate Priest llolmes, the former Pro Bowler who has resurrected his (~arner after missing almost two full seasons with a spinal injury. 
"They're running some morn tests." coach llerm Edwards said late Monday af'tnrnoon. "!Johnson! came in to get treatment, but they took an MHI and they're still studying it. We won't know for sure until probably !Tuesday! sometime exactly what the severity is and if he's going to be out, and if' so. how long." 
!Iohnes had four touches on Sunday for 16 yards as the Chi<~l's (4-4) remained tied with San Diego in the AFC West. The 34-year-old former Pro Bowler has had only seven carries for 17 yards since he returned three weeks ago, capping a remarkable and entirely unexpected comeback from a career­threatening spinal injury in October 2005. 
I Iolmes would probably split 

duty with rookie Kolby Smith, 
who was taken in the fifth 
round out of Louisville, but 
has barely gotten on the field. 
"I don't see Priest carrying 
the ball more than 15 times," 
Edwards said. "Kolby's going 
to have to carry it some. lie's 
played more football this year, 
counting the preseason. than 
Priest has. You don't want to 
wear Priest out." 
Tlw Chids would prefer to 
have one featured baek. 
"We've got to do it by com­
mittee a little bit." Edwards 
said. "If wn've got to do it that 
way, we've got to do it that 
way. You'd like to have a 
mainstay who you know can 
carry it 20 times and give the 
other guy thn extras. I don't 
know if' Kolby can carry it 20 
times. Who knows'?" 
Consistency is what's often 
missing when runners share 
the load, Edwards said. 
"It's the consistency of the 
runner. lie's real familiar with 
how the line is going to block 
things and the line is familiar 
with how hn's going to run. It 
all works together. Certain 
runners run certain ways. 
The linemen know where he's 
going to be on certain runs. 
And the runner gets a good 
feel for the blocking in front 
of him." 
Kolby was drafted to be 
Johnson's backup. 
"Before Priest came back, 
Kolhy was kind of being 
groomed to be that second 
guy," Edwards said. "Priest 
comes, and that kind of puts a 
different spin on it. II' Larry 
does miss some time, then 
we're going to find out about 
Kolby, which is good. He could 
be that second guy." 
Holmes, who scored on a 2­point conversion after Johnson went out, has worked hard to get in shape. But no one is sure if he's regained the feel and timing ·that made him a three-time 
Pro Bowler. 
Siz~le'ne (Sizzlelini®)­EveryTuesday enjoy our Sizzlelini"' Specialty (enough for two) for just $1 0.95 Asizzling skillet of tender· chicken. savory sausage or both served with 
a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;:qe11e (Bellini) ­Afrosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2 
Ti.iz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 


"Pe.r,~ AN 
,•,T~C-4IHniE<"N~~I::----1 
$ 
Unmistakably Italian 1,Unbelievably Good 
5II 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
the last minute. yelling words of goal from inside the Cavanaugh Farley 21, Walsh 19 Murphy, the defensfl shut down encouragement and playing five-yard line, but the Chaos Walsh mounted a furious sec­the high-powered Walsh attack,
Weasels 
tough defense. With close drives defense solidified and stopped ond-half rally Sunday, but its allowing no first downs and forc­deep into Welsh Family territory the march. comeback bid fell just short ing an interception and a safety
continued from page 24 
late in the game, the Lions man­Cavanaugh used its goal-line when it lost to underdog Farley on the first three drives of the Sunday to advance to the semifi­aged to keep the game close, but stand as a springboard for its 21-19. The loss was the first of second half. The safety gave nals. the Welsh Family defense defensive success for the rest of the season for Walsh. Farley a 21-7 lead. 
Although the Whirlwinds came recorded three sacks and pre­the game. The Chaos put con­"We made the big plays," "That safety is what won us into the match heavily favored vented Lyons from getting any stant pressure on Pangborn Farley junior captain and wide the game," Rolfs said. "Our with an undefeated record and a ofl'ensive rhythm. freshman quarterback Gabbie receiver Jenny Rolfs said. "We defense played very aggressive." No. 1 send in the playoffs, the Still, the Lions remain opti­Tate as they racked up sacks finally did this game." The Walsh attack finally start­Lions played tough defense and mistic and look forward to next and forced Tate to rush her Walsh came out firing, com­ed to click with seven minutes to lwld the Whirlwinds to their sne­year. throws. pleting a reverse pass to sopho­go in the game. ond-lowost point total all season. "Our defense did a great job Cavanaugh put the first points more wide receiver Sierra Smith Senior quarterback Mary 
In tho end. it was two touch­and made key plays when we on the board in the middle of the on the second play of the gamll Sullivan led the Wild Women down passos by Whirlwind jun­needed them," senior co-captain second half during the first of for 25 yards. However, Walsh down the field on an impressive ior quartorbaek .lonny Gargula Katie Mackin said. "The under­three straight drives that led to was turned away on a fourth­four-play, 75-yard touchdown that soparatnd the teams. Wnlsh dassmen on the team will make scores. Cavanaugh's first score and-goal to end the threat. drive. Family toarn captain Kelly Lyons a force to be reckoned came when junior quarterback Farley struck first, relying After the extra point cut tho Buslwlle replaced Gargula in tho with next yfmr." Katie Dunn connected with sen­heavily on the arm of quarter­deficit to 21-14, Walsh's defense soeond half. "It was really fun to mak1l it to ior wide receiver Elisa Suarez, back Emily Murphy and the soft again held and gave the ball 
"I was playing with a torn tho playoffs," junior eo-captain which put the Chaos up 6-0. hands of Rolfs. Midway through back to its offense with two min­bkop," Cargula said. "Wn docid­Judith Kaezmanlk said. After stopping Pangborn deep the first half, Murphy connected utes left. od to throw IBushollnl in thorn Welsh Family will face, in their own torritory, Dunn then with Holl's on back-to-baek A gutsy fourth down comple­wlwn tho ganw was undor con­Pasquerilla West on Sunday. connected with senior wide plays, the second of which was a tion to sophomore widn rec11iver trol." receiver Sarah Van Mill for her 30-yard touchdown. The scorn Megan I Iadley kept Walsh's final 
Cargula's injured arm doesn't Cavanaugh 18, Pangborn 6 second touchdown pass of the gave Farley a 6-0 lead. drive alive, and Sullivan seon~d soem to be stopping tho Cavanaugh dominated on game. The Chaos led 12-0. The Finest struck again, taking on a quarterback snoak to bring Whirlwinds on tlwir quest for defense from start to finish Dunn capped off Cavanaugh's a 12-0 lead before a 55-yard Walsh within two points. tho championship. In addition to Sunday and upset Pangborn 18-scoring with a late touchdown touchdown catch by Smith llowfwer, thn two point con­the two touchdown passes, (l to advancP to the smnilinals. run that made the game 18-0. brought Walsh within 12-7 at vnrsion l'ailnd, and the score Gargula eomplotnd 15 of 22 Tho game was scorolnss at tho Pangborn spoiled the halftime. remaim~d 21-19. passos with only ono intereop­half' because both tnams had Cavanaugh shutout when Tate The Farley defensn dominated Farley will advance to the next tion, which slw throw right trouble finding an offensive connected with sophomore wide the action at the beginning of' the round ol' the playoff's Sunday bnfon~ h a I fti nw. Tlw We Ish rhythm. Despite tho slow start, receiver Meghan Bescher for a second half. against Cavanaugh. Family dnfenso recorded its Pangborn dominated the game long touchdown pass. "We switched to a zone fourth shutout of tlw season. early. The No. 6 seed Chaos look for­defense," Holf's said. "Last timn Contact Andy Barker at 
"Wn'rn just rnotivatml to gnt to Tlw Phoxns intnrcepted two ward to their game Sunday we played Walsh, we played abarker 1 @nd.edu, JohnWhitty tlw stadium." Buslwllo said. Cavanaugh passns, then against Farley, billed as "one man-to-man and it didn't work at jwhitty@nd.edu, Mike 
Although tlw game markod the marched deep into Cavanaugh game to the stadium" by the very well." Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu, end of tlw season for the Lions, territory. Pangborn looked Chaos coaches. After opening up a 19-7 lead and Andy Ziccarelli at l.lwy kept up tlw intensity until poised to seorn, with a first and on anothnr touchdown pass from aziccare@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Waterpolo takes 2nd at Great Lakes Championships 
Rowing competes with top squads in Tennessee regatta 
Associated Press 
Men's water polo 
Notre Dame finished second in thn Great Lakes Con l'ernnee Championships to Grand Valley to elosn tlw regular season. The Lakers have bnen ranked nationally among the top teams all year. 
The Irish won the first gamn 15-6 over Ball Statn. Junior Tom Fletcher seortld three quick goals from the two-mnter position, while dassmate Pat Connors seon~d on a pair of brnakaways. Building a quick load, the squad rotated many players the rest of the game. S1~niors Paul Colianni and Josh Haycrof't scored two goals 


Recycle the Observer. 
each, while junior Avery Ambrose rifled homn two more goals from the perimeter. 
A vastly improved Ohio squad fought back from an early deficit as the Irish narrowly prevailed 8-7. Fletcher and Connors again led the scoring at the onset and the Irish need a power-play goal from Colin Dunn and two goals scored on drives by Damian Sharrat to seeure the win. 
Connors had three break­away goals early in game, and Ambrose scored on a lob shot as the Irish again built a lead and held off Dayton, 9-6. After the Flyers had moved to within two goals, Sharatt and Dunn both scored on set plays to set up the final pairing with Grand Valley. 

The Irish made a game of it early against the Lakers. Sharratt, Ambrose and Connors all scored in the first period from the Irish. However, the Lakers adjusted defensively and successfully counterat­tacked to race to a seven-goal lead at the half. Jon Kelly and Fletcher scored in the third period, but the Irish dropped the championship 16-5. 
Men's rowing 

On Saturday, Notre Dame traveled to Tennessee to par­ticipate in the Head of the Hooch for the first time. On a calm, clear day the Irish set their boats on the Chattanooga Hiver to face some stiff compe­tition. 
The Irish started the morning off racing in the open race. With no wind and perfect rac­ing temperature, the Irish felt ready to compete with Grand Valley, Texas and the U.S. National Team -and they did not disappoint. The first Irish four, coxswained by Julie Lambe with Jake Teitgan, Nick Springer, Scott Campbell and Matt Napierski finished third, behind two Grand Valley boats. 
The first and second boats were later put together to form an eight, coxswained by Lambe, to race in the men's title race. The eight finished fifth, which was high enough to guarantee a top-five seed next year, if the Irish choose to return to the Hooch. 

Though the U.S. National Team raeed, it only participat­ed as an exhibition team and did not accept place or medals. 
The Notre Dame novice crews took over the show in the afternoon, racing twice. As the wind picked up to a slight breeze, the first novice eight ­of Kevin Quigley, Cliff Hoberts, Kurt Krautmann, Michael Maggart, Michael Wagner, Greg Flood, Liam Leyden and Phillip Brunner, coxswained by Lisa Folkerth -finished third. 
Following the first boat, the second novice eight raced fin­ished third in the "college and club" race. 
Notre Dame will compete at home next week. 
Live, learn, and "\vork in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester "\vith the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
. If

r A ~sH··1·N T·. " N" R·' 
·G'.... RAM~
WA .·. ·. < " . :. « •• • . ~· , .. ' _ • 0 •• . •..•... ·. 
' ~ '" ,. . ,. '. ··" ... ' " <" 


INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE Tuesday, November 6, 2007 163 Hurley, 10:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. Stop by for I<rispy I<reme donuts! 
Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is November 15,2007. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Chargers 
continued from page 24 
As for the frontcourt, Notre Dame got just 12 combined points from Erica Williamson and Melissa D'Amico. 
"I felt we had a huge advan­tage there and we didn't take advantage of it," McGraw said. "I think most of our shots in the lane were drives from the guards. I think we have a lot of work to do to score on the block." 
After leading 51-32 at the half, Notre Dame opened the second half with an 8-0 run. 
Senior guard Tulyah Gaines went 8-11 shooting and scored 16 points before leaving the game because of an elbow injury midway through the sec­
ond half. The Irish as a team shot 50.6 per­cent from field­goal range. 
"I think we got a lot of layups," McGraw said. "I thought we missed a fair amount of shots, but I thought we did get some good shots close in. 
"We scored 96 points making 

four three-pointers. I like to Irish center Melissa D'Amico guards Hillsdale forward Katie see that." Cezat In Notre Dame's 96-64 exhibition game win Monday. Senior guard Charel Allen 
made only two field goals in the first half, but scored seven in 10 minutes of second-half play. She had three straight field goals midway through the second half, a streak that included a finger roll in the lane and an off-balance three­pointer. 
Peters had 
little bit behind her head, so she can get that shot off against bigger kids, which she did tonight," Charney said. 
The Irish also struggled to find a way to stop senior for­ward Julie Slot, who scored 20 points and made four out of 
five from three­
point range. 

seven points and "/ thought we missed "I thought 
nine rebounds Julie Slot was
a fair amount of
and also had five the best player of Notre Dame's shots, but I thought on the floor eight blocks. we did get some good tonight," Barlow was 5-of-McGraw said.
shots close in. " 
9 shooting and "She did every­scored 13 points thing that she with five Muffet McGraw could do to help rebounds and her team win."
Irish coach 
five steals. 
Junior forward Katie Cezat scored 23 points, had eight rebounds for the Chargers and consistently 
"! think we have a lot ofwork to do to score on the block. " 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
drained shots over Notre Dame defend­ers. 
"We probably should have put [freshman for­w a r d I Devereaux [Peters] on her earlier," McGraw said. 
Chargers coach Claudette 

Charney attributed Cezat's abil­ity to hit shots with defenders in her face to Cezat's unortho­dox shooting style. 
"She brings the ball back a 
Notes: 

+McGraw named Williamson the starting center for the reg­ular-season opener. 
"You can't take anything for granted, it could change the next day," Williamson said. "It's a privilege to be a starter, but I still know that [senior center! Mel [D'Amico! is a fantastic player." 
+Gaines injured her right elbow underneath the basket in the second half. She left the court, but returned after the game with an ice bag on the inside of the elbow. McGraw did not know the extent of the injury and said Gaines would have it X-rayed. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

defense and if we get blocks, that's excellent, but we have


McGraw 
to know to play defense, " continued from page 24 she said. On the other hand, the lot of work to do." Irish guards were fantastic 
MeGraw was particu­larly disap­pointed with her post players. She said the for­wards, unlikn the guards, were bad on both nnds of the eourt. 
ThP Irish scored most of their 
"! don't think we played smart defensively in terms ofwhen to block and when not to." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
in their plays in the paint. Lindsey Schrader set the tone early with multiple put­back layups that got Notre Dame the early con!'idence it needed for the game. Ashley Barlow 

points in the paint, but that improved her jumpshot over statistic is misleading. Irish the offsea­centers Erica Williamson and son and fin-MPiissa D'Amico combined ished 5-of-9 for only 12 total points (four with 13 
"I think if most our points were inside, it wasn't the centers. I was disappointed in their play tonight," McGraw said. "I think we had a huge advantage and we didn't take advantage of it. I think most of our shots in the lane were drives from our guards. I think we have a lot of work to do to get points from the block." 
Notre Dame's advantage was one of pure size. D'Amico (6-foot-5) and Williamson (6-foot-4) are both taller and stronger than Chargers forward Katie Cezat (6-foot). But in spite of that, Cezat was able to domi­nate the Irish post players, finishing with 23 points and eight rebounds. 
"[Cezat] was 
a post player. I 
was disap­
pointed in our 

from D'Amico and eight from points. "/ think ifmost our post defense Williamson). Barlow was points were inside, it because she On the stat shcnt. the Irish also pesky just shot over
wasn't the centers." 

blo(:ks were one major high­in the press, us," McGraw light, but not in McGraw's grabbing a said. "And I eyes. game-high Muffet McGraw thought we "I don't think we played five steals. Irish coach gave her a lit­
tle too much of a cushion and I thought she was able to go 
around us sometimes." 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at Irish freshman guard Brittany Mallory dribbles upcourt in Notre jfitzpa5@nd.edu Dame's 96-64 exhibition game win Monday. 
smart defensively in terms of when to block and when not to," she said. 
Fixing this problem, Williamson said, will take a eombination of increased mental and tactical effort. 
"We have to play sound 
The high­light for the Irish was Tulyah Gaines. Gaines drove the ball hard inside, finishing 8-of-11 shooting with 16 points before she was injured. 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~== 
Gonzalez scampered for an answering, tying the score 7-7 In what was guaranteed to be 10. They decided to go for the eight-yard touehdown on the sec­with a 30-yard pass to senior the last play of the game after touchdown, ratlwr than playing it

Ra01blers 
ond play of the extra period, giving receiver Pat Gotebeski. Dillon made a field goal in the safe with a field goal. 
continued from page 24 
Rabid Bats went three-and-out on 
the first attempt. and Ramblers 
junior Kevin Kelly li1rced a fumble 
on Zahm's last attempt. Siegfried 
picked up just Pnough to run out 
the mst of the dock. 
The Ramblers must continue to 
work hard if they want to reach 
the finals, O'Brien said. 
"We hope to be a competitive 
team, and wn ean do that by put­
ting some more things together," 
O'Brien said. "We would not have 
beaten Keenan or Morrissey with 
that elli1rt." 
Siegfried will face Keenan in the 
semifinals. 
Keenan 21, Morrissey 14 (OT} 
Despite early mi-;takes, Keenan's 
powerful running attack propelled 
the Knights to a 21-14 overtime 
vktory over defending champion 
Morrissey. 
After lhreing the Manor to punt 
on il'i first drive, Keenan fumbled 
on il'i first play from scrimmage, 
giving Morrissey the ball back on 
the 2·1-yard line. On the next play, 
Manor junior quarterback Joe 
McBmyer hit junior receiver Carl 
Andnrsnn fiw a touchdown, giving 
Morrissey a 6-0 lead. 
On its rwxt drive, Keenan 
responded by marching 65 yards 
down field in Pight plays, capped 
by a two-yard touchdown run by 
senior fullback Jon Papp<L'i. Pappas 
and junior running back Alex 
( ;onzalnz acTountPCI fin· 141 of the 
toudtdowns. 
Sophomore~ KnPnan captain Pat 
Bums said this run-dominatnd 
om~nsn was a liu~al point for the 
KnighL'i loading up to the game. 
"It's dnlinitdy something we've 
bonn focusing on in practic:e," 
Burns said. "We got away from 
!the running game! against 
Stanliwd and we just thought we 
should get back to lit!. We~ have a 
grc~at running bark and we figurnd 
we should just givn him the ball a 
lot and he'll just do what he can." 
After halting the Manor's ensu­ing drive with an interception early in the sneond quarter, the Knighl<> turned the ball over again, this tinw on the seeond play of their drivn. Again. Morrissny eapitalized hy seoring a touchdown on a Lhrnn-yard run by senior eaptain Nick Bnneomo. A sucenssful two­point eonvnrsion gave Morrissey a 14-71ead going into the hall". 
Still, Bencomo said, the mood on 
tho sideline W<L'i tense. 
"We knew Ktwnan was a good tnam, and we wPre going to have to kenp our intnnsity up," he said. 
Kennan's sideline, on the other hand, had an air of eonfidence. 
"There was [somn disappoint­ment!," Burns said, "but we all knew it was something that could be eorrneted. The only reason we wenm't a.hnad was [our own mL<>­takesl. There wa-; nothing wn were doing wrong in playing the game other than penalties <mel fumbles. A-; long as wn took those out of the game we thought Wf~ had it won. It was just a matter of executing." 
Sure enough, the Knights opened the second half with another 65-yard scoring drive, resulting in a touchdown for Gonzah~z <mel a 14-14 tie. 
Alter two of MorrL'iSey's second­half drives were halted by fumbles in Keenan tnrritory, the game went into ovnrtimn. 
Morrissey won the toss and deferred to Keenan. But again, Burns said, the Knight-; were noth­ing but eonfident. 
"We definitely thought we had the upper hand [going into over­time!," Burns said. "We knew our olfen.-;e was going to score. We felt pretty confident, it was just a mat­ter of stopping whatever they threw at us when we were on defem;e." 
the Knights a 21-14 lead. Three 
McBrayer incompletions stymied 
Morrissey's ehance to tie. 
After the game, Bencomo expressed disappointment in not being able to defend the Manor's title. 
"It would've bmm niee to win it again," he said. "We've been there and we know what it's like to win it. We knew if we got past this tough matehup we'd have a shot at it. It's disappointing it you can't win every year. We're just glad we had a shot to make a run for the title again." 
Asher 14, St. Edward's 7 Kevin Habil celebrated more than hi<> birthday on Sunday. 
The now-22-year-old senior quarterback completed 13-of-22 pa-;ses for 220 yards to lead Fisher to a 14-7 victory over St. Edward's in the frrst round or tlle playoffs. 
"We have a lot of faith in Kevin," Green Wave coach John Donovan said. "We'll defmitnly keep putting the ball in the air." 
St. Ed's controlled the ball early. It took fn~shman quartnrbaek Matt Abeling 15 plays and 16 minutes to score on a touchdown pass to junior rneeiver Hym1 Farrell. 
But Fisher wasted no time in 

From there, the game became one of costly penalties and the Stedsmen's inability to capitalize on opportunities. On the first play of their ensuing possession, Abeling threw a 65-yard scoring pass to freshman Sean Reed, but the touchdown was taken ofT the board by a holding call. With con­tinuing pressure from Green Wave junior linebacker Patrick Hessert, St. Ed's was unable to get a first down. 
The second half began with an illegal block called on Fisher, and it quickly beeame third-and-13 for the Green Wave. The Stedsmen could not stop the Green Wave, however, as Rabil connected with Gotebeski for 33 yards. Gotebeski scored on a six-yard touchdown pass five plays later to put Fisher up for good. 
"Today's game was a really good one," Donovan said. "It's the most fun I've had all season .... 
'This is the frrst time in the play­off.<> since any of us have been at Notre Dame, so this is really huge for us. This win was just a stepping stone to the Stadium." 
Fisher will takn on Stcmford this wnekend. 
Stanford 6, Dillon 3 (OT) 
beginning of overtime, Stanford junior safety Dave Costanzo stepped in at quarterback. He dropped back to pass, scrambled to avoid tl1e sack, and finally found freshman tight end Tom Smith at the goal line for the Stanford touchdown. 
That score, the Griffins first of the game, ended Dillon's season and gave Stanford a 6-3 victory. 
"We've played Stanford three times in the past two years, and have come out on the bottom each time," sophomore receiver Chris Cugliari said. "The game always comes down to tl1e la<>t minute." 
Not that any of the Stedsmen knew how this one would end. Even the players were confused about the rules ofovertime. 
Similar to college football, each team gets a chance to score. The ball is plaeed on the 10-yard line, and teams can either go for a touchdown or attempt a field goal. 
The Dillon offense took the field first. The Big Hed failed to put tl1e ball in the end zone but set up an easy field goal for sophomore kiek­er Hick Beuke, putting it ahead 3­
0. Stanford tl1en got its opportunity to score. 
After thren fruitless downs, the Griffins had li1urtl1-and-goal at the 

"I really have to hand it to our coaches," Smith said. "They had faith that we could go for it and not play for a tie." 
Dillon's best drive of the game came late in the seeond quarter. Sophomore running back Josh Stull rushed lilT 32 yards, and both Cugliari and sophomore receiver Brian Coughlin eaught pa<>Ses, giv­ing Dillon a first down on the 15­yard line. The drive was halted, however, when Stanford sopho­more Chris Gill intnrcepted a Joe Garigliano pass. 
The fourth quartnr saw more turnovers, the most important coming on a punt by Stanford. The ball hit a Dillon player in the hel­met and was recovered by Costanzo. 
"Dillon is a really good team. The only differcnee is that we made one more play than them," Stanford senior captain Rob Huth said. "If they had been any other seed, I would have no doubt that they'd be playing next week." 
Contact Peter Reisenaur at preisena@nd.edu, Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu, Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu and Meghan McMahon at mmcmaho2@nd.edu 

Tuesday, November 6, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG 
SAYS 11E£E. AN ND AN ALUM 
ALUMNUS I,;JArJT.S: WDVLDIJ'T bD 
t>t.JA To J>rq,vE. &-iPF> !HAT! T!-/E/Z.E. 
HAt> A i..<>IIE. C.Htl.b. HAS To ge_ 
ANOTI~E-12-. 
f;X?l-A/oJAT/0/J/ 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
G-IPP. THE Ho.R.SE.ME.N, HEIS""AN W/!1/NE.R.S RUNNERS-UP .. . ·----<' 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
:SHE'S OUt? NOTRE OAMI: SIRL. AND SHE PROMISED US THAT IF SHE WINS SHE'I.J.. I.ET US NAME THE DESIGN (WE'RE THINKJN$ "81$-PIMPIN-M0811.E-MUCI'­FICHIGAN-OF-DESTRUCTJON"...) 

WILLSHORTZ 

54 Turned blue, maybe 55"-deal!" 56 Kilmer who once played Batman 57 She raised Cain 58 Bridge capacity unit 60 Compete 


CROSSWORD 
Across _Bartle!, president on "The West Wing" 4 John of "Full 
House" 1 0 Voodoo charm 14 Org. that 
publishes health studies 15 Butt in 
16 One who may be caught off base? 
17 Food transportation ... that Harry Belafonte sang about 
19 Place for a footballer's pad 20 Indiana and Ohio are in it 21 Play ice hockey 23 Charles Lamb, pseudonymously 
24 ... that's an ambulance, in slang 
61 Declare 62 Cliff hangers? 63 Some like it hot 64 Word with 
telephoto or zoom 65 San Fernando Valley district 66 Doofus 
Down 
Poked 2 Communicates 
with online 3 "Phooey!" 4 Trig function 5 Tax cheat 
chaser, informally 
6 Alert for a fleeing prisoner, in brief 
7 Bullwinkle, e.g. 8 Japanese city whose name means "large hill" 9 Go after 10 Stick out one's 
tongue, maybe 11 Hold title to 12 Coffee, slangily 13 Corrida cheer 18 One time 22 Afternoon hour 24 Home run hero 
of '61 25 Icky stuff 26 Home of the 
Cowboys: Abbr. 27 New Jersey 
eager 29 Part of r.p.m. 30 Novelist Ferber 32 Mingle (with) 33 Make a choice 


For answers, call 1-900-285-5656. $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzletorum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
28 It ends in the fall: Abbr. 29 Shade of green 31 Helpful 32 Symbol of love 36 "Sometimes you feel like 37 ... that a rube might fall off 39 AI Jazeera viewer. typically 41 He danced in "Silk Stockings" 42 Put on the payroll 44 Stimpy's cartoon pal 45 Org. for drivers? 48 ... that may be upset 52 Place to load and unload 53 R & B singer MaryJ. _ 54 Sen. Feinstein 56 Pork chop? 
59 ... that's a· source of easy money 
Puzzle by Randall J. Hartman 
34 Crank up 43 Actor Benicia Toro
35 Keystone State 45 Party animal? 
port 46 Wish offerers
37 Rain delay roll­47 Soccer venuesout 49 Prop for 
38 Caterer's coffee Groucho Marx 
holder 50 See eye to eye 
39 "So it's you!" 
51 Plays parent to 40 Boot Hill letters 52 72, at Augusta 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Print answer here: 





ITJ"[IIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GRIPE CROAK BESIDE TROUGHYesterday's Answer: 
When the farmer bought the huge spread, he was -"DIRT" RICH 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tatum O'Neal, 44; Bryan Adams, 48; Peter Noone, 60; Art Garfunkel, 66 
Happy Birthday: This can be a very productive year if you take care of details and follow througjJ with your intentions. You will be able to deal with emotional matters and fix whatever has been causing you grief in the past If you keep things simple, you will make the kind of progress of which you can be proud. Your numbers are 4, 12, 14, 20,27,48 
ARIES (March 21-Aprll19): Like it or not. you have to pay close attention to your work, your peers and your competition today. Stay on top of what you do and don't allow anyone to twist your words or make you look bad. Not everyone will play as fairly as you. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 26): You've got the world by the tail so stop procrastinating and start to put your plans into motion. Personally and professionally you can make a difference. Someone will make a change to accommodate you in the end. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will be led astray by someone who pretends to have your best intentions in mind, so don't let your emotions blind you. Be clever and you will outsmart even your sneakiest opponent. Don't overreact 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): Keep things mellow. If you let your emotions get the better of you, a heated discussion will take its toiL Bide your time and let others make the mistakes. Make your home your haven. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Check out all sorts of real estate, investments and interesting proposals. You are bound to come up with something to help you dig your way out of a mess, situation or financial hole. You will need to reduce, revamp or recycle. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have to go behind someone's back in order to get things done your way. Don't feel guilty -· sometimes it's necessary. Nothing lasts forever, so stop banging onto things that are holding you back. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cL 22): Keep a tight lid on what you think and do. Someone is waiting to spread rwuors if you give reason. Don't get angry if someone beats you to 
the punch. Stop being indecisive and you will resolve that problem once and for alL 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a leap of faith. It's lime you took a chance. You have to put that need to make everything perfect aside and promote something you have done as is. It only makes good business sense. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be fooled by sweet talk. You have to put emotions, love and anything else that makes yon loopy on the backbwner so that you can keep a clear bead. Make a decision that won't break you financially, physically or mentally. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Take an unusual approach and you will throw ev­eryone off guard, giving you the edge. Money, love, intrigue and travel are all up for grabs. Aggressive action may scare some but you'll want the ones who don't run away on your team. Love is looking bot 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Use your bead and you will get ahead. Money is in the picture. This is a great day to size up your situation and prepare for the future. Think big but don't go overboard when It comes to the real deal. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may feel pulled in several different directions. Don't let anyone bully you into missing out on something you want to pursue. A chance to book up with someone who interests you in many ways can be set up. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are passionate, detailed, creative and original. You have great vision and you follow through with your intentions. You are drawn to the unique. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PLYAP 


[ J I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
FECEN 
j

I [I 
TESACK 
1 j

rJ [] 
www.jumble.com 
LAVOAW 
c__J.__.L>o.......'"'""'-<.L.--'---'

I [ I I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
~ HE WE:NT FOR A WALK ON A COL.D, WINDY r::AY, IT W6-­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 












PORTS
Tuesday, November 6, 2007 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND cruises by D-II foe in preseason garrze 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Six players scored in double ligurns as Notrn Damn defeat­Pd II illsdaln 1)(,-64 in an exhi­bition ganw Monday at the Joy1:n Center. 
The Irish nlwPr trailed in the ganH~ and led 15-4 six minutes into till' lirst half. With 10:49 lnft in tlw half, Notre Damn went on a I0-2 seoring run that muiPd with Gaines driving 
the length floor for  a  layup  
artPr  a  steal  to  give  Notre  
Damn a 31-13 lead.  

The Irish passed the ball efTm:tively and ereated shots well in the game. 
"We're just trying to lind the open player," sophomore guard Ashley Barlow said. "I don't think we did as well of a job as in our first exhibition game, but when we move the ball and find the open person, good things happen." 
But thern were a few things the Irish didn't do well. MeGraw said she was unhappy with tho defensive effort and the play of the forwards. 
llillsdale's 64 points were the most Notre Damn has allowed in the preseason since 2003­04, wh1~n the Irish defeated Northwest Sports XS-65. 
see CHARGERS/page 21 

Not good enough? 

McGraw dissatisfied, even in blowout win 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Damn won its seeond exhibition gamll Monday, scored at will in the paint and dropped 96 points on Div. II llillsdale, and still Irish head eoach Muffet MeGraw was not satisfied. 
"I was disappointed in our defense. I was disappointed in our effort defensively. We looknd laekadaisical," MeGraw said. "We looknd tired. Mentally, I just didn't think we had the foeus and intensity that we needed." 
The Irish gave up 64 points to the Chargers, the most points Notre Dame has allowed in an exhibition since the 2003-04 season when it gave up 65 to Northwest Sports. 
Although the Irish foreed 25 turnovers and bloeked eight shots, MeGraw said the defense was "awful" against the Chargers. 
"We need to be reintro­duced to the coneepts of defense, fundamentally in terms of boxing out, approach, containing the ball," McGraw said. "We were horrendous defensively . .. and so I think we have a 
see MCGRAW/page 21 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Siegfried shuts out.Zahm 
Keenan, Fisher, Stanford advance to semifinals as well 
By PETER REISENAUR, 
GRIFFIN DASSATTI, LAURA 
MYERS, and MEGHAN 
MCMAHON 
Sports Writers 
Siegfrind's march to Notre Damn Stadium eontinued, but Zah m's ended after a 6-0 Hamblers win Sunday at Hiehle Fiold. 
Undefeated Siegfried beat Zahm in a rematch of' a rnJ.,TtJlar­season ganw that ended in a tie. The difTen~ncn this time? The Harnblers defense stopped Zahm's high-powered rushing oflimse mid. 
Siegfried coach Patrick O'Brien was proud of' his team's tough­Iwss but said them were many errors that lw could rnetily. 
"We nuuiP mistakes all over the lield today. We were very fortu­down had the ball not been nate to win against such a good dropp!HI. while Zahm 's best team," O'Brien said. "Wn were ehanee came on the first drive just a little touglwr than Zahm after Siegfried mufli~d a punt. today." I Iowever, the Ham biers scored 
Neither team broke through in on U1nir opening drive of the sec­the first half despite decont ond .half' behind a powerful run­eham:os to scorn. Siegfried exe­ning game of their own. They cutml a well-designed Ilea flicker were led by junior running back that would have lnd to a toueh-Mareus Young, who picknd up a majority of the team's yards in the drive. Freshman quarterback Mike Gareia managed the game well on the drive and pick1:1d up 12 yards on a quarterback keep­er. 

Zahm had two more chances to scorn, but converted neither. The 
see RAMBLERS/page 22 



WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL PLAYOFFS 
Extra point failures doom Ducksvs. PW 
Welsh Fam shuts out Lyons; Farley, Cavanaugh also win 
By ALEX BARKER, JOHN 
WHITTY, MIKE GOTIMER, 
and ANDY ZICCARELLI 
Sports Writers 
Howard failed on both its extra point attempts and fell to defending ehampion Pasqucrilla West 13-12 Sunday in its 11rst appearance in the playofl's. 
"We have struggled with extra points all season," Ducks captain Mary Jenkins said. "We played very well on defense in the sec­ond hal(. but we just eould not convert when we needed to on offense." 
A conversion gave Pasquerilla West the victory, however. Freshman quarterback Graee Orians made the diiTerenee in the game with a pass to fresh­man Mary Forr to score an extra point for the Purple Weasels. 
"It was a disappointing loss for us. Our inability to eonvert really hurt our chanee to win," Jenkins said. 
The bright spots for Howard 
included two touehdown passes by freshman quartnrback Kayla Bishop to Jenkins. 
Pasquerilla Wnst's strong def'nnsive play was the key to its suceess, as it has been all sea­son. PW's defensive baeks had two interceptions and knocked down passes on each extra point 
attl~mpt. 

"We played well as a whole. We looked a little rusty eoming back from fall break, and it defi­nitely showed on oll'ense," sen­ior eaptain Tina Martinek said. "I am delinitely happy to win the game, but we will havn to play mueh better to beat Welsh Fam." 
lloward will return all of its players nnxt year and will look to build on this year's playoff appnaranee. 
The Purple Weasnls will movn on to play W1~lsh Family in the semifinals this Sunday for a chanee to make a second eon­seeutivn championship appear­ance. 
Welsh Family 14, Lyons 0 
In a game that was mueh clos­er than the score indicated. Welsh Family beat Lyons 14-0 
see WEASELS/page 20 




