
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 18 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER20, 2007 
Endowment jumps $1.4 billion 
Dramatic growth continues; in one year, total increases from $5.08 to $6.54 billion 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
The Notre Dame endow­ment pool has grown by more than $1.4 billion during the last fiscal year. making it like­ly the University will continue to rank in the top two or three American universities in investment performance, Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass said Wednesday. 
The endowment grew at an annual rate of 25.9 percent during the 2007 fiscal year ­among the top rates of return of all university endowments, Malpass said. 
This rate of return is markedly higher than the 
17.7 percent returns experi­enced by the TUCS Large Fund Median, a compilation of other endowment founda­tions and pension funds of more than $1 billion, Malpass said. 
The University endowment pool was $6.54 billion when the 2007 fiscal year endfld on June 30. A year earlier, the endowment pool was $5.08 billion. 
Investment strategies at Notre Dame differ from those at some peer institutions in that University investments must follow the guidelines of Catholic social teaching, Malpass said. 
see MONEY/page 9 

186 companies attend career fair 
Students meet with representatives; organizers say 600-800 interviews scheduled today 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Writer 
Students brought resumes for representativp,s of 186 companies at Notre Dame's fall career fair Wednesday in the Joyce Athletics and Convocation Center (JACC}. 
Though students say the fair appnars geared toward business majors, Lee Svete, director of the Career Center and an organizer of the fair. said all students could berwfit from the vari­ety of companies represent­ed. 
"There is actually quite a bit of the marketing area 
represented here tonight, which is a career suitable for any major," Svete said. "General Mills, Target [and] even Abercrombie and Fitch from the corporate levels are here. These are the peo­ple responsible for branding and such. These are cre­ative opportunities." 
Until 2001, Svete said, the fair was "only associated with the Mendoza College of Business. It was even held in the Mendoza building. Moving it to the JACC has opened up the scene for underclassmen as well as a variety of other majors." 
Still, Svete said, many of the companies present 
offered opportunities geared toward finance and account­ing majors. 
There were also opportu­nities for engineering majors to contact companies including Nestle Waters and Chevron. 
Though Svete is proud of the fall fair, he said, the second career fair, held in January, will be "less busi­ness driven." 
Saint Mary's junior and finance major Erika Lowe was prepared for the large numbe'r of companies pres­ent at the fair. She had done research and was ready to talk to possible future employers. 
"It is a little bit intimidat­ing, but you just have to get in there and talk to people. You can't hold back on opportunities like this," she said. 
Off-campus senior Brian Ronan, also a finance major, targeted representatives from investment banks and consulting firms. Going into the fair, he was not partial to any company but decided to scout firms in attendance. 
The fair was once geared primarily toward seniors looking for careers but has evolved into something accessible for sophomores 
see CAREER/ page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Face book prompts concerns 
Job hunters fear scrutiny in hiring 
By ROHAN ANAND and NICK BOCH News Writers 
Facebook, undoubtedly the most popular social networking site for college students, is now posing a problem for those ready to apply for jobs after gradua­tion. 
User privacy concerns are believed to be the most common reason why a growing number of students have chosen to discontinue their Facebook accounts. Until last year, Facebook access was limited to high school and college students by requiring a school e­mail address in order to create an account. 
Now that it is open to the public, more students are growing concerned about how easily their informa­tion can be accessed by non-students -particular­ly important individuals like potential employers in the job market. 
"Students aren't protect­ing certain parts of their Facebook," said Lee Svete, director of career services at Notre Dame. 
In the past, employers have joined Facebook, Svete said, "and invited students to bfl Facebook 
see FACEBOOK/page 8 

Author speaks on writing process 
Ann Cummins reads from 'Yellowcake,' a story about a Navajo family 
By KATIE STMK News Writer 
Acelaimed short story author Ann Cummins r11ad !'rom her first novel. "Yellowcake," and explained her character development process in an event Wednesday at Notre Dame sponsored by the Department of Economics. 
"Yellowcake" is set during the 1990s and focus11s on memories of a Navajo family living with the effects of working in a uranium mill. The 
see CUMMINS/page 10 


ND takes health research to U.N. 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 

Notre Dame and Purdue University researchers will present their work on global health initiatives Sept. 25 at a side event for the opening of the 62nd session of the United Nations General Assembly. 
This one-time event, spon­sored by the Permanent Observer Mission of the Holy See to the United Nations, is a chance to tell four stories from Notre Dame, said Dennis Jacobs, vice president and associate provost at Notre Dame. 
The event, entitled "Global Health in Focus," will take place at 1:15 p.m. in Holy Family Hall on 315 E. 47th St. in Nflw York City. 
Approximately 30 countries have received personal invita­tions to the presentation. Jacobs said, most of which are African countries that have been devastated by HIV/AIDs. The rest of the U.N. assembly has been invited as well, he said. 
The Notre Dame delegation, which will present some of the work professors are doing to 
see HEALTH/page 6 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 20, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


NLCentral in a nutshell 
As tho Major League Baseball snason 
winds down and tl1e divisional raens heat 
up, there is one division that has basnball 
wrltors puzziPd on who will take it. 
On tho one hand you have the young and vcwy talnnll~d Milwaukee Katelyn Grabarek Brnwnrs. The Brnwnrs wnrn not Sports Wire the big spnndnrs Editor this ofl'-season like the division rival Cubs, but instead chose to stick with home grown talent. Milwaukee fans have boon hearing for ynars from the Brewers. mueh like the Cubs, that the talent will eome soon enough. We just have to be patient. 
The Cubs, who have not been to the World Series since 1945 and have not won it since 1908, are looking to get baek to the playoffs for the first time since thnir heartbreak in 2003. The Cubs man­agmnent went out and spent big time money on free agents and rnsigning play­ers already within the organization. They spent $136 million on Alfonso Soriano fi1r night years in hopes of solidifying thn lead -oil' spot. 
Soriano has been a key trigger in the oflims1~. but his home run produetion is down this ynar, and strikcouL'i have plagund his ofl'lmsive numbnrs. Despite his numbnrs, Soriano has provided a great lwlp to the ommso in front of lkrrnk Lee and Aramis Ramin~z. 
Tlwy also spnnt $44 million on lel't­handed startnr Ted I.illy. Many qw)s­tionnd gmwral rnanagnr Jim Hendry's motivns fiw signing I.illy, never a big gamn pitdwr having pitdwd in Toronto for most of his earner. They also signnd .Jason Marquis, who was 14-16 with a high narrwd run average last season with thn Cardinals. Coupln thesn two ofl'-sea­son signings with the already vnry excitable Carlos Zambrano. and thn Cubs rotation will bn a force in a short playofl' snries. 
Then there are the Brewers. The Bfi)Wers line-up card packs quite thn punch, and their starting rotation is noth­ing to scofl' at. 
Long gone are the pownr-hitting play­ers of Hiehie Sexson, now in Seattle, and Jeromy Burnitz. The Brewers have a few new power hitters. The names of Prince Fielder, Hyan Braun and Hkkie Weeks probably do not strike fear in the minds of' too many ba.'ieball fans quite yet. but soon these three will become household names. 
Fielder has been lighting up score­boards aeross the eountry this summer, blasting 46 home runs to lead the Brnwnrs power surge. Braun has made a grnat showing with the fimner pushover Brewnrs. 
The Brnwers' rotation is not full of big name pitchers, with the exception of Ben SheeL<;, and Jnll'Suppan, an offseason acquisition from division rival Saint l.ouis. Sheets has always intimidatnd opposing hitters minds. With a knee buckling eurveball and at times over powering fastball, he has quieted many a bat. 
Overall, it seems to be the Cubs division to lose. While they wern 8.5 games b1~hind the Brewers as late as June 23, they have brought themselves back into the race, and the next two weeks both sets of fans will definitely be scoreboard watehing. Bewarn world, the Cubs and Brewers are the teams of the future. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @sain tmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due w an editing em>r, the anide in the Sept. 18 issue oflbe Observer tided "Cinalli leads Irish by example, pms squad ahead ofsdC said Amanda Cinalli was cl1e team's third caplllin in the program's 20-year history. She is the team's third solo captain in i!S history. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE ANY ANIMAL AS A PET, WHAT WOULD IT BE 



laura Lauck  Mark Lyons  Davina Passeri  Kara Trohaugh  Elizabeth Berger  Meghan Casey  
sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Knott  sophomore Cavanaugh  sophomore Cavanaugh  junior Walsh  sophomore Badin  
"The squirrel by  "A magical  "A dog. because  ''A horse, so I'd  ''A small mon­ "/ would never  
Mendoza,  Leopluradon, so  they're the most  never have to  key trained to  have an animal  
because he has  he could take  fun ofall the  walk to class. "  ride a minia­ as a pet. I hate  
a great personality."  me to Candy Mountain."  animal kingdom."  ture unicycle to ..entertain me.  animals."  





OFFBEAT 
Man bitten after putting 
snake in mouth 
POHTLAND, Ore. Snake collector Matt Wilkinson of Portland grabbed a 20-inch rattler from the highway near Maupin, and three weeks later, to impress his ex­girlfriend, he stuck the ser­pent in his mouth. 
He was soon near death with a swollen tongue that blocked his throat. Trauma doetors at the Oregon Health and Science University saved his life. 
"You can assume alcohol was involved," he said. Actually, not just beer. It was something he called a "mix-

IN BRIEF 
Eric J. Brown, director of the Department of Microbial Pathogennsis at the University of California, San Francisco, will deliver the lecture "Can Fish Heally Get Tuberculosis'! I Thought They Didn't Have Lungs" today at 4 p.m. in 2S3 Galvin Life Science. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will show a screening of the film "The Namesake" tonight at 7. 
Whirlpool's chief financial olli­cer, Ted Doseh will speak. Friday at 10 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium as part of the Mendoza College of Busienss Boardroom Insight ledure series. 
The Notre Dame Liturgical Choir will give a concert at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Friday at 7:30p.m. 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team will take on DePaul Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The FTT l~tlks lecture series will present "Screenwriters Showcase" Friday at 7:30p.m. in the Browning Cinema. Featured speakers are Larry Karazewski, Jim Jennewein and Stephen Susco. 
The Notre Dame marching band will present its Drummer's Circle outside the Main Building Friday at 11 :59 p.m. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart will oll'er a Vigil Mass 30 minutes after the Michigan State game Saturday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 77 HIGH 80 LOW 57 LOW 67 
ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Maddie Debot was safe at first in a game of co-ree softball played Wednesday evening at the Stepan fields. 

ture of stupid stuff." 
Calls from cable network television stations poured in Tuesday, when he still had sore muscles and nerves from the venom. 
It happened at a barbecue with friends. 
Vet extracts toy lizard from r~al lizard 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. ­Seven-year-old Finley Collins thought her pet 12­inch bearded dragon might be giving birth when she noticed an unusual protru­sion near the lizard's tail. 
But Finley's father, Jeff Collins, feared it might be something more ominous and rushed Mushu to an animal hospital, where a veterinarian pulled out a 7­inch toy rubber lizard. 
"I've never extracted a lizard from another lizard before," said veterinarian John Rossi. 
"The next thing I knew, I was seeing legs and a body and a head. It was very strange to be tugging on this thing," he said. 
By the time the rubbery lizard's legs began to appear, Hossi realized what it was. 
"We were all laughing," he said." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY GAME DAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
·Md

~ 
"'' ,,, < 
.._, l··,_
"'.! ~­

LLI 
~\ ~~ 
-?-----~

== 
....I 
' ~/t\ ~ 

c:( (.) 
...I 0 HIGH 80 HIGH 71 HIGH 88 79 LOW 65 LOW 59 LOW 60 57 

Atlanta 84 I 63 Boston 81 I 56 Chicago 80 I 58 Denver 89 I 54 Houston 92 I 72 Los Angeles 69 I 60 Minneapolis 78 156 New York 81 I 59 Philadelphia 81 I 58 Phoenix 96 I 74 Seattle 66 I 46 St. Louis 88 I 65 Tampa 86 I 72 Washington 80160 
Thursday, September 20, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Leaders address pollution 
Senators urge University to reduce emissions 10 percent by 2015 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
A resolution urging the University to pledge to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 10 percent by 2015 passed unani­mously in the Student Senate Wednesday. 
The resolution, presented by Student Environmental Task Force co-chairs Felipe Witchger and Zaeh Einterz, also calls for a long-term commitment to carbon neutrality. 
The Task Foree is a volunteer group of club leaders that meets occasionally to discuss ways to make campus more 
environmentally  friendly,  
Einterz said.  
The  resolution  describes  

global climate change as "one of the most serious challenges facing humanity today" and says Notre Dame has a "moral obligation to safeguard Creation for future genera­tions." 
The resolution cites the grade of D-received by Notre Dame on the 2007 College Sustainability Report Card as a reason necessitating the resolu­tion. The data used in the study, conducted by the Sustainable Endowments Institute, was questioned by University administrators, who said that no one from the Institute ever spoke with a University representative and that the information used in the evaluation came only from Notre Dame's Web site. 
Einterz credited the University with looking at ways to decrease energy use and increase energy efficiency and said it has expanded its recy­cling program. However, Notre Dame still lags behind its peers in environmentally sustainable practices, he said. 
"One of the reasons for that," Einterz said, "is our adminis­trative support hasn't been as strong as we would like." 
More work can be done by the University, Einterz said. 
The purpose of the resolu­tion, he said. is "for the University to publicly say they are committed to dealing with climate change in a concrete and definable way." 
The resolution acknowledges that Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves created the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee in January 2007. The committee's Web site says its intent is to "broaden energy and environmental awareness, report on Notre Dame green initiatives and advise University leadership on ceo-friendly opportunities." Witchger sits on the committee. 
Witchger said he did not have data on the current levels of greenhouse gases emitted by the campus. But he said 10 per­cent is a feasible goal for the University by 2015. Harvard University has reduced its emissions by six percent in the past two years, he said. 
"Ten percent is a very basic, a very small goal," Witchger said. 
If the University were more progressive, he said, it could probably reduce -emissions by 30 percent by 2015. 
"This ten percent would just give a public statement, saying the student body wants to take action forward," he said. 
In other Senate news: 

+ 
Some senators reported that concession stands at the stadium did not take their Domer Dollars. 

Concession stands behind stu­dent seating should take Domer Dollars, student body president Liz Brown said, but she said she would look into why they could not be used behind the freshman seating section. 

+ 
The Senate unanimously passed a resolution amending the Student Body Constitution. The amendment eliminated mention of the Student Union Board presidential division, which no longer exits. 


Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Bro"Wn: Wear black today, green Friday 
trial but not aware that Thursday By KAITLYNN RIELY was designated as a day to wea~ 
Assistant News Editor 
black in support of1he Jena 6. 
Brown said leaders of "The 
"The Shirt" solidarity day, origi­Shirt" Project and officials at the nally scheduled for today, was Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore postponed to Friday because of approached student government the previously scheduled national to encourage students to take part solidarity day on which people in a show of support for 1he foot­have been asked to wear black to ball team. show support for a group of six "We didn't select 1he day for a black teenagers particular rea­facing criminal son," Brown said. 
a "We didn't select the 
charges in "We were just in small town in day for a particular support of the Louisiana. cause."
reason. We were 
The African­Once 1hey real­
just in support of
American ized the conflict, teenagers the cause. ,, Brown and Braun known as the sent an e-mail to "Jena 6" the student body 
Liz Brown 
allegedly assault­postponing "The 
student body president 
ed a white Shirt" day until 
teenager follow­ing a string of racial flare-ups in the racially charged town of Jena, La. They were originally charged with attempted second-degree murder. 
Student body president Liz Brown and vice president Maris Braun sent an e-mail to the stu­dent body Tuesday evening encouraging students to wear "The Shirt" today to show support for 1he football team, which is 0-3 heading into its fourth game Saturday, against Michigan State. 
Brown and Braun said Wednesday that many people notified 1hem of the conflict after their first e-mail was received. They said 1hey were aware of the 
Friday and encouraging students to wear black today. 
"It was not the intention of Student Government to plan a day in support of NO Football on 1he same day as a national movement to support 1he Jena 6," the e-mail said. "This was obviously an over­sight on our part, and by no means a political statement or an attempt to overshadow 1he impor­tance of1his national issue." 
At 1he Student Senate meeting Wednesday, Brown recommend­ed senators and 1heir constituents wear black today. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 20, 2007 
The beacon in multi-million dollar investment decisions 
BainCapital is one of the wortd's leading private investment firms, managing more than $50 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit fuOOs. Sankatv• Adlisors, the credH affiliate of Bain Capital, is one of the nation's ledlg JXivate rnngers of high yield debt obligations, With approximately $22 billion in committed capital, Sankaty is aworld­class team of over 65 investment professionals with extensive experience analyzing and managing high yield investments. 
Representatives from Sankaty Advisors will be visiting campus throughout the year, speaking with undergraduate students about internships and full-time positions that will put your education to work on global, multi­million dollar investment decisions. 
Please look for us on campus in the coming months to learn more about the great opportunities we offer in Boston and London. 
Info Session: Thursday, September 20th Reekers/South Dining Hall (Hospitali~ Room), 6:30pm 
Resume Deadline: Tuesday, September 25th 
1st Round Interviews: Friday, October 5th 
For more information, visit us at www.sankaty.com. 




ORLD &NATION 
Thursday, September 20, 2007 CoMPILED FROJ'v1 TIIE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran warns of weapons readiness 
TEHRAN, Iran-Iran has drawn up plans to bomb Israel if the Jewish state should attack, the deputy air force commander said Wednesday, adding to tensions already heated up by an Israeli airstrike on Syria and Western calls for more U.N. sanctions against Tehran. 
Other Iranian officials also underlined their country's readiness to fight if the U.S. or Israel attacks, a reflection of concerns in Tehran that demands by the U.S. and its allies for Iran to curtail its nuclear program could escalate into military action. 
French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner said Sunday that the internation­al community should prepare for the possi­bility of war in the event Iran obtains atom­ic weapons, although he later stressed the focus is still on diplomatic pressures. 
Fiery meteorite strikes Peru 
I.IMA, Peru -A fiery meteorite crashed into southern Peru over the weekend, experts confirmed on Wednesday. But they were still puzzling over claims that it gave off fumes that sickened 200 people. 
Witnesses told reporters that a fiery ball fell from the sky and smashed into the deso­late Andean plain ncar the Bolivian border Saturday morning. 
Jose Mechare, a scientist with Peru's Geological, Mining and Metallurgical Institute, said a geologist had confirmed that it was a "rocky meteorite," based on the fragments analyzed. 
He said water in the meteorite's muddy crater boiled for maybe 10 minutes from the heat and could have given off a vapor that sickened people, and scientists were taking water samples. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Tennessee lethal injection halted 
NASHVILLE -A federal judge ruled Wednesday that Tennessee's new lethal injection procedures are cruel and unusual punishment, interrupting plans to execute a killer next week. 
The protocol "presents a substantial risk of unnecessary pain" and violates death row inmate Edward Jerome Harbison's constitution­al protections under the Eighth Amendment, 
U.S. District Judge Aleta Trauger said. 
The new protocol, released in April, does not ensure that inmates are properly anesthetized before the lethal injection is administered, Trauger said, which could "result in a terrifying, excruciating death." 
Troop bill fails to pass Senate 
WASHINGTON -Democrats' efforts to chal­lenge President Bush's Iraq policies were dealt a demoralizing blow Wednesday in the Senate after they failed to scrape together enough sup­port for legislation that would have guaranteed troops more time at home. 
The 56-44 vote -four votes short of reaching the 60 needed to advance -all but guaranteed that Democrats would be unable to muster the votes to pass tough anti-war legislation by year's end. The legislation, sponsored by Sen. Jim Webb, O-Va., was seen as the Democrats' best shot because of its pro-military premise. 
"The idea of winning the war in Iraq is begin­ning to get a second look," said Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., who led opposition to the bill alongside Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. 
LOCAL NEWS 

State reports first West Nile death 
INDIANAPOLIS -State health officials say a Floyd County resident has died from the West Nile virus, the first reported death from the mosquito-borne illness this year. 
The agency did not release the person's name or any other details. 
The department also reported that two new human cases of West Nile, one each in Lake and Vanderburgh counties. They bring to 1 0 the number of confirmed infections in Indiana this year. 
Health officials say the hot, dry weather this summer is perfect for the mosquitoes that carry the virus. Those over age 50 are at greatest risk from the virus. 
LEBANON 

More violence takes toll on diplomacy 
Six killed, including Lebanese politician, and 67 wounded in latest bomb attack 
Associated Press 

BEIRUT -A powerful bomb killed an anti-Syria lawmaker and six others Wednesday in a Christian neighborhood of Beirut, threatening to derail an effort by an already deeply divided Parliament to elect Lebanon's next president in voting to begin next week. 
Antoine Ghanem, a 64­year-old member of the Christian Phalange party who had returned from refuge abroad only two days earlier, was the eighth anti­Syria figure and fourth law­maker from the governing coalition to be assassinated in less than three years. 
Coalition members blamed Syria. Damascus denied involvement, as it has for the previous seven assassina­tions, including the 2005 bombing death of former Prime Minister Rafik Hariri -a killing that ignited huge protests that forced Syria to withdraw its troops after a three-decade occupation. 
Security officials said at least 67 people were wound­ed in Wednesday's blast, half of which had left the hospital by day's end. The explosion occurred at rush hour on a busy street in the Sin el-Fil district, severely damaging nearby buildings, setting sev­eral cars on fire and scatter­ing blood and debris along wanted to derail efforts by undermining efforts paid by these lives was another in a the street. majority and opposition lead­Syria and others to achieve campaign of terror by those 
Explosive experts were ers to reach some accommo­Lebanese national accord," who want to turn back the seen checking the engine of dation as they begin presi­Syria's state-run news clock on Lebanon's bard-win Ghanem's car, which was dential voting in Parliament agency SANA quoted an democratic gains," Secretary thrown more than 150 feet. on Tuesday. anonymous Syrian official as of State Condoleezza Rice A security official said the "It is the only regime that saying. said in a statement. bomb was likely detonated does not want presidential Many people fear the divi­"Enemies of peace and free­by remote control near elections in Lebanon to be sions over the presidency dom want to gain through Ghanem's car. held," Fatfat told The could lead to creation of two violence, threat, and intimi­
"I have never seen a more Associated Press. rival governments, a grim dation what they cannot win cowardly regime than that of President Emile Lahoud, threat to repeat the last two in free and fair elections." Bashar Assa's," lawmaker an ally of Syria, also implied years of Lebanon's 197 5-90 The assassination of anti­Saad Hariri said, blaming the Ghanem's death was meant civil war when army units Syria figures began with the Syrian president for to undermine the presiden­loyal to competing adminis­killing of Hariri on Feb. 14, Ghanem's death. Hariri tial vote, saying "it is no coin­trations battled it out. 2005, in a bombing that replaced his father, the cidence that whenever there The United States has killed 20 other people. assassinated ex-premier, as are positive signs" that some­accused Syria of trying to Mammoth demonstrations head of anti-Syria forces, one is killed. undermine Lebanon's gov­coupled with international which now hold a majority in Syria said the attack was ernment, but has stopped pressure forced Syrian Parliament. aimed at sabotaging efforts short of tying the Damascus troops to leave, and 
Cabinet member Ahmed by the Lebanese people to regime to the political Lebanese elected a govern­Fatfat also blamed Syria for reach agreement. killings. ment led by anti-Syria politi­the attack, saying Damascus 'This criminal act aims at "The bombing that claimed cians. 

Bush proposes expansion of spy law 
governs when the government must obtain Such surveillance generally was prohibit­
Associated Press 
warrants for eavesdropping from a secret ed under the original law if the wiretap 
FORT MEADE, Md. -President Bush intelligence court. This year's update -was conducted inside the U.S., unless a said Wednesday he wants Congress to approved just before Congress' August court approved it. Because of changes in expand and make permanent a law that break -allows more efficient intercep­technology, many more foreign communi­temporarily gives the government more tions of foreign communications. cations now flow through the U.S. The new power to eavesdrop without warrants on Under the new law, the government can law, known as the Protect America Act, suspected foreign terrorists. eavesdrop without a court order on com­allows those to be tapped without a court 
Without such action, Bush said, "our munications conducted by a person rea­order. national security professionals will lose crit­sonably believed to be outside the U.S., Civil liberties groups and many irm tools they need to protect our country." even if an American is on one end of the Democrats say the new changes go too far. 
"It will be harder to figure out what our conversation -so long as that American is Democratic leaders in Congres.<> set the law enemies are doing to train, recruit and not the intended focus or target of the sur­to expire in six months so that it could be infiltrate operatives intQ America," the veillance. fine-tuned; that process now is beginning president said during a visit to the super­In requesting the change, the Bush on Capitol Hill. secret National Security Agency's head­administration said technological advances Democrats hope for changes that would quarters. "Without these tools, our country in communications had created a dire gap provide additional oversight when the gov­will be much more vulnerable to attack" in the ability to collect intelligence on ter­ernment eavesdrops on U.S. residents 
The Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act rorists. communicating with overseas parties. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 20, 2007 
============================~ 
Author opines on affinnative action 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Wrirer 
Author Tim Wise spoke to a standing-room-only crowd Wednnsday about affirmative action. saying that affluent white America is given a head start in the collngn ad missions game. 
Wise, author of "White Like Mn" and "Affirmative Aetion in White Anu~rica" spokn at the Staplnton Lounge at Saint Mary's Collnge Wednesday as part of a leetun~ series enti­tled "Undoing Systems of Hacism: Privilege and 

Equality  in  llighcr  
Education."  
Thn series was  hosted by  

the OfTice of Multieultural Affairs. 

Wisn prns1~nted his views on affirmative action and the difTerence in opportunities available for white and African-American students. lie also discussed the after­math of Hurricane Katrina and how he felt the gov!~rn­ment made no effort in help­ing African Americans evacu-
Career 
continued from page 1 
and juniors looking for internships as well, Svete said. 
Svete said students have arranged between 600 and 800 interviews for Thursday with companies present. 
Notre Dame alumna Molly Hogan recruited for M&I Bank at the fair. 
"Researching companies well enough and dressing for the roles they wish to have is something that is extremely important," she said. 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO1@saintmarys.edu 
~--------------------~ 

Please recycle The Observer. 

Secretary of Education, who Wise said. said the biggest problem with the educational 
"White folks created 
system "is that 
too many peo­race as an issue ple are going to and decided it would college." 
be an issue.,,
Bennett meant that in order for Tim Wise America to stay author on traek eco­nom ieally, peo-


ND political scientist publishes new book 
Special to The Obse""'r 
"In Search of the Good Life: A Pedagogy for Troubled Times," by Fred Dallmayr, Packey J. Dee professor of political sci­ence recently was pub­lished by the University Press of Kentucky. 
The book examines the development of the Aristotelian understanding of the "good life" as the purpose of human exis­tence from ancient to mod­ern times. Following its expression in Greek philos­ophy, Judeo-Christian tra­dition, the Eastern reli­gions, and postindustrial soeial criticism, Dallmayr explores the works of numerous thinkers includ­ing Bonaventure, Nicolaus of Cusa, Leibniz and Montesquieu. lie also suggests the notion's rele­vance to the turbulent present era and its appli­cability to contemporary personal conduct, civic virtue and political engage­ment. 
According to Cornel 
West, professor of religion and African-American studies at Princeton University, "Dallmayr is not only a major figure in critical theory and political philosophy but also an exemplary teacher who cares deeply about the future of paideia (the highest learning). Don't miss this powerful and poignant book." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1978, Dallmayr specializes in modern and contemporary European thought as well as in comparative philoso­phy and non-Western polit­ical thought, cross-cultural dialogue, and global human rights. He is the author of 14 books, includ­ing "Achieving Our World: Toward A Global and Plural Democracy"; 
"Dialogue  Among  
Civilizations:  Some  
Exemplary  Voices";  

"Beyond Orientalism: Essays on Cross-cultural Encounter"; and "Alternative Visions: Paths in The Global Village." 
Wise said wealthy white students start two laps
ahead of A I' r i c a n ­American stu­dents and, in turn, the African­American stu­dents feel pressure to 

Health 

continued from page 1 
improve global health on a local scale in countries like Haiti, Uganda and Benin, hopes speak with delegates from the countries where Notre Dame representatives are working. 
Another goal of the delega­tion is to put Notre Dame's work on global health issues "on a world stage," .Jacobs said. 
Archbishop Celestino Migliore, the Permanent Observer to the Holy See at the U.N., came to Indiana last spring and heard about what Notre Dame and Purdue were doing in the field of global health issues, Jacobs said. He then offered to hold the pres­entation event in New York City. 
Notre Dame turned its focus to global health publicly last fall with the Global Health Forum, which featured speak­ers who were leaders in initia­tives to address health issues around the world. In 
"It's a socially
January, been collabo­University stigmatizing disease, rating on 
President and it's completely research relat­
Father John ed to global
preventable."
Jenkins led a health. Notre Dame del­"They are egation to Dennis Jacobs devising an 
Uganda to visit vice president and instrument that 
a Millennium would be very
associate provost 
useful for the
Village Project co-sponsored by Notre Dame and Uganda Martyrs University. 
Father Bob Dowd, a political science professor and the director of the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative, will give a presenta­tion related to Notre Dame's work in the village of Nindye, entitled "Partnering with Local Institutions to Fight Extreme Poverty in Rural Uganda." 
He will discuss using a holis­tic approach to address issues like health care, education and HIV/AIDs in rural Ugandan villages and the ben­efits of partnering with local institutions, like Uganda Martyrs, to do so, Jacobs said. 
Father Thomas Streit, whose work in Haiti has been fea­tured on Notre Dame commer­cials during football games, will discuss efforts to end ele­phantiasis, a disease carried by mosquitoes that attacks the lymphatic system and leads to the swelling of body parts. 
"It's a socially stigmatizing disease, and it's completely preventable," Jacobs said. 
• Streit's goal is to eliminate the disease by 2013. 
Stephen Silliman, a civil ·engineering and geological 
sciences professor, will give a presentation entitled "Partnering to Protect Quality Water in Benin." Silliman has taken students to Benin to work with and train villagers so there is a local, trained work force, Jacobs said. 
There will also be a presen­tation describing work done by Frank Collins, the George and Winifred Clark professor of biological sciences and the director of the Cent!u for Global Health and Infectious Disease, who has been assess­ing the ef'f'nctiveness of com­mon malaria control appara­tuses, like bed nets or insecti­cides. 
These four projects are cen­ten~d on relatively small loca­tions, but the lnssons learned in a place like Haiti can be "easily extrapolated and expanded," Jacobs said. 
"These efforts are important steps to understanding how local efforts can be expanded or scaled from regions to much larger areas across con­tinents," he said. 
Purdue will make five pre­sentations. Jacobs said Notre 
Dame and 
Purdue have 
diagnosis of HIV/AIDs," he said. "Some of the technical aspects of that device are very similar to the proje~.ts going on at Notre Dame. 
The Purdue group, led by Senior Associate Vice President for Research Alan Rebar, will feature presenta­tions by Joe Pekny, director of Discovery Park's e-Enterprise Center entitled "Applying Systems Engineering to Global Health Challenges," and "Development of Novel AIDS Testing Device." Hichard Kuhn, the head of biological sciences, will present "Emerging Diseases and Lessons from the Common Cold;" Jess Lowenberg­DeBoer, the associate dean of the College of Agriculture, will give a presentation entitled "Nutrition and Bus.iness Development Initiatives"; and Stephen Byrn, the head of the Department of Industrial and Physical Pharmacy will dis­cuss "Pharmaey Education in Tanzania." 
The event is also co-spon­sored by the Path to Peace Foundation. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
ate. 

The educational system failed the African Americans who were not able to evacu­ate their homes, he said. Beeause of a lack of educa­tion, some of these people did not have the money or con­neetions to move to safety. 
Wise quoted William Bennett, a former U.S. 
have more access to scholar­ship funds, large libraries and programs to increase standardized test scores. 
"White people who end sentences with prepositions, make grammar mistakes and struggle with answers do not stick in the minds of admis­sions counselors nearly as much as people of color do," 
ple would be needed for manual labor, Wise said. Bennett was referring to racial minorities. 
African Americans do not have certain advantages that increase the odds of college admission, Wise said. White students, on the other hand, catch up. This pressure is created entirely by white people, he said. 
"White folks created race 
as an issue and decided it 
would be an issue," he said. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO1@saintmarys.edu 

cfWis 

&co(f(lQ IIU.DJlL.l; 

--------------------~ 
Thursday, September 20, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 13,815.56 +17.29

Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,995 60 333 3,709,157,306 

AMEX NASDAQ 
NYSE,J& iffilfiffirli!lfm 
S&P 500 I ,529.03 +9.25 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,451.45 +109.91 FTSE 100 {London) 6,460.00 +176.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.59 +0.90 1S3.36 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.26 +0.13 50.17 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.90 -0.26 28.67 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +0.63 +0.22 35.15 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.98 +0.52 4.524 13-WEEK BILL -1.30 -0.05 3.810 30-YEAR BOND +1.34 +0.09 4.824 5-YEAR NOTE +0.72 +0.03 4.192 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) +0.42 81.93 GOLD {$/Troy oz.) +5.80 729.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.78 86.93 
Exchange Rates YEN 115.9450 EURO 0.7156 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0134 BRITISH POUND 0.4996 
IN BRIEF 
Consumer spending slows slightly 
WASHINGTON -Consumer prices posted a rare decline in August while the battered hous­ing industry saw construction fall to the slowest pace in 12 years. 
The new economic reports Wednesday were seen as justification for the Federal Reserve's bolder-than-expected cut in interest rates to try to ward off a recession. Analysts said the waning inflation pressures gave the Fed the room to cut interest rates while the continued severe down­turn in housing gave the central bank a reason to move. 
The Labor Department reported that con­sumer prices dipped by 0.1 percent in August. It was the first decline since a 0.4 percent drop in October 2006 and reflected a big drop in gasoline and other energy prices. 
Meanwhile, the Commerce Department report­ed that construction of new homes fell by 2.6 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.331 million units. That was the slowest pace since June 1995 and put construc­tion activity 19.1 percent below the level of a year ago. 
New pricing raises food maker's profits 
MINNEAPOLIS -Charging more for Cheerios and Lucky Charms and Yoplait yogurt helped General Mills report an 8 percent increase in its first-quarter pro/it on Wednesday. The foodmak­er said more price increases might be on the way if' ingredient and fuel prices keep rising. 
"We are actively monitoring the need to pass along additional input cost pressures as they arise," Chairman and Chief Executive Steve Sanger said on a conference call with analysts. 
Golden Valley-based General Mills Inc. announced in June that it would shrink its cereal boxes slightly to make them more like competi­tors. Shoppers might have seen lower prices on each box, but the price for each ounce of cereal actually went up. General Mills raised prices on Yoplait in July, and also raised prices on Green Giant vegetables and in il'> food service division that delivers liJod to cafeterias. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Corporations look ahead to holidays 
Companies plan to keep workers happy, customers satisfied for annual rush 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Big com­
panies like L.L. Bean and 
Hallmark are already in 
holiday mode, sending out 
catalogs and putting mer­
chandise on display. Small 
business owners might 
want to follow their lead. 
Although Christmas is 
still three months away, 
doing some holiday plan­
ning now will make life ­
business and personal -a 
lot easier come December. 
That includes thinking 
about year-end staffing and 
parties and buying gifts 
now. 

It can also mean getting 
customers ready. At Pooch 
Chicago, an upscale day­
care, kennel and spa for 
dogs, owner Hobin Tomb 
began reminding cus­
tomers in July that they 
need to book early for the 
holidays, or risk not being 
able to board their pets 
when December arrives. 
"We have found over the 
past several years that 
come early December, 
we're completely booked, 
and people haven't 
planned," Tomb said. Some 
of her best customers were 
surprised when they called 
on Dec. 22 and learned it 
was too late to board their 
pets. 

To try to avoid such dis­
appointments, the Pooch take off for the holidays, two-thirds of the compa­dates for its client and 
Hotel is sending another and then coordinating the ny's clients are book-relat­employee holiday parties, 
reminder this week "so we company's workload ed, for the most part their and already booked a spot 
can take care of clients accordingly. needs can often be handled for the latter event. 
now," Tomb said. Owner Marika Flatt says before or after the holi­"It's absolutely essential 
Many companies have the company won't take on days. So she'll arrange in to start looking" early, said 
learned that planning holi­more projects than it can advance with clients to do Renay Picard, Basho's vice 
day staffing levels -handle during the holidays the work when it's not the president of marketing. "If 
including who'll be off and because "we all have height of the holiday sea­we had waited any longer, 
at what times -is best young kids and we all want son. it would be too late." 
done early to avoid con­to spend time around the Early planning for holi­Like many companies, 
flicts between employees, holidays with our families." day parties is critical if Basho learned the hard 
and to be sure that cus­"We like to prepare for owners want to insure they way that it should have 
tomers and clients are that in advance; the worst hold their events at the planned in advance, Picard 
taken care of. thing we can do is over­locations they want on the said. Planning has also 
At PH by the Book, an commit and not deliver," dates they want. Basho become critical because 
Austin, Texas-based pub­Flatt said. Strategies Inc., a the company has grown so 
licity firm, planning means That can mean turning Burlington, Mass.-based much; now, an executive 
asking employees how away some new business, company that provides assistant handles many of 
much time they need to but Flatt said that because sales training, has picked the details. 

Genesco purchase hits roadblocks 
Associated Press back out of their commitment -in our in a release that it is still working 
view, not because of Genesco's results toward the closing, though "it contin­
NASHVILLE -Investment bank UBS but because the upheaval in the credit ues to evaluate its options in accor­AG has stopped working on closing markets makes this deal less profitable dance with the terms of the merger documents for The Finish Line Inc.'s for them," Pennington said in the let­agreement." buyout of Genesco Inc. because of con­ter. UBS said in communications with cerns about Genesco's financial per­"We are not going to allow the litiga­The Finish Line that it "intends to formance since the deal was tion consulting firm they have hired to defer any further work on the remain­announced. go an a fishing expedition," he said. ing closing documents ... pending the 
Indianapolis-based Finish Line said Genesco said late last month that it results of its analyses of Genesco's on Wednesday that UBS Loan Finance swung to a loss of $4.2 million, or 19 financial condition and performance," LLC and UBS Securities LLC have cents per share, in the quarter ended according to a Finish Line statement. asked for additional information Aug. 4. That compared to a profit of Finish Line operates 698 Finish Line before signing off on the $1.5 billion $5.9 million, or 24 cents per share, in stores in 47 states, 95 Man Alive stores deal for Genesco. the year-ago quarter. Analysts sur­in 19 states and seven Paiva stores in 
Genesco's Chairman and Chief veyed by Thomson Financial had seven states. Executive Hal N. Pennington respond­expected a profit of 31 cents per share. Genesco sells shoes, hats and acces­ed in a letter released publicly to Finish Line made the $54.50-per­sories in more than 2,000 retail stores Finish Line that UBS' reluctance is share offer for the athletic footwear in the United States and Canada under unrelated to the fmancial performance and apparel retailer in June. several store names, including at the Nashville-based retailer. Genesco's shareholders approved Journeys, Johnston & Murphy, 
"They are now looking for a way to the buyout on Monday. Finish Line said Hatworld and Lids. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 20, 2007 
A Notre Dame alum who once you get to corporate think that if I post some­Recruiting though profiles works for a top-tier invest­cultures, you'll be drinking thing on there that is funny,
Facebook 
Still, students feel it's ment bank, but requested to with col-my hope is that 
continued from page 1 unfair for paranoia over job 
interviews to prevent them colleagues or used a search from posting spring break mechanism on the site to do pictures or expressing their background cheeks." political views on FaeHbook. 
Default privacy settings Svete said that such con­allow all members of a cerns should not be blown user's school, region or completely out of propor­work network to view their tion. information. These settings "Some employers have can be adjusted to limit stopped checking Facebook 
informa­tion to be available to eon­firmed frinnds only. 
"I have the high­est SflCU­rity sct­
t i n g s available on my account, and defi­nitely try and keep 
in a back­1 a s h because 
"There are definitely two students school ofthought out there, in feel that 
it's their
that some people are looking 
space," he 
to see ifthere are alarming s a i d . 
things on somebody's page, "There are definitely
whereas others think that it's 
t w 0
their space; leave it alone." schools of thought out there,
Lee Svete 

in that
director of career services 
my information as vague as possible," senior Lauren Benenati said. "Even still, I've heard stories from friends that despite these settings, recruiters can still access information." 
Benenati said the most likely way of encountering problems is through photo­graphs that tho user -or others "tags" on Facebook, thus identifying the su bjccts of the photo­graphs. AI though she said shn has never been told during a job interview that her profile has been searched, she has r11snarehnd some company Web sites that claim to eheck Facebook and MySpace for iheriminating material. 
"One of my friends from the University of Florida told me that an interviewer for pharmaceutical sales eompany in Florida had seen a pieture of him with beer on Facebook," she said. "During the interview, the reeruiter mentioned this just to verify that he was 21 and not breaking any laws, but even such a minor thing like a beHr turned into sonwthing fairly intHnse." 



Write News. Call Karen at 1-5323. 

some peo­ple are looking to 
see if there are alarming things on somebody's page, whereas others people think that it's their space; leave it alone." 
remain anonymous for fear of repercussions from her current employer, said checking the Facebook accounts of job candidates can serve to her company's benefit. 
"Often times, the people recruiting you are people who are a couple of years out of college," she said. 
"]We look] at profiles to see if they would be a good fit for our group based on com­mon interests. It doesn't really affect whether or not you will get the job, but rather what department would suit you best within the company," she said. 
When asked about how stu­dents should approach con­trolling certain types of con­tent -such as pictures of underage drinking -she said that usually recruiters have a fairly relaxed opinion toward that kind of display, but that the student should just be generally cautious of the kind of perception he delivers to the public. 
"We understand that alco­hol is a part of college, and 
leagues dur-somebody else ing your who sees it will training, so "{We look] at profiles also find it it's not a huge to see if{the person] funny as well." deal," she Fogg said he
would be a good fit
said. "You just tries to stay have to for our group based conservative understand with what he
on common 
the boundary posts.
interests."
between what "I know an is and isn't employer won't appropriate, Notre Dame alum be disturbed and the kind with what's on
investment banker 
of image you convey to your boss before you even reach the job." 
A conservative approach 
There are still some upperclassmen, like junior Kirk Fogg, who have chosen not to toy with privacy set­tings on their Facebook account and are still com­fortable with leaving their information open to the pub­lic. 
"Anybody can access my information," he said. "But I really haven't touched it in months -the only thing that keeps changing is the pictures people tag of me. I there as long as 
I am not com­
pletely out of control, like posting pictures of nudity," he said. "And personally, I don't want to work for an employer that gets bent out of shape for lme] drinking alcohol once in awhile." 
"Still, I ·understand that it's all part of the culture we live in, and once in awhile you have to abide by the so­called 'rules,' so just use common sense," he said. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu and Nick Boch at nboch@nd.edu 
<C 2007 KPMG LLP, the U.S. member firm of KPMG International. a Swiss cooperative. No phone calls or agencies please. KPMG is an Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/DN. KPMG maintains a drug-free workplace. 

skills experience wealth character communities networks a life 

From the moment you start building your career at KPMG in the U.S., you can be exposed to opportunities for international training, experiences and assignments that enable our people to be the very best at working in the business environment-in the U.S. and abroad. 
Find out more about how you can build your networks, your global experience, and your career at KPMG. 
kpmgcareers.com 
A great place to build your career. 
At KPMG, we network across the globe to help businesses respond to an always-evolving global economy. We're focused on Global Mobility ­with international internships, training and assignments that can broaden your abilities and help us share knowledge across borders. 
The KPMG 
lnterriationaI Network of Firms is the second-largest of the Big Four firms offering services outside of the U.S. Continuing success in this arena requires that our people think and act globally. 
AUDIT • TAX • ADVISORY 

Thursday, September 20, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
The University's investors ond among American univer­The income from the fund ments than Notre Dame's, have also made a large com­sities for alumni participa­allows the University to slow Malpass said.
Money 
mitment to private invest­tion, he said. down the growth of tuition "When I became president, I continued from page 1 ments -including private The University's $6.54 bil­and other student charges. realized if you took the 20 top equity, real estate and private lion endowment pool should He also hopes Notre Dame endowments in the country, 
"It's ingrained in everything energy funds, he said. be tii.e 14th or 15th largest will break into the top 10 you got the 20 best schools in we do," he said. "As a "We get access to the best endowment of American col­endowments in the nation. the country," Hesburgh said. Catholic university, it's very investment firms in the leges this year, though figures "There's other people out These highly endowed much consistent with our mis­world," Malpass said. "They have not yet been released there who have pretty good schools were able to hire top sion." love Notre Dame as a partner. nationally, he said. investment offices and faculty, sponsor leading 
A formal policy requires They know Harvard's fundraisers," he said. "But I research and build excellent investors to comply with the we're going to be endowment is think within the next 10 libraries, he said. Catholic bishops' guidelines there with them." the largest in years, it's very When he
"When I became 
on investments and forbids Malpass called the world at possible." became presi­investment in 350 companies this summer's president, I realized $34.9 billion, dent, the
"We're at a point
whose practices are consid­economic turbu­ifyou took the 20 top the Boston A long history University had ered in violation of Catholic lence caused by a Globe report­The growth of today, which very few a $7 million
endowments in the 
social teaching, he said. sub-prime mort­ed in August. the University endowment
schools are, where we 
Despite the guidelines, gage crisis "a country, you got the During the endowment has with an annual 
can pick the very best 
Notre Dame ranks in the top challenging peri­20 best schools in next few been substan­operating budg­two or three schools in the od" but said the years, tial since class of I,8oo people et of $6 million.
the country." 
nation in raw endowment University "came Malpass said, University "It wasn't like
... without looking 
growth during the past 20 through the sum­he hopes to President we were 30th
at their financial 
years, Malpass said. mer very well." Father Theodore Hesburgh increase the Emeritus or 20th and The growth can be attrib­T h o u g h University president percentage of Father needs." woke up, uted. at least in part, to "rev­University invest­the University Theodore Hesburgh said.
emeritus 
olutionized and modernized" ments have had operating Hesburgh, "We were not

Father Theodore Hesburgh 
approaches to investing since high returns, budget that whom Malpass on the chart

University president 
the late 1980s, he said. endowment comes from described as when we 
The investment office has growth is also tied to a high the endowment. When he "the godfather emeritus began. An diversified its investments so rate of donations by alumni, began at his position in 1988, of the endow-endowment of that Notre Dame's endowment Malpass said. three or four percent of the ment," took $7 million was pool now ranks among the More than 54 percent of operating budget came from office in 1952. zilch, and a budget of $6 mil-most global funds in the Notre Dame alumni now make the endowment. Today, about At the beginning of the lion was laughable." nation, with about 40 percent some financial contribution to 20 percent of the operating 1950s, there were five col­Hesburgh described how his of assets in non-United States their alma mater -a statistic budget is funded from the leges· and universities in executive vice president and currencies, he said. that places Notre Dame sec-endowment. Indiana with larger endow-close friend Father Ned Joyce, 
a certified public accountant, helped Hesburgh make finan­cial decisions for the University during his presi­dency. 
"I told him, Ned, on the big 
decisions, the fiscal and mon­etary stuff, you're the guardian of the gate," he said. "You tell me what to do." 
Hesburgh later served on the board of Chase Manhattan Bank, then the third largest 
Information Meeting 





Perth, Australia 
bank in the United States. He advised the board on any 

moral issues involved with potential investments, he said. 
Today, the endowment pool continues to aid the growth and development of the University campus, student body and faculty. 
About 30 percent of the endowment pool goes to scholarship funds, and about 25 percent goes to endowed faculty chairs, Malpass said. 
Hesburgh said those funds are crucial for the University's development. 
"We're at a point today, which very few schools are, where we can pick the very best class of 1,800 people out of over 14,000 applicants 
without even looking at their financial needs," he said. 
The University also needs funds available to compete for top faculty from around the world, he said. Since he
Monday, September 24, 2007 
created the first endowed professorship early in his presidency, that number has grown to more than 200 endowed faculty members, 
Hesburgh s.aid. 
''I'm a little biased, of course -this is my business -but I think of endowments as the eighth wonder of the 
Room 126 DeBartolo Hall 
5:30PM 
world." Malpass said. "What other concept is there where you have a permanent fund that grows over time, pro­vides perpetual operating support, critical, essential
For ALPP 

operating support to an insti­tution." Endowments were first cre­
College of Science & 
ated in the United Kingdom, likely during the 12th century, when land was bestowed
College of Engineering Students 
upon religious orders, he. said. "They're really an American phenomenon today," he said. 
"It's a reason our higher edu­cation system is so strong."
Application Deadline is November 15, 2007 
Apply online: www.nd.edu/--ois 
Contact Karen Langley at 
klanglel @nd.edu 
page 10 The Observer+ NEWS Thursday, September 20, 2007 
ability of drawing out her Catholic family and grew up stand true Navajo culture. because it is a slow process characters through her on a Navajo Indian reserva­It wasn't until I moved off to develop characters for



Cu01D1ins 
continued from page I 
story is written from l'ivo different points of view. Profossor Stuart Greene, associato dean of under­
graduate studios in Arts and Letters, in trod ueNI Cummins to those in attnn­danen in 
h e Hospitality Hoom of South Dining Hall. 
"Ann is a 
gentle and nur­

turing soul. She is a sue­eessful teacher at Northern Arizona University," he said. "Sh11 is a striking writer and has a wonderful 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -In another 

sign of U.S. struggles in Iraq, the 
target datn for putting Iraqi 
authorities in chargn of security 
in all IH provinces has slippnd 
yet again, to at least July. 
The delay, noted in a Pentagon 
report to Congress on progress 
and problmns in Iraq, highlights 
tho dil'ficulties in dnveloping 
Iraqi polien forees and thn slow 
pace of economk and political 
progrnss in somo areas. 
It is the sneond time this year 
tho targnt datn for completing 
what is known as "Provincial 
Iraqi Control" has bnPn pushed 
back. The Pentagon report sub­
mitted to Congrnss on Monday 
hinted at the possibility of fur­
ther dPiays. 
Tho intont is to givfl the provineial governmonts control over security in thnir area as a stop toward lessening-and eventually ending-the U.S. seeurity roln. 
Thus far seven of the 1H provinces have nwort(\d to Iraqi control. 
Tlw process has gairwd rela­tively little attnntion in the broader debate in Washington about when and how to get the Iraqis ready to provide their own security so that U.S. forees can lmgin to leave. That may bP in part bncause some details of the provincial transition process are classified sncret. 
An independent commission that examined the issue of provincial Iraqi C(introl this summer concluded in a report to Congrnss on Sept. 4 that the process is too eonvolutnd and an impediment to the overall U.S. goals or speeding the transition to Iraqi control and supporting sovereignty. 
"Our current puliey of doter­mining when a provinee may or may nut be controlled by its own government reinforces the pop­ular perception of tlw (U.S.-I11d) coalition as an occupation force," according to the commis­sion, headed by retired Marine Gen. James Jones. "This may contribute to increased violence and instability." 
The commission recommend­ed that all 18 provinces return to Iraqi control immediatBly. 
U.S. forces would continue to operate in the areas they are now, in eoordination with Iraqi 
writing." tion. Her father worked in a 
Cummins teaches under­uranium mill. graduate and graduate cre­"For [main character] ative writing at Northern Hyland Mahoney, I drew 
the reservation where I 
learned  about  the  
Navahos."  
She  now  lives  with  her  

Arizona and said her writ­from many ing al'feets her teaching in a characteris­positive way. tics of my 
"Being an active writer helps to feed my teaching." 
Ann Cummins author 

"Being an father.... He active writer was a very helps to feed right-to-work my teaching," kind of man; she said. "This he believed helps my stu­you are dents with responsible their writing for your own and compre­actions and hension." their conse­
The novel is quences. He based on the was also a 
making of yel­very staunch Catholic," she 
lowcake, the liquid pro­said. dueed by making ore in ura­"A lot of the material in nium mills, and much of the the novel is from conflict in content was derived from my own family," she contin­Cummins' personal experi­ued. "J lived on the Navajo ences. r-eservation in the 1960s, 
Cummins came from a but there I did not under-

Iraqis to control nation later than U.S. planned 
"I never though 1 could write a novel. I am a perfectionist and it's like a disease. " 
Ann Cummins author 
husband, Steve, in Oakland, C a I i f . , where he is a coffee bean roast­er. 
In a ques­tion-and­answer ses­sion after the reading, Cummins said writing 

a short story was a very dif­ferent experience than writ­ing a novel. 
"I never thought I could write a novel. I am a per­fectionist and it's like a dis­ease, she said. "The process is very long 
I.ive, learn, and work in rhe nation's capital 
during the fall or spring semester 'I.Vith the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
W ""s·H.lNG.T·oN· PR.OGRAM..
f

.4'1. . .... ·... . . . . ... '.. . . . .....·... . . .. . . . .. . . v ·. 

INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday, September 24, 2007 231 Hayes-Healy, 4:30p.m. 
\'{lith special guest Da; LeDuc, Deputy Fditor of The W:{uhingto11 Post, and Notre r>ame \X:ashington Progrant Paculty l\.1etnber 
Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is November 15, 2007. First Year students and Sophotnurcs ntay apply; all ntajors welcutnc. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@)nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; w·ww.nd.edu/-wp 
me. Writing the novel was very rewarding and I would definitely write another." 
Cummins said she creates characters that "help to answer the questions most people are afraid to answer themselves." 
"I have a wonderful editor who asks qunstions and doesn't make changes," she said. "She is a careful read­er and respectful of fiction literature. My publishing eompany is interested in lit­erary works and not big blockbusters." 
Notrn Dame freshmen Stacy Brandt and Katie Halloran, who attended the reading, enjoyed Cummins' performance and said it added to their appreciation of the novel. 
, 
Contact Katie Staak at kstaakO1@saintmarys.edu 

authorities; Iraqi control would mean U.S. troops could transi­tion to less combat-intense roles. 
In an interview Wednesday, Jones said he and the other commissioners got the strung imprBssion from Iraqi officials they mnt in Baghdad this sum­mer that they want full provin­eial eontrol without further delay. 
"The wholfl process seems to be aeting as more of a brake on progress than a help," Jones said. "If the Iraqi government is willing, I think we should be putting as much on them as pos­sible. To have a sovereign gov­ernment that doesn't control all of its provinces doesn't make a lot of sense to me." 
In an Associated Press inter­view last week, Gen. David Petraeus, the top U.S. com­mander in Iraq, defended the transition process. It involves a series of detailed reviews and assessments by U.S. and Iraqi ollieials, eulminating with input by Petraeus and the most senior Iraqi government leaders. 


Large Pizza cheese &2Toppings 99 

Free Delivery On Campus

ONLY 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas &charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 

52750 IN 933 




243•1122
N. of Cleveland Rd. 574· 

SERVING NOTRE DAME &ST. MARYIS
• OPEN FOR LUNCH DAILY

PIZZa ® 

Visit us on the Web at www.marcos.com ©2007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5642ND-807 

Thursday, September 20, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

Get a Grip 
on Your Thirst 

' 

' 
~ 
buya20oz Coca-Cola classic, Coca-Cola Zero," or Diet Coke® 
get one free 




r•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 

I II !!Jtli!ll#hid%i +MJIJIWJI@@~iM 
buy a 20oz Coca-Cola® classic, Coca-Cola Zero'" or Diet Cokh 

get one free 
=,0:."':':.=""..!"~=~=..--~ .....lle--·
11!111.11\WI·-,.:,:.IIOIIIi$~11--0iall ......-f,_..,._""~IX~~ "*>-111--lill-lta!Silo!O_Ilo_i>lll 
Ollll!llll\li:>Qjl __•__''1lloiCIIo.'-Oio!Oo.'IIDioulllitt....lllllla
--..--..-­
CA!I&flll ........c=J11!1.1131 


•.......................................... 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINTpage 12 Thursday, September 20, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Eight plays is enough 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dam<, IN 46556 024 Souch Dining Hall, Nocr< Dame, IN 46556 
EDm>R IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle Wesr 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily As.~·1: MANA<;ING EDITOR: Mary K.ue Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VII:WI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris !-line ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
AuvmrnSING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROI.I..ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(S74) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Marys College. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Comnll'ntari<'S, letters ~nd columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space i.s available to all readers. The free <'Xpression ofall opinions through letter.; is encouraged. Letters to thr Editor must be signed and must include mntact infomtation. 
Questions JYgmrling Obmverpo!icii!S should b~ dim-rrd to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l1~,e l)lN"rV'C't (USPS 'qq 2--4000) i• publllhnl Munday rhwu3i1 friJay a(cpt dunn~ cum .mclv-.k-.liun •ltUtKU A.uh'!ICnprinn w'l1u: {}(lllt:rvcr ~ $100 fm unC' .lt..\llcnut· year.$')') tl>r n1~ u:meltrr 
The Ohr.erwr " puhli1hcJ ,n: POSTMA.':tTER Ill~ Suurh Dming ll.tll Stnd .1ddrrss corm.:riom rn Nouc Dame, lN 46"i~n9 The Observer l'erino.lk:.U JNNUr~r: p.ud .u Notre thmc P.O. Bmt 779 and addirional m.uling otfKG. 024 Sourh Dmin~ tlo~;JI 

Notr(' Dame, IN 46')'.i6-0779 
Thl' O~rver ~~ 11 member ul rhc A.uo!:t.ucd l'ra\, All rcpl'tK!ucdnn rtM,ht~ llrt' 
f'QC:fV.::tl. 
TooAv's STAFF 

News Scene Jenn Metz Cassie Belek Hohan Anand Viewpoint Dan Jacobs Michelle Johnson 
Graphics Matt Hudson Sports Chris Khorey Michael Bryan Samantha Leonard 

The latest edition of the popular Madden NFL video game series debuted recently to hot sales, despite mixed reviews and grumbling about the lack of substantial changes to the game. Heasonably enough, people 
John Everett 
who pay $50 for 
each yearly edi­
Kids These 
tion hopn for more changes Days than just the cus­tomary updates to team rosters. Hecent versions of the game have included such innovations as Superstar Mode, where you develop your own player and try to turn him into an MVP, Owner Mode, in which you deal with such mundane details as how much to charge for parking and hot dogs, and the unpopular Vision Cone, which was supposed to make quarterback play more realistic, but which aggravated enough Madden loyalists that it was quickly scrapped. 
The problem is that too often these flourishes are added at the expense of functionality. During Madden game­play, the television screen is occupied with full offensive and defensive play­books, helpful hints from the coach himself, statistical charts and other distractions. 
This problem is endemic to society; take the new Notre Dame homepage as an example. Whoever was paid a lot of money to redesign the page has clearly bought into the idea that new neces­sarily equals better. The site is now a Web 2.0 hodgepodge of unnecessary videos and the background color, which is much harder to read against, has only the value of being new. The old site was highly navigable because of its sparse design and white back­ground for easier reading. Its only flaw was that it was not flashy enough, and so resources and time were wasted simply to junk up the site to appeal to people' with shorter attention spans. 
"Ooh, videos, and cool graphics and new colors. Ooh!" 
Facebook too, is indicative of this mindset. I know it sounds absurd to rhapsodize about the "old days" of a Web site that is only four or flve years old, but it used to be that a person would simply signify that they were a fan of "Arrested Development" by list­ing it as one of their favorite TV shows. Information was shared in a concise, readable fashion. And we all liked it that way. Now that same person can add up to four separate applications proclaiming their preference for the show, as well as eight separate Harry Potter applications, about a dozen new types of walls, and an LOLcats picture thrown in for good measure. 
Surely the people who add all these applications can not possibly realize the damage they are causing to the retinas of those unfortunate souls who navigate to their page just to leave a simple message. Buffeted ruthlessly by horoscopes and personality test results, the would-be messenger is dis­mayed, and gives up in shame. 
No matter what, our collective con­sciousness tells us that last year's product must be inferior to this year's, and in our search for complacency through consumption, simplicity and functionality are abandoned. Advertisers spend millions to sell us on the fact that we need this year's bells and whistles, but their work is not hard, because for the most part our brains are wired to be receptive to such messages. 
There is only one hope, and that is a return to simplicity. With that in mind, I have eschewed Facebook applica­tions, a decision I heartily recommend, and I have also reverted to a happier era in videogame history. I have for­saken Madden, and embraced Tecmo. 
That's right, Tecmo Super Bowl, the first and best football videogame to use the rosters of all 28 (not 32) NFL teams, except for those greedy few who denied Tecmo immortality by holding out for a few dollars more. I'm 

looking at you, Bernie Kosar, Handall 
Cunningham and Jim Kelly. 
Tho boauty of TSB lies in that what 
seems at flrst to be a simple game 
opons up into a world of inherent com­
plexity. Though there are only eight 
plays to choose from on offense, the 
true champion player knows he has a 
variety of options to attack from. Each 
teams' strengths and weaknosses can 
be utilized to near perfection. For 
example, Patriots quarterback Steve 
Grogan's tendency to drastically over­
throw ordinary receivers leads to 
throwing perfect jump-balls for Irving 
Fryar. Timm (that's right, two Ms) 
Hosenbach, quarterback of the Phoenix 
(yes, Phoenix) Cardinals may not be 
the greatest threat on the deep pass, 
but using short passes and rollouts, the 
advanced player can create quite a lot 
of confusion in his opponent. 
So come on, ditch the fancy modes, much too complex playbooks, and slightly more realistic graphics and join those few of us who know that sometimes you just can't stop Christian Okoye when you're playing with the Colts, that your kick returner's speed is tied to that of your left tackle, and that there's nothing more exciting than the rare double-jump cut-scene. You too can come live in a world where Joe Montana, Boomer Esiason and Vinny Testaverde are still playing quarter­back. 
Well, scratch that last one. I guess some things will never change. 
John Everett is a senior English major. He is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years ofage. /Je is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered cantankerous. If you have any information regarding his whereabouts, please contact 
jeverett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Notre Dame Football2007: Great? Greatest? Abstain? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The tWo most common elements in 
the universe are hydrogen and 
stupidity. " · 
Harlan Ellison author 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 20, 2007 page 13 
Musings on the back porch of heaven 
Last Saturday, some of us -mercifully spared the trip to the Big House in Ann Arbor, or was that the Coliseum in Rome? -instead packed into the 6,500­seat Centre Antares, in Le Mans, France, for the Beatification Mass of the founder Father Lou of the Congregation DelFra of Holy Cross, Father Basile FaithPoint Moreau. It was the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows. (Note to the Athletic Department: We should not tempt the spirits by playing big road games on the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows-it is just asking for trouble.) A Mass of Thanksgiving followed on Sunday, in Moreau's home, Cathedrale de Saint­Julien in Le Mans. 
They were, appropriately, enormous celebrations. Beatification is the last major step before becoming a saint. All that remains is canonization, when Moreau will officially become St. Basile. 
Which raises the question -what exactly does it mean to be beatified? Or, as my nephew put it, "Is he in heaven, or ain't he?" Beatified, but not yet canon­ized. Is he, like, on the back porch of heaven? Eating hors-d'oeuvres but no entree? In the "Others Receiving Votes" but not yet the Top 25 on St. Peter's AP Poll? 
I looked up at the two-story high ban­ner of Moreau's portrait, hanging behind the altar. What was he thinking? 6,500 people chanting your name is enough to make anyone smile, though when you're already in heaven, isn't everything else a letdown? I followed his gaze down to the floor of the arena. And it was there that it hit me. 
The crowd was awesome in its diversi­ty. African priests in bold multi-colored robes from the Holy Cross province in Uganda peppered the otherwise white­clad celebrants. Bangladeshi sisters from the Holy Cross community, living among the poor in Bangladesh, danced up the center aisle to the rhythmic shakes of tambourines, bearing flowers to decorate the altar. The priest cele­brating next to me -a Haitian -spoke only Creole, our lone point of mutual comprehension an energetic, familial embrace at the sign of peace. Chilean students from Holy Cross' biggest school -St. George's in Santiago is a kinder­garten through high school with more students than Notre Dame -rowdily waved a Chilean flag and sang happy birthday in Spanish to one of their party, Mass hardly being a place to keep silent in Santiago. Domers studying abroad in Europe tried valiantly, mostly unsuccess­fully, to explain where Indiana is, and raised their fingers in swirls, the crescendo of "Gooooooooooooo Moreau" announcing the kick-off to the Mass. 
LeMans, France is three hours south­west of Paris, stuck rather uninspiringly halfway between le grand capitale and the Atlantic coast. It is hardly a place that makes you strut down Main Street thinking, "If my parents could only see me now .... " 
Yet, there we all were -from extremely different places on the planet, priests, brothers, sisters, and lay people, giving their lives away to the Gospel, under the patronage of Holy Cross schools, universities, social services, parishes, somehow all linked to a young priest with an idea in LeMans, France, as his world was falling apart around him in the rubble of the first days follow­ing the French Revolution. A man, only recently ordainedinto a persecuted Church, who founded an order dedicated to evangelization and Catholic education. The more I think about it, the more incredible it seems. We are all here because of him. 
This afternoon, in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities join to celebrate the beatification of Father Moreau. We will continue to celebrate throughout the year. And while the celebration is obvi­ously very much about Moreau -he is in heaven, after all, if only on the back porch -the Mass is, in a certain way, much more about us, one of Moreau's most amazing legacies. 
We give thanks to God today for a man who believed in the Gospel. Who spent his life for Jesus Christ and his Church, in some of the Church's darkest days. Who began to found kindergartens and grade schools and parishes in the middle 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Catholic character m_ore com_plex 
Greg Yatarola ("ND's Catholic-Don't be sur­prised", Sept. 18) appears to believe that the glossy brochures and booklets designed to sell Notre Dame to awestruck high school seniors tell the full and complete story of life at Our Lady's University. While, at first glance, this may be true (the literature should at least be an approx­imation of the truth), it becomes painfully obvi­ous with only a modicum of inquiry that this view is, indeed, false. No admissions publication could ever hope to be so exhaustive. While I applaud the author on his ability to ruffle feath­ers (something that I, too, enjoy), I am nonethe­less puzzled by his piece. Though he purports to "have no right to say whether you should be at Notre Dame," his opinion is thinly veiled. I am curious, then, to know exactly what Mr. Yatarola believes are the core components that make Notre Dame so obviously Catholic. One would be remiss not to highlight the opening Mass of the academic year, our flourishing chapter of Right to Life, and single-sex dorms as evidence of Notre Dame's Catholic character. But I suspect that Mr. Yatarola would not want to discuss the University's resistance to the goals of the Campus Labor Action Project, or to the efforts of those students who seek to bring fair-trade pro­duce to the dining halls, as further proof. Maybe Mr. Yatarola would rather appeal to campus sta­ples like Zahm's semiannual Bun Run, the ROTC program, University President Father John Jenkins's relationship with the Board of Trustees, or the fact that women comprise only 
19.5 percent of tenured and tenure track faculty. These, too, are facts about Notre Dame, a pre­mier Catholic institution. Does that mean that they also make Notre Dame Catholic? Surely the author remembers the debacle created when Jenkins suggested that the Notre Dame commu­nity critically engage the intersection of its dual role as both a Catholic university and a Catholic university-must we revisit this tired debate? While I cannot claim to speak for the rest of the "sad PSA misfits," I will say that many of my friends at Notre Dame do not consider them­selves the "typical Domer." Many, indeed proba­bly most of them are Catholic, yet they struggle with the same issues that I find troubling. But that is the crux of what makes them such good Catholics -they recognize the problems with the system and are Using their faith to inform their actions as they "speak truth to power." I invite Mr. Yatarola to attend a meeting of the Progressive Student Alliance when he is avail­able; we meet on Tuesday nights at 9:30 in the Great Hall, where we try to make Notre Dame a better place, Catholic or not. 
Stacey Williams 
senior 
McGlinn Hall Sept. 19 

of rural France. As more people joined him, he kept building, then started send­ing -first to Africa, then to the US (where Father Sorin, a bit of a rogue, stopped shortof his destination -he was supposed to go to California, but don't let yourself daydream too much­and overspent on a wild idea he had to start a school in Indiana), then to Canada, and Bangladesh. Others would follow to India and South America. 
This is the work of no human. This is the work of Providence. And yet, the mystery of the Incarnation, which is at the very heart of our Faith, makes the bold claim that God dwells among us most fully in a human being-most fully in Jesus Christ, but through Christ, in each of us. This is how God continues God's work in the world-through the inspired work of the human beings that constitute the Church. Some among us are heroes, whose work God blesses to inspire the rest of us, seize our hearts and mobilize our energies. And create places -like Notre Dame-that contin­ue the legacy long after the hero kicks his feet up on the back porch of heaven. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Father Lou DelFra, director ofcampus Buble studies in the Office ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Fundraising valuedatND 
The comments by Kyle Cassily about benefactor Phil Purcell in last Wednesday's issue ("Benefactor deserves thanks for quiet gift," Sept. 13) of The Observer are a poor representation of fundraising at the University of Notre Dame. 
A member of the University's Board of Trustees, Mr. Purcell has contributed $12.5 million to the soon-to-begin renovation of Notre Dame's Joyce Center arena. Facilities are among the most impor­tant components of our athletics program (as they are for the campus as a whole), and they are critical to the recruiting process. Pinpointing benefactors such as Mr. Purcell is essential because that is how the University funds its facilities. None of us would be here ifit were not for these individuals, whose names you will find on buildings all over campus. From a fundraising perspective, identifYing the primary benefactor. especially when the person is in a visible leadership role, helps motivate and inspire others to support the University. 
Maybe the most unfortunate aspect of the negative comments by Cassily is the fact that students benefit the most from the gen­erosity of people like Mr. Purcell. 
Athletics is in the process of raising more than $68.5 million to upgrade our facilities. We're in the business of believing that $12.5 million contributions generally are good things. We think that most of you would agree. 
John Heisler senior associate athletics director Notre Dame Sept. 19 


Keep the career fair unrestricted 
God, Country, Notre Dame. The saying becomes embedded into our minds as the ideal priority of living. It is chiseled in stone at the entrance to the Sacred Heart Basilica. 
At Notre Dame we have a history of supporting our troops -our active ROTC programs, the Stonehenge memo­rial commemorating those who lost their lives in World War II. We are first and foremost a Catholic School, however immediately following our faith comes our duty to the United States of America. 
The article in the Viewpoint yesterday raises concerns about admitting the CIA and Raytheon into our career fair. Mr. 
Angulo, Ms. Hass, and Ms. Quiros bring forth various facts about the war in Iraq and concerns about the CIA's operations. While no one can refute their evidence, to suggest that we refuse companies who support our government and the armed forces to recruit at our career fair is asinine and ignorant. If anything we should be supporting these types of companies to recruit from our universi­ty. Corporations like the CIA and Raytheon, even other government con­tractors like the FBI and Boeing, need the best and brightest minds to keep our country safe. Refusing them the option to recruit at such a renGwned institution as ours would infringe upon our duty to pay service to our country. 
Furthermore, I would like to think that upon graduating from this illustrious university, the recognized men and women would have the competence and intelligence to choose their own career paths without someone restricting their options. The proposed exclusion of cer­tain companies due certain small aspects of their work ignores the other countless other industries that the CIA and Raytheon specifically are involved in. Raytheon's sole product is not the 5,000 pound bomb being used in Afghanistan. The entirety of CIA opera­tives is not solely involved in the War on Terror. 

The Career Fair at the University of Notre Dame is one of the best opportuni­ties across the U.S. to be exposed to an extremely wide variety of companies and to use that opportunity to explore a wide variety of career options. To thwart this opportunity would be a blatant mis­use of the wonderful prospects this great University gives us as students. 
Nic Ponzio sophomore Keenan Hall Sept. 19 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Thursday, September 20, 2007 

By TIM GALLO StafT Writer 

Last spring, Cart1~l moved into a "bub­bin" in Nnw York, whern the group mem­bers had 20 days to rm:ord their next album. "CartPI." During this process, the band had runs watching it through a glass window. Tlw end rnsult ol' this strenuous expnrinwnt was this self-titlnd album. 
What is dnar aftPr listening to "Cartnl" is that, bubhln or no bubble, Cartel was rwver going to producn a solid album. It is l'ull of gnnerie pop-punk tunes that jun­ior high studnnts would enjoy listening to in the 1:ar as tlwir moms drive them to 
Cartel 

Cartel Released by: Epic South Africa Recommended Tracks: Lost It, The Best, Tonight 


the movie theater. The guitars are simple and fast, and lead singer Will Pugh moans and screams about girls and, well, !.,'iris. 
The unimpressive lyrics sound like they have been sung by 50 other bands before them. lie sings about "looking into her eyes," "hiding myself away" and "needing you thcrfl." These words work for over­mnotional, sensitive teenagers who just found out their erush has another date to homecoming. But to the rest of the plan­et, Cartel sounds like another generic, boring, annoying emo band. 
"Cartel" does have a few strengths. It kicks off with "The Best," an almost seductive intro that ends too quickly. The 
next two songs, "Tonight" 
and "Lose It," are melod­ic jams that, while uno­riginal, make the listnner tap his toes and have fun with the song. As the album progressns, how­ever, these three-minute ditties become boring and irritating. The melodies, lyrics, and gui­tar rill"s all blend togeth­er into one brutal scream fest. 
Where this album real­ly goes bad is when Cartel tries to get musically "creative." Songs like "I Will !!ide Myself Away/1 Will Follow" prove that Cartel will never be the next Rolling Stones, much less the next Blink 182. 
This experimentation reaches an all­limn low at "Wasted," which half-heart­edly discusses cancer and bad parents with the chorus "We're wastnd." 
But wait, it gets worse. 
The pathetic plea is backed by march­ing band-style drums and horns. That's right, the same drums and horns you hear at football games. Whoever thought that a song about being "wasted" should talk about terminal illness and have a beat out of Nick Cannon's "Drum Line" should nevnr bn near anything that records any sound. 
And, to make things worse, "Wasted" comes baek at the end of the album as a remix with Wyelef Jean. A bad song is given a hip-hop boat, inducting a lazy rap by Wyclef about how much George Bush stinks (whieh is a first for conscientious rappers). Both tho song and the remix sound like bad ideas. 
No one should be shocked that Cartel made such a weak record becausn no one really expects the band to make a solid one. Cartel's job is to produee catchy pop­punk tunes that are radio-friendly. They succeed in doing this on a few songs, but 


Photo courtesy of highwiredaze.com Cartel's self-titled album is a disap­pointing attempt at emo-pop sounds. 
beyond this, the rncord is a disgraee. Cartel should instead try to make night to 10 good emo-pop songs. Any attempts beside this will just bring the music world more pain. 
Contact Tim Gallo at tgallo@nd.edu 

effects that include screams and crack­tener. Collective's ability to make ing whips. The sound effects create a "Cuckoo" a reality is an achievement, frenzied harmony during the song's cho­but more than one listen is asking for a rus as Tare sings of forgetting the past. migraine. 
In the track "Unsolved Mysteries," set The album's final track "Derek" against a merry-go-round melody, the sounds like something you might hear at band asks questions about childhood an Austrian puppet show as it joyfully experiences and their place in the over­bops along with Tare singing a sort of all experience of life. Before the lyrics tribute to his dog, Derek. It feels a bit descend into nonsense odd, however, as the about Jack the Ripper, upbeat instrumentation the band makes an Some ofthe tracks contrasts with lyrics interesting discovery, intent on resounding
seem intent on giving
asking, "What's Pain? guilt about the animal's
the listener a serious
What's sadness any­treatment. way?" and then answer­headache. To add to the confu­ing, "It's not crying like sion, thn song completely a child." turns on itself halfway 
The album's most exciting song, through, becoming like an Irish march. "Winter Wonder Land," dabbles with The singer asks "What do you see when visions of a paradise that elash with you see inside of me?" But such confu­ignorance and gloom. The song's chorus sion may be Animal Collective's ultimate is so rousing in its attempt to under­goal as they strive to be a band unlike stand the human condition that one any other. could spend hours pondering its ques­Animal Collective's songs may appeal tions. to too small an audience to ever become 
Some of the tracks seem intent on giv­more than just a popular cult group. ing the listener a serious headache. But Still, the insightful explosiveness of their maybe that is how Animal Collective lyrics and unique sound makes them intended it. well worth a listen. So give "Strawberry 
"Cuckoo Cuckoo" starts off pensively Jam" a chance and enter the commune. before descending into madness as a It just might be your niche. barrage of instruments and sounds dash, completely overwhelming the lis-Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd.edu 
By MARK WITTE Stall" Writer 
Take a step ofT the beaten traek of mainstrnam musk and enter the world of Animal Collective. 
With classifieations spanning from indie rock to psyeh and freak folk, it is impossible to pinpoint the exaet genre of Animal Collective's music. The band's 1wratic, often nonsensical lyries and its barrage of abstraet sounds plaees Animal Colleetive in a genre of its own. 
This might scare off the faint of !wart, espeeially in the band's latest album "Strawberry Jam." But those lingering awhile will find that thnre is more to 

Strawberry Jam 
Animal Collective Released by: Domino Recommended Tracks: Peacebone, Unsolved Mysteries, Winter Wonder Land 
Animal Collective than first meets the ear. 
Though the band's founder and front­man Avey Tare (David Portner) and drummer Panda Bear: (Noah Lennox), both Baltimore natives, first released music together in 2000, they did not create an album under the name Animal Collective until 2003, when they picked up guitarist Deakin (Josh Dibb) and the Geologist (Brian Weitz). Their album was called "Ilere Comes the Indian." 
"Strawberry Jam," which hit stores Sept. 11, marks the eighth time Avey Tare has released an album and the third time all four of the members have collaborated on an efTort. With a splash 
of insightful songwriting and radical tunes, "Strawberry Jam" renews Animal Collective's distinctive sound. 
The opening track, "Peacebone" blends chaotic influences with simple harmony. The song pulses forward with a space-age, tech­no-like rhythm, compli­mented in an off-beat manner by an assort­ment of jarring sound 
.....
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, September 20, 2007 
page 15 
By MARK MANLEY Staff Writer 
Intricate, eclectic and smooth, the latest Dave Matthews album, "live at Radio City Music II all," eould be one of the best albums you buy this year. 
Matthews pairs up again with Tim Reynolds in his latest solo relea..<;e lor a very distinctive listen. Reynolds accounts for rnuch of this undeniably different touch through his virtuoso guitar accompaniment and rambling forays into ambient sounds. 
IIe sometimes strays from the bounds of the typical tonal music that most people are accustomed to and enters into a strange experimental zone -leaving the listener a little perplexed and uncomfortable. Thankfully these moments don't last long, but they leave a lasting impression. 
The great chemistry between Matthews and Reynolds is impressive. Matthews gives a great vocal performance, nailing both falsettos and screams in well-known songs like "Crash Into Me" and "Don't Drink the Water." Meanwhile, Heynolds keeps up a subtle, ornate baekground -an accompa­niment that pleases but does not distract. 
This album has an interesting mix of songs, contrasting starkly with "Live at Luther College," another collaboration with Reynolds. While "Uve at Luther" had many of the songs that are Dave Matthews Band 
Live at Radio City Music Hall 
Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds Released by; RCA Recommended Tracks: Stay or Leave, Dancing Nancies, When the World Ends 

staples, "Live at Hadio City" shies away from tunes like "Anl<; Marching" and "Warehouse." The album instead favors less eommercial tracks. "Radio City" is filled with the likes of "Still Water," "So Damn Lucky," "Stay or Leave," and "Lie in Our Graves," which should please the more hardcore Daveheads. 
There are plenty of familiar songs on the album, too. The album's 
Photo courtesy of yattamusic.com 

Dave Matthews, left, and Tim Reynolds team up for "Live at Radio City Music Hall." In between sets, Matthews talks to the crowd with mixed results. 
26 songs leave plenty of room for Matthews on the need to unite and find a common to include "Gravedigger," "Don't Drink the direction, in a non-confrontational tone. Water," "Crash Into Me," "#41," and "Two. Overall, Matthews does an average job with Step." These songs are spread throughout talking to the crowd. in an even mix, with a slight concentration One of the main problems with this album toward the end. is that it tends to cater to the more selective 
In between some songs, Matthews con­audience of Daveheads. Many of the songs nects with the crowd. Sometimes he is on the album indeed will not draw a more funny and sometimes he is serious. When casual fan to buy this album, but even so he tries to make the crowd laugh, he is suc­"Live at Radio City" is very enjoyable and cessful only about half the time. worth the money. 
Matthews talks seriously about the war in Iraq. He does not reveal his personal con­Contact Mark Manley at victions about the war, instead he focuses mmanley@nd.edu 

Movie musical ofyore, we hardly knew ye. 
This Friday, "Across the Universe" enters theaters, the latest in a recent surge of movie musicals. "Across the Universe" takes its cues from one ofhistory's most storied bands, the Beatles, by using their catalog of songs as the basis for il'l score. 
These crazy times, they are a-changin'. 
With "Jersey Boys" f(~surrecting the Four Soa..<;ons and "Movin' Out" glorifying Billy .Joel, "Across the Universe" is the latest in growing trend of musicals using a per­lilrmer's library as the source lor their music. Which is fine if you like the original band or you're dying to see "Hanson: The Musical" (God forbid). 
For the rest of us. who miss the movie musicals ofold, we can either choose to sat­isfy our addictions with newer, more tradi­tional shows like "Wicked" and "Hairspray," or we can stroll down memory lane with our VHS tapes. As a huge fan of nostalgic sing-a-longs, I'd pick the latter. 
So, to prepare you for your soon-to-occur marathon of classic musicals, here's my top 10 list of recommendations. May you, too, find that bursting into song at passionate moments in life is normal, rather than a sign that you should see a therapist. 

10. "Calamity Jane" (1953): What's great about this film is seeing Doris Day and Howard Keel at the height oftheir movie musical careers. "Calamity Jane" is chock­full ofthe good stuff-a spunky heroine, a love-hate romance and classic songs like "Secret Love." 
9. "Meet Me in St. Louis" (1944): Released during World War II, "Meet Me in Saint Louis" is a surprisingly topical musical romp that touches on American anxiety in times of uncertainty and change. The film takes place during the 1904 World's Fair and showcases the versatility and real tal­ent of a post-Yellow Brick Road Judy Garland. 
8. "An American in Paris" (1951): Winning an Oscar for Best Picture is no small feat, but "An American in Paris" makes it look easy, with the effortless fun of Gershwin and the talents ofmusical vet Gene Kelly. S'wonderful, indeed. 
7. "My Fair Lady" (1964): Star Audrey Hepburn caught a lot of flack for playing this film's lead, Cockney flower girl Eliza Dolittle, rather than original Broadway star Julie Andrews. She holds her own in this classic, though, opposite Rex Harrison. 
6. "Fiddler on the Roof' (1971): There's something deeply affecting about the bitter­sweet blend of 'Tradition" and the encroaching future in this musical tale of a Russian Jewish family at the dawn ofthe 20th century. Plus, the songs, such as "Matchmaker, Matchmaker," are so gosh­darn catchy that you can't resist. 
5. "Singin' in the Rain" (1952): There's a reason why this film was named American Film Institute's top musical, and it's the powerhouse trio of Gene Kelly, Debbie Reynolds and Donald O'Connor to "Make 'Em Laugh" in this sweet tale of "talkies" in the 1920s. 
4. "The Sound of Music" (1965): Julie Andrews is ridiculously awesome. 'Nuff said. 
3. "South Pacific" (1958): Controversial for its time, this underrated classic deals with complex issues like racism, war and death. Unexpected, especially coming from a musi­cal with lines like ''I'm as corny as Kansas in August." 
2. "Oklahoma!" (1955): The first Rodgers and Hanunerstein collaboration, "Oklahoma!" is gloriously and unabashedly optimistic. Leads Shirley Jones (yes, of "The Partridge Family") and Gordan MacHae carry this mood-lifting musical, which fea­tures lovely songs like "People Will Say We're In Love." 
1. "West Side Story" (1961): This Best Picture winner is nothing short of a modern classic. Plus, it's my favorite, which is reason enough to give it a try. 
So kids, here's to hoping that these ten films are reason enough to keep you kickin' it old school. Or at least out ofthe arms of Hanson. 


The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 20, 2007 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Indians svveep Tigers behind Sabathia, secure division lead 
Santana rings up 10 K's in Angels win over Devil Rays; Mariners rout Athletics as King Felix wins third straight 
for the majors' best record the Chicago Cubs in 2003 (see Associated Press with Boston. which played in Steve Bartman), was asked to Toronto on Wednesday night. assess how the Tigers might 
Onee top cats in the AL By winning three straight feel after such a sweep. Contra!, thn Detroit Tigers over the Tigers, Cleveland "It's crushing," he said. "You were tamed, dnelawcd and opened a season-high 7 1/2-go out there and it's a do-or-die chasnd away with a broom. ganw lead over the defending series. Psychologically it takes 
The Cleveland Indians simply AL champs, who led in every a toll." 
wouldn't let them hang around. game of the series but couldn't Sabathia. who went 17-5 as a Not this year. put the Indians away. rookie in '01, set a career-high "They're going to be Central This was not the sweep for wins by allowing two runs 
Division champions. obviously," Detroit had in mind. The Tigers and five hits in seven innings. Tigers managnr .lim Leyland fell five games back in the The 27-year-old gave up both conceded Wednesday arter the wild-card racP. behind the New runs in the third, but settled Indians eompletod a three­York Yankees, who played down and retired 12 of the last game sweep with a 4-2 win. Wednesday night. 13. "They did what a champi­Unless something strange Sabathia's case to become onship team does." happens in the next 10 days, Cleveland's first Cy Young 
C.C. Sabathia (1 X-71 upgrad­the Tigers will spend October Award winner since Gaylord ed his Cy Young Award resume and the months ahead wonder­Perry in 1972, is a strong one. and the Indians, a fourth-place ing what went wrong. A few of He leads the majors in innings finisher in 2006, dropped their them, however, are holding out and is ranked at the top -or magie number to three for hopo. near it -in virtually every cat­clinching their first title since "Until we're mathematieally egory among AL pitchers. 2001. eliminated, we're not finished," But his 99th career win put 
When Cleveland was in the third baseman Brandon Inge the Indians at the brink of midst of its worst streteh of the said. "This game is so quirky. playing meaningful games in pitching 4 2-3 innings Friday out better and I ean keep the season last month, Sabathia I'm not quitting." October, something the 6-foot-7 against the Chicago White Sox. ball down. When I'm right, boldly predicted the Indians Hafael Betancourt, an emerg­Sabathia has often said is "His mechanics are better," that's what I'm doing without would win the division. It ing star in Cleveland's bullpen, much more important to him Scioscia said of Santana. "He's thinking about it." appnars thn big lefty was right. worked out of a bases-loaded than winning individual been preached to all year, he Santana reeently studied 
"I just felt it," Sabathia said. jam in the eighth, and closer awards. just had trouble putting it all video of himself from last sea­"I knew this was coming. I had Joe Borowski pitehed the ninth "I don't care about the Cy together. He made some key son and noticed his mechanics no regrets saying that at all. for his league-leading 42nd Young or anything other than pitches in key situations." had ehanged. IIere we are." save -and biggest one to winning, I swear," he said. "I With Los Angeles leading 2-1 
Casey Blake homered off date. just want to win, man. I'd in the sixth, Santana escaped a Mariners 9, Athletics 5 Nate Hobertson (8-12) as the After a rare 1-2-3 ninth, much rather win a World bases-loaded jam when Jorge Felix Hernandez won his Indians improved to 20-5 since Borowski, who knows all about Series." Velandia flied out with two third straight decision, Haul Aug. 25 and moved into a tie heartbreak after pitching for outs. Santana tipped his cap as Ibanez stroked an HBI triple a 
Angels 2, Devil Rays 1 he left to loud cheers for his day after hitting a grand slam 
Ervin Santana has gotten his first victory since beating and the Seattle Mariners com­control and confidence back. Oakland 9-5 on Sept. 3. pleted a three-game sweep of Just in time for the playoff's. "He was keeping the ball the Oakland Athleties with a too. down," Angels catcher Jeff victory Wednesday. 
Santana struck out 10, Juan Mathis said. "When he keeps Iehiro Suzuki went 2-for-3 to Hivera homered and the Los that slider down, he's pretty extend his hitting streak to 12 Angeles Angels beat Tampa tough. He's going right at peo­games. and Yuniesky Bay Wednesday for their 90th ple." Betancourt drove in three runs victory of the season and Santana had missed his last on a blustery Bay Area day eighth straight at home over start because the Angels acti­when the first-pitch tempera­the Devil Hays. vated Colon. The right-hander ture was 63 degrees. 
"It's good to win when you're was moved to the bullpen Seattle won its sixth straight not scoring a lot of runs," said when Colon returned to the in Oakland to finish 8-1 this Angels manager Mike Scioscia, rotation. season, and eompleted a sweep who earned his 699th victory. Santana had allowed two here for the first time since 
The Angels reduced their earned runs in his last 15 2001. They won the season magie number for clinching innings coming into series 14-5 after a 2-17 show­their third AL West title in four Wednesday, which spanned ing against the A's in 2006. years to three. They remained two starts and one relief Hernandez (13-7) won his 8 1/2 games ahead of second­appearance. At various times, sixth decision in his last seven place Seattle, which beat his control had been an issue, and improved to s-:~ away from Oakland 9-5. with him leaving too many Safeco Field this season. It was 
Los Angeles has won 90 pitches up in the zone and the 21-year-old right-hander's games for the fourth time in six walking too many batters. fourth 2007 start against the seasons. ''I'm working hard at it and A's, and he is 4-0 with a 1.29 
Santana (7-13) allowed one forgetting everything nngative ERA -up from the 0.39 ERA run and six hits in 6 1-3 that has happened in the past," he had to start the day. innings as the replacement he said in Spanish through a lie allowed four runs and starter for Bartolo Colon, who translator. "Once I turn my seven hits in five innings, with developed back stiffness after hips better. my balancn starts three strikeouts. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 2 p.m. AI classificds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Babysitter for 16-mo-old boy.  Apt. complex. Ten 1-bdrm furnished  Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet  Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms.  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  
NOTICES  Weekdays from 4-7 p.m. Call 574-229-3020. ----------------------------------------------­ units. Ready to rent. 4 mi to NO. Great investment, great tax write off or convert to condos. Call Larry  kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like street. Close to ND. 574-217-1557 Tatiana  Walk to NO. 574-876-7341. For Football weekends, call 574-532-1408.  ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­0964. www.victorytickets.com ----------------------------------------------­ 
Chess Lessons Adult & Children  School Bus substitute driver need­ 574-257-0039 or  ----------------------------------------------­ ----------------------------------------------­ Bu~ing BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659.  
Online/in-person (Michiana) Dennis Monokroussos USCF National Master historicchess@comcast.net 574-277-8673.  ed. Responsible, dependable, safe­ty conscious grad student sought to drive a school bus for a private south-side SB school. Must be  57 4-255-9363. ----------------------------------------------­NO Collectibles Largest one of a kind selection for sale i.e. Rockne  Remodeled ranch near NO with all appliances included! 1446 sq.ft.,3 BR, 1 Bath and x-large 2-car garage. $104,000.574-340-1651.  2bdrm house w/basement, washer/dryer. Corby at Eddy 574-232-9084. ---------------------------------------------­ PERSONAL  
available when needed (flexible)  photos, Heisman autographs, old  HOUSE FOR RENT CLOSE TO  Unplanned pregnancy? Do not go it  
WANTED  from 7 a.m. to 8:15a.m., and 3:15 p.m. to 4:30p.m. Each trip pays  tickets, pins, helmets, jerseys, 1973/1977 team-signed footballs.  FoR RENT  CAMPUS (North Shore Triangle neighborhood) 3 bedrooms, 1 bath,  alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or  

 $33. Need a Commercial Driver  Visit College Football Hall of Fame  A/C, dishwasher, washer/dryer, rent  assistance, please call Sr. Sue  
Notre Dame items. Rockne, Leahy,  License -will train around your  on Friday or Augies Locker Room  LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  $750 per month plus utilities.  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For  
Ara, Holtz. Helmets, Umforms,  schedule and pay for your COL  on Sat & Sun, South Bend Ave.  GAMES Visit www.amishcoun- Available immediately. Call 243­ more information, visit our  
Footballs. Old Programs & Tickets.  training, but must have residency in  (SR 23), north of  trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and  7763. Email cventer@nd.edu  website at: http://osa.nd.edu  
Call574-257-0039 or  Indiana. For application/interview  Linebacker across from Martins.  Breakfast Accommodations. Non­ /departmentslpregnant.shtml or see  
,__  574-277-NDND ..................................-------------------------­STUDENT WORK $12.75 base­appt. Flexible schedules, no experi­ call574-291-4200. FoR SALE  Caii574-277-NDND or 257-0039 . ----------------------------------------------­Awesome riverfront new  smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. ----------------------------------------------­3 bdrm house. Walk to NO. Washer  TICKETS WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX.  our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. ----------------------------------...--------­Mark from ABC Cab is Backlll NOW  
ence needed, customer saleslserv­ice, conditions apply. all ages 18+,  Call me for a list of properties  construction 12 min. to NO.4 bdr,4bath,marble,ceramics,h/w  & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighborhood. Landlord  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 ----------------------------------------------­ Driving for American Cab Co On Wed,Thurs,Fri,Sat,Nights.  
574-273-3835,  near NO. 574-217-1557  floors. Jacuzzi,deck,pier.  does yard work. No Pets. No  ND tickets for sale. Best Prices.  
www.workforstudents.com  Tatiana  574-217-1557 Tatiana  Section 8. Call574-250-1266.  57 4-288-2726.  Cell574-360-6480.  
----------------------------------------------­ -----------·---------------------------------­ -----------------------------------·----------­ ---------------------------------------------­ ----------------------------------------------­ ---------------------------------------------­ 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 20, 2007 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NFL 


-
Major League Baseball 
American league East 

team record perc. last 1 0 GB Boston 90·62 .592 4·6 New York 87-64 .576 8·2 2.5 Toronto 76·75 .503 4-6 13.5 Baltimore 64-86 .427 4·6 25.0 Tampa Bay 63-90 .412 3-7 27.5 
American league Central 

team record perc. last 10 GB Cleveland 90-62 .592 8·2 Detroit 83-70 .542 6-4 7.5 Minnesota 74-77 .490 5-5 15.6 Kansas City 65·85 .433 3-7 24.0 Chicago 65-86 .430 5-5 24.5 
American league West 

team record perc. last 10 GB Los Angeles 90·62 .592 6-4 :..:: Seattle 80·70 .533 6-4 9.0 Oakland 74-79 .484 5-5 16.5 Texas 70·81 .464 3-1 19.5 
National league East 

team record perc. last 10 GB New York 83-67 .553 4·6 Philadelphia 82-69 .543 8·2 1.5 Atlanta 78-73 .517 6-4 5.5 Washington 68-83 .450 5-5 11i·~ Florida 65-86 .430 H 18.5 
National league Central 

team record perc. last 10 GB Milwaukee 78-72 •520 1-3 Chicago 79-73 .520 7-3 St. louis 76-80 .467 1·9 8.0 Cincinnati 69-82 .457 5-5 9.5 Pittsburgh 66-85 .437 4·6 12.5 Houston 65·86 .430 3-1 13.5 
National League West 

team record perc. last10 <i.B Arizona 85-67 .559 6·4 San Diego 83-67 .553 7·3 1.0 Los Angeles 79·72 .523 6·4 5.5 Colorado 79-72 .523 5·5 5.5 San Francisco 67-84 .444 3·7 17,!) 
Major League Soccer Eastern Conference Standings 
team  record  points  
DC United New England New York Kansas City Chicago Columbus  15-6-4 13·6·6 11-10·4 10·9·6 8-10-6 6-9-10  49 45 37 36 30 28  
Toronto FC  5·13·6  21  

Western Conference Standings 
team record points 
Houston 13·7·6 45 ChivasUSA 13·6·5 44 FC Dallas 12·9·3 39 
Colorado 7-10·8 29 Real Salt lake 4·13-7 19 los Angeles 4-13-5 111 
around the dial 
MLS Chicago at FC Dallas 8:00 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA FOOTBALL Texas A&M at Miami 7:30p.m., ESPN 

Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-Four years ago, Donovan McNabb got off to a lousy start and Rush Limbaugh said the media propped him up because it was "very desirous" to see black quarterbacks suc­ceed. 
In an interview record· ed almost three weeks ago but aired Tuesday, McNabb said people wanted to see black quar­terbacks fail. 
Who's right? 
Both, if the benchmark is a disgruntled few; nei­ther, if the sample is larg­er than that. 
Whatever opinions the rest of us harbored about the topic were pretty much exhausted a decade or so ago, around the time black quarterbacks became commonplace in the NFL. 
It's a measure of progress that most of us understand a coach would play Satan at quar­terback -with the tacit approval of everybody from the team owner to the team chaplain -if he thought it improved his chances to win. 
We also understand the opposite is true, that Eagles coach Andy Reid would yank McNabb the moment he found some· body he believed could run the offense better. 
So maybe the better 

question is why McNabb decided to wake up those ugly echoes. 
He started life in the NFL as a guy with a chip on his shoulder pads, which made sense when you remember McNabb was booed on draft day in 1999 by a busload of Philly fans who rode up to New York for just such an occasion. And in those first few seasons, no mat­ter what the Eagles lacked a consistent ground game, game­breaking receiver or terra· cious "D" -McNabb seemed determined to prove he could overcome it all by doing more him­self. 
Then came success: the Pro Bowl selections, the string of NFC Championship games, a strong supporting cast and a very different McNabb. He cut down on reckless runs, quit forcing throws into tight spots and became the model of consistency. His high school coach watched McNabb play a game back in Chicago early in 2004, the season the Eagles finally reached the Super Bowl, and pronounced the transformation complete. 
"It's like everything else in life," said Frank Lenti, who has sent a half-dozen players to the NFL from Mt. Carmel High, "it takes a while to get comfortable in your own skin." 

IN BRIEF 
Everett Iookinf!_ to move to 
next phase of rehabilitation 
BUFFALO, N.Y. -Kevin Everett could be transferred to a Houston hospital by this weekend to begin the next phase of the Buffalo Bills tight end's rehabilitation, a person close to the family told The Associated Press on Tuesday. 
"That's the plan that probably by the end of the week, if progress remains the same, he'll be trans­ferred back to Houston," said the person, who spoke on the condi­tion of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of Everett's sta· tus. 
The person said doctors still are making arrangements to deter­mine which hospital would best suit Everett, who sustained the life-threatening spinal-cord injury Sept. 9 while making a tackle. The player grew up in Port Arthur, Texas, and now lives in Houston, 90 miles away. 
Puerto Rican horse loses 
I 25th consecutive race 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico -A Puerto Rican horse that can't win a race now has a claim to fame. 
Dona Chepa, a 9-year-old brown mare, finished last in a six-horse field at Camarero Racetrack in east· ern Puerto Rico on Wednesday, a 125th consecutive loss that is believed to be the longest in horse racing history. 
Track spokesman Joe Bruno said Wednesday's loss surpasses an equine losing record of 0-124 set by Australian horse Ouroene, who raced from 1976-83. 
There is no world governing body that tracks lack of success for hors­es, but Dona Chepa's penchant for losing at least beats other notable marks for futility, including Ouroene, Gloria Springs (106, Japan), Thrust (105, North America) and Quixall Crossett (103, Britain). 

Patriot's cheating makes 
coaches skeptical 
ATHENS, Ga. -Georgia is get­ting ready to face Alabama in a crucial Southeastern Conference game. The Crimson Tide is coached by Nick Saban. Saban used to work for Bill Belichick. 
Can you figure out where this is going? 
Yep, for the first time in his seven years as the Bulldogs coach, Mark Richt has totally closed practice for the week lead­ing up to a game. 
While doing his best to per­suade skeptical reporters that it has nothing to do with Saban's tactics, Richt seemed downright paranoid Tuesday when going over his reasons for the lock· down. 
"Things have changed in the last few years. It's not like it used to be. It's so easy for information to travel so fast," Richt said. 

r-----------------------------------~---------------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2007 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Wright, Alou help Mets snap losing streak against Nats 
Rockies get second come-from-behind win in two nights over Dodgers with Hawpe home run in eighth 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The New 
York Mets gathered in the 
infield for fist bumps and high­
fives Wednesday night, and 
while they had celebrated S3 
previous victorins this season, 
No. S4 somehow senmed so 
important. 
Beating the Washington Nationals S-4 behind Mike Pelfrny's good-enough start, David Wright's three HB!s and a hobbled Moises Alou's three hits not only ended New York's five­ganw losing streak, it allowed the NL East leadnrs to breathe a collective sigh of relief. 
Hmnembnr: It had bnen a full week since the Mets added to their "W" column, and they entered the day only 1 1/2 games ahead of the Philadelphia Phillins -New York's smallest division margin since mid-July. 
"It's a big win fi1r us. It's a win when we neednd one," said Wright. who topped 100 HBis for tlw third consecutive sea­son. "It seemed like everything clicked for us." 
About an hour later, the Mets got morw good news: The Phillies lost to the St. Louis Cardinals 2-1 in 10 innings, bumping New York's lead back to 2 1/2 games. 
The Mets have not been pitch­ing well, allowing the Nationals -the lownst-scoring ofrensn in the majors -to score 21 games in the series' first two games. 
But Pelfrey (3-7) allowed three runs in five-plus innings to win his third consecutive decision, and thn bullpen finally came through, with Jorge Sosa and Aaron Heilman combining for three shutout innings before Billy Wagner gave up an unearned run in the ninth. 

"It's critical when everyone comes in and shuts them down," Mets manager Willie Handolph said. 
It began with Sosa entering with runners on first and third and no outs in the sixth inning. 
"A real important part of the game," Sosa said through a translator. "I didn't want to make a mistake." 
Rockies 6, Dodgers 5 
Brad Hawpe hit a two-run homer in the eighth as the Colorado Hockies rallied for the second straight night in a win over the Los Angeles Dodgers on Wednt~sday. 
Hawpn's homer to right came oil' Jonathan Broxton, who also gave up a two-run shot to Hyan Spilborghs the night before. Takashi Saito gave up a game­winning two-run homer to Todd Helton in the ninth on Tuesday night. 
Colorado, winners of four straight, moved a game ahead of Los Angeles in the NL wild­card race. Both teams entered the contest 4 1/2 games behind wild-card leading San Diego, who played Pittsburgh later in the evening. 
Garrett Atkins had a leadoff single in the eighth of Broxton (4-41. It was Hawpe's 26th homer this season and first since Aug. 29 against San Franeisco. 
Matt Holliday hit two solo home runs ofT Brad Penny, giv­ing him a career-high 35 homers this season. It's the 
ninth time in his career that 
Holliday has hit multiple 
homers in a game, and third 
time this year. 
Brian Fuentes (2-5) pitched a scoreless eighth and Manny Corpas worked the ninth for his 16th save in 18 chances. Corpas has saved 16 straight dating back to July 7. 
Penny was in line for his 17th win of the season before the eighth inning. Penny went six innings, giving up four runs ­three earned -and nine hits. He also allowed a season-high three homers after giving up only six all season before Wednesday night. 
James Loney drove in three runs with RBI singles in the first and third, and a groundout in the fifth. 
Juan Pierre scored two runs, had two hits, including a triple, and stole his 60th base of the season. 
Penny also had two hits, including an HBI single in the sixth. He's now hitting .254 this season. 
Josh Fogg lasted five innings, giving up eight hits and three runs. He was replaced by Hyan Speier. who gave up four straight singles to open the sixth, including one up the mid­dle to Penny to tie the game. 
Speier failed to get an out and was replaced by Jeremy Affeldt with the bases loaded. Affeldt allowed an HBI groundout to Matt Kemp, before getting Jeff Kent to fly out to deep center to end the inning. 
Yorvit Torrealba made the most of a second chance by hit­ting his seventh homer of the season in the second. 
Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 7-January 13 

Information night: 
Thursday, Sept. 20 
7pm 
Coleman Morse Student Lounge 
Applications available at http:fface.nd.edufoutreach. 


Attend the 2007 ND Law Fair 
September 25, 2007 McKenna Hall 11:00-3:00 
Representatives from over 70 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 
Thursday, September 20, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NASCAR 
Dale Jr. announces Pepsi deal for next season 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -With a swig from his 16-ounce Amp Energy drink. the robranding of Dale Earnhardt Jr. began. 
Earnhardt officially ditched longtime sponsor Budweiser on Wednesday, announcing deals with PepsiCo. and The National 
Guard  to  fund  his  No.  88  
Chevrolet  next  season  at  
I Iendrick Motorsports.  

Pepsi will market il<> Mountain Dew Amp Energy drink with Earnhardt. and NASCAR's most popular driver was pounding the product after an early appear­ance before 1,500 bottlers at Pepsi's annual convention. 
"They got me up at 5 o'clock this morning, so I've been able to test the effectiveness of the prod­uct," ho joked. ''I'm pleased to be sitting here and not yawning." 
Tlw new alliances mark a dear shift from the party-boy image Budweiser cultivated that made Junior a phenomenon. Now that he's 32 and growing up, Earnhardt is turning into a cor­porate pitchman. 

A genuine affmity for the prod­ucts he's associated with has made Earnhardt a sponsor's dream. So when he announced he was leaving Dale Earnhardt Inc. at the end of this season to drive for mighty Hendrick Motorsports, the phone started ringing. 
"I got phone calls from so many companies, some of them in the sport that I never talked to and some of them I had no idea even had any interest in the sport," team owner Rick Hendrick said. "It was just phenomenal the amount of interest that was there." 
But Hendrick didn't look out­side his existing partners. He quickly announced that Budweiser, who first teamed with Earnhardt in 1999, would not sponsor him in 2008 and began working out new deals. Hendrick has worked with Pepsi's products for almost a decade, and the National Guard is the primary sponsor on Casey Mears' car this season. 
The new sponsors will be joined by a new car number. Earnhardt has driven the No. 8 Chevrolet full-time for DEI since 2000, and he tried to take the No. 8 with him to Hendrick. But step­mother Teresa Earnhardt refused to give up her rights to it, and Mark Martin and Aric Almirola will co-drive it next year with sponsorship from the U.S. Army. 
The No. 88 was used by Robert Yates Racing, which asked NASCAR to transfer the number to Hendrick for Earnhardt. 
"Ralph Earnhardt drove the No. 88 Olds in 1957 and because of this number's history with the Earnhardt family, I felt car No. 88 should continue with Dale Earnhardt, Jr.," Hobert Yates said in a statement. 
In addition to new sponsor­ships, Earnhardt signed personal services contracts this summer 

CHIPOTLE 
PLUS A LYRIC CONTEST 
TO WIN AN IPOD 
10 PM SATURDAY 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 

II1IIEIIT ll:'l1miEII 1'1'1'11"""'....-­
110 
IAD.ND.EDU 

with Sony and Adidas, and unveiled a personally designed candy bar on Tuesday in Chicago. 
"I think there is a little bit of -a maturation of Dale Jr. as a brand," said Mark Dyer, CEO of Motorsports Authentics, the largest marketer of NASCAR merchandise. 

"I think they were ready to go in a different direction with his image. With the change to Hendrick, they were ready to switch their alignments and part­ners and I think that's a healthy evolution." 
NFL 

Leftwich joins Atlanta, practices for first time 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. ­Byron Leftwich knew he would have to pick a new number when he got to his new team. 
Not that anyone in Atlanta is wearing No. 7. But, for the time being, it still belongs to Michael Vick, who awaits sentencing for running a brutal dogfighting ring while the Falcons try to recoup some of his bonus money. 
"We all know 7 is Mike's num­ber," Leftwich said Wednesday, standing at his locker after going through his first practice with the Falcons. "I figured I would just pick a number. Well, 17 didn't look good on me. I'm trying to look as slim as possible. So I just figured I would pick 4." 
No. 4, it is -though the real question in Atlanta is: How long before Leftwich is No. 1? 
The Falcons {0-2) have scored just 10 points and taken 13 sacks with Joey Harrington at quarter­back. Coach Bobby Petrino already took a shot at his starter, saying he's been holding the ball too long and needs to take more chances. 
Leftwich, the starter in Jacksonville the last four years but plagued by injuries, was cut just before the start of the sea­son. He returned to his mom's home in Washington, D.C., where he watched the Jaguars beat the Falcons 13-7 last Sunday. 
"I was in my mother's base­ment trying not to eat all that food," Leftwich quipped. "I want­ed to make sure I didn't get too big, so I would be ready when the opportunity came." 
It came the very next day. He flew to Atlanta to meet with the Falcons, who were apparently mindful of getting burned by Vick as they questioned Leftwich. 
"I guess they wanted to meet me and see what type of guy I was," he said. "They wanted to make sure I wasn't a knuckle­head." 
No word on if they asked Leftwich whether he owned any pit bulls. 

The Falcons' former starter pleaded guilty to federal dogfight­ing charges and figures to spend at least a year in prison. He also was suspended indefmitely by the NFL and is unlikely to ever play again for the Falcons, who haven't cut him yet merely for fmancial reasons (the team hopes to recover some of the bonus money from his record $130 mil­lion contract). 
Harrington, who signed with the Falcons to serve as Vick's backup and try to get his career back.on track, was thrust into the starting role by default. While he's completed more than 67 percent of his passes, he's accounted for more touchdowns by the opposition (Minnesota returned two interceptions to the end zone in Week 1) than his own team has scored (the Falcons managed one TD in the first two games). 
Despite his criticism, Petrino stressed Wednesday that Harrington is still the starter and Chris Redman remains the back­up. Leftwich will likely need a couple of weeks just to get a han­dle on the offense. 
"This will have no effect," Petrino said. "Byron comes in as the No. 3. I talked to him about it, and I talked to the other two quarterbacks about it. They both knew we were looking for a vet­eran guy. We wanted to be patient, take our time and make sure we had the right guy." 
Leftwich, who agreed to a two­year, $7 million contract, just wanted to get back on the field ­even ifit was only a practice field in the far northern suburbs of sprawling Atlanta. He took part in the nearly two-hour workout, then hung around afterward to throw some extra passes. 
''I'm a football player," he said. 'Til tell you, missing those last two weeks really bothered me, man, having to watch everyone else play and knowing I was healthy but couldn't go out there and be part of a football team. I'm just happy to be back out there." 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2007 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 20 Aggies ready to face Hurricanes in Miami 


Associated Press 
MlAM I -Texas /\&M eoaeh Dennis Franehione started hearing his players talk about facing Miami snveral months ago during spring praetien. ThP /\ggies meant no disrnspnct to any other opporwnt, hut this was thn noneonferenee game that stood out from the rest. 
Now with Montana State, Fresno State and Louisiana­Monroe out of the unbeaten /\ggins' way, that prime-time matdlllp with tlw Hurricanes is finally here. 
"Coaeh said it best," /\ggies del'nnsivn back Devin Cregg said. "It can be exposure, or we ean bn exposed." 
The 20th-ranked /\ggies haven't started 4-0 in eon­seeutivn seasons since the early 1940s. They'll get a ehanee to change that Thursday night, when they visit unrankcd Miami (2-1 ). 
It's the first meeting between the teams since 1944, and the /\ggies' first trip to Florida since 1968. 
"This is a big game for us, but you've got to play every gamn like it's a 

big game," Miami defen­sivn end Calais Campbell said. "It'll be on national TV  "This is a big game for us, but you've got to play every game like it's a big game. "  They're going to come in and try to run the football and get you on a play­action pass - 
and all the peo­ple who do the  Calais Campbell  same thing we do, try to get a  
little rankings  Miami defensive end  cheap  one  on  
and  stuff will  you  in  some  
be watching, so  way,  form  or  
we've got to go  fashion.  It  

out and make a statement." should be a good game." 
While Miami has won its In many years, this would last l 0 games on Thursday he a strength-against­nights, the Hurricanes are 1-strength matchup, since 7 in their last eight matehups Miami has perennially been against ranked opponents difficult to run against. and 9-S in their last 17 But the Hurricanes yielded games overall. 159 yards rushing against 
Coach Handy Shannon .said Florida International in a 23­neither the bright lights of Thursday night nor Texas /\&M's ranking should pro­vide his team with extra motivation. 
"Thorn's no such thing as a statement game. Every game is," Shannon said. "Every ganw's got to be a statement game. You've got to be pre­pared and ready to play at all times. If you don't, some­body's going to snnak up on you and beat you." 
Tho way the Aggies run the ball. they don't sneak up on anyone. 
Bruising 268-pound tail­back Jorvorskie Lane already has !Ieven rushing touch­downs, one shy of Hutgers' Hay Hiee and West Virginia's Steve Slaton for the major college lead. llis backfield mate, Mike Goodson, has rushed for 247 yards through three games, and quarter­back Stephen McGee is the multifaceted type that often gives Miami fits. lie's run for a team-best 263 yards, plus thrown for 428 more. 
"Their schemes are what they're going to be," 
Shannon said. 
"It's nothing 
sophisticated. 
9 win last week, so they clearly had some things to correct in a short week to prepare for the Aggies' three-pronged attack. 
"Up to this point, they're definitely going to be the most athletic defense we've seen," McGee· said. "You set their record aside and their one game against Oklahoma (a 51-13 loss two weeks ago) aside, and talent-wise they're going to be as good as proba­bly most teams we're going to play this year." 
He meant on the defensive side of the ball. Offensively, the Hurricanes are still a 
Earn your MPA in Environmental Science and Policy 
The Master of Public Adn1inistration Progran1 in Environmental Science and Policy is a twelve-month progran1 that cmnbines Colmnbia University's hands-on approach to teaching public policy and adtninistration with pioneering thinking about the environment. 
Application deadline for early decision: November 1 

For more information, please call 212-H54-3142, e-mail: lar46@columbia.edu, or visit our Web site: www.columbia.edujcujmpaenvironment For information on other SIPA programs, visit www.SIPA.columbia.edu 
SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
For fellowship consideration: January 15 Final deadline: February 15 
work in progress, as Shannon likes to say. 
Quarterback Kyle Wright will make his second start of the season for Miami, which is averaging nearly 23 points per game so far -not entirely bad, but not even half of what Texas A&M is scoring this year. 
II' recent history is any guide, teams have to be able to put up some big numbers to have a good chance of beating the Aggies. Over its last 20 games, Texas A&M has allowed 28 or more points nine times. The Aggies are 2-7 in those games, 10-1 
in all others. 
But the stat Franchione talked about this week was A&M's 5-0 record in regular­season road games last sea­son -and how he hopes some of that success carries over into the Aggies' first road trip of 2007. 
"When you go play a tradi­tion-rich program like Miami in the Orange Bowl, if you are able to play well and get a victory, it does reinforce an attitude that you ean go any­where and beat people and play well on the road," Franchiom~ said. "I think this team carries that feeling." 

.---------------------------------------------------­
-

Thursday, September 20, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Jazz forvvard Kirilenko criticizes Sloan, detnands trade 

Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY, Ut. ­Roughly three months removed from their longest playoff run in a decade, the Utah Jazz could have a starting lineup with less firepower next sea­son. 
In a blog post made Tuesday on the Hussian Web site Sport Today, Andrei Kirilenko said he seeks a trade from the Jazz 
and voices his concern with playing next season for coach Jerry Sloan. 
The Salt Lake Tribune con­firmed that the post was made by the Jazz forward. 
Kirilenko, an NBA All-Star in 2004, had his worst season last year despite the Jazz winning 51 games and advancing to the Western Conference Finals for the first time since 1997-98. He played in 70 games, aver­aging 8.3 points, 4.7 rebounds and 2.1 blocks per game last season after playing in 69 games in 2005-06 and averag­ing 15.3 ppg, 8.0 rpg and 3.1 bpg. 
Despite a difficult NBA cam­paign, Kirilenko stood out at the European Basketball Tournament, leading his native Russia to the championship to clinch an Olympic berth. He was named tournament MVP and said on the blog that play­ing for Russian coach David Blatt helped him decipher his future. 
The Tribune translated part of Kirilenko's as: "In a week, I need to join the Utah Jazz again but quite frankly I'm not really happy about that. The past season was bad for me and I was really disappointed. I've thought about it a lot and I came to a decision. I want to leave Utah Jazz. The European championships that just ended became sort of a test for me and now I think I know what I want to do. 
"Coach Sloan is one of the reasons. It's not the only rea­son.... [Sloan's] main method to motivate players is to create a feeling of guilt. Our wages, our errors in games and what­ever we do beyond playing for the Jazz is also an excuse to criticize us. I want to play bas­ketball. I want to be happy playing basketball, but I don't want to be a robot in Sloan's system." 
Kirilenko's agent, Marc Fleisher, did not return phone calls Wednesday from The Associated Press. 
The Jazz open training camp on Oct. 6 and Kevin O'Connor, the team's senior vice presi­dent of basketball operations, expects Kirilenko in camp. 
"We explained to him when everybody was supposed to be back and we expect him to be here," O'Connor told the news­paper. 
Kirilenko said in his blog post that he told O'Connor of his request a few weeks ago but hasn't heard back from him. 
"I don't want to be there and mechanically fulfill a contract. Unfortunately, it's been more than a week, but I haven't 
heard from the Jazz leader­ship," Kirilenko wrote. "There's no response negative or positive and this silence is just one more evidence of the way they treat me. Nevertheless, I'm really hope­ful that Utah Jazz leadership will realize that our relation­ship is over and it's time for us to part ways." 
Kirilenko was frustrated with his role for most of the past season. Following Game 1 of the Jazz's opening-round play­off series against Houston, Kirilenko was visibly upset. He played limited minutes in the first two games of the series and was pulled by Sloan from Game 2 after missing a nine­foot jumper. 

He averaged 9.6 points and 
5.2 rebounds in the playoffs as the Jazz relied almost entirely on Deron Williams and Carlos Boozer, which led to some bit­ter comments in the locker room after San Antonio elimi­nated Utah, 4-1. 
Without giving names, Williams accused some team­mates of starting vacation early. Kirilenko was asked about it as he was cleaning out his locker and declined to com­ment. 
Kirilenko, one of the last remaining players from the John Stockton/Karl Malone era, signed a six-year, $86 mil­lion deal three years ago that made him Utah's highest-paid player. 
After the season, he com­plained to a Russian newspa­per about his role in the offense and that he felt he was being treated like a rookie instead of a franchise player. Sloan said in June that the team would keep Kirilenko but that Utah would also try to do what's best for the team. 
"We're not looking. I don't like to trade people," Sloan said. "But we've got to do what's best for the franchise, always. 
"He's got to come and play," Sloan said. "I mean, when he doesn't come and play hard. he can blame it on whatever he wants, but all I can say is what 
I see on the floor. We loved the way when he plays great. And he can be good all the time if he works at it." 
Kirilenko's contract could be a big hurdle if he wants out of Utah because other teams might be unwilling to assume the contract, which runs through 2011. 
O'Connor told the newspaper on Tuesday he spoke with Kirilenko. 
The Bistro featllres tlte freshest seafood, steaks and much more .... 
Parisi's 2nd location Newest fine dining toith aEuropean pair located 1mile from the stadittm 
After dinner relax in our Martini Lounge and enjoy live music 
IN HONOR OF BLESSED BASIL MOREAU Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross 
The story of Basil Moreau, the recently beatified founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, comes to life in this updated edition of his biography. 
ISBN: 978159471 1336 I 256 pages with 8-page photo insert I $15.95 

MacEoin 's gentle and respectful style brings Fr. Moreau to life in a wayfew others ofhis biographers have, and I hope this new edition receives wide reading. 
FATHER JOHN JENKINS, C.S.C. President. the University of Notre Dame 
MacEoin ~·biography ofBasil Moreau is a reminder ofhow the cross was woven into the whole cloth which was the founder's life. This story as told ~Y MacEoin is more than history; it is sustenancefor our continuingjourneyfrom faith to hope, well worth reading again. 
BROTHER RICHARD B. GILMAN, C.S.C. President, Holy Cross College 
Aprogressive educator who aimed to revitalize religion through wider diffusion ofknowledge, Moreau was committed to the 
excellent professionalpreparation ofHoly Crossfaculty. That 
commitment has bam excellentfruit. Everyone in Holy Cross ministry should read this book. 
CAROL ANN MOONEY, PH.D. President, Saint Mary's College 
To read more about Basil Moreau visit our website at www.avemariapress.com 
Available from your bookstore, Hammes Notre Dame bookstore, or from 
ave maria press I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
www.avernariapress.com I Ph: 800-282-1865
A ~ 

ave marla press• A Ministry of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross 
Keycode: AD2090705PL 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 
MLB 

Pettitte vvins 200th as Yankees close in on Sox 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Andy Pnttittn got 
a milestone ball from Mariano 
Hivera and the lint~up eard from 
manager Jon Torre. 
The Nnw York Yankees got 
another step dosnr to the top of 
the AL East. 
Pnttitte earned his 200th win, Hivera eseaped a bases-loaded jam in the ninth inning and the Yankees edged the Baltimore Orioles 2-1 Wednesday night to complete a three-game sweep that pull1~d them within 1 1/2 games of first-place Boston. 
"Wn'rn right thern and I mean we want to win it," Pettitte said. "We would like to win this divi­sion but just thankful we'rn play­ing good." 
llidnki Matsui homered and Doug Mientkinwiez seored on a wild pitch for Nnw York, whieh has won four straight and 12 of 14. 
"Wn spent an early portion of this year trying to lind our way," Torrn said. "and now that wlwn we eome to the ballpark we nxpnc:l to win. it's a nkn lf~eling." 
The Yankees (XX-641. a slmson­high 24 games ovtw .500, also opmwd a 5 1/2-game lead over l>ntroit (X:~-701 for the wild 1~ard. Now it's the division racn that is eapturing morn of their attention as the season winds down. 
Torrn said he heard the erowd roar in the ninth wlwn tht~ scorn­board showed the Hod Sox worn losing at Toronto, and Pettitte acknowlmlgnd checking on the Boston game. 
It's the dosest New York has been to first place since the Yankees trailed by one game before play on April 20. They began play on May 30 down by 14 1!2 games to Roston. 
"Four months ago, nobody gave us credit. And now we're close to winning tlw divL<>ion," Rivera said. 
Melvin Mora hit an HBI single in the sixth for Baltimore, cutting Nnw York's lead to 2-1. Mora advanced on a groundout, but Pettitll~ rntirnd Nick Markakis on an inning-ending flyout. 
Pettitte (14-8) got the first two outs of the eighth before giving way to rookh~ Joba Chamberlain, 

who had never entered in the 
middle of an inning. Pettitte trot­
tnd ofT thn field to a thunderous 
ovation from the Yankee Stadium 
erowd and doffed his eap as he 
rnached the dugout. Chamberlain 
struck out Mora. pumping his fist 
as he walked ofl' the mound. 
Hivera worked the ninth, allow­
ing a bloop. one-out double to 
Markakis. lie retired Kevin Millar 
on a llyout, loaded the bases with 
walks to Aubrey I lull' and Hamon 
Ilnrnandez. then threw a called 
third strike past pinch-hitter Scott 
Moore. 
Hivera got his 30th save in 33 chances, reaching 30 saves for the fifth straight season and the 1Oth time in 11 years. lie has saved 49 of Pettitte's wins, according to thf~ Elias Sports Bureau. 
''I've got 200 wins now b11cause he's as great of a doser as he is," l'ettittn said. 'Tve been very for­tunatn to be on a great team lor a long time and I wouldn't want anyorw nlse closing out my gamns." 
The slumping Orioles have lost 22 of thnir last 2X games. They scored just six runs in thn three garnPs against the Yankees. 
"Wn fully expected to win tonight," manager Davn Trmnbley said. "It didn't happen, but not be1~ause we didn't put forth the ell"ort." 
Pettitte allowed at least one runner in each of the first seven innings but his defense responded with thrm~ double plays, inducting one that ended the fifth and led to Jay Payton's second ejection of the series. 
Millar l11d oil' the inning with a single. lie was erased when Hull' grounded into a fielder's choice but Hernandez singled to give Baltimore runners on first and second. 
Payton then worked the count full before he looked at a called third strike. He wheeled around and started arguing with plate umpire Mike Heilly as catcher Jorge Posada threw out Ilernandez at second to end the inning. Reilly then ejected Payton, who threw his bat and helmet down as he stomped ofl' toward the dugout. 
The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2007 
WoMEN's WoRLD CuP 

Chalupny leads U.S. attack 
Associated Press 
Lori Chalupny has experi­
enced three decisive moments 
in China. 
The first threatened her soc­
cer career. The last were 
much better: two eye-catching 
goals for the U.S. national 
team's quiet mid fielder. 
The latest goal came Tuesday after just 57 seconds, the second-fastest in tourna­ment history. It sent the No. 1­ranked Americans past Nigeria 1-0 and into the quar­terfinals of the Women's World Cup. 
"That goal, being my first World Cup goal, was an amaz­ing feeling," said Chalupny, a former defender prone to menacing late runs. On the Nigeria goal, she stabbed in a close shot off a header from Abby Wambach. 
ller other China goal carne eight months ago in the Four Nations tournament, where Chalupny's soaring 20-yard strike helped beat China 2-0. 
"That goal was a big confi­dnnce builder for me, showing that I can make a difference in these games," said Chalupny, who will guide the midfinld in Saturday's quar­terlinal against England in the northern industrial city of Tianjin. 
Another quarterfinal Saturday has North Korea fac­ing defending champion Germany in the central city of Wuhan. 
Chalupny (pronounced ka­LUP-nee) also had a scary moment almost two years ago in China. Playing in a tourna­ment, she sustained the last in a series of concussions and was sidelined three months. 

"I got hit in the nose, and I 
had concussions before in col­
lege, but this was icing on the 
cake," she said. "I feel I am 
100 percent over it and I'm 
not thinking baek toward it. 
When you are out on the field 
you can't afford to be timid or 
afraid." 

As the American forwards struggle to score in the World Cup, Chalupny, Shannon Boxx and Carli Lloyd provide the biggest threats out of midfield. 
On paper. the U.S. appears in good shape to win its third World Cup title. But the Americans, who are undefeat­ed in 50 straight games. were stretched in their first throe games in Group B -by far the best in the tournament ­against No. 3 Sweden, No. 5 North Korea and five-time African champions Nigeria. 
The group was so good that Sweden -runner-up four years ago-failed to advance. Several other strong teams will also fail to make it when the last group games are com­pleted Thursday. Then there are rising powers in Brazil. North Korea and host China. 
"Overall there is great pari­ty," American coach Greg Hyan said. "The top teams are no longer the top teams by miles." 
The U.S. has seored five goals in three games -three by Wambach. But it has missed dozens of other chances, a slightly worrying trend with the Sept. 30 final in Shanghai in sight. 
"You never put a lot of pres­sure on goal scorers or they will miss more," Hyan said. "The main thing for us is to continue creating our chances knowing at some point they just start falling. We just hope it's soon." 
The Americans have been 
relying on set plays and a stel­
lar defense. They probably 
were slowed by a few wet 
fields -training in California 
has not prepared the team for 
rain. 

"We don't typieally play in downpours and on wet slip­pery fields," Hyan said, refer­ring to Tuesday's rain-soaked game, which was played as Typhoon Whipa was nearing. "We just haven't had that experience. I guess we should have hosed down our lields to get ready for this." 
Fallout from the typhoon forced two games scheduled for Wednnsday to be pushed back to Thursday. 
In final games in Group Con Thursday, it's Norway vs. C;hana and Australia vs. Canada. In Group I>: Brazil vs. Denmark and China vs. New Zealand. Ghana has been eliminatfld but the other seven still hav11 a chance at the quarterfinals. 
Brazil, China. Norway and Australia are the favorites. Their group of quarterfinals will bn played Sunday in Wuhan and Tianjin. 
The postponflments eame 10 minutes after the Australia­Canada game was to have begun. leaving fans outside the stadium to listen to expla­nations over loudspeakers. 
"It's disappointing to find out so late about the resched­uling, but that aside it allows all teams to compete on an equal footing," Australia coach Torn Sermanni said. 

.9Lndrews 

CELEBRATION 

2007 
We express our gratitude to the Andrews and McMeel families for sponsoring over 1450 students in the Summer Service Learning Program in the 27 years of the James F. Andrews Scholarship Fund. As we gather with the 150 Andrews Scholars for 2007 this evening, we celebrate your commitment to the many partners of this program: the Notre Dame students, the people at the summer service-learning sites, and the Notre Dame Alumni Clubs. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
'WNOTREDAME Center for Social Concerns 


S:.' 1\.Ssoc. 
§".{;0::· 
-< . 0;j 
Community Servi<:e 

Thursday, September 20, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Simpson posts $125,000 bail 

Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -In a scene of legal deja vu, a grayer, heav­ier O.J. Simpson stood hand­cuffed in court Wednesday to face charges that could put him behind bars for life. The prosecutor who failed to get him a dozen years ago was there to watch, and news cameras tracked his every move as if they were covering a slow-speed chase. 
But as Simpson made his $125,000 bail on charges including kidnapping and armed robbery, legal experts were questioning: Could a former football star who beat a double-murder rap really do hard time for a crime that sounds like a bad movie? 
Police have laid out a case that makes Simpson the leader in a tense, armed holdup of sports memorabilia collectors. Some of the facts -including a curious record­ing of the confrontation ­don't seem so clear-cut. 
Legal experts say that issues such as who had right­ful ownership of the goods and the reputation of witness­es in the sometimes less­than-reputable world of memorabilia trading could cloud the pros~cution's case. 
Simpson has insisted he was merely retrieving items that were stolen from him earlier. 



NCAA FOOTBALL -SEC 
Alfred Beardsley, one of the collectors who says he was robbed at gunpoint by Simpson and several other men, told NBC's "Today" show before Simpson's hear­ing that he didn't think an audiotape made at the scene was accurate. Beardsley was arrested for a parole violation on Wednesday. 
The man who arranged the meeting between Simpson and the two collectors, Tom Riccio, has a criminal record. The other victim, Bruce Fromong, was recovering 
from  a  heart attack in a  Los  
Angeles hospital.  
"The  credibility  of  the  

cohorts in the enterprise would be a key issue at trial," said University of Southern California law professor Jody Armour. 
Agreed, .said Dennis Turner, a professor at the University of Dayton School of Law. "This is a pretty shady world and pretty shady characters dealing with each other in a pretty shady way." 
A key difference with the 1995 murder trial is that there are plenty of witnesses this time who place Simpson at the scene, including hotel video surveillance. Simpson has made no secret he went to the hotel room intending to take the memorabilia and told The Associated Press that a man who came with him brought a truck to cart away the goods. 
"It's not like the murder case involving his ex-wife and Ron Goldman, where Simpson had a completely different story in which he said, 'I was­n't there,'" said Doug Godfrey, a professor at the Chicago-Kent College of Law. "A prosecutor only has to show intent. And the intent is, 'Were you acting in concert with someone with a gun to take property from someone?' If you were, you're guilty of armed robbery." 
Simpson attorney Yale Galanter said: "You can't rob something that is yours." 
Simpson, standing in court in a blue jail uniform and handcuffs, furrowed his brow as the judge read the list of charges against him. Gone was the slight smirk he flashed when he was arrest­ed. 
He answered quietly in a hoarse voice and nodded as the judge laid out restrictions for his release, including sur­rendering his passport to his attorney and having no con­tact with co-defendants or potential witnesses. 
Simpson did not enter a plea. 
"Mr. Simpson do you under­stand the charges against you?" the judge asked. 
"Yes, sir," Simpson respond­ed. 
Galanter said after the hearing that the $125,000 bond was reasonable. 
The oddity of the case has attracted a swarm of media, including Marcia Clark, who unsuccessfully prosecuted Simpson for the 1994 mur­ders and was reporting for "Entertainment Tonight." A helicopter television crew fol­lowed Simpson's vehicle leav­ing the court, strangely remi­niscent of the slow-speed chase in which he once fled police in a white Ford Bronco. 

5TUDY IN BEIJING or 5H/\NGH/\I 

Alabama wide out adjusts to new fame after touchdown catch 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -The Florida Gators call it "Vitamin Addazio," a rousing pep talk before breakfast that wakes everybody up and gets them energized to play. 
It might be needed more than ever at Mississippi on Saturday. 
The third-ranked Gators face several challenges in their first road game of the season: travel­ing with such a young team ­Florida is playing 48 freshmen and sophomores -and having lost the last three trips to the Magnolia State. Even more con­cerning, though, is the rare, 
11:30 a.m. local time kickoff. 
"The red flags are up," coach Urban Meyer said. "That is a major concern. We don't have the answer. We're just going to keep researching it. I even asked some of the players I trust: 'How do we make sure we're ener­gized?' 
"[Tim] Tebow's fme. He goes to sleep charged and he wakes up charged. I'm not worried about that one. It's the dead fish I'm worried about. Believe it or not, we still have some dead fish that we have to awaken." 
Florida faced a similar situa­tion during Meyer's first season, when the Gators played Iowa in the Outback Bowl and had the same late-morning start time. 
Meyer called former Ohio State coach Earle Bruce and for­mer Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz for advice. They told him he needed to find a way to get the players going early. 
Meyer's solution? Well, some would call it a rude awakening. 
"When we wake them up, it's a circus," Meyer said. "There's no alarm clock going off. There's assistant coaches kicking doors in. Everybody does the same thing-. They rip the curtains open, open the windows, give them an orange juice and throw a newspaper at them and have fun with those guys." 

It worked so well the first time -Florida beat Iowa 31-24 ­that the Gators have used the same routine for every road game since. 
"Even when we play at night we do that," Meyer said. "The players, some of them look for­ward to it. Some of them proba­bly can't stand it. That's part of the deal." 
After the coaches get everyone out of bed, they walk a few laps around the hotel and then sit down for breakfast. That's when offensive line coach Steve Addazio takes over. 
"It's exciting," center Drew Miller said. "He gets up and brings a lot of energy and juice for us, trying to get us motivat­ed. It's just gets us excited and ready to play. He's always got spit flying." 
The Gators hope the pep talk, along with better play, will help them end a three-game losing streak in Mississippi. 
Nice catch 
Alabama receiver Matt Caddell had been quietly pulling duty as a blocker and a decoy, going without a catch in the frrst two games. 
That all changed in the final two drives of the Crimson Tide's 41-38 win over Arkansas, culmi­nating in his leaping touchdown grab with 8 seconds left. 
"That's the kind of guy he is," tailback Terry Grant said. "He's kind of quiet, then all of a sud­den he sneaks up and bites you." 
Caddell suddenly became the Tide's go-to guy with star OJ Hall hobbled late by a sore quadricep. 
Caddell had six catches for 54 yards on the final two drives, resulting in a field goal and his 4-yard touchdown. 
Caddell's nine-catch game was only seven fewer than he had all oflast season. 
But the soft-spoken senior did­n't use it as a chance to gripe about his lack of chances in the first two games, or lobby for more. 
-~------~­

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2007 
----_-----~~===-~~==================================================~======~====== 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Dorsey dominates opposing offensive lines 
LS U nose tackle terrorizes quarterbacks for stout Bayou Bengals defensive wall, thrives on Phil Collins music 
Associated Press 
BATON HOUGI~. La.-Glenn Dorsey's fellow dPfPnsivn linn­man snn thP same pattern PVnry wenk. 
Offensive guards, all pumped up to take on LSU's fearsonw <>-foot-2, :w:~-pound di'I"Pnsive tackiP shout and point. make forcl'ful assign­ment calls at thP linp of scrimmage, tlu·n move vigor­ously into lhPir blocking stance once thl' ball is snappl'd. 
By tl11~ sncond half. those same oiTensive linenwn art~ bn~athing !wavily, too !wavily to say v~~ r y much or rn o v e very fast. 
"Tiw first few plays of tlw ganw, you always noticn thosP oiTensive guards lw's going against arn f(~al motivated," LSU defPnsivP Pnd Tyson Jackson said. "Conw tho third and fourth quarlPr ... tlwy'rn all rnal faliguPd, worn out and you can look at tlwrn and realize that (;Jnnn is rnally bringing it to them at that point, bnrausP they're not making any rwise any more." 
LSU's dd1~nsP would have IH~ (1 11 f0 rIll i d a b I p eve n i f Dorsey had ldt school aft,~r h is j u n i or season , when lw was widPiy projected as a l"irst-round NFI. draft pick. 
II is return to the Sl~eond­ranknd Tigers has bolstered what might bP the best I.SU dnfensu ~~ver -evnn better than the 1959 unit that allowed only 29 points all sea­son. 
If Dorsey's statistics aren't great, it's only because offens­es are so worried about him they ot"tnn assign more than one bloeknr to him. 
So far. lw has two saeks in three games. lie's tied for tlw learn lead in solo tackles with 
11. lin's sncond on the team in total tackles with 14. lie has a t1~am-lmHiing 3.5 tackles for losses. 
Tlw rest of tlw defnnse ben­efits from Dorsey's work. llis bull rushi)S open lanes defen­sivn coordinator Bo Pelini's many blitzes. 
Overall. LSU has 1:~ sacks for minus-1 17 yards. They'vn allowed only seven points in three ganws. Not one starting quarterhaek has lasted an 1~ntirn game against them. 
Dorsey, who grew up in (;onzales, about a 20-minute drivn from TigPr Stadium, surprisnd many when he rnturrwd to LSU for his senior snason, to tlw delight of his tnamrnates, Tigers fans and his numerous friends and family who convnrgn on Baton Hougn to watch hi rn play. 
"I was real happy knowing that <;Jnnn would be hack," .laekson said "You know tlwrn aro a lot. of ofTnnsive coordi­nators that have to pay atten­tion to him and that gives other defensive linem1~n on our team opportunities to makn plays, because you can't sit tlwre throughout the whole night and think you can bloek him onP-on-orw. It's praetieal­ly impossible." 

J>orsoy wasn't always the imposing prnsPnee he is now. In his earliest youth. he was bowiPggPd and neednd log bracns. Somo relatives shiod away from holding him, he said, bnrauso tiH1 bracns scrapped thnrn up. 
Likn many who grow up in the rural South, he's loved football for as long as he ean rnmember. But the braces prevented him from playing in tlw yard with friends and rnl­ativns. Or if tlwy lnt him play, tlwy piekl'd him last. 
J>orsny lwlinves the nxpori­encn inslillnd a seemingly irH~xhaustibln drive in him to nxrPI. 
"I just knnw whennvnr I got a chance to show them what I got, I was going to show them," Dorsey rceallnd. "That's boon my attitude the wholn time. I just want to come out and show everybody what I got. I always feel like I'm the undnrdog. That's the way I take nverything. I always feel like I have some­thing to prove and that just brings the best out in me." 
llo had very little to prove after his junior season, when he was in on 64 tackles with three saeks and essentially caused the same kind of dis­ruption in opponents' back­fields that he's causing now. But Dorsey believed this year's defense could be even better than the excellent units lw'd been part of since arriv­ing at LSU. lie believed there was a chance to win a nation­<d title at LSU. And it would give him one last year to play near horne. 
"I just really enjoy the envi­ronmnnt and it was a no­brainer," Dorsey said. ''I'm just 20 minutes from my house, everybody from my hometown can come up for the game, so I'm just really enjoying the moment, you know?" 
Some of his favorite rnonumts come bnfore games. When he arrives at the stadi­

'lfill.l57-t)W-38ru ~~s~~g_ 
Slxjh0end.IN46001 
for women and children 25% off for students 
daY and Friday are Latin Dane~. Nights
""-nurs .,~, at 
Palacio Tropical 


AP 

LSU defensive tackle Glenn Dorsey, center, celebrates with teammates during the Tigers' 48-7 
win over Virginia Tech Sept. 8 in Baton Rouge, La. 
um he often notices himself Pelini said he felt fortunatn hurrying to get in uniform so to get Dorsey back. not just he can put on his headphones because of how good he is, and listen to Phil Collins' but because of the example he 1980s hit "In the !\ir Tonight." sets and the leadership he 
"It kind of gets my mind shows throughout praetiees right, gets me focused, and and games·. that's just the way I feel. I fed "He's a special guy and he's it coming in the air," Dorsey a high-character guy," Pelini said. "It just gets better and said. "He's not afraid to call better every time I hear it. I his teammates out and hold kind of look forward to it." them accountable, but at the 
Department of Irish Language & Literature 
Professor Gear6id 6 Tuathaigh, FRHistS 

"Language Change, the State and National Identity in Ireland Since the Great Famine" 
21 September 2007 3:00p.m., Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Admission is free and all are welcome. 
Contact: Tara MacLeod, Department of Irish Language & Literature, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556, (574) 631-7615, e-mail: Tara.A.Macleod.15@nd.edu 
samn time hn can do that because of the way he prn­pares on a daily basis and on a drill-to-drill basis. Evnry time hn goes in thnre, you sne the same guy, the same kind of work ethic. It's infnctious. !\nd if every"body follows Glenn Dorsey and tries to use him as an example, we're going to be pretty good around here." 
WHY IRISH? celebrates the ThomasJ. and Kathleen O'Donnell Chair ofIrish Language and Literature, ofwhich Professor Breandan 6 Buachalla is 
the inaugural Professor. 
WHY IRISH? is made possible by the generosity ofMr. Michael Murphy. 
r.;:E1UN IVERSJTY OF
'W NOTRE DAME 

Thursday, September 20, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS . page 25 
Albion 
continued from page 28 
the Belles and added 21 digs. 
Junior middle blocker Kaela Hellman aided in the effort with her own double-double of 12 kills and 25 digs. Freshman middle blocker Andrea Sasgen had a team-high four service aces and the third double-double on the night (1 0 kills and 19 digs). 
The final double-double came from senior setter Amanda David, who con­tributed 46 assists and 17 digs. 
Albion's offensive stats were not as notable, even though the Britons came out victorious. What was impressive was Albion's defensive effort. 
Six of the 10 Albion players posted double­digit digs. 
Walter and senior defensive specialist Meghan Miller tied for the team lead with 24. 
Sophomore outside hit­ter Maggie Dubsbiber contributed 23 digs to the winning effort. 
The win lifts the Britons record to 2-7 overall and 1-4 in the MIAA while 
Saint Mary's falls to  5-7  
and 2-3, respectively.  
The  Belles  take  on  

Kalamazoo at home Friday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO1@saintmarys.edu 

Belles junior middle hitter Cathy Kurczak leaps for the ball in Saint Mary's 3-0 win over Olivet Sept. 11. 
Schedule 
continued from page 28 
This year's schedule for the Big East's pre-season favorite has been far differ­ent. 
The 2007 campaign started with losses against No. 12 Minnesota and No. 6 Florida. On the way to 4-6, the Irish also stumbled against No. 19 Ohio and No. 11 California. Another loss came to a Missouri team that was ranked in the top 20 at the 
time. 
Not only did the Irish face top compe­tition dur­ing the non-con­ference schedule, the sea­son's turn­ing point has already been reached. It 

Because ofthe devastating loss against a top-tier opponent, Notre Dame could have just packed in its season in a style reminiscent ofsome recent Michigan State football teams. But it didn't. 
happened last weekend in the Bronco Invitational in Santa Clara, Calif. 
Junior outside hitter Matlorie Croal returned to the lineup against the Golden Bears, back from injuries that had sidelined her for the first eight games of the season. 
In a match that saw Notre Dame up 2-0, the Irish could not hold on for the upset. Cal won last three games and took the victory 3-2. Because of the devastating loss against a top-tier oppo­nent, Notre Dame could have just packed in its season in a style reminiscent of some recent Michigan State foot­

ball teams. 
But it didn't. 
Down 2-1 in their next game, on the road, to then­No. 22 Santa Clara, the Irish picked themselves off of the ground and made a come­back of their own. The Irish took the match against a team that beat them 3-0 a season ago. 
Now, Notre Dame is ready for the Big East portion of 
its schedule. Of the 16 remaining games for the Irish, 14 are against the usually weaker conference foes. 
Only one team in the conference is currently ranked-No. 21 St. John's. Notre Dame plays the Red 
Storm and one ranked non­conference foe, No. 22 LSU. 
The Irish are an exciting team poised for a winning streak. 
So don't give up on the Irish in their eight remain­ing home matches. 
You won't be sorry. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@n d. edu 


page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 20, 2007 

struggling. Recruits are also charge of recruiting that
GOING TO THE GROUND 
attracted to the non-football area and ·he will overcome
Recruits 
facets of the University, any questions anybody Frank said. But without would have regarding why
continued from page 28 
improvement in the next Jones left." Chicago linebacker Steve couple of weeks, those com­Filer. The Irish also hold the mitments may be hard to Notes: No. 1 rated class in the maintain. T h is w n n k n n d , t h r n ~~ country, according to both "He will play the best play­notable recruits will attend Hivals.com and Scout.com. er and that has bePn a big the Michigan State gamn on 
So far, recruits sueh as selling point," Frank said. their official visit: Chicago linebacker/defensive "In the end, the rer,ruits are + Hyan Williams, running end Darius 
very excited about the back from Fleming, opportunity to eonw play at Virginia. still have Notre Dame. I'm sure they'll who Frank faith the be looking for improvement said is one Irish can throughout the season. But I of two run­turn this think as long as Wnis and ning backs season the staff can show they're Notre Dame around. improving and getting things is pursuing 
"I would-done, they should be pretty this season. n't say I'm Crist good." +Another Filer worried Former quarterbaek is defensive about it, but it's shocking," Demetrius Jones' transfer to end Chancey Aghayere from Fleming said. "I didn't Northern Illinois eould also ·Garland, Texas. expect anything like this." represent a stumbling block "He's a big time defensive Fleming said he has talked for Irish recruiting. end, outside linebacker type to defensive coordinator Jones, a highly touted and a big time playor. lin's Corwin Brown and wide prospect from th11 Chieago got offers from just about receivers coach Hob Ianello Public League, was unhappy anybody," Frank said. frequently since the begin­with how Weis handlnd the +The third roeruit is Chris ning of the season. He plans team's quarterback situa­Harper, a wide to attend this week1~nd's tion. There is some specula­receiver/quartnrback from 
game against Michigan tion that the Kansas City area. State, and he's confident the his trans­"He's kind of a eombo guy team will improve. lie is not fer could and the Irish havn a shot." 
having second thoughts m a k e Frank said. "Tlw problem about attending Notre Dame, recruits they're going to run into is he said. from the he also wants to play quar­
"They're struggling right Chicago terback and Notre Dame is now and they're trying to fix a r e a recruiting him as a wide some things. I'm not sure reluetant receiver. So, that could be a what needs to be fixed," to come to little bit of a problem .... Fleming said. "But I'm pretty N o t r e They have to convince him 
the positive momentum from 
sure they'll get it together." Dame, but Frank said it that wide receiver is his its first game, a 27-12 victory 
Frank said Fleming's atti­should not be much of a future."
Ga01e 2 
over Pangborn, into tonight's 
tude ref1ects that of most of problem. +Associate Athletic the recruits. "I think that first of all, Director John Heisler
game with Breen-Phillips. "Aside from beating BP, we 
continued from page 28 
"We've spoken with almost there are some good football announced in a statement want to improve upon every­
all of them in the last week players in the Chicago Public Wednesday that 75,000 fans sivo on defense," Hackney thing wn did in our last game, 
or so and they're all very League, but a lot of the bet­will receive white towels to said. and make it known that Welsh 
much behind the coaching ter players are actually in wave at Saturday's game Badin faces a strong but Fam is going to be a tough 
staff and they seem really the Catholic League," Frank against Michigan State. inexperienced Pangborn tnam to play against this 
firm in their commitment," said. "I don't think it's going The towels will read offense, led by sophomoro year." Whirlwinds senior cap­
Frank said. to affect Notre Damn in any "Tradition Never Graduates captain Meghan Besch11r and tain Kelly Bushelle said. 
Frank said recruits like the way -maybe a player or -Notre Dame Football." f'roshman quarterback Gabby Part of that tough team is 
fact that Weis is not afraid to two-but I just highly doubt Taln. I>nspitn playing together Jenni Gargula, the 
play some of his younger tal­it. I think Corwin Brown is a Contact Chris Hine at for tho first time, Beschor Whirlwinds junior quarter­
ent even though the team is great recruiter and he's in chine@nd.edu found Tate open several tinws back. who threw four touch­last wonk against Welsh down passes to three different Family. receivers during Welsh 
But whiln tlw l'hoxns man­J."amily's victory over aged to put up two touch­Pangborn. Welsh Family is downs against thP Whirlwinds. looking to continue the offen­tlwy I o s t 2 7 -I 2 . The yo u n g sive production and capitalize Phoxns hopo to improve after on its quarterback's experi­anotlwr wnnk of' practice. oncn. 
Badin will be more unpre­" [ (;argula] will have an dietable, Hackney said. impact because she runs the Dnspitn an early touchdown olTense well," Bushelle said. pass, tho offense fell victim lo Broon-Phillips. on the other a strong Lyons defensn last hand. is trying to right the wonk in a 20-6 loss. ship after a disappointing loss 
"ITiw l.ionsl were able to to Pasquerilla West in its pre­adjust to what we were run­vious game. The Babes faced ning prntty quil:kly," Hackney a 19-0 halftime del'ieit and said. "We are looking to mix couldn't recover en route to a up our oiTnnse a little bit more :n-ts loss. this WIWk." Breon-Phillips hopes to 
II ark III'Y also said th «' improv11 its defense. Although Bullfrogs go-to-n~ceivers will the offensive production came chango from play to play. too late for the Babes, their 
"It's going to be tough to dnfnnsn will have to contain a say," slw said. "WI' havn a lot Wnlsh Family offense that put or'difforont oiTensns, so il will up 27 points against a tough dnpnnd on tlH' targnt." Pangborn t11am earlier in the 
HackrH'Y caliPd Pangborn a WPI~k. "good tnarn" and nxpncts thn Tlw Whirlwinds and Babes garrw to bn compPtitivn; nwPt tonight at 9 at Hiehle 
Pangborn tukns on Badin Fi1dd. tonight at Hon HiPhln Finld. 
Contact Andrew Zicarrelli at Breen-Phllllps vs. Welsh azicarre@nd.edu, Andy Renner Family at arenner@nd.edu and John 
Wnlsh Family looks to ridP Whitty at jwhitty@nd.edu 




Recycle The Observer. 
' 
Thursday, September 20, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA, & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
WELL FOR ABIG PROBLEM, YOU'll NEED HELP FROM A CERTAIN BIG PERSON... 
CROSSWORD 
Across 29 Card game with Moon and Starr, no cards below for short seven 4 Where Home 
30 Force along
Depot was 
founded 32 Some in Spain 
11 The Jaguars, on 33 Item sought in scoreboards the spring 14 Sharjah's locale: 
36 President with a 
Abbr. 
bridge in 15 Tinseltown 
Montreal named doings after him 16 TV title character 
42 Consumer's 
voiced by Paul 
enticement 
Fusco 
43 More smarmy 
17Messup 
44 Protein building
18 Where to see a 
block, for short 
crown 
45 Snap 
19 The Engineers 
48 Don't do it
of coli. athletics 49 Univ. with an
20 & 22 Actor with 
annual mystery
a black belt in 
hunt since 1980
aikido 24 Office expense 50 Champion figure skater Cohen 
25 Cigarette detritus 52 Some dashes 
28 "I'll Have to Say 53 He said "Great I Love You in a art picks up Song" singer, where nature 1974 ends" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE L A R A F A T A''s''s'
5 0 5 T H E F 0 G I B E T 
ortre 

HMM... WELL I'M 
GUESSING SHE LIVES 
IN BREEN-PHJU.IPS... 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
WILLSHORTZ 

58 Be disqualified, 
in the 8-Down 60 Comparable 63Wall in 64 Bring up 
65 "Who Let the Dogs Out" group 66 Like some friendships 
Down Knights' journeys 2 Hungarian composer who wrote 'The Miraculous Mandarin" 3 Star near 
Venus? 4 usual 5 Word with 
greater or rather 6 A captain might k~ep one 7 Blow away 


e.g. 
50 Italian apologies
E D E R L E R 0 N A of!fl' 12Wool source 39 Protection 59 whim
against smearing 51 Unlike klutzes 
p A R O L E R E V E R S Afllll 13 1998 film thriller 61 Downed
• based on a TV 40 Rock singer 54 breve P R E P S • I M~ 0 N A N series, with 
Russell (musical 62 Like second­~A S A~S U N N Y 'The" 
41 Psyche's love direction) place ribbons ~R E N _!_~~~RK E
I 21 Longtime A L P • B T U • S H A 'f7 'T 23 Salad bar 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with arc I(~ CIU S P A r'f' N T offering credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
A F 0 0 IT-TR A A L E R 25 Otys. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of SundayP E 0 I • W A W A • S P I N E 26 Blew (through) 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ""'~.,_!!. F F A L 0 P A W I N G S 27 "Take this!" 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000tE. 0 C I G 0 R D 0 0 G I E 30 "Gotcha" past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). R 7 'f E E N S D 0 C E N T 31 Toy name Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ry~i) F R E T S P A R E S preceding "land" solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.
'-'-'-'---=­

8 Rockets' and Puzzle by Tyler Hinman Suns' org. 
34 High, in 45 Washington and 55 Space 9 Spam holders 
Honduras Oregon are in it 
56 "That's what I'm 1 0 Tenochtitlan 35 Jog, say 46 Suffix with hell talking about!" 

dweller 36 Stuff and bull 57 Like some wires11 Computerese, 37 Kind of engine 47 Beer, often 58 Winter mo.
38 Too-too 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJIJJMID~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ROSTN 

(J I 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~;¥~ooi I I 
REYYAL 

[l] I I 
www.jumble.com 
I WARTODj

I rI [ J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

HE (I I J"r I I I I I)" 

WHAT HAPPENE:D WHEN THE COWBoY CAUSED TROUBL-E AT THE 5AL.OON. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 

(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: BELIE SORRY ABACUS JUMBLE Answer: Why the mobster's tailor quit ­IT WAS A "SEAMY" JOB 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

--· 
CELEBRITffiS BORN ON THIS DAY: Kevin Zegers, 23; Alison Sweeney, 31; Jimmy Fallon, 33; Trisha Yearwood, 43 
Happy Birthday: This will be a tough year to keep up and schedule your plans. Keep your priorities straight and say no to people who are trying to take advan­tage of you so you won't fall short with your own responsibilities. Think carefully about every move you make. Your numbers are 8, 13, 23, 26, 38,41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Don't be afraid to go after what you want. Make cold calls, talk to your professor about your grades or your boss about a raise but do so with confidence. Love should be high on your list whether you are single or not. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Just be yourself. A dear friend or relative will be there for you and will encourage you to do things that you might not otherwise go after. This is a great day for self-improvement, short trips and getting superb advice. 5 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't criticize or poke fun. You are likely to make an enemy or get into an argument ifyon aren't sensitive to the way others feel. Love may be on the rise but the opportunity to get together with someone from your past may lead you in the wrong direction. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-Jnly 22): There may be changes at work or to your everyday surroundings but that shouldn't cause you upset. Take time to adjust. An older relative will shed some light on a situation you face. Love, travel and intrigue will all go hand-in-hand. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get a grip on what's really going on and you will be able to control the situation. Fun and games should be your goal. You will cap­ture some interest from someone who could tum into more than just a colleague or friend. 5 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful not to upset someone who is already walking a fine line. If you feel you need to make changes to your personal life, do so, but quietly. A secret matter will tum out to be your saving grace. 2 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You should be booking your next vacation or taking a short trip that will enable you to try something new and meet interesting, new people. You can make some excellent observations, resulting in good choices and gains. 4 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may have to do a bit of fmagling but, once you have everything in place, you can sail through any obstacles and fmd your way to success. Money is in the picture so don't hesitate to present, promote and collect. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't let others confuse you. You may find it hard to sit still or keep secrets but it's in your best interest. Ifyou jump too quickly, everyone will know that you are a pushover. Anger must be avoided. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may say something to mislead you. Follow your own path. Focus on fmancial moves, settlements, contracts or any other means of making money. Sudden changes in your direction will pay a huge dividend. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): By offering to help others, you will help your­self. This is the perfect opportunity to show you care. An issue regarding children may cause you stress. Don't get all upset before you find out the truth. 4 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Someone will stand in your way. Ifyou have done something in the past of which you aren't proud, now is a good time to turn a wrong into a right. An old friend or lover can teach you something that will help you move forward. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a daredevil side and are able to captivate others, making you an extraordinary leader. You are creative, original, energetic, aggres­sive and a good communicator. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confukntial consultations 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 20, 2007 
page 28 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL-GOLD LEAGUE 
Squads take to field for 2nd set of gan1es 
By ANDREW ZICCARELLI, 
ANDY RENNER and 
JOHN WHITTY 
Spons Writers 
Pasqunrilla Wc1st looks to ,. on tin u n its domina n ~~ e against an up-and-coming Lewis squad tonight. 
The Purpln Wnasnls are 
I'r n s h o IT a ;{ 3 -l 6 w i n o v n r 
Brenn-Phillips Sunday. l<rc~shmari quartPrback (;racP Orians ruslwd for four touch­downs and passPd for onn more in hPr first contest, replac~ing junior Cara llavios, who is abroad. 
"S lw k nows s lw has hi g shons to !ill." Pasqunrilla Wc>st sPnior captain Tina Martirwk said. "Siw 's vPry willing to lnarn, and slw listPns to lwr toammates very wnll. Slw will just gnt lwttnr." 
Lnwis must also fa en a stout Wnasnl dnfnnsP. It shut. out Brenn-Phillips in tlw first half Sunday and didn't allow a point until it was IPading 33­
0. 
"Our defnnse is pretty solid," Martinek said. "There's not rnally one person you can pull our on defnnse. I can pick our all of tiH1 girls on the team and say what they did well." 
Thn Chicks. on thn other hand, arn looking to rebound 

after a poor showing last year. Senior captain Alexandra Perslny was optimistic about tlw upcoming season. 
"Things didn't go to well for us last yPar. but we have some key players back from abroad and an impressive freshman class," she said. "We've brought in some great nnw e o a dws , a n d we · v e be e n practicing hard for three weeks now." 
Hegardless of past perl'orm­anc~ns, this matchup should be 
a. crowd pleaser. Perslny expects a dogfight. 
"Wp're a tough. physical tc~am . .Just from practiees, I aln~ady have a black eye," she said. "I think we're ready for whatever tlwy throw at us." 
Tlw two squads will faen oiT tonight at 7 on Hiehln Finld. 
Pangborn vs. Badin 
Winless Badin and Pangborn will try to avoid an 0-2 start to tlwir snasons against eaeh otlwr tonight. 
!\ftnr giving up 20 points to Lyons last wePk, the Bulll'rogs ncwd to improve on the dP.fen­sivc1 sidn of the ball, junior captain Katy Hose llaekney said. 
"Wn are definitely going to work on being more aggres­
see GAME 2/page 26 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Lowly Albion beats Belles 
Last-place Britons stun Saint Mary's 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD Sports Writer 
Last-plaee Albion shocked Saint Mary's Wednesday, winning 3-1 in an MIA/\ conference tilt. 
The Britons. who were looking for their first con­ference win ol' the year and had dropped six of their last seven matches, came out as a team on a mission. 
Sophomore outside hit­ter Morgan Walter, last week's Ml/\1\ conference player of the week, led the Albion attack with 21 kills and 24 dcl"ensive digs. 
/\II four games were hard fought on both sides, and none was decided by more than six points (30­28, 24-30. 30-2(1, 37-35). 

With eaeh game so close, the stats ran high. Saint Mary's final stat sheet showed four dou­ble-doubles. 
Sophomore outside hit­ter Lorna Slupezynski had a team-high 16 kills for 
see ALBION/page 25 

KINGrThe Observer Belles setter Amanda David, right, sets up middle blocker Cathy Kurczak in Saint Mary's 3-0 win over Olivet on Sept. ll. 
FooTBALL 

Firm commitments 
Top recruiting class still in place despite 

• poor showing on field 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
/\ftnr an 0-:~ start to thn sou­son. Not.rn llanw is snarehing for posilivns. 
OrtP good sign for tlw futun~ or thP Irish is thP strong rPcruiting class c·oach Charlin WPis has linPd up for FPbruary's National Signing Day. And cwPn aftpr a sluggish start to tlw sPason, t.hosn vnr­b;ds scwm as solid as PVPr. 
"l'vp spokPn with a numlwr of lrPeruitsl. and all of tfwm worn vnry murh lwhind Notrn llanw and tlw coaching staff," said Mikn Frank. who covnrs Notrn Dame rPcruiting for lrishEyns, whieh is a branch of Scout.com. "I think thny rnalizo this is a young toam that's going through some growing pains and they also rnalize there's a very good ehanee that thny'll bn able to conH1 in and play early and be part of the solution." 
The Irish have 19 verbal commitments, including Sherman Oaks. Calif.. quarter­hack l>aynn Crist and Chicago 
see RECRUITS/page 26 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
COMMENTARY 
Tough luck will not last all season 
Hard schedule mazn reason for team's struggles thus far 
Don't worry, fans. NotrP Damn's 4-6 rocord mPans nothing. 
/\bsolutoly nothing. 
Last snason at this timo, 
Notrn l>anw was (J-5 and prinwd for Big East play. With one look at the records, an unin­formed pnr­

son might Pat O'Brien 
say that Notrn Dame Sports Writer was a lot better last year going into conference play. That person would be wrong -the team's wins last year were against the likes of Bowling (;reen, Valparaiso and Butler. 
see SCHEDULE/page 25 





