
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 30 MONDAY, OCTOBER 8. 2007 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University at top of NCAA graduation rates 
NCAA 2007 GRADUATION SUCCESS RATES Notre Dame Overall Division 1 Men's Sports Football 93% 66% Baseball 100% 66% Basketball 91% 61% Fencing 100% B8% Ice Hockey 100% 84% Lacrosse 97% 88% Soccer 100% 77% Tennis 1000/o 82% Track and Field 1()()0/o 74% 
Women's Sports 
Basketball 100% 81% Fencing 100% E)30/o Golf 1000/o 87% Soccer 1()()0/o 89% Softball 100% 85% Tennis 1()()0/o 88% Track and Field 100Yo 83% Volleyball 1000/o 88% 
$0/JI'Ce: 1-CAA. 

JARED WAFERfrhe ObseiVer 
Football program among highest ranking 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Associate News Editor 

Notre Dame tops the list of Division I schools with the highest number of perfect scores in the N~s 2007 analysis of gradua­tion rates for student athletes. 
The NCAA figures, released Oct. 3, track the graduation success rate (GSR) -the percentage of student athletes that graduate from the school within six years of enrollment-at 318 Division I colleges and universities across the country. Eighteen of the University's 22 athletic programs received a GSR score of 100 per­cent. 
Notre Dame received a perfect GSR score in all of its women's sports -basketball, fencing, golf, lacrosse, rowing, soccer, softball, swimming, tennis, track and field and volleyball. This is a slight improvement from last year, when soccer received a 94 percent GSR score, making it the only women's sport without a perfect mark. 

Seven men's sports (baseball, fencing, hockey, soccer, swim­ming, tennis, and track field) received perfect scores. And while the basketball, football, golf and lacrosse programs failed to receive 100 percent GSR scores, none received a grade below 90. 
They received scores of 91, 93, 91 and 97, respectively. 
The football program saw its 2007 GSR drop from 95 percent in 2006, while the golf program slipped from 92 percent last year. 
see NCAA/page 4 


Panel to address immigration debate 
Speakers include government officials, archbishop; organizers expect strong attendance 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
The national immigration debate will come to a localized head today as the topic of the University's annual forum. 
University President Father John Jenkins selected immigra­tion as the forum's topic last spring. Classes will be eancelled today from 3 to 5 p.m. for the event. 
Ray Suarez, senior correspon­dent of The News Hour with Jim Lehrer, will moderate the Forum. The forum members are: Sen. Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), who emigrated from Cuba at 15 and is the first Cuban-American to serve in the Senate; Cardinal Roger Mahony, the Archbishop of Los Angeles appointed by Pope John Paul II in 1985 who has been an advocate for the protection of immigrants; Arizona Gov. Janet A. Napolitano; and Louis Barletta, mayor of Hazleton, Penn., where the City Council passed the Illegal Immigration Relief Act, which makes it difficult for illegal immigrants to reside in Hazleton. 
Timothy Matovina, Forum Committee chair and director of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism, emphasized that it was impor­tant for the panel recruitment committee to have representa­tives from several levels of gov­ernment. 
"At the national level we have a senator, at the state level, a governor; we have a mayor for the local level, and an archbish­op to represent the religious aspect," he said. 
The panel will also represent a variety of geographic regions and political views. 
The panel will discuss and address various questions perti­nent to the immigration debate, including the economic, social, legal, religious and human rights issues. The goals of this forum, as stated by Matovina 

ND students run Chicago marathon 
Elevated temperatures, fatigue cause obstacles for some competitors 
By CAITLYN CASTER 
News Wrirer 
In scorching 90 degree heat and sweltering humidity, nearly 30 Notre Dame students and alumni competed in the 30th annual LaSa\le Bank Chicago Marathon Sunday. 
However, not even months of 

training prepared them for the 
intense racing conditions, they 
said. 
"It was really, really hot. I did­

n't run nearly as well as I 
thought I would," senior Brogan 
Ryan said. However, running 
with his twin brother, Brendan, 
kept him motivated, he said. He 
see MARATHON/page 4 on the Forum's Web site, are "to unite the student body in reflection of this topic, to engage students intellectually about the relevance and signifi­cance of this issue, to integrate the discussion with moral con­siderations and faith perspec­tives, and to make a contribu­tion to current global discus­sions." 


"I anticipate very strong attendance," Matovina said. "I've been doing some pre­forum sessions in residence halls and those have all been very well-attended and I've heard a lot of interest from stu­
see FORUM/page 4 

Cardinal to speak at Forum 
ND supports Mahony's presence at conference 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles, a speaker at today's Notre Dame Forum 
on  immigration, leads  an  
archdiocese  affected  in  
recent  

years by significant controver­sy. 
In July, the arch­diocese reached a $660 mil­


lion settle-Mahony ment with victims of hundreds of clergy abuse cases. In 2002, multi­ple news sources reported Mahony acknowledged know­ingly transferring a pedophile priest among parishes. 
In September, the Los Angeles Times reported that three nuns whose work includes counseling, translat­ing for and otherwise helping poor, undocumented immi­grants were sent eviction notices by the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. The nuns were reportedly notified they had to leave their convent, which will be sold to help pay the multimillion-dollar court set­tlement, by Dec. 31. 
see MAHONYIpage 6 

New Web site benefits aspiring investors 
UpDown called 'Facebook for Wall Street' 
ByJENNMETZ 
Assistanr News Editor 
The UpDown, a growing Web site that gives members virtual money to play the stock market, is giving a community of investors the chance to earn real money for their free online portfolios. 
The Web site, which has been called the "Facebook for Wall Street," went live Sept. 4 on CNBC's "On the Money." 
Junior Patrick Martin, who uses the site, said the UpDown is a "simple way of seeing how others go about making their investment decisions." 
"The idea of a Facebook-like site for investors to pick stocks and see both what [others are picking and whyl is a novel idea that might revolutionize invest­ing," he said. 

Like Facebook, students from Harvard University founded the UpDown. Michael Reich, the chief executive officer, is a Harvard Business School student, as is chief financial officer Georg Ludviksson. Phuc Truong, the chief technical officer, is a 1998 graduate of Harvard. 
Brendan McManus, a Notre Dame junior from the Boston area, works for the Web site and contributed to its launch in September. 
"We've reached a solid critical mass.... We're still growing very fast, which is encouraging," he 
see UPDOWN/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 8, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Rlll1illng 


late 

I've had a bad travnl day. Not a terrible one, mind you-a tnrrible travnl day L<> one in which your flight gel<> eanct~lled, or you end up in the wrong state somehow; no, my trawl day h<L'> only bmm bad. A bad travel day is bning set back 
Dustin Mennella 
by dnlays nvnry 
step of' tim way, 

Photo Editor 
onn that starl<> 
at 4::~0 a.m. and 

gm~s until X: 15 p.m., missing thn bus by 
five· minutes late <Uld having to wait an 
hour and a half' bncausn of it. A bad trav­
nl day is having a book of crosswords, but 
losing your only pencil. Then allnr hav­
ing obtained a pen, losing tlmt a<> well 

within an hour. And having li1rgott.tm my 
il'od back in Soutl1 Btmd didn't hnlp 
thill).,'S. 

So, having said all that, I'm n~ally not all that bittc~r. Thn wm~kend inlns Angeles WlL'> definitely worth it, with thn bPad1 and the win. Also, at the begin­ning of'tlw trip, I picked up a book of short stories by Neil Caiman t:alled "Fragile Things" and got a dmncn to do a lot of' rnading which I usually don't have time fi1r during the school year. (iaiman's stories am wildly strange and range in topic from ghost stories tel Sherlock llolmns. Many am not exactly about ghosl<> <L'> much a<> simply unnxpla.inPd ynt highly unusual evnnl<>. and it got mn thinking about till' ghost nncountc~rs of' my own lili~. Om~ particular camping trip I took witll my friends came to mind. 
llenry Island is part of tile San Juan Islands oil' the ma<>t of' W<L<>hjngton, north of' Snatth For his 14th birthday, a friend of' mine invitPd me (along with some oth­ers) to stay with his fiLmily li1r a wm~knnd in a little cabin thl'Y had on the small island, and the weekend tunwd out to be a rainy orw. 
I laving li1regonn tlw eampfirp tlw first night (in hopns of betu~r weather tllat didn't arrive), we attempted building a tim even in tl1n light rain ol'the second night. but to no avail. Even some proba­bly dangerous experiments with lightnr lluid lellus firnlnss, tl10ugh quitn entnr­tainnd. So, having ).,rivnn up on the firn lilr tl1n night we set up our slm~ping ba1-,rs on thn cabin's eovernd poreh, and pro­t:nnded with tlw ghost stories using a ll<L<>hlight instead of a firn. 
About <m hour latt~r. I had the ll<L<>h­light. and I distinctly remnmbnr waving it lazily around tile ceiling when suddenly I muldn't sen the ceiling any more due to a thit:k smoke that had just blown in. Conf'usnd, my liiends and I looked in tim dirndion of the campfirn-it W<L'> set bark into the woods so we couldn't sen it directly, but in spilt~ of' the rain there Wll'> dnfinitnly light flick11ring through tl1n trnns. 
Maybe it wa<> tl1n shadowy woods, or perhaps tllP ghost sttwins w11'd just been lnlling, hut we wern spooked <md no one voluntnnrnd to check the llro out. WB deddnd it W<L'> just thn parnnl<>. and went to sleep soon afterwards. In the morn­ing, however, Jon's parnnl<> m11ntioned that they saw we finally got the lire gojng and <Lo.;kmlus how it wa<>. 
Talking about it afwr nnitl1er group admitted Ul starting the eampfire, I lnamt~d a !,l'f<Uldfilther of'Jon's had rncently pa'isnd away who had lov11d that mbin on Il11nry lshmd. P11rhaps he eame back fi1r one la<>t campfir11. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not m!cessarily those ofThe Obsertwr. 
Contact Dustin Mennella at dmennell@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD PICK THE QUESTION FOR THE PHOTOPOLL, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 









Huyen Nguyen  Steve Barbera  Adriana Ong  Josh Bartrom  Amanda Jaszkowski  Brian Slaboch  
senior McGlinn  senior Alumni  senior Cavanaugh  junior Dillon  junior Cavanaugh  junior Fisher  
"Would you date me?  "Why are 16 dorms copying Alumni  "Sex, drugs or rock n' roll?"  "Do you know all your friends' last names?"  "How many fingers have you broken?"  "/low much will W·iC lose by?"  

greatness and having their SYR on the same day as ours?" 

DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer Students celebrate Notre Dame football's victory over UCLA by running to Stonehenge Saturday night. A crowd of students jumped into the fountain while hun­dreds of others watched. 
OFFBEAT 

'Naked Lunch' may be banned in Maine 
GHEENVILLE, Maine­"Naked Lunch" just doesn't sound appetizjng to some pnople. A sandwich called the Skinny Dip. featuring sliced prime rib in a baguette roll, has been offered free of charge anyone willing to plunge naked from The Black Frog Restaurant's dock into a lake. 
Since the free sandwich niTer was introduced three years ago, owner Leigh Turner has found plenty of takers. "We've had two or three a week," he said. 
But now the promotion is running into trouble: A 
TODAY 



patron apparently suggested to selectmen that the activity be banned. 
The naked lunch issue sur­faced this week when Town Manager John Simko pre­sented the Black Frog's appli­cation to renew its liquor license. Simko said he had been approached about the nudity and suggested that Police Chief Scott MacMaster speak to tile owner. 
Turner did not attend the selectmen's meeting, but said he would remove the free lunch offer ifasked to do so. 
Man gets 5 months for killing ostrich 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -A man has been sentenced to five months in jail and three years probation for lcilling an ostrich in San Mateo County. 
Timothy McKevitt will also have to pay $5,000 in restitu­tion for killing Gaylord the ostrich. 
Authorities say McKevitt and his friend Jonathan Porter and a few others were drinking on llalloween last year and decided to trespass on a ranch. 
Gaylord the ostrich appar­ently grew ineensed and attacked and injured both men. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 


TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
....I 
cs: 
(.) 



..... 0 HIGH 70 HIGH 65 HIGH 67 HIGH 75 LOW 53 LOW 48 LOW 45 LOW 48 
IN BRIEF 
The rosary will bn said tonight at 6:45 at the Grotto. The rosary is said daily. 
"Savage in Limbo" will be pnr­formPd tonight at 7:30 in the Philbin Studio Theatre, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets aro $R for stu­dents. 
The exhibit "The Cam11ra and the Bainbow: Color in Photography" will be showing Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery, Snite Mus11um of Art. Admission is I'm<". 
The dance performane11 "Pilobolus" will bn held Tuesday night at 7:30 at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Decio Mainstage Theatre. Tickets are $15 for students. 
There will be a lecture titled, "Shakespeare's Dark Matter" Tuesday at X p.m. in 155 DeBartolo. Clare Asquith, author of "Shadowplay: The Hidden Beliefs and Coded Politics of William ShakP.spearp,," will speak as part of this year's Catholic Cultur11 L11eture Series. 
Sehola Musieorum will perf'orm "Ab11nd Musique" Wednesday at 
8:30 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3. 
The 5 Browns will perform a piano concert Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert llall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $15. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Victory pro111pts celebrations 
Students rush to Stonehenge after Irish get 1st win of season 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Saturday had a different feel on campus after Notre Dame beat UCLA, winning its first game of the 2007 season and ending the longest losing streak in Notre Dame football histo­ry. 
As the game ended, hun­dreds of students poured 
outside  to  celebrate the  
victory.  
"I  sprinted  to  

Stonehenge," sophomore Caitlin Shannon said, "and the rest of campus seemed to be doing the same thing." 
Students swarmed into and around the Clarke Memorial Fountain known informally as Stonehenge -to commem­orate the win. A Facebook group entitled "I swam in Stonehenge: 10-06-07" boasts nearly 400 mem­bers. 
Once at Stonehenge, stu­dents crowded together to cheer "We are NO" and 
"Here come the Irish." Students sang the Victory March and Alma Mater. Mostly, how­ever, stu­d e n t s screamed and shouted. 
"We were letting out all this pent-up excitement that 
"It was so cool because the whole community came together. '' 
Ginny Varraveto freshman 
people 

had been saving for when 
we  finally  won  a  game,"  
freshman  Shannon  
Kiernan said.  

"I mean, not only did we win a game, but we beat a ranked team, which shows that we can definitely con­tend with the big guys," junior Jack Thornton said. 
After crowding into Stonehenge, students ran to the reflection pool in 
standing by 
front of Hesburgh Library to further cele­brate. 
"It was so cool because the whole community came togeth­er," fresh­man Ginny Varraveto said. "Even if you were someone you 
didn't know, cheering together really made you feel together." 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Professor exan1ines teachings of John Paul IT 
not primarily about sex,"
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
Reimers said. "It is about 
News Writer 
love, and therefore about 
holiness, because holiness is 
Catholic teachings were re­based on love." examined Friday in "Theology "Everything about John Paul of the Body 101," a lecture II comes down to love," exploring the fine line Reimers said. between sex, love and holi­A major theme of the series ness in the Catholic Church. is the difference between men 
Philosophy profes­and women. sor Adrian Reimers T h e and his wife, Marie, Theology of spoke to an audi­the Body has
"Everything about 
ence at the Center to do with
John Paul II comes
for Social Concerns. the meaning Reimers specializes down to love. " of masculini­in the life and ty and femi­works of Pope John ninity,"
Adrian Reimers 
Paul II. Reimers
philosophy professor 
"The Theology of said. "It says 
the Body is a series of lectures from very early in John Paul II's papacy in which he deliberately tried to overcome the latent Manichaeism that exists in the Church," Reimers said. The lectures were weekly classroom-like teachings. 
According to theologyofthe­body.com, this series of 129 audiences was "the first major teaching project of John Paul II's pontificate ... providing a profoundly beau­tiful vision of human embodi­ment and erotic love. He gave this project the working title, 'theology of the body."' 
"Despite its theme of human embodiment and erotic love, the Theology of the Body is really important; we men are really important, we women are really important. We are made for love." 
that  we  
h  u  m  a  n  
beings  are  

The theme of male and female differences was notable for sophomore Erik Miller. "This talk was inter­esting," Miller said. "It gave a different perspective on the different roles of men and women in the church." Notre Dame's Right to Life club sponsored the lecture as a conclusion to Respect Life week. 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's Catholic Culture Series ... 
Shakespeare a n d Cat ho· Iicis m 



11 Shakespeare•s Dark Matter11 
Clare Asquith 
Independent Scholar and Author of Shadowplay: The Hidden Beliefs and Coded Politics of William Shakespeare 



Tuesday, October 9 DeBartolo Hall Room 155 8:00 PM 
For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 8, 2007 

NCAA 
continued from page I 
Bw.;ketball mul laerosse didn't show any changes from tim 2006 lih'llrns. 
A<>soeiatn Athletic Director John I lnl'ilnr said Sunday he didn't have any spedlic explanations ll1r these programs' below-1 00 scorns. lnstnad, he emphasized the pro­grams' high marks and their tri­umph over thnir national counter­purl<.;. 
Tim NCAA rnport said the aver­agn (;SH lbr DivL<>ion I lhotball pro­grams is (J(J pnrcent, while the national graduation rate liw basknt­ball players is approximately 61 pnrwnt. 
"No other school in the country gnts IGSHI numbers as good as ours," llnisler said. "I think our suc­cess in graduating so many athletes is simply reflective of our dL<>tinctive commitment to academic excel­lnncn." 
llnislnr dted "a team effort" as one of the biggest contributors to the academic achievements of its student athlet.f1s, saying the efforts of the University coaches, adminis­trators and academie support stall' contribute to thP. athletes' impres­sivn graduation rat.f1s. 

"The University lets il'i commit­mmlt 1.11 academie exenllence inform il<; athletic programs too," he said, "and so you have here coaches, administrators and an academic support stall' dedicated to the sup­port <Uld the advcmcement of that mission." 
And that dndication has yielded msull<>. 
Notre D<Ulle reclaimed this year thn highest pnrcentage of perfect GSH scores in the NCAA's study 
(81.8 percent of thn Univnrsity's ath­letic progrmns received 1 <Xl percent seores), a title that belonged to the 
U.S. Naval Aeademy in 2006 and to Notre Dame in 2<Xl5, when 16 ofil'> 20 athletic programs earned top marks. 
Bnfbm 2005, colleges and univer­sities relied on federal graduation rates for these studies. The NCAA develop11d the GSR two years ago "in response to college and universi­ty presidents who wanted gradua­tion data that more accurately reflect the mobility among eollege studenl<> today," the NCAA. Web site said. 
The GSR improves the federally mandated graduation rate by adju<>ting for students who may be omitted or arbitrarily included in the f(~dera.l calculation. 
"The GSR measures graduation rates at Division I institutions and includes students transferring into the institutions," the NCAA Web site said. "The GSR al<>o allows institu­tions to subtract student-athletes who leave their institutions prior to graduation as long as they would have been aeademically eligible to compete had they remained." 
The federal graduation rates peremptorily account f(>r students who transfer to other colleges or drop out to pursue professional careers as non-graduates. 
"You may have a star athlete with a 4.0 GPA who decides to leave to start playing professionally, and rather than treat this as a case of a student who voluntarily left in good aeademic standing, the federal rate sees it as the school's failure to graduate thL<> athlete," Heisler said. "That's why a school's federal grad­uation rates are usually lower than il<iGSR<>." 
Notre Dame's federal graduation rate for football players is 79 per­cent, while for men's basketball and golf the figures are 57 m1d 75 per­cent, respectively. for women, the federal graduation rate of basket­ball is 82 percent, the lowest of any women's sports. Fencing, golf, laerosse, tennL'> and traek <md field report.f~d federal graduation rates of 100 percent, while swimming reported 96 percent. 
Heisler said he didn't know why for both the GSH and the federal rates, women seemed to score high­er than men in most sports. The average GSHs m1d federal f.,>Tadua­tion rates of the 318 Division I schools, however, are al'io higher for women in almost every sport included in the NCAA report, including basketball, soccer, lacrosse, goU', tennis, volleyball and fencing, among othc~r sports. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Foru01 
continued from page I 
denl<> and faeulty." 
In preparation for the Forum, students were ofl'ered a free online eoursn. Articles have been posted on the Forum's Web site eaeh Monday for the past four weeks that eovered the eco­nomics of immigration, Catholic soeial teaching on immigration and the curnmt immigration debate in the United States. Notre Dame faculty members guidPd Internet conversations about the artieles throughout the week. 
A Notre Dame undergradu­ate student will facilitate a discussion on the site in response to the Forum. 
For more information visit http://forum.nd.edu 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 

UpDown 
continued from page I 
said. 
The Wnb site provides a platform where inve!->1.ors c,an view, share and rat11 high-quality sl.lx:k analyses and invnstment ideas. It allows members to gain access to investment infor­mation and join or create invest­mont groups. There are currently more than 200 groups on the Upl>own. 
Users mmmge virtual stock portfo­lios of 1,000,000 virtual dollars and submit stock analyses. If' members c:cm invest virtual dollars to generatf1 a mturn timt outpnrfbrms the S&P 500, thn Web sit.f~ will pay them in rPa.l monny. 
"You can join for free, try out 


Marathon 
continued from page I 
still managed to finish in less 
than four hours. 
Due to dangerous heat, the race was ol'lieially closed after four hours and all runners were urged to walk or take the available buses to the fin­ish line. Approximately 10,000 of tho 45,000 enrolled partici­pants didn't even start the race, due to the heat. One Michigan man died in the race, at least 50 people were hospitalized, and 300 runners were treatnd for serious dehy­dration. 
A final tally for the number of finishers is still being calcu­latnd. 
Nearly all of the runners from Notre Dame finished the 26.2-mile journey -but not without some hardship. 
Senior Joanna Bea experi­enced serious complications, including intense hip pain and dehydration. 

"At mile 23, I had to get an IV, wait for my heart rate to return to normal and then beg the medics to let me finish," she said. "I promised them I would walk if they would let me keep going, but then I ran anyway. I had gone that far and I just had to finish it." 
Bea was sore, she said, but satisfied that she finished. 
"I can't even explain it," said Bea, who was trying to qualify for the Boston Marathon. "The amount of support and encouragement 
invnsting skill<> and if you are really good at it, you will be rewarded," McManus said. "[We think] a large number of quality members can come up with better investment phms m1d strategies than just one highly paid fund manager." 
Currently the UpDown is holding a $10,000 student competition. All college and university studenl'i can enter for free and compete for a share of$10,000. 
"This is a great opportunity to make a lot of real money and com­pete against a talented field of young investment managers," McManus said. 
The UpDown hopes to attract a widn variety of users, MeManus said. 
"The site L<> open to everyone who is passionam about investing -pro­fessors, student<>, people who just want to learn and anyone in 
was amazing. Everyone was so willing to help. Especially when I collapsed, so many people came to help me, dumping water on me, and making sure I was OK until the medics got there." 
The oppressive heat caused seniors Ben Hoesch and Anthony Dayrit, who ran together, to scale back their finish time goals. 
Between miles 12 and 14, 
Hoesch realized he was mov­
ing slower than he had 
planned. 
"There lwasl no way we were going to make it in the time we were hoping for, but quitting still wasn't an option," Roesch said. "Fortunately, the parts where I was feeling pretty bad, Anthony IDayrit] was doing better and vice versa so we were able to keep each other going." 
Hoesch and Dayrit finished in 4:20. The pair ran in the race to raise money for the Ameriean Cancer Society. 
"We each raised over $950," Dayrit said. After the race, Dayrit and Roesch went to the American Cancer Society tent to receive free massages. 
Senior .Jill Martini said the overall experience was "awe­some." 
"At mile 18, the police and officials were telling people to start walking," Martini said. "I didn't train for four months to walk to the finish. It was intense, but !loved it." 
Contact Caidyn Caster at ccaster@nd.edu 
between," he said. holding securities for longer time 
Part of McManus' job entails con­horizons," she said. taeting student investment clubs at At a recent club meeting, mem­top universities like Notre Dame, bers spent time evaluating 100 Northwestern and Ivy League stocks for inclusion in the schools. By mar­Investment Club's keting to current UpDown portfolio, 
"As a student, I really 
users, he helps the Meyer said. Web site gain criti­appreciate the "Ultim.ately, the cal mass and build opportunity to have performance of this 
a brand. portfolio will hope­
hands-on
The president of fully assist us in Notre Dame's experience. monitoring the per­Investment Club, formance of stoc:ks senior Lindsay that we are careful­
Brendan McManus 
Meyer, suggested ly analyLing for pos­

junior
that the club's sible inclusion in members create our real $415,000 personal account<> on the UpDown portfolio," she said. and manage portfolios. McManus, an economics major, 
"This is an excellent opportunity to called the UpDown "a fantastic be more of an active trader, versus learning tool for students and a our club goal of creating value by great way to start and advance your 

University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 


Angers, France 
''Should I stav 
"' 

or should I go?" 

INFORMATION MEETING 
With A.ngers' Progrant Coordinator and returnees of the program 
.............! 

-i Wednesday,October 10,2007 ,
l ..-__210 DeBa;::l: C~~:;r~~ BuildiJ!~g___ j 
NEXT AND FINAL INFO SESSION: THLJRSDAY, NOVEMBER I, 2007 SA.Ml'~ TIME-1.18 DeBARTOLO CLASSROOM BUILDING 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2007 For Academic Year 2008-2009 Fall 2008 and Spring 2009 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-ois/ 
career in investment m<magement. "The career side of this should not be forgotten, especially for students," McManus continued. "As a student, I really appreeiaw tim opportunity 1.1> have hand<>-on experience." 
McManus also said the UpDown provides valuable eontact with other investors. 
McManus, Meyer and Martin, all individual u<>ers, said they appreci­ate the free experience tim UpDown provides. 
"With me being young and not having enough money to put into stocks, I think it's a great way to practice building a portlblio that I'll ~se o~ce I ~o h~ve the money to mvest, Martin said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 








ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 8, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Protestors oppose junta in Myanmar 
LONDON -Demonstrators in cities across Europe and Asia joined Saturday in protests against the military junta in Myanmar, where some activists held covert vigils for those killed and arrested in the crackdown against pro-democracy demonstrations. 
I loping to send Myanmar's ruling military generals a message that "the world is still watching." rights group Amnesty International organized marches in more than two dozen Asian. European and North American cities. 
Some observers predicted the protests would have minimal effect on an inward­looking military elite that has largely ignored world opinion and pressure during its 45 years in power. 
Chinese demand full democracy 
HONG KONG -Thousands of people marched through Hong Kong's streets Sunday to demand the right to pick their city's leader and legislature and hoisted yellow umbrellas to form the year 2012 ­their target year for full democracy. 
The demonstrators chanted "One person one vote, the only way to go" and "Universal.suffrage in 2012" as they marched to government headquarters. 
"We need to have a good political envi­ronment in order to sustain our economic development," said one of the partici­pants, 51-year-old businessman Michael llui. 
The former British colony returned to Chinese rule in 1997 but was promised a wide degree of autonomy under a "one country, two systems" formula. Beijing has ruled out full democracy for the territory before 2008. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

N.Y. aparbnent explosion injures 20 
NEW YORK -A leaky kitchen gas hose was blamed Sunday for an apartment build­ing explosion that threw residents against walls, blew out their windows and hurled debris into the streets. 
The explosion Saturday injured more than 20 people, including four badly burned girls. 
Fire marshals believe natural gas leaked from a flexible hose connection behind a stove in a first-floor apartment, said Tony Sclafani, a fire department spokesman. 
Local utility Consolidated Edison earlier said investigators checked pipes going from the street to gas meters and apartments and found all of them to be working properly. 

Arkansas boy hijacks school bus 
DUMAS -A 1 0-year-old boy took a school bus and led police on a chase along a rural highway, according to police. 
School officials had spotted lights coming from the bus yard around 11 p.m. Friday night, and reported the bus stolen. Officers from three counties, four towns and Arkansas State Police began chasing the bus and its driv­er. 
Despite road spikes set up to slow the bus, the bus kept traveling north toward Uttle Rock along U.S. 65 through Desha and lincoln coun­ties, then into the next county of Jefferson. 
"Be advised, he missed them all. We're now coming into town. Speed's at 25 miles an hour," oflicers said over a radio scanner. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana reduces deer population 
WAHSAW -This northern Indiana city has hired archers to hunt deer inside city limits, an effort aimed at reducing the deer population. 
Some residents in the Spring Hill subdivi­sion say they see dozens of deer in their yards everyday. 
"Every year you see deer hit on the road. And I don't just mean one or two, I mean many," said resident John Harman. 
The city's Deer Task Force killed 18 deer last year. This year, oflicials are expanding the hunt to last three months instead of one, and hope the 24 archers kill more deer. 
CoMPlLED FROM T!··u: 0Bs:tRvnts WIRE SERVICES page 5 


Iowa crucial for Democratic hopefuls 
Hillary Clinton leads in polls, but race is close with Obama, Edwards for start of primaries 
Associated Press 
NEW HAMPTON, Iowa­
llillary Hodham Clinton has 
taken the lead among 
Democratic presidential can­
didates in an Iowa poll, an 
encouraging sign of progress 
toward overcoming a big 
hurdle in the race. 
Although the New York 
senator is the clear front­
runner in national surveys, 
Iowa has remained an elu­
sive prize. She has been in a 
tight race with John 
Edwards and Barack Obama 
in the state that begins the 
primary campaign voting in 
three months. 
But her campaign has focused on boosting her appeal in Iowa, including two visits with her husband, for­. mer President Clinton, by her side over the summer. The effort appears to have paid off, according to the poll of likely Iowa ca~cus-goers that was published in Sunday's 
Des Moines Register. 
Clinton was supported by 
29 percent of the 399 
respondents to the poll con­
ducted Oct. 1-3, compared 
with 21 percent in May. 
Edwards and Obama are 
not far behind, ensuring that 
all three campaigns will con­
tinue their intense. efforts in 
Iowa, which leads off voting 
in the 2008 primary contests. 
''I'm doing everything I can enough for first place in May, heated exchanged. where. She apologized but 
to earn the support of to 23 percent. That is a sta­Randall Holph of Nashua insisted he must be looking 
Iowans," Clinton said during tistical tie with Obama's 22 challenged her for voting last at the wrong version of the 
a stop in New Hampton. A percent. month to designate Iran's bill. 
standing room only crowd at The poll has a margin of Islamic Revolutionary Guard Their exchanged grew 
a community center was error of 4. 9 percentage Corps a terrorist organiza­heated as he insisted the bill 
warmed up by listening to points. tion. Some Democrats said would authorize combat. 
disco hit "Ain't No Stoppin' Edwards told reporters in they feared that such a des­Clinton snapped back, her 
Us Now." Davenport that he sees it as ignation could be interpreted voice rising, ''I'm sorry, sir, it 
"I pay absolutely no atten­a close three-way race, with as a congressional authoriza­does not." 
tion to what any poll says or his two chief rivals rising tion of military force in Iran. "I know what we voted for, 
what any pundit on TV says," recently because "they spend Rolph compared Clinton's and I know what we intend­
the former first lady said. "I millions of dollars on televi­vote on the Iran measure ed to do with it," she said. 
have absolutely interest in sion advertising." with her vote to authorize She said it gives the authority 
that. Nobody has come to a "But, I think it's much war in Iraq. "It appears you to impose penalties. 
caucus yet. Nobody has cast more important to Iowa cau­haven't learned from your Many in the crowd 
a vote yet." cus-goers to see you in the past mistakes," he said. applauded her in an effort to 
While Clinton visited small flesh -see you stand before Clinton responded that his cut off the exchange, 
towns in eastern Iowa, them, look them in the eye interpretation was wrong although afterward at least a 
Edwards was in the midst of and answer their hard ques­and suggested that someone couple others in the room 
a four-day tour of the state tions," the former North put him up to asking the came up to thank Rolph. He 
that included stops in 17 Carolina senator said. question. The man said he said he is still undecided 
counties. The new poll Clinton got one of those did his own research and about which Democrat he 
showed his support falling hard questions in New was offended that she would will support, but it will not be 
from 29 percent, good Hampton, and it led to a accuse him of getting it else-Clinton. 

FRANCE 


British jury investigates Diana's death 
Associated Press Where the 11-member jury will stay is when someone dies unexpectedly, vio­
top secret, and their exact itinerary lently or of unknown causes. 
while the court is "in session" in Paris Diana, 36, and Fayed, 42, were killed 
PARIS -A decade after Princess will not be divulged in advance. along with their driver, Henri Paul, when Diana and her boyfriend Dodi Fayed It is known, however, that they will their Mercedes crashed in the Pont were killed in a Paris ear crash, a British visit the Place de l'Alma by the under­d'Alma tunnel shortly after midnight on coroner's jury comes to the French capi­pass where the Mercedes crashed and Aug. 31, 1997. Bodyguard Trevor Hees tal this week to retrace the lovers' fatal the Pitie Salpetiere Hospital where was badly injured but survived. path in an attempt to put to rest the Diana died. The group was heading from the Hitz dark suspicions surrounding their "It is very difficult to conduct this sort Hotel to Fayed's private Paris home near deaths. of visit where you are leaving the protec­the Arc de Triomphe. Dodi Fayed's 
Although the events leading up to the tion ... offered by your own legal sys­father, Egyptian-born billionaire deaths have already been dissected in tem," said a spokesman for the inquest, Mohamed al Fayed, has said it was their two lengthy investigations, the visit who asked not to be named in keeping engagement night. Monday and Tuesday marks the first with British procedure. "All of a sudden, Whether Diana and Fayed planned to time an inquest jury has left Britain. we are about to walk down streets in announce their engagement the next 
There are concerns over swarming Paris with no legal authority over those day -and whether she was pregnant paparazzi similar to those who pursued people around us." with Fayed's child -are questions the the couple in their final moments. Under British law. inquests are held jury must try to clear up. 
~-------­

page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, October 8, 2007 
Mahony." archbishop of Los Angeles by valued by the Santa Barbara the presence of Cardinal Mahony's commitment to Pope John Paul II in 1985 County assessor's office at Oscar Andres Rodriguez
Mahony 
immigrant rights and was $97,746, though neighbor­Maradiaga, a speaker at that has been clear made a cardi­hood real estate prices sug­forum.
continued from page 1 
throughout his "/rather suspect if nal in 1991. gest a sale could yield a high­At the time, the Survivors leadership, there were any way he Los Angeles er price. Network of' those Abused by University spokesman Don Wycliff said. is the largest The archdiocese has Priests (SNAP) president
could avoid hurting 
Wycliff said Friday that "Cardinal diocese in the reportedly said up to 50 non­Barbara Blaine said members University leaders are aware Mahony couldn't immigrants that would u.s. parish properties will be sold wanted to make a statement of these news reports. be more forceful be a priority. ,, T h e to pay the settlement. After against Hodriguez, who 
"The people in charge or' as to his views on Archdiocese the archdiocese administra­accused U.S. media in 2002 putting together the forum immigration and of Los tive headquarters on Wilshire of covering the Church's sex
Don Wycliff
were not unaware of the our obligation to Angeles has Boulevard in Los Angeles, the abuse scandal in ways "remi­swirl of controversy in Los immigrants University spokesman made com-Santa Barbara convent is the niscent more of Stalin and Angeles," he said. "Their documented and mitments in first property to be identified Hitler." purpose was to find an artic­undocumented," court to pay publicly as one to be sold, the ulate, foreeful speaker for he said. "I rather suspect if people to whom it is indebt­Times reported. Catholic Social Teaching on there were any way he could ed," he said. "It has to do At the first Notre Dame the immigration issue, and avoid hurting immigrants what it has to do to raise that Forum in 2005, protestors there was no one better in that would be a priority." money." distributed leaflets outside Contact Karen Langley at that role than Cardinal Mahony was appointed The convent is reportedly the Joyce Center to protest klangle@nd.edu 



Man locks woman in trailer 
Associated Press 
BISMAHCK, N.D. -An RO­ynar-old man aceused of loeking his girlfriend in a 1:amper trailer has been sen­tenend to proba(ion and ordnred to attend an anger management class when he rnturns home to Oregon. 
Theodore Matylinske, of Madras, Ore., was arrested on Wednesday near Bismarck after his traveling compan­ion, Sandra Smith, 61, callod poliee to say she was loeked in a camper trailer being pullnd down thn interstate. 
Burleigh County Sheriff Pat lleinnrt said Smith indicatnd she had made an appoint­mnnt at a beauty shop in Bismarek, but Matylinske wantnd to get baek on the road. 
"Shn was miffed because shn eouldn't get her hair and nails done," Matylinske told South Central District Judge David lteich on Thursday. 
Matylinske said he and Smith had been arguing about attractions to see in the area. 
Assistant Burleigh County State's Attorney Julie Lawyer said Matylinske pushed Smith into the trailer during an argument outside a store. 
Matylinske told authorities she had locked herself in the trailer. But Lawyer said the trailer had been latehed from the outside. 
Matylinske told Heich he had been traveling with Smith for five years. Matylinske said he had offered to let Smith ride up front with him, to drive or to go to the airport. He said he also offered Smith a walkie­talkie so she could communi­cate from the trailer, but she declined. 
"I was stopping periodical­ly to check how she was doing,"Matylinske told the judge. "That's the way it went. She had options she 

BRAZIL 
Boy, 3, found in Amazon terrain 
Associated Press 
HIO DE JANEIHO-A 3­year-old boy who was lost in thn densn Amazon rain forest was found after 11 days, dnhydrated and scratched but apparently unharmed, poliee said Friday. 
Nnilson Oliveira Lima dis­appnan~d from his homn in thn rural eommunity Pupuai on Sept 16, said Amazonas statn poliee officer Ailson Carvalho. 
"lin wnnt in tho fornst fol­lowing his father and hn got lost. lin was found by his cousin, who was out hunt­ing," Carvalho said in a tnln­phonn intervinw from Caraurai. thn nearnst town. "Nobody knows what hn atn or how lw survived." 
Carvalho said tho boy was found on Sept. 27 about 2 miles from his home with thorns covering his feet and legs. lie said nothing about his ordeal exeept to ask for water. 
The boy was taken to the hospital in Caraurai some days later, the long distanee preventing faster transport, Carvalho said. A hospital re1:eptionist who declined to give her name said the boy remained there under obser­vation. 
Evanise de Oliveira Lima, thn boy's mother, told CBN Hadio that Neilson was very thin and seratched but that slw oxpncted he would leave thn hospital shortly. 
"In the jungle near the house, there are jaguars, hawks, snakes," Lima told thn radio station. "But his guardian angel and God pro­teded my son." 

didn't take." 
Matylinske pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of unlawful imprisonment. He said he pleaded guilty to the charge to avoid traveling back to North Dakota. 
''I'm just doing this so I don't have to come back in the long run," he said. 
Matylinske asked the judge to speak up in court, saying he needed a hearing aid but did not have one. He also said he could not read the complaint filed against him because he did not have his glasses. 
Heich senteneed Matylinske to 60 days in jail with all but time served suspended and one year of unsupervised probation. He also ordered Matylinske to pay $350 in court fees and to attend the anger management class. 
Smith told the judge that she would help Matylinske pay the court fees. 

Mishawaka 4810 Grape Rd. 271.1330



ciWiS. 

Kellogg Institute International Film Series 
Presents 
From the 

Other Side 
Sometimes poor people, in an attempt to survive, risk their lives and leave everything behind to live elsewhere. But they're not wanted elsewhere. And if they are wanted it's for their labor, to do jobs that no one wants to do. In this film, elsewhere is the US and the poor are mostly Mexicans. Filmmaker Chantal Akerman focuses on the border towns of Agua Prieta, Sonora and Douglas, Arizona, atown ringed by mountains and desert plains--an area where the desperate ones try their luck at crossing the border. 
Wednesday, October 10th at 7pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 



Cosponsored by the Higgins Labor Research Center 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, October 8, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  14,066.01  +91.70  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,502  88  812  3,049,159,208  
AMEX  2,415.64  +18.8$  

NASDAQ 2,780.32 +46.75 NYSE 10,247~93 +ln!too S&P 500 1,557.59 +14.75 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17,605.04 ..;2'7A5 FTSE 100 (London) 6,595.80 +47.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.19 +1.83 155.85 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +2.02 +1.048 52.818 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.23 -0.06 25.54 MICRON TECHNOLOGY (MU) +1.79 +0.19 10.80 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +2.59 +0.117 4.64 13-WEEK BILL +0.91 +0.035 3.87 30-YEAR BOND +2.18 +0.104 4.871 5-YEAR NOTE +3.04 +0.128 4.336 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.22 81.45 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.40 747.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 0.10 87.43 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 117.1450 EURO 0.7074 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9823 BRITISH POUND 0.4897 
IN BRIEF 

Bush plans children's insurance plan 
WASHINGTON -President Bush's health secretary said Sunday he does not expect Congress to override a veto on children's insurance and warned that the popular pro­gram could be at risk unless Democrats restrain spending. 
In an interview with The Associated Press, Health and Human Services Secretary Mike Leavitt said Bush would be willing to provide more than the $5 billion increase over five years that he first proposed. He declined to say how much additional money was possible. 
But in a warning to Democratic leaders who have pledged to stick with their $35 billion increase, Leavitt said Bush would not waver despite attempts to override his veto last week. 
An override requires a two-thirds majority in the House and Senate. The Senate approved the increase by a veto-proof margin, but the House fell about two dozen votes short of a two-thirds majority. The House has scheduled an override vote for Oct. 18. 

Company announces beefpatty recall 
MINNEAPOLIS -Cargill Inc. is voluntarily recalling more than 840,000 pounds of ground beef patties distributed at Sam's Club stores nationwide after four Minnesota chil­dren who ate the food developed E. coli ill­ness, a Cargill official said Saturday. 
The Sam's Club warehouse chain. which sold the burgers that sickened the children, had previously pulled the same brand of ground-beef patties from its shelves nation­wide. 
The ehildn•n became ill between Sept. 10 and Sept. 20 after eating ground beef bought frozen under the name American Chef's Snleetion AngLis Beef Patties from three Sam's Club stores in the Twin Cities area. 
Two of thn children were hospitalized; one remains in tho hospital and the other has been dischargnd, the state !lealth Department said. ' 
American Airlines, unions clash 
Workers seek limited contract extensions and pay increases to make up for 2003 cuts 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH American Airlines, prof­itable again after racking up $8 billion in losses since 2001, faces a three-front battle to limit labor costs that are among the highest in the industry. 
The three unions repre­senting American's employ­ees want to make up for double-digit wage and ben­efit cuts back in 2003. when the company was on the brink of bankruptcy. They argue that their sacri­fices saved the nation's largest airline and they deserve to be rewarded now with big pay raises. 
Not so fast, airline execu­tives say. 
This week, American and the ground workers union broke off talks on a limited contract extension and pay increase. They'll resume negotiations in November. 
Last week, American offered pilots pay increases -if they 11y more hours. The proposal would not raise basic wage rates. 
Leaders of the pilots' union dedined to be inter­viewed about the proposal. But a union spokesman said pilots have "high aspi­rations" for the current round of bargaining, which is expected to run until at 

American Airlines employees hold signs in protest in Forth Worth on April 18. American 
least next spring. 

Airlines employees want to be reimbursed for double-digit wage and benefit cuts in 2003.
And late this year or early next year, American still the largest single JetBlue Airways Corp. & Poor's, said American will begin talks with the expense for American's "We need to be creative will be more cautious about flight attendants' union. parent, AMH Corp. Wages because American is not in ordering new airplanes if it 
"It looks like it's going to and benefits aceounted for a position of strength on can't get satisfactory labor be truly old-style confronta­31 percent of all spending the cost side," said Jeffrey deals. "They'll tend to 11y tional bargaining," said in the first six months of Brundage, AMR's senior the older planes longer." Tommie Hutto-Blake, presi­this year. vice president of personnel. Of its three labor groups, dent of the flight atten­According to MIT He said the company's goal American has enjoyed the dants' union. researchers, American's "is lowering our unit labor friendliest relations with 
It would be hard to over­labor costs last year were costs and hopefully doing it the Transport Workers state the importance of the the highest in the industry in a way they can accept Union, which represents negotiations to the compa­-14 percent more than and that doesn't involve more than 25,000 baggage ny's bottom line. After five runner-up Northwest pay cuts." handlers, mechanics and years of losses, American Airlines Corp., and 26 per­The outcome of negotia­other ground workers. The posted a $231 million profit cent more than the average tions could affect AMR's union and company worked in 2006. of the five largest low-cost ability to pay down billions together to boost productiv­
Although high fuel prices carriers, including in debt. Philip Baggaley, an ity at maintenance get more headlines. labor is Southwest Airlines Co. and airline analyst for Standard hangars. 
COSTA RICA 


Free trade debate divides country 
Associated Press On Saturday, the White House said if tool for generating wealth in the coun­
Costa Ricans vote against joining the try." 
agreement, the Bush administration Arias, who won a Nobel Peace Prize 
SAN JOSE -Costa Ricans were will not renegotiate the deal and it for helping end Central America's civil 
sharply divided over Sunday's referen­urged people to recognize the treaty's wars in the 1980s, also said rejecting 
dum on a free trade pact with the benefits. the pact would threatened trade bene­
United States -a measure supporters The pact would "expand Costa fits that help Costa Rica's textile and 
say is key to national prosperity, but Rica's access to the U.S. market, safe­tuna industries. 
critics fear could hurt farmers and guard that access under international But critics of the pact object to its 
small businesses. law, attract U.S. and other investment requirements that Costa Rica open its 
Costa Rica is the only one of the six and link Costa Rica to some of the telecommunications, services and 
Latin American signatories to the most dynamic economies of our hemi­agricultural sectors to greater compe­
trade deal, known as CAFTA, that has sphere," White House press seeretary tition. They also fear it will mean a 
yet to ratify it. The pact is in effect in Dana Perino said in a statement. flood of cheap U.S. farm imports. 
the Dominican Hepublie, Guatnmala, U.S. officials also suggested they When Arias arrived at a polling sta­
Honduras, Nicaragua and El Salvador. may not extend trade preferenees now tion to vote, opponents of the pact 
With polls showing Costa Rica is afl'orded to Costa Hiean products and almost prevent him from entering and 
poised to be the first country to reject set to expire next September. yellnd "Arias traitor!" OthPrs shouted 
the U.S.-Central American free trade President Oscar Arias said a 'no' in support ofthn pact. 
agreement, U.S. officials and Costa vote would affect industries in this Groups of demonstrators for and 
Rica's president appealed for voters to Central American nation of 4.5 million against the agreement marched 
back the deal. people, and called it an "important Sunday in the capital, San Jose. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 8, 2007 

-----------------------------------------------------------~---------­
------------------.. 
Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 



~Amy's no ugly betty.* pW C • tVI© [h)~ 
The Firm now playing on Channel 2. 
*connectedthinking 

© 2007 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers 
global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. ·connectedthinking Is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative 
Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 8, 2007 
Bush challenges death penalty ruling in Texas 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -To put it bluntly, Tnxas wants President Bush to get out of' the way of the state's plan to execute a Mexican for the brutal killing of' two tennage girls. 
Bush, who presided over 152 nxecutions as governor of Texas, wants to halt the exe­cution of .losn Ernesto Medellin in what has become a confusing test of presiden­tial power that the Suprome Court ultimately will sort out. 
The prnsident wants to 11nforco a doeision by the International Court of Justiee that found the convictions of Medellin and 50 othnr Mexican-born prisoners vio­lated their rights to lngal courts turned him down because he had not objected at his trial. 

Then, in 2003, Mexico sued the United States in the International Court of Justice in The Hague on behalf' of Medellin and 50 other Mexicans on death row in the 
U.S. who also had been denied access to their coun­try's diplomats following their arrests. 
Mexico has no death penal­ty. Mnxico and other oppo­nents of capital punishment have sought to use the court, also known as the World Court, to fight !"or foreigners facing execution in the U.S. 
The international court rulnd for Mexico in 2004, say­ing the sentences and convic­
tions should be reviewed by U.S. 

help as out­courts.
"lThe administrations 
lined in the Medellin's
position/ would allow 
I 'Hd Vienna case was reject­Convention. the president to set ed by the 5th That is the aside any law the U.S. Circuit· same court Court of
president believes is 
Bush has since Appeals. The said he plans inconvenient to the Supreme Court to ignore if it international agreed to hear makns similar his appeal.
community."
decisions While it was af"fncting statn pending in criminal laws. Ted Cruz Washington, 
"The prnsi­Texas solicitor general Bush issued a 
dent does not 
agree with the 
IC.J's interpretation of the 
Vie n tHt Convention," the 
administration said in argu­
ments filed with the court. 
This timn, though, the U.S. 
agreed to abide by the in tor­
national court's decision 
bncause ignoring it would 
harm American interests 
abroad. the governnwnt said. 
Texas argues strenuously that neithnr the international court nor Bush, his Texas ties notwithstanding, has any say in Medellin's case. 

Ted Cruz, tlw Texas solicitor general, said, "(The adminis­tration's position( would allow the president to set aside any state law the president believes is inconvenient to int11rnational comity." 
The Supreme Court will hear arguments in the case Wednesday. 

Medellin was born in Mexico but spent much of his child­hood in the United States. lie was tS in .June 1993, when he and other members of the Black and Whites gang in Ilouston encountered Jennifer Ertman and Elizabeth Pena on a railroad trestle as the girls were taking a shortcut home. 
Ertman, 14, and Pena, 16, were gang-raped and stran­gled. Their bodies were found four days later. 
Medellin was arrested a few rlays after tho killings. lie was told he had a right to remain silent and have a lawyer pres­ent, but the police did not tell him that he could request assistance from the Mexican consulate under the 1963 trnaty. 
Mndnllin gavn a written con­fession. lin was convicted of murder in the course of a sex­ual assault. a capital oiTnnse in Texas. A judge sentenced him to death in October 1994. 
Medellin did not raise the lack ol" assistance from M1~xican diplomats during his trial or snnteneing. When lw did claim his rights had been violated, Texas and fednral 
memo to his 

attorney general declaring that state courts must enforce the internation­al court's ruling. 
Two weeks after the memo, Bush said the U.S. was with­drawing from an international accord that lets the world court have the final say when citizens claim they were ille­gally denied access to their diplomats when they are jailed abroad. 
The treaty had been used by the United States in its law­suit against Iran for taking Americans hostages in 1979. 
The Supreme Court weiglwd in next, dismissing Medellin's case while state courts reviewed Bush's order. Texas courts again ruled against Medellin, saying Bush overstepped his authority by intruding into the affairs of the independent judiciary. 
In April, the Surpeme Court sl!~pped in for a second time, putting Bush and the state he governed on opposite sides and setting up an unusual alliance of interests. 
Foreign inmates on death rows in California, Florida, Texas and up to a dozen other states could be affected by the outcome. 
Four of Medellin's fellow gang members also received the death penalty and one, Sean O'Brien, was executed last year. Two others had tlwir death sentences com­rn uted to life in prison in 2005 when the Supreme Court barred executions for those who were age 17 at the time ol" their crimes. Another dnfendant does not have an execution date. 
A sixth participant, Medellin's brother, Vernancio, was 14 at the time. He was tried as a juvenile and is serv­ing 40 years in prison. 
Ertman's parents said they want to see the older Medellin brother put to death. pointing out in court papers that his ease has been going on longer than tlwir daughter lived. The case is Medellin v. Texas. 



Fonner congresswoman dies 
Virginia Rep. Davis loses two-year-long battle with breast cancer 
Associated Press 
HICIIMOND -Hepubliean U.S. Rep. Jo Ann Davis, who repre­sented southeastern Virginia for seven years, was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2005. This year, she suffered a recurrence. 
But her health took a turn f<>r 
the worse during the past week 
and she died Saturday morning at 
her home in Gloucester after a 
two-year battle with the disease. 
Davis, 57, became Virginia's first Republican woman elected to Congress in 2000, and she was a member of the House Armed Services Committee and the Foreign All'airs Committee. 
"Her determination to fight the disease is an inspiration to all of us," President Bush said in a statement. 
"She was a line example of a public servant who worknd hard to cut government waste to ensure the people's money was used wisely," Bush said. "Her common-sense values will be missed on Capitol Hill." 
Gov. Timothy Kaine, a Democrat, will schedule a special election, probably before the end of the year, to fill the remaining year of Davis' term, Kaine spokeswoman Delacey Skinner said. 
Her first piece of legislation, passed by the House in 2001, increased the life insurance ben­efit paid to survivors of military members killed on duty. 
Before Congress, Davis served four years in the Virginia House of Delegates. 
A conservative who came from modest means, Davis was known for her unquenchable inquisi­tiveness and how quickly and deeply she learned about any legislative issue. 
"I always admired Congresswoman Davis' strong conVictions and the tenaeity that she brought to bear in acting on them," said U.S. Sen. John W. Warner, a fellow Virginia Republican. 
Davis called in August 2006 for the resignation of Donald Rurnsfeld, defense secretary at the time, and expressed second thought'> about her support of the war in Iraq. 
"All of the int!llligence we were given says we should be over there," she told a military comp­trollers organization at the time. "If I had known that the intnlli­gence they gave us wasn't cor­rect, I don't know how I would have voted." 
She underwent chemotherapy treatments and a mastectomy when her cancer was first diag­nosed in 2005. 


~  .............._~~-~....~..........~.............~.............~.........._~......:..__~"""'!""'"..............:!A.._~.........._~~.......~.........~..........~~......._~~..........~-­.......:~............~..........~......._~...................1~  
~  ATHENS, GREECE  J  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  INFORMATION MEETING  ~  
~  ~  


: ··:r~~~d·~;:·o·~·~~t;;;·9:·;·oo:;· tl 
; 5:30PM ~~
: ~ 
~ 129 DeBartolo Hall ~ 
~ ................................•....•............................................ ~ 
~ ~ ~ Application Deadline: November 15, 2007 ~ ~ For Fall 2008, Spring 2009, and Academic Year 2008-09 ~ ~ Applications available on-line: www.nd.edu/~ois/ -~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ·-....-··,_..--·:-.-···,._-·-~··-....--.._..-·__...-·__...-------,._--,._-·~----·~·-.._...-·,.._-.._. -....-.._..----..._.. .. .._... .__... ---.,J~ 
.......... .........:.........:~.....:_....,;...a...: ..A..........:...-..; ....... ...........: ................. ....-...:...-...:.....-...:...-...: ....................... .....-...:.....-..:..-...:...-...:.....-...: ...... .J 
Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
SUDAN 


Tovvn burns dovvn; 15,000 flee 
Village in Darfur razed in retaliation for attack on peacekeepers 
Associated Press 

KHARTOUM -A Darfur town under the control of Sudanese troops has been razed in appar­ent retaliation for a rebel attack on a nearby base of African peacekeepers. U.N. officials who inspected the town said Sunday that about 15,000 civil­ians had fled the area. 
International aid workers and United Nations o!'ficials dis­missed claims by some rebel chief's that 100 people had died in the North Darfur town of Ilaskanita. The oflicials said the town emptied as the army moved in last Sunday, and troops ·started burning it on Wednesday. 
A U.N. statement did not say who set fire to the ethnic African town but said Sudanese government forces took control after suspected Darfur rebels attacked the nearby base of African Union peacekeepers a week ago, killing 1 0 peacekeep­ers. 
Haskanita, "which is current­ly under the control of the gov­ernment, was completely burned down, except for a few buildings," said the U.N. mis­sion to Sudan. 
A U.N. official who had just returned from I-Iaskanita said it was clear that the army or its allied militias of nomad Arabs known as the janjaweed were behind it. The Arab-dominated government and the janjaweed militias are accused of regularly burning ethnic African villages as part of their counterinsur­gency campaign against rebels. 
The oflicial said a full army battalion of 800 troops was sta­tioned at the entrance of the smoldering town, which was otherwise empty. 
"There's absolutely no doubt the army and janjaweed did it," the oflicial said on condition of anonymity because the Sudanese government regularly expels observers who speak out against abuses. 
An Associated Press reporter saw Haskanita intact last Sunday when the army moved in, though plumes of smoke could already be seen rising from several nearby villages. The town had about 7,000 peo­ple, and the other thousands fled from surrounding areas, said Orla Clinton, a spokes­woman in Sudan for the U.N. Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. 
The rebel attack on the base came amid a government offen­sive that had been raging for two weeks in the same region. Some rebels have said the attack on the AU peacekeepers may have happened because some rebel groups suspected the AU of collaboration with Sudanese forces, something the AU sharply denies. 
U.N. spokeswoman Radhia Achouri said it would be up to the African Union to investigate who was behind the town's destruction. 
"The U.N. has no mandate to investigate security incidents," she said in an e-mail to the AP. 
Sudan's government denies backing the janjaweed, who have been accused of the worst atrocities in Darfur. More than 200,000 people have died and 
2.5 million have been chased from their homes since ethnic 
African rebels took up arms 
against the central government 
in February 2003, accusing it of 
discrimination. 
The AU said was investigating 
last week's attack on its base, but could not say whether it · would expand the inquiry to the 
town's destruction. 
Gen. Martin Agwai, the com­
mander of the 7,000-member 
AU peacekeeping force in 
Darfur, vowed last week that he 
would rebuild Haskanita's base 
and resend troops there soon. 
Large quantities of ammunition 
and several vehicles were loot­
ed from the base when rebels 
raided it. 
The underfunded and ill­
equipped AU force has been 
overwhelmed in its efforts to 
quell Darfur's bloodshed. A 
joint AU-U.N. force of 26,000 
peacekeepers is due to takeover 
on Jan. 1, also to be headed by 
Agwai. 
Darfur rebel groups have 
traded accusations on who 
attacked the AU base. 
Peacekeepers told the AP last 
week that they had identified 
the assailants as belonging to a 
splinter group called SLA-Unity, 
which has been invited to the 
peace talks. 
But Sunday, Mohammed 
Osman, a local chief of SLA­
Unity, told the AP by satellite 
phone that his group had no 
role in the attack, blaming it on 
the Justice and Equality 
Movement. 
JEM leader Khalil Ibrahim 
dismissed that claim. 
"I swear on the Quran neither 
I nor any of my men took part," 
Ibrahim said, referring to 
Islam's holy book. 
TAIWAN 


Typhoon kills 4, cuts povver to thousands 
Associated Press 
TAIPEI -A typhoon lashed Taiwan Saturday with intense winds and rains, killing four people and cutting power to thousands of homes. But the storm weakened as it moved Sunday toward mainland China, where authorities ordered more than 1 million people to safer ground. 
Two people were still miss­ing in Taiwan, the Disaster Relief Center said. 
Typhoon Krosa was forecast to strike China's southern Zhejiang and northern Fujian provinces late Sunday, China's national flood control office said in a notice on its Web site. 
On Sunday morning, the typhoon was centered at sea about 80 miles northwest of Keelung on the northern tip of Taiwan. It weakened to a tropical storm with sustained winds of 66 mph, down from 114 mph, the Central Weather Bureau said. 
Two men were killed in a Taipei suburb Saturday when their house was buried by a landslide, the Disaster Relief Center said. Another man died after falling from his balcony during the storm in northern Hsinchu, and a woman was electrocuted after falling from her motorcycle in Tainan. 
Two men were missing, including one who was buried in debris after a hostel was hit by a landslide in Hsinchu. 
At its peak, Krosa caused a massive· power cut blacking out some 2 million homes in 
Taiwan. But electricity has 
since been restored. 
Cathay Pacific Airways can­
celed flights from Taipei to 
Hong Kong, Japan and South 
Korea. Dragon Airlines also 
canceled flights between 
Taiwan and Hong Kong. 
The Central Weather 
Bureau said Krosa could con­
tinue to dump heavy rains 
across Taiwan on Sunday as it 
moved toward eastern China. 
On mainland China, more 
than 1 million people from 
low-lying coastal areas, 
including more than 500,000 
tourists who were at beach 
resorts for the National Day 
holiday week, were evacuat­
ed, the Chinese government's 
Xinhua News Agency report­
ed. 
Early Sunday, China's coast 
guard rescued 27 sailors from 
a Hong Kong freighter that 
suffered mechanical failure 

after it was hit by Krosa off 
the southeastern port of 
Wenzhou in Zhejiang, Xinhua 
reported. 
In Shanghai, where the 
Special Olympics is taking 
place, the city government 
canceled vacations for flood­
control workers and was 
drafting plans to drain compe­
tition sites. 
In Vietnam, the death toll .from Typhoon Lekima ­
which hit the country's central 
coast late Wednesday -rose 
to 46, with another 29 people 
missing, oflicials said Sunday. 
Lekima, named after a local 
fruit, also damaged about 
77,000 homes, the govern­
ment said. 


Different perspectives. One goal. 
Bringing together people with different points of view and backgrounds is the surest way to deliver quality results for our clients. That's why at Ernst & Young you'll be encouraged to speak up and make your unique contribution. Because when you grow and succeed, so do we. 
Visit us at ey.comjusjcareers and our Facebook.com group. 
FORTUNE~ 

100 BEST 

~e~c~~~~~~ 
#25 on the list. 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, October 8, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
ND: Not so clueless 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024' South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity Ass·l~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
Nr.ws EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VrEWI'OINT EurruR: joey King 
Sro1us EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris !line S<:JlNf. EDITOR: 'Ete Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S ElliTOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IllCS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
ADVERTISING MANA!;f.R: Jessica Cortez 
An DEsiGN MANAl;ER: Kdly Gronli CoNTROl.I£R: 'l'im Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (';74) 631-7471 
fAX 

(574) 631-6'.>27 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF .(<;74) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4';41 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (';74) 631-5313 NEWS DESK 
(574) 
631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 
631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 

(574) 
631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK . 


(574) 631-4540 sccne.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 

PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Cher Horowitz was ahead of her time. Although often viewed as "Clueless" to her Beverly Hills posse in the 1995 teen movie hit, Cher got it right when she said. "And in conclusion, it does not say 
H.S.V.P. on the Statue 
Katie

of Liberty!" 
Palmitier

Who would have thought that an inno­
A Word to 

cent topic in Mr. Hall's 
the Jtlse 

debate class would soon be on the forefront of political debate nationwide? The University of Notre Dame has even gone as far as dedicating this entire academic year in promoting conversations on immigra­tion. 
This year's topic of conversation is highlightnd with Notre Dame's annual Academic Forum, which is being held this al'tnrnoon. With the prnsidential nleetions right around the corner, immi­gration is not only a hot topie on the campaign trail, but also it is being dis­eussnd around campus and throughout the country. The prominence of the immigration discussion was evnn men­tioned this past weekend during the ND 
v. UCLA game with a commercial high­lighting Notre Dame's interest in immi­gration. Because immigration is sueh a popular and important issue today, overyone should take advantage of the Academic Forum and immigration-cen­tnn~d events happening around campus throughout the year. 
I know that classes are cancelled this afternoon. I realize that many of us would rather go shopping, take a nap or play Zelda than sit inside the JACC for two hours listening to various speakers. llowever, these "speakers" have a lot to contribute to the ongoing conversations eoneerning immigration. Florida senator Mel Martinez, Arizona governor Janet Napolitano, Hazleton, Pa. mayor Louis 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Barletta and Los Angeles Cardinal Roger 
Mahoney are this year's featured guests, 
and they all have a profound interest 
and first-hand experience with the 
issue. 
These professionals, intellectuals, reli­

gious leaders and students will be dis­
eussing various aspects of immigration. 
Issues like amnesty, wages, taxes and 
health care should all be covered during 
the Forum. And, if not covered explicitly, 
Notre Dame is offering several other 
opportunities to get involved with immi­
gration conversations. The University 
has provided a suggested reading Jist as 
a way of bneoming informed about the 
issues, as well as implieatcd an immi­
gration film series in DeBartolo 
Performing Arts Center. Also, thern arc 
online courses and resident hall 
debates. Immigration is a much more 
eomplieatcd issue than many people 
think, and I resp1~et and applaud the 
University for highlighting this signifi­
cant politkal, economkal and soda! 
issue. 
Many United States citizens, myself 

included, are very ignorant and 
unaware of the issues surrounding 
immigration. Illegal immigrants can 
have signifieant eiTects on health eare, 
public schools and the economy. Is it fair 
that illegal immigrants can come to 
Ameriea and receive health earn in our 
emergency rooms? Can it be justified 
that illegal immigrants take part in 
Ameriean public sehooling without pay­
ing taxes? These are just several of the 
economic and politieal questions that 
surround the issue of immigration, and ·questions that will hopefully be dis­
cussed today. 
Immigration also calls for a discussion 

regarding human rights. Many immi­
grants working in America are earning 
despicable wages for grueling labor. 
However, as a result, we Amerieans are reaping the benefits. Goods are cheap and serviees that were once eonsidered luxuries are now middle dass norms. Is it ethieal to allow a human being to work long hours in a sweltering hot Florida orange orchard just so eon­sumers can purehase oranges at a somewhat lower cost? Americans need to focus on what is actually important in the long run, and diseover that dignity and the worth of a human being far out­weigh the worth of several saved dol­lars. 
That is just my opinion, however. People throughout campus and through­out the country have difl'ering opinions and ean oll'er eonvineing viewpoints on the issues attaehed to immigration. The University is taking a huge Jirst step in beginning the discussion on immigra­tion, and hoppfully the rest of the coun­try will soon jump on board. Only then ean change truly begin to take plaen. 
Now I realizn that it is an impossible task to eonvince the entire student body to attend the Academic Forum today. Until recently, I myself was not own interested in going, and I understand how tempting a fpw extra rounds of Wii bowling ean be on a Monday aftnrnoon. But even if you don't quite make it to the .JACC today, at least hop on the Web site or check out a movie at the DPAC. As students, we have been given an out­standing opportunity to become involved in this extremely important issue, and, as citizens, it is our duty to take advan­tage of it. 
Katie Palmitier is a junior political sci­ence major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd. edu 
The lliews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collt-gc. Edirorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objenively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Comnll·ntaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vie-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free <'Xpression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. l-t·ncrs to the Editor mLISt be signed and mLISt include contact information. 
Q11!stiow r~garding Obsrrver po!ici(f should b! direct~d to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
·n1" Ob'H:rvrr (USrs ,.)C} l--4000) •• f"''hh.tle'tl Mnn..by 1hrough FriJ~y c~:qn dunng rum •nd trd~11riolll'f111tth AAI~flprJ,m ro Thr Obtc:rvtr ia $100 fm une ~c.adc-nm· y.:~tr; $" ~lr one ICnlcJtet 
lltc Ohlcrvcr Ui pubtiJhc,l n: I'OHMNiTER 
024 Suu1h l>inu11 H"ll Send ~ddn:sa corrttrioos co. 
Nunc 0Junt, IN 46~~6-11779 Tht-Oh<Jervt"r 
~riodicaiiH),u~s~ p••d .u Nor~ O;~mt" r.o. ao.n9 
ami "ddi1iono~l mailing uflita. 011 South Dining H~ll 
Notr¢ Dame, IN oi6SS6·0n9 

·nc Oluctvcr i• a member uf the Auoc1.ucd Prcu. All reproduction rlglm arc ..,rvul, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
WHeN Yo\J
MICHAEL. VICK" 

Hi ~IDS'~ MA~e AN/MAl(
TORPPEAii' IN 

1~1 s rc; PART oF VoOR
PSA FOI? PE'TA••• M\CHA€1.. VIC\c:, TeAM..~ 

'K.eMINDJN(;,

'fou-I l 
We CAN t;ACK. 
AI\! IMAL. 
C.RU€LTV... 
\ 


News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Joe McMahon Bill Brink Katie Peralta Matt Gamber If over 21, the final showdown: Graphics Scene Keystone or Natural light? "We forfeit three-fourths ofourselves Jared Wafer Analise Lipari in order to be nke other people." Viewpoint 
Arthur Schopenhauer 

Kara King Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
German philosopher 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, October 8, 2007 
page 13 
Looking for an exciting job? 
Ever dreamt of getting away with murder, or of living in a world with no laws? Do you think that $15,000 is fair price to pay for a life lost, and do you think, in the words of one of our employees, that war is so fun that we John Everett probably shouldn't even be paying you? Kids These (Don't worry, we'll 
Days

be paying you; you should see how much the State Department is paying us). Have you ever wanted to see Iraq up close and personal, but felt the U.S. military's emphasis on the rule of law was too button-down and inhibiting? Than Blackwater USA might be for you. 
llere at Blackwater we believe in, and are truly committed to, the burgeoning industry of privately conducted warfare. We train our private military contrac­tors in the arts of "peacekeeping" (wink, wink) and security provision. (Note: We say "private military contractors" around here so as to avoid using the term "mercenaries" as there is a sur­prisingly negative connotation to sol­diers involved in a conflict for financial gain. Thankfully, by refusing to sign the part of the Geneva Convention that makes mercenaries illegal, the U.S. has shown it's not afraid to stand by us). 
These are great days for the private military industry. With a president com­mitted to an unpopular war, and with sagging enlistment numbers in the U.S. armed forces and a slow process of turnover to Iraqi-led security, the demand for our services has never been higher. Luckily for us, by hiring ex­Pentagon and CIA officials with the right contacts, we've been able to secure no­bid contracts to the tune of $1 billion over five years. We're not going to let any upstart mercenary companies, I mean, private military contractors, cor­ner in on our fun. 
Being as needed as we are by are a State Department and an administration unwilling to admit how thinly-stretched the regular forces (you know, the ones that have to live under congressional oversight) are has enabled us to provide our employees with benefits that I feel safe in saying are better than in any other industry. 
For instance, did you know that as an employee of Blackwater USA you will be allowed to kill people? We don't just mean your normal, everyday, warfare killing, although if that's your boat, we've got plenty of that for you, too. But no, if you want to get drunk on Christmas Eve and randomly decide to shoot the bodyguard of Iraq's vice-presi­dent, go right ahead, although you'll lose points for lack of originality, as one of our employers has beat you to that one. Yeah, you may be asked to leave 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rights of the sidevvalk 
I am the Rosa Parks of the Notre Dame sidewalks. 
As I was walking to class the other day, I saw a female student walking my way. A few moments later, we collided. This collision was by no means inevitable; either one of us could have moved out of the other's way. Nervously, she apologized for the accident. I didn't. I'm not sorry it hap­pened. More importantly, I'm not sorry that I didn't move to let her pass. After all, she was the one walking on the left-hand side. She was the one not paying attention. I was the one diligently watching her approach, anxiously waiting for the perfect moment to lower my shoulder. Why should I move out of her way? Because she is a woman? Nay, I will not yield my right to walk on the right. Not to any man or woman, pedestrian or cyclist. I will hold my course, barreling on toward freedom and knocking down all who stand in my way. 
So the next time you see me coming toward you as you walk down the left side of the sidewalk, stop to ask yourself one question: Do I feel lucky? Well, do you. Notre Dame? 
Dan Mcinnis 
senior 
Sarin College Oct. 4 

Speak for yourself 
I'm really tired of men speaking for women in The Observer. This eating dis­order debacle is a perfect example. By dictating to us what is right and wrong about an eating disorder, men are perpetuating the idea that women should do and be what men say. We have minds, morals, and common sense to think for ourselves. If you want to be a woman's ally, be there to support her. Don't speak for her. 
And Mr. Yatarola, your "Culture of Death" theory ("Anorexia and the devil," Oct. 2) about eating disorders is not original. Just Google it. 
Renee Woodward 
senior 
Opus Hall Oct.4 
the country, (bummer, I know), but you'll not be charged with any crime under U.S. or Iraqi law, thanks to the pressure we put on Paul Bremer to sign Order 17, giving our employees com­plete immunity for their actions in Iraq. And hey, that $15,000 payment to the family of the victim, which will totally make up for the premature and unnec­essary death of their husband and father, don't worry about it, it's on us. 

(I'd like to take some time here to thank all the boys down in accounting who got the State Department to lower its recommended wrongful death pay­ment from $250,000 to $15,000. Great work, guys. I've got to admit. I'd have never thought of arguing that the higher payment might induce Iraqis to pur­posefully get themselves killed by our staff. Genius). 
If holiday-coordinated violence isn't your thing, why don't you try one of our other patented civilian-killing tech­niques. Don't you hate it when someone else's car is too close to yours? With Blackwater, you don't have to stand for such insolence; go ahead and shoot the car. Heck, why stop at one? Just last month on a single security detail our employees shot and killed eleven Iraqi citizens. Sure those phony bleeding heart liberals in Congress may be trying to make a big deal out of this with their "hearings" and "pointed questions" for our beloved CEO Erik Prince, but some­how I think, with the State Department on the hook to us for about $700 million more, we'll pull through. Besides, it's not like the American public is up in arms over us. They're so disenchanted with the war that all the bad news from the front just sort of blends together, and they'd certainly rather have us over there than their sons and daughters, so in a way, we're doing them a favor. In exchange, they seemed to have agreed to pay more attention to Britney Spears' child custody hearing than to the fact that the government which they support with their taxes is currently employing soldiers who are under no legal restric­tion not to needlessly or suspiciously murder civilians. 
If you find yourself thinking about an exciting career in our field, send us a resume. And hey, don't forget to ask about our prospective expansion into Iran! 
John Everett is a senior English major. He is thought to be somewhere between 21 and 45 years ofage. He is armed only with a sharp wit and is considered cantankerous. If you have any information regarding his whereabouts, please contact jeverett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 




THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Monday, October 8, 2007 

Welcome to Pilot Season. With the changing leaves and cooler temperatures of fall come a slew of television's best new offerings, leaving viewers to decide which newbies will make the cut. "Reaper," "Cavemen" and "Dirty Sexy Money" are only a few of the numerous options on the 2007-08 schedule. Some new shows are stronger, funnier and better-written than others. In light of the wide selection now gracing the networks and the Nielsen ratings, let Assistant Scene Editors Cassie Belek and Analise Lipari guide you through the best and worst of this season's pilots. 
Shows to Watch 
These are our top picks for this season's best new pilots. Some of our choices aren't surprising-"Pushing Daisies," for exam­ple, has gotten a lot of critical hype -but others are more unexpected. "Aliens in America" and "Reaper," both airing on the CW, are major ratings underdogs. Keep your schedules open for at least one of these solid new shows. Trust us -you won't regret it. 

Shows to Avoid 
Ladies and Gentlemen: We regret to inform you that not all of TV's new offer­ings are of the highest quality. To be honest, some of them just aren't worth your time. Maybe they'll improve; maybe they won't. Maybe they'll get cancelled after two episodes; maybe they won't. Regardless, we don't suggest that you invest in these new shows this fall. Don't worry-you're not missing much. 
STORIES BY CASSIE BEL 
PUSHING DAISIES (WED., ..8 P.M., ABC) 

Takings its stylistic cues from intlu­ences as diverse as Tim Burton's "Big Fish" and Jean-Pierre Jeunet's "Amalie," ABC's "Pushing Daisies" is a delightfully dark fairy-tale romp through the life of Ned (Lee Pace), a pie maker with the power to bring the dead back to life with a single touch. 
CHUCK (MON., 8 P.M., NBC) 
·I 

For further proof that funny. adorable nerds are the hot commodi­ties in new television series, look no further than "Chuck." In this new light-hearted spy series, Chuck (Zachary Levi) becomes a human computer filled with government secrets after ro e CIA nt (and 
CARPOOLERS (TUE., 8:30 P.M., ABC) 
Despite the fact that much of the action takes place in a moving vehicle, "Carpoolers" feels stagnant, tired and boring. It's unfortunate to see stars like Faith Ford and Jerry O'Connell investing in this boorish, unfunny new show. The main focus of "CarpooJers" is, shocking­45-minute ride to and from work with Gracen (Fred Gross), Dougie (Tim Peper), Laird (O'Connell) and Aubrey (Jerry Minor). The show switches back and forth between the men's lives inside and outside of their car, but the story­lines and characters aren't quite com­pelling enough for audiences to care. Playing into stereotypes can, with good, smart writing, be done with irony and intelligence. But here, it's just unin­spired. Gross's Gracen, for example, feels insecure when he thinks his wife (Ford) makes more money than he dolls. He then resorts to snooping around her finances to get his faets straight. The problem with Gracen, and, really, with the rest of the characters, is that it feels likfl the writers are traveling down a well-worn and oft-trodden path of TV autopilot. Blech. 
WiU it last: If "According to Jim" is any indication, ABC may very well stick with Chuck's former collAge roommate) Bryce Larkin sends Chuck an email that changes his life forever. Chuek finds himself in the middle of a battle between beautiful CIA a·gent Sarah (Yvonne Strzechowski) and psPudo­psychotic NSA agent John (Adam Baldwin) as they go undereover to protect him and win him over to their respective sides. 
While the series is 1~ertain ly filled with its fair share of spy drama. it is half comedic as well. "Chuek" strikes a perfect balance betwenn the main character's home life, work life and burgeoning spy life. Tho show is most entertaining when Chuck tries to maintain that balance. Throw in an even nerdier brother-in-law who Chuck calls Captain Awesome and NBC has a new hit. 
Will it last: Yes, if only beeause NBC pulled out all the stops to advertise this ppy. 
The caveat of his strangll "gift"? A second touch wm leave the victim life­less oriee more, and for good. Ned's extraordinary power leaves him reluctant to experience intimacy with anyone, lest they die -a circum­stance that proves challenging when the murdered love of his life, Chuck (Anna Friel), becomes the latest corpse he resurrects. Writer and pro­ducer Bryan Fuller -the man behind other now defunet shows like "Dead LikP Me" and "Wonderfalls" -has succeeded in creating a mischievous fantasy world inhabited by strange, fllldearing characters. "Pushing Daisies," with its stellar supporting cast, quirky sensibilities and sweet love story is bound to be a hit, if' not a cult classie. Water cooler TV just got a little weirder. 
Will it last: llopefully, even though selling a show like "Pushing Daisies" may be a challenge for ABC. 









NSIDER 
OTHE Monday, October 8, 2007 BSERVER Notre Dame 20, UCLA 6 

•
Ina 


Irish linebacker Maurice Crum leads Notre Dame to its first win of the season 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
LOS ANGELES -Notre Dame's ofl'ense sputtered and stalled, but the Irish defense picked up the slaek -and then some -as the Irish earned their first win of the season Saturday night, 20-6 over UCLA at the Rose Bowl. 
"I wa..<; hurting the first 
' five games, but I could get used to this feeling," fifth-year senior defensive end Trevor Laws said. 
Aftor a raucous celebration with the more than 20,000 Notre Dame fans in attendance, the Irish bounced, danced and high-lived their way back to their locker room, where senior linebacker Maurice Crum led them in singing tho "Victory March." 
"It feels really good," head coach Charlie Weis said. "It's been a long time since we've had a chance to sing that light song in tho loeker room." 
Notre Dame (1-5) gained just 140 yards on offense, but it didn't matter. The Irish forced seven turnovers, had five sacks. scored a dnl'ensive touchdown and knocked Bruin starting quarterback Ben Olson out of the game in the flrst quarter because of a knee injury. 

Late in the first quarter, Olson dropped back to pass and was lev­eled by Notre Dame ftfth-year sen­ior safety Tom Zbikowski. Zbikowski jarred the ball loose, "It sailed over his intended seal the victory for the Irish. for most of the second quarter. drive -and the cheering in the and freshman linebacker Kerry receiver because our front line got "A lot of my determination UCLA finally broke the deadlock, Rose Bowl doubled in volume Neal fell on it at the Bruin 1-yard good pressure," Bruton said. "I came from [the 33-19 loss to driving 40 yards in 9 plays and after the loudspeaker announce­line. tried to take it to the house, but I Purdue] last week," Crum said. "I getting a 49-yard field goal from ment that, across town, USC had 
The Irish offense couldn't get guess I got caught from behind by didn't feel like I played well and I Forbath with 32 seconds left in just lost to Stanford 24-23. the ball over the goal line and had a receiver." think my team needed me the first half to take a 6-31ead into The ensuing Price punt pinned to settle for a field goal, but mean­A facemask penalty on the tonight." the locker room. the Bruins near their own goal while Olson was on the sideline return advanced the ball to the After that interception, Crum The Bruins opened the second line, and three plays later, being tmated for a sprained knee. two, and three plays later, fresh­looked unimpeded to the endzone half by advancing into Notre Bruton's interception set up lie would not return and was man quarterback Jimmy Clausen for his second touchdown of the Dame territory, but they were Clausen's plunge to give Notre replaced by redshirt freshman snuck over the line to put his team day, but his feet got tangled with stopped on fourth-and-one at the Dame the lead. Md,ood Bethel-Thompson. up 13-6 with 1:53 left in the third those of fifth-year senior corner­Irish 32 when Crum sacked UCLA had one la..'it chance to get 
"I don't how he got hurt, but I quarter. back Ambrose Wooden and he Bethel-Thompson. back in the game, advancing the hit him first, and then Trevor "That was the time when our slipped and fell. Notre Dame took the ball and ball to the Irish 9-yard line, but on !Laws] came in and we caused players believed they were going "He looked like me out there," went right back the other way, fourth-and-goal, Irish senior cor­that fumble and we recovered it," to win the game," Weis said. Weis said of the play. driving 29 yards in 12 plays. nerback Terrail Lambert inter­Zbikowski said. But the Irish defense wasn't UCLA opened the scoring. After Walker nailed a career-long 48-cepted Bethel-Thompson's pass in 
Betlwi-Thompson finished the done. Less than a minute later, on pinning the Irish deep and forcing yard field goal to even the score at the end zone. game 12-for-28 passing for 139 the next UCLA possession, Notre a punt, the Bruins drove 52 yards six. The Irish had advanced as far Clausen finished the game 17­yards -and threw four intercep­Dame linebackers Crum and in 14 plays, but Notre Dame held as the UCLA 22, but successive for-27 passing for 84 yards, with tions, one of which set up the Irish sophomore John Ryan sand­inside its own 10 and forced a false start and personal foul no touchdowns or interceptions. for their first second-half lead of wiched Bethel-Thompson, who field goal by Bruin kieker Kai penalties pushed them back and Olson was 4-for-10 for 54 yards the season. lost the ball. Crum picked it up Forbath. forced the field goal try. before leaving the game with the
( With the score tied at six late in and returned it 35 yards for Notre Dame tied the game two "We got just enough yards on knee injury. the third quarter, a punt by Irish another Notre Dame touchdown possessions later after Zbikowski's third and long to get into field goal Notre Dame returns home to f'if'th-year senior Geoff Price to give the Irish a 20-6 lead. hit and forced Olson to fumble. range," Weis said. "That was a face No. 4 Boston College next pinned the Bruins at their own 1-The turnover was one of four On first and goal from the one, great kick." week. The Bruins, who fell to 4-2 yard line. On third down from the Crum caused Saturday. He forced Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen Crum forced the fumble by Bell with the loss, take on No. 2 three. Bethel-Thompson badly another fumble, this time by Bruin was sacked. Three plays later, the on the next Bruin possession, but California at the Rose Bowl. overthrew a pass, which was running back Kahlil Bell, and Irish had to settle for a field goal even though Notre Dame took intercepted by Notre Dame junior intercepted Bethel-Thompson by freshman Brandon Walker to over on the UCLA 32, it could not safety David Bruton and returned twice -the second one coming even the game at 3-3. get any points. Clausen was Contact Chris Khorey at to the 4-yard line. on the Bruin's last possession to The two teams exchanged punts sacked on the first play of the Irish ckhorey@nd.edu 

players of the game 

Maurice Crum 
Notre Dame's senior linebacker had seven tackles, a sack, two interceptions, a forced fumble, two fumble recoveries and a touchdown. 
stat of the game 
7 
Turnovers for UCLA. The Bruins threw four interceptions and lost three fumbles. one ofwhich Notre Dame returned for a touchdown. 

play of the game 

David Bruton's interception 
Bruton.picked off UCLA quarterback McLeod Bethel­Thompson and returned the ball to the Bruin 4-yard line, setting up Notre Dame's first touchdown. 
quote of the game 
"I was hurting the first five JJames, but I could get used to this feeling. " 
Trevor Laws Irish defensive end 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 8, 2007 

report card 

c c 
D 
C­
A­A 
B+ B+ B 
quarterbacks: Clausen gave a middl(~ of 
the road performance. lie completed 
17-of'-27 passes li1r only X4 yards and 
no touchdowns, but did not throw any 
intercPptions. 
running backs: Aldridge got the lion's 
share of thn (:arries-22 carries liw 
only 52 yards while Allen had thwn 
carries lr1r IIJ yards. The Irish strug­
gled in short yardage situations again. 
receivers: Carlson had six mtdws f(Jr 3X yards, but dropped a potnntial touch­down pass. The rncnivers worn out­numlwrPd and (:ouldn't lind holes in tlw sncondary. 
offensive line: Notre Dame gavn up 
three sacks. hut for the most part. 
Claustm had time to throw. But tlw 
Irish eouldn't develop a running 
ganw. 
defensive line: Kuntz led the t(mm in tal"klns whiln Laws played anothnr grnat garnn. The line was also able to tip some of Olson's and Bethel­Thompson's passes. 
linebackers: Maurice Crum had a earmw night. and his play elevated the rnst of Notn~ Dame. Overall. the linnba(:knrs limited the damage UClA was able to do in the running game. 
defensive backs: The secondary eommit­tnd a few key penalties and Olson liJLmd some holes early on, but the unit tightened up and had a eouple of key interceptions. 
special teams: Price returned to f(mn and Walker knocked through two field goals, including a 48-yard attmnpt, but the kick eoverage lel't. something to be dnsirnd. 
coaching: Notre Dame did not play great liKJtball by any measure, but tlw Irish I.IKJk care ofthe ball, played disdplinnd liKJtball. and cX>ntrolled the tempo of the gamn. 


2.65 
overall: It wdSil't preUy, but the lri-.;h came away from IJJS Angeles with a win and a big confidence IXKJ~o>t befbm next week's g~une ag-din'>1 No. 4 BcJ~o>i.on College. 
adding up the numbers 

Notre Dame's total offensive yards against 
14o 

UCLA. The Irish had 46 rushing yards and 94 total passing yards. 
3 
Punts booted inside the 20-yard line by Notre 
Dame punter Geoff Price. 

Penalties Notre Dame had for 61 yards 
8 

against UCLA. The Irish had 11 last week against Purdue. 
119 
Notre Dame's ranking in total offense so far this season, out of 119 Division I teams. 
Notre Dame's ranking in pass defense so far this season, out of 
4

119 Division I teams. 
32 
Sacks allowed by Notre Dame's offensive line this season. UCLA had three sacks 
Saturday. 

Third-down oppportunilies Notre Dame con­
3 

verted in 17 attempts. 
9 
Tackles for loss Notre Dame's defense had against the Bruins. Dwight Stephenson led 
with two. 
LOS ANGELES-Notre Dame's offense is in shambles. The offen­sive line needs seven or eight men in protection to stop a rush, and open receivers are a rarity. The running backs haven't estab­lished proficien­cy with any con­sistency; rushes of a yard or two are a welcome change from the all-too-familiar scene of a defender stuff­ing a tailback for a loss. And Jimmy Clausen is painfully slow going through his reads, missing wide-open safety valves underneath while staring down wide outs. 
But, on this Saturday night, none of that mattered. 
On this Saturday night, the entire team sprinted from end zone to end zone after the game, even if the 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Writer 

song," Weis said. " ... I really feel beat the rival of both schools. happy for them tonight." And who could blame them? 
The Irish offense can thank the ESPN Hadio's Los Angeles affiliate defense, which caused its own luck, began its USC pre-game before 9 for the joy. Corwin Brown rattled a.m. -for a 4 p.m. kickoff. Seven UCLA quarterback Ben Olson with hours of blabber about how USC 
the inside blitzes  should focus exclu­ 
everyone was expect­ sively on the interior  
ing all season but had barely seen.  Smoke and mirrors?  running game ­because, the hosts  
With Olson struggling at 4-for-10 and out because of an injury, the Bruins had to  More like throwing gasoline on a burning house and running  said, the Trojans were going to win 50-3 or 56-0 ­gets more than a tad  
bring in walk-on  behind the flames.  monotonous. The  

starting 11 couldn't On this Saturday The Irish figured move but a yard or night, a 14-point they could earn a two at a time dur­berth in the BCS
difference at the end of
ing the game. title game if they 
On this Saturday the ugliest offootball took care of busi­night, a 14-point games morphed into a ness the next week difference at the against USC.
beautiful celebration of
end of the ugliest Boy, how times
unbridled enthusiasm 

of football games have changed. morphed into a for the Irish. Eight games and a third-stringer McLeod Bethel-Thompson because veteran quarterback Patrick Cowan has a knee injury. 
The Irish created four turnovers -including four interceptions­with Bethel-Thompson in, and thus Notre Dame's defense handed the team its first win since Brady Quinn's final home game. The last time the Irish celebrated a victory, 
Notre Dame was still dreaming about a shot at the nation­al championship. 
beautiful celebra­tion of unbridled enthusiasm for the Irish. A run to one end of the !ield. to one of two packed and proud cheering sec­tions, and then 120-some-odd yards to the other side of the Hose Bowl for a little more reveling, a little more smiling. 
For a team that seemed for five weeks like it had forgotten how to win, Notre Dame sure remembered how to celebrate. 
"It's easy after a win to feel good for yourself. but I tell you what, just looking at the joy in that locker room, it's been a long time since they got a chance to sing that fight single win later, 
Notre Dame's 
chances at any bowl 

game are little more than a pipe dream. The 1-5 Irish must win this week against No. 4 Boston College or on Oct. 20 against the Trojans, incredibly tal­ented but incredibly underperform­ing, to become bowl eligible. 
Then again, the latter would be fitting. 
Within seconds of Mark Bradford's game-deciding toueh­down cateh, 78,543 spectators in Pasadena-fans of UCLA and Notre Dame alike -joined in a cel­ebration, knowing that 41-point underdog Stanford was about to lack of any UCLA-
Notre Dame talk 
during the pre-game 

buffoonery might also have rubbed a few people the 
wrong way. 
And it was right about when John David Booty threw his fourth inter­ception of the night that no-longer Michigan Man Jim Harbaugh turned the kingship of football in Los Angeles over to the Notre Dame defense. 
Within seconds of Bradford's score, Crum ripped the ball out of Kahlil Bell's hands. The Irish didn't eapitalize on that turnover, but they pinned UCLA at its own 1 -and two plays later, David Bruton's interception set up a mighty three­play, two-yard touchdown drive. 
Smoke and mirrors? More like throwing gasoline on a burning house and running behind the flames. 
On a night when Notre Dame's longest scoring drive was a fumble recovery for a touchdown, on a night when tlu1 offense's longest drive to put points on the board went 29 yards in 13 baffling plays and on a night when college foot­ball's schizophrenic season reached the Southland. that's A-OK for NI>. The Irish were the beneficiary and the victor. 
On that kind of' a night, an ugly win is all you can ask for. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Crum Jr. has a night to remember 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Wri[er 
LOS ANGELES -When Maurice Crum Jr. came to Notre Dame, his dad, a for­mer All-American linebacker at Miami, told his son the two couldn't even com­pare achievements until the younger Crum returned an interception for a touchdown. 
It might be time to revise those stan­dards. 
The senior middle linebacker had a game for the ages Saturday, leading Notre Dame to its first win of the sea­son. Crum forced four turnovers. had 80 return yards, made seven tackles, and scored the first touchdown of his career. The Walter Camp Football Foundation named him national defensive player of the week. but Crum's score was on his second forced fumble and subsequent recovery -not an interception. 
So can Crum finally argue with his dad about who played better? 
"Definitely," Crum said after the game. ''I'm most happy because I haven't had a chance to talk to my dad yet, but I want to talk to him to tell him I finally scored and he ean get off my back. "I got a message board on my door in n't want to score too soon." 
" ... I don't care if he's asleep. I will my room. and I wrote, 'You owe them.' I Crum admitted to the fib with a one­call him until he answers the phone." pride myself to be a leader [of] the word description of himself. 
While Crum was hoping to impress his defense, and any time I don't show up, I "Clumsy," he said. "I bumped into father, Irish coach Charlie Weis didn't don't think it bodes well for the team," Ambrose [Wooden] trying to let him get need many words to describe Crum's Crum said. "So I felt like I definitely had in front of me.... I just, I bumped into game. to come back and bounce back -not Ambrose and I was being clumsy. I'm 
"He had a bunch of big plays," Weis necessarily for myself, but I put a lot of kicking myself for that now." said. pressure on myself for my teammates." He might be elumsy, but he has Weis' 
For a while, it looked as if Crum's What a difference a week makes. trust. With the game tied at 6-6 midway night would end early. He got kieked in Crum officially had one forced fumble, through the third quarter, referees ini­the shins in the second quarter and left had a hand in forcing another, recov­tially ruled Crum's first forced fumble the field for the locker room with about ered both and returned one 34 yards for down on eontact. Weis wasn't sure what six minutes left in the first half. a touchdown; intercepted two passes, to do -so he asked Crum. 
Weis figured Crum just needed a little had five solo tackles, added two assists "I trusted him on that challenge," rest and treatment. and threw in an eight-yard sack for Weis said. "I didn't know whether or not 
"I said, 'Let's send him in now. We'll good measure. there was going to be a review. . .. He get through the rest of the second quar­But for Crum, it wasn't without a little told me, 'Coach, I had the ball out,' and ter. Let's see if we can have him for the bit of a fall. Quite literally. that's why I challenged it. It's good third quarter,"' Weis said. "And I think On his second interception, Crum when you have a senior captain that can that turned out to be a pretty good deci­returned the ball 33 yards -until he tell you to go ahead and use up your sion." ran into the back of cornerback one challenge." 
A week after playing below his own Ambrose Wooden, who was trying to Crum ended the night leading the expectations, Crum called his perform­block for him. Notre Dame Victory March in the locker ance the best game he had ever had -"He did look like me on the last inter­room with the rest of the team following on any level. ception," Weis said. "I said to him, along -an Irish post-victory tradition. 
Crum had only one solo tackle and an 'Thanks for making me feel a little bit "We sung it twice, actually," Crum assist in Notre Dame's 33-19 loss to better physically after falling on your said. "It's been a long time." Purdue on Sept. 29. That irked the sen­face on the last one.' He told me he ior from Riverview, Fla. wanted to waste the clock, that he did-Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 

Weis focused on limiting mistakes 
conservative on offense." Under 50 percent played in South Bend. 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sophomore running baek UCLA became the fifth team Wins against the Bruins Spons Edimr 
James Aldridge was Notre this season to complete less account for two of the three Dame's leading rusher, with 22 than half of its passes against total wins that Notre Dame 
Notre Dame coach Charlie carries for 52 yards. The Irish Notre Dame. Olson was 4-for-had in 1963 and so far in Weis said his offensive game did not have any turnovers 10 before his injury, while 2007. The Irish were 2-7 in plan in Saturday's 20-6 win Saturday. Bethel-Thompson was 12-for-1963 and are 1-5 so far this over UCLA was predicated on 28. Purdue quarterback Curtis season. avoiding negative plays and Turnovers aplenty for Bruins Painter is the only passer to not giving up turnovers. The Irish forced seven UCLA complete over 50 percent of Back at the Rose Bowl 
"Too many times this year, turnovers -four interceptions his passes against the Irish The game marked the first we came into a game saying, and three fumble recoveries. this season. time Notre Dame had played 'Don't turn the ball over,' and Senior linebacker Maurice at the Rose Bowl since it then we turnnd the ball over," Crum forced four of the Under 100 yards defeated Stanford in the 1925 he said. turnovers. He intercepted Notre Dame held the Bruins Rose Bowl Game. The Irish 
To that end, Weis ran the Bruins quarterback McLeod to 89 yards rushing on 37 car­are 2-0 all time at the Rose ball using formations with mul­Bethel-Thompson twice, strip­ries, the lowest output by an Bowl. tiple tight ends and bunched ping the ball from running Irish opponent this season. wide receivers. knowing full back Kahlil Bell, knocking the UCLA is also the first oppo­Fall of Troy well the Bruins would stack ball loose from Bethel­nent to rush for under 100 Across town at the Los the line of serimmagn. Thompson and picking it up for yards against Notre Dame. Angeles Memorial Coliseum, 
"When you load up with mul­a 34-yard touchdown. No. 2 USC lost to unranked ti pin tight nnds. you know Freshman linebacker Kerry Neutralizing Tate Stanford 24-23. The announce­they'ro going to load up too," Neal recovered a fumble by After catehing three passes ment of the score brought on a Weis said. "We knew we were Bruins quarterback Ben Olson for over 100 yards last week thunderous, unified cheer from going to get a lot of one's and in the !irst quarter on a play in against Purdue, Irish fresh­the crowd of more than 70,000 two's and not too many four­which Olson sprained his knee. man wide receiver Golden otherwise divided fans at the and five-yard plays. But we The recovery led to an Irish Tate caught one pass for no Rose Bowl. Weis said his son, wnren't having negative plays." field goal. gain. Charlie Jr., told him what the 
The Irish ran the ball 38 Junior safety David Bruton cheer was for. times for just 46 yards -but and senior cornerback Terrail Beating the Bruins "I won't say it hurt my feel­Weis said he wanted to be Lambert also had intercep­Notre Dame is now 4-0 all ings," Weis said of the Trojans' patient with the running game. tions. Bruton's pick led to time against UCLA, with wins loss. 
"The game plan was execut­Notre Dame's frrst touchdown, coming in 1963, 1964, 2006 ed just the way we drew it up," a 1-yard plunge by freshman and 2007. The first three Contact Chris Khorey at he said. "We were going to be quarterback Jimmy Clausen. games of the series were all ckhorey@nd.edu 
•

scoring suininary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  3  0  17  0  20  
UCLA  3  3  0  0  6  

First quarter 

UClA 3, Notre Dame 0 Kai Forbath 29-yard field goal with 3:06 remaining Drive: 13 plays, 42 yards, 4:59 elapsed. 
UCLA 3, Notre Dame 3 Brandon Walker 26-yard field goal with 0:23 remaining. Drive: 4plays, ·4 yards, 0:57 elapsed. 
Second quarter UClA 6, Notre Dame 3 Kai Forbath 49-yard field goal with 0:32 remaining. Drive: 9plays, 40 yards, 3:16 elapsed. 
Third quarter 

Notre Dame 6, UCLA 6 Brandon Walker 48-yard field goal with 6:24 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 29 yards, 6:42 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 13, UClA 6 Jimmy Clausen 1-yard run with 1:53 remaining (Walker kick). Drive: 3 plays, 2yards, 1:14 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 20, UClA 6 Maurice Crum 34-yard fumble recovery with 
1:03 remaining (Walker kick). 

statistic's 
total yards 
282 

passing yards 
'"jjf!JA IS:J 
rushing yards 
U£1A 89 
--~-~~­

return yards 

IJ£U 104 
time of possession 
UClA 27:58 
•  passing  
Clausen  17-27-0  Olson  4·10·0  
Allen  1-1-0  Bethei·Thom 12-28-4  
rushing  
Aldridge Allen  22·52 3-19  Bell Moline  18-64 6-21  
Schwapp  1-2  Breazell  1-18  
Thomas  2·1  J. Cowan  1-8  

receiving 

Carlson  6-38  J. Cowan  5-69  
Aldridge Parris  3-18 3-13  Breazell D. Johnson  5-69 3·37  
Kamara  2-20  Bell  2·6  
Allen  2·3  Paulsen  1-12  

tackling  
Kuntz  8  Brown  10  
Crum  7  Horton  8  
Brockington Wooden  6 6  Keyes Verner  7 6  
Laws Zbikowski  5 5  Taylor Bosworth  6 4  
Bruton  4  Brown  4  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 8, 2007 


DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer 




Crumbled Bruins 
NoI rn Danw's sputtering oiTPnse only managed 140 total yards Saturday against UCLA, but that didn't matter. The Irish dnfense fon:ed sevPn turnovers, scored a touchdown and set up two other 
NotrP Danw srores en route to a 20-(l victory over the Bruins-Notrn Dame's lirst win of tlw snason. Irish liJH~backer Mauriec Crum played a rart•Pr game-n~wvnring two fumbles, fordng one, while intercepting UClA third-string quarterback MeLnod Bethel-Thompson twin•. Bntlwi-Thompson thrnw four interceptions after rnplal'ing Bnn Olson, who left the gamn in the lirst quarter because of a lng injury. Notre Damn's dnl'nnse saw live running backs run for morn than I00 yards in its first live games this season, but it held thn Bruins to only S1J yards on tlw ground Saturday. The Irish faee two tough opponents the next two weeks-No. 4 Boston Collt~gn and No. 10 USC-but their win against UCLA ensures the Irish won't start the stmson 0-8. 



Top left, Irish safety David Bruton returns an interception. Top right, Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen celebrates. Middle, UCLA quarterback Mcleod Bethel-Thompson throws an Interception. Bottom right, Irish linebacker Maurice Crum returns one of his two interceptions. Bottom left, Irish running back Armando Allen carries the ball through UCLA's defense. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, October 8, 2007 
page 15 
AND ANALISE LIPARI 
DIRTY SEXY MONEY.(WED., 10 P.M., ABC) 

an hour instead of a half hour. It's set in Manhattan instead of Orange County. One of the brothers (William Baldwin) is an aspiring senator instead of an aspiring illusionist. . 
The series focuses on lawyer Nick George's (PetHr Krause) struggle to work for the famous and wealthy Darling family while suspecting that one of the Darlings murdered his father, their former family lawyer. Nick works for this family of socialites as he covers up one son's accidental harboring of illegal immigrants and another's illicit affair with a transves­tite. 

At times "Dirty Sexy Money" feels The series is dirty, sexy and totally like a dramatic version of "Arrested money. With its juicy plotlines and Development." After all, blonde ditz top-notch talent, it sizzles just the Juliet Darling (Samaire Armstrong) is right amount for a Wednesday night. essentially a less self-aware version of Will it last: Yes. The title is enough Lindsay Bluth. However, there are to get people to tune in, but they'll enough differences to set the two stick around to witness the Darlings' series apart. For example, "Money" is shocking vices. 

REAPER (TUE., 9 P.M., CW) 
fall season. 
"Reaper" follows Sam (Bret Harrison), a college dropout who fmds out on his 21st birthday that his parents acciden­tally sold his soul to the devil when he was born. Suspended disbelief aside, viewers follow Sam and his goofy side­kick Bert "Sock" Wysocki (Tyler Labine) as they do the Devil's (Ray Wise) bid­ding: Capturing and returning errant demons who have escaped from Hell. "Reaper" is contrived, unrealistic and downright ridiculous -and it's fantas­tic. Much more than "Buddy the Vampire Slayer," as some critics have deemed it, "Reaper" is a deliciously 


The CW is a venture that, initially, cheesy, well-written comedy. If you're seemed bound to fail. Combining two looking for total escapism in your TV, or lesser-watched networks, UPN and the even if you're a "Buffy" fan in mourning, WB, into one? Crazy talk. Eortunately check out the CW's "Reaper." If anyone for viewers, the ON has cemented its laughs, just say that the devil niade you reputation as a funnier, less dry version do it. of the main networks with "Reaper," Will it last: Yes, as long as audiences 
one of its best remember to watch the CW. 
CAVEMEN (TUE., 8 P.M., ABC) 

a society biased against their species because they have a little extra hair all over their bodies. In the pilot, Joel (Bill English) tries to hide his Homosapien girlfriend because he's afraid that his friend Nick (Nick Kroll) will turn against him. Meanwhile Joel's little brother Andy (Sam Huntington) tries to get over his ex-girlfriend with Nick's help. 
The show has its bright spots. It can occasionally be funny. Joel is boring and Nick is annoyingly mean, but Andy is a likeable and funny enough charac­ter. But when it comes down to it, the only thing that separates "Cavemen" from any other series about 20-some­

Okay, technically speaking "Cavemen" thing men is the fact that the main isn't that bad, especially considering all characters are cavemen -and this the grim expectations that have accom­point isn't actually given enough focus. panied the series since ABC first Will it last: Maybe. People seem to be announced it was pieking up the pilot. curious about this series, but the con­The series, based on the popular Geico cept is so lame that it's embarrassing commercials, follows three cavemen that the show even made it to televi­roommates as to to sion. 
ALIENS IN AMERICA (WED., 8:30P.M., 



Wisconsinite who prefers algorithms locker rooms and, consequently, himself at the top of bullies' hit lists 
/ 
~ 

school year. In an effort to find her 
-..~---·--··-··· .. 
son some sort of companionship, ..._..,_'""' domineering mother Claire (Amy applies for an international student ing program. When their housegu .arrives, he isn't exactly the tall, N youth on the program's bro 
rather, it's Raja (Adhir Kalyan), a Mn<:h1'nl student from Pakistan. 
To the show's credit, "Aliens America" doesn't shy away from the political issues: In one memorable from the pilot, many students in a 
Here's a chemistry problem for you. room raise their hands when asked What do you get when you combine post-feels angry toward Raja's people for 9/11 international politics, laugh tracks ing the 9/11 attacks. The show ua.tall''"'"' and nerdy white guy coming-of-age sto­these heavier topics with a ries? Surprisingly enough, you get the humor, and Justin and Raja's CWs "Aliens in America," an unexpected­friendship sparks the beginning of a ly good new sitcom with a lot of potential. transcultural understanding. 
Dan Byrd stars as Justin, a suburban Will it last: We sure hope so. 
GossiP GIRL (WED., 9 P.M., CW) 

school after a mysterious year away boarding school. Upon returning, contends with Blair (Leighton M"'""'r.~ the best friend she left behind, Chuck (Ed Westwick), a cocky jerk thinks he knows all of Serena's dirty tie secrets. 
"Gossip Girl" is the ultimate pleasure as we sneak a peek at of Upper East Side teens. The focuses more on the dramatic and n't offer as much comic relief as O.C." but we are treated to a Cohen-type in Serena's new Dan (Penn Badgley). the not.-so-w•~an:mJI sarcastic smart guy from Brooklyn. 
The cancellation of "The O.C." left a series suffers from underdevelop teen soap void in all of our hearts, but parental characters, but still manages "O.C." creator Josh Schwartz quickly offer enough drama and filled that void by adapting the Alloy to keep us hanging on to "Gossip Girl Entertainment book series, "Gossip every juicy revelation. Girl," for the small screen. In the series, Will it last: Yes, but only ifit can Serena van der Woodsen (Blake Lively) our interest after the main r.h:~r:~.r.tf!TSI returns to her 
East Side from school. 

BIG SHOTS (THU., 10 P.M., ABC) 

the faithful businessman and uu.>'-'U•UUJ who gets it all only to realize that wife has been cheating on him with boss. Duncan (Dylan McDermott) is philandering womanizer who has connected with his rebellious daughter. Karl (Joshua Malina) wealthy businessman in couple's py having an affair on the side. (Christopher Titus) is the whipped band who begrudgingly bends o backwards for his wife, only to that he truly does love her. 
The series might be enjoyable if was an original character in the and if the dialogue between 
Although it had the potential to be the wasn't so painfully forced. The male response to "Sex and the City," ters lack the chemistry of Carrie "Big Shots" fails miserably in originality company, and seeing "The We and relatable characters. The series fol­Wings'"s sweet Will Bailey (Malina) as lows the love lives of four "big shots" as cheating husband is just they deal with their businesses and Will it last: No. "Big Shots" women. The show seems to SPI~Cil=tfu:e to a male audience, but this ain't 
James 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 8, 2007 
NFL 

Brown's five field goals lift Texans over Miami 
Titans defense comes through in goal-line stand to seal win; Steelers' offense controls ball well in shutout 
stadium after the game. 
Associated Press 
lin was injured when defen­
IIOUSTON -Kris Brown did­sive tackle Travis Johnson hit n't lnt onfl bad foot ruin what him in the head with his knee. the othnr orw could do. Arter the play, Johnson stood 
Brown kicked livfl field goals, over Green and taunted him, including the winner on a drawing a 15-yard penalty. career-long 57-yarder with a Johnson said he apologized to second remaining, to lead tlw eoach Gary Kubiak for the Texans to a 22-19 victory over penalty during the game, but the Dolphins (0-5), losers of eontrition wasn't on his mind eight straight. af'terward. The 315-pound 
Brown tied an NFL single­Johnson went on an expletive­game record with three makllS lacml rant in the locker room, over 50 yards. lie hit two 54-apparently because he didn't yardllrs earlier in the game. No likn the low block Green threw. one had kicked one longer than "It was a malicious hit," 53 yards in the NFL this snason. Johnson said. "It was uncalled 
Brown hurt the lwei of his Jpft for. lie's like the scarecrow. He foot on Houston's !'irst kickoff wants to get courage while l and got an injection for tlw pain wasn't looking and hit me in my at halftime. krwe instead of trying to hit me 

"That's as impressivn as I've in my head. God don't like ugly, ever smm." coach Gary Kubiak you know what I mean?'' said. "And then to put that on Johnson was escorted back to top of it, I'm kind of' at a loss f(lr the locker room about 20 min­Vincent Fuller picked off a were there," Atlanta coach Davenport's runs and a series of words. It's special. I don't know utns after thfl tirade to issup, an pass and returned it 76 yards Bobby Petrino said. catches by backup receivers. if we'll ever see that again." apology, but still seemed more for a touchdown, and Kyle Petrino replaced a battered "Coach (Mike) Tomlin says 
Brown said he didn't realize upset about the penalty itself Vanden Bosch sacked Byron Joey Harrington, who threw for that a lot: We've got 53 play­how long the winning ki1~k was than his reaction to the hit. Leftwich with 1:01 left. as the 87 yards, with Leftwich trying to makers, and you've got to make when he lirwd up. "We'rfl not going to do that," Tennessee Titans overcame five spark the offense in the fourth plays when your number is 
"I actually thought it was Kubiak said. "That's not going to turnovers in pulling out a victo­quarter. Leftwich overthrew called," Davenport said. "A lot of' going to be another 54-yarder." be accepted around hflre." ry Sunday over the Atlanta open Laurent Robinson in the guys' numbers got called." Brown said. "I knew it was Falcons. end zone after Demorrio Called most of all was going to b1l a fairly long kick. I Titans 20, Falcons 13 "When you get on the 1-yard Williams intercepted Young's Roethlisbnrger's No. 7. told myself to ... make it a good The Atlanta Falcons had first­linfl, you assume that your team pass with 4:15 to go. lie bounced back from a two­kick, and let's go home." and-goal at the Tennessee 1, is going to put the ball in for Williams gave Leftwich anoth­interception performance in the 
The Dolphins are ofT to their needing a touchdown to get seven," Atlanta cornerback er shot, breaking through and previous week's 21-14 loss at worst start since losing the first even with 2 minutes left. DeAngelo Hall said. tackling Titans punter Craig Arizona to complete 13 consecu­six to open the 2004 sp,ason. When Albert Haynesworth The win allowed the Titans (3-Hentrich at the Tennessee 19 tive passes. It was an impressive Things could get worse after leaped and turned a toss play 1) to continue their best start with 2:24 left. That gave Atlanta display of versatility given start­q uartnrback Trent Green suf­into an 8-yard loss, Tennessee's since 2003 when they last the ball with 2:24 left. and ing receivers I lines Ward (knee) fered a concussion trying to resilient, stingy defense bailed reached the playoffs. This is the Warrick Dunn, held to nine and Santonin Holmes (ham­block. I !e went to a hospital for out sloppy Titans quarterback fourth 3-1 start under coach Jeff yards on his previous nine car­string) didn't play. The Stenlers' observation but mturnnd to the Vince Young. Fisher, and they made the post­ries, broke loose for 18. record is 15 completions in a 
season the three previous timP.s. That was as close as the row by Bubby Brister in 1989. 
But it couldn't have been ugli­ralcons would get, and Vanden H.onthlisberger finished 18-of­er for a team coming off its bye. Bosch's sack on fourth-and-5 22 for 206 yards and a touch­Young matched his career high sealed the victory. down. with three interceptions and "There were a lot of' questions, said he knows he made bad Steelers 21, Seahawks 0 obviously, with llines being deeisions by trying to force some The Pittsburgh Steelers' top down and Santonio (bning ruled balls. defensive players stood on the out) right before the game, but 
"Our defense saved this sidelines for most of the second there was no doubt in my mind 
game," Young said. half, but only a couple of them those rP.eeivers would stnp up Fisher agreed. were hurt. The rest stayed then~ and they did a great job," "The obvious n~ason we won simply because the offense Hoethlisberger said. "They got 
this game was because of the wouldn't let them on the field. open for me and caught the performance, the consistent The Steelers' victory Sunday ball." performance and never-say-die over Seattle, led by quarterback With Pittsburgh star Willip, attitude the defense took Ben Hocthlisberger's improvis­Parker held to 17 yards on 10 throughout the game," Fisher ing and creativity, might have carries before he found a said. been one of the few times where rhythm, the Steelers (4-1) 
Atlanta (1-4) scored only 13 a shutout could be credited as stalled until the 247-pound points off the turnovers and mueh to the offense as the Davenport ran 45 yards to the botched plenty of chances to dflfense. Seahawks 20 late in the second win, including three missed field Pittsburgh's offense took near­quarter of a scoreless game. goals. ly a half to get going, then Hoethlisberger found tight end 
"The bottom line is their couldn't be stopped as !Ieath Miller for 13 yards and a defensive front controlled the Hoethlisberger directed three touchdown with just under two line of scrimmage, and we successive lengthy touchdown minutes left in the half to finish couldn't make plays when they drives highlighted by Najeh off a 10-play drive. 



The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Need help clearing out  Moving on with my life  FOR SALE:  
WANTED  a garage. Sun.Oct.14. Call312-560-5432 or  Moving in with yours. Lake St. George is your  FoR RENT  NO FOOTBALL TIX.  PERSONAL  
Kathy@ odinsight.com  new home With an almost  
STUDENT WORK  view of the dome Sleep in  Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to  ALL HOME GAMES.  UNPLANNED  
$12.75 base-appt.  CollegeGear.com  one of three suites  campus, washer/dryer. landlord  574-232-0964.  PREGNANCY?  
Flexible schedules.  social, outgoing,  Taste the city water.  does the yardwork. $750/month. No  www. victorytickets.com  Do not go it alone.  
no experience needed.  Campus Rep  It is sweet  pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266.  If you or someone you  
customer sales/service,  wanted. Promoting  New. New Everything  NO tickets for sale.  love needs confidential support  
conditions apply, all ages 18+,  www.collegegear.com  You can have it  Large house available for 2009­ Best Prices.  or assistance, please call  
574-273-3835,  2 hrs before each  for some bling  2010. Full renovations completed  574-288-2726.  Sr. Sue Dunn.  
www. workforstudents.com  home game.  Not too bad for $345 thousand  this year. Great location on E  OP, at 1-7819.  
$60 per hour. Go to  Call Jan Lazzara on her band  Marion. Large common areas, 5  Buying BC/USC tix.  For more information,  
Occasional babysitters  www.collegegear.com/repsl  574-233-6141.  bathrooms. Also available: 5bdrm 2  574-277-1659.  visit our website at:  
wanted for our 1 0-year-old  bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008­ http://osa.nd.edu/departments/  
daughter. Mostly weekends. maybe some weeknights.  FoR SALE  NO Grad selling Granger home. Open,  2009. ContactMacSwain@ gmail.com  Football tickets. Post-surgery faculty  pregnant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in  
We live on  spacious & newer.  member cannot  THE OBSERVER.  
E. Wayne Street. about 2 miles south of  Call me for a list of properties  4 br, 4 bth, + finished basement, 3 car g. Century 21 Jim Dunfee  TICKETS  use tickets. Two (2} available for  If you or someone you care about has  
campus. If Interested, contact  near NO.  Realty.  all remaining  been sexually assaulted, visit  
Alice at 574-287-7655. Leave mes­ 574-217-1557  Call Tim  WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX.  home games.  http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape.  
sage if not home.  Tatiana  574-271-3440.  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  Phone 574-232-0743.  shtml  





OUND THE NATION 
Monday, October 8, 2007 
NCAA Football APTop25 

team  record  prev.  
1  LSU  6·0  1  
2  California  5·0  3  
3  Ohio State  6-0  4  
4  Boston College  6-0  7  
5  South Florida  5-0  6  
6  Oklahoma  5·1  10  
7  South Carolina  5-1  11  
8  West Virginia  5·1  13  
9  Oregon  4·1  14  
10  Southern California  4-1  2  
11  Missouri  5-0  17  
12  Virginia Tech  5·1  15  
13  Florida  4·2  9  
14  Arizona State  6-0  18  
15  Cincinnati  6·0  20  
16  Hawaii  6·0  16  
17  Kentucky  5·1  8  
18  Illinois  5·1  NR  
19  Wisconsin  5-1  5  
20  Kansas  5-0  NR  
21  Florida State  4·1  NR  
22  Auburn  4-2  NR  
23  Texas  4-2  19  
24  Georgia  4-2  12  
25  Tennessee  3-2  NR  

NCAA Football USA Today/Coaches' Poll 
team  record  
1  LSU  6-0  
2  California  5-0  
3  Ohio State  6·0  
4  Boston College  6·0  
St  Oklahoma  5·1  
51  South Florida  5-0  
7  Southern California  4-1  
8  Oregon  4-1  
9  West Virginia  5·1  
10  Virginia Tech  5·1  
11  Missouri  5·0  
12  South Carolina  5·1  
13  Arizona State  6-0  
14  Florida  4-2  
15  Wisconsin  5·1  
16  Hawaii  6·0  
17  Cincinnati  6-0  
18  Kentucky  5·1  
19  Illinois  5·1  
20  Kansas  5·0  
21  Florida State  4·1  
22  Texas  4·2  
23  Georgia  4·2  
24  Purdue  5·1  
25  Auburn  4·2  

MIAA Volleyball Standings 

team league 
Calvin 11·0 Adrian 8·2 Hope 7-2 Tri-State 7-4 SAINT MARY'S 4-6 Kalamazoo 3-7 Albion 3-6 Alma 2·8 Olivet 1-11 
preu. 
2 3 4' 6 10 9 1 13 12 14 17 18 19 7 5 15 24 8 
NR 
NR 
NR 
16 11 20 
NR 
overall 
16·3 11-8 13·8 9·11 7-11 
7-14 
5-12 6·16 2-19 

around the dial 
NFL 
Cowboys at Bills 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 

Cnl\r\PILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NFL 


AP 

Bears tight end Desmond Clark runs over Packers safety Nick Collins to score the game-winning touchdown in Chicago's 27-20 win over Green Bay Sunday. 
Turnovers hatnper Packers in loss to Bears 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -The Green Bay Packers coughed up five turnovers and their chance to remain· undefeated, blowing a sec­ond-half lead and handing a 27-20 victory to the Chicago Bears at Lambeau Field Sunday night. 
Bears quarterback Btian Griese threw the go-ahead touchdown to tight end Desmond Clark with 2:05 left. Brett Favre drove the Packers to the Bears 31 and called the Packers' final timeout with 13 sec­onds remaining, but Favre threw an incomplete pass and an interception to Bears safety Brandon McGowan in the end zone to end the game. 
Favre had marched the Packers (4-1) up and down the field in the first half, shredding , a Chicago defense that continued to look nothing like the unit that led the Bears (2-3) to the Super Bowl last sea­son. 
But the old Favre reared his ugly head late in the third quarter, when he threw a head-scratching interception to Bears line­backer Brian Urlacher that let Chicago back into the game. 
Griese made the Packers pay for Favre's mistake right away, throwing a 19­yard touchdown pass to rookie tight end Greg Olsen to cut the Packers' lead to 
IN BRIEF 
Gordon wins Talladega by
employing risky strategy 
TALLADEGA, Ala. -It's not in Jeff Gordon's nature to go slow, and asking the four-time series champion to ride aimlessly around in the back of the pack is unheard of. 
But with all the unknowns sur­rounding Sunday's race at Talladega Superspeedway, it seemed to be the safest strategy. Still, he resisted, and even told car owner Rick Hendrick he wouldn't do it. 
He apparently had a change of heart, agreeing to turn parade laps for much of the race before surging past Jimmie Johnson on the final lap and holding off his teammate to become the career victory leader at restrictor-plate tracks. 
"It was the hardest race I've ever had to be in. I've never had that type of mind-set before," Gordon said. ''I've never done that before." 

20-17 with 4:19 left in the third quarter. Olsen caught the pass out of bounds, but officials ruled he had been pushed out by Packers safety Atari Bigby, a call that is not subject to replay review. 
Green Bay held Chicago on its next possession, but the Packers' Charles Woodson fumbled on a punt return to give the ball back to the Bears at the Green Bay 41. Chicago drove for a 36-yard field goal by Robbie Gould, tying the game with 14:13 remaining. 
The teams traded defen­sive stops deep into the fourth quarter, when the Bears appeared to convert a third-and-4 at the Packers 42 with 3:13 remaining. Packers coach Mike McCarthy challenged the spot and got the ball moved, just not enough to take away the first down. 
After a 7-yard run by Cedric Benson, the Bears faced third-and-2 at the Packers 34, Griese faked a handoff and threw down the seam to Clark, who had broken free from safety Nick Collins and linebacker Brady Poppinga. Clark ran to the end zone, giving the Bears a 27-20 lead. 
Griese, playing his sec­ond game as the Bears' starter after Rex Grossman was benched, finished the game 15-of-25 for 214 yards with two touchdowns and one interception. 
Former Duke coach and 
player reunite on field 
PROVIDENCE, R.L -They're on dif­ferent teams now, but Mike Pressler and Reade Seligmann still greeted each other with a hug before the game and a friendly handshake afterward. 
They found time for some friendly banter, too. 
Seligmann, one of the three former Duke lacrosse players falsely accused of rape, recently transferred to Brown. Pressler, who built Duke into a top national program before being forced to resign as coach more than a year ago, is in his second season leading the Bryant team. 
They reunited Sunday as Brown and Bryant, a Division II program in near­by Smithfield, faced each other in a scrimmage. Seligmann is playing col­lege lacrosse for the first time since the spring of 2006, when Duke's sea­son was cut short by rape allegations that prosecutors later determined were false. 
Pettersen defeats Ochoa in 
playoff 

DANVILLE, Calif. -Suzann Pettersen made her way to the 18th green for the third time in 45 minutes, telling herself she had better fmish off Lorena Ochoa before it got too dark and they had to come back for more Monday. 
Then, with another spot-on playoff putt as the sun was going down in the distance, Pettersen put her name above top-ranked Ochoa's at long last. She made an 8-footer for birdie on the second sudden-death hole Sunday to win the Longs Drugs Challenge. 
"I don't know if we could have played much longer," PettBrsen, said. "I probably hit my best putt, the last putt I had in the playoff. That was really nice." 
Pettersen, who began the day with a bogey, watched as Ochoa just missed a 20-foot putt before calmly making the winner and pumping her list several times. 
j 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 8, 2007 
MLB PLAYOFFS 



Boston routs Anaheim to clinch series sweep 
Ortiz and Ramirez homer, Schilling pitches seven innings; Hughes' relief helps Yankees force Game Four 
was 11awless today." 
Associated Press 
The Hed Sox joined the 
ANAIIEIM. Calif. -Brilliant Arizona Diamondbacks and as ever in the postsnason. Curt Colorado Rockies in sweeping a Schilling lwlpPd givn the Boston first-round series this October BPd Sox somn limn ofT. -this is the first time since the 
The way tlwy'rp playing, c.urnmt format began in 1995 maylw that's tlw last thing they that it's happened. rwnd. Vladimir Guerrero and his 
Schilling worked S!W!Hl mas­Los Angeles teammates hit .192 terful innings. David Ortiz and as a te.am and scored a mere Manny Ramirez hornernd. and four runs in three games. the Hnd Sox routml the Los "Pitehing is everything, and Angelos AngPis 1)-1 Sunday to our guys were pitching," complnto a thrnc-ganw swenp Ramirez said. "In the playoffs, of' tlwir first-round AI. playoff you got to have pitching. snrins. Schilling's the man. He's got a 
Tlw Red Sox open the AI. lot of spirit, he knows what he's championship series at Fcnway doing out there and he came Park on Friday night against through for us today." either tho (:levnland Indians or The Angels have lost nine New York Yankees. The Indians straight playoff games to the wont for a sweep Sunday night Red Sox and seven straight at Yankee Stadium. postseason games overall. . 
Schilling isn't the pownr Boston beat the Angels in the pitcher he once was, but he last three games of the 1986 handled the Angels with n~la­ALCS and swept them in the tive mtse. Even when the Angels first round of the 2004 playollS. loaded the bases early, hn Schilling was working in the escap(~d. postseason for the first time 

"llis style has changed, but sinee the 2004 World Series, the rnsults in the postseason when his bloody sock became out four and throwing 100 first-round ALplayoff series. "This is a very uncomfortable rnmain the same. That's a mal the stuIT of baseball lore. pitches-76 for strikes. "I don't think we're ready to time of year. It's an exciting tribute to him," Red Sox gener­The 40-year-old righty had He was at his best in his final see Hoger Clemens' last steps time of year," Torre said. "You al manager Theo Epstein said. been hampered by an injured inning of work. off the mound, or Joe Torre's und.~1rstand there's no safety "That's what makes him spe­ankle in the AL championship With the Red Sox leading just last game," Damon said. "We net. dal." snries against the New York 2-0, Maicer Izturis doubled to have a lot to play for." In an unprecedented year of 
Schilling raised his postsea­Yankees that year. Team doc­start the Los Angeles seventh, Yankees owner George the sweep, all other division son record to 9-2 in 16 earner tors stitched a tendon in his but Howie Kendrick grounded Steinbrenner blustered series ended in three-game starts while lowering his EHA to right ankle to keep it from flop­to second, Juan Hivera popped Saturday that Torre's run as wipeouts. But the Indians, at 1.93, having allowed only 25 ping around, and he returned to to first and Mike Napoli struck manager was in jeopardy of least for a night, were denied earnml runs in 116 1-3 innings. lead the Red Sox to a Game 6 out to end the inning. ending after 12 seasons -all their first trip to the AL champi­
"This is not a solo thing. win that tied the series. The The Angels broke the shutout concluding with postseason onship series since 1998. You've got to have a team to Hed Sox went on to win Game in the ninth against Eric Gagne. appearances. "I don't think Paul Byrd tries to close it out make it work. That perform­7, then the World Series against Izturis doubled and later scored we'd take him back if we don't Monday night for the Indians, ance today was as much about St. Louis for their first title on Kendrick's sacrifice fly. win this series," he told The with the Yankees starting Game John Farrell and Jason Varitek since 1918. Hecord of New Jersey. 1 loser Chien-Ming Wang on as it was about anything, as far lie wasn't used in the 2005 Yankees 8, Indians 4 And it looked grim for Torre three days' rest for the as I'm concerned, and as far as playoffs, and Boston didn't Dangerously close to getting and the Yankees when the Yankees. my results," Schilling said, make the postseason last year. swept, the New York Yankees Indians chased an injured "I felt like we made a state­referring to Boston's pitching "I thought Schill was out­woke up just in time to save Clemens in the third inning, ment in Game 1 and I felt like coach and catcher, respectively. standing," Red Sox manager their season and perhaps Joe building a 3-0 lead as Trot they made a statement tonight." 
"It's been an incredibly ardu­Terry Francona said. "He espe­Torre's job. Nixon homered, and Ryan Byrd said. ous and long road and a cially commanded his fastball Johnny Damon lofted a go­Garko and Jhonny Peralta Only four teams have over­process that's had its peaks and on both sides of the plate -in ahead, three-run homer in the drove in runs. come 2-0 deficits in the first valleys, but John has stuck with and out, up and down. He really fifth inning, rookies Phil Hughes Damon had three hits, drove round since the playoffs me and worked as hard as I've pitched." and Joba Chamberlain rescued in four runs and started the expanded in 1995. Before the ever had a pitching coach work Pitching for the first time in Roger Clemens and the Yankees comeback with an HBI single in game, Torre told his team to to get me to where I need to 12 days, Schilling scattered six rallied past Cleveland Sunday the third off former-Yankee think about winning one game, be," Schilling said. "And Jason hits while walking one, striking night, dosing within 2-1 in their Jake Westbrook. New York, not three. 
which hadn't gotten back-to­"Tonight was unbelievable, back hits in the series, then got the crowd behind me," Hughes three straight opposite-field hits said. "It was something I never from Hideki Matsui, Robinson experieneed before." Cano and Melky Cabrera for a With former New York City run in the fifth. mayor and current presidential 
Damon worked the count to candidate Hudy Giuliani ((~ading 2-0 against Westbrook and hit the cheering from his front-row the ball on a high arc to right. seats, Alex Hodriguez stopped As it cleared the wall to put the his postseason hitless streak at Yankees ahead 5-3. Cano J"dised 1 S at-bats with a second-inning both hands in the air down the single and also beat out an third-base line and jumped infield single. But he remained twice. Damon went into a trot, in a 6-for-54 (.111) playofl' funk and the crowd of 56,358 leapt with no RBls dating to his Game with him. 4 home run against Boston 
"We know what we have to three years ago. do. We know who's the boss New York, which led the around here, and we know how major leagues in scoring with much we love Joe Torre," its highest total since 1937, Damon said. "We battled, we pushed across just four runs ­got some big hits, and a big three on solo homers -in the pitching performance from first two games and batted Philip Hughes." .121. 
In a game that mirrored the While the Yankees got the Yankees' comeback from a 21-leadoff man on in eaeh of the 29 start, Cano added a bases­first three innings, Derek Jeter loaded HBI single in the sixth bounced into double plays in off Aaron Fultz. When a charg­the first and the third, and ing Nixon overran the ball in Jorge Posada hit into one in the right field for an error, two second. Jeter also made a bad more runs scored. throw that led to the Indians' 
This time, there were no bugs first run. to distract Chamberlain, who Clemens, in his 24th and brought in his 100 mph heat. maybe final season, tried to Bothered by swarms of l'lying pitch with an injured hamstring insects at Cleveland in Game 2, that limited him to one start in he combined with Hughes and the past month. He never 


Mariano Rivera on 6 2-3 looked comfortable, falling innings of one-run relief. behind nine of 13 batters. 

Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
CHICAGO MARATHON 
lvuti wins marathon despite sweltering heat 
High temperatures, humidity cause death of one man, hospitalization of 49 others; 250 people were treated on site 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
!sUMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMSI 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN (IF ENOUGH INTEREST) 


Information Meeting: 
Monday, October 8, 2007 Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 
Application Deadline: November 21 for Summer 2008 
Application On-line: 

www.nd.edu/-engineerIsumlon/apply.html 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
bit of concern through the crowd," he said. "It's just it's impossible to run." 
Ivuti, competing in only his second major marathon, was timed in 2 hours, 11 minutes, 11 seconds in the closest fin­ish in the race's history. He was the fifth straight Kenyan to win the race. 
"I had never seen a marathon finish up close that was like that," head referee Pat Savage said. "This was really close, but at the same time you could see that one man was ahead ofthe other." 
Adere finished in 2:33:49 after passing a surprised Adriana Pirtea, who had a comfortable 30-second lead after 24.8 miles. 
lvuti and Gharib surged ahead of defending champion Robert Cheruiyot and Daniel Njenga at the 22-mile mark to make it a two-man race. Gharib led for much of the final 4 miles before Ivuti made a push on the final mile. 
"One thing I had in my mind was that everybody is going to face the same heat," Ivuti said. "I had no problem with that because everybody was going through the same thing as me." 
The duo traded leads on the stretch run down Columbus Avenue before Ivuti's final push at the line. The race was so close that it took organizers several minutes to determine the winner. 
Njenga finished third and Cheruiyot fourth. Cheruiyot was in position to contend but stomach craps forced him to drop back after 22 miles. Cheruiyot, who last year slipped on the finish line and banged his head on the pave­ment as he raised his hands to celebrate, finished in 2:16:13. 
Pirtea waved to the crowd as she listlessly approached the finish line. But a final push on the last mile by Adere caught the Romanian in the final stretch. 
"At 40 (kilometers), I could see she was going slowly," Adere said. "l knew if I started working from that point on, there was a possibility to catch her." 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -In a race run in scorching heat that left one man dead, Kenya's Patrick lvuti won the Chicago Marathon by a fraction of a second Sunday. At least 49 runners were taken to hospi­tals and another 250 were ti·eated at the site. 
The 88-degree heat and sweltering humidity were so draining that organizers shut down the second half of' the course four hours after the start. 
lvuti leaned at the finish line 

Gran Folklorico de Mexico 
Friday. October 12 • 7=30 P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Each region of Mexico 
h<lS its own dances. 
corresponding to rhcir 
physical climate and 
traditions. but all are 
distinctlv Mexican. All 
are perf~rmed with 
finesse and vigor by the 
baller Gran Fnlklorico 
de Mexico, directly 
from Mexico City: Gmn Folkl6rico dt' t.Mxico is 
a Wl)rldwide traveling 
company of 35 singers. 
dancers. and musicians. 
to edge Jaouad Gharib of Morocco by 0.05 seconds. Ethiopia's Berhane Adere ral­lied to successfully defend her women's title. 
Chad Schieber of Midland, Mich., 35, collapsed while running on the South Side and was pronounced dead shortly before 1 p.m. at a Veteran's Affairs hospital, the Cook County medical examiner's office. An autopsy was sched­uled for Monday. 
"Obviously very sad news. and our thoughts and prayers are with the individual's fami­ly," said Shawn Platt, senior vice president of title sponsor LaSalle Bank. 
George Chiampas, the race's medical director, said witness­es reported seeing Schieber collapse and become unre­sponsive. "It sounds like he lost his pulse very fast and died on the race course," Chiampas said. 
There was another running death Sunday in Arlington, Va. An unidentified runner from Virginia died during the Army Ten-Miler, collapsing near the finish at the Pentagon. The race started in 70-degree heat and high humidity. 
These were record tempera­tures for the Chicago Marathon, topping the mark of 84 degrees in 1979. Runners were diverted to the starting area, where they were provid­ed with medical attention and cooling misters. Shortages of water and energy drinks were reported along the 26.2-mile route. 
Race director Carey Pinkowski said organizers were concerned that emer­gency medical personnel wouldn't be able to keep up with heat-related injuries. 
"We were seeing_ a high rate of people that were strug­gling," Pinkowski said. "If you were out there at 1 o'clock, it was a hot sun. It was like a summer day. It was just a bru­tally hot day." 
At first, organizers hoped those who passed the halfway mark could complete the run. But eventually even those recreational runners were told to turn back. 
Still, some runners perse­vered, although organizers said they didn't know how many completed the course. Helicopters hovered over the race course while police offi­cers shouted through a bull­horn and warned runners to slow down and walk. 

About 10,000 of the 45,000 registered runners chose to not race in the heat despite more mist stations, cooling buses and water-soaked sponges, while another 10,934 started but didn't finish, offi­cials said. 
Lori Kaufman, a runner from St. Louis, said she was told to start walking at mile 
14. She said the fire depart­ment turned on hydrants to hose people down along the course. 
Paul Gardiner, a runner from England, said the weath­er made for a "brutal" run. 
"We were at about 18 miles and we heard they canceled it and that kind of sent a little 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 8, 2007 
~~~~~~~--~~~~~~==============~~~~~~~~~==~==~~ 
NE:W STUDY ABROAD OPPORTUNITY 
at Chinese Universit_y of 


HongKon~ 
Arts  ~  Medicine  
Business  \.)  Science  
Engineering  ,~\ j  Social Science  

Learn about the possibilities on Monda_y, October 8 
or Tuesda_y, October 9 at 5:?0 PM 117 DE:5ARTOLO 
No Chinese language re9uired 
SMC GOLF 
Belles place third at MIAAs 
By JARED ]EDICK 
Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's came in third 
place  this  wenkend  at  the  
Michigan  Intercollegiate  
Athletic  Association  

Championships, !iring a team score of 697 in two rounds at Bedford Valley Country Club in Battle Creek, Mieh. 
Olivet won the tournament and took first in the conf'er­enee with a team score of 665. Olivet's Lindsey Limpkin also won the overall individual title with a swre of 163. 
The third-place finish this weekend pushed the Belles out of seeond place in the final MIAA conference tallies. They linishnd thn eonfnrnnce season with a final scorn of 1,726 strokns. 
Tri-State University, which finished second in the Championships with a scorn of (J77, edged Saint Mary's for second place with a final sea­son tally of 1.711 strokes. 
Losing seeond plaee to Tri-


Recycle The 
State may have cost the Belles the chance to host a MIAA qualifying tournament in the spring. 
Senior Katie O'Brien posted llw best score of the weekend for Saint Mary's. She finished with an 85 on Friday and an 83 on Saturday for a total of 168 strokes, good enough for third place in the tournament. 
O'Brien's strong showing in the Championships cemented her position as a season nwdalist in the MIAA confer­ence, with a final scoring aver­age of' 80.25. She narrowly edged !lope College's Julie lloogerhyde for the honor, who finished with an 80.5 average. 
0' Brien is following in a strong tradition of Saint Mary's medalists, earning the honor for the Belles for the fourth time in five years. 
Backing up O'Brien on the weekend was freshman Emily Gore with a two-day total of 175, earning her second-team MIAA honors. 
Freshman Hosie O'Connor and junior Perri llamma both 
tallied a 177, and freshman 
Michelle Hird finished with a 
182. 
Playing in the individual cat­egory, junior Meredith Fantom tallied a 176 and freshman Amanda Mainstone scored a 184. 
The team is looking forward to a second chance at the MIAA lield in the spring. Saint Mary's only trailed first-place Olivet by 14 strokes after two tournaments, but Olivet was able to pull away considerably in the linal two meetings of the year. 
The squad needs to remain consistent to challenge Olivet this spring. 
The Belles ranked No. 1 in the country in the Division III freshman power rankings, forming a young, strong team nucleus that will likely prove even stronger in the spring. · No members of the team were available for comment foilowing the tournament. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
NHL 

Stastny's five points put Aves over Sharks 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Paul Stastny put together an impressive rookie season, and now he is working on an even better sophomore campaign. 
Stastny had a goal and four assists, and Milan llejduk scored twice and set up another tally as the Colorado Avalanehe broke open a tight game with four third-period goals and beat the San Jose Sharks 6-2 Sunday night. 
Avalanche captain .Jon Sakic had a goal and an assist to move past Phil Esposito into eighth place on the NHL career points list with 1,591. 
Stastny, the runner-up to Pittsburgh's Evgeni Malkin for rookie of the year honors last season, has four goals and four assists in Colorado's first three games. lie had a hat trick in the Avalanche's season-opening win against Dallas on Wednesday. 
"I don't think th1-1y're com­ing easy. I've gotten a couple of good bounces," said Stastny, who had 28 goals and 50 assists last season. ''I'm playing with some good linemates." 
Hejduk scored late in the first period, Jess than three minutes after Sakic notched the 611th goal of his 19-year career. Sakic's goal moved him out of a tie for 14th place with Bobby !lull on the career list. 
"Obviously, I've been around a long time," Sakic said. "For me to have played this long and get to those guys who mmtnt a lot to the game, it's an honor." 
The Avalanche poured it on in the third after Hyan (:Jowe scored the first of his two goals to make it 2-1 after two periods. Just 52 seconds into the final frame, llejduk found Stastny in front to give Colorado a two-goal cushion. 
"I thought last year he was at a pretty impressive level, and to just keep getting bet­ter is a great sign," Avalanche coach Joel Quennevilln said. "With the puck, his patience level is at the highest end of thn game." 
llejduk scored 1:55 later, and the rout was on. Marek Svatos and Hyan Smyth scored 18 seconds apart mid­way through the third to make it 6-1 and chase goalie Evgeni Nabokov. 
"We were pushing the paee in the second, and we were aggressive and going down and they didn't hj.lve much," Nabokov said. "The third period starts, and we give up a 3-on-2, and that made the momentum for th1~m." 

Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Parbhu loses in consolation round 
Senior co-captain drops match in straight sets, 6-3, 6-3, to No. 38-ranked player in nation 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writer 
Senior co-captain Sheeva Parbhu lost in the consolation round of the Polo Halph Lauren All-American Championships Sunday in Tulsa, Okla. 
Parbhu, ranked No. 30 in the country, lost to No. 38 Clancy Shields from Boise State in two straight matches 6-3, 6-3. 
Parbhu's singles record dropped to 2-4 this year and 96-30 all time. He needed one more win to pass Hyan Simme for ninth place on the all-time Irish singles win list. Simme graduated from Notre Dame in 1997. 
''I'm looking to play at a high level and keep the good streak going," Parbhu said. 
Parbhu fell in the opening round of the tournament 
Thursday to No 22 Bojan Szumanski of Texas Tech 6-3, 6-0. 
"Brett (Helgeson), and Parbhu are co-number one's," head coach Bobby Bayliss said. "I don't want to peg either one as the number one. Parbhu comes to net bettor, but does­n't have the power Brett does." 
Parbhu did not play any matches last weekend in order to rest up for the tournament. He was the only representative Notre Dame sent to the tourna­ment. He wanted to stay fresh for dual meet matches later in the season. 
Parbhu will return to South Bend this weekend and prac­tice with the team. The Irish will travel to the ITA Midwest Championships in Minneapolis, Minn. on Oct. 18. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 




CRITICAL THINKING AND SUCCESS· 
The CONTRIBUTIONS of ARTS & LETTERS MAJORS to SOCIETY, BUSINESS & GLOBAL RELATIONS 
Keynote Presenter: Jerry A. Castellini President & Founder CastleArk Management NO '79 Economics 
Wednesday, October 1Oth 6:00 -7:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Joined by Alumni Panelists: Kate Lutkus, ND '04 Political Science I Sociology Mallory Brown, ND '06 Political Science I German Bethany Heet, ND '98 Spanish I Anthropology 
Co-sponsored by: 

'lheC:areerCenter .. The College ofArts and Letters 
SMC SOCCER 



Fischer's hat trick topsSMC 
Belles score with 25 min. remaining 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Hope senior forward Julia Fischer picked up a hat trick to lead her Flying Dutch past Saint Mary's 3-1 in an MIAA conference game Saturday. 
Fischer netted two goals in less than five minutes in the middle of the first half, then another one in the 53rd minute to give the Dutch a 3-0 lead, which the Belles couldn't overcome. The first and third goals mirrored each other; both came on set corner kick plays assisted by freshman Lauren Miller. 
Fischer capitalized off of a Belles' turnover directly in front of their own net for the second goal and was unassisted on the play. 
Saint Mary's freshman Julia Gragtmans was able to get her team on the scoreboard with 25 minutes remaining in the game, but it was too little, too late. Sophomore Samantha Goudreau picked up the assist by crossing the ball from snven yards out to an empty Gragtmans, who buried the shot. 
Senior goalkeeper Amy Mahoney made five saves in attempt to keep the Belles in the game, but could not get in the way of Fischer's three shots on the day. 
Leading Belles scorer Lauren Hinton, who has been recovering from an injury for the past few weeks, again made an appearance Saturda~ She got off three shots, but couldn't find the back of the net. 
The Belles were unable to get a shot on net in the first barf. and picked up only eight in the second frame for one of their lowest totals of the season. Gragtmans had four of the team's eight shots. 
Hope outshot the Irish 10-0 in the first half and picked up four more in the second. 
The Belles have been idle the past week and seemed rusty against the Flying Dutch. 
The team was not able to . come back after a slow first half and respond to Hope's sizable lead, giving Saint Mary's its first conference loss. 
Saint Mary's dropped to seventh place at 1-1-2 in the MIAA and 5-2-4 overall. Hope is over .500 for the first time this season with an overall record of 7-6. The Flying Dutch are 3-1 so far in conference play. 
The Belles continue with conference play Tuesday when they take on Adrian athonw. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
~~-~------------­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 8, 2007 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Pac-10 turned upside down by losses 
Associated Press 
LOS ANC;EI,ES -Whnn this goofy c:olloge football season bngan, the game or thn ymtr on tho West Coast was supposnd to be Sou thnrn Cali l'orn ia at Calil'ornia on Nov. 10. 
That's still a big one. But the game that might dncide the l'ac­1 0 is ... Cal at Arizona State. 
Cirdo the date: Oct. 27. 

Tho soeond-ranked Golden Boars (5-0, 2-0 l'ac:-10) and 14th-rankml Sun Devils (h-0, 3­0 l'al~-1 0) aro thn eonferonee's only remaining unbeatens aflnr Stanford's stunning 24-23 victo­ry over USC, which fnll from No. 2 to No. 10. 
Cal plays Oregon State and at UCLA bel'or·p it gots to tho Sun l>ovils. who faeP Washington at home and have a bye week. 
Cai-ASU for thP Pac-1 0 title? It became a possibility af'tnr a strango Saturday night in Los Angnles. 
The Golden Bears had taken tho wonk oil'. and thn Sun I>Pvils had survived at Washington State when the Cougars missed a last-second field goal. 
Then Stanford beat USC, and the result from the Los Angeles Coliseum sent shock waves across town and across the country. 
At the Hose Bowl in nearby l'asadpna, the crowd at the Notre Damn-UCLA game began to roar as word of the l'inal seore spread. The Trojans might be the bittemst rival of both the Fighting Irish and thn Bruins, and tlwir loss united fans of both teams. 
"ListPning to the crowd, I knnw there was at least one upset." Fighting Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
A l'nw minutes later, Charlie Weis .Jr.. approached his father on the sideline and told him the score, which soon llashnd on the vidooboard, prompting another long dwer. 
"ll didn't hurt my feelings," WPis said. 
Tlw Bruins fans wenm't cele­brating for long. UCLA's 20-6 loss to the Fighting Irish, who had dropped seven straight games, was made no more bearable by the Trojans' defeat. 
The Bruins lost to a team led by freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen, making his fifth start. 
USC, meanwhile, lost to a tnam led by sophomore quarter­back Tavita Pritchard, who had played only a handful of snaps. 
It's not as if John Elway had magically reappeared for the Cardinal, or Joe Montana for the Irish. 
UCLA (4-2, 3-0 Pac-10) entered this season with dreams of challenging for a national title. But the Bruins, who have mustered a total of four field goals in losses to Utah and Notre· Dame, are beginning to look like a quintessential Pae-10 softie. 
In fairness, UCLA lost starting quarterback Ben Olson to sprained kneo ligaments in the first quarter, and coach Karl Dorrell turned to walk-on McLeod Bethel-Thompson, a redshirt freshman who had not thrown a pass in college. Bethel­Thompson committed five turnovers in the second half. 

As bad as UCLA looked on Saturday night-and seven turnovers is mighty bad -the Bruins still control their own Hose Bowl destiny. They're tied with Arizona State for the con­ference lead. If the Bruins win out, they'll celebrate New Year's Day on their horne field. 
"We're in pretty good shape in conference," Dorrell said. "We have to evaluate where we arn." 
That won't padfy Bruins fans, who were seething as the Irish and thousands of their faithful celebrated Notre Dame's f'irst trip to the Hose Bowl since Jan. 1, 1925. As the clock ran out, chants of "Fire Dorrell" went up in the grandstand below the press box. 
That's right: fans of the Pac-1<) co-leader were calling for their eoach 's dismissal. 
---~~---------------~~==~~~==================~==================~============~~============ 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Unlikely foes to battle for trip to World Series 

Thursday Odob<rr 11, • 7:10 pm 
Thcr Stater Thcrotrcr 
TI<kQt!<:.!~.:r!':.~0at ft'!~h-MJ!~Q Box 
Otft:(ct. all Tl,kcrtmastcrr locations, (harge l>y phone 169/lll-7000 or online www.lh:kvtmastttr.<:om 
Fridoy Fvbruary 29, 2008 • 8:00 pm Morris Pvrforming Rrts Cvntvr South Bvnd, lndhmo 

Rockies and 0-Backs arrive in pennant race through similar ways 
Associated Press 
I' II 0 E N I X W h nn tlw Arizona Diamondbacks look <uToss thn liPid at the Colorado Hockins this wPnk. they may fnel as if tlwy're looking into a mirror. Tlw teams took similar routes 
to an unlikPiy destination ­ the  
NL duunpiunship series.  
"Wn'rn going  to  havn  our  

hands full with Arizona, a tough tnam," Hoekins outfielder .I ol'J' B a k n r said . " We know them. They know us." 
Start with their records: Arizona won ·the NL West with a league-best 90-72. The Hockies, who had to defeat San Diego in a one-game playoff to earn a wild card berth, fmished 90-73. 
Both dubs have built from within, and they've done it rela­tively cheaply. The Hockies entered the sea­son with a pay­roll of $54.4 mil­ment and building from within and bning patient and taking charH:l!S and things working out." Colorado manager Clint llurdln said after the Hoekies wrap1wd up a three-game swenp of the Philadelphia l'hillios in their NL playoff snrins. 
lnnxpnrinnce can prove costly. But for tlw Diamondbacks and the Hockins. what they don't know hasn't hurt thnm. 
"With this team, everybody calls us young, but I think it's thn most Pxeiting team I've bnnn on," said Drew, the youngnr brother of Boston's .J.D. Drnw. 
The playoffs have been sweet for two teams that have strug­gled in recent years. 
Colorado, which lost 94 games in 2004 and 95 in 2005, posted its first winning record since 2000. The Diamondbacks went 51-111 three years ago, and this year they broke a streak of three consecutive los­ing seasons, longest in the fran­chise's 10 years. 
Both started slowly this year; 
t h e 
Diamondbacks 
were 47-43 at 

lion, $2.4 million the All-Star
"It speaks to the good 

more than the break, third in 
Diamond backs. old-fashioned values the NL West, 3? Only four clubs ofbaseball. " games behind had lower pay­San Diego. rolls. Colorado was
Clint Hurdle 

Instead of 44-44 and in spending on free Colorado manager fourth place, 5? 
agents, both organizations COI)llllittnd to building through the draft. Two of thnir lirwst products can be found at shortstop-Colorado's Troy Tulowitzki, drafted in the first round two yoars ago, and Arizona's StPphnn Drew, picknd 
1H! first round a ynar narlinr . 
.. I on Thursday night dazzling startil\g piteh­'Hion Wdlh of t' rizona 

~ .. u 
.,,:IT Franeis of Colorado. Both aw honwgrown. 
"It speaks to tlw good old­fashioned values or baseball: scouting and player develop-games out. 
"Everybody 
has been wait­ing for them to fall on their faces, but they're a good team," Colorado reliever Brian Fuentes said of the Diamondbacks. "No one projeetPd us to be where wn arn, so it's going to be two vnry good ball elubs going at 
it. .. 
lnstnad of quitting, both teams knpt playing hard. That's a cn~dit to llurdle and Arizona managnr Bob MPlvin, as wnll as 
thn dnsirn of youngnr players to stick in the major leagues. "It's a toam," said Arizona left 
-
lieldnr Erie Byrnes, one of the Diamondbacks' few vnterans. "It's as much of a team as you'll rind in professional sports today. 
"You have 25 guys pulling for each other." Byrnes snid. "I've never heard one guy complain all year. We have guys who are ready to win. We've already exceeded expectation so far 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the -A replace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates Lodge has hotel rooms atre.asonable ratestOr upcomingND fuotball weekends.) 
and we're going to continue to do so." 
The Diamondbacks and Hoekies have shown a penchant for hot streaks. Tlw Diamondbacks won 17 of 20 in July and August, taking over first plaee. 
The Hoekies have won 17 of their last 18, the hottest stroak in their 15-year history. 

Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Jaguars stop Chiefs' ground game in victory 
Keith's two touchdowns lead Colts over Buccaneers; Tomlinson has 140 total yards in win over Brooncos 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -For 59 minutes and 59 seconds, Jacksonville dealt Kansas City a humiliating shutout. 
As the final second ticked off the clock, the shutout vanished, but the humiliation is going to stick around a while. 
Controlling the line of scrim­mage and stopping everybody wearing a Kansas City uniform except tight end Tony Gonzalez, the Jaguars held the Chiefs to a shocking 10 yards rushing Sunday en route to a dominat­ing 17-7 victory that had Arrowhead Stadium rocking with boos. 
Two-time Pro Bowler Larry Johnson had only 12 yards on nine carries, 126 fewer than he rolled up on this same field last Dec. 31 in Kansas City's 35-30 victory over these same Jaguars. The 10 yards rushing were the second fewest in the history of a franchise whose roots go back to the inaugural season of the AFL in 1960. 
"You can't ask for anything more," said cornerback Rashean Mathis. "Our key com­ing in was to stop (Johnson) because he's a great back. We knew if we stopped him, they'd have a long day." 
Maurice Jones-Drew sped 52 yards for one touchdown and David Garrard hit Dennis Northcutt for 40 yards to set up another as the Jaguars (3 -1) won their third in a row and dropped the Chiefs to 2-3. 
Only Brodie Croyle's 13-yard pass to Samie Parker on the final play enabled the Chiefs to avoid their first shutout at home since 1994. Until then, the closest they came to scoring was Dave Rayner's missed 32­yard field goal attempt. 
''I'm so glad we didn't get shut out. So glad," said Gonzalez, who had eight catch­es for 100 yards. 
The meaningless touchdown didn't give left guard Brian Waters much solace. 
"That didn't take any light off the terrible performance we had," Waters said. 
The Chiefs had 271 yards total offense, with 70 coming in the last-minute drive that Croyle led because starting quarterback Damon Huard had gone out late in the fourth quarter with a bruised shoul­der. 
"We were out there talking to (Johnson) and having a little fun," said Jacksonville line­backer Clint Ingram. 
"For a guy of his caliber, his style of play and the way he plays, a big physical running back, one of the best running backs in the league, to hold him to (12) yards, that's a good job as a defense. We take pride in something like that." 
David Garrard was 20-of-27 for 218 yards and one touch­down, and has not been inter­cepted since Ty Law picked him off last Dec. 31 and caused coach Jack Del Rio to bench him. Just after his 40-yard gain, Northcutt wiggled into the end zone with a 3-yard scoring pass. 
The Chiefs, who have had poor field position all year, began their first three second­half possessions on their 3, 20 and 8. In the first half, they started only one drive beyond their 23. 
It was the Jags who sustained things. In an 18-play, 77-yard march in the first quarter that netted only John Carney's 20­yard field goal, the Jaguars tied a team record for number of plays on a scoring drive. At 10 minutes, 55 seconds, it was the second-longest scoring drive in team history. Donnie Edwards stopped Jones-Drew on third­and-goal from the 3. 
In the second quarter, Jones­Drew, held to no gain his two previous runs, burst through a big hole and quickly hit full stride. Twice he turned safety Jarrad Page with quick stutter steps and then outran 33-year­old cornerback Ty Law to the end zone for the Jags' longest run of the year. 
"He did a little Barry Sanders move there and spun the guy around," said Garrard. "When you have stuff like that, it takes so much pressure off your quarterback and so much off your offensive line when guys can make big plays like that. Everybody is doing a good job right now." 
Colts 33, Buccaneers 14 
No Marvin Harrison and no Joseph Addai proved no prob­lem for the Indianapolis Colts on Sunday. 
Playing without five injured starters, including two key players in their high-scoring offense, the Colts dominated the clock and their improving defense never gave Tampa Bay a chance in a blowout. 
Super Bowl MVP Peyton Manning made it look easy by throwing two touchdowns, while first-time starter Kenton Keith rushed for 121 yards and two more scores. 
"I have been proud of our team on many, many occasions, but this is one of the best," Colts coach Tony Dungy said after beating his former team. "I thought the backup guys did­n't try to do too much. Everybody just did their job." 
Conventional wisdom sug­gested that without Harrison, the eight-time Pro Bowl receiv­er, and Addai, the Colts' feature back, the offense might be sus­ceptible against Tampa Bay's usually strong defense. 
It was no contest. 
Manning finished 27 -of-39 for 253 yards and simply used other players to replace the missing parts. Pro Bowl receiv­er Reggie Wayne, tight end Dallas Clark and first-round draft pick Anthony Gonzalez each caught seven passes. Gonzalez entered the game with only six catches all season. 
The magnitude of the rout wasn't even reflected by the score. 
Indianapolis held the ball for an astounding 38:15, including all but 90 seconds in the third quarter when the Bucs ran three plays. Tampa Bay (3-2) finished with 17 yards rushing after losing Carnell "Cadillac" Williams for the season last week and then losing backup Michael Pittman in the second quarter Sunday with a sprained right ankle. It was the lowest rushing total allowed by a Colts team since 1971. 
After three quarters Tampa Bay had 7 4 yards of offense ­56 coming on its only meaning­ful scoring drive in the second quarter -and was outgained by the Colts 400-177. 
The 40 offensive plays run by Tampa was the third-fewest ever allowed by a Colts team. The New York Jets had 34 in November 2003 and San Francisco had 39 in September 1963. 


"You do the math there," Bucs coach Jon Gruden said. "You're not able to do a lot when you don't have the ball." 
The bad news for the rest of the NFL is the Colts now have two weeks for most of their injuries to heal. 
It's the third straight year Indianapolis has gone into the bye week with an unbeaten record, and the Colts believe Addai (shoulder), Harrison (knee), linebacker Freddy Keiaho (concussion) and safety Bob Sanders (ribs) will all be healthy when they start their toughest stretch of the season at Jacksonville in two weeks. 
Linebacker Rob Morris, the other starter missing Sunday's game, will miss the. rest of the season with a torn tendon in his knee. 
Chargers 41, Broncos 3 
The San Diego Chargers fig­ured the formula for turning their season around included holding onto the ball and get­ting a tide-turning takeaway on special teams. 
They did all that and much more in handing the Denver Broncos their worst home loss since 1966 with a drubbing fueled by reigning MVP LaDainian Tomlinson and his trusty backup, Michael Turner. 
L. T. amassed 140 yards, including 73 on three recep­tions-, and Turner added 147 yards on 10 carries, highlighted by a 74-yard touchdown trot along the Broncos' bewildered sideline in the fourth quarter. 
Quarterback Philip Rivers even got into the act with the first rushing touchdown of his career. His 2-yard run on a naked bootleg was followed 11 seconds later by San Diego's second score. 
Brian Clark, re-signed last week after the Broncos gave up on kick returner Domenik Hixon, failed to follow his blockers and fumbled on a hard hit by Carlos Polk follow­ing Rivers' TD. Brandon Siler snared the ball in the air and sprinted to the end zone, punching it past the left pylon for a quick 14-0 lead. 
"It was big," Tomlinson said. "It definitely gained some confi­dence and momentum for us·. Something we definitely need­ed. We had talked about it last night, possibly hoping to get a turnover on special teams. But we did better than that; we got a touchdown. 
"So that got us off on a good start. I think they never recov­ered." 
Chargers coach Norv Turner, heavily criticized during his 1-3 start with basically the same team that went 14-2 under Marty Schottenheimer last sea­son, said Tomlinson's 36-yard gain on a screen pass after two rushes netted minus-2 yards on the Chargers' first drive loos­ened up his tight team, as did Rivers' TD run. 
"Then, the big hit on the kick­off return, we score bang-bang. You can feel our guys' confi­dence come back," Turner said. "We have more work to do, but we made progress.. " 
And the Broncos (2-3), losers of three straight, slipped fur­ther into a funk that threatens to spoil their season. The fans braved the cold and windy weather at Invesco Field, but could not deal with Denver's dismal defense, emptying out before the fourth quarter had begun. 
One week after committing four turnovers, the Chargers (2-3) had none in ending their three-game skid by winning consecutive games in Denver for the first time since 1967-68. 
They handed the Broncos their worst home loss since the Kansas City Chiefs' 56-10 thumping on Oct. 23, 1966. 
"I don't know if I've ever been more embarrassed," Broncos coach Mike Shanahan said. "I don't think our players have ever been more embar­rassed to put on that type of show." 
Philip Rivers, who had nine turnovers coming in, played keepaway, throwing for 270 yards and two touchdowns on 13-of-18 passing for a nearly perfect quarterback rating of 151.4. 
The Chargers amassed 484 yards of offense and limited Denver to one field goal on 11 drives. 
"Whatever the Chargers did, it worked. Whatever we did, didn't," Dre' Bly said. ''I've never been a part of something like this where everything we did went against us, and not for us. They ran the ball, threw the ball, played defense, they played special teams. They won all four phases. We didn't win any." 

AP Jaguars wide receiver Dennis Northcutt, 86, catches a three-yard touchdown pass over Chiefs defensive back Greg Wesley during Jacksonville's 17-7 win over Kansas City Sunday. 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 8, 2007 
Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
kills in thn match while Stasiuk addnd 12 morn along with 10 digs. Both Sciacca and sophomore outside hittnr Serinity Phillips Jinished with 1~ight kills while Phillips also addnd eight digs. 
Snnior s1~ttnr /\shiny Tarutis p a c n d t lw I r i s h wi t h 2 4 assists whiln sophomorn snt­ter .Jamnl Nirholas added 1 h hnlpnrs. Freshman libero Angnla Puentn also recordnd snvnn digs. 
"It's always great to eon­tribut.l' to tho team with whatnvnr lineup we are using, gntting in thnre playing and sntting," Nicholas said. "It's always good to do somn­thing positive for thn tnarn. Winning big and having con­trol of tlw Pntirn gamn will givn US a lot ol' eonfidenen going into tlw nnxt few ganws that wn have in the confnr­
enef~." 
For tlw Srarlnt Knights, sophomorn outsido hittnr Kyra Thompson finished with night kills and eight digs. Sophornorn dnfnnsivn spncial­ist .Jarnin Codfroy led tlw tnarn with II digs. .Junior set­tnr Boxy Caldnr ended tho matrh with 13 assists and five digs whiln frnshman outside hittnr Emma Chrystal rncord­nd six kills, eight assists, and thrnn digs. 
Notrn Damn is off until Oct. 12 when it tntvnls to Marqunttn to l'aen tlw <;oldm! Eaglns at 7 p.m. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrienl@nd.edu 

Stark 
continued from page 28 
in the last event of the day, the 400-yard freestyle relay. Senior captain Katie Guida, junior Christa Higgins, fresh­man Amywren Miller and freshman Delia Cronin com­bined for a time of 3:31.01, more than two seconds bettr~r than the previous meet rncord. 
Guida and Miller also won the 400-yard backstroke relay with freshmen Lauren Parisi and Meg lleynolds. 
Several freshmen turned in big performances in their lirst meet with the Irish. Cronin, Hcynolds and Sam Maxwell ­all rookies -teamed up with Guida for the Irish victory in the 300-yard freestyle relay, while sophomore Lexin Shue and freshman Lauren Sylvester combined to win the 1.000-yard freestyln rnlay by almost 25 seconds. Sophomorn Maggie Behrens, senior Caroline Johnson, freshman Katie Casey and Maxwnll took first in the 200-yard medley relay. 

For the divers, freshman llnidi Grossman and sopho­more Natalie Stitt won thn one-meter diving event, while junior Lucy llirt and senior Tara llyer took f'irst in the three-meter synchronized dive. 
Both tnams will be back in action on Oct. 1<J when they host Soutlwrn California at tlw Boll's Aquatic Centnr. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 


~NOTREDAME\Uenergyweek October 7-13, 2007 SAMPLE QUESTIONS FROM THE ENERGY QUIZ Where is the largest hydroelectric dam in the country? How much of the energy in burning coal reaches a consumer as electricity? Where does the U.S. rank for world wind power capacity? How many U.S. homes get their energy entirely from the sun? TWELVE QUESTIONS TOTAL. GET THEM ALL RIGHT FOR A CHANCE TO WIN CASH!  sondfly9 oct. 7 8:00p.m. DeBartolo 101 • "A Crude Awakening: The Oil Crash" -·-··­a 90--minut:e documentary on our dwindling· oil reserves 9:45p.m. DeBartolo 101 • "Kilowott Ours" ­a 38-minute film reviews Americo's energy-related problems. (rom the coal mines of West Virginio to the solar panel fields ofFlorida Mondfly9 oct. 8 9:00a.m.-1:00 p.m. Outside DeBartolo • Special Energy Week giveowoys • Take the "Enet"g)" Quiz" online for a chance to win special prizes. Visit: enet"gycenter.nd.edu to take the quiz on Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thut"sday 9:00 p.m. ­Midnight Inside LaFortune Student Center • "Get your green on" with an Energy Week t-shirt, on sale for $5 • Special Energy Week giveaways • Take the "Energy Qwz" online for a chance to win special prizes. Visit energycenter.nd.edu to take the quiz on Tuesday. Wednesdoy, or Thursday Th&8dfly9 oct. 5 10:30 a.m. -3:30 p.m. Outside on the South Quad by Cushing Hall • Electric cars and hybrid motorcycle on disploy • Learn how to stabilize atmospheric CO2 concentrations • Solar chorgers for charging small electronic devices • Calories-to-kilowatts display • C02 footprint calculators (measure your impact on climate change) • Wmd turbine display • Special sign-ups: energy video comf>etition and "students interested in energy" list-Serve 1:00 p.m_, 3:00 p.m., and 5:00 p.m. Notre Dame Power Plant • One--hour tours of the Notre Dame Power Plant. REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. Contact Barb Villarosa at villorosa.2@nd.edu or 63 I -4776  ~~t~!~~~V9p.~.ct. 10 McKenna Hall • The annual Notre Dame Environmental Eclucat:ion and Research Conference: Energy ond the Environment. REGfSTRATfON fS REQUfRED. For more information, visit energycenter.nd.edu/ndeer2007 11To~~~~~~¥:3o~-'!n~· Outside the North and South Dining Halls • Hybrid motorcycle on display • Learn how to stabilize atmospheric C02 concentrations • Solar chargers for charging small electronic devices • Calories-to kilowatts disploy • C02 foolprint: calculot.ors (measure your impact on climate change) • Wind turbine disploy • Special sign-ups: energy video competition and "students interested in energy" listserve • Wear your Energy Week t-shirt 11:00 a.m. -12:00 p.m. Campus wide • LIGHTS OUT! join students, faculty, ond staffacross campus as they turn the lights offfor an hour 9:00p.m. Outside on the North Quad by Cavanaugh and Breen-Phillips Halls • "An Inconvenient 'Tr-uth" ........ a (actual (Jnclmforrnotional story about global worming told by AI Gore. (In case of roin, the movie will be shown inside the Stepan Center) Frldfly9 oct. 1:J. 3:30 p.m. ­5:00 p.m. Fitzpatrick Hall -Main Floor • Closmg reception featunng ND alumni in energy-related fields • Energy Quiz winners announced ~~00£~~~~9 oct. 13' • Recycle! Energy Week is sponsored by the Notre Dame Energy Center, the Energy and Environmental l55ues Committee Students for Environmental Action, the Joint Engineering Council and Notre Dame Student Government.  

Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 

JOIN THE CONVERSATION 



Monday, 
t 
r 
7 
JOYCE CENTER, 3:00 to 5:00p.m. ' 
Free admission. No classes will be held during this period. 
For those unable to attend, a live video stream of the Forum will be available at forum.nd.edu. Moderator I Distinguished Panelists 



The Honorable  His Eminence  The Honorable  
Louis J. Barletta  Roger Cardinal  Mel R. Martinez  
Mayor,  Mahony, D.D.  U.S. Senator,  
Hazleton, Pa.  Archbishop of  Florida  
Los Angeles  

For more information go to forum.nd.edu. 
NOTRE DAME FORUM 
Monday, October 8, 2007 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 


Streak 
continued from page 28 
Bock, junior forward Knrri llanks and senior forward Susan Pinniek scored against ·St. John's. The Irish were held scornlnss throughout the first 7:~ minutes of tho game, but 
Freshman forward Rose Augustine scored the final goal after a pass from Hanks reaehed her at the far post. She tapped the ball in for her third goal of the season and second goal in two games. 
Syracuse got on the board in the 82nd minute after junior defender Karrah Benson 
scored on a 
penalty kick. 
Before the second half, Waldrum said he talked to his team about the implications of close games like this one. "We talked about, how if we want to be playing in November, we've got to win these games," Waldrum said. "And we had to turn this around in the second half, and we had to match that intensity level. And we did." 
after llanks' "We were In the 74th minute, Hanks
"It took us a little while 
goal in the extremely seored her eight goal of the
to break them open, but
74th minute, good on season to put the Irish up 1-0. the Irish got once we broke them Friday," Bock followed 11 minutes hot and put in open, the goals came Waldrum said. later to score her sixth of the two morn in Sophomore season, and Pinnick scored
in bunches."
the next 12 midfielder her third of the season one minutes. Michele minute after that to put the "It took us a Randy Waldrum Weissenhofer, Irish ahead 3-0. little while to who has been "The second half, we were a
Irish coach 
broak them open, but once we broke them open, the goals came in bunches," Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame 4, Syracuse 1 
Bock beeame the 23rd play­or to scon1 a hat trick in Irish history. Just before halftime, Bock def'lected a cross from junior defender Elise Weber into tlw upper left-hand cor­nor of tho net. 
"Sho fought hard and did somo really elinical finishing on all four goals that slw had this WPPknnd," Waldrum said. 
llor second goal camo f'ivn minutns into tlw sm:ond half. Snnior midl'ielder Ashley Jonns SPilt a pass into OrangP tnrritory that Bock ran down. rontrollPd and buried in th(~ right side of tlw goal. 
Two minutPs lat(1r, frnshman forward l~rira lantorno's pass found Bock at thn top of tlw box. Bock bPat tlw Orangn dnfnnders and shot the ball past t.lw charging koeper to give tlw Irish a ]-0 lead. 
Duke 
continued from page 28 
Chattanooga by two strokes and nntnr thtl final round at I 6-undnr. Filling out the rest of tlw top l'ivn arn Ohio State, Virginia Teeh, and Old Dominion. 
Tlw Buckeyes finishnd tho sneond round at ten-undor, loading thn fourth place llokies by a singln shot. Old Dominion finislwd at snv(m-undnr and loads Notre Dame by four shots. 
Irish coach Jim Kubinski said he hopnd to rnovn up in tho linal round. 
"For NCAA standings. a top­fivn finish would bn VPI'Y good," Kubinski said. 
Scorns wern low at tho par­72 Dukn (;otf Club, as good eonditions and fair distanens for tho tnns allowed playnrs to take advantagn with solid iron play and putting. Tonnessee­Chattanooga's Jonathan llodge lnads all playors individually with a total of eight-under. Duko tnammates Michael Schachner and Adam Long are in sneond and third place with seoros of seven and six-under. 
Irish sophomore Doug Fortner eontinued his hot play. leading Notro Dame with rounds of 70 and 71. Fortner, who is tied for 1Oth individual­ly at three-under, is coming oil' a second-plaee finish at the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic -tho best of his career. 
"Doug is going to be a special playor for us," Kubinski said. "lie has a great deal of talent and just has to put tho work in." 
nursing an completely different team. I ankle injury, think we probably could have played 50 min­scored five [goals]," Waldrum 
utes in Friday's game. Cinalli, said. the injured senior captain, did The team's play during its not play at all Friday. four consecutive wins remind­
ed Waldrum of the team he's Notre Dame 3, St. John's 0 grown accustomed to eoach­Three different players ing. scon~d in a span of 12 min­"I think they've gotten their 
utes  for  the  confidence  
Irish  during  back," he said.  
their win over  "Those  early  
St. John's. Waldrum said tlw eombina­ "I think they've gotten their  losses and the way we were losing the  
t.ion of the Astroturf f'iold  confidence back."  games, for a few weeks we  
and tho Hed Storm intensity  Randy Waldrum  were certainly shaky. I think  
kPpt the Irish  Irish coach  we  put  a  few  
in check in the  really  good  
lirst half.  weekends,  
"Wn  nnvor  these  four  

n1ally could get any rhythm games together, where we going in the l'irst half," playAd really well. It looks like Waldrum said. "They didn't tho team that I know, and that rnally causn us too many evnrybody. at ..Notre Dame's scaros from their chanees, but used to seemg. tlwy were certainly disruptive. Wn didn't get any good looks Contact Bill Brink at at all in the Jirst half either." wbrink@nd.edu 
Irish sophomore Doug Fortner putts during the Gridiron Classic Sept. 30. He is 3-under through two rounds in the Duke Classic. 
Shutout 
continued from page 28 
Ten minutes later, senior defender Ryan Miller scored the game's lone goal by head­ing in a Joseph Lapira corner kick. Lapira, who also foreed the corner kick, had great services all night on Notre Dame's eight corner kick opportunities. 
The connection was Miller's fourth goal and Lapira's fourth assist of the season -both team highs. Miller had two goals in a 3-0 win over Michigan earlier in the week. 
"He was one of our strongest players last year and to this date and time, he has main­tained that," Clark said. "But, I think it was really a team per­formance on Saturday." 
Clark was pleased with the developing chemistry between middle defenders freshman Matt Armstrong and junior Michael Thomas, who was playing in only his second game of the year due to a bro­ken jaw. 
The defense held West Virginia to 12 shots and only one corner kiek, while allowing the Notre Dame attackers to put up 23 shots of their own. 
The stingy Mountaineers defense had allowed slightly more than 11 shots per garno 
to its opponents prior to Saturday night. All six of West Virginia's wins have come in 1­0 shutouts and it has only allowed four goals through its first 10 games this year. 
"They defend very well," Clark said. "They have five players who rarely ever leavo their defensive duti!~s." 
All five West Virginia defend­ers are returning starters from last season and all. except for sophomore Alex Erwin, are seniors. 
The Mountaineers goalkeep­er, redshirt freshman Zach Johnson, has also been out­standing for West Virginia so far this year. 
"Their keeper had several excellent saves, at least four or five of them," Clark said. 
Lapira had two great chances taken away by Johnson, and Armstrong was also robbed on a nice shot from well outside of the box. But one goal was enough for the Irish. 
With the win, Notre Dame (8­1-2, 5-0-1 Big East) stayed atop the Big East Blue Division, and it is now the only unde­feated team in the conference. 
The Irish will take a break from eonfereneo play this week when they take on regional rival Michigan Stato W(~dnesday in East Lansing. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer 

Sophomore forward Jeb Brovsky battles for a loose ball during Notre Dame's 3-0 win over No. 19 Michigan Wednesday at Alumni Field. 
CENTER FOR SP!RJTU'.I.J'l'Y 
5hli::.iTMARY'S caiB:ii! .. 
Education ofthe Mind and Heart 
Recognizing the Holy: Reflenions on the Beatification of Basil Anthony Moreau, CSC 

Sister Mary Louise Gude, CSC Coordinator. Beatification Ceremony, Le Mans. France 
Wednesday, October JO, u:oo NooN Vander Venner Theatre, Student Center 
Big C and little c: Expanding Our Understanding ofCatholicity in the Arts, Hurmmities, and Sciences 

Dr. Johnclla Butler Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs Spelman College. Atlanta. Georgia 
Thursday, November 8, 12:00 NooN Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall 
Free <tnd open tv th~ public. 
S~i~;)~i;~;;-(~QJkgG 
.\'!Q!.J.Ilc~"i!2J.0..~.,~ 
L:enrer for Spirim;liit} \vww_saimma.ry!' cdu. -cfs ( 574) 284 ·4636 r. mail. a.-:rn:ltma(!i'saintm.u;'s.C'du 
Three Notre Dame golfers aro at even-par in a tie for 23rd place. The most surpris­ing of the group is freshman Tyler Hoek, who is starting in his first collegiate tournament. Iloek, a powerful driver off the tee, followed up a four-over par first round with an impres­sive 68. 
"Tyler is a very talented young player," Kubinski said. "lie has great imagination for a player his age. He will be a great contributor for us." 
Joining Hock at even-par are snnior Greg Rodgers and junior Josh Sandman, who both had impressive starts to the event. Rodgers shot a two-under 70 and Sandman a one-under 71 in the first round, but each tal­lied a few bogeys in the second round to return to even par. 
Senior Eddie Peckels had the toughest day of the Irish play­ers, shooting rounds of 77 and 
79. Peckels is tied for 80th at 12-over. 
The Irish will start the third and final round today in Durham with tee times begin­ning at 8:30 a.m. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


Monday, October 8, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
-
BLAcK DoG 
DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
YEAH I SAW IT... I DONNO IT SEEMS UKE THEY'RE 1-t~-­TRYING TOO HARD... I MEAN IT AL.MOST COMES OUT UKE A RUSSIAN MAIL. ORDER BRIDE WEBSITE... 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
HE'( IT'$ 1>. ~DI> "0-i!N(r
C.l.Evtu,tJt> W ... S DNL'f O<>WN S'r' 1. Atolr MD!t£ T>IMI111AT 
ANI:> IT WO\II..I>'vE. IEEN 
Fi.AMI"IT HAIL lo.JSTeA~. 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
Nope. In the section where it says '\\'hy do you think he should be nominated for Mr. Engineering' I \\TOte 'because has a hut body.' You're a. shoo-in to win 
60 Literary genre popular with women 
66 Shortly 67 Message from a BlackBerry, maybe 68 Tiny critters found twice each in 17-, 38-and 
50-Across 69 Impose, as a tax 70 Car dings 71 Yuletide 
Down Insurance grp. 2 Where a phone 
is held 3 Oriental 4 Actress 
Cameron 5 Sponsor 6 Company with a 
spectacular 2001 bankruptcy 7 Reproductive material 8 "_it the truth!" 9 Made smaller 10 C.I.O.'s partner 11 Kind of suit 
12 Street opening for a utility worker 
13 Spreads 
18 Most recent 
19 Place to hang 
one's hat 23 Taxi 24 Shade 25 "1, Robof' author 27 Four 29 Key of Saint­
Saens's "Danse 
macabre" 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Steven Ginzburg  
31 Radio receiver parts 33 Eye part 36 _gras 39 Puffed up 40 King Arthur's burial place 41 Without  42 Mother-of-pearl source 45 151, in old Rome 46 Telepathy, e.g. 49 "Streets" of Venice 51 Period in history  57 It heals all wounds, in a saying 59 Lee of Marvel Comics 61 One or more 62 Soup container 63 Year, in Spain 64 Sault Marie  
metaphor  53 Size again  65 Fashion inits.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
I MEAN JUST LOOK AT THIS GIRL-SHE'S TAU., ATHLETIC, 36-26-32, CONVERSATIONAU.Y PROFICIENT IN ENGUSH.... 
JUMBLE 
JJWJWIDLbJE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DASIT 
I I I t:u 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 



r~1;fl x) 
tCOPHON I 
www.jumble.com 
PLUCUF 
rJ J
1 ( 


Answer:[ I I JA "[I I]" rnIT 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: KNOWN SANDY STRONG KNOTTYSaturday's 
Answer: What he did while sitting ­TOOK A "STAND" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Shawn Ashmore, 28; Rachel McAdams, 31; Thorn Yorke, 39; Simon Cowell, 48 
Happy Birthday: Get involved in organizations you believe in. Now is the time to put the trivial things in life on the back burner and consider what issues should take prece­dence. Do what you can to tum any past wrong into a right. Clear your mind by tying up loose ends. Your numbers are 2, 13, 26, 29, 39, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Travel, intrigue, learning, seminars, conferences, love and romance are all in the picture today. Do your thing, exploit your ideas and push your in­tentions. You will get feedback that will help you move forward. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have gone full circle and you know what the answer is. Now, all you have to do is execute it. This is a perfect time to make a few changes that will position you better personally and professionally. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have to backtrack if you take on too much or promise something you can't deliver. Caution may not be your best attribute but, today it will be necessary, especially when emotions or loved ones are involve. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get together with friends, neighbors or relatives. Look at your options and talk things over. Someone will make a huge difference to the way you think and influence what you decide to do. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Consider where you are heading professionally, financially and emotionally. Options are available but, if you are unwilling to make a move or accept some of the changes needed to move forward, you are likely to continue spinning your wheels. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let anyone fool you into believing that he or she can do something better than you. Your precision, depth of vision and ability to finish what you start will far exceed what anyone else can offer. 3 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't hesitate to look someone up whom you have lost touch with but would like to revisit. Now is the perfect time to expand on an idea you have or to find a course that will help you develop a skill you want to pursue. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can now pull everything together and turn it into something bigger than life. The projects you have been so diligently working on can be launched. Forge ahead. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You are likely to say something that doesn't go over well or to get yourself into an emotional mess by promising something you can't provide. Focus on what you can do. Renovate, update your entertainment center or shop for real estate. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can check out property, make changes to your living quarters or take on a new, moneymaking venture. An emotional commitment can be made, resolved or put into play. Now is a great time for professional or personal change. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't feel the need to explain your every move. You have to be honest and true to yourself and hope that the people around you will under­stand your position. If they don't, it may be time to rid yourself of those relationships. 3 
stars 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be tom between what you want to do and what's available for you to do. Once you complete what's being asked of you, it will be simple to move on to what you want. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are tom between loyalty and ambition. You want to have fun but feel obligated to take care of business first. You have big ideas but tend to stick to a sure thing. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comjor confidential consultations 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
a 
WH~N HIS Pi\LS MAD~ FUN OF HIS Bi\LDN~SS, H~--­


Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across It's rounded up in a roundup 
5 Propel a bicycle 
10 Pinnacle 
14 Hawaii's "Valley 
Isle" 15 "_ Get Your 
Gun" 16 Linen fiber 17 Operation for a 
new liver or kidney 20 Home (in on) 21 Mao _-tung 22 That woman 23 "The Sweetheart of Sigma _" 26 Refuses to 28 Encourages 
30 Jane who wrote "Sense and Sensibility" 
32 Take home a trophy 34 Beer component 35 Swains 
36 Cry after a bad swing 37 Decorates, as a cake 
38 Beneficial substance in fruits, vegetables and tea 
41 Feature of many a wedding dress 43 Picking _ with 44 Alto or soprano 47 Letter-shaped building support 48 Small number 49 Yuletide songs 50 Mortarboard addition 52 Face-to-face test 54 Puppy's bite 55 Inventor Whitney 56 Grain in Cheerios 
58 Great-great­great-great-great grandfather of Noah 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=++~~RR-=+=+-~ 


r-----------------------------------------------· 
-

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, October 8, 2007 page 28 
ND SWIMMING 

Men and women dominate Dennis Stark Relays at home 
meet records along the way. Sophomore Andrew Deters Sullivan and sophomore The women also turned in aBy CHRIS DOYEN Sophomores John Lytle and and freshman Steven Brus MacKenzie LeBlanc to win the dominant performance, finish­
Spons Writer 

Andrew Hoffman, junior Danny turned in a dominating per­800-yard freestyle relay. ing with a score of 226, 60 Lutkus and senior Rob Seery formance in the 1,000-yard Senior Eric Swenson and jun­points ahead of Ball State and 
The Notre Dame men and set a record for the 300-yard freestyle relay. Brus, who took ior Daniel Have were both part Illinois State, who finished in a womnn took care of business freestyle relay with a time of the second leg, was able to lap of teams that won the 400-tic for second. Oakland, in the 43rd Dennis Stark 2:16.83. the field as the pair combined yard breaststroke relay and Valparaiso and Marquette fin­Hnlays, boasting strong per­Senior Sam Stoner and jun­for a time of 9:26.38, 35 sec­the 400-yara medley relay. ished fourth, fifth and sixth, formances that led to a first­ior Michael Bulfin set meet onds ahead of second-place Ball State finished a distant respectively. place finish for both teams. records in the one-meter div­Valparaiso. second, followed by Oakland, One meet record was broken 
The nwn took first in 10 of ing relay and the three-meter Seery and Deters teamed up Valparaiso and Marquette the 13 events, breaking three synchronized dive. with freshman Michael rounding out the top live. see STARK/page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Don1inant start leads 
ND win streak reaches four 
Bock scores hat trick to lead team to 4-1 win against Syracuse 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame (7-4-1, 5-0-0 Big East) extended its winning streak to four games this weeknnd with a 4-1 win over Syraeuse Friday and a 3-0 win over St. John's Sunday. 
Junior Brittany Bock, who started at forward to replace injured Amanda Cinalli, had her first career hat triek against the Orange. She also scornd Sunday against the Hed Storm. 
"I think she's definitely hav­ing an All-America year," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. 
see STREAK/page 26 

to svveep over Rutgers 
Irish handle Scarlet Knights with ease in conference showdown 
By PAT O'BRIEN Spons Writer 

Notre Dame wasted no time when it stepped on the court Saturday to take on Hutgers, defeating the Scarlet Knights 3-0 (30-16, 30-18, 30-20) at home. 
It was the 11th time Hutgers (3-12, 1-5 Big East) has been defeated in a shutout. 
Notre Dame (7-8, 3-2) never 

let off of the throttle during 
three games. Starting with a 
I 

few big kills by freshman mid­
Junior forward Brittany Bock dribbles through two defenders in a 6­dle blocker Kellie Sciacca, the 
1 win over Cincinnati Sept. 30. Bock had a hat trick this weekend. Irish jumped to a quick 12-5 
lead in game one. The Irish ended the first game with a .560 hit percentage. 
Games two and three were much of the same with the Irish completing 7-0 and 8-0 runs to start off each game. 
Notre Dame finished the match with a .433 attack per­centage -its best since Oct. 21, 2005 when it took down South Florida with a .451 clip. 
Junior middle blocker Justine Stremick finished with 
a .706 hitting percentage ­the first Irish player to hit over . 700 in a match since last sea­son over South Florida, when Stremick hit . 750. Senior cap­tain Adrianna Stasiuk also hit over 50 percent with a .550 mark. 
Stremick finished with 13 
see RUTGERS/page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish increase lead in the Big East with win over West Virginia 
By DAN MURPHY Associar~ Sports Ediwr 
Fifth-year senior goalkenpnr Chris Cahill and the Notre Damn defense outlasted No. 13 West Virginia in a 1-0 battle Saturday at Alumni Field. 
Cahill made six saves while picking up his fourth shutout of the season. 
"lie is doing everything that is asknd of him," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "That is the mark of a really good goal­keeper." 
The biggest stop of the night carne when the Mountaineers' Mark Anoia fired a shot from elosn range two minutes into the sncond half. Cahill dove to his left, snagging the ball and preserving the shutout. 
see SHUTOUT/page 26 
Goose eggs 


MEN'S GOLF 
Irish n1ake late pushto end round 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
A late charge Sunday led the Irish into sixth place in the Coca-Cola Duke Golf Classic. Notre Dame passed two teams in the last few holes to finish three-under through two rounds. 
The Irish shot a one-under par total or 287 in the first round, putting them in seventh out or the 15-team field midway through the day. The team then passed North Carolina Wilmington and Eastern Carolina with several birdies in the last four holes or a two­under second round. 
Leading the Duke Classic, which ends today, are the No. 13 host Blue Devils, who are ahead of Tennessee-
see DUKE/page 26 







