
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students.workwith NDSP on campus 

Workers write parking tickets, volunteer with SafeWalk, among other jobs with police 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame students have been helping out the police for about three decades in differ­ent ways -including writing parking tickets and escorting other studP.nts to and from campus locations. said Phil .Johnson. the director of Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP). 
NDSP employs "40 or so" 
students, Johnson said. ThBse students work in a variety of areas, including administra­tion, p·arking enforcement, lost and found and assisting dispatchers. Most student workers, Johnson said, are in SafeWalk, a group that stu­dents can call to walk them home at night. 
"Student responsibilities have changed somewhat through the years," Johnson said. "For example, in the late 
1970s, student employees worked in 'parking lot patrol' and monitored the student parking lots late at night and in the early morning hours. And for a number of years, law students worked part­time at the Main Gate when it was located between the Morris Inn and Alumni Hall." 
Now, student ticket-writers help out officers during what Maj. Jeff Korros called "busy times." 
Korros, who is in charge of traffic and parking, started working with NDSP 15 years ago. 
Student ticket-writers help relieve the officers of ticket writing so "they can do other things," Korros said. 
"They add eyes and ears that have seen things going on, like car break-ins," he said of the student workers. 
see NDSP/page 4 

Freshman finishes first novel in 29 days 
Kaitlyn Conway completes national contest with 31 hours to spare, plans to compete again next year 
The N..e Ga.e 
By Kaidyn Conway 
~ 
Jack chuckled. pulling himself up from the wall he was leaning agUo.st. "Sally!" be imitated me, smirking. "1 didn't expect to see you again so soon... 
"1 didn't espect to see you again ever. .. It was true­I h.adn•t. But I was glad I was seeing him again-for some i~e reason, I felt safe with him. 
Mistake number two. 
Jack's smirk grew into a true smile, and the mischievous glint in his eyes was bright. "Really? I knew I'd see you again. .. 
-rhat's st:alkerish.," I assemrl, taking a step t:ow:mis him despite mysd£ He shrugged. but his smile remained firmly in place. There was a teasing glint in his eyes. "So walk away... 
"I'm going to.... 
"Really?" 
I was only a few feet away from him. I forced my feet to stop-when had I gotten so dose? "Re:illy." He smirked again and snickered sofdy. "I don't think you're going to.." 
"What makes you think that?" 
His smirk grew. "The &ct that you're going tD have dinner with me?" 
My jaw dropped slightly. I was astounded by his audacity-it was both refreshing and exasperating. "I'm oot even-" My growling stomach interrupted me. .. -hungry ..." I finished lamely. 
His smirk grew even more. if possible. "'My treat." 


By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
It may not be the next great American novel, but at least it's done. 
Starting at midnight on Nov. 1, Notre Dame freshman Kaitlyn Conway set out to write a 50,000-word novel in 30 days. As a participant in the National Novel Writing Month competition, Conway joined thousands around the world in a feverish attep1pt to create a work of fiction by midnight on Nov. 30. 
Conway has· been writing "The Name Game," a futuristic crime story, in between classes and homework. At 5 p.m. Thursday, more than 24 hours before the deadline, Conway surpassed the necessary word count by 113 words, bringing her page total to more than 90 pages on Microsoft Word -the equivalent of a 175-page pub­lished book. She said finishing felt "fantastic" but that it feels "really weird" to be a novelist. 
"I haven't started calling myself that yet," she said. This is her first completed novel, but the third time 
Conway has entered the con­test, held by the National Novel Writing Month organiza­tion, nicknamed NaNoWriMo. She tried it in eighth grade and again during her senior year of high school. 
Last year, she wrote 17,000 words by the deadline. This year, she said, she was deter­mined to finish. She remem­bered times, though, when 50,000 words seemed like an insurmountable objective in just 30 days. 
But Conway said she never lost sight of her goal. 
"I was determined," she said. "I was like, Tm doing this.' I didn't think I was going to make it for a while this past weekend because I was so behind. I didn't have any time to work, but then I started cranking stuff out, and I was like, 'I'm golden."' 
Conway only had about 38,000 words written Tuesday evening. But she was confident -and rightly so -that she would finish by the deadline. 
"I've had 5,000-word days for the past two days," she said Tuesday. "So I'm going to 
see NOVEL/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
'Notre Dating' discussed 
Par.ietals, dorm scene affect gender relations 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS News Writer 
Boy meets girl. Boy and girl 
date. Boy gives girl a ring by 
spring semester of their senior 
year. Welcome to "Notre 
Dating." 
Raising prevale.nt questions 
not often discussed in an open 
forum, the Gender Relations 
Center (GRC) focused on how 
single-sex dorms and parietals 
affect gender relations at 
Notre Dame in the "Notre 
Dating Series" Wednesday 
night in the Coleman-Morse 
Center lounge. 
Gender Relations Center 
director Heather Rakoczy 
moderated the event and led 
the discussion along with the 
GRC's FIRE starters. 
The FIRE starters, whose 

acronym stands for "Finding Identity Relationships Equality," are student peer educators who facilitate greater awareness, discussion . and solutions to gender issues 
on campus. 
The program began with a 
discussion comparing "the cul­
ture around dating and relat­
ing" at Notre Dame to that of 
high school. Students in atten­
dance were able to voice 
thoughts and concerns about 
specific gender issues on cam­
pus, specifically with dating 
and single-sex dorms. 
Many described varying 
experiences in high school, 
but most students shared simi­
lar stories about Notre Dame. 
Students spoke of a "hook-up 
culture" and pervasive ideas 
and examples of "people 
see DATING/page 3 


'ACarroll Christmas' held tonight 

Business manners 
Dorm hopes hundreds will attend annual event for carols, food and Santa Claus 
taught at session 
for students between dinner
By ROHAN ANAND 
more comfortable presenting

time and their evening 
By BRIAN McKENZIE
News Writer 
yourself in a business setting."

plans for later on in the 
News Writer 
She said business etiquette

night," he said.
Carroll Hall will unoffi­
"comes out mostly when you're

And he emphasized that
cially kiek off the Christmas About 100 students joined 15 dining."
passers-by need not stay for season at Notre Dame with 
alumni at a formal business The dinner was adapted
the entire event, which lastits lOth annual "A Carroll etiquette dinner hosted by the from a program at the
for two hours. "It's more
Christmas" tonight at 7. 
Student Alumni Club and the University of North Carolina,
like a stop by, move
The men of Carroll have Alumni Association Thursday Mousaw said.
through, enjoy the festivi­
been working hard through­night in North Dining Hall. "Notre Dame is known fo.r its
ties, sing a few songs and out the WP.ek to promote the 
"[The dinner] is a different alum network -it's the best in
be on your way," Sanchez event and hope to exceed 
way of learning," said the world," she said. "We
said.
last year's attendance of 
Meeghan Mousaw, the assis­wanted an alum at every tableThe planning committee,
400. hall president Derek Photo courtesy of Derek Sanchez 
tant director of Early Alumni because it's important to learn Sanchez said. "A Carroll Christmas" revelers 
Services. "You've got to be pro­"It's a great intermediate see CARROLL/page 6 pose for a picture with Santa. 
fessional. It makes you feel see DINNER/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Censoring Santa 
It.'s about tinw someonn told Santa 
that just bm~ausn mommy was kissing 
him under thn mistletoe, it doesn't 
make her a ho, ho, ho. 
That merry 

Kaitlynn Riely 
man in red. 
who urges 

children all Assistant News 
around Uw 

Editor 
world to bP 
good l'or good­

nnss sak11, is getting the equivalent of 
nml in his stocking from a Santa train­
ing company in Australia this 
Christmas season. 

In a story pkked up this wonk by the 
Australian news nwdia, Santas-in­
training are bPing encouragml to trade 
in ho. ho. ho for ha, ha, ha. 

The rmTuitment firm Westall' told its 
prospnd.ive Santas they should stop 
acc:ornpanying tlwir belly laughs with a 
jolly "ho, ho, ho" because it could 
f'rightm1 ehildrnn and may be derogato­
ry to wonwn. 

The trainers at Westall', a company 
that supplies hundn~ds of Santas to 
department stores and malls a(Toss 
Australia, n~portmlly told the prospec­
tive Santas that the traditional grneting 
of "ho. ho. ho" was too similar to the 
Amerkan slang for prostitute. 

Many have spoken out against the 
policy of' saying "no. no, no" to thn "ho, 
ho. ho," claiming it takes politkal cor­
n~etness too far. 

Sum, most childrPn who sit on 
Santa's lap during the holiday s1mson 
have no idea that the word "ho" can bn 
used as an insult. And yes, most people 
old enough to know that "ho" rmmns 
whon~ an~ a warP Santa says the word 
thn~e times as part of' his traditional 
greding, not to insult women. 

That doesn't mean wn can't rile up 
some nmtroversy to go along with our 
gift shopping this Christmas season. 
Perhaps, in the interest of giving our­
selves a politkally correct Christmas, 
we should commend Westall' lilr point­
ing out the derogatory speech that has 
bmm hiding in plain sight--or hearing, 
rather--ever sinee Santa first invited 
ehildrm1 to dimb up on his lap. Perhaps 
we've been too distracted by eandy 
canes and Christmas carols to hnar S. 
Claus's critical comments. 

So thank you. Westall', for your brav­
ery in defying generations of tradition. 
But the Kris Kringle crew has only 
made one small step toward ridding 
Australia, and the world, of its political­
ly inwrrnd language. Once the "ho. ho, 
ho" debade ofDecmnber has passed, 
perhaps others can work to banish 
additional uses of' the word ho from our 
vocabulary. 

A cursory (~oogle search reveals 
many hos that need ha-ing. llo Chi 
Minh is a city in Vietnam. llo llos, the 
dessert cake, strike twiee. 

The list goes on. Ito is a eity in Chana 
and a language spoken in India. 
Sometimes we feel gung ho, sometimes 
we go westward ho. 

It semns like the North Pole isn't the 
only place in need of a politieally cor­
rect makeover. So perhaps Westall' 
should 1-,rivn up its campaign and 
remember that 'tis the season to be 
jolly, not politically correct. 

And nothing says jolly like a belly 
laugh from Santa and a deep "ho. ho, 
ho." 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely(a1nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Thr Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives f(>r thr highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can coru~ct our error. 
Friday, November 30, 2007

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE WRITER'S STRIKE? 

Kim Fitzgibbon  Tiffany Nelson  Thanh Le  Kristine Yuen  John Henry  
sophomore Badin  junior Walsh  junior offcampus  sophomore McGlinn  senior Alumni  
"I write the stall notes for  "I hope they get the money and  "Good for them. They deserve  "I just want Conan back."  "fl :<; unfortunate  






that I miss my weekly show. " 
IN BRIEF 
Carroll IIall will host "A Carroll Christmas" tonight at 7. It willlba­ture a tree-lighting mrnmony, a per­lill'manee by the Undertones and karaokn. Ugly Christmas sweaters are eneouraged. 
The Notrn Dame Chorale and Chamber Orehestra will present Handel's Messiah tonight at S in Leighton Com~ert llaJI. DeBartolo Perfonning Arts Center. Tiek1~L<> IA:Ul be ordnred by mlling (574) 631­
2SOO. 
As part of the Solidarity Film Series. them will bn a scrnening of the film "We are Together" in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 10. The film focuses on the story of the chil­dren of the Agape Orphanage as they overcome the adversity of growing up among Africa's 12 million AIDS orphans. 
The Format will perform Saturday at Legends at 10 p.m. Admi•;sion is lrec for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents with a student ll). 
The Vokes of Faith Gospel Choir will perform their fall concert, "Come Back to Your First Love" Saturday at 7 p:m. in Washington Hall. 
Habitat lor I lwnanity will host "A Home for the Holidays" Sunday from 3:30 p.m. to S in the Stepan Center. Groups of studnnt'i can reg­ister online to build a gingerbread house. The cost of registration ranges from $30 to $50 per group, depending on size of the house. There will also be perlilrmances, entertainment and food to raise money for the organi?11tion. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infimna­tion about an event to 
obsnew~;@ndedu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 
'v~V':
/,\~ rft 


~ -:;;
~ / 
~~ 


Badin Hall. the 1Vshows recognition. " They can hire come back so me. that I can watch 'The Office."' 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Junior Sean Smith attempts a shot Thursday night at the Joyce Center during a broomball game. Smith's team lost the game 1-0. 
OFFBEAT 
Man finds lost bracelet in chicken after 25 years 
FAIHMONT, Minn. --It won't lit him anymore, but a Massachusetts man has his metal identity bracelet back after it was found inside a chicken gizzard in this southern Minnesota eity --more than 25 years after he lost it in his grand­father's barn. 
Aaron Giles, 31, of Gloucester, Mass., lived in Fairmont as a child and played hide-and-seek and other games with his broth­ers in their grandfather's barn near Sherburn. 
"I would spend most of my time out at his farm and that's the only place I can think of that I would have lost it," Giles said Thursday, adding that he' thinks it was lost when he was 4 or 5 years old. 

The barn was dismantled a few years ago, and the materials were used to con­struct another barn in rural Elmore, about 45 miles away, he said. Giles thinks his bracelet was imbedded in the barn materials when they were moved. 
Salvation Army finds $50 gold coin in kettle 
PRESCOTT, Ariz. --Now that's spare change. Salvation Army volunteers were doing a routine count of donations dropped into area bell-ringers' kettles when they came across a $50 gold coin. 
The one coin --a 1998 American Eagle containing an ounce of gold worth about $800 --made up in one package a shortfall in collections so far this year, Salvation Army Maj. Kyle Trimmer said Wednesday. 
Trimmer said an anony­mous donor placed the coin in a small envelope and dropped it in a kettle out­side a Prescott Valley Kmart. The coin was found Tuesday as Trimmer joined volunteers counting the change and paper money from 28 kettles in Prescott and Prescott Valley. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY  TONIGHT  SATURDAY  SUNDAY  
D::  
LLI  
J: ~  ~~~'1.rlfl_  ~  
LLI 3:  ~  ~ .~  ~  
....I  
c( 0  
0 ...I  HIGH  37  HIGH  30  HIGH  35  HIGH  42  
LOW  22  LOW  18  LOW  30  LOW  18  
Atlanta 61 I 38 Boston 42 I 32 Chicago 34 I 21 Denver 38 I 19 Houston 71 I 52 Los Angeles 65 I 51 Minneapolis 22 I 9 New York 45 I 34 Philadelphia 47 I 32 Phoenix 70 I 56 Seattle 41 I 34 St. Louis 49 I 32 Tampa 79 I 64 Washington 50 I 30 


Friday, November 30, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students get cultured at art shovv 
Badin Hall awards cash prizes to top campus artists in annual event 

By LINDSAY SENA News Writer 
More than 100 students dined on cheese and crackers and lis­tened to classical musie as they viewed student artwork on display Thursday at the Badin Hall art 
show. "We were pretty included senior The show, Amelia
surprised by the 
hostod by Ilirschauer for 
response. We got a lot
Badin's her ultrachrome Academic more [works] than print and fresh­Commission in expected." man Danielle the hall's social Filgueira for her space, is the three-dimension­
Brandy Mader
dorm's annual al etching on event. academic commissioner Japanese paper. Sophomore Badin Hall Coggon said he 
and received a $100 prize for his Indonesian fashion photography. 
A second place prize of $75 went to sophomore Garrett Coggon for his black and white landscape photography, and junior Adri Nott came in third place, receiving $50 for her spray paint and oil pastel 
painting. 
Hunners-up 

Brandy Mader, Badin Hall's acadPmic commissioner, said 22 partieipants submitted 45 works of art this year. 
"WP were pretty surprised by the response," she said. "We got a lot more [works] than expected." 
She was also pleased with the quality and diversity of works received. 
"I think we got a good variety of stuff, including a table, which wa'i our most uniquP entry," Mader said. 
Chris Andrews, a first-year pho­tography graduate student; Adam Fung, a third-year painting gradu­ate student; and Gina Costa, a marketing and public affairs spe­cialist for Notre Dame's Snite Museum, judged the art and decid­ed thn winnPrs. 
Freshman Affandi Setiawan won has been inter­
ested in photog­raphy since high school. As a biol­ogy major, though, he said taking photos is a hobby. 
His work includes pictures of St. Louis and his hometown, Traverse City, Mich. The frames around the photograph are aL<;o a part of the work. 
"They are actually pantry doors from a farm house," Coggon said. He entered the show "on a whim. . . . [The photographs] were hang­ing in my dorm room. I heard about the art show and figured I could do without them for a couple of weeks." 
Sophomore Mary Cecilia Mitsch also submitted a piece to the show. 
Her "ink graphic" creatively dis­plays a watch with "parietals" written on the band. The piece was originally created for her 
WU YUE/The Observer 

Freshman Affandi Setia's pho­tos won first prize in the show. 
graphic design class. 
"We were supposed to combine an object and a word in a clever way," Mitsch said. "I thought that a lot of students could relate to pari­etals." 
The show was designed to give the Notre Dame community a greater sense of artistic apprecia­tion. 
'The Badin art show is an outlet for the artists of Notre Dame to unleash their artistic capabilities in a setting that is both embracing of their talents and open to the spirit of beauty and truth," junior Claire McGathey said. · 
All works of art will be on dis­play until Dec. 5 in Badin's social space. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 
actions between the opposite sexes at dorm parties and



Dating 
dances and the lack of dating on campus, students said.

continued from page 1 In addition, students dis­
cussed the topic of parietals searching for 'the one' and a in terms of its positive and 'ring by spring'" and said the negative influences on cam­single-sex dorms and pari­pus life. etals seem to foster these While parietals "force us to strained attitudes and inter­learn how to set boundaries actions between the sexes. and foster community," many 
While weighing both the students feel as though pari­good and bad aspects of etals "sexually charge" oppo­dorm life at Notre Dame·, stu­site sex interactions on cam­dents seemed to agree with pus, Gunn said. the unique The mid-sense of com­night or 2 munity dorm "Same-sex dorms a.m. time life promotes 
perpetuate being all limit placed 
within sexes. on contact
together as females
"Same-sex between the dorms perpet­or all together as sexes within uate being all males." the dorms together as means pari­females or all etals are 
Jordy Brooks
together as "encouraging males," which FIRE starter hookups and 
can help foster great relation­ships and bonds with those of the same sex, FIRE starter Jordy Brooks said. 
However, the negative effects on gender relations were considered in both the small group discussions and within the panel of FIHE starters, which evaluated the tension and awkward rela­tions between males and females on campus. 
"You don't get an in­between -guys are here for dating, girls are here for friends," and vice versa, FIHE starter Mackay Gunn said. 
The poor gender relations can be seen in the single-sex groups of students in the din­ing halls, the labored inter-
discouraging 
friendships," sophomore Chrissy Andrews said. 
With this forum and others to follow, the GHC hopes to propose "alternatives to help improve gender relations with same and different sexes," FIHE starter Brad Mattan said. 
The GHC hopes to work toward more natural interac­tions among students on campus by encouraging social group interaction, "actual" dating, improved 24-hour space, continued discussions on the topic and increased communication between the sexes. 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 

The So's Miss You...
The So's Miss You... 

CoJDe Give TheJD a Visit! 
CoJDe Give TheJD a Visit! 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 30, 2007 


ND senior receives Irelandscholarship 
Mitchell award gives Laidnzan year of study 
By GENE NOONE News Wrirer 

Notre Dame senior Andrea !.aidman was named one of 12 reeipients of the 200S-2009 (;norge .1. MitchPII Scholarship in Washington on Nov. 17. 
The scholarship is a fellowship sponsored by the U.S.-Ireland Alliance. It afl'ords a dozen stu­dents thn opportunity to pursue orm year of post-1-,rraduate study at any university in Ireland. 
!.aidman, a politkal science and international peace studies double major, said several professors encouraged her to look into vari­ous fellowships. The one that stood out the most, she said, was the Mitchnll Scholarship. Laidman was an intern at the Irish Department of .Justice, Equality and Law Heform in Dublin last summer. 
"The Mitchell scholarship, whkh is nmm~d after Sen. George Mit1:hell. who helped broker the peace agreements in Northern Ireland. looks for students who have been activists in their field," !.aidman said. "I've been able to do that while at Notre Dame. So. George Mitchell's life and work and the goals of the scholarship seemed like a good fit with my own." 
!.aidman was chosen out of an initial applicant pool of more than :{00 student<> -the highest num­bnr of applicant<> in recent years -from 139 schools. After nar­rowing the pool to 20 finalisl<>, 12 wnre d10sen as winners. 
"I was very happy to get the phonn mil tPIIing me that I'd bn1m snlnetP£1," !.aidman said. "I did not have any nxpeetations whnn I first applied, but when it nune down to only 20 student<>, I definitely had my hopes up." 
Applicant<> arn judged on three criteria: academic excellence, leadership and a sustained com­mitmnnt to service and communi­ty. Laidman was chosen among winners from other schools, inducting Georgetown University, Duke University, and Dartmouth Collegn. 
"These young leaders are the perfect heirs to Sen. Mitchell's legacy," said Mary Lou Hartman, director of the Mitchell Scholarship program. "They will build on his legacy in impressive f~L<>hion in the years ahead." 
With her scholarship, Laidman will enter the ma<>ter's program in anthropology and development at the National University of Ireland, Maynooth. 
"This program will really add to what I've studied in political sci­ence and peace studies at [Notre Dame) allowing me to form my fimndation in polities while study­ing other aspects of a society or country," she said. 
After receiving her master's, Laidman plans to return to the 
U.S. to pursue a career in interna­tional or hwnan rights law. 
"I hope to work in shaping international development and human righl'i policies, either in a government agency or for an NGO or other organization," Laidman said. 
In 2006, Laidman co-founded Notre Dame Against State Killing (ND ASK). a campaign that encourages a moratorium on exe­cutions in Indiana. 
Laidman is also active in the Pasquerilla East Musical Company and the Center for Social Concerns. She is a columnist for The Observer. 
The Mitchell Scholarship pro­vides tuition, housing, a living nxpense stipend and an interna­tional travel stipend for its rncipi­nnL<>. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
NDSP 
continued from page 1 
Students typically work Monday through Friday at what Korros called "peak times" -between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. and between 5 
p.m. and 8 p.m. They are employed during the school year and do not work on foot­
ball game days, Korros said. 
Student tick­et writers are offered NDSP­issued jackets, but most don't wear them, Korros said. 
Tickets are written with a hand-held writer that resembles a personal digi­tal assistant , Korros said. 
"Some ofour student personnel went on to be in the United States Secret Service, one is the head of security at the University ofPortland. some are in the F.B.I." 
Maj. Jeff Korros Notre Dame Security/Police 
When issuing a citation, Ticket writers enter the ear's permit number and year -or license plate number and state -and a description of the vehicle, and the most cur­rent information available comes up, he said. Tickets are electronic printouts from the writer. 
Students usually patrol "larger lots," Korros said, like student lots Cl, 02, D6 and 02, and also the parking lots by gal spot, blocking a dumpstnr or parking in a handicap spot without a permit. 
Between 13,000 and 15,000 tickets are given out each year, Korros said. However, he said, "a good percentage of those are to one-time visi­tors -one-third [of the total) at the least." Many fines for first-time offenses are waived. 
NDSP does not break down 
the num­bers of tickets given out by student employ­ees, as their tick­ets are just added to part of a total fig­
ure. 
Students also par­ticipate in SafeWalk, a free and 
confidential NDSP service where a SafeWalk employee will meet and walk with a male or female student to .or from any point on campus. According to the NDSP Web site, SafeWalkers carry photo­graph identification cards and are in radio contact with the Security/Police Communication Center. 
An NDSP student employee initiated the service roughly 
20 years ago, 
Korros said. 
the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Mendoza  "/ didn't know what to expect at first. People are really  He said some student employees go on future law  
College Business  of and  down on NDSP. "  enforcement or security  
the Bookstore.  careers.  
They "don't go  Molly Conway  "Some  of  
on central cam­ freshman  our  student  
pus  because  personnel  
they  arc  too  went on to be  

busy on the outlying lots," in the United States Secret Korros said. Service, one is the head of 
Student ticket writers are security at the University of authorized to distribute tick­Portland, some are in the ets for "all kinds of viola­F.B.I.," Korros said. tions," but traditionally the And some even become tickets are for parking viola­University officials on campus tions, like parking in an ille-involved in a form of enforce­
ment. Associate Vice 
President of Hesidence Life 
Bill Kirk used to be a student 
worker, Korros said. 

Sophomore Molly Conway is in her second year working for NDSP. However, insll~ad of applying for employment, she got her job through family connections. 
Head of major nvcnt securi­ty and student employment Cappy Gagnon 
was a elassmate of her uncle. lie contacted Conway, and she began last year working nine hours a week as a student dispatelwr. 
"I didn't know what to expect at first," Conway said. "People are really down on NDSP." 
Conway said a head dis­patcher is on duty 24/7. As a student dispatcher, she receives calls to the 631-5555 number during her shift and answers "some of the more simple questions, like direc­tions or a SafeWalk request." 
Emergency 911 calls and those of a more confidential nature are directed to the head dispatcher, she said. 
"I felt that I didn't do very welt las a dispatcher)." Conway said. "I was a fresh­man.... You need an exten­sive knowledge of eampus." 
This year, she works in lost and found, distributes payroll and helps in parking services for four hours a week. 
While she was in dispatch, Conway worked directly with police officers. 
"I would have to contact them, tell them places where kids need help, or if special needs kids needed rides, or if they needed to write a report," she said. "They seem intimidating on the quad but they are all so nice." 
Even though NDSP officers have "a bad rap" among stu­dents, Conway said, "they are out there to help." 
"Their first concern is safe­ty," she said. " ... They are looking out for Notn~ Dame students. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

Seniors manage $4.1 million portfolio in finance class 
Seminar a hands-on experience, business students say, as they pick actual stocks to invest in, then track status of funds 
an analyst and a portfolio man­the same sectors as the S&P books on the field of invest­"It was really helpful to draw 
By DAVIS RHORER JR. 

ager, making decisions on 500," Reilly said. Students have ment. on my investment experiences
News Wrirer 

which stocks will go into the invested in companins like Dell, "These are topics that they've to answer tough interview ldassl portfolio," Heilly said. Inc., Morgan Stanley, been exposed to in their questions," senior Colle on 
Ead1 semester, about 25 sen­Students pick a stock at the Whirlpool, PetSmart and The coursework, but they've never McQuillan said. iors ean take a class where beginning of' the summer and Cheesecake Factory. been forced to sit down and do Senior Lauren Godlasky they manage a $4.1 million follow their choice through the The money earned by each it themselves in detail," Heilly agreed. portfolio. market, analyzing the company section of the elass is directly said. "It's something they've "Many of the students in 
The selnctive and rigorous in preparation for the fall. channeled back into the portfo­learned in the prior course, but [Advanced Investment class, Applied Investment Midway through the semester, lio, Reilly said, inereasing the they've never had to apply it Management) have formed Managnrnent, is offered students pick a second stock resources for the next semes­very specifically and very rig­friendships throughout the through the Mendoza College and, eventually, vote as a ter's elass. orously." semester which I believe will of Business's finance depart­group on which companies to In addition to tracking the Since students make numer­be maintained after college," ment. Several faculty mnmbers include in the class investment stocks they pick in the market, ous corporate connections Godlasky said. tnach the class, including plan. students are guided by lectures through the class, the number Frank Hnilly. "We have, basically, stocks and required to write several of applicants each semester Contact Davis Rhorer Jr. at 
"Each studfmt lin the elassl is almost in every category of all reports and read multiple has increased steadily. drhorer@nd.edu 
Plugin to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Free iTu1zes subscription for reflective liste11hzg 011 your iPod. ~lfpe "ndprayercasf" on the iTuues search e11gine, -or -log o11fo ww\v.ndprayercast.org
J\_">1)))) ) ) 

Heai_i.!__h~~ this week: Rev. Lou deiFra, c.s.c.
M www.ndprayercast.org 
Songs of the ND Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers •meditative music 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,, THE OBSERVER'S WiRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Venezuelans protest Chavez plan 
CAHACAS -Hundreds of thousands of people flooded the streets of the capital Thursday to oppose a referendum that would eliminate term limits for President Hugo Chavez and help him establish a socialist state in Venezuela. 
Blowing whistles, waving placards and shouting "Not like this!" the marchers car­rind Venezuelan flags and dressed in blue ­the chosen color of the opposition -as they streamed along Bolivar Avenue. . 
"This is a movement by those of us who oppose a change to this country's way of life, beeause what (the referendum) aims to do is impose totalitarianism," said former law­maker Elias Matta. "There can't be a com­munist Venezuela, and that's why our society is reacting this way." 
Bin Laden criticizes European aid 
CAIHO-Al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden called on Europeans to stop help­ing tho United States in the war in Afghanistan, according to excerpts of a new audiotape broadcast Thursday on AI­Jazoera television. 
Bin Laden said it was unjust for the United States to have invaded Afghanistan for sheltering him after the Sept. 11 ter­ror attacks, saying he was the "only one responsible" for the deadly assaults on Now York and Washington. 
"The events of Manhattan were retalia­tion against the American-Israeli alliance's aggression against our people in Palnstine and Lebanon, and I am the only one responsible for it. The Afghan people and government knew nothing about it. America knows that," the al­Qaida leader said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
FEMA evacuates federal trailer parks 
NEW ORLEANS -Dozens of Hurricane Katrina victims still living in FEMA trailer parks will have to find new housing by Friday, as the agency works to shutter the temporary facilities it set up after the 2005 storm. 
The move is intended to help the hurri­cane victims move into more stable, per­manent housing, the Federal Emergency Management Agency said. But advocates worry that a housing shortage in the still­recovering area could leave some strug­gling to find a place to live. 
Former officers arrested for beating 
MILWAUKEE -Three white former police officers were sentenced to long prison terms Thursday for the off-duty beating of a biracial man, an attack that outraged the city and sent protesters into the streets. 
A judge sentenced Jon Bartlett to 17 years and four months, with three years of supervision and $16,365 in restitution. Daniel Masarik was sentenced to 15 years and eight months, and Andrew Spengler received the same sentence. 
Bartlett, 36, Masarik, 27, and Spengler, 28, were convicted with another former officer for taking part in the beating of Frank Jude Jr. outside a housewarming party in October 2004.play contributed to her death, police said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Teen steals $10,000 for gas money 
INDIANAPOLIS -A teenager says he held up a dozen businesses in part to get "gas money" but made sure the heists wouldn't make him miss curfew or church on Sundays with his mom. 
Justin T. Veal. 18, was jailed on a felony robbery charge after being arrested last week in a liquor store holdup. 
Ile told detectives he robbed about a dozen businesses of an estimated $10,000 this year for "money to lix his car, to buy jewelry, to keep up with everyone else," Indianapolis police Sgt. Kerry Buckner said. 
PAKISTAN 

Musharraf to lift state of emergency 
In an effort to restore democracy, Pakistan president swears to uphold constitution, elections 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD -Pervez Musharraf, newly sworn in as a civilian president and minus his trademark gener­al's uniform, promised Thursday to lift the state of emergency by Dec. 16 and restore Pakistan's constitu­tion ahead of parliamentary elections. 
If he keeps his word, Musharraf will have addressed key demands of opposition parties as well as the United States, an impor­tant supporter increasingly worried that Pakistani politi­cal turmoil could weaken the government's resolve to con­front Islamic militants. 
Musharraf urged opposi­tion parties to participate in the election and help strengthen democracy, returning to his usually force­ful persona after blinking back tears Wednesday when he resigned as commander of Pakistan's military and ended a 46-year army career. 
"This is a milestone in the transition of Pakistan to the complete essence of democ­racy," he told officials. diplo­mats and generals at his oath-taking ceremony in the presidential palace. "Anyone who is talking of any boycotts should hear this out: Come hell or high water, elections will be held on Jan. 8. in a coup eight years ago, plan for ending emergency Washington and London Nobody derails it." said he would try to persuade rule, his first act as a civilian quickly welcomed the 
Former Prime Minister other parties to join him in a politician, for several hours, announcement. Benazir Bhutto said her boycott -a tough goal given staring into a television cam­"We hope that he follows party, one of the country's the rivalry and animosities era during a sometimes halt­through on that," White two main opposition blocs, that divide Pakistan's many ing address broadcast to the House press secretary Dana would compete in the election political groups. nation from his office. Perino said. "I think you have "under protest." She predict­A day after giving up the "I am determined to lift the to give President Musharraf ed the ballot would be rigged, powerful post of military emergency by Dec. 16," some credit here, because but said it would be more chief, Musharraf took the Musharraf said, seated while he made the decision to dangerous to leave the elec­oath for a new five-year term between a portrait of establish the emergency tion to pro-Musharrafparties. as president, dapperly Pakistan's founding father, order -which we believed 
Reflecting the anger at dressed in a long, dark tunic Mohammed Ali Jinnah, and a was a mistake, and we coun­Musharraf and political that contrasted with the green-and-white national seled against -he did take uncertainty that have under­medal-studded, khaki uni­flag. the step" to lift it. cut the president's domestic form he wore as a general. He urged Sharif and Bhutto British Foreign Secretary and international support, He lauded his beloved not to boycott the parliamen­David Miliband said London the other key opposition army, defended his record tary elections. also looked forward to the leader, Nawaz Sharif, contin­and castigated foreign diplo­"A level playing field" L<> in lifting of the emergency and ued to urge a boycott as a mats in the audience for their place for the ballot and their other restrictions -one way to attack the electioq's "obsession" with fast-track­parties should "participate major television channel and legitimacy. ing Pakistan to Western stan­fully," he said. "The elections, several radio stations remain 
Sharif, a bitter critic of dards of democracy and God willing, will be held free blocked and several judges Musharraf since the general human rights. and transparent under the and leading lawyers are still ousted him as prime minister He didn't announce his constitution." in custody. 

Broadway reopens after 19-day strike 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Broadway came back to life Thursday as stage-starved fans lined up in the cold for tickets and the­aters reopened their doors following a 19-day stagehands strike that took a big toll on the local economy. 
The mood was ecstatic all around the theater district. Tourists, actors, stage­hands, restaurants, musicians, hot dog vendors -basically anyone remotely affected by Broadway -were all thrilled about the return of musicals and plays. 
"I never thought I'd have the opportu­nity to see a Broadway show! And the price is right," Canadian tourist Susie Biamonte said as she waited for steeply discounted $26.50 tickets to "Chicago" -reopening Thursday with a new cast that included two stars from "The Sopranos." 
The strike inflicted serious harm on Broadway during one of the best times of the year, when the city is teeming with tourists and Christmas shoppers. Officials estimated that the city lost about $38 million because of the strike. 
The end of the walkout meant a scramble for new opening nights for shows that were in previews when the strike hit. Aaron Sorkin's "The Farnsworth Invention" will now open Dec. 3; "August: Osage County" from Chicago's Steppenwolf Theatre Company, Dec. 4. "The Seafarer" arrives Dec. 6; and Dec. 9 will be the new opening for a long-lost Mark Twain comedy, "Is He Dead?" 
Disney's "The Little Mermaid" has already announced it would push back its scheduled Dec. 6 opening ..:...... with a new date set Thursday for Jan. 10. And a revival of Harold Pinter's "The Homecoming," which had been set to start previews the day after Thanksgiving, will now premiere Dec. 16. 
Popular musicals such as "Wicked," "Jersey Boys," '"Mamma Mia!" and "The lion King" were among the more than two dozen shows that were shut down during the lucrative Thanksgiving holiday week. These big hits regularly gross more than $1 million each week this time of year. 
r--------------------------------------------------------~·-·---·-~--~---·-~-· 
page 6 Friday, November 30, 2007
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
will have nngineering experts nitely affects how well you come to town to consult or are evaluated."
Dinner 

collaborate," he said. "[They) Maureen Costello, an image continued from page I will have to sell themselves as consultant who was the main 
someone (employers and col­speaker at the dinner, offered how to connect to your alum­leagues) will want to work a similar take. ni... with. someone they can "The most important reason 
Mousaw said etiquette was trust." students need professional highly rnlevant to job place­Marc Burdell, the senior etiquette is to gain social flu­nwnt. director of the Alumni ency," she said. 
Shn offered an exam pie Association, said business eti­"Conversational arts are a whnre an interviewer at a quette "reflects on the organi­·soft skill that will provide job restaurant mentioned the zational skills" of job candi-opportunities." soup was dates. Costello said she adjusted good. Candidates her dinner to Notre Dame by 
"Thn appli­a r e placing a special emphasis on
"Employers are looking for 
cant reachnd expected ethics and integrity. ovnr and tast­people with discernment to send a "Many other places aren't ed some of and integrity, employees handwrit­asking me to talk about that. his soup," she ten thank­It's cutting edge," she said.
they can count on to make
said. "lie did­you note to "Employers are looking for n't get the good judgments to uphold their inter­people with discernment and job." the corporate brand." viewer and integrity, employees they can 
p a dress pro­count on to make good judg­Mousaw, an fessionally, ments to uphold the corporate
Maureen Costello 
engineering he said. brand." 
Image consultant
graduatn stu­.. y 0 u Employees with poor judg­dent, said can't be ment might cross the line business eti-too well­from hosting business part­quettn is relnvant nven to dressnd," he said. "Consider ners to making bribes, which nnginenrs and other seien­evnrything you're wearing. is a federal crime, she said. tists. Your attire is your first 
"(They are in) fewer situa­chance to make an impres­Contact Brian McKenzie at tions wilh r.ustomnrs, but they sion. Dressing poorly defi-bmckenzi@nd.edu 
from a Web site and print Carroll's funding last year of them at no charge." $1,200.
Carroll 

Other parts of the Carroll With an expected atten­continued from page I Christmas inelude Christmas dance four times Carroll's 
karaoke, a snow cone population, the members of which consisted of Sanchez maehine and a cookie-baking the planning committee said and seniors Pnter Hadley and eontest. A panel of Carroll it is gratifying to welcome Jimmy Buf"fi. has r.ommis­residents will judge those students from other parts of sillned some fun activities who bring in cookies, and the campus all at once. that may keep attendees winner will reeeive a gift cer­"I felt a slight amount of around for a while. tificate to the South Bend pressure when we were 
Thn decorations begin at Chocolate Factory. awarded this sum of money," the entrance to the dorm on Carroll received 10 percent Sanchez said. "But now that I Carroll Drive. whPre luminar­of the Hall President have seen the enthusiasm ies -candle lanterns made Couneil's budget to fund the show, especially from our from small paper bags -will event. freshman this year, the pres­line thn road to provide the "We've been putting a lot sure is off now. We feel like dorm entrance a warm glow. more work into it and it has we need to make this big and Just outside thn building, a been improving dramatically, it's exactly what we've done." large Christmas tree will be and 1-IPC has realized that it lit and landscaped for visitors has become the premier Contact Rohan Anand at to appreciate. Christmas event on campus," ranand@nd.edu 
Inside, snowflakes, lights, Hadley said. and garlands will be hanging Sanchez said he worked from the eeilings and walls. hard to make this signature 
Each  Carroll  event  for  
resident  will  Carroll stand  
have a Christmas stocking bear­ing his name. A  "In the past, the pictures with Santa have been a  out when he applied for funding earli­er this year.  
giant pole -represent  to the  huge hit."  "They eval­uate past his­ 
North Pole -will be the cnn­ Peter Hadley  tory, the [event's] con­ 
terpie<~e  for the  Carroll Hall senior  tribution  to  
lounge,  along  Notre Dame,  
with  blow-up  significance,  

polar bears and snowmen. and allocate funds based on 
Best of all, thnre is a desig­those eriteria," he said. "In nated space for Santa's work­submitting our application, I shop, where people will have was audacious in talking the opportunity to take pic­about ways to design the tures with Santa and meet event, and noted how each Mrs. Claus and two of the year we have attracted more couple's elves. people." 
"In the past. the pictures Once the funding distribu­with Santa havn been a huge tions were announced, the hit." lladley said. "It's a pop­planning committee was ular thing for couples or shocked to discover that its groups of friends to take pho­event was tied with the tos with him. On Saturday, Kennan Hevue and the Fisher people will be able to down­Hegatta as the top dorm load their pictures along with events in terms of funding, at 
Dame, both graduate and undergraduate students, par­
Novel 
continued from page I 
make it." 
Writing at a consistent pace, a NaNoWriMo contestant should produce 1,667 words a day. Sitting down and writing eaeh day to meet the word count goal was the biggest challenge, Conway said. 
"There would be some days, when I was like, 'Yeah, I have time to write from here to here,' and then something would come up and I wouldn't sit down and do it," she said. 
Writing the novel didn't get in the way of her school work or her social life, Conway said. She speculated that could be the reason she was so far behind in the word count at the beginning of the week. 
Freshman Emily Craven. a friend of Conway's, also set out to write a novel for the NaNoWriMo contest. Craven's story, about two men just out of college who go on a drug run across the U.S., was 18,000 words long by Thursday evening. 
She said her new goal for tonight was to reach the halfway point, 25,000 words. She plans to finish the entire novel before Christmas. 
Craven said she was a little disappointed she could not finish by the deadline. She said other commitments got in the way of her writing. 
"But I have hopn for next year," she said. "And I am going to continue writing this story. I'm still really excited about it." 
Craven said the hardest part of writing was coming up with new material, as her charac­ters attempt to make it to California, ticking off drug dealers along the way. 
Conway and Craven estimat­ed about 20 people at Notre ticipated in the NaNoWriMo contest. During Oetober, the freshmen put up signs around campus to encourage people to join them in their novel­writing expedition. Seven or eight people responded, they said. 
During November, Conway and Craven oeeasionally met with five of the respondents to write their novels together. 
' They also went to a writing session held by the South Bend chapter of NaNoWriMo writers at the Barnes and Noble in Mishawaka. Mostly older adults, but also some graduate students, were at the event. 
Conway said she thought the writing sessions helped her brainstorm the direction of her story. 
"It's nice to be able to be like, 'Oh, I don't know what I'm talking about here,' and then someone else may know," she said. 
Conway sent her story to NaNoWriMo's Web site Thursday for a final word count validation. The site announeed her a winner and 
displayed  a  enrtil"icate with  
her word  count for  h11r  to  
print.  

Conway and Craven said their friends have asked to read their novels af'ter they arc done. Conway said she will put her novel aside until January, when she then plans to edit it. 
"I think it has moments where it's pretty good and then moments where it's pret­ty horrible," she said. "It's a first draft." 
Will Conway and Craven be writing another novel next November? 
"Definitely," Conway said. 
"Absolutely," said Craven. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Ever wondered about the World's different Holidays? Have your own experiences to share? Come to Interrace Forum!! 
a limitt~d Christmas frame $2,000 apince -up from 

Interrace F arum
Please recycle 
Wednesday December 5th Coletnan Morse Student Center 
The Observer. 


RSVP by Monday Dec.3 msps@nd.edu or call 631-6841 

**Student panel discussion** . And Great food!! 

Friday, November 30, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,331.73 +22.2g
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,530 89 1,830 3,538,754,697 
AMEX 2,333;53 ~20.41 NASDAQ 2,66~U3 +5.22 NYSE 9,773,57 x<t7.48 S&P 500 I ,469.72 +0.70 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,564;,3 .. +41.1'7 FTSE 100 (London) 6,349.10 +42.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.03 +0.05 147.18 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.43 +0.22 51.70 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -0.88 -0.27 30.25 CITIGROUP INC (C) 0.00 0.00 32.29 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.11 -0.085 3.940 13-WEEK BILL -2.53 -0.075 2.885 30-YEAR BOND -1.32 -0.058 4.349 5-YEAR NOTE -2.21 -0.077 3.407 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.39 91.01 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -5.00 802.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.28 91.20 
. Exchange Rates YEN 109.90 EURO 0.6782 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9970 BRITISH POUND 0.4851 
IN BRIEF 
FCC may regulate cable monopolies 
WASHINGTON The Federal Communications Commission may consider a long-dormant proposal that would cap the number of customers a single cable television company may serve, agency officials said Thursday. 
Chairman Kevin Martin is circulating the proposal among his fellow commissioners for a possible vote at the agency's next meeting, scheduled for Dec. 18. 
Martin. fresh ofT a marathon meeting that featured a bruising battle with the cable industry, also wants commissioners to vote on a number of media ownership issues, includ­ing his proposal to allow one company to own both a newspaper and a radio or television station in the nation's 20 largest markets. 
Fearing the potential monopoly power of cable television companies, Congress in 1992 directed the FCC to establish limits on how many customers cable television companies could reach nationwide. The FCC settled on a 30 percent cap, but the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit rejected the rule in 2001, saying the agency had failed to adequately justify its reasoning. 
Copper prices rebound as gold falls 
NEW YOHK-Copper prices pushed high­er Thursday, taking cues from firmer stock prices on Wall Street and a strong reading on third-quarter economic growth. 
Other commodities including oil, corn and wheat also edged up, but gold slipped. 
The industrial metals market, much like the stock market. has been ripe for a rebound after a sharp downward correc­tion. Copper, considered a bellwether for the base metals, has roughly followed the path of the Dow Jones industrial average and other stock indicators in recent months, and the direction had been mostly down until a modest recovery set in earlier this week. Copper is down nearly 20 percent from its ·October high. 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Bemanke suggests interest rate cut 
Federal Reserve chairman predicts an economic recession ifconsumer spending falls 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke on Thursday hinted that another interest rate cut may be needed to bolster the economy. The worsening credit crunch, a deepening housing slump and rising energy prices probably will create some "headwinds for the con­sumer in the months ahead," he said. 
Bernanke said he expects consumer spending will continue to grow and sug­gested the country can withstand the current prob­lems without falling into a recession. But he indicated that consumers could turn more cautious as they try to cope with all the stresses. 
The odds have grown that the country eould enter a recession. A sharp cut­back in consumer spending could send the economy into a tailspin. Against this backdrop, Fed policymak­ers will need to be "excep­tionally alert and flexible," Bernanke said. 
That comment probably will be viewed as a sign the Fed may lower interest rates when it meets on Dee. 11, its last session of the year. 
"Bernanke is leaning in the direction of a rate cut," said Brian Bethune, econo­mist at Global Insight. 
Twice this year the cen­said in a speech Thursday activity in housing markets ance, though, was not tral bank has trimmed night to business people in and in other credit-sensi­expected to carry into the rates to keep the housing Charlotte, N.C. tive sectors," he said. final three months of the collapse and credit crunch A copy of his remarks Bernanke spoke hours year, when analysts expect from throwing the economy was made available in after the White House low­growth of 1.5 percent or into a recession. Those cuts Washington. ered its economic growth less. came in September and late The economic outlook has projection for 2008 due to Just a day before October. been "importantly affected the deteriorating housing Bernanke's speech, the 
ln the October meeting, over the past month by market. The White House Fed's No. 2 official suggest­Bernanke and his Fed col­renewed turbulence in also raised its estimate for ed the central bank may be leagues signaled that fur­financial markets, which unemployment next year, inclined to slice rates again ther cuts might not be has partially reversed the but said inflation should because of Wall Street's needed. Since then, howev­improvement that occurred moderate. turbulence and the worsen­er, financial markets have in September and October," The Commerce ing problems in housing endured more turmoil. The Bernanke said. "These Department reported that and in credit markets. housing slump has deep­developments have resulted the economy grew at a 4.9 Donald Kohn's remarks ened, consumer confidence in a further tightening in percent rate from July sent the market soaring, has plummeted and con­financial conditions, which through September, the with the Dow Jones indus­sumer spending "has been has the potential to impose fastest pace in four years. trial average gaining more on the soft side," Bernanke additional restraint on The impressive perform-than 300 points. 

China agrees to eliminate tax breaks 
Associated Press tax breaks that had penalized U.S. produce much bigger results to 
and other foreign countries in try­have an impact on America's 
WASHINGTON -The Bush ing to sell their goods in China. record trade deficit with China, administration announced Schwab said the economic boost which hit $233 billion last year Thursday it had settled a major for U.S. companies would be "very and will be even larger this year. trade dispute with an agreement in substantial" because the tax They singled out a range of areas which the Chinese government has breaks have been so pervasive. where they contend that unfair pledged to end several trade-dis­While she did not provide any con­Chinese practices are driving the torting tax subsidies. crete estimates on the value of the deficit higher and have contributed 
The deal represents a break­subsidies, she said a whole range to the loss of 3 million U.S. manu­through in tense economic rela­of U.S. industries from steel to facturing jobs since 2000. tions between the countries by wood products to information tech­"China's currency doesn't float resolving one of four cases the nology would benefit. freely, certain U.S. industries with United States has brought before "This outcome represents a victo­competitive advantages can't oper­the World Trade Organization ry for U.S. manufacturers and their ate freely in China's economy, and attacking Chinese trade practices. workers," she told reporters. "The some of the products it exports are 
U.S. Trade Hepresentative Susan agreement also demonstrates that faulty and dangerous," said Sen. Schwab said China had agreed to two great trading nations can work Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. "It seems eliminate WTO-illegal tax breaks together to settle disputes to their that China has taken a small step that supported Chinese exports to mutual benefit." on the long road toward playing the United States and other coun­However, administration critics more fairlyin global trade, but tries. China also agreed to scrap said President Bush will have to only time will tell." 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 30, 2007 
Scientists 111ap gene svvitches. 
New research shows why some are vulnerable to diseases, obesity 
Associated Press 

WASIIINC;TON -Hmnernber biology class where you learned that children inherit one copy of a gene from morn and a seeond from dad? There's a twist: Some of those genes arrive switehed ofT, so there is no bac:kup if the other eopy goes bad, making you more vulnerable to disorders from obesity to eaneer. 
Duke University seientists now have identified these "silenced genes," creating the first map of this unique group of about 200 genes believed to play a profound roln in peo­plo's health. 
More intriguing, the work marks an important step in studying how our environment -food, stress, pollution ­intnracts with genes to help deterrninn why some people gnt sick and others do not. 
"What wn havn is a bag of gold nuggets," lead rnsearelwr Dr. Handy .Jirtle said about the collection of "imprinted" genns. The team's findings wern published online Friday by the journal Genome Hesearch. 
Next eornes work to prove nxactly what role these genes play. "Sornn will be real gold and some will lw fool's gold," .Jirtln added. 
Usually, people inherit a copy or each gene from 
"What we have is a
naeh parent reported. One, and both bag ofgold nuggets. for example, 
eopies arn 5iome will be real gold appears to pre­aetivn, pro­vent bladder
and some will be 
grammed to cancer. A sec­do their jobs fool's gold. " ond appears to whnnnvnr play a role in nnnded. If causing various
Randy Jlrtle 
one copy of a cancers and
Duke University
g (1 n (1 may affect 
scientist
bneomes epilepsy and 
111 utatml and quits working properly, often thn other eopy can c:ompnn­satn. 
Gn1wtic imprinting knoeks out that backup. It nwans that for somn gnnns, people inhnrit an active copy only from the mother or only from thn fatlwr. Mofpeular signals tnll, or "imprint," thP copy from tlw other pan~nt to he silent. 
Jirtle compared it to flying a two-engine airplane with one engine cut off. If the other engine quits, the plane crash­es. Jn genetic terms, if one tumor-suppressing gene is sileneed and the active one breaks down, a person is more susceptible to cancer. 
Only animals that have live births have imprinted genes. It was not until 1991 thai it was proved that humans had them. Until now, only about 40 human imprinted 
genes had "It's notjust about the environ­been identi­sequence ofyour genes, ment can 
fied. reprogram
but how that sequence is 
The Duke how some 
map verified turned on and offby g e n e s those 40 and environmental exposures operate, 
identified 156 making
that is likely to determine 
m o r e t h e m
whether you will be 
Hesearchers speed up fed DNA healthy." or slow sequences into down or a computer work at
Nora Volkow 
program that the wrong decoded pat­time. In a
director terns pointing National Institute on ground­to the pres­breaking
Drug Abuse 

ence or imprinted genes instead of active ones. 
Many of the newly found imprinted genes are in regions or chromosomes already linked to the develop­ment of obesity, diabetes, can­cer and some other major dis­eases, the researchers 
bipolar disor­der. 
Scientists had thought imprinted genes would account for about 1 percent of tlH~ human genome. While sci­entists must double-eheek that the newly identified ones are truly silnnced, thn new map matches that tally. 
"It's a faseinating paper," said Dr. Nora Volkow, dirnctor 
of the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Volkow praised the new mapping method for spePding thn slow discovery of these genes. 
She said finding which genes are imprinted is impor­tant for a bigger question: How do behavioral or environ­mental factors tip the balance for someone who is genetical­ly predisposed to a health problem? 
Previous work by Jirtle and 
others 
shows the 
2 0 0 3 

experi­ment, Jirtle fed pregnant mice different nutrients to alter the coat color of their babies. The feed affected chemical signals that control how hard a cer­tain gene worked, determin­ing when the babies had yel­low coats like morn or brown ones. 
"It's not just about the sequence of your genes, but how that sequence is turned on and off by environmental exposures that is likely to determine whether 'you will be healthy," Volkow said. Imprinted genes "are likely to be particularly susceptible to environmental factors." 
Sometimes imprinting goes awry before birth, leaving a normally silenced gene "on" or silencing onP that should not be. Faulty genp imprinting leads to some dovastating developmental disorders, such as Angnlman syndrome, which causes mental retardation. 
Now a question is how imprinting may bn changed to reaetivatn an imprinted gone aftor birth. 
Clinton calls for action againstAIDS 
Associated Press 
LAKE FOHEST, Calif. ­Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton used an appearance at one of the nation's largest evangeli­cal churches Thursday to sketch a broad agenda to take on disease around the globe, calling it "the right thing to do." 
The centerpiece of a speech laeed with Biblical rp,ferences and reflections on her own faith was a call to spend billions of dollars to combat HlV/AIDS and other infectious diseases at horne and abroad. She said she would try to stamp out malar­ia deaths in 
"[AIDS] is a problem
Africa within response to eight years. ofour common Clinton's Money and appearance
humanity, and we are 
government at the
called to respond with 
alone cannot ehurch, but it solve the prob­love, with mercy and was muted lems, she said. compared to
with urgency." 
AIDS "is a prob­last year lem of our com­when more mon humanity, Hillary Rodham Clinton than a dozen and we are U.S. Senator conservative 
On Thursday, speaking to about 1,700 eonferonce attendees, she said as presi­dent she would also call for spending $1 billion a year to address malaria infection in Africa. She set a goal of eradicating malaria deaths in Africa by the end of her second term. 
Many Christian conserva­tives dread the possibility of another Clinton White House, a point of agreement in a year when prominent leaders in the movement have divid­ed their loyalties among GOP contenders. 
There was a sprinkle of 
criticism 
from conser­
vatives in 

called to respond with love, with mercy and with urgency," she said. 
With the presidential cam­paign intensifying in Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina, Clinton was alone among leading candidates to fly to coastal California to appear at Saddleback Church in Orange County, where pastor and best-selling author Rick Warren con­venes a conference each year to highlight the global thrnat posed by I-IIV/AIDS. 
Earlier this week Clinton rnleased her proposal to combat the spread of IIIV/AJDS, which focuses in part on fighting the spread of the illness in minority com­munities. As president, shn would double thn HIV/AIDS research budget at the National Institutes of Health -to $5.2 billion annually ­and spend at least $50 bil­lion within five years around the globe. 
leaders 
signed a let­ter urging Warren to rescind an invitation to Sen. Barack Obama, D-111., who supports abortion rights. The chureh defended his appearance. 
Warren is theologically and socially conservative, but he is known for avoiding thP serum of partisan politics. The author of "The Purpose­Driven Life" has dnvotnd much of his time in recent years mobilizing evangelicals to fight AIDS in Africa. 
The speeeh gavn Clinton a chance to appear on stage with the popular pastor ­who greeted hnr with a hug -as well as talk at length about her own faith. 
''I've bonn raised to under­stand the power and purpose of prayer," she said at one point. 
Warren thank1Hl hnr for attending. "Wn invited all of them to eonw, but shn was the one who showed up," lw said. 
Please recycle The Observer. 

Study in l)C during the Fall 2008 Elections or Spring 2009 Presidential Inauguration and N e\v Congressional Session! 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Wf A ,s····H:·II·····N·rG<.·T···· ( ~· ! ; / i:· ·N·· P·/R'·o(·····Gi.:·RAM·-'
A ,., ; ..·.·.·.· .. ·. .. : ·. .! • • • ···.·. ... · . ·... • ·.· . / • , . . . i . .. '. •.
.. 


INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE Thursday, December 6, 2007 163 Hurley, 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
DEADLINE FOR 2008-2009 EXTENDED!!! 
Deadline to apply for Fall 2008 or Spring 2009 is January 23, 2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
Friday, November 30, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page I 0 Friday, November 30 2007 
----------========­
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
El>ITOR IN CH!EI' Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken rowk·r Kyle West 
A~sT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen L1ngley 
VIEWPOINT EI>JTOR: joey King 

SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENE ElliTOR: "lae Andrews 
SAINT MARY's ElliTOR: Katie Kohler 

PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
At>VliiiTISlNG MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AI> Df.~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 

CoNTROl.l.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX ('i74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

('i74) 6.31-6900 ohs<·rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74l 6JI-4'i42 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-'i.\23 ohsnews.J@nd.eJu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 6.3 1-S.\0.3 vi<-wpoint.l @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 

('i74) 631-4543 'ports. I@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphom@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the scudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is not govern~-d by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact inforn1ation. 
Q=tiotu "f,arding Obsm;er po!icii!S should be directed to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'l11c Oh.crvrr (liSPS'?') 2-4000) 11 publudu:d Munday rlmJtlgh !'rid.ly exl'ept' dunug cum -.ncl v...,·,.rlunl'<'rll1t.h. A.ub.cnrfimlto'llu· O~rvtt i• SIOO for onr ~c.;:;~d'"mk yur. $'5 l~1r 1111( km.:.trr 
The Olwrvcr i• JHJhl~~ohcJ .11. I'OHMA>TER Ol-1 Sourh Oininslhll ~nd o~ddrn:s corr«tiom tu Nnw: lhmc, IN 46'S"S6-0n9 Tht"Obscrva l~noJ.kal pc1111JKC pcud ,u Nncrc D.unc P.O Bnxn9 11nd .u!dh1•111•l mailin~ uffi~:n. 021 South Dining H.all 
Nom: OJ.mc, IN 46~SI)..o77'l 
1 he Ohlcrver i•" member nlrhc A.&nci.ucti Pres~~. All rcJIWdu~:riun ri~f\ .Itt' rcJ~C:rvcJ. 
SAO should change rules 
There is a movement on campus to support U.S. Sen. Barack Obama in his push for the Democratic nomination for president, but it's unfortunate that most students will never know how to join. Nor will they see posters for student groups backing Hudy Giuliani, or John Edwards, or Hon Paul. 
Primary groups ean't get official club recognition from the Student Activities Ol'lice because they arc inherently tempo­
rary. Student Activities ol'lieials told The Observer that prospective dubs must meet two main crite­ria: the ability to lit within the Catholic character of the University, and the ability to be sustained and use funds responsibly. And the Club Coordination Council, the money-allocating body of student government, doesn't fund groups formed to support specific candidates. 
In theory, that makes sense. It would be unfair 
OTHE BSERVER 
Editorial 
to send student activity fees toward a certain candidate's campaign. And sure, we don't want students knocking on our dorm room doors five times a night to pitch one candidate after another. In praetice, however, the system is flawed, gov­ernnd by excessively rigid rules and tangled in too much bureaucratie tape. 
Groups with a temporary, but important focus-such as primary dubs-should be able to apply for the right to hang 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF News Sports QUOTES OF THE DAY 
Kaitlynn Hiely  Chris Hine  
Liz Harter  Bill Brink  
Madeline Buckley  Sam Werner  
Graphics Julie Grisanti  Scene Michelle Fordice  '"Pride' stands for 'personal responsibility in daily excellence. "'  
Viewpoint Kara King  Lou Holtz American football coach and philosopher  

posters and meet regularly on campus. It's true that du Lac allows students to apply to host one-time rallies. But how can anyone eiTectively inform and mobilize interested students without continued campus advertising'? 
But that's not the only problem. It takes the majority of an academie year for groups to earn club status: Apply in November; hear back in March. That kind of timeline makes 
it impossible to do anything quickly. In efl'ect, that's what tlw University wants-the chance to evaluate prospective clubs and weigh their potential value to the campus community. But student primary groups pres­ent a convincing case for an exception and a quicker timetable. 
Notre Damn has the undesirable reputation of being a politieally apathetic campus. While 
the University certainly isn't alone in that regard, situations like this only worsen the problem. Allowing primary groups to advertise and meet -without nocnssarily allotting them any funds-would encourage greater political participation among students. And it wouldn't hurt anyone. 
This is one of those times wlwn a specific case displays a rule's excessive scope. Allowing for an exception is a simple change, but an important one. 
"You cannot depend on your eyes when your imagination is out offocus. " 
Mark Twain American author and humorist 
-------------------------------------. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, November 30, 2007 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
De-mystify admissions 
As the alumni schools representative for the Jackson, Mich. area, I was very pleased to read the viewpoint expressed by Andrew Nesi {"Mysterious admissions standards," Nov. 29). Each year I find it more and more difficult to answer questions of parents whose qualified kids are not admitted to Notre Dame. Many of these people are friends and aequaintances which makes the chore all the more difficult. And yes, some are alums whose legacy children did not make it for reasons that cannot be explained. The admissions office has not been helpful to us in dealing with these situations. I think the recommendation of Nesi has merit and should be seriously considered. 
Jack Fremeau alumnus Class of 1971 

Support women's soccer 
Help! Our Lady has been watching over us during these NCAA playoffs, and we now not only need her help, but we need your (our students) help as well. 
We will host the NCAA quarterfinal round of the women's soccer play­oil's this Friday night at 7 p.m. against Duke. The winner will go to the College Cup Final Four the following weekend in College Station. Duke is a very talented team, and we could really use your help by coming out to Alumni Field this Friday to help cheer us on. Last year you supported us in a tremendous way (more than 3,000 people), and it was a huge factor in our win over Penn State. We need your help once again, and are ask­ing that you brave the weather and come out with the true "Irish spirit" that represents this great University. Thank you so much to all of you who have supported us so far this year, and to all the dorms in particular that have adopted this team. I hope to see you all Friday night! 
Go Irish. 
Randy Waldrum head women's soccer coach Nov. 26 

Hitting back 
Hegarding John Everett's column "Hit me with your best shot" (Nov. 29): I low dare he say that bacon is overrated? I love bacon. 
Blair Rasmus freshman Dillon Hall Nov. 29 
U-WIRE 

Black Friday ruins the holidays 
The calendar may still say that it's November, but for retailers, every day before Dec. 25 is Christmas. 
It happens every year: Thanksgiving becomes a quick afterthought, and the day after . Thanksgiving simply !V'ansha . becomes "Christmas." Pietrowski 
Or, Thanksgiving doesn't happen at all Bowling Green if you wait outside of University BG Best Buy at 5 p.m. for News the next day's free gadget that you don't have a practical use for, but only want because you get it free for nearly freezing to death the night before. Plus, receive a bonus gift that you don't care for if you have frostbitten fin­gers when the doors open! 
While watching the news this past week, the impression I received from the multi­ple reports on "Black Friday" was that it was the make or break moment for retail­ers. It almost becomes like Christmas for the retail industry. Each company waits in anticipation to see if they will get the Christmas financial miracle of getting into the black, or a giant lump of coal of stay­ing in the red. Forget the other 10 months of the year, November and December are the only months that matter. 
In fact, "Black Friday" was originally a name for the day within the retailing industry. Now it seems to be christened by the media as the day's official title. Sure, there may be some fair deals to take advantage of on Black Friday (that is, unless the stores have only ordered two of the item you want, and you're the third customer), but overall, the day simply serves to kick off a fully fledged and over­hyped phenomenon known as "The Holiday Season." 
It's bad enough that I began seeing Christmas commercials for stores the week before Halloween (and I thought Nov. 1 was bad last year!), but it's frus­trating to see Thanksgiving has all but dissipated into "Black Friday Eve." There is no longer a sense of separation between Thanksgiving and Christmas to the retailers and the media that exces­sively cover their ups and downs in the market. 
Thanksgiving is supposed to be a time to settle down and relax with a nice meal with your family. But on the day after? Anything goes. People are given free reign to max out their credit cards and buy large amounts ofmaterial goods that like­ly aren't necessities for the beneficiary. We're supposed to have a slice of humble pie on Thanksgiving and count our bless­ings, but the next day the American pub­lic is craving more and more. We need to forget about being grateful for what we have, let's talk about what's next on our wish list!lt's bad enough that Black Friday is as big as it is, but it's made even worse by the media's incessant coverage of the sales and people waiting in line the night before and the day of the sales. I had heard so much about the sales being offered at the stores on the news that I didn't even need to look in the newspaper or on the stores' Web sites to find out what was being offered! Of course, in case I didn't know how to find the sales on the Internet, the news outlets advertised numerous Web sites that listed the deals at each store. If it was too difficult to watch the commercials, the newscasts even integrated mentions of the sales, special gifts and store openings into their general newscasts. 
The line was blurred between news and advertising last week, and in my eyes, the news simply became a product placement showcase. There was no need for com­mercial airtime; retailers got their face time for free right during the show! Viewers had the chance to see the long lines at Target and other chains on the news that evening, giving them free pub­licity. "Hey, if all of those people are wait­ing in line, I should be too! The stores must be offering something good!" 
I'm not saying that presents are bad, or that you shouldn't look to get good deals when you are buying them. Christmas can be a joyous time of giving, but the con­sumerist feelings that are evoked throughout the season are too much too soon. If you celebrate Christmas, the sea­son should be focused on Dec. 25, not on the false holiday created by retail and propagated by the media known as Black Friday and the 31 days of Christmas to follow. 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 29 edition of The BG News, the daily publication of Bowling Green University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Tracking the GOP-Tube debate 
Last night, the Hepubliean presidential field took questions from average Americans through CNN's YouTube.com Debate, where questions are posed 
through YouTube videos.  
For those of you who  
missed it, I watched  Michael  
dosely and drank heav  Sherry  
-er, took careful  
notes. You can watch it  Tufts Daily  
online and follow  
along.  

Hemember, anytime someone says "Heagan," you have to chug. 
8:08p.m.: Illegal immigration is the first topic discussed. Former Gov. Mitt Homney (Mass.) confirms the prevailing wisdom that former New York City Mayor Hudy Giuliani is the only candidate he's worried about by attacking him immediately for leading NYC as a "sanctuary city for illegal immigrants." 
Giuiiani swats back with a clever line ­while Homney was governor, his house was a "sanctuary mansion" because the governor's mansion employed illegal immigrants. The two then ignore the mod­erator and spend five minutes arguing. Homney comes off clean, and Giuliani retreats to lick his wounds. Romney vs. Giuliani is the most important dynamic in the Republican race, and this was a microcosm of it. 
8:19p.m.: Former Sen. Fred Thompson (Tenn.) reminds everyone that he won't go quietly. He jabs Homney over flip-flops on immigration, and reminds Giuliani that we've all made some embarrassing hiring decisions -a veiled thrust at Hudy's hir­ing of the insanely corrupt former New York City police commissioner Bernie Kerik. Both men glare daggers at the tall Tennessean. 
9:04 p.m.: Giuliani badly fumbles a gun­control question. In a Hepublican primary, you don't want to sound like you respect the Second An}endment grudgingly _ you need to sound genuine. Giuliani goes through the motions, but doesn't sound thrilled about gun rights. Homney smiles, sensing fodder for a campaign commer­cial. 
9:17p.m.: Giuliani's claim to read the Bible frequently rings a bit false. The question, "Do you believe every word of the Bible?" trips up Homney worse though. Worried that it's a trick to get him to talk about his Mormonism, he takes a very uncharacteristic deer-in-the-head­lights pause and stammers out a focus­group-approved "I believe the Bible is the word of God." 
Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee's career as a Baptist minister serves him well here; he speaks with eloquence on the topic. This is the driving force behind Huckabee's meteoric rise in the Iowa polls: conservative evangelicals sensing one of their own and rallying to him. 
9:26 p.m.: Watching Sen. John McCain (H-Ariz.) speak on Iraq is a reminder of why he m~ed to be the front-runner: The topic engages him like no other, and he speaks with conviction, sincerity and pas­sion. For a brief minute, the old McCain is back, and all the other candidates are just kids in Dad's shadow. 
9:29 p.m.: Romney is chosen by moder­ator Anderson Cooper to go toe-to-toe with McCain on torture. As a POW, McCain was tortured for years in Vietnam; you cannot go against him and not look like a jerk. 
The other candidates quietly thank God they weren't selected to disagree with McCain. Homney takes his lumps and slinks away. 
9:48 p.m.: A 72-year-old retired brigadier general asks why gays can't serve openly in the military. Judging from the candidates' embarrassed looks while telling the man (who is in the audience, and has come out as gay) that he ruins "unit cohesion," I'd say this stance is going out of favor even in conservative circles. 
For now, though, they give the safe answer. 
This column first appeared in the Nov. 29 edition ofthe Tufts Daily, the daily publication at Tufts University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 Friday, November 30, 2007 


Scene Editor 
Carp,y Denha is thP. singer. Jason Gittinger is the drummer. Mick Madness is the guitar player. Takash i Iio is the bass ·: player. 
Combined, they form Mega SO's, perhaps the most awesome cover band this side of East Lansing, Mich. Mega SO's takes Legends back a few decades tonight as it takes the stage with its 10 p.m. show. 
"The SOs decade of music was a wonderful and exciting time in the world of music," Gittinger said in an e­mail Wednesday. lie has been drumming for the Mega SO's sincn 2002. "With the advent of MTV and synthesizer key­boards there were tons of artists doing creatiw~ and fun things both musically and visually. Also, with the Cold War raging and the threat of 'global-thermo-nuelear­war' (to quote Matthew Broderick from 'War Games') music became a fun place for people to escape and live. We love to bring a bit of this escape to our audience every night." 
With its extensive musical supply of all things SOs, it would be fair to say Mega 80s brings more than just "a bit" to its show. The band features more than 200 songs in its reper­amount of time to rock joined the band three out onstage at each of and a half years ago. Iio its shows, Mega 80's has learned to play the bass taken to creating med­as a member of his high leys that combine sever­school jazz band and al songs. Its "Mega cites Prince as his Metal Medley," for favorite act of the 80s, example, boasts 24 although he says songs. "Paradise City" by Guns 
Denha formed Mega 'N Hoses is his favorite 80s in East Lansing, song because he can Mich. Since then, band "jump up and down and members have come and act silly" while perform­gone, but one thing has ing it. remained the same: its While he has opened commitment to musical for The Tubes, Culture excellence. The band Club, Cheap Triek, membnrs have also com­Loverboy, Men at Work, mitted themselves and Romantics, The Go-Gos, their music to their and 38 Special, Gittinger s o u r c e said he material. doesn't 
"Although have any all of the particular members of favorites.
Mega 80's·

the produc­"All of tion are Tonight these acts involved in h a v e tons of 10p.m. become 
musical cir­favorites in cles, we Legends my book choose not because to muddy the music the waters they creat­of this pro-ed has duction with music that touehed so many peo­does not come from the ple," he said. "It's an 1980s," Gittinger said. honor when we get to As such, Mega 80's is bring a bit of the 80s to strictly a cover band. the same stage as "This project is all about them." having a fun time listen­Mega 80's has played ing to music the audi­at Detroit Pistons games ence knows and loves." and Dotroit Fury Arena 
Mega 80's has built a football games at the reputation as a fun, Palace of Auburn Ilills, high-energy bunch and but band members say was named "Best Cover they don't discriminate Band" in Heal Detroit's in terms of venue size "Best of" issue twice, in when bringing their 2003 and 2005. "80s has enthused approach to the most dance-able the stage. 
No matter how big or 
how small a venue or an 
audience is, we all 
always show up to 
roek," Gittinger said. 
"It's really amazing how 
mueh energy you can 
infuse into 12 people at 
a small private event or 
60,000 people in front of 
Ford Field. I love that 
I'm a part of something 
so positive and bringing 
joy to so many people. I 
guess that makes every 
venue 'the best venue 
I've ever played."' 
When asked what 
Notre Dame students 
can expect at tonight's 
show, Gittinger replied, 
"They can expect to 
rock." Iio agreed, saying 
that concertgoers can 
expeet a "high energy 
show" and "lots of fun." 
"It is amazing to see 
people's faces light up 
when we start onn of 
their favorite Dnvo songs, or the crowd's arms in the air during 'Living on a Prayer,' or the 'wall flower, I'm not going to dance' guy in the back checking out all or the 80s video rnf­erenees on the video wall behind us and high­fiving his buddy," Gittinger said. "To take so much time to re-cre­·ate all of the minute details of a decade and put them on a stage for people to enjoy is defi­nitely one of the joys of 
my life." 

Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewI @nd.edu 

1 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, November 30, 2007 
page 13 
·--~·:.~-~~---~---~-~·v 
By JESS SHAFFER Scene Writer 
The. may I say, "winning challenged" football sea­son is over. Television is officially being ravaged by a writer's strike that is 

Jstill in full swing. It's too cold to be outside, and too close to the end of the semester to be in the library. God forbid, letting collegiate studying begin this weekend. But this Saturday, musical salva­tion can rescue you from boredom and homework. At 10 p.m. trendy fan favorite The Format will take the stage at Notre Dame's Legends night elub. This Arizona-based band is sure to satisfy your music needs in the sometimes artistically starved South Bend. There's no cover charge, thanks to the Student Union Board, so there is no reason not to take the 
' 1\ time to go and che_ck out this group. In any city across the country, this would be a sold-out con­cert with tickets going for roughly $30. Notre Dame's intimate free viewing of the group would make any urban indie aficionado more than a little jealous. 
Please don't let the band's in die label fool or intimidate you. While The Format's indie inclination falls under what is often called alternative rock, don't anticipate the angst of emo or artistic superi­ority. This group is not about musical elitism. The Format is stellar at defy­ing the stereotypes of its genre to create genuine tunes that are just plain good. 
Even if you are typically more of a Top 40s fan, you'll find this band's underground vibe to be a welcome departure from conventional music. The Format draws on influ­ences from a hodgepodge of musical genres. Its sound hints of everything from classic and modern rock to pop to jazz and folk. Its melodic instru­mentals are reminiscent of Queen. And its consistent heartiness captures the energy of the British punk movement in a more con­tained, easy-on-the-ears package. 
Its cohesive, developed style is not hindered by its diverse background. Rather, The Format has discovered a master bal­ance of fluid musical vari­ety that it delivers with distinct execution. The Format offers fun music that is mature and intelli­gent. Whether you've been a fan for years or haven't heard of the group until now, The Format is worth taking time to go and see. 
Staying attuned to what makes a good listen, this group offers a fresh take on a completely enjoyable 
music experience.· · Combining smart, refined 
lyrics and a buoyant t instrumental, The Format f is one of the current favorites of the indie field, which includes The Shins or Death Cab for Cutie .. 
The Format's greatest_ strength is its ability to give its audience a musicalt, experience unlike any other. Expect a distinctive show this weekend: The Format has opened for bands like The All American Rejects and headlined its own shows. This group has the experi­ence it takes to pull off a small acoustic concert, so get ready to soak up some impressive tunes. Also be advised to wear comfy shoes. You will be stand­ing during this perform­ance, and you won't be standing still. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu 
~~~~===:~~~~~~d~e~monstrating how ~li~tt~llell~th~e~b~u~s~iness for years. Hlel's~~~tlhlelniiJt~h~e~tback beat, and 
... 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
With its stunning music and tri­umphant celebration, Handel's "Messiah" is one of Christmas' most long lived and beloved traditions, and Notre Dame's Chorale and Chamber Orchestra make it their own in their annual performance of the work. It is no surprise that the show sells out nearly every year. 
Handel's "Messiah" is a fantastic piece for every audience member. Its elegant and exciting melody, spotlight on the choir, soloists and orchestra, each in turn, and familiarity make it a great performance for frequent atten­dees of classical musical performances and new audience members alike. Those familiar with the work can hear the Chorale and Chamber Orchestra's own interpretation of the piece. For those testing the waters of classical music, as the Church of England's "Book of Common Prayer" serves as the source of the libretto, the piece is in English, making it easily approach­able. Besides, who hasn't heard the popular "Hallelujah" chorus at least once? The universality of "Messiah" is one of the best reasons for its longevi­ty. 
Beoause of its frequent performance, "Messiah" is often reinterpreted; directors often choose only certain parts to perform. In past years, direc­tor Alexander Blachly chose for his choir to sing primarily Part I, which focuses on texts about the prophecy of and birth of Jesus Christ, and Part II, which focuses on texts about Jesus Christ's sacrifice and resurrection. He also included two numbers from Part III, which focuses on texts about gen­eral resurrection, and ended with the most famous section of "Messiah," the "Hallelujah" chorus. 
The Chorale is Notre Dame's 55­voice official concert choir, which spe­cializes in works that range from the Renaissance to the present, including pieces by Bach, Mozart, Schubert, Mendelssohn and Stravinsky. The Chamber Orchestra is a select ensem­ble of students that performs both with the Chorale in its on-campus concerts and independently in its own concerts. 
Handel's "Messiah" by the Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra is certain to be one of the best per­formances in the DPAC this season, so don't miss out. Performances will take place in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 8 p.m. today and Saturday. Tickets are $3 for students, $8 for faculty and staff, $6 for seniors and $10 for gener­al audience. To purchase tickets, con­tact the DPAC ticket office at 574-631­2800. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

By STEPHANIE DEPREZ Scene Writer 
Every six months or so a new band comes out that has been picked, produced and perfected by a record com­pany using the standard pop formula. At first glance, OneHepublic seems just that -a band groomed for suc­cess. Upon further review, though. it's clear this band chose a di!lerent path -the MySpace music revolution. Google OneHepublic and the ollicial Web site isn't even on thn sernen. You have to scroll down to find it. It oper­atns from its MySpace page, record companies really needs to do today. 
OneHepublic has .a story quite similar to that of another wildly successful band, The Fray. Like the Denver band we've come to love, OneRepublic began in Colorado when Ryan Tedder met up with one of his high school buddies and started the band in Colorado Springs. They moved to Los Angeles and began working with Timbaland, appearing on his album in a remix of their song "Apologize." They quickly began to dominate MySpace and have !'inally released a full album, "Dreaming Out Loud." 
Dreaming Out Loud 
One Republic Released by: lnterscope Records Recommended Tracks: 
"Apologize," "All Fall Down" 
It's easy to b I a m e OneRepublic for its for­m u I a i c sound, just like every other pop group today, but Tedder, the brain behind the band, has worked in written for artists like Hilary Duff and Natasha Bedingfield. Instead of blam­ing him for imitation, it might be time to give Tedder the recognition he deserves. 

"Dreaming Out Loud" opens in epic fashion, as syn­thesized voices vaguely remi­niscent of Gregorian chant flash back and forth. Curiosity is killed, though, when the radio mainstay . thumpity-thump beat comes in, and from then on the album continues down Formula Road. If you are a fan of Jack's Mannequin, Maroon 5 and Coldplay, this album is yet another gem for the post-pop revolution. If you are searching for new music and a new sound, turn back now. 
The first three songs are pleasant enough. The lyrics are applic-able to anyone's situation, and the melodies are somewhat reminiscent of much of what's been done before. But then comes num­ber four. "Apologize," and you realize this is the pop hit you've been jonesing for. It begins with intense strings, fmally the piano riff that has rocketed this song to the Top 40 and has broken the record for most airplay ever. This song is doomed to be as ubiquitous as "Soulja Boy," so you'd better get used to it. 
The rest of the album con­tinues in similar fashion, with indulgent predictability oozing from every song. The one surprise is the track "All Fall Down," a seemingly sim­ple song that can actually pass as poignant if separated from the other tracks. This is the song worthy of an indie film soundtrack, or the next episode of Grey's Anatomy. 
Whether you love or hate the formula, it exists because it works. There is nothing new here, but nothing awful, either. The casual listener will be quite pleased with this album. OneRepublic will likely be everywhere, over­crowding morning talk shows and MTV, until the next New Band manages to recapture method music in 13 tracks or less. 
Contact Stephanie Deprez at 
sdeprez@nd.edu 
JULIE GRISANTI I Observer Graphic 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 30, 3007 
NHL 

Predators beat Senators with last-minute goal 
Osgood improves to 16-0 against Tampa Bay as Wings beat Lightning; Toronto ends losing streak with win over Atlanta 
you're prtlssing a little bit. goal of the season on a power
Associated Press 

They made a great play." play 44 seconds in when he 
OTTAWA -J.P. Dumont and Dumont assisted on first­jumped on goalie Martin Martin Erat eombined once period goals by defensemen Gerber's fat rebound of again to givP the Nashville Dan llamhuis and Greg de Dumont's shot and put the Predators a spectacular f'if'th Vries before he scored his sev­puck into an open net. and final lead. enth of the season late in the Corvo tied it midway through 
l•:rat seon1d with 22.2 sec­second to give Nashville its the first when he moved along onds ldt to give Nashville a 6-5 third straight one-goal lead. the blue line from the left side v i 1: to r y o v 11 r t h e s lu m p i n g Arter Dany Heatley's 13th to the slot and drovn a slap Ottawa Senators on Thursday goal drnw Ottawa even for the shot over Ellis' glove into the night. third straight time 2:47 into top of the net. 
Dumont got his fourth point tho third, Hyan Suter answered ol' the game on the play as he 1 :03 later with his third goal of Red Wings 4, Lightning 2 stripped tho puck from season to put the Predators up The Detroit Red Wings Ottawa's Dean McAmmond and 4-:~. played a game of keep away. l'ed it to Erat. who beat Martin Suter assisted on Martin And while they had the puck, (;nrber from tlw slot for his Gelinas' third goal that gave Jiri Hudler had a goal and an third point of the game. thn Predators a 5-3 margin at assist to help Detroit beat the 
Senators captain Daniel 8:39. Tampa Bay Lightning on Alfredsson had drawn Ottawa Senators center Jason Spezza Thursday night. nven for tlw fourth time in the made it a one-goal game once Pavel Datsyuk, Tomas garnn just 23 seconds earlier again 3 minutes later with his Kopecky and Dan Clnary also with his 17th goal. fourth goal at 11 :39. scored, and Chris Osgood made 
"Thnrn was no panie, actual­.Joe Corvo and Antoine 21 saves for the NIIL-leading ly," Dumont said. "All game Vermette also scored for Hed Wings. long we tried to keep our com­Ottawa, which also overcame Brad Hichards and Mathieu posure on the bench and it 1-0, 2-1, and 3-2 deficits. Darche scored for Tampa Bay, worked pretty well for us "It was vnry nerve-racking, which lost its sixth straight. tonight. or course, if we do that from a coach's standpoint," Marc Denis stopped 35 shots. too many nights, wn're going to Nashville coach Barry Trotz · "This is a good team. Puck get burned. Tonight was just a said. "You've got a two-goal possession-wise, they killed big two points." lead in the third period, you've us," Tampa Bay's Martin St. 
Ottawa has lost live straight got to hang on to the game Louis said. "It's a tough way to garnns. Al"t11r racing to a 15-2 there." play when you don't have the mark, the Senators are 1-4-2 Nashville backup goalie Dan puck against a good team like in tlwir last seven games. Ellis survived the blown leads that." of the season 7:39 into the with 536 goals, put the Leafs 
"It's tough, but that's part of to maintain his perfect record Hudler opened the scoring middle period on a brnakaway up 2-0 with a backhander from thn ganw," Alfredsson said. with his fifth win in live starts. 3:24 into the game with his off the right wing. He made a the left circle that beat goalin "Hight now I think we're not "Their top linn was gunning sixth goal, tipping in a pass fake on Denis and but a back­Johan lindberg to the stick playing great defensively and and so was ours," Ellis said. from Chris Chelios. The Red hand shot just under the cross­side. we'rn maybe too cautious at "Every single line seemed to Wings outshot the Lightning bar. Antropov earned his 13th tirnns instead of bning a little not take the night off tonight 17-1 in the first period. That's Richards put the Lightning assist on Andy Wozniewski's bit more aggmssive in our own and I think the fans got a great the fewest shots Tampa Bay on the board with 7:57 fpft in bizarre goal that opened the end and getting rid of the puck game and whonver was watch­has had in a period this sea­the period on a one-time shot scoring with 5:50 lel't in the a littln bit too early becaus11 we ing, I hope they enjoyed that son. from the left eircle for his first. Wozniewski might want just want to get it out. That's one becausn that was NHL "They had the puck, we did­eighth goal. to credit Hedberg, who inad­what happened on the last goal h()(:key." n't for the first 20 minutes," Cleary added his eighth goal vertently knocked in the puck and that's what happens when llamhuis scored his second Richards said. 2:05 into the third period when with the back of his left glove. 
Osgood had no problem with he shot in a rebound from the Hegardless, Wozniewski thn inactivity. right circle. raised his arms in triumph 
"I didn't mind that," he said. "I thought our team played after watching his shot sail "If they have only one shot, it's well," he said. "We got a lot of over thn net, ricoehet off the a pretty good chance they're shots and we were physical." rear boards and bounce ofT the not going to score in the peri­Darche scored with 3:06 left. goalie. Hedberg was in the od." crease and facing forward with 
Osgood is 16-0 against Maple Leafs 4, Thrashers 2 the back of his skates at the Tampa Bay. Mats Sundin scored his 13th goal lirw when the puck went 
The Hed Wings also held NIIL goal, and Nik Antropov had into tlw net. scoring leader Vincent two assists to help the Toronto Alex Steen's fourth goal gave Lecavalier and St. Louis, who is Maple Leafs end a four-game the Leaf's a 2-0 load with 4 see­in the top 15. pointless. losing streak with a victory onds left in the first and ended 
"They've got good players," over the Atlanta Thrashers on a personal 11-game scoring Detroit coach Mike Babcock Thursday night. drought. Matt Stajan hadn't said. "You have to be disci­Ilya Kovalchuk scored his scored in his last l 0 games plined and have great goal­NIIL-leading 20th goal 16:20 before his fifth goal put tending." into the second. breaking an Toronto ahead 4-1 with 13:56 
Datsyuk's power-play goal offensive drought for Atlanta rPmaining. 
4:04 into the second period that lasted seven-plus periods Tobias Enstrom's third goal made it 2-0. He put a rebound and covered 166 minutes. for Atlanta, coming on tlw into an open net for his eighth In losing their third straight, power play with 7:29 lnft in the goal of the season and fourth the Thrashers never really game, made it 4-2. in three games. threatened Toronto, which Leaf's goaliP Vesa Toskala 
AP Kopecky, who returned aftPr scored four goals for the 11rst improved to 7 -8-:{ after stop­missing three games with a time in 14 games. ping 18 of 20 shots. Hedberg sore shoulder. got his first goal Sundin, 26th in Nlll. history made 21 savns. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3\J.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. De;rdline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classificds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU If you or someone you care about Adopt: a young loving couple long NUTS? has been sexually assaulted, visit to share their hearts and home with NOTICES FoR RENT PERSONAL http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. a newborn. Will provide endless 
WANT OUT OF THE DORMS? shtrnl Jove. Expenses paid. Call Eileen 2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER­Blue & Gold Hornes now showing UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? and Ed 1-800-718-6577. SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM.27 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com GREAT house for rent available PREGNANT OR KNOW 2-6306 Blue & Gold Hornes 2nd semester January 1st! Do not go it alone. If you or some SOMEONE WHO IS? Islanders 4, Rangers 2 
sale. $200 PiS just off campus 4 bed, 1 bath, 2 mi from ND & near "alumni owned". new jogging trail, garage, central one you Jove needs confidential You do not have to be alone. Henrik Lundqvist is far superior WANTED Bluegoldrentals.com AJC, 
basement, NICE! $1100/mo. 503-support or assistance, please call We want to help. to Rick DiPietro WINTER BREAK WORK $16.25 Walk to campus! Good neighbor­757-8125 or visit domerhomes. base-appt., flexible, no experience hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. wetpaint.com for info & pies. Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For Call our 24 hour confidential hotline No more 40-point losses needed. customer sales/service. Washer/dryer in basement. Duplex apt. for rent or sale. conditions apply, ages 18+, call Landlord does the yardwork. Each unit has newly remodeled 1-more information, visit our website at HlOO-No Abort Get lsiah out now now. start after finals, may continue $750/mo. No pets. No Section 8. bdrm apt.,partially furnished, new at: during the spring, positions through Credit check and criminal back­everything. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­or visit our web site at It's been too long the US, 574-273-3835, www.winter­ground check required. 574-250-Rent $400; sale $45,000. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Bring back Colbert breakwork.com 1266. Call574-233-1604. in THE OBSERVER. www.lifecall.org End the writer's strike 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, November 30, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSFRVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
team  record  previous  
1  North Carolina  5-0  1  
2  UCLA  6-0  2  
3  Memphis  5-0  3  
4  Kansas  5-0  4  
5  Georgetown  3-0  5  
6  Washington St.  6-0  9  
7  Duke  6-0  13  
8  Texas  5-0  15  
9  Texas A&M  6-0  16  
10  Michigan State  4-1  10  
11  Tennessee  5-1  7  
12  louisville  4-1  6  
13  Marquette  4-1  11  
14  Pittsburgh  5-0  17  
15  Indiana  4-1  8  
16  Buller  6-0  22  
17  Oregon  5-1  12  
18  Clemson  5-0  24  
19  Gonzaga  5-1  14  
20  Wisconsin  5-0  NR  
21  BYU  5-1  NR  
22  usc  5-1  NR  
23  Xavier  4-1  NR  
24  North Carolina St.  4-1  NR  
25  Kansas St.  5-1  18  

NCAA Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team record previous 
1 Tennessee 5-0 1 2 Connecticut 5-0 2 3 Maryland 8-0 3 4 North Carolina 7-0 5 5 Rutgers 3-1 7 6 Stanford 5-1 4 7 Georgia 6-0 8 8 LSU 4-2 6 9 Oklahoma 2-2 10 10 Baylor 5-0 13 11 Duke 5-1 9 12 California 4-1 12 13 TexasA&M 4-1 11 14 Arizona State 3-2 14 15 West Virginia 5-1 16 16 George Washington 5-1 11 17 DePaul 4-0 18 18 Auburn 6-tl 24 19 Ohio Slate 5-1 1 20 Michigan State 5·1 19 21 Florida State 5-1 20 22 NOTRE DAME 4-1 23 23 Vanderbilt 5~1 25 24 Texas 4-2 21 25 Wyoming 4-0 NR 
USA TodayjAHM Men's 
Hockey Top 10 
·~~:-·.·. 
team record 


1  Miami  13-1·0  ~,;;F··  
2  Michigan  13·1·0  
3  Denver  9·3·0  
4  Colorado College  8·4-D  
5  Michigan State  8·3·2  6  
6  New Hampshire  7·2·1  8  
7  NOTRE DAME  12-4·0  9  
8  North Dakota  6·4·1  5  
9  Clarkson  10-4·0  7  
10  St. Cloud State  7-3-2  11  

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Fresno State at New Mexico State 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA Boston at Miami 8 p.m., ESPN 
L.A. Lakers at Utah 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FooTBALL 


Associated Press 

BATON ROUGE, La. ­Michigan officials asked for and received permission from LSU to meet with Les Miles about the Wolverines' head football coaching vacancy. 
LSU athletic director Skip Bertman granted the request on condition that Michigan representatives wait until after Saturday's Southeastern Conference championship game in Atlanta before starting negotiations, LSU spokesman Herb Vincent said. 
Vmcent said Bertman and LSU chancellor Sean O'Keefe also plan to meet with Miles next week to dis­cuss his contract. 
"We're trying to get the SEC championship game 
behind us that's why we're scheduling these things for next week," Vmcent said. 
LSU was not prepared to make a statement about the extent to which the school was prepared to compete 
with  Michigan's  offer,  
should  one  be  made,  
Vmcent said.  

"We're just looking for­ward to the game Saturday and that's the focus of the entire program right now, Saturday's game against Tennessee," Vincent said. 
Miles, in his third season as LSU coach, went 11-2 his first two years. The Tigers are 10-2 this season and ranked fifth in The Associated Press poll. 
Calls and e-mails seeking comment were left with Michigan athletic director Bill Martin on Wednesday afternoon and evening. 
IN BRIEF Lakers and Jackson agree 
to contract extension 
LOS ANGELES -Lakers coach Phil Jackson has agreed to terms of a two-year contract extension worth about $24 million, putting him under contract through the 2009-10 season. 
A person with knowledge of the sit­uation, speaking on condition of anonymity because the Lakers hadn't made an announcement, confirmed the agreement. 
Lakers spokesman John Black said Jackson will discuss his contract situ­ation before Los Angeles hosts the Denver Nuggets on Thursday night. 
Jackson's decision to return was first reported by the Los Angeles Times on its Web site. 
The 62-year-old Jackson signed a five-year, $30 million contract with the Lakers in June 1999, and coached them to three champi­onships before they lost to San Antonio in the Western Conference semifinals in 2003. 
Martin, who has not com­mented on the search since Lloyd Carr's announcement, interviewed Michigan coor­dinators Ron English and Mike DeBord earlier this week. 
"We're not going to make any comments on the search," Michigan spokesman Bruce Madej said Wednesday night. 
Miles seems to have everything college football's winningest program is look­ing for, including ties to the school and the late-great coach Bo Schembechler. 
He played at Michigan and was on the coaching staff in Ann Arbor, Mich., where he met his wife. 
Last week, though, Miles pleaded with the media to let the topic rest. 
Even though Miles appears in a great situation 
leading the Tigers in a tal­
ent-rich area without a 
competing school nearby, 
LSU was concerned enough 
about him bolting for 
Michigan that it put a spe­
cific clause in his contract to 
make it an expensive move. 
In the "termination by 
coach" section of his deal, 
Michigan is the only other 
school mentioned. It states 
that Miles will not seek or 
accept employment as 
Michigan's coach. If Miles 
does leave LSU to coach the 
Wolverines, he must pay 
LSU $1.25 million. 
Martin has said he is looking for the next Carr, who led Michigan to the 1997 national champi­. onship and five Big Ten titles while keeping the school above even suspi­cions about NCAA viola­
tions. 

Bonds book to become HBO 
movie 

SAN FRANCISCO -HBO Films is planning to turn a best selling book about Barry Bonds' alleged steroid use and the federal government's wide-ranging probe into perform­ance enhancing drug use in sports into a movie, one of the book's authors said Thursday. 
Lance Williams, a reporter at the San Francisco Chronicle, said that Ron Shelton has been tapped to direct the flick and will co­write the script with "Tin Cup" partner John Norville once the Hollywood writers strike is set­tled. 
The planned movie based on the book "Game of Shadows" was first reported Wednesday by Variety. 
Williams co-wrote the book with sports writer Mark Fainuru­Wada, who recently left the Chronicle to join ESPN. 
Jury awards $5 million to 
Alabama booster 
SCOTTSBORO, Ala. -A jury awarded $5 million Thursday to a former University of Alabama foot­ball booster who claimed the NCAA defamed him when it imposed penalties on the Crimson Tide in 2002. 
The jury awarded Ray Keller $3 million in punitive damages, $1 mil­lion for mental anguish, $500,000 for economic loss and $500,000 for damage to reputation. 
Keller, a timber dealer and fan whom the university severed ties with because of the probe, argued that the NCAA slandered and libeled him during the announcement of penalties by referring to him and others as "rogue boosters," "para­sites" and "pariahs." 
The jury of nine women and three men deliberated an hour Wednesday and about five more Thursday before ruling against the NCAA. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 30, 2007 
NFL 

Favre injured as Cowboys claim top spot in NFC 
Associa1cd Press 

IBVINC, Tnxas-Tony Homo took a kn1w, snaling a playof'f'­rlinching, n~cord-sntting victory ovPr t.hn tnarn hP gn~w up rooting liw and tlw quartPrback lw's obvi­ously pattl'rrwd himself' after. So whnn it was time l'or hugs and handshakPs, tlw kid l'rom Wisconsin went looking lilr Brnlt Favro. 
lin had to settle l'or Aaron 
Hodg1~rs. 

Favrn was alrnady in the locker room gntting trPatPd filr a bangnd­up right dhow and a separatnd lnll shouldnr. Besides, thn graying kon alrnady had stwn enough f'rom Homo and the Dallas Cowboys. 
For all his denials about Favre's influor11:n on him, Homo sure playod a lot likP a young No. 4 Thursday night -f'ull of moxin and joy, but llePding a bit of' a high-win~ act to send thn Cowboys pw;t the ( ireen Bay Packers 37-27 and into the lead for home-field advantagn throughout the NFC playolls. 
"When I got out to the field, (I realizml) it was pretty nnat, the atrnosphnro," Homo said. "I looked around and w;Lo.; like, 'This is why you want to play sporLo.;.' You want to play in ganws like this. Your 1:ompntitivn juin~s get flowing and you want to P,;ow what kind of playPr you an~. 
·Homo lml Dallas to two field goals, tlwn thri'P touchdowns on his lirst live driv1~s. lin finished with four TD passes, giving the <:owhoys ( 11-1) thl'ir sixth straight win and guarantPPing a spot in the playolls. 
They also have a lng up on avoiding a trip to Lambcau Finld should thnsn tp;uns mnnt again in 
' tlw NFC championship. "Wn'vn got oursPivns in the dri­ver's snat," I>alhLo.;' Terroll Owens said. "Now we've got to stay thorn." Tho Packers ( 10-2) ended a six­game winning stmak and are now ossontially two games behind I>allao.; in tlw ehao.;o Jilr the mnfi.lr­nncn's top spot with only four games !nil. The bigger concern is Favre's lwalth. Favro wao.; hurt on a hit by eor­nerback Nato Jonns in thn sneond quarter. I lis run of 241J consPcutive starLo.; -a rocord that's about six Sll<Lo.;ons longPr than the next-bnst by a quarterback -might b11 in jnopardy, although he h;Lo.; 1 0 days to hnal bnforn the l'aeknrs play again, Dec. I) at home against Oakland. "I had a similar injury lao.;t ynar," Favre said. "I lost li•ding in my lin­w~rs and I still have some tingling. But I think I'll bP line." Hodgnrs, who spent tho week prntnmling lw wao.; Homo in (~rnPn Bay practicns, provided tim kind of rally FavrP usually spndalizns in, 
THIS WEEK IN 
PVPn throwing thn first touchdown 
pass of' his thron-year career. But 
hn's no Brett Favrn, so this come­
bark eame up short. 
Homo was 19-of-30 for 301) 

yards. lin's up to 33 Tl> passns, 
srn;Lo.;hing thn dub se;Lo.;on rm:ord. 
lin tied another elub mark by 
throwing a touchdown in his 16th 
straight game. 
Owens r.aught seven passes for 

1 56 yards and a touehdown. lin 
timl a tnam reeord with his 14th 
TD eatch of the season and tied 
another mark with a TD catch in 
seven straight games. Patrick 
Crayton caught two of the touch­
downs and Anthony Fasano thn 
othnr. 
Dallas also nxtended the bnst 

start in franchise history. With four 
games left, the Cowboys already 
havn their most wins in a seao.;on 
sincn going 12-4 in 11JIJ5, their lm;t 
Super Bowl season, and they're 
two wi11s from matching thn fran­
chisP record. 
"It's pretty amazing to break any 

record with all thP glory this team 
has had," first-ynar coach Wade 
Phillips said. 
The Packers are still in great shapP for at least the No. 2 sned and a first-round bye because their next three opponents have losing rm:ords. And the idea of starting Hodgers next week may no longer bn as dreadful to fans who havn wondered if he was a wastnd draft pick. In the most extnnded action of his earner, he W<Lo.; 1H-of-26 fi>r 201 yards and a touchdown with no turnovers. 
"I thought he played great." Favrn said. "lin gave us a chanee to win." 
Favrn wao.; 5-of-14 for 56 yards with two interceptions, one that lookPd like a punt and another on the play he was injured. At least two other heaves could have been piekPd ofT. The Packers' only touehdown during his action came on a 62-yard run by Ryan Grant. 
It's a shame most of the country missed seeing this game because it sum W<Lo.; worthy of a bigger audi­ence than the NFL Network can provide. 
There were historic teams and star players, dramatic plays and bizarre ones -like T.O. juggling a potential back-breaking touch­down, letting it turn into an inter­eeption that could have let Green Bay take the lead. And, of course, thorn wao.; the Homo-Favrn story­linn, whieh got rolling when they smilnd and laughnd through a chat on the field about 1? hours before kickol1'. 
What did tlmy say? 

"Exchanging rndpns and stull"," Homo said. "Guy talk. I don't know. Wn just talknd about hunting or something. I told him NFL Network wao.; going to have a heart attack if! didn't come over and say hi. Tlwy wern running out of lilm waiting liJr it." 


'­
Friday, November 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL  NCAA FOOTBALL  
Oregon downs KSU in OT  Louisville vvins vvith  
Leunen has double-double, Tayler scores 18 points in second half  late-gatne field goal  

Associated Press 
MANHATTAN, Kan. -Oregon had never. in its 1 05-year histo­ry. been in this position: on the road, facing a ranked opponent outside its conference. 
Overwhelming? Maybe at first. Then the Ducks got over it. 
Bryce Taylor scored 11 of his 18 points after halftime, and Maarty Leunen 
had 14 points to find which Martin said. "They go out and 
Cardinals to a 41-38 victory
"We just talked about 
and 14 rebounds man or men is hire guys that graduated from 
over stunned Rutgers on
being free, just go out
to help No. 17 going to be that college, and there's a reason for 
Thursday, upstaging the going 
Orngon rally and play, have fun." Aaron Brooks," that." 
away party of hometown kid 
from a shaky Kent said. The first mistake came at the 
Brian Brohm. 
start then hold Oregon wasn't end of regulation. 
"I couldn't ask for a better
Ernie Kent
oil' No. 25 Kansas the only one in Freshman Michael Beasley, 
ending," Carmody said. "One
Oregon coach
State 80-77 in unfamiliar terri­who led Kansas State with 24 
of my goals when I came here 
overtime Thursday night. 
"It was all about confidfmen," Oregon coach Ernie Kent said. "I didn't think Wfl were playing with much con­lidnnce in the first half. We just talked about bning free, just go out and play, have fun. This is a great environment, it's a nation­ally televised game, so just go have fun and enjoy the game." 
The Ducks sure did, though only after getting caught up in the moment. 
Facing a ranked nonconfer­ence opponent for the first time in five years, Oregon (6-1) came out llat, missing open shots -3­for-15 from 3-point range in the first half -and struggling defensively as Kansas State rode the momentum of a raucous crowd to jump to an early lead. 
But the Ducks settled down late in the half, hit some big shots down the strntch in regula­tion. then finished it off by over­tory. points and 14 rebounds, had just 
powering the Wildcats in over­time.  experience. While Oregon has four of its five starters back from  Bolen rushes for 117 yards and 2 touchdowns  
Joevan Catron had 15 points  last season, Kansas State starts  
and Tajuan Porter added 14 for Oregon, still trying to find its  three freshmen. The Wildcats were fine early, when things  ning comeback from 18 points Associated Press down in the second half, one  
identity with Aaron Brooks, last  were going well, but made some  LOUISVILLE,  Ky.  - Art that was similar to the rally  
year's leading scorer, playing in  mistakes late that cost them a  Carmody filled the one hole in Rutgers (7-5, 3-4) put togeth­ 
the NBA.  chance at what would have been  his resume just in time to sal­er to upset the Cardinals last  
"It just turned out to be a  their biggest win of the season.  vage Louisville's disappointing year.  
great road win for us because  "There's a  reason why IBM  season. Louisville was ranked No. 3  
this  is  a  team  doesn't go out and hire 18-year­ The record-setting kicker last season when it went to  
that's  still  in  old high school graduates,"  drilled  a  33-yard field goal Rutgers, and had just knocked  
transition, trying  Kansas  State  coach  Frank  with 20 seconds left to lift the off West Virginia. But the  

was kicking a game-winning Kansas State given the Wildcats a 71-70 lead 
field goal. I had to come down (5-2) hadn't by scoring on a hard post move 
to the last quarter, the last faced a ranked nonconference with 26 seconds left. Needing a 
play." opponent at home since 2000, defensive stop, Kansas State 
The senior, who set an and Manhattan hadn't seen two instead gave up three ofl'ensive 
NCAA record for career points ranked teams on the same court rebounds to Leunen, who was 
by a kicker, had never made since No. 1 Missouri beat 14th­fouled and made one free throw 
one like this during his career. ranked Kansas with 6 seconds 
I-le went out in style though, State by one in left to tie it. 
calmly drilling the ball 1982. The Wildcats 
through the uprights. The Wildcats, "I didn't think we had a chance 
Carmody finished his career ranked this year despite the 
with 433 points, breaking the
were playing with 
old record held by Houston'sfor the first time missed free
much confidence in 
Roman Anderson, who had seem bothered by the first half" time, trailing by 
since 1993, didn't throws in over­
423 points for the Cougars the new environ­three and the 
from 1988-91. ment, slowing ball in Andre 
Carmody's feat wouldn't
Ernie Kent 

down the high­Gilbert's hands. 
have been possible without
Oregon coach 

Brohm, who threw for 237 take an early 10-pulling up for a 
scoring Ducks to But instead of 
yards, including a 46-yard point lead. But 3-pointer, 
strike to Harry Douglas to put Kansas State struggled from the Gilbert, who finished with 16 
Carmody in range to win it. perimeter -8-for-27 from 3-points, started driving to the 
"We just wanted to send point range -and missed four basket. 
everybody out the right way," free throws in overtime, finish­The crowd screamed and 
said Brohm, who threw for a ing 5-of-12 from the line. Gilbert tried to kick the ball out, 
touchdown and ran for anoth­The difference, though, was but not in time to get off a shot. 
er. "We talked about regain­ing Papa John's, the 20-game 
home winning streak, all the excitement that was in the stadium. We wanted to get it back one last time." 
The Cardinals (6-6, 3-4 Big East) got it back with a stun-Cardinals let an 18-point lead slip away, ruining their shot at a perfect season. 
The Cardinals have been far from perfect this year, but Brohm and couple of late stands by one of the nation's worst defenses left Louisville with remote hopes for a bowl bid. 
"A fitting end to the way the season went," said Louisville coach Steve Kragthorpe. "We never seemed to be able to make a play through the sea­son to put us over the top, but we did that tonight." 
Brohm and Carmody had plenty of help. Brock Bolen ran for 117 yards and two touchdowns and Bilal Powell added 91 yards as the Cardinals offset a fierce Rutgers pass rush by running quick-hit plays right by the blitzing Scarlet Knights. 
Ray Rice ran for 120 yards and three scores for Rutgers. Mike Tee! threw for 265 yards and two touchdowns to Kenny Britt, but Rutgers couldn't find a way to stop Brohm and the Cardinals in the second half. 
"You have a quarterback like Brian Brohm and you have those receivers, at no point is it ever out of reach for those guys," said Hutgers coach Greg Schiano. "In the second half, we just never really had a feel. I was a step behind, it felt like." 


The 35u' Annual Saint Mmy's College 
;ffiadrigal 
(!]Juistmas 11Binners 
Continen Cuisine wi an 
Fri. and Sat, Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 at 7 P.M.
Book Your Holiday Parties Now 
Sat. and Sun., Dec. 1 and Dec. 2 at 2 P.M. Private Rooms for 6 to 250 people in Regina North Lounge Lunch Hours: Monday-Friday II :00 a.m.-2:30p.m. 
Madrigal singers from Saint Mary's College,Dinner Hours: Sunday-Thursday 5:00-10:00 p.m. and Friday & Saturday 5:00-11:00 p.m. 
along vvith period instnm1ents, jugglers, jesters Lounge Hours Daily: 4pm -always open late and a Master of the House entertain rovallv 
•;"'""''' 211 W. Washington Street • South Bend, Indiana 46601 • 574-323·2120 during a feast fit for a king or quee1;! ~ 
Adult tickets are $30 and $35, and $12 for children 12 and tutder. 
-$­SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME. IN 
For tickets call (574) 284-4626. MoreauCenter.com 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 30, 2007 

NHL 

Luongo's shutout streak intact in Canucks vvin 
Goalie has not allo·wed a score in 193 minutes 
Associated l'ress 

VANCOUVEH, British Columbia -Holwrto Luongo wasn't l'ocusml on any shutout rncords. but his tl~amrnates certainly were. 
Luongo madP 2.6 savns li1r his third straight shutout, snlting pnrsonal and l'ranehise records whiln I!Htding the Vancouver <:anueks to a 2-0 victory over the Columbus !Hun .lacknts on Thursday night. Luongo, who hogan tlw strPak against Chicago and Analwirn, hasn't allownd a goal in I9] rninutns, 56 seconds. 
"It's nicP, but I think right now we'vn got to look at thn way wn'rn winning games and the typn ol' horkny wn'rn playing and I think tlw wholt~ group should l'nnl good about tlwmsnlvns," said Luongo, insisting his play is a msult ol' vastly improved tt~am dnl'nnsn through tlw rnon th ol' Novnmhnr. 
"You just got to "You've just got to Prs at the start of mak11 surP you'n• the game if
make sure you're on
on top ol' your you're going to ganw and chal­top ofyour game and beat a goalie like lnnging. It helps challenging." him you have to to know tlw guys outwork him and am doing a good we went soft on 
Roberto Luongo
job taking away three obvious barkdoors and Canucks goalie goals," coach Ken 
slot rnhounds and plays and stul'l' like that. It givns an opportunity to challenge a bit morn." 
lin got sonw help l'rom Bn~ndan Morrison, who swept a dangnrous loosP puck away l'rom the goal linP with 17 sneonds lnft, but Luongo was on his own for stretdws while making 15 saves in the seeond pnriod. 
With the excnption of' robbing Sergei Fmlorov in alorw 5 min­utns in, Luongo made his best saves late in thn second. lie made point-blank stops off Michanl Peca and David Vyborny, and deflection saves off Dan Fritsche in a latn llurry late, bnfom setting both records in the third with six saves -and more hnlp from tnammates. 
"Absolutely," said captain Markus Naslund when asked if the focus in thn third was getting Luongo the shutout records. "lin's thn backbone. lie's our lnadnr and it's groat to sen him get that kind of recognition. 1 don't think we had a strong sec­ond pnriod, but Louie was sick again back there and he just keep amazing me." 
I>efnnsmnen Matttias Ohlund and Lukas Krajicek scored for the Canucks, who after losing the 
THIS WEEK IN 
first game in NovPmber -and losing top defenders Kevin Bieksa and Sami Salo to serious injuries the same night -fin­ished the month on a 9-1-2 run. 
Luongo is 8-1-2 in that same stretch with a 1.43 goals-against avnrage, a 94.7 save percentage, and all four of his shutouts this sPason. 
"We all know what he means to our team," coach Alain Vigneault said. "In the third, our guys I think understood what was at stake and they buekled down. We're playing well defen­sively but when we're not -the first period against Anaheim !also 15 saves] and second peri­od tonight -tlw goalie is real good." 
Fredrik Norrnna, starting while Pascal LPclaire n~covers from a slight hamstring pull, made I 9 saves as the Blue 
Jackets fell to 4­
7-2 on the road. 
"I told the play­
Hitchcock said. 
"We didn't put it 

through the back of the net. lie came back and made the save and that's the dif­ference in the game. You're going to have to outwork a goal­tender when he's in a zone like he is right now." 
Luongo, who had consecutive shutouts three times with Florida, passed his personal best of 182:37, set with the Panthers in 2004, in the third period. lie thnn eclipsed a 32-ycar-old fran­chise record of 184:20, moving past Ken Loekett, a baekup who played 55 games over two 'sea­sons and set the mark in April 1975. 
''I'm feeling the same as game No. 1. I'm going to repeat it for the 20th time this year," said Luongo, runner-up for the Hart and Vezina trophies last season. "But sometimes you get the bounces and the score is more indicative of your play and some­times you get a couple mishaps and the seore is not the same." 
Ohlund got credit for the open­ing goal 4:05 into the second period after his cross-ice pass banked oil' the baek of the skate of Columbus defenseman Adam Foote and past a helpless Norrena. 
NBA 

Warriors beat Yao, Rockets 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. -AI Harrington gives up 9 inches and 60 pounds to Yao Ming. Yet by using his quickness to front and harass the 7-foot-6 Yao, I !arrington is somehow able to shut down Houston's All-Star center. 
llarrington outplayed Yao for a second straight meeting, shutting him down at one end and scoring 18 points on the other to help the Golden State Warriors beat the !lockets 113­94 on Thursday night for their eighth win in nine games after an 0-6 start. 
Yao shot 4-for-12 and had five turnovers, finishing with a season-low 10 points. Andris Biedrins started the game guarding Yao but coach Don Nelson quickly changed to Harrington. In two games against the Warriors since Harrington joined the team last season, Yao has only 19 points on 6-of-16 shooting. 
"I definitely do not own Yao Ming. If I play behind him, he will kill me," Harrington said, crediting his teammates for their help defensively. 
"He still had opportunities to make some baskets but I think by the time he got it he was tired by being hit and fronted all the time. We did a good job of wearing him down." 
Baron Davis led the way with 27 points and eight assists and Stnphen .Jackson added 19 fronting and tlwn he made his points for the Warriors (8-7), shots and just made it a miser­who beeame the fastest team able night l'or Yao. That doesn't in NBA history to post a win­happen very of'ten." ning record aftPr losing its first Golden StatP even hnld its six games. Cleveland took 23 own on the boards against the games to do it in 1995-96. taller Hockets, outrnbounding 
Jackson's return from a sna­them 45-41. Ellis and Biedrins son-opening seven-game sus­led the way with 10 boards pension has played a big part apiece. Jlouston had outre­
in  the  resur­ bounded its last  
gence,  as  the  three opponents  
Warriors defense has  "I definitely do not  by at least each game.  10  
stiffened up since getting their stopper back.  own Yao Ming. If I play behind him, he will kill me. "  After the teams traded runs in the first half, Golden  
"It definitely  State opened the  
feels good," Jackson said.  AI Harrington Warriors forward  game up early in the third quarter.  

"It was hard work. We want to continue to stay above .500. We don't want to go on another slide where we lose six in a row." 
Nelson gave the credit for this win to Harrington, who pulled Yao away from the bas­ket on the offensive end by making four of five 3-pointers and frustrated him on the defensive end. 
"Yao is not able to guard Harrington yet we could guard him at the other end by some techniques that were success­ful tonight," Nelson said. "AI did a marvelous job. If anybody gets the game ball tonight, I think it's AI. He did such a great job on Yao with his 
Barnes hit a 3­
pointer, a driving 
layup and fed Ellis on an alley-oop during a 15-2 run that gave the Warriors a 7 4-55 lead midway through the third. 
Ellis had six points during the spurt, capping it with the alley-oop and a fast-break bas­ket ofT a feed from Davis. Ellis finished with 18. The Hockcts never got the deficit into single digits after that. 
Heserve Mike James led Houston with 19 points. Tracy McGrady was held to 11 points on 5-of-14 shooting. The Hockets, who had won three straight, miss(~d 13 of 30 free throws, including a 1-for-5 per­formance by Steve Francis. 
Friday, November 30, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
SMC SWIMMING 
Jagodzinski prepares 
Belles swim in DePauw meet 
for ACC championship 
Team feels week of 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -He says it with a laugh, but there's a look in Boston College coach Jeff Jagodzinski's eye that shows he can get serious when he needs to. 
"I can snap," he said, kicking his head back with a chuckle that dares you to disagree. 
"I like to kick [butt). Just because we're loose doesn't mean we're not disciplined," Jagodzinski said this week as he prepared the Eagles to play Virginia Tech in Saturday's Atlantic Coast Conference cham­pionship game. "But I don't think you can play competitive sports if you're tight. 
"I want the kids to have fun playing college football. If it's a constant beat-down, who'd want to bn a part of that?" he said. 
"I sure don't." 
No. 12 Boston College is win­ning and having fun doing it under coach Jags, the former Green Bay Packers offensive coordinator in his first head coaching job. The Eagles have won 1 0 regular-season games for the second time in school history, and they're playing for a title in a conference they joined just three seasons ago. 
They owe a lot of their success to quarterback Matt Hyan, the ACC player of the year, and a steady core of seniors who did­n't need to regroup after coach Tom O'Brien defected to North Carolina State. But credit also goes to Jagodzinski and the way he has balanced fun and funda­mentals with a team that need­ed both. 
Roethlisberger R o m o . Garrard is even better than Brady on third down, completing 72 percent of his passes for 538 yards, six touchdowns and an NFL­best 127.6 rat­ing. 
"There's a difference in 
and Tony 

knowing that you've got a key position here and in knowing that this is your team. This is David's team," receiver Ernest Wilford said. "He's stepped up to the challenge and he's come up big in big situations. He's gained confi­dence, he's become more mature and he's become a big-time leader." 
Garrard, 6-2 as a starter this season, has completed 65 
weights off, so hopefully we are since it is an invitational we well rested and ready for some can put as many swimmers as 
"He can talk with them, he can laugh with them, he can joke with them," athletic direc­tor Gene DeFilippo said. "But I'd hate to have him after me if he's angry, because he's got a real tough side, too, like all head coaches have to." 
Jagodzinski doesn't coach like he came from the old school. Instead, he quotes movies like "Old School," the Will Ferrell farce more popular with his players than, it's safe to say, it was with O'Brien. 
A Navy product, O'Brien brought discipline to the pro­gram after a 1996 gambling scandal forced BC to overhaul its athletic department. He led the Eagles to eight straight bowl games, including wins in the last six -the longest such streak in 
rest before race will help swimmers befresh 
By PETER REISENAUR 
Sports Wrirer 
After a week off, Saint Mary's hopes it doesn't lose the momentum it has gained this season when it travels to Greencastle, Ind., for the DePauw Invitational. 
Saint Mary's has fared well this season, posting a 4-1 record in dual meets. 
Captain Melissa Gerbeth hopes her team will be able to finish in the top four or five this weekend. 
"We have been doing a mini­taper this week and took fast swims this weekend," Gerbeth said. 
"We have been doing 
The Belles 
a mini-taper this 
believe the taper -their week and took first break 
weights off, so
before a meet 
hopefully we are
this year ­will give them a well rested and ready nice rest and a 
for some fast swims 
chance to have 
this weekend. " 
the best times of the season. Gerbeth said Melissa Gerbeth she knows each 
Belles swimmer 
swimmer will be important as needed in each event and points are given up to the 16th place, so hopefully every swimmer on the team will make an impact," Gerbeth said. 
The teams participating in the Invitational include Alma, DePauw, Illinois Wesleyan, Millikin, Monmouth, 

every swimmer is eligible to Olivet, Rhodes, Rose-Hulman, swim for the weekend, and she Transylvania and Wittenberg. hopes everyone can help con­tribute to further success. Contact Peter Reisenaur at 
"Every swimmer is critical, preisena@nd.edu 
the nation. But when he left for N.C. State, DeFilippo put a different 
NFL 
face on the program. 
And this one smiles. 
"You have to coach to your personality," DeFilippo said. "If 
Garrard gives Jags 'clarity' you try anything else, people will see through it. Jags is coaching to his personality: You 
Quarterback's performance exceeds preseason expectations
work hard, you work smart, you 
work together as a team and you have fun. His enthusiasm is infectious. He just leads that way." 
Receiver Hich Gunnell said the change in style surprised some players when they first met him last winter. 
"We're all sitting back, we did­n't know what to do. We didn't know whether to laugh with him or not," Gunnell said. "But we all figured it out, his philosophy and his way of doing things." 
percent of his passes for 1,626 yards, with nine touch­downs and no interceptions. 
Although his statistics aren't gaudy, they include exactly what the ball-control, defensive-minded Jaguars want from their quarterback: few turnovers. Garrard has just one all sea­son, a fumble Del Rio compared him to a fastball pitcher who learned he could be more accurate by taking a little bit off -and it really showed in training camp and the preseason. 
He outplayed Leftwich, prompting Del Rio to make the surprising move to release his four-year 

following a sack starter and go
"There's a difference
in Week 2. with Garrard.
in knowing that 
Garrard has It was a bold thrown 209 you've got a key move, espe­times without cially since it
position here and in 
turning it over. left the
knowing that this is 
Miami's John Jaguars with Beck (two your team. " just one expe­starts) and rienced QB, Tennessee's but it has
Ernest Wilford 
Kerry Collins turned out to
Jaguars receiver
(one start) are be one of Del 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. ­When Jaguars coach Jack Del Rio turned his offense over to David Garrard a week before the season opener, he expect­ed the longtime backup to step up. 
He never envisioned this, though. 
Garrard has a higher passer rating than Super Bowl MVP Peyton Manning. It's not even close, either. 
Garrard has given the Jaguars (8-3) something few NFL teams enjoy: "clarity" at the quarterback position. 
No questions. No controver­sies. Not even the slightest hint of a concern. 
"I'm very pleased to see where he is now and have the idea that he's going to contin­ue to get better," Del Rio said Wednesday. "I really believe that. I think he'll continue to improve as a quarterback and as a leader of this team." 
Garrard already has made huge strides. 
He ranks fourth in the NFL in passer rating, trailing only Tom Brady, Ben 

''I'm very pleased to 
before 
see where he is now Jacksonville drafted him in
and have the idea 
the fourth
that he's going to 
round in 2002. continue to Garrard was 
get better. " supposed to be the team's quarterback of 
Jack Del Rio 
the future, Jaguars coach waiting his turn 
the only other starters in the league without an interception. 
"I've been lucky," said Garrard, who missed three games because of a sprained left ankle. "But there's been a couple of games where there wasn't any chance of having any interceptions." 
Those games are becoming more common for the sixth­year pro who broke several passing records at East Carolina 
while learning 
from Mark Brunell. But Garrard's path took a turn when first-year coach Del Rio chose Byron Leftwich with the seventh overall pick in 2003. 
Garrard spent the next four years in and out of the start­ing lineup, filling in for Leftwich and playing well at times, but never doing enough to supplant him. 
Garrard, however, improved significantly this summer ­
Rio's defining decisions. 
Garrard has Jacksonville in the postseason picture. And with a victory Sunday at Indianapolis (9-2), the Jags would be tied with the Colts for the lead in the AFC South. 
"David has taken a step as a young quarterback and has shown that he can lead this football team," Del Rio said. "The guys are gaining confi­dence in him, he's gaining confidence in himself and that's good for our football team to have the clarity that we have .... David is our man." 
And he's been more effi­cient than Manning, who has 19 touchdown passes, 12 interceptions and an 89.4 passer rating. Garrard is even hearing talk about possibly making it to the Pro Bowl. 
"It's pretty cool," Garrard said. "All of that can go right by the wayside if you start losing ballgames and they add up and you miss the play­offs. 
"I'd like to hear somebody continue talking about the Pro Bowl. It's cool, but I can't worry about that stuff. I can't dwell on it. I can only enjoy the moment, enjoy the fact that I'm playing well enough that they are talking about me like that." 

Friday, November 30, 2007 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
------------~-----~----:---==========--==========================================================--========~--========~ 
ND MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish prepare for OSU meet 
Team looks for continued success after win over Cleveland State 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 

The swimming snason has not ynt rnaelwd its orw-third point, but Notrn Danw is prnparing l'or orw of' its biggnst regular-sna­son nwds -tlw Ohio State Invitational. 
"Tiw Ohio StatP meet will h•~ a nu~asure ol' our progress this senwstnr," Irish coach Tim comn out of this meet." 
Notre Dame (3-3) is fresh off a 171-124 win over Cleveland State. The Irish now have a 24­10 series roeord against the Vikings, with a record ol' 21-2 under Wolsh. 
"Wn enjoyed the win a lot. Clnvoland State helped us pre­pare for this meet, and it was a good opportunity for our tnam," Wnlsh said. "A lot of our guys swam in races they haven't 
W1~lsh said. 
Tho nHH~t. whirh bogins today and continues through Sunday, ineludns SOIIIO or tho top toarns in tho nation. lik11 No. 1:{ Ohio Stato and No. 10 Minnosota. Tho diving toam will havn additional compotition in Alabama, Arizona Statn, Arkansas, Miami and No. 12 l'urduo. 

swam in before and now they will get a chance to
"We hope to swim the 
swim in them 

fastest we've ....·warn again this weekend."
all semester at this 
The Irish

meet. We're hoping 
captured wins for a lot ofgood in several 
things to come out of races against 
the Vikings.

this meet." 
The 200-yard medley relay Tim Welsh team of junior Jeff Wood,
Irish coach 
sophomore Boss Moore, 

"We hope to swim the fastest junior Sam Pendergast and wn'vn swam all smnester at this sophomore John Lytle took first nwnt," Wolsh said. "Wn'rn hop­placn in the first raee with a ing l'or a lot of' good things to timn of 132.75. Lytln also cap­tured the gold in the 50 freestyle, while freshman Michael Sullivan earned first plaee in both the 500 and 1 ,000 freestyle. 
Notre Dame also dominated the diving events. In the 3­meter board, Irish junior Michael Bullin took first place with a score of 347.30. lie was followed by senior tl~ammates Sam Stoner and Steven Crowe, who each earned 321.08 and 
302.55 points, respectively, on the 3-meter board. 
The Irish also took the top four spots in the 1-meter diving event. Stoner placed lirst with a score of 312.30, while freshman Erie Lex (311.78) took second. Buffin (310.92) and Crowe 
(302.55) took third and fourth place in the event. 
While the Irish gained experi­ence from the meet against Ohio State, the week's practices have been devoted l~ntirely to building speed in the pool. 
"We're trying to brush up on fine points of how we get our races started," Welsh said. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
NHL 

Chara leads Boston to win 
Associated Press 

SUNHISE, Fla.-Zdeno Chara 1~ame up big at both ends of' the ice. 
Tho 6-foot-9 defenseman seornd two goals and kept Florida's leading scorer Olli .Jokinen mostly in cheek to lead thn Boston Bruins to a 4-3 vie­tory Thursday night. 
Boston won for the sixth time in night games, and brokn a six­game losing streak to the Panthnrs dating to Nov. 3, 2005. 
Glen Metropolit and Phil Kessnl add1~d goals, and Tim Thomas stoppfld 32 shots. 
Stnve Montador, David Booth and .Jokinen scored for Florida, and Craig Anderson made :H saves in his first start since Nov. 13 at Atlanta. 
"We outplayed them and deserved to get the win, 
Thomas said. "Jokinen is one of the best forwards in the league and 'Z' was able to frustrate him most of the night." 
The loss snapped Florida's winning streak at a season-best four games and prevented the Panthers from breaking the .500 mark for the first time this season. 
"As a forward you have to make yourself available and find a way to get pucks," Jokinen said. "That was a big problem for us tonight. We couldn't .ret out of our end of the zone. 
Florida, coming off a 2-1 shootout victory Wednesday night in Washington, started slow and was outshot 17-6 in the first period. 
"Traveling and playing the night before we wanted to keep it simple," Montador said. "You could say that's the reason we didn't come strong in the first period. That's the only thing we can look to right now to define that first period. We started to battle back but it was too late." 
Booth's wrist shot at 17:41 of the third made the score 4-2, and Jokinen took a pass from Nathan Horton in front and pushed the puck past Thomas at 19:30. 
"We're happy with the win but not satisfied with the end­ing," Chara said. 
Boston stretched its lead to 3­1 on Chara's second power-play goal of the game at 16:24 of the second. His shot from just inside the blue line went between Anderson's pads. 
Kessel's goal at 4:57 of the third pushed Boston's advan­tage to 4-1. His shot from the top of the right circle went over Anderson's high stick side into the net. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Slaton excited despite reduced offensive role 
The Mountaineers had solid
Associated Press 

running games in those years, 
CHAHLESTON, W.Va. -A too. season that began with West Virginia is averaging lleisman Trophy expectations 310 yards per game on the for Steve Slaton could still end ground this season, even with­up with the West Virginia run­out a significant contribution ning back playing for a lately from Slaton. IIe started national title. with four straight 1 ()()-yard 
That would be just tine with n!Torts but has only two in his him. past snven starts. 
"As long as you're winning, Despite being healthy, that's the only thing that real­Slaton has 44 fownr carries at ly matters," Slaton said, thn same point in the season repeating his season-long and isn't ovnn in tho top 40 in mantra. "A lot of guys that are the country in yards rushing. here aren't big-star guys." lie has nine eareor games of 
Slaton hasn't consistently more than 150 yards but none been the feature back like he this season. was last season, when he set a lle'll have just the third­school record with 1,744 highest rushing total in the yards rushing and earned All­Backyard Bawl, behind Pitt American honors. Instead. frnshman LeSean McCoy with he's split carries with quarter­1.180 yards and White's 1.144 back-Pat White, fullback Owen yards. Schmitt and a pair of' fresh­None of that fazes coaeh men. Hich Hodriguez, who believes 
But after yielding personal Slaton is beeoming a more success to that of' the team, eomplnte player. the 1OOth Backyard Brawl lie's the tnam's second-lead­against ing receiver Pittsburgh on with 24 catch­Saturday gives os for 339
':<ls long as you're
Slaton a chance yards, and
winning, that's the 
to finish strong. when he isn't lie still sur­only thing that carrying the passed 1,000 ball he's a
matters" 

yards rushing great decoy last week and is for White, who one of' the big Steve Slaton like Slaton a reasons why Mountaineers tailback year ago has 
the second­r a n k e d Mountaineers (10-1, 5-1 Big East) are one win away from a trip to New Orleans for the BCS national championship game. 
"It's easy to get fired up for this," said Slaton, who has averaged 200 yards on the ground and scored seven times against Pittsburgh (4-7, 2-4) in two blowout wins. "It's a rivalry game and I know what it means to the coaches and fans. 
"A lot of our fans are going to be here and a lot of their fans are going to want to get in. There are going to be some fans just around the stadium. It will be pretty loud." 
Several times there have been tremendous expectations at West Virginia, only to be followed by bitter disappoint­ments. 
The Mountaineers went 11­0 during the 1988 regular season and rose to No. 3 before losing to top-ranked Notre Dame in the Fiesta Bowl. Their last trip to New Orleans came after an unbeat­en 1993 regular season, when they were embarrassed by Florida in the Sugar Bowl. 
emerged as a 
lleisman can­
didate with a 
penchant for pummeling 
Pittsburgh on the ground. 

Last week against Connecticut, Slaton delivered several crushing blocks that helped spring freshman Noel Devine for 118 yards. 
"That just goes to show the unselfishness of a Steve Slaton," Rodriguez said. "llis blocks were huge." 
Even though defenses are jamming the trenches and challenging West Virginia's reshuffled offensive line, Slaton has still managed 5.2 yards per carry and 95 yards per game. !lis 17 touchdowns rushing matches his total from 2005 and surpasses last sea­son by one. 
lie can add to his school­record 50 career touchdowns rushing against a Pittsburgh defense that has surrendered an average of 444 yards rush­ing and six TDs to the Mountaineers in the past two seasons. 
Seemingly the perfect tonic for Slaton, even if' he is mom concerned about punehing a ticket to New Orleans than the numbers. 
•FREE Pizza for Students 
11lltlrllrl.t11tl1\h, 
(while supplies last!) [J..,J}l, 

-·~·-· 

Friday, November 30, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Michigan 
continued from page 24 
As a team. Michigan hits 36 percent of its 3-point attempts. Against Cincinnati, Michigan made 11 of 29 attempts from behind the arc. McGraw said the Irish, who have struggled to defend the 3-pointer, must work hard to slow the perime­ter attack. 
"We've got to identify where they are," McGraw said. "They are running a motion offense and set a lot of screens. We've got to have good communica­tion." 
In order to keep confidence in check on a team that has won four of its six games by 30 points or more, McGraw said, she has pointed out prob­lem areas during film study. 
"I keep telling them when we watch film from other games, 'This isn't going to be good enough against Michigan,"' McGraw said. "They've been receptive at how to improve." 
McGraw expressed disap­pointment in her team's free­throw shooting after Notre Dame's win over Canisius. Notre Dame, which shot 76 percent from the line last sea­son, has shot only 65 percent so far this season. 
The Irish have excelled on defense and in transition. They force an average of 24 turnovers per game -12 more than they commit. They routinely intercept passes, and the size of centers Melissa D'Amico and Erica Williamson -both 6-foot-5 -provides many shot-block opportuni­ties. Freshman forward Devereaux Peters, while only 6-foot-2, has a knack for rejecting the ball and averages 

2.6 blocks per game. Notre Dame has four players with double-figure steals -and a team average of 12.7 per game. 
The season has been one of offensive explosion for the Irish. They average 85 points a game and have three players -guards Ashley Barlow, Charel Allen and Lindsay Schrader -who average dou­ble-figure points. 
But the Irish can't plan on repeating their averages 
against the Wolverines. 
"I don't expect to score as many as we've been scoring when we get into the stronger part of the schedule, which is right now," McGraw said. "We're capable of scoring points, certainly, but we only had 59 against Maryland. We don't want to try to outscore teams, we want to play good defense." 
Notes: 

+ The Ticket Office has sold more than 10,000 tickets for Sunday's game. Fewer than 500 tickets are still available. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
going," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Hopefully, he has

Sweet 16 
a few more in his bag." continued from page 24 Lapira isn't the only player who stepped up against 
stands in Notre Dame's way Oakland. after the Broncos defeated Fellow 
UCLA 3-1 Wednesday at home. Such a decisive result has been the norm this sea­son for Santa Clara (16-1-4), which holds an 18-game win­ning streak heading into Saturday's match. 
The Broncos only defeat in 2007 came all the way back on Sept. 7, when they fell 2-1 to Brown 
"[This group ofseniors] worked awful hard from the minute we lost last year at Virginia. This is the culmination oftheir work, and hopefully we can push this thing a little farther. " 
Bobby Clark Irish coach 
- who is the No.  6 overall  
seed  in  the  NCAA  
Tournament.  

Notre Dame will be going up against a stiff Santa Clara defense. The Broncos have allowed only 0.63 goals per contest. Santa Clara has shut out nine opponents, and its defense has more than one goal only twice. 
Luckily for the Irish, they have Joseph Lapira. 
The reigning Hermann Trophy winner is the Notre Dame record holder for goals in the NCAA Tournament with five. Lapira was on his game against Oakland, scoring a goal and notching an assist. 
"Hopefully, he keeps it 
seniors Alex Yoshinaga and Ryan Miller made signifi­cant contribu­tions. Yoshinaga tal­lied the first goal, and Miller assisted on Lapira's score. Clark recognizes the importance of this group's leadership for his team in the N C A A Tournament. "This group of seniors real­ly want it," 
Clark said. "They've worked awful hard from the minute we lost last year at Virginia. This is the culmination of their work, and hopefully we can push this thing a little fur­ther." 
Should Notre Dame defeat Santa Clara Saturday, it would advance to play the winner of the match between West Virginia and Wake Forest. A win by the Mountaineers would give the Irish one final home game; a Demon Deacons victory would mean Notre Dame's path runs through Winston-Salem, N.C. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

NBA 
Pierce, Celtics annihilate disarrayed Knicks 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The New York Knicks' brief winning streak is history, and the Boston Celtics nearly made history ending it. 
The Celtics cruised to their biggest victory since Larry Bird was in high school, beating New York 104-59 on Thursday night to send the Knicks to their third­worst loss and their second­worst scoring pp,rformance of the shot-clock era. 
"Of course I am embarrassed. WR lost by np,arly 50 points," Knicks guard Stephon Marbury said. ''I'm angry. I'm always angry whRn I lose, but that was just flat-out embarrassing. To lose ..that bad was just ridicu­lous. 
It was thP. sixth-biggp,st win in Celtics history and the biggest since a 153-107 victory over the Baltimore Bullets in 1970 -five NBA titles ago. 
Only Nate Robinson's 37-foot 3­pointer at the final buzzer saved the Knicks from scoring the fewest points in franchise history. That might not be enough to save coach Isiah Thomas from getting fired: He was all-but-gone during an eight-game losing streak before earning a reprieve with two straight wins. 
Now the Knicks are embar­rassing themselves again. 
"We take two steps forward and one giant step back," Thomas said. "I don't know where this game came from. I thought we played extremely sellish tonight ... Definitely didn't see this type of game coming after the last two games we played. This was just not a good night." 
And, unlike the Boston area's NFL team, the Celtics didn't even try to run up the score. 
Kevin Garnett played just 22 minutes, scoring eight points before leaving the game midway through the third quarter with Boston ahead 69-34. Paul Pierce and Ray Allen also sat out the fourth quarter and played 29 minutes apiece. 
"I can't even remember having that much rest," Garnett said. "It's good, because we have back-to-hack games. Rest is important at this time." 
Rajon Rondo dribbled out 24 of the final 26 seconds, turning the ball over on purpose rather than go for a 50-point win. Robinson followed with long jumper off the inbound pass to save the Knicks from their lowest-scoring game in the shot clock era. 
The exchange kept Boston from threatening it's biggest-ever win, a 153-102 victory over Philadelphia on March 7, 1962. 
''I'm never great in math," Celtics coach Doc Rivers said. "So I couldn't figure out if we were up by 30. I wasn't even paying a lot of attention to it. But I knew we were playing well and, obvi­ously, I looked." 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 30, 2007 
where Kurz and sophomore forward Luke llarangody lurk.
EMU 

Elite 8 
The pair is averaging a eom­bined 32.2 points per game.
continued from page 24 

continued from page 24 
If Eastern Michigan sue­ling open and tlwn let tlwm eeeds, the Irish will need to 
the two teams from Tobacco play. shoot well from the outside, 
Hoad go beyond the proximity "It's a fun way to play," something that didn't happen 
of their schools. Like the Tar IIi llesland said. "Being a bas­in tho Virgin Islands but has 
Heels, Duke boasts a strong ketball playPr making basket­improved reeently. After start­
midfield that should challenge ball plays is fun." ing tlw season (J-ol'-20 from 
the Irish in the possession The stratngy has had mixed lwhind the are, junior guard 
battle. rnsults. In tlwir four wins this Kyln MrAiarney has made 12 
"They have a really solid s11ason, the Irish are averag­long-range jumpers in the 
m idf'ield, so our midfield ing almost X!i points. But in past two games. 
matchup against theirs is Notrn Damn's two loss1~s. to Forwards Hyan Ayers and 
going to be n~ a II y big. " Baylor and Ceorgia Tneh in Luke Zollnr havo also been 
Waldrum said. the l'aradisn Jam tournament threats from outside, with 
Sophomore C.J Ludemann, two wonks ago. it av1~raged both making more than hall' of' 
who has four goals and seven only 67.5 points. their 3-pointers this season. 
assists on the season, leads Still. senior forward Hob In Notre Dame's free-form 
thn Blue Devils' midfield. She Kurz said tlw Irish are better offense, a lot of the open looks 
is joined on the unit by fellow than tlwy WPre in tlw Virgin for shooters come from passes 
sophomore Elisabeth Islands. out ol' the post. llarangody 
Hedmond, who leads the team "Wn've improved the past said he's been working hard 
with eight goals. Hedmond two games and we have to on f1nding the open man when 
will draw a lot of attention keep improving on tlw things he gets double-teamed. 
from Irish defenders, that we didn't do wnll in the "Last year, I was terrible at 
Waldrum said. Waldrum said. "They'm very Weissenhofer notched two Virgin Islands," he said. it," he said. "But now I'm 
Duke, which is making its similar to us in that they like goals and an assist in the vic­As the season goes on, older and I've gotten better." 
first quarterf1nals appearance to keep possession." tory over the Tar Jleels after llillnsland said, the Irish will On the other side of the 
since 1994, already has NCAA But the game could simply she was slowed by an injury continue to jnll and the floor. the Irish will have to 
Tournament wins over No. 23 hinge on a battle between the for most of the season. offnnsn will get morn consis­defend Eagles guards Jesse 
South Carolina, No. 13 forwards and whether one The Irish have outscored tent-nspneially latn in close Bunkley and Carlos Medlock, 
Georgia and Indiana. team can finish better. opponents 8-2 in their three gamns, against stiffer com pe­who are both averaging dou­
Waldrum said he's familiar "It might come down to who NCAA Tournament wins, and tition. ble figures this season. 
with the majority of Duke's can impose their offensive a trip to the College Cup "It's a matter of gntting Bunkley drains almost 45 
lineup, because he recruited firepower on the other," would be their third appear­nxperinnee as a group," he pf~recnt of his :~-point shots, 
many of the current Blue Waldrum said. "It should be a ance in the last four seasons. said. "It's a matter of' finding while Medloek is a slasher 
Devils when they were in high good chess match between The 2004 team won the what wn're looking for down who likes to penetrate and 
sehoul. two really good teams." national championship while the stretch and getting good distribute the ball to the tune 
"They're a very talented The Irish offense paeks the the 2006 squad was the run­shots." of five assists per game. 
team," Waldrum said. "We punch necessary to outscore ner-up. Cinalli is the only Notrn Dame's wide-open The game against the Irish 
were looking at the roster and the Blue Devils. starter remaining from the ofTense will get anothnr test will be Eastern Michigan's 
they've got about seven kids Three Irish forwards, senior squad that took home the Saturday when Eastern f'irst of the season against a 
that we've recruited through­captain Amanda Cinalli and 2004 title. Michigan (3-3) visits the Joyce power conference opponent. 
out the years." juniors Kerri Hanks and The winner of tonight's con­Center at 7 p.m. The Eagles lost 72-68 
Waldrum said both the Irish Brittany Bock, were reeently test will play the winner of the Like Youngstown State and Wt~dnesday at home to Detroit. 
and the Blue Devils foeus on named semifinalists for the quarterfinal between Florida Colgate, Notre Dame's most 
maintaining control of the ball IIermann Trophy, whieh is State and Conneeticut. reenn t opporwn ts, thn Eagles Contact Chris Khorey at 
throughout the game. given to the most outstanding will probably concentrate on ckhorey@nd.edu and 
"Duke's a little bit more of a player in the nation. Contact Fran Tolan at denying passes to the post, Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
passing team than Carolina," Sophomore forward Miehcle ftolan@nd.edu 

Notn~ Danw's boeause he can
"/ dejinitely feel more
rneent success make things has come from conjldent since the happen, he has dnfnnsernen beginning oflast year good vision and pushing forward he has confi­
As the season
and making plays dence to do all on ofl'ense. progressed, we've of the things we "f put morn become more talk about." emphasis on it Lawson and
comfortable as a team
beeausn our sys­the rest of the
and that leads to
tem nnnds to be dnfensemen will successful !i-on­individual success." have their hands !i," .Jackson said. fu II this week "It's about conli­with the
Kyle Lawson
dnncn and mak­Mavericks, who ing sun~ that tlw Irish defenseman average more guys with thn than three goals puek don't make a game. Senior rnistakns with it." linemates Bryan Marshall and 
Senior dl'f'enseman Dan Mkk Lawrence lead the way with VeNard has s1:ored more goals 14 and 10 points. respectively. (tlm~e) in the lirst 16 gamns this Marshall has 11 assists on the snason than in season, and tlw first thrne Lawrence leads
"/expect /Nebraska­
seasons of' his the team with eare1~r (two). Omaha/ to be as good seven goals in l 0 
as any team we see
Sophonwre Kyle games. Lawson has a "They have
this year from an
tlm~e-ganw point always been a strPak, which offensive standpoint." great offensive indudes a ganw­team, so we're winning goal going to havn be
Jeff Jackson 
against Hl'l in on top of our
Irish coach 
tlw holiday tour­gamn defensively nament champi-this weoknnd," onship ganw. Lawson said. 
"I d1~1initPiy li~Pimon~ confident Nebraska-Omaha (!i-5-1) began sincn the bnginning of tlw year," the year with four straight Iossns Lawson said. "As the season pro­in back-to-back weekends on the grnssnd, wn 've beeome more road against No.1 Miami and No. comfortable and that leads to 2 Michigan. Since then, it has lost individual success." only one game to Ferris State on 
The Michigan native was Nov. 16. namnd the CCIIA's defensive "I expect them to bo as good as 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
any team we see this year from an oflensivn standpoint," Jackson said. "They started ofl' a little bit slow but part of that was because of their schedule, we started off a little slow because of our sched­ule too." 
Notre Dame had a pair of two­gamn series with top-five teams Miami and DmlVer. The Irish won the first game of both series, but lost the second each time. 
Notre Dame plays Nnbraska­Omaha tonight at 7:35 and Saturday at 7:05 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Notes: 
+ Jackson announced Thursday that three players signed letters of intent to join Notn~ Dame next fall: forward Patriek Gaul and defensemen Sean Lorenz and Eric Ringel. The three signees will join forward Billy Maday, who deferred his entry into the program until 2008. 
"We're exdtnd about this class of players from both an olfnnsive and defensive perspective," Jackson said in a statement released by the athletic depart­mont. "Although they aro young, as a group, they all stand to become great college hockey players." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

Irish center Mark Van Guilder fights off a Bowling Green skater in Notre Dame's 2-1 win over the Falcons on Nov. 20. 
"' y 'r.<.
II

As ou Wish .-'B"
L_m_p or t s,--;, 
LaFortune ..

SfERLING-SILVER!!! 
Sorin ~oo~t~ ( 1 st FIJ

fAPESfltY WALL HAN~IN~S! 
Nov. 26 -Pee. 1 !Sat) 

VNJqYLJIAJ'EU J£W£Lf{Y! 11 ..5 PIM Mot~. ~ Fri. eves
Purses•Scarves •~1ft It~!!! 
7:30.. 1Op~t~ 

[~ Tha.llctlld INk WMG kN l --------­1.,c r e dibIe pric e s ! l'mceeds ~~,m Ihe sales or jewelry s··-.~ ilic 
hands of Guatumulan tamalles 3 time~ tht1r average
unique christtttas tiffs! salary.a. well& funds Fortheirt~ucation. 
Ho01e 
continued from page 24 
prntty good hockny tnam." 

NotrP Dame is X-1 in Novmnber and can set or bwak tlw program rnmrd for wins in a month this w1mkend. 
A big part of 

player of the week the past two weeks. 
Jackson said Lawson's work ethic: has improved his play and the entire defensive unit so far this year. 
"Jie plays with his heart on the sinew~. hard all the time. lie leads by tho way he does things on the iee," Jackson said. "lie's a eata-
Iyst offensively 




a kick out of  
64 Park gathering  
place  
65 Starters  
66 Garb  
symbolizing  ·  
youth  
Down  
Not as touched  
2 Like successful  
orators  
3 James Forrestal  
was its last  
cabinet secy.  
4 Portions of les  
annees  
5 Stat for a  
Puzzle by Frederick J. Healyreliever  
27 ­'acte 37 Cry before 49 In the pink6 Slalom targets  
storming out7 Comic Booster 28 Ways to go 51 1 0 kilogauss  
8 Astronaut Collins  30 Some shirts  38 "Lighten up. will  53 Relish  
and others 9 Toasted triangle topper 10 One of Jon  33 Dishes out undaintily 35 Trailer's place  ya?!" 39 Hiking aid 42 Hate, say 46 "Tristram  55 Disk units 57 Bring to a standstill  
Arbuckle's pets  36 South Pacific  Shandy" author  59 Mar makeup  
11 Changsha is its  island  48 Natural  62 Letter run  

Friday, November 30, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

Deuces Manor Christmas Sweater Party 7 P.M. -4 A.M. Deuces Manor 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
THe MARSH# AU.OVJ SITUATION AT THE. DUKE. G.AME. Tl-!15 Y6A2•• rr WAS •• UNACCcPTASt..€.. 

\V51VS WNSIDE.TaSD !.-65562 At..Te2NAT!VeS Bc.1T •• ; D65Pei2ATe TtME.S CAL-l-F02 De5Pe.I2ATe MeASUReS••• 
CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Narrows: Abbr. 1 Windshield 32 Directory data: wipers Abbr. 10 "Unbelievable!" 
34 Clam 36 Bluster 

15 Darwin's home 40 Hardly humble 
16 Superrealist 
homes

sculptor Hanson 
41 A bit much 

17 Zip 
43 Call in a

18 They stand for 
calamity

something: Abbr. 
44 No longer doing 

19 Station info, 
the job?: Abbr. 

briefly 
45 Bombards with 

20 Checks out 
junk

21 1984 hit parody 
4 7 Become active 

of a 1983 hit 
song 
50 Pull out of 22 Get moving, with (produce "up" suddenly) 23 Four-time 52 Makes out Vardon Trophy 54 Fat cat, in winner England 25 Area below the 56 Packs in stacks hairline 58 Short distance 
26 Lock changer? 59 "Eight Is 
29 Turn out Enough" wife 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
r--t--t--t 
L...:....L..:....L:::.J 
WILLSHORTZ 

60 Creator of lofty lines 61 Freshening naturally 63 Something to get 1-,-4---1--+­
capital 
12 "Harig on!" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 13 Eager credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday
14 Things that may crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
be shot in Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000stages? 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 24 "La Reine 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzletorum. Crosswords tor young Margot" novelist solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

I I [ J 
@2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 
HAVEEB 



WHf:N HE: GOT A DE:AD BATTE:RY

[l] (] 
FROM THE: JUNK­
www.jumble.com 
YARD, IT WA5--­
I RARQUY± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

l [I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: [II I]OF" (I I I I I]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: HELLO ODDLY POLLEN DAMAGE Answer: What the greyhound turned into when he raced around the track -A "LAP" DOG 
HoRoscoPE Fridays with Fr~n 
Virgo-Don't ever close your eyes anymore
when you kiss his lips ... He s very sneaky. Libra -Your life will have .three stages:
birth, the middle, and death. Oh, I forgot afiout the fourth stage: pooing yourself. Make that 
four stages. Scorpio -WWRWD: What would Ricky
Williams do? Sagittarius -Happy birthday to the horo­
scope maker! Call (845) 729-0367 to wish him/ 
her a happy b-day. Capricorn -When in doubt, buy a yarmulke. Aguarius-We. can make sandwiches togeth­
er. You can be my bread and I'll be your flam­
burger. Pisces -Raise your own Chia Pet. You can 
taste the satisfaction. Plus you can taste the 
Chia leaves (they taste like lettuce). Aries -If you want to see where you are, 
e~ter your cell number at phonetrace.org. > Taurus -You love Henry Ford. Gemini-You are extremely pretty. Cancer -Which letter is missing? abcde­
fghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz . Leo -Sure, everyone knows diarrhea. But what's monorrhea??? Celebrity Birthdays: Suge Knight, 43 (unless
dead); Dunston from "Dunston Checks In," 12; 
Air Bud,-17 (119 dog years); Rosie O'Donnell, 350 dog years (534 pounds) 
.. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 30, 2007 
page 24 
SOCCER 

High hopes 
ALLISON AMBROSErThe Observer 

Irish forward Zach Hlllesland dismounts a Colgate defender during Notre Dame's 94-63 win over the Raiders Monday. 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Freelance offense goes to lVork against EMU 
< 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Wolverines come to JACC 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
After winning four of its first six games by 30 points or more, Notre Dame will face a tough opponent Sunday when Mi"chigan visits the Joyce Center at 2 p.m. 
Although the Wolverines have only one loss, like the Irish, Michigan has played harder competition than Notre 
HocKEY 
leers set for CCHA home series 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Ediror 
No. 7 Notre Dame plays its final home series of the semes­ter this weekend when it takes on Nebraska-Omaha in the Joyce Center tonight and Saturday. 
The team will travel' to Princeton next weekend before a three-week hiatus at the end of the month. 
The Irish (12-4-0) come into the game riding a five-game winning streak. Their last loss was on Nov. 10, to No. 1 Miami on the road. 
"I think we've made good progress, but I want us to get better," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "This will be a big test for us this weekend. We're facing a 
see HOME/page 22 
Dame -it defeated a strong Cincinnati team on the road on Nov. 13. 
Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw said Michigan pres­ents the toughest challenge since Maryland. She also said that 6-foot-6 Wolverines cen­ter Krista Phillips would give the Irish headaches. 
"She's good, she's agile, she can shoot the 3, she can score around the basket," McGraw said of the Saskatoon, Saskatehnwan native. "She's playing really well right now." 
Phillips leads the Wolverines with 11.4 points per game. No other player averages in dou­ble ligures. 
"Teams with good balance are harder to guard," McGraw said. "That's a concern of ours, how to guard all of them. That's something we're look­ing at, different defenses." 
see MICHIGAN/page 21 
Wornen duel Duke at home in Elite 8 match 
• By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Danw avengnd its loss to North Carolina in last sea­son's national title game by downing tlw Tar llnels :~-2 last Saturday in the round ol' 16 of t.lw NCAA Tournament. But the Irish (( 8-4-2) know their work is not linished. 
Tlwy return home to faen Duke (10-5-7) tonight at 7 for a chance to return to the College Cup, socepr's version of the Final Four. 
"We had a couple of days to enjoy !the win over North Carolina! and now it's back to work," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "We'vn got a groat opportunity. We don't nond to let it slip through our hands.... We're only halfway to whnrn we want to be." 
The comparisons between 
see ELITE 8/page 22 

By CHRIS KHOREY and 
CHRIS HINE 
Sports Editors 

Notrn Dame has scored 87 and 94 points in its last two games. 
So Irish coach Mike Brey must bP drawing up some impressive of'f1msive schemes, right? 
Wrong. This snason. and especially in the last wePk, Notre Dame 
(4-2) has played a mostly free­lance offense, with only a few designed sets. 
"The strength is that there's no predictable movement," Brey said. "This group under­stands what a good and bad shot is." 
Junior forward Zach llillesland said that instead of installing a complex offense during fall practice, Brey gave the players a few tips on get-
see EMU/page 22 


Men head west to face Santa Clara in Sweet 16 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

After moving closer to its goal or reaching the pro­gram's first College Cup with a 2-1 win Wednesday over Oakland, No. 10 Notre Dame will travel to take on No. 7 Santa Clara Saturday at 10 
p.m. in an NCAA Tournament round of 16 match. 
This marks the third straight season that the Irish have advanced to the Sweet 16 and the third straight year they have to win on the road in order to reach the Elite 8. 
In 2005, Notre Dame fell 1-0 at Clemson. But the Irish defeated Maryland 1-0 in overtime last season to advance to the program's first Elite 8, where they lost to Virginia. 
This season, Santa Clara 
see SWEET 16/page 21 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
Irish forward Robin Bergman skates up Ice in Notre Dame's 2-1 win over Bowling Green on Nov. 20. 





