
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 25 MONDAY, OCTOBER l, 2007 
Emergency notifications tested 
Text security system requires student response; Connect-ED will send messages via cell phones 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Author celebrated at College 
Talks part of annual CWIL colloquium 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 

Encouraging women to chal­lenge a male-dominant system was a key theme in Colleen O'Brien's lecture Friday as part of the annual Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership (CWIL) colloquium at Saint Mary's. 
Her lecture -"Race and Desire in Gertrudis Gomez de Avellaneda's 'Sab'" -dis­cussed the writings of Cuban activist and author Avellaneda and the prominent themes in Avellaneda's most famous works. O'Brien described Avellaneda's life and the recurrent themes of racial and gender opposition in the author's writings. 
Elaine Meyer-Lee, director of CWIL, began the lecture describing the purpose of the series. 
"The fellows and faculty present their work and research for the edification of cultural history," she said. 

O'Brien has a Ph.D. in English and women studies and currently teaches human­' I istic studies at the College. j 
"[Avellaneda] was not a woman who liked patriarchy," O'Brien said of the 19th centu­

I 
ry poet. "She felt woman were not subservient to men and fought for freedom of equality. 

j
She was the first woman to make a bid for a chair in the Royal Academy but was denied the position because she was a woman." 
see POET/page 4 

By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame sent out a wave of text messages to more than 7 5 percent of stu­dents Wednesday, asking them to confirm their regis­tration in the SMS portion of the University's emergency notil'ication system -but the future success of this aspect of the initiative is contingent on the students' response rate, said Jay Steed, executive assistant to Chief Information Officer Gordon Wishon Sunday. 
Before the University con­ducts a full-scale trial run of its new mass notification system -which would serve to swiftly inform the campus of emergencies through e­mails, text messages and voice mails -mobile phone users had to confirm their willingness to receive these text messages, as required by most carriers. 
"The majority of cellular [phone] carriers will not send text messages to mass mailing lists without individ­ual confirmation," Steed said. "Most carriers will not allow companies to create mass text message mailings lists unless they first provide an option for people to con­firm they want to be a part 
25th Domer Run fields hundreds 
By KATIE STAAK 
News Writer 
Members of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross communities raced Saturday morning in the 25th annual Domer Hun to raise awareness for ovarian cancer. The run, which is held on a designated away football weekend each fall, sponsors various types of cancer research, support groups and foundations. 
Greg Weber, sports camps coordinator for RecSports, said 336 people pre-registered but others showed up Saturday to participate. The race has had over 500 partici­pants in years past. 
Tho money raised from the 
registration fees and dona­tions will be given toward ovarian cancer awareness. As of Sunday night, no figures were available. The run is sponsored by RecSports, the Notre Dame Alumni Association, Chase Financial and Legends. 
According to the American Cancer Society, ovarian cancer is the eighth most common cancer in women. One in every 6 7 women in the United States will be diagnosed this year. 
The event was established in memory of Barbra Link, an alumna and wife of Notre Dame Law School Dean Emeritus Dave Link. Barbara 
see RUN/page 4 

of that or give them the option to opt out of that. It's not something the University chose to do on its own, but rather something Connect­ED asked us to do because many of the carriers require
it., Connect-ED, the company Notre Dame contracted to serid the text-and voice­
based notifications to thou­sands of mobile phones, has an online interface where 
the Office of the Registrar can upload both the text and the recorded voicemail mes­sages it wants to send out. 
This service, Steed said, allows the University to keep control over the content of the messages that reach the campus community. The Office of the Registrar informed students via e-mail Tuesday that those who signed up for emergency alerts on their mobile phones would be receiving a text message from Connect­ED that was actually pro­duced by the University. 
The e-mail said the text message would read: "Univ of Notre Dame: You have asked to receive SMS alerts from us. You must text reply 'Y NDIRISH' to confirm this request." 
When students opened 
see TEXTIpage 6 


Visionary car designer honored 
Exner biographer delivers tribute to accomplishments 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 

Notre Dame hosted a car show Saturday featuring the work of the late legendary Chrysler designer Virgil Exner. 
Exner was Chrysler's first vice president of styling and worked for the Studebaker Corporation, which was based in South Bend. 
The event, coordinated by Notre Dame's industrial design program, included a show at the Stepan Center from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m..and a 7:30p.m. lecture at the Snite Museum of Art delivered by Peter Grist, author of 
see SHOW/page 4 



Lecture discusses cosmopolitanism 
Speaker highlights idea's components 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Cosmopolitanism, a set of beliefs concerned with providing global justice and cultural acceptance, is a critical aspect of global citizenry and communica­tion, Kwame Appiah, a keynote speaker at the gender studies program's conference said Friday. 
Genocide, patriotism and world governments were recurring themes throughout the confer­ence for Appiah and fellow keynote speaker Martha Nussbaum, of the University of Chicago. 
Appiah began by outlining the three core tenets of cosmopoli­tanism. The first is that there should be a global citizenry but not a world government. The second is that every world citizen should care about the condition of every other citizen. Finally, he stressed the importance of cul­tural exchange and conversation. 
He spoke about how globaliza­tion has affected the "ancient 
see GENDER/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Pre111ieres please 
Last May, in the midst of finals and pre-summer angst, we all took the time out of our busy schedules to eozy up on thn coueh with a full bowl of popcorn and engage in our most beloved 'IV shows' season finales. 
While some shows left us rather dis­appointed and unimpressed, others (p,ft us with mouths open, staring at Madeline Nies the sernen in a mixture of excite­
Graphics
ment and disbn­
Editor
lief. Those shows most liknly had some sort of mind-boggling clillhanger that was nntirnly unexpeeted. It is these shows that we've bmm anxiously awaiting to return this fall. 
For television lovers, this past week has bnnn the highlight of the fall-tho season premieres of many of our favorite shows (Desperate Housewives, The Olliee and I leroes. to name a few) as well as the start of several new, highly anticipated shows (Dirty Sexy Monny, Private Pradice, and Chuek). I do admit to taking a fair numbnr of "study breaks" this week for the pre­minrs of my favorites. 
I happnn to bP an avid fan of The Oflkn and (;n•y's Anatomy, in partieu­lar. Undnrstandably so, I was rather eonllktnd wlwn I learnnd that thesn two shows would now be airing simul­taneously-The Oflice on NBC and (;rey's on ABC Thursdays at 9 p.m. 
For those of you who share in an Ollicn obsnssion, you ean understand my nagnrnnss to lind out where .Jim and Pam now stand. And for those who ean't get enough (;rey's Anatomy drama, you can see how essential it was for me to seP how ABC would handle Isaac Washington's departure from the show, plus w~t an updatt~ on Dnrnk and Men•dith 's relationship, of eoursn. 
Clnarly, NBC has made an ag~-,rrnssive mov11 against il<> competitor, ABC, by moving The Olliee into the 9 p.m. time slot and extnnding the show to an hour long. I can't imagine I'm the only per­son in these shows' 18-to-45 year-old target audience who is now foreed to ehoosn between two favorites. 
Statistieally, this seems to have been a wise move on NBC's part. While Grey's Anatomy still surpasses The Oflice in number of viewers, Grey's has 

I 
reportedly lost 20 pnreent of its view­

I I ers from last season. Conversely, The 
I Ollice is showing NBC the best num­
~ 
I 
bnrs it has seen in several years and eontinues to attract more viewersI every episode. Foreed to choose just one to watch at 9 this past Thursday. I decided on The I O!lice, knowing that I eould view 
I Grey's Anatomy online after the show. It eertainly was a smart decision, being that the first episode was ridiculously hilarious as always. Could anyone have seen it coming that Michael would hit Meredith with his car? All in all, I'd consider the premieres week a success. While I suspect some of the new shows may flop early on, I was quite impressed by the strong returns of my favorite shows. Perhaps an exciting television season can help compensate for our lack of entertain­ment on the football field this fall. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Madeline Nies at mnie::.-@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Monday, October 1, 2007

The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHATS YOUR FAVORITE FORM OF EXERCISE? 








Tom Soler Megan Krizmanich Tori Carpenito Christine Roetzel Anna Franzonello Erin Williams 
sophomore sophomore freshman freshman grad student sophomore Knott Pasquerilla West Farley Farley Badin Pasquerilla West 
"Draining cups .. 12 ounce "Gymnastics, "/love 'ab' "The secret "Dancing, but all night long, curls." because /love exercises Twister death only on table son. the risk because they match that tops in six-involved." make me feel takes place mans in Zahm. " good about every Sunday myself" night at the Law School." 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 
St. Edward's Hall junior Paul Macias goes up for pushups after his team returned an interception for a touchdown in a game against Carroll. St. Ed's won 7-6. 
OFFBEAT 

Man eats 21 pounds of grits for title 
BOSSIER CITY, La. ­He'll never want breakfast again. 
Pat Bertoletti, a mohawk-sporting ehef from Chicago, gulped down 21 pounds of buttery, goopy grits in 10 minutes to win $4,000 in the first World Grits Eating Championship at Louisiana Downs on Saturday. 
The grits were presented in 2-pound trays, each about 8 inches by 6 inches and 1 1/2 inches deep, said Ryan Nerz, a spokesman for Major League Eating. 
Bertoletti, in a state­
ment, said the race "tested our stomach capaeity like no other." 
The buzz going in was that a lot of grits would go down because they are so easy to eat, Nerz said. There were nine contest­ants, and the top three ate a combined 60 pounds. 
Stop signs try humor in Illinois 
OAK LAWN, Ill. -A big red sign that says "Stop" sometimes isn't enough to get everyone to stop. Maybe a laugh will get their attention. 
This Chicago suburb has installed second stop signs beneath the regular ones at 50 interseetions with messages, including "WHOAAA" or "Stop ... and smell the roses." 
"I thought it might make people smile and take notice," Mayor Dave Heilmann said as he launched the campaign Friday. "You've got people on their cell phones, their BlackBerries and iPods while driving. Those are all distractions. Hopefully, when they see a sign they're not expecting it might make them stop." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
1.&.1 ::::t: 
~ 



_-:i;/-~i ........
1.&.1 
~. <, 

':!:1, :~
~\. ~

~ 
..... 
~~J;~
,> \<
'1\

~It~

c( (.) 

0 HIGH 70 HIGH 60 HIGH 83 HIGH 83
....I LOW 60 LOW 50 LOW 57 LOW 62 
IN BRIEF 
There will be an information meeting for international internships in Africa, Asia and Latine America tonight at 6::{0 in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Internships are available to freshmen, sophomorns and jun­iors. Former reeipients will talk about their experiences and answer questions. 
Craig Cramer will perform in a faculty organ recital tomor­row at 8 p.m. in Reyes Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 f'or students. 
Them will be a workshop titled "Interviewing for the Aeademic Job Market" Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 5:15 in 126 D<1Bartolo Hall. Registration is needed. Panelists will coneentrate on issues related to Science and Engineering students. 
Notre Dame men's soccer will play Michigan Wednesday at 7 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
There will be an Eastern Orthodox Prayer Service Wednesday as part of the Prayer From Around the World series. The service will bn at 8 
p.m. in 330 Coleman-Morse. The series consists of evenings of prayer and meditation exploring the beliefs and practices of the world's great faith traditions. 
The Feast of St. Francis mass will be held Thursday at 5:15 at Alumni Hall chapel. The mass is sponsored by the Orestes Brownson Council. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­

mation  about  an  event  to  
obsnews@nd. edu  
THURSDAY  FRIDAY  


HIGH 85 HIGH 78 LOW 57 LOW 63 
Atlanta 80 I 54 Boston 76 I 66 Chicago 70 I 50 Denver 84 I 50 Houston 90 I 73 Los Angeles 75 I 60 Minneapolis 72 I 46 New York 75 I 67 Philadelphia 79 I 66 Phoenix 97 I 74 Seattle 58 I 49 St. Louis 81 I 54 Tampa 90 I 74 Washington 82 I 66 
Monday, October 1, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Prof questions perceptions of Court 
partial-birth abortion, and speech in public schools were, all things considered, narrow in their scope and modest in their reach. 
"The main reason the last term seemed 'conservative' is that the 
Special to The Observer 
Richard W. Garnett, John Cardinal O'Hara, C.S.C., associate professor of law in the Notre Dame Law School, suggests that the upcoming Supreme Court term will 
challenge conventional wisdom. 
"Much of the commen­tary about the Supreme Court's last term has 


included the Garnett claim that the justices have made a 'sharp turn to the right,"' Garnett says. "In fact. the evidence does not sup­
port this claim. Even the high­profile cases involving racial clas­sifications in public-school assign­ment. campaign-finance rules, menu of eases the justices had 
"Much ofthe
before them included several commentary about the 
issues on which Supreme Court's last 
Justice Anthony 
term has included the 
Kennedy -the 
new 'swing vote' claim that the justices -has well estab­have made a 'sharp
lished. fairly con­
turn to the right."' 
servative posi­tions. 
"Looking ahead Richard W. Garnett to the upcoming law professor term, however, the menu is quite will the end-of­the-year commen­tary conclude that the court has 'turned dramati­cally to the left'? Not likely, and nor should it." 
A member of the Notre Dame law faculty since 1999 and a for­mer clerk for the late Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, 
different. The justices have on Garnett teaches courses on crimi­their docket a number of eases­nal law, criminal procedure, First cases involving the detention of Amendment law, and the death suspected terrorists, the regula-penalty. 

Book analyzes World Social Forutn 



Hispanic bishops convene at ND 
Special to The Observer 
An informal meeting of the nation's Hispanic Catholic bishops was held 
at Notre Dame  on  Sept.  
24-25.  
The  gathering  was  

organized in consultation with the bishops by John Cavadini, chair of theolo­gy and director of Notre Dame's Institute for Church Life (ICL); Rev. Virgilio P. Elizondo, Notre Dame Professor of Pastoral and Hispanic Theology; and Rev. Richard v. Warner, C.S.C., director of Notre Dame's Office of Campus Ministry. 
Among the topics dis­cussed by the bishops were appropriate pastoral responses to the issue of immigration; the recent closing of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops' Secretariat of Hispanic Affairs; and proposals for 
new educational and cate­chetical ICL programs for Catholic Hispanic youths and Spanish-speaking seminarians. 
Nine bishops attended the meeting, the third of i t s ki n d t o b e h el d a t Notre Dame. They were Bishop Octavio Cisneros of Brooklyn, N.Y.; Bishop Raymundo Peii.a of Brownsville, Texas.; Bishop James Tamayo of Laredo, Texas.; Bishop Francisco Gonzalez of Washington, D.C.; Bishop Armando Ochoa of El Paso, Texas.; Bishop Gustavo Garcia-Siller of Chicago; Archbishop Jose Gomez of San Antonio; Bishop Eusebio Elizondo of Seattle; and Bishop Jose Vasquez of Galveston-Houston. 
The meeting concluded with a Mass eoncelebrated by the bishops in Notre Dame's Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 

tion of child pornography, and the death penalty -in which it is likely that the more 'liberal' posi­tions will win out. That is, that they will win out in Justice Kennedy's mind. When they do, 
Special to The Observer 
Jackie Smith, associate profes­sor of sociology and peace stud­ies at the University of Notre Dame, is the co-author of a new book recently released by Paradigm Publishers. 
"Global Democracy and the World Social Forums" offers an analysis of one of the most important political develop­ments of our time -the huge 
annual gatherings of social change activists collectively known as the World Social Forum (WSF). 
The book "is a real contribu­tion to the worldwide struggle for global justice," according to Yale University sociologist Immanuel Wallersteen. "It offers readers ... insight into what WSF has been, what its internal debates and difficulties are, and how we might move forward." 
Since 2001, the World Social Forum has drawn hundreds of thousands of people to annual meetings in Brazil, India, Venezuela, Mali, Pakistan and Kenya. This summer, Smith and another Notre Dame sociologist, Dan Myers, along with several undergraduate and graduate student-researchers, traveled to Atlanta to join more than 15,000 participants at the first United States Social Forum. 

I 




What are you waiting for? 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 1, 2007 
Show 
continued from page 1 

"Virgil Exner: Visionnnr." "Visioneer" is tlw l'irst writ­ton biography of' Exner. 
Virgil Exner, Jr., also an automobiiP dPsigner, spoke about his father's vision and legacy. 
Pictorial his­torins and 

prn­an industry 
signs displaying facts about
"Virgin Exner
snntations on standard. lie 
ovarian cancer so the runners 
Exner's iconic believed in beautiful foresaw with 
and spectators could under­
a 1: h i n v n m e n t s designs with prophetic 
stand the cause. Hunners also 
wnrn prnsented aceuracy that 
had the chance to write the
practical function."
throughout the cars of the 
name of someone they knew 
day at the future would 
who faced or is dealing with 
Stnpan Cnnter. Peter Grist be wedge­
ovarian cancer and tie the 
"Thn spirit of Exner biographer s h a p e d , 
name to a teal balloon. The 
this event was Virgil Exner, Jr," Paul Down, a Notre Dame professor of art, art history, and dnsign said, who played a key role in bringing thP Exner exhibit to Notre Dame. 
Virgil Exner, Jr., a Notre Damn alumnus, eontributed to NotrP Dame's being cho­sen to host this event hncaus1~ of his pnrsonal con­nndion. 
"The No. 1 reason for this event," Down said, "is that this is an opportunity for the University to give back for all it rncnived in the 1940s and '50s. Wn owe it to Virgil Exner. lie madn a grand investment in Notre Dame." 
Notre Dame students pri-

Gender 
continued from page 1 

ideal of (eosmopolitanisml," because citizens of the world havn an unprnendnnted ability to learn about and affect each other. lin mentioned pollution, 
mankind that a single soci11ty eould not implenwnt them all," he said. 
Diversity, he said, was only important because of what it made possible, not as an end itself'. 
lie sought to balance cultural sovemignty with inherent human rights. lin quoted philosopher 
John Stuart Mill to assert that men should be f'rnn to make thnir own choices as long as they otTer moral consider­ation to others. Genoeidn was another thmne throughout the leeturn. 
"Tolerance does not nwan thnre is nothing we don't f'ind 
intolerabln," he said. 
Huth Abbey, the director of Notre Danw's Institute of Sdwlarship in tho Liberal Arts, rnspondnd to Appiah's leeture, saying that eosmopolitanism calls for the "cavalier ... and vnry nxacting position" of' respncting those who do not bPiieve in the nqual dignity of otlwrs and will 
marily staffed the car show, whieh featured 13 of Exner's designs. 
"There's never been a cele­bration of Virgil Exner before," Hobert Elton said. "I've been a fan of (Exner's! work since I was nine." 
Exner's visionary designs include trademark tailfins and curved window glass, which has since become 
Run 
continued from page 1 

Link battled ovarian cancer before her death in 2003. Dave Link said a blessing over the runners in front of Moose Kraus Drive near the stadium tunnel before the race began. 
The streets were lined with 
Exner, Jr. 
said. 

" V i r g i I Exner believed in beautiful designs with a practical f'unetion," Grist said. "He created what people wanted in a car in two or three years, not twenty.!' 
Grist gave a book signing on stage during the car 
show. 
"We live in a world of mediocrity and blandness," Grist said. "That's why we have to give our congratula­tions to Virgil Exner for cre­ating these iconic master­pinees that are still beloved today." 
Contact Theresa Civantos at 
tcivanto@saintmarys.edu 
not roeiprocatn that respect. 
She also accused him of relax­ing his position on the obligation of the world's wealthy to the poor. 
Abbey said that one percent of the wealth of the richest tenth of tho world could drastically rnduce global poverty. 
arms traf'fick­ing and diseasn transmission, but also said that a eosmo­politan world could oppose tyranny and nnvironnwntal destruction. 
"There are so many nll"ee­tive sol u lions to the prob­lems facing 

"There are so many effective solutions to the problems facing mankind that a single society could not implement them all. " 
Kwame Appiah keynote speaker 

who spoke about the relationship between cosmopolitanism and patriotism. 
"Traditionally cosmopolitans have distrusted patriotism bncause it makes appeals to national sentiment rather than global solidarity," she said. "Patriotism could help create a strong global culture because it 
"Patriotism could help create a strong global culture because it could stir citizens to make sacrifices for values beyond themselves." 
Martha Nussbaum keynote speaker 
Alex Neustrom, a 
published in 1841. It was 
senior at Culver 
Avellaneda's most controver-
Military Academy, was disappointed that the panel did not include scholars that disagreed with the key tenets of cosmopolitanism. 
"Hespecting views was a core tenet of cosmopoli­tanism," he said. The conference also featured Martha Nussbaum, 
could stir citizens to make sacri11ces for values beyond themselves." 
Nussbaum cited the Pledge of Allegiance's "liberty and justice for all" phrase as an exam­ple of' patriotism creating a sense of solidarity. She offered solu­tions for "purifying patriotism" of harmful exclusion and prejudice. 
These ineluded constitutional guarantees, fair treatment for immigrants and an independent judiciary. 
"Even in times of war, these can protect cosmopolitan val­uns," Nussbaum said. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzl@nd.edu 
they received a T-shirt for participating. 
Last year's winner, Michael Rose, a sophomorP at Notre Dame, won the 3-mile race again this year. 
"I run for the race, but I definitely support the cause," Rose said. 
The race ended in front of' the Hesburgh Library. 
"We thought it would be beneficial to run for the cause," freshman Grace Yeh said. 
Many students and faculty, alumni and community mem­bers came out Saturday morning for the races. 
"I think it was a good way to get involved on campus," freshman Sara Yusko said. 
This year's run also marked another milestone for the Domer Hun tradition. Graduate student James Fetter became the first blind runner in the race's history. 
"I am definitely not a run­ner," he said. "I primarily swim. I've been a swimmer 
for years, but I thought I would try something differ­ent." 
Fetter participated in the three-mile race. 
"Even people with disabili­ties can take a part in com­petitive activities, such as a race," he said. 
Fetter's experience with the Domer Hun proved to be a positive one, which may lead to more races in the future for him-if liwd is involved. 
"J might run another raee if there is another free break­fast at the end, but I think I would rather stick to swim­ming." 
At the end of' the race, run­ners made their way back to Legends for a complimentary pancake breakfast, sponsored by Chase Finaneial. 
Participants eould register for the Hun for $10 in advance or $15 the day of the race. 
Contact Katie Staak at kstaakO I @saintmarys.edu 

balloons were tied on to an arch that lined the start and finish line of the race. 
Hunners had the opportuni­ty to participate in either a three-mile or six-mile run, or a two-mile walk, all begin­ning at 10 a.m. Everyone checked in at Legends where sial work. the soul," O'Brien said. 
"It was well received in "Human souls are capable of Spain but immediately more than love." banned in Cuba," 0' Brien Avellaneda wrote four other 
said.  novels during  
Avellaneda  her lifetime.  
was a revolu­tionary author because she  'The flow ofidentity comes not from the  CWIL will be hosting another lec­ 
used themes of interracial love and social divi­ blood, butfrom the soul."  ture next Friday titled "Hacing the  
sions,  such  as  Archive: Will  
slavery, O'Brien  Dr. Colleen O'Brien  the  Heal  
said. 'Sab'  is  the  professor  W iII i am Dubois Please  
story of a  slave  Stand Up?" It  
who falls in love  will  take  

with his master's daughter. place from noon to 1 p.m. in Avellaneda describes how the Mother Pauline room on Sab, although a slave, is t'he second f'loor of Cushwa­morally superior to the white Leighton Library. characters in the book. 
"The flow of identity comes Contact Ashley Charnley at not from the blood, but from achamO1@saintmarys.edu 

Poet 
continued from page 1 

Avellaneda was a Cuban advocate for women's rights and an abolitionist who found inspiration from romantic writers. 
"LShe I was influenced by 
Victor Hugo and Chateaubriand, which is evi­dent in most all of her works" O'Brien said. 
O'Brien noted historical influences from the conquest of' Mexico and tho leader of the Haitian Hevolution, Toussaint Louverture. 
'Sab,' the book which was most heavily discussed, was 
~---­



ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 1, 2007 CoMP1LED FROA,tTHE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Early election held to end standoff 
KIEV-Ukraine's pro-Western Orange Revolution allies made a strong combined showing in Sunday's parliamentary elections and looked poised to win a majority that could allow them to unseat Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych, an exit poll showed. 
The election was called early in an attempt to ond a standoff between Yanukovych and President Viktor Yushchenko and shake sense into the ex-Soviet nation's politics after years of infighting. 
Thn independent poll showed Yanukovych's bloc was the top vote-getter with 35.5 percent. but Yulia Tymoshenko, thn fiery Orange Hcvolution heroine, f'ol­lownd elosely with 31.5 percent. Yushehenko's party was trailing a distant third with 13.4 percent. 
Sudanese rebels kill 10 peacekeepers 
IIASKANITA -Hebel forces stormed a small African Union base in northern Darfur and killed 10 peacekeepers in an unprncedented attack on the beleaguered mission that threatened key peace talks set for October. 
Several others were wounded and dozens were missing after about 1,000 rebels from the Sudan Liberation Army attacked the hasP. in llaskanita late Saturday and even­tually stormed it early Sunday, AU peace­keepers told The Associated Press in I laskanita. 
The remaining AU peacekeepers were evacuated from the base under the protec­tion of the Sudanese army, who routed the rebels out of the arPa. Some government troops could be seen plundering goods from the burned-out camp as an AU armored vPhicle lay smoldering nP.arby. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Former Congressman goes on trial 
SAN DIEGO -DefensP. contractor Brent Wtlkes hosted laney dinner parties and charteredjet.s for powerful members of Congress while his compa­ny was racking up more than $100 million in gov­errunent contracts. 
The lawmakers who enjoyed the largesse were often the same ones who approved his contracts. They included former Rep. Randy "Duke" Cunningham, who pleaded guilty in 2005 to accepting $2.4 million in kickbacks in the largest corruption seandal ever to strike Congress. 
Wilkes goes on trial Wednesday to fight federal chargr1s that he funneled more than $700,000 in bribos to Cunningham in the form of both cash and perks ranging fi·om a Sea-Doo jet boat to the services of two prostitutes at a high-end Hawaiian msort. 

Missing woman found in wreckage 
SEATTLE -A woman who spent more than a week trapped in the wreckage of her vehicle has been upgraded to serious condition, a hospital spokeswoman said Sunday. 
Tanya Rider, 33, was admitted in critical condition Thursday with kidney failure and other injuries after her mangled SUV was found in a ravine off a highway sub­urban Seattle. 
She remained in the intensive care unit Sunday, said Susan Gregg-Hanson, spokeswoman for Ilarborview Medical Center. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana officer accidentally shot 
!lAMMOND-A Gary reserve officer was fatal­ly shot at a gun range during marksmanship practice, police said. 
Kevin Weaver, 49, died Saturday from a singJp, gunshot wound after a fellow volunteer officer's gun accidentally discharged a .45-caliber round into hi<; chest, Gary police said. 
Hammond Police ChiP.f Rrian Miller said WPavnr. who was with the Cary forc~e for morP. than 20 yoars, was struck in the arm and chest. Weaver was pronounced dead at a hospital a short time later. 
"Them's apparently nothing here that indicates anything other than an accident," MillP.r said. 
MYANMAR 



Forces sent to repress demonstrations 
U.N., Japanese attempt to persuade military rulers to end deadly crackdown in country 
Associated Press 
YANGON -Thousands of soldiers and police were deployed in Myanmar's largest cities Sunday, keep­ing even the most die-hard protesters off the streets, and more arrests were reported, further demoraliz­ing dissidents desperate for democracy. 
The top U.N. envoy on Myanmar, Ibrahim Gambari, was trying to persuade Myanmar's military rulers to end a deadly crackdown on demonstrators that has sparked international outcry. 
But many protesters said they were seeing a repeat of the global reaction to a 1988 pro-democracy uprising, when the world stood by as protesters were gunned down in the streets. 
"I don't think it will make much of a difference," said one hotel worker, who like other residents asked not to be named, fearing retalia­tion. "We have to find a solu­tion ourselves." 

A senior Japanese official headed for Myanmar on Sunday to press the military government to move toward democracy and to protest the killing of Japanese jour­nalist Kenji Nagai during the crackdown on protesters. Deputy Foreign Minister Mitoji Yabunaka was to "The monks are the ones mobilizing enough people to dents. arrive in Yangon by Sunday who give us courage," she topple the junta is zero." The demonstrations began evening, according to a min­said. Most of the clerics, People suspected of lead­last month as people angry istry official who spoke on whose participation helped ing or organizing rallies con­over massive fuel price hikes condition of anonymity in the protests grow dramati­tinue to be arrested, he said, took to the streets -then line with policy. cally, are now besieged in estimating that the total mushroomed into the tens of 
Soldiers and police have their monasteries behind number could be as high as thousands after the monks been posted on almost all locked gates and barbed 1,000. With the main prison began marching. corners in the cities of wire. now overcrowded, people The junta, which has a Yangon and Mandalay. The number of troops in are now being detained in long history of snuffing out Shopping malls, grocery Yangon, the largest city, university buildings and dissent, started cracking stores and public parks were swelled to around 20,000 educational institutes, he down Wednesday, when the closed and few people dared after reinforcements arrived said. first of at least 10 deaths to venture out of their overnight Sunday, ensuring Gambari was taken on was reported, and then let homes. that almost all demonstra­arrival Saturday to loose on Thursday, shooting 
A young woman who took tors would remain off the Naypyitaw, the remote, into a crowd of protesters part in a massive demon­streets, an Asian diplomat bunker-like capital where and clubbing them with stration in Yangon Thursday said. the country's military lead­batons. said.she didn't think "we "The security forces are ers are based. The White The crackdown triggered have any more hope to win." demonstrating their House urged the junta to an unprecedented verbal She was separated from her strength," said the diplomat, allow him to have access to flaying of Myanmar's gener­boyfriend when police broke who spoke on condition of Aung San Suu Kyi -the als from almost every corner up the protest by firing into anonymity, citing protocol. "I Nobel Peace Prize laureate 'of the world -even some crowds and has not seen think the chance of protest­who is under house arrest -criticism from No. 1 ally him since. ers coming to the road and and ordinary Myanmar resi-China. 

S.C. first to use single-gender education 
Associated Press girls and boys -especially during chart, using skateboard parts and 
middle school years typically measuring tape to learn pre-alge­
COLUMBIA -David Chadwell marked by burgeoning hormones, bra. In a different school a few believes boys and girls can get self doubt and peer pressure -les­miles away, middle school girls through the awkward middle school sons can be more effective because interviewed each other, then turned years better when they're separat­they are in unique classroom set~ their surveys about who's shy and ed, learning in classrooms tailored tings. who has dogs into fractions, deci­to the learning styles of each gen­For example, Chadwell explains, mals and percentages. Classical der. research shows boys don't hear as music played softly in the back­
As the country's first and only well as girls, so teachers of all-boys ground. statewide coordinator of single-gen­classes often use microphones. And Teachers in all-girls classes say der education, Chadwell is helping because boys· attention spans tend they've learned to speak more soft­to make South Carolina a leader to wander, incorporating movement ly. because their students can take among public schools that offer such in a lesson. like throwing a ball to a yelling more personally than boys. programs. About 70 schools offer student when he's chosen to answer And the educators gear their lessons the program now, and the goal is to a question, can keep them focused. to what students like: assigning have programs available to every In one recent boys' class, a group action novels for boys to read or child within five years, he said. of gangly seventh-graders sprawled allowing girls to evaluate cosmetics 
The theory is that by separating on the floor around a giant vinyl for science projects. 
Monday, October 1, 2007

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Text 
continued from page 1 
their phones Wednesday, the message said: "UNIV OF NOTHE DAME: You must reply 'Y NDIHISII' to confirm your desire to receive future SMS alerts. More info text 
'HELP."' 
Moreover, to mobile phone users, the sender of the mes­sage appeared as "231-77," which led some students to bnlieve the message was not legitimate. 
"I didn't recognize the phonn number, and I didn't really remflmber the e-mail that had been sent out, so when I got the message I did­n't reply because I thought it was spam," senior Michelle Mas said. 
Steed said in the future stu­dents should be aware 231­77 is Connect-ED's number because the Office of' Information Technologies has specified that information on its Web site. 
In the event of a campus emergency, Steed said, stu­dents who fail to reply posi­tively to the confirmation requnst will not receive a text-message alert -but that doesn't mean they won't receive other forms of notifi­cations. 
"Students that don't send out a eonfirmation reply will not receive any additional text messages from Connect­ED in the f'utum, but in the event of an emergeney they will receive the e-mails and the voicn mails," Steed said. 
But based on the number of' students who provided Notre 
Dame with emergency cell phone numbers, the University expects mobile phones to become one of the more prominent avenues for warning students of any cam­pus crises. 
During this fall's online 
registra­tion, more • 
than 95 percent of the stu­dent body provided an emer­gency cell p h o n e number to the Office of the Hegistrar, w h i c h would pro­duce any mass noti­fications sent out during an e m e r ­
"Students that don't sent out a confirmation reply will not receive any additional text messages from Connect­ED in the future, but in the event ofan emergency they will receive the e-mails and voicemails." 
Jay Steed executive assistant to CIO Gordon Wishon 

geney, Steed said. 
Of this 95 percent, he said more than 80 percent addi­tionally signed up to receive emergency text messages. Steed said the University expects to get 75-85 percent of those students to validate their enrollment in the pro­gram with a confirmation reply, a benchmark based on the results observed at peer institutions with similar noti­fication systems. 
Steed said he didn't have the total number of students who replied to Wednesday's initial eonfirmation request beeause the University is still waiting to receive more text­message answers in the com­ing weeks. 
Wishon said Sunday. "And the whole point of all this is to be able to contact as many of them and as quickly as we can to alert them of any emergen­cies on campus." 
Some of the potential emer­gencies include tornadoes, light­ning, dangerous gas leaks or even gunmen on cam­pus. The plans and efforts underway to develop a system­atic way of noti­
fying the campus of any emergencies were only sped up after last spring's mur­ders at Virginia Tech. 
A full-scale trial run of the entire notification system will be conducted later this semester, Steed said. 
"Right now we know the system works, that students get the text messages. But sometime later this semester there will be a coordinated effort within the University to test the entire notification system, which includes the text messages, the voicemail [messages] and the e-mails," Steed said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Besides the students who signed up to receive SMS alerts, Wishon said, Connect­ED will also handle the emer­gency notifications sent out to faculty and staff members. 
"The University has over 16,000 people in the system," 

Senior receives honors frolll organization 
Special to Tbe Observer 
Andrea Laidman, a Notre Dame senior from Alden, N.Y., is the recipient of national and state awards from Campus Compact, a coalition of college 
and uni­versity presidents who are committed to fulfilling the civic purposes of higher 


education. Laidman 
Laidman is one of only five students selected nationwide and the second consecutive Notre Dame student to receive the Howard H. Swearer Student Humanitarian Award in recognition of her commit­ment to public service and for developing an innovative pro­gram to address issues facing the community. She will receive a $1 ,500 contribution to be used in a service pro­gram of her choosing. 
Nationally, Campus Compact is a coalition of more than 800 college and university presidents that eneourages the expansion and support of educational programs involv­ing students in volunteerism and social service. 
Laidman also has received the Richard J. Wood Student Community Commitment Award from Indiana Campus Compact, a member of the national organization that consists of a consortium of 31 Indiana higher education institutions. The Wood Award is presented annually to one student per university, based on his or her record of service and determination to positive­ly afl'ect his or her communi­ty. 
A Presidential Schc}lar with a double major in political sci­ence and international peace studies, Laidman is the co­founder of Notre Dame Against State Killing (ND ASK), a student-led campaign for a moratorium on execu­tions in the state of Indiana. She has served as a columnist and reporter for The Observer and worked abroad as a legal research intern for the Irish Department of Justice. 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 1 s Catholic Culture Series ... 

11 The Audacity of Non-recusant 



john Finnis 
Professor of Law and Legal Philosophy, University of Notre Dame Law School 
Tuesday, October 2 DeBartolo Hall Room 1 55 8:00 PM 

Tuesday, October 9, 2007 DeBartolo 155 at 8:00 PM 11 Shakespeare 1 s Dark Matter 11 
CIa re Asquith, Author of Shadowplay: The Hidden Beliefs and Coded Politics of William Shakespeare 
For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 







USINESS

Monday, October 1, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,895.63 -17.31
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,467 96 1,786 2,978,017,707 

NASDAQ 2,701.50 -8.09 1.NYSE .·..·.··················•·• .llll~;\i,i1i'~\; ':"lJ;il~Q~~-!l!Whil'7;lf>7 S&P 500 1,531.28 -4.63 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,822.54 +36.85 FTSE 100 (London) 6,466.80 -19.60 COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.33  -0.51  152.58  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.33  -0.17  51.41  
FORD MOTOR CO (F)  -1.62  -0.14  8.49  
SUN MICROSYS INC (JAVA)  +0.54  +0.03  5.62  

Treasuries 10-YEAR NOTE +0.13 +0.006 4.579 13-WEEK BILL +2.78 +0.100 3.700 30-YEAR BOND -0.08 -0.004 4.833 5-YEAR NOTE --+0.28 +0.012 4.229 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.22 81.66 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +10.10 750.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.05 89.68 
Exchange Rates YEN 114.90 EURO 0.7008 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9929 BRITISH POUND 0.4889 

IN BRIEF 
N. J. Meat company announces recall 
TRENTON -The Topps Meat Co. on Saturday expanded its recall of frozen hamburger patties that may be contaminated with the E. coli bacteria and sickened more than a dozen people in eight states. 
Topps said it was recalling 21.7 million pounds of ground beef products distributed to retail gro­cery stores and food service institutions through­out the United States, up from the 332,000 pounds it recalled on Thesday. 
The recall represents all Topps products with either a "sell by date" or a "best if used by date" between Sept. 25 this year and Sept. 25, 2008. The Elizabeth-based company said this informa­tion is found on a package's back panel. 
All recalled products also have a USDA estab­lishment number of EST 97 48, which is located on the back panel of the package and-or in the USDA legend, the company said. 
The U.S. Department of Agriculture said Friday it had suspended the grinding of raw products at the Topps plant after inspectors found inadequate safety measures at the Topps plant. The USDA declined to detail the inadequate safety measures. 
"Because the health and safety of our con­sumers is our top priority, we are taking these expansive measures," said Geoffrey Livermore, Topps' operations vice president. 
Mich. lawmakers plan tax increases 
LANSING -Lawmakers were trying early Sunday to reach deals on tax increases and meas­ures aimed at lowering health insurance costs for some public employees in an effort to avoid a par­tial government shutdown. 
A framework of a temporary budget deal appeared to be falling into place as lawmakers attempted to erase a $1.75 billion deficit in the fis­cal year that begins Monday. 
Democratic Gov. Jennifer Granholm has told about 35,000 of the state's more than 53,000 workers not to report to work on Monday if a shut­down occurs. The remaining workers, mostly related to public health and safety, would stay on the job. 
INDIA 

Tea industry sees drop in profit 
Growers in northeastern Indian state suffer as competition rises and insurgency increases 
Associated Press 

DIBRUGAR, India-He's a genteel man, with a sprawl­ing plantation house, courtly manners and an estate of carefully trimmed tea bush­es that stretches across the gentle hills of Assam, blan­keting the land as far as you can see. 
But the business of tea? 
It's best not to ask. 

Manoj Jalan, a fifth-gener­ation planter with a 5,000­acre estate, summed up his situation simply: "This is a rough business." 
"I was born here, in this building," Jalan said, stand­ing in front of a colonial-era house. "Tea is a way of life for us." 
India has long been famous for its tea, and the $1.5 billion industry launched by British colonials nearly two centuries ago is, after China's, the world's second largest. More than 1 million tons were grown in 2007, much of it here in the northeastern state of Assam. 
But production costs are mounting and a brutal insur­gency has targeted the planters. Globalization, with the spread of cheaper tea from countries such as Vietnam and Kenya, has increased competition. While there have been glimmers of good news recently -a 
Indian women sort tea leaves at a garden in Jorhat on July 5. The Indian tea industry has strug.

$320 million revitalization 
gled as a result of high production costs, insurgency, and globalization.

package announced by the government, and an uptick after independence from have fallen 30 percent in just planters don't leave home in prices from historic lows Britain 60 years ago, have a decade. without jeeploads of heavily -the business is still at the been forced into a brutally Then there's the United armed bodyguards. bottom rungs of profitability. competitive marketplace. Liberation Front of Asom, Guardposts ring their clubs. 
Things have changed since On one side are corpora­whose revolt has killed some Back in the good times, the earlier generations of tions that maximize profits 3,000 people over two wealthiest planters jetted to planters cleared the forests, through enormous scale, decades, and helped turn the Europe to shop, and bought planted the tea and built an with dozens of estates and region into a backwater of homes in Calcutta and New enormously profitable indus­tens of thousands of work­unemployment. Planters Delhi. try. ers. On the other side are the have been prime targets -Those days are ove~ 
"I must confess," Jalan growing number of micro­more than a dozen killed Today, Jalan, like many old said. "They did a better job producers, many with just a and at least 20 more kid­tea-making families, has in their time than we've couple acres of land, that napped. Extortion payoffs, turned part of his estate into been able to do in our time." are increasingly powerful in farmers say privately, are a guesthouse, hoping 
Planters like Jalan, whose the market. All are compet­common. wealthy Western tourists can families piloted the industry ing in a market where prices Today, many prominent bring more profits. 







Hollywood focuses on green energy 
to build sets that are often torn show "24" to converting Warner

Associated Press down and tossed out after filming Bros.' enormous set-building facility LOS ANGELES -From "green car­ends. to solar energy. pets" at awards shows to organic The energy guzzling continues on "Public consciousness on this issue fruit served to actors on sets, the exhibition side, too, with multi­has changed dramatically," said Kyle Hollywood is going all out to pro­plexes drawing millions of kilowatts Tanger, a principal at Clear Carbon mote itself as being environmentally to power old-school popcorn makers Consulting. "The talent themselves hip. and clunky film projectors that cash­are requesting it from some of the But is it all just show? strapped theater owners are reluc­studios. And a lot of these things No amount of public service tant to replace. make economic sense.' announcements or celebrities driv­A two-year study released last Economic benefit can come to stu­ing hybrid cars can mask the fact year by the Univers{ty of California dios directly, by switching to more that movie and TV production is a at Los Angeles concluded that spe­efficient lighting or cooling systems gritty industrial operation, consum­cial effects explosions, idling vehi­or driving hybrid cars on location, ing enormous amounts of power to cles and diesel generators make the which can save gas. Other projects, feed bright lights, run sophisticated entertainment industry a major such as installing solar power, can cameras, and feed a cast of thou­Southern California polluter, second take decades to pay off. sands. only to the oil industry. But there are other benefits that Studios' back lots host cavernous Still, financial and public pressures are harder to quantify. Besides the soundstages that must be air-condi­have resulted in many studios public relations angle, many per­tioned to counter the heat produced expanding their environmental formers and other employees want by decades-old lighting technology. efforts, doing everything from using to work with eco-friendly companies, Huge manufacturing facilities con­a biodiesel fuel mixture tci run the so it also helps in recruiting and sume wood, steel, paint and plastic generators on the set of the Fox retaining employees, Tanger said. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, October 1, 2007 
Theologian, Vatican at odds over doctrine 
Associated Press 
It's not easy being a Boman Catholic theologian these days. Trying to explain a centuries-old faith's place in modern times is hard enough. Now some Catholic thinkers worry the Vatican is more eoneerned with unity than messy dnbatns that ean lead to nnw idea'>. 
The ease of tho Hev. Peter Phan is the latest example of' thn tnnsion bntwenn ehurc~h authorities and Catholi<" tlwolo).,riruls. A 2004 book by Phan, a Gnorgntown University proli~ssor, has eome under scniti­ny li1r going beyond tho Vatican's comfort zone in suggesting that othnr reli1-,rions might have merit. 
"Individual theologians can b(1 creativn, or they can be irrespon­sible," said the Hev. Jamns llnft, director of the Institute for Advanend Catholic Studies at thn University of Southern California. "The exereisn of' central authority can bn overbearing, or it can be a necessary eorreetive. So it's a complex situation." 
American Catholics and the broader public have good reason to care about what may look like an intramural squabble, I left said. Thnologians ollen do the thinking that contributes to profound changes in Catholie teaehing-on nverything from the church's rela­tionship with Jews and other Christians to the role of' lay people. 
The conflict at the heart of the Ph<m ease, he said, strikes at "one of the major questions of our time, nspncially in the coming decades: llow we can speak of' one faith expressed distinctively in a variety of' cultures?" 
Over recent deeades, the Vatican ha'> dampnd down on the­ologians who advoeate lighting poverty and injustice through the soda! gospel and liberation theol­ogy. More reeently, the foeus has shifted to the nature of Jesus Christ and salvation, one of the del'ining concerns of Pope Bmwdiet XVI's papacy and his prnvious work as a eardinal. 

Earlier this year, Benedict rnleased a document reasserting the primacy of the Homan Catholic Church, reiterating themes in the 2000 Vatican docu­ment Dominus Jesus. That docu­ment states non-Christians are "in a gravely deficient situation in comparison with those who, in the church, have the fullness of the means of salvation." 
Phan explored salvation and other themes in his 2004 book, "Being Heligious lnterreligiously," the foeus of' the Vatican inquiry. The Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith said the book is "notably confused on a number of points of Catllolic doctrine and also contains serious ambiguities," aeeording to tile National Catholic Heporter. 
Among the chief concerns, said the independent Catholie weekly: that Phan's writings could be interpreted as saying non­Christian faiths "have a positive role in salvation history in their own right, and are not merely a preparation for the Christian Gospel." A committee of U.S. bish­ops is conducting a separate inquiry into Phan's work. 
The increasing diversity of Catholie theologiilllS, Phan among them (he is Vietnamese­American), is greatly influencing the debate about Catholicism's place among other religions, said Terrence Tilley, chairman of the Fordham University theology department. 

Wednesday, March 7 @ 5:30 P.M. Coleman-Morse Student Lounge 
RSVP by Friday, March 2 by e-mail: msps@ nd.edu or call 574-631-6841 

Take the road to success. 
Join the team that's #25 on FORTUNE® magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For"! 
Here's aworkplace where you can really go places! Ernst &Young jumped up to #25 on FORTUNE® magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" from #67 last year-ranked higher than any other professional services firm. At Ernst &Young, our people are our edge, so we create an environment that promotes your growth and success. See for yourself why we've made the list for the 9th year in a row. This way to agreat career! 
Visit us at ey.comjusjcareers for more information or visit the EY page on Facebook.com. 
FORTUNE' 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR C'J #25 on the list. 
~----------------------------------------­
Monday, October 1, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 



....,. Amy's no ugly betty.* 

pwc.tv/©[h)~ 
The Firm now playing on Channel2. 
*connectedthinking 

© 2007 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. *connectedthinking is a trademark of PriCewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. ' 

.------------~---------------------------------------------~----------~~--~-~ ~--­
page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 1, 2007 
GERMANY 

Ethiopian lllarathoner breaks vvorld record 
Associated Press 
BEHLIN -Haile Gebrselassie broke tho world record Sunday in winning the Bnrlin Marathon in two hours, four minutns and 26 seconds. 
Tho :~4-yoar-old Ethiopian low­ered the mark or 2:04:55 by rriend and Kenyan Paul Tergat rour years ago by 29 seconds on thn Gnrman capital's rtat rast course, whore six world records have bmm set. 
In the wonHm's race, final miles last year in a failed bid at the record, settling for last year's fastest marathon of the year at 2:05:56. 

This time, vowing again to break Tcrgat's mark, he upped his training mileage before the nvnnt. I lis record was also helped by a cool calm day. 
"Today, there was a little wind, but otherwise perfect," he said. The win helped him ease a 
painrul memory, when he dropped out of the star-studded London Marathon 
his country­in the spring.
"Today. there was a 
woman Gete Later, he was
little wind, but
Wami dornnded diagnosed with her title in otherwise perfect." allergies. 2:2:~:17. "That was very 
Gebrsnlassie sad. I could not
Haile Gebrselassie 
picked up the sleep at all the 
mararthon world record
pace over the night after that last six miles, holder and this experi­
running alone without pace­makers, artnr he trailnd tho rceord by hair-a-dozen seconds at the hallway point. 
llis rurious pace carried him through the giant pillars or the Brandenburg Gate in downtown Borlin and he broke into a smiln over the final yards as it became dear he would accomplish the rnat in his second try in Berlin. 
I lis arms flew up in triumph as lw hrokn the tape. 
"Don't ask me how I am," Cidlfselassie said. "It's very spe­cial, spndacular." 
This was the 25th world reeord ror tho Ethiopian, a two-time Olympic !:hampion in the 10,000 mnt.nrs. Konyans Abel Kinli in 2:0(,:51 and Salim Kipsang in 
2:07:29 finished second and third 
on Sunday. Gebrselassie faded over thn 
ence still follows 
me until today," 
Gebrselassie said. 

Wami picked up points in her hid to daim the $500,000 o!Ternd for winning the first World Marathon Majors Series. The for­nwr Olympic 10,000 champion is locked in a battle for the prize money with Jelena Prokopeuka or Latvia. 
Germany's Irina Mikitenko was sneond in 2:24:52 and Kenyan Helena Kirop finished third in 2:26:27. 
Gebrselassie picked up $71,000 for the win and the same amount in a world rneord bonus. He al<;o reportedly earned $357,000 in appearance money. 
The Berlin Marathon is tho fourth-largest marathon in the world, drawing 40,000 to the race and anothnr 8,000 entries in spedal evenb. 
CHINA 


Controversial ads banned from air 
Associated Press 
BEIJING China has banned television and radio ads for push-up bras, f"igure­enhaneing underwear and sex toys in the communist govern­ment's latest move to purge thn nation's airwaves of what it calls social pollution. 
Hngulators have already tar­gnted ads using crude or sug­gestive language, behavior, and images, tightening their grip on television and radio a few weeks ahead of a twice-a­decade Communist Party con­gress at which somn new sen­ior leaders will be appointed. 
The latnst move by the State Administration or Hadio, Film and T!d!~vision, or SAHFT. also hans adVI'rtisernentS ror SeXU­al aids such as tonics that elaim to boost pcrrorrnanee in bod. 
Tlw not i c n i n d i !: ate d that regulators were eoneerned about both lascivious imagery and outrageous or insupport­ahln elaims about some prod­uets' bnnofits or niTnclivnnnss. 
"Illegal 'sexual nwd ieation' advertisements and olhflr 

harmful ads pose a grave threat to society," said the SAHFT notice, issued in the past week and posted on the administration's Web site. 
"They not only seriously mislead consumers, harm the poople's health, pollute the social environment, and cor­rupt social mores, but also directly harm the credibility of public broadcasting and affect the image of the Communist Party and the gov­ernment," the notice said. 
China has already also issued strict rules for TV tal­ent shows, including the ban­ning of "American Idol" -style mass audience voting by mobile phone text message or the Internet. 
A few weeks ago, SARFT ordnred 11 radio shows ofT the air in southern and cen­tral China ror talking too oxplicitly about sex or ror broacl!:asting material of an "extreme · pornographic naturn." 
Hegulators have also banned telnvision shows about cos­rnotie surgnry and sex changes, and a talent show that they deemed coarse. 
JAPAN 
History revision protested 
Civilians rally against government censoring of WWII passages 
Associated Press 
TOKYO More than 100,000 people protested Saturday in southern Japan against the central govern­ment's order to modify school textbooks which say the coun­try's army forced civilians to commit mass suicide at the end of World War II. 

Publishers of history text­books were ordered in December to modify sections that said the Japanese army -faced with an impending 
U.S. invasion in 1945 -hand­ed out grenades to residents in Okinawa and ordered them to kill themselves rather than surrender to the Americans. 
The amendment order came amid moves by Tokyo to soft­en brutal accounts of Japanese wartime conduct, but triggered immediate con­demnation from residents and academics. 
About 110,000 residents and politicians attended Saturday's rallies in the pre­fecture (state) of Okinawa, said Yoshino Uetsu, one of the organizers. 
"We cannot bury the fact that the .Japanese military was involved in the mass sui­cide, taking into account of the general background and testimonies that hand grenades were delivered," Japan's dnfnnses. The U.S. Okinawa Gov. llirokazu occupied Okinawa from the Nakaima told a crowd gath­end of World War II until ered at a park in Ginowan 1972. City. New textbooks for use in 
Accounts of forced group Japanese schools must be suicides on Okinawa are screened and approved by a backed by historical research, government-appointed panel, 
as well as tes­ which  can  
timonies from  order correc­ 
victims' rela­t i v e s . Historians also  "We cannot bury the fact that the Japanese  tions of per­ceived histor­ical inaccu­ 
say  civilians  military was involved  racies.  The  
were induced  in the mass suicide."  publishers of  
by government  seven  text­ 
propaganda to believe U.S.  Hirokazu Nakaima  books slated for use in  
soldiers would  Okinawa governor  high schools  

commit horri­ble atrocities and therefore killed them­selves and their families to avoid capture. 
About 500 people committed suicide, according to civic group and medi·a reports. 
In recent years, some aca­demics have questioned whether the suieides were forced -par.t of a general push by Japanese ·conserva­tives to soften criticism of Tokyo's wartime conduct. 
The bloody battle in Okinawa raged from late March through June 1945, leaving more than 200,000 civilians and soldiers dead, and speeding the collapse of 
next year 
had beon asked to make relevant changes and submit them for approval. 
An official of the Education Ministry said Saturday that the ministry has no immediate plans concerning the amend­ment. She spoke on condition of anonymity, citing policy. 
Saturday's rally was the largest in Okinawa since the island was returned to Japan by the United States in 1972, Kyodo News agnncy said. In 1995, 85,000 people took part in a rally following the 1995 rape of a schoolgirl there by three American servicemen, aecording to the agency. 


news@nd.edu 
Challenges 

We push the boundaries of tradrtional problem solving to help our clients achieve breakthrough organizational performance while providing our people diverse and stgnificant leadership opportunities. 
Opportunities 
We create a unique and formative experience where people at any 
stage of their careers have the instrtutional support to act on creative 
ideas and create distinctive impact for our clients and for our firm. 
Submit your resume 
Submit your resumes through Go IRISH by Wednesday, October 3 
www.katzenbach.com 


kfttzenbach 
PARTNC""> 


Monday, October 1, 2007 The Observer+ EDUCATION NEWS page 11 

Student borrovving could har111 U.S. econo111y, experts say 
Sharp increases in college costs force turn to loans; graduates unable to shed repayments, high interest rates 
Associated Press  more costly private financing made higher education seeming­ That's less than half the average four-year tuition, room and  Dr. Paul-Henry Zottola, a 35­year-old periodontist in Rocky  Demand for bundled student loans sold to institutional  
The near doubling in the cost  ly available to anyone willing to  board of $51,000 at public col­ Hill, Conn., faces paying $1,600  investors worldwide fueled lend­ 
of a college degree the past  sign a loan application.  leges and $121,000 at private  a month on his student loan on  ing to students. The market for  
decade has produced an explo­ Students with no credit history  institutions.  top of a $2,300 mortgage pay­ private student loan-backed  
sion in high-priced student loans  and no relatives to co-sign loans  Sallie Mae, formally known as  ment and $1,500 on the loan he  securities leapt 76 percent last  
that could haunt the U.S. econo­ (or co-signing parents with tar­ SLM Corp., has been on the win­ took out to start his practice.  year, to $16.6 billion, from $9.4  
my for years.  nished credit) were willing to bet  ning side of the loan bonanza.  His credit record remains solid  billion in 2005, according to  
While  scholarship,  grant  that high-priced loans were a  Its portfolio of 10 million cus­ but  he  owes  more  than  Moody's Investors Service.  
money and government-backed  trade-off for  a  shot  at  the  tomers includes $25 billion in  $300,000 in student loans as he  The student loan-backed secu­ 
student loans - whose interest  American dream. But high-pay­ private and $128 billion in gov­ and his wife, Heather, an ele­ rities market has yet to suffer  
rates are capped -have taken  ing jobs are proving elusive for  ernment-backed  education  mentary school administrator,  noticeable effects of a global  
up some of the slack, many fam­ many graduates.  loans. However, private-equity  raise two young children.  credit squeeze that was trig­ 
ilies and individual students  "This is literally a new form of  investors who had offered $25  "It would be very easy to feel  gered this summer by a mort­ 
have turned to private loans,  indenture  ...  something that  billion  to  buy the  company  crushed by it," Zottola said in an  gage meltdown of borrowers  
which carry fees and interest  every American parent should  backed out last week, citing  interview. "All my income for the  with risky credit.  
rates that are often variable and  be scared of," said Barmak  credit market weakness and a  next 10 years is spoken for."  "Once the economy starts to  
up to 20 percent.  Nassirian, associate executive  new law cutting billions of dol­ Meanwhile, complaints about  slow, you're going to see a large  
Many in the next generation of  director  of  the  American  lars in subsidies to student  marketing of private loans - increase of these people in  
workers will be so debt-bur­ Association  of  Collegiate  lenders.  like ads promising to approve  bankruptcy court," said Robert  
dened they will have to delay  Registrars  and  Admissions  Citigroup  Inc.,  Bank  of  loans worth $50,000 in just min- Manning,  a  professor  at  
home purchases, limit vacations,  Officers.  America Corp.,  utes-are on  Rochester  Institute  of  
even eat out less to pay loans off on time. Kristin Cole, 30, who graduat­ More than $17 billion in pri­vate student loans were issued last year, up from $4 billion a  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Wells Fargo &  'This is literally a new form ofindenture ...  the rise. The complaints have made their way  Technology who has written about college students and cred­it cards.  
ed from Michigan State University's law school and lives in Grand Rapids, Mich., owes $150,000 in private and govern­ year in 2001. Outstanding stu­dent borrowing jumped from $38 billion in 1995 to $85 billion last year, according to experts  Co., Wachovia Corp. and Regions Financial  something that every American parent should be scared of,  to lawmakers, who see a need to regulate the highly prof- A 2005 change to bankruptcy law puts private student loans on par with child support and alimony payments: Lenders can  
ment-backed student loans. Her  and lawmakers.  Corp.  are also  itable  and  garnish wages if someone does­ 
monthly payment of $660, which consumes a quarter of her take­home pay, is scheduled to jump to $800 in a year or so, con­ Rocketing tuition fees made borrowing that much more appealing. Consumer prices on average rose less than 29 per­ big players in the privatestudent loan business. And  Barmak Nassirian associate executive director American Association of  diverse group of companies and the loans they make to college  n't pay. Cuomo's probe revealed what he calls an "appalling pattern of favoritism" for student lenders  
fronting her with stark financial  cent over the past 10 years  there has been  Collegiate Registrars and  students.  that provided kickbacks, rev­ 
choices.  while tuition, fees, and room  an explosion in  Admissions Officers  In August, the  enue-sharing plans and trips to  
"I could never buy a house. I can't travel; I can't do anything,"  and board at four-year public colleges and universities soared  specialized student loan  Senate Banking Committee  college administrators in exchange for recommended  
she said. "I feel like a prisoner."  79 percent to $12,796 a year  lenders, such as EduCap, Nelnet  approved a bill that would man­ lender status.  Other critics  
A legal aid worker, Cole said  and 65 percent to $30,367 a  Inc., NextStudent Inc., Student  date clearer disclosure of rates  allege  widespread  corrupt  
she may need to get a job at a  year at private institutions,  Loan Corp., College Loan Corp.,  and terms on private student  arrangements propelled a stu­ 
law firm, "doing something that  according to the College Board.  CIT Group Inc. and Education  loans.  The  bill  also  would  dent loan boom.  
I'm not real dedicated to, just for  Scholarship and grant money  Finance Partners Inc.  require a  30-day comparison  Lenders deny such charges,  
the sake of being able to live."  have increased, yet for almost  The  question  is  whether  shopping period  after  loan  arguing that industry growth  
Parents are still the primary  15 years, the maximum avail­ everyone who borrowed will be  approval, during which time the  resulted from surging education  
source of funds for many stu­ able per person in government­ able to repay. Experts don't  offer terms could not be altered.  costs and that higher interest  
dents, but the dynamics were  guaranteed student loans, which  track default rates on private  New York Attorney General  rates are justified for unsecured  
radically altered in recent years  by law can't charge rates above  student loans, but many predict  Andrew Cuomo said many grad­ loans to borrowers with blem­ 
as  tuition costs  soared and  6.8 percent, has remained at  sharp increases in years to  uates who borrowed owe as  ished  or  insufficient  credit  

sources of readily available and $23,000 total for four years. come. 


TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2007 
8:00 PM, REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
TICKETS: $10, $8 FACULTY/STAFF, $6 SENIORS, $3 STUDENTS CALL 574-631-2800 OR VISIT HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
THE SEVENTH IN A SERIES OF NINE CONCERTS DEVOTED TO THE COMPLETE ORGAN WORKS OF DIETERICH BUXTEHUDE (CA. 1637-1707). 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
DEBARTOLO
WNOTREDAME 
;fJ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Department ofMusic 
much if not more than most homeowners owe on mortgages. Unlike mortgages with clear consumer disclosure require­ments -even from nonbank lenders, private lending is "the Wild West of the student loan industry," he said in a telephone interview. 
Critics say what happened in the mortgage market could hap­pen in the student loan market. Cuomo, who conducted a nation­wide investigation, said the par­allels between the two markets are "provocative." 
records. 
"Lenders take 100 percent of the repayment risk on flexible private-education loans made to people with limited credit histo­ries, on which they will not get repaid for several years," Barry Goulding, a Sallie Mae official, told Congress last spring. 
New regulations could dry up access to education financing, he and other industry executives argue. Some experts are skepti­cal, predicting waves of student loan delinquencies and defaults on what is outstanding. 


Mishawaka 4810 Grape Rd. 271.1330 
'' Offer valid e-~ery Monday 11 a.m. to dose. 

,...-----------------------------------~--------­

page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDimR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 

Ass·1; MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen L1ngley 
VIF.WI'OINT EorroR: Joey King 
SrORTS EDITORS: Chris Khort'Y Chris Hinc SCENE EDITOR: u1e Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'II!CS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVER'I'I.SING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

Ao DE~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(S74) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports. l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 0BSERVERONL/N£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhc students of rh~ University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves rhe right ro rdi.tse advcrriscmeurs based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhc opinion of the majnriry ofrhe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Edirors and dcparuncm editors. Commentaries, lcrrcrs and columns present the views of rhc authors and nor necessarily those ofTht• Observer. 
Vic'Wpoint space is available ro all readers. The ti-ec expression ofall opinions rhrough lcrters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror must be signed and must include contact infonnarion. 
Qtwtions regarding Obsm,er polides should be directed to E'ditor in C'bicfMaddit' Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

l'lll' l )],'iCrvn (lJ~l'.S 'i91) !-401M))t} publ,•hnl \otmuby throuRh l~rk!o~y a<..>t:pl dunn~.: l'!Cllllt ~lid va~a~lilll ]'<'Wid~. A ~Ub'-CIIjlfi<IIL l(l ., hl· Ob\CIVl'f i~ J 100 fm lllll.' oll:.ld('llli~o 
\'\'lit: $'i"i ],,rw,.,..'>r:mc.~rct.  
Iltc.' { Hnnvcr 111 puhl1\hcd Jt;  
024 '\outh 11111in~ ll1dl  Send Addrt~~ .;tun:ctiun~ w·  
Notre Dilmr.IN .u,~~l11J7''l  TheOb.\t:r\'t'r  
lhuulro.:11l JliiM.IV,.c p.tid ill Nmrt' llmu  r.o. Hux 779  
,Uitl.tddillon.,l nwilillll nll1n:~~.  024 .!Mmch Dining H.l.ll  

Nurre Darm:, IN 4ci'S'S6·0779 
The:' lll~tcrvcr !) .a mc:mbc-1 ut rm: A»t...:1•.U.::J /'t~~-All r.-prudu(rlllll n~.hl\ arr 
tTIIt"Pictl, 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Maureen Mullen Lorenzo Reyes Karen Langley Laura Myers Katio Peralta Chris Hine Graphics Scene 
Jared Wafer Analise Lipari 
Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
Monday, October 1, 2007 

Hosting ignorance 

The content of talk radio in the U.S. 
was particularly dismal last week, 
with two broadcasts by leading pun­
dits that quickly turned controversial. 
On the Sept. 19 edition of his 
nationally syndicat­
Andrea
ed radio program, 

Laid man 
Fox News' Bill 
O'Heilly discussed 

High Sounding
his recent visit to 
Words 

Sylvia's, a famous restaurant in Harlem. O'Heilly said, "I couldn't get over the fact that there was no difference between Sylvia's restaurant and any other restaurant in New York City. It was exactly the same, even though it's run by blacks, Iwith] primarily black patronship." 
O'Heilly continued to marvel at the lack of swearing and crude behavior he witnessed during his first meal at Sylvia's: "There wasn't one person in Sylvia's who was screaming 'M-Fer, I want more iced tea.' ... it was like going into an Italian restaurant in an all-white suburb in the sense of peo­ple were sitting there, and they were ordering and having fun. And there wasn't any kind of craziness at all." 
On September 26, Rush Limbaugh called service members who advocate for U.S. withdrawal of troops from Iraq "phony soldiers" in an interac­tion with a caller on his nationally broadcast program. He and a caller distinguished between "real soldiers" -defined as those who are proud to serve and who want to be in Iraq ­and the "phony soldiers" -those active duty men and women who express dissatisfaction with the war and the current structure of gover­nance in Iraq. 
These comments, on one level, are easily dismissed, both by their con­tent and the credibility of the sources: Bill O'Reilly is a constantly criticized news host, who apparently has a 1950s concept of race relations, and whose remarks last week were reminiscent of Don lmus' now-infa­mous description of the Hutgers women's basketball team. Rush 
Limbaugh, akin to his ultra right­
wing supporters and the officials he 
hails, speaks only in partisan lan­
guage and fails to recognize that dis­
sent can be, and often is, patriotic. 
But the continued prevalence of radio in American life makes this dis­missal too easy. Indeed, broadcasts like the recent performances of O'Reilly and Limbaugh raise larger questions about the objectives of talk radio and its hosts, and their impact on the American civic and political scene. 
Ninety percent of Americans age 12 or over tune into radio programs each week. Yet a surprising amount of political and talk radio is explicitly conservative-learning-91 percent of daily broadcasts, according to a July 2007 report by the Center for American Progress. 
This dominance of corporate­owned, conservative stations, says the Center, is due to structural imbal­ances and not popular demand: "The complete breakdown of the public trustee concept of broadcast, the elimination of clear public interest requirements and the relaxation of ownership rules have tipped the scales against localism and allowed the few to indoctrinate the many." The Center recommends enhanced local ownership and investment in public broadcasting to alleviate this imbalance. 
But the solution may be even more personal than that. 
Fifty million American listeners tune into news or talk radio program­ming every week. And yet the public reaction following all-too-frequent offensive remarks by the likes of lmus, O'Reilly and Limbaugh is one of outrage and disbelief. If Americans are going to continue to tune into this programming, which has its televi­sion equivalent in much of the politi­cal analysis of cable news, they have to demand a higher standard on the air. 
The poor quality of cable news shows is often explained by the quick pace of television programming. While news is on 24/7, hosts and their guests have only minutHs to make their points, and thus they lire back and forth at each other, often reduc­ing debate to partisan arguments and buzzwords. But on talk radio. hosts often have a few hours ol' airtime to discuss an issue, interview experts, or present viewpoints. 
Radio outlets like NPH demonstrate that longer stories can facilitate in­depth discussion ol' controversial issues through thoughtful, WHII-rea­soned arguments, inquiry and inter­views. 
Bill O'Reilly's radio program is two hours daily, while Rush Limbaugh's is three hours -a length of time many news outlets reserve for special reports or emergency programming. Yet both continually fail to present well-reasoned, articulate arguments and viewpoints, and Americans con­tinue tuning in. 
What is needed across the board is reform of what is eovBred and th!l way it is discussBd by some of the leading broadcast figures of our era, but it will not come until audiences demand change. As a collective American audience of both radio and television news programming, we cannot continue to accept a standard of broadcasting that we find outra­geous only when ignorance turns offensive. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior political science and peace studies major. Her column's title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them. "She can be contacted at alaidman@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 

How many Reisman Trophies will Golden Tate win? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''There are countless ways of achieving greatness, but any road to achievin_q one's maximum potential must be 15uilt on a bedrock ofrespectfor the individual, a commitment to excellence, and a rejectionofmediocrity. ' 
Buck Rodgers baseball player 

-------~------.l 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, October 1, 2007 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Irish language a relic of the past 
Kelsey Robertson. in her Sept. 27 letter to the editor ("Irish language hardly dead") con­tended that there are massive efforts to pre­serve the Irish language. A(ter studying in Ireland for a year and living with three Irish women. I must respectfully disagree. Only one of my three roommates spoke Irish, and the one only because she was studying it in the University. Irish is a wonderful language, but it truly has become no more than a relic of the country's history. Sure, the road signs are in Irish, but this is mosily for the large volume of tourists that visit the country every year. The Gaelscoileanna are few and far between, and the language is taught in school as a foreign language -it's akin to learning Spanish in an American elementary school. Worst of all, young people in Ireland have no interest in the language. As the native speak­ers die out. who's left to resurrect the lan­guage? 
While I did not attend 0 Tuathaigh's lecture, as a recent resident of the country I do believe that the decline of the Irish language is so severe that it won't be resurrected any time soon. I urge Ms. Robertson to immerse herself fully in the modern Irish culture ­perhaps she'd agree with me. 
Sarah Falvey junior Le Mans Hall Sept. 27 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
U-WIRE 
Green -with envy 

"That would be cool ifyou could eat a good food with a bad food, and the good food would cover for the bad food when it got to your stomach. Like you could eat a carrot with an onion ring, and they would travel down to your stomach, then they would get there, and the carrot would say, 'It's cool, he's with me."' This is a Cathy Wilson joke from Mitch Hedberg about offset­ting the good with the bad, the idea 
Ohio University

that opposites simply counteract each 
The Post

other with no ill effects. 
Our minds tend to work that way all the time -a bad deed is canceled out by a good deed, a brownie is canceled out by eating some celery, etc. This rationalization has recently been applied to a new trend called carbon neutrality, a movement to even out carbon emissions l;>y reducing them in some other aspect of life. This is why instead of physically reducing your carbon emissions, you can now just pay someone to get of rid of your environmental guilt. Sweet! 
Web sites like BeGreenNow.com offer carbon calculators to create an estimate of how much carbon you individually add to the atmosphere, and then offer a price for neutraliz­ing that carbon for you. Companies can utilize different ways to balance out carbon emissions through wind tur­bines and other sources of energy efficiency, according to an article in The Los Angeles Times. And as easily as you could check out at a grocery store, your guilt for polluting the environment i~ lifted. 
With just 12 easy monthly payments of $11.67, I could have reveled in the fact that I wasn't adding to the pollution like some of my fellow citizens -but alas, I did not. While it's nice to think you can pay off someone to cover up the footprints left on the planet via pollution, it isn't really a solution to the problem of carbon emissions. Carbon neu­trality doesn't do anything to reduce carbon emissions; it only aims to even out the end result. The problem is that we emit way too much carbon to begin with, so how is it really progressive to maintain the status quo? 
Environmental change is a lifestyle change, and it can't be achieved if everyone simply wants to pollute the envi­ronment under the pretense that someone else will fix it later. You may enjoy eating that cookie after your healthy meal, but a diet isn't going to make you healthier if you find ways to rationalize eating unhealthy food. In much the same way, carbon emissions need to be reduced, and this does not happen without conscious etTorts on our behalf. What BeGreenNow does offer is a list of ways to reduce carbon emissions that people should read and take into account-carpooling, using fluorescent light bulbs, etc. ­to change their lifestyles so that they begin and continue to reduce carbon emissions. 
Of course, some organizations use this money to fund renewable energy and other green-related projects, so I am not out to attack people for using monetary profit for envi­ronmental profit. However, this plan is not a foolproof one. We are dealing with carbon here, so the bartering system is a little more difficult to measure out. Carbon is a gas, not a solid or a liquid, so a lot of the estimates are just that ­approximations -not to mention the calculator is only accurate compared to how precisely you know how much electricity and natural gas you use. 
Carbon neutrality is as ridiculous as assuming that your body will cancel out the onion ring's greasiness because of the carrot's vitamins. Polluting the environment is still adding carbon to the atmosphere, whether you pay some­one else to offset it or not. This is a problem that will only begin to subside when we make conscious efforts to reverse the effects we have had on the environment, not merely keep them at bay. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 28 edition of The Post, the daily publication at Ohio University. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


r 
THE OBSERVER 



C-ENE
page 14 Monday, October 1, 2007 

I've got a fov(~r. and the only prescrip­tion is ... less Fever'? 
I know that you Fevnr-ites urn probably incrndulous right now. Your bnlovpd "Fevo," your thirsty-thirsty haven of scwaming convPrsations and long entrance lines, lambasted here in public. flow daw I? Well, let me just say that it's not personal. 
I understand that Club Fnvnr (or hwa­Fnvn, or Club l;inbrP -what have you I 
Chris McGrady
trins hard. OK, tlwy 
try really hard. For 

Assistant
st.artors, Thursday 

Scene Hditor 
night is stud1mt night. That nwans that after a :~o­minute wait in tlw outsidP alley, tho friendly bouncing stall' will let you in for only $4. Onee inside, pay just $5 for a drink and spend the rnst of the night get­ting sweat on by a semi-consdous 23­ynar old. All tlw while, DJ CK-1 spins tim hottest dancn tracks this sidn of Mishawaka. Party on! Oh, but the fun donsn't end there. 
This place is hugo. Beyond hugn. Wo'rn talking 1h,OOO square feet of sweat­soaked, dance-crazed college students huge. I like what the basement tries to do. This area has a large bar and pool tables -never mind there arc only a 
This past wnnknnd, I had the privilnge of stalling tim Sophomore Hoad Trip, a mystn­rious Campus Ministry retrnat held in an undisdosnd (mad: If I told you, I'd have to kill you) locale. 
While I had a variety of things to prepam for this weekend, one of my rm~jor tasks was putting tow~thnr a mix CD for the sophomorns to knnp after we parted ways on Sunday afternoon. It was easy enough, in an ago ol'iTunes and singles, right'? 

Analise Lipari
Or so I thought. 
A<; I spent hours 

Assistant
putting together what 

Scene Editor 
I dnnrnml to be tho best blrmd of songs, I rnaliznd that I was investing an almost unhealthy amount of emotion in tlw proenss. With other lnadnrs' suggestions and hnatNI internal debates, I wantnd to rnakn this mix the king on tlw cakn that was our wenknnd. Looking baek, what I sought WIL<; rmrch mom than a eol­lnction of songs; I wantnd this mix to be pnrfoet. 
Thn mix lapP IHL<; bonn part of our musi­cal eonsdousrwss since man lirst pieced together songs or his choosing, OUL<;idn or tlwir original albums, with tho invention of a nnwfanglnd ohjnd-the cassettn tapn. With this unassuming little device, musie mavens and eiL<;Uallistnners alike wen~ suddnnly their own personal deejays, all in handful of tables for the masses. But 
unfortunately, the basement pretty much 
dears out while the night is still young. 
.Just as Fever was winning me over, 
they start to lose me again. 

For a changn of pace, head upstairs. 
I Jere we are -our own little slice of 
Euro-dub bliss in South Bend, Ind. If you 
haven't been there, think remix heaven, 
dub beats and lots of perspiring dancers. 
Throw in a few dance eages and you 
might as well be in Prague. 

The good news about the Feve is you will almost delinitely sen someone you know. On a Thursday, this place packs thnm in like South Dining I Jail on chicken fingnrs night. Everywhere you go, you'll see a familiar face. The problem is that standing and having a conversation is rwxt to impossible. In addition to the faet you'll be screaming trying to hear each other, every third word will get interrupt­ed by a drunken clubbcr trucking you like Mike AJstott. If you thought that 5'2", l 07-pound girl in your Gonder Studies elass couldn't pack a punch, just wait until she hits you like a freight train. Fun! 
But it gets better. Club Fil~bre is located right in the heart of downtown. When the club closes at 3 a.m., the drunken mass­es pour out the doors to wander aimless­ly around the streets of South Bend. 
the privacy and comfort of their own 
homes. 

Since those dark days ofthe 1980s, we've moved on to CD players, mp3s and other ways of creating mixes, but the art of the act iL<;elf is still tho same. You can tailor whatever songs you ehooso to the listener, all while putting a little piece of your heart and soul into the chokes you make. Tllis inconspicuous collection of songs is an nxtnnsion of "you"-throe-minute nuggel<> of music serving to sum up a message, a fi~eling or even a whole relationship. 
In the musical "Avenue Q," the main charador, Princeton, makes a simple mix tape for his friend Kate Monster. Kate, who's interested in Princeton, analyzes the tape to try and understand the guy who made it. '"I Am the Walrus' ... 'Fat­Bottomed Girls' ... 'Yellow Submarine'... what does this mean?'' she says. When she hears songs like "She's Got a Way" and "A Whole New World" on the tape, she can't help but want to see a glimmer of Prinr:nton's feelings in the musical choices he's made. 
To be honest, who wouldn't do the same? If' your cute study partner from ehemistry lab made you a mix_ CD, you'd be intrigued, oven if you wernn't sum you were all that interested. 
Why? 

In a bookstore back honw, I recently noticed Hob Shellield's memoir, "Love Is a Mix Tape: Life and Loss, One Song at a Time." In the book, whose chapters begin with a difl'erent mix, She11ield says that a good mix "steals moments from all over the musical cosmos and splices them into a whole new groove." 
More than that, though, the book shows us what good mixes, or even music in gen­eral, can do for us emotionally. It's as though the nuances of each traek sum up what words ean't get right-the nitty grit­ty of "us," the emotional guts of our bodies -through music and poetry. 
Maybe I'm taking this way too seriously. In the end, it's just a bunch of songs on a CD. Isn't the semi-annual "Now (That's Fortunately, the area is very safe, and only three of my friends have gotten mugged this semester. Of course, this is hardly tho FeV!~'s fault, but simply adds to the overall "allure" of the place. 

Dozens of my friends love Fever, but truth be told, it's just not my scene. But as far as Thursday nights go, there's not much else to be had for a night on the town. I'm sure I've ofl'ended some of the Fever alkionados, so if you take oxenp­tion to this article, fenl free to eontaet me -my olliec hours are Thursdays, the basement of Club Fever, from 12 -3 a.m. 
The views expressed in Scene and !Ieard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsen>er. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgrad@nd. edu 
In the musical "Avenue Q," Princeton (John Tartaglia), right, gives his love interest, Kate Monster (Stephanie D' Abruzzo), a mix tape. 
What I Call Musie)" series the best example of what mixes essentially are -nothing more than a eollnction of what's around? 
But then I look at the retreat mix -how I handpick()d Billy .Joel's "Vienna;" how Coldplay's "The Scientist" fit perfet:tly with someone's rntrnat talk; how we woke up the sophomoms with "Lifi~ Is a llighway" ea(~h morning at sunrise-and I can't lwlp but think that them's morn to it than that. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Upari at alipari@nd. edu 





NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, October 1, 2007 BSERVER Purdue 33, Notre Dame 19 

Despite inspired second half, Notre Dame fails to overcome 23-0 halftime deficit 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 

Boilermakers cornerback Terrell Vinson deflects a pass intended for Irish wide receiver George West in the first quarter of Purdue's 33-19 win Saturday over Notre Dame in West Lafayette, Ind. Purdue improved to 5-0 this season, and Notre Dame fell to 0-5. 
that saw Notre Dame pull with­time this season. It allowed 27 Irish freshman Armando Allen seven at 26-19 with eight min­
By DAN MURPHY in a touchdown with seven min­sacks in the team's first four fumbled a screen pass which utes remaining in the game. 
Sports Writer utes remaining after falling games but only two Saturday. was picked up by Purdue on the "To be honest with you a cou­
behind 23-0 in the first half. "We came in at halftime and Notre Dame 14. Summers ple of those were 'draw-them­
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -"We started feeding off each coach really challenged us to added another field goal at the up-in-the-dirt plays,"' Weis Notre Dame scored three sec­other a little bit, the line was step up," sophomore left tackle end of the drive, this one from said. "I said, 'Run a go, we're ond-half touchdowns, but the blocking well and receivers Sam Young said. "Now it's just 26 yards out, to put the throwing it to you.' Real good Irish fell to a program-worst O­were making plays," Sharpley maintaining it, getting that con­Boilermakers ahead by 23. coaching on my part." S and Purdue held on for a 33-said. "It was exciting to be on sistency factor, we have to put But the Irish showed some Freshman Duval Kamara also 19 victory Saturday at Ross-Ade the field." the first and the second half fight. picked up a touchdown on one Stadium in West Lafayette, Ind. Sharpley took over at quarter­together." "The bottom line is you can't of his six catches in the game. 
Purdue senior quarterback back in the middle of the third In the first half, the come out and wait until half "It's encouraging to see these Curtis Painter completed 22-of-quarter when freshman Jimmy Boilermakers had five posses­time to start playing the game," young guys step up and make 37 passes for 252 yards with Clausen left the game for good sions that reached the red zone Irish coach Charlie Weis said. big catches," Carlson said. two touchdowns and a pair of with a hip injury. Clausen but scored only two touch­"Fortunately you fought back to The Irish looked poised for a interceptions. Purdue estab­picked up his first collegiate downs. The Boilermakers get in the game, but really you comeback until Purdue's Dorien lished its passing game after passing touchdown on his last kicked three field goals and had lost the game in the first half." Bryant took the following kick­senior Kory Sheets ran all over complete drive of the game. their final drive end on an Notre Dame abandoned the off, a short squib-style effort, to the Irish in the first quarter. The freshman rolled out of interception. running game that had looked the 41-yard line. Painter led the Sheets finished the game with the pocket on fourth-and-goal Purdue's field-position edge promising in last week's 31-14 Boilermakers to the 14-yard 141 yards on 27 carries, but he and found fifth-year tight end came in large part because of loss to Michigan State and line and then found an open was most effective in the first John Carlson, who made a div­Notre Dame's mistakes. instead turned to its young Dustin Keller along the ·Purdue and fourth quarters. ing catch to put the Irish on the Senior Terrell Vinsonn inter­receiving corps to move the ball sideline for an acrobatic touch­
Purdue became the seventh board. cepted an ill-advised pass from down the field, picking up big down catch. straight team to score at least "Jimmy threw me a ball that I Clausen and returned it to the chunks of yardage at a time. Painter's second passing 30 points against Notre Dame, could catch, and I went and Notre Dame 25-yard line. Six Sophomore Robby Parris had touchdown of the game all but but the Irish threatened late for caught it," Carlson said. "It plays later, Chris Summers put seven catches for 93 yards, and iced Purdue's fifth win of the the first time this season. really isn't anything more than Purdue up 13-0 with his second freshman Golden Tate made year and first over Weis. 
Junior quarterback Evan that." field goal of the game. three crucial catches -includ­Sharpley threw his first two Notre Dame's offensive line Nine minutes and one ing a 25-yard touchdown score Contact Dan Murphy at touchdown passes in a rally began to solidify for the first Boilermaker touchdown later, that closed the Irish deficit to drnurphy6@nd.edu 
players of the game 

Kory Sheets 

Purdue's running back had I4I yards on 2 7 carries and one touchdown and exposed the middle ofNotre Dame's rush defense. 
• 
stat of the game 
377 
Total passing yards for the Irish. Clausen had r 69 yards and Sharpley had 208 to jumpstart Notre Dame's air attack. 

play of the game 
Dustin Keller's 14-yard touchdown catch from Curtis Painter. 
Keller's touchdown reception with 5·'33 left gave Purdue a33-r9lead and killed any hope Notre Dame had ofcoming back. 
quote of the game 
"It could have gotten really bad or become a very competitive game, and it became a very competitive game. 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

-~---­
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 1, 2007 

report card 
8+  quarterbacks: Clausen and Sharpley combined for 377 yards on :H-of-52 passing but had two interceptions. Sharpley led the Irish comeback, and  
the passing game showed signs of life.  
D  running backs: Notre Dame's running ganw went dorment this weok after a solid perfi1rmance against Michigan State. Allen was the leading rushor wfth  
25 yards on six carrios  
receivers: Golden Tate stole the show in  
A  the second half, catching thren go routes li1r 1 04 yards. Parris added 93 yards and Carlson made an outstand­ 
ing touchdown catch.  
offensive line: The line did a much bet­ 
8  ter job in pass protection ~ only allowing two sacks ~ but Notre Dame's running game was nonexist­ 
ent this week.  
defensive line: Kory Sheets ran for 141  
C+  yards on 27 carries, and Painter had all day to throw. Laws did have three tacklos li1r loss. but Purdue had few  
problems bloeking the Irish.  
c  linebackers: Purdue's spread ofl(mse fiwcnd the linebackers to go into cover­age with little success. Sheet.<; cut right through the linebackers into the sec­ 
ondary on multiple occasions.  
c  defensive backs: Painter passed for 252 yards and two touchdowns and two interceptions. The secondary tightened up in the seeond half, but the damage  
was done in the lirst half.  
F  special teams: Two missed extra points took away some of the momentum the Irish gained in the second half. The kiek coverage allowed Purdue to get  
excell!mt field position.  
8­ coaching: Notre Damn canm out flat in the first half. but the turnaround in the sec­ond half was duo in part to Weis' halftime message. The Irish still made dumb  
pmmlties the eoaches need to correct.  
overall: Notre Dame took  

another step forward Saturday but still hasn't 
2.15 
played a full 60 mintues of "winning" football. 

adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame's total passing yards in the sec­ond hall. The Irish had 377 total for the 
272
game. 
5 Running backs that have gained at least 100 yards rushing against Notre Dame this season. 
Yards Notre Dame gave up on its 11 penal­
11 o 
ties. 
Purdue's total offensive yards in the first quarter. The Boilermakers linsihed with
161 
371 lor the game. 

National ranking of Purdue's total offense this season. 
10 

Sacks allowed by Notre Dame's offensive line this season. Purdue had two sacks
2.9 
Saturday. 

Average net yardage of Notre 
34.5 
Dame's kickoffs. 
26.3 
Percentage of third downs Notre Dame con­verted this season, good for 116th in the nation. The Irish were 5-of-16 Saturday. 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ~ If you were a fly on the wall of Notre Dame's locker room during halftime of Purdue's 33-19 win over the Irish Saturday, your eardrum -or whatev­er organ flies 
use to hear -is probably broken. 
With Notre Dame down 23­0, a fed-up Charlie Weis let his team have it. 
"This time, it was a little more 


rough at half- Chris Hine  
time because I  
just had about enough about  Sports Editor  
going out there  
and being down  

23-0 at halftime," Weis said. "And it was a collective effort, it was offense, defense, special teams ... but when you put yourself down 23-0, I had just enough of playing losing football and I told them they better be plan­ning on trying to win a game." 
The Irish had two options. Notre Dame could have half-heartedly played the second half and turned Saturday's game into Michigan, Part 
II. Or, the Irish could come out and show they have heart, regardless of the final outcome. The Irish chose the latter. 
Yes, Notre Dame is 0-5, and yes, Saturday's game again showed there are problems on both sides of the ball. People much better than me at analyzing football have made that painfully clear. But this game showed something that had been hiding the first four weeks of the season ~ Notre Dame's character. 
A team does not develop character if the quarterback does not have it, but Notre Dame has two quarter­backs who displayed they have what it takes to lead the team. 
Freshman Jimmy Clausen, whose body has taken more shots this sea­son than Sonny Corleone at the toll­booth, delivered a 25-yard strike to Duval Kamara with the rush in his face on Notre Dame's second drive of the third quarter. Clausen could have rolled out to avoid the rush and miss his opportunity to hit Kamara, or he could have justfallen down to avoid the big hit. 
After all, the Irish were down 23-0. Who could blame him? But Clausen stood in there, took the hit and got the completion. Clausen played the next few downs before heading to the sideline with an injury. He tried to return, but it was obvious he couldn't play anymore. 
Say what you will about his devel­opment as a quarterback, but Clausen showed he has the tough­ness and the leadership to play at the college level. While his status for next week is uncertain, Irish fans should feel safe that they have a quarterback who will do whatever it 
takes to win, no matter what the 
risk. 

Junior Evan Sharpley, twice passed over for the starting job, replaced Clausen with aplomb. Sharpley could have transferred or quit football to focus on baseball, and it would be hard to blame him. He realizes he will probably bn the backup the next two years, but he is still on the team, biding his time-and, most impor­tantly, not complaining. 
He didn't have to take a snap Saturday to prove his character, but he got another chance and made the most of it, throwing for 208 yards and two touchdowns in less than a half of play. 
Sharpley and Clausen's determina­tion filtered to the rest of the team and made them play inspired football in the second half. The offensive line protected well, t_he receivers played their best game of the season and the defense kept the comeback alive. 
Despite the abysmal first half, Notre Dame improved against Purdue and that elusive first win is going to come. Even though the Irish have lost their first live games, they finally have a winning attitude. 
The views ofthis column are those ofthe author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu 
Observer 


Monday, October 1, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Spread offense gives defense fits 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
WEST lAFAYETTE, Ind. -The theme was familiar, but the underlying causes were new. 
Once again, an opponent tore through Notre Dame's defense, yet a surprising second-half offensive surge ensured it got some rest in the second half. But in the first half. the Irish defense had trouble containing its opponent, a phenomenon not uncommon this season but often overshadowed by the team's offensive struggles. 
The problem was simple: Stack the box to stop the run and Purdue senior quar­terback Curtis Painter would slice through the thinned-out secondary with three and four-wide receiver sets; play extra corner­backs to take away the pass and senior running back Kory Sheets would take advantage of the resulting holes. 
The Irish, with an undersized defensive line and relatively slow linebackers, did neither. Painter completed 22-of-37 pass­es for 252 yards and two touchdowns and Sheets rushed 27 times for 141 yards and a touchdown. 
At times, Notre Dame abandoned its new 3-4 scheme and played the nickel, with four linemen and two linebackers, to counter the spread offense. To do this, the Irish moved sophomore John Ryan from outside linebacker to defensive end. Ryan said that the four-man line was hit­or-miss in its attempt to pressure Painter. 
"I think sometimes we put good pres­sure on him and there were other times where we could have done a better job," he said. 
Hegardless of the change in scheme, Purdue's athleticism proved to be the main factor in the defense's problems. Its receivers -in particular senior Dorien Bryant, who finished with eight catches for 82 yards -were too quick for the Irish secondary to cover one-on-one, a sit­uation that the spread offense created oftnn. 
"That's part off the spread offense," Hyan said. "They spread you out and make you play in space. That was a big part of it, spreading us out." 
Purdue's offensive linemen only allowed two sacks on 37 pass attempts. 
"I feel like we didn't get enough pres­sure," defensive end Trevor Laws said. "At some points, we were back there, but I felt like overall we didn't do a good enough job of beating them to the space and disrupting." 
The Boilermakers showed an example of this weakness in the first quarter. After a running play lost eight yards and a sack cost them another 11, Purdue faced a third-and-29 on its own 16-yard line. On the next play, Painter found junior receiv­er Greg Orton on the right sideline, a step ahead of sophomore cornerback Darrin Walls, for a 40-yard gain that gave Purdue a first down on Notre Dame's 43­yard line. 

"We were playing good, I thought, first and second downs," Laws said. "A lot of times, we had them on third and longs, we weren't getting enough pressure up front and some guys in the back ends weren't making the plays." 
When the Irish secondary was able to provide adequate coverage, Purdue switched to the run. Sheets had the mid­dle of the field at his disposal and broke through the line for big gains. With the defense spread all over the field, no one remained to cover the middle, something Laws said was an important part of the spread offense. 
"That's what they do. That's how they move the ball, they spread everybody out and find the middle," Laws said. 
To further complicate matters, Purdue found ways to create mismatches and iso­late Irish defenders, most often senior linebacker Maurice Crum Jr. and senior safety Tom Zbikowksi, in unfavorable sin­gle-coverage matchups. Crum and Zbikowski found themselves covering the slot receiver or backs coming out of the backfield. 
"They're just finding ways to get their playmakers the ball," Crum said. "They're just aligning them different places and just trying to create mis­matches." 
With 5:33 left in the game, Crum found himself covering senior receiver Dustin Keller. Keller got behind Crum and caught a 14-yard touchdown pass. Crum also lost track of Sheets on a corner route out of the backfield that would have been a touchdown if Painter hadn't overthrown the pass. Senior wide receiver Jake Standeford managed to shake Zbikowski's coverage in the second quar­ter and again was open for a big play had Painter put the pass on target. 
Crum said the hardest part of defend­ing against the spread offense was its unpredictability. 
"The ball can go anywhere," he said. "That it's not just designed to go to one person, it can go anywhere." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
•

scoring suiDIDary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  0  0  6  13  19  
Purdue  10  13  3  7  33  

First quarter Purdue 3, Notre Dame 0 
Chris Summers 27-yard field goal with 10:45 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 54 yards, 4:15 elapsed. 
Purdue 10, Notre Dame 0 
Kory Sheets 1-yard run with 5:49 remaining (Summers kick). Drive: 8 plays, 80 yards, 2:43 elapsed. 
Second quarter Purdue 13, Notre Dame 0 
Summers 34-yard field goal with 11:54 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 8yards, 1:19 elapsed. 
Purdue 20, Notre Dame 0 
Dorien Bryant11-yard reception from Curtis Painter with 4:46 remaining (Summers kick). Drive: 11 plays, 81 yards, 4:46 elapsed. 
Purdue 23, Notre Dame 0 
Summers 29-yard field goal with 0:28 remain­ing. Drive: 11 plays, 56 yards, 3:21 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Purdue 23, Notre Dame 6 
John Carlson 5-yard reception from Jimmy Clausen with 7:55 remaining (Brandon Walker kick failed). Drive: 6 plays, 37 yards, 2:06 elapsed. 
Purdue 26, Notre Dame 6 
Summers 29-yard field goal with 0:28 remain­ing. Drive: 11 plays, 56 yards, 3:21 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Purdue 26, Notre Dame 12 
Duval Kamara 7-yard reception from Evan Sharpley with 12:43 remaining (Nale Whitaker kick failed). Drive: 11 plays, 81 yards, 2:45 elapsed. 
Purdue 26, Notre Dame 19 
Golden Tate 25-yard reception from Evan Sharpley with 7:58 remaining (Whitaker kick). Drive: 14 plays, 79 yards, 3:40 elapsed. 
Purdue 33, Notre Dame 19 
Dustin Keller 14-yard reception from Curtis Painter with 5:33 remaining (Summers kick). Drive: 5 plays, 59 yards, 2:25 elapsed. 
statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

time of possession 
Wenger and Stewart miss trip to Purdue 
Weis has gone for it on and sophomore Robby They are merely freshmen 
By DAN MURPHY fourth down 12 times this Parris had catches of 24 and Tate and Duval Kamara 
Associate Sports Editor 
season, and the Irish have 21 yards. both recorded their first been successful on eight Prior to Saturday's game, career touchdowns against 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. -attempts. Notre Dame had only two the Boilermakers. Notre Dame offensive linemen passing plays that went Tate scored on a 25-yard ..... Dan Wenger and Chris Stewart All these things that they longer than 20 yards. touchdown pass with eight passing did not make the trip to have done minutes remaining in the 
Clausen 18-26-1 Painter 22-37-2 Purdue. Stewart was excused Purdue turned two Notre Wake me up when game. Kamara's score came Sharpley 16-26-2 
from practice Thursday for Dame turnovers into six September ends on a 7-yard toss from 
rushing

personal reasons, Notre Dame points in the first half. Both Saturday's loss drops Irish Sharpley to make the score football media director Brian drives started inside the Irish coach Charlie Weis's record 23-12. Allen 6-25 Sheets 27-141 Jabbie 4-16 Dierking 4-9
Hardin said. 25-yard line. Opponents have to 7-7 in the month of 
Clausen 3-13 Painter 5-1
piled up 43 points off Irish September. The coach also Kicking and screaming 
Aldridge 5-9
Taking chances turnovers this season, while dropped to 6-7 when going up Irish kickers Brandon Notre Dame was 4-of-6 on Notre Dame has 21 points on against a previously unde­Walker and Nate Whitaker receiving fourth downs against Purdue, drives resulting from take­feated team. failed to convert extra points 
Tate 3-104 Bryant 8-82 including two successful con­aways. on Notre Dame's first two Parris 7-93 Keller 5-36 versions during its 79-yard Not-so-Modest Maust touchdowns. Whitaker Kamara 6-68 Orton 3-55 touchdown drive to make the All or nothing at all Sophomore punter Eric punched it through on his Carlson 5-30 Lymon 2-28 score 26-19 in the fourth The Irish offense pro­Maust started for the Irish third attempt, but only after West 4-37 B. Whittington 1-24 quarter. Freshman quarter­duced five passing plays of and booted three kicks for an an offsides penalty negated tacklingbc.ck Jimmy Clausen had a 20 or more yards against average of 44 yards per punt. an earlier miss. 
Brockington 9 Keglar 9
fourth-and-goal touchdown Purdue. Freshman Gol@[en Maust set a career high with 
Zbikowski 7 Ferguson 8 
pass to senior tight end John Tate had three long recep­a 48-yard punt in the second Contact Dan Mpurhy at 
Ryan 6 Bick 6
Carlson in the third quarter. tions (25, 26 and 43 yards). quarter. dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Laws 6 Vinson 5 


· page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October I, 2007 
'· 
A half too late 
Notn~ Dame W-51 came out Saturday and fell behind quickly against Purdu1~ (5-01. Thn Irish defense could not stop Boilermak£)rs running baek Kory Sheets and quarterback Curtis Painter. 
Mnanwhill', Notre Damn's ofTensn only picked up four first downs in the !irst half'. At half'time, Purdue was on top 23-0. The slow start was similar to the !irst half Notre Damn had against Michigan two weeks ago in Ann Arbor, but this time the Irish came out and played their best football of the season in the second half. Junior quarter­back Evan Sharpley came in for an injured Jimmy Clausen and 
comph~ted 16-of-26 passes for 208 yards and two touchdowns. Wide receiver Golden Tate had three receptions for 104 yards and one touchdown, but Notre Dame's comeback effort fell short. Dustin 
Keller's 14-yard touchdown catch with 5:33 left iced Purdue's victory and put off Notre Dame's first.win at least another week. 
ERIC SALES/The Observer 

Top left, Purdue cornerback Tenell Vinson Intercepts a pass In the fourth quarter. Top right, Irish safety David Bruton jumps while Purdue quarterback Curtis Painter looks to throw. Middle, l.rish tight end John Carlson catches a touchdown pass. Bottom right, Car1son drags Purdue linebacker Dan Blck. Bottom left, Irish wldeout Golden Tate makes one of his three receptions. 
:Jirh IAL 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, October 1, 2007 page 15 

By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
Unless you happen to live under a rock, chances are you've seen and heard Feist's new music video, "1234," on the latest iPod Nano commercial from the creative marketing department at Apple. 
Likfl the Apple corporation itself, Canadian singer/songwriter Leslie Feist ofl'Ars an innovative approach as she establishAs herself as a fresh face on the music scene with her latest album, "The Hcminder." 
The talented and mul­

tidimensional Peist has "one two three four five
Her tone ranges from 
an extensive palette six nine or ten I money
the spirited to the
which she uses to paint can't buy you the love her musical numbers. subdued, and at times you had back then,' Feist But what makes her dif­sings an anti-material
Feist even manages to 
ferent as an artist is her ode to the innocence of
put the "subtle" in
clear, piercing voice, high school romance. which ranges from a "rhythm and blues." Some of the highlights 
breathy purr to a wistful wail. At times she sounds like Alanis Morissette and other times her distinct vocals bring Cat PowAr or Dido to mind. 
Capable of alternately speeding things up and slowing them down, Feist's soul­ful sound has a variety of musical influ­ences including gospel, some snazzy jazz and even touch of folk. Her tone ranges from the spirited to the subdued, and at times Feist even manages to put the "subtle" in "rhythm and blues." 
Feist makes good use of a variety of instruments including the piano, clang­ing twangy guitars, chimes, flutes and her hands. Many of the tracks on "The Reminder" inspire a lot of finger-snap­p:ng and toe-tapping as Feist leads her listeners on clap-alongs. 
"The Reminder" serves as a case study in simplicity. Despite the many instru­ments Feist uses, her sound carries a minimalist feel to it and the album remains understated in tone. In addition 
The Reminder Feist Released by: Cherry Tree 
Recommended Tracks: "Past in Present," ''The Park," "1234" and "Brandy Alexander" 

JARED WAFER I Observer Graphic 

to its New Age combination of jazz and other musical genres, the album also has a laid-back, melancholy feel to it as Feist's sad but strong notes hang in the air. It's the type of music you feel like you should listen to inside a jazz club or cocktail lounge. 
The hip music video for "1234" fea­tures Feist decked out in a sharp blue dress engaged in some artsy choreo­graphed dance with a slew of people dressed in different colors. This paint­by-the-numbers jam features some feel­good piano chords, folks guitar twanging and triumphant trumpet­ing. With lyrics such as 
on "The Reminder" 
include the following: 

+"Brandy Alexander," which features a slow, finger-snapping beat with pleas­ant piano chords. 
+'The Limit to Your Love" carries an ominous, foreboding sound with a heavy, thumping tambourine beat overlaid with piano ivory and finished with a violin. 
+On "Past in Present," Feist employs a vocal filter paired with a clap-along beat and makes good use of a broad variety of instruments including the piano, guitars, chimes, flutes and up­tempo hand-clapping and finger-snap­ping. 
+With lyrics such as "sea lion woman I dressed in black I wink at the man I then stab him in his back,~~ Feh;t sings a rather strange song about an apparently interesting woman in "Sealion." 
+"The Water" is a slow cocktail lounge with more chimes, soft acoustic guitar and delicate piano playing. 
+"The Park" actually sounds like 
Feist recorded it in a park, as birds chirp behind her guitar play­ing and sings about nature. 
With an amalgama­tion of both old and new schools of music, Feist has repackaged a vari­ety of genres into a new, hip collection of songs. "The Reminder" is an album to remember. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 


Feist, in blue, performs in the video for her new single, "1.234." Her latest abum, "The Reminder," keeps things simple while experimenting with style. 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 


Britney'sbiggest fan reacts to the media's harsh 
Japanese game show takes Tetris to new heights and painful lows. 
This new band Is heading to Legends Thursday 
HBO's surplsa hit show features this over-the-toplove ballad. 
JARED WAFER I Observer Graphic 

page \6 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 1, 2007 
NFL 

Lively Culpepper runs for 3 TDs in comeback 
Griese throws three picks as Detroit's scores record 34 points in final quarter to take down Chicago at home 
earcer-high 179 yards in 22 
Associated Press 

carries. "To break their will with thc 
MIAMI As DauntP running game is a great feel­Culpnppnr skipped aeross the ing," Fargas said. back of tlw 1~nd zonc, show­The Haiders' rushing total boating in cl'll'bration of anoth­was their fourth highest since er touchdown, his surgically thn NFL-AFL merger in 1970 n~pairnd right krw1~ looked and their highest sincn 1987. plnnty sturdy. 
It lwld up tine Sunday. wlwn Atlanta 26, Houston 16 CulpPppnr ran for thrcP touch­On this day at least, the downs and threw for two to win Atlanta Falcons didn't need a grudge ganw against his filr­Miduwl Viek or Matt Schaub. mer tnam. helping the Oakland Jop,y Harrington threw a pair Haiders beat the winless Miami of touchdown passes to Michael Dolphins 35-17. Jenkins and 4 7 -year-old Morten 
"lie had a chip on his shoul­Andersen kicked four lield goals dl~r." teammate Warren Sapp Sunday, leading the Faleons to said. "ll1~ wanted rnvnngn." tlwir first win of the season 
Culpnpper's slow rncovnry over Schaub and t!Hl Houston from major knee surgery limit­Texans. nd him to four games last year llarrington, who took over as in his only snnson with thn the Faleons starter after Schaub Dolphins, and his brcakup with was traded and Vick became nnw Miami coaeh Cam Canwron embroiled in a dogfighting case, was bittnr. had another effective day by 
AftPr winning in his first start compnting 23-of-29 for 223 for the ltaiders, Culpepper said yards. A week earlier, he beating Miami wasn't personal. passed for 361 yards in a loss to 
"The only thing I 'felt bad Carolina. about is I didn't havn a chance "We've got a little flow going," to show the fans here me llarrington said. "So much of lwalthy as a Dolphin," hn said. this game is getting on a roll. "But now I had a chanen to getting in a groove. We feel like show them today, and I'm glad I we're starting to dictate what was able to do that." the other team has to do." 
Canwron and Culpepper met Jenkins hauled in scoring on the field after the game, and passes of 5 and 7 yards, the
-·· 
both said the conversation was first two-touchdown game of his cordial. up-and-down career with the 
"You have to tip your hat Falcons (1-3), who were one of other scoring chances, settling scored three times as many with a victory over the strug­whnn you're getting your rear five winless teams left in the for three field goals by Kris points in the final 15 minutes. gling 49ers on Sunday. end kicked," Cameron said. NFL. In all, he made six catches Brown. "It was a big finish," Williams The 49ers (2-2) were full of 
Miami's coach Q.as biggP.r for 64 yards. said. cautious optimism during the problems than any lingering "These are some talented Detroit 37, Chicago 27 The Bears insist they're not week. Coach Mike Nolan hoped isstws wilh Culpepper. For the wide receivers," Harrington The Detroit Lions did it all in finished, even though their they were ready to challenge second time in four years, the said. a record-breaking fourth quar­quarterback change backfired the Seahawks' run of three Dolphins arn off to an 0-4 start. Atlanta went up 20-7 in the ter, scoring on the ground, and their banged-up team is straight division titles after two 
"You can't fnnl sorry for your­first half and guarded its lead through the air on defense and reeling. wins over Seattle last season, self." Caml'ron said. "Nobody is the rest of the game. The special teams. "Our season is not over," two division victories already going to run and hide." Texans (2-2) twice closed within The new-look win took the Brian Urlacher said. "But we. this year and an offseason 
The Haidnrs. who won last a touchdown but couldn't come place of a here-we-go again loss have to get better." spending spree. week wlwn Culpepper came otr all the way back, losing for the for a team that used to be the "We stink right now." Instead, the Seahawks ( 3-1) the hmll'h to wolace an injured seeond week in a row. NFL's laughingstock. Brian Griese, starting in place are showing the whole NFL Josh McCown, improved to 2-2 Bobby Petrino, ihe raiefmi>' "Luck ig tuining our way," of Rex Grossman, had three they might be ciose to their and lwad into their bye week first-year coach, picked up his Roy Williams said after Detroit interceptions. Super Bowl form of 2005. With with a quartPrback controvnrsy lirst NFL win. He wore a white beat the Chicago Bea_rs Sunday. uniformly solid veteran play looming. cap -aJter going without any­"We're a 3-1 ballclub and not a Seattle 23, San Francisco 3 and a game plan that anticipat­
'Til handiP it whnn it hap­thing on his hP.ad the previous lot of teams can say that." The balance of power in the ed the 49ers' every move, they pens," eoaeh Lane Killin said. week -in hopes of changing No other team in league histo­NFC West hasn't moved an inch outgained San Franeisco 371­
Culpepper led the Haiders out tlw team's fortunes. ry can say they scored 34 points to the south. The Seattle 184 and coasted to a blowout of the tunrwl bnfore the game, ''I'm not superstitious or any­in the final quarter as Detroit Seahawks are still on top -just win. raising his right list and punch­thing," he said. "But I was did against the defending NFC as 308-pound defensive tackle "I think we havA the most ing the air as fans booed. lin changing it up until we got a champions, and no game Hocky Bernard illustrated by depth and the most experience was far from flashy against his win. You'll probably see the included a combined 48 points landing right on poor Alex throughout the conference," old team. relying on a gmund white hat for a while." in the fourth. Smith. said former 49ers linebacker game that totalnd 299 yards Schaub was 28-of-40 for 317 "We collapsed as a team at Matt Hasselbeck passed for Julian Peterson, who had three against an injury-depleted yards, including a 35-yard the end of the game," Bears 281 yards and two touchdowns, of the Scahawks' six sacks. "I dofensn. touchdown pass to Andre Davis coach Lovie Smith said. Bernard separated Smith's think everybody knows that 
Justin Fargas replaced an that gave Houston a short-lived Chicago (1-3) led 13-3 after shoulder with a sack on tho we're the team to beat, but we injured LaMont Jordan shortly lead in the first quarter. But the three quarters in a terribly third play, and the Seahawks still have to go out there every hnforn halftime and ran for a Texans couldn't punch in their played game bef1re both teams remained the best in the West week and prove that." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SCHOOL BUS SUBSTITUTE DR I­VER NEEDED. Responsible, 
LOST & FOUND dependable, safety conscious grad student sought to drive a school bus for a private south·side SB 
LOST: Light blue pencil case that school. Must be available when says "Le Petite Prince" on it. Call or needed (flexible) from 7 a.m. to tex!Tara at517-927-4193. 8:15a.m., and 3:15p.m. to 4:30 
p.m. Each trip pays $33. Need a Commercial Driver License -will train around your schedule and pay
WANTED 

for your CDL training. but must 
have residency in Indiana. For STUDENT WORK application/interview 574-291-4200. 
FoR SALE 

Moving on with my life Moving in with yours. Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of the dome Sleep in one of three suites Taste the city water. It is sweet New. New Everything You can have it for some bling Not too bad for $345 thousand Call Jan Lazzara on her band 574·233-6141. 
Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet  LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  
kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like  GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­ 
street. Close to ND. 574-217-1557  trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and  PERSONAL  
Tatiana  Breakfast Accommodations. Non­ 
15moking, Private Baths, Full  
Call me for a list of properties near  Breakfasts.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
ND. 574-217-1557Tatiana  not go it alone. If you or someone  
TICKETS  you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  
FoR RENT  WANTED· ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Dunn, OP, at1-7819. For more information, visit our website at:  
PLEASE HELP' 574-251·1570  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg·  
Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms.  nant.shtml or see our bi·weekly ad  
Walk to ND. 574-876-7341. For  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  in THE OBSERVER.  

$12.75 base-appt. Football weekends, call 574-532-ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­Flexible schedules, no experience PART TIME help needed for small Awesome riverfront new construe-1408. 0964. www. victorytickets.com If you or someone you care about needed. customer sales/service, womens retail shop downtown lion 12 min. to NO.4 bdr,4bath,mar-has been sexually assaulted, visit conditions apply, South Bend. Approximately 10·15 ble,ceramics,h/w floors. HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2008-ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. all ages 18+. hours a week. Must be able to work Jacuzzi.deck,pier. 09: 3-9 BEDROOM HOMES. 57 4-288-2726. shtml 574-273-3835, Saturdays. Apply in person: Laura 574-217-1557 CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Bill 574· www. workforstudents.com Lees. 121 S. Michigan Street Tatiana 532-1896. Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. Casa Rouge: We're red hot 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, October 1, 2007 CoJv\PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA Football APTop25 


team record previous 

1 LSU 5·0 2 2 usc 4·0 1 3 California 5~o 6 4 Ohio State 5·0 8 5 Wisconsin 5·0 9 6 South Florida 4·0 18 7 Boston College 5·0 12 8 Kentucky 5·0 14 9 Florida 4•1 4 10 Oklahoma 4-1 3 11 South Carolina 4·1 16 12 Georgia 4·1 15 13 West Virginia 4·1 5 14 Oregon 4-1 11 15 Virginia Tech 4·1 11 16 Hawaii 5·0 19 17 Missouri s~o 20 18 Arizona State 4·1 23 19 Texas 4·1 7 20 Cincinnati 5·0 24 21 Rutgers 3·1 10 22 Clemson 4·1 13 23 Purdue 5·0 NR 24 Kansas Stale 3·1 NR 25 Nebraska 4-1 25 

NCAA Football USA Today/Coaches' Poll 
team  record  
1  usc  4·0  
2  LSU  s~o  
3  Calilornia  5•0  
4  Ohio State  5·0  
5  Wisconsin  s~o  
6 7  Boston College Florida  5·0 4;1>  
8  Kentucky  IHI  
9  South Florida  4"0  
10  Oklahoma  4-1  
11  Georgia  4-1  
12  West Virginia  4-1  
13  Oregon  4-1  
14  Virginia Tech  4~1  
15  Hawaii  5"0  
16  Texas  4·1  
17  Missouri  4·0  
18  south carolina  4-1  
19  Arizona Stale  5~  
20  Purdue  5·0  
21  Rutgers  3•1  
22  Clemson  4-1  
23  Nebraska  4-1  
24  Cincinnati  5-0  
25  UCLA  4·1  

MIAA Volleyball Standings 

team league 
Calvin 8·0 Adrian 8·1 Hope 6-2 Tri-State 5·3 SAINT MARY'S 3·5 Kalamazuo 3·6 Albion 2·5 Alma 1·7 Olivet 1-7 
previous 


overall 
13·3 11-6 11·5 7-10 6·10 6·10 5·11 2·15 2·15 

around the dial 
NFL 
Patriots at Bengals 
8:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA-Shane Victorino doused the fans with a fire hose, Brett Myers and Ryan Howard jumped into the stands to join the celebration and Hall of Fame announcer Harry Kalas sang "High Hopes" over the public address system. 
Believe it, Philly. The Fightin' Phils are going to the playoffs -just as Jimmy Rollins predicted way back in January. 
"There's only one more celebration to try and go for now and that's the whole thing," Howard said. 
Considered all-but-out of contention just 2 weeks 
IN BRIEF 

CamP-bell makes comeback,
wins Viking Classic 

MADISON, Miss. -Chad Campbell righted his listing game Sunday with a one-stroke victory over Johnson Wagner in the Viking Classic, making two birdies on his last three holes to win. 
Campbell was among six golfers who held or were tied for the lead Sunday at Annandale Golf Club. He finished with a 3-under-par 69 -the only member of that group under 70 -to win after trailing two-day leader David Branshaw by three strokes entering the final round. Branshaw was done in by a double bogey. 
"I wasn't doing anything very well to be honest with you," Campbell said of his season, which included just 13 rounds under 70 coming into the tour­nament. "At times I'd drive good, at times I'd putt good. But I never put everything together for 18 holes. I was just trying to figure out what I was doing well. This week it just clicked." 
ago, the Phillies overcame a huge deficit in the stand­ings, caught the Mets and won their first NL East title since 1993 on the final day. 
Howard hit his 47th homer, 44-year-old Jamie Moyer pitched 5 1-3 gutsy innings and the Phillies, backed by a crowd going crazy, beat Washington 6­1 Sunday to end a 14-year playoff drought. 
Myers tossed his glove underhanded strai.ght in the air and jumped off the mound after striking out Wily Mo Pena to end it. Pat Burrell ran out of the dugout and hugged Myers and everyone piled on. 
The party was on, and it lasted for hours right 
there on the field, thou­sands of fans staying to 
enjoy a  rare moment in  
Philly.  
"This  has  been  an  

incredible ride and we've got to keep going," Burrell said. 
The Phillies also needed help up 1-95 to clinch, and got it from Florida. The Marlins beat the Mets 8-1 to ensure there wouldn't be a tiebreaker playoff game on Monday. 
Philadelphia rallied from seven games down on Sept. 12, matching the biggest September come­back in major league his­tory. The Phillies and the Mets went into the last day tied for the division lead. 
Now, it's the Phillies who 

U.S. team wins tournament, 
earns Olympic berth 
VALDIVIA, Chile -The U.S. women's basketball team took a rarely used route to get back to the Olympics. 
Tina Thompson scored 18 points to help the U.S. qualifY for the 2008 Beijing Games with a 101-71 victory over Cuba on Sunday in the gold medal game at the FIBA Americas tournament. 
"It feels great to win. We got the mon­key off our back," Thompson said. 
The U.S. (S-0) was forced to qualify for an Olympics berth for the first time since 1980 because of a thlrd-place fin­ish at the World Championships last year. 
"It feels great to get the berth to Beijing and get this behind us." U.S. coach Anne Donovan said. ''I'm so proud of how hard these women have worked and how much it's paid off. To play five games in five days and we started with the best team in the tourna­ment, we finished with the best team in the tournament." 
are advancing to the post­season for only the 1Oth time in their history. They'll host Game 1 of the first round Wednesday against the winner of Monday's wild-card tiebreaker between San Diego and Colorado. 
Somehow it seemed fit­ting the Phillies enjoyed success the same season they became the first team in professional sports to lose 10,000 games. 
A team known for one of the biggest collapses in baseball -they blew a 6­game lead with 12 games left in the 1964 NL race ­took advantage of a colos­sal fold to finish first. The Phils won 13 of their last 17 and wound up 89-73. 
Competitors in ring become 
competitors in kitclien 
ATLANTA -Evander Holyfield once defeated George Foreman in a battle for the world heavyweight boxing title. Now he is seeking to oust his former foe from another arena: the grilling world. 
Holyfield is preparing to unveil the "Evander Holyfield Real Deal Grill," a direct competitor to Foreman's famous "Lean Mean Fat Reducing Grilling Machine," which has report­edly earned $100 million in sales since 1995. 
"I've got a George Foreman grill. It's a good grill," the 44-year-old Holyfield told the Atlanta Journal­Constitution. "But don't you think the latest grill is supposed to be the best grill?" 
Manufacturer CirTran Corp., based in Utah, approached Holyfield about promoting a $99 grill after he appeared on the TV show "Dancing With the Stars" in 2005. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 1, 2007 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
San Diego loss forces playoff for vvild card 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -The San Diego Padres wflre in a pretty foul mood Sunday after blow­ing their second straight shot at wrapping up the NL wild card. 
And it didn't get any better once they got to the dubhouse, where tnlevisions were tuned to the final outs of the Colorado Hockies' vietory over Arizona. 
The Padres couldn't over­come a shaky start by Brett Tomko and lost 11-6 to Milwaukee, opening the door for the Hockies to force a tiebreaking game at Coors Field on Monday night. 
San Diego is pinning its play­off hopes on the only guy who could manage a smile Sunday evening-ace Jake Peavy. 
"I think the spirits and the mood right now is a little downtrodden, but we're going to get it up," Peavy said. "''m not going to let this happen tomorrow. I can promise you it'll be a new day, the boys will be exeitnd. I mean, this is why we play the game." 
San lliego needed to win one of the final two games of the s1mson to lock up a postseason spot but lost 4-3 to the Brewers in 11 innings on Saturday. Trevor lloffman needed just one strike to finish off a 3-2 win but gave up a tying triple to Tony Gwynn Jr., the son of the Padres llall of Farner, and Milwaukee won it in thP 11th on Vinny Hottino's HBI single. 
Sunday's game wasn't even elosn as Milwaukee pushed across two in the fourth, ehased Tomko during a four­run fifth and added three more in the sixth on a bases-loaded triple by Gabe Gross. 
At least San Diego will have Peavy to fall back on in the extra game. Padres manager Bud Black started Tomko against Milwaukee, choosing to save his ace for the potential tiebreaker. 
"We had this mapped out for a while that it could come to this, based on what was hap­pening over the last couple weeks," Black said. "And that was the ease. We feel good with Jake, obviously." 
Peavy has no record and a 
1.29 EHA in two starts against the Hackies this year. He spent part of Sunday watching video of the Hockies, just in case he'd have to face them. 
"They're as good as anybody in baseball," Peavy said. "But they're definitely a heatable team." 

Colorado held on for a 4-3 
victory over Arizona to force 
the play-in game, as Padres 
players eheered and groaned 
like fans as they sat in the visit­
ing clubhouse at Miller Park. 
They quickly focused on the positives, starting with Peavy's 10-1 record and 2.20 ERA over his last 13 starts. 
"Jake's going to win the Cy Young for a reason -he's one of the best, if not the best, pitcher in the game," Padres pitcher Chris Young said. "We've been swinging the bats well. Our bullpen's been throw­ing well, minus a couple of innings the past couple of games. But we're in great shape." 
Tomko ( 4-12) cruised through the first three innings as the Padres took a 3-0 lead but fell apart soon after that. He allowed live runs and five hits in 4 1-3 innings. 
Doug Brocail threw a tantrum in the dugout after giving up Gross' triple, knock­ing equipment off a shelf and winging his hat to the floor ­another sign that the Padres were unraveling. 
Can they forget about the last two days'? 
"We have to," right fielder Brian Giles said. "It's a one­gamfl season now." 
Blaek said the team's mood was OK despite the discourag­ing loss. 
"Obviously when you fall behind, and fall behind by a number of runs, it can be deflating," Black said. "But our mood was, overall, fine. Guys kept having good at-bats." 
Jeff Suppan (12-12) pitched six innings to get the win as Milwaukee finished the season on an upbeat note with back­to-baek comeback victories. The Brewers went 83-79 for their first winning season since 1992. 
Still, they missed the playoffs -a disappointing end to the season for a team that held an 8'?-game lead in the NL Central in late June. 
"We played the way we would like other clubs to play for us in those situations," Brewers manager Ned Yost said. "We were going to go full out. We feel like we owe it to major league baseball to give our very best effort even though we were eliminated." 
Mets finish year with loss 
NY loses to Florida to end upset season in appropriate fashion 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Following the last bewildering loss of a sea­son gone sour, the dejected New York Mets filed into their quiet clubhouse and packed for a particularly stark winter. 
When they needed a big game, Tom Glavine pitched one of his worst. And now, their collapse is complete. 
After blowing a big September lead in the NL East, the Mets missed the playoffs Sunday when Glavine was battered for seven runs during the rest of this talented team will forever be remembered alongside the 1964 Phillies and other famous failures for skidding to one of baseball's most monumental collapses. 
"It's going to be a long off­season. I know I don't want to experience it again," Wright said. 
No major league team had owned a lead of seven games or more with 17 to play and failed to finish in first place. New York, which had that margin on Sept. 12, matched the largest lead blown in September. The 19 34 New York Giants (Sept. 6) and 1938 Pittsburgh Pirates (Sept. 1) and also led by seven games in the final month only to drop 
into a fatal tail­
spin. 

A win Sunday 
the first inning of a season-end­ "To say disappointed would be the  not only would have kept the Mets even with  
ing 8-1 loss to  understatement of  Philadelphia  
the Florida Marlins.  the year.,,  and forced a one-game play­ 
"It's some­ off for the divi­ 
thing  that's  Shawn Green  sion  title,  it  
going to take  Mets outfielder  would  have  

a while for us to get over," said Glavine, pitching for maybe the last time in his major league eareer. 
New York's defeat coupled with Philadelphia's 6-1 win over Washington gave the division title to the Phillies and sent the stunned Mets home wondering how they squandered a seven-game cushion over the final 18 days of an excruciating season. 
Now, David Wright, Carlos Beltran, Pedro Martinez and tied them with 
Colorado and 
San Diego for the wild card. So they would have had two ways to reach the postseason. 
Instead, the Mets lost six of their final seven games -all at home -and are out. 
"Everyone's definitely numb," Shawn Green said. "To say disappointed would be the understatement of the year." 
Philadelphia swept a three­game series at Shea Stadium from Sept. 14-16 -giving the 
Pursuing the Life of fhe Mind 
7:30 p.m. Tuesday, October 2, 2007 
129 DeBartolo Hall 
Meet representatives from the Graduate School and learn about graduate school options and how to get there. 
With discussion to follow: 
Speaker 
Donald L. Stelluto, Ph.D. Executive Assistant to the Dean, College of Arts and Letters 
Contact information: Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
Phillies wins in the final eight meetings between the teams. That started a slide the Mets never recovered from. They even lost star slugger Carlos Delgado in the season finale to a broken hand. 
Doomed by inadequate starting pitching and a leaky, exhausted bullpen, New York dropped 12 of its last 17 games, committing 21 errors in the process. The Mets' EHA during the slide was 5. 96, third-worst in the majors over that span. 
"The harder we pushed, the worse it got," closer Billy Wagner said as hP paeked a bag at his locker. 
When Luis Castillo struek out and ended New York's lat­est lackluster defeat against a second-division club, that prompted one last round of boos at Shea Stadium this year. 
Moments later, the final in Philadelphia was posted on the out-of-town scoreboard and Mets fans shufOed toward the exits, quietly muttering to themselves. 
"We're devastated, also," manager Willie Handolph said. "It's just a tough life les­son in baseball." 
It was one of the darkest days for a franchise that prid­ed itself on late-season come­backs in 1969, 1973 and in the 1986 World Series against Boston. 
Last year, the Mets advanced to Game 7 of the NL championship series before losing 3-1 to St. Louis. Beltran struck out with the bases loaded in the bottom of the ninth inning, a sudden end to a thrilling season. 

Monday, October I, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

STUDENTS: J I 
We invite you to participate in a residence hall discussion on the topic of immigration. See below for dates, times, and locations. All are welcome. 

Date  Time  Place  Sponsored By  Faculty/Student Facilitators  
Odober1  7:00-8:00 p.m.  Cavanaugh Hall Basement  Cavanaugh, Farley &St. Edward's Halls  Professor Karen Richman, Michael McKenna  
Odober2  7:00-8:00 p.m.  Stanford Hall Basement  Stanford &Breen-Phillips Halls  Professor Bridgette Carr, Rosa Lopez  
Odober3  5:30-6:30 p.m.  Dillon Haii24-Hour Space  Walsh &Dillon Halls  Professor Gerard Powers, Shanna Pereira  
Welsh Family Haii24-Hour Space  Welsh Family &Keough Halls  Professor Vincent Rougeau, Kait Brown, Michael Gotsch  
7:00-8:00 p.m.  Knott Hall Chapel  Pasquerilla East &Knott Halls  Professor Ann Power, JudeAnne Jasso-Murad  
Odober9  5:30-6:30 p.m.  Carroll Hall Lounge  Howard &Carroll Halls  Professor Abigail Wozniak, Shanna Pereira  
Keenan Hall Basement  lewis, Sarin, &Keenan Halls  Professor Maurizio Albahari, Edianys Deynes  
7:00-8:00 p.m.  Morrissey Manor Social Space  lyons &Morrissey Halls  Professor Tim Ready, Elena Brandewie  
Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Student Center  Fischer O'Hara Grace &Graduate Student Union  Professor Tim Matovina, Michelle Saucedo  
Odober10  6:30-8:00 p.m.  Alumni Hall Basement  Badin &Alumni Halls  Professor Javier Rodriguez  
7:00-8:00 p.m.  Zahm Hall Basement  Zahm &Pangborn Halls  Professor Jennifer Warlick, Dmitri Martinez  
McGlinn Haii24-Hour Space  McGlinn &O'Neill Halls  Professor Allert Brown-Gort, Lauren Lyman  
Siegfried Hall Social Space  Pasquerilla West &Siegfried Halls  Professor John Griffin, JudeAnne Jasso-Murad  

For more information, visit forum.nd.edu or contact Ann Firth (firth.2@nd.edu) in the Office of Student Affairs. 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 1, 2007 
NFL 

Favre sets touchdown record in Packers' win 
"It feels great, but
and hoistt~d but Favre will be .ltmnings on his I've never considered the last one to (pf't shoulder. lin myselfas good a apologize for joined in hugs entering the
quarterback as
with his team­game two inter­mates on the Dan Marino." ceptions shy of sideline, as tying George thousands of' Blanda's career
Brett Favre
Packers faithful record.
Green Bay quarterback
who made the "What got me 
f!\0 

prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yrJob In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 2, 2007. 
Favre, who threw for another TD in the fourth quart1~r. lie finished 32-of'-45 for 344 yards, the 50th time he's topped 300 yards in his earner. 
"I loved holding the touch­down record for the past 13 years," Marino said. "But if' sonwonn was going to break it, I'm glad it was someone like you. who has always competed at the highest level and always played to win." 
It's the latest. and possibly the most hallowed record claimed by the league's last true gunslinger. Two weeks ago, Favre broke John Elway's mark for canwr victories by a quarterback when he led the Packers to a 35-13 win over the New York Giants. 
The soon-to-be 3S-year-old Favw also holds the marks for career completions and consec­utive starts by a quarterback. which hit 241 Sunday, moving him past former Vikings center Mick Tingelhol'f' into second place on thn list for all players. 
Former Vikings defensive end .lim Marshall holds the all-time mark with 270 consecutive starts. 
Late in the sneond quarter, Favre broke anothnr Marino rncord when he threw tho S,:{51Jth pass of his career, and is also within shouting distancn of Marino's n~eord for yards passing . 
.Jnnnings also eaught tlw rncord-tying Tl> from Favre, a 57-yardPr last week that liftnd thn l'a1:knrs to a 31-24 victory ovnr San J>ipgo. 
"I know onn thing," .Jnnnings said. "I know I'll n1wnr be for­gotlnn and that's thanks to Brntl." 
downlield for Jennings that was intercepted by Darren Sharper. But Favre was bailed out by an illegal contact call on Vikings cornerback Antoine Winfield, and the Packers punted four plays later. 
After Jeff Dugan fumbled to give the Packers the ball in Minnesota territory, Favre hit Donald Lee on a nice touch pass for 27 yards. Two plays later: history. 
"It's a milestone that he hit and there's probably a lot more of' them le!'t." Packers coach Mike McCarthy said. 
McCarthy has reined in Favre a little bit this season, and it has worked brilliantly so far for the Packers, who are 4-0 for the first time since 1998. 
"lie has a lot of gas left in his gas tank," McCarthy said. ''I'm not surprised by this at all." 
And while there is no single record for quarterbacks that carries the significance of Barry Bonds passing Hank Aaron's career home run record, McCarthy has said Marino's touchdown mark probably comes closest. 
But Favre said he didn't think the touchdown record was get­ting anywhere near the hype that Bonds' pursuit of Aaron rnenivnd over the summer. He has laughed off any further comparison to Bonds, smiling as he jokingly flexed his fore­arms to prove he doesn't quite measure up. 
Tlwre will be no dispute over this homo run ball, though. 
"I was hoping to put it on nBay," Favw joked. "I think we are going to let it sit in the llall of Fame for a year or two. I'm surn al'ter that, I will keep it." 
Veteran QB throws two TDs in victory over Vikings Sunday 

Associated Press 
MINNEAPOI.IS-Brnlt Favro is No. 1 -with a bullet. 
Favro broke Dan Marino's record for career touchdown passes Sunday, zipping No. 421 to Creg Jennings in tho l'irst 

quartt~r  of (;reen Bay's 23-1(,  
vidory  over  tht~  Minnesota  
Vikings.  

lin hit Jennings on a 16-yard slant for the score with 4:5h left in t.hP quarter. and like most of his touchdown throws through his brilliant 17-year earner. this one had plenty of sttmm on it. 
"It fools gwat. but I've never ronsider<'d myself as good a quarterback as Dan Marino," Favn~ said. "Dan was a hero of mirw. To be mentiorwd in thn same breath as Dan and othnr guys rnally makns it special." 
Evnr the jubilant ctdnbrator. Favre sprintt~d to the end zone 
trip from Wisconsin chnnrPd loudly. 
Even thosn dressed in purple stood and applauded when the announcmnnnt was made, and a taped message from Marino was played to congratulate 
Marino held the record since 1995, but Favre's reign could bn considerably shorter. Old No. 4 has acknowledged that most, if' not all. of the records h n sn ts in his career will be challenged very shortly by the Colts' Peyton Manning. 
But perhaps even more impressive than the numbers Favre has put up is the manner in which hn has donn it. 
Favre entered tho league in a difTen~nt era. when guys like Marino. Jim Kelly, Warren Moon and Steve Young played with an aggressiveness and a swagger that's uncommon among today's quarterbacks. 
Whiln offenses havn moved away from that mentality more toward "gamn managers," the league's biggest gambler hasn't let go of his high-risk, high­rnward style. That mentality has thrillnd fans in Green Bay since he first stepped onto the Lambnau Field turf in 1992, but it has also earned him his fair shan~ of criticism over the ynars. 
lie has been accused of being 
careless with the 
football at times, 

to this point, what got me in this league, was a playmaking ability that was dill'erent," Favre said. 
Favre was pressured on his first pass attempt Sunday, and Packers quarterback Brett Favre celebrates after throwing his 421st career touchdown he blindly winged a pass far Green Bay defeated Minnesota 26-16 in Minneapolis to move to 4-0 on the year. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May, 2008) an NO degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information, contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 


Monday, October 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
LSU named nation's best 
the Tigers' victory against
Bayou Bengals jump 
Tulane, when they led 10-9 at the break. 
USC in new AP poll 
"They kind of slept in and got 
after crazy weekend kind of caught up on the score later in the day," he said Sunday. "We can't afford to
Associated Press 
play like that anymore for any LSU reached No. 1 the hard length of time, whether it is a 
way. half or what-The Tigers edged past ever. We Southern California in the AP played with­
Top 25 on Sunday, even though out the focus "There will be none of Carolina and the Trojans remained undefeat­or intensity Virginia
our players who arrive 

Pd. we are capa­Tech]."
here on Monday and

On a wild day in college foot­ble of. The rest of ball, when half the top 10 lost, "There will feel like they achieved the rankings USC avoided the upset bug that be none of our released
any milestone in 

struck Oklahoma, Florida, players who Sunday bore 
any way."

Texas and Rutgers. But a slop­arrive here on little resem­PY 27-24 victory at Washington Monday that blance to any on Saturday night cost the feel like they Les Miles of the previous Trojans the No. 1 ranking have achieved polls, thanks
LSU coach

they've held all season. any milestone 
USC is the first team to lose in any way. It the No. 1 ranking after a victo­will be busi­ry since Nov. 3, 2002, when ness as usual." top-ranked Miami dropped The voting was the closest after beating Rutgers 42-17 since the second poll of the and No. 2 Oklahoma moved up 2002 season, when Miami and after a 27-11 victory over No. Oklahoma tied for No. 1 and 13 Colorado. each received 27 first-place 
"l have no idea how the votes. points work and how it all adds B.G. Brooks from The Rocky up," USC coach Pete Carroll Mountain News in Denver had said Sunday night. "It has no already flip-flopped USC and 
bearing on any­thing for us. It didn't before and it doesn't now. 
"The reason it happened is the way we played, l guess." 
LSU, which recovered from its own first-half malaise to 
beat Tulane 34-9 on Saturday, nant," Brooks said. received 33 first-place votes LSU is No. 1 in the AP poll for from the media panel and the first time since Nov. 2, 1 ,593 points. USC got 32 first­1959. place votes, 11 fewer than last Twelve voters switched off week, and 1,591 points. USC to LSU this week to swing 
LSU coach Les Miles suggest­the vote, though one voter, Jon ed the voters didn't get up early Wilner of The San Jose enough to watch the first half of Mercury News, voted USC No. 1 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
!sUMMER ENGINEERING PROGRAMS! 
FOREIGN STUDY IN LONDON, ENGLAND OR ALCOY, SPAIN (IF ENOUGH INTEREST) 
Information Meeting: 
Monday, October 8, 2007 Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 7:00p.m. 
Application Deadline: November 21 for Summer 2008 
Application On-line: 
www.nd.edu/-engineerIsumlon/apply.html 
. 

ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
LSU once this season and "It has no bearing on went back to 
LSU again after

anything for us. It 
watching the didn't before and it Trojans against 
doesn't now." Washington. 
"I think at this point, at least 
Pete Carroll 
through yester­

USC coach day, LSU has been a little more domi­
after having LSU last week. 
"The main reason I did was because I look at LSU and USC and feel that the Trojans have two quality wins on the road and that tipped the scales toward SC," Wilner said. "Winning in Lincoln and in Seattle gives them an edge over LSU's two big home wins [over South 
to a crazy 
weekend in 
which three of the top five and seven of the top 13 teams lost. 
Overall, nine ranked teams went down, seven to unranked opponents. 
California moved up three spots to No. 3, Ohio State jumped four places to No.4 and Wisconsin moved up four spots to No.5. 
The rest of the top 10 fea­tured some unfamiliar names. 
South Florida, which knocked off No. 5 West Virginia 21-13 on Thursday night, made it into the poll for the first time two weeks ago. Now the Bulls are No. 6 in the country and West Virginia dropped eight spots to 13th. 
No. 7 Boston College is in the top 10 for the first time since 19tn. No. 8 Kentucky has a top-1 0 ranking for the first time since 1977. 
No. 9 Florida, which lost 20­17 on a last-second field goal to Auburn, fell five spots. Oklahoma, which lost to Colorado on a field goal as time expired, dropped seven spots to No. 10. 
GOLF 
Presidents Cup goes to Nicklaus, U.S. teain 

AP 

David Toms, right, congratulates Charles Howell Ill after the 
U.S. team won this year's Presidents Cup in Montreal. 
Crowd favorite Mike Weir takes out Tiger 
Associated Press 
The Presidents Cup didn't end in another tie, but it sure felt that way Sunday. 
The Americans celebrated 
another victory, taking more 
than enough singles matches at 
Royal Montreal to make a win­
ner out of captain Jack Nicklaus 
again and capture their first cup 
on international soil in 14 years. 
Even more rowdier were 
those Canadians crammed into 
the bleachers and pressed 
against the ropes, waving the 
Maple Leaf flag, cheering and 
chanting at every turn as their 
beloved Mike Weir won the last 
two holes to take down Tiger 
Woods. 
"When he won on 18, you 
could hear it all the way to 
Kansas City," International cap­tain Gary Player said. The final cheer was for the consolation prize. 
The Presidents Cup went to a United States team that was overwhelming in the team matches and good enough in singles for its second straight victory over the International team, 19 1/2 -14 1/2 . 
David Toms earned the most points. Scott Verplank won all four of his matches. Woody Austin drew the most laughter, falling into a lake on the 14th hole Friday and making fun of himself by wearing a swimming mask as he walked down the same fairway Sunday. 
As usual, the inspiration and laughs came from Nicklaus, a seven-time runner-up at the Canadian Open who finally left the Great White North with a shiny gold trophy. 
"I've always loved playing for Jack, and hopefully, he'll come back," Woods said. "He's the greatest player of all time, and to have him as your captain to lead us, it doesn't get any better than that." 
The Canadians found some• thing equally special. 
The cheers were relentless on a spectacular autumn day, and they carried the former Masters champion from a sudden col­lapse to an unlikely victory. Woods was 1 up with two holes to play when Weir made a 10­foot birdie putt to win the 17th, then watched as Woods pulled a tee shot that splashed into a pond -right in front of a Canadian flag that fans were holding behind the ropes. 
"It's mixed emotions for sure," Weir said. "Our team didn't win. I won a point. It's only one point." 
But what a point it was. 
Woods beat Greg Norman when the Presidents Cup was in Australia, and he beat Ernie Els in South Africa four years ago. Weir only made the team as a captain's pick, but he was the International team's best player -especially Sunday. 
"Obviously, winning the Masters was such a thrill," Weir said. "But to play Tiger ... he's the best player there is, and I had to play my absolute best today to beat him." 
Woods and Weir shared a hug on the 18th green as the gallery roar again, filling the air with chants of "Mike! Mike! Mike!" 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October I, 2007 
NFL 

Umenyiora sets team sack record in 16-3 win 
backs at will. "It was like a video game out yard field goal in the third
McNabb sacked 12 

"Last week we able to get there," Umenyiora said. quarter, but he also missed a 
times in Eagles' loss some pressure on the quarter­"Winston Justice is a very good 34-yarder and an extra point. back." said Umenyiora, whose football player. Tonight was Strahan's sacks gave him sack total was one shy of just one of those nights. He'll 133 1/2 in his career, breaking
Associated Press 
Derrick Thomas' NFL record. learn from that experience." Taylor's franchise record. 
EAST HUTIIEHHlHD, N.J. -"We knew we would eventually Mathias Kiwanuka added Coincidentally, Taylor served Tho New York (;iants had so get some sacks. We have some three sacks, Justin Tuck two as an honorary captain for the many sacks thny actually felt of the best pass rushers in the and Michael Strahan one in an game. bad for the kid trying to pro­lnagun on this team. We put it awesome display by a defense Strahan was more concerned teet Donovan McNabb from Osi all together today." that was ranked as the worst with Justice. Urnenyiora and a sack-happy Coming into the game, the in the league after giving up "That poor kid that they had dd'ensn. Giants (2-2) had only four 80 points in its first two over there," Strahan said. 
Umenyiora had a team­sacks in three games. They games. "Why didn't they help him'? I rncord six sacks and the Giants had live against the Eagles (1-Kawika Mitchell returned a felt, in an odd way, you could (2-21 set a franchise record 3) a!'ter the first half, and fumble 17 yards for a touch­ruin the guy. It's his first start and tied a league record by Umenyiora ended up having a down and Eli Manning threw a and that's what he gets. It's sacking McNabb 12 times in a earner game against second­9-yard TO pass to Plaxico not a good thing." I(J-3 victory that brought back year left tackle Winston Burress, a score that, of Justice accepted responsibil­memories of Lawrence Taylor Justice, who was filling in for course, was set up by a sack. ity. intimidating opposing quarter-an injurnd William Thomas. Lawrence Tynes added a 29-"I am going to shoulder the 

one o our omema e rene uns 

#16 CLUB LULU M
FREEBIE$ ($U8$ & CLUBS ONLY) then smothered with onions. mayo. 
Fresh sliced turkey breast. bacon. lettuce, tomato.
Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo, sliced lettuce, tomato, & our homemade 
& mayo. (JJ's original turkey & bacon club)
cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. Italian dressing. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK n 
54570 N.IRONWOOD DR. 1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
574.277.8500 574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.968.4600 
SO~!H BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISI:IAWAKA 
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOf.IN'S!" © 
®1985. 2002. 2003. 2004. 2007 JIMMY JOHN'S FUNCHISE. llC All RIGHTS RESERVED. We Reserve The Right To Make Any Menu Changes. 
loss for the team," he said. "I 
got out of my technique, tried 
to make adjustments and they 
just didn't work." 
The Eagles (1-3) had a horri­
ble effort in falling three 
games behind Dallas (4-0) in 
the NFC East. 
"It's frustrating," said 
McNabb, who finished 15-of­
31 for 1:~8 yards. "For an 
offense that has had so much 
success over the previous 
years, for us to come out and 
play the way we played today 
is embarrassing." 
Besides the sacks, 
Philadelphia had 15 penalties 
for 132 yards, including a 
dreadful illegal forward pass 
against McNabb with 2:24 to 
play. It nullil'ied a 20-yard 
touchdown pass to Heggie 
Brown and prevented the 
Eagles from drawing within 
16-10. 
Eagles loft tackle Jon Hunyan 
said the Giants didn't do any­
thing different. 
"We did all the bad stuff, 
putting ourselves in bad situa­
tions and third and long," 
Bunyan said. "That's just 
telling the del'ensn exactly 
what you are going to do." 
David Akers, who missnd a 
42-yard l'ield goal in the sec­
ond quartnr, made a 53-yarder 
earlier in the fourth quarl!~r to 
get Philadelphia on the board. 
The Eagles, who beat the 
Detroit Lions 56-21 last week, 
were short-handed for the 
game, missing running back 
Brian Westbrook, eornerback 
Lito Sheppard, safnty Brian 
Dawkins and Thomas. 
This is the fifth time a team 
had 12 sacks. The last was 
Dallas against the Houston 
Oilers on Sept. 29, 1985. 

The game pitted new Giants defensive coordinator Steve Spagnuolo against his old mentor Jim Johnson, the Eagles longtime defensive coordinator. Spagnuolo had been the Eagles linebacker coach for the past three years. 
While both defenses domi­nated, the Giants had an advantage going against an Eagles offense that was with­out Westbrook, its catalyst. The halfback who led the NFC in rushing after last week sat out with an abdominal strain. 
The Eagles were limited to 212 yards and 3-of-11 on third down conversions. 
Umenyiora's second sack set up the Giants second-quarter touchdown. It forced the Eagles to punt from deep in their end and R.W. McQuarters returned the kick 11 yards to the Eagles' 49. 
Manning engineered a four­play drive, starting with passes of 19 and 17 yards to Amani Toomer. The score came as Burress outjumped Sheldon Brown in the corner of the endzone to give the Giants at 7-0 lead with 11 :09 remaining in the half. 
The Giants had a chance to extend the lead late in the sec­ond quarter but Omar Gaither intercepted a pass deep in Eagles territory. 
Tynes' field goal pushed the lead to 10-0 late in the third quarter. It capped a 55-yard drive aided by a 32-yard pass interference penalty against Amani Toomer by Eagles cor­nerback William James. 
The fumble return by Mitchell iced the game less than a minute later. 
Monday, October 1, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish win one, lose one in Big East road trip 
By ELLYN MICHALAK and PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writers  balls. Fellow captain Adrianna Stasiuk posted nine kills, and freshman outside hitter Kellie Sciacca posted seven.  ter Brittany Rahrer had 37 assists. Notre Dame could not cele­brate its big win for long, how­ early on as they started the final game with a 5-0 lead ­which is played to only 15 points. The Irish were three points away  double-digit kills -Fesl had 15, Stasiuk scored 14, and junior middle blocker Justine Stremick slapped down 12. Tarutis once  
"We put a lot of hard work  ever, as Villanova ended a  25­ from  victory  at 12-8, when  again led with 38 assists and  
Notre Dame once again split a  into our practice  year  drought  Villanova stepped on the throt­ sophomore  setter  Jamel  
weekend series, picking up its  this week," soph­ against the Irish  tle. Scoring nine of the last 12  Nicholas saw some playing time  
first shutout of the season against Seton Hall before drop­ omore hitter  outside Megan  "We played really  the next day. Notre Dame went  points, the Wildcats stunned the crowd with the 17-15 comeback.  while recording 21 helpers of her own.  
ping a nail-biter to Villanova in five games. The Irish (6-8, 2-2 Big East)  Fesl said. "We played really well. It was a  well. It was a really fun match.''  16-0 against Villanova since 1982.  "Statistically, we beat [Villanova] in every category," Fesl said. "It's just little parts of  Villanova (11-6, 3-1) was led by senior outside hitter Alona Cherkez. She posted team-highs  
began the weekend by sweeping  really  fun  In the fifth Irish  our game that we need to refine  with 26 kills and 24 digs. Junior  
the Pirates 3-0 (30-19, 30-20,  match."  Megan Fesl  match this sea­ better, but I would not say that  outside hitter Dana Tartazky  
30-25) Saturday, but ultimately  Seton Hall (10­ Irish outside hitter  son  that  has  our team collapsed. It was a  also had a double-double with  
fell 3-2 (21-30, 31-29, 30-27, 22­ 7, 1-3 Big East)  reached  the  hard fought battle, and we really  15 kills and 10 digs.  
30, 17-15) in  a  close match  was led by the  deciding game,  know what details we need to  Notre Dame continues its Big  
against Villanova Sunday.  stellar play of  Notre  Dame  fix."  East schedule with  a  match  
Against Seton Hall, the Irish  freshman outside hitter Sarah  could not hold on at the end.  Sophomore  outside  hitter  against Rutgers at the JACC on  
had their best offensive match of  Osmun. She racked up a game­ The Irish, however, had momen­ Serinity Phillips  notched  a  Sunday at 2 p.m.  
the season. Senior setter Ashley  high 1 9 kills along with nine  tum on their side after taking  career best 26 kills for the Irish,  
Tarutis led with 25 assists and  digs. Sophomore outside hitter  the fourth game in dominant  while Sciacca made an impres­ Contact Ellyn Michalak at  
the highest kill percentage, suc­ Stacey Craighead helped with 10  fashion.  sive 11 blocks. Three other play­ emichala@nd.edu and  
cessfully hitting six of seven  kills of her own while junior set- Their success carried over  ers for Notre Dame notched  Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu  

MLB 
Biggio hangs up his cleats after 20 seasons in Houston 
Associated Press  He fought off his emotions throughout the  the time and there's nothing wrong with it,"  He finished with 3,060 career hits and will finish 20th  the batting title. The weekend  series  in  
HOUSTON  -Craig Biggio  game, but lost it  he said. "But it's  on the all-time list, just behind  Houston, meanwhile, was a  
didn't know when the tears  a  few times in  a good emotion.  Cap Anson (3,081). Of the 19  three-day tribute for Biggio,  
would come on Sunday. Turns out all it took was hearing his  the dugout between  "It's a good cry, a  It's a good cry, a healthy cry."  players ahead of him, only Pete Rose is not in the Hall of Fame.  with fans packing the park for one last glimpse at the fran­ 
children's voices. The retiring Biggio doubled  innings, when personal mes­ healthy cry."  Biggio became the 27th player  Chipper Jones, who came into the game trailing Matt Holliday  chise's most beloved all-time player. His final game drew  
and scored in the first inning of his final game as the Houston  sages from his three children  Craig Biggio  to reach 3,000 hits on June 28  by one point in the batting race, went 0-for-3 to fall to  43,823, the largest crowd in the park's 7-year history.  
Astros beat the Atlanta Braves  -14-year-old  Astros second basemen  and announced  .337. Holliday went 1-for-3 in  Even  Jeff  Bagwell,  who  
3-0 before a record crowd at  Conor, 12-year­ his retirement a  Denver,  as  the Rockies beat  shared 15 seasons with Biggio,  
Minute Maid Park.  old Cavan and  month later. He  Arizona 4-3 to force  a  one­ came to say goodbye.  
The 41-year-old Biggio, who  8-year-old  will leave as the  game  tiebreaker  with  San  "This was a special day. You  
played his entire 20-season  Quinn  -were played on the  franchise's all-time leader in  Diego on Monday.  see the way the crowd reacted  
earner in Houston, got standing  giant scoreboard.  games, at-bats, hits, doubles  Holliday would have to go 0­ to him all week and actually, all  
ovations every time he batted.  "If you're older, you cry all  and total bases.  for-5 or .worse for Jones to win  of his career," said Bagwell.  

POPPIN' MY COLLAR 
KAUST Discovery Scholarship 
Full scholarships for science and technology students 
The King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), a 21st 
century graduate-level, research university, is offering scholarships for 
future leaders in science, engineering, and technology. 
The benefits of the KAUST Discovery Scholarship include: 
• 
Full tuition at current institution 

• 
Living stipend, book and computer allowance 

• 
Upon graduation, admission and full scholarship for the KAUST master's degree program at the University's Red Sea campus 


The KAUST campus opens in September 2009. Highly talented 
students with one to three years remaining in first university degree programs can apply now. 
Visit www.kaust.edu.sa/discovery, or email scholarships@kaust.edu.sa. 
CONTACT: 

KAUST Scholarships c/o liE 520 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 740 Houston, TX 77027 Phone: 713.621.6300 x23 



IAN GAVLIK!The Observer 

Irish senior Greg Rodgers putts during the Gridiron Golf Classic at Warren Golf Course Sunday. 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October l, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Ciobanu, Potts win pair of singles titles 
By KATE ARNOLD Sporrs Writer 
Notrn Damn nnded its two­wnek bn~ak with wins in each of' thn brarkPt divisions in tlw Wolverirw Invitational at Ann Arbor. Mieh .. this woPknnd. 
Tllf' Irish l'an~d players from Michigan, !\larqtwtle, WPstnrn Mkhigan and Purdue. 
NotrP DamP started tho Maiw sing!Ps draw with thrt~f' semled playpr-; -No. I sopho­more Cosmina Ciohanu. No. :{ sophomorP ColiPPn HiPlley and No. 4 junior 1\.Piey Te!Tt. Also competing in tlw Maize brack­et was frPshman Kristen Hafanl. 
All four won in thn first round, and TPI'I't and Ciobanu advaneed into the third round, wlwrn tlwy facnd ead1 othnr. Ciobanu canw away with the victory and advanced to faen Hinlley in tlw final. 

Ciohanu was vietorious, win­ning thn final match on lovn. Ciohanu has had an imprPs­sivn first sPason, compiling a :HJ-5 record in NCAA play. 
Notre Damn entered tho Blun singlos draw with two SIHHlod playPrs -No. 1 sopho­more Kali Krisik and No. 2 junior KatiP Potts. Frnshman l>nnise l·:llison also compntPd in tho Blun division. Although 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
l·:llison lost her rirst-round mateh against Michigan's fourth-seeded Kari Wig, she fan~d well in the eonsolation bracket. winning two games. 
Krisik captured third in the division, while Potts overpow­nrnd Wig in two sets, 6-4 and h-0. 
Tlw Irish also had two seed­Pd players in tho doubles draw. Partncring up were No. I 1\.risik and TniTt and No. 3 Bafal'l and Hinllny. 
Krisik and Toff't won the doublPs tournanwnt against tlw sneond-seoded Michigan duo Tahnia Mahtani and Whitney Taney. 
Also featured were Ciobanu with Potts, and 1\llison with senior Bailey Louderback. 
Although both unseeded teams lost in tho first round, Ciobanu and Potts won the eonsolation bracket after thn~e more games and ended with an S-2 final set. 
Hafael and Hil'lley lost 8-3 in the second round to Miehigan's Mathani and Tatsuno. 
The tPam will look to contin­ue its success at the ITA All­American Championships, held in Pacifie Palisades, Cailf., from October 4-7. 
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 
Belles finish in ninth behind freshtnan help 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 

Saturday's Sean Earl Invitational in Chicago gave the Saint Mary's runners another opportunity lo drop times as individuals and improve overall as a team, and the Belles took advantage, placing ninth out of 21 teams. 
Senior Megan Gray led tiHl way, finishing ninth overall in I 9:02. But thn real story, aeeording to Belles coach Jaekin Bauters, was the impressive timns of somn of the Belles' lnss lwrald1~d frnshnwn runners. 
"I think for some of the girls like Sam IWi<lt:Zornkl and C.atie !Salyer! ... tlwy broke through some time barriers. and that has to bn a huge eonfidp,nce boost­er," Bauters said. "This weekend was a hug1~ sueenss for us. We had 14 season b1lsts at the mont, whieh mPans nveryone is improving, and this wasn't a rakn eoursn, nspneially with a field of 2~6 lrunrwrsl." 
Winczornk (!lOth plaee, 20:221, sophomorl' MPgan MeClowry ((drd. 20:4Hl. Salyer (6Hth, 
20:541 and sPrlior Ol<~nka Bilyk (71Jth, 21: Ill gavP Saint Mary's a solid tPam sl'orn by all finish­ing in tlw top ~0. 
Missouri SoulhPrn won tlw mPnt. whiln ronli~rnnre foe and pPrnnnial powPr Calvin took snvPnth. Hight behind Calvin was fnllow M lA/\ team Albion. 
and Kalamazoo rounded out the eonferPnce teams in 11th. 
"I think looking at our finish this year to a year ago is impressive," Bauters said. In 2006, the Bolles finislwd in 17th placn out of 33 teams. 
"Sure, not all the teams are the same, and there were a few less complete teams, but it was great to see us finish close to Albion and still come out ahead of Kalamazoo. For some of tho other teams, it's difficult to judge since we don't see them on a more frequent basis, but it's groat to see the improve­mont." 
That improvement seems to be the theme of this season for the Belles, highlighted by their fimrth-place finish at last week's MIAA Jamboree -the highest in sehoul history. The team's goal has been to be the best in Saint Mary's history sinee the beginning of the year. And, if the improvement continues, it just might happen. 
"The timing of this raeo was grnat because we have a 6K coming up this Friday. Even though it's not that mueh longer of a race, it dons pose new ehal­lnngns I'm· thn tnarn," BautPrs said. "I feel like they will be morP confident going into tho raen aftnr their sueenssns. 
"Tiw snason is just getting morn exciting wm~k after week." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
Irish in third place after 1st round 
Squad trails Michigan State by Jour shots at Warren Golf Course 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame got off to a strong start in the Fighting Irish Gridiron Classic Sunday, shooting a first-round 289 (plus 9) to end the day in third. 
Playing at home on the Warren Golf Course. the Irish trail lirstplacP Miehigan State hy four shots and Baylor by a single stroke. Notre Dame finds itself near the top of the loadorboard of tho 12-tcam thdd despite tough eonditions and some costly mistakes on tho last few holes. 
"The golf course setup was very difficult as far as tho hole locations, and tho wind was up to 20 miles per hour," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. "W~~ didn't play our best golf, but being at home definitely helped, and we'll play a little better tomorrow." 
Sophomore Doug Fortner led the Irish with a 68, which tied him for best in the field with Spartan Graham Baillargeon. Fortner began his day with two birdies in the first three holes and rode that momentum to tho best round of his collegiate career. 
"Doug has all the tools and a great deal of' talent," Kubinski said. "llis start this year is a sign of' things to eome, he's going to be a spo­eial player...­
Junior Josh Sandman and sophomore Kyle Willis were close behind both shooting one-over 71 s to tie for fifth place. Willis sot a personal best with the roundbut is competing as an individual in the tournament and will not contribute to the team score. 

Senior Grog Rodgers played consistently after a tough start to turn in a 7 4, and sen­ior Eddie Peckols shot a six­over 76. Carlos Santos­Ocampo rounded out tho Notre Dame team golfers with an Sl. 
Kubinski said the Irish arn building on tho extra motiva­tion playing at their homo course this week. 
"You have pride defending 
your  home,  and  thn  guys  
showed it with  a  good  start  
today." he said.  

In addition to Willis, several other Irish underclassmen competing individually had 
strong scores. Freshmnn TyIe r II oe k and J e IT C h n n each shot a 74, and sopho­more Olavo Batista carded a 76. 
"We're a very young team, but wn have so many players who are able to travel and eompetn in the top five !start­ing spots! this year," Kubinski said. "Wn have a lot of talent­ed players that can eon­tribute." 
Notrn Damn leads fourth­pla<;e Virginia by four strokns and North Florida by five. 
The Irish will ton off the second round today with ten times beginning at 8:30 a.m. at the Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 



IN 
STUD¥ ABROAD OPPPORTUNITIES 
NAGOYA ..~·.· ~ 
TOKYO·~··. 

''\ 

INFO.RMATION: 
,. Ji $ 
"li>•·'lf; 
i

SEPTEMBER 18 OR OCTOBER 1 
5:30 PM 116 DEBARTOLO 
htt :/ /www.nd.edu/-ois/ 
Monday, October 1, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Streak 
continued from page 28 
could manage only a 1-1 draw Friday night in front of 1,895 fans. 
The tic brought the Irish win­less streak against Cincin·nati to three, as Notre Dame has not bnaten the Bearcats since they joined the Big East in 2005. 
"Cincinnati has got our number here." Clark said after the game. "They certainly seem to find ways to frustrate us." 
The Irish out-shot Cincinnati 11-2 in the first half and pos­sessed the ball for the majority of the time, but it was the Bearcats who opened the scoring shortly after halftime. In the 53rd minute, Cincinnati defender Lionel Jackson sent an in-swing­ing free kick from the right side­line to the net. Irish goalkeeper Chris Cahill. coming out to inter­cept the cross, had the ball sail over his head, and Bearcat defimder Brad Simpson crashed at the back post to head it home. 
"That's the area they were going to beat us, and that's where their goal came from," Clark said. "That's the only way they were [going to beat us]." 
The Irish created multiple chances in the ensuing minutes with midfielder Justin Morrow having the best opportunity only one minute after the Bearcats' goal. but his shot from just out­side the box was saved by Cincinnati keeper Miguel Rosales. 
Notre Dame finally broke through in the 76th minute, when it scored on a nearly identi­eal play as the Bearcats' goal. Irish defender Jack Traynor sent a free kiek in from the right side­line and found defender Matt Besler, who headed the ball home from six yards out. 
Both teams created multiple scoring opportunities in the remaining minutes before over­time, and it took a header off the endline by Irish defender Cory Rellas to prevent a shot by Cincinnati's Chris Thompson from fmding the back of the net in the 85th minute. 
Notre Dame's best chance to win the game came four minutes into the first overtime when Ryan Miller got onto the end of a Joseph Lapira corner kick, but his diving header from 12 yards out was parried by a diving Rosales. 
Rosales, the reigning Big East rookie of the week, had seven saves on the night and was a big reason the Irish were held to one goal. 
"He had a few saves, several of them very good saves," Clark said. "[The save on Miller's head­er] was the one that stood out in my mind." 
Notes: 

+ 
Notre Dame forward Kurt Martin, who has been receiving treatment for an injured ankle this past week, left the game in the 20th minute due to the injury and did not return. 

"It's not bad, but it's enough to take him out of the game," Clark said. 

+ 
Lapira, who has been ham­pered by a muscle injury since the Rhode Island game Sept. 7, played the entire game for the firsttimethisseason. 


Notre Dame 2, Louisville 1 
Louisville made it interesting in the closing minutes Sunday after­noon, but the Irish hung on to their halftime lead to improve to 6-0 against Louisville all time. 
Notre Dame dominated play throughout the first half, out­shooting the Cardinals 9-5 and keeping on the attacking side for the majority of the time. 
"It was strange, it was one of these games where I thought we put on a clinic in the first half," Clark said. "I don't know if we thought we would automatically win the game." 
Louisville turned up the intensi-

Coffee at the Como 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 2 7:30p.m.-9:30p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual membeJS of the Notre Dame family, their lriends. and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone IS welcome and confidentiality 1s assured. 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY& LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
ty in the second half and began to play a much more physical style in front of the Notre Dame net. 
"They've got a couple of very big boys, and we're not the biggest team in the world," Oark said. 
Senior Marco Terminesi (6­foot-0, 180 pounds) used his size to get Louisville on the board in the 77th minute on a penalty kick. Notre Dame committed two questionable fouls within 10 sec­onds to give Terminesi an oppor­tunity. 
· The goal fired up the Cardinals, and they threatened for the remaining 13 minutes of the game, but the Irish defense and senior goalkeeper Chris Cahill were able to hold them off. 
"The guys showed a lot of char­acter going down the line," Oark said. "They proved that they could fight back in a game they thought they had won." 
Notre Dame once again jumped out to an early start when sophomore Jeb Brovsky notched his second career goal five minutes into the contest. 
Traynor crossed a pass from the left side and Brovsky finished to give Notre Dame an early lead. 
Lapira scored the eventual game winner 30 minutes later by chipping a shot to the far post with his heel. Senior midfielder Kyle Dulworth picked up his first career point with the assist. 
"That goal was the icing on the cake for a great first half [for Lapira]." Clark said. "It was a tremendous goal." 
The 2006 M.A.C. Hermann 
award winner Lapira is contend­
ing to repeat as the country's best 
player, leading the Irish with 
seven points. 

Notre Dame takes on non-con­
ference rivals Michigan 
Wednesday night at Alumni 
Field. 

Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu and Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles lose 2 ga111es; MIAA record novv 3-5 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's dropped two games to tough competition Saturday in a triangular meet with Tri-State and Bethel. 
The Belles lost to Tri-State 3­0 (20-30, 26-30, 27 -30) in the first match and then dropped a hard-fought, five-game match to B.ethel 3-2 (30-24, 25-30, errors.... You've got to do the little things right, they add up." 
Junior middle blocker Cathy Kurczak led the way with 14 digs, and sophomore outside hitter Kaela Hellmann picked up 14 defensive digs. 
The Belles changed their play when they took on the Pilots. Although Bethel was not a conference game, the team 
28-30, 30-27, "We just let our 15-8) to end the 
opponent set the pace 
day. 
ofthe match. We
The Tri-State Thunder wer!:l didn't play bad, we able to come in 
just didn't play even
and take control 
close to the level that 
of the match from the start. we should be "We just let 
playing at." 
our opponent set the pace of the match. We 
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
didn't play bad, Belles coach . against Bethel." 
we just didn't play even close to the level that we should be playing at," Belles 'coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "Consistent intensity was what was missing -we wait too long to get things going with any fire, and then it is too late." 
Although the Thunder had control, it was not a total case of domination. The Belles (6­10, 3-5 MIAA) lost to Tri-State by a combined total of 17 points in three games, and their stats almost mirrored each other. The Belles had 41 kills, 40 set assists and 60 defensive digs. The Thunder had 44 kills, 41 set assists and 76 defensive digs. 
Unforced errors were the dif­ference between the two teams in Saturday's match. 
"We also missed far too many serves, aggressive serv­ice errors I can handle, but lack of focus service errors are inexcusable," Schroeder-Biek said. "When you look at the match score difference of sev­enteen total points and then see that we had ten service still approached it with intensity 
"Bethel was a better team than Tri-State. Bethel had more size and more power than Tri­State," Schroeder-Biek said. "We played much closer to our level and truly competed 
The Belles 

could not pull it out in the end, which the coach relates back to their lack of drive. 
"To pull those five-game matches out, again -just more intensity on the whole ... more collective determination to win," she said, 
The Belles had four players with double-doubles in the effort against the Pilots. Sophomore outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski had 18 kills and 14 defensive digs, fresh­man outside hitter Andrea Sasgen contributed 14 kills and 19 defensive digs, senior setter Amanda David had 55 
assists and 11 digs, and Hellmann was a leader again with 13 kills and 17 digs. 
Next up for Saint Mary's is conference foe Adrian Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. In their last meeting, on Sept. 4, Adrian took down the Belles in three straight games to start their conference schedule. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Irish 
continued from page 28 
cantly in the past two weeks when the Irish won the National Catholic Championship, cutting 31 and 17 seconds off of their times, respectively. 
Senior Brett Adams (68th), senior Mike Popejoy (93rd) and junior Kevin Veselik (104th) rounded out the Notre Dame runners in the tournament. 
Notre Dame finished 14 points ahead of North Carolina State and an impressive 32 points ahead of Providence, the only participating teams that were ranked higher than the Irish coming into the Invitational. Michigan and Florida State finished fourth and fifth. 
The Irish women finished without a trophy for the first time this season. 
Unranked Rice, which fin­ished with 119 points, led the field. Illinois, Florida State, Michigan and Boston College rounded out the top five. 
Notre Dame finished with a point total of 305. 
Freshman Marissa Treece once again led the way for the Irish women, finishing her five kilometers in 17:24, good enough for 17th out of 162 par­ticipants. Her time was identi­cal to the one she posted in a winning effort at the National Catholic Championship two weeks ago. 
She has led the Irish in both of her two collegiate races so far. 
Other scoring runners for the Irish were sophomore Lindsey Ferguson (31st). sen­ior Ann Mazur (81st), junior Emily Wauford (88th) and freshman Abby Higgins (94th). Sophomore Beth Tacl (106th) and junior Becca Bauman (1 08th) were also in the field. 
Both squads will return to action in Terre Haute, Ind., for the Pre-National Meet in two weeks. The event will be held at the LaVern Gibson Championship Course at the Wabash Valley Family Sports Center on Oet. 13. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

---~·------~----­

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Mon1ay, October 1, 2007 

Cinalli 
continued from page 28 
Learn." 
Thn Irish outshot the 
Cardinals 12-5 and drew live 
eornor kicks to Louisvilln's orw 
in Notm Damn's first confer­
ence game on the road. 
"Any time you can got a win on the road in the Big East is a positiw," Waldrum said. 
Cinalli''s goal eamn in the 24th minute after Irish juniot· forward Kerri Ilanks had a shot from the right sidn of thn box bloekf'd. Cinalli gatlwrnd the rebound and hammernd it into the lower left corner of tho net. 
Irish snnior goalie Lauren Karas had to make just one save in tlw shutout as the Irish defnnders sul'foeated the Cardinals attackers throughout the matd1. The defense started two frnshnwn ~ center baek Laurnn Fowlkes and right back Julie Sdwidler -as sopho­more rPntnr back llaley Ford missnd lwr lifth straight game boeaus1~ of a hamstring injury. 
"Our bark linn linally startl'd to settle in," Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame 6, Cincinnati 1 
The host Irish ran tlwir Big East unbPaten streak to 27 games as they scored four goals in the seeond half in a blowout win over Cincinnati. 
Cinalli bncarnn the 12th Irish player to rncord :w goals and ]0 assists in her earner after notching tlw helper on fresh­man forward Hose Augustin's lirst-half goal. 
Cinalli, who started at mid­l'iolder, beat two defnnders beforn ripping a shot that was dellnctnd by Cincinnati sopho­more goalie Andrea Kaminski. 
Augustin, who was starting in Cinalli's normal forward spot, then charged in from the right side of the penalty box to knoek the ball horne. 

Cinalli was bumped baek to midfieldM to replace sopho­more Michelle Weissenhofnr, who was slightly injured and nntPrml the game later. 
"We moved Hosn up, and it was nice for her to get her lirst goal," Waldrum said. "She has a great shot and, even though thn goal was just a littln ton­pokn, we've b(wn saying we nendml to get her some shots." 
With just over four minutes left in the lirst half. the Irish 

struck again to take a 2-0 lead 
into halftime. Junior midlielder 
Hnbncea Mendoza threaded a 
pass to senior forward Susan 
Pinnick, who had beaten her 
defender down the right side of 
the linld. 
Pinnick's first shot was 
stopped by Kaminski, but she 
did not miss again after gath­
ering the rebound. 
Early in the seeond half, llanks scored her seventh goal of the season and the 57th of hnr Irish eareer. Arter streak­ing down the eentnr or the lield and mceiving a pass from sen­ior rnidfielder Ashley Jones, llanks calmly poked the ball into tlw right side of the net. 
"I was actually surprised by how llat !Cincinnati's! back line was playing," Waldrum said. "I knew that if they played us like that in the second half, we could beat them by a lot." 
Bock put the Irish ahead 4-0 when she found the back of the net artnr a series of deflections in front o.fthe Cincinnati goal. 
Arter Karas, the starting goalkeeper, was replaced by sophomorll goalie Kelsey Lysander, the Beareats seared tlwir only goal of the game. 
With just under 13 minutes remaining, sophomore mid­finldnr Melissa Bigg knocked a cross !'rom junior midfielder Lindsey Noteboom past a div­ing Lysander. The score eame after several resnrves had entered the game for naeh tPam. 
"I was a little disappointed because you want to keep your rhythm when you make changes," Waldrum said. "But, having said that, we came back and got two more goals with that same group." 
Weissenhofer, who is recov­ering from an ankle injury, entnn~d the game shortly before the goal and responded by scoring the limtl two goals of the game. 
"Today, we weren't going to play !Weissenhoferl but after getting ahead and getting some or tho other players in, we thought we'd get her some time," Waldrum said. "Obviously, she played well, scoring the two goals." 
Wnissenhofnr, who scored mullipln goals in a contest for the fifth time in her Irish earoor, now has limr goals this soason and 22 at Notre Dame. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
son. "I don't want to take anything
Maunu 
away from the players," llolt continued from page 28 said. "They're at a position 
where everybody is out to beat 
hold off Wisconsin. 
The Irish shot a 52-over-par 904 (303-297­
305) for the two­day tournament besting the Badgers, who shot a 908 (31 0­297-301). 
Indiana fin­ished third with a 916 (306-302­308), beating out Michigan by five strokes. Hounding out ready to play for thrne quarters of a game. We have missed her
Belles 
om~nsive firepower, and we're going to have to ligure out how to
continued from page 28 
utilize her up top again." 
had another great chance when Saint Mary's dominated play for 
her shot in the 87th minute was most of the game but was unabln 
tipped off the crossbar. 
Freshman J u I i a Gragtmans got her head on the rebound, but Weston was able to make the stop. 
"Lauren !Hinton] adds a totally difTerent dimension; it was nice to have her on the field," 
MacKenzie said. "She gave us whieh were in the two overtimes, some good minutes, but is not compared to Olivet's eight shots 
Abit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 
Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages; hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Watedurd Estates Lodge has hotel rooms atreasonable rates for upcomir\'5 ND fuotball weekends.) 

to sneak one past the veteran Olivet goalkeeper. The "We didn't bring a lot Belles kept pressurn of energy until the on the offensive side of the ball but could 
last ten minutes of 
not convert in front regulation play. There of the net. 
was not constant "Finishing has 
been an issue,"
team energy.,, 
MacKenzie said. 

"But we're doing 
Caryn MacKenzie good things to ere­
Belles coach ate. We're still sort­
ing it out." 
The Belles took 

17 shots, six of 
second-place them. I told them that there is a certain responsibility that eomes with their success. But at
"They,re at a position 
tho end of the where everybody is day, we're still 
out to beat them. I 
undefeated through three
told them that there 
tournaments,
is a certain responsi­and I don't thiNk bility that comes with any other team 
in the country
their success. ,, 
can say that." 

Irish junior Susan Holt Lisa Maunu led Irish coach the way for Notre Dame with her eight-over par 
a nine-over-par 222 (74-71-77). ller second round 71 was the lowest seore of any member of the team for tho tournament. 
Following Park in third was fellow first-year golfer Katie Conway. ller 15-over-par 228 (78-76-74) showed a consistent improvement through the three rounds. 
Sophomore pair Annie Brophy and Kristin Wetzel linished in a tie for 26th to round out the Irish golfers. Brophy shot a 22­over-par 2:~5 (77-78-80), while her teammate lirod a 235 (79­78-78). Wetznl had an impres­sive series of holes in the sec­ond round when she birdied holes four and live and linishod off the front nine with another birdie. 
Notre Damn returns to tho eourse on Oct. 19 for the thren­day Lady Paladin Invitational hosted by Furman University in Greenville, S.C. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
on the day. Saint Mary's showed it could move tho ball and play physical against this team, with sophomore defender Jessica Slean getting a yellow eard in the 67th minute and two Olivet play­ers and the eoaeh each earning yellow cards in the second half and overtime. 
Belles goalkeopnr Amy Mahoney pieked up hPr sixth shutout in 10 ganws. 
"Amy had a few great saves for us," MacKenzie said. "We [have to] figurn out how to help her and lind the back or the net." 
Mahoney had six-saves in the game, bringing her season total to 53. 
The Belles will try to improve their offensive output this week before taking on Hope College Saturday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvese!O 1 @saintmarys.edu 

the top-five was Eastern Michigan, with a 924 (305-307­312). 
Holt, despite being a little upset with the sloppy play, was proud of the way her golfers have performed so far this sea­221 (74-72-75). The eo-captain birdied six holes in the tourna­ment, leaving her in a tie for second, two strokes off the lead. 
Freshman So-llyun Park lin­ished second for Notre Dame and lifth overall after she lired 
Monday, October 1, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 

DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Lynn Lempel  
29 Casual eatery  38 Minor hang-ups  50 In a weak  
30 Obedience  39 Highway or  manner  
school sounds  byway  51 Sniffers  
31 In the sack  44 Sent to another  52 50%  
32 Venus de  team 45 Jokester  53 Football-shaped 54 Dresden denial  
33 Trio on the run  46 Painter Chagall  58 Cell's protein  
34 Hammers and  48 December list  producer  
hoes  keeper  59 Item with a brim  
37 Appreciative  49 Alpha's opposite  or crown  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute: or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
----------~--~-------------------...., 
page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
.JJl11/W&11IE.Unscramble these four Jumbles. 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
STURB ± 
@2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
r~rrlJ

tNAIGAN WHAT THE: GYM BOX'E:R5 U5E:O TOIIJ I I 

GO FOR A COUPL-E: 
www.jumble.com 
OF "ROUNDS.''
tVIQUER I 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as
J rJ t J 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

A" r I I xIrJ" r I I xJ 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: MILKY CHALK ENCAMP BUOYEDSaturday's 
Answer: When he lost the chess game, he ­PAID BY "CHECK" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kieran Culkin, 25; Lacey Chabert, 25; Dominique Moceanu, 26; Marty Stuart, 49 
Happy Birthday: You can make a difference if you stop procrastinating. This is a great year to learn, experience new things and change old habits. The time to take on a challenge is now. Don't be afraid to explore your creative ideas and to do something out of the ordinary. Your numbers are 2, 6, 14, 26, 28, 45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't get carried away and act on impulse. Remain calm and hear what everyone bas to say before you get yourself into trouble. A new look at an old project will result iu greater enthusiasm about turning it into a profitable ven ture. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Sob stories may be heartbreaking but paying for others' 
mistakes should not be considered. Think twice before donating to a cause. Ask ques­
tions and do your research and you will save money. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll find it difficult to contain the way you feel today. 
If you must let others know what you think, be prepared to hear things you may not 
want to listen to. You have probably been overreacting and may need to apologize. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your mood swings will be fast and furious today. In order to blow off steam, take on a creative project or write down all the things that are bothering you. Focus on positive changes. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love a little, laugh a little but, most of all, have some fun and enjoy yourself. Do your own thing and let others have the space needed to follow through with their own plans. Compromise will go a long way. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Avoid arguments at home and people who are overindul.. 
gent and you will maneuver your way into anything else that you want to pursue. 
Learn a positive approach from experienced individuals. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): Stop spending money on the little extras that really don't make a huge difference. It's time to save, not splurge, so stick to a strict budget By setting your goals. you will make those around you realize that you are serious. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): You'll be tom between what you want to do and what 
you have to do. Change is necessary if you want to move forward but be sure that you 
don't overcompensate. A partnership may need some adjustments. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't take on so much that you don't know which 
-
way is up. It's better to do a little and do it well than to try to please everyone. Focus 
on what will benefit you the most and, if there is any time left over, you can help 
those trying to tie up your time. 3 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you can travel or get involved in a function that 
allows you to network, do so. You will be able to make new contacts and prove your 
point if you are a participant. Money is beading your way and an investment you 
choose will pay off. 3 stars 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have some great ideas that will help you 
solve a financial problem_ A look at what you have to offer and a place to put your service to good use will be made available to you. Once you get going, nothing will 
stop you. 5 stars 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may know what you want to do but expect to face some opposition. Focus ou what you can do to make your home better. Develop a skill or a plan that will enable you to make more cash. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a colorful personality with plenty to offer. You have strong beliefs, you work bard and you don't give up until you reach your goals. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvict.comjor fun, eugenialast.comjor conjidelllial comultations 

CROSSWORD 
Across 31 Mosey along 

Town known for 34 Walnut or willow witch trials 
35 Oozy roofing 6 _-friendly material 
1 0 Jane Austen 36 Grass-eating trio heroine 
40 One of the 14 Politician who 
Manning wrote "The 
quarterbacks Audacity of 
41 Giant birds of Hope" 
lore 15 Senate errand 
42 Brain sections runner 
43 Pedestrian's 16 Authentic 
intersection 17 Fortune-seeking 
warning trio 
46 Soccer Hall of 19 Formerly 
Farner Hamm 20 Hrs. in a Yankee 
47 Exclamations of schedule 
annoyance 21 Mimicked 
48 Took a load off 22 Feels sorry for 
one's feet 24 Hits the roof 
52 Respectful 26 Brought to ruin tribute 
27 Barely make, 54 War on drugs with "out" fighter 
28 Peru-Bolivia 55 China's border lake Chairman_ 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

56 Enthusiastic 57 Gift-giver's trio 60 Frilly material 61 Pint, inch or 
second 62 Bird on the Great Seal of the United States 63 Ran away from 
64 Turner of "Peyton Place," 1957 
65 Sticks around 
Down 
They're always underfoot 2 Put up with 3 Coffee concoction 
4 Aid provider to the critically injured, briefly 
5 "Nonsense!" 6 Increased 7 Uttered 8 Omelet 
ingredient 9 Peaceful 
interludes 1oTitillating 11 Trio at sea 12 Riot-control 
spray 13 Draft picks in 
pubs 18 Fencing sword 23 Amin of Africa 25 Peddle 26 Food regimens 28 Racecourse 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, Ocrober 1, 2007 
page 28 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Back on track 
Squad returns to form in pair of Big East victories over weekend 
By FRAN TOLAN Spons Writer 
Notre Dame earned victories over Big East foes Louisville and Cincinnati this weekend. !wiping to ease an early season skid that has seen last year's national runner-up lose two of its last thn~n games. 
"I knew we'd get this thing turned around," Irish eoaeh Handy Waldrum said. "And this w1H1kond was definitely a step towards that." 
The Irish now have a 5-4-1 overall record. with a :~-0 mark in Big East games. 
Notre Dame 1, Louisville 0 
Senior captain Amanda Cinalli scornd her third goal of the season to give the visiting Irish a narrow win over Louisville. 
"I thought we did a pretty good job," Waldrum said. "Even though wn only won by one, it's a tough place to play. They have a small field and a good 
see CINALLI/page 26 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish tnen take third straight 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
Like a charm. 
At the Notre Dame Invitational Friday, the Irish men won their third straight team titln. beating out 22 teams in the Blun Division. 
The wom11n plac1~d 12th in a field of 21 tnams as Hic11 took first in thn womnn's Blue Division. 
Junior Patrick Smyth, who ran five miles in 23:44, led the men, coming in sncond out of 17R runnnrs on the individual leaderboard. lie was only seven seconds bnhind winner Joshua McDougal of Liberty University. 
Irish senior Jake Watson fin­ished with a time of 24:11, good enough for I Oth place overall. Other men placing for the Irish included freshman Dan Jackson (16th), sophomore Jake Walker (30th} and fresh­man Paul Springer (34th). 
Jackson and Springer both improved their times signifi­
see IRISH/page 25 

--=-~============================================================~~~ 
SMC SOCCER 
Saint Mary's plays in second straight double-overtillle tie 
draw in a row. of an injury, and senior defense­lation play," Belles coach Caryn ing in the first half. But OlivetBy MEAGHAN VESELIK The tic moved the Belles' man Justine Higgins, who was MacKenzie said. "There was not goalkeep11r Sarah Wnston was up
Sports Writer 
n~eonl to 5-1-4 overall and 1-0-2 serving a one-gaine suspension constant team energy." to the challenge and stoned in the MIM -putting them in after picking up two yellow cards The Belles had their best scor­Honayne to pick up one of 12 
Saint Mary's tied wnference third place. in the team's 1-1 tie with Albion ing chance of the game when saves on the day. opporwnt Olivet Colh~gn Saturday Tim Bnllns were missing sopho­last week. sophomore defender Bridget Junior forward Lauren Hinton aftnr two owrtimns. making it the more forward Mieki Bedinger, "We didn't bring a lot of energy Honayne was awarded a penalty Bnllns' SPI'OJHI doubln-overtime who has been sidnlined because until the last 10 minutes of regu-kick with three minutns remain-see BELLES/page 26 
-----=-~~~--=-~==========================================================~=== 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Win, dravv put unbeaten streak at 7 
By DAN MURPHY and 
GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Wrir~rs 
No. 2 Notrn Damn stmtdwd it<> unhnatnn stn~ak to SI'WII ganws this wnnkPnd with a 2-1 win over l.ouisvilln and a 1-1 draw with ddmHling Big East champion Cincinnati. 
Tlw tnam staynd unboatnn in tlw mnfnn1ncn, moving to 4-0-1 against Big t·:<L<>l tmuns and (J-1-2 ovnrall this SP<L'>Oil. 
Both garnns WP'I'n playnd at Alumni Finld and wnrn tlw start of' a strnteh in whkh the Irish will play snvm1 of Pight on thnir hornn turf. 
Notre Dame 1, Cincinnati 1 
Notn~ Damn has IL<'.eomplishnd a lot of things undnr coa1~h Bobby Clark. but beating Cincinnati in Big East play isn't one ofthmn. 
I>espitn out-shooting the Bnarcat'i 24-IJ and holding an 11­2 edgn in corner kicks, the Irish 
see STREAK/page 26 


ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Team starts season 3-0 for first titne in history 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
The putts keep on sinking, and Notre Dame just keeps on winning. And for the first Lime in Notre Dame's history, the Irish are thrnc-for-three to start a season. 
After consneutivo victories in the Cougar Classie and Napa Hiver Grill Cardinal Cup, the Irish overcame a two-stroke del'ieit to take the Wolverine Invitational Sunday. 
Irish coaeh Susan Holt was happy to pir.k up the win but thinks her team should have played even better. 
"If' you look at the field, our competition wasn't as strong as it has been in the past," llolt said. "Our play was a bit sloppy at times, but in the end we were able to play good enough to win, and that's what matters." 
At times during thn season. Notrn Dame has been too aggressive, eventually hurting itself. But the Irish have been able to play eonsistnntly 111Hlllgh to pull out thrnn victories to start the s11ason. 
"We still nnnd to work on some of our issuns," llolt said. "Our coursn management is still a problem that wn need to take earn of'. Wn'n1 going to take these two and a half' wneks that wn have b11forn our next tour­nament and try to overr.ome tlwse problnms." 
After two rounds, host Michigan dung to the lead with Notre Dame breathing down its neck. The final round saw the Wolverines shoot a collective round of plus-31J, dropping them to fourth place. Thn Irish shot a 304 on the day to pick up 
11) strokes on Michigan and 
see MAUNU/page 26 




