
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NDSP arrests, cites ROTC protesters 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) officers arrested a man and handed arrest cita­tions and trespass notices to 12 of his companions Monday after the group -which included approximately 20 members of the Catholic Worker movement from differ­ent Midwestern cities ­organized an unauthorized demonstration outside the Main Building, protesting the presence of the armed forces in the Catholic University. 
Associate Vice President for News and Information Don Wycliff said George Artiaga, a Catholic Worker from St. Louis, was arrested for disor­derly conduct, while nine of his fellow campaigners received arrest citations and 3 more were given trespass notices. 
Earlier Monday, the group sent University President Father John Jenkins a letter urging him to discontinue Notre Dame's support of ROTC programs on campus, as these condone and advance war­fare, the letter said. 
Father Jim Murphy from the diocese of Madison, Wis., read the letter aloud before NDSP officers escorted him away. 
"RO.TC institutionalizes the scientific study and practice of warfare," Murphy said. "ROTC glorifies war ... and good Christians follow only the Prince of Peace." 
Wycliff said Monday he had not spoken to Jenkins about the letter and could not com­ment on Jenkins' reaction to it. 
Before their demonstration at Notre Dame, Murphy and a group of Catholic Workers spent the weekend in South Bend convening for a confer­ence and a retreat. On Sunday, the group decided to stage at Notre Dame a re­enactment of the trial of St. Marcellus, a Roman centurion who refused to take up arms in 298 A.D. after he converted to Christianity, Murphy said. 
Since many of the retreat 
see PROTEST/page 8 

Workers cause minor leak, evacuation 
Transition point to blame, officials say 
By KEN FOWLER 
News Writer 
A construction crew working south of the Center for Social Concerns ruptured a gas line Monday morning, the second such incident along St. Joseph's 
. Drive near the Hesburgh Library within two months. 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) evacuated the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) after crews caused a leak at a transi­tion point from the gas main to a "tap" that serves the emer­gency generators in the library, Director of Utilities Paul Kempf said. 
The construction crews, who were using backhoes to dig and replace the sewer line along St. Joseph's Drive, did not come 
see LEAK/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Colem_an ready for cerem_ony 
President will give grad school address 
By EVA BINDA 
News Writer 
The president of the University of Michigan, Mary Sue Coleman, was chosen ear­lier this month to be the prin­cipal speaker at the Graduate School com­
mencement May 19 -the first year in which recip­ients of mas­ter's and doctorate degrees will 

be honored Coleman in a separate ceremony. 
Coleman described the com­mencement ceremony as "a wonderful way to highlight graduate-level education." The separate event will allow for additional recognition that had been omitted due to time constraints in the previous graduation ceremonies that awarded undergraduate degrees in addition to the graduate honors. 
This additional recognition will include the Sheehan Award, Rev. James A. Burns, 
C.S.C Graduate School Award and Distinguished Graduate Alumni Award. 
The practice of a separate ceremony is likely to continue, 
see SPEAKER/page 8 


Resident assistants chosen for next year 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
Job offers typically come to second-semester seniors, but Notre Dame juniors are joining the game, anxiously awaiting employment offers from their rectors for posi­tions on hall Residence Life staffs as resident assistants (RA). 
Almost every dorm has completed the selection of their RAs for the upcoming year, but the process is more complicated than it seems. 
There were "more than twice as many" applicants for the approximately 150 RA positions at Notre Dame, Bill Kirk, associate vice president of Residence Life 
said. 
"All [27] dorms have at least a half-dozen appli­cants; and some have many more than that," Kirk said. "Often, halls will have a class of students that, three years later, results in a lot of candidates." 
Many dorms will also have at least one RA who spent the past three years in another dorm -this is decided in the application process, Kirk said. 
"A lot of applicants indi­cate that they wish to be considered for other halls," he said. "Even if there are enough applicants from a particular hall, RAs are cho­sen from outside dorms to 
see SELECTION/page 6 

Nkuuhe, Siriri discuss project 
Leaders address Notre Dame's role in MVP 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
Senior Staff Writer 
For Johnson Nkuuhe, the words beneath the photograph of Father Theodore Hesburgh and Martin Luther King Jr. in LaFortune encapsulate his message and that of the Millennium Villages Project (MVP). 
"We must learn to live together as brothers or perish together as fools," Nkuuhe, the Uganda coun­try coordinator of MVP, said to a crowd of over 50 students in the Coleman-Morse Center Monday. "This is the same sort of thing we are trying to do ... to be very good disciples, intermediaries. The road ahead may not be paved, but 
see MVP/page 6 


Tuesday, March 27, 2007
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Annual 
cash gifts 
My dad has a knack for giving strange gifts. This past Christmas, for example, my brothers and I had the great fortune of receiving the ever­practical "multi-tool"-a gadget that 
functions some­ 
what like a Swiss  Becky Hogan  
army knife (but  
better, of course).  
Other holidays  Wzre Editor  
have brought  
equally peculiar  

presents: an old-fashioned hand warmer, coke bottle glasses, language dictionaries and miniature interna­tional flags. 
The list could go on, but one gift in particular has become a standard for my dad. 
Over the past several years he has routinely handed us two-dollar bills on special occasions or on an off day when he is feeling particularly gener­ous. 
This gift always comes with a piece of wisdom: "Don't spend it all in one place." 
Packed with a hint of sarcasm, these words have become somewhat annoying because it's not that I have trouble finding a worthy investment, but that I can't bring myself to spend this money at all. 
Additionally, these bills have started to accumulate as they are tucked into the depths of my room, in purses and desk drawers. 
Each time I open my empty wallet, Thomas Jefferson just stares back at me. 
For some time I operated under the misconception that this "rare" denomination of money was valuable. These bills do retain some value, of course -a whopping two-dollars that is -but their rarity can really only be attributed to the fact that they aren't very useful. 
After doing some research, I found that what actually keeps these two­dollar bills in circulation is the fre­quency at which people request them. 
Banks only keep them in stock as long as their customers request them. 
What really amuses me is that my dad actually goes to the local bank and requests these bills from the teller. A small part of me wishes I could be there to see the look on the teller's face when he says, "Can I have some Jeffersons?" 
Whether he feels it is his patriotic duty to keep the two-dollar bill alive, I really cannot say but I do think that however ridiculous my anxiety over spending two dollars may be -these two-dollar bills have taken on a dif­ferent sort of value for me. 
Just as the backside of the bill fea­tures a defining moment on U.S. his­tory -the signing of the Declaration of Independence -my dad has found his way of preserving our own histo­ry. No matter how many more strange gifts I receive in the future, I will always value his random thoughtfulness and his often-distorted sense of humor which are truly unparalleled. 
Although the most practical of all his gifts is the one that I simply can­not use, at least I can say I didn't spend it all in one place. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the March 26 article entitled, "Novice eight squad remains undefeated," the quote attributed to AZ Tice should have been attributed to Alyssa Teves. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE AUTHOR AND WHY? 

Alex Bess  Di.ana Harintho  Michael Wrapp  Biz Stohl  Kathy Lee  Mike Cianciulli  
sophomore Knott  sophomore McGlinn  freshman Alumni  junior LeMans  junior Walsh  freshman Alumni  
"J.K. Rawling. because she undermines the Christian faith."  "Dostoevsky. He makes me happy that I'm not Russian. "  "Herman llesse, for his thought-provoking novels and social  "John Keats. Loving the throwbacks. "  "Isabel Allendale. I enjoy her use of imagination and magic,."  "Bobby McKenna, because 'Ensconced in Chaunce' is the  






highlight ofmy day." 
IN BRIEF 

As part of Notre Dame's com­memoration of the 27th-anniver­sary of Archbishop Oscar Romero's assassination, there will be a panel discussion today at 
12:30 p.m. in Hesburgh Center C-103 about "Human Rights in El Salvador Today." The panel features Victoria Marina de Aviles, a Supreme Court Justice in El Salvador; Neris Gonzales, a Salvadoran Catholic Church worker; Douglass Cassel, director of Notre Dame's Center for Civil and Human Hights; and John D. French, associate professor of history at Duke University and visiting fellow at the Kellogg Institute. 
There will be a Ghana Reggae Coffee House tonight from 8 to 9 in the Center for Social Concerns' coffee house. The event features Don Savoie from the department of music and stu­dents Francis Insaidoo and Theo Ossei-Anto. 
Men's baseball will play Chicago State Wednesday at 5:05 
p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. For tickets, call (574) 631-7356. 
Women's softball will play Toledo Wednesday at 6 p.m. at Ivy Field. Admission is free. 
Judge Victoria Marina de Aviles will deliver a lecture enti­tled: El Salvador Reform of the Judiciary" Thursday at 8 p.m. in Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture will be in Spanish, but an English translation will be available. The event is sponsired 
by  Latin  American!North  
American  Church  Concerns  
(LANACC)  in  the  Kellogg  
Institute.  

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 


67 
42 


HIGH LOW 
..

commentary. 

QUENTIN STENGERfThe Observer The Notre Dame Sailing Club practices team racing on Saint Joseph's Lake Monday. Students across campus are taking advantage of the warm weather in outdoor activities. 
OFFBEAT 

S.tudftnts solve a sticky
situation 

RAPID CITY, S.D. ­Freshmen engineering stu­dents from the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology earned the top award in a national chal­lenge during Entrepreneurship Week. And it all started with Post­it Notes. 
"What do you need with a sticky note?" asked Mark Wager, a freshman mechanical engineering major from Gettysburg. "You need a pen, so we thought we'd make a sticky note you could use without a pen." 
The winning idea was the 
TODAY 


...... 
<
(,) 
0 

HIGH 65 HIGH 55
...1 

LOW 40 LOW 30 

60 
42 

Tech students' Carbon Post-it Notes. The six-mem­ber team's entry video shows that it only takes a coin, a finger or even a shoelace tip to write on the sticky note. 
Wager and his team­mates know they won't make millions off their idea. "At first, we won­dered, should we patent it? But as part of the contest, you sign away any rights to any of the products," he said. 
Deer crashes throughChuck E. Cheese 
SIOUX CITY, Iowa ­
Customers at a Chuck E. 
Cheese restaurant got more 
TONIGHT WEDNESDAY 
·' 

·--~··········1\.
0 

than they bargained for when a deer crashed through the restaurant. The deer jumped through the window. at the pizza restaurant at Southern Hills Mall on Sunday. 
No one was hurt, said Kris Walter, a mall spokeswoman. 
She said a couple of guys jumped on top on the deer and held it down until offi­cials from the Iowa Department of Natural Hesources arrived. 
The deer was injured but was able to be taken out of town and turned loose, Walter said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

63 50 


Tuesday, March 27, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ROTC blood drive vvill support troops globally 
By BECKY HOGAN 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame community 
will have an opportunity to 
show its appreciation to 
American troops worldwide by 
participating in Notre Dame 
ROTC's third-annual blood 
drive today and Wednesday in 
the Navy/East Wing of the 
Pasquerilla Center. 
Lieutenant Colonel Gary 
Masapollo, who started NO 
ROTC's tri-military blood drive . three years ago, said about 12 
medical personnel from Fort 
Knox, Ky., will travel to Notre 
Dame to host the blood drive. 
Navy HOTC cadets will also 
be working at the blood drive. 
"It has been such a success in 
the past that Fort Knox likes to 
come back," Masapollo said. 
"Three years ago, they contact­
ed us about coming up in the 
spring of 2005 .... They came 
in 2006, and now they are 
coming back in 2007." 
The blood drive will be held 
from 1 to 6 p.m. today and 
Wednesday from 8 a.m. to 1 
p.m. All blood donated at the drive will go to the Armed Forces Blood Bank, which sup­ports military blood centers. 
"There is a great need for blood in Germany, Iraq, Afghanistan and Kuwait," Masapollo said. 
The blood obtained through the drive is needed not only by sailors, airmen, Marines and soldiers overseas -but it also prevents the Armed Forces from having to buy blood from the American Red Cross, Masapollo said. 
"I think [the blood drivel is a great cause, because we don't have a dedicated source of blood for the Armed Forces blood bank, and we don't like to tap into the American Red Cross system," he said. 
This year Notre Dame hopes to reach its goal of 100 donated pints of blood. 
"The turnout from the Notre Dame community has been ter­rific -it's worth it for [Fort Knox personnel] to drive five hours and stay here overnight because of the amount of blood they get from Notre Dame each year," Masapollo said. 
Most of the donations come from Notre Dame students, fac­ulty and staff, but the drive has received some donations from South Bend residents in the past, Masapollo said. 
"If you give a pint of blood, it could go to a sailor's kid in Japan ... or a soldier on the battlefield in Afghanistan," Masapollo said. 'There are kids who are 20 or 21 years old who decided to go into the Army or the Marines and -God forbid they need a pint of blood -it will be there for them." 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Task force reports given 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 
In a brief meeting consist­ing solely of task-farce reports, committee chairs laid out plans to further existing initiatives in the Campus Life Council's (CLC) meeting Monday afternoon in LaFortune. 
Input task force chair and student body president-elect Liz Brown announced the online applications to join university committees are up and running. 
"We've gotten several applications already, at least 15 to 20," she said. 
Students can submit an application to be part of one of seven committees, such as the University Committee for Academic Technologies or the Advisory Committee on Academics and Student Life. The committees have student representatives 
selected  by  either  the  
University  or  student body  
president.  

Additionally, after dis­cussing wording with peer advocacy, the "du Lac Abridged" pamphlet was finalized and will be printed after price quotas are col­lected. The pamphlet lists some of the most commonly violated policies of the stu­dent handbook "duLac." 

Student senator and task force on student concerns chair Danny Smith will meet with ticket office director Josh Berlo next week to dis­cuss student ticketing for the upcoming football sea­son. He said the ticket office will be releasing some infor­mation on student ticketing fairly soon. 
Smith's committee has also been researching the use of podcasting at other univer­sities and will be able to bring some information to CLC in the near future. 
Bill Andrichik, student body vice president and task 
force on conduct awareness chair, said the CLC-approved letter regarding the gam­bling task force has been sent to vice president for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
In light of CLC's discussion on pornography in the resi­dence halls last meeting, Heather Rakoczy, Gender Relations Center director, will speak to the task force next week to discuss the larger problem of the objec­tification of women. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 


~lease stop.by
Student workers provide administrative 
248 Fla:n.:n.er Hall £or an 
support to The Career Center Staff 
·application! 
:PLEASE: ATTACH RESUlVIE 
For a complete description go to the 
TO

Student Employment website: 
COlVIPLETED APPLXC.A.TJ:ON
http://fi:n.a.:n.cia.la.id.:n.d.edu./jobboa.rd/ Application Deadline: April 13, 2007. 
Questions? Call.. The Career Center ­
careercenter.nd~edu 
574-631-5200 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 




Leak 
continued from page 1




Group gives funds 
into direct contact with the line, Kempf said. Bather, vibra­tions from the digging likely unsettled the soil and caused
to College fixture rupture in the transition point, "that had been failing already," 
Kempf said. The line ruptured at approxi­
Board awards co-sponsorship to help fund 
renovations to Dalloway's basement space mately 10 a.m., and the wind 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) members awarded $3,500 in co-sponsor­

"What we're really 
library is significantly older Dalloway's board trying to do is upstairs to study." 
ship to the then use the 
and made of steel, which to help fund the The basement 
apparently corroded over time,
unify the whole 
Kempf said. renovation of the renovation began
space so that 
The incident was just an ment at their students can when Lepari and 
building's base­three years ago, 
example of the inherent possi­final meeting of use it." Oberst were 
ble problems of construction, the semester freshman. 
Wyclifl" said. The University had before the Board "We've been try­
no plans to check all transition 
Felicia Lepari 
points because of the failure of new officials promotion manager approval to do April 2. Dalloway's something with 
welcomes its ing to get 
Dalloway's Coffee House is a club house where students can do homework or attend vari­ous campus events such as crafts and music performanc­es. The Sodexho food service provides a pasta bar, an ice 
cream bar and a salad lunch every Monday and Wednesday. 
"Right now Dalloway's is used as just a fun place to hang out on campus," pro­motions manag­er Felicia Lepari said. "We have been trying to get more and more people to go there and uti­lize the space." 
The basement is currently being used as storage space 
soup and 

"Right now Dalloway's is used as just a fun place to hang out on campus. ...We have been trying to get more and more people to go there and utilize the space {in Dalloway's]. " 
Felicia Lepari promotion manager Dalloway's 
for Sodexho and the Dalloway's board, Lepari said. 
"What we're really trying to do is unify the whole space so that students can use it," she said. 
"There's no place to really watch TV [in Dalloway's], 

was moving northeast toward 
the CSC building, Associate
because if you watch TV then 
you are interfering with stu­
Vice President for News and 
Information Don Wycliff said.
dents doing homework," com­
munications web manager 
The University "got the all 
dear" just after noon, he said. 
Ashley Oberst said. "We'd like 
to move the noisier things 
The gas main is made of 
cheaper but more durable plas­
downstairs where 
you can relax and 
tic, while the "tap" to the 
Dalloway's base­

5 BEDROOM HOUSEAVAILABLEJUNE 1 
ment for a long time," Oberst said. 
Great Neighborhood, Prime Location, Close to Campus 
In Other BOG News: 
105 Marquette Ave. South Bend, IN 
+ Student Diversity Board 
Just offAngela and US 31 
will host the movie "I Have Tourette's, but Tourette's 
This house has been leased to Notre Dame Students for over 30 years Doesn't Have Me," as part of 
6 a.m. Students can drop off completed packets to any hall director, or to Brittany Harrell or Kathleen Dudek at the Holy Cross front desk by Friday. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

one, Kempf said. 
"There are older and newer parts to the system," he said, adding that the lines are owned by Northern Indiana Public Service Company (NIPSCO). "We aren't going to dig up a lot of places to see if those aren't working. A lot of the campus lines have been replaced over time." 
Still, Monday's rupture eame on the heels of a more signifi­cant gas main leak in February. 
The last incident occurred Feb. 12 when a backhoe work­ing to fix a water-line break struck a four-inch gas line. For nearly two hours, gas streamed up into the air in large amounts from a small area between Stepan Chemistry Hall, the Hadiation Laboratory and the I Iesburgh Library. 
After that event, Executive Vice President John Aff1eck­Graves said he was concerned about "people getting hurt" in the event of any future gas main ruptures. 
While the force of February's leak sent debris and water shooting into the air, Monday's was on a much smaller scale. 
"The other one was certainly a more significant leak," Kempf said. "It displaced a much larg­er amount of gas. This one you couldn't hear, and partly because it broke awav from the open hole." · 
Crews first had to identify the location of the leak after smelling gas before they could uncover and fix it, Kempf said. NIPSCO crews fixed the leak by replacing a portion of the steel line with the newer plastic. 
NDSP director Phil Johnson said NDSP works with the Office of Risk Management and Safety and the Notre Dame Fire Department to establish com­mand at an incident like Monday's gas leak. He said the first supervisor on the scene takes "instant command" and works to set up a perimeter.. Johnson said NDSP removed its emergency-tape perimeter once NIPSCO finished it repairs. 
Construction work on the site continued Monday afternoon. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
by the same owner, who is a local resident.
their activities for Disabilities 
Please call our office at Week this 
574-232-6964
Thursday at 7 p.m. 
+ 
The Junior Board is spon­soring a Bingo Night for all to participate with the Sisters of the Holy Cross in the Lily O'Grady Center this Thursday at 6 p.m. 

+ 
The second­annual Dance Marathon will take place April 21 from 6 p.m. to 



Professor Don Savoie, Francis Jnsaidoo, Theo Ossei-Anto, and Friends Friends with acoustic reggae riffs and a djembe beat. Tuesday, March 27, 2007 8:00pm; Center for Social Concerns Cafe 
Director Monica Haim's exuberant documentary, Awake Zion, explores the surprising connections between reggae culture and Judaism. 





ORLD & NATION 

Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British sailors held on entry charge 
TEHERAN -Iran said Monday it was questioning 15 British sailors and marines to determine if their alleged entry into Iranian waters was "intentional or unin­tentional" before deciding what to do with them -the first sign it could be seeking a way out of the standoff. 
The two countries continued to disagree about where the military personnel were seized Friday, with Britain insisting they were in Iraqi waters after searching a civilian cargo vessel and the Tehran regime saying it had proof they were in Iranian territory. 
Britain's Defense Ministry said they were seized in the Shatt al-Arab, a waterway flow­ing into the Persian Gulf that marks the bor­der between Iran and Iraq. But the dividing line in the waterway, known in Iran as the Arvand river, has long been disputed. 
Australian terror suspect pleads guilty 
GUANTANAMO BAY NAVAL BASE, Cuba-An Australian terror suspect pleaded guilty Monday to a war-crime charge of providing material support to terrorism. 
David Hicks was the first detainee to face prosecution under revised military tribunals set up after the Supreme Court found the Pentagon's previous system for trying Guantanamo prisoners unconstitutional. He is accused of fighting alongside al-Qaida in Afghanistan. 
Hicks, a 31-year old Muslim convert, is one of 385 prisoners being held by the United States at Guantanamo, and officials plan to prosecute as many as 80 of the Guantanamo prisoners. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Violations fonnd at Pennsylvania mine 
PHILADELPHIA -Federal investigators found "flagrant violations" at a Pennsylvania mine where a worker died in a methane gas explosion last year, the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration said in a report released Monday. 
R&D Coal Co. lacked adequate ventilation, safe blasting practices and proper pre-shift safety checks at its Buck Mountain Slope Mine in Schuylkill County, directly contributing to the Oct. 23 death of veteran miner Dale Reightler, 43, federal mine safety officials said. 
The miners conducting the blasting that day were not qualified to handle explosives, and set them off before miners could get to a safe area, investigators found. 
Bush asked to sanction refugees 
MIAMI -Five Republican congressmen asked President Bush on Monday to provide tempo­rary legal status to Venezuelans in the country illegally for what they contend is an increase in political persecutions under Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez. 
"We strongly believe that the Chavez govern­ment in Venezuela at this time is persecuting its citizens for their political views," wrote Reps. Lincoln Diaz-Balart, Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Mario Diaz-Balart, Connie Mack and Jerry Weller. Weller is from Illinois; the rest are from Florida. 
The legislators asked that alternatively, Bush grant expedited asylum and work-permit requests to eligible Venezuelans, as was done for Nicaraguans who left their country after the leftist Sandinista government took power in the 1980s. 
LOCAL NEWS 
State may toll 1-69 
INDIANAPOLIS-Gov. Mitch Daniels said the state may finance the Interstate 69 extension with traditional Department of Transportation dollars but he is not ruling out the possibility of installing tolls on the 142-mile highway. 
"I don't think we'll rule out anything," he .said. "We've got six or seven years to figure it out." 
Daniels withdrew nearly all of his highway bypass proprosals Saturday, but he said the plan to extend 1-69 would not be affected. 
The extension would be partially funded by $700 million from the Indiana Toll Road lease, Jane Jankowski, Daniels' press secretary, has said. 
COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVER:S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
Coroner. AnnaNicole ovenlosed on drugs 
Autopsy reveals that model ingested at least nine prescription meds before death 
Associated Press 

DANIA BEACH, Fla ­Anna Nicole Smith acciden­tally overdosed on at least nine prescription drugs ­including a powerful sleep syrup she was known to swig right out of the bottle -after a miserable last few days in which she endured stomach flu, a 105-degree fever, pungent sweating and an infection on her buttocks from repeated injections. 
In a detailed autopsy report released Monday, a medical examiner noted the former Playboy playmate refused to go to a hospital three days before her Feb. 8 death. She chose to ride out her illness in a hotel suite littered with pill bottles, soda cans, SlimFast, nico­tine gum and an open box of Tamiflu tablets. 
Broward-County Medical Examiner Dr. Joshua Perper found that in the days lead­ing up to her death, the 39­year-old Smith had been taking large amounts of the seldom-prescribed sedative chloral hydrate, which also contributed to the 1962 overdose death of Smith's idol Marilyn Monroe. 
Police found no apparent signs of foul play, and the medical examiner also ruled Smith's death proba­bly was not a suicide because people who take their own lives typically use much more lethal drugs than chloral hydrate. 
Rather, he said, Smith might have been simply unaware that the sedative could be fatal in combina­tion with multiple other prescriptions she was tak­ing in normal doses for anx­iety, depression and insom­nia. 
Contributing factors included her weakened con­dition from a stomach flu and fever brought on by a pus-filled infection on her buttocks from repeated injection of other drugs. 
"She may have taken the dosages she was accus­tomed to but succumbed because she was already weakened," Perper said in his report. "Miss Smith has 


ISRAEL 


ddAP Broward County medical examiner Dr. Joshua Perper, left, discusses Monday the acciden­tal drug overdose that killed model Anna Nicole Smith in Dania Beach, Aa. 
a long history of prescrip­tion drug abuse and self-medicated in the past." 
The recommended dose of chloral hydrate is one to two teaspoons prior to bed. Smith often took two table­spoons, and she sometimes drank directly from the bot­tle, the report said. 
A statement issued by lawyers for Howard K. Stern, Smith's companion who was with her before her death, said that Stern and Smith's physician urged her to get emergency treat­ment but she refused because "she did not want the media frenzy that fol­lows her." 
"She refused to go to the hospital because she want­ed to avoid media," attorney Lilly Ann Sanchez said in a news release. "Anna called the shots in Anna's life and everyone close to her knows that." "If she would have gone 
The autopsy report left to the hospital she wouldn't some unanswered questions have died because she such as why it took so long wouldn't have had the for emergency personnel to opportunity to take the be summoned when Smith excessive amount of chloral was discovered unrespon-hydrate," he told The sive Feb. 8 in her room at Associated Press. the Seminole Hard Rock But Perper said the lag in Hotel and Casino. calling 911 on the day of 
The report found that a Smith's death probably did-private nurse had asked a n't matter. bodyguard to call 911 "The earlier you come to around 1 p.m. and had a hospital the more you started CPR. The Seminole have a chance, but there's EMS was called about 1:40 not a guarantee," he said. 
p.m. by a bodyguard and "Those are not things with a arrived six minutes later. mathematic precision, but The ambulance reached the within a reasonable degree hospital at 2:43 p.m., and of medical certainty, I don't Smith was pronounced think she had really a real-dead shortly thereafter. istic chance." 
Perper said Smith could Perper said he believed at have been saved had she least three doctors had pre­been hospitalized earlier in scribed Smith drugs using a the week simply because number of aliases, but all her drug intake could have the medication was meant been controlled. for her. 


Israelis, Palestinians to resume talks 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Under U.S. pres­sure to answer increasing Arab flexibility on Mideast peace, Israel has agreed to resume face-to-face talks with a moderate, Western­backed Palestinian leader who is sharing power with Islamic Hamas militants, a U.S. official said Monday. 
Also Monday, Israel welcomed the idea of a regional peace summit, although no such meeting is set, and Saudi Arabia suggested it would consider changes in a dor­mant peace initiative that could make it more acceptable to Israel. 

The new developments came at a time of high-profile diplomacy, with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and United Nations chief Ban Ki­Moon both in the region for talks with Israeli and Arab leaders. 
Rice has been trying to revive peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, with help from Arab neighbors. The odds were long even before the latest complication posed by Hamas, a political and military organization that Israel, the United States and the European Union count as a terror group. 
A senior U.S. official said Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert agreed to sit down with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas for the first time since Abbas sealed a desperation pact with the militants. 
The two will hold "regular face-to­face discussions," said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity ahead of a planned address by Rice on Tuesday. 
The coalition government was formed more than a week ago under terms that fall short of international demands to recognize Israel, renounce violence and accept agree­ments negotiated by the previous, secular Palestinian leadership. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
Ruhiira, I think [David Siriri] and banana, but it is a fruit with not a his team will be able to accomplish lot of carbohydrates. And because
MVP 

[the goal of decreasing child mor­of disease and poor soil, banana tality], but for Uganda a_c; a whole production ha'l berm declining." 
continued from page 1 

it's very difficult." Siriri also cited water and sani­we know where we are headed. I Reasons for the high mortality tation, environmont, energy, poor hope we are together." rates include lack of good health marketing structures, education 
Such wa'i the theme of "MVP in facilities, early marriage and fre­and health as some of the biggest Uganda: Empowering or quent births, Nkuuhe said. challenges in the area. Imposing?" -an event that "This is the reason we go as a "We have the highest [tuberculo­filcused on the role of the comnm­team into these villages -becausP sis[ prevalence in the western nity, the government and the MVP of all of these contributing factors," region," Siriri said. organization in helping try to pull he said. 'i'he area also ha'i a 10 percent Mrican nations and people out of There are currently 12 MVP prevalence rate of' HIV/AIDS, 30 poverty. sites in 10 African countries, percent prnvalenee rate of malar­
"If you provide linkage thBn you including Ghana, Senegal, ia, 5 percent prevalence rate of are empowering," Nkuuhe said. "A Tanzania, Rwanda and Uganda. premature deliveries and 8 per­man or woman who can feed a "These are not chosen random­cent prevalence rate of mortality of' family is empowered.... If we can ly," Nkuuhe said. "The answers children under one year of age, help with the healthcare, then you get from these villages can Siriri said. lie said 30 to 40 per­these people are empowered." then be applied t<~ :.. ~~b-Saharan cent of children are underweight 
In hopes of con-Afnca. and the nearest hospital is 30 vincing the Notre Though the UN miles away. 
"If you provide 
Dame community to Millennium Project All of the MDGs empha'lize com­"take the message linkage then you had budget recom­munity empowerment and involve­further" and to see mendations for the ment, Siriri said. Each member of'
are empowering. A 
the importance of projects -40 per­the community is supposed to con­
man or woman who
empowerment, cent on health, six tribute $10 per year, though Nkuuhe discussed can feed a family is percent on com­because of the labor and hard the Millennium empowered . ... If munity, six percent work by the villagns, that number Development Goals on education, 10 ha'i been fhr surpassed, Siriri said. 
we can help with 
(MDGs). He was percent on agricul­"Everything that we needed for joined by David the healthcare, ture, eight percent construction was contributed by Siriri, the science then these people on nutrition, 10 the community," he said. "That's coordinator · in percent on water fue kind of involvement we're talk­
are empowered. " 
Ruhiira, a village in and 14 percent on ing about. ... We see oursnlves not the Isingiro district infrastructure -as drivers or this process, but as of Uganda where an Johnson Nkuuhe some of the num­facilitators." MVP was launched coordinator of MVP bers have to be tai­Nkuuhe and Siriri's combined in March 2006. lored depending visit to campus was intended to
Uganda

The eight MDGs on the village. show community membnrs what deal with different "The people of can be accomplished through the dimensions of poverty, including Ruhiira are going to measure the Notre Dame Millennium hunger, maternal health, environ­success of the project based on Development Initiative in Nindye, a ment sustainability, education, how successful we are in water," village in the Nkozi sub-county and HIV/AIDS, gender issues, water Siriri said. "Thus changes were Mpigi Distriei of Uganda. and technology. made to the budget allocation from "Notre Dame's ell"orts will locus 
"We don't come with a predeter­UN recommendations." in a very special way on Nindye," mined action plan. We sit down While Nkuuhe serves a_c; more of Notre Dame Millennium with the communities and develop an intermediary, Siriri works Development Initiative Director an action plan," Siriri said. directly on the project in Ruhiira. Father Bob Dowd said. "We are 
Of those goals, the toughest to "I live in the village in the middle partners. Notre Dan1e is a partnnr promote in Uganda include achiev­of nowhere surrounded by banana in the Millennium Villages Project. ing gender equality, reducing child plantations," Siriri said. ... Notre Dame is committed to mortality and improving maternal And for Siriri, little is more being a partner and to learn the health, Nkuuhe said. important to the success of the lessons of human development." 
"Those are very, very bad," he project than community involve­said. ment. 
Nkuuhe said the MDGs are on "We sit down with the communi­target for HIV/AIDS, citing a ties ... and we started with what decrease from an 18 percent we call quick-impact intervention," prevalence rate in 1992 to seven Siriri said, citing the distribution of percent in 2002. 40,500 malaria bnd netc; to benefit 
While Nkuuhe said there is the more than 80,000 individuals as potential to achieve the goals an important change. focusing on hunger, gender equali­But on the local level, such dis­ty and environmental sustainabili­eases are not the only health prob­ty, the goals of decreasing child lems Ruhiira's citizens face. Siriri and maternal mortality are more said that one of the biggest chal­unlikely, he said. lenges is malnutrition. 
"Child mortality is off target. 140 "Banana is the main crop. children die before age five per Banana is the main food," Siriri 1,000 deliveries," he said. "In said. "People depend mainly on 
Taik About Hotf::: Dume O!ld Gut Paid. 
THE OmCE OFUNDERGRADUATEADMISSIONS 
P o n o H e 


TOUR GUIDES 
then meet with their rectors and rectors of other dorms
Selection 
in which they are interested continued from page 1 and are then informed in 
March by Student Affairs create a team that best fits whether they were selected. the hall," Kirk said. The job comes with a 
Nntre Dame is unique scholarship of nearly among peer institutions in $10,000, as RAs receive that only seniors are free room, board and laun­allowed to be RAs. At Saint dry service from the Mary's sophomores or high­University. 
er can apply to be an HA. 
This is because of' the "tradition or respect for and responsi­bilities of HAs" at Notre Dame, Kirk said. HAs are in charge of enforcing thn rules con­tained in du Lac, the man­ual of student life policies 

According to the Office of Student
"Even ifthere are 
Affairs,
enough applicants 
attached to 
from a particular hall, the scholar­ship are sig­
RAs are chosen from 
nificant
outside dorms to 
responsibili­create a team that ties, such as mandatory
best fits the hall. " 
training in spring of jun­
Bill Kirk 

ior year and Associate Vice President in the two Residence Life weeks before 
and procedures, Kirk said. 
According to information provided by the Office of Student Affairs, which hires HAs, assistant rectors and rectors, there are three steps to the application process for becoming an HA. 
lnterestnd juniors first submit an application and letters of recommendation to Student Affairs. They fall semester 
-and regu­lar availability to residents during the year. 
Also, "resident assistants are typically precluded from other outside employment, participation in varsity ath­letics or elected student government positions," according to the Student Affairs Web site. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's College Center for Spirituality 
2007 Endowed Spring Lecture Series 
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 4:00 P.M.1 Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Spirituality for a Glob~ing World Vincent Miller, Ph.D. 
A.:;sociate Professor,Theology, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. 
.· Thursday, March 29,2007 
7:00 l'.M., Carroll Auditorium, Madeleva Hall 

Spirituality and Sexuality: The Marriage ofEros and Grace James D, Whitehea,;l, Ph.D.,and Evelyn Eaton Whitehead, Ph.D. Facuity at Loyola University Chicago and at 
.A.pp!icorions ""k r&<.! "!'' t!•. Admissions Reception kea 
Fudan University; Shanghai 
200 01171· • (~ ·i'-.
• . ,; l.a.<~ ,,, ... w;..,:t 

@.4 VlLw1 b. 9\.t.,.-.J ic tl., ~c'""'""t;.,.J 0if;<• 
g~ 5pm on AprilS 

Saint~s Collegg 
NOTRE DAME·~.· INDIANA 
Center for Spirituality www.saintmarys.edu/-cfs '::? (57'4) 284-4636
········:··: ..:::··: E-ru: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS

Tuesday, March 27, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 


12,469.07 -11.94

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I,843 155 1,362 2,625,093,983 

M11X:il~ililil,~i~!~t~il;ll!81-llllll.1111;1~1111i' 
NASDAQ 2 445.63 +6.70 
NYSE ···~~·tt:!l!a!I!1!~1~11•1J~II.!III~11!111rllllll. 
S&P 500 1,437.50 +1.39 NIKKEI(TOI<yOJ · :,Ji'i.lfl81iJi1Jimll'!lll~illlJI:IIi: FTSE IOO(London) 6,291.90 -47.50 
·COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ) +0.41 +0.18 44.30 
S&P RECEIPTS (SPY) 
-0.13 -0.19 143.20 

CMGIINC (CMGI) + 13.18 +0.29 2.49 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
+0.48 +0.03 6.22 

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.56 -0.026 4.587 
13-WEEK BILL +0.1 0 +0.005 4.930 
30-YEAR BOND -0.33 -0.016 4.783 
5-YEARNOTE -0.71 -0.032 4.478 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.63 62.91 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.60 663.90 
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.95 I 02.28 
Excha Rates 

YEN 118.2550 
EURO 0.7504 
POUND 0.5079 
CANADIAN$ 1.1615 
IN BRIEF 
Northwest readies to exit bankruptcy 
NEW YORK -Northwest Airlines can begin seeking creditor approval of a plan to exit bankruptcy that values the company at an estimated $7 billion, a judge ruled Monday. 
The decision puts the airline in the last stages of bankruptcy before it can emerge from court protection. 
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper said that once Northwest revises its disclo­sure statement to incorporate agreements reached Monday, the statement could be released to creditors along with a restruc­turing plan. 
Eagan, Minn.-based Northwest Airlines Corp. wants to cancel all existing shares in the company and issue 272 million new ones, with a stock offering to sell 27.78 million shares at $27 a piece. 
Another hearing will be held this week to determine whether an examiner will be appointed to investigate merger discus­sions that inay have taken place with Northwest, Gropper said. A reorganization plan could be mailed to creditors as early as April 6. 


Oil prices hit yearly high Monday 
NEW YORK -Oil prices settled Monday at their highest level so far this year on ten­sions between Iran and the West following Tehran's detention of British naval person­nel. Gasoline futures prices climbed above $2 a gallon to their highest level since last September as a new driving season nears. 
Vienna's PVM Oil Associates cited the "dete­riorating relationship between Iran and the West and last week's further falls in U.S. commercial oil inventories" as driving crude prices upward. Iran is the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries' second largest producer. 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair on Sunday called the Iranian seizure of the 15 sailors and marines "unjustified and wrong," saying that London saw their situation as "very serious." Iran suggested that the group may be tried for illegally entering Iranian waters. 
Oil traders worried that an escalation in the conflict could cut Persian Gulf oil exports. 



Drop in home sales slows economy 
Disappointing housing market report raises worries about future growth 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK ­Wall Street  
pared steep losses Monday  
to end narrowly mixed after  
a surprise drop in new  
home sales for February  
triggered further concern  
that economic growth is  
slowing more than expect­ 
ed.  
The Commerce  
Department reported that  
sales of new single-family  
homes fell by 3.9 percent  
last month to a seasonally  
adjusted annual rate of  
848,000. It was the slowest  
sales pace in nearly seven  
years and dimmed hopes  
for a rebound in the trou­ 
bled housing market.  
Economists have been  
watching the housing indus­ 
try for a hint about where  
the economy is heading.  
The disappointing data  
came amid continued con­ 
cern about the subprime  
mortgage market, which  
has been slammed by an  
increase in delinquencies in  
recent months.  
This sent major indexes  
down throughout most of  
the session, with the Dow  
Jones industrials racking up  
triple-digit losses. Investors  
used the decline to buy  
some shares before the sec­AP  
ond-quarter ends on Friday, Workers build a new KB Home, one of the nation's largest home builders, in 'Gilbert, Ariz.,  
analysts said. Monday. KB Home said first-quarter fiscal earnings plunged in a housing slump.  
"The market is already  
worried more about eco­ were slightly higher. The  Tuesday and the gross  ket.  
nomic growth than infla­ Standard & Poor's 500  domestic product report  Citigroup Inc. fell 18 cents  
tion, so I think you're going  index rose 1.39, or 0.10  due on Wednesday.  to $51.54. The Wall Street  
to see reactions like this,"  percent, to 1,437.50, and  "Investors are looking to  Journal reported Citigroup  
said Todd Salamone, direc­ the Nasdaq composite index  figure out how things are  might reduce its work force  
tor of trading at Schaeffer's  added 6.70, or 0.27 percent,  going to shake out after a  by about 5 percent. The  
Investment Research in  to 2,455.63.  big move higher last week,"  company has been under  
Cincinnati. "Overall, it's  Bonds rose, with the yield  said Mike Malone, a trading  pressure during the past  
impressive from the come­ on the benchmark 10-year  analyst at Cowen & Co.  year to boost earnings to  
back we've had. There's  Treasury note falling to 4.60  "Given the magnitude of the  fend off rivals from eating  
been a whirlwind of atten­ percent from 4.61 percent  move higher we had last  into its global market share.  
tion about housing's effects  late Friday. Bond investors  week, I don't find this to be  Dell Inc. rose 79 cents, or  
on the economy, it isn't any­ have been hoping that a  overly surprising."  3.5 percent, to $23.62 after  
thing new and these pull­ slowing economy will cause  Oil prices rose Monday,  a Goldman Sachs analyst  
backs are buying opportuni­ the Federal Reserve to  with a barrel of light sweet  said the computer maker  
ties."  lower interest rates.  crude up 63 cents to $62.91  should see benefits from its  
The Dow fell 11.94, or  The dollar traded mixed  on the New York Mercantile  turnaround efforts later this  
0.10 percent, to 12,469.07.  against other major curren­ Exchange. Crude prices  year.  
Last week, the benchmark  cies, while gold prices  have risen steadily on con­ Walgreen Co. reported  
index posted a 370 point  advanced.  tinued tensions between  second-quarter profit sur­ 
gain, its best weekly point  Investors also are focused  Iran and the West following  passed Wall Street projec­ 
· rise in four years. It  on a spate of economic data  Iran's detention of British  tions as the drug store chain  
dropped as much as 112  due this week, including  naval personnel. Recent  posted robust revenue from  
points earlier on Monday.  Conference Board's con­ declines in U.S. oil invento­ retail prescriptions. The  
Broader stock indicators  sumer confidence survey on  ries also supported the mar- stock fell47 cents to $47.30.  


Copper futures hit year-to-date high 
the underlying fundamentals," said close at $1,236.50 an ounce, but June 
Associated Press 

Darin Newsom, senior futures analyst palladium finished 50 cents lower at 
NEW YORK -Copper futures hit with DTN. He noted that the May con­$359 an ounce. their highest level of the year on tract is fetching a higher price than In Nymex energy trading, crude oil Monday, boosted by high demand from July, a condition generally seen as a futures climbed to a three-month high, China and short-covering, traders and sign of tight supplies. closing just below $63 a barrel amid analysts said. "We're seeing news stories to back the rising international tensions with 
On the New York Mercantile this up -as Chinese demand contin­Iran and a rally in gasoline futures Exchange, the most-active May copper ues to remain high," he added. that was ignited by a fire at a BP PLC contract rose 6. 95 cents to settle at Copper's rally since late winter has refmery in Whiting, Ind. $3.1385 per pound. It peaked at coincided with a return of commercial The May crude contract jumped as $3.1475 in screen trading after the pit buying. "This type of support is creat­high as $63.30 a barrel before ending close, its strongest level since Dec. 12. ing some noncommercial short-cover­63 cents higher at $62.91 a barrel, the 
Copper inventories in London Metal ing," Newsom added. highest close for a front-month con­Exchange warehouses fell 2,100 met­Meanwhile, April gold climbed $6.60 tract since Dec. 20 ric tons Monday to 181,550 metric to settle at $663.90 an ounce on the April RBOB gasoline futures soared tons. They are down 16 percent from Nymex, while May silver rose 18.3 6.94 cents to $2.0677 a gallon after 216,050 on Feb. 12. cents to finish at $13.41 an ounce. hitting an intraday high of $2.07 a gal­
"This market is still being driven by April platinum climbed $3.10 to lon. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
participants were only in South Bend for the weekend retreat, the group did not have the lux­ury of time when it planned Monday's demonstration, said Larry O'Toole, a Catholic Worker from Marseilles, Ill., and a 1984 Notre Dame gradu­ate. 
"It was a timeframe. thing," O'Toole said in a telephone interview Monday. "By the time we decided what we wanted to do, it was late Sunday evening and we didn't have enough time to get the University's permission to do the re-enact­ment before all the conference participants had to leave town." 
Senior Casey Stanton, one of the conference participants, said the group did not request a permit from the University to stage the re-enactment because the Catholic Workers are not a part of "Notre Dame's uation. 

"I was really disappointed because Notre Dame claims to be a socially conscious Catholic institution, but by not allowing people to express their opin­ions on such a dividing issue it is ignoring its stated mission," Quiros said. 
Other members of the Notre Dame community, such as 1966 graduate Fred Nelson, thought the administration and NDSP reacted correctly. 
As someone who lost his father to World War II, Nelson said he has stood against the war in Iraq since the day it beg~n four years ago -but he didn't sanction the Catholic Workers' behavior Monday. 
He said the group's intention to march up the stairs of the Main Building and into Jenkins' office was disrespect­ful. The group, Nelson said, should have instead approached the Center for Social Concerns if it wanted to organize a movement against the ROTC presence at Notre 
Dame or the war 
in Iraq. 

bureaucratic processes." The University,  "It saddens us to see one ofthe most  The demon­strators intended 'to take two black  
however, reserves the right to restrict to members of  preeminent Catholic institutions in the country silence like  coffins to Jenkins' office as symbols of the blood splattered  
the Notre Dame community the use of the  this the true Gospel ofChrist.''  in Iraq. One cas­ket was covered with an  
University grounds for  Father Ben Jimenez  American and the  flag other  
demonstrations,  Catholic Worker  one with an Iraqi  
Wycliff said.  flag.  
Outside  The  Catholic  
groups, he said,  Workers  were  

can organize rallies on campus also holding signs reading "only by invitation" -some­"Who would Jesus bomb?" and thing Monday's demonstrators "Christians cannot love their did not have. enemies and kill them too." 
Instead, the Catholic Workers NDSP officers carried away proceeded to re-enact the trial, both. read the letter and hand out Nelson, who was on campus flyers that said Notre Dame's for an MBA leadership confer­support of ROTC programs ence when he caught sight of 

"reverses the message of Jesus to love our enemies" without authorization from the University. 
"As Midwest Catholic Workers, we call on Notre Dame to stop sponsoring ROTC," the handout said. "Students shouldn't have to compromise the Catholic value of nonviolence in order to fund their education." 
The Army ROTC Battalion declined to comment Monday. 
The demonstrators also hung flags and banners from the Pasquerilla Center and the Clarke Memorial Fountain, a monument in memory of Notre Dame graduates who gave their lives in World War II. The banners were shortly taken down by NDSP officers. 
Joe Mueller, a Catholic Worker from Cleveland, said he received a trespass notice from NDSP after he hung from the Clarke Fountain a banner that said "Blessed are the peacemakers." 
Mueller said the demonstra­tion was intended to call Notre Dame back to its commitment toward the rejection of warfare in the tradition of Marcellus. But he and fellow demonstra­tor Father Ben Jimenez from Cleveland said they expected the University's reaction. 
"If you cross the warmakers, they will immediately try to stop you -but it saddens us because in this case it's Notre Dame we're talking about," Jimenez said. "It saddens us to see one of the most preeminent Catholic institutions in the country silence like this the true Gospel of Christ." 
Freshman Alicia Quiros. said she was also saddened by the University's handling of the sit-the demonstration, said he dis­agreed with the group's posi­tion against ROTC programs at Notre Dame. 

"ROTC has been a part of this University for a very long time and I wouldn't want Notre Dame to discontinue that rela­tionship," Nelson said. "Why wouldn't I want the people who serve in the military to have Notre Dame's Catholic values and education? That's exactly the kind of people you should want to see in the military." 
Stanton said the demonstra­tion should not be interpreted as a campaign against ROTC students, but rather the University's endorsement of the armed forces, and conse­quently, the armed courses of action. 
"The protest was not meant to be a personal attack against ROTC students but rather a call to question the larger rela­tionship between Notre Dame and the military," Stanton said. "This should wake us up to the implications of training our students militarily and how that relates to our University's Catholic character." 
Stanton and Quiros said the demonstration was neither a right-nor a left-wing move­ment but rather a reminder of. the Gospel's choice of peace and nonviolence over warfare. 
The Catholic Worker move­ment began in 1933 with Dorothy Day, who urged fol­lowers to live by the teachings of Jesus Christ, including non­violence, hospitality towards strangers and voluntary pover­ty, the movement's Web site said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

_Speaker 
continued from page 1 
Graduate Student Union vice president Amber Handy said. 
Coleman was chosen by University President Father John Jenkins's office after it received a short list of candi­dates from the Graduate School, Handy said. Faculty and students were asked to submit nominations last year once it was decided the Graduate School would hold a separate ceremony. 
Handy believfls Coleman "is a great choice" and was cho­sen "to honor the scholarly nature of work done by grad­uate students at Notre Dame," she said. 
In addition to being the 13th president of the University of Michigan, Coleman is a distinguished biochemist. She served as a 
member of the biochemistry academia," Handy said. faculty for 19 years at the "[I am] very much looking University of Kentucky and forward to addressing the wrote many scholarly arti­graduates and their families," cles. She later served in Coleman said. "The administrative University of positions at the Notre Dame is an Universities of "[! am] very much outstanding North Carolina looking forward to institution, and I and New I o o k
addressing the 
Mexico before forward to my going to the graduates and visit." University of their families." Coleman will Michigan. receive an hon­
H a n d y orary degree at 
Mary Sue Coleman
believes the University Coleman is a President commencement speaker whose University of Michigan ceremony, the "variety of day after the experiences in Graduate School the academic world will be ceremony. interest to all of the gradu­"In all likelihood, this pat­ates," she said. tern [of giving an honorary 
"The success she has degree to the commencement achieved both as a scientist speaker] will continue in the and administrator is a wel­future," Handy said. come example [ofl the inereasing number of Contact Eva Binda at avenues open to women in jbinda@nd.edu 
"An Evening ofPrayer from Around the World" 
Experience an Eastern Orthodox Vespers Service as the fifth in a series exploring the beliefs and practices of the world's great faith traditions: 
Please join us for an Eastern Orthodox Vespers Service Tuesday, March 27, 2007 7:00-7:45 p.m. 330 Coleman-Morse 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry, ND Orthodox Christian Fellowship, International Student Services and Activities, GSU, FOG Graduate Residences, University Village, 
and the Muslim Student Association 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 




t9llsi~ Ui5b~ 
tg~4~~ ~cl5 27111:00 p.r.O. 
Come andListen 
Con1e and Read 
Come and Play 

Lectio@:Eleven 
ALate...-NiahtCabaret£or theSoul 
liDO pm T uesdalJS atRecker's Preepizzasupplied bq Pirst Year of Studies! 
leclio@ffevel1is a cabaret olgredt music and great writing, readaloud, lor t!.e NotrE> Dam<> co1tununit9-Com<> to Recker's dlld l.e..rit wit!. 90ur O'W11 ears! 
W<> arealwaqslookinglor more redd<>rs ond musicia11B. II int<>r<>sted, contact Jonathan Couserat jcouse.®nd.edu or call631-3923. 
Sponsoredb\J first Y<>aro!Studies 
Tuesday, March 27, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Study finds heart drugs as effective as stents 


Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -More than half a million people a year with chest pain are getting an unneces­sary or premature procedure to unclog their arteries because drugs are just as effective, sug­gests a landmark study that chal­lenges one of the most common practices in heart care. 
The stunning results found that angioplasty did not save lives or prevent heart attacks in non­emergency heart patients. 
An even bigger surprise: Angioplasty gave only slight and temporary relief from chest pain, the main reason it is done. 
"By five years, there was really no significant difference" in symp­toms, said Dr. William Boden of Buffalo General Hospital in New York. "Few would have expected such results." 
He led the study and gave results Monday at a meeting of the American College of Cardiology. They also were published online by the New England Journal of Medicine and will be in the April 12 issue. 
Angioplasty remains the top treatment for people having a heart attack or hospitalized with worsening symptoms. But most angioplasties are done on a non­emergency basis, to relieve chest pain caused by clogged arteries crimping the heart's blood supply. 
Those patients now should try drugs first, experts say. Ifthat does not help, they can consider angio­plasty or bypass surgery, which unlike angioplasty, does save lives, prevent heart attacks and give lasting chest pain relief. 
In the study, only one-third of the people treated with drugs ulti­mately needed angioplasty or a bypass. 
"You are not putting yourself at risk of death or heart attack ifyou defer," and considering the safety worries about heart stents used to keep arteries open after angio­plasty, it may be wise to wait, said Dr. Steven Nissen, a Cleveland Clinic heart specialist and presi­dent of the College of Cardiology. 
Why did angioplasty not help more? 
It fixes only one blockage at a time whereas drugs affect all the arteries, experts said. Also, the clogs treated with angioplasty are not the really dangerous kind. 
"Even though it goes against intuition, the blockages that are severe that cause chest pain are less likely to be the source of a heart attack than segments in the artery that are not severely blocked," said Dr. David Maron. a Vanderbilt University cardiologist who helped lead the new study. 
Drugs are better today than they used to be, and do a surprisingly good job, said Dr. Elizabeth Nabel. director of the National Heart. Lung and Blood Institute. 
"It may not be as bad as we thought" to leave the artery alone, she said. 
About 1.2 million angioplasties are done in the United States each year. Through a blood vessel in the groin, doctors snake a tube to a blocked heart artery. A tiny bal­loon is inflated to flatten the clog and a mesh scaffold stent is usual­ly placed. 
The procedure already has lost some popularity because of emerging evidence that popular drug-coated stents can raise the risk of blood clots months later. The new study shifts the argument from which type of stent to use to whether to do the procedure at all. 
It involved 2,287 patients throughout the U.S. and Canada who had substantial blockages, typically in two arteries. but were medically stable. They had an average of 10 chest pain episodes a week -moderately severe. About 40 percent had a prior heart attack. 
"We deliberately chose to enroll a sicker, more symptomatic group" to give angioplasty a good chance to prove itself, Boden said. 
All were treatt>d with medicines that improve chest pain and heart and artery health such as aspirin, cholesterol-lowering statins, nitrates, ACE inhibitors, beta­blockers and calcium channel blockers. All also were counseled on healthy lifestyles -diet, exer­cise and smoking cessation. 
Half of the participants also were assigned to get angioplasty. 
After an average of 4 1/2 years, the groups had similar rates of death and heart attack: 211 in the angioplasty group and 202 in the medication group -about 19 percent of each. 

2007 Morrissey Manor Medallion Hunt Clue# 2 
Ghost of the Gipp could help you discover, What these five clues are meant to recover. Yet in the end, you won't need them all. By day number three, the answer could fall. 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
Illegal immigrants: A closer look
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
iilliTOR IN CHIEF 
Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 

SPOIITS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris Hine 
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHoTo EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
0FRCE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MAllAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.J@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.!@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8.767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom T?garding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Oh\Crvcr (USl'S 599 2-4000} is pnblisbcd Monday through !'<rid:ay cxc.:pt during exam and v;;u,:atiun periods, A subscription w l11c Observer is $100 for one academic }'CI.r; $55 k1r uuc joCfllOfcr. 
Tlu: Ohs<:rver is published ar: POSTMASTER {)24 Sourh Dining Hall Send addttSS corrections to: 
Notre Dame. IN 46SS6-0779 Thc:Obstf'Ve'r 

Periodical post~t paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box779 and additional m.llling offi~ 024 South Dining H:ill ­
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is a member of the: ksociated Press. All reproduction rights an: n:served. 
In "Operation Return to Sender," ICE 
(Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement) is deporting thousands of 
illegals, including 1,282 workers arrest­
ed in raids at Swift meatpacking plants . in six states. Of 424 
overstayed or otherwise became illegal. Many live with minor children, includ­ing "anchor babies" who are citizens because they meet the Fourteenth Amendment's criterion that "persons born ... in the United States" are citi­As University of California Professor Franz Shurman put it, "America needs the South's babies .... American civiliza­tion wants sex, but does not want chil­dren." 
4. 
One cause of this problem is neolib­eralism, described by John Paul II as "a purely economic conception of man [which] considers profit and the law of the market as its only parameters, to the detriment of the dignity of and respect due to individuals and peoples." In the 1980s, to profit from the devalua­tion of the Mexican peso, U.S. compa­nies abandoned their U.S. employees and moved assembly plants to maquiladoras in Mexico just south of the border. Many of those later closed as the companies found cheaper labor in Asia. The resulting unemployment and the stagnation of the Mexican econ­omy and government, both totally cor­rupt, lead many to enter the U.S. illegal­ly. Companies in the U.S. employ them as an outsourcing in reverse. You can't outsource a restaurant job to a foreign country. So Presidents, Congressmen and officials send the cheap labor to the employers. This is applied neoliberal­ism. The real "illegals" are those politi­cians and those for whose benefit they betray their oath to enforce the law. 

5. 
The Church offers guidance here. Archbishop Charles Chaput of Denver said it well in his comment on the ICE raids: "The Catholic Church respects the law, including immigration law. We respect those ... who have the difficult job of enforcing it. We do not encourage or help anyone to break the law.... Americans have a right to solvent public institutions, secure borders and orderly regulation of immigration .... We ... need ... reform that will address our economic and security needs. but also regularize the status of the many decent undocumented immigrants who help our society to grow." 


Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He can be reached at (574) 633-4415 or at rice.1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
deported from Miami in January, 131 had criminal convictions. The raids also netted many non-criminal parents of small chil­dren. 
Are the raids justi­fied? Yes. And no. 
1. The government has a duty to regain control of its borders and impose reason­


able criteria for admission. "The Church in America," said Pope John Paul II, "must [defend] against any unjust restriction to the natural right of ... persons to move freely within their own nation and from one nation to another." "Governments," he said, must "regulate the migratory flows with full respect for the dignity of the persons and for their families' needs, mindful of the requirements of the host soeieties." Nevertheless, "[i]llegal immigration," said John Paul II, "should be prevented land it is I essential to combat ... crimi­nal activities which exploit illegal immi­grants." 
If a steel fence is the most practical means to secure the border, it ought to be built, for the safety of Border Patrol agents as well as immigrants. Those agents, who confront the heavily armed drug gangs which, according to ICE, are "ravaging border communities in South Texas," are persons with dignity equal to that of immigrants. 
2. At least 11 million illegals are in this country. Efforts should focus on deporting those involved in gang or other criminal activities. In 2005, 26,000 were deported under the inade­quate "aggravated felony" standard of federal law. 
Undocumented immigrants who are otherwise law-abiding should not be deported. Many entered legally and zens. 
To expel millions of otherwise law­abiding illegals would be unjust as well as an administrative nightmare. Other considerations are raised by the failure of the government to secure the bor­ders, especially but not exclusively with respect to the Mexican border. For the past two decades, the notorious failure of the government to enforce the border has implicitly invited people to cross it illegally. Enforcement personnel have been undermanned and hampered by the failure of successive Presidents, with Congressional acquiescence or complicity. to provide them with the means to secure the border. That dere­liction of duty benefits employers who seek cheap labor with the medical and other needs of the laborers shifted to the taxpayers. 
Every person has a right, in the words of Pope John XXIII, "to enter a country in which he hopes to provide more fit­tingly for himself and his dependents." While that righl is subject to restriction, it would be unjust to deport otherwise law-abiding persons who accepted an implied invitation to enter. They are invitees. Congress ought to enable them to regularize their status as residents and perhaps as citizens. 
3. We brought this problem upon our­selves through the refusal of non-his­panic whites, and to a lesser extent blacks, to reproduce themselves. The United States fertility rate is 2.07. The replacement level is 2.1 at which a pop­ulation would replenish itself. We are almost there only because of the his­panics whose rate is 2.9; blacks are at 
2.2 and non-Hispanic whites are 1.8. Since 1973, more than 45 million per­sons who would have been citizens at birth have been killed by surgical abor­tion, not including the uncountable numbers killed by chemical and other abortifacients. The endemic practice of contraception multiplies the shortage. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Kohler Deirdre Krasula Aaron Steiner Michael Bryan 
,./sJ •.••bIDlt· .·. tr etter l
What is your take on
Rohan Anand Becky Slinger activism at Notre Dame? 
•.·· •.

·.·.·.~. u.....·.<· .. a..··..........".·.· ·.. .. ··.... ···· 1..
Viewpoint Scene 
"Don't be afraid to see what you see." 
Bethany Chris McGrady 
.··~ t.. t·h··.· ~''d··"t·· ... . t ~
< 
Ronald Reagan

i 0 . re L'J)rOJ a. I
Whitfield 
American President 

Graphics Matt Hudson Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
I d b· . i
I1www.n smco server.com 1; 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR ''First DolVn Moses'' underlies negative attitudes tolVard other religions 
Why is there a statue of Moses by the library? 
"First Down Moses" might seem like he's engaged in a benign football cele­bration. Only unlike most football play­ers, who merely tackle their opponents and leave it at that, Moses has the dis­embodied head of his enemy underfoot. While I don't lose too much sleep over the fate of golden calves, the statue nat­urally brings up some questions about Christianity's, and even Notre Dame's, attitude towards other religions. 
In case you don't know the whole story, the golden calf was a makeshift idol created by the "children of Israel" when they felt abandoned by their God. 
Congrats, Hockey tea111 
To the entire hockey program, I think I speak for all of the alumni when I say thank you for the unbe­lievable dedication and effort put into not only winning the CCI-lA this year, but putting Notre Dame Hockey on the map for years to come. You guys were great all season. I'm confident you will pay Michigan State back appropriately in the future. Let's get that national title! Thank you again! 
Mark Mikiciuk alumnus March 26 
When Moses returned from Mount Sinai with the Ten Commandments, he was understandably frustrated by how quickly his people had given up on God and lashed out by destroying the golden calf. This is where the story ends for most people as far as they understand it. 
Already this gesture has serious impli­cations for the attitudes of the Judea­Christian religions towards other reli­gions, but this is only the beginning of the collective wrath of God and Moses. God commands Moses to murder thou­sands of his own people (despite just giv­ing the Commandment, "Thou shalt not kill") and Moses and his followers unquestioningly oblige. Moses tells his most loyal followers "This is what the Lord, the God of Israel says: 'Each man strap a sword to his side. Go back and forth from one end to the other, each killing his brother and friend and neigh­bor"' (Exodus 32:27). This mass murder is punishment for the "great sin these people have committed" that "they have made themselves gods of gold." (Exodus 32:31). 
Whether or not the story is literally true does not matter as much as the fact that people accept its message as sacred. Why do we cast in iron the like­ness of a man who supposedly slewed thousands in the name of God? Isn't this the same sort of religious extremism and terrorism witnessed only a few years ago here in America, right down to the shared death toll of 3,000? And isn't the underlying motivation for each act-"divine" inspiration from the "true" God to kill worshippers of the "false" God -the exact same as well? Would we build a statue commemorat­ing atrocities similar to those of Sept. 11 if they were committed in the name of our own God? Apparently, we already have. 
Xavier Lebec freshman St. Edward's Hall March 26 

Students urged to help with food drive 
I want to thank all of those people who have volunteered to take part in Notre Dame's third-annual Canned Food Drive this Saturday. I thank you for your sup­port in advance because I appreciate the fact that you realize the importance of this effort. This means that you realize how much of an impact this collection has on those families genuinely lacking the necessities of life right here in north­ern Indiana. According to the Northern Indiana Food Bank website, over 118,000 Indiana families live in poverty and are therefore at risk of hunger. Last year, in our second-annual campus-wide Canned Food Drive, 7,500 pounds of food were collected, setting the benchmark for the event. This year, with your help, we expect to double our efforts and sur­pass 15,000 pounds of food, a substantial contribution to the Northern Indiana Food Bank. 
The Canned Food Drive will be taking place from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. outside of Stepan Center this Saturday. Volunteers will work two-hour shifts in which they will drive out into the neighborhoods of South Bend to collect cans door-to-door. WVFI will DJ the event as groups return to campus to drop off their collected food. At the conclusion of the Canned Food Drive, Former University President Father Theodore Hesburgh will say a blessing over the collected food. Last year, I participated and it was a very rewarding experience. The community appreciates our efforts to fight hunger, and if you help us, you will see for your­self how much just two hours can posi­tively impact the lives of so many people. There are so many issues and problems in the world we often do not know how we can contribute to make a difference. One way is to think globally and act locally by joining us Saturday. Thanks to those who have volunteered to come out. If you haven't signed up and are still interested, contact your dorm service commissioner as soon as possible or email Keri Mikuska at kmikuska@nd.edu. See you Saturday! 
Stephen Murray senior off campus March26 



Peace conference strives for understanding 
Government induced famine and eco­nomic ruin in North Korea. Authoritarian rule in Burma. The use of child soldiers in the war in Northern Uganda. 
It's easy for young adults to turn a blind eye to the world's most intractable con­flicts and human rights abuses for the simple reason that they are intractable. If the planet's greatest leaders, largest international organizations and most well-run grassroots campaigns have not yet found the solutions, how are college students supposed to add anything to the debate? 
The belief that we as young adults are unable to help or to understand the cul­tures of those that are far away from us contributes to the lines that we often draw between "us" and "them." "We" live here and prescribe to a certain set of cul­tural norms. "They" live there and have different traditions, languages and social customs. The demarcation of "us" and "them" advances such social injustices as war, racism, religious fundamentalism and genocide. Worse yet, it prevents peo­ple from one culture and way of life from seeing people from another way of life as equally valuable. It prevents people from seeing their counterparts in other reli­gions, countries and ethnicities as human beings. 
This weekend, March 30-31, Notre Dame's annual student-run Peace Conference is highlighting the work ND students and others from around the world have done to bridge the divide between "us" and "them." Through two days of panel discussions, workshops and cultural events, these students and pro­fessionals in the field of peace and con­flict resolution will attempt to "unmask the unknown"-to better understand others and, in the process, better under­stand themselves. 
The Peace Conference, which will be held in the Hesburgh Center for International Peace Studies will serve as an arena for young adults to present their research on the root causes of the above­mentioned intractable conflicts of the world. Their contributions give lie to the fact that young adults cannot make a dif­ference in the world around them. They prove that resolving atrocious human rights abuses and preventing them in the future can be as simple as erasing the lines that divide "us" and "them" so that all people in every corner of the world are treated by all others with respect because of their common humanity. 
The conference formally begins at 5 
p.m. on March 30 with an address by the keynote speaker on peace and conflict transformation. The panels and work­shops will run throughout the day on Saturday, beginning at 9 a.m. and ending at 4:15p.m. For a full list of the week­end's events, please visit http://www.nd.edu/-krocinst/peace­con07 .shtml 
Laura Vilim senior Howard Hall March26 

Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l @nd.edu or online at Letters to the words in ...v~.....!'o'""'"'' be no longer line with name, year and the author's •..n.~.v....v number. Submissions must be 3:00p.m. to be consid­
ered for publication the next day. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, March 27,2007 
page 12 

A message for Bookstore bailers bring it 
Prepare yourselves, Bookstore Basketball field, for me and my ilk are coming, and we are not happy. In years past, my teammates and I have made various attempts at Bookstore glory, only to end in failure. The team names and cos­tumes changed, but one thing remained the same: Losing in the first round. 
Like an abused but loyal puppy dog, we keep coming back for another kicking, year after year. However, in keeping with the old saying, if at first you don't succeed, try. try again -and try again we will. 
Although the tournament is held in April, we tend to play more like March: we come in roaring like angry lions, and leave like meek little lambs. However, after suffering ignominious first-round defeats in both of the last two years, I'm positive that this year's tournament will end differently for my squad and me. 
What's different about this year's team. you ask? Well, on the surface, not a whole lot. I know I, for one, have spent most of this semester draining my Flex points instead of draining threes. However, there are a few things we have going for us. 
For one thing, we're a year older and a year wiser. Crafty, veteran teams tend to go further. We've been hitting the weights. Unfortunately, none of us have managed to grow any taller, but after implementing our new fun 'n gun offense (a Ia the Phoenix Suns) I'm confi­dent we'll be able to score points like man-eating bears flock to a dying car­cass: quickly and in bunches. 
Last year's squad, Los Luchadores, suffered from tunnel vision and a notice-able lack of focus, which may or may not be the result of our wearing Mexican luchadqr wrestling masks, which are hot as Hades and noticeably impair one's ability to see. Although we were heavily tattooed, we didn't manage to leave our mark on the tournament. 

In many ways we were doomed from the outset last season. For one, our game attracted scores of screaming female fans, which is probably due to the fact that we played sans shirts. The meat parade on display elicited raucous verbal support, and at times I could barely hear myself think, never mind hear the playcalls, due to the roar of the females in attendance. 
Unfortunately for both our female fans and our opponents (but fortunately for us), this year we'll be keeping our shirts on and our masks o!I. We are what we are, and what we are is a bunch of Type­B hardcourt warriors living in Notre Dame's Type-A world. 
No, we don't play brutal. bone-crush­ing WWE-type defense. However. we have been preparing for the rough and tumble world of Bookstore in several ways, such as kicking each other in the shins, punching each other in the stom­ach and putting Tabasco sauce on our food on an impromptu basis in order to toughen up for the Big Dance. I'll also be packing a taser and brass knuckles for the event. 
This year's incarnation of 'Los Luchadores' will keep the same war­rior's mentality but boast a sharper intellectual edge over the enemy. The team and I have been watching a whole lot of basketball this year, from NBA action to the March Madness NCAA Tournament. After watching and learn­ing, we'll be able to put on a basketball clinic for anyone unfortunate to have to play us this year. In other words, bring a notebook to Stepan -school's in ses-sion. 

Similarly, we've spent our time twid­dling our thumbs-on videogame con­troller sticks, that is. After hours logged on NBA Live 2007, I'm confident that the increase in fine motor control will trans­late to that extra touch I've been missing on my jumper, which will in turn allow me to keep it raining like April showers come Bookstore time. Even better, as the premier scoring threat on my team, I won't even have to drop a Kobe Bryant­like 65 points for us to win-the games only go to 21. 
You can forget about George Mason. For those of you keeping score at home, feel free to pencil (check that, pen) us in your brackets for Hound Number Two. In fact, I'm so confident in our team that I'll personally guarantee a victory if we're matched up against an all-female squad in the first round. 
Of course, you may be thinking, "Won't all this trash-talking put a bulls-eye on our backs, giving our opponents an incentive to come gunning for us like veteran Halo players feasting on hapless newbies on Lockout Level? The answer, friends, is that it doesn't matter: like a whoopee cushion, our team performs better under pressure. Come hell or high water, we are going to reach the exalted second round of Bookstore: 0-2 is not good enough. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER ... 
CENE
page 13 
Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
DVD REVIEW 
Release of 'Children' fails to live up to film 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Senior Scene Writer 
"Children of Men" was a film that was criminally overlooked upon its original release, but, like the classic "Blade Runner" that it has been compared to, it's not inconceivable that the film's rep­utation will expand following its home release. 
The film. directed by Alfonso Cuaron (who also helmed "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban" and "Y Tu Mama Tambien") is about a future in which women are no longer able to bear chil­dren. 
Theo Faron (Clive Owen) is a clerical worker who becomes embroiled in a scandal involving a young girl named Kee (Claire-Hope Ashitey) who is discov­ered carrying a baby. Faron must help Kee escape to the safety of an off-shore "Human Project," but they are blocked by the government and other forces from all sides. 

"Children of Men" is a complex pic­ture, though its plotting essentially boils down to a glorified chase film. Technically masterful, it brings a lot of ideas to the table and, like most of the best science fiction, doesn't bring unwarranted attention to its dystopian future. 
The characters fully inhabit this world and their fatalism is one of the most affecting aspects of Cuaron's many-lay­ered themes. The acting is solid throughout, though it's Owen who gives the finest performance. He is aided by capable support from Julianne Moore as his ex-wife and Michael Caine especial­ly, as a crusty old mentor. 
The film was mostly overlooked at the major award shows and failed to garner a Best Picture nomination or any acting nominations at the Oscars. It was, how­ever, nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay, but lost to "The Departed." 
But like "Blade Runner" and "Brazil," its status as a cult film is already being solidified. Like those other left-field clas­sics, "Children of Men" may soon be appreciated as Cuaron's best work ­certainly, it's his most accomplished to date, at least from a technical perspec­tive. 
"Children of Men" comes to DVD in a one-disc widescreen edition with an anamorphic transfer that preserves the film's 1.85:1 aspect ratio. The picture is very clean and crisp, which accentuates Lubezki's stunning cinematography. 

Cuaron is known for his moving camera, and "Children of Men" has very complex mise-en-scene that transfers well to DVD. 
The sound comes in a 5.1 Dolby Digital track which is adequately immersive, though it's a bit disappoint­ing that there wasn't a DTS track included -the "war scenes" really could have benefited from the depth and power of DTS. 
It's too bad that a film of this caliber doesn't come in a two-disc special edi­tion, especially at its $30 retail price tag. It's easy to suspect that a better edi­tion will be forthcoming, which is often the case with high-profile films like this. 
The extras on the disc include several making-of featurettes and an interesting look at how the special effects of the baby were done. Unfortunately, there's no commentary, which is a shame -it would be interesting to hear what Cuaron, Owen, Moore and Caine would have to say. 
"Children of Men" is a great film that deserves a better release. As with "Flags of Our Fathers" (whose special edition has already been announced), don't be surprised if a special edition is not that far down the road. As it stands, the one­disc DVD is an adequate release of an excellent film. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
RESTAURANT REVIEW 
Mandarin House serves up great food, service 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 

Senior Scene Writer 
For those looking for a Chinese meal that's a cut above typical take-out, Mandarin House is South Bend's best bet. With excellent dishes served at reasonable prices, the restaurant over­comes its basic shortcomings, making it a popular choice among locals and Notre Dame students alike. 
The food is reasonably priced -most meals cost between $10 and $15. The fare consists of traditional Chinese restaurant dishes, like chicken, pork, beef and seafood, with a few "chef's specialties" thrown in, though there's nothing out of the ordinary on the menu. 
In actuality, however, the simplicity of the menu is a strength rather than a weakness, as it guides diners to the more popular dishes, which are also coincidentally the restaurant's best. There is an assortment of teas, soups and appetizers, though a full meal can add several dollars to the overall cost. For those on a budget, a single dish is likely enough. 
Portion sizes are adequate, though they could be bigger. They're filling enough, though they do seem a bit· smaller than what might be served at other Chinese restaurants. The main course comes on its own plate, with white rice served in a separate dish (one per table). The amount of food is roughly comparable to the amount from regular Chinese take-out and many dishes are served with vegeta­bles or other sides. 
The decor isn't anything special, though the fish tank near the door is a nice touch. In fact. aside from some decorations hanging on the wall, there isn't much to distinguish Mandarin House as a Chinese restaurant -even the exterior is unassuming, with only a sign indicating the type of food served. 
The dining area is essentially one large room with tables scattered throughout. There are no booths and many of tbe tables are removed from the walls -a possible problem for families or larger groups. 
The real draw, however, is the quali­ty of the food -this is where. Mandarin House sets itself apart. Heads and shoulders better than typi­cal Chinese take-out, the restaurant serves excellent chicken, beef and seafood. 
The chicken dishes, especially the empress chicken and sesame chicken, are outstanding. Since most of the dishes are comparably priced to take­out, the excellent food is enough to recommend Mandarin House. 
Service was extremely prompt, though that same over-attentiveness made the meal feel a bit rushed. The food is served almost instantly, which really increases the pace of the whole experience (though serving soups and teas slows it down a bit). The waiting 

Recommended Dishes: Positives: Food, Service 
Sesame Chicken 
Negatives: Empress Chicken 
Atmosphere 
dling, but the service is prompt and attentive and the dishes are delicious, and really, those are the two essen­tials. For those who have the time and mind to sit down and take in an excel­lent Chinese meal, Mandarin House is the way to go in South Bend. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
staff, though friendly, also moves things along quickly, which might be problematic for some diners who like to enjoy their meal leisurely. 
Overall, Mandarin House doesn't seem to have a lot going for it other than the quality of the food -but that alone is enough to recommend it. 
It's not an amazing dining experience and the decor and atmosphere is mid­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
NBA 

Miracle heave lifts Pistons to overtime victory 
Nelson scores 18 as Magic hand Knicks fourth straight loss; Shaq passes Miller on points list in win over Hawks 
fourth with a 71-71 tie. 
Magic 94 Knicks 89 
Jameer Nelson made the tying and go-ahead 3-pointers and finished with 18 points, and the Orlando Magic beat New York Monday night, the Knieks' sea­son-high fourth straight loss. 

Iledo Turkoglu also scored 18 points for thfl Magic, who got their second consecutive key vietory in the race for a playoff berth and moved into sole pos­session of seventh place in the Eastern Conference. Tony Battie added 14 points and Dwight Howard had 10 points, 14 rebounds and a pivotal blocked shot late in the game. 
Orlando snapped a tie for sev­enth which New Jersey. The Magic were coming ofl' a victory over the Nets. 
Stephan Marbury scored 32 points for the fading Knicks, who have lost six of seven. They fell two games behind New Jersey for the eighth spot. 
Eddy Curry scored 17 points for the injury-depleted Knicks, who fell to a season-high 10 games under .500. 
David Lee has missed the last two games after making a somewhat surprising return from an 11-game absence with an injured right leg. With Jamal Crawford and Quentin Richardson also out, the Knicks were forced to give more min­utes than usual to rookies Renaldo Balkman and Mardy Collins. 
Though coach Isiah Thomas tried to somewhat downplay the importance of this game, time appears to be running out for the Knicks, who face tough games against Cleveland and Dallas this week. 
Dismal from the line most of the night, the Knicks linally hit their free throws when it mat­tered. With New York trailing by five, Marbury made a layup, then Nate Robinson and Marbury each made a pair of free throws to give the Knicks an 83-82 lead with 2:25 remaining. 
Curry then converted a three­point play, pushing the lead to 86-82 with 1:51 left. But Orlando tied it at 87 on Nelson's 3-pointer with 1 :06 to go, and after Howard blocked Marbury's drive -a play the Knicks felt should have been goaltcnding -Nelson knocked down another 3 to make it 90­87 with 38 seconds remaining. 
Marbury made another pair of free throws to cut it to one, but Turkoglu answered with a pair before lloward added another block on a drive by Hobinson. 
Orlando shot 61 percent in the first quartnr to open a 23­21 lead. The game was still tied before Balkman had a pair of fast-break dunks in the final minute, giving New York a 49­45 lead at halftime. 
Heat 106 Hawks 89 
Shaquille O'Neal scored 22 points to pass Reggie Miller for 12th on the NBA's career list and the Miami Heat finished off a four-game season sweep of the Atlanta Hawks with a win on Monday night. 
O'Neal entered the night 10 points behind Miller's total of 25,279, and passed the former Indiana sharpshooter with a free throw midway through the first half. 
That was fitting, since the Hawks hacked him early and often, sending him to the foul line a season-high 20 times. O'Neal made 12, another sea­son-best, and linished with 11 rebounds for his sixth double­double. 
James Posey scored 19 points, shot 6-for-9 and finished with his 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS. Mich. -Rasheed Wallace forced over­time with a 60-foot buzzer beat­er. then added another key 3 to help the Detroit Pistons defeat the Denver Nuggets 113-109 on Monday night. 
The short-handed Pistons needed a miracle just to get to the extra period -they trailed 98-95 with 1.5 seconds to play, and Denver only needed to put the ball into play at midcourt. 
The inbounds pass, though, bounced off Allen Iverson and Tayshaun Prince, and Wallace threw up a desperation two­handed set shot that banked in as the buzzer sounded. 
Chauncey Billups led the Pistons with a season-high 34 points and 10 assists, Wallace scored 22 and Antonio McDyess 
added  20  points  and  11  
rebounds.  
Marcus  Camby  led  the  

Nuggets with 24 points and added 13 rebounds, while Nene had 21 points and 17 rebounds. Carmelo Anthony and Iverson, though, combined for only 29 on 11-of-33 shooting. 
Denver led 106-103 in over­time, but Wallace hit another tying 3-pointer, this one from a more conventional distance, to tie the game with a minute left. 

After a Denver turnover, McDyess made a free throws to give Detroit a one-point lead with 27.6 seconds left. 
Wallace then rebounded J.R. Smith's airball and hit two from the line to make it 109-106. 
Linas Kleiza badly missed a 3­pointer, and Billups clinched the game from the free-throw line. 
The Pistons won despite miss­ing two starters -Chris Webber and Richard Hamilton -with the flu. Flip Murray played despite a milder case of the same illness. 
Detroit led 38-23 early in the second quarter, but turned the ball over six times in the next eight minutes, setting up a 21-4 Denver run to close the half. 
Smith had 12 points in the period, including a reverse dunk that tied the score and a fast-break layup seconds later to give Denver a 44-42 lead. 
Denver extended the margin to 62-50 midway through the third, but Detroit started forcing turnovers and got back into the game. 
Denver needed two 3-pointers by Smith just to get into the 
AP 



second-best scoring night of the season for the Heat. Jason Williams had 14 points and Eddie Jones scored 13 for the Heat, who bBat the Hawks for the 18th time in the last 21 meetings between the teams. 
Salim Stoudamire had 22 points off the bench for Atlanta, while Josh Smith had 20 and Marvin Williams addBd 14 for the Hawks, who've lost four straight. 
The Hawks sent Miami to the line a season-high-tying 45 times, largely because of their penchant for surrounding­then clobbering-O'Neal. 
Lorenzen Wright started at center against O'Neal, and picked up four fouls in his seven minutes. Shelden Williams came ofl' the bench, drawing four fouls in 15 minutes. Esteban Batista was called for five fouls in 13 minutes spent primarily guard­ing Miami's biggest man, and hit O'Neal so often in the third quarter that Jason Williams turned to the scorer's table and asked how many infractions he was allowed. 
In the fourth, the Hawks asked Solomon Jones to take a turn­and he promptly fouled O'Neal four times in live minutes. 
Hawks coach Mike Woodson got a technical for arguing a call with 4:14 left. 

Pistons forward Rasheed Wallace makes a desperation 3-pointer to force overtime in Detroit's 1.1.3-109 win over the Nuggets. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. at the None Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50 base-appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, all ages 17+, positions in all of Indiana & Michigan, 273-3835. www.workforstudents.com 
NEED A SUMMER JOB? Camp Tannadoonah is hiring 2007 camp staff. Have the best summer of your life! 
Visit www.tannadoonah.org 

FoR SALE 
*NO CONDOS" NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 
574-252-2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours Today! 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BETIER HOMES,BETIER AREAS,BETIER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
Now leasing for 2007/8. Great houses close to campus. Anlanproperties@ comcast.net 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent­nd.com or mmmrentals.com. 
Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­spot.net or phone 574-277-4759. 
3-bdrm 1-bath house. Walk to NO. 1219 N. Twyckenham. 
Call574-231-0967. 
Large 2-bdrm condos, 18027 & 18041 Bulla Rd. 
Call574-233-4590. 
RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5 bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm. 
Call312-545-5123 or email mitchell.58@ nd.edu 
1 bdrm apts available summer & fall 
07. 1 mi to NO in quiet historic 
neighborhood. $575/mo. Laundry/Security. 
Call574-532-8718. 

Beautiful 3-story townhouse over­looking river, 1/2 mi. to NO.2 decks, large windows, 3 bdrm, 3.5 bath, 2,000 sq. ft., 2·car garage, $1500/mo OBO. Avail. April!. 
Call Ben 574-302-7415. 
Condo for rent-walk to NO/SM. Grt 
loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. 
A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + 
util. 630·417· 8763/MCL214@aol.com 

Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. 
PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. 
Call our 24 hour confidential hollins at 1-800-No·ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Tytania: what thou seest when thou wake, do for thy true Love take. Ob. 
Adopt: A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with a newborn & will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at 1·800·718-6577 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
Georgetown over UCLA-count on it 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 27, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 


Eastern Conference~ 

team 
New ~ersey 
Pittsburgh · 
NY Rangers 
NY Islanders 
Philadelphia 

Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pt$; ]a$,tl0 
x-Buffalo 48·20·7 103 4·4·2 x-Ottawa 45·23·8 98+; 7·0·3 Montreal 39·31-6 84 6~4·0 Toronto 36·29·10 82 5·4·1 Boston 34·35·6 74 >2•7~1 
Eastern Conference, SoutheasfDMsfon 
team record ptsJ' ·last ro 
Atlanta 37·31 · 88>F 6·4·0 Tampa Bay 37·32 86 4-6·0 Carolina 32·38 84 &•:Hi Flordia 27-44 76 5-44 Washington 26·45 65 ~+1 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last Io 
x-Nashville 48·21-7 103 4·3·3 x·Detroit 45·19·11 }101 4'3·3 St. Louis 31·32·12 74 3·5·2 Columbus 31·37·7 69 6·4·0 Chicago 27·39·9 63 4·6·0 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last ro 
Vancouver 45·23-7 97 7·1·2 Minnesota 45-24-7 97 9-1-0 Calgary 40-25·1 0 90 5·4·1 Colorado 39-29-7 85 8·0·2 Edmonton 31-38-7 69 1·5·1 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pts}Mt last 10 
x-Anaheim 44-19·12 100 7-2·1 Dallas 45·24-6 96 7-2·1 San Jose 46-26-4 96 7-1-2 Los Angeles 26-36-14 66 4~2-4 Phoenix 29-41-5 63 2-6-2 
x • clinched playoff spot 

FILA Men's Tennis Rankings 
team aug. prev. 
1 Georgia 97.00 1 
2 Ohio State 88.43 3 
3 Virginia 87.64 2 
4 Baylor 81.96 5 
5 NOTRE DAME 76.73 7 
6 Illinois 74.81 6 
7 Southern California 72.75 4 
8 UCLA 66.04 8 
9 Mississippi 63.15 10 
10 LSU 62.88 13 
11 Alabama 62.58 14 
12 Wake forest 61.75 9 
13 Texas 60.75 12 
14 North Carolina 58.20 11 
15 Pepperdine 54.67 20 
16 Oklahoma State 48.46 15 
17 Duke 46.72 19 
18 South Alabama 46.18 16 
18 Boise State 45.67 27 
20 vcu 44.06 32 
around the dial 
NHL 
Devils at Islanders 
7:30 p.m., Versus 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL West Virginia at Mississippi St. 7:00 p.m., ESPN2 
Clemson at Air Force 9:00 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

LAS VEGAS -Tennessee Titans star Adam "Pacman" Jones could face felony and misdemeanor charges stem­ming from a triple shooting at a strip club in February. 
Jones would face a felony charge of coercion and mis­demeanor threat and battery charges in the 5 a.m. shoot­ing at Minxx, police Lt. George Castro said Monday. 
Castro said detectives haven't determined who fired the shots that wounded three people, one critically, outside the club during the NBA All­Star game weekend. 
Castro said the request for charges will be submitted to Oark County district attorney David Hoger no later than the end of the week. Roger will be asked to consider charges against the 23-year-old Jones and Robert Heid, 37, and Sadia Morrison, 24, whom Castro described as friends of Jones. 
No arrest warrants have been issued, and an investi­gation will continue into whether another person might have been involved and fired the shots. 
Castro characterized Jones as an instigator of a scuffle inside the club that led to the shooting outside. 
"Was he an inciter? Yes, he was," Castro said. 
Lawyers for Jones have denied Minxx club co-owner Robert Susnar's account that Jones arrived and left the club with the shooter. After 500 hours of reviewing video­tapes and interviewing wit­nesses from the club, Castro said police were unable to establish a relationship between Jones and the shoot­er. 
Jones was questioned by Las Vegas police and released. 
Two club security guards and an unidentified woman were wounded in the shoot­ing. One guard, who was par­alyzed from the waist down, was transferred last week to a rehabilitation hospital. The other guard and the woman were not seriously wounded. 
Jones' attorney Worrick Hobinson of Nashville, Tenn. 
IN BRIEF 

No criminal wrongdoing in 
Tillman's death, milllary says 
WASHINGTON -Nine high-rank­ing Army officers, including four gen­erals, made critical errors in report­ing the friendly fire death of Army Ranger Pat Tillman in Afghanistan, but there was no criminal wrongdo­ing in the shooting of the former NFL player, the military concluded Monday. 
Defense officials and a pair of reports released Monday on the 2004 incident, however, did not rule out criminal action by those who provid­ed misleading information as the mili­tary was investigating the killing. They said, however, that they believed there was no orchestrated cover-up. 
Army and Defense Department investigators said officers looking into Tillman's death passed along mislead­ing and inaccurate information and delayed reporting their belief that Tillman was killed by fellow Rangers. 
NFL commish to establish 
new disciplinary measures 
PHOENIX-One day after yet anoth­er NFL player was arrested, commis­sioner Roger Goodell said Monday a stronger player conduct policy will not be completed at these league meetings. 
By next month, however, Goodell expects to have in place the stricter plan and hopes to make some disciplinary decisions before the April 28-29 draft. 
"It's a complicated issue and there are no simple answers," Goodell said, adding he planned to meet with coaches and owners in a day or so to discuss player conduct. "We want to find out what is working well with the clubs and what is not working, get a set of best practices so they can implement them on a local basis." 
"We're expecting discipline will be stepped up," he added. 
NFL Players Association executive director Gene Upshaw has expressed his support of a tougher disciplinary pol­icy. 
had no comment before Monday's police news confer­ence. Another Jones lawyer, Manny Arora in Atlanta, was out of the office and did not immediately respond to a message from The Associated Press. 
The pre-dawn shooting fol­lowed a scuffle that broke out in the club when dancers on stage were showered with thousands of dollar bills, according to a police search warrant. 
Susnar has said the shoot­ing happened after Jones threatened to kill a bouncer, whom the club owner said intervened when Jones allegedly attacked a dancer who grabbed money on the stage. 

Betbnan tired of opposition to 
fighting in NHL 
TORONTO -NI-IL commissioner Gary Bettman says fighting is part of hockey and believes some people have been "running off a little too fast on this topic." 
"My view on fighting hasn't changed," Bettman told The Canadian Press on Monday. "We've never taken active steps or consid­ered eliminating fighting from the game. 
''I've always taken the view that it's a part of the game and it rises and lowers based on what the game dictates." 
While Bettman seemed OK with the game's current stand on fight­ing, he's concerned about the larg­er safety issues. 
"The discussion that we've been having is about player safety and injuries," said Bettman. "We've had a number of injuries resulting from fighting recently. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Durant leads All-A111erica tea111 
Associated Press 
If Kevin Durant and Greg Oden play only one season of college basketball, it will have been as All-Americans. 
The freshmen were voted to The Associated Press' All­America team Monday, the first members of their class so hon­ored since 1990. 
The 6-foot-9 Durant, who led Texas to the Big 12 title game, was the only unanimous choice of the 72-member national media panel that selects the weekly Top 25. 
Oden. the 7-footer who helped Ohio State to its first No. 1 ranking in 45 years, was joined on the team by seniors Alando Tucker of Wisconsin and Acie Law IV of Texas A&M and junior Arran Afflalo of UCLA. The voting was conduct­ed before the NCAA tourna­ment. 
Since freshmen became eligi­ble to play in 1972, the only ones selected to the first team had been Wayman Tisdale of Oklahoma in 1983 and Chris Jackson ofLSU in 1989. 
Durant, the first Texas All­American since T.J. Ford in 2003, averaged 25.6 points and 
11.3 rebounds, but it was his all-around game and penchant for big shots in the clutch that had people ranking him as one of the best freshmen ever. 
"There's no question Kevin deserves every individual acco­lade that he will receive," Texas coach Rick Barnes said, "but the one thing I respect most about Kevin is that he is the ultimate team player. He really doesn't care about the individual numbers and awards. All he cares about is the success of his team. When you're around a guy like that, it makes coaching him a joy." 
Durant, the Big 12 player of the year, backed up his coach's sentiments. 
"I am not very big on individ­ual honors, but I am very hum­bled to be included on the Associated Press All-America team," he said. "When you look at the other four guys who are on the team, I am honored to be mentioned with them. I have so much respect for how each one of them has led their respective teams and handled themselves, both on and off the court. I look up to each one of them." 


Oden, the first Ohio State All­American since Jim Jackson in 1992, missed the first seven games as he recovered from offseason surgery on his right wrist. As he rehabilitated from the injury he learned to shoot free throws left-handed and didn't miss a beat when he returned to the Buckeyes, aver­aging 15.5 points, 9.7 rebounds and 3.5 blocks while shooting 
61.4 percent from the field. 
"''m very surprised," Oden said of being selected. "Just with how things went, I didn't really play a whole season, and I know there are a lot of other guys with better numbers than me. I'm just surprised, but I'm honored and the best I can do is keep on playing." 
His Buckeyes face Georgetown on Saturday in the Final Four. 

Oden had a quick answer when asked about the success of himself and Durant in their first seasons in college. 
"It's just younger guys com­ing in and just playing basket­ball, not worried about age or anything," he said. 
Both played in college in large part because of the new rule that prohibits the NBA from drafting players until they turn 19 and are out of high school for one year. 
''I'm not sold that the rule is right or wrong, but I think it shows you the impact and the influx of how many great play­ers are out there," said Ohio State coach Thad Matta. "I think that's why there's so much parity nowadays in col­lege basketball." 
Tucker and Law were Wisconsin's and Texas A&M's first All-America selections, while Afflalo was UCLA's first since Ed O'Bannon in 1995~ 
Razorbacks'coach Heath dismissed 
Associated Press 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. -Stan Ileath was fired Monday after five seasons at Arkansas after losing in the first round of the NCAA Tournament for the sec­ond straight year. 
The Hazorbacks made the NCAA Tournament thanks to a late-season run, but that was not enough to save Heath's job. Arkansas (21-14) lost 77-60 to Southern California in the first round. 
Arkansas spokesman Kevin Trainor said I Ieath and athletic director Frank Broyles met Monday morning, 
each time. 
"I realize here the expecta­tions arc really high," Heath said. "It's Final Four, it's Sweet 16s, and it's SEC championships on a regular basis.... I really feel like this team was poised to do that." 
Arkansas went 9-19 in 2002­03, then improved its win total for three straight seasons. 
Heath's record at the school was 82-71, but he went 31-49 in Southeastern conference play. 
Heath indicated ticket sales and lukewarm fan support might have played a role in his dismissal. 
"The season 

and Broyles ticket sales and
''The decision to
informed lleath of the fan base was the decision. make a coaching [Broyles' I biggest "The decision to change was difficult concern," Heath make a coaching said. "I don't
due to the respect I 
change was diffi­have those fig­
cult due to the have for [former ures, but I'm respect I hav1~ for coach] Stan Heath." sure he keeps Stan Heath," ath­track of them." letic director When the
Frank Broyles 
Frank Broyles said Razorbacks 
athletic director 
in a release. "He struggled toward represented the Arkansas the end of the 
University of Arkansas with professionalism and integrity.... However, in my professional jl\dgment, it is best that the pro­gram move forward under new leadership in our efforts to return Razorback basketball to national prominence." 
Heath met with reporters in Fayetteville shortly after the announcement. 
''I'm a little surprised, but in this business, universities have the right to make decisions," I Ieath said. "They have the right to make choices about what they want and what they feel is best for their university." 
Heath led Kent State to the round of eight in the NCAA Tournament in 2002, then took over at Arkansas that offseason after Nolan Richardson was fired. The Razorbacks missed the tournament his first three seasons but made it in 2006 and 2007, losing in the first round 
regular season, 
reports surfaced that Heath would be fired if Arkansas did not make the NCAA Tournament. The Razorbacks then won five straight games and reached the SEC tournament final. 
Arkansas made the NCAA Tournament as a No. 12 seed before being blown out by USC. 
"About five years ago, when I came here, I knew it was a hard, hard job -the environ­ment was tough," Heath said. "There were a lot of things we had to deal with, and we found a way to get through that. I'm proud of that. I'm proud of the fact that this program is better now than it was five years ago when we started." 
Arkansas fired Hichardson in 2002 after the coach said toward the end of a frustrating season, "If they go ahead and pay me my money, they can take the job tomorrow." Broyles 

COME SEE WHAT'S NEW AT TURTLE CREEK!! 
We're Renovating AGAIN! New POOL-HEATED!! New LANDSCAPING New BASKETBALL COURT 
Turtle Creek Apartments 574-272-8124 
Office Hours: M-F9AM-7PM SAT 10AM-4PM SUN 12 PM-4 PM 
®
EQUAl HOUSING 
OPPORTUNITY 




Tuesday, Match 27, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Pro-Bowler Spikes traded to Philadelphia 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPHIA The Philadelphia Eagles acquired Pro Bowl linebacker Takeo Spikes and quarterback Kelly Holcomb from the Buffalo Bills on Monday night for defensive tackle Darwin Walker and a conditional draft pick in 2008. 
"This is something that has been brewing," Bills general manager Marv Levy said. "Takeo is a good person, but we wanted to strengthen our defensive tackle. They've been looking for a linebacker and I think they wanted an experi­enced backup quarterback." 
A nine-year NFL veteran, Spikes was slow recovering last year from a right Achilles' ten­don tear he suffered in Week 3 of the 2005 season. He's sched­uled. to make $9.5 million ($4.5 million this season) over the final two years of the six-year contract he signed after joining the team as a free agent. 
Spikes played his first five seasons with Cincinnati and had been seeking a contract extension with Buffalo. But he grew increasingly frustrated playing for a team that's con­stantly shuffling its roster and coaching staff. and has gone seven seasons since last mak­ing the playoffs. 
Spikes, a former first-round pick, could be a big upgrade at linebacker for the Eagles, who have struggled at that spot the past few seasons. 
Dhani Jones has never been the playmaker the Eagles need­ed and Matt McCoy struggled last season before losing his job to Omar Gaither. The Eagles also lost free agent Shawn Barber to Houston. 
"Takeo Spikes is a proven playmaker in the National Football League," Eagles gener­al manager Tom Heckert said. "He has the ability to play all three linebacking positions and were happy to add him to our defense." 
Spikes had 11 starts in 12 games last season, while miss­ing four with a hamstring injury after he was hurt in Buffalo's season-opener at New England. He finished with 76 tackles, one sack and a forced fumble, modest numbers for a two-time Pro Bowl selection. 
He's the second high-profile Bills player to be traded this offseason and also the second starting linebacker the team has lost. Buffalo dealt running back Willis McGahee to Baltimore and linebacker London Fletcher signed with Washington earlier this month. 
Walker started 15 games and was tied for second on the Eagles with six sacks, and had 56 tackles. Three of his sacks came Oct. 8 against Dallas, and he tied an Eagles postseason record with two sacks in a loss at New Orleans. 
With the addition of Walker, the Bills bolster what had been an inexperienced defensive tackle position last season. 
Besides veteran Larry Tripplett, Buffalo went with a young rotation led by rookie fifth-round pick Kyle Williams and second-year veteran Tim Anderson. The line also experi­enced a setback when defen­sive tackle John McCargo, the second of Buffalo's two first­round picks, was lost for the season after he broke his left foot in Week 5. 
Holcomb has made 21 starts over an 11-year career. He joins A.J. Feeley on the quar­terback depth chart behind Donovan McNabb. Holcomb did not play last season, but com­pleted 155 of 230 passes for 1,509 yards with 10 touch­downs and eight interceptions in 2005. 
Holcomb proved expendable in Buffalo after J.P. Losman won the starting job in training camp following an off-season long three-way competition between Holcomb and third­stringer Craig Nail. That was a considerable step for Losman, who was twice benched in 2005 in favor of Holcomb. 
Losman then showed gradual progress last season, leading the Bills to a better than expected 7-9 finish. Losman showed particular improve­ment over the last half of the season, when the Bills won four of their last seven games. 
That was enough for Jauron to name Losman the starter. 



page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
CLUB SPORTS MLB 

Irish nab second at regatta 
Special to The Observer 
Sailing 
Despite the classic St. Joe's 

Lake  wind  shifts,  the  
Freshman  Icebreaker  
Regatta was  a  success.  On  

Saturday, eight races in both the A and B divisions were completed in shifting winds. Windward Leeward "twi-ce arounds" and triangle wind­ward leewards were sailed. On Sunday the remaining four races we-re sailed in each division. 
Tim O'Brien, Karen Wiborg and Louise Eich crewed the Notre Dame one-boat. The Irish two-boat finished first in the B Division. 
Wisconsin captured the overall trophy for both A and B Divisions, as it placed first among the 11 entered teams. Notre Dame finished second, followed by Michigan Maize, Miami and John Carroll in the top-five. Michigan Blue, Toledo, Western Michigan, GLMA, Notre Dame-two and Iowa completed the field. 
Men's Rowing 
Notre Dame and Grand Valley State competed in a series of races Saturday. On the varsity level, Notre Dame's first and second var­sity eights raced their coun­terparts from Grand Valley's team. 
Notre Dame's lightweight four raced against two Grand Valley lightweight fours. The day concluded with three races in which two Notre Dame and two Grand Valley novice boats competed. 
The day began with a thick fog blanketing the race course. The races started at Grand Valley's boathouse, and were rowed the equiva­lent of 1500 meters against the strong current of the Grand River. In the first three varsity races, the Grand Valley boats edged out their Notre Dame counter­parts, with the Notre Dame boats finishing second and fourth on each of those pieces. On the final piece, Gigi Gutierrez coxed Notre Dame's first boat (4:40.35) of Ray Schleck, Tedd Hawks, Karol Grzesiak, Jake Teitgen, Michael Lucci, Steve Maher, 
P.J. McAward and Kane Pithey to a narrow victory over Grand Valley (4:40. 73). Julie Lambe's second eight, which had its lineup rotated for seat racing, took fourth place. 
Notre Dame's lightweight four beat both of Grand Valley's lightweight fours in all three race pieces. Each piece was competitive, and the Irish crew showed its endurance by pulling away in the second half of each piece. Notre Dame's coxswain duties were rotated between Mike Lehmann-and Radhika Deva, and the boat lineup was shuffled between pieces. 
The two Irish novice crews raced against the very strong novice from Grand Valley. In each of the three race pieces, the two Irish boats finished third and fourth. Beth Daley, Andria Seneviratne and Caitlin Hawryszkow each coxed for the Irish crews. 
Notre Dame's novice eights and lightweight fours will compete in Michigan again next weekend at the Lubber's Cup. The top-two Irish eights will travel to San Diego to race in the prestigious San Diego Crew Classic. 
Ultimate 
The Ultimate Club hosted the 11th-annual Whitesmoke Tournament in South Bend. The tournament was sched­uled to be on campus at the Riehle Fields, but wet weath­er forced the tournament to Boehm Park. A total of seven women's teams and 13 men's teams competed this week­end, enjoying the unseason­ably warm weather. 
The men's team started in a "power pool" of five teams that guaranteed each a spot in the championship bracket Sunday. In their first game the Irish faced a club fr-om Michigan, B.A.T. 
The Irish out ran BAT but the turnovers added up and the Irish lost the game on double game point. Undeterred. the Irish came out hard against Marquette. Freshman Andrew Schroeder caught score after score as the Irish posted a 13-11 win. After the bye, the Irish faced section-rival Wheaton College. With pin-point throws from Thomas Rivas and crushing defense from Bill Carson, the Irish cruised to a 13-6 victory. 
The game of the day, and the raison d'etre for Whitesmoke, was the under­graduate versus alumni game. Over 20 alumni made the trip back to their old stomping grounds to match­up against the next genera­tion. 
The undergraduates took half 7-4 on a huge grab by Chris O'Neil. In the second half the young legs of the undergraduates won out for the day -sophomore Daniel Reimer dominated on offense and defense for the under­graduates. The undergradu­ates taught the old guys some new tricks and ended the game 13-7. 
Sunday started with a bracket of eight teams vying for the championship. The Irish faced North Park in their first game after earning the second seed Saturday. Solid handling by Jesse McGannon coupled with aggressive cutting by Tim Peterson helped the Irish cruise to a 13-5 victory. 
In the semi-finals the Irish faced Marquette for the sec­ond time. Calm and deter­mined play, most notably by Eric Blevins, carried the Irish to a 13-10 win. This placed the Irish in the championship game for the first time in the eleven-year history of the tournament. The Irish faced their first opponent of the weekend, B.A.T., for the sec­ond time. After trailing 7-4 at the half, the Irish clawed their way back to take the lead 8-7. However, the throws and veteran savvy of the perennial national con­tender proved to be too much for the Irish, who lost 13-11. 
Squash 
James Zhang, Phil Moss and Mike McConnell compet­ed in the Illinois State Singles Championships this weekend in Chicago. Zhang and Moss were runner-up in the 5.0 and 4.0 divisions, respectively, while McConnell won the 3.5 Division title. This was the best overall showing for the Irish in the event. 
Women's Water Polo 
Women's Water Polo had a strong showing this weekend at Grand VaJip,y State's tour­nament. going 3-1. The first game was a decisive 13-4 victory over the Michigan's B-team. Kristin Schmitt led the scoring with four goals, followed by Bridget O'Neill 'with three. Kelly Horner, MC Cimino and Cristina Homann each had two. The cage was shared by Betsy O'Neill and Maggie Hydp, -all four of the opponent's goals came in the fourth quarter. 
The second game was a decisive 15-2 victory over the University of Gup,Jph. Homano, O'Neill and Cimino all scored hat-tricks. llorner and Kristen llarchut had two goals each, Schmitt and Kat Kennifer each added another. Goaltending was split again between O'Neill and Hyde. 
The third game pitted a tough Miami team against the Irish, resulting in a 7-4 loss. Schmitt had two goals and O'Neill and Emily Harig each added another. 
The Irish ended the week­end with a 4-3 victory over Michigan State. Horner, Kennifer, Cimino and Homano all scored for the Irish. Two of MSU's goals were scored on man-up advantages. O'Neill manned the cage with nine saves. 
Matsuzaka i111presses in five no-hit innings 
Associat<id Press 
SAHASOTA, Fla. -Daisuke Matsuzaka pitched five hitless innings that left him silent and dissatisfied. 
The Hod Sox's celebrated rook­in walked five Cineinnati Heds and fell short of his own expeeta­tion fi1r himself' Monday. 
That expectation, manager Terry Franeona said, is "perfec­tion." 
It doesn't disappear, even in a spring training game when he doesn't allow a run, a hit or a runm~r past second base. 
After Boston's 5-0 loss, Matsuzaka stared at the floor in the visitors' clubhouse for some time. It's not the way he wanted his last full tuneup for his first major league season to end, especially for a player the Hed Sox invested $103 million in because of his ability to avoid such struggles during eight sea­sons in .Japan. 
The usually cooperative piteher refused to talk to reporters and issued a statement. 
"This time of' year I think the content of my pitehing is more important than the result on paper. I am not happy with the content of my pitching today," it said. "I threw a lot of walks and wasted balls. It was tough on my [fielders I to defend and to get into a good rhythm on offense. It's something I will want to pay attention to in the regular sea­son." 
Francona said the right-hander was fine physically after throwing 104 pitches, his spring training high. He's expected to throw 40­60 pitches Saturday in Philadelphia in his last exhibition appearance. 
"Even though he probably did­n't command like he wants to," Francona said. "He didn't give them anything. There's a lot of ways for him to get outs." 
He warned against reading too much into a game in March even though Matsuzaka's outings are scrutinized heavily by reporters. 
"lie doesn't have the right to have spring training because of every camera and all you guys." Francona said with a touch of sarcasm. "This is a spring train­ing game in Sarasota. 
"Let's just ease off." 
Bflsides, there were some impressive parts to Matsuzaka's work. 
The Heds fielded nearly their full regular lineup and he struck out six, induding his last batter, and had better control in his fmal inning. 
"lie very much kept us in the game," pitching coach John Farrell said. "Some of the counts were a little bit of a struggle for him, but I think, overall, he kept his composure to the point of not letting an inning unravel." 
Matsuzaka threw an unusually high 45 balls and had trouble controlling his fastball. But when hitters do make contact they usu­ally make outs; he hasn't given up a hit in his last 10 innings. 
Of the last 37 batters he's faced, 30 made outs, six walked and one reached on a catcher's interference by Jason Varitek against the Reds. 
Thirteen of the 30 outs were strikeouts. The hitless streak began last Wednesday. 

Islam, My Life, and the ''Clash of Civilizations 
An engaging and entertaining presentation by a mining town's son. 
Alex Kronemer, Co-Producer of the PBS Film, 
Muhammad: Legacy ofa Prophet 
and co-founder of Unity Productions Foundation (UPF) 
Born in a small town in Western Pennsylvania, Alex will share stories from his unexpected life, and his work to promote peace through the media. Clips from his forthcoming films, The Rise and Fall of Pluralism in Medieval Spain and A Prince Among Slaves-The True Story of an African Prince Enslaved in the American South will be shared. 

Wednesday, March 28th, 2007 
7:00pm at Browning Cinema DPAC (FREE & open to public) 
Alex Kronemer, who grew up during the 'rust belt' era, went on to earn a Master's Degree from Harvard University in theological studies and is a frequent writer and lecturer on religious diversity. He has published essays in numerous newspapers and journals and has been a CNN commentator on several occasions. Mr. Kronemer has also served a one-year appointment at the Bureau of Human Rights in the U.S. State Department focusing on U.S. foreign policy and Islam. 
Sponsors: Muslim Student Association, FTT, CM, ISSA, Sociology, St. Mary's CM & OMA 
This event is part of the International week. 

Tuesday, March 27, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Andrew Baker 

Crystal Cheney 
Sponsored by Nick Albares 
Sponsored by Margaret Dudley 


Emily Pike 
Robert Christopher Perkins 
Sponsored by Gail Walton 
Sponsored by Danielle Thomson 




This past Sunday, these 11 candidates for Full Communion completed their initiation into the Catholic Church by receiving the Sacraments ofConfirmation and Eucharist at the 11:45 . 
a.m. Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Please keep them in your prayers and help us to welcome them into our Catholic Community. 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 


page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, March 27, 2007 




CLUB SPORTS 

Bikers battle tough course 
Special to The Observer 
Cycling 

Notre Dame had a stong showing this past weekend at races hosted by Michigan State and Michigan. Saturday's race near East Lansing featured a 4.4-mile loop withover a mile of dirt road each lap, an oddity for road racing. The muddy, rough dirt section tore the races apart but proved to be exciting and fun for those racing. Jenn Perricone and Meghan Johnson rode very strong in the Women's B race. They stayed at the front of the pack and sprint­ed across the line for fifth and seventh, respectively. 
Next up was the Men's B race, featuring strong per­formances from Peter Nistler and Andy Steves. Steves unleashed his trademark closing sprint and posted another first place for the Irish. Nathan Menendez raced next in the Men's D category. Menendez crossed the line with a chase group, still managing to finish a grueling race. 
The 52-mile Men's A race was the last of the day, fea­turing Neil Griggs, Mike Lavery, Tim Campbell and Matt Prygoski. Griggs was forced to pull out early due to mechanical problems. Prygoski helped instigate a five-man breakaway after two miles of racing. The break held off the shrinking main pack for the next 50 miles. Prygoski was edged out in the sprint and took second. Lavery and Camp­bell stuck with a hard chase group, often times doing solo efforts. They placed 15th and 17th, respectively. 
Sunday's race included repeated steep climbs that broke up the main packs like the dirt section did the day before. Notable results from the day included Johnson's lOth and Jenn's 12th7place finish in the Women's B race. Prygoski finished lOth in the elite Men's A field. In what has become a regular occurrence, Steves again won the Men's B race with a powerful sprint. 
This weekend's results almost guarantee the Irish a qualifying spot for the Division II Nationals. 
Gymnastics 
Notre Dame continued its strong showing this past weekend at the Michigan Madness meet, held in Brighton, Mich., and co­hosted by Michigan and 
Eastern Michigan. 
Anne Krishnan once again led the women's team by placing first on vault, fourth on beam, seventh on floor and third in the all-around. 
Freshman Kelsey Ingram also made a strong showing in her second meet for the Irish, placing fifth on both beam and floor. Kelleen O'Leary also placed third on bars. Wendy Jo Svetanoff, Sophia Troy and Alya Holowatyj also contributed to the team's third-place fin­ish. 

Miami won the team com­petition with Michigan plac­ing second. Paul Kane was the lone representative for the Irish men, turning in strong performances on floor and vault. The Irish will host the next meet ­the 25th-annual Clover 
Classic  - this  upcoming  
weekend,  at  Gymnastics  
Michiana.  

Men's Volleyball 

On Saturday, No. 6 Notre Dame ventured to Marquette for its final day of confer­ence competition. With their national ranking and seed­ing for the national tourna­ment on the line, the Irish were looking to have a solid showing in Milwaukee. 
Notre Dame opened the day with a continuation of the conference round-robin, where the team was matched up against No. 4 Lakeland College. The Irish surprised Lakeland by tak­ing an early lead on the strong serve receive of libero John Tibbie and defensive specialist Frank Dax. Notre Dame never relented as it cruised to an upset first-game victory by the score of 25-18. 
Lakeland responded with dominating outside hitting, which proved too much for the Irish blocking and defense. Lakeland locked up the second game with a con­vincing 18-25 win. The match came to a third set, which ultimately determined who would emerge from round-robin play in second and third place. 
The set was neck and neck as the teams swapped side­outs until Lakeland went on a run to take a 9-12 lead. With little time, the Irish took hold of the match and went on a 6-1 run to finish the set, winning 15-13. 
To close up the round­robin play, the Irish had to first beat Northern Illinois University and Iowa State University. Both teams proved to be a challenge for the Irish, but neither was able to pull off the upset. 
Northern Illinois gave the Irish two very tight games, but the blocking of the Irish middle blockers, James Foresman and Joe O'Connell, in key situations tipped both of them in favor of the Irish, 25-22, 27-25. In the final match of the round robin, the Irish were paired up against Iowa State. With the powerful attacking of Ted Grossestreur, Arthur Kinsey and Mike Nejelly, the Irish were able to defeat the Cyclones in three sets 25-13, 22-25, and 15-7. 
After playing every team in the conference, Notre Dame came out with an 8-1 record. The Irish were seeded sec­ond going into the tourna­ment portion of the confer­ence play and matched up against No. 21 Marquette. 
Notre Dame took care of business in the first game with a 25-22 victory. In the second set, the Irish burst from the gates, getting an early 5-0 lead. 
Marquette handily won the second set 16-25 and forced the match into a third set. Notre Dame came out early and with determination, tak­ing a quick lead. By the time Marquette started playing on par with Notre Dame, it was too late as the Irish cruised to a 15-8 set and match vic­tory. 
With the win over Marquette, the Irish met again with Lakeland College, with the winner advancing to the conference champi­onship against top-ranked Wisconsin-Oshkosh. Lakeland began the match quickly and with intensity, seeking revenge for the ear­lier upset. Strong serving by the opposition kept the Irish offense out of system and prevented them from putting up a strong fight in the first set, as Lakeland took it 19­25. 
The outside hitting of sen­ior Drew Williams and junior Dan Zibton beat on the Lakeland defense, leading to a 25-19 Irish second set vic­tory. 
In the third set, the Irish earned back-to-back points, increasing their lead to three. This lead held to 12­9, when Lakeland rallied. The match ended as Lakeland took the final game, 13-15, and sent the Irish off with a third-place finish in the conference tournament. 
NFL 

Faulk finally calls it quits, takes on new-role 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX Marshall Faulk's decision was easy after spending last year working for the NFL Network: At 34, his body is more suited for a television studio than for the rigors of playing running back. 
After sitting out last season because of a knee injury, Faulk officially announced his retirement Monday. He's ninth on the NFL's career rushing list, 33 yards behind Jim Brown, who at one time was the standard for the position. 
Faulk, the 2000 NFL MVP, is fourth in combined yards from scrimmage with 19,154 yards and his 6,875 yards receiving are the most ever among running backs. 
"Just being around the game last year, I realized how much I love it," Faulk said. "But my health is every­thing. And I didn't want to return if I couldn't get through a full season. It all came together when a close friend asked me 'How many 34-year-old running backs are there?" 
Faulk starred at San Diego State, where he rushed for 386 yards and seven touch­downs in his first game, and led the nation in rushing as a freshman. 
He was the second pick overall in the 1994 draft by 
Indianapolis and was offen­sive rookie of the year that season. 
He was traded by the Colts to St. Louis in 1999, where he became part of "The Greatest Show on Turf" with quarter­back Kurt Warner and receivers Isaac Bruce and Torry Holt. The team won the Super Bowl after the 1999 season and was upset two years later by New England in a Super Bowl that many critics thought the Rams would have won had Faulk carried the ball more often. 
Faulk noted Monday that he had an unusual role in the development of that team ­the injury during a 1999 exhibition game in San Diego to Trent Green that forced the Rams to go with Warner, an untested, undrafted free­agent backup at quarterback. 
"There's kind of an unwrit­ten rule among veterans in those games that when the play is over, you stopped," Faulk said. "I was blocking on Rodney Harrison and we had some things going between us. But I kind of let up and he kept going and he hit Trent. So when Kurt was forced to play, I kind of felt responsible and really want­ed to make up for it." 
He did. 
In that 1999 season. he ran for 1,381 yards and a 5.5 average and caught 87 pass­es for 1 ,048 yards. 

LHICA60 STATE 
28@ 5:05PM 
Tuesday, March 27, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Brey 
continued from page 24 
Whether Brey leaves or not, the Irish will still have to replace guards Colin Falls and Russell Carter. Both were All­Big East first-team selections this season, averaging 15.3 and 17.1 points per game, respectively. McAiarney will help replace some of these offensive holes -he was aver­aging 10.3 points per game before his suspension -but his traditional role as point guard most likely belongs to rising sophomore Tory Jackson. 
Jackson took over the start­ing position when McAlarney left. As the season wore on, Jackson became more comfort­able in his new role. 
Brey used Jackson off the bench even when McAiarney was still playing, for his defen­sive energy and his ability to shut down whomever he was guarding. But Jackson's offense steadily matured throughout the year, culminat­ing in the Big East tournament semifinals against Georgetown. 
With Notre Dame down seven and under three minutes to play, Jackson stole the show, tying the game by scoring the next seven points with his daz­zling drives to the hoop. 
Even though the Irish lost 84-82, Jackson's performance erased any doubt about his ability to carry the Irish under pressure. 
The Irish cannot afford to lose Jackson's quickness and 
creative ability, but also need a shooter like McAiareny to replace what they lose in Falls. McAlarney will most likely start as more of a shooting guard, while Jackson captains the offense. 
Besides Jackson and McAlarney, Notre Dame has two other returning starters for next season. 
Rising sophomore Luke Harangody (11.2 points per game) and rising senior Rob Kurz (12.6 points per game) will helm the Irish backcourt with rising junior Luke Zeller 
(3.8 points per game) coming off the bench to replace them. · 
One thing the big men need to improve upon for next sea­son is offensive consistency. 
During the season, whenever Harangody would have a big game, it seemed Kurz's num­bers were down and vice versa. 
With the departure of Falls and Carter, the Irish will need offensive output at all times from their big men. 
Presumably, this leaves the fifth spot, the small forward position, open in the starting lineup. The likely candidates to fill this spot are rising juniors Zach Hillesland or Ryan Ayers. 
Both bring different strengths to the table. Hillesland is a coach's best friend. He is a fundamentally sound player with a high bas­ketball IQ who does all the lit­tle things that do not show up in the box score. Whether he sets a key screen, boxing out on rebounds, or playing good defense, Hillesland is a key part to Notre Dame's success. 

If he can develop the mid­range jumper -a shot that can kill a two-three zone from the high post -over the sum­mer, the starting role could be his. 
Ayers has shown the ability to get hot and stay hot from behind the 3-point line. The unknown factor with Ayers is whether he can develop into a more complete player than a spot-up shooter. If he can enhance his play with penetra­tion or some sort of inside presence, he could put num­bers akin to Carter. 
Back in November, Brey inked four recruits to come and play next winter. New York City-native Tyrone Nash looks as though he can have the biggest impact next season. Nash is a 6-foot-7 small for­ward that might get some time off the bench. Ty Profitt, a 6­foot-4 guard from London, Ky., figures to wait in the wings of Jackson, 
McAlarney and rising sopho­more Jonathan Peoples. Carleton Scott and Tim Abromaitis will most likely start behind Kurz, Zeller, Harnagody and rising sopho­more Joe Harden before seeing any action. 
Brey helped the Irish develop the good team chemistry this season that enabled them to compete with anyone they came across. Assuming he returns next season, he will have a solid foundation to build Notre Dame into a force again next year in the Big East. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Calvin 
continued from page 24 

Belles with wins at the No. 1 and No. 2 singles spots. Starting the match in the No. 1 spot, senior captain Kelly McDavitt defeated Calvin freshman Elisabeth Geenen 6­4, 7-6 (6-4). 
Following in the No. 2 spot, freshman Camille Gebert defeated Calvin senior Kari Lipinski in three sets, 6-1, 6-7 (6-8), 6-1. 
The Belles did not fair as well in the third and fourth matches of the day. Saint Mary's sophomore Mary E. Campbell fell to senior Allyson Logan of Calvin College. After winning the first set 6-4, she dropped the second and third 6-3 and 6-1, respectively. Belle's freshman Lisa Rubino could not avenge Campbell's loss. Calvin freshman Rachel Strikwerda defeated Rubino 6­3,6-3. 
Senior Tara O'Brien rallied for the Belles to clinch the vic­tory by defeating Knights' freshman Kelsey Bush house 7­6 (6-2), 6-0. 
Stevenson said that he was pleasantly surprised with the way Grace Gordon performed against Calvin. Gordon -a senior from Wilmette. Ill. -is not typically on the starting lineup but moved up to the No. 6 singles position. Gordon defeated Calvin freshman Rachel DeGroot in straight sets, surrendering only three games in the process. 
Playing in their second con­ference match together, Gebert and McDavitt crushed Lipinski and Strikwerda 8-1 to earn their second doubles victory. 
Playing in the No. 2 doubles spot, Campbell and Rubino suf­fered an 8-5 loss to Calvin's Logan and freshman Jill VanVeen. In the final match of the day Gordon and O'Brien lost 8-4 to Geenan and DeGroot. 
Saint Mary's improved to 2-0 in the MIA,A while Calvin fell to 2-1. 
The Belles will continue play this weekend at the Wheaton Invitational. Stevenson said the team hopes to maintain its undefeated conference record next Tuesday when they take on Adrian on the road. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

Lafayette Square Townhomes 
ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTS!!! NOW OFFERING HALF-YEAR LEASES!! 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
• 
4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 

• 
6 Blocks from Campus ·• 2 Bathrooms 


It's a whole new place! New focal ownership &managment Newly remodeled for 2007-2008 
www.kramerhouses. com 
Renting fast-call today for 2007 · 2008 

Contact l<ramer at (574) 315-5032 or (574) 234-2436 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 27, 2007 
scored and 21 runs batted in and shortstop Ben Humphrey,
Relief 

who has a .305 batting aver­continued from page 24 age with 16 runs scored and 15 batted in. 
Chicago State presents future, I'd answer that ques­slightly less of a challenge. tion," he said. They will arrive in South 
The Irish will get an oppor­Bend fresh off a home dou­tunity to cure bleheader what ails them Tuesday against beginning tonight Wisconsin­
"You have to get
against the Milwaukee in 
some guys to step up 
Chippewas. The which Chicago MAC squad is just and want to be in State will try for 11-10 on the clutch situations." its first win after 
year, despite dropping 22 boasting an straight to open
Dave Schrage
impressive victo­the season. ry over a Stetson Irish coach In addition to team that beat dropping games Notre Dame two against major weeks ago and took two out conference foes like of three from South Florida Cincinnati, the Cougars have earlier this month. also lost to Lipscomb and 
On the other hand, they Hawaii-Hilo. were also swept in three­Both games will begin at game series against Kansas 5:05 at Frank Eck Stadium. State and Southern Illinois.· 
Central Michigan is led by catcher Tyler Stovall, who is Contact Chris Khorey at hitting .455 with 17 runs ckhorey@nd.edu 


Spring 
continued from page 24 
the Irish must replace most of last year's production -wide receiver and running back -Weis said that while he is not ready to name starters, the competitors for playing time are coming along nicely. 
At running back, rising fifth­year senior Travis Thomas, ris­ing senior Junior Jabbie, rising sophomore James Aldridge and early-entry freshman Armando Allen, among others, are com­peting to replace Darius Walker, who ran for 1,267 yards last year. 
''I'm very encouraged by the running baek position," Weis said. 
At wideout, where rising jun­ior David Grimes is the only experienced returning player, Weis said that some players have been impressive. but would not give specific names. 
"Some guys are starting to separate from the pack," he said. 
Weis did say that rising junior 
D.J. Hord, who missed all last season with an injury, is com­pletely healthy but has strug­gled to re-adjust to the speed of the game. 
"Be's rusty," the coach said. "He doesn't look hurt, he just looks rusty." 
Weis said the Irish have not had a full-contact practice yet, but he expects Hord to shake off the rust as soon as they do. Players coming off injuries can be skittish until they get hit for the first time. 
"Because we don't take to the ground yet, he hasn't gotten hit yet," Weis said. "We need to create a 'take to the ground' situation for him so that he can get that first one out of the way." 
Notes 
+Early-entry freshman cor­nerback Gary Gray broke his arm in practice Friday and will be out four to six weeks, Weis said Saturd.ay. . 
"Gray landed on his right forearm, and he has a crack in his right forearm," Weis said. "It's not displaced, but there is a crack." 
+Rising sophomore Munir Prince has been moved from running back to cornerback, Weis said Saturday. 
"I think we were about to get a little too light at corner with Gary down, so we switched that over," Weis said. "Munir and I talked about this last night and again this morning, and we kind of finalized this." 
Prince was an all-state cor­nerback in high school. "He asked me to consider it," Weis said. 
+Weis said captains for next year's team have already been named. 
"With the youth on this team, we thought it would be a good idea to establish some form of leadership in between the coaches and the players," he said. 
Thomas and rising fifth-year senior safety Tom Zbikowski will reprise their roles from last year, while Carlson and rising senior linebacker Maurice Crum will also be captains. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 27, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 

I THOV&-1-fT 'T'H E $PAM ~l..ocKE.Jt W~.S 
in.. ycu.r URG-ENT "''sis b~r of tht. Ni3e.ri"'" u..l, 
t.J. ,. se.c.re.t-b,...., k "' ()$$'26 ,..;/1,·.,., .loll..r~. I 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
The weather's getting too 
nice, Gordon. We have to 
do something. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Wealthy widow 67 Sourpuss 1 Scotch go-with 33 Cold war side 69 Fan mags 5 Each 35 Wee one 70 Rick's love in 
"Casablanca"

9 Like an old 37 Vertical, at sea Andean empire 71 Borscht need
38 Hardly a beauty14 Got 100 on queen 72 3 on a par 5 
15 Gymnastics 42 Debate topic 73 Nikita's "no" coach Karolyi 
45 Tariff 74 Exxon abroad 16 Bond before 
46 Separate intoDalton 
lights and 
DOWN17 Do-it-yourselfer 

darks, say 
1 Dry as a desert

19 Attorney-_ 
50 Perpetual 2 Song words20 Gets in the 

53 Danger for a fly 
before "We
game 55 Stephen of 

stand on guard21 Prude 
for thee" 23 Like bookie 
"Citizen X" 
3 Driller and filler
56 "Rope-a-dope"
joints, boxer 4 Threw in

sometimes 57 Cleanse (of) 5 Lawyers' org.
25 Forever and a day 59 Reversible 6 The Quakers of fabric the Ivy League
26 That, south of the border 61 Natty dresser 7 Nostalgic number
27 Some pitches at 65 It may be at a baseball tilt 8 What you may stadiums have to do for
66 "The Tempest" 
goods bought28 Ja Rule's genre spirit by mail order 

9" Old Cowhand" (1936 Bing Crosby hit) ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


r.~t-:-t 1 o One with a staff position? 
w.~+:--+':!:"1 11 Hall locale 12 Lake on the edge of Kazakhstan 
1111111-:::+::::+:-:+::-t 13 BuffaIo's home 18 Belgian river 22 Brian of early 
Roxy Music 

-:-:+-:+::::+:+:-! 24 Facts and figures 
SvrP'o).s.E.~ TO CATC.t-1 THESE. THIIJ~S. 
LIAMMORAN 
People could have sex or play beer pong, or have sex while beer pong...or worse 
WILLSHORTZ 
29 Luau fare 42 Confused 52 Hybrid language 
31 Pasty-faced 43 Sunrooms 54 Salve 
32 King Kong's kin 44 Taking potshots 58 Dawdle 
34 Concerto, e.g. 60 Waffler's answer
47 Juicy fruits 36 Blasting material 62 Banana discard
48 Bails out 39 Tennis do-over 63 "You're
49 Learns easily something _!"

40 It may be cut by 51 1960's-70's 
an uppercut 641t smells
Boston Garden 41 Took a bough? hero 68 Stable staple 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJWJMIID~LE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YOOBT 

[IJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~5;fl] 
WHEN THE
t
BINNGE t 
FINANCIER STUDIED THE MERGER, HE 
www.jumble.com 
FOUND IT--­
tTICCAR t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I I J I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: "r I I I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: FELON GIANT COUGAR HOOKED Answer: Why the prisoner visited the barber-TO GET "UNLOCKED" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Keira Knightley, 21; Kenny Chesney, 38; Martin Short, 56; James Caan, 66 
Happy Birthday: It's your time to shine. Set up a schedule to work by and stick to it. This year is meant for saving and making sure your future is safe and secure financially. Travel should be implemented if it will help you protect your position. Your numbers are 13, 19, 24, 26, 27, 34 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You can stabilize your position and work through some details today. Progress will be yours if you are smart with the way you handle your money. Make a commitment to a creative project you want to pursue. 
**** 

TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Problems with a loved one or older relative may add to your responsibilities today. Someone you thought you could trust is probably leading you on or astray. Use your better judgment --if something sounds too good to be true it probably is. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have to walk a fine line today. If you are intent on getting something you believe in off the ground, fine. But don't count on getting help. If you strive for too much, too soon you will fall short of your goals. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Do something nice for yourself. You can expect a little extra cash or a gift to come your way. Making changes to your home or getting your spring cleaning out of the way will leave you feeling tired but good. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Memories will make you want to visit people or places from your past. Someone you used to know may fool you by exaggerating about his or her life. Travel will be a good lesson and experience that will help you put your own life in perspective. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may feel drawn to someone who is trying to use you. Ask a trusted friend for help handling a personal situation you are in. A little thought put into your future professional plans will pay off. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your ability to explain your position and your intentions will help you get the help and support you need. A look at different locations and opportunities may set the stage for a mov~. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Spend time with people who are enthusiastic about the same things you are. Love is prominent but you will have to be true to yourself. Steer clear of getting involved with more than one person. Shopping will lead to a great buy. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): People will either love you or hate you today. You won't be able to please everyone so just be yourself. You should consider partnering with someone who is trying to do something similar to you professionally. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stay out of trouble by avoiding any kind of family feud or controversial topic. Remain neutral or avoid all personal dealings by concentrating on a professional project instead. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be eager to get out and make yourself heard. Love is looking very promising so let someone you think is special know how you feel. Don't promise what you can't deliver. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Not everyone will be open about the way they feel. Make your own decision as to whom you can trust and whom you can't.*** 
Birthday Baby: You are dependable but unpredictable. You strive to be different and are not afraid to speak out for what you believe in. You are unique, ahead of your time and an inspiration to others. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 


~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------­
-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, March 27, 2007 page 24 
BASEBALL 

Irish take on Central Michigan, Chicago State 
Team looks to improve out of bullpen after struggling against South Florida in 2 of 3 conference games at home 
Schrage said he doesn't have run by shortstop Brett Lilley "You have to get some guys Schrage said the bullpenBy CHRIS KHOREY 
any particular goals for the in the top of the first. to step up and want to be up struggles surprised him, Sports Editor 
mid-week non-conference "Guys are getting hits with in clutch situations," he said. since relief pitching had been games, there were two clear nobody on base, but when Schrage could say the same an Irish strength for most of 
After a frustrating series deficiencies that led to the they get guys on base they thing about the bullpen. the season. against South Florida in losses to the Bulls -clutch­have bad at-bats," Schrage On Saturday, Notre Dame "It's been good in the past," which it dropped two out of hitting and the bullpen. said. relief pitchers Joey he said. "But we didn't get it three games, Notre Dame In Sunday's 9-1 loss, Notre The coach, who tried every­Williamson, Jess Stewart and done the past few days." (11-11, 1-2 Big East) will try Dame stranded 14 runners thing from hit-and-runs to David Mills gave up a com­Schrage said he hopes his to work out the kinks this on base. The Irish pounded double steals to sacrifices in bined nine runs as the Irish relievers will snap out of week against Central out 13 hits and put at least order to manufacture runs fell 13-10. Then, on Sunday, their funk, but he wouldn't Michigan today and Chicago two base runners on for six Sunday, said the only real relievers Brett Graffy, Kyle guarantee anything. State Wednesday at Frank straight innings between the cure to the clutch-hitting Weiland and Eric Maust gave "If I could see into the Eck Stadium. third and the eighth, but got woes is to have players exe­up seven more in just three 
Although Irish coach Dave their only run on a solo home cute with runners on base. innings of work. see RELIEF/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Fair game 
"Some guys are moving up
With the lose of key 

and some are moving down, on players, Weis not yet a daily basis," Weis said. Despite the nebulous nature sure of future starters of the Irish lineup and the 
amount of youth on the team, 
Weis said this spring has beenBy CHRIS KHOREY 
similar to his past two in South 
Sporrs Editor 

Bend. "We don't look like the Bad
After four spring practices, 

News Bears out there," Weis
Notre Dame head coach Charlie 

said. "We just look like a team
Weis doesn't have a starting 

that's in the fourth day of train­
lineup. 

ing camp. That's actually an off­
And that's just the way he 

handed compliment. I'm not out 
wants it. 

there saying, 'Oh my God, what
Weis said at a post-practice are we going to do?"' 
news conference Monday that The most high-profile position the Irish, who must replace 13 

battle for Notre Dame's is at
starters from last year's squad, 

quarterback, where rising jun­
have not established a depth 

ior Evan Sharpley, rising sopho­
chart yet. 

mores Demetrius Jones and
"There's just guys we put out 

Zach Frazer and early-entry
there first and guys we put out 

freshman Jimmy Clausen are
there second," he said. 

competing to replace Brady
Weis said that rising fifth-year 

Quinn, who set 36 school
seniors like defensive end 
records over his career.
Trevor Laws, center John 

Weis said the offense is being
Sullivan and tight end John 

executed with all four quarter­
Carlson are relatively secure in 

backs at once to ensure that all
their starting positions, but in 

four are on a level playing field. 
other areas Notre Dame is "not 

At two other positions where 
even close to being able to set up a depth chart." see SPRING/page 22 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles stay perfect in MIAA 
By ELLYN MICHALAK SportsWriter 
Monday's match against Calvin College was a nail biter for Saint Mary's. 
Calvin looked poised to end the Belles winning streak, but Saint Mary's battled back after several close sets to defeat the Knights 5-4. Saint Mary's remained undefeated in MIAA conference play with the win. 
"It was pretty even competi­tion," Saint Mary's coach Dee Stevenson said. "The game went down to the first set of the last match." 
The day started well for the 
see CALVIN/page 21 



Holes in lineup leave many questions for '08 
Smith bolted the Wildcats for 
By CHRIS HINE 

Minnesota, Andy Katz of 
Sports Editor 

Espn.com reported that Irish 
coach Mike Brey is one of eight 
As the disappointment of candidates to replace Smith at Notre Dame's first round NCAA one of college basketball's Tournament loss to Winthrop most storied programs. slowly subsides, many ques­Brey just completed his sev­tions abound for the Irish as enth season as Notre Dame they head into the summer coach and earned Big East months. The return of guard coach of the year honors this Kyle McAlarney from suspen­season after guiding the Irish sion will shake up the Irish to an 11-5 conference record starting five, but that may not and their first NCAA be the biggest issue on the Tournament appearance in agenda headed into the offsea­four seasons. son. 
After Kentucky coach Tubby see BREY/page 21 




