
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Hesburgh honored with resolution 
Congressrnan Donnelly calls president emeritus a role model for work in civil rights 
By JENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
Over the years, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Ilesburgh has been bestowed with many honors 
including  the  
Congressional Gold  Medal  
and the Presidential  Medal  

of Freedom, the nation's highest awards given to eivilians. 
Now, after the work of Congressman Joe Donnelly from the 2nd District of 
Indiana, a congressional res­olution can be added to the list. 
The House resolution ­H.RES.687-passed on a voice vote with 103 co-spon­sors on Oct. 9. 
According to the Library of Congress Web Site, the reso­lution recognizes "Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, for his contributions to the civil rights movement in the United States, his tire­less work to reduce the threat of nuclear conflict and his efforts to secure the peaceful resolution of inter­national conflicts." 
Hesburgh was a charter member of the U.S. Commission on Civil Hights and served on it from 1957­
72. He was N o t r e D a m e ' s president f r o m 

1 9 5 2 -
Hesburgh
1987. 
Donnelly, a 1977 graduate of the University, was a stu­dent during the Hesburgh 
era, decided to sponsor a resolution honoring Hesburgh, who he called a "tremendous role model" and one of his heroes, when he found out he would be honored for his 90th birth­day in Washington. The Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery accepted a portrait of Hesburgh arm-in­arm with Martin Luther King, Jr. into its collection earlier the day the resolu­tion passed. A copy of the photograph hangs in the 
see HESBURGH/page 3 

Students rally for migrant wages 
Crowd gathers to demonstrate against Burger King's refusal to increase worker pay 
ByJENN METZ A<Sistant News Editor 
A crowd of about 40 gathered at the Fieldhouse Mall Friday despitn freezing temperatures to listen to speakers talk about the plight of migrant tomato farm­ers in Florida and light to end sub-poverty level wages. 
Literature distributed at the rally said that Burger King, headquartered in Miami and a major purchaser of Florida tomatoes, has publicly rejected increasing the workers' wages by a penny per pound. Two of its eompetitors, Taco Bell and McDonald's, have both agreed to the pay raise, which would have been the first in 30 years. 
Sophomore Kris Trujillo, one of the organizers of the event, spoke from a stage covered with posters, including one that read: "We are a Nation of Immigrants." 
"Today, thousands of people are marching in Miami, Florida, in an effort to stop sweatshop conditions and modern day slav­ery in the fields of South Florida," he said. 
A group of workers formed what is called the Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIWJ to help stop the injustice, he said. Their campaign has succeeded in the case of McDonald's and Taco Bell. But Burger King, which has a branch in the LaFortune Student Center, has not agreed to their three demands: one penny more per pound of tomatoes picked, a code of conduct in the fields and 
see PROTEST/page 4 

Fence blocks part of DeBartolo quad 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Students returning to campus after Thanksgiving break may have noticed a new obstade they had to maneuver on their way to classes -a fence around the DeBartolo Quad. 
Construction of the fence began on Nov. 19, aceording to an e­mail the Oflice of the University Architect and Utilities Department sent to the student body. The new fence endoses the construction site for Stinson­Hornick llall. the planned state­of-the-art engineering building on eampus. 
Notre Dame is building Stinson­Remick Hall on the site formerly 
. occupied by the University Club. 
The University Club, founded in 
1958, closed its doors earlier this 
year amid complaints from club 
members and employees who 
were unsure of the Club's future 
as it is forced to move off cam­
pus. 
The new engineering building, 
set to open in 2010, will house a 
nano-technology research center, 
a new energy center, an under­
graduate interdisciplinary learn­
ing center and a semiconductor 
processing and device fabrication 
clean room. 
"This lnow building] is just 
additional space for engineering. 
They will still continue to occupy 
the old buildings. It's not replac­
see FENCE/page 4 


JENN METZ/The Observer Students gather for a protest Friday on Fieldhouse Mall. Ralliers demonstrated against Burger King's migrant wages. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM HolyCross education discussed 
O'Connor highlights international mission 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
Sister Francis O'Connor spoke to the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL) International Advisory Board Thursday about education in the tradition of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Sponsoring schools in South America, Africa and Bangladesh, the Sisters of the Holy Cross have produced visionary leaders and have empowered women in a mui­tiplicity of cuitures, O'Connor said. 
In Brazil, a sister constructed a recycling plant. Her popularity prompted the local community to nominate her for town mayor, O'Connor said. 
In the U.S., the sisters lobby for peace and justice issues and defend abused women, O'Connor . said. 
"Young women have joined us and carried on the dream of an intercultural, diversified congrega­tion," O'Connor said. 
She also referred to her 20 years of missionary work in Bangladesh. 
Under the Holy Cross leadership, the only Chric;tian women's college in the country was founded in 1950. 
'The school has contributed to empowerment of Bangladesh women," O'Connor said. 
A student who attended the school from kindergarten through college now works with refugees in Darfur. Another recent alumna 
see MISSION/page 4 

Travel supplements in-class learning 
Professors take students to Europe, but funding proves problematic 
By KATE McCLELLAND 
News Writer 
First it was a day trip to Chicago to see a play. Now, multiple Notre Dame classes are spending a week touring Europe. 
Two prominent classes with a travel component this year are Ian Kuijt's Archaeology in Ireland class and Father Kevin Spicer's Holocaust class. 
During fall break, students in Kuijt's class explored archaeologi­cal digs throughout Ireland to see firsthand what they had been studying in the classroom. 
"It was amazing; I would rec­ommend it highly," said .lillian Brems, one of 12 students who participated in the class this 
see TRAVEL/page 4 

Students in lan Kuijt's Archaeology of Ireland class sit in front of the Trim Castle located in County Meath, Ireland over fall break. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, December 3, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

BCS isn't BS 

I startnd this column with every intention of pile-driving tho BCS into tho ground. I had scores of undis­putabh~ oviden<:e 1:onduding that the system was lhtwPd and that the only solution was a playoll" system 
Bill Brink

in the style of 
Mard1 
.'-)ports Production

Madness. 
But you've Editor 

!ward it all 
boforn. 
Since its inception, we've all been 

made aware of the system's shortcom­
ings. I low it misplaces teams in the 
national championship. I low it takns a 
dngrne in computer science to predict 
bowl winners with any smnblance of 
accuracy. llow it doesn't give undefeat­
ed teams like Ilawaii a chance to play 
in the national championship even 
though Boise State proved last s1mson 
that mid-n11~jors can compete. 
Tlw morn I thought about it. I real­

iznd that this is exactly why tho BCS 
works. 
llypotlwtieal situation: The NCAA 

institutes a 16-tnam playotr systmn, set 
up like orw region of the colloge bas­
ketball tournanwnt so that the No. l 
plays tlw No. 16 seed, P1.1:. If that werr~ 
in pl;u:e this season, No. S USC would 
play No. I) Oklahoma in the first round. 
The Trojans' disaster of a loss to 
Stanford would nwan nothing in that 
scenario. A'i it is today, it means every­
thing. 
If your team loses in a tournament, 

who do you blanw'? The players or the 
mad1os. With the BCS, you ean blame 
tlw 1:omput1~r rankings, thn A'isoeiat1~d 
Prnss and a multitude of other far.tors 
for keeping your tnarn out or thn cham­
pionship. Mur.h morn fun. 
In a crazy season such as this, the 

BCS is thn pt~rroct solution. The gn~at 
thing about this football season was the 
parity. LSU's triplo-OT losses, Boston 
College's last-minute comeback, 
Central Florida's brief moment in the 
spotlight, Appalachian State making 
fans everywhere but Ann Arbor giddy 
with nxeitmnent. West Virginia and 
Missouri both throwing away their shot 
at the bayou at the same time -none 
of this would be nearly as interesting 
without the BCS in place to intensify 
the mess. This year, a playoff would not 
work. Tmmessee, at IJ-4, would have a 
dmnce at the championship in a play­
oil" system. Completely unacceptable. 
Also, the BCS is only nine years old. 

It's a fluid system that continues to 
evolve. llawaii has a BCS bowl this sea­
son, following in the footsteps of Utah 
and Boise. Should it win, it will become 
even morn appamnt that mid-majors 
with pnrlect records against weak 
schndulns may in faet be pretty good. 
It's only a mattnr of time before one 
nmches the ehampionship game. 
Finally, it's just plain fun. Who didn't 

have a blast Saturday night after West 
Viq.,tinia and Missouri lost arguing 
about whether Georgia, LSU or 
Virginia Tech will play the Buckeyes in 
Nnw Orleans? The BCS may not bn 
pnrfeet, but it's an important part of 
the game, much as the strike zone is in 
baseball. You may hate it, you may vili­
fy it, and you may think you havn alter­
nativns. But this season wouldn't bn 
what it was without it. 
The tJiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact /Jill Brink at wbrink@)nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and suives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however. recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU HAD A RACEHORSE, WHAT WOULD YOU NAME IT? 







Charley Spear  Brittany Perrie  Greg Torrisi  Valerie Cosimano  Rachel Wiehoff  
sophomore Keough  sophomore Lyons  freshman O'Neill  senior Welsh Family  junior Welsh family  
"Chris Meister and I would ride him all the time. ,  ''The Magic Bullet because it sounds good."  "The Grand Prizer because that's what it would win. ,  "Carmen San diego because I can never find the  "Non­carnivorous fish so it can live in the dorm. ,  

damn thing. , 
Girl Scout receives award, 69 years late 
GRAND CHUTE, Wis. -A Girl Scout who failed to receive a Golden Eaglet Award because she woke up with the mumps finally got the accolade -69 years later. 
Faith lames Schremp, 86, joined Girl Scouts in 1938 and earned all the profi­ciency badges needed to win the award. 
But the morning Schremp, of Wausau, was to leave for Girl Scout Camp, she woke up with the mumps. Attending camp was the final rite of passage in earning the award. 
Schremp said she was 

JESSICA LEE!The Observer 

Freshman Christopher Lee, middle, sings "Santa Claus is Coming to Town at a Carroll Christmas Friday. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 

The rosary will b1~ said tonight at 6:45 at the Grotto. The rosary is said daily. 
Craig Cramer will present a far.ulty organ redtal tonight at S in Heyes Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Studnnt tickets am $3. 
Thorn will be. a prayer service caliPd La Novena a La Virgen de Guadalupe tonight at 9 in SL Edwar·d's Hall Chapel as part of the Our Lady of Guadalupe cel­ebration. 
Thern will be NASDAQ train­ing sessions Wednesday from 6 
p.m. to 7::~0 in Eck Visitors' Center. The event is available to students only. Wednesday's 
topic  is  "Defining  Your  
Customer  Market  and  
Competition."  

The Take Ten program will sponsor local children at the Robinson Community Leaming Center in a bookmark recogni­tion ceremony at 6 p.m. Thursday. Local school children who participated in the Take Ten program will make bookmarks. The Hobinson Center is located at 921 North Eddy Street. 
The annual football banquet will be held Friday at 5:45 p.m. in the Joyce Center Monogram Room. The featured speaker will be 1993 graduate Aaron Taylor, a two-year All-American Offensive Tackle and Lombardi Award winner. Tickets can be purchased through the Notre Dame Ticket Office, 574-631­7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obseroer. e-mail detailed inform­lion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
#~ 
rf{J~ 


HIGH 28 HIGH 30 LOW 15 LOW 18 
heartbroken. 
That is until Fran Raley, CEO of the Girl Scouts of the Fox River Area, presented Schremp with her long­deserved award Saturday during the Girl Scouts' 2007 Holiday Folk Fair. 
Receiving the Golden Eaglet Award, the prede­cessor to the Gold Award, is the highest achievement in Girl Scouting. 
Giant truffle auctioned for 
$330,000 
FLORENCE, Italy-A Macau casino mogul bid a record $330,00 at auction Saturday to win a giant white truffle dug up in Tuseany, organizers said. 
Billionaire Stanley Ho 
made the winning bid for the 3.3 pound truffie during an auction staged simulta­neously in Florence, London and at Ho's Grand Lisboa hotel in Macau, said auction organizer Giselle Oberti. 
The price bested the pre­vious record for a truffie of $212,000, she said. 
The unusually heavy truf­fle was dug up last week by truffle hunter Cristiano Savini, his father Luciano and dog Rocco in Palaia, a town about 25 miles from Pisa. The Savinis said Rocco started snifiing "like crazy" when he zeroed in on the fungus. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY a:: 
LLI :I: 
~'1r-·~ 

~~v?r/fr
~ 
LLI 
~ 
3: 
y 


r.,pr.A $
....... 
~l;..J 

~ 
< 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 37 HIGH 30 HIGH 35 HIGH 42
..J LOW 22 LOW 18 LOW 30 LOW 18 
Atlanta 61 I 38 Boston 42 I 32 Chicago 34 I 21 Denver 38 I 19 Houston 71 I 52 Los Angeles 65 I 51 Minneapolis 22 I 9 New York 45 I 34 Philadelphia 4 7 I 32 Phoenix 70 I 56 Seattle 41 I 34 St. Louis 49 I 32 Tampa 79 I 64 Washington 50 I 30 
------------------------~---. 
Monday, December 3, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
LaFortune Student Center. "A few of us got together 
Hesburgh. however, said one has "to be careful when so many people are being nice." 
"Don't let it go to your head," he said. in between 

and said we'd "/ wanted to make love to pres­
sure everyone in 

ent him with 
America understood 

a proclama­tion from what a tremendous 
Congress at human being Father 
that time. Ilis 
Ilesburgh is." 

lifework is breathtak­i n g , " Joe Donnelly Donnelly 
congressman

said. "He is one of the Americans that has changed this country in the past cen­tury and the beginning of this century. I wanted to make sure everyone in America understood what a tremendous human being Father Hesburgh is." 
Donnelly said he has spo­ken with !Iesburgh many times. both while he was a student at the University and after. 
After he presented Ilesburgh with the resolu­tion. "I told him what an honor it was to have him as our president at Notre Dame and thank him on behalf of Notre Dame graduates, stu­dents and Americans around the country for all he's done for us." Donnelly said. 
llesburgh, sitting in his office on the 13th floor of the library named for him, exprnssed gratitude for Donnelly's work on the reso­lution. 
"This is a great honor from the Congress." he said. "Without him. this would have never been .... I am grateful to the congressman for his wonderful efforts to produce this n~solution and have it approved unani­mously by the Congress." 
life." Donnelly 
drawn to 1-Iesburgh not only by his accomplishments as civil rights leader and University president, but also by his character. 
"He is a rock-solid human being that personifies all the 
values that our Church and our country hold in one person. ... He's a role model as to how to con­duct your­self. If peo­ple see Father Hesburgh and try to follow the things he believes in ­Notre Dame puffs of his cigar. "As someone said, you can taste it, but don't inhale. But when you get to be 90 years old, it's nice to be honored, especially in the nation's capital, where I spent a great deal of my 
said he was 
okay," he said. 
Hesburgh, while gesturing toward the golden dome and Mary though the window in his office, said Notre Dame is "a treasured opportunity enj~.yed by only relatively few. 
"Those who have been so chosen have an enormous 


opportunity to grow during these wonderful four years of higher education at one of the great universities of all time and the top university of the Catholic world," he said. 
Throughout his long career. Hesburgh has served four popes and on 16 presi­dential appointments. Hesburgh was chairman of the Civil Rights Commission from 1969 until 1972, when President Richard Nixon replaced him after 1-Iesburgh criticized the administra­tion's civil rights record. 
I-Iesburgh was born May 25, 1917 in Syracuse, N.Y. and educated at Notre Dame and the Gregorian University in Rome. He was ordained a priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross in what is now called the Basilica of the Sacred Heart (formerly Sacred Heart Church) in 1943. Hesburgh continued his study of 
"When you get to be 90 years old, it's nice to be honored, especially in the nation's capital, where I spent a great deal ofmy life." 
Father Theodore Hesburgh University president emeritus 
sacred theol­ogy at the Catholic University of America in Washington, 
D.C. and joined the faculty at Notre Dame in 1945. 
During H e s burgh 's time as pres­
ident, he transferred the gover­
God. Country, -we'll all do 

nance of the University from members of the Congregation of the Holy Cross to a mostly lay Board of Trustees in 1967. 
In 1972, the University for the first time admitted women to the undergradu­ate program. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

Full text of resolution honoring Hesburgh 
H. Res. 687 In the House of Representatives, U. S., October 9, 2007. Whereas Reverend Theodore M. Hesburgh ,
C.S.C., was born on May 25, 1917, in Syracuse,
New York; Whereas, on June 24, 1943, Father Hesburgh
began his service to the Catholic Church as an 
ordained priest of the Congregation of Holy Cross; Whereas, from 1952 to 1987, Father Hesburgh
served as the president of the University of Notre 
Dame in South Bend, Indiana; Whereas, throughout his tenure as president of 
the University ot-Notre Dame, Father Hesburgh
sought to redefine the contemporary Catholic uni­
versity as a place where both the moral and intel­
lectua] dimensions of scholarly inquiry are vigor­
ously pursued; Whereas, under his leadership, in 1972 the 
University of Notre Dame became a coeducational 
institution; Whereas Father Hesburgh has held 16 presiden­
tial appointments under g-administrations; Whereas, throughout his lifei Father Hesburgh
has been a champion of civi rig_hts, tirelessly
seeking the peaceTul resolution of internationa:l 
conflicfs and encouraging a profound respect for 
all humanity; Whereas, in pursuit of those objectives, Father 
Hesburgh has served on numerous boards and 
commissions, including terms as chair of the 
Overseas Develo_pment Council, chair of the Select 
Commission on rmmigration and Refugee Policy, a 
member of President Ford's Presidential 
Clemency Board, and a representative of the 
Vatican at the International Atomic Energy
Agency in Vienna; Whereas Father Hesburgh was a founding mem­
ber of the United States Commission on Civil 
Rights and served as chair of the commission 
from 1969 to 1972; 
Whereas, through his global humanitarian 
efforts, Father Hesburgh was a catalyst for the 
creation of the Center of Civil and Human Rights 
at the University of Notre Dame Law School and 
contributed to the establishment of the Kellogg
Institute for International Studies and the Kroc 
Institute for International Peace Studies on the 
University of Notre Dame campus; Whereas Father Hesburgh has been a persistent
advocate for the responsifile stewardship of atom­ic energy, and has united internationall_yrenowned scientists, scholars, and spiritual lead-­ers to promote policies that reduce tlie likelihood 
of nuclear conflict; Whereas Father Hesburgh served as ambassa­
dor to the 1979 United Nations Conference on 
Science and Technology for Development, the first 
Catholic priest to perform a formal diplomatic
role for tlie United States Government; Whereas, in 2000 Father Hesburgh became the 
first person in higher education to be awarded 
the Congressional Gold Medal; Whereas Father Hesburgh has been awarded 
the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the Nation's highest civilian honor, as well as numerous awards from education groups, including the Alexander Meiklejohn Award from the American Association of Umversity Professors, the Elizabeth Ann Seton Award from the National Catholic Education Association_., and 150 honorary degrees,
the most ever awardeu to a single indiviaual; Whereas, on May 251_ 2007, Father Hesburgh
celebrated his 90th birtnday; and Whereas Father Hesburgh has led a life of dis­
tinguished public service and deep faith: Now,
therefore, be it 
Resolved, That recognizes Reverend Theodore 
M. Hesburgh , C.S.C., Jpr his contributions to the 
United States civil rights movement, his tireless 
work to prevent nuclear conflict around the 
world, and his efforts to secure the peaceful reso­
lution ofinterna'fional conflicts. 
2008-2009 

Assistant Rector Applications 
for 

Undergraduate Residence Halls and Fischer O'Hara-Grace Graduate Residences are now available 
Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building 
For more information call the 
Office of Student Affairs at 631-6144 
or go to 

http://osa.nd.edu for eligibility requirements and to download the application 
Completed applications must be submitted by February 15, 2008 
----~---­
page 4 Monday, December 3, 2007
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Travel 
continued from page 1 
sp,mnstnr. "Wn could havn stay1~d tlw mst of the snmnstnr, and I wouldn't have mindnd." 
Kuijt's dass is ofl'nrnd evnry otlwr fall smnnster to studnnts studying anthropology or Irish Studios and is fully funded ­induding air travel, lodging and food -by a privato donor. Studenl'i spnnt considnrabln time bnlhrn tho trip studying papors about assignod sites. and when they arrivnd tlwy gave the other studonl'i a tour of tlwir sito. 
Bn•ms said thP oxporirmee's hPnoliL-; werP not eonlinnd to tlw academic sido. 
"It was an opportunity to got to know tho profnssor and other studnnl'i in a dilli•r!'lll eontoxt," she said. 
Spicor's llolocausl dass will travel to l·:uropn during spring brPak. St.udPnL-; will examino the lloloeaust from a ehronologkal porspnctivn in d<L'isand visit tlw sitos whore critical events oe<:urrPd -including thn dtins of Warsaw, Krakow, Pragw~ and B<~rlin -<L'i woll as snveral of the Nazi dnath r.amps. 
Tho ehL'iS W1L'i opnn to applica­tions from all Arts and Lnttnrs majors, with sonw prnl'onmee givnn to history majors. 
"Funding was tlw biggnst quPstion going into tl1is projnet," Spker said. 
Thn llistory Dnpartment, the Nanovie lnstitutn and thn l.narning Bnyond the ChL'isroom program have fundnd the pro­gram. Studnnts will bn able to write rnseareh proposals and soek additional funding individu­ally. 
But thnsn dassns an~ not the only options available to studenl'i who want to incorporate travel into their curriculum. Lnarning Beyond the Classroom has helped fund travel within the 
U.S. and abroad for several da-;sns. 
"It is in the interests of the eol­legn to promote faculty and stu­drmt intoractions oubide of class, and it is wnll worth th1~ invest­mont wn'rc making into those excursions," said Dean Stuart Grmmo, who supnrvisos tho pro­
).,>TIUII. 
There have been film, televi­sion and theatre dassos that have traveled to see Broadway shows and to conduct research on tho art of costuming in London. Music dassns have trav­eled across Europe to study dif~ fnrent types of organs, and advanced Fn~nch literature classes have journeyed to Franen. 
The program attempl'i to dis­tributn resources to promote new opportunities for studenl'i, whiln also donating to elasses that have be1m successful in the p<L'it. It will fund up to 75 percnnt of' the COSt of' a d&'iS, but the pre­cise ratio depends on how well tim travnl portion is incorporated into the regular curriculum tlmrnalter. 
"We have been very fi>rtunate with endowments but it's still fairly limited," Greene said. "Expansion depends on renewed funding." 
(;reene said travel outside of the classroom "makes the sub­jed come alive fbr studnnL-;" and that he often receives letters from studenL'i that describe tlleir travels as having made a serious impaet on their life. 
Contact Kate McClelland at mmcdell@nd.edu 
Stinson-Hemiek Hall will also feature a $500,000 solar panel


Fence 
array and energy system donated continued from page 1 by General Electric which under­
graduates will be allowed to additional needs we have," study to traek the energy bning Executive Vice President John generated. Aflleek-Graves told The Observer The l'cnce enclosing the con­in February. struction will bn in plaee 
Now, O'Connor stressed, the Church accommodates the hungnr 


Mission 
for learning no matter the circum­stance of families. 

continued from page 1 
She <:ailed upon difl'nrnnt rnli­told O'Connor the school nquipped gions to embracn a more spiritual hnr with the right value system to understanding and tolerance. The 
face the world and modfd or the sisters interact with diflerent rnfleel<> tmiversa.l sym­
"Saint Mary's 
cultures with ea-;e. pathy regardless of 0' Connor said gov­allowed and race or eeonomie sta­
ernment service, prepared me tus. human rights <md thP A-; rncipienl'i of lloly 
to be a woman
World Bcmk arc just a Cross educations, two few areas one ean oftoday's Saint Mary's alumnae 
find alumni from the challenging and a current studnnt Bangladesh sehool. rntleded on the intnr­
world." 
"The sisters have cullural opportunities widenr~d horizons and at the Collngn and the stood by a mutually Rocio Sandoval school's prnparation 
respedivn,_ eros~~cul­
student fbr carenrs in an intl~r­tural eonscumeo, she rultural world. said. A member of the 
Women not only in Bangladesh International Advisory Board. but also in other developing coun­Paula Dawning. arrived at Saint tries are not aware of their own Mary's during a turbulent time righL'i, which leads to m<my sode­when Afriean Americans were 
tal problems, O'Connor said. faced segregation. The first in her 
Through intercultural learning, family to attend college, Dawning women can become agents in enjoys being an "agent of change." society and family and stop the Leaving her job as vice presi­sprnad of AIDS, reduce child mor­dent of sales at AT&T, Dawning tality and defend tile nnvironmnnt, became tho superintendnnt of the she said. 
Benton Harbor sehool district. 

In addition, O'Connor discussed According to Dawning, prior to the Catholic Church's past and hnr arrival, only 15 percent of tho present position on mission work. district's middle school students 
Prior to tl1e 1960s, the Catholic read at their grade level. Now, Church defined mission work as that number has jumped to 45 tim conversion of pag<ms, she said. percent. 
throughout the building of the hall. The fence surrounding tile utilities work area to the ea-;t of DeBartolo llaJI and west of' the llnsburgh Center is set to be taken down by Mareh 15. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO1@saintmarys.edu 
Working in Geneva fiJr Proctor and Gamble, Hoeio Sandoval remived an international scholar­ship to attnnd Saint Mary's. 
"Saint Mary's allownd and pn~­pared mn to be a woman of today's ehallnnging world," Sandoval said. 
The social rnsponsibility sup­portnd by the College is rdlnetnd in hnr earner as she strives to improve low-income eonsunmrs' lives &'i a market rnsean:her. 
Senior Adriana Lopez, who said CWIL promotes personal transfi>r­mation and systmnatie ehangn, hopes til give baek to hnr Mexican heritage and use the values she h~arnPd at Saint Mary's t.o make a dilli~rt'nee in tim world. 
Looking to the f'uturn, O'Connor urged the eollngn to stmngthen diversifimtion and fulfill the vision of the sistnrs. Dawning also sug­gested a global nxpnrinnee as a requirement for graduation, whieh would allow studnnLs tl> sen the injustices present today around thn world. 
O'Connor is currently a llesburgh Scholar at Notrn Dame and tl~aehns in the adult education program at lloly Cross College. ShP. completed her t-,rraduatn work in Indian llistory at the Univnrsity of Chicago bnfore working in Bangladesh. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO1@saintmarys.edu 


Protest 
continued from page I 
a placn at tlw nPgotiating table fi1r futurn a).,'TPPIIWnb. Tlw rally, which took plaen 

. from 5 p.m. to 6. was co-organ­iznd hy tlw Progrnssive Student i\llianen ( I'SAl and Movimi1mto J~studantil Chicano do Aztlan (MEChAl. a club that has provi­ously worked to initial«' Uw avail­attendees. lin learned of the nvent and "about the different horrible conditions and unfair wages" through the PSA, he said. 
"I don't think that it's right," M1dster said. lie attended Friday's rally because he wants "to do everything possible to lmlp make a change in the situ­ation.... This is the best thing to do sinc1~ I can't get to Miami." 
Overall, Trujillo was plrmsed 
with the event's 
turnout. 
ability of fnw "It was a good effort "It was a good tradP eo('l'eo on initial nf'f'ort on 
on our part to create
campus. our part to ernate Trujillo, who is at least a little hit of at least a little bit 
involvod in campus awareness. of' campus awarn­MEChA. handed ness," he said. out literature "People senmed 

Krls Trujillo
and f'lyers as really interested people passnd by sophomore to see what the 
the rally. 
"I thought it was good. It was morn of' an infimnational meeting," Trujillo said. 
L<L'it year, after taking a semi­nar through the Center for Soda! Concerns, he "got to sen tho situation first hand" when he visited the predominantly migrant 1:ommunity of lmmokalnn, Fla. 
"We talked about the issues thny worn facing down there and ... led nf'forts to protest against McDonald's," Trujillo said. 
About 1,000 pnopl1~ showml up al the rally against Burgnr King in Miami, he said. includ­ing about eight Notre Damn stu­denl'i. 

Onn of' his main goals, Trujillo said, was to educate students and mnmbers of tho Notre Damn community about the problnm, "what wn'rn trying to changn and how Burger King is marting in a rwgative numner." 
Sophomon~ Chris Moister was orw of' thn Notn~ Danw rally's situation was. 
However, the rally is "only the beginning" in organizers' efl'orts to make peo­ple conscience consumers. Trujillo said. 
In a Nov. 29 New York Times op-ed titled "Penny Foolish," Eric Schlosser, the author of "Fast Food Nation," wrote that the migrant workers in the South Florida tomato fields work for 10-12 hours a day picking tomatoes by hand to earn about 45 cents per every 32-pound bueknt. 
"Migrant farm laborers have long been among America's most impoverished workers ... and r~spneially vulnerable to abuse," he wrote. 
Schlosser applauded the job of thn CIW in working to improve the lives of migrant worker·s in Florida by investigating cases or slavery and pushing f'or wage rwgotiations with the major fast food chains. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

Scholar completes series 
ND professor publishes final two volu1nes about theater history 
performance in the social

Special to the Observer 
and cultural contnxts of the 
rapid transformations in 

Peter l!olland, McMeel 19th century society. Family Profnssor in In "Players, Playwrights, Shakespeare Studies and Playhouses," published in acting dean of the October, leading the­Graduate School 
ater historians identi­at Notre Dame, fy and exem pi ify a recently published variety of • new the final two vol­approaches to the umes of his five­investigation of' plays, book series players, playwrights, "Hedefining playhouses and other British Theatre aspects of 18th centu­I lis tory." ry theater. 
The series Published by

Holland 
brings together more than 60 major practi­tioners in theater history to examine the ways in which previous assumptions need fundamental questioning and to initiate new directions for the field. It senks to estab­lish a new future for theater history by making theater historians aware of their own history, current practice and future. 
The final volume released this month, "The Performing Century," includes a wide­ranging collection of essays f'rom leading scholars in Britain and the U.S. It nxamines modes of perform­ance and forms of theater in 19th century Britain and Ireland, placing drama and 
Palgrave Macmillan in association with the Huntington Library in Pasadena, Calif., the series' other volumes are: "From Performance to Print in Shakespeare's England" (2006). "From Script to Stage in Early Modern England" (2004), and "Theorizing Practice" (2003). 
"This marks the end of a seven-year project," said lfolland, who served as gen­eral editor of the series and co-editor of each volume. 
"Eaeh book began as a conference I organized at the Huntington Library in a rare example of a project sug­gested by the library and publisher, for which each conference took place with 
the volume already planned." 
An internationally renownod Shakespearean scholar, Holland currently is chair of' the !Jnpartment of Film, Television and Tlwatn~ and also holds a concurrent appointment in the Department of English. lin serves as academic diroetor of Actors From The London Stage, the touring Shakospoare theater com pa­ny that makes its U.S. home at Notre Dame. 
llolland, who earned his doctorate at the University of' Cambridge, eame to Notre Dame in 2002. lie prnvious­ly served as direetor of The Shakespeare Institute at Stratford-upon-Avon, England, and professor of Shakespeare studies at the University of Birmingham. lie is a textual scholar whose edition of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" is considered one of the finest in modern timns. 
Acclaimed for his perform­ance-oriented Shakespearean eritieism, Holland currently is presi­dent of the Shakespeare Association of America and editor of Shakespeare Survey, one of' the world's leading journals in the field. 










ORLD & NATION 
Monday, December 3, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()ssE RVER'S wmE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel says peace depends on Palestine 
JliHUSALEM-l1imP Minister Ehud Olmert said Sunday tlmt Israel i'i not bound by a December 2008 k'll'gnt fhr a peace agrnf~ment set at last week's U.S.­hostnd Mideast summit, telling his Cabinet that progms.'i will depmd on the PalPstinia.ns' ability to rnin in militant<>. 
cllle ('.Oil11110lll'i l'f~flectnd Olmert's inwrnal political wPaknes.<;. liard-liners have tlmmtnned to bring down his coalition govemmnnt if he makes too mariy con­CPS.'iions in p<W~f~ talks with the PalestiniarL'i. Olmert spoke a day bnfi1rn Israel was set to release 429 Palestinian prisoners in a gesture to moderate Prnsident Mahmoud Abbas. a step that ha<> drawn critidsm from the same hard-line members of Olmnrt's CabinPt. 
In a mnssagP that could fi.Irtlmr anger lsradi hawks, Ohnert's dnfimse ministPI~ Ehud Barak. said he sup­port'> a lllf'iL'iUI'P to give compnnsation to Jnwish set­tlers in the We~i Bank who leaw their homes volun­tmily. acmrding to tim Dnfimse Mini-.1.ry. 
Putin's party takes parliament again 
MOSCOW-Vladimir !~tin's party won a crushing victory in parliamentary dnctions Sunday. paving the way fiw the authoriuuian leader to remain in control ewn after he steps down <L'> presidnnt. 
Tlw voti1 liJiiowed a terL'ie Krnmlin c<m1paign that mliml on a combination of persuasion and intinlida­tion to nrL'>lli'P vietory filr the United Ru'iSia party and filr Putin. who ha<> u<>ed a flood ofoil revenues to move his country onto a mom <L'isertive position on tlw glob­al sl<tg!~. 
"The vote aflirmed the main idea: that Vladimir J>utin is the nationallnadnr, that the peopln support his course, and this course will eontinue," party leader and parli<mwnt sp<1aker Bori<> Gry/Jov said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Wmter weather hits Midwest, Northeast 
DES MOINES. Iowa -llighways were still slippery in parL'i of the Midwest on Sunday as utility crews restored power knocked out by a snow and ice stonn blanwd fi>r at le<L'>t eight traflie deaths. 
A fi•w light flunins lingered .over NebnL'ika, Iowa and southmL'>tern Minnesota as the con~ of the storm slid through the NorthmL'it. 
Lt~ss than 3 inehes of snow had fallnn by midday in New Jersey. with little more than a dusting in other armL'>, but tlw National Weather Service said a foot of' snow W<L'i pos.'iible in the mounta.ins of nortlmrn Nnw England. witl1 up to 20 inches in northern Maine. 
With snowfall that light in New Jersey, and a dmngnover to rain nxpmted later Sunday in places, the Nnw Jersey Turnpike Authority salted its roads Sunday and didn't bother to plow. 
"It's not a bad way to sk'lrt tl1e Sfla<>on," said Joe Orlando. a spokPsmarl fill' the authority. "Compan~d to what's happ<ming in the Midwest. wt1've kind of got it e<L'>Y right now." 

Muslim informant aides FBI in arrests 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -William Chrisman had three wivPs and nine children to support and struggled with panie attacks. but the Muslim convert was determi1wd to help the Unitnd States aflN Uw Sept. II. 2001, terrorist attacks. 
lin becanw an informant for the FBI and cndml up in contact with two other Muslim eon­verts suspected of supporting tE1rrorism. 
I lis work lwlpPCI authorities charge both men. Derriek Sharenf. 23. piPadnd guilty to plotting to set off grenades in an Illinois shopping mall. Hassan Abu-Jihaacl. a f'ormnr Navy sailor, has plPadnd not guilty to eharges he gave terrorists secret information about the location of Navy ships and ways to attack thnm. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Hockey team in crash; one dead 
WINGATE, Ind.-Seven injured Purdue Univnrsity students were releasnd from a hospital Sunday after being t)'(~ated for injurins caused by an accident that killnd onn student. a school spokPswonHtn said. 
A van carrying members of Purdue's ice hockey club rolled over on an ice-slick­enPd highway Saturday afternoon. Andrew T . .Jackson, 18, from Chanhassen, Minn., was killed in the accident. said Tippecanoe County Deputy Coroner J. Steve Kohnfl. 
Thn sevnn injured students wen~ treat­ed for non-life-threatening injuries and relnased from the hospital. said Purdue spokeswoman Jeanne Norberg. 
VENEZUELA 


Nation votes on conhuversial reforms 
Future of term limits, other policies unknown as officials continue to count ballots 
Associated Press 
CARACAS-Hugo Chavez sought to cement his power Sunday in a vote on constitu­tional reforms that could let him remain president for life, a critical test for a leader b£mt on turning this major 
U.S. oil provider into a socialist state. 
Opponents fear a plunge toward dictatorship. Supporters have full faith that Chavez will use the reforms to deepen grass­roots democracy and more equitably spread the wealth. 
Information Minister Willian Lara said early in the day that there had been "a massive turnout," but turnout later appeared low at some polling places and no ollicial figures were avail­able. 
An emboldened opposition and violent dashes in recent weeks prompted fears of bit­ter conflict if either side dis­putes the result<>, which poll­sters predict will be close. Polling stations with lines remained open into the evening. 
'Tm very sure that every­thing is going to go very well," Chavez said after vot­ing, holding his newborn grandson in his arms. "We're going to accept the results, whatever they are." 
Two pro-Chavez oflicials told The Associated Press although Chavez's revolution spoken foe of Washington, what's destabilizipg their exit polls show a victory is peaceful compared to that Chavez calls those who resist Venezuela, not our policies," for the reforms, but an oppo­of Fidel Castro, "we've been his socialist agenda pawns of he told CNN. sition campaign official said violated all around" by the President Bush. Casting his ballot. Chavez il'i poll shows Chavez headed Venezuelan leader's progres­While his government tout­called the electronic voting for defeat. All spoke on eon­sive consolidation of power. ed pre-election polls showing system "one of the most clition of anonymity because Across town. in a pro­Chavez ahead, surveys cited modern in the world, one of of election rules barring the Chavez slum, Jorge Blaneo, a by the opposition indicated the most transparent in the early release of results. 40-year-old motorcycle taxi strong resistance -unfamil­world." 
The changes would create driver, said Chavez "is giving iar for a leader who easily llis opponents have ques­new forms of communal power to the people" won re-election last year tioned the National Electoral property, let Chavez hand­through the reforms. "He with 63 percent of the vote. Council's impartiality, how­pick local leaders under a opened that little door and Chavez has accused the ever. especially after Chavflz redrawn politkal map, per­now we're free." or the U.S. government of plotting named its former chief, mit eivil liberties to be sus­wealthy elite, Blanco said: to thwart the legitimate vic­Jorge Rodriguez. vice presi­pendPd under extended "What they fear is losing tory he prndicted. dent in January. states of emergency and power." Sen. Carl Levin, a Michigan About 100 electoral allow Chavez to seek re-elec­Chavez has warned oppo­Democrat who chairs the observers from 39 countries tion indefinitely. Otherwise, nents he will not tolerate Armed Services Committee, in Latin America, Europe he cannot run again in 2012. attempts to stir up violence, denied any U.S. attempts to and the United States were 
"He's going to be an elect­and threatened to cut off oil undermine Chavez. on hand, the electoral eoun­ed dictator," said 77 -year-old exports to the U.S. if "We're not seeking to cil said. Absent were the voter Ruben Rozenberg. Washington interferes. The destabilize him. !lis polieies, Organization of American 
The retired blue jeans United States is thP No. 1 his efforts at dictatorship, to States and the European maker, who emigrated from buyer of Venezuelan oil. amend the constitution so he Union, which have moni­Cuba in 1961, said that Latin America's most out-can stay there for life, that is tored past votes. 

N.H. hostage taker had troubled past 
and ended up taking at least five people, The package was not dynamite, but
Associated Press including an infant, hostage. Night would rather road nares duct-taped to fall bp,fore the last one walked free and Eisenburg's body that were made to look HOCIIESTEH. N.ll. -Leeland the hostage-taker peacefully surren­even more realistic by a separate detona­Eisenberg wa<> already in trouble before dered. tor, said Col. Frederick Booth. command­he walked into one of Sen. llillary In the meantime, downtown shops. er ofthe New Hampshire Statfl Police. Hodham Clinton's eampaign offices. restaurant<> and homes were evacuated, Clinton, in the Washington arna during Three days earlier, his wife had filed and mmrby schools were plaeed on lock­the day, traveled to New Hampshire for divorce; he was due to appear in down until students eould b(~ rushed Friday night to meet with the hostages, eourt with her for a domestic violence away on buses. ilieir families and police. hearing in about half an hour. Autl10rities said a state police negotia­The eonfrontation brought lwr cam­Then, the nicely dressnd. ~:,rray-haired tor spoke to the hostages, and then to paign to a standstill"just five weeks man peeled open his jacket to reveal Eisenberg, eventually persuading hin1 to before the Nnw Hampshire primary, one what looked like dynamite strapped to give up. Shortly after 6 p.m., the suspeet of thn first test'i of the presidflntial cam­his chest, authorities said. and things got walkPd out of the storefront oflice; put paign season. She canceled all appear­mueh worse. down a package and was immediately ances Friday. as did hPr husband. formHr Police say Eisenberg went to the office surrounded by SWAT team officers with President Bill Clinton, but she planned to Friday demanding to talk to Clinton guns drawn. They put him on the ground campaign as scheduled in Iowa on about helping him get monk'll health care and handeuffed him. Saturday. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, December 3, 2007 
IRAQ 


Diplomat urges Iraqis to consider legislation 
U.S. says political progress needed to stabilize country, warns that Sunni and Shiite extremists still pose serious threat 
Associated Press 
BACIIIlAil-Washington's No. 2 diplomat pressml leaders of Iraq's religious and nthnie factions Sunday to takn advan­tagn of rnennt sneurity gains to push through legislation aimed at cemonting national reconcili­ation or risk a return to groater violm1ce. 
Tho warning came as the main Sunni bloc agreod to return to parlianwnt aftor ofli­cials nasnd a virtual house arrest of' its leader, putting an end to a crisis that had threat­orwd to inflame sectarian ten­sions as Sunnis, Shiites and Kurds struggle to forge power sharing agreements. 
"The sncurity surgn has deliv­ered significant rnsults, now progress on political reconcilia­tion induding key national legis­lation as well as economic advan1:es is rwmled to consoli­date the gains made thus far," 
U.S. Deputy Secrotary of State .John Negroponte said. "If progress is not made on tlwse fronts we risk falling back to the more violent pattorns or the past." 

The U.S. military has said the Jev1~ls of violence in Iraq have fallon to lows not seen since .January 2006, just before the bombing of' a revered Shiite shrine in Samarra set ofT reprisal killings that have left tons of' thousands of Iraqis dP.ad and pushed the country to the brink of eivil war. But top American commanders have warned that Sunni and Shiite oxtrornists still pose a serious throat. 
At Joast 17 people were killed or found dead on Sunday. The deadliest attack was a suieide ear bomber who struck a high­way police checkpoint northwest of tho Anbar provincial capital of Hamadi, killing at least throe oiTicors and wounding one, police said. Hoadside bombs also kil11\d live Iraqi security forces in separate attacks in Baghdad and north of the capital in Samarra. 
Political progress has been lagging, with lawmakers clash­ing over Kurdish oil dmtls with foreign companies and engaging in heated exchanges over a draft bill that would allow thousands of' formflr membl\rs of Saddam Hussein's Baath party to return to their government jobs. Both measures are among the 18 benchmarks sp,t by U.S. President George W. Bush's administration to encourage recondliation. 
Oil Minister Hussain al­Shahristani, using unusually strong language, told Iraqi state television late Sunday that the eontraets signed by the self-rule Kurdish region were illegal and that the companies involved had bonn told so by the Iraqi govern­nwnt. 
"They have acted alone and gave Iraq's oil to strangers," al­Shahristani, a Shiite, said. 
"No rngion has the right to go it alone and sign a deal," he added. "This will lead to the breakup of Iraq ... oil is the busi­ness of the federal government and any attempt at extracting oil without the approval of the fed­eral government is tantamount to smuggling." 
The Kurds have insisted the deals are constitutional. 
Negroponte, who was wrap­ping up a six-day tour through half of Iraq's 18 provinces, said Iraqi politicians nPeded to follow up quickly on "significant" and "very palpable" achievements in security. 

"It's one thing to have brought the violence under some sem­blance of control but it's anothnr now to follow up with the neces­sary reconstruetion and stabi­lization projects," he said at a news confenmce in the U.S.-pro­tected (;reen Zone in central Baghdad. 

Toddler undergoes rare partial transplant surgery 
Unc01nmon, controversial liver operation in Miami hospital saves 3-year old boy from life of treatment, medication 
drugs. potentially riskier partial own liver. eventually disappear. (In some 
Associated Press 

Surgeons in England, France transplant for Merrick was Little more than a year after patients, it is surgically 
and Japan continued to do the easy. Either road was going to the operation, Merrick's liver removed.) 
MIAMI -Kimberly Lindsey procedure, and in several be difficult, she said, and at had regenerated enough that "I can sit here and say my marvels that lwr 3-year-old son cases had favorable results. least with the partial trans­Kato took him off his anti­son is ofT. lie's ofT everything," Merri1~k doosn't need to take Jackson's Dr. Tomoaki Kato plant, the little boy had a rejection drugs. I lis transplant­Lindsey said. "What they did I 0 dil'f1•rent nwdieines any­was encouraged by reports out chance to regain the use of his ed liver is shrinking and may was a true miracle." 
more. lie can safely frolic on the playground among the germs that lurk there. 
Two ynars ago, Merrick's livnr suddenly shut down. Standard trPatmnnt would have nwant a full liver trans­plant and a lil'l~tinw on drugs to keep his body f'rorn rPjerting 

t h o IH\ w o r ga n . developed so
"J'lzere's a great

Tlw mPd iealion much." 
lwnejlt for the

supprnssing his Still, some imrnunP syst1~rn children and the surgeons say would havP they will stick
technology has 

raised his risk for with the tradi­
developed so much."
infection and tional trans­possibly darnagPd plant until they see more proof
his kidnPys. Dr. Tomoaki Kato 

lnstnad, that the partial
surgeon
Mn r r i 1: k u n dnr­
wnnt a rare and 
onen virtually abandorwd oper­
ation in which a partial donor 
liver was altaehed tnmporarily 
to his failing livnr. 
llis own livnr regenerated, and thn transplantnd liver is shrinking and may eventually waste away. lie has been taken ofT thn anti-rnjeelion rnediea­tion. 
Snvon ehildrnn have had the opnration at the University of Miami/Jackson Memorial llospital-the only U.S. facility holiovnd to be regularly per­forming the surgery. Four of thmn arn now ofT anti-rcjoetion drugs and a fifth is close. 
Tho proendure was first tried in the mid-IIJIJOs, but U.S. doc­tors thought the chance or dnath or complications was too high. One patient who had the surgery at the Miami hospital in I'JIJH rmnairwd hospitalized l'or three months bneause of 1:omplications. Ultimately, his liver n1covnrnd and hn too was taknn ofT the anti-rejeetion of Europe. Since 2005, he has performed six partial trans­plants; all have survived. 

It's "time to revisit the proce­dun~." said Kato, the hospital's direetor of pediatric liver and gastrointestinal transplant pro­gram. "There's a great benefit for the children and the tech­
nology has 
transplant is 

safe. The oper­ation can take more than 10 hours, twice as long as the standard transplant surgery, and is more complicated, increasing risks to the patient. Aftor surgery, a patient must h<tve multiple biopsies to see if his own liver is regenerating. 
Or. Charles Miller, director of liver transplantation at the Cleveland Clinic, said that what concerns surgeons "is that you're taking a very sick patinnt and, in most cases, you would rather do the simplest operation." 
The liver, which deans toxins from the blood, is unique among the body's organs in its ability to regenerate, making the procedure possible. In some eases, the liver can recover from acute, or sudden, failure on its own. But if the organ doesn't recover fast enough, patients can suffer brain. damage from the toxins if they don't get a transplant. 
For Lindsey, choosing the 
Attention 

JUNIORS GOING ABROAD and DECEMBER GRADUATES interested in applying for a 

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP 
(for 11/'o.year.r o./:e.radHa/e .r/!1(1)' at O;yhrd) 

MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 
(fi;r lll'o_vears o/gmduale .rtuc!y in the l inited Kil{f!,dom) 

MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for rme_year r!f".f!,mduate .rtudy in Ireland) 

FULBRIGHT GRANT/ETA 
(for one_yMr o/reset~rcb, stuc!y or tearbit{f!, Et~i!,lt:,·h ruvund Ibe nwld) 


Come to an information meeting on 
Tuesday, December 4@ 5pm in 117 DeBartolo 
If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships ()ffice 1OS ()'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, December 3, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  13,371.72  +59.99  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,345  971  971  3,306,114,713  
AMEX  2,359;85  +2632  

NASDAQ 2,660.96 -7.17 NYSE 9,85t't85 +83.28 S&P 500 I ,481.14 +11.42 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,561.32 -39.35 FTSE 100 'London~ 6,432.50 +83.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.01 +1.48 148.66 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.75 -0.39 51.31 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +2.48 +0.75 31.00 CITIGROUP INC (C) +3.13 +1.01 33.30 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.81 +0.032 3.972 13-WEEK BILL +6.41 +0.185 3.070 30-YEAR BOND +1.24 +0.054 4.403 5-YEAR NOTE -+0.32 +0.011 3.418 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -2.30 88.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -13.20 789.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.13 91.33 


Exchange Rates 
YEN 110.5800 I=IIRn n ~>R?4 

IN BRIEF Congressional delay affects tax returns 
WASHINGTON -Silena Davis had counted on an early tax refund to pay for getting her teeth fixed. Now, because Congress has dawdled all year on a tax bill, she and millions of other early filers could have to wait extra weeks for refunds that last year averaged $2,291. 
The Internal Revenue Service is looking hard at delaying the start of its filing season, set to kick ofl' on Jan. 14, if Congress fails to pass legislation in the next two weeks. At issue is how to handle what could be a dramatic increase in the number or people facing a higher alternative minimum tax. 
If there is a delay and it extends into mid­February, it would slow nearly 38 million refunds worth a total of about $87 billion, the IRS Oversight Board predicts. 
"It would definitely make a big difference with me," said Davis, a George Washington University Law School administrator. ''I'm going to have to get a crown and it's going to be rnally expfmsive." 

Advertising targets web users' activities 
NEW YOHK -Golf dub manufacturers have long placed ads in printed golf magazines. Movie studios tend to run television spot<; before a weekend rather than after. 
TargPting got even mom proeise as advertising moved to the Internet. 
At first ads wern largely targPted to Web sites or sections gParnd to sppcifie topics. An ad filf food product<; might appear on a eooking site. 
Then eame search and the ability to target mPs­sages evPn morn pmcisely based on what you're looking (br. 
But increasingly, online time is spent connecting with friend<; at News Corp.'s MySpace or Fambook -places that an•n't focused on a single topic and may not have good keyword<; in the text. Even when good keywords like "llawaii" or "Porsche" are avail­abln, Web sites can't always meet advertisers' dmnand few popular topics like travel and autos. 
Enter b\~havioral targeting. 

If you've bn1m browsing a lot of Web sites on ChryslPr LLC's Dodge Grand Caravan, a "cookie" data file on your Web browser might mark you a<> being in the market for one. NBxt time you're on a Web site about cooking, don't be surprised if Caravan ads f(JIIow you thorn. 

Democrats support fuel efficiency 
Congress set to demand 40 percent increase in vehicle mileage standards by 2020 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -An agreement among congres­sional Democrats including those from auto industry states-to sup­port a 40 percent increase in vehicle fuel efficiency is likely to be the tonic need­ed to push energy legisla­tion through Congress before Christmas. 
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., a long­time protector of the auto industry, settled their dif­ferences in an agreement late Friday on the fuel economy, or CAFE, issue, clearing the way for a House vote on a broader energy bill, probably on Wednesday. 
Automakers would be required to meet an indus­trywide average of 35 miles per gallon for cars and light trucks, including SUVs, by 2020, the first increase by Congress in car fuel efficiency in 32 years. 
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada called the compromise "good news" and said he hoped to take up the legis­lation quickly after the House acts. 

Dingell said the tougher standards are "both aggressive and attainable" a sharp increase in ethanol say "bloody". -floor of senators who have long and include provisions that use as a motor fuel and debate over energy next opposed increased fuel give manufacturers the require nonpublic electric week. Dingell, the longest economy legislation, and needed flexibility to bring utilities to produce 15 per­serving member of the whose support is viewed by SUVs and small trucks cent of their power from House and chairman of the Democratic leaders as under compliance and to renewable energy sources Energy and Commerce essenti&l if the energy bill avoid job losses. such as wind or solar ener­Committee, likely would is to get the 60 votes need 
"We have achieved con­gy. have been joined by a to overcome an almost cer­sensus on several provi­The amount of ethanol number of other tain GOP filibuster. sions that provide critical required to be used as a Democrats in opposing the Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., environmental safeguards motor fuel would be bill. who strongly opposed the without jeopardizing ramped up to 36 billion Instead, the legislation, 35 mpg requirement when American jobs," said gallons a year by 2022, a while criticized by most it passed the Senate in Dingell in a statement. sevenfold increase over Republicans, is expected June, announced his sup­
Pelosi, D-Calif., said in a today's production. have smooth sailing. port of the compromise. statement that the tougher Dingell's support for the But the negotiations had It "will be challenging for CAFE requirements "will new CAFE requirements as much to do with the auto manufacturers," he serve as the cornerstone" avoids what otherwise was Senate as the House. said. "!But] we got conces­of the energy bill, which almost certain to have The compromise quickly sions on some of the most also is expected to require been a contentious -some received the endorsement important issues." 


Alaska pipeline proposals accepted 
off limits to oil and gas development, mit applications under state guidelines,
Associated Press 
Alaska's gas line could ultimately help outlining details such as the pipeline's 
stem America's dependence on foreign route, the market it will serve and how 

JUNEAU, Alaska-ConocoPhillips resources. Net imports made up about it can build a pipeline and avoid cost wants to build potentially the world's 15 percent of the approximately 22 tril­overruns. largest, most expensive energy facility lion cubic feet of gas the U.S. consumed The state announced other proposals -a multibillion dollar gas pipeline run­last year. late Friday evening. ning from Alaska's North Slope to But the geopolitical climate changes Others submitting an application Midwestern states. frequently as oil prices continue to include: a joint proposal from Canadian 
The project, with a price tag of up to climb. pipeline companies TransCanada and $42 billion, would be worth it, if it can "The viability of the Alaska pipeline Foothills Pipe Line Ltd; the Alaska help supply North American homes and depends on the access to the Lower 48 Gasline Port Authority; the Alaska businesses with heating fuel ftlr years to fields and the day on which you bring Natural Gas Development Authority; come. the pipeline on," said Peter Hartley, a Sinopec ZPEB. China's second largest 
ConocoPhillips, Alaska's leading Rice University energy economist who energy company, and a company listed North Slope oil producer, said Friday it's studies North American natural gas as AEnergia LLC. Not much was imme­"prepared to make significant invest­markets. diately known about AEnergia I.LC. and ments, without state matching funds, to "There is a lot of gas that is inaccessi­the governor's ollice could provide no advance this project.'' ble as a result of the politics, arBas like further immediate information, having 
It's the first proposal in the state­the Eastern Gulf of Mexico, the Atlantic received the application late Friday. sponsored competition for a pipeline to Coast and the Pacific Coast," he said. "Bringing Alaska's North Slope gas to tap the rich fields where the industry "What all these projects havn hanging market in an environmentally responsi­has identified about 36 trillion cubic over them right now is political uncer­ble manner may rPduce the burden on feet of proved reserves that could be tainty ifthese regions open up." energy consumers and lessen American shipped within the next 10 to 12 years. Friday was the deadline for oil and dependence on foreign enerh'Y sources," 
And With so many Lower 48 regions independent pipeline companies to sub-Gov. Sarah Palin said late Friday. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, December 3, 2007 
=======================================-~~========================~ 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame. IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Kt·n l;owlcr Kyle West 
A.~Sl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
ASS'l~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley VlliWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris I line 
ScENE EDITOR: 'Etc Andrew; SAINT MARY's EmTOR: K:Hic Kohler 
PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EmToR: Madeline Nics 
AllVIiRTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
All Dl'.~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Cronli CoNTROI.l.£R: "l"im Sobolewski SYHEM~ AllMINISTRAI"OR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(S74) 631-7471 fAX (S74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(S74) 631-6')00 ohscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (571) 6.~1-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@lnd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EOJTOR 
(574) (,.~ 1-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(S74) 631-SJ23 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit·wpoinr.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
snK.I @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@1nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the im\s:pt·ndcnt, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and column.~ present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Vicwpoim space is availablt· to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letten w the Editor musr be signed and musr include contact intormation. 
Quotiom rrgarding Observer polici~ should bf dirmfd to Editor in CbiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh'ot'rvt'r (li.'\P:"' '\9'> 2-4tHKll i1 puhlttlu:d Mnndo~y Jinnufth Frido~y o:ccpr tlllfmF; ncm ;md Y.l..:ariuiiJIC'ILt~. II. whow:rtptiuntn 'lbr Ol'lllervt'r r~ $100 fur "u"' •lcadcmk 
Ytllr: $~~ li•r nne "<'111<.'11tcr  
!be Olwrver u puhh.hcJ ~~ 014 Suwh DmillK H.tll Notte ( l,mu.·. IN o16'i~(,-On9 l'l:rrOlli~:al pn•I"W p:ud .u Nut~ D.uuc .md adduu•no\1 m.ulutl( offi<.ct.  Xnd ~dtlfelo.' lOntrtiuru 10 ·lncOb,rmr r.O.Buxn'.l 021 Sourh Dinmg f i.Jll  

Nuur Damt', IN <'1(1'51i(,.nn9 
J"ll(' 01-.c:rwr '' >1 mcn1hn nlrhc At..oct.arctl l'rCA. All rcJnnduumn n#ns arc 
n.~tvctl 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Kohler Francis Tolan Katie Peralta Michael Bryan 
Amanda Johnson Matt Gamber Graphics Scene Jared Wafer Tae Andrews Viewpoint l.ianna Brauweiler 
What's in a name? 
To Bush administration otlieials, a good slogan is synonymous with a good strategy. The realities behind the intricate names 
and acronyms of the laws and operations 
toutnd by the Bush White House, however, 
tell a dimmmt story than 
Andrea
their grandiose titles. 
Laid man 
The No Child Left 

Behind Act is one exam-I!igh Sounding 
pie or a policy that, Words 
despite iL'i gripping title, 
is increasingly controversial and, by many 
aeeounL'i, is leaving children bnhind. 

The Patriot Act has been one of" the administration's successes, not only for how quickly it was puslwd through and pa.'isnd by Congrnss back in 2001, but also li1r iL'i ac:ronym: Uniting and Stnmgthening Ameriea by Providing Appropriate Tools Ikquirnd to Intercnpt and Obstruct Terrorism Act of" 2001 (USA PATIUOT AcO. 
It's hard to tell if" the continuation of the "good name makes good poliey" mantra is a eausn or a symptom oftroublr~d American opnrations in Iraq. Operation Iraqi Frnmlom was originally called Operation Iraqi Librwation, but pnrhaps renamed to sidestep the unliJrtunate acronym, OIL 

The war in Iraq is part of a larger opera­tion that ha.'i undergone its own shan~ of White llouse identity erises. In May 2005, tho Bush administration changed the narnn of iL'i military opnrations against terrorist organizations and the governnwnts that support them. What wa.s the Global War on Terror bm:ame the (;]obal Struggle Against Violent Extremism. 
GWOT bneame GSAVE. An upbeat shill.. The global war on terror transformed into our struggle to save the world. The change eame as approval of the President and his war, or, struggle, wa.'i dropping. As Bush's national security advisor said at the time, they needed "to dispute both the gloomy vision and offer a positive alternative." 
The revamped slogan also resultnd from the administration's realization that the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
Who deserves to face Ohio State in the BCS Championship game? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

long-term struggle against terrorism is as 
much an ideological battle as a military 
mission. 
Again, this was in 2005. Four years after 9/11 and two years into the war in Iraq, the administration eonduded that ideologi­cal forces wero at play in the global war and/or struggle against terror and/or vio­lent extremism. Hathnr than a policy over­haul, they changnd the name or their intor­nationallight. 
Tho GSAVE terminology didn't stick, with the public or the media. The White House droppnd it, embraeing instead a brainchild of HumsfiJid, the "Long War." This was the slogan Bush used in his 2006 State of the Union spench. 
None of these changes in naming were accompanied by or rnflected changes in policy, strategy or approach on the ground in Iraq or Afghanistan. While there of coursn have been changes and rdi1rms in poliey, the Jan. 2007 surge is a prominnnt exam pin, they have not coincided with tho marketing efforts of the nxecutivo branch. 
The irony of these attempl'i to garner support, with the White Ilousn bnhaving morn like a desperatn public relations firm than tho lr~adership hub of the nation, is the downward trnnd in approval ratings. The more that President Bush and his administration ignored reality and promot­ed new eatch-phrases, the morn dismayed Americans bneamt~. 
What is needed now is a shift that priori­tizes policy and the individuals it impacL'i -both Americans and Iraqis; a change in the reality rather than the perception of the war. 
Admittedly, public support is crucial to winning a war, but the administration must realize that when a decline in insurgency and street violence is our victory after four years of troop deployments, civilian and military causalities and billions of dollars, the American people want more than a new image for the war. 
As reports of decreasing violence are Haunted by leading Hepublicans, we must 

remembr~r that our mission in Iraq is two­
fold. We cannot daim victory bemuse of a 
reduetion in violent:(~ alone, but have to 
continue to look toward true Iraqi inde­
pendence and political agency. 

Putting morn American soldiers in Iraq to police violence lml to a decma.'in in vio­lence. Does this nwan the surg11 sw:ceed­ed? And is this a sustainable fiwmula fin· stability? Wr~ cannot allow another flawed "Mission Aceomplislwd" mnssage to ovnr­shadow the tragedies and the shortcom­ings of the "Long War" that remain and tlw lack or political and soda! rm:onciliation in Iraq. 
The rPCPnt hoppf"ullwadlines out or Iraq indude a 25-30 percent reduction in for­d!-.,'11 insurgents in Iraq and tlw lowest death toll since February 200(J. The deva.'i­tating rnporL'i inr.ludr~ thn Sunni bloc's walkout of" Parliamrmt in protest on Saturday-44 MPs out of" tho 275 mem­bers vowing to boymtt the assmnbly until their leadnr is rnston~d to Parlianwnt. 
This levd of" politiml turmoil coupled with the f"aet that tim notable low death toll f"or Now~mbPr still surpassed 600 is causl' for not 1wenssarily a nnw nanw, but fiw nnw strategic etlints in Iraq. We llPPd to make diplomatic choices that leave room I(Jr and eneoumgt~ political mmndliation in tho r:ountry. And as the American elnc:­toratn, with much morn invested in Iraq than pnrhaps we expnctod in 2003, we should dmnand nothing lnss f"rom our lr~ad­ers and prnsidcnt. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior political sci­ence and peace studies major. !fer col­umn:<; title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that correspond with them. "She can be contacted at alaidman@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those r~f the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

"A wise man is superior to anyinsults which can be put upon htm, and the best reply to unseemlybehavior ts patience and moderation." 
Moliere French playwright 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, December 3, 2007 page 9 
U-WIRE 
Christlllas spirit harder to elllbrace 
I've done everything I can to get into the spirit of the holiday season. 
I rose bofore the sun on Black Friday-Christmas list and coupons in hand. I stood for a half hour in the Kohl's checkout line that wrapped around the store. I bounced down the aisles in sync with the Christmas carols projecting from the stores' speakers. 
I decorated my niiniature Christmas tree and placed it on my nightstand underneath my window adorned with multicolored lights. I helped my mom hang E . W d
°0

garland and red bows on the pillars outside our house. nn 
I changod the wallpaper on my cell phone and computer to white Bradley falling snowflakes. I changed my ring tone to 'NSYNC's "Merry University Christmas, Happy Holidays," and I have been jamming to Clay Bradley Scout Aiken's "Merry Christmas With Love" in my car. I sang Christmas carols with my frienc:Js downtown at Yulelike Peoria. 
When we got the first snowfall Sunday, I stared out my bedroom window hoping it would stick to the grass and trees and accumulate. 
But despite the effort I've put forward to welcome the holiday season, I still can't seem to get into the mood. Part of the problem is that Thanksgiving came earlier this year and the weather just recently became cold to match the season. 
Instead of having a week of classes and then a few days of fmals before Winter Break, we aren't officially fini'ihed until Dec. 19. 
But I can't blame the calendar makers for making Thanksgiving come early, and I can't blame school officials for letting us out later because of it. I also can't hold the meteorolo­gists responsible for letting the temperature rise into the 60's in November. 
In the end, I can't find anyone to point fingers at for not letting me get into the holiday buzz. I feel like Charlie Brown when he was trying to find the true meaning of Christmas. But that's not really it because I already know the true meaning of Christmas. It's about the birth of Jesus Christ, being charitable to our fellow man, celebrating the gift of giving and spending time with friends and family. 
So now what? Do I accuse myself and other American shoppers for getting wrapped up in the materialism of holiday shopping? Do I blame the people who look past Jesus and venerate inflatable Santas instead? 
I can't point fingers at anyone because Christmas shopping and Santa are almost as important to my holiday season as Jesus and family are. 
But I think I've found the answer. The holiday season isn't what it used to be because I'm growing up. Christmas gets farther away from how I remember it as a child, and I haven't wanted to acknowledge that. I'm 21, and I refuse to accept that Santa isn't going to eat my chocolate chip cookies I put by the tree and Rudolph isn't going to eat the car­rots I throw in the yard. 
Instead of studying for fmal exams and putting out a newspaper, I want to go back to the times when my mom Saran-wrapped my feet to keep them warm during the Festival of Lights parade in East Peoria. I want the adrenaline I got when I snuck into the living room to see ifSanta had come yet. I want to watch "Prancer" and still believe it's a true story. 
But that's not happening, and I need to come to terms with it. Everybody wants to be 10 years old again, including me, but it's not realistic. And I'm hoping that because I finally figured that out this year, I can enjoy the holiday season and be thankful for the Christmas I have. 
But I can't promise I won't cry during "Prancer" or sneak downstairs to see what Santa brought. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 30 edition ofthe Bradley Scout, the daily publication at Bradley University. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The gam_e of tm_ flrtng 
It's Friday afternoon and I hear a familiar beep in my purse. I open my phone to a glowing message. 
"Hey what r u up to?" Sigh. I guess we're doing this again. Ever since phone calls 
Olga Khazan

replaced love letters, women only had to worry 
American 

about one thing: Will he 
University

call or won't he? These 
The Eagle 

days, this concern is exac­erbated by even more ways for your sweetie to either snare or snub you electronically. 
The old-fashioned phone call now shares the spotlight with a host of other options for techno­logical foreplay: Facebook messages and wall post'>, instant messages and, foremost among them, text messages. (We won't include Facebook pokes, as they're lor 13-year-olds and pervert<;.) A'i they've evolved, each one has been loosoly ranked on a scorecard of affection, lead­ing everyone in the dating game to wonder how many point'> they still need in order to get to the next level. 
Girls' Night Out conversations are filled with broaks to thumb-type furiously and fret about the intentions ofsomeone who has yet to com­municate via voice. "If he doesn't call, but he text<; and 1M's, is that just as good?" "How many texts equal a phone call?" "I got a wall post say­ing he's free tonight, but it's been two hours since I texted him back, so I think he's sleeping with someone else." And because no one ever texts, "My intentions are that we continue see­ing each other regularly for an extended period of time" but rather, "Ur 2 cute. C u at 9 k? xx!" The ambiguities never quite get resolved. 
I was formerly completely anti-text message and would use them for strictly utilitarian pur­poses, such as to let someone know to meet me somewhere, or that the bus had hit a hobo and therefore I would be another hour late. I had the type of text plan where you pay 20 cents per text sent or received, and I would berate my friends for sending me non-necessary texts. I finally cracked and upgraded to a more gener­ous plan when I began seeing a guy who liked to send about 10 or 20 texts throughout the day, each bearing nothing but a semicolon and closed parenthesis, every time we had a date. Obviously, neither telling him to stop nor suffer­ing a $150 phone bill were viable alternatives. 
What's baffling is that behavior like that of Emoticon Man is increasingly thought ofas a viable alternative to actual contact. Text mes­saging has been around for a gazillion technolo­gy years, but its use has expanded from a quick­update mechanism to a legitimate form of inter­personal communication. 
Under the guise of "saving time," we've adapted technology to make us look as breezy and busy as possible, waiting hours before responding to texts or abbreviating five-letter words for that "''m so busy and important" effect. We spend 20 minutes thumb-typing a message that could be said in 20 seconds, craft­ing newer, sexier sign-offs. 
What's more, there's a somewhat scary per­manency to it all. Technology allows us to accu­rately ascertain, with friends gathered around a glowing iPhone screen, "What did he mean by that?" without accidentally remembering it incorrectly. It can document exactly what you said in that fateful 160-character precursor to the breakup. There are no take-backs in e-flirt­ing. 
In short, technology has streamlined dating communication to its barest essentials. With it, we are able to project quick, impersonal glimpses of our most perfectly crafted selves, saving time, effort and daytime minutes. Unfortunately, we also lose the stutters, the awkward silences, the thoughtful pauses and all of the other beautiful imperfections of old-fash­ioned conversation. Instead, we lie in wait, cells in hand, hoping for a witty, carefree, abbreviat­ed comment to beep through from across the electronic abyss so that we can wonder what it signifies. In the end, it only adds obstacles to a game that was complicated enough to begin with. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 30 edition ofThe Eagle, the daily publication at American University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Monday, December 3, 2007 


A FINE FRENZY 
While sitting around late in the evening a few days ago and wakhing the end of "Last Call with Carson Daly," I eaught a bit of A Fino Fronzy's pnrfimnanen of il'i new song, "Almost !.over." lntrigund, I stoppnd by a local musk ston~ the next day James Costa to pit:k up its alhurn "Orw Cnll in Scene & /Ieard t.hn Sea." Aftor a li~w listens, it is dnar that t.he band's narno is a bit mislead­ing. First of all, the name is ;u:tually just the stago nanw of Alison Sudol. In all of tlw songs on the album, slw uses her pow­erful vocals and piano skills to construct songs of aching and seductive beauty. 
A Fine Frenzy One Cell in the Sea Label: Virgin Records 
appeal. There are all the col­
Recommended Tracks: ''You Picked Me" 
ors and wonders of Alice, 
and "Hope for the Hopeless" 
coupled with the mature and 

confused insight into love and experience that Alice 
always seemed to somehow 
hold deep within her soul. 
The album's blnakest and most haunting point is reachnd in the track "Almost 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Assistant Seem· Editor 
Sonwwlwro lwtweon practicing in the garag1~ and making it big, bands haw to struggln through that in-bntwnm1 stage wlwn thoy an~ not quito ynt dnfined and only somi-popular. Somn make it, many don't. Four Finger Fiw is on iL'i way up that hill. and while it looks liko it has a few obstados to ovorcome, it might makn its 
Way OVIH', 
Four Fingor Fivo is madn up of guitarist and vocalist .Joe Sturgill, bassist Mike Phillips and pnreussionist Sllwn llarris. Thn 
Four Finger Five Four Finger Five Label: Terrestrial Records 

band just signnd its first deal, which prom­isns thren rm:ords, with Terrestrial Hncords this spring. Its first album, thn self-titled Four Fingnr Five, is scheduled to be rnlnasnd on Dee. 11. It will bn accompanied by a ynar long tour throughout 200R. The Michigan band has recently been featured in rngional venues and on loeal radio sta­tions, playing both its ori~-,rinals and covers. Four Finger Fivn concentrates on roek and soul. but have experimented with many other musieal gnnres. 
The widn range of genres Four Finger Five prnsents managns to b1~come both its greatest strength and weakness. One track will have moments like those f(JUnd in the music of Led Zeppelin, the next will have a strong jazz 
feel, the one after appeals to AI Green. and when the lis­tennr least expmts it sudden­ly hn is exposed to rap or what sounds like reggae. This is no surprise consider­ing that between the three musicians in the band, they have been trained in every­thing from classical, to jazz, funk and hip-hop. Its list of covers indudes artists rang­ing from the Bmt.tles to Stevie Wonder and Soulive. 
While it is rnfreshing to lis­ten to an album with a diverse set of sounds, in the end it feels like the band is still looking for a style that is uniquely its own. Them is no question that Four Finger Five can do a lot, but the listener is left wondoring what it is the band rnally wants to do. 
The extreme mixture of genres is revealed in songs such as "Hubble." The song starts oll" with work frorn the electri­cal guitar that nears catchy, moves into somo soulful lyrics including "the nibble is looted and the truth reconstituted," but somehow ends with rap and a light trailing off of a bell-like keyboard. Some of the songs need a little fine tuning; there is nothing particularly wrong with "Get It Together," but thH keyboard throughout tim song hearkens to the electric organs heard in baseball stadiums. "Soul Hhythm" is one of the most fun and danccable tracks, incorporating mostly jazz and soul, as Sturgill sings, "You are dancing to the rhythm of your soul I Got to free your body, let your body go." 
Tlw album also ineludes contributions from veteran sax player Karl Donson and keyboardist Anthony Smith. Denson and the other brass guest musicians add a lot of' depth to the jazz pieces, espeeially on "Johnson" where Denson shows ofT his skill. Overall, the songs are pleasant and something to jam to while getting work 
JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic 
courtesy son11comi1s.com 

Steve Harris drums onstage during a Four Finger Five concert. 
done, but not yet nmmorabln. 
Four Finger Fiw has a lot of potential that just hasn't quite boon rnaliznd. With so much skill and material to draw upon, the band has the ability to ereate something intriguing. Don't turn your back on the Five, evon if you shouldn't expect to be overwhelmed just yet. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at rnfordice@nd.edu 

As Sudol's debut album, "One Cell in the Sea" im:orporates many frnsh and subtle themes from her life, such as her paronts' divorce and the breakdown of various rnlationships, to produce hauntingly mov­ing songs. 
While most of the songs stay hushed and low key, a few pick up the rhythm and keep the album safe Jrom the danger of being too depressing. Two in particular, "You Picked Me" and "Hope for the llopeless," incorporate sweeping orches­trations and swift arrangemenl'i to keep the listener from drifting into a sad and deprnssed stupor from all the heartbreak songs. With the inclusions of' the upboat piano and string sections, these poignantly 
buoyant songs add an almost 
f~thercal element to the 
album, making it interesting for the listener to ponder. 
Perhaps the most fascinat­ing clement of the album is il'i Alice in Wonderland Lover." It is a song about a relationship that was not to bn and is now far gone from il<; happiest moments. You ean sense that Sudol is sensitive to the hurt inflicted by the inaccessibility of love, however, it is somehow dear that while she is sensitive she is not vulnerable. Indeed, her remark­able confidence as a woman and an artist flows through each note and word. Of course, the song is only powerful becausn it so truly embodies the fullest momenl'i of human heartbreak. Yet the heartbreak is only as much as heartbreak can be; it is not a song of obsessive desperation. She is heartbroken at what could not be, yet she is not obsessed with what will not be. 
Indeed, like experienced in "Almost Lover," many of the album's tracks contain a trace of resignation that is trumped by Sudol's stirring vow to herself to rise above the sadness and move on -a bit bruised, not broken -to something unseen yet beautiful nonetheless. The vocals are dear, powerful, and stunningly beautiful. With the piano and accompanying orchestra­tions, Sudol construeL-; some of the most gorgeous songs being produced today. 
Surn, Sudol sings a few songs that bor­der on overly sappy and melodramatic. But really, what ean you expeet from the debut album of a girl who has so much to sing about and with so much emotion? Nothing much difl'enmt at all. What she does, she does well. Plus, she's bmm desig-
JARRED WAFER I Observer Graphic 


Photo courtesy of partyhopper.typepad.com Alison Sudol performs under the stage name "A Fine Frenzy." 
nated by VI11 as a "You Oughta Know" artist. 
ller new tour will be announced pretty soon, so b1~ sure to check her out and when she might be visiting a venue near you. It'll be worth it. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact James Costa atjcostal@nd.edu 




------~------------------, 
Reporter goes backstage at Legends with The Format 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, December 3, 2007 
Tlw Format took to Legends' stage Saturday, promising to be the Notre Damn audience's "campfire" for the night. Well it was the best sing-a-long that I've been to in a long while. Everything about The Format's per­
Jess Shaffer 
formance was hon­est, unc:ornplicated, 
Scene & Heard
and confident. A surprisingly knock out blend. Only The Format's essential figurehnads, the cool duo of Sam Means and Nate Huess, made the trek out to Notre Dame. Leaving the rest of their band back horne in Arizona, the pair oph~d for a combination of unadulterat­ed vocals and graceful instrumental accompaniment. 
In this age of music, who knew the wonders that just a mic, keyboard and ampnd acoustie guitar could do. Apparently these tried and true staples can still make music magic when in the right hands. The poignant affect of this simplicity was only accentuated by the dose proximity of the audience to the band. While at times you had to ques­tion tho logic of putting The Format mern inches away from their viewers, the dose dynamic of the performance made !'or an appealing and personal music going experience. Despite fan's sometimes pn~carious excitement, the group effortlessly performed essentially in its audience. Commendable bravery, considering that their performance relied lm raw vocals. Huess, the lead vocalist, even warned the closest audi­nncn rnnmbers to keep their crooning at a minimum as to not throw off his 
courtesy .com The Format singer Nate Ruess enter­tains onstage during a performance. 
pitch. For those not in the first row, the tantalizing opportunity to sing along gave fans a chance to contribute as a crowd of backup singers. Fans were so close, not only could they easily hear the group, but in turn could easily be heard by the group, making an endless amount of openings for eager viewers. 
During breaks, fans took advantage of this proximity to shout out cries of sup­port and interest. Huess replied to everything from comments about the purple knit cap he donned to the audi­ence's shouted requests. One particular fan cried out that he had written his Notre Dame admissions essay on The Format's pensive song, "Snails." The band got a kick out of this, joking that if "my s***y lyrics got you in here then maybe I could get in too." Later the duo urged prospective med students to use their new song, "Swans," in their future admission essays. They reasoned that "it's a metaphor too," and apparently that works. Though there was plenty of energized fan activity to go around, Huess' on point vocals demanded atten­tion. 
Exceeding expectations, his voice was unfathomably studio quality. With seemingly effortless ease, Huess' per­formance lived up to the standards that can be found on any one of their albums. Furthermore, it demonstrated an experienced confidence that could achieve virtual perfection even in close quarters. These vocals coupled with Means' easy accompaniment created a plain, down to earth presentation. This band clearly understands the difference between simple and simplistic, pairing 
By JESS SHAFFER Scene Writer 

Though the combination of water bottles and Coronas had a place in The Format's backstage hangout, there were no hordes of groupies to be found. Instead, some comfy couches, an Apple computer and college football set the scene. The Format's personality is about as upfront and sincere as any fan would expect. The best way to describe the band's members is refreshingly down to earth. 
The group's founders, Nate Huess and Sam Means, are currently taking time off from full band performances, using the free time to relax and work on new material while intermittently playing at university venues. They cited favorite shows at schools in Irvine, Phoenix and Memphis. But they haven't all been easy, low maintenance appearances. Under previous condi­tions of obnoxiously early slots or equipment lost in poor flight connec­tions, the band did admit to not always being on its A-game. 
Its talent doesn't seem to be too threatened by flukes. The band has received critical praise for its unique sound. It must have something going 
their obvious talent with a quirky sense of humor. This eccentric talent was often brought to life by Huess' comfort­able presence, which had a hint of Mick Jagger's mannerisms. In songs typically characterized by drum or guitar solos, Huess filled in with his own vocal ver­sions of the instrumental. Cheers to not taking oneself too seriously. Ile showed real commitment to this cause when he accompanied these solos with respec­tive air guitar or air drumming. 
The Format took care to cover the full ground of their discography. Their roughly hour-long set included favorites from "Snails," "Interventions and Lullabies," and the most recent "Dog Problems." They also previewed a cou­ple of new songs. Their diverse set ended with a two-song encore, which the group claimed to be unanticipated. Overall, The Format's performance seemed to satisfy the desire for old favorites and curiosity about new mate­rial. After this appearance the band has surely won a few more fans and intrigued old fans with fresh material. 
Though there was expressed interest in the group's return to South Bend, The Format predicted that the closest they would get to our campus in future would be Chicago. After this concert, the South Shore Train ride would be worth the trip. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe 1 @nd.edu 
for it to draw hundreds of fans to Legends Saturday, despite sleet storms and campus wind tunnels. Perhaps The Format's commitment to creating complete, cohesive albums, rather than COs of singles surrounded by fillers, keeps fans wanting more. · 
Musical purity of this type reflects the band's appreciation for 1960s and 1970s music. When asked about its interest in rock's golden age, the band noted an admiration for the quality of work and the experience of that time but also valued the merits of the cur­rent music scene. Though Means did admit to not know what fans were doing the first time he saw lighted cell phones wave in the air, don't look to this band to preach about returning to the integrity of lighters. 
This intelligent balance of respect for the past and contentment with the present explains The Format's all-time favorite bands, the Beatles and Lindsey Buckingham. It also accounts for its gratitude for being compared to bands like Jellyfish. Overall The Format isn't too concerned with rival­ry. 
When asked who its biggest competi­tion was, The Format answered Steel Train. But not for the reasons you might think. Huess grumbled that tour-
page II 

courtesy of spinner.com Guitarist Sam Means strums onstage at a Format show. 
Photo courtesy Singer Nate Ruess croons i microphone during a recent show. 
ing companions always beat them in bowling and dodge ball matches. Maybe The Format would have a bet­ter chance against Fleetwood Mac, the act the band said it would most like to tour with. 
The Format's unassuming vibe speaks well to its ideas on the progres­sion of its style, leaving it free of pre­tention. The group wants to make each record better than the next, and it looks forward most to playing its new material at concerts. It was most excit­ed to sample its new song, Bends and Hedges. 
While the band conceded that "money is awesome," it also main­tained that being satisfied with its work is paramount. The Format isn't about to sacrifice the veracity of its talent for a larger fan base or more profit. 
While band members said they value fan interest, they're not coneerned with catering to their fan base. Luckily for them, they earn enough that they don't have to work -a luxury that grants them more time to work on their music. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffel@nd.edu 

...---------------------------------­
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, December 3, 2007 
NFL 

Manning's 4 TDs lead Colts over rival Jaguars 
Tatupu intercepts Feeley three times as Seahawks edge Eagles; Chargers take out Chiefs in AFC West showdown 
"In all likelihood, they'll win catches for 158 yards. 
Associated Press 

the division." said Del Hio, Manning, who was 19-of-28 
INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton whose team still leads the AFC for 288 yards, also threw a 14­Manning is adjusting to l>ning wild-card race. "They still have yarder to Clark and a 1-yard without Marvin !Iarrison. Tony to play it out, but they deserve shovel pass to running back Dungy is finally adjusting to it. We didn't quite get it done Luke Lawton for scores. lie now instant rnplay. today. but I saw a lot of good has 23 TD passes for the sea­
So tlw Indianapolis Colts are things." son, tying him with Dan Marino on the verge of their fifth I laving lost to unbeaten New as the only quarterbacks to straight AFC South title. England, the Colts have almost throw more than 20 in each of 
Manning. hamtwred by a lack no chance to get home-finld their first 10 NFL seasons. of reeoivers for tlw past six advantage for the AFC playoffs. wneks, threw four touchdown To get a first-round bye, they Seahawks 28, Eagles 24 passes, two af'tnr tho Colts won have to finish second in the eon­Lofa Tatupu joked about miss­rnplay challenges, to beat fernnce and went into Sunday a ing a tackle and a few defensive .lal'ksonville 2X-25 Sunday and game ahead of' Pittsburgh for assignments. The way he tak1~ a two-game ltmd with four that spot. caught the ball, the linebacker games to go. The Colts' first two TDs c~une might want to play tight end, 
It was the soemHI victory by after challenges. too. tlu~ Colts ( 10-2) over The first one camn on the Tatupu snt up Seattle's first .Jacksonville (X-4) this season, Jaguars' opening possession two touchdowns by intercepting nssm1tially giving them a three­when Hobert Mathis sacked A.J. Feeley twice in the first game load with four games fp,f't David Garrard and knocked the quarter, and he sealed a victory in a division they've controlled ball free. Officials first ruled over Philadelphia with another since Tnnnessee won it tlw first Jacksonville recovered at its 11, pick at the Seahawks 4 in the year of' the current configura­but Dungy appealed and referee final minute Sunday. tion. Terry McAuley ruled the Colts' Tatupu had three intercep­
"I f'enl gnmt about whern we Hahm~m Brock recovered. tions as a rookie in 2005, but will start against the New York Since the Chiefs beat the are right now," said Dungy, who "I never thought there was a only two since. He matched that Giants next week. Chargers 30-16 and plunged during the narly ynars of' the question," Dungy said. "I saw total in the first six minutes, and them to 1-3 on Sept. 30 and challenge system couldn't win Haheem get the ball. lie was capped oft' a career day by haul­Chargers 24, Chiefs 10 triggered an outcry against any, let alone two, as he did in a down. Then someone knocked ing in Feeley's pass with 23 sec­Norv Turner finally found a Turne~ the Chargers have bizarre first quarter Sunday into him and knocked it loose." onds left. team that could handle the turned it around. that induded thrPe challenges. Two plays later, Manning 'Tm just glad I didn't drop it," Kansas City Chiefs. Now, his San "We know we control our own 
"Coing into the fourth quarter threw a 5-yard TD pass to Tatupu said. Diego Chargers could be ready destiny, but I wouldn't say we're of the stmson. wo've got a good Dallas Clark. Maurice Morris had a 45-yard to run away with the AFC West. breathing easier," said quarter­lead in the division and wn're On the Colts' next possession, touchdown run, helping the NFC With LaDainian Tomlinson back Philip Hivers, who had a second in thn conference. If offieials ruled Ben Utecht fum­West-leading Seahawks impro~e rushing for 177 yards and two 38-yard touchdown pass to we'd lost. wn'd have felt we'd bled. Dungy appnaled, McAuley to 8-4. Matt Hasselbeck threw touchdowns and the defense Vincent .Jackson. "We're still not have to win all filllr of our last ruled it an incomplete pass, and for two scores and Shaun getting eight sacks and four pleased at being 7-5. It is cer­games." on the next play, Manning threw Alexander had 65 yards rushing turnovers, the Chargers beat tainly better to be where we are 
Jacksonville's Jack Dnl Hio all a 48-yard TD pass to Reggie and one TD after missing three Kansas City Sunday for their than looking up at someone." but conemled the titln. Wayne, who finished with 8 games with a sprained knee. sixth win in eight games. By the middle of the fourth 
By the time Donovan McNabb They're beginning to flash the quarter, normally loud and comes back, Philadelphia (5-7) form that made them 14-2 in packed Arrowhead Stadium was might be playing for pride only. the 2006 regular season before quiet and about half-empty. The Eagles are in danger of Marty Schottenheimer got fired "We just can't seem to score missing the playofl's for the sec­after the playoll's. any points in the fourth quarter ond time in three years after "I think we have improved as coming down the stretch," said making four consecutive a football team all the way Chief's coach Jlerm Edwards. appearances in the NFC cham­through," said Turner, who beat Tomlinson had only 60 yards pionship game. the Chiefs for the first time in on 1:~ carries in the first half, 
"It's frustrating the way we've seven tries as a head coach. "I but came on af'tnr intermission lost some of these games," safe­know there were some weeks with scoring runs of :H and 2X ty Brian Dawkins said. that it didn't show up." yards. Tomlinson's second 
Playing their second straight It was just the second victory touchdown was No. 111 in his gamfl without the injured in 11 games in Kansas City for career and moved him past McNabb, the Eagles didn't have San Diego and put the Chargers Walter Payton for third on the problems moving the ball on a (7-5) 1? games ahead in the all-time list for touchdowns cold. rainy day. But Feeley's AFC West, pending Denver's rushing. interceptions cost Philadelphia game at Oakland. "You've got to understand, the again. The Chiefs (4-8) lost their fifth wholn reason I wanted to oven 
McNabb hasn't played since in a row and could be headed play football was seeing him," spraining his right ankle and for their worst season in about ·Tomlinson said. "I remember injuring his thumb in a win over 20 years. watching everything he did. Miami two weeks ago. Led by "It is flat-out embarrassing," even off' the field, the way he Jeff Garcia, the Eagles went 5-1 said tight end Tony Gonzalez, talked to kids, the way he talked and won the NFC East after who had 10 catches for 140 to people, the way he carried McNabb went down with a knee yards. "I don't think I've lost live himself. injury last year. But Philly is 0-2 games in a row as a Chief. It's Shawnc Merriman had three without its live-time Pro Bowl frustrating, because I feel like of the eight sacks, which broke quarterback this season. Coach we're a lot better team than the Chiefs' record of seven Andy Heid said McNabb likely what we're playing right now." allowed in a game. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 2 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. Al classilleds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edir all classifieds for comenr withoar issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
CYO Camp Rancho Framasa sum-2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER-5 bedroom house available now UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? mer camp posrtions -Hiring Now! SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM. and for next school year great loca-Do not go it alone. If you or some-WANTED Secure your summer job! Camp FoR RENT 272-6306 lion 105 Marquette just off of one you love needs confidential 
Rancho Framasa is an inclusive, resi-Angela & 31. 232-6964. support or assistance, please call WINTER BREAK WORK $16.25 dential camp, located in south central, Blue & Gold Homes now showing ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For base-appt.. flexible. no experience Indiana, operated by the Catholic 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com NUTS? WANT OUT OF THE more information, visit our website needed, customer sales/service, Youth Organization since 1946. DORMS? GREAT house for rent PERSONAL at: conditions apply, ages 18+, call Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in vari-Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester available January 1 stl 4 bed, 1 http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­now, start after finals. may continue ous programs. We offer a welcoming sale. $200 P/S just off campus bath, 2 mi from NO & near new jog-If you or someone you care about nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad during the spring, positions through staff community in a beautiful outdoor "alumni owned'. ging trail, garage, central AIC, base-has been sexually assaulted. visit in THE OBSERVER. the US, 574-273-3835, setting. General Staff, Counselor Bluegoldrentals.com ment, NICE! $1100/mo. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 
Manager. Inclusive Programming, 503-757-8125 or visit domer-shtml How does Mother Earth fish? www. winterbreakwork.com Ropes Course. Adventure and Health Walk to campus! Good neighbor-homes.wetpaint.com for 
positions available. All positions start hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. info & pies. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-With North and South Poles. Female grad student with cat seeks at $240/week. Training is provided; Washer/dryer in basement. ONE WHO IS? You do not have to people to rent a house with or a start date May 31, 2008. Apply online Landlord does the yardwork. Duplex apt. for rent or sale. Each be alone. We want to help. Call our What do whales like to chew? room in group house. For spring www.campranchoframasa.org $750/mo. No pets. No Section 8. unit has newly remodeled 1-bdrm 24 hour confidential hotline at Blubber gum. semester and ideally through Questions? contact Angi at 888-988-Credit check and criminal back-apt.,partially furnished, new every-1-800-No Abort 
summer. 2839, x25 or e-mail ground check required. thing. Rent $400; sale $45,000. or visit our web site at The Magic 8-Ball says csarver1 @nd.edu angi @campranchoframasa.org 574-250-1266. Call574-233-1604. www.lifecall.org LSU 31, OSU 14 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, December 3, 2007 
NCAA Football  
BCS Standings  
team  record  BCS avg.  
1  Ohio State  11-1  .959  
2  LSU  11-2  .939  
3  Virginia Tech  11-2  .870  
4  Oklahoma  11-2  .857  
5  Georgia  10·2  .839  
6  Missouri  11-2  .776  
7  usc  10-2  .764  
8  Kansas  11-1  .759  
9  West Virginia  10-2  .663  
10  Hawaii  12·0  .647  
11  Arizona State  10-2  .620  
12  Florida  9-3  .613  
13  Illinois  9-3  .460  
14  Boston College  10·3  .459  
15  Clemson  9·3  .384  
16  Tennessee  9-4  .325  
17  Brigham Young  10-2  .303  
18  Wisconsin  9-3  .292  
19  Texas  9·3  .252  
20  Virginia  9·3  .235  
21  South Florida  9-3  .211  
22  Cincinnati  9·3  .179  
23  Auburn  8-4  .157  
24  Boise State  10·2  .118  
25  Connecticut  9-3  .075  
NCAA Basketball  
AP Top 25  
Men's  Women's  
team  team  
1  North Carolina  1  Tennessee  
2  UCLA  2  Connecticut  
3  Memphis  3  Maryland  

4  Kansas  4  North Carolina  
5  Georgetown  5  Rutgers  
6  washington Slate  6  Stanford  
7  Duke  7  Georgia  
8  Texas  8  LSU  
9  TexasA&M  9  Oklahoma  
10  Michigan State  10  Baylor  
11  Tennessee  11  Duke  
12  Louisville  12  California  
13  Marquette  13  Texas A&M  
14  PiHsburgh  14  Arizona Slate  
15  Indiana  15  West Virginia  
16  Butler  16  GWU  
17  Oregon  17  DePaul  
18  Clemson  18  Auburn  
19  Gonzaga  19  Ohio State  
20  Wisconsin  20  Michigan State  
21  Brigham Young  21  Florida State  
22  usc  22  NOTRE DAME  
23  Xavier  23  Vanderbilt  
24  N.C. State  24  Texas  
25  Kansas State  25  Wyoming  

NCAA Men's Soccer  
NSCAA/adidas Poll  
team  record  previous  
1  Wake Forest  15·1-2  2  
2  Connecticut  16-2·1  1  
3  Santa Clara  13-1·4  3  
4  Brown  14·1·1  5  
5  SMU  13·3·2  6  
6  Boston College  12-4·1  8  
7  Creighton  10-1-5  7  
8  Virginia Tech  10-2·5  4  
9  Indiana  13-4·3  9  
10  Tulsa  12-2·2  10  
11  NOTRE DAME  11-3-5  11  
12  Saint Louis  12·2-3  12  
13  IJC Santa Barbara  11-3-3  13  
14  Ohio State  13·3·5  18  
15  Harvard  11·3·2  15  
16  Northwestern  12-4·3  14  
17  Akron  13·3·2  17  
18  West Virginia  13·5-2  16  
19  Maryland  10-4-4  19  
20  California  11·4·2  19  
21  Duke  11-6·1  24  
22  Furman  16·3·0  23  
23  South Florida  12-5-2  22  
24  New Mexico  11-4·1  NR  
25  Virginia  10·6·2  21  

around the dial 
NFL Patriots at Ravens 8:30p.m., ESPN 

CnMrluo FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Associated Press 

LSU has a ticket to the title game. Everyone else has a pretty good gripe. 
The latest chapter in this crazy, unpredictable col­lege football season was written Sunday when LSU won the sport's version of the lottery, being picked to play Ohio State for the championship and leaving about a half-dozen other candidates with plenty to complain about. 
The Tigers (11-2). ranked second in the latest Associated Press poll, will be the first team to play in the BCS title game with two losses. 
No. 1 Ohio State goes into the game, Jan. 7 at 
page 13 
week three times in the last two months. 
The rest of the BCS games are filled with teams that had every bit as good an argument as LSU for a spot in the title game. 
In the Sugar Bowl, Georgia will play Hawaii. The Bulldogs (10-2) were fourth and idle coming into the final weekend ­behind Missouri, West Virginia and Ohio State ­but didn't automatically rise two spots the way coach Mark Richt thought they should. Hawaii (12-0), meanwhile, is the nation's only undefeated team, but is penalized for playing a weak schedule in the Western Athletic Conference. 


the Superdome in New Orleans, at 11-1. 
Missouri and West Virginia, the teams that came into the weekend ranked 1 and 2, lost Saturday to blow their title chances, were left out of the BCS altogether. 
Why did LSU, which was seventh in the BCS stand­ings heading into the final weekend, make the jump to No. 2 and into the big game, while Oklahoma, Southern California, Georgia and a number of others were left behind? 
The 174 poll voters and handful of computer nerds whose calculations make up the BCS rankings prob­ably all have their own reasons. Among the best is that LSU was rewarded for winning the Southeastern Conference, which is tradi­tionally viewed as one of the toughest leagues in the nation. 
There's also the argu­ment coach Les Miles and athletic director Skip Bertman offered up Saturday night: The Tigers went undefeated in regula­tion this season -their two losses both coming in triple overtime. 
Paper-thin as that line of reasoning may sound, it's as good as any in this topsy turvy season during which the top-ranked team lost four times, the second­ranked team lost six times since October and Nos. 1 and 2 lost on the same 
IN BRIEF 

Hawaii to face Georgia in New 
Orleans for Sugar BOwl 
NEW ORLEANS -Colt Brennan and high-scoring Hawaii are perfectly thrilled to play in the Sugar Bowl. Georgia hoped to reach the Superdome, too -only not for this game. 
In the year of the upset, Georgia was indeed upset. The Bulldogs blossomed into one of the best teams in the coun­try with six straight wins, and believed they should've been picked for the BCS championship game. 
Instead, LSU jumped the Bulldogs in the standings and will play Ohio State for the title. 
"We feel like we got shafted a little bit," Georgia safety Kelin Johnson said. "The numbers don.'t add up. The numbers do not add up. The numbers do not lie. That's what is confusing. I don't know what's going on." 
"I do think we were .unofficially dis­qualified for not winning our confer­ence," Richt said. 
Spurs beat Portland, lose 
D"uncan to knee injury 
SAN ANTONIO -When Tony Parker saw teammate Tim Duncan on the court dutching his knee, two things went through hi'imind. 
First, he hoped it wasn't as bad as it looked. Second, the team had to maintain its focus, even though it didn't know how bad the damage wa'i to the star player. 
As it turned out, Dunr;m's injury doesn't appear to be season-ending and Parker and the Spurs kept their mind on the game, coasting to a 100-79 victory over the Portland Trail Blazers on Sunday. 
"It looked bad at first," said Parker. who scored 27 points and dished out eight assi&is. 'There were still like eight minutes left in the second quarter, so we just had to keep play­ing, keep playing and then whatever hap­pens, happeps." 
Duncan bruised his right knee and sprained his right ankle in the first half and did not return to the game. The team said all of Duncan's ligaments appeared stable but that he'd undergo an MRl exam Monday. 
Yankees set deadline for 
Santana trade talks 
NASIMLLE, Tenn. -The New York Yankees likely will pull out of trade talks for Johan Santana if the Minnesota Twills don't make a decision by late Monday. 
''I'm not going to be played against the Red Sox. That's not something I'll do. Timt's not something the Yankees should ever do, and that's I tl1ink what they're trying to do now," Yankees senior vice president I lank Steinbrenner said Sunday. "So if they want the best offer that has been offered to them, then they need to make up their minds." 
The Yankees have proposed swapping pitcher Phil Hughes, center fielder Melky Cabrera and a midlevel prospeet for the two-time Cy Ymmg Award winner, who can be('J)me a free agent after next sea'iOn. 
Boston also is competing to land Santana. The Red Sox are thought to have offered a package that would include pitch­er Jon Lester or center fielder Jacoby Ellsbury but not both. Center fielder Coco Crisp also ('j)uld be part of a trade. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 3, 2007 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Nebraska nan1es Pelini nevv coach 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb.-Bo Pelini is the nnw coach at Nebraska, il~aving thn dtd'ensivn coordina­tor post at LSU for a job many Cornhusker fans thought he should have been given four years ago. 
Interim athletie director and 

former head coach Tom. 
Osborne announced Pelini's 
hiring Sunday, after introduc­
ing Pelini to the players. 
"We neml a head coach with strong defensivn crNinntials and gn~at lnadership," Osborne said. "We wen~ also looking for sonworw who can inspirn con­fidence and get playnrs to play with gn~at Pll'ort. 
"And. of course, we also wanted our nnw lwad coach to understand our traditions, including the importance of our walk-on program and the importance of football in this state." "We want Bo." 
It's the first head coaching "It's something I've worked a job for the 39-ynar-old Pelini, long time for." Pelini said who SJWnt three years at LSU Sunday of becoming a head orchestrating one of the coach. nation's top defenses. lie Expectations are high at replaces Bill Callahan, fired Nnbraska, where football is Nov. 24 aftnr thfl Huskers' sec­king and the Cornhuskers are ond losing season in four the only big-name program in ynars. thn state. Pelini said he won't 
Unlike Callahan. a former eoneern himself with the NFL coach many Nebraska expectations. but appeared fans never felt comfortabln rnady to embrace them. with. Pnlini donsr!'t come to thn "One of the unique aspects of football-eraznd state as a this job ... is everything it stranger. means to the state," he said. 
lin was interim coach after "It's like one big family." Frank Solkh was fimd follow­Pelini said a contract hasn't ing tho 2003 regular season bnen finalized, and lw wouldn't and went on to coach the discuss what he might be paid. Huskers to an Alamo Bowl vic­Osborne had said that the tory over Michigan Stal!L As lw next coach didn't need to have walked ofT the field in San Nebraska ties. Pelini was only Antonio, Husker fans chanted at Nebraska in 2003, but his no-nonsense style of eoaching defense and fiery demeanor quickly made him a beloved figure. 

Husker quarterback Joe Ganz said Pelini's fiery style was apparent in a players-only meeting before he was ollieial­ly announced as head coach. Osborne consulted with players and eoaches who have worked with him and said he found the same thing. 
"All of them are very impressed with his ability to inspire people," Osborne said. 
Osborne had interviewed Pelini and Buffalo coaeh Turner Gill, a former star Nebraska quarterback and longtime assistant at the school. Osborne also reportedly spoke informally with Wake Forest eoaeh Jim Grobe. 
NBA 

Confident Tinsley leads Pacers to win 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -The Los Angeles Clippers chose to leave Jamaal Tinsley alone on the perimeter because Jermaine O'Neal was enough trouble in tho low post. 
They made the wrong choice. 
Tinsley eapitaliznd on the open Iouks, scoring 10 of his 29 poinL<> in the final 4:09 and leading thn Indiana Paeers to a 101-95 victo­ry on Sunday. 
''I'm always confident when thn ball is in my hands. I don't earn if I miss eight or nine shots, I feel like the next one is going to go in," Tinsley said. ''I've got to cn~d­it my coaehing stall' for leaving me out there when I miss a lot of shoL'i so that I get an opportunity to take another one. They were doubling down on Jermaine, tho guys made the extra pass, and they just wont in today." 
O'Neal had 20 points and 15 rebounds despite a sore right shoulder. The six-time All-Star was forced to sit out the final 
2:19 of Friday night's 95-93 loss at Seattle after hurting himself setting a screen. 
"Yesterday morning he wasn't able to get his arm above his shoulder, but we kept on working on it," coach Jim O'Brien said. "lie was doubtful today, and I was actually planning on going without him. But I found out he could go, and he had a great game." 
O'Neal was more concerned about his left knee Saturday morning than his shoulder. lie missed five games prior to the 
Seattle eontest beeause of 
swelling in the knee and his 
lower leg. 
"Obviously, my knee has been a concern over the last two months, and I've been struggling to make moves, make shots, rebound and block shoL<>," O'N1~al said. "Tho Seattle game was actually the first time I didn't have pain in my knee in almost a year and a half, and today I didn't have any pain in my knee at all. 
"My shoulder was about X5 percent," O'Neal addf~d. "We ked it a lot y1~stnrday, I took somn Advil, iced it again this morning and was ready to go." 
Chris Kaman had 22 poinL'i and 22 rebounds for the Clippers. who are 2-9 sinen a 1 04-X9 win at Indiana on Nov. 7 that capped their 4-0 start. Sam Cassell, who seored 35 points that night, missed his second straight game with a strainnd loll calf. 
Tho Clippers' injury woes grnw a bit worsn when No.I dral't pick AI Thornton sprained his left ankle and left the game with 1:22 to go in tho first half. 
"It seems like it's one injury alter another for this team," said Kaman, thn only player to start all 15 games for the Clippers. "We can't make excuses, bneause every team in the NBA goes through that. But it has been ridiculous." 
Tinsley hit a 3-pointnr and a 19-footnr 44 seeonds apart to put the Pacers ahead to stay, then drained another 3-pointor with 
1:56 remaining to put them ahead 96-90 and added a pair of free throws in the fimtlminute. 

NBA 
Strong shooting vaults Detroit over NewJersey 
Associated Press 
AUBUBN IIILLS, Mich. -Bkhard llamilton and Chauncey Billups got into a groove on Sunday night -at the New .Jers1~y Nets' expense. 
Billups and Hamilton. both ham perPd by inj urins in the first month of the season, eombined for :H points on 12-of-1 9 shoot­ing in the Pistons' I l X-95 vido­ry. 
"It's fun to play like this," said Billups, who had I X points and nirw assists. "Wp're moving the ball well. and that's the key for us." 
llamilton sat out most of the prnsnason with an ankln injury, then missed tho first two games ol' tlw rngular season while attending tlw birth or his son. 
111~'s gorw night straight games without roaching 20 points, but hn felt as if lw was closer against Nnw Jnrsny, gotting 1<J bnfore sitting out tho final nine rn imrtl~s. 
"I was finally abiP to gbt into a rhythm." llamilton said. "Coach left me out thern to figure things out, and that hnlpPd a lot." 
Detroit also got a boost from .Jason Maxin! I. who had 1 X points and II rebounds to lwlp tho Pistons win for tlw sixth time in snvnn games, and beat the Nets for the fifth straight time. 
Maxiell struggled while replac­ing Hasheed Wallace and Antonio McDyess in the starting lineup, hut has averaged 13.3 points and 10 rebounds as a rosorve in the last throe games. 
"I think Maxie is better coming ofT tho bnnch, because the refs tond to eall games tight early, and he was picking up early fouls," Pistons coach Flip Saund1~rs said. "Now he's in thorn a little later, and he's able to be more aggressive." 
The Nets agn~ed that Maxiell's physical style blew open what had bonn a dose game. 
"lie changed things," New Jersey coach Lawrence Frank said. "Look at the extra posses­sions game gave them in the first and second quarters. The energy he brought changed the whole tempo." 
Vince Carter, back in the start­ing li1wup, led New Jersey with 22 points, and Hkhard Jellcrson added 21. Jason Kidd had a sea­son-bnst 16 assists. 
"Wn aren't as good as Detroit," Kidd said. "We were playing against a very good team, and we didn't have any answers. It SIHmwd like they made every shot, or if they didn't, they got tlw oll'ensive rebounds and put that in." 


CORE COUNCIL 

FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
THE CORE COUNCIL FOR GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENTS IS SEEKING NEW UNDERGRADUATE STUDENT MEMBERS 
FOR 2008-2009 
We welcome both "allies" and gay, lesbian or bi-sexual students. 
Applications are available on the Core Council Web Site: 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
or can be picked up from The Office of Student Affairs 316 Main Building Bam to Spm Monday-Friday 
Completed Applications are due Monday, December 3 by Spm in the Office of Student Affairs 
Your participation in this Council will: 
• 
Assist with identifying the ongoing needs ofgay, lesbian and bi-sexual students 

• 
Assistin implementing campus-wide educational programming on gay and lesbian issues 


Please visit our web site for more information: http://corecouncil.nd.edu 
Monday, December 3, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish place fourth at OSU 
By CHRIS DOYEN 
Sports Writer 
In a competitive 13-team field in Columbus, Ohio, Notre Dame took fourth place this weekend in its last meet of the fall semester. The squad ended day one of the Ohio State Invitational in fourth and finished there after two more days of com­petition. 
Highlights from day one included a fifth-place finish for the Irish in the 200-yard freestyle relay. The relay team. which consisted of sophomore John Lytle, sopho­more Andrew Hoffman, fresh­man Thomas Van Volkenburg and junior Danny Lutkus, fin­ished with a time of 1:23.33. 
Lytle also swam in the 50­yard freestyle, where his finals time of 21.03 was the 14th best out of 66 swim­mers. In the preliminary race earlier in the day, Lytle post­ed a time of 20.92, finishing in under 21 seconds for the first time since last year's Big East championships. 
Sophomore MacKenzie LeBlanc swam to a 1Oth place finish in the 500-yard freestyle with a time of 
4:30.67. It was the best time 
in that event for an Irish swimmer this season. 
Junior diver Michael Bulfin earned points for the Irish on day one by placing 16th in the 1-meter event with a score of 277.75. 
On day two, senior Andrew MacKay finished 1Oth in the 400-yard individual medley, recording a time of 4:02.97. In the subsequent event, the 100-yard fly, sophomore Ross Moore claimed a fourth-place finish with a time of 49.32. 
Lytle turned in another strong performance in the 200-yard freestyle relay, fin­ishing in 1:39.72, good enough for eighth place. 
Other top-1 0 finishers for the Irish on day two were the 200-yard medley relay team (eighth). junior Sam Pendergast in the 100-yard breaststroke (10th). two teams in the 800-yard freestyle relay (eighth and ninth). and Bulfin in the 3­meter dive (sixth). 
Moore again made his mark on the third day of competi­tion, breaking a school record in the 200-yard fly while posting a time of 1:4 7 .45. The mark was good enough for second place and is also an NCAA "B" qualifying time. 
The Irish posted top-1 0 fin­ishes in all five other events on day three to maintain their fourth-place position. Freshman Michael Sullivan placed ninth in the 1,650­yard freestyle while posting the fastest time of the year for an Irish swimmer. Sullivan also finished sixth in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 1:48.80. 
On day three, Lytle posted yet another strong finish in the 100-yard freestyle, com­ing in seventh with a time of 
45.36. Daniel Rave swam the 200-yard breaststroke in 2:03.17, landing another sev­enth-place finish and earning a team best for the season. The top two teams for the Irish in the 400-yard freestyle relay finished sixth and 1Oth overall. 
The Irish compiled a three­day total of 401 points, while Minnesota took first overall with 1,168 points. Ohio State was second with 1,074 points, and Denver third with 429 points. 
Notre Dame will return to action on New Year's Day when it faces LSU in a dual meet in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Miller takes first place as team finishes in third 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish placed third out of 12 teams at the Husky Invitational in Federal Way, Wash., over the weekend. During the three-day competi­tion, the Irish finished with 897 points. The host school, Washington, took first place with 1,369 points. 
USC finished in second place with 1,225 points. The Irish have now lost to the Trojans twice this season. 
The Irish had an impressive showing, with 16 swimmers making it past the preliminar­ies. The top swimmer for the Irish was freshman Amywren Miller, who claimed a first­place finish in the 100-yard freestyle. Miller notched a season-best time of 50.37 sec­onds and shattered her previ­ous best of 51.69. 
And Miller was not the only swimmer to record a season best this weekend. Junior Christa Riggins tied for sec­ond place in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 50.53, topping her previous best of 51.23. 
Freshman Lauren Parisi took a second-place finish in the 200-yard backstroke with a time of 2:00.83. This time also marked a season best for the freshman. 
The Irish will next compete in a dual meet against LSU on Jan. 2. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

NFL 
Peterson runs through Lions in Vikings rout 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS-Wearing a brace on his right knee and playing for the first time in three weeks, Adrian Peterson was a bit hesitant on the first few plays of the game. 
"I definitely wanted to go out and get that first hit and sec how it felt," Peterson said Sunday. 
Once he took a few shots from the Detroit Lions, some of which he felt were cheap, Peterson was off and running. So were the Minnesota Vikings, 42-10. 
The star rookie rushed for 116 yards and two touch­downs in less than three quartflrs of work and quarter­back Tarvaris Jackson contin­ued his steady improvement to lead the surging Vikings over the free-falling Lions. 
"I got choked up a couple times, so it kind of pushed my buttons." Peterson said. 
The favorite for Offensive Hookic of the Year showed he is back in a big way, but the Vikings suddenly appear much more than a one-man show. 
In the last three weeks, Jackson has shown poise, an accurate arm and command of the offense that simply wasn't there early in the sea­son, and Sunday was his best game yet. He was 18-of-24 for 204 yards and two touch­downs. and the Vikings (6-6) scored TDs on their first six possessions to win their third in a row and fourth in the last five games. 
"We feel like we're getting on a roll and we want to stay on that roll," Jackson said. 
The roll has the Vikings back in the thick of the NFC playoff picture, thanks in large part to a November swoon by the Lions (6-6) that has an all-too familiar feel for their long-suffering fans. 
Jon Kitna threw for 260 yards and one touchdown for the Lions, who have lost four in a row to waste a 6-2 start. A month later, the Lions are looking more like the hapless Motor City Kitties who started the season with more losses than any team in the NFL over the last six years. 
"Our boat's not very full, I know that. We don't have a lot of people left in our boat right now," Kitna said, referring to the sulking Lions locker room. 
''I'm talking about us in general. We are not heading in the same direction right now, as a football team." 
Coming in, the Lions talked about needing a sense of urgency to turn things around. But they showed nothing of the sort in a woeful effort. 
The Lions rushed for just 23 yards on seven attempts against the league's top­ranked run defense, commit­ted three personal fouls and were manhandled at the line of scrimmage. 
"It's a team that's gotten tentative," said Lions coach Rod Marinelli, who blamed himself for the loss. "Today, especially, we looked lethar­gic. The fundamentals aren't being executed the way I wanted." 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Texas upends No.2 UCLA 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Damion James had stars in his eyes playing No. 2 UCLA at Pauley Pavilion. Not so much, though, that he couldn't finish off an upset victory for Texas. 
James dunked with 8 seconds remaining and the eighth­ranked Longhorns won 63-61 after blowing all of a 16-point, first-half lead Sunday in the Big 12/Pac-10 Hardwood Series. 
James and D.J. Augustin fin­ished with 19 points each, and the Longhorns (7 -0) survived their elosest game yet after win­ning their first six by at least 15 points. James had 10 rebounds for his second double-double of the season. 
"It's like a dream come true," said James, who led a Longhorn celebration at midcourt in front of 96-year-old former UCLA coach John Wooden and Denzel Washington. "Him and Denzel, wow, man." 
UCLA star freshman Kevin Love finished with 11 points and five rebounds after taking just six shots and getting benched for the final 2 minutes. 
"I need to seek the ball out more," he said. "I only played 24 minutes, but five rebounds on my part is unacceptable. I should at least have 10 rebounds every game." 
With Darren Collison guard­ing him, Augustin gave up the ball to James in the low post. 
"I stumbled, but I knew Damion was down there," he said. "I threw it up for him to rebound and put it up or finish it with a dunk and that's what he did." 
Collison played 39 minutes, his most in two games, and blamed himself for the last-sec-ond loss. 

"I reached for the ball instead of standing in front. My man had the help and they got the rebound," he said. 'The bottom line is we didn't play defense." 
UCLA's first loss of the season ended the Bruins' 25-game home winning streak. Luc Richard Mbah a Moute had 14 points, and Collison added 12 in his first start for the Bruins (7­1), who led by four with 3 min­utes remaining. 
"That wasn't fun," Love said. "It could be a good wakeup call for us." 
Mbah a Moute missed a 3­pointer in front of UCLA's bench at the buzzer. 
"I shot the ball knowing it was going.to go in, it just didn't go in," he said. 
UCLA became the highest­ranked opponent Texas has beaten in a true road game in school history. Their previous best win came over No. 4 Memphis in January 2006. 
With the score tied at 61, Mbah a Moute was fouled by Connor Atchley. The UCLA play­er's first attempt spun out of the basket, setting up the Longhorns' final possession. 
"That's on me," Mbah a Moute said. "I haven't been to the line a lot. I've been making them in practice." 
Josh Shipp added 11 points for the Bruins, who outscored Texas 36-26 in the second half after being stymied by its zone early. 

Monday, December 3, 2007

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
ND beats Michigan in fourth straight blowout 
NFL 
Redskins honor Taylor with 10 n1en on 1st play 
1.;\NI)(JVI·:H. Mel.-Tlw nws­sagn was JWrfPctly dear: Sean Taylor is gonP fitn•wr, and he is not l'orgol.len. 
hll· all of' tlw No. 21 jerseys, twirling while towPfs and hand­written signs in tho stands Sunday. for all ol' tlw rPd-and-yPI­Iow floW(\rS and burning randles at a makeshif't nwmorial outsidn the stadium. f'or all of the pn\ganw tributPs to lfw Pro Bowl safety. tfw most stark rmninder of Taylor's plight ranw when tlw Washington HPdskins linnd up on ddi~nsP f'or the first time sinen lw was killPd. 
Instead of' 11 HPdskins on tfw 

liPid. as ruh~s allow. thorn worn 
10. 
WhPn tlw visiting Bufl'afo Bills prPparPd to run tlwir first play on oiTensP midway through the op«>ning quart«>r. tlw man who rPp(a('("CI Taylor in Washington's lirwup. I!PPd Doughty, stood rwar eoadws on the siddirw. 
"It was important l'or tlw tnam to know that SPan was with us that orw last time on tlw liPid," Doughty said. "llp'JI always b(~ with us. but that was spedal." 
;\f'tpr watrhing whifP Bills run­ning bw~k f<'r·pd .hu~kson gairwd 22 yards, Doughty PnlPnHI f'or the rwxt play-and made the tackln. 
lkdskins roarh Jon Gibbs was­n't awarP ahead of lime that play­ers wPm going to honor Taylor that way; assistant marh Gn~gg Williams said his dnlimsive eoaeh­es and unit decided Saturday night to do it. 
"WP were going to IN him ride with us one morn time," said Williams, who has dnseribed Taylor as being likP a son to him. 
Tfw 24-ynar-old Taylor dind Tuesday, a day af'tnr being shot at his honw in Florida during a bur­glary. TIH~ shoek has yet to dissi­patn li1r Taylor's t(~amnuttns and thn lkdskins' lims, and thn grinv­ing pnH~nss eontinund on game day, from the doudy, rhilly hours bnfon~ the kiekofl' until thn rain­soakNI Pnd of what turnnd out to lw a 17-16 eonwbaek vietory for Buflitlo. 
"I didn't show up to play this game, f shownd up for a tribute for my friend. to send him out right, and wn found a way to mess it up." said rorrwrbark Fmd Smoot, who tearPd up whnn fw looknd wlwrn Taylor usually plays and didn't son him. 
Bnforn PntPring tho stadium. some spnrtators talked about Taylor in the prnsonl tnnsn, as though il all hasn'l quitn rngis­tnrml. Many wom Taylor's num­bnr-on burgundy, whitt~ or black versions ol' llw jersny. ­
DAVIS CuP 

U.S. defeats Russia 4-1 for title 
Associated Press 

POBTLAND, Ore. -James Blakn smiled his way through an ultimately meaningless mateh Sunday, still nwnling in the United States' vietory over Hussia in the Davis Cup final. 
"It's starting to sink in," Blake said. "We did it." Blake defeated Dmitry Tursunov 1-6, 6-3, 7-5, and the 
U.S. boat Hussia 4-1 to win the Davis Cup title. 
Igor Andreev gave the Hussians thnir only win in the final by defeating Bob Bryan 6­3, 7-6 (4) earlior in the day, al'tor United States had already clinelwd the title for tho first time in 12 years. 
Bryan and his brother Mike dPfnatnd the Russian duo of' Andrnev and Nikolay Davydnnko 7-6 (4). 6-4, 6-2 on Saturday to givn the Americans an insurmountable 3-0 advan­tage. 
At a eeremony following the final two matehns, captain Patrick McEnroe was brim­ming with pride. 
"It's pretty emotional. I think it's finally setting in that these guys did it," McEnroe said. "Wn won the Cup." 
Blah called it one of the grealnst moments of his eamer. 
The first match on the hard (:ourl. at Mnmorial Coliseum was supposed to be between sixth-ranked Andy Hoddick and 

By JAY FITZPATRICK 
A.,sociarc Sporrs Ediror 

Wilh I :J:05 remaining in tho sncond hall'. NotrP Danw guard ;\shiny Barlow stoln the ball from Michigan guard Jessica Minnl'inld and passnd it up court to guard Lindsay SchradPr. who then dished it behind fwr back to point guard Tulyah (;airws for a layup. 
It was just that Pasy Sunday night in a game the Irish even­tually won 77-4h. tlwir fourth straight victory ol' at lnasl 30 points. 
(;aines l'inishPd the game with 15 points on 6-of-7 shoot-" ing, including just her seeond carnPr :1-JJoint shot. Sfw was orw ol' !'our Irish playnrs in double figurPs. 
"Tufyah runs our team. I t hi nk Iw P • rP I w fw r n w c a r P right now bnrausn she is the lu•art and soul ol' our team." lri s h coach ~hll'fn l McCraw said. "Siw's poised and gets llw tPam to do exactly what slw wants." 
c;uard Chan•! AfiPn finislwd wilh 19 points, Stwen n~bounds and live assists. Schrader had I I points. and forward l>ev(~rPaux l'etPrs tallied I 0 points and thrPe steals. 
Mc<; raw said fw r team's dnpth was onP ol' tho reasons thn squad has been able to dominatn opporwnts this sea­sofl. 
"BncausP ol' tfw depth. we can suh mort•." McCraw said. "So il' sonwbodv looks tin•d WP can takn tlwni right out and t.lw can rPsl up a littlP bit and conw bark in. So I think that makes t.lwm play harder wlwn 
tlwy're in thnrn, knowing that they play live or six minutes at a strnt~~h and then tlwy can got a rnst. 
Cairws said tlw dopth allows 
her to get open morn often and 
take more shots. 

"It always hnlps to not have to take earn of' the ball. but just having that depth really lwlps that team overall." slw said. 
Michigan traded baskots with Notre Damn early in the gamn lwl'orn tlw Irish went on an 11-0 run that didn't end until Wofvnrinns et'nter Krista Phillips hit a free throw with 

<J:21 left in tho first half'. Phillips was one of only four Wolvnrinns to SC<Il'P in the first hall'. In the opening 20 min­utes, tlw WofvPrinos shot just 6-of-20 from the floor, includ­ing 1-ol'-9 from beyond 3-point land. 
MrGraw said hnr team is comfortable in tho zone dnfnnS(\ which is why she used it along with a press through­out most of tfw game. Slw also said that tlw Wolverines' poor 3-point shooting meant she did not havt\ to make any serious ddnnsivn adjustments during the contest. 
Phillips, who entered Sunday's matchup avnraging 
10.5 points per game, nntted only ninn before fouling out with 7:4(> remaining. Phillips eommiltnd fouls on tho pnrinwter instead of' staying in the low post like Wolverines eoarh Kevin Borseth wanted. 
MrGraw said tfw Irish were fortunate to get Phillips in early foul troub](\ -she eom­mitlnd lwr fourth inl'raetion just 2:22 into the sneond half 
WU YUE!The 

Irish guard Brittany Mallory dribbles past a Michigan defender in Notre Dame's 77-46 rout on Sunday. The Irish have won their last four games by an average of 40 points. 
- and that Notre Dame's two  cially when Phillips was on the  1O,H25, the fourth  largest in  
post playnrs, senior Melissa  beneh. But the Irish played  sdwol history.  
D'Amico and sophomore Erica  sloppily late in the gamn, giv­ "It  was  a  hug(\  l'aetor,"  
Williamson. did  a  good job  ·ing up opnn shots and lacking  McGraw said. "f thought tfw  
against her.  the defensive intensity they  l'rnshnwn looked  a  little  nerv­ 
"I thought ID'Amieol played  had displaynd narlinr.  ous.  thny wantnd  to  play  so  
very well  tonight. We worked  "IMiehiganl  had  15  w1dl for the crowd."  
on  when they  were switching  Jturnovnrsl  at halftime and  
out, shn would go down and  they only had seven in the sec­ +Senior  guard  Amanda  
takn tho guard down low and  ond half. And I think whnn  wn  Tsipis appnarnd in  fwr sixth  
slw did a good job of' that narfy  wateh the f'i lrn  we 'II  son  that  ganw this snasor1 and, with 30  
on," McGraw said. "Both of  we wnrnn't quite as intense on  snconds r~nnHtining,  nailed  hnr  
thmn dnl'nnsivPfy  worn  a  big  the defensive end  as we  nnnd­ first  r.arner  3-pointnr to  give  
prnsonen  on  IPhiflipsl. Tho  nd to be," McGraw said.  t.lw Irish a 77-46 win.  
shots she made didn't  even  
always eome against them."  Notes:  
Notre Damn pulled away for  +The oiTieial attendan(:n for  Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at  
good in the sewnd half, espe- Sunday  night's  game  was  jfitzpaS@nd.edu  

Mikail Youzhny. but thn eap­tains for Hussia and the Unitml States each made substitutions. 
Andrn(W dairm~d thn lirst snt, and then the erowd triPd to spur Bryan with chants of "Co Bob Go!" At one point he got frustrated and droppPd his spinning racket to thn court. but lw saved servP on a pivotal game that went to dPuee four Limos, nvnning the second set at 3-3. 
Tlw sPeond set would go to a tiebreaker, which Andrnnv won with a fon\hand that sailPd past Bryan at the rwt. 
"01' !:OLrrsn, wn didn't want to lose 5-lovn, but today I eouldn't takn this much too serious ... At least wn showed WP could fight and maybe makn up a fit­tiP for the scorn." Andnwv said. 
Each player had sPvPn arns in tlw I hour. 2 2 m in utn mat1:h. 
Bryan said such nwaninglnss m atdws are "probably the worst thing in sports." 
"Imaginn Jord;in winning an NB;\ title and having to play a pickup game against the guys lw just beat," Bryan said. 

Monday, December 3, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'5 BASKETBALL 
Hoopsters clip Eagles' wings 
McAlarney scores 21 points as team sets Joyce Center record 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Kyle McAlarney scored more than 20 points for the third straight game and Notre Dame tied a program-best Joyce Center winning streak in a 76­(, 5 victory over Eastern Michigan Saturday. 
It was the 24th straight win at home for the Irish. which equals a mark set by the 1973­74 teams. But Irish coach Mike Brey told his players not to rnst on their laurels. 
"I said, 'Congratulations. I'm gonna shake your hand next Saturday when you break [the rncordl." Brey said. "But we're very proud of that, Ithe play­ers! are very proud of that, they should be very proud of it. I'm very happy for them." 
After pouring in 25 points against Colgate last Monday, McAlarney dropped 21 on 8­of-1 0 shooting in the triumph over Eastern Michigan. 
"My confidence is real high and I'm learning as the games go on how to move without the ball better," McAlarney said. "My teammates have been doing a great job finding me. I have to credit my teammates for getting me those open shots." 
After jumping out to an early 
17-7 lead, Notre Dame fell 
behind 21-20 with 9:59 left in 
the first half when Eastern 
Michigan guard Carlos 
Medlock made an uncontested 
lay-up. 
The Irish then went on a 7-0 
run to take a lead they would 
not rPiinquish. Sophomore for­
ward l.uke llarangody nailed a 
15-foot jumpnr to give the 
Irish a one-point edge. After 
Easton Michigan turned the 
ball over on its next posses­
sion, Irish guard Ryan Ayers 
drilled a 3-pointer. llarangody, 
who finished with 18 points 
and seven rebounds, hit 
another jumpPr tho next time 
down the floor to make the 

ALLISON AMBROSEffhe Observer Irish junior guard Ryan Ayers dribbles toward the basket in Notre Dame's 76-65 victory over Eastern Michigan Saturday. 
score 27-21. 
Eastern Michigan pulled within three points of the Irish with 4:35 left in the opening half, but the Irish closed the period with eight unanswered points. With the clock running down in the half, Notre Dame guard Tory Jackson rebounded a missed 3-pointer by Medlock and started a three-on-two break for the Irish. Jackson eventually found Ayers, who spotted up and made a 3­pointer to give the Irish a 43­32 lead going into halftime. 
"The shot right before half­time was a big-time shot," Brey said. "That really gave us great momentum." 
After the break, the Irish continued their run and poured in six more points before Eastern Michigan scored again. 
"We ended the first half and started the second half really well, which I thought was the key to the game," Brey said. 
Eastern Michigan never pulled within 10 points for the remainder of the contest. 
Brey said he was especially happy with his team's defense 
against the Eagles' perimeter threats, especially senior guard Jesse Bunkley. 
"The key for us was to not let them get going from the 3­point line and I think we did a great job," Brey said. 
The coach commended Ayers for locking down Bunkley, who came into the contest shooting 
44.7 percent from beyond the arc and averaging 15.4 points per game. The Eagles star did not attempt a long-range shot against the Irish and finished with only six points. 
"That's maybe the thing I'm maybe most excited about ­[Ayers! on Bunkley, absolutely taking Bunkley away," Brey said. "Bunkley's the guy that makes them confident and really gets them going." 
Eastern Michigan sopho­more forward Justin Dobbins scored a career-high 26 points. But it wasn't enough. 
"The llow of the game was excellent," Brey said. "The guys did a heck of a job tonight." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Eli Manning's second pass landed in Brian Urlacher's hands. There was a fumble that led to a field goal, too, and just when it seemed his day couldn't get much worse, he threw an intercep­tion in the end zone. 
Then, everything turned around. 
Manning redeemed himself just in time, and the New York Giants dealt the Chicago Bears' playoff hopes another stagger-
Study in DC during the Fall 2008 Elections or Spring 2009 Presidential Inauguration and Ne'\v Congressional Session! UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
~ • ~s·HI..N.GT · N'
WA ..., 0 ~·. i
• • " • • . ·, " .. 


INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE Thursday, December 6, 2007 163 Hurley, 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
DEADLINE FOR 2008-2009 EXTENDED!!! 
Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is January 23, 2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; '""ww.nd.edu/ -wp 
SMC SWIMMING 
Teatn finishes in fifth place in DePauvv tneet 
Belles record several personal best times in early-season event 
By MARIE BUGNITZ 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's finished in fifth place this weekend in the DePauw Swimming Invitational, the best the Belles have ever done at the meet. 
"Mostly everyone had either 

their best times of the season 
or close to their best times," 
Belles junior captain Melissa 
Gerbeth said. "Attitudes were 
positive, and it was encour­
aging to get some reward 
from all the hard work we 
have been putting in." 
This meet differed from the 

Belles' previous meets of the 
season because it was an 
invitational that included 
both preliminary races and 
finals. Swimmers had to 
qualify in the top 16 in pre­
lims in order to make it to 
the finals. 
"The competition was pret­ty intense -there were swimmers of all speeds, so it was nice to see where you landed among that spread," said Gerbeth, who placed sixth in the finals of the 400­yard individual medley with a time of 5:01.20. 
Other key ·contributors for the Belles included several freshmen. Freshman Lauren Hartman placed 1Oth in the 50-yard freestyle. Iler class­mates Maggie Williams and Casey Niezer placed sixth and seventh, respeetively, in the 100-yard backstroke. Freshman Caroline Arness finished 1Oth in the 100-yard butterfly. 
The 400-yard "A" Free relay placed sixth overall. Gerbeth was very pleased with her team's effort. 
"Everyone swam their hearts out and were encour­aging and positive to their teammates," Gerbeth said. "The team definitely bonded after this meet." 
Contact Marie Bugnitz at mbugnitz@nd.edu 
NFL 
Nevv York cotnes frotn behind to beat Bears 
ing blow. 
Manning led two late touch­down drives and Reuben Droughns scored on a 2-yard run with 1:33 remaining to lift the Giants to a 21-16 victory over the Bears on Sunday. 
Manning was awful for most of the game but delivered in the latter stages after throwing four interceptions the previous 
week  in  a  drubbing  by.  
Minnesota.  
"It's  easy  to  forget  bad  

plays," Manning said. "And to be a quarterback, to be a foot­ball player, you have to be able to do that. You have to be able to forget the week before. You have to be able to forget the play before and just move on and work out the next play." 
The embattled quarterback threw a 6-yard touchdown pass to Amani Toomer, which was initially ruled incomplete, with 6:54 left to cap a 75-yard drive and cut the Giants' deficit to 16-14. 
"I knew I caught it." Toomer said. "And I knew (the replay) was going to look like I caught it, so it wasn't a problem. I don't know if it hit my arms or hands, but I was underneath it. I didn't even think it was that close." 
After the Bears (5-7) punted, the Giants launched a 77-yard drive that ended with Droughns running around the right end with 1:33 left. Manning hit David Tyree with a 24-yard pass and threw a 15­yarder to Plaxico Burress that put the ball on the 2. 
The Bears got the ball with 

1:28 remaining and marched from their 41 to the Giants 28, before Hex Grossman threw three incompletions -the last one broken up by James Butler. 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Irish senior forward Susan Pinnick dribbles downfield in Notre Dame's 3-2 win over Duke Friday. 
Irish sophomore center Dan Kissel looks up Ice during Notre Dame's 54 victory over Nebraska-Omaha Friday. 
page 18 


Duke 
continued from page 20 
scored twien in livn minutes 
to tie tlH~ scorn. 
Notre Dame had not allownd a tnam to tin the garnn after leading 2-0 in 175 straight matrhns bdorn Friday's contest. 
"It was fitting that Dukn camn back and tiPd it. and tlwn you saw our character to ronw back and win it." Waldrum said. "Nobody ever got diseouragnd wlwn Duke c:anw bark." 
Wnissnnhofnr had a difTnr­nnt takn on tlw Blun Devils' eomnhaek. 
"We likn to keep the games entertaining," slw said. "That was the ease tonight when tlwy came back and tied it." 
Blue Devils coach Bobbie Church said his players' lack of nxperiencc~ playPd a role at tlw nnd of the gamn. 
"We spent a lot of energy tying the game up and then trind to put somn fresh. but inexporicmced. lc~gs in there," Church said. 
Irish knnper Lauren Karas prnvented a goal in the fifth minute of the ganw when Blue Devils midf'inlder CJ Ludemann got frcw on the right sidn. Ludnmann drib­bhHI c·.losn and took a hard shot. but Karas eame ofT her linn and dove to her right to make tho save. Wnissenhofer opened tlw scoring in the 20th minutc~ aft~>r rneeiving a pass from Bock. wc~issenhofnr fl'inted around lwr dnf'cmdt\1' and took a shot that slipped to the right of l.ipslwr. 
"Brittany played a grnat hall and I cut it hack. saw wlwrc• tlw goalkeeper was and placml it in thn right cor­ner," Weissnnhol'er said. "It was with my right foot, just like tlw two goals at UNC." 
Wnissnnlwfer now has four goals in tlw postseason, tlw sanw nutnhPr she had in the entire rc~gular season and Big Hast tournanu~nt combined as an ankln injury hampered lwr narly performanen. 
"I arn more eonfident in myself ovnr tlw past fnw wonks and am just so happy for the team and how we are playing," Wnissnnhof'nr said. "We all are mon~ conf'ident and unil'ind right now bneausn we an~ nnaring the nnd of' a eommon goal." 
Bod scored in the 52nd minute to give the Irish a 
two-goal eushion when she headed a Hanks corner kick undnr thn crossbar and out of l.ipsher's reach. After that goal, Church said, the Blue Devils changed their approach. 
"Whnn it went to 2-0, we just wan ted to get one back and put the pressure back on them," thn coach said. "Then wn really started to press hard and were winning balls in tlw midfield and running at thnir back line." 
And tlw increased pressure worked: Duke seored twice in fivn minutes. 
Bnl'orn Duke's first goal. the 

Irish  couldn't elear  Blue  
Devils  midfieldcr  .Jane  
Alukonis'  corner  kick.  

Ludemann passed thn ball to Dukn forward .Jann Hathorn. who put the ball past Karas to get Duke on the board in tlw 5Hth minute. 
In the 63rd minute, Ludemann got fren in the middiP of the field and fired a long shot that bnnt from right to left. out of' Karas' reaeh. into the left corner of the goal. 
"We should have closed that quicker and not given her that shot to strike the ball." Waldrum said. "But give credit to the kids, we didn't lose control of the gamn." 
After Hanks' goal. the Irish killnd the clock and sealed tlwir trip to thn semif'inals. The team was ecstatic to havn another chance at a championship after losing in last year's title game to North Carolina. 
''I'm just so proud or the team that we get to go to the linal four again," Hanks said. "I want to win a national ehampionship. To win it for our seniors will mean every­thing." 
Notes: 
+ 
Snnior midlieldnr Ashley .Jonns played in her l04th earner game Friday. She now holds the school record for earner games played and is tied for second in career games played in the NCAA. Hobin Confer, who playnd for North Carolina from 1994-97, is saf't~ at No. 1 with 107. 

+ 
In Notre Dame's last 17 games. it is 16-0-1 and has seored f'ive goals for every goal allowed (50 goals scornd. 10 goals allowed). 


Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Sweet 16 
continued from page 20 

ed his production early in the season. 
"It's tough when you've been unfit for the first part of the season," Irish eoach Bobby Clark said. "Now, I Lap ira] is fit. llis eonfidence is gntting higlwr every game, and that's great because this is the part of' the season when you want your top striker to have conli­dencn." 
Lapira opened thn scoring in the 6Hth minute when fellow senior Alex Yoshinaga attacked from the right side and fed Lapira, who found the back of the net. That was the same combination that opened the scoring for the Irish against Oakland. Except in that game, Lapira was the distributor and Yoshinaga the finisher. 
Lapira helped Notre Dame double its lead in the 72nd 
Sweep 
continued from page 20 

goals behind to win late for the second straight game. Notre Damn erased a 3-0 deficit to HPJ a week earlier in a 4-:~ vic­tory. 
'Tm concerned about how 
we've been starting," Irish 
coach .lefT .Jackson said. "That's 
two games in a row where we 
spot the opponent three goals 
and l don't think we were emo­
tionally or physically sharp at 
all in that game." 

Nebraska-Omaha freshman Joey Martin scored the first two goals of his career to give the Mavericks a 2-0 lead. Sophomore Dan Swanson then found his linemate J.J Koehler in the low slot. and Koehler sneaked it through Irish goalie Jordan Pearce's pads. 
"When you get down :3-0, you're looking to do anything. Whether it's scoring a goal, get­ting a shot on net or starting some trouble after the whistle you have to do whatever you can to try to get everybody going," Irish sophomore center Kevin Deeth said. 
Deeth picked up a eoineiden­tal minor on his shift after Nebraska-Omaha's third goal when he was caught mixing it up with a Nebraska defense­man in the corner. The serum gave the Irish the spark they needed. 
Deeth broke up the shutout on an Irish power play with just under four minutes left in the second period. Junior center Erik Condra slipped a pass to Deeth. who found himself all alone and beat DuPont with a backhander. It was Deeth's third goal of' the season. 
With time running out in the second. the Irish caught a lucky break. .Junior center Christian llanson attempted to dump the puck from center ice, but it ric­ochetnd ofT a glass partition and went directly at the IWt. DuPont was ofl' his line looking to play the puck in the corner so he couldn't make the save. 
"That's my go-to move," Hanson joked. "I faked, got the goalie to bite, went to dump it in the corner and it went in." 
Notre Dame took advantage of the good fortune, taking the lead in the third period with goals from Condra and sopho­more Dan Kissel. Condra extended his scoring streak to six games with the goal. 
The Mavericks' leading scor­er. senior Mick Lawrence, tied the game again with 12 minutes minutn when his eross found sophomorn Dave Donahun. Donahun deposited tlH~ ball for a goal that was nearly identi­cal to the one J.apira set up for Yoshinaga against Oakland. 
Both Irish goals came against Santa Clara's baek-up keeper, Joseph Buttitta. who entered in the 47th minute after starter Kevin Klasila lnft with an injury. Klasila madn two saves in the first hall', but Buttitta didn't record a stop. 
"To bn honest with you, we were pretty sad when the first goalie went out," Clark said. "We thought he was looking really shaky. and our bench was hoping he would stay in the game." 
Irish senior keeper Chris Cahill. on the other hand, was his usual steady presence in th11 Notre Dame net. The keep­er made five saves to record his 11th shutout of the season. It was also his fourth career NCAA Tournament shutout, a Notre Dame record. 
Monday, December 3, 2007 
Clark, however. !'edt that Cahill's biggost contribution was hnlping break up Sanla Clara's crosses, most of' which wPre directPd at 6-foot-5 strik­er Jidi Ogunbiyi. 
"lie really snttled us," Clark said of Cahill. "lie handlnd traffie that carne into his an~a. lie gavo nw tho fooling that when he plays like that. nobody is going to beat him." 
With the win, tlw Irish brokl' the Broncos' 1S-game unbeat­en-streak. Santa Clara's last loss was on Sept. 7 to Brown. 
In anotlwr parallel to last season, the Irish will have to win on the road if they wish to reach tl11~ program's first-cwor College Cup -soecer's version of the Final Four. In 2006. Notre Dame lost 3-2 to No. 4 Virginia. This weekend, tlw Irish will takn on No. 2 Wake Forest. which dof'eated West Virginia 3-1. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
to go. The goal was Lawrence's eighth or the year. 
But with a little over two min­utes left. Irish junior Garrett Regan put the Irish ahead for good when he scored on a def'lection in front or the net. Senior center Mark Van Guilder took the initial shot from the point and Regan was able to get a stick on it in front. 
"I was just glad to step baek in the lineup and keep helping the team," Regan said. 
Regan returned to action Friday night after being side­lined with an ankle injury for several games. 
"I don't think he is at 1 00 per­cent yet. but he's a great energy guy and it's good to see him back on the ice," Jackson said. 
On Saturday, the Irish played with a sense of urgency that was absent Friday and let the Mavericks know they couldn't stake anothnr 3-0 lead when Van Guilder scored a short­handed goal just 3:31 into the lirst period. 
Thn cnntnr corralled the puck along the right-side boards in the neutral zone and fed a pass to Deeth, who was streaking down the left side. Deeth got Mavericks goalie Eric Aarnio to commit himself to Deeth's side, and then fired a pass to Van Guilder in the low right slot for an open-net goal. 
The Irish out-shot Nebraska­Omaha 12-4 in the first period, including five shots on a pair of 
wu 
fast-action power plays. On its power plays, Notre Damn worked the puek around tlw offensive zone with speed and accuracy, in contrast to the play-,it-safe, plod-the-puck­around-the-defense approach the Irish have taken most of the season on the man advantage. 
Jackson said that facet of the game looked more active because a third power play unit was ereatnd in praetiee, increasing eompntition and per­formance. 
Notre Damn extended its lead to 2-0 with 17:25 remaining in the second period on an odd redirection by Hanson in the high slot. Freshman defense­man Teddy Huth took a one­timer from the left point that changed paths after it deflected off Hanson's skate and slid untouched into the open right side of thn net. 
The Irish had the eomf'ortabh) lead Nebraska-Omaha held the night before. 
"It's nice to play the game where you'ro not in fear of breaking down," Jaekson said. 
Ruth scored his first career goal to put the Irish up 3-0 lnss than a minute into the third period. Left wing Hyan Thang and def'ensmnan Ian Cole tlwn each added a tally to secure Notre Dame the 5-0 win. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu and Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, December 3, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

BLACK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Creamy soup 1 Does sums 
38 City where Van 5 Pillow filler Gogh painted 9 Flapper hairdos sunflowers 
13 Scuttlebutt 40 Suffix with suer­14 Like a manly and lact­man 
41 Pacific republic 15 Escapade 
42 Substantial 16 Part of the eye 
portion

that holds the iris 
45 Pile 

17 _and pains 46 Component of 18 What "thumbs bronze up" means 
47 Permit 19 Bandleader in 
48 Washington's the Polka Music 

Capitol_

Hall of Fame 50 Precipitates at
22 Explosive initials about 32°F 23 Pinocchio, 52 Left hurriedly 
famously 54 New Deal
24 Mock program inits.
28 Dance with a wiggle 57 One who lost what's hidden in
30 Lord 19-, 34-and 42­
31 Card that's taken Across
only by a trump 60 Hawaiian isle
32 Mail carriers' assignments: 63 More than Abbr. perturbed 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
mJWJ1311JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HAYDN 
j
rJ r I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NAWTY j
(] [ I I

tCUDREE I WHE:N THE: GANG­
5TE:R. WENT TO
I I 

PR.l50N HE: BECAME 
WW¥/,jumbte.com 
PAR.T OF--­

Now arrange tile circled letters to form the surprise 'answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans:(I IJ"IT]" rI I I I] 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: HONEY CAKED. FAIRLY PIRACY Saturday's Answer: A nice welcome ­"CORDIAL:' 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITffiS BORN ON THIS DAY: Britney Spears, 26; Nelly Furtado, 29; Monica Seles, 34; Stone Phillips, 53 
Happy Birthday: Keep things in perspective. You have to move forward and, if that means changing location, friends or even your vocational direction, start the ball rolling. Your nwnbers are 14, 19, 21, 26, 32, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Not everyone will agree with the personal or resi­dential changes you want to make. Do what's best for you. There is money to be made if you pick up courses or new skills or are willing to change your geo­
graphical location for a better position. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are better off not getting involved in joint 
money ventures or lending anyone money. A change in one of your friendships may leave you questioning some of your other relationships. A good deed will bring about a sudden and welcome change. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Don't let someone dictate what you cpu and cannot do. Someone from yonr past may appear enticing but take a closer look. Don't forget why you lost touch in the first place. 2 stars 
CANCER (Jnne 21-July 22): If you want to keep the peace at home, don't spend the day working by yournelf. Visiting friends, relatives and neighborn will lead to interesting information. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do something challenging, entertaining or exciting. Someone from your past will want to hook up again. Be the one to make the first move. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Being the one everyone relies on can be taxing. It's time for you to implement some changes that will help the people who depend on you to fend for themselves. Put your skills to work for yourself in such a way that you make more money. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept, 23-0ct. 22): Travel and get involved in something that you find challenging and inspirational. Don't limit what you do because someone wants your undivided attention. Explore new avenues in order to plan for the future. 3 
stars 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): With a quick decision or a phone call or visit, you can change the course of your life. An unexpected encounter will lead to a pros­perous twn of events. 4 stars 
SAGITTARTIJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful while traveling and don't say too much about what you are up to. You will face opposition and experience prob­
lems with authority figures. 2 stars 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be attracted to someone unavailable. Don't even consider going there. You have way more going for you today, espe­cially where settlements, deals, money and profit are concerned. 5 stars 
AQUAlUUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Good news regarding a settlement or legal matter is heading your way. Getting involved in something that is helpful will pay off in the people you meet. Don't donate cash but rather, time and suggestions. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be emotionally up and down and thi• can easily lead to impulsive actions that leave you in a vulnerable situation. Don't 
burn bridges, especially when so much rides on keeping the peace. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, emotional and quick to react. You are studi­
ous, inquisitive, stubborn and determined. 
Eugenia1s Web sUes: astroadvice.comfor ftm, eugenialast.comjor confidential consultations 
.. 
-
... 
~

..------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, December 3, 2007 
page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Still kicking 

Left, Irish freshman defender Lauren Fowlkes battles for possession in Notre Dame's 3-2 win over Duke Friday. Right, junior forward Kerri Hanks holds a Blue Devils defender off the ball. Hanks scored the decisive goal during the 78th minute of action to send the Irish to the College Cup for the second consecutive season. 
in College Station. The game is Randy Waldrum said. "She is
Squad downs Duke, 

a rematch of last year's semifi­the best finisher in the county if 
moves on to College Cup nal match, whieh the Irish won you give her chances like that." 2-1. Florida State beat Hanks said the trust between Connecticut 3-2 in overtime to her and her teammates helped
By BILL BRINK 

advance to the semifinals. in the buildup to the winning Spons Writer Hanks' decisive scoring goal. 
soquoncH began with senior "We went in at halftime and Tlw l~ish forwards hit the tri­rnidlinlder Amanda Cinalli win­knew that one or two goals fnrta l;riday. ning control of the ball from would not do it," llanks said. 
Sophomoro Mielll'le two Duke defenders. Cinalli "It was amazing how we cam11 yYnissnnhofPr, junior Brittany passod to an open llanks on the back to get the final goal. I !lock and snnior Kerri flanks right side. The reigning believe in our team and every­all S(:ornd. and llanks' goal in Ilmrnann Trophy winner drib­body just trusts each other and tlw 7Sth minut(~ gavn Notre bind closer and scored on a low we did it." Dame a :~-2 virtory owr Duko shot past Blue Devils goalkeep­Notre Dame took a 1-0 lead at Alumni Field in tho NCAA er Allison Lipsher into the left into halftime and scored again quartorlinals. side of the net. in the first seven minutes of the 
Tlw Irish move on to faee "Kerri did a great job of cut­second half, but the Blue Devils !;lorida State Friday in the ting it in and creating a great NCAA snmifinals at Texas A&M angle for herself," Irish coach see DUKE/page 18 

MEN'S SOCCER 

Team knocks out host Santa Clara 
Irish head to Wake Forest for Elite 8 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Spons Writl'r 
Notrn Damn's run through thn NCAA Tournamont so far has a vnry familiar fnnl to it. 
I;or tlw sneond consecutive snason, thn Irish have fol­lownd a sncond-round vietory at honw with a win over a higlwr-snndnd opponent on thn road in tlw Sweet 16. 
Thn No. I 0 Irish upset No. 7 Santa Clara 2-0 Saturday night at Buck Shaw Stadium. l.ast ynar, Notr(J Damn dnf'natnd No. !i Maryland 1-0 in ovnrtinw in tlw round of 16. 
Onen again. it was forward Joseph Lapira leading the way for the Irish. Lapira, who scored the game-win­ning goals in Notre Dame's two NCAA Tournament victo­ries last season. netted the game-winning goal and notched an assist against Santa Clara. That tally brings Lapira's total of NCAA Tournament goals to six -a Notre Dame record. 
Lapira 's three points against Santa Clara marked the second consecutive Tournament game that the senior has recorded three points; lw also had a goal and assist against Oakland last Wndnesd<ty. 
That's a major accomplish­ment for the striker, who had a nasty ealf injury that limit-
see SWEET 16/ page 18 
HOCKEY 

Irish sink Nebraska-0111aha twice 
I cers come from behind Friday, get blowout win Saturday 
By KYLE CASSILY and DAN MURPHY Sports Writers 

No. 7 Notre Dame swept Nebraska-Omaha in a two­game series at home this week­end to leapfrog both No. 1 Miami and No. 2 Michigan into first place of the CCHA. 
The Irish (14-4, 10-2 CCHA) defeated the Mavericks 5-4 Friday and 5-0 Saturday to win their sixth and seventh straight games and bypass an idle Miami and a Michigan team that split two games with Ohio State. 
In Friday's series opener, Notre Dame came from three 
see SWEEP/page 18 




