
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 71 FRIDAY, JANUARY26, 2007 
ND eyes 2008 presidential election 
Students, professors scrutinize Clinton, Obama, Brownback, Edwards, other hopefuls 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
With election 2008's Iowa pri­maries less than a year away, as presidential hopefuls hustle to announce their candidacies, the politically minded on Notre Dame's campus are analyzing the field and, in some cases, itching to back their personal favorite. 
The 2008 presidential election marks the first time in 80 years that neither the sitting president nor sitting vice president is run­ning for the job, leaving the door wide open for potential candi­dates. 
One by one, they're walking through. On the Democratic side, Sen. Hillary Clinton (N.Y), former 
Sen. John Edwards (N.C.) and Gov. Bill Richardson (N.M.) have proclaimed their intentions to run for pres­ident, and Sen. Barack Obama 


(Ill.) said he will Clinton make an offi­cia! announcement on Feb. 10. 
Sen. Sam Brownback (Kan.) is one of a few Republicans officially in the running, but potential Republican candidates include Sen. John McCain (Ariz.), former mayor of New York City Rudy 
Giuliani and former Speaker of the U.S. House Newt Gingrich. 
The open­ness of the race, coupled with front­


loadjng in the t Brownback nomination procedure -that is, slating cau­cuses and primaries for early in 2008 -is prompting hopefuls to 
announce their candidacies so 
early, said American Studies pro­
fessor Robert Schmuhl. The can­
didates are likely to be set by 
February of 
that year, he 
said. When it 
comes to the Republican primaries, Notre Dame College 
Republicans 
president 
Sarah Way 

doesn't think McCain or Giuliani 

see ELECTIONS/page 4 
Hodges, Payne to lead SMC students 
pairs within two percent of each other. Tuesday, however, saw Ferriera-Antonelli in the lead. 
"I am not surprised by the results at all," Hodges said. "I am just surprised how close it was." 
Ferreira found no security in holding the lead during the pre­liminary vote. 
"It is an election. It could go either way at any time," she said. 
Hodges and Payne ran a dedi­cated campaign and attributed their success to their persist­ence. The pair said the main difference between winning and losing was meeting new people. 
"We did whatever we could to get our message out. We sat outside the dining hall, went door-to-door in dorms and put 
see SMC/page 4 

By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Kim Hodges and Kelly Payne came away with a narrow vic­tory over opponents Colleen Ferreira and Jenny Antonell(in the Saint Mary's student body presidential and vice presiden­tial elections Thursday. 
The pair received 300 total votes over Ferreira and Antonelli's 263 votes. The two tickets met in a runoff when the results from Tuesday's prelimi­nary knocked out third ticket Annie Davis and Courtney Kennedy. 
Hodges-Payne clinched the victory by less than 10 percent in the runoff with 52.2 percent versus Perreira-Antonelli's 45.7 percent. 
Prior to the election, the race was neck-and-neck: with the 
Keenan Revue tickets sell out in 13 Ininutes 
By EVA BINDA 
News Writer 
Tickets for the Keenan Revue, a traditionally irrev­erent annual production, sold out at a rate of more than 100 per minute Thursday. 
"It was a great and rousing success," said sophomore ticket seller Peter Vignali, 
Vignali and fellow ticket seller senior Johnny McDermott experienced a busy afternoon distributing tickets to one of the most­anticipated campus shows of the year. 
The Revue is a sketch come­dy production run by Keenan Hall that pokes fun at various aspects -and people -of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. 
Tickets were distributed Thursday at Saint Mary's from 1 p.m. to 3 and at Notre Dame from 4 p.m. to 6 at the Joyce Center. 
Showing up early was a good strategy for getting tick­ets, which were gone in 13 minutes. 
"The first people showed up at the JACC at 1:15 and [tick­et distribution] didn't start until 4," McDermott said. "We were cleaned up and out of there by 4:20." 
Tickets for the Thursday and Saturday night perform­ances went fastest. 
Despite the rush, sellers 
see REVUE/ page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Suspension provokes debate 
Students divided over McAlarney decision 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The University decided Monday how to deal with Notre Dame basketball player Kyle McAlarney's marijuana posses­sion charges -suspension from Notre Dame -but stu­dents are still grappling with the case and its outcome. 
Many students said they sup­port the decision to suspend the sophomore guard -who was pulled over and arrested near campus early on Dec. 29 -and hailed it as consistent with du Lac, while others expressed frustration with what they saw as unfair aspects of University policy. 
"This was a big punishment, but it was dese.rved," freshman Jill Schroeder said. "It sends the message there's no special treatment for athletes and the policy is fair." 
But students like junior Jake Watson said the University over­reacted to the arrest since mari­juana was involved -an issue not just for McAlarney, he said, but any student caught for pos­session. 
"They'll just fine someone $15 for getting caught with a beer in the hallway underage, but I know people who got kicked out of the school for having pot," he said. "Really, this should be a less severe offense than under-
see REACTION/page 6 

Lennon honored -with dinner 
Alumni Association director recognized for 25 years of service 
By JOHN PAUL WITT News Writer 
One hundred and fifty peo­ple filled the Joyce Center Monogram Room Thursday night to h·onor Alumni Association Executive Director and Associate Vice President for University Relations Chuck Lennon. 
While students know Lennon primarily as the MC of pep rallies -with his trademark "raise the roof' ­Thursday's dinner and speeches focused on his 25 years of servict:l as head of the Alumni Association, the 120,000-member union of Notre Dame alumni, family and friends. 
see LENNON/page 6 


Chuck Lennon, right, speaks with Father Theodore Hesburgh during a dinner Thursday in Lennon's honor. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, January 26, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Fantasy 
filtns on 
the rise 
The fantasy film is the hot thing in Hollywood right now and no one is the worse off for it. 
Since the "Lord of the Rings" phe­nomenon, films have been released that have taken 
Marty Schroeder
the fantasy genre to new places and audi­Assistant ences to worlds 
Scene Editor 
they never thought existed. 
Well, what do I mean when I say fantasy? Some would say it means only those stories that are similar to "Lord of the Rings" in which valiant humans and elves too snob­by for their own good fight evil orcs or some other devil that is threat­ening to take over the world, Middle Earth or whatever the bat­tlefield of the film might be called. 
I would like to take a more gener­al approach. This year, the third installment in the "Shrek" series will be released with rumors of a few more. Those few could include a "Puss in Boots" film similar to the way the "X-Men" film series is branching off into films about exclusive characters, such as Wolverine. 
These films have captured the hearts of children and adults alike, and while many will say the origi­nal was the best, the creative team at DreamWorks is still motivated enough by the competition from Pixar to release what I think will be an extremely delightful film. 
Perhaps the film that has gotten to most press concerning the fanta­sy genre is last year's Academy Award nominated "Pan's Labyrinth." From the wild imagina­tion of Mexican director Guillermo del Toro, this film brought adults to the fantasy realm and pulled it away from the nerds who know every elven king to have ever exist­ed and the kids who only want to see the donkey make fun of Shrek more. "The Lord of the Rings" trilo­gy and "Shrek" series are great films, but the way del Toro paral­lels the human world and fantasy world is amazing. This is where fantasy films are going and where I hope they continue to go. 
This may all be a flash in the pan, you say. However, there are more fantasy films on the horizon. "The Hobbit" details are still being worked out but an adaptation of the children's book, "Bridge to Terabithia" is due out this year along with the film adaptation of the wonderful Neil Gaiman story, "Stardust." Fantasy films are here to stay and the cinema, it seems, has found something that lets audi­ences find worlds they never could have imagined. · 
And if anyone is wondering how many elven kings there were in the history of Middle Earth, just come find me. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at 
mschroe 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU KNOW WHAT THE HOBEY BAKER IS? 




Alie Minnis  Bobby Polish  Elisa Suarez  
sophomore Cavanaugh  sophomore Dillon  junior Cavanaugh  
"Duh, a person that bakes hobeys. It was a vocab word in sth grade. "  "The clubbing of baby seals."  "Skiing. "  


NJ  warns:  Don't  eat  
squirrels near dump  
TRENTON, N.J.  - New  

Jersey has warned squirrel hunters near a toxic waste dump about consuming the critters because they could be contaminated with lead. 
It is the first time the state has cautioned Ringwood residents ­many who are members of the Ramapough Mountain Indian tribe who hunt and fish in the area -about their squirrel intake, said Tom Slater, a spokesman for the Department of Health and Senior Services. 
A lead-contaminated squirrel was found in the 
area two months ago, prompting the agency, along with the state Department of Environmental Protection, to send out letters advising that adults eat squirrel no more than twice a week and even less for children and pregnant women. 
Lead, which is harmful in small amounts, can damage the nervous system, red blood cell production and the kidneys. 
Drug dog sniffs on despite death threats 
LETICIA, Colombia ­She's had a price on her head since 2004 and a 24­hour guard monitors her food for poisoning. For a 5-year-old, she has made a lot of enemies. 


But none of this keeps Agata, a golden Labrador who is one Colombia's best drug-sniffing dogs, from doing her job. 
Stationed in the southern Amazon River border town of Leticia, Agata works at the local airport. She is the only Colombian police dog to have a contract put out on her by drug smugglers tired of having their goods confiscated. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Erin Dolan  Jordan Lacy  Michelle Byrne  
freshman  junior  sophomore  
Cavanaugh  Zahm  Cavanaugh  
"A hobo bakery. "  "Yes, I do. It's  "It's like the  
Cutty Sparks'  Heismanfor  
favorite hobby."  hockey. Figure  

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 


15 
5 


HIGH 33 HIGH 18 LOW 10 LOW 6 


it out." 
IN BRIEF 
The 18th annual ND Student Film Festival will take place today and Saturday at 7 p.m. and 10 in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The festival fea­tures 13 short films made as class projects during the past year. Tickets are $6 for general admission, $5 for faculty/staff and $3 for students. 
Summer Shakespeare pres­ents "The Romeo and Juliet Story: In Concert" today at 7:30 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. The performance features two singers, three actors and a 30­piece orchestra onstage. Ticket prices range from $12 to $50. 
The Student Activities Office and O'Neill Hall are sponsoring an lmprov Comedy Show in Carey Auditorium today at 8:30 
p.m. The show will feature the Chicago Comedy Company with an opening act from NO's own Humor Artists. This event is free for all students. 
The film "An American in Paris" will be shown at 3 p.m. on Saturday in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $6 for the general public and $3 for students. 
The South Bend Symphony will perform music by Mozart and Salieri at 2:30 p.m. on Sunday in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $25 for the general public and $10 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

18 6 


HIGH 18 LOW 0 

Friday, January 26, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Faculty tnetnber wins tninority poetry a-ward 
Aragon chosen out of 115 nominated artists 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The Rhode Island Alliance of Artist Communities select­ed Francisco Aragon, director of "Latinas Letras" of the Institute of Latino Studies at Notre Dame, as one of the 
seven  recipients  of  the  
Midwestern  Visions  and  
Voices Award.  

Funded by the Joyce Foundation, the award aims to increase the number of emerging minority artists who attend artist residencies. There were 115 total nomi­nated artists and writers. 
"My responsibility as a Latino writer is to be the best writer that I can be," Aragon said. "I am of the opinion that any writer, regardless of eth­nicity, should be able to write whatever they want in what­ever style they want. It is important to try to get a bet­ter variety of voices in the mainstream. Latino writers sometimes have it more diffi­cult because they are expect­ed to write in a certain way." 
Aragon, who has never attended an artist residency before, will have the opportu­nity to dedicate an entire month to writing. The resi­
dency will be an opportunity to complete his second book of poetry, he said. 
Aragon will spend the entire month of September at the Anderson Center for Interdisciplinary Studies located in Red Wing, Minn. 
"The job I have at Notre Dame is a nine to five job, so having this free time is very welcome," Aragon said. "I've never been to Minnesota and I understand that the area I am going to is quite beauti­ful." 
Aside from his second book of poetry, Aragon is currently working on translating a col­lection of poems from Spanish to English by the Nicaraguan poet, Ruben Darfo. 
Aragon recently edited a book of poetry entitled "The Wind Shifts: New Latino Poetry," which will be pub­lished this year. 
As assistant resident spe­cialist of the Institute of Latino Studies, Aragon teach­es in the English department and also holds creative writ­ing workshops. 
"I believe it is important to help out other writers to try to form bridges and form a sort of community," Aragon said. 
Aragon plans to return to Notre Dame after he com­pletes his residency. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
Students head to Iraq -war protest 
D.C. trip part of national peace rally 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
Thirty Notre Dame students will join herds of protesters Saturday in Washington D.C. to speak out against the war in Iraq, three days following U.S. President George W Bush's State of the Union address. 
The protest is sponsored by the United for Peace and Justice coalition, and will be comple­mented by musical performanc­es, workshops and guest speak­ers. 
Sophomore Michael Angulo, vice president of the Progressive Student Alliance, attended a war protest September of his fresh­man year and decided to organ­ize a trip for Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"At the end of last semester I found that the United for Peace and Justice [coalition] was organizing a national protest in D.C. ... I talked to some friends and there was some interest in getting vans and Notre Dame students to go," he said. 
Vans will be leaving from Notre Dame starting at 9:30 a.m. Friday to make the nine and a half hour trip to Washington. The march will begin at 11 a.m. Saturday, weaving around vari­ous governmental buildings and stopping in front of the White House, Angulo said. 
In addition to the march, keynote speakers will include the Reverend Jesse Jackson, Susan Sarandon, Tim Robbins and Jane Fonda, according to the United for Peace and Justice Web site. ' 
Angulo said he was excited to see Notre Dame students inter­ested in activism. 
''I'm really glad to see that more people, especially moder­ate middle-class America, are really showing their opposition. ... [The protest] is going to bring a lot of different groups together whether it's the people who were against the war from the begin­ning or the people who thought the war wasn't handled well and based on faulty information." 
For freshman Laura Lauck, the tipping point was learning that President Bush believed "the war will be over by the time he's done with his presidency, which is two years from now," and realized two years was too long to wait. 
"The United States needs to get done what they have to get done, but they need to relinquish some of their power to the United Nations or some other international organization," she said. 
Freshman Dan Savage has a more personal reason for travel­ing to Washington, as a family friend recently died in Iraq. He also has other motives, however. 
''I'm doing it because I think it's important to remind the President that ... he didn't have the majority of the population to win his presidency and that to act with such disregard to oppo­sition without consideration of bipartisanship at all was wrong," he said. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 

Gurule uncovers terror finances 
Special to The Observer 
As Jimmy Gurule faces stu­dents in his spring semester class "The Law of Terrorism," he knows his audience is will­ing to delve into the complexi­ties that al-Qaeda, and global terrorism in general, present. 
Too often, says the professor of law, other groups -the pub­lic, media and politicians, in particular -have been willing to settle for more simple, black-and-white perspectives, that take a hard line of cer­tainty. 
"But the issues are extreme­ly complex, defying simple res­olution," he said. 
Gurule is among a number of international legal experts who have gained firsthand insight on how the terrorist attacks on the United States on Sept. 11, 2001, have dra­matically changed the law, both domestically and interna­tionally. 
His perspective on the recent conviction and hanging-execu­tion of former Iraq leader Saddam Hussein is informed by his participation, in spring 2004, in a Judicial Conference on Rule of Law in Iraq. The meetings, in The Hague, assembled the Iraqi judges who would later try Hussein. Some had been incarcerated under the dictator; all had lived under his iron fist. 

Sunday, January 28, 2:30 p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center University of Notre Dame Zofia Glashauser -SBSO Concertmaster 
Gabriel Schlaffer -SBSO Principal Viola Salieri -Sinfoni" in (D Sponsored by: June H. Edwards
Mozart -Symplwny '.J.Io. 55 Mozart -Sinfonio Concerl<~nle 
Gu<>st Artist Underwriters: 

The Healy Group llr:;;uJ.tUW tt1Uttlf)INtM Robert P Curtis, CLU. ChFC 
'Broadway ~ghts 
Saturday, February 10, 8:00 p.m. 

bum through an Afro-Cuban groove, bebop tune or Mozart 
• concerto. A protege of Dizzy Gillespie, he ' ...possesses some of jazz's fiercest chops!' said the New York Post 
For tickets call 574·.235~9190 or visit us online at SouthBendSymphony.com 
JPWMass Lector Auditions 
JP\V Lector auditions will take place in the Basilica of the Sacred lleart on each of the follo\-ving dates: 
Monday, January 29th at 4:00pm Tuesday, January 30th at 4:00pm 
Please attend one of the two auditions. For further inforn1ation, please contact Harv Hun1phrey at 631-8520 or by ernail at hurnphrey.17@nd.edu 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 



page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 26, 2007 
' 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
up posters everywhere," Payne said. "There are always your friends who you know you can count on for a vote, but it is impor­tant to meet new people and con­vince them that you are the right people for the job." 
The pair's platform also separated it from its opponents, Hodges said. 
"Our platform was the most real­istic and strategic for the school as a whole," she said. 
The pair will officially assume its duties at the beginning of April. In the mean time, Hodges does not plan to slow down while fmishing her term as vice president of the Student Diversity Board. 
"Right now, I am working on the Diverse Students Leadership Conference, which will be March 1­3," she said. "There is a lot to do between now and then." 
Ferreira said she felt her ticket ran a strong campaign, relying on a platform of tangible goals that could have been accomplished if she and Antonelli were elected. 
Hodges and Payne are confident that they are the best candidates for the job based on their public sup-

Turtle creek Apartments 
IH§ place to be at NDH 
Your favorite off-campus community is welcoming GREAT students 
for the 2007-2008 school year!  Turtle Creek is proud to offer the  
following an1enitles:  
*Renovated apartments  *Carports available  

*24-hour laundry facilities -BRAND NEW! *Closest to ca111pus *Sparkling pool witt1 sun deck *Patios/balconies 
* Fun~filled volleyball court *Walk-in closets 
Turtle creek was voted Sportslllustrated.com·s BEST PLACE TO TAILGATE! Come join the fun and LIVE AMONG THE lEGENDS! 
Call our professional and friendly staff to schedule your tour today! 
leasing Hours: M-F 10-6, Sat. 10-5 Phone: 574-272-8124 
port from the Davis-Kennedy ticket, who was eliminated Tuesday. 
"The girls [Davis-Kennedy] recog­nized that we were going to do a good job," Hodges said. "That is why they want to be on our boards. They are supportive and will be very helpful in the future." 
Ferreira and Antonelli did not return Observer phone calls Thursday night. 
The· election itself was "typical," elections commissioner Christin Molnar said. 
"The turnout was pretty average, but there were more people who voted in the runoff than the prelimi­nary, which was different," she said. 
While Hodges-Payne were victori­ous, Molnar saw potential in each of the three original tickets. 
"All three [tickets] had strong points," she said. "Some had less feasible ideas, but they all wanted it and probably would have done a good job." 
Ferreira echoed Molnar's confi­dence in the candidates. 
"Everyone did a good job present­ing their issues. Each had their own specialty and the student body has its own tastes. That is just the way it goes," she said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Elections 
continued from page 1 
is likely to earn the candidacy. McCain is too centrist on most issues, she said, and while Giuliani will get mcognition for the post-Sept. 11 work he did in New York, Way said "he's pretty liberal on a lot of domes­tic issues." 
In any case, Way pointed out, there's a lot of time before Nov. 2008 -time fbr journalists to dig deep. 
"As soon as the media starts to really scrutinize these peo­ple," she said, "a lot of things could change." 
Hight now, though, standing out from the crowd are Obama and Clinton, who recently shared the cover of Time mag­azine and prompted a New York Times article to ask who America would be more likely to elect as president: a woman, or a person of color? 
Clinton's tough road 
A woman, the Times con­cluded. Still, political science associate professor Christina Wolbrecht thinks Clinton has a tough road ahead of her. 


"Any woman running for office, especially for the presi­dency, will have a hard time getting past our predetermined notions of what we think an executive leader looks like," she said. 
Schmuhl cited "strength, intelligence, command and· empathy" as essential charac­teristics for a leader -but can a female display that com­mand, wonders Wolbrecht, "without acting against her own gender?" . 
"She certainly is doing every­thing she can to counter a per­ception of potential weakness," Schmuhl said, citing Clinton's involvement in the Services Committee, her trips to military bases domestically and abroad, and her original vote to support the war in Iraq -a vote she ha..<; not called a mistake, unlike other presidential candidates. 
Clinton also has a powerful force in her husband, former President Bill Clinton, who can act as either an asset or a lia­bility for her. While many have fond memories of the Clinton years, Wolbrecht said, and Bill Clinton is incredibly charismat­ic, that itself can pose a chal­

,,--------------------------------------------~
I \ 
Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ with the purchase of a $5 To Go Pizza. 

,!~' Coupon required for 99¢ 2liter. No coupon required tor $5 To Go Pizza. t'A Not to be used with any other coupon or discount. Coupon has no cash -.~....,. value. Please present this coupon before ordering. Limit one per customer. Only valid at LaFortune Sbarro. Offer expires February 28, 2007. 
. '' I 
'~--------------------------------------------' 
Sbarro accepts * 
lenge. 

"How do you use him? Bring him to an event and have him give a speech?" Wolbrecht said. "You have to remind yourself that not very many people are as good of a speaker as Bill ... including her." 
While Hillary Clinton has cer­tainly had success in her own right as a senator, her last name remains what it is. Her victory would translate to 14 straight years of either a Bush or a Clinton residing in the White House, Scfunuhl noted. 
'Rock-star magnetism' 
A breath of fresh air may come in the form of Barack Obama, the junior senator from Illinois who leapt into the spot­light following his 2004 speech at the Democratic National Convention. 
In a piece he wrote for the Chicago Tribune comparing Obama to former President Ronald Reagan, Schmuhl couldn't help but mention the two politicians' "ready smiles, rhetorical eloquence and rock­star magnetism." Charisma not only attracts voters to a candi­date, but makes them more likely to listen to what he is say­ing, Schmuhl said. 

But the Times, Wolbrecht and political science professor Alvin Tillery all think strains of racism pervade in America. 
"I am of the view that race is still too great a barrier for most black politicians to overcome in even statewide elections, let alone the presidency," Tillery said, noting that Obama is the third black senator in history. 
"I also think," Tillery said, "that Obama will have a partic­ularly hard time because he is a black candidate running from the political Left. I think that white voters may be more like­ly to vote for black candidates that they deem to be 'conserva­tive.'" 
Complicating matters is Obama's resume, worryingly short for a presidential candi­date. Yet one major item it lacks -a vote in the Iraq war -could benefit him tremen­dously: he's not "tainted" by that record, Tillery said. Plus, senior Matt Ploszek believes Obama's instincts in foreign affairs are dead-on, despite his lack of experience. 

Ploszek, who interned with Sen. Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) this summer, cited a speech Obama gave in October of 2002 as "a really prescient critique" of what has gone on in Iraq. 
"I know that even a success­ful war against Iraq will require a U.S. occupation of undetermined length, at under­mined cost, with undetermined consequence," Obama told the crowd. 
Should Obama indeed announce his intention to run for president on Feb. 10, Ploszek hopes to become involved in his campaign in some capacity. 
"Looking at his 2004 Democratic Convention speech, he came out and he said, there's no reason we need to buy into this idea that America is divided along political lines, along cultural lines, along lines of education ... that's the type of thing that's been used to get people elected," Ploszek said. 
"[But Obama has] a n~w. unconventional approach to politics," he said. " ... Given this environment of pretty harsh partisanship that we've seen over the last several years, I think [Obama] would be a good antidote for that." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 26, 2007 CoMPlLED FROM THE ()BSERVERS WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope calls for Christian unity talks 
VATICAN CITY -Pope Benedict XVI on Thursday called for honest dialogue among Christians as he expressed sadness over ten­sions between churches following centuries of divisions. 
Benedict presided at a prayer service in St. Paul Outside the Walls Basilica in Rome to mark the erid of a week of prayer dedicated in churches around the world to efforts aimed at uniting Christians. 
"Honest and loyal dialogue constitutes the typical and indispensable instrument in the search for unity," Benedict said. . 
Christians were praying "so that all the dis­ciples of Christ be one, and so ... they can give harmonious testimony to the men and women of our times," said Benedict, who is devoting much of his papacy to achieving Christian unity. 
In his homily, Benedict said through such encounters as Thursday's service it has been possible to perceive the joy of brotherhood, together with sadness for the tensions that remain. 
Sunni lawmaker accuses Iraqi PM 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A Sunni lawmaker accused the Shiite prime minister of persecut­ing his sect and said his government's efforts at national reconciliation .were nothing more than a sham. The premier accused the Sunni of supporting the kidnapping of Shiites and refused to shake his hand. 
This televised display from the floor of the Iraqi parliament on Thursday mirrored the sectarian divide on the streets of Baghdad, where a suicide car bombing killed at least 26 people in the Shiite neighborhood of Karradah and two rockets slammed into the heavy forti­fied Green Zone not far from the U.S. Embassy. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Congressman questions caucuses 
WASHINGTON -White House hopeful Tom Tancredo said Thursday the existence of the Congressional Black Caucus and other race­based groups of lawmakers amount to segre­gation and should be abolished. 
"It is utterly hypocritical for Congress to extol the virtues of a colorblind society while officially sanctioning caucuses that are based solely on race," said the Colorado Republican, who is most widely known as a vocal critic of illegal immigration .. 
Eight men finally arrested in 1971 case 
SAN FRANCISCO -A fingerprint on a ciga­rette lighter, shotgun shells and an informant helped lead to the arrests this week of eight men accused of killing a police officer in the 1970s, according to court papers released Thursday. 
Some of the evidence was recovered using forensic techniques that didn't exist 30 years ago, according to the document, which was used to obtain an arrest warrant in the case. 
Prosecutors say members of the Black Liberation Army, a violent offshoot of the Black Panthers, stormed the lobby of a San Francisco police station the night of Aug. 29, 1971, killing Sgt. John V. Young with a shot­gun and injuring a civilian clerk with gun­fire. 
LOCAL NEWS 
House prohibits 'serial meetings' 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indiana House passed legislation Thursday that would pro­hibit so-called "serial meetings" -separate gatherings by less than a quorum of a gov­ernment board to discuss the same subject with the purpose of conducting official busi­ness. 
The bill, approved 89-7 and sent to the Senate, would close what proponents call a loophole in Indiana law that allowed Indiana University's trustees to meet without public notice to discuss basketball coach Bob Knight's fate shortly before his firing in 2000. 
LEBANON 

Beirut clashes cause city curfew 
University cafeteria scuffle breeds Hezbollah-Sunni violence; 3 killed, 169 injured 
Associated Press 

BEIRUT -It started with a lunchtime scuflle in a uni­versity cafeteria. Within minutes, angry Sunnis from nearby homes had moved in and their Shiite Hezbollah rivals were using walkie-talkies to call in reinforcements armed with clubs and stones. 
Some eight hours and a deadly melee later, Beirut was under curfew for the first time in a decade. 
The violence Thursday underlined what Lebanese have feared for months: that the confrontation between Hezbollah and Sunni backers of the U.S.­supported government could rage out of control. 
At least three people were killed and 169 were injured before army troops backed by tanks and firing bar­rages of warning shots into the air dispersed most riot­ers. 
But the fallout reached far beyond the casualty count. The clashes rein­forced fears that Lebanon's sectarian divisions are erupting into violence as they did during the 197 5­1990 civil war. 
"We are afraid about the future of the country. We are afraid about civil war," said Mohammed Abdul­Sater, a 21-year-old Shiite student. leader Sheik Hassan the streets to allow security around the Arab world, 
It was the third straight Nasrallah said Wednesday forces to keep order. already heightened by day of violence, sparked by that donors were backing "I appeal to you in the Iraq's turmoil. Mainly Sunni a Hezbollah-led strike the wrong party in the name of Lebanon and Arab nations like Egypt and Tuesday that came ahead of standoff and that he could human conscience ... It's a Saudi Arabia have shown a crucial gathering of donor topple Saniora at any time. pity to waste Lebanon like alarm at Hezbollah's nations in Paris. The con­In Paris, Saniora pleaded this," said Parliament increasing strength in ference Thursday raised to his countrymen to "dis­Speaker Nabih Berri, a Lebanon and have backed pledges of $7.6 billion to tance themselves from ten­Hezbollah ally. "It is time Saniora. help Prime Minister Fuad sions." we learn from the past." Thursday's clashes in Saniora's U.S.-backed gov­"No one can help a coun­During Lebanon's civil Beirut showed just how ernment rebuild after last try if the people of this war, Christians battled quickly any spark can turn summer's devastating country don't want to help Muslims. But the new con­into a wildfire. Israel-Hezbo.llah war. themselves," he said. "I call frontation has taken differ­Students said it began 
The money and show of on your wisdom and rea­ent sectarian lines: Shiites with a scuflle in the cafete­international support could son." support the· opposition, ria of Beirut Arab boost the embattled Leaders on all sides called Sunnis back the prime min­University between Sunni Saniora. The Iranian­for calm. Nasrallah _ who ister and Christian parties Muslims and supporters of backed Hezbollah has has insisted in recent days are divided between the the Shiite H~zbollah. As vowed to bring him down he does not want Lebanon two camps. Sunnis in the surrounding unless the opposition is to tumble into civil war _ If sectarian divisions Tarik el-Jadideh district given more power. went on TV in the evening explode in Lebanon, it moved in, Hezbollah 
"The chaos has paralyzed to tell followers it was a would likely further fuel activists called in reinforce­the government. Hezbollah "religious duty" to get off Sunni-Shiite tensions ments. 

Cheney's spokeswoman testifies 
Associated Press 

Cheney's former chief of staff, quickly about her work at CIA from govern­
sought to limit any damage from the ment officials. 
WASHINGTON -Vice President testimony of Cheney's former assis­Besides Martin·, one State Dick Cheney's spokeswoman testified tant for public affairs. Department and two CIA officials tes­Thursday she told I. Lewis "Scooter" Wells got Martin to acknowledge tified earlier to conversations with Libby that a prominent war critic's that she herself could not recall for Libby about Plame before July 10, wife was a CIA employee earlier than sure whether she relayed the infor­2003. The defense tried to show each Libby has said he first learned it from mation about CIA operative Valerie had imperfect memories. a reporter. Plame, wife of Iraq war critic Joseph On Thursday morning, a legal argu­
On the third day of Libby's trial, Wilson, to Cheney and Libby on June ment between Wells and prosecutor Cathie Martin became the first mem­11, 2003, or as late as July 6, 2003. Patrick Fitzgerald outside the jury's ber of Cheney's inner circle to contra­The date is important because presence increased the likelihood that dict statements by Libby that led to Libby told investigators he first heard Libby will testify. Fitzgerald argued the charges he lied to the FBI and a of Plame's job from NBC reporter Tim that Wells was trying to get the mem­grand jury investigating who leaked Russert on July 10. Libby claims that ory defense into evidence "with no the wife's identity to reporters in because he was preoccupied with guarantee of Mr. Libby testifying" and 2003. pressing national security issues, he being subject to cross-examination 
Theodore Wells, defense lawyer for simply forgot he had earlier learned about his memory. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 26, 2007 
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
age alcohol consumption, but that's not how they're treating it. . . . Because not very many peo­ple smoke pot here, it becomes a bigger deal." 
The University's drug policy divided students like Watson, who see problems with how Notre Dame weighs marijuana and alcohol offenses, and other students, who say there are defi­nite distinctions to be made. 
"The University policy is fair because marijuana is illegal," freshman Erin Jelm said. 
Freshman Isaac Song also said marijuana use should be pun­ished severely because of its ille­gality. 
"Who cares when this hap­pened or where it happened, because marijuana's illegal," he said. 
Others, like freshman Gina Camarata, said they were unaware of the specifics of the University's drug policy -a reaction that may support Watson's statement about rela­tively low levels of marijuana use at Notre Dame. 
"I've never looked up how much trouble I can get in for something I wouldn't do," she said. 
In a climate in which universi­ties across the country have been accused of giving their stu­dent-athletes special treatment in incidents similar to the one involving McAlarney, most stu­dents interviewed believe the point guard was treated the same as any student would have been. 
Lennon 
continued from page 1 
"There's no one who better reflects what Notre Dame is about," said Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers, who spoke at the dinner. "Its values, its spir­it, the desire to embrace everyone -he genuinely loves the students and the University." 
Of the 150 people in atten­dance, there were 12 former presidents of the Alumni Board of Directors, the current board members, their families, and University officials, among them University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
Vice President for University Relations Lou Nanni announced the creation of the Charles and Joan Lennon Endowment for Excellence ­a fund with $275,000 con­tributed by Lennon's Alumni Board colleagues to better allow the Alumni Association to provide services to its mem­bers. 
When Lennon addressed the crowd, he told attendees they "weren't here to honor Chuck Lennon," but to honor "you who have given me this oppor­tunity to take what God has given me to a new level." 
The dinner also honored Lennon with a tribute video and a tribute book, containing letters written by past and present Notre Dame and U.S. government officials as well as friends and family, lauding Lennon's love of Notre Dame and dedication to the University. 
The video highlighted Lennon's history with the University and contained com­ments from faculty and 

Freshman Mike Sayles, who 
-said he knew students involved in a similar situation last semes­ter, believed the punishment was at least on par with expec­tations. "There should be a consistent punishment for anyone caught with marijuana, and that's what this is. If you suspend non-ath­letes for a semester and don't suspend McAlarney, that would be inconsistent," he said. Regardless of their stance on the University's decision, stu­dents said they were disappoint­ed. ''I'm disappointed in the school. Getting caught with a half of a joint shouldn't get you suspended for two semesters," junior Jake O'Neil said. Jelm said she was "disappoint­ed in the whole situation, real­1y." "It mars the reputation of the basketball team and of the University," she said. "Kids look up to these athletes and then they find out stuff like this and it's just sad." ­For Schroeder, the decision is something to think about the rest of the season. "It's just sad that this is going to take away from the team's success," she said. McAlarney may not have received special treatment in his punishment, sophomore Colin Fath said, but the guard has received special treatment dur­ing his tenure at the University and took it for granted. "They set everything up to his advantage and he did something stupid and blew it," Fath said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
Hesburgh, who called him "a great Notre Dame man." 
Lennon received a letter from President George W. Bush, which congratulated Lennon on his 25 years of service to Notre Dame, and said that his efforts to better the University and the commu­nity "reflect the character of America." ­
Lennon thanked all "people who care to live their lives as men and women of Notr'e _Dame -graduates, spouses, students, and subway alumni." 
Lennon also paused to thank Hesburgh, who hired him 25 years ago. 
"Thank you, Father Ted, for your belief in me," he said. 
After Hesburgh delivered a final prayer, the Glee Club sang Notre Dame Our Mother and the Victory March, while a teary"eyed Lennon joined them in song. 
Lennon also credited his wife, Joan, and his family with his success, as well as the stu­dent body. 
"You students are what make this place great," he said. 
Lennon graduated from Notre Dame in 1961, earning two monograms in baseball and serving as president of his class. He also completed a Master's degree in guidance and counseling at Notre Dame in 1962, and served as assis­tant basketball and baseball coach until1967. 
Lennon worked in several community agencies in South Bend until Hesburgh offered him the position of executive director of the Alumni Association in 1981, and University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy named him assoc'iate vice president of University Relations in 1999. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at 
jwittl@nd.edu 
faculty. McDermott said there are
Revue 

about 1,200 to 1,250 ticketed continued from page 1 
people in the audience on any given night of the show. The venue fits 1,300. About 
said everyone in line man­50 people in the audience do aged to get tickets. not have tickets, but are "We had just enough for Revue cast members. 
everyone," said  Vignali  and  
Vignali, who also  McDermott  
mentioned that  "We were pleased  were reluctant  
the record for tickets selling out is eight minutes.  with how it went at Saint Mary's. We  to reveal any details about the show's con­ 
Saint  Mary's  credit increased  tent.  
and Notre Dame  efforts in  "It should be  
distributed 1,700 tickets altogeth­ advertising. "  less than three hours and more  
er,  1,300  of  than  two  
which  were  Peter Vignali  hours,"  
unloaded at the  ticket seller  McDermott  
Joyce Center.  said.  
"We  were  Producer  JJ  

pleased with how it went at Cappa also hesitated to com­Saint Mary's. We credit ment on specifics. The final 
increased efforts in adver­tising," Vignali 
"We usually don't 
said. 
like to give any­
There are around 3,900 thing away. It's tickets total, but 
more fun ifpeople
not ·all these 
come in not
tickets are dis­tributed. Each knowing and every Keenan resident 
skit is a surprise. " 
receives four tickets and all rectors must 
JJ Cappa also receive producer tickets. There are some tickets 

skit list has not even been approved yet. 
"We usually don't like to give anything away. It's more fun if people come in not knowing and every skit is a nice surprise," Cappa said. "The humor has definitely improved." 
This year, Keenan brought 
reserved for VIP guests and in professional comedian 
Peter Wicks to help with the skit writing. Wicks works in all kinds of comedy, includ­ing stand-up. 
"The Revue has come from being controversial last year. [This yearJ we know we can put on an equally good show 
'without making people cringe," Cappa said. "We've really encouraged very cre­ative skit writing. We try to be funny without being offen­sive." 
The Keenan Revue will be showing at 7 p.m. on Feb. 1­3 in the Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
Spring Break/Graduation Rental 
in Hilton Head~ SC 
Golf, Tennis, Heated Pool, Beach 
Check it out at WWWoVrbO.COm/J 147 


Friday, January 26, 2007 

Dow 
12,502.56 -119.21

}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 793 106 2,531 3,044,544,977 



fTSE IOO(London) 6,269.30 -45.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -1.29  -0.57  43.73  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +3.09  +0.19  6.34  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.15  0.24  20.60  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -2.06  -0.64  30.45  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +1.19  +0.057  4.867  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.20  +0.01  5.00  
30-YEAR BOND  +1.06  +0.052  4.962  
5-YEARNOTE  + 1.21  +0.058  4.864  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.14  54.23  
GOLD ($fTroy oz.)  +0.20  654.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.83  98.10  
Excha  e Rates  
YEN  121.3600  
EURO  0.7736  
POUND  0.5090  
CANADIAN$  1.1834  

IN BRIEF 
California bans harmful chemical 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -California regula­tors on Thursday enacted the nation's first statewide ban on the most common chemi­cal used by dry cleaners, pleasing environ­mentalists but worrying some small busi­nesses. 
By 2023, no more dry-cleaning machines that use the toxic solvent perchloroethyl­ene, a potential carcinogen, will be permit­ted in the state. 
The regulation by the California Air Resources Board will phase out the fluid next year, banning dry cleaners from buy­ing machines that rely on the solvent. The state's 3,400 dry cleaners who now use it must get rid of machines that are 15 years or older by July 2010. 
"Dry cleaners have known this is a prob­lem for quite some time," board member Dorene D"Adamo said. "There is a cost to society, and believe me taxpayers are pay­ing for it." 
The rule was approved unanimously by the seven-member board and was embraced by environmental and health advocates. They urged the board to accel­erate the ban because of the chemical's health effects. The solvent has contaminat­ed one in 10 wells in California. 
ConAgra closes plants, cuts 200 jobs 
OMAHA, Neb. -Packaged-food maker ConAgra Foods Inc. announced plans Thursday to close two manufacturing plants and expand another while cutting about 200 jobs. 
The changes are part of a reorganization plan the Omaha-based company announced in March last year. ConAgra said it would close 10-12 plants as part of an effort to streamline opera­tions, cut operating costs and raise gross mar­gins. 
On Thursday, acompany spokeswoman said ConAgra would start closing its microwave pop­corn plant in Edina, Minn., by late April and transfer production to plants in Rensselaer, Ind., and Irapuato, Mexico. 
The ConAgra Foods South popcorn-ball plant in St. Paul, Minn., will be closed and its produc­tion moved to the ConAgra plant in Lakeville, Minn. 
Tl·fE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Ford: 2006 loss largest in history 
North American sales decreases, extra costs lead to $12.7 billion decline 
Associated Press 

DEARBORN, Mich. ­With big red numbers on its balance sheet that amount to $1,925 for every car and truck it sold last year, one has to wonder if Ford Motor Co. has the money to keep the doors open long enough for its restructuring plan to take hold. 
On Thursday, the 103­year-old industrial icon reported a staggering $12.7 billion loss for 2006, and it warned that losses would continue this year and next. The loss was the largest in Ford history, driven by slumping North American sales and $9.9 billion in spe­cial items, including restructuring costs tied to the planned closure of 16 plants. 
Chief Executive Alan 
Mulally, who is leading the 
massive remaking of the 
storied automaker, is confi­
dent in its plan to return to 
profitability by sometime in 
2009. 

But some industry ana­lysts, while impressed by Ford's cost-cutting efforts, are skeptical that its new product lineup can carry the company that invented the assembly line back into the black. 
"We know where we are. 
We are dealing with it and 
we're on plan," Mulally told It amounted to $6.79 per space giant Boeing Co., is finished 2006 with $33.9 
reporters and industry ana­share versus a profit of leading the drastic efforts to billion in cash available for 
lysts in a conference call $1.44 billion, or 77 cents a turn around the company. its automotive operations, 
after the numbers were share, in 2005. The compa­Ford mortgaged its assets including $12 billion that it 
announced. ny also reported losing $5.8 to borrow up to $23.4 bil­borrowed in December. He 
Although huge, Ford's billion in the fourth quarter lion to pay for the restruc­said the company could tap losses were far from the and $6 billion on its North turing and to cover losses into nearly all of that cash largest annual corporate American operations. expected until 2009. About to fund its operations. deficits on record; Time Several analysts said the 38,000 hourly workers have The company is on target, Warner Inc. reported a loss was not surprising, signed up for buyout or though, to achieve its goal $97.2 billion loss in 2002, given Ford's high costs and early retirement offers, and of cutting $5 billion in annu­largely due to new account­falling market share and Ford plans to cut its white­al costs by 2008 compared ing rules about how to value sales. Ford's future is cloudy collar work force by 14,000 with 2005 levels, Leclair assets. Ford could not rely at best, given the deficit that with buyouts and early said. on accounting rules, howev­it must overcome, analysts retirements. Mulally said Ford will er, to explain its total. said. Chief Financial Officer continue to review its costs, 
Ford's loss also wasn't the "They have a massive Don Leclair said Ford looking for more cuts as it worst annual total in the challenge in front of them. expects favorable results gains efficien\ies from auto industry. General Their basic business is bil­from its automotive busi­building more cars world­Motors Corp. lost $23.4 bil­lions of dollars in the red," ness in 2007. wide on fewer frames in lion in 1992, due mainly to said Burnham Securities But because of interest on more efficient factories. accounting rule changes on analyst David Healy. its debt, "total automotive "The more I review the health care liabilities. Ford is banking on the results are expected to be details, the more· confident I 
The whopping 2006 loss restructuring to pull it worse in 2007 than in am that we can continue 
surpassed Ford's old record through the next two years. 2006," he said. that cost reduction through 
of $7.39 billion set in 1992. Mulally, hired from aero-Leclair said the company 2009 and beyond," he said. 

Stocks fall as home sales decline 
Associated Press 

higher interest rates. 16.23, or 1.13 percent, to 1,423.90 and 
NEW ·YORK -Stocks suffered their Stocks fell further while the yield on the Nasdaq composite index was down biggest pullback in two months the 10-year Treasury note rose to highs 32.04, or 1.30 percent, at 2,434.24. Thursday, with the Dow Jones industri­not seen since the summer. The pullback comes a day after the als logging a triple-digit decline as a Earlier in the day, investors' cheer Nasdaq rose well over 1 percent and lackluster home sales report and a dis­over quarterly reports from eBay Inc., the Dow set record trading and closing appointing bond auction halted the Nokia Corp., AT&T Inc. had failed to highs. The Dow's decline erased nearly market's two-day rally. translate to gains as strong earnings all the previous two-day rally of about 
The market drifted lower for much of news had done in previous days. 145 points. the session after the National "We had a great run," said Ryan Bond prices fell in response to the Association of Realtors said sales of Larson, senior equity trader at Voyager auction and the Realtors' news, which 
U.S. existing homes fell 0.8 percent in Asset Management, a division of RBC also showed the inventory of existing December to a seasonally adjusted Dain Rauscher. "I think people are kind homes available for sale fell 7.9 per­annual rate of 6.22 million. Then, in of tired right now and looking for other cent to 3.51 million. The yield on the the afternoon, a less-than-enthusiastic avenues." benchmark 10-year note jumped to reception for the Treasury's latest sale The Dow fell119.21, or 0.94 percent, 4.87 percent from 4.81 percent late of five-year notes sent bond prices to 12,502.56. Wednesday. The dollar was mixed falling and yields rising sharply, rattling Broader stock indicators also fell. against other major currencies, while stock investors already worried about The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell gold prices fell. 
TriE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, January 26, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
~ lntbpenden4 Daily Newspaper Serving Nom Dame and Sai,t Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST: MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gortumukka!a AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Amonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORfS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independ'.'flt, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on comenr. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 59l) 2-4000} is pubtlshe-d MQnday through Friday ~.cpt dwing exam and v.u:ation periods. A s~ption to The O~rver is $1-00 for one academic yc-.u; $55 fur one sc:mc.steL 
The Ohstmr is published at~ POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address oomctions co: Noue Dame. IN 46556..0779 Th< Observa Periodical postage paid at Notre IY.une P.O.Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 Sooth Dining Hall 
Nom lhrn<.IN 46556-on9 
Tite Observer is a member ofthe Assodatc:d Press. All reproduction rights: are reservd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Joe Piarulli Tom Hanculak Ryan Sydlik Sports 
Becky Hogan Ken Fowler Viewpoint Chris Hine Kara King Scene 
Marty Schroeder 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Keenan Revue m.ust take care 
Last week, two friends told me that they were recent­ly raped. The previous spring, I listened to similar sto­ries from two other dear friends. The experienee of hearing these four devastating stories is impossible to deseribe. I felt helpless and sick. 
The psyehology of rape is subtle and devastating. The mental and spiritual ehaos that my friends poured out to me that sprung from their victimization is staggering. Chaos is the right word. But perhaps, the most impor­tant bit of this to foeus on is that, eaeh time, the man did not conceive this forced sex as violenee. Three of the four rapes were subtle; the women were disoriented in the moment of the rape, enough for the men to brush off their "no's" as just being coy. The violenee of this subtle rape is no less real. 
I planned on going to the Keenan Hevue this year. I lived in Keenan for four years and know of the cama­raderie and fun that can come of Revue week. But with the pain of these women's stories and the memory of the jokes I saw and laughed at in past Hevues, this year, I cannot go. 
I do not fear feeling bad or offended. My uneasiness stems from questions about the kind of culture that the show creates and expresses. Even if there are no jokes about rape, this does not mean the material does not toueh issues of sexual violence. The cultural formation of someone who would take advantage of a woman is complex. I consider this eultural formation to be tied to women's self-image issues (espeeially eating disorders), irrational homophobia, objeetifieation of women, domestic abuse, insane drinking. In the past, the show laughs at all of these more subtle issues. I havP, a hunch that the roots of this are deeper than I know, much deeper than a two-hour show. 
I hear that this year's staff has taken special care to dean up the show, and for this efl'ort they should be thanked and commended. But still I fear that we do not ask deep enough questions about a culture that is slow to eonfront sexual violence. 
Paul Mitchell fi&h year senior offcampus Jan. 24 

Suspension demands clarification 
Twenty-five days. That's how long it took Notre Dame bas­~emester he was allowed to begin. If he received word in a ketball player Kyle McAlarney to hear from the University as more timely fashion, MeAlarney eould have moved on with to how he would be punished for his late Doeember arrest on his lil'e at a different school, with hopes to return to Notre misdemeanor marijuana possession eharges. Dame or intentions to start over somewhere else. 
That's quite some time, especially consid(~ring that it took It's easy to say that MeAlarney should have known, that St. Joseph County only 18 days-until Jan. 17-to rule that possession is frequently grounds for suspension at Notre McAlarney should enter into a pre-trial diversion program. Dame, that he shouldn't expect to be treated differently than 
Yes, the arrest occurred over wintBr break, so it probably any other student. took the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing significantly Except, for some reason, his mother is saying he did. Or she longer to handle the ease. And yes, Notre Dame did, at least. Whieh raises a whole new set of isn't allowed, under federal law, to comment on· O TI questions about what was really going on here.
l::iserver

individual diseiplinary proceedings. When the only voices in the discussion are But don't students, basketball fans and, MeAiarney and his mother, it would seem to be apparently, the MeAlarneys deservn just a little to the University's benefit to say something ­
Editorial 

darification? however general -that might explain the situ­
Notre Dame is a private, Catholic institution, and those who ation. It would eertainly ease the rumors and speculation elect to come here know to expect several differences from propagated by members of the eampus eommunity, newspa­other eollege environments. But it's unfair that students, per columnists and bloggers over the past few days. eoaehes and parents _:_ at least in this ease -do not know Regardless ol' the punishment, Notre Dame owes those exaetly what to expect. aceus(~d of breaking University rules a timely response. 
The administration needed dose to a month to respond to a Federal law prohibits University eomment on MeAlarney's ease pieked up by the national media hours after MeAlarney speeilie case. That's line. But when the case is this high pro­was arrested and sorted out by South Bend a week before the file, the sehool eould at least issue a statement explaining the school could issue its decision. timeframe for disciplinary decisions when the charges hap­
During this span, MeAlarney attended dasses and praetieed pen over break. with the basketball team, before being suspended from a Let's hear it. 
Condom.s underm.ine Catholic ideals 
With Notre Dame being a Catholic institution of intellectual exchange, I would like to take this opportunity to partake in the ongoing dialogue regarding the use of contraeeptives and condoms. Many of those who have contributed disagree with Eleanore Strong ("Contraeeptive soeiety morally harmful," Letter to the Editor, Jan. 22). Although I missed read­ing the letter, after reading the disagreeing responses I feel the need to address some of the assertions put forth by others. 
Let me start by attending to the definition and purpose of sex, as set forth in the Catechism of the Catholic Church. Sex is to be the selfless act of love that conswnmates the loving relationship between a man and a woman, and is best appropriate in the context of marriage. In this sense, sex is said to be unitive,that is, uniting the two persons in a physi­eal aet of love. The seeond purpose of sex is procreative, an openness to possibility of the creation of a new life. Contraceptives and condoms prohibit these purposes of sex beeause, in using contraceptive or 'pro­tective' measures, not only are the persons obliterating the procreative purpose, but they are also preventing sex from being a selfless, unifYing acf 
One might ask: How is this possible, contraceptives and condoms allow people to engage is sex without the "fear of death, disease or an unwanted pregnaney?"(Letter to the Editor, "Condoms are not the cause," Jan. 23). Such a question exhibits a misunderstanding of and laek ofrespeet for the sexual act. Sex, when practieed under the eir­cwnstanees for whieh it was intended, is meant to be a complete and selfless gift of onesell'to one's partner. This entails an uneonditional sur­render of any personal reservations (such as fear) of eaeh and an acceptance of the vulnerabilities of the love that sex professes. 
Contraeeptives, condoms and the like allow people an avenue to aceess sex in a more selfish context by allowing partners (long-and short-term) to experience the physical pleasures of sex without neces­sarily being concerned with the other person. This is where we get the term "contraceptive mentality," which refers to the devaluing of sex to the extent that it is seen in a casual and even commereiallight. Although called the "eontraeeptive" mentality, this concept refers to the general deprecating attitude toward the true purposes of s_ex, whether or not aetual eontraeeptive measures are used. While many faetors have contributed to this present mentality, it can be reasonably stated that the advent of eontraception was a big push down the slippery slope on which we now frnd ourselves. 
Mary Kate Daly freshman Welsh Family Hall Jan. 24 
OBSERVER POLL 
If the Democratic primary were held today, who would you vote for? 
%of votes  #of votes  
a. Barack Obama  40%  853  
b. Hillary Clinton  14%  415  
c. Bill Richardson  12%  308  
d. John Edwards  14%  302  
e. Other  19%  257  
This poll is based on the result of 2135 votes at http:/!www.ndsmcobserver.com/  



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Sometimes the questions are complicated and the answers are simple." 
Dr. Seuss American author 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, January 26, 2007 page 9 
The eccentricity of the saints 
In the Martins' parking lot the other day, I passed a poorly but enthusiastically maintained Mazda whose rear-end was overloaded with absurd bumper stickers, most of them along the lines of this: "Conscientious Non-Jam Conformist." Th_e Matt~:w cheap shot one ts. Wilson tempted to make ts 
that no person answer-The Treasonous ing to that description Clerk could possibly have found so many bumper stickers to "express" his heart-felt opin­ions. It is a cheap.shot, because most of us cannot make anything on our own -not even descriptions of ourselves -but must buy or steal everything. 
Sometimes the cheap shot is correct, however, as it is in this case. When the mass of men and women subscribe to barbaric opinions or listen to savage, banal and unsublimated music, they gen­erally do so for some arguably good rea­son that has nothing to do with their iden­tity as "consumers" or "individuals," as "conformists" or otherwise. The owner of this ideologically-loaded jalopy, on the other hand, could have put up that mass­produced, block-lettered, sticky declara­tion of individuality only for one end -a purpose it singularly could not achieve. 
In one respect, I cannot help sympathiz­ing with its trite, failed message. Reading the major intellectuals of the nineteenth century and after, from Alexis de Tocqueville to G.K. Chesterton and W.H. Auden, one encounters the constant fear­ful apprehension that men are all growing alike. The person under the reign of mod­ern society had become a black-coated, straight-faced bore, and had so become because of the pressures of modern industry, the workplace and especially through the offices of that "hygienic" arm of the modern state, mass education. 
Auden, a product of the elite schools of England, argued strongly that parents should be left as much control of their children's educatidn as possible, and that children should be let to run around with as many neuroses as they could without seriously hurting themselves. If conformi­ty cast an increasing pall on former times, and if the commodification and "sanitiza­tion" of persons has continued unabated, what basis have we to believe the situa­tion has gotten better rather than worse? 
None. In ages past, occasional eccentrics sprung up in the hamlets of England or in the Villages of the Italian peninsula, and their exceptional attributes were but some of the signs by which they called one to greater devotion to God. They sealed themselves up in side-cham­bers of churches, fasted and prayed; they sat on pillars, moaned and prayed; or they flagellated themselves at the edges of town; or they performed works of mercy among the poor, sick and outcast. They shouted with joy the beauty of cats and the sublimity of shook foil. They were called saints, and it was on account of their unusual behavior that the great masses of people flocked in fascination to bathe within the light of their eccentric haloes. 
The death of saints, I think we can say, was always the plot of some jealous few. In other words, the notion of popular saints -of persons being declared "saints" by popular demand -suggests the way in which most people once wel­comed those different from themselves, so long as that difference was a signifier for a higher mode of life. Difference, when it reflected elevation, was a privilege not a derangement. And the makers of martyrs were those who did not so much perse­cute the difference in the saint, but rather, sought to exterminate the deep but exposed humanity in him: that self-reveal­ing quality whereby the saint threatened to bring to light the frailty and thirst for mercy and justice in every run-of-the-mill person. The sorrow of martyrdom comes in part from our basest common charac­ter falling under the control of this jealous few, betraying and spurning that noble common need. 
We, at present and as a rule, can no longer understand sainthood. When someone proposes the virtue of a celibate life, we look on in confusion and con­tempt. We whisper in corridors and rear back our heads like furious pack horses. When someone proposes the good of the life of contemplation, we sneer at her use­lessness. "She'll learn when she's starv­ing," we say, though we have managed to avoid ever seeing anyone starve. We pre­sume the celibate must suffer some secret sexual disorder -or what used to be called a "disorder" before it became just another consumer choice. And we simply accuse the contemplative of being "impractical" or "unrealistic," although no one I have heard use those terms has ever bothered to think what they might mean. 

This transformation from past to pres­ent is especially glaring at a Catholic uni­versity, where light of the saints in stained glass falls upon us all the time as we cross campus on our way to a marketing or economics lecture, where we learn the only truth worth countenancing is that of "supply and demand." Or coming home from yet another "mock interview," as we train to describe ourselves the way that will least expose our self and play up those fungible attributes that show we have the promise of being docile good wor:kers. 
St. Francis wore a tonsure; other saints wore hair-shirts. Chesterton wore a cape and saber. I do not write to recommend this. But rather than celebrating the "diversity" of what we listen to, wear, or copulate with, all the while we continue living lives thoughtless, identical and effi­cient, we might do better to seek after those higher goods that inevitably make the human wheel spin a little wobbly. 
James Matthew Wilson is a Sarin Research Fellow, and recalls daily George Santayana's avowal that "It is not wis­dom to be only wise." He can be reached atjwilson5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
For University policy, approval and doubts 
Enforcing standards important 
Whether all the members of the Notre Dame community want to accept it or not, the standard at Notre Dame is zero tolerance with respect to possession or use of drugs including marijuana. This is basis for the statements in du Lac con­cerning "shall be subject to discipli­nary suspension ...". 
In the case of Kyle McAlarney, he chose to separate himself from the Notre Dame community by his actions on Dec. 29. He may not have realized it, but that is what he did. Sometimes these cases do not rise to the level of a disciplinary hearing. For example, dorm rectors I am sure may choose to exercise some discretion in dealing with discipli­nary matters "internally" at the dorm level. 
Unfortunately in Kyle's case, there was no opportunity for an interme­diary to take action, and the matter had to go to the disciplinary hearing stage. The decision by the discipli­nary board simply confirms Kyle's own decision. As an alum, I am proud that Notre Dame has chosen to take action consistent with its published standards. 
Jack Fremeau alumnus Class of 1971 Jan. 25 
Consistency needed 
Many of the people in the Notre Dame community are deeply dis­turbed by the University's decision to suspend Kyle McAlarney from school. This is the first time in my 25 years that even the most devout Notre Dame supporters are truly distressed. My father has almost come to tears over this matter despite having no affiliation with the McAlarney's. 
Friends I haven't spoken to in months have communicated with me in the last few days to express their concerns. Premarital sex, according to du Lac, is subject to the same pun­ishment as possession (and a joint is hardly possession in the grand scheme of things). But, no one in their right mind would ever suspend an individual for one sexual encounter with a significant other. That is because we do not live by the letter of the law ... judicial bodies are given discretion because laws are not absolute. 
Kyle should be punished and what he did was terrible. However, the appropriate disciplinary action was not taken. The message that is received is one of arrogance, not suit­ability. Furthermore, I find a lack of consistency when examining past University rulings. Whether it be drunk driving or physical acts of vio­lence, punishments less severe seemed to be a common recourse. 
Kyle seems like a Notre Dame kid. It was his dream school. He was a good kid that made a bad mistake. Where was the Notre Dame community when he needed it most? I sincerely hope that the University learns from their mistake. We know Kyle has. 
Paul Benedict alumnus Class of2003 Jan. 25 
Policy not in community interest 
While I don't know the details of Kyle McAlarney's situation, through my experience with the Judicial Council (a resource I highly recommended to any student in trouble) I do have experience assisting students who have been in situations very similar to his. Based on these experiences, I have two observations. 
1. The University is consistent in its applica­tion of the rules. Any other student caught with marijuana would have been suspended as well. du Lac is unequivocal as to what the pun­ishment should be, and in my experience the University is consistent in administering it. 
2.1t is difficult to balance the needs of the individual with the needs of the community­a concept addressed thoroughly on pages 90­91 of du Lac. However, I feel the University's policy of mandating suspension for students who possess marijuana (p. 189) does not ade­quately balance these needs when applied to those have never been in trouble before and only possessed a small amount. 
The students I assisted were in this exact sit­uation, and I doubt anyone would consider them threats to the community. They weren't possessing large amounts of marijuana and selling it, which definitely calls for severe pun­ishment. They weren't using so-called "hard drugs." They weren't even using drugs and then getting in fights, disrupting the dorm, or vandalizing campus (as sometimes happens with drinking alcohol). While there is no excuse for such illegal activity, it hardly seems to warrant the punishment given out. 
Consider especially that driving while intoxi­cated, an activity which is also illegal but arguably far more dangerous than possessing small amounts of marijuana, carries a mini­mum punishment of probation, not suspension, according to duLac. "The punishment doesn't fit the crime" arguments aside, at the heart of this matter is how the community treats its members who have behaved in a manner inconsistent with its values. Though the theory behind du Lac's policies emphasizes the impor­tance of positive individual growth as well as the need to foster a good community, the poli­cies themselves fall short of these goals. I would think all members of the community would support a policy in favor of helping and educating those who are troubled but do not pose a threat to the community's safety as opposed a policy which removes them from the very community that can help them the most. 

I assisted several students who told me they were moving from a very supportive environ­ment at Notre Dame to a far less supportive environment at home because of their suspen­sion. Is this what we really want for our stu­dents? If Notre Dame truly wants to live up to its reputation of being a family-a reputation repeatedly emphasized on campus from orien­tation to graduation and on television commer­cials throughout the country -then it should treat its members as family. 
If Notre Dame truly wants to live up to the Catholic traditions of justice, forgiveness and helping others, then in addition to punishing students it should support these students with its various resources, such as its counseling services. It should especially do so for those students who have done nothing to affect the community other than possess small amounts of marijuana. I can't help but think the needs of these individuals and the community would be better met by placing the students on pro­bation and mandating participation in a drug program -thereby allowing them to receive the benefits and resources of Notre Dame, just as those with alcohol problems do. I hope the University will take time to reflect on its policy, and I hope student government and the Campus Life Council will engage in a conversa­tion aimed at striking a better balance between the needs of the community's individ­ual members and the needs of the community as a whole-a balance that will help our indi­viduals and the community grow together in a positive manner. 
James Leito alumnus Class of2006 Jan. 25 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 10 
Friday, January 26, 2007 
I scifth&ff"i&o I 
Acadetny A-wards race proves tight from start to finish 

Classic American tale spun with a French twist 
"An American in Paris," directed by Vincente Minnelli and staring Gene Kelly, is an intense story of love set in the romantic city of Paris, France. 
By ERIN McGINN Assisranr Scene Editor 
A bohemian painter falls in love with the fiancee of another man, leading to an incredible song-and-dance routine. "An American in Paris" stars Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron in a sumptuous rendering of one of the world's most beautiful cities. 
The plot is little less than dazzling. Kelly stars as the inspiration-starved painter Jerry Mulligan, who meets the gloriously rich Milo Roberts (Nina Foch) as he sets up his work for curb­side exhibition. She chooses Kelly to be her latest boy toy. Milo does her best to convince him she loves him as an artist, but even to the somewhat naive Mulligan, the transparency is evident. Still, he likes being recog­nized as a painter and permits himself to be swept off his feet despite his ini­tial objections. 
Roberts' amorous plans are over­turned upon the arrival of the beauti­ful dancer Lise Bouvier (Caron). She also pursues a relationship with Mulligan and they begin a romantic love affair that is inconvenienced only by their secret relationship. Bouvier is promised to Henri Baurel (Georges 

,----------------r--------, transport the audie14ce to a surreal world. Although "An American in Paris" was far superior to the other musicals of its time, it 
An American 
in Paris 

isn't as fully developed as Kelly's next big proj­ect, "Singing in the Rain." The two are con­stantly compared, and even though the argu-
L_______________..!:========~ ment can be made that 
Guetary), a friend of Adam Cook (Oscar Levant) who rooms in the same hostel and is friends with Mulligan. The rivalry between Baurel and Mulligan remains veiled for a large part of the film. Baurel even tries to convince Mulligan that he can capture the woman's heart. Cook catches on early but refrains from interfering, though it obviously pains him to do so. 
As musicals of the era often did, director Vincente Minnelli spends long, laborious takes filming the danc­ing and singing of its stars. People expected to see Kelly dance and they got their wish in abundance. At least half of the film is spent with Kelly dancing to a musical number. 
The difference between this and other similar productions is that the plot is at least admirably interesting, thanks in part to the terrific perform­ances of Caron, Foch and especially Kelly. 
The biggest spectacle in the film is probably the most worthwhile. Despite running for a lengthy 20 minutes, Kelly dances through a dreamlike reality of Paris rendered beautifully by art directors Preston Ames and Cedric Gibbons. Using famed artist renderings of Parisian locations (such as those by Manet), Ames and Gibbons 
George C. Scott once refused an Oscar, calling the Academy Awards "a rat race." If so, it's the most prestigious, exciting and controversial rat race in the world. The nominations were released on Tuesday, prompting the usual award season contro­
versy and hype. This year's Oscar race is being touted for its unpredictable nature -a true front-runner hasn't emerged, and the top-nominated film ("Dreamgirls," with eight) is not even up for Best Picture. 

As with any race 
dependent on voters, Brian Doxtader early buzz is good, but late momentum is bet­ter. "Babel," which won the Golden Globe for Scene Editor Best Picture (Drama), seems to be the early favorite, but it's not yet clear whether the thematic comparisons to 
previous high-profile pictures like "Crash" (last year's winner) and "Traffic" will help or hinder the socially conscious film. The momentum gained from the Golden Globe will no doubt be a benefit, especially since the Best Picture (Comedy or Musical) Golden Globe winner, "Dreamgirls," was not nomi­nated for the Oscar. 
The good word-of-mouth surrounding "Letters to Iwo Jima" may lead to an upset come Oscar time, especially since it wouldn't be the first time that a Clint Eastwood­directed film made a late push to win the award. His last picture, "Million Dollar 

Baby," beat the Miramax behemoth 'The Aviator" for the top prizes (Best Pieture and 
Best Director for Eastwood) in 2004. 
Speaking of "The Aviator," the biggest question i<> whether or not this is the year that Martin Scorsese gets it done. "The Departed" is one of those lilms that didn't seem hyped for Oscar prestige, but has picked up steam for one key reason: it's really good. 
The film is far more deserving than Scorsese's other high-prestige pictures of recent years ("The Aviator" and "Gangs of New York"), it might gamer the venerated filmmaker the Best Director statuette that has eluded him -unless he loses to Eastwood again. "The Departed" is also probably the best ftlm in the race, but its vio­lent cynicism might be problematic with some voters, especially since it lacks the social consciousness or historical rooting of films like "The Queen" or "Babel." 
"Little Miss Sunshine" is thi<> year's dark horse. Every year, there's an "odd man out," a film whose nomination is a little pu7.zling -"Seabiscuit" in 2003 or "Finding Neverland" in 2004. The buzz surrounding "little Miss Sunshine" i<> growing, however, thanks to several hundred thousand DVDs that have been sent to Academy voters. 
Some surprise acting nominations indude Ryan Gosling in the little-seen "Half Nelson," Mark Wahlberg for "The Departed" and Abigail Breslin in "little Miss Sunshine." There are a pair of sure bets this year in the Best Actor and Best Actress awards, which already have Forest Whitaker ("Last King of Scotland") and Helen Mirren's ("The Queen) names inscribed on them. 
A<> with other years, the 2006 omissions are just as notable as the nominations. Among the films that failed to gamer Best Picture noms are Alfonso Cuaron's "Children of Men," Guillermo DelToro's "Pan's Labyrinth," Paul Greengrass' "United 93" and the aforementioned "Dreamgirls." Both "Children of Men" and "Dreamgirls" were expected to be front-runners in the race, and their complete elimination is puzzling, especially in the face of nominated films like "Little Miss Sunshine" and "The Queen." Neither of the two major 9/11 films ("United 93" and Oliver Stone's "World Trade Center") received Best Picture nominations, though their early releases may have hin­dered their chances. "The Departed" i<> under-represented in the acting department, as Jack Nicholson failed to gamer a nomina­tion, and DiCaprio got the nod for "Blood Diamond" instead. 
The award ceremony is still over a month away, but the build-up is already beginning. "The Departed" is being re-released and several high-profile films are finally reaching wide-release. The momentum and vibes over the next several weeks will determine who walks away with statuettes and who won't. Let the race begin. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


"An American in Paris" is the weaker of the two, it still stands as a remark­able musical from an era that pro­duced some of the world's most fondly remembered films. 
"An American in Paris" received an impressive six Academy Awards, com­peting directly with two other popular films of the time ("A Streetcar Named Desire" and "A Place in the Sun"). There were no acting nominations, but the film swept up technical prizes 
left and right, as well as being the surprise winner for the Best Picture award. 
"An American in Paris" is a triumph of filmmaking. It is entertaining as well as cinematically remarkable, with its dream-sequence closing ballet acting as a showcase for what the movie-musical is able to achieve. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
.. 
' 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Friday, January 26, 2007 
page 11 
CD REVIEW 
Emo rockers Taking Back Sunday up to old tricks 


DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CEN~,.-m.,,_..-_ ... 
''Le Medecin Malgre Lui" //The _, .. ·"Fin"Spif~:tit·Hi~se Professor Paul McDowell's latest French ThpQf~~/Pfo"diJCtion, 11le &t~e~i Malgre lui," arrives at the Philbin Black Bd~Th,epter this weekendofifh , DPAC. The latest in the annual series of FrellJh plpys performed by/ . ,.l Professor McDowell's classes, 11le Medecin ~olgr__ byi::,is aclos~iq force'''fiy legendary French playwright and humorist fft~lier~'Obgut adrunken_lout with more than his fair shore of vices. The casfis"~D!it~Jy compos~~!Of Notre Dome students, including Mary Corrigan, Micfiael Barret;" ' Tom Dorwart and even Professor McDowell himself. January 26th and 27th, 7:30pm, and January 28th, 3pm 
18th Annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival 
Notre Dome's student filmmakers hove returned for another year's showcase of the Film, Television and Theater deportment's best and brightest work. This year's festival will feature thirteen films, including "Welcome to Snyderville" and ''Flipped." Friday, January 26th through Saturday, January 27th ot 7pm ondlOpm 
Glee Club concert: ND and University of Michigan 
Friday 8pm 

The Romeo and Juliet Story: In Concert, Presented by Summer Shakespeare 
Friday 7:30pm 
DPAC Movies 

11An American in Paris" (Classic Film) ~otur.oov (PAC Classic 100) 
Mozart and Salieri • So 
Sunday 2:30pm 
LEGEND 

OF NOTRE DAME 
Bopology Swing Band concert 
Friday lOpm 
Swing Nightclub 
Friday at midnight 

Margot and the Nuclear So and So's (WVFI) 
Soturcfay lOpm 
Reggaeton Nightclub 
Saturday of midnig~t 

"Taking Back Sunday," the Amityville, N.Y. based emo-punk band, recently released "Louder Now" -the group's first album under the Warner Bros. label. 
By MARTY SCHRODER Assistant Scene Editor 

Taking Back Sunday's formula on their third album "Louder Now" does not seem to have strayed much from the emo-pop­rock recipe that the band is so very good at. While still a solid album that many teenage girls and boys will be listening to and lamenting their loss of love and romance, it fails to do much in the way of new material that the truly creative bands are capable of. 
This band used to be spot on. With its 2002 release of "Tell All Your Friends," Taking Back Sunday was on the forefront of the emo-rock that was just hitting the scene. Although bands had sung about girls before and Chris Carrabba's one man Dashboard Confessional had been pouring his heart out to ready teenagers for a cou­ple of years, 'Tell All Your Friends" was emo with an edge. When Taking Back Sunday front man Adam Lazzara plead­ingly moans "And if you slit my throat I with my one last gasping breath I I'd apol­ogize for bleeding on your shirt," one knows it's teenage emo off its hinges but there was something real in that first album. "Louder Now" is still good music and the lyrics are more intelligent than your average emo-rock fare four years down the line, but this album is still doing the same old thing and suffers for it. 
"Louder Now" opens with a frenzy in the form of "What's it Feel Like to be a Ghost?" Bassist Matt Rubano sets the tone with a frantic bass line that clears the way for Lazzara's singing. Following this is "Uar (It Takes One to Know One)" which is just as edgy and emo-punk as. the previous track. The middle of the album shines with "Twenty-Twenty Surgery" and mourns with the string accented "My Blue Heaven." 
This album was the first for Taking Back Sunday to be released on the Warner Bros. label. They had previously been with emo­punk mainstay Victory records and here Warner displays the cleaner production it can offer. However, the band does not lose its rough edge. While the production is clean thanks to producer Eric Valentine, the music is classic emo-punk sound is not lost. While the album is not the most groundbreaking album ever to be released it is surely good enough to warrant a lis­ten. 
The biggest problem with the album is the cookie-cutter feel. Where "Tell All Your Friends" may have been overly melodra­matic, it was, at very least, fresh. However, "Louder Now" will keep the band's fans happy. They rock hard and sing about doomed relationships and, of course, the girl that got away. However, ifTaking Back Sunday wishes to be truly recognized as a band that is serious about music, they must begin to move in a new direction. The emo-punk will keep the kids happy but the critics will begin to tear them apart. While some might say Taking Back Sunday is doing the same thing that My Chemical Romance did to make it big, My Chemical Romance isn't changing its music; they are changing their image. Perhaps it's not necessary that Taking Back Sunday go out and buy black eyelin­er. It would, however, be nice to hear fresh music from this talented band. This music may sell some records, but it seems Taking Back Sunday is going to be long forgotten as one of the ubiquitous emo-punk bands that are dominating the airwaves. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
Taking Back Sunday 
Louder Now 
Warner Bros. 




Recommended tracks: "What's it Feels Like to be a Ghost?," "Liar (It Takes One to Know One)" and "My Blue Heaven" 
TOM HANCULAK I Oberver Gra hie 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 26, 2007 
ND TRACK 
Irish set to host home cotnpetition at Loftus 
runners on the women's side
By JAY FITZPATRICK were again able 
to put up

Sports Writer 
strong numbers. Senior run­ner Amy Kohlmeier crossed Notre Dame will continue its the line for the mile at early indoor track season 4:55.66, only to be followed with another home meet by four straight Irish runners. today in the Notre Dame One difference between the Invitational. Notre Dame Invitational and 
So far this season, the Irish the other meets this season is have proven themselves very as simple as the athletes com­capable of succeeding peting for the Irish. indoors. "We have a couple of guys 
Notre Dame's season began that haven't run yet, a guy in at home in the Loftus Center particular [freshman with· the Blue and Gold sprinter] Jeff Farnell -that Invitational. Irish competitors will be a big impact," senior dominated the meet with 42 sprinter Ryan Poste,l said. "He Big East qualifying times and has had a problem with his scores across the board. hamstring, so coach hasn't let 
For the women's team, the him run yet." ' distance runners performed But the Irish athletes will especially well, with five qual­compete this weekend in vari­ifying for the Big East cham­ous, not necessarily familiar pionships Feb. 17-18 in events. Akron, Ohio. Highlighting the "We ·are going to be doing team's performance on the some things differently. A lot men's side was sophomore of us will be in events that we Patrick Smyth's second-place normally wouldn't be in," said finish in the 5,000-meter run Postel, who will runn in the in 14:00.73. Smyth's time was 200-meter dash. · good enough for an NCAA Postel normally runs longer provisional qualifier. sprints, including the 400­
At the Purdue Invitational meter event. Jan. 13, the Irish had numer­Even though the Irish are ous Big East qualifiers, already entering their third including sophomore Anna tournament of the indoor sea­Weber in the throwing events son, their focus still lies and sophomore Mary Saxer in ahead to the tough matchups the pole vault. later on. 
In the Notre Dame Indoor "The Notre Dame Opener Jan. 20, the Irish Invitational is sort of like a were dominant in all aspects primary for the r.ace next of the meet. week, the Meyo Invitational;" 
The men's and women's Postel said. "So we don't have teams combined for 15 event any specific goals for this winners, as well as 15 addi­race." tional qualifiers to the Big East Championships. Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
The Notre Dame distance jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Tealll vvants to reign in Cavaliers 
Notre Dame is ranked No. 13 nationally heading into the spring 
the 12th time in the last 16 matched to take on the
By DEIRDRE KRASULA years that it does so in the Cavaliers. 

Sports Writer 

top 30. "I am pretty confident that The No. 13 ranking is the it will be a very close Notre Dame is hoping 13 highest since 2002 when the match," Bayliss said. "We isn't all that unlucky. Irish started the season at also want to play our best at 
The Irish head to Virginia No.7. doubles and see if we can today for the season opener, No. 29 Louisville joins get the doubles to win." ranked No. 13 by the Fila Notre Dame The team Collegiate Tennis Rankings. as the other will rely on Notre Dame comes back to Big East "I am pretty confident the duo of campus Sunday for an after­team ranked that it will be a very Parbhu and noon rendezvous wit!J in the top 30. Keckley to
close match. We also
Indiana. The team's challenge No. 
The team is led by two top singles want to play our best 7 Devvarman strong individual singles .player, Bass at doubles and see and Treat players -senior Stephen last faced Huey.
ifwe can get the 
Bass and junior Sheeva Virginia's Bayliss
doubles to win."
Parbhu are currently ranked Somdev expects big No. 14 and No. 30 in singles, Devvarman performances respectively. (No. 8 Bobby Bayliss from his top Adding to his rankings is nationally) two singles as
Irish coach 
Parbhu's No. 11 spot in dou­last January well. Bass bles with partner senior when the will have to Ryan Keckley. Irish took on the Cavaliers. adjust his game to the slow­
But the team is less con­Bass almost defeated er courts the team will face cerned with its preseason Devvarman but fell 6-3, 5-6, in Charlottesville. rankings than it is focused 6-4. Virginia took the meet Bayliss hopes that Bass on their upcoming perform­4-3 for the win. will be able to start the team ances. Devvarman is a familiar on a successful path for the 
"We don't worry too much opponent for the Irish -match. about num-Parbhu faced "We hope to start from bers and him in the [Stephen's match] and go
"We don't worry too

rankings, quarterfinals straight on down [to win],"
much about numbers 

particularly of the NCAA Bayliss said. right now," and rankings, Singles The team plans on per­Irish coach Champion­forming well no matter the
particularly right now.

Bobby Bayliss ship in May. ranking of its opponent.
The number you want

said. "The Devvarman "I expect we will be in number you to have that is high is e n d e d every match and win the want to have Parbhu's majority of them," Bayliss
.at the end of the year." 

that is high is streak in the said. at the end of tournament Indiana is currently unde­the year." Bobby Bayliss with a 6-1,6-feated and ranked No. 58 in 
Entering Irish coach 3 win. the ITA poll. 
the  spring  Bayliss and  The meeting between the  
s  e  a  s  o n  the  ·  Irish  Irish and the Hoosiers will  
ranked is nothing new  for  hope  to  walk  away  from  be Indiana's first road match  
the Irish-it is the 16th.  Virginia this year with a win.  of the season.  
straight season that Notre  The team is well rounded  
Dame will start the presea­ in both singles and doubles  Contact Deirdre Krasula at  
son in the Fila rankings and  play  and  feels  it  is  well  dkrasula@nd.edu  

MLB 
Slammin' Satnmy close to signing deal w-ith Rangers 
Associated Press ing and the wife of Rangers Louis, Kansas City and San Baltimore, when the seven­(1992-2004) and Orioles, 
general manager Jon Daniels Francisco. time All-Star hit .221 with 14 Sosa has batted .274 with 
DALLAS Although is due to give birth to the He went 6-10 with a 5.19 homers and 45 RBis in 102 1,575 RBis. Sammy Sosa and the Texas couple's first child. ERA in 34 games (21 starts) games. Sosa has hit 60 home runs Rangers were close to finaliz­Texas did agree to a minor­for the Giants last season. His major-league debut or more in a year three ing a minor-league deal league contract with right­If Wright is placed on the came with the Rangers in times. Thursday, a final resolution hander Jamey Wright, who 40-man roster, he would get 1989, when he played only 25 Sosa was the NL MVP in isn't expected until at least will go to spring training with a $900,000, one-year con­games before being traded to 1998, when he batted .308 early next week. a chance to compete for the tract and the chance to earn the Chicago White Sox. with a career-high 66 homers 
The Rangers and Sosa's fifth spot in the rotation $350,000 in performance If completed and he makes and 158 RBls for the Cubs. agent, Adam Katz, have behind Kevin Millwood, bonuses based on innings. the team, Sosa's contract That was· the season he was exchanged a couple propos­Vicente Padilla, Brandon The bonuses start at 120 would likely have a base in the home run chase with als since the 38-year-old, McCarthy and Robinson innings and top out at 180 salary of about $500,000. Mark McGwire, who became who has 588 career homers, Tejeda. innings. He would have the chance the first major-leaguer to hit worked out twice for Texas. Wright has a 67-98 career Like Wright, Sosa will have to earn additional perform­70 homers. The most recent workout was record with a 5.14 ERA in to earn his spot on the ance bonuses. Sosa remains the only play­Jan. 15. 260 games (237 starts) over Rangers' roster. In his career with the er in major-league history to 
An agreement appears like­parts of the last 11 seasons Sosa hasn't played in the Rangers (1989), White Sox hit 60 or more home runs in ly, but Katz has been travel-with Colorado, Milwaukee, St. majors since 2005 with (1989-91), Chicago Cubs three straight seasons. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from ·8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
CASHIERS NEEDED. APPLY IN PERSON. UNIVERSITY MARATHON, 405 933N IN ROSE­LAND. HOURS WILL VARY AND NO CALLS. 
Local family looking for a babysitter. Preferably looking for a freshman or sophomore. References required. Experience a must! Transportation necessary. Call (574) 247-9213. 
FoR SALE 

2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE OWNER, $6,500. CALL 243-5454. 
foR RENT 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 

2 bdrm condo JPW & Grad wknds. 1 mi to ND. 614-985-5003. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER­SON/M0.574-329-0308 
Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15. Walk to Univ. Call 561-596-0194. 
Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. 
andersonNDrentals.com 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm houses available for sale/rent. Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan Real Estate 220-9817. 
House available for 2007-2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. Contact MacSwain.@ gmail.com 
TICKETS 

WANTED -3 tix ND hockey Sat. Jan 27. Call 703-585-8663. 
PERSONAL 
Dear Mr. Snowball hurler, I waited until after you and your friends ran like Carmela Anthony in fear. I got your license plate. It would be a crime for me to threaten you here. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-Weekly ad in The Observer. 
Happy Birthday Lammie! P.S. Hi Amy. 
Killer Tofu. 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, January 26, 2007 CoMPILED rRoM THE OBsERVER's WIRE sERVICEs page 13 
NFL 
Women's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team record points 
1 Duke 21-0 1235 2 North Carolina 22-0 1212 3 Maryland 21-1 1128 4 Tennessee 18-2 1122 5 Ohio Stale 18-1 1005 6 Connecticut 17-1 1000 7 Oklahoma 17-2 972 8 LSU 19-2 873 9 Stanford 16-3 856 10 Arizona State 18-2 766 11 George Washington 16-2 673 12 Purdue 19-3 671 13 Baylor 17-3 636 14 Vanderbilt 17-4 633 15 Louisville 17-4 503 16 Georgia 17-2 485 17 Texas A&M 18-2 444 18 Bowling Green 19-2 367 19 Marquette 18-3 359 20 Middle Tenn. Sl. 15-4 268 21 California 14-4 210 22 Texas 16-5 177 23 Michigan State 15-5 159 24 Mississippi 14-6 125 25 Kansas State 16-4 74 
Men's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team record points 
1 Florida 18·2 1759 2 Wisconsin 20·1 1720 3 UCLA 17·1 ?~?=·= 1679 4 North Carolina 18·2 1597 5 Ohio Stale 17·3 1470 6 Texas A&M 16·3 1438 7 Oregon 18·1qt· 1387 8 Kansas 17·:1''" 1248 9 Pillsburgh 18·3 .... 1203 10 Duke 17-3 1091 11 Memphis 16·3. 954 .. 12 Alabama 15·4 937''' 13 Oklahoma State 17·3 867 14 Butler 17-2 856 15 Marquette 726 16 Air Force ~:::!:)! 676 17 Arizona 14·5 545 18 Nevada 17·2 534 19 Clemson 18·3 507 t,;i;;;
4111'#·.······
20 Washington State 16·3 :.:g::r·· 21 LSU 13·6 392 22 NOTRE DAME 16·4 304 23 Indiana 14·5 210 24 Virginia Tech 15·5 ,, 177 25 usc 15·5 149 
Men's Basketball Big East Standings 
Big East overall 
team record record 
1 Pittsburgh 6-1 
18·3 
2 Marquette 5-2 18•4; 3 Syracuse 4-2 
1&:5 
4 Georgetown 4-2 
14-5 
5 Louisville 4-2 
14-6 
6 NOTRE DAME 4-3 
16-4 
7 West Virginia 4·3 
1&:41 
8 Villanova 3-3 
14-5 
9 Providence 3-3 
13-6 10 Seton Hall 3-4 11~811·· 11 St. John's 3·4 12~8 12 DePaul 3-4 13 Connecticut 2-4 14 south Florida 2-5 
1 
15 Cincinnati 1·4 
1 
16 Rutgers 1-6 
8·12 
around the dial 
TENNIS Austratlian Open Women's Final 9:30 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 

IRVING, Texas -The Dallas Cowboys added Jason Garrett to their coaching staff Thursday night, and said he would remain a candidate to replace retired head coach Bill Parcells. 
Garrett, the backup to Hall of Fame quarterback Troy Aikman for two Super Bowl titles in Dallas from 1993-99, was quarterbacks coach in Miami the last two seasons -his only coach­ing experience. Garrett also had been. in line to become the Dolphins' offensive coordinator for new head coach Cam Cameron. 
The Cowboys said Garrett's responsibilities and title won't be deter­mined until the head coaching search is com­plete. The most likely sce­nario, however, is that Garrett will become the offensive coordinator if he's not the head coach. 
"The nature and timing of this hire is unique in that we were dealing with a lim­ited window of time in which to talk to Jason about returning to Dallas," Cowboys owner Jerry Jones said in a statement. 
The Dolphins gave Dallas permission to talk to the 40-year-old Garrett, but also told the former quar­terback that he had to decide by Thursday if he was going to sign a con­tract extension. That dead­line passed with Garrett still in Texas. 

"Jason is someone who is held in high regard as a bright offensive mind throughout the NFL," Jones said. "We are grateful to the Dolphins for granting the Cowboys permission to explore this opportunity. Jason will now proceed fur­ther in our head coaching search as an in-house can­didate." 
San Diego defensive coor­dinator Wade Phillips, the former head coach at Denver and Buffalo who also had interim stints in New Orleans and Atlanta, is scheduled to interview Friday about the head coaching vacancy. 
The Cowboys also plan to talk to San Francisco offen­sive coordinator Norv Turner, a former head coach for Washington and Oakland, and New Orleans defensive coordinator Gary Gibbs. Both are former Dallas assistants. It wasn't clear when those inter­views would take place, but Turner is coaching the Senior Bowl on Saturday. 
Parcells retired Monday after going 34-32 with two playoff losses in four sea­sons with the Cowboys, ending a 19-season career that included two Super Bowl titles with the New York Giants. 
IN BRIEF 

Blue Devils top Tigers with 
buzzer-beatinglayup 
DURHAM, N.C. -David McClure hit a layup as time expired Thursday night to lead No. 10 Duke to a 68-66 win over No. 19 Clemson. 
McClure's basket capped a wild final 13 seconds for the Blue Devils (17-3, 4-2 Atlantic Coast Conference), who blew a five-point lead before answering with the sophomore's stunning basket. 
With the score tied at 66 after Vernon Hamilton erased the deficit with a layup and a 3-pointer, Josh McRoberts inbounded the ball with 
4.4 seconds left to freshman Jon Scheyer. Scheyer pushed the ball near midcourt, then sent a pass ahead to McClure. 
McClure, who had a step on Hamilton, laid it up over the out­stretched arms of K.C. Rivers for the win as the horn sounded. 
Duke's players immediately spilled onto the floor in celebration and mobbed McClure. 
Federer slams Roddick in 
Australian Open 

MELBOURNE, Australia -If he could pick any player from any era to test himself against, Roger Federer would like a shot at Rod Laver or Bjorn Borg. 
Laver, the last man to win all four majors in one season, was at the stadium that carries his name Thursday to witness Federer dis­mantle Andy Roddick in the Australian Open semifinals. 
After what he saw, Laver would just as soon stick to meeting 
Federer in the locker room ­ after  
the matches.  
Federer likes to put on a  show  

when Laver is at Rod Laver Arena, and called his 6-4, 6-0, 6-2 victory over Roddick his best match in Melbourne. 
"I had one of these days when everything worked," the Swiss star said. "I was unbeatable. I was play­ing out of my mind. I am shocked myself." 
N.C. State coach returns 
after bout with cancer SAN DIEGO -Brandt Snedeker knew the score. He just couldn't believe where he was. 
The only time Snedeker had ever been 9-under through nine holes was sitting in front of a monitor playing a Tiger Woods video game. He knew that wasn't the case Thursday in the Buick Invitational because Woods was two groups ahead of him on the North Course at Torrey Pines and well behind him on the scoreboard. 
And when the 26-year-old rookie added yet another birdie, he even started taking away some of Woods' fans. 
"I don't know if they know who I am or what was going .on," Snedeker said. "But they were sure rooting me on like they were my best friend. It was great." 
So was his opening round of the year. 

---c----------------­
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 26, 2007 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles enter hon1e n1eet with lovv expectations, high hopes 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
It's not often a team heads into a competition expecting to lose, but .when Saint Mary's swims against Calvin tonight, the Belles will emphasize other aspects of the meet against the top-10 opponent. 
"Calvin is a national chal­lenger, and, well, Saint Mary's isn't quite there yet," freshman Jen Lebiedz said. 
But neither the coaches nor the swimmers are the least bit concerned about it. The Belles, who have two wins this season, shun the inevitability of the out­come and focus instead on their individual goals and achieve­ments. When a meet victory is most likely out of reach, a sea­son-best time or fine-tuning of technique become the new goal. 
"Most coaches have a pretty good idea of how meets will play out before they happen," Belles coach Ryan Dombkowski said. 
Dombkowski strives toward small personal improvements 

that will enhance future suc­cess. He tries to refine portions of the race, such as the start or turn, and also pushes the swim­mers toward new low times. 
Lebiedz sees the meet as a chance to measure her abilities before the MIAA championships in two weeks. 
"This meet is pretty impor­tant in regards to conference; it's really our jumping point," she said. "From here on out, it's all about conference, so a great meet against Calvin would help to put everyone in the right mindset." 
That mindset can make or break a swimmer -a swim race is a delicate balance of emotions that must be kept in check. Dombkowski related the idea of peak anxiety versus performance to a bell curve ­too little will make the swim­mer lackadaisical, too much will cause over-worrying and either way performance suf­fers. 
The Belles swim at 6 p.m. at Washington High School. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

ELlA'S 
editerranean Cuisine 


<tefe&ration of tfje feast of tfjomas ~quinas 
Patron Saint ofStudents and Universities 
5:15pm Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart January 29, 2007 
. John Jenkins, CSC, Celebrant with the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir 
The Allstate Insurance Company would like to meet you. 
We'll be sharing infonnation about the company, our incredible growth and our hiring needs for Internship and Full Time Entry Level positions. This will also be your opportunity to talk to senior leader. If you are majoring in Computer Science/Engineering, Finance, Business or considering a career in one of the following fields, don't miss this opportunity to learn more about the organization: 
System Analyst Project Manager Application Developer Corporate Relations Marketing Business Analyst Process Analyst Network Engineer 
Internship and Full time entry level candidates welcome! 
Meet the Firm Date: Wednesday, January 31st Time: 5:00p.m. -7:00p.m. Where: Montgomery Theater LaFortune Student Center 
Allstate will be at the Career Fair on February 1 

PIZZA AND SOFT DRINKS-Business Casual Attire 
Allstate accepts resumes electronically thrwgh our website. Please visit ur. at ~.JW.aiistate.corn/careers 
Alh~;tate accepts resumes electronically through our ~vebflite. Please: vh~it us Ci!l WVN\'.a!lt.::.tate.jobs 
~Allstate. 

Friday, January 26, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles look to shake the Thunder 
Team wants to pick up fourth win in five games against Tri-State 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles had already turned their season around when they won three of four games between Dec. 6 and Jan. 2. Now they've turned it up a notch. 
Saint Mary's is 7-10 overall but 6-4 in the MIAA and tied for third in the league with Olivet. The Belles are on the heels of another 3-of-4 streak. Before the run started, the Belles came within a missed free throw of forcing overtime against national No. 12 Calvin on Jan. 6. And Saturday, they visit last-place Tri-State (4-14 overall, 2-8 in MIAA). 
Saint Mary's can take sole possession of third place in the MIAA with a win this weekend. If the Belles go on to beat Olivet next Wednesday, they could take a two-game lead for the third spot in the conference. 
Sophomore guard Katie Rashid said she understands the magnitude of the upcom­ing games. 
"It is very important to capi­talize on teams during the sec­ond round of conference play in order to secure one of the top four seeds," she said. 
The top four seeds receive home court advantage in the first round of the league play­offs. 
The Belles are averaging 
73.5 points per game over their last four games. Junior guard Alison Kessler has kept up her solid play, but she now has help. Other players, some­what quiet in the first half of the season, have stepped up. 
Freshmen center Anna Kammrath, in particular, has steadily improved all season. Over the past four games, she's averaged 11 rebounds per game. Sophomore forward Erin Newsom is shooting 51 percent from field goal range and has also been a presence on the glass. . 
Rebounding, a weakness of Saint Mary's during the earlier part of the season, has improved as well. Belles coach Jennifer Henley continues to stress that aspect of the game in practice. The Belles will try to capitalize on Tri-state's poor offensive rebounding. 
"We will attack the same way, trying to gain good posi­tion and secure every defen­sive rebound," Rashid said. 
In Saint Mary's 83-79 win 
over  Tri-State Jan.  2,  the  
Belles  out-rebounded  the  
Thunder 52-41.  

Tri-State has no player shooting over 40 percent from the field. They are led by freshmen guard Sarah Howe, who leads the team with 13.2 points and 7.1 boards per game. 
"It is important to play great help-side defense on Sarah Howe and be in position for the rebound," Rashid said." 
In the teams' previous meet­ing, Newsom had a double­double, dropping 20 points and grabbing 16 rebounds. Kessler scored 22 points, and senior guard Bridget Lipke had 19. 
Tri-State fell victim to Saint Mary's 24 second-chance points. The Thunder netted just 13 on second efforts. The Belles hope to have similar success Saturday. 
"We will attack the gaps and crash the boards," Rashid said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

WRITE IT DOWN 
SO YOU DON'T FORGET. 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish encounter squad w-ith a fatniliar face 
By CHRIS HINE 
Sports Writer 

No. 4 Notre Dame begins its dual match season in familiar company today as it squares off against Illinois in Champaign, Ill. 
The Fighting Illini are coached by 2001 Notre Dame graduate and former assistant coach Michelle Dasso. 
Dasso, who was the ITA (Intercollegiate Tennis Association) Senior of the Year in 2001, was a four-time All­American at Notre Dame and won the Francis Patrick O'Connor Award in 2001. The award is given to one male and one female student-athlete annually for "best exemplifying the spirit of Notre Dame." 
Dasso joined the Illini this season. 
"Obviously playing Notre Dame is very special for me," Dasso said. "I have so much respect for [Irish coach] Jay Louderback as a coach and person. He has been my men­tor after having played for him and coaching with him for so many years. . .. I look forward to seeing some competitive tennis with a ton of hustle this weekend." 
Last season, the Irish fmished 27-2, reaching the NCAA quarter­finals. The ITA named Louderback coach of the year and Dasso assistant coach of the year for their success with Notre Dame in 2005-06. 
"The players will be psyched for it; Michelle was such always such a tough player and she'll have them ready to play," Louderback 
Sunday, January 28. 2:30 p.m. 
said. "Our kids will be excited to because they always had a lost of respect for Michelle and what she's done." 
Notre Dame will have three freshmen -Colleen Rielley, Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik -making their dual match debuts. Rielley and Ciobanu faced each other in the ITA Midwest Regional Finals in October, with Rielley claiming the title 7-5, 6-4. This was the first time two fresh­man teammates faced each other in the singles final of that event. 
"For them it's a chance to break the ice and get their first match under their belt," Louderback said. 
The Irish also feature the ITA nationally ranked doubles teams of No. 5 junior Brook Buck and sophomore Kelcy Tefft and No. 11 seniors Catrina and Christian Thompson. Rielley and Catrina l;hompson are No. 31 and No. 41, respectively, in the singles' poll. 
After taking Qn Illinois, Notre Dame will come back to campus to host No. 12 Vanderbilt Sunday at noon at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. The Commodores are one of six teams the Irish will face this season that are in the top 20 of the current ITA poll. 
Louderback is confident that his group is ready for the challenging weekend. 
"Over Christmas they were on their own and they were good about hitting on their own," he said. "They all came back and looked good." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

DeBartolo Performing Arts Center University of Notre Dame Zofia Glashauser -SBSO Concertmaster 
Gabriel Schlaffer -SBSO Principal Viola Salieri -Sinf.1Nia in 'lJ Sponsored bye June H. Edwards
Mozart -Symphony ~JVo. 55 Mozart -Sinj(mia. C.Qnr.erlante Guest Artist Underwriters:: The Heoly Grovp lllt\,1tWf>i=kii·.¥f4¥Ji!·i#Ji¥tiM RoOOrt P. Curtis, CLU, ChFC 
~roadway ~ights 
Saturday, February 10. 8:00 p.m. Morris Performing Arts Center 
Featuring Craig Schulman & Kim Crosby 
9-Lot Cuban (Jazz 
Friday, March 9. 8:00 p.m. Morris Performing Arts Center 
Featuring Arturo Sandoval 
ormance to remember featuring the musicA Pops! pertSponsored by of Rodgers & Hammerstein. Gershwin, Andrew Lloyd b Weber and more of your favorite Broadway hitsI ~",~,~,..,~~~ '"": Guest Artist Underw1·iter: ··¥:?·~~t~\~~~~ Nat=---·City...,._-.ell Four-time Grammy award winner Arturo Sandoval can burn through an Afro-Cuban groove, bebop tune or Mozart Sponsored by· concerto. A protege of Dizzy Gillespie, he "... possesses some of jazz's fiercest chops!" said the New York Post. AF8 :Hid~ko-::1:'.'! ·:,: F~F.~~ {§:.rr,<if  
For tickets call 574-235-9190 or visit us online at SouthBendSymphony.com  




page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 26, 2007 

Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Natiorwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million peo­ple. Offers not available in all markets or retail locations. Add'l terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 2/17/07 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes exclud­ed. Activation at time of purchase required. ©2007 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forward" logo. the NEXTEL name & logo, & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. 
New York 
continued from page 20 
building a team." 
Bednarski said the Irish would use Saturday to rest after the long bus trip. The competition begins at 7:30 
a.m. Sunday. 
He said the fencers would meet with members of the Notre Dame Club of New York City, some of whom will be cheering on the Irish the next day at the Cole Sports Center in Manhattan. 
"I have really high expecta­tions," Irish assistant coach Gia Kviuatskhelia said. "Everybody's pumped up and ready to go." 
After the Notre Dame Duals, Kvaratskhelia said, the Irish had Monday off. Some fencers worked out individually, but the best team practices of the week were Tuesday and Wednesday, he said. 
Kvaratskhelia said the Irish hope to face Columbia and St. John's in a short time span Sunday to keep Notre Dame's adrenaline high with­out having a let-down between duals. 
A year ago, the Irish men and women each finished 4-1 at the elite eastern competi­tion. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Dame's undefeated mark. The has a good young team." The proximity of the Big Lions, currently ranked No. With the Big East champi­East Championships will cer­15 in the country by onships less than three weeks tainly be on Notre Dame's continued from page 20 CollegeSwimming.com, also away, the Shamrock mind this weekend. The Irish 
have yet to lose Invitational will view the meet as a chance to season with victories over a dual meet. give both the further prepare themselves Purdue, Michigan State, Their latest vic­"Everything we do men and for Feb. 14 in East Meadow, Pittsburgh and Hawaii. tory was a 195-women's teams N.Y. 
Sha01rock 
every day has some

Maintaining its pristine dual 105 thrashing of an opportunity "[The Big East meet record will be on Notre No. 22 Rutgers. relationship with ·to gauge them­Championships] are the focal Dame's mind as it enters the "The Big Ten is what we want to see selves against point for everything," Welsh pool this weekend. always very West Virginia. said. "Everything we do every
for us at the Big 

"It is important to us, and strong, so it will The Mount-day has spme relationship
East Championship." 

[having a perfect dual meet be good for us to aineers will pose with what we want to see for record] was one of our goals swim against one of the us at the Big East champi­at the beginning of the sea­one of their Tim Welsh biggest obstacles onship. This weekend, we're son," Irish senior Katie fastest teams," in the men and trying to sharpen everything
Irish coach 

Carroll said. Carroll said. women's bids to and get faster for the Big 
Of the four teams coming to "!This weekend! win their third East." campus this weekend, Penn will also be a and 11th consec­State will likely pose the good test of where we stand utive Big East titles, respec­Contact Greg Arbogast at greatest threat to Notre against West Virginia which tively. garbogas@nd.edu 







THE POWER TO 
PRESS PLAY 
MOTORAZR™ VJm 
by Motorola 
Sprint Music Store'M enabled Bluetooth® technology Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Sprint TV"' enabled GPS enabled 
Fusic™ $Z9.99 
byLG® 
Save $220 instantly 
Built-in MP3 player Reg. $249.99. 
with FM transmitter Sprint Music Store'M enabled Sprint TV'M enabled Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Bluetooth<~~ technology microSD external memory card 
$49.99 
Save $250 instantly 
Reg. $299.99 each. 
Sprint Musis Store 
Wirelessly download digital tracks to your phone. Choose from hundreds ofthousands offull-length songs from virtually every genre and listen to them wherever you go. 
POWER UP~

Sprint~ 
Beyonce Chingy Hinder 

.---------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, January 26, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
to get better defensively." The Irish will be led by jun­
UConn 
ior guard Charel Allen. Allen, 
continued from page 20 
from start to finish," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said after the loss. 
The Huskies (17-2, 7-0 Big East), the current conference leaders, are coming off a 88­76 win over DePaul Wednesday. Sophomore guard Kalana Greene recorded her third double-double of the season as she dropped a career-high 25 points and grabbed 12 boards. Greene leads the Huskies with 13.4 points per game, and is sec­ond on the team with 7.3 rebounds a game. 
Greene, however, is only one of five Huskies to average in double figures, as each starter on the team averages at least 11.6 points per con­test. 
Despite Connecticut's potent offense, McGraw does not anticipate changing Notre Dame's game -plan. 
"We're not going to do any­thing different than we've been doing all year," she said. "We're just trying to continue the reigning Big East player of the week, scored 31 and 25 points last week in games against St. John's and Syracuse, respectively. Allen scored 17 points Tuesday at Marquette. 
Allen's recent offensive surge has not surprised her coach. 
"I thought she could get 18 to 20 points if she shot the ball enough," McGraw said. "I thought what she did last week [against St. John's and Syracuse] was a little over my expectations, but I think she's capable of doing that. She's like a completely different player now." 
For the Irish to have a chance to win, McGraw said, they must be a presence on the boards. The Golden Eagles pulled down six more rebounds than the Irish did Tuesday, snapping Notre Dame's three-game streak of positive rebound differentials. 
However, for the Irish to succeed, McGraw said, they must limit Connecticut's fast break points. 
"We gotta stop the transi­tion," she said. "We can do that by taking care of the ball and just being patient with the ball." 
Notre Dame has averaged just 11 turnovers in its past three games, a dramatic improvement over its 17.6 

mark for the season. 
The Irish are currently 2-2 against teams currently ranked in the top 25, boast­ing wins over No. 13 Purdue and No. 16 Bowling Green with losses to No. 4 Tennessee and No. 17 Marquette. The Huskies are currently 1-2 against ranked teams, with a win over Purdue and a pair of six­point losses to Top-5 teams in Tennessee and No. 2 North Carolina. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 


A truly unique dining and drinking experience,. 
featuring a creative blend of fusion style culinary delights vvith a delicate touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting. 
Plus. a stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
Conveniently located in the center of Downtown South Bend between Morris Performing Arts Center, College Football Hall of Fame. and 
Marriott Hotel. 
119 North Michigan Street. 
Dovvntovvn South Bend. 
Reservations recommended. 
Go t:o vvwvv.clubi'..!OM/J.....c·onJ or vvvvw.opentable~.cor-r1. 
Or-c.aO: 233...--1-95~;:J. 
ED 


esident Advisors 
The Northwestern University College QUALIFICATIONS, 

Preparation Program is looking for • completion of sophomore year of 
college by June, 2007 resident advisors to help guide high 
• a consistent record of academic school students through a summer 
achievement 

of learning and fun at Northwestern. • previous experience as an RA, tutor, or camp counselor 
Earn salary. including room and 

• excellent communicaNon, 
board; work with bright, motivated 

leadership. motivatwn, and 
prob/em-solvmg sktlls 
high school students from around 

• a w1de range of extracLirricutar
the country and abroad: plan excit­

interests and activities 
ing events and gain valuable experi­

• enthusiasm and a gef1!1ine ence while enjoying Northwestern 
interest in working with high 
school students 
campus life and exploring Chicago 

• a strong sense of responsibility this summer! and a !Jigh level of matur1ty 
Apply by February 16, 2007! 

For information and to request an applica­tion. contact Breanne Heath at 847-491-NORTHWESTERN 3443 or b-heath@northwestern.edu. UNIVERSITY 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 26, 2007 
McAlarney 
continued from page 20 
days of eligibility if he doesn't enroll somewhere this spring. 
· A student athlete generally needs to earn 24 credit hours in the past calendar year to remain eligible at all times, and only six credits can come during a sum­mer session, Karwoski said. 
Even if McAlarney took 15 credit hours this past fall, he would need to enroll at another school for the regular spring semester to meet the 18-hour minimum for the academic year before taking six credits at a school over the summer. 
Even if he plans to return to Notre Dame, McAlarney would still have to enroll at another school for the spring and possibly the summer 2007 semesters in order to obtain enough credits to be academically eligible to play basketball in the fall of 2007, Heisler said. 
"I believe you need 24 credits within the last year to be eligible on an ongoing basis," Heisler said. "For him to return, you'd have to take whatever credits in the fall semester and add them with X number of credits he would get elsewhere." 
Moreover, NCAA bylaw 

14.8.1.4 mandates "satisfactory completion of six semester or six quarter hours of academic credit the preceding regular academic term (e.g., fall semester, winter quarter) in which the student­athlete has been enrolled full­time at any collegiate institution," 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
Brey silid. "I don't know if there's anybody hotter. They put it on us last time." 
The Irish are also staring at a trip to Syracuse Tuesday. Because of the loss to the Red Storm and the tough game next week, Saturday's contest is crucial for Notre Dame's position in the Big East stand­ings, where the team is cur­rently sixth. Before the game against the Red Storm, Notre Dame was second in the Big East. 
"One minute we're second, next we're six, but at that the end, we might be first," senior guard Russell Carter said. 
For Carter, just the fact that the Wildcats beat the Irish two weeks ago is enough motiva­tion for Saturday. 
"They just beat us," he said. "A lot of things happened in that game that we wish we could have back. So now we need to get our redemption." 
That redemption will have to come without former starting point guard Kyle McAlarney, who was suspended from the University Monday stemming from his arrest on a marijuana possession charge Dec. 29. 
Freshman Tory Jackson, who was thrust into the role when McAlarney was first suspended from the team in December, said he does not feel any added pressure despite knowing he'll hold that position for the rest of the season. 
''I'm going to take it the same way that I have been," Jackson said. "Nothing's changed." 
Jackson will continue to con­sult the point guard, however. 
''I'm going to keep in touch with Kyle," Jackson said. "He taught me a lot and I want to keep getting advice from him." 
Brey said the fact that the 
meaning that McAlarney must complete at least six credit hours at another school this semester in order to remain eligible for next fall. 
In the event that McAlarney decides not to return to Notre Dame, he could begin playing for his new school as early as next January-provided he makes a decision fast. According to NCAA by-laws, a student-athlete can establish residency in an institu­tion by the 12th day of classes in a semester. If McAlarney trans­fers to another school within days and meets that require­ment, he could feasibly lose only less than 15 games of eligibility by transferring as opposed to staying at Notre Dame. 
According to NCAA bylaw 14.1.8.1.4, "A student-athlete who withdraws or is dismissed from an institution is considered to be a prospective student-ath­lete eligible for recruitment by other NCAA member institutions and may not continue to practice with the original institution's team." 
CBSportsline.com reported Wednesday that Michigan State, Virginia and Xavier were all interested in McAlarney as a transfer. McAlarney is not enrolled or under scholarship from Notre Dame, but Michigan State senior associate athletic director for external relations Mark Hollis said the Spartans are focused on their current season. 
"I just met with [Michigan State head] coach [Tom] Izzo and I'm not aware of anything [regarding McAlarney]," Hollis said. 
Xavier sports information 
Irish are in serious contention for an NCAA Tournament berth and still have a shot at the Big East championship should keep the team focused after a distracting week. 
"We have a pretty good resume," Brey said. "We've got a pretty good thing going and we hav~ to continue that." 
The Irish allowed 102 points to Villanova in their last matchup, including 27 by guard Scottie Reynolds and 21 by forward Curtis Sumpter. Brey said improved hustle and rebounding will keep the Wildcats' score down to a more manageable level. 
"Loose balls and second chance shots early put us in a big hole," Brey said. 
Villanova forward Dante Cunningham and guard Mike Nardi also hurt the Irish last time, scoring 19 and 18 points, respectively. 
"They've got a lot of bodies that come at you and they come at you with a bunch of quick, bouncy guys who can run the floor and get into the paint," Brey said. "We have to do a better job of protecting the paint." 
Brey said the Irish may change defenses frequently Saturday to confuse the Wildcats. 
Notre Dame is 4-0 in confer­ence home games this year, but has dropped all three of its games on the road. Carter attributed the road struggles to the team's youth. 
The Irish have three fresh­men who see significant play­ing time -Jackson, forward Luke Harangody and guard Jonathan Peoples. 
"Our guys are still learning the ropes of playing on the road in the Big East," Carter said. 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, it will have the home Joyce Center crowd behind it and ­for the first time since a win over Alabama Dec. 7 -Brey director Tom Eiser said he was not aware of any discussions about McAlarney, but he would­n't rule out the possibility because Musketeers head coach Sean Miller "won't comment on transfers." . 
"They usually don't tell me anything until after they've got a kid signed," Eiser said. 
At Virginia, assistant athletics media relations director Bill Hurd said he could not comment. 
After playing during his fresh­man season and the first 12 games of this one, McAlarney has used two years of eligibility at Notre Dame. Whether he comes back to Notre Dame or goes else­where, McAlarney will complete liis four years of NCAA eligibility in the spring of 2009, barring a future injury or other hardship. 
Karwoski said that if McAlarney takes classes at another university in the spring in the hopes of returning to Notre Dame, it would not be considered a transfer for the purpose of the NCAA eligibility rules because he would not be playing basketball. 
Furthermore, McAlarney would not need Notre Dame's permission to take such a step and would be able to re-apply for fall 2007 without NCAA compli­cations. 
"There is no permission required for a student to enroll in an institution," Karwoski said. "What triggers the [NCAA] trans­fer and the eligibility is a year in residence at the new institution." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu and Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
said he expects a full house. "It should be a great atmos­phere," he said. "We need a lit­
Box Office or call (574) 284-4626. -~­
tle bit of the Alabama atmos-· 
phere." 112 adults, 110 senior citizens, SAINT 19 SMOND staff, and 18students MARY'S Contact Chris Khorey at COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME. !N

MoreauCenter.com
ckhorey@nd.edu 

• Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts •Free Haircuts • 
2 
~ 
2 

~ Atria salon 2 
. ~ 
u_ 

Specializing in Color 
-5 2 271.8804 
~ 
. " 

..1: Help us celebrate the New Year . s We are giving away 100 complimentary haircuts ~ ~ e to students of Notre Dame & St. Mary's. <Df 
. " 

..1: This is our way of saying thank you ~ for all your support for the past 10 years. 
This Is a limited promotion and certc1in restrictions apply. Please call the ::salon to f>(;hedule your compUmenta1y haircut and mention thtG ad to the receptionist at the time of booking your Dppolntment.
. 

w Please present this ad to the receptionist before services are performed • 
~ l 
1 Atria salon 2 !EXPIREs, J iiF ~ 2039 Smtth Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46637 Febmery 14, 2007 g u_ 00 
• SJn:JJ!BH OOJ.::I• SlO:lJJBH 99.1.::1• StnO.JJBH ae.1.::1 • s~n:>.J!BH aa.I:.:J• SV'J:J.I!BH OOJ.:Je Slfl:J.I!BH 99J:.:I• stnOJ!B!-1 aaJ::i• 


Friday, January 26, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANT WORLD 

ALR.Iul-\"\, WE-\..L, I'L-l-NE-VE:-It 
rr's 1 A.M .. 11-\'E. 01VE. UP ON 
cA-r Doe-;,...t:,.-WANT '{OU, NR.. 
..,-HE-preT C.OI'.E, N I e, 1..-E:t"S . l ... PLA.j '5cRAt'>t'> L.-cVE. ... ~ 0'--4 -· 
OR. W A\C.I-'f IV. 
I GivE uP. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 

'NEL.L, YEAH. I rJO, ITS" ALL RIG-HT. foLKS. "TH£ WINE 
DON'T WoR.ttY, WHAT IS THIS 
CHIANTI? IS TH,IS 
JUH MADE IT LIKE I MEAN, IT's A NEAT NoN-VINTAG-E? 
TWO SEC.oi'JDS Atrc. IS ""f'R\C.K ANP AL-L-. 3\JT 
THEtt. A f'Ro&LEH! C.oME ON· THIS IS A 
'-JEDDINC.., Fort. C..H R.l $SA K.£.S. You 
C.OI.i LON'T I-lAVE. S?LU!t.G-E.D A 
LITTL-E.?' 
LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
T ucke.d o.woy on the 6th; flof)r of the library,.
the univerSity archives kold some 
o.mcl2tng secrds... 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Falmouth co-wrote "Murder at City
sue, maybe 26 Not buying it Hall"12 Portrayer of 

28 Bavarian 45 Pink-pulpedClouseau's keepsake produce
superior, in film 46 Air Tahiti
15 Versatile 29 Yet (carrier tomodern device 30 Multiplication Papeete)16 She played table, e.g. 

47 Soon to beEloise in 32 Under the table heard
"Mogambo" 49 Coast Guard
17 Stalled 33 Prominent figure: Abbr.

Quebec City18 Tapping target daily, with "Le" 50 Go downhill19 Knock-down­51 One target ofdrag-out 34 Pocket holders Rachel Carson's 

20 "Where 35 Not have to "Silent Spring" was thickest check bags, say 52 Mysteriousfight": Milton swimmers37 It turns out21 Adder's-tongue looies: Abbr.

or Venus's-hair 

DOWN
22 "Je vous en 40 Ran 1 Seafood entree

_"("You're 
41 Crash sites?
welcome": Fr.) 2 Supplies 23 ''Take .. 42 Kind of score, 3 Charlotte-· for one doing

1985 #1 hit 4 Ally's roommate
postgrad

24 Words before on "Ally McBeal"
studies 

may or might, in 5 City on Presque 24 Charged 33 Like many 39 Convention roll verse 43 Classic PC's Isle Bay aprons call
26 Comment after 6 Piper topper bombing 
34 Recipe amounts 42 Profit
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

7 Add-on 21 They may take 
44 Gonitis target36 "No Escape"8 Procter & a toll star, 1994

Gamble brand 28 Allen and Rossi 45 Tar, e.g. 9 Junks 30 Stagnant 37 Dweller on the 47 Some E.R. 10 One may be 31 Fearmonger Yodo River cases technical: Abbr. 
32 Line on an 38 TV host with 48 Part of a board: 
11 It'll easily pass 
application three Emmys Abbr. 
you 12 Like some 

-:-+:+:=+::-! resorts For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800·814-5554.
13 Budget figure Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday14 Blow up 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. ~H~=+:~~+:;,.+=ijllll!llll!lt-=+,=+:::+=-~ 21 Seafood Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 entrees past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 23 "Beyond the Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Horizon" writer solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

. 
HENRJ ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRJ.ON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJWJMJID)1JJ:.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Gotcha! I was just
looking at it

to form four ordinary words. I 
POEMT j 
1 

rr [J 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
t~~~rlxJ 
IWHACESj 
WHAT THE: SHOP­L-IFTE:R GOT WHE:N 
1 

ri [J 
He: TOOK THE: 
www.jumble.com 
FANCY CAL-E:NDAR, 

ENPLYT ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A:[ I I I I xJrxxxrxJ 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: PEONY ALTAR ITALIC BEWAILYesterday's 
Answer: Not telling the truth can be ­A LIE-ABILITY 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Alicia Keys, 27; China Kantner, 36; Dinah Manoff, 49; Leigh Taylor-Young, 63 
Happy Birthday: Don't let the small, inconsequential mailers rule your world this year. Someone from your past may offer help but you must look at wharthis person wants in return. Not much has changed regarding the dynamics of this connection, so proceed with caution. Your numbers are 5, 17, 26, 32, 39,44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): A lesson can be learned today that will help you in the future. You can make a change to your regular routine that will help you become more efficient. If someone you used to know is still on your mind. contacl this person. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Rushing around will lead to mistakes. misunderstandings . and misfortunes. Look at the big picture before you decide to take something or someone on. An emotional problem is likely lo affect your work. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may try to pull a fast one on you. Recognize what everyone around you is doing but don'tlet it slow you down. An opportunity lo partner with someone who will be beneticial to your cause is likely. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): ll will be a passionate and interesting day for you. A partnership can give what you are trying to do a boost. Change may be necessary and should not be turned down because you are too set in your ways. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let your emotions cause you to make a mistake. Apartnership can be dealt with today as long as you are willing to say what you think and deal with the consequences. Someone from your past will help you out. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you slow down, you will be subjecl to ridicule and criticism. Trust in your own judgmenl and follow through with what you believe is right. A necessary change in a relationship you are involved in will lake place. 5 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put your heart into whatever you can do to make your home more comfortable or efficient. Gel out with friends or travel so you can clear your head or sort through mailers. It's time to take over and get things done. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make changes rhat will boost your morale and you will bypass some of the tunnoil going on around you. Keep in mind that you can't please everyone.' An older individual will cause some problems, worry or trouble for you. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can do no wrong. Get our and connecl with people who can help you in all levels of life. You are overdue for a change and now is the perfect time to set yourself free. A trip may be enticing but clear up personal matters first. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may be questioned if you are doing things a little ' differently. Have your answers ready so that you don't lose time. Keep the momenrum I 
' 
flowing if you want to reach your. goals. 2 stars I 
I 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Keep a lid on the way you feel and you will avoid problems with neighbors, friends and relatives. The more time spent on projects, the more you will impress the people around you. Don'l jump from one thing lo anolher. 4 stars _, i 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There will be lots that you aren'l being told today. If you act only on what you assume to be right, you will make a costly mistake. Someone you have had problems with in the past is likely to give you a hard time again. 3 stars l 
Birthday Baby: You are inlelligent, hard-working and always willing to do for others. You are insightful, inventive, curious and willing to venture into unfamiliar territory. 
l
I 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations I l 
l 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, January 26, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
After the storm 
Nova to face Irish for McAlarney's future at second time on heels of ·school unclear; MSU road loss at St. John's denies CBS report 
< 
By CHRIS KHOREY By CHRIS KHOREY and Associate Sports Editor KEN FOWLER Sports Writers 
After a week that included the news that its starting point Even if suspended point guard guard had been suspended Kyle McAlarney returns to Notre from school and a loss in the Dame next fall, he will have to final seconds to St. John's, No. take classes at another college 21/22 Notre Dame will try to this semester to ensure his eligi­get its season back on track bility for the beginning of the Saturday at 4 p.m. against 2007-08 men's basketball sea­Villanova at the Joyce Center. son. 
The Irish (16-4, 4-3 Big East) And because of NCAA rules lost to the Wildcats (14-5, 3-3 governing how many credit Big East) 102-87 Jan. 17 in hours a student-athlete must Philadelphia. Since then, complete in the past 12 months Villanova has also beaten -and specifications for when Texas and Providence. the classes must be taken ­
"Villanova is playing very McAlarney's potential return to well," Notre Dame coach Mike Notre Dame may save him only 
see WILDCATS/page 18 see MCALARNEY/page 18 

FENCING 
Tea111 travels to New-York for prestigious tourna111ent 
teams at the NYU Duals. Ohio State. Notre Dame beat ance in the Notre Dame Duals State, Columbia and St. 
By KEN FOWLER "It will be a good check for the Buckeyes 14-13 on the is just a sign of building the John's, the field will include 
Sports Editor what we can do," Bednarski women's side last Wflekend team. NYU, Yale, Wayne State, 
said of the chance to face before Ohio State returnPd the "It was a good tournament Stevens Tech and the 
Notre Dame head coach Columbia and St. John:s, two favor with a one-bout decision for us beeausn lwei had an Northwestern women's team. Janusz Bednarski said this of the nation's best squads. "It on the men's side. opportunity to lgoJ through "They are very good weekend wouldn't be easy. will be interesting from tho Notre Dame won each of its the first tournament and fencers; they have strong 
He was talking about both point of view that they rarely 14 other team matehups by at field," he said. teams," Bednarski said. "We the 14-hour bus ride the Irish fence against us." least seven bouts. While confidPnt, Bednarski are still in the process of will be making to New York One team at the competition For the modest Bednarski, praised thn field for the event and the field of perennial top the Irish are familiar with is last weekend's 15-1 perform-in New York. Besides Ohio see NEWYORK/page 16 
NO SWIMMING 
Invitational features key Big East squads 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men and women will host the Shamrock Invitational today and tomorrow at Rolfs Aquatic Center, the final home meet for both teams. 
The guest list will include Big East rivals West Virginia and Connecticut and out-of­conference opponents Penn State and Oakland. On the men's side, the No. 20 MountaineBrs -who cur­rently hold the fastest Big East times in nine of the 15 
see SHAMROCK/page 16 

swimming events -appear to offer the Irish their biggest test. 
"They're currently the hottest team in the Big East," Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh said. "It's a very big challenge for us, and I'm glad they're coming to our pool." 
West Virginia is undefeated in dual meets on the season -a distinction the Irish shared until suffering their first dual meet defeat of the season at the hands of No. 8 Northwestern 167-131. 
The Notre Dame women's team is still able to boast a perfect dual meet record. The Irish stand at 4-0 on the 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

No.5 Huskies await Irish 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame will face its toughest Big East challenge of the season as it travels to Storrs to, take on No. 5 Connecticut Saturday at 7 p.m. 
The game marks the mid­way point of a three-game road trip against ranked Big East opponents for the Irish (13-6, 4-2 Big East), who will attempt to rebound from a -· 71-62 Joss at No. 17 Marquette Tuesday. Despite a plus-eight turnover differen­tial, Notre Dame was only 22­of-62 from the field. 
"It was just a bad game 
see UCONN/page 17 



SMC SWIMMING
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

SMC BASKETBAll 
MEN'S TENNIS NO TRACK
NFL 
LLI Co) Notre Dame at 
The Cowboys hire The Irish host the

Saint Mary's at
Saint Mary's at Notre Dame at 
... 
Jason Garrett as offen-

Notre Dame Invitational The Irish open up 
Tri-State Calvin Virginiaz Illinois 
sive coordinator while at Loftus this weekend. 

The Belles look for 
Team doesn't expect 

Squad heads to
::5 
leaving head coaching

to beat Calvin, just
their dual match season 

fourth win in five 
Virginia for season
c:s 
job open.

wants strong showing
today at Illinois. 

games with road win at opener ranked No. 13
cc 

Tri-State. 
against MIAA foe. 
nationally.
!; 
page 15 
page 15 

page 12en page 15 page 13 page 12 

