
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 115 THURSDAY, APRIL 12,2007 

Activist receives written admonition 
THE 


New RAs opt to transfer domts 
Several juniors will take up residency in other halls to fill demand 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Anti-war activist to speak 

Sheehan will discuss experiences on Iraq 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 

Cindy Sheehan, the anti-war activist who lost her son in Iraq and generated international attention by protesting outside President Bush's ranch in Crawford, Texas, will speak about the war today at 10:30 a.m. in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary's. 
"Sheehan's visit serves to remind us of the events of the war and that we can effect change, even four years later," said Bridget Hahn, president of Peacemakers -a social justice group on campus. 
Following the death of her son, 
·Casey, in Iraq, Sheehan demon­strated at a peace camp outside Bush's Texas ranch during his five-week vacation there in August 2005. She created Camp Casey by pitching a tent at the ranch and demanding an audi­ence with the president-a demand ultimately not granted. 
She is also one of the nine founding members of Gold Star Families for Peace, an organiza­tion that seeks to end the U.S. occupation in Iraq and provide support for the families of fallen soldiers. 
Sheehan is presently on a speaking tour of Indiana colleges and universities. The College Democrats, the main spo.nsors 

see SHEEHAN/page 4 




Dorms fill up for next year 
Even amount ofseniors to stay on campus, off 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
Residence life is an integral part of the Notre Dame experi­ence, and the abundant applica­tions for on-campus housing con­firm that maxim yet again this year. 
While the official number of students who applied for on-cam­pus housing will not be available for another few days, it seems the dorms will be filled to their maxi­mum capacities -and beyond next year, even as a growing amount of seniors move off cam­pus, said Scott Kachmarik, associ­ate director of Residence Life and Housing. 
While his office has seen large numbers of seniors move off cam­pus in recent years, Kachmarik said the number of seniors stay­ing on campus has grown as well. He clarified that the proportion of seniors moving off campus to those who stay in dorms has remained stable at around 50 percent. 
The increase in the number of seniors can be explained by enrollment figures, which have increased over recent years. More students have decided to attend Notre Dame after they were accepted, and a relatively large number of transfer students are admitted regularly, Kachmarik said. 
With tradition and community playing an important role in the lives of Notre Dame students, the high amount of seniors that have moved off campus has been a 
see SENIORS/page 6 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 

A Notre Dame freshman was threatened with immediate sus­pension for participating in unau­thorized demonstrations on cam­pus but received only a written admonition, he said. 
Freshman Eddie Velazquez joined a tour of civil rights advo­cates during the SoulForce Equality Ride March 8 and 9, leading to a run-in with Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) offi­cers and the Office of Residence Life and Housing. 
"On the second day of the demonstration, all we did was lead a procession and carry wreaths in silence, but we were immediately stopped by NDSP officers," Velazquez said. "They arrested everyone there and they would've arrested me too, but they realized I was a student, so they told me to go away if I didn't want to be suspended immedi­ately." 
Velazquez said he received a warning from the NDSP the first day the bus visited Notre Dame, after he and many Soulforce Riders staged a demonstration in LaFortune Student Center to encourage LGBTQ dialogue. 
"I was just offering an anecdote about my personal experience on campus dealing with LGBTQ acceptance when I was interrupt­ed by an officer who told me to stop because I was bothering the Huddle customers and harming the business," Velazquez said. 
Bill Kirk, associate vice presi­
see ACTMST/page 6 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Juniors Ashley Weiss and Cassie Saucedo are looking for­ward to getting section assign­ments and meeting their resi­dents as they prepare to become resident assistants next year ­not to mention that they must transfer to a new dorm. 
Weiss and Saucedo are two of a number of juniors who will transfer to new residence halls next year in order to accept posi­tions as resident assistants (RAs) next year -a move that Wei<>s and Saucedo said they are both looking forward to, despite the fact that they will be leaving their current residence halls. 
According to Sister Mary Lynch, rector of McGlinn Hall, these transfers usually are due to the numbers of applicants. 
"For the most part, it has to do with how many apply and how many are needed," Lynch said. 
Applicants can choose on their application whether or not they are willing to transfer to another hall to become an RA. 
Bill Kirk, associate vice presi­dent of Residence Life, said in a Feb. 27 Observer article that many applicants indicate they wish to be considered for other halls. 
While some of these transfers may have to do with lack of applicants, as Lynch described, Kirk said creating a cohesive hall staffis also a factor. 
"Even if there are enough applicants from a particular hall, RAs are chosen from outside dorms to create a team that best fits the hall," Kirk said in the arti­cle. 
Kirk could not be reached for further comment Wednesday evening. 
Weiss and .Saucedo, who will both be moving to Pangborn Hall next fall from Breen-Philips Hall and McGlinn Hall, respectively, were transferred due to a lack of applicants, Pangborn Rector Kuukua Yomekpe said. 
Yomekpe said initially enough juniors applied, but some dropped out of the application process halfway through, caus­ing them to draw from other dorms. 
Yomekpe said Pangborn Hall has brought in students from other dorms to serve as RAs in the past, and it has never caused aproblem.. 
"Most of the girls-we've drawn from Badin [Hall] and other dorms in the past -are very fired up about becoming Phoxes," Yomekpe said. 
see RAJpage 3 

Students move off campus to Dismas House 
Dismas House," Pike said. "It has 
By EMMA DRISCOLL become such an important part 
News Writer of my life here at Notre Dame. 
Basically it's like living anywhere 
When fifth-year senior Emily else in a house of fifteen people. Pike was looking for an apart­It's a little chaotic, and it's a lot of ment the summer after studying fun." abroad, she chose an unlikely The people who live with Pike place, away from any ref?idence at Dismas, with the exception of hall or Turtle Creek. She decided two other students, have either to live at Dismas House -a non­served time in prison or have profit organization that provides been sent to the house by a court transitional housing and support order in place of prison time. 
services to men and women who They range from 19-years-old to have been recently released approximately 55 or 60-years­
from prison or jail, according to old, she said. 
the organization's Web site. "We are a re-entry program,
Pike's summer-long stay at and we like to provide a commu­Dismas became a two-year resi­nity environment for former dency, where she lived and offenders in which they can take 
worked in the house as a kitchen some time to figure out what it manager throughout her latter will mean for them to live a sub-semesters at Notre Dame. 
"I absolutely love living in see DISMAS/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 12, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Paintball 
•


aggression 
At Notre Dame, being the Catholic institution that it is, we are taught to seek non-violent ways to solve our problems. But every once in awhile you are confronted with a person that all you want to do is be violent 
Erin McGinn 
towards. Maybe it's the person who gave you a Assistant dirty look in Scene Editor class. maybe they spilled their drink on you at the Backer, or maybe it's the person on their cell phone in the bathroom. 
So what can you do to unleash all of that pent up aggression caused by stupid people? 
You might not be able to shoot them, but you can shoot someone else down at the local paintball field. 
For those that have never before experienced this wonderful sport, paintball is a thrilling, tension­relieving experience. You don't have to have a particular athletic ability to play -and anyone from a ten­year old to a forty-year old can excel at it. 
If you're looking to play around South Bend, Action Park is located 25 minutes away from campus in Osceola, IN and always welcomes Notre Dame students. You don't have to have any of your own equipment -they can rent you everything that you need to play. All you need to bring with you is enthusiasm, some Red Bull and some long, preferably dark, clothing. Gloves are also highly recommended as getting shot in the hand can hurt like nothing else. 
The main piece of equipment in paintball is the gun, or marker, which is powered by a small tank of compressed gas. The paintballs themselves are exactly as they sound -they are marble-sized balls with a gelatinous shell and filled with water-soluble paint. Although it sometimes hurt getting shot, it's no worse than getting punched by a younger brother. Although if you get hit in your face-mask, you quickly learn that the paint tastes horribly. 
The basic premise of the game is simple: shoot others, and don't get shot yourself. If you end up with paint on you, you're out of the game. There are a variety of different games to play, including elimination and capture the flag. Action Park also boasts a castle field where one team defends and the other attacks a fortress. They have both woods and speedball fields, which also allow for variations on the same games. 
During each game, there are refer­ees who monitor the action to make sure that all players are following the rules. as well as to provide "paint checks." to determine if a player is still in the game. 
Although it might seem like an unusual sport, it is a great experi­ence that is hard to replicate through any other activity. So if you're bored on the weekend or just looking to release some anger, grab some friends and head down to Action Park. After all, nothing brings people together quite like taking shots at each other. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD SUM UP THE WEATHER IN ONE WORD, WHAT WOULD IT BE? 



Jimena Dilorio Greg Robinson 
freshman freshman Breen-Phillips Stanford 
"Maneater. It's "Paraguay, so bad, it eats because that's youfrom the where she inside out. " wants to be." 


Michelle Weissenhofer 
freshman Walsh 
"Wet." 



Ryan Smith Susan Bigelow 
freshman sophomore Knott Badin 
"Abomination, "Gorgeous. because it keeps Think happy teasing you ... thoughts 
going from friends." warm to cold." 

IN BRIEF 

Journalist Judy Woodruff will give the Red Smith lec­ture, entitled "Are Journalists Obsolete?" She will speak tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) will hold AcoustiCafe tonight from 10 to 12 in the basement of LaFortune. This is a free event. 
Owen Smith, a 1995 Notre Dame graduate. will perform his comedy act Friday at Legends at 10 p.m. Admission is free. 
The Spring Run will take place Saturday. Participants can run either 5-K, 10-K or do the 2-mile walk. The races will start from Legends at 11 a.m. Runners and walkers can sign up at RecSports for $10 prior to the race and for $15 the day of the race. 
Opera Notre Dame will present "A Midsummer Night's Dream" Saturday at 
7:30 at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 for students and $10 adults. For tickets, call the LaFortune Box Office at 631-8128. 
Notre Dame men's lacrosse will play Denver Sunday at 1 
p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium 
Notre Dame men's baseball will play Georgetown Sunday at 1:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 43 HIGH 58 LOW 35 LOW 37 
OFFBEAT 

Sheriff gives himself a ticket 
GREEN BAY, Wis. ­Brown County Sheriff Dennis Kocken didn't have to write himself a ticket. But he says it was the right thing to do. 
"As sheriff, I'm held to the highest standard in law enforcement. How can I hold officers accountabl(l if I don't hold myself accountable?" he said. ''I'm satisfied I'm doing the right thing.~ 
Kocken issued himself a ticket March 27 for an unsafe lane change, three weeks after he had rear-ended a suspected speeder after that driver slowed to turn. Neither the deputy who com­pleted the accident report nor the Brown County district attorney's office felt that Kocken deserved a citation. 
"But it kept bothering me," said Kocken. "Finally I decid­ed to write myself a ticket. I felt it was the right thing to d0." 
The ticket carries a $160.80 fine that Kocken said he fully intends to pay. 
The ticket marks the sec­ond citation in seven months that a state law enforcement officer assessed to himself. In September, Chief Dick Knoebel of the Kewaskum police department wrote himself a $235 ticket for passing a stopped school bus. 
Moose, reindeer to take taste tests 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­
Moose and reindeer at a Stockholm wildlife park have been invited to an unusual taste panel that will help decide which type of salt should be used to de-ice the country's roads in wintertime. 
The less they like it, the bet­ter. 
The National Road Administration plans to intro­duce a new, sweeter blend of road salt, but want.c; to make sure it doesn't attract wildlife to Sweden's highways, proj­ect organizer Frida Hedin said Tuesday. 
The project is expected to start in a week and last for around two months. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 

~
..I 
<
(.) 


0 

HIGH 42 HIGH 32 HIGH 53 HIGH 48
...I LOW 32 LOW 22 LOW 45 LOW 30 
Atlanta 61 I 49 Boston 47 I 32 Chicago 41 I 34 Denver 57 I 29 Houston 83 I 65 Los Angeles 68 I 52 Minneapolis 38 I 27 New York 54 I 39 Philadelphia 50 I 40 Phoenix 88 I 62 Seattle 56 I 38 St. Louis 58 I 40 Tampa 82 I 69 Washington 54 I 45 

Thursday, Aprill2, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Career Center offers sun1n1er internship opportunities 
.... 




THE POWER TO 




STOP AITI 

I I 


NO WAITING FOR MAIL-IN REBATES. AT SPRINT, ALL PHONE SAVINGS ARE INSTANT. 
Ultra-thin 
KATANATM 
bySanyo® 
Built-in camera Available in 3 colors Bluetooth® technolo"gy GPS enabled 

$19.99 
Reg. $279.99 each Save $260 instantly 
MOTO QTM 
by Motorola · 

Thinnest QWERTY 
device available Windows Mobile Bluetooth® technology 
1.3MP Camera and Camcorder 


$99.99 
Reg. $449.99
Sprinf > POWER UP~ 
Save $350 instantly 

Offers require activation of a new line of service with a two-year subscriber agreement. 

PREfERRED !tHAh.ERS ALSO AVAILAIRE ATS.PR!Nt S\OkES 

NILES,MI
SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKASOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 

Basic Communications
Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express

Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sun................ 12pm-5pm 
2010 S. 11th St.
52991 SR993 Ste. 8 University Park Mall 
269-3S7-0000

2035 South Bend Ave. South of the Mall Mon.-Fri. ........... 10am-8pm 
574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd.

574-277-7727 across from McDonald's Sat................. 9am-7pm 
574-277-4360

574-243-2100 Se habla Espaiiol 

''Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or government-required charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Networks reaches over 250 million people. Offers not avail­able in all markets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Power Pack Plan: Offer ends 4/30/07. Includes 450 Anytime Min./month. Add'l Anytime Min.: $0.45/min. Nights: Mon-Thurs. 7pm -7am; Wknds: Fri. 7pm -Mon. 7am. Partial min. charged as full min. A majority of minutes may not be used while roaming. Mobile-to-Mobile: Applies to calls placed between Sprint PCS & Nextel phones (not through voicemail, direct. assis., other indirect methods, or while roaming). Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase at a participating store and activation by 4/30/07. Savings cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts exclud­ed. Phones Subject to availability. Service Plans: $200 early termination fee and up to a $36 activation fee ;~pplyto each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2007 Sprint NexteL All rights reserved. Sprint logo is a trademark of Sprint NexteL All other trademarks and imagery are property of their respective owners. 
ByJENN METZ News Writer 
As the academic year draws to a close, many students have their summer plans for jobs and int~rn­ships set. But for those without plans, especially seniors in need of permanent jobs, the Notre Dame Career Center provides services and resources to make the search easier. 
Lee Svete, director of the Career Center, said there is still "a strong market" for seniors. The Indiana Career Fair was held before Easter break, and the Chicago Career Fair will be held Friday at the University of Chicago for students from the University of Chicago, Notre Dame, Northwestern, and other top schools in the Midwest. This fair will feature representa­tives from 50 to 70 employers. 
Another, more easily accessible option for students is the virtual Big East career fair. Students will have access to 180 employers offering up to 600 permanent jobs with the Big East online system. 
"Even though companies have stopped coming to campus to recruit, there are still a lot of options out there," Svete said. 
Seniors also have access to Irish Online, a protected networking database that provides contact with 10,000 alumni. Svete encour­aged networking with alumni to get contacts and necessary infor­mation to secure good jobs. 

For first-year students, sopho­mores and juniors, access to the alumni network is also available, but only in terms of looking for vol­unteer internships. 
"It is not too late to find an internship," Svete said. Internet databases like Intern Exchange through Go. Irish on the Career Center's Web site are protected, providing access to only a few schools. As of Wednesday, about 7,000 internships were still avail­able through this database. 
Svete also recommendedjobcen­tral.com for its keyword search option, which can help students narrow down their search to their specific area of interest and pre­ferred location. This Web site -is updated regularly. 
"After their first year, students should start looking for intern­ships. Hometown internships are great options," Svete said. 
He said students should use their first and second summers for experimenting and exploring dif­ferent types of fields, but the sum­mers after junior and senior years should be dedicated to career growth internships. 
"The challenge is not finding an internship, but is finding a paitl internship," Svete said. Currently, the University participates in the Indiana Career Program Fund, which pays for 50 to 60 Notre 

Dame students' internships in 
Indiana. 
The Career Center has proposed 
to take this program nationally 
and is working on endowments for 
the project. 
Another option for students is an internship for credit. For example, anthropology students can get credit for interning at the Field · Museum in Chicago. According to Svete, for-credit internships are very popular in the film and televi­
sion areas. 
Svete recommended students 
start rough drafts of resumes and 
that they "just come in and get 
started-the earlier the better." 
. Freshman Eleanor Huntington 
visited the Career Center Tuesday 
because she "felt the need to start looking and establishing relation­ships." 
She said her career counselor was very helpful in explaining the center's services and offered advice for constructing her resume. 
"I received concrete, direct advice about what I should be doing now, and what I should do next," Huntington said. 
Svete advises students to be aware of deadlines for some internship programs, which depend on the desired discipline. 
"An early start is a sage start, but there are still tons of opportu­nities out there for this sununer," he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
RA 
continued from p;;tge 1 
students from other dorms does not tend to affect the dorm environ­ment, something she credits to the application and interview process. 
For Weiss and Saucedo, moving to a new dorm won't be a draw­back. In fact, they're excited a:bout the opportunity to meet new people and experience life in a different dorm. 
"It's great because you get to experience everything new -hall staff, residents, traditions," Weiss said, stating that she's looking for­ward to the "change in pace." 
Weiss also said her desire to become an RA "definitely supersed­ed my need to stay in the dorm," and she knew when she applied she would take a position outside of Breen-Philips Hall if one was offered. 
Saucedo said she "mindlessly" checked the box on the application stating she would be willing to transfer to another dorm, and did­n't think it would be an issue. 
"At first I didn't think I would have to [move out of McGlinn]," Saucedo said. But since accepting the position at Pangborn Hall, she is pleased to be going there and is happy she made the decision to do so. 
''I've been to dorm Mass and dorm council, and the girls are very welcoming and open," Saucedo said. She doesn't foresee any prob­lems with the transfer. 
Weiss also said they will bring new perspective to the dorm, as well as an unbiased view of all aspects of life in Pangborn Hall. 
"I'll have no preconceived notions a:bout the dorm, or a:bout any of the residents," she said. 
Both are excited to receive their section assignments and meet the residents they will serve. 
Yomekpe said they will hold a dinner before the end of the year to meet new hall staff, which will be an opportunity for the transferred RAs to meet some of the residents. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd.edu · 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 12, 2007 
Dis01as 
continued from page 1 
stance-frne life," Pike said. 
Most residents of the Dismas I louse were drug offenders and could easily relapse into their abusive habits, Pike said. 
"[Drug offenders] have the highest rate of recidivism," Pike said. 
She attributed this primarily to "environmental factors" in the offenders' eireles. When drug users are released from prison, most people they know are other users and traffickers. she said. 
"It's very hard not to fall back into that lifestyle," Pike said. 
It is "very disheartening, espe­cially at first" when Pike sees Dismas House resident<; occasion­ally fall back into their old habits. But she said living in the house for some time has taught her to appreciate the residents that complete a full recovery. 
Students can live at Dismas House for $320 per month ­although Pike said this amount can often be reduced or waived through work-study. Currently, three students are living at the house, and Pike said this number varies from year to year. Students can apply to live there for a semester, a year or the summer. 
At first, arriving at Dismas House can be frightening for stu­dents who don't know what to expect from the house dynamics. 
"It can be a little bit intimidat­ing at first," Pike said. "You sort of walk in and don't know what to expect, but the truth is that these people are just like anybody else you know." 
Like other residents, students living at Dismas House are expected to help run the house. "Everybody has a chore that they have · to do," Pike said. "Everybody sort of fights over who gets the last bagel and that sort of thing. For the most part, we all get along really well and have a really good time together." 
All of the people living at Dismas House are also expected to eat dinner together at .6:30 p.m., although Pike said this rule eould be bent for students. She described these meals as "fiunily tin1e." 
If the houseguests consider each other family, the volunteers who pay them r.egular visits could be the extended family. Fischer Hall, Keenan Hall, Breen-Phillips Hall and Fischer Graduate volun­teers come to cook dinner regu­larly, Pike said. 
To Pike, the responsibilities and expectations at Dismas are simi­lar to the ones she would expect to find in any other living situa­tion. 
"Basically you are responsible for things that you would be responsible for at other places," Pike said. 
As far as rules, Pike said there is no drug use or drinking in the house and to eommitt such an offense is "pretty serious." 
"You cannot use any kind of drugs and you can drink, but you cannot come home if you have been drinking," Pike said. 
Pike said most of the residents have curfews, which means that almost everybody is home during the evenings to spend time together playing cards or wateh­ingmovies. 
While some students may be reluctant to live off-eampus with­out their friends, Pike appreciates her off-campus experience and said it has been one of her favorite parts of life at Dismas House because it has kept her attentive to the world outside the Notre Dame community. 
"When you're a Notre Dame student, you can become so wrapped up in campus life that you forget that there's something else out there, that the city of South Bend -two miles from campus -is such a radically dif:­ferent place than most of us have ever experienced," Pike said. 
The only way to discover that other world is to plunge into it, she said. 
"I think we all believe that we have an idea of what that is, but I think until you are there lyou do not fully] understand how great the need is with real people in real places with real problems," she said 
Dismas I louse, located at 521 South St. Joseph Stroot ncar the Post Olliee, is eurrently aecepting applications for housing for stu­dents. Students can eitlwr apply online or come to the house to lill out an application in person, Pike said. 
After filling out the application, students will be interviewed and invited to attend a dinner with the residents of the house. Following the dinner, the student's applica­tion is presented to a review com­mittee composed of people who do not live in the house. Despite the multiple steps, Pike said the application process is "pretty easy" and "not terribly strenu­ous." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 


Activist 
continued from page 1 
dnnt of Besidencc Life. spoke on behalf of his ofl'iee and NDSP Wndnesday, declining to eomment about any exchange that may havn occurred betwe(~n Vdazquez and NDSP ol'lkers, as tho Univorsity maintains a policy of not comment­ing on stuclnnts' disciplinary rneords. 
lie said studnnt academic: sus­pnnsions litll undnr the jurisdiction of Hesidoncn l.ilh as outlined in the student handbook, "duLac." 
Once classes rnsumnd after spring brnak, Hcsidencn Lili~ dirne­tor Jnll' Shoup eontadod Volazqunz JiJr two disciplinary hnarings. The freshman eventually rneeived a written admonition lilr violating the University's demonstration policy. 
Vnlazqunz said he did not know with certainty which section of the poliey he violate~. but he suspected it was his failure to notify Residenee Illc in writing about his intentions to participate in a demonstration. Shoup declined to eomment on Velazquez's case Wednesday. 
Velazquez said he joined partici­pants of the Soulforce Equality Hide in their two-day stop at Notre Dame and was "flanked by NDSP officers the whole time." 
The Soulf()rce Equality Hide is a 50-day nationwide bus tour to dif­ferent Christian colleges to pro­mote tolerancfl and acceptance of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual and questioning (LGBTQI studenl'i ran by SoulliJrce Equality, a non­prolit organization against homo­phobia, aeeording to tim Soullbrce Web site. 
The duLac guidnlines for demon­strations on cam pus say "only membnrs of tim University mmmu­nity may organize or lead a demonstration" if they register in writing their intentions at Hnsidence I j((J. 
Moreover, "demonstrators may not impede the frnedom of the University community," the rule­book says. 
Under the umbrella of the above regulations, NDSP oiTicers handed out trespass notices to six of the SouUbrce Hiders that were leading discussions in the LaFortune lounges and wrote down Velazquez's contact information for interfering with the student cen­ter's operations and participating in an unauthorized demonstration, Velazquez said. 
He said he was also cautioned to stay away from any further demonstrations the Soulforce Hiders may attempt to organize. 
The next day,· however, Velazquez said he rejoined the Hiders oul'iide the University gate to participate in a procession that would end at the feet of the--statue of celebrated Notre Dame mission­ary Tom Dooley, who wa.'> gay. 
Velazquez said he and graduate student Erin Emme were pulled aside by NDSP officers during the silent procession and were told to leave to avoid an immediate sus­pension from the University. 
Velazquez said he did not under­stand why he was not arrested alongside the other riders as he had already received a warning the previous day to cease any efforl<; to organize more demonstration with Soulforce Equality on campus. 
"I think the University wanted to spare itself the trouble and the fall­out that would've caused the arrest of one of its own students who just stood up lbr his own rights on his own campus," Velazquez said. "It saddens me to see the administra­tion act so apprehensively toward LGBTQ students and their efforts to initiate dialogue among the student body. This type of behavior only makes Notre Dame even more non-conducive to students who may be gay and want to come out and say it but are scared they won't be accepted." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 12, 2007 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE S.ERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. requests help in Afghanistan 
QUEBEC CITY, Quebec-The United States is pressing its allies to contribute additional forces, equipment and other resources in Afghanistan for a NATO-led spring offensive against the Taliban. 
Defense Secretary Hobert Gates planned to meet with a number of military leaders late Wednesday and Thursday. He was not expnct­Pd to ofl'er any additional U.S. troops, accord­ing to a senior U.S. defense official. 
About a half-dozen defense ministers from countries working together in the volatile southern sector of Afghanistan will discuss how to "fill those last critical pieces that are needed," said the oflicial, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 
Among those would be increased flexibility in how some troops can be used. Certain forces are limited in how or where they can be used, and those restrictions have been a prime com­plaint by the U.S. and NATO. 
Ethiopia detains terrorism suspects 
NAIROBI, Kenya -Smiling broadly and wearing casual clothes, eight terrorism sus­pects have been paraded on Ethiopia's state tnlevision as the country faces mounting pressure to explain a controversial program to net alleged al-Qaida loyalists. 
The detainees, including an American, told the Ethiopian News Agency they were being treated humanely. One said the cap­tors were "like our friends" and another thanked the government for treating them so well. 
The Tuesday night broadcast came hours after Ethiopia's government confirmed an Associated Press report that it had detained foreigners as part of an effort to stem ter­rorism in the Horn of Africa region. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Anny tours extended by three months 
WASHINGTON -A thinly stretched Army just got thinner. 
All active-duty soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan have been informed they will serve 15-month tours -three months longer than the previous standard. Rather than con­tinuing its recent practice of deciding on tour extensions on a unit-by-unit basis, the Pentagon decided to give longer tours to all. 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates cast the news in a positive light, saying that more sol­diers and Army families will benefit from a predictable deployment schedule, which he said would ensure that they get at least 12 months at home between deployments. 
Early reaction from Army families, howev­er, indicated that many saw the latest news coming, and were prepared for it. 

Texas executes 12th prisoner this year 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas -Convicted killer James Lee Clark was executed Wednesday for the 1993 rape and slaying of a high school honors student. 
When asked by the warden if he had a final statement, several seconds passed and he noticed witnesses watching him through a nearby window. 
He blurted out, "Oh I didn't know anybody was there. Howdy." 
Clark was the 12th prisoner executed this year in Texas, which has accounted for all but one of all the nation's executions in 2007. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Nerve agent stockpile to be destroyed 

INDIANAPOLIS -The Army has con­tracted with a French company to dispose of chemical waste from the destruction of Indiana's deadly VX nerve agent stockpile, but environmentalists said they will fight this effort. 
Army spokesman Greg Mahall said Wednesday that Veolia Environmental Services had signed a $49 million contract to truck about 2 million gallons of the caus­tic wastewater, called VX hydrolysate, about 1,000 miles from western Indiana's Newport Chemical Depot to Port Arthur for incineration. 
KYRGYZSTAN 

President's resignation demanded 
Leader's offer to restrict powers rejected, protestors call for 'honest government' 
Associated Press 

BISHKEK -Thousands of protesters demanding the president resign set up tra­ditional yurts and tents in the main square of Kyrgyzstan's capital on Wednesday, threatening political upheaval in a coun­try of strategic importance to Washington and Moscow. 
President Kurmanbek Bakiyev, who came to power himself following a popular street revolution two years ago, sought to head off the protest by signing constitu­tional amendments curtail­ing his power Tuesday. The opposition, however, reject­ed his move and rallied about 6,000 protesters to Bishkek's Ala Too square near the presidential head­quarters. 
The protesters carried banners reading "No to Bakiyev!" and chanting "Bakiyev go!" Many young protesters were armed with large wooden sticks. 
"We must drive him out," said Abdysaly Satybaldiyev, 4 7, complaining about unemployment and poverty in the northern Talas region where he lives. 
Police said about 4,000 officers were on duty to maintain order in Bishkek during the rallies, but there were no reports of distur­strations of the so-called Minister Felix Kulov, are International Crisis Group bances. "Tulip Revolution" ousted from the north. think tank, said that given 
Both the U.S. and Russia his predecessor, Askar "We want a government the opposition's rejection of have air bases in the Central Akayev. that would be honest and the concessions made by Asian ex-Soviet republic, The voting was assessed open . . . and not divide the Bakiyev in recent weeks, it making the prospect of polit­by international observers nation into the south and is unlikely to settle for any­ical instability in the country as the freest and fairest in the north," Kulov told the thing less than Bakiyev step­a major concern. The U.S. any ex-Soviet Central Asian opposition rally. ping down. base supports combat oper­state, but Bakiyev's tenure However, Kulov has failed "They want only one ations in Afghanistan; has been plagued by politi­to rally any support in the thing: his resignation," he Russia's was established cal squabbling and allega­south, where opposition said. under a regional security tions of cronyism and cor­activists have been subject­The crisis started in treaty. ruption. Many feel he has ed to several attacks, and December with Kulov's res­
Autocratic leaders else­also lost control over crime most protesters on ignation in a complex politi­where in the energy-rich and public security. Wednesday were from the cal maneuver that back­region have also pointed to Fueling the dissent, the north. fired. Kyrgyzstan's political dis­clan-dominated nation of 5 "We are disgusted by The move essentially was putes as the justification for million people is divided by Bakiyev's policy," said 20-meant to get Bakiyev out of restricting political rights in historic rivalries between year-old Mirlan Ozubekov a bind. The president had their own nations. the north and the south. from the northern Issyk-Kul been forced under opposi­
Bakiyev was elected in Bakiyev and his entourage region. "He only puts the tion pressure to sign consti­July 2005 on a democracy come from the south, while southerners in official jobs." tutional amendments giving and anti-corruption plat­many opposition leaders, Michael Hall, Central Asia parliament the power to form after the mass demon-including former Prime project director of the form a government. 

SWITZERLAND 

Red Cross calls Iraq case 'disastrous' 
fleeing the country after cases where International Committee of the Red
Associated Press 

their colleagues were killed or abduct­Cross' usual appeals for all sides to pro­
GENEVA -Millions of Iraqis are in a ed, the group said in a 13-page report. tect civilians as required by the Geneva "disastrous" situation that is getting "Hospitals and other key services are Conventions. It added photographs and worse, with mothers appealing for desperately short of staff," quotes froin the civilians to describe the someone to pick up the bodies on the Kraehenbuehl said. "According to the situation. street so their children will be spared Iraqi Ministry of Health, more than hall' "Once I was called to an explosion the horror of looking at them on their the doctors are said to have already left site," it quoted a young Baghdad way to school, the international Red the country." humanitarian worker named Saad as Cross said Wednesday. The report, "Civilians without saying. "There I saw a 4-year-old boy 
Thousands of bodies lie unclaimed in Protection: The Ever-Worsening sitting beside his mother's body, which mortuaries, with family members either Humanitarian Crisis in Iraq," was pro­had been decapitated by the explosion. unaware that they are there or too duced over the past two to three weeks, He was talking to her, asking her what afraid to recover them, according to a spokesman said -well after the had happened." Pierre Kraehenbuehl, the neutral stepped-up American-led military oper­Kraehenbuehl said the situation has agency's director of operations. ations in the capital began Feb. 14. steadily deteriorated in recent years ­
Medical professionals also have been The report went beyond the especially since February 2006. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 12, 2007 
Seniors 
continued from page I 
the high amount of seniors that have moved off campus has been a concern to some officials who worry about preserving the University's residential climate, Kachmarik said. 
Notre Dame, however, cur­rently needs those seniors to move off campus, because there is not enough space for them, he said. Residence halls have been filled from 98 to 103 percent of the buildings' maximum capaci­ty in recent years, Kachmarik said. 
Farley Hall Rector Sister Carrine Etheridge said she 
year. Although he has only been Keough's recort since last fall, DeMott said he senses about 50 percent of juniors regularly stay in Keough their senior year. 
"It's really an asset to have upper-class students involved in the hall community," he said. Not only does the hall depend on upperclassmen to serve in the hall staff, but those students also serve as mentors, he said. 
For former Fisher Hall vice president and junior Drew Whiting, who plans to live off campus next year, seniors do provide stability in the dorm and help carry on the traditions. Losing some upperclassmen could create a sense of absence in the hall environment and tra­dition, Whiting said, although he for some members of the com­munity, like Whiting, who worry about the safety of students. 

"They are venturing off into a community which is dangerous and unfamiliar," Whiting said, " [You] hear about muggings and robberies in downtown South Bend." 
While there is little room for more seniors on campus now, Whiting said more seniors would stay in the dorms if they were given some of the liberties off­campus students enjoy. 
Whiting cited the contract dorm residents must sign to host social gatherings and parties and the restrictions placed on alcohol consumption as primary reasons for moving off campus, in addition to the financial sav­ings associated with the off-cam­pus life. 
"A big incentive to move off campus is that it is cheaper," Whiting said. "Room and board costs far more than living off campus." 
Whiting said he has seen a decrease in interest in dorm leadership during his three years in Fisher. New rules and restrictions and the rising costs of room and board are enough to lure some students off cam­pus, and when some go, their friends follow, he said. 
"The snowball effect of others moving off campus has led many, including myself, to see [moving off campus] as the best option for my last year at this school," Whiting said. "If it made sense, I would live in Fisher for senior year in a heartbeat. It's convenient to live on campus." 

In the meantime. Kachmarik said that while Residence Life and Housing cannot do anything immediately to reduce the num­bers of seniors moving off cam­pus -due to the lack of space -construction of new dorms like Duncan Hall, scheduled for completion in the fall of 2008, will address this problem. 
Kachmarik said the additional space would allow more seniors to live on campus senior year if they wanted to stay and would offer more comfortable living conditions to all students. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd.edu 
believes the number of seniors said he hasn't felt that loss in his living in Farley has increased in dorm. recent years, something she has "As long as the underclassmen been pleased to see. can understand what a place is 
"I like having seniors in the all about and embrace it, you hall because they give stability," don't lose those things," Whiting Etheridge said. said. · 
Seniors who stay on campus Kachmarik said that maintain­often have a significant impact ing a proportionate representa­on the hall environment and the tion of each class in the resi­dorm's sense of ongoing tradi­dence halls is a priority. tion, she said. "We're committed to making 
Of approximately 250 girls liv­sure there's a balance and good ing in Farley next year, 53 will mix," Kachmarik said. "It tends be seniors, Etheridge said. to naturally balance itself out," 
Mark DeMott, rector of he said. Keough Hall, said about half of The annual migration of stu­the current juniors will stay next dents off campus is a concern 

visit changes the opinions of many students about the war.


Sheehan 
"I really encourage activism continued from page 1 for peace as part of any group 
that is fighting for the same and provide support for the cause -to end this useless families of fallen soldiers. and senseless war," she said. 
Sheehan is presently on a Campoli also linked speaking tour of Indiana col­Sheehan's visit to the overall leges and universities. The mission of the College. College Democrats, the main "We, as women of Saint sponsors and organizers of the Mary's College, are here to event, were contacted by train women who can make a Sheehan's assistant, Kathy difference in the world," she Liggett, and asked to host said. "When we fight for a Sheehan. Liggett is also a cause that changes the world, member of Americans Against we are making a difference." the Escalation in Iraq. Hahn said Sheehan's actions 
"We saw it as an incredible are personal, yet admirable. opportunity and did not want "I feel that she did what she to pass it up," said Angela felt called to do, and there is Rosato, vice president of the nothing wrong with that," she College Democrats. said. "I commend her on turn­
Sheehan is stopping briefly ing the devastating event of at Saint Mary's before travel­her son's death into something ing to Indianapolis. Elaine positive. I support her anti­Meyer-Lee, director of the war efforts." Center for Women's Inter­Cultural Leadership (CWIL). Contact Katie Kohlar at sees the visit as monumental kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
for Saint Mary's. 
"We at CWIL are happy to be able to draw on relationships to contribute to our students' engagement in dialogue around pressing and timely global issues," she said. 
Rosato is hoping for a turnout of more than 200 peo­ple. 
"This is probably a relatively small crowd for Sheehan, but I understand that she wanted a smaller audience due to the fact she has been traveling so much recently," she said. 
Sheehan's visit is sponsored by the College Democrats, CWIL, the Women's Resource Center, Peacemakers and Justice Education. 
Jan Pilarski, director of the Justice Education program, said Sheehan's visit is a wake­up call. 
"We've now been in the Iraq war longer than we were in World War Two," she said. "The four-year mark is time for us to reflect on what we've done in Iraq and what it means for the future. 
Sierra Campoli, an active member of the College Democrats and Peacemakers and one of the coordinators of the event, hopes Sheehan's 
EXPERIENCE AFULL LIBERAL ARTS EDUCATION 
Explore the Program of Liberal Studies 
Applicatiolls Due Apri/17 
(available on-line) For Further Information See: 
Wl\1W.nd.edu/~pls 

r············~································~·-·~···~········~~~~·····~~~····~·······~··~ 
~  ~  
~  Join the 2008 Dome yearbook staff  ~  
IJ  ~  
~  The Dome is a great way to get involved with Notre Dame student media.  Staff  ~  
~  members are given the opportunity to write stories, take pictures, learn about the  ~  
~ l11  publication process and meet new students. Section Editor positions are available for: Sports  ~ ~ ~ ~  
Organizations  ~  
Seniors  r.  
Academics  ~  
Special Events  ~  
Anyone with or without yearbook experience is welcome to apply. Please contact us  ~  
(dome@nd.edu) to receive an application.  Interviews will be held between April  ~  
12th and April 20th.  Also, please contact us if you are interested in being a writer or  ;.  
~  photographer.  ~  
~  We look forward to hearing from you!  ~  
~  Kathleen Martinez  ~  
~  2008 Editor-In-Chief  ~  
~  ~  

~.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................:.············································"' 
Thursday, Aprill2, 2007 



Dow 
12,484.62 -89.23

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,056 141 2,178 2,958,891,601 

-~l!l!ll!l!,il~llllill!llllllllllllll!!ll···illl~llllfllllllll~llllllll~li 

2 459.31 

S&P 500 I 438.87 -9.52 

NII<KEI(Tokyo).lll\li~~isltfllllJJIIIi~l!llllill'illll 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,413.30 -4.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.51 -0.03 5.90 
INTEL CP (INTC) -1.02 -0.21 20.47 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) -1.05 -0.47 44.21 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.77 -0.20 25.79 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
-0.41 -0.59 144.02 

Treasuries 

I 0-YEAR NOTE +0.32 +0.0 IS 4.724 13-WEEK BILL +0.1 0 +0.005 4.880 30-YEAR BOND +0.18 +0.009 4.906 5-YEARNOTE +0.39 +0.0 18 4.631 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.12 62.01 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.20 681.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.10 101.85 
Excha Rates 

YEN 119.4100 
EURO 
0.7426 

POUND 0.5060 
CANADIAN$ 1.1402 
IN BRIEF 


Stocks down amid gas price jump 
NEW YORK ~ Wall Street stumbled Wednesday, pulling the Dow Jones industrials down nearly 90 points after minutes from the Federal Reserve's most recent meeting indi­cated the central bank is not ruling out an interest rate hike to curb inflation. 
The minutes, coupled with a jump in gaso­line prices, heightened investor worries about inflation and drove an already sagging stock market even lower. Investors are growing increasingly anxious that rates may rise, which could limit corporate profits and con­sumer spending and further weaken the hous­ing market by making mortgages more expen­sive. 
Wall Street had been hoping instead that the central bank might lower rates because of the slowing economy; the Fed's recent statements accompanying its rate decisions have indicat­ed it was closely watching the economy's direction and leaving open the possibility of a rate cut. 

Escalade CEO dies suddenly at 53 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Escalade Inc. President and CEO Daniel A. .Messmer died from an appar­ent aneurysm, the company announced Tuesday. 
The 53-year-old was home Monday preparing for a business trip when his wife found him, said Terry Frandsen, the publicly traded company's vice president and chief financial officer. 
"He was in perfect health, no problems, wasn't complaining of any aches or anything," Frandsen said. 
Frandsen said the company's board would meet later this week to pick an interim CEO. 
"We've got some pretty strong leaders within the organization," he said. "I anticipate that it will run pretty much by it<>elf until we get an interim CEO." 
Messmer became CEO in August. He joined Escalade Sports in 1976 and was serving as presi­dent of the company's office products subsidiary. 
Escalade employs about 900 people worldwide and makes and markets sporting goods and office/graphic arts products. It reported an $8.5 million profit in 2006 on $192 million in revenue. 
, do\\<n from a $13 million profit on $183 mil­lion in revenue the previous year. 


THE OBSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 

Citigroup to eliminate 17,000 jobs 
Executives say plan will lower costs, result in faster service for customers 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Under pressure from investors to contain burgeoning costs, Citigroup Inc., the nation's largest financial institution, announced that it will elimi­nate about 17,000 jobs, shift 9,500 positions to "lower cost locations" and consoli­date some corporate opera­tions. 
The steps -which are expected to shave more than $2 billion from the bank's operating costs this year alone -also should result in faster service for consumers and businesses, Citi's chief operating officer, Robert Druskin, said Wednesday. 
"A lot of the initiatives undertaken in the name of expense reduction also are designed to unclog our cor­porate system," he told The Associated Press. "We want to make Citigroup a more nimble, entrepreneurial place. We want decision­making to be quicker. We want things to move through the pipelines faster." 
The 17,000 job cuts amount to about 5 percent of the bank's 327,000-strong work force·. 
Druskin led the structural expense review, which was aimed at reducing costs at 
A woman walks in front of a Citibank branch in Taipei, Taiwan March 12.
the New York-headquar­

Citigroup announced Wednesday that it will eliminate 17,000 jobs.
tered bank and improving profit. Druskin told a conference $51.51 on the New York tive officer, said that imple­
Citigroup executives have call with Wall Street analysts Stock Exchange. mentation of Druskin's rec­been under pressure from they should expect Citi's Carter Burgess, managing ommendations "will improve analysts and a number of headcount to grow this year director of the Directorship business integration as well investors, including Saudi because of acquisitions and Search Group, a recruiting as our ability to move quick­Arabian Prince Alwaleed bin plans to open new branches, firm based in Greenwich, ly and seize new growth Tala!, Citigroup's biggest especially overseas. Conn., said that "the ques-opportunities." individual shareholder, to "But that rate of growth tion is, if all these areas for Prince also emphasized improve performance. The will be at a significantly cutting expenses exist, why that more expense cutbacks bank's stock has not done as diminished rate," Druskin wasn't it done sooner?" were possible, saying that well as its peers, including said. He noted that Citigroup, Citi was adopting "a continu-Bank of America and Goldman Sachs analysts like many of the giant money ous approach to improving JPMorgan Chase & Co., William F. Tanona and center banks, was built our efficiency-this is not a which have been more prof­Daniel Harris predicted "a through a series of mergers one-time effort." itable. tepid reaction" by investors and acquisitions and that The changes announced 
The elimination of the jobs they said had expected deep-"it's not totally clear you can Wednesday include eliminat­won't reduce the bank's er cuts. make all of this work effi-ing unnecessary layers of work force, but merely slow In afternoon trading, the ciently together." management, reducing staff its growth, Citi executives bank's shares dropped 89 Charles Prince, the bank's at corporate headquarters said. cents, or 1. 7 percent, to chairman and chief execu-and other locations. 



Judge tries to keep kids out of debt 
Associated Press gram ideas and visits to congression­"to keep the kids happy." And of an 
al offices to urge support for school accountant who racked up $80,000 
NEW YORK -A bankruptcy judge programs. on her credit cards "keeping up with 
who has tired of seeing people bur­Laura Levine, JumpStart's execu­the Joneses and everybody else." And 
dened with credit card debt in his tive director, said CARE and other the man who accumulated $100,000 
courtroom has decided to do more groups "do an amazing job, often in card debt but wasn't worried 
than help them untangle their with few resources," in trying to because he intended to pay it off 
finances. bring basic financial skills to the when he won a lottery. 
Judge John C. Ninfo II founded nation's youth. Ninfo believes stories like these Credit Abuse Resistance Education, She gives the coalition an A for prove his point that the lack of finan­or CARE. It sends volunteers from the effort, but acknowledges it has a way cial literacy has moved beyond the bankruptcy system -including to go to deal with "a big problem problem stage to the crisis stage. judges, trustees and private attorneys that's not going to be solved "We truly have a national epidemic -to talk to young people around the overnight." of financial illiteracy in this country," country about developing good money Judge Ninfo uses real stories from Ninfo said in an interview. "We in the skills and avoiding debt traps. his bankruptcy courtroom in trenches of the ~ankruptcy system 
CARE is among the 180 organiza­Hochester, N.Y., to educate students see it every day." 
tions that make up the JumpStart about the potential dangers of misus­The idea behind the bankruptcy 
Coalition for Personal Financial ing credit cards. professionals' participation in CARE, 
Literacy. Each April, the Washington, Ile tells of a couple who didn't even he said, was "to be proactive to get 
D.C.-based JumpStart marks finan­earn $50,000 a year but ran up more the word out to people ... instead of 
cial literacy for youth month with than $50,000 in credit card debt by being the ones who have to clean up 
conferences aimed at sharing pro-taking repeated trips to Disney World the mess all of the time." 
-
' 
_j 
THE OBSERVER 



-IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, April 12, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

50 minutes and a class crush 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAJNT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurardy and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 

It's been said that in college, you'lllearn more outside of the classroom than in it. 
Huh? What? Even if you aren't interested in photosynthesis or in writing a thesis, the truth is, there's no better laboratory lor studying human nature than in your own Debartolo class­room. 
There's the boy who plops down in the desk beside the door on the first day of dass. You quickly realize that he chose that particular seat so as to secure an easy out to see his girl­friend after the 50­minutes are finished. And he executes his post-class plan per­lectly-before the last student crosses t11e plane of the doorway, his llngers are already interlocked with his girlfriend's at the bottom of the Debartolo stairwell. 
There's also the girl who always brings her computer to class, even though the average student is entirely capable ofjot­ting down all of the notes by hand. The professor supposes that her constant key­board pecking is copious note-taking, but you know what it really is -Instant Messenger repartee. 
Then there's your class crush. A<> your professor announces the pre-assignnd teams for your upcoming pn~jeet, you fidg­et with your earrings wlilln whispering under your breath, "Be in my group. Be in • my group. Be in my group." You figure that this is the only avenue through which you 

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey Grind 
can pn)grnss beyond staring at the back of his head. But no sueh luck-that road's blocked. I Ie's in Group 1, and you're in Group 2. 
Then there's the staged dass debate between the Federalists and the Anti­FederalisL<>. In class, you argue with just enough zeal to earn an A for the assign­ment. Yet when you spot a Constitutional decrier at Fever that night, you kiek up your argumentative li~rvor a few notches, re-adopting your Alexander Hamilton per­sona and arguing li>r the end of the Articles of Conlbderation as if you yourself were present at the 1787 convention. But what about when your professor tries to renew the debate in dass on Tuesday? Silence. 
Everyone's too busy staring at the clock. And with approximately three minutes left in elass, a chain reaction commences­you'll cap your pen, prompting the person next to you to fish through her purse for her keys, prompting the person next to her to slam his textbook. And all the while, the proli1ssor bncomes increasingly uncomfort­able as he attempL<> to nail home the last lew themes of Invisible Man. 
But regardless of whether or not you loarned the thomns of Invisible Man, class provides tho optimal opportunity to learn about ono particular (wo)man-yoursdf. When1 dofls your mind wander when you no longor want to hear about the mquim­menl<> lor membership in the EU? Are you wondering ifit'd be smart to pay lbr mem­bership to the English llonors Sodety? Or are you thinking about your class erush again -would it be too weird if you Faeebook friended her? 
Your class is full of potential Facebook friends. There's the girl who seems to have a Starbucks cup permanently melded to her hand. And the boy who raises his hand every time the professor's voice inflections hint that he might be on the verge of asking a question. And what about the girl whose cell phone rings (to the tune of "Sweet Escape," of course) during every class? And the boy who only shows up for the tests? 

Throughout 15 weeks of class, you might not utter a word to any of tl1em -until the post-Final Exam bond, of course. After you all endure two hours of blue-book writing, you'll be like best friends who waged war in Vietnam together. "What'd you think of the test?" you'll ask, as you stagger past the desk where the girlfriend-loving boy once sat. Maybe you'll even speak your first words to your own class crush. 
You still think class doesn't matter? Then tell me why-when in the spring of your senior year, a friend introduces you to someone he thinks you've never met-you will undoubtedly remember that she sat across the aisle from you in your Introduction to Philosophy discussion sec­tion that met on Fridays during the fall semester of freshman year. 
You can learn a lot in a 50 minute class. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. /Jer column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


Fighting stereotype with stereotype 
After reading the April11 Letter to the Editor, "McDaniels goes too far," by Katherine Khorey, I could not help but think to myself, "What is she trying to say? That superior intelligence is the pri­mary quality that men should look lbr in women?" She begins her article by stating that she is part of a dass with the highest accept­ance standards of any Notre Dame class and announcing her GPA to the school. The problem with those two statements is that every year the standards increase, so next year's class will be "smartnr" than hers, and frankly, nobody cares what her GPA is. Also, in her attempt to fight one stereotype, she crnates another. She then begins to attack any girl who may be considered "pretty" by socie­tal standards by saying girls at Notre Dame actually "think and feel and live." Is this to say that "pretty" girls cannot think, feel, and live? She continues to talk about the ability to do integrals, 
write thesis statements and boil eggs as if these skills should be 
Iiam Moran's main criteria in seeking his future wife. Although I 
consider intelligence to be important, the ability to compute inte­
gral"> or write a thesis statement does not turn me on to a woman. 
I would rather my future wife be sweet, loving and someone I can 
always have fun with-not someone who I can sit down with for 
an exciting Saturday night of Calculus. The point is that everyone 
is attracted to beauty. Nobody can deny that. So to CO!Jlplain about · human nature is pointless. 
Brian Salvi Stanford Hall sophomore April!! 
Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 

EDITORIAL CARTOON
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht-~(USPS 599 2-4000) is published MQnday through Friday aupt during exam and vac.ation periods. A subscription to)'he-Ob&crver is $1QO fQr one aademic year. $55 for oflt' srmcster. 
The Observer is publish~ ~t; POSTMASTER 024 SoUth Dining H.JI Send addn:ss com:crions to: Notre Dame. JN 465')6..0779 The: Ohsetvet P-eriodical posuge paid ar Noue D.ame P.O. Bo,m and additional m;tiling offices.. 024 Sou{h Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame, IN •6556-0n9 
The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are ri:Scrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Katie Kohler Madeline Nies Marcela Berrios Sports John-Paul Witt Deirdre Krasula Do you feel the Notre Dame Law 
"Expecting a carjacker or rapist or drug

1Submit aLetterI

pusher to care that his possession or use
Viewpoint Lorenzo Reyes School is well respected? 
ofa gun is unlawful is like expecting a 
Alyssa Chris Doyen 

terrorist to care that his car bomb is 
taking up two parking spaces."
Brauweiler Scene 
1to the Editor at 1

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Erin McGinn 
Joseph T. Chew


at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
:~1 www.ndsmcobserver.com li 
computer programmer 
;:::: 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, Aprill2, 2007 page 9 
Fearful, yet overjoyed 
How can fear and joy exist in the human heart at the same time? 
St. Matthew recalls that, on the first Easter, Mary Magdalene and another woman approach the tomb of Jesus. There, an angel tells them that their friend is not among the dead. They should return Lou to. their h?mes i~ Galilee, where they Delfra C.S.C 
will see h1m agam. So, they leave, ____, ___ "fearful, yet overjoyed." A contradic-FaithPoint tion in emotions? 
But, perhaps, we understand. Perhaps each of us has been here before. Perhaps, the four men preparing for Ordinatiem as Holy Cross priests this Saturday under­stand. Even as I write this question, I recall the night before my own Ordination, three years ago next week. I felt that night like I imagine my brother and his wife felt the night before their wedding, or the moments before their first child was born. I stood on the threshold of a future that was at once very intimately known, and yet, simultaneously, filled with mystery. 
It's that feeling that you've been waiting for this day forever. And, at the same time, there persists a nagging whisper: "Another day to think this over wouldn't kill me." But then, my family presents me with my chalice. My brother sees his fiancee walk towards him down the aisle. Their baby exhales the first cry of new life. And all we can feel is ... joy. We are taken up into something so much bigger than we -a deep realization that the mys­tery of God's plan for our life is upon us, and, despite what we don't know about it, it is good. It is very good. 
"Fearful, yet overjoyed." The two women at Jesus' tomb -these first witnesses to Christ's resurrection ­have been where we sometimes find ourselves. These women, like any of us preparing to give our lives away to another-like the four who will give their lives in priest­hood this Saturday -made their way to a fearful, but ultimately joyous, place. 
In the women's case, it is the tomb of their friend, sure­ly not the expected destination when they first answered Jesus' call. Then, suddenly-mysterious news, like an earthquake beneath their feet. The ground beneath them shifts, and a truth begins to dawn, even beyond what the women are able to comprehend. 
What they thought was here is not here. And what is here is beyond their wildest imagination. You can't even take it all in, suggests the angel, so for now, just go home. And there, in your daily life, you will come to understand. 
And so they went-"fearful, yet overjoyed." 
My very flrst memory after being ordained is the odd­est memory. After the bishop ordained my classmates and me, we all knelt on the top step of the sanctuary, and our brother priests, one by one, laid their hands upon our heads, in the manner of the first apostles. 
Of course, it was beautiful ... but there were a couple hundred priests and it took close to 45 minutes! As I knelt on the marble step, I began to sweat. My mouth dried up. I got dizzy from thirst. 
Finally, we got up, and were waved into a back chapel, and there was the most beautiful first sight I could ever hope for as a priest -ice cold bottled water, which I guzzled so quickly that I got the most pleasant headache of my life! 
This odd memory has always stayed with me. It reminds me that most things, post-Ordination, don't change. You wake up Sunday with the same limitations you went to sleep with on Saturday. All your thirsts remain -your thirst for friendship, your thirst for a more virtuous life, your thirst to be to be part of a family -none of your human thirsts disappear. 
And yet, at the same time, this presence of water ... 
A week after my Ordination, I lowered Peyton Stephens, four months old, into the baptismal font at Holy Redeemer Parish in Portland, Ore. As I held him up, and the congregation welcomed him into the Church, and I watched that water drip off his head and shoul­ders, I began to realize that water would never be the same again. Nor would bread, nor wine, nor oil, nor any­thing else. 
As a Christian, and perhaps as a priest in a particularly humbling way, water changes forever. Even as you con­tinue to thirst for it, you begin to bless ana baptize with it. You mix it with wine, and drink and share it, as 
, Christ's own blood. What was everyday bread becomes the food of people's deepest hunger-you can see it in their eyes. Oil becomes the bath water of the sick. 
To be ordained a priest is to walk to the tomb of the Resurrected Christ-simultaneously in fear and joy, for here the known and the unknown meet. Here the tomb will never again be just a tomb, and water will never again be just water. 
So, after all, it does make sense -fear and joy existing simultaneously. It's just that, like the reality of being wed to another, like the reality of creating new life, the reality of becoming a priest is too much to bear all at once. And so, we are told, "Just go home. Live your promises-in fear, in joy. Go back to Galilee." 
Where everything is as it always was, and where noth­ing will ever be the same again. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Father Lou Delfra, from the department ofBible Studies in Campus Ministry. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Notre Dame anything but diverse 
Recently, "The Daily Show" news anchor Larry Wilmore, the show's only African-American correspon­dent, commented on an announcement by Disney that it will soon be presenting its first black princess character. Wilmore stated, dryly: "We have overcome." 
. S~me, it seems, w?uld_like to make Patrick Wall 
s1m1lar, though less rromc, assess­ments of Notre Dame and its con tin-Guest Columnist uing efforts to "diversify." After all, it 
is projected that some 25 percent of the class of 2011 will be ethnic minorities, making it the most ethnically diverse class in the University's history. This must be 
progress. 
However, the very real fact remains -denied by many here, but felt intimately by others -that Notre Dame is anything but diverse. Diverse in the most fun­damental sense of the word: as in, a place where differ­ence, pure and unconditional, is honored, embraced and even fostered. Such a place Notre Dame is not. 
As the number of racial and ethnic minorities (slowly) increases on campus, there does not seem to be a corre­sponding increase in racial integration and interaction. Putting people of different colors and ethnic back­grounds in the same space, it turns out, does not amount, in itself, to establishing a truly multicultural community. As a moderator for three years now of the two-day "Diversity" requirement for freshman in Contemporary Topics, I can attest to the pervasiveness of the sentiment among white students that: "Racism just really isn't an issue anymore." What's worse, in my mind, is that this attitude is so hegemonic at Notre Dame that many students of color, who know otherwise, feel compelled to keep quiet about the racist comments and behaviors with which they're confronted regularly at this school, lest they be labeled as "bitter" or "exag­gerators." 
As a person who is queer (in more polite terms, "gay"), I can say that the situation at Notre Dame is sim­ilar for us. Similar, but not the same. Because, while it is usually apparent when a person is of a non-normative (i.e., non-European) ethnicity, (some) people with non­normative sexual desires or behaviors, or ways of doing gender, are able to conceal these characteristics, there­by passing as "normal." Of course, this choice to conceal only makes sense in an environment where only one type of sexuality (heterosexual) and one type of gender expression (masculine for "men," feminine for "women") are understood -and sanctioned -as normal, natural and acceptable. In such an environment, it is under­standable not only that a majority of non-heterosexual students and professors choose to hide or at least down­play their sexual preferences, but also that attempts to assert the dignity, rights and even the existence of such persons are suppressed. In this sense, it is no mere coin­cidence that this semester the former-Queer, former-Gay and Lesbian "fllm event" did not feature any of those words in its title, or that six members of the Equality Ride, a large group of students who are touring the country in support of LGBT students at Christian univer­sities, were arrested when they came to this campus to raise awareness. In effect, what the University has said -a sentiment with which many students here would agree -is that homophobia, like racism, sexism, ablism, classism, etc., just isn't a problem here. A few lesbian or gay students go here and, like everyone else, they're "part of the Notre Dame family." 
And that, finally, is the point. In a world where, many feel, "community" is the stuff of folklore and "morals" exist solely as the butts of jokes, Notre Dame seems to offer what few institutions can-a place where like­minded people can come and revel in their shared con­victions and group traditions. It is a place, we're told, where "family" still means something. Which may, of course, be true. However, the crucial question is ­What price do we pay for this homemade "community"? 
The answer, for many of us, is quite simple-differ­ence. Despite (mostly) politically correct and polite efforts here to "accept," or at least "tolerate," people whose backgrounds, "orientations" or attitudes differ from the majority's, there is no honest effort to take on those differences, to acknowledge the profound chal­lenges they pose to traditional ways of living and think­ing, to admit and address the ways such differences, at this school and in this country, are constantly stereo­typed, stigmatized and punished. Any real recognition of such serious differences here takes the form of irra­tional reactions (slurs, censorship, arrests, etc.), pan­icked responses fllled with fear, threat and contempt. 
None of this will change "naturally." Nor can it be resolved rhetorically, through talk of "increased num­bers" and "multicultural programming." This is a funda­mental problem that reaches to the very core of this place. Some of you are privileged enough to ignore these issues. Others of us are not. My hope is that we'll all begin to take this matter of difference seriously, so that one day, maybe, we might be able to remove the quotes surrounding "community" here. 
Patrick Wall is a senior FIT major. He can be reached at pwalll@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Fall study abroad students get short end of stick 
One of the things which attracted me to Notre Dame was the system in which students typically live in the same residence hall for their duration at the University. As a resident of Cavanaugh Hall for the past two years, I cannot speak enough about how much I love my dorm. Mindful of the cramped living quarters of freshman year, I was looking forward to my junior status and the perks which come with it, including having a higher lottery number in the room picks. However, my decision to go abroad fall semester has not only deprived me of receiving a lottery number, but in essence is actually forcing me out of my beloved dorm. 
The current practice allows for students studying abroad in the spring semester to receive a lottery number and go about making living arrangements in the typical manner. They are then given the privilege of sub-letting their room to a friend or some other type of benefactor for the spring semester. While this practice may have generally worked when more girls studied abroad in the spring, this year, 15 students are going abroad in the fall from Cavanaugh but only 13 are going in the spring, leaving a deficit of two beds. 
Instead of instructing two of the 17 transfers into the dorm that their spaces may only be good for a semester (until two junior Cavanaugh girls return from abroad), the beds will be taken away from two of its own residents, who are left to scramble to find other options or to hope that "something else opens up in the dorm." Bottom line: This is way below what I've come to expect from Notre Dame. 
I recognize that this problem does not fall squarely on Cavanaugh's shoul­ders, nor does its resolution. Until the Office of International Studies and the Office of Residence Life and Housing find a better solution, the only lesson that can be garnered is to study abroad in the spring, because then at least you'll know where you'll be sleeping during your semester on campus. 
Elizabeth Purgert Cavanaugh Hall sophomore April!O 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Thursday, Aprill2, 2007 
CD REVIEW 
Jones 'Not Too Late' with another great album 

Poetry readings can be both inspiring and exciting 
Sliding skillfully below the radar of most Notre Dame students, the Notre Dame Creative Writing Program is a department that doesn't scream for attention. The program quietly holds 
gatherings and read­ings in off-campus locations, and for the lucky and atten­tive listeners, those who attend know they have found something special. In fact, the literary output of the pro­


gram is one of hid-Chris McGrady den gems of this campus. 
Assistant
Wednesday night, 
Scene Editor 

two of Notre Dame's finest student writ­ers -Raechel Lee and Silpa Swarnapuri -joined forces to create a coffee shop reading session of poetry and prose that was truly amazing. Lee read poetry, Swarnapuri worked with prose, and both proved to be extremely skilled. 
The thing is, I didn't really even want to go the reading. My roommate was going as a student of one of Lee's class­es, and he asked if I wanted to tag along. Reluctantly -and with the image of off-campus Chipotle burritos dancing in my head -I agreed to go. I figured, ''I'm an English major. I like writing and reading poetry. I like Chipotle. A lot." I had never been to a poetry reading, and figured outside of the cultural hubs of major cities, I· should keep my expectations low. I couldn't have been more wrong. 
Lee's poetry screamed of talent. Polished, unpretentious, and profound, the poems brought ink and paper to life. I had never met Lee before, but like all good writers, Lee's work seemed to contain her. It made me wonder what I had been missing out on. 
Swarnapuri, originally from India, was equally adept. She wrote stories with undertones, whether overt or more hidden, of her Indian back­ground. Her skillful prose leapt off the page with action and emotion. She went second in her reading, and I was truly disappointed when her last story ended. 
These readings struck me on several levels, but one thing it made me real­ize was the lack of attention some of these finer programs get from the gen­eral student body. I know poetry isn't for everyone, but this marginalization goes for so many cultural events on campus. Outside of those with some direct connection to the people putting on the event, it seems attention is mini­mal. Poor attendance at academic and socially-aware movies, small crowds of the student body at art exhibits and finally the lack of recognition for out­standing events like the readings at Lula's cafe, which sits just off Edison Road, right across from the Linebacker. 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene Critic 

Norah Jones' latest album, "Not Too Late," preserves her beautiful and sul­try sound even as she moved into new territory and composed or helped to compose all the songs on her album for the first time. 
Jones doesn't take too many musical chances -choosing instead to embel­lish and build upon what she has already established -but many of her lyrics are appealing and more personal than before. 
Jones already has an impressive pedigree. Her debut album "Come AwayWith Me" won five awards at the 2003 Grammy's, including "Record of the Year," "Album of the Year" and "Song of the Year." The song "Sunrise" on Jones' second album, "Feels Like Home," won the Grammy's "Best Female Pop Vocal Performance" in 2005. The same year she won "Record of the Year" and "Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals" for her work with Ray Charles on the song "Here We Go Again." 
"Not Too Late" stands apart from previous albums because every includ­ed song was either written or eo-writ­ten by Jones herself. While many of the songs maintain a similar feel and sound to those on her previous records, they all contain a little extra personali­ty that is inspired from her own experi­ences. 
As always, the character of Jones' music is increased by her use of piano, electric guitar, organ, acoustic guitar and keyboard in addition to her singing. These touches make "Not Too Late" a strong next step in the continu­ing evolution of her music. 
There are several stand-out songs on the album. "Wish I Could," while light and smooth, is a reflective ballad full of longing and bittersweet memory. "Sinkin'. Soon" is a swinging, brassy tune that features an excellent trom­bone part by J. Walter Hawkes. The most energetic song on the album, "Sinkin' Soon" has a refreshingly dif­ferent sound. "Little Room" has a 
sweet sound and 
Jones' vocals on "Broken" are appro­priately soft and slightly melancholy for the lyrics. "My Dear Country" is Jones' first politically oriented song. 
She delivers her point simply -a lilt­ing parallel of piano and voice move into a short but beautiful instrumental solo before returning to the ivory keys. The message itself is a bit simplistic, but the appeal of the music makes up for it. 
The strong and persistent flow of "Hosie's Lullaby" reflects both the waves it illustrates and the yearning it describes. "Thinking About You" is a cheerful, if sedate, song that is pleas­ant to listen to. 

Not every artist can make the transi­tion from performing what they have been handed to what they have com­posed. But "Not Too Late" effectively blends what has made Norah Jones successful in the first place, her beauti­ful voice and playing, with her new creative attempts. 
There are a few new sounds on "Not Too Late." but most of Jones' new expression comes from the use of songs she has composed -an innovation that is something to look forward to from her. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
courtesy of whatdvd.net 

Most people lack exposure to poetry outside of a classroom setting, like that in "Dead Poets Society," which makes attending a poetry reading a new experience. 
As fine of an institution as the 'Backer is, I promise you Lula's is equally amazing, albeit in a different way. 
Trust me, I'm not chastising anyone for not attending some of these cultural events. They really aren't for everyone. But as a guy who didn't really want to go this reading in the first place, I'm sure glad that I did. 
I want to encourage people to maybe step outside of their bubble a little bit and attend some of these events around campus. They are happening all the time. 

Of course, there's the possibility that you might hate it, but then again, you might not. And there's only one way to find out. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradJ @nd. edu 
Norah Jones 
NotToo Late 




Recommended tracks: 'Sinkin' Soon/'Wish I Could' 

L-----------------------------------------------~ 


cheekily romantic lyrics that make it a fun addition. The titular song, "Not Too Late," epitomizes Jones' sound and theme 
beautiful, sweet and strong, with a touch of melancholy and hope. 
Backed by cello, bass and light electric guitar, 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, April 12, 2007 
page 11 

Annual room picks can cause drama in dorms 
Each spring, there comes a series of notable signs that the seasons are chang­ing. The bunker-sized piles of snow (usu­ally) melt, and the DuLac-protected tulips emerge from their earthen beds, fresh and ready to greet the populace. 
The ducks tend to congregate in any­thing from the lakes to an oversized puddle. Even the students, with their now-ungod­ly pale complexions and winter-induced light sensitivity, leave their former states of hibernation and burst out onto the sunlit quads. 
One not-so-natural sign of spring, howev­er, lurks ominously behind these cheerful reminders of seasonal shifting on campus. It's not the reappearance of meat on Fridays at the dining halls, nor is it the proliferation of cornhole, Frisbee and other outdoor games. No, this demon is more terrifying than anything that either man or beast could dream up. 
Two words: room picks. 
For those of you who might be freshmen and have yet to experience this lovely phe­nomenon, let me enlighten you. Or, rather, let me give you a well-intentioned warn­ing, so as to make sure you avoid killing someone during this process. Because it will, undoubtedly, make you want to 


Analise Lipari 
Assistant Scene Editor 

shooVstrangle/poison/other-variation -of­maim your friends and neighbors, espe­cially if they take the sweet, sweet room that you desire. 
Room picks -that delightful time of devious plotting, disappointments and occasional tears -is not meant for the faint of heart. As one might surmise, the academic year coming to a close means that your average Domer guy or gal must ensure that they do, in fact, have a place to live come fall semester. In order to fill this need, dorms individually hold their own versions of the room picking process, involving lottery numbers and oh-so-dra­matic periods of selection. 
"Dramatic?" you ask incredulously. "It's just a room ... right?" 
Oh, you na"ive little buggers. How I wish it were "just a room." It's more than a room -it's an uncomfortably personal jungle of competing wants, needs and facilities. Do you want a single? Good luck finding one! Do you want a double? Make sure that who you plan on rooming with does, in fact, want to room with you (an underestimated part of the equation). 
Triple? Quad? Eight-man? Keep your friends close and your enemies closer, and make your arrangements in advance ­otherwise, you may end up living in a tent in the middle of South Quad. 
My own beloved home, Howard Hall, gives the process an interesting twist. Having received their lottery numbers, each Duck has the opportunity to place a matching magnet on a white board of the dorm's available rooms to denote each resident's desired room. During the course of the 24-hour room pick period, however, anyone with a better number has the option of literally removing your magnet from its resting place and replacing it with her own. Again, it's an awkwardly person­al process. 

Some students choose to avoid the process entirely by moving off campus for their junior or senior year. A house or apartment is inevitably much bigger than a dorm room, plus, you get to cook for yourself. However, you also have to clean, pay bills and fmd transportation to and from campus. 
And who wants to act like a real live adult before it's absolutely necessary? Not me. 

Personally, I prefer the room pick drama. Not while it's actually happening, of course -especially if my lottery num­ber isn't exactly ideal. 
But afterward, once my room is secure, I can sit back with a bowl of popcorn to watch the underclassmen go through the same thing. It's just another sign that spring has sprung again. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 


..:· ·: ,,.

C ./·n Sanjaya shocks and appalls 'Idol' fans everywhere 
Across the country, hearts are breaking and tears are flowing. Fans of "American Idol," regardless of who their favorite contestant might be, are united by deep­seated anguish and despair caused by a single person. 
His name is Sanjaya Malakar. 
He seemed innocent and harmless -at first. The audience got their first taste of Sanjaya during the Seattle auditions. He quickly won over fans when he tried out with his sister, Shyamali, and they were both accepted to Hollywood week. When his sister was eliminated, he ran out to fmd her in the hallway and held her as they both cried. 
It was endearing and heart-warming­but still nothing to be worried about. 
There are always a couple of contest­ants every season that cause fans to won­der what Simon, Paula and Randy were thinking when they accepted them into the final 24. But then the voting is left to America-so those flaws are typically corrected by the millions who call in every week to vote. 
Some may argue that the crowning of Taylor Hicks last season was a strong sign of Idol's decline -that the contest wasn't being taken seriously anymore. But no one was prepared for Sanjaya. 
For the first couple of weeks, there was little cause for worry. It takes a couple of weeks for the performers to settle down on the stage, and there were others worse than Sanjaya. 


He wasn't even the initial focus of the now infamous votefortheworst.com, which annually chooses the worst con­testant to vote for. But as worse perform­ers like Antonella Barba and Sundance Head fell to the wayside, it became clear that Sanjaya was going to be the next elimination. 
Or so we thought. 

When it came down to choosing the top 12, he landed in the bottom two. The world watched as he stayed and Brandon Rogers left. Rogers wasn't that good, so it wasn't a crushing moment. But since then, Sanjaya has not appeared in the bottom tier of votes despite getting worse -much, much worse. 
In the Top-11 episode, he performed "You Really Got Me" by The Kinks. An atrocious performance on its own, it was made worse by the 13-year-old girl in the audience who bawled during his entire performance. 
She attracted so much attention that Sanjaya went over to hug her and Ryan Seacrest invited her up during the closing credits. It was subsequently parodied on "Saturday Night Live" during their "weekend "update." He made it through that episode, and "Idol" lost Stephanie Edwards, who had been predicted to fm­ish much higher. 
As if things couldn't have gotten worse, the Top-1 0 episode was next. Making it into the top-10 guarantees a spot on the summer "Idol" tour and on the compila­tion record, but it didn't stop there. 
Gwen Stefani was the guest that week and Sanjaya chose to perform "Bathwater" by No Doubt. Although his singing was atrocious, no one paid atten­tion to his vocals. All attention was on his hair-on the faux-hawk that he created out of seven ponytails. 

Simon complained that nothing they said mattered anymore -and true to that statement, Sanjaya lived on. The next week Malakar proclaimed that it was time for the "Universe of Sanjaya." 
But only a select few want to be mem­bers of that universe. 
Votefortheworst.com is behind him, as is Howard Stern. But more and more peo­ple are becoming disgruntled as Sanjaya remains on the popular show. 
A few people on Myspace became well­known for their participation in hunger strikes until he was eliminated -they have either starved or given up by now. Simon Cowell told "Extra" that if Sanjaya wins, he'll quit the show. 

· Last night's result show proved that this circus isn't over yet. Sanjaya wasn't even in the bottom three, meaning that he isn't anywhere close to elimination. Is this a sign that the reign of "American Idol" is coming to an end? 
Hopefully not-but there won't be much of an option if Sanjaya isn't stopped soon. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd. ed'u 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, Aprill2, 2007 
MLB 

White Sox get help from Erstad, Dye in win 
Pirates blow 2-run lead in ninth inning to Cardinals; Brewers need two days and 13 innings to beat Marlins 
Mike Piazza, who is getting
Associated Press 
this DH thing down, hit a two­
OAKLAND -Darin Erstad hit run double in the first to stake a go-ahead sacrifice fly in the Joe Kennedy to an early lead. ninth after Jermaine Dye con­Eric Chavez added and RBI dou­nected for a tying two-run ble after Piazza's hit, but that homer an inning earlier, and the was it for the A's. Chicago White Sox beat the The 38-year-old Piazza, play­Oakland Athletics 6-3 ing in the American League for Wednesday. the first time after a 15-year 
The A's scored all of their runs catching career that will likely in the first inning, then land him in the Hall of Fame, Chicago's pitchers shut down has an eight-game hitting streak the struggling Oakland offense and is 14-for-33 (.424) during the rest of the way -and the that span. defending division champions White Sox left-bander Mark have yet to win a series through Buehrle allowed three runs and their initial three sets. four hits in seven innings and 
Dye, who had a career-best 44 threw 113 pitches, showing homers last year, hit his first of signs he's healthy after leaving the year, a drive off Justin his season debut in the second Duchscherer after the right­inning following a line drive on hander had struck out two bat­the left forearm. He retired 17 ters. Erstad hit a bases-loaded of his final 18 batters. sacrifice fly after closer Huston Street (1-1) allowed a single to Cardinals 3, Pirates 2 Juan Uribe and consecutive Gary Bennett successfully walks to A.J. Pierzynski and gambled by running on a short Scott Podsednik. Street inten­fly ball to score the winning run tionally walked Jim Thome to in the 12th inning, and the St. bring up Paul Konerko, who Louis Cardinals rallied from two lined a two-run double to left. runs down in the ninth to beat 

David Aardsma (1-0) pitched a the Pittsburgh Pirates on ball to left fielder Jason Bay, only because Scott Rolen was the start. But under the rules perfect eighth for the win, then Tuesday night. whose throw to the plate beat held out with back spasms. change made during the offsea­Bobby Jenks finished for his sec­Bennett singled and Aaron Bennett only to have catcher Rolen, who had five RBis in his son, it was picked up where the ond save, one day after blowing Miles doubled with one out in Ronny Paulino drop the ball. last two games, had been in the teams left off. a chance in Chicago's 2-1 loss. the 12th against John Wasdin Schumaker was credited with Cardinals' lineup until a few Fielder finished 4-for-4 with The White Sox pounded nine (0-1), the fifth Pirates pitcher. a sacrifice fly, even though it minutes before game time. three singles, a double and hits after getting 12 total in the Yadier Molina was intentionally appeared Bennett would have The left-handed Gorzelanny, three walks. first two games. Uribe's RBI walked to load the bases and set been out if Paulino held onto the who stayed in the Pirates' rota­Renyel Pinto (0-1), who lost in double in the second scored the up the double-play opportunity. ball. tion despite a miserable spring his first major league decision, team's first run Wednesday. But Skip Schumaker lifted a fly Brad Thompson (1-0) pitched training in which his ERA was relieved to start the 13th and 
two scoreless innings for the vic­above 10.00 for most of March, walked Rickie Weeks leading tory before Jason lsringhausen struck out five, walked none and off. Weeks advanced on Craig came on for his third save in as retired 12 of the final 13 batters Counsell's sacrifice and J. J. many opportunities and second he faced. Gorzelanny had to be Hardy's groundout, then scored in as many days in Pittsburgh. sharp against Cardinals replace­on Fielder's hit to right. 
The Cardinals did nothing ment starter Scott Keisler, who Elmer Dessens (1-0) pitched a against Tom Gorzelanny, who limited the Pirates to two runs scoreless 12th for his first victo­pitched seven shutout innings in over six innings in his first ry for the Marlins. Cody Ross his second effective start in a major league start since 2005 doubled with one out in the bot­row, or reliever Matt Capps in with Cincinnati. tom half of the 13th against the eighth. But the Pirates Francisco Cordero, but Alfredo couldn't hold a 2-0 lead in the Brewers 3, Marlins 2 (13 inn.) Amezaga lined to shortstop J.J. ninth as Salomon Torres blew Prince Fielder singled in the Hardy, who doubled up Ross for his first save opportunity in five go-ahead run in the 13th inning, a game-ending double play. chances. the seventh time he reached On Tuesday, Hardy tied the 
After David Eckstein singled base, and the Milwaukee score for Milwaukee with a one­and Chris Duncan walked, Brewers beat the Florida out RBI double in the ninth off Albert Pujols missed a home run Marlins Wednesday in the com­Jorge Julio, who has blown both by several feet on a long ny ball pletion of the first suspended of his save chances this year. that Bay tracked down several game caused by Major League Florida had taken a 2-1 lead on feet from the wall. The drive Baseball's rules change. Dan Uggla's sacrifice fly in the was deep enough that both run­The game was suspended with fifth. ners tagged up, allowing last­the score 2-2 after 10 innings Marlins starter Rick Vanden minute lineup replacement Scott and three rain delays Tuesday 1-Iurk, brought up from the Spiezio to tie it with a two-run night that totaled 1 hour, 42 minors earlier in the day, made single to right. minutes. his major league debut and 
Spiezio, who didn't play Before this year, it would have allowed one run and five hits in Monday because of an apparent become an official tie game and 4 2-3 innings with five strike­case of food poisoning, started would have been replayed from outs and three walks. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. For rent: Nicest house in area. 4 Grt loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b bedrooms,A/C, security. WANTED FoR RENT incl.all appli. A/C,Carpet, 5 blocks from campus. 289-4071. Porch,Car Port $925 + uti I. 630­SUMMER WORK -andersonNDrentals.com 417 -8763/MCL214@ aol.com Very large home for rent for next 
$15.50 base-appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed, 3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for customer sales/service, conditions 07/08 school year. apply,all ages 17+, On line see rentnd.com or mmm­positions throughout the US, rentals.com. apply now, start after finals, Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­www. workforstudents.com spot. net or phone 
574-277-4759. 
RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5 
bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm. *ND CONDOS* Call312-545-5123 NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos or email Minutes from campus Starting in mitchell.58@nd.edu 
FoR SALE 

school year. 1 block east of cam-New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4 close to campus, carpet, huge bedrms/3 full baths/large unfurn, all appi,AC, kitchen-tarn rm & laundry rm. 3 2 car gar. No pets. decks overlook huge fenced yard. $1650/mo plus util.914-232-3328. Very private & safe! Must see! 239­
707-2025. 2-6 BDRMS HOMES.GREAT 
RATES.574-329-0308 
PERSONAL 

2 bdrm home close to ND. Avail 
Now. $650/mo + utilities. Adopt: A young loving couple long Call Peggy to share their 269-687-3096. Hearts and home with a newborn & 
$130,000s will provide Endless love. 574-252-2427 BETTER HOMES,BETTER Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. Expenses paid call ndcondos.com AREAS,BETTER DEALS. Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Eileen & Ed at Reserve Yours Today! BlueGoldRentals.com Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896. 1-800-718-6577 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Professional couple to house sit for Do not go it alone. If you or some-summer. Saving to buy home. ND one you love needs references. Dave 574-204-2877 aft confidential support 6p 
or assistance, please call PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For ONE WHO IS? You do not have to more information, visit our web site be alone. We want to help. Call our at 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-BOO-No-ABORT or visit our website nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad at www.lifecall.org 
in The Observer. 

Michael Stark showered for the first Puck: Put lovers to sleep (batty time this semester. His go-to sham­wings/leaden eyes, etc), then fix poo is Selson Blue. He's the kind of problem. Ob. guy that likes long walks on the 
beach and candle-light dinners. 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, New Dillon Hall government posi­visit lions appointed. President Taylor http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape Montgomery seized power early to learn about resources at ND and last week.He vowed to crush any in South Bend. opposition, and establish his legacy. 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 12, 2007 CnMPH..ED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB 
Toronto 45·33 .577 New Jersey 37-40 .481 7.5 Philadelphia 32-45 .416 12.5 New York 32·46 .410 13 Boston 23·54 .299 21.5 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team ·record pet. GB 
Detroit 50·27 .649 Chicago 47-32 .595 4 Cleveland 46·32 .590 4.5 Indiana 34-43 .442 16 Milwaukee 26·51 .338 24 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB 
Miami 42·36 .538 Washington 39·38 .506 2.5 Orlando 36·41 .468 5.5 Charlotte 32-47 .405 10.5 Atlanta 29·49 .372 13 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
Utah 48·29 .623 Denver 41-36 .532 7 Minnesota 32-45 .416 16 Portland 31-46 .403 17 Seatlle 3H7 .397 17.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 58·19 .753 LA Lakers 40·38 .513 16.5 Golden Stale ·38·40 .487 19 LA Clippers 37·40 .481 20.5 Sacramento 32·45 .416 24 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet GB 
Dallas 64·13 .831 San Antonio 56·21 .727 8 Houston 49·29 .628 15.5 NO/Oklahoma City 37·41 .474 27.5 Memphis 19·60 .241 46 
NCAA Men's Lacrosse 
lrisitie''t~(\;rosse Top'(2 
t 2 3 Ohio State 87.61 2 4 Baylor 82.00 4 5 North Carolina 79.71 5 6 NOTRE DAME 78.32 6 7 Mississippi 72.80· 7 8 Southern California 70.70 9 9 Illinois. 68.55 .8 10 UCLA 67.43 10 11 Wake forest 63.76 11 12 Louisianastate 62.12 13 13 Texas 6U8 15 14 Oklahoma State 58.61 14 15 Alabama S7.14 12 16 Duke 55.00 16 17 Ftortita S4.82 18 

18 Michigan ... 53.72 19 19 Pepperdine 20 
Cle:o~+. 


around the dial 
NHL 
Flames at Red Wings 7 p.m., Versus 
NBA 
Nets at Cavaliers 
8:00 p.m., TNT 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

MSNBC said Wednesday it will drop i1s simulcast of the "Irnus in the Morning" radio program, responding to growing outrage about the radio host's racial slur against the Rutgers women's basket­ball team. 
"This decision comes as a result of an ongoing review process, which initially included the announcement of a suspension. It also takes into account many conversa­tions with our own employ­ees," NBC news said in a statement. 
Talk-show host Don Imus 
triggered the uproar on his 
April 4 show, when he 
referred to the mostly black Rutgers women's basketball team as "nappy-headed hos." His comments have been widely denounced by civil righ1s and women's groups. 
The decision does not affect Imus' nationally syndicated radio show, and the ultimate decision on the fate of that program will rest with execu­tives at CBS Corp. In a state­ment, CBS reiterated that Irnus will be suspended with­out pay for two weeks begin­ning on Monday, and that CBS Radio "will continue to speak with all concerned par­ties and monitor the situation closely." 
MSNBC's action came after a growing list of sponsors ­including American Express Co., Sprint Nextel Corp., 

Staples Inc., Procter & Gamble Co., and General Motors Corp. -said they were pulling ads from Irnus' show for the indefinite future. 
NBC News President Steve Capus said he made the deci­sion after reading thousands of e-mails and having count­less discussions with NBC workers and the public, but he denied the potential loss of advertising dollars had any­thing to do with it. 
"I take no joy in this. It's not a particularly happy moment, but it needed to happen," he said. "I can't ignore the fact that there is a very long list of inappropriate commen1s, of inappropriate banter, and it has to stop." 
NBC's decision came at a time when Imus' program on MSNBC was doing better competitively than it ever has been. For the first three months of the year, i1s audi­ence was nearly identical to CNN's, leading CNN to replace its morning news team last week. 
Calls for Imus' firing from the radio portion of the pro­gram have intensified during the past week, and remained strong even after MSNBC's announcment. The show originates from WFAN-AM in New York City and is syndi· cated nationally by Westwood One, both of which are man­aged by CBS Corp. MSNBC, which had been simulcasting the show, is a unit of General Electric Co.'s NBC Universal. 
IN BRIEF 

Robinson remembered at 
funeral services 
GRAMBLING, La. -They began arriv­ing soon after the sun came up over the piney woods: football grea1s, government figures and everyday people -all of them there to say goodbye to former Grambling football coach Eddie Robinson. 
"Most coaches are rated by the players they recruit," the Rev. Jesse Jackson said as he waited for Robinson's funeral to start in the school's new assembly center. "Coach was known for how many players he graduated and sent on to successful lives." 
About 5,000 people . attended Wednesday's funeral -just across the street from the stadium where Robin•;;on and his players made history. 
"It's like coming to your father's funer­al," said Robert "Big Bird" Smith, who played for Robinson and was an assistant coach during Robinson's final four years at Grambling. "He was like a father to everyone that ever played for him.'' 
NASCAR'S Waltrip found in 
overturned vehicle in ditch 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-The witness who discovered Michael Waltrip's overturned car initially thought no one survived the accident until the NASCAR driver wiggled out the back window. 
The witness, an 18-year-old col­lege student at the University of North Carolina-Charlotte, request­ed anonymity during a phone inter­view Wednesday with The Associated Press for fear of reprisal from Waltrip's fan base. 
But she said she lives near the two-time Daytona 500 winner in Sherrill's Ford, and stumbled upon the accident when she was return­ing home around 2 a.m. Saturday. She saw an overturned Toyota Land Cruiser in a ditch and rushed over to check on the occupants. She did­n't see anyone in the car and no one answered her shouts, so she called 911 for help. 

Chancellor to take over ISU 
women's basketball 
BATON ROUGE, La. -Van Chancellor has won WNBA champi­onships and Olympic gold medals. 
By taking over an LSU program that's been to four consecutive Final Fours, Chancellor will have as good a chance as he's ever had before to win his first NCAA title next season. 
Chancellor was hired as the women's basketball coach at LSU on Wednesday, succeeding Pokey Chatman. 
He intends to keep the coaching staff left behind when Chatman abruptly resigned last month just before the NCAA tournament. Chancellor singled out for mention assistant Bob Starkey, who took over the team and guided the squad to another Final Four appear­ance. 
"I wouldn't have taken this job if Bob Starkey wasn't wanting to stay here," Chancellor said at a news conference. "Why would I want to change a Final Four team four years in a row?" 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April12, 2007 
NCAA lACROSSE 
Charges dropped in Duke rape case 
Associated Press 
The Duke lacrosse rape case finally collapsed Wednesday, with North Carolina's top prosecutor saying the three athletes were railroaded by a district attorney who ignored increasingly flimsy evidence in a "tragic rush to accuse." 
In a blistering assessment of the case, Attorney General Roy Cooper dropped all charges against the players, all but ensuring that only one person in the whole scandal will be held to account: Durham County District Attorney Mike Nifong. 
"This case shows the enor­mous consequences of over­reaching by a prosecutor," Cooper said. 
Cooper, who took over the case in January after Nifong was charged with ethics viola­tions that could get him dis­barred. said his own investi­gation into a stripper's claim that she was sexually assault­ed at a team party found noth­ing to corroborate her story, and "led us to the conclusion that no attack occurred." 
"There were many points in the case where caution would have served justice better than bravado," Cooper said. "In the rush to condemn, a community and a state lost the ability to see clearly." 
Later, at an often-bitter, !­told-you-so news conference, the three young men and their lawyers accused the news media and the public of disre­garding the presumption of innocence and portraying them as thugs. 
"It's been 395 days since this nightmare began. And finally today it's coming to a closure," said one of the cleared defendants, David Evans, his voice breaking at one point. "We're just as inno­·cent today as we were back then. Nothing has changed. The facts don't change." 
Defense attorney Joe Cheshire said: "We're angry, 
very angry. But we're very relieved." 
Nifong was out of town and could not immediately be reached for comment. But his lawyer, David Freedman, said: "If further investigation showed the boys were inno­cent, he would be in agree­ment with what the attorney general's office decided to do." 
Evans, Heade Seligmann and Collin Finnerty were indicted last spring on charges of rape, kidnapping and sexual offense after the woman told police she was assaulted in the bath­room at an ofT-campus house during a team party where she had been hired to per­form. The rape charges. were dropped months ago; the other charges remained until Wednesday. 
The case stirred furious debate over race, class and the privileged status of college athletes, and heightened long­standing tensions in Durham between its large working­class black population and the mostly white, mostly affluent students at the private, elite university. 
The woman is black and attended nearby North Carolina Central University, a historically black school; all three Duke players are white. 
The attorney general said the eyewitness identification procedures were unreliable, no DNA supported the strip­per's story, no other witness corroborated it, and the woman contradicted herself. 
"Based on the significant inconsistencies between the evidence and the various accounts given by the accus­ing witness, we believe these three individuals are innocent of these charges," Cooper said. He said the charges resulted from a "tragic rush to accuse and a failure to verify serious allegations." 
"I think a lot of people owe a lot of apologies to a lot of peo­ple," Cooper said. 


JUST THE FACTS ABOUT OPERA NOTRE DAME® 
TOP TEN REASONS WHYYOU SHOULD GO SEE OPERA NOTRE DAME 
6.) The supreme art form known as opera, the union of all the performing arts, is frequently referred to in the world of high culture as "da bomb." 
5.) Because we know a bank where the wild thyme blows, baby... 
4.) You never know-the singing fairies might reveal some Inconvenient Truths. 
3.) Wardrobe malfunctions HAVE been known to happen... 
2.) Since it's opera, we can get away with displays of non­approved love-making, cross-dressing, and plus we get to say very naughty words in public. 
TO BE CONTINUED ... 


Thursday, April12, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR THE BEST JOB ON CAMPUS? 
Look no further! The Development Department 
Phone Center is seeking students with 
excellent communication skills, enthusiastic 
Notre Dame 
attitudes, and a love for and knowledge of 
ANNUALFuNo Notre Dame. 
EVENING STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni. parents. and friends on behalf of Notre Dame's Annval Fvnd. 
• 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 

• 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 

• 
EVENING HOURS 

• 
PAID TRAINING 

• 
MERIT PAY INCREASES 

• 
SUMMER. FAll, AND SPRING POSITIONS AVAILABLE 


Questions? Contact Moira Madden or Mark Seiler, Assistant Directors of the Annual Fund, at phcenter@lnd.edu or 631 -3152. 
_/ 

CAMPAIGN STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni, parents, and friends on behalf of Notre Dame's Development Department. 
• 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 

• 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 

• 
FLEXIBLE DAY & EVENING HOURS 

• 
PAID TRAINING 


• 
NO SOLICITATION CALLS 

• 
SUMMER. FALL, AND SPRING POSITIONS AVAILABLE 


Questions? Contact Lori Rush, Phone Center Coordinator, at pcsplrit@nd.edu or 631-7935. 
J 
l 


The Office of the Presid .  and the Deus Cafita  einvite you  
to submit pa~~rs on Pope BenedictsEhcyclical De us Carl sEst.  
•?7  

Intent to present papers must be communicated by Aprill6, 2007. Please email godislove@nd.edu with confirmation of the topic of your paper. Students can then present their papers at the Deus Caritas Est conference (April 27-28), make any final revisions based on discussions during the conference, and then submit final documents by May 4, 2007. 
Prizes will be awarded in the following categories: 
Freshman/sophomore: $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up 
Junior/senior: $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up Graduate students: $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up 
For additional information regarding the conference and call for papers please visit: www.nd .ed u/encyclicaI. For questions em a i I: god islove@nd.ed uor ca II 631-6526. 
r;;ElUNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 


NHL 

Gretzky to return as Coyotes coach 
Associated Press 
The Phoenix Coyotes cleaned out their front office Wednesday, firing general manager Mike Barnett and two other executives after the franchise's worst season since it moved from Winnipeg in 1996. 
Wayne Gretzky, who owns a share of the team and is its man­aging partner, will return for a third season as coach next fall. 
But the front office felt the fall­out from the team's third consec­utive last-place finish in the Pacific Division. Also dismissed were director of hockey opera­tions Cliff Fletcher and assistant general manager Laurence Gilman. 
"The bottom line was how would we best be served going forward," Coyotes chief executive officer Jeff Shumway said at a news conference. "We believe we need a general manager that can help us build from the inside out." 
The Coyotes finished last in the Western Conference for the first time since the franchise came to Arizona and their 6 7 points were the team's fewest since that move. Phoenix hasn't made the playoffs since 2002. 
Barnett, Gretzky's close friend and his agent for 21 years, had signed a four-year contract exten­
Kansas City $131 Atlanta 

2001, when Gretzky -the NHL career scoring leader -joined the organization as managing partner. 
"This is probably one of the harder days of my life," Gretzky said. "Mike Barnett's meant more to me than probably anybody other than my father." 
Shumway and Gretzky said the team was in far better shape than it was when Barnett took the job five years ago. But Shumway did­n't believe Barnett and the others were best suited for developing a young team after failed attempts to build a contender via free agency. 
"The future of this team is young, talented players," said Shumway, who took the Coyotes job after Jerry Moyes took over controlling ownership a year ago. "We need a general manager who has experience building a fran­chise from the inside out. The franchises that you see now that are successful start off with their own talent that they can develop in their minor leagues." 
The Coyotes want to hire a gen­eral manager from outside Gretzky's vast circle of friends. 
"Let's put it this way," Gretzky said. "It probably is a benefit to the franchise if the person who comes in, that I don't know him. I want to get the best person and 
London  $304  
Paris  $459  
$918  

Tfmu' All fares aTe ba>ed oo fi!UndtJip travel and il!tlude aStudent!Jruverse servirn fi!e at$S. Domestit fares include ai.S% US transpo~atlon tllt Other taxes and fi!es vary, dependlrn;•n 1~ itlller.lry .nd aff not induded. fa>O> aresubject to •vailobillty and dlange wi1llout notk!>. Domeslkffigh!< must be ptJ7(ha!ed 8days in advance and require a l day min stayindudlng aSat night required max stay~ JO<fays. Fil6valid Moo-Thu ll!l!il Julll. fntema­tionol flights v•lid Mon-Wed must be pordlosed 7days in odvante and requin<a4 day min!lay indudirn; aSat nig1rt witb amax !lay of 365 days. fim to Europe m valid fur departuru from Apr \ through May 17, Asia fares Mevalid fur depattures !hrough Apr18. Austral~ lara.,.Yi!lid fur depanures through Apr 27. Blackout~ and othe161liaions may apply, 
.C:• StudentUniverse.com 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
_,,.~

------·10!~.------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. 1 1am-2pm & ..fpm-9pm (Sun. and Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
------------~~~;~.~------------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and m~ny delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North (574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 
Accepting reservations for graduation parties 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, Aprill2, 2007 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles take on Hope after snovved-out lllatch 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's contest with Tri-State Wednesday was postponed due to snow, but the Belles return to action tonight at 5 against Hope at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Today's competition will be Saint Mary's second home conference match of the sea­son. Saint Mary's and Hope last faced off in March 2006 when the Flying Dutch defeated the Belles 6-3. 
Belles coach Dee Stevenson hopes to avenge last season's loss. 
"We lost to Hope last year, and we certainly hope to impr.ove 

spot. This year McDavitt will compete in the No. 1 spot, hoping to avenge last year's loss to. The regular duo of McDavitt and freshman Camille Gebert will compete at the No. 1 doubles spot and likely face Stille and Lucy Himes. 
Saint Mary's last competi­tion came April 6-7 during a trip to Madison, Wis., for the Midwest Invitational. Though the Belles finished 0-3 in the tournament, senior captain Kelly McDavitt said it was an honor just to be invited to play some of the Midwest's top teams. 
"The Midwest Invitational was a great opportunity for 
our team," 
McDavitt said. 
our play this "... [O]ur team now "From this year," he said. knows what we need weekend's 
Anneliese Fox, matches our
to do to improve our

the 2006 MIAA team now most valuable game ... knows what we player, lead Hope need to do to to victory against improve our
Kelly McDavitt 

the Irish. game to win
Belles captain 

Returning this our next con-
season without Fox, Hope boasts three returning letter winners. 
The Flying Dutch will turn to sophomore Samantha Stille, junior Christina Garcia, and senior Ashley Leary to pick up where Fox left off. Though Hope College boasts a 9-7 record overall, the Belles are seeded ahead of them in league play. Hope maintains a 2-1 MlAA record, with a 5-4 lost to Kalamazoo. During last sea­son's match, McDavitt fell to Stille at the No. 2 singles 

ference match and continue our undefeated record." 
The Belles first fell to No. 29 University of Wisconsin LaCrosse 8-1. They went on to compete against the Wisconsin-White Water, and after a tough battle, the Be1les eventually lost 5-4. In the final match of the week­end, the Belles were defeat­ed 7-2 by Wisconsin-Eau Claire. 
Wednesday's match was 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at 
emichala@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 
Golfers set for MIAA play 
By KATE ARNOLD Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will have its plate full today as members of the team travel to Angola, Ind., to compete in the first round of the MIAA qualifying tournament. The tournament will bn eom­binnd with tlw Tri-State Invitational tournament, which was postponed earli­er this month dun to weath­er conditions. 
The Belles enter today's r.ompctition aftPr a two­week break from play. Saint Mary's last faced an oppo­nent March 25 at the Northern Kentucky Invitational, in which the team placed 19th. 
Junior Katie O'Bri1~n led tho Belles in Kenttll:ky as she shot baek-to-back rounds of 83 and 84. Meredith Fantom followed in O'Brien's footsteps with 
rounds of 91 and 87. 

Saint Mary's coach Mark Hamilton said the long wait between competitive play will not have a positive effect on the team. 

The Bolles not only enter the tourna­ment after two 
weeks without 
facing an 
o p p on n n t but also artnr a three-day break from practice. Hamilton gave 

"The only teams we are 
concerned about are the conference teams," Hamilton said. "We were ·not able to beat Olivet in the fall. but we feel we are 
"The only teams we are concerned about are the conference teams. " 
Mark Hamilton Belles coach 
well prepared and can beat them if we play our best in all five spots." 
Saint Mary's placed fourth in the MIAA Championships in October. Olivet took the title with 348 points. 
the team days off to travel over the Easter weekend. 
But, he said. every school has faced similar circum­stances and no one team will enter the tournament with a strong advantage. 
This course will be the easiest the Belles have played all year, and Hamilton is confident that the Belles will place well. 
Hamilton said that today's match will be wo1i on the greens. Saint Mary's has been working especially hard to eliminate wasted strokes on and ncar the putting surface in prepara­tion for the course it will face today. 
Contact Kare Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 

Free Delivery On Campus 
l.imited timP. Cff€r. Prkes. tax. deliveri areas & chdrges n~ay vary by location. Exdude5 other offer~. Guod at pank:paUn~! i<l<ations ~,.1nly. 
52750 IN 933 
N. of Cleveland Rd. 574.. 


2 
SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
Thursday, April12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Kentucky 
continued from page 20 
relative ease. Hoth and King were the first off the court for the Irish winning 6-0. 6-2, and 6-4. 6-3. respectively. Keckley clinched the win-for the Irish during his 6-3, 6-1 victory over Hodge at the No. 5 spot. With the win secured, No. 51 Parbhu was next ofT the court as he was up 6-4. 3-1 over Peter Bjork before the match was retired. No. 114 Brett Helgeson defeated Marcus Sundh 7-6 (2), 6-2. No. 9 Bass finished singles play for the Irish with a 7-5, 6-3 win over Agostinelli. 
"I thought it was a great effort from our guys because we were on the road yesterday and we did not have a lot of turn around time," Bayliss said. "Also, I think it speaks well for the pride that we have in what we're doing that we were able to win in straight sets after we knew we would win, especially since Kentucky is such a dangerous team. Straight up and down I'm happy with everybody." 
The Irish will finish off the regular season this Saturday at No. 57 Louisville, looking to avenge their loss to the Cardinals in last year's Big East Championship match. First serve is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu 



Irish senior Ryan Keckley returns a serve against Kentucky Wednesday. Notre Dame defeated Kentucky 7-0 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion to finish its home season undefeated. 
NHL 
Ducks win opening contest 

Associated Press 
ANAHEIM·, Calif. -Dustin Penner's patience -and posi­tioning -paid off. 
Penner scored with 5:20 remaining to lift the Anaheim Ducks to a 2-1 victory over the Minnesota Wild on Wednesday night in the opening game of their first-round playoff series. 
Penner poked the puck in after Minnesota defenseman Kim Johnsson crashed into Wild goalie Niklas Backstrom, sending him sprawling back­ward into the net. 
The puck was sitting in the crease, and Corey Perry swept it toward the goal. Penner took a couple of swipes at it and forced it in. 
"I saw it coming. That's why I moved over to the side," Penner said. "If the puck didn't go in after the initial shot I wanted to be able to pick up any loose change. 
"I was looking for the puck, the ref was right there and he made a great call. Obviously the puck was free. You could see it on the replay. Perry and I just whacked away and it went in." 
Backstrom thought the goal should have been disallowed. 
"I watched the replay and I was sure it was under me and nobody saw the puck," he said. "Of course, you're going to get the puck out from a goalie if you slash at it with your sticks. 
"That's a bad goal and we lose a game on that," added Backstrom, who stopped 32 shots. 
Minnesota coach Jacques Lemaire wasn't so sure it should've counted, either. 
"I don't know if he stopped the puck or whether he was right on top of it or if it was under the pad," Lemaire said. "He waited a bit and they whacked the puck right in." 
Teemu Selanne tied it for Anaheim with a second-period goal, just 3:51 after Pavol Demitra scored for Minnesota. 
Ilya Bryzgalov started in place of Jean-Sebastien Giguere and made 24 saves for Anaheim. 
"It's the playoffs and all the marbles are on the floor," Bryzgalov said. "It's very important. It was a very diffi­cult game. Every game is so close." 
Giguere has been taking time off to be with his wife and new­born son. Maxime was born April 4 with a condition that could leave him blind in his right eye. Giguere and his wife, Kristen, were worried about the vision in the baby's left eye as well, but a specialist told them on Tuesday that their son will have sight in that one. 

Anaheim coach Randy Carlyle explained his decision to keep Giguere on the bench: "We felt that the emotional roller coast­er Giguere has been on, it was more beneficial to let him get his feet underneath him. 
"With the good news that he received yesterday about his son, we felt it would be best if he backed up tonight. Now we have both goaltenders avail­able." 
Giguere was the MVP of the 2003 Stanley Cup playoffs, when the Ducks were beaten in Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals by New Jersey. 
Bryzgalov played well during the postseason last year when Giguere was injured, helping Anaheim advance to the Western Conference finals, where the Ducks lost in five games to Edmonton. 
The 36-year-old Selanne, rejuvenated since his return to Anaheim before the 2005-06 season, took a long pass from Francois Beauchemin, broke behind the defense and into the slot, where he slid the puck between Backstrom's pads at 
9:52 of the second period. 
Demitra beat Bryzgalov with a 15-foot slap shot down the slot, with the puck sailing into the net high on the goalie's glove side at 14:51 of the sec­ond period. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 12, 2007 
VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer Linebacker Maurice Crum, left, rushes at linebacker Steve Quinn during practice Wednesday. The Irish are looking to strengthen their defensive lineup for the fall season._ 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
in Brown's new scheme. 
"He thought it would be a struggle for him, but I think he's starting to adjust and like it now, especially because we're starting to do some dif­ferent things," defensive line coach Jappy Oliver said. 
One of the main reasons for Laws' move to the end was to free him up to be more effec­tive in the trenches. 
"He's got a good punch, you're not going to move him off the line of scrimmage, and I think he's starting to enjoy it a little more because we're going to do some things with him," Oliver said. "We're going to do some things to free him up." 
Although the full playbook will include plays designed to give Laws room to maneuver at defensive end, Oliver said practices so far have been "vanilla" just to get the play­ers acclimated to the new system. 
"But now we put some stuff in today and over the next couple of weeks. When we get back, we'll put some more stuff in. and we'll put some stuff in for him also," Oliver said in an April 4 interview. 
One difficulty rebuilding the defensive line this year for Oliver is that so many of his players are young or inexpe­rienced. 
Two of the main competi­tors for the nose guard posi­tion -sophomore Chris Stewart and junior Pat Kuntz -have little playing experi­ence at the college level. 
Kuntz appeared in 12 games last season, but only recorded seven tackles. But with a better chance of crack­ing into the starting lineup this season, Kuntz has­stepped up his game this spring. 
"Kuntz is doing a nice job. He's a fighter. He's got the temperament to play down inside," Oliver said. "l like him. He's another kid that could put another ten or twenty pounds on him if he could and just anchor it." 
Stewart has a harder tran­sition to make because he is switching to the other side of the ball from the offensive line. 
Stewart suffered an addi­tional setback earlier this spring after he sprained an ankle. 

"Any time a player, no mat­ter who you are, whenever you miss, you don't want guys to miss because inevitably there's going to be something that you have to catch up on," ­defensive coordinator Corwin Brown said. "When you miss days, it's going to affect you. So he's just going to learn as much as he can and get healthy and come back." 
Overall, Brown has been pleased with the performance of his defensive line this spring -especially the more experienced players. 
"They're taking to the coaching, and that's encour­aging because if you can't hold up there, you are going to have a lot of trouble," he said. "They're taking to the technique. They're under­standing things better. There's a lot we still don't have in, but what we're doing, l will say that with the d-line I have been relatively pleased with the older guys." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
Big East 
continued from page 20 

Brown was also namnd Louisville Slugger/NFC/\ playnr of the week last Wednesday. Brown is cur­rnntly atop the Big East standings in batting aver­ago (.4771 and on-base pnr­centage (.531). Her fre­qunnt trips around the bases have given the power hittnrs in the lineup a With her strong pitching during the streak, sopho­more Brittney Bargar earned an honorable men­tion in the Big East after going 3-0 with two com­plete games, a shutout and 21 strikeouts in 20 innings pitched. Irish senior Kenya Fuemmeler will also take the mound, riding on a series of strong perform­ances herself. She has a 7-5 record with a 2.60 EHA, seven complete games and 57 strikeouts. 
chance to gain HBis  - she  
leads the Big East in runs  
scored  with  24.  

Contact Michael Bryan at mbryab@nd.edu 
PHIL HUDELSONffhe Observer 

Irish pitcher Kenya Fuemmeler deals in Notre Dame's 10-2 win over Syracuse Aprill. Fuemmeler is 7-5 with a 2.60 ERA. 

Thursday, April 12, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

CROISSANTWORLD 
\-\~'J, 1:>\t:> '{etv. SE£ ,.-1-1 p,,-AG::nc.LE 
BLAcK DoG 
I 'H f'Rof'-\ A CoNSu~TI Nl:r FtF.M -M'\ NAM.E.. IS. DE.AA\CI<:. ANt> "T>\IS. \S 
M'{ FIT MA~ol2.. 1 <:ru-t , S~-rH. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

67 Sea eagle 68 Not remote 69 Put to the test 70 Means 71 Value 72 Go-ahead 73 Short and 
detached, in mus. 
DOWN 
1 Mean 2 Birthday creation 3 Everything, in 
Germany 4 Mean 5 See 5-Across 6 Big name in 
Japanese photography 7 Means a Food safety grp. 9 Means 10 "Whew!" 11 Prefix with -hedron 12 Contents meas. 13 Apple and orange 21 She: Italian 22 Comics Viking 26 Mean 
27 Lead-ins to holidays 28 Witticism 29 Forearm part 30 Means 
32 Minor 
34 Frolic 
WILLSHORTZ 

37 Large bra 50 Playing loudly 60 Scoop feature 
52 Part of Oceania 61 "Phooey!"38 Phyllis's 1970's 
53 Some bank 62 "A Day WithoutTV husband holdings Rain" singer
39 "Don't get too 54 Collect

excited now!" 63 Genealogical 56 Annual abbr.
42 "Et !" 

September 
65 "Oh wad some47 Hybrid fruit gala, with "the" 

power the giftie 49 Means 59 G.l. chow us": Burns 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share lips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JNJW&lliiE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Keep pedaling, Arthur. to form four ordinary words. 
I won't lel go 
PUTIL 



"" 
rJ 
1 

©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
r;~~5~·t) 
tDEPLUH I 
WHAT THE

J (J (] 
OIVORC.g) FAT!-IE:R 
www.jumble.com 

GAVE: HIS SON.tCLORLS t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rJ J 

1 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: rI I I I J"r I I I I I I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SOAPY WALTZ PARODY COLUMNYesterday's 
Answer: When the brothers' pillow fight ended, it was -"DOWN" AND OUT 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Meshach Taylor, 59; Joel Grey, 74; Michele Scarabelli, 51; Kelli Garner, 22 
Happy Birthday: You have more discipline than you give yourself credit for. Stop and think about the possibilities and push yourself to reach the highest point. Travel for discovery or business opportunities appears to be prominent. Your numbers are 5, 16, 19, 23, 32,37 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You will have to deal with institutions today. Visit a friend who can shed some light on your future situation. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An older relative is likely to have some problems that require your attention. Deal with institutions that can help resolve issues. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be questioned about something you have been doing. Someone you thought you could count on will let you down. 2 stars 
CANCER(Jnne 21-July 22): New relationships will develop ifyou get involved in new and exciting activities or hobbies. You will be able to enlighten someone who is facing a problem because ofyour past experiences. 4 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Someone may try to trick you. Don't overreact to family 
matters but do get to the bottom of things. You can make changes that will affect 
your professional future. Talk to people who can help. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Everything will be up in the air .and difficult to 
decipher. Don't let what others do infuriate you. Sudden changes regarding a 
partnership can be expected. Don't be afraid to make changes. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): An opportunity is looking you in the face. Don't be afraid to find out more about future prospects. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do your own follow up and you will sail through today with ease. So many things are going your way so take the initiative and go after your dreams. You can get others to listen to you today so speak up. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Stay put and don't start anything you can't finish. Exaggeration will not impress the people you are dealing with. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your plans into motion. Everything is turning in your favor and the chance to make headway with a project is now. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is not the time to jump to conclusions or overreact. Ifyou take a wait-and-see approach you will be in a much better position when the dust settles. Refuse to get upset about emotional matters. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Stick to what you know and do best. Avoid anyone who tries to corner you into making a decision. Give yourself enough time to see what will unfold before you commit to anything or anyone. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are aggressive, progressive and committed to whatever you believe in. You are emotional, sensitive and geared toward helping others. You are always willing to take a risk. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

1 Exchange 
5 Enjoy 5-Down hills 
aFacility in Phila. or Denver 
14 City with a seemingly contradictory two-syllable name 
15 Qui's opposite 
16 Orthodontic device for separating teeth 
17 Capital at 60° latitude 
18 Switch positions 19 Mean 
20 Means 
23 Country in Eur. 
24 Fiber for wet suits 
25 Some standardized coli. exams 27 Mean 

31 Majestic 
33 Mean 
35 Scratch 
36 Trifling 
40 German "a" 
41 Surplusage 
43 Org. setting 
eligibility requirements 44 Duration 45"_dieu!" 46 Means 48 Heads of old Rome 51 Carmen, for one 52 Makes laugh really hard 55 Not generic 57 Mean 58 Mean 64 Mean 
66 Words said before and after "what" 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, April 12, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish finish perfect home season with win at Eck 
Notre Dame remains undefeated on own courts with 7-0 win over Kentucky, goes unblemished for second straight year 
By)AYWADE Sports Writer 
The Irish cemented a perfect home record of 9-0 on the sea­son with a 7-0 win over Kentucky Wednesday. 
The win over the Wildcats was the second straight match in which the Irish have shut out a team, and the eighth time over­all this season. 

The 9-0 home record marks the first time Notre Dame has had back-to-hack perfect home records in school history, and it is only the fourth time in history that an Irish team has finished undefeated at home. Notre Dame was 8-0 a season ago. 
The Irish are 13-0 this season when winning the doubles point. Notre Dame continued that 
streak against Kentucky as third doubles Barry King and Andrew Roth defeated Will Ward and Shane Collins 8-6. The duo of Ryan Keckley and Stephen Bass clinched the doubles point for the Irish with an 8-5 win over Bruno Agostinelli and Kenny Hodge at the No. 1 position. Sheeva Parbhu and Brett Helgeson, who did not get to fin­. ish their match at No. 2 doubles, 
were paired together by Irish coach Bobby Bayliss for the sec­ond time this season in as many matches. 
Bayliss said the decision to switch up the doubles combina­tions was due to the struggle Parbhu and Keckley were having at No. 1 doubles. 
"We were struggling at one doubles and we had plateaued out at two with the combinations 
FooTBALL 

Moving in the 'trenches 
Adjusted defensive line crucial to success in Brown's scheme 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
After graduating thre·e starters on the defensive line this season, Notre Dame has to start building its new 3-4 defense by first rebuilding its defensive line. 
The Irish graduate defen­sive ends Victor Abiamiri and Chris Frome and defensive tackle Derek Landri, and lost defensive end Ronald Talley -the only Irish backup with any real playing time -as a transfer to Delaware this off­season. 
The anchor of the defensive line will be fifth -year senior Trevor Laws, a defensive tackle last season who moved this spring to defensive end 
see DEFENSE/page 18 


BASEBALL 

Matchup against Bovvling Green rained out 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's game with Bowling Green, scheduled for Wednesday night, was cancelled due to inclement weather. 
No make-up date has been set. 
''I'm a little disappointed we couldn't play today because I wanted to continue our momen­tum," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
Notre Dame (15-16, 2-6 Big East) dropped twin 4-3 deci­sions in the first two games of its conference series with Cincinnati Thursday and Friday, but rebounded to beat the Bearcats 9-5 Saturday. 
The Irish then beat IPFW 3-2 Tuesday at Frank Eck Stadium for their second straight win. 
Notre Dame pitchers threw and position players took swings in the batting cages at Frank Eck Stadium Wednesday, but the team was unable to practice fielding. 
The Irish have committed 52 errors this season. 
The Falcons lost a chance to end their three-game losing streak after they were swept by Central Michigan over the week­end. They jump right back into MAC play Friday with a three­game series against Toledo. 
Weather permitting, Notre Dame will host Big East cellar­dweller Georgetown in a three­game series Thursday, Friday, Saturday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


we had," Bayliss said. "We felt that it was important enough to the overall picture to make the change and we couldn't do it at one [doubles] without involving the other combinations so we did what we did." 
The singles players faired the same as the doubles, as Notre Dame defeated Kentucky with 
see KENTUCKY/page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 
DePaul to test squad in Big East 
Strong pitching from Adix and Heteniak to lead Blue Demons 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to stay undefeated in Big East play today, facing off in a doubleheader against No. 19 DePaul. 
The Irish (24-7) are cur­rently tied for first in the conference with the Blue Demons (24-7) with identical 8-0 conference records. The doubleheader is scheduled to start at 4 p.m. in Chicago, weather permitting. 
Notre Dame will have to work hard to score runs against DePaul pitchers Tracy Adix and Becca Heteniak. The senior Adix has dominated so far this season, posting a 10-1 record with a 0.57 ERA. Heteniak, a freshman, has an ERA of 1.13 and 10 wins on the season. 
The Blue Demons are led offensively by junior Sandy Vojik, who has seven homers and 17 RBls on the year. Junior Marcy Wilus leads the team with 18 RBis, and Kate Sheaks has 23 runs scored and a .344 batting average on the season. 
Although the Irish had their 10-game winning streak snapped at home Tuesday against Eastern Michigan, the Notre Dame players enter Thursday's matchup with confidence in their play of late. 
Senior Stephanie Brown earned her first ever Big East player of the week hon­ors for her performance in the last four games. Brown boasted a .722 batting aver­age (13-for-18) with two dou­bles, a triple, four RBis and five runs scored. 
see BIG EAST/page 18 








