
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Students count down to game time 
Excitement buzzes around season opener against Georgia Tech 
By AMANDA GONZALES 
News Writer 
The long, agonizing wait for many students will end Saturday at 3:43 p.m. when the Notre Dame football sea­son kicks off in Notre Dame Stadium against the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets. 
Because of the graduation of quarterback Brady Quinn and wide receivers Jeff Samardzija and Rhema McKnight -and running back Darius Walker's early departure for the NFL Draft -Notre Dame is not ranked in the top 25 for the first time since Charlie Weis' first game as coach, against 
see OPENER/page 6 


Undergrad research director announced 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 

The most recent product of University President Father John Jenkins and Provost Thomas Burish's public com­mitment to research is the 
appointment  of  former  
Assistant  Dean  of  the  
Graduate  School  Cecilia  

Lucero to be the new director of undergraduate research. 
The newly created position is designed "to expand research opportunities for undergraduates ... and to encourage current and enter­ing students to participate in research," Vice President and Associate Provost for Undergraduate Studies Dennis Jacobs said Thursday. 
Jacobs said Lucero was cho­sen to fill this position because her years as an academic advisor and assistant dean of First Year of Studies have made her familiar with under­graduate students and what the University will need to do to engage them in more research projects. 
"Roughly 30 percent of stu­dents do undergraduate research currently, and I'm hoping that by reaching out to students, especially first and second-year students, we can increase that percentage," she said in a news release shortly after taking office last May. 
Lucero said one way she 
see RESEARCH/page 8 

VOLUME 42: ISSUE 4 FRIDAY, AUGUST 31.2007 

Police question proposed ordinance 
SBPD spokesman Phil Trent doubts department can enforce plan intended to control student parties 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
Leaders of the South Bend Police Department believe the Common Council's pro­posed ordinance to require permits for some off-campus parties is not the best way to address out-of-control gath­erings -and might not even be enforceable. 
"The question is, how far is everybody willing to stretch or fund the city's resources to necessarily enforce this," 
Notre Dame nabs 19th in rankings 
University, at 20th spot last year, gets high marks in US News and World Report survey 
2008 U.S. News and World Report College Rankings: National Universities 

said Capt. Phil Trent, a spokesman for the police department. "We need to take a really good look at all 
the city  resources  and  our  
ability to  do what  we  say  
we're going to do."  

When faced with a city of more than 105,000 people to police, patrolling officers will need to respond to calls ­not pore over a list of poten­tial parties, he said. 
Sponsoring Council mem­bers argue the ordinance would introduce responsibili­ty and order to students in residential neighborhoods. The Council's proposed ordi­nance would require resi­dents of boarding houses ­buildings in which more than two unrelated people live ­to file an application for a permit 10 days before host­ing a party at which more than 25 people would have access to alcohol. Failure to register such a gathering would be punishable by a $500 fine, with a $1,000 fine for any subsequent violation. Violations of any other city laws would retain their own 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
US News and World Report recently placed Notre Dame in a tie for 19th in its 2008 rank­ings of the country's best col­leges -one spot up from a No. 20 ranking last year. 
The rankings, published annually by US News and World Report, put Notre Dame in a tie with Vanderbilt. Princeton, Harvard and Yale occupy the first three spots on the list. 
Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown said the University is pleased with the top-20 rank­ing, but added that Notre Dame has "always had reser­fines. 

The specifics of the bill are not conducive to efficient patrolling, Trent said. 
"We've got legitimate bars, fully licensed, with 100 patrons spilling out onto the streets," he said. "Somebody's party with 25 people isn't even going to register on the radar." 
Council members readily admitted during community relations committee meetings that the ordinance would pri­
see ORDINANCE/page 6 

vations about the methodology that is used in the rankings." 
US News and World Report collects data from universities to compile the rankings. The data include the retention and graduation rate for each col­lege, the average freshman retention rate, the selectivity of admissions, class size, the academic credentials of incoming students and the number of faculty members. Those factors account for 75 percent of the school's rank­ing. 
The remaining 25 percent of a school's score is determined by a peer assessment review, in which the president, provost and dean of admis­
see RANKINGS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Penalties for Hand unknow-n 
Junior guard allegedly solicited a prostitute 
By CHRIS KHOREY News Writer 
Notre Dame students, alum­ni and sports fans are asking questions regarding the pun­ishment by the Office of Residence Life and Housing of junior 
football player Derrell Hand, who was arrest­ed for allegedly soliciting a prostitute 


on South Hand Bend's south side Aug. 3. 
But answers may be slow in coming. 
Irish football coach Charlie Weis said that Hand, who was suspended indefinitely from the team immediately following his arrest, was "reinstated" Monday and has attended classes and football practice all week. 
The junior nose guard will be held out of at least the season's first three games against Georgia Tech, Penn State and Michigan. But, Weis said, the suspension was his and had nothing to do with Residence Life. 
see HAND/page 9 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A Falcons fan's lan1ent 
Them are a lot of reasons to be 
proud to bP from Atlanta. Coke, I lome 
Depot, Chick-Fil-A. I lank Aaron, 
Wal111~ llous1~? Unfortunately this past 
summer our city was enveloped in 
controvnrsy and embarrassed by a 
star we once embraced-Michael 
Vick. 
When drafted from Virginia Tech in 
2001, Michael Vick was a quarterback 
unlike any the NFL had ever seen. 
From the day the Faleons traded up to 
select him with Michael Bryanthn first pick, Viek 
was an instant 
celebrity in 
Sports
Atlanta. I was in 
Production
attendance at a 
Editor
Braves gamn a 
few days af'ter the 
draf't. and I swear the ovation for 
Miduwl Vir.k throwing out the cere­
monial first pitrh was loudnr than 
Chipper .lonns' walk-oil' homer nine 
innings lator. 
Wn wantml to low Michael Vick, and 
for the first few snasons ol' his NFI. 
earenr we had no rnason not to. In his 
first yoar starting, Vick lml us to the 
playofTs and bmLt Brett Farve and the 
Packllrs at I.ambeau Field. 
Ev1m though the Faleons fell to the Eaglt~s in thn next round, Michael Viek was thn hottest athletn ever to hit Atlanta. The No. 7 jersey was thll best­snlling of any player in the NFL. I happily unwrapp1~d my jersey Christmas morning and wore it every Sunday of the Sllason. 
A season later, Vick signed a huge I 0-yfmr contract worth $130 million. The Georgia Domfl was sold out evp,ry week and had never been so loud ­we wanted Michael Vick to be a Falcon !'or life. 
The warning signs began in 2005 with the "Hon Mexico" incident, when Vick was sued !'or allegedly passing on a Sexually Transmitted Disease. The suit was privately settled out of court, and little was made of the incident in Atlanta. To us, he was still the most talented quarterback in football, and he was our quarterback. 
A'i Vick led the Falcons to the NFC Championship game the following sea­son, we as fans looked past his ofT­field issue to watch him win. But then last year, the tide turned. While the Falcons struggled and Vick struggled, his relationship with the eity and fans grew worse. A<> losses piled up, Vick gave fans in Atlanta the finger while we booed him going into halftime. 
Our former superstar's demise cul­minated over the past eight months, ending with the investigation of "Bad Newz" kennels, the indictment, the plea bargain. 
It was a tough summer for a Falcons fan be1:ause it was the end ofVick's once-promising career with the team. 
Ilis entire career and once bright futun~ have crumbled down before our eyes, all because of some dumb decisions and horrible actions. 
If anything, I hope no teams, fans, or cities ever have to deal with players like Michael Vick. 
In the mean time, as Michael Vick trades in his jersey for prison garb, I'll sadly have to make a trade of my own -my No. 7 jersey for the No. 13 of Joey I !arrington. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, Thursday's article about the Hilton Garden Inn next to Saint Mary's incor­rectly stated the hotel's opening date. The hotel will open Sept. 22, not Nov. 1. The banquet center will hold up to 750 people, not 8,400. The Observer regrets the errors. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, August 31, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WILL WIN THE SEASON OPENER SATURDAY AND BY HOW MUCH? 





Lili Nguyen Simon Chun Melissa Harintho 
sophomore sophomore freshman Welsh Family Knott McGlinn 
"Notre Dame "Dude, I don't "Georgia Tech "Hmmm.Isay "Notre Dame. "Notre Dame, of 


because even know." will blow us Notre Dame by although away because a field goal." 
Georgia has we don't have technology, Brady." we've got heart." 
20-14. " course! By nine points. " 
IN BRIEF 

A pep rally for the game against Georgia Tneh will be held in the Joyce Centct· tonight from 6 p.m. to 7. Students with IDs may enter through Gate 11 between 5:15 
p.m. and 5:45. The general public may enter through Gate 8 at 5:45 p.m. with tickets. 
The Summer Shakespeare company will perform "Love's Labor Lost" tonight at8:30 in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tiekets are $20­35 for faculty/staff/seniors and $12-15 for all students. Performances will run through Sept. 2. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screening Michael Moore's documentary "Sicko" tonight at 7 and 10 
p.m. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents and $6 for the general public. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will take on Michigan tonight at 7:30 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The Notre Dame marching band will present its Drummer's Circle outside the Main Building tonight at 11:59 p.m. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart will offer a Vigil Mass 30 minutes after the Georgia Tech game Saturday. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will be screening the film "The Night of the Hunter" Sunday at 4 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students and $6 for the general public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 


ERIC SALESffhe Observer 
Mitch Gillespie's profile is outlined against the August sky as the Good Year blimp drifted over campus Thursday. The blimp Is one sign that the season opener against Georgia Tech on Saturday is quickly approaching. 
OFFBEAT 
School outlaws playground game "tag" 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -An elementary school has banned tag on its playground after some children complained they were harassed or chased against their will. 
"It causes a lot of conflict on the playground," said Cindy Fesgen, assistant principal of the Discovery Canyon Campus school. 
Running games are still allowed as long as students don't chase each other, she said. 
Fesgen said two parents complained to her about the ban but most parents and children didnt object. 
In 2005, two elementary schools in the nearby Falcon School District did away with tag and similar games in favor of alterna­tives with less physical contact. School officials said the move encouraged more students to play games and helped reduce playground squabbles. 
Baby born with 12 finngers, 12 toes 
NEW YORK-Jeshuah Fuller's parents expected him to be born with extra fingers. The extra toes, though, were a surprise. 
Jeshuah, healthy and 
weighing 7 pounds, was born in Brooklyn on Tuesday with 12 fingers and 12 toes. His rare con­dition, called poly­dactylism, is usually genet­ic. 
His dad was born with an extra finger on his left hand. His mom, Quana Morris, said she'd had an ultrasound image taken during her pregnancy and knew the baby would have extra fingers. 
"We were counting them on the sonogram," she told the Daily News. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 

.... 
<'C 
(.) 


0 
HIGH 75 HIGH 65 HIGH 78 HIGH 83
.... 
LOW 55 LOW 45 LOW 60 LOW 67 
Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Residence halls filled at 104 percent capacity 
Study lounges converted into rooms, doubles turned into triples to accommodate high percentage of students on campus 
ByJENN METZ News Writer  arrangement. "It's kind of crowded, but we managed to squeeze a futon  "We are very fortunate that students want to live in the halls," he said.  general, and that the over­crowding affects them .in par­ticular. The juniors and sen­ dents living on campus to keep living on campus and for other students to move onto cam­ 
and a fridge in there," she  Though the capacity num­ iors, under the seniority-based  pus," Kachmarik said.  
Notre  Dame's  on-campus  said. "There's really a lot of  bers  have  lottery system,  Etheridge said she hopes the  
housing crunch hasn't gotten  room in the basement, so the  gone up, the  get  better  addition of four more dorms ­ 
any better. For students in dorms like Farley, study lounges have been converted into extra bed­ lounge isn't that much of a loss, plus it's nice to have more people on our lloor." Scott Kachmarik, associate  University's population has not expe­rienced a  "The impact of that over­flow is felt in the resi­dence halls,  room picks. "Students tend to grit and bear it  including two women's dorms -will mean Farley is less crowded. The demand for on campus  
rooms due to overcrowding. According to the Office of' Hesidential Life and  director of the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing, who began working at  grand expan­sion in the last 10 or 15 years, he  dining halls, classrooms and all places , on campus.  freshman and sophomore year, knowing they can get a  living is still high. and current­ly 30 men and 30 women are on the waiting list to live on campus for the fall 2007  
Housing, the University's 27 residence halls are at 104.1 percent capacity,  "We are very fortunate that students want to live in the halls."  Notre Dame in the late 1990s, said the dorms have been above 100 per­cent capacity  said. "Last year, 100 more students enrolled than anticipated,  Scott Kachmarik Associate Director Office of Residence Life and Housing  better room configuration junior and senior year," he said. T h e  semester, Kachmarik said. The new dorms will mean that, at some point, Farley res­idents will be able to reelaim their first-floor lounge, a com­puter room, a music room and  
which  means  for  the  past .  and that adds  University is  two additional study lounges in  
that 179 beds  Scott Kachmarik  five  or  six  to  the  over- in the process  the basement. The four base­ 
are squeezed into forced triples, forced doubles and  Associate Director Office of Residence Life and Housing  years. He reviewed data on dorm popu­lations dating  flow," he said. "The impact of that over­flow is felt in the residence halls, dining halls, classrooms  or building four new dormitories -one of which, Duncan Hall, is already under construction. These  ment rooms are four senior singles that share one bath­room ­meaning one sink, one toilet and one shower.  
converted  back to 1991­ and all places on campus."  dorms will provide 1,000 new  "Even though we're crowded,  
study spaces  1992 and said  Though  the  dorms  are  beds, and will help to alleviate  seniors still want to live here,"  
in all 13 women's dorms and  at no time in those years were  crowded, Kachmarik does not  the overflow experienced now.  Etheridge said.  
most of the men's residence  the residence halls below 96  believe that particular fact  Roughly 750 beds will be  Of the 255 Farley residents,  
halls.  percent capacity.  contributes to students' deci­ removed from the current 27  53 are seniors.  
Four of those extra beds are  Notre Dame seems to be an  sion to move off campus.  residence halls to reduce the  "It reflects the spiri.t of the  
in the Farley first floor study  anomaly when it comes to on­ "Being  at  104.1  percent  overcrowding - this means  hall," she said. ''Students enjoy  
lounge, room  115, and have  campus college dormitory liv­ capacity in the residences indi­ beds from lounges, one room  the residential experience of  
been for at least three years,  ing trends. Kachmarik said  cates that a  good number of  triples and crowded doubles.  dorm life  ...  they desire  com­ 
said Farley's rector, Sister  many universities would say  the upperclassmen  are  still  The net affect of the new dor­ munity, and will get cozy to  
Carrine Etheridge.  their best year for students liv­ here," he said.  mitories will be 250  extra  have that."  
One of the four girls in room  ing on campus would be one  Kachmarik said it is mostly  beds.  
115, freshman Krissy Kemnetz,  where the dorms were at 96  the freshmen and sophomores  "This will help us to provide  Contact Jenn Metz at  
does  not  mind  her  living  percent capacity.  who have the least space, in  for more opportunities for stu­ jmetz@nd.edu  

Buffalo Wild Wings­You Have to be Here!! 
2 great locations, 123 W. Washington (downtown South Bend) and 4343 Grape Rd. 
The placet . 
The place tosporting evenot catch all the big 

games follow Watch ALL the NFL
18 b' son ou
Jg screens and r combined 1 ' Your fa t . 
p ayers on our NTN~ asy football 
over Bo TV's .. , , 

trivia Jnteractive
consoles. 
Join us Sunday Sept. 2 for a thebest 
ds down,

great night of fun with live music Han . the area. 
wings 1n

from "Midwest Hype"!! Join in our raffle to win cool prizes as we raise money for "The Camo Kids" foundation, which helps kids whose parents are in the military. 
Full bar for those over 21, full dining room for those under. Both locations are currently hiring, flexible schedules, good money, and a fun place to work. Apply in person at either location. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 31, 2007 
well. Harold Pace, the University will allow the class that is 19th ... for that reason. itself ranked seeond in the University registrar, said the to be taught with 20 students, Because there are a lot of country by The Prineeton
Rankings 

ranking system does some­for example, rather than 19. other reasons." Heview, said he thinks employ­
times influence class size deci­
continued from page I 
sions. 

US News factors into its sions of a school nvaluate the rankings the percentage of <u:admnic programs offered by classes at a school with fewer otlwr colleges, including its than 20 students and the per­own. enntage of elasses with more This faetor in tlw rankings, than 50 students. Sehools get 
Brown  better  
said. makes  seores  
the survey loss pre­ "fMost presidents, provosts and  w i t h smaller  
cise.  deans ofadmission] only know  elasses  
"!Most prnsidents, provosts  really a handful ofschools in terms ofhow good they  a n d I ow e r s c o r e s  
and deans  are. To ask them to evaluate  with  a  
of  admis­ several hundred institutions  higher  
sion! only know rnally  is not very practical. "  number of bigger  
a  handful  classes.  
of schools  Dennis Brown  P a  c  e  
in terms of  Assistant Vice President for  tries  to  
how  good  News and Information  k  e  e  p  
under 20 and under 50, if he can, so students might notice that they frequently have classes of 19 or 49. 


they are," 
B r o w n 
said. "To ask thnm to evaluate 
several hundred institutions is 
not very practical." 
Brown said Notre Dame 

belongs in the top 20, but said 
he thought Notre Dame could 
be placed higher on the list. 
"It is interesting to us that among the top 25 schools we had the lowest peer assess­ment score, and we are not quite sure why that is," Brown said. "That is one thing that probably weighs us down a lit­tle bit." 
But Notre Dame did advance one spot on the list since last year, a shift Brown attributed to several factors. A change in the University's computer sys­tom allowed Notre Dame to report a larger percentage of full-time faculty members, creating a more eonsistent record of the faculty popula­tion. 
Brown also noted revisions in federal reporting guidelines that updated the way faculty were countod as either full­time or part-time. 
The large number of appli­cants for the Class of 2011, with 14,500 applicants for fewer than 2,000 spots, also improved Notre Dame's rating in the selectivity and accept­ance rate categories, Brown said. 
In an additional US News ranking of schools with the lowest acceptance rates, Notre Dame, with a 27 percent acceptance rate, was one of the most competitive schools in the eountry. 
"A little bit hern and a little bit there, and you nudge your­snlf up a bit," Brown said. 
A little bit of nudging goes on in the registrar's offiee as 
by 

~fcom 

classes 
"If there is a class that is taught and a department has suggested a class size of 20, we will see if that would also work for 19," Pace said. "And in the same way, the other cut-offs, just for that consider­ation." 
But if a department or dean would rather have a larger class size, Pace said, then the 


NQMA 
Afilly lllliqle dinin& Jlld ......eJIM!IIieKe, 
.-.....-.....,........._ ...."'"9' 
.......___""""" -·­
-·!IO.wlti·~o610......-·... 
~""'""""' ...,..._.,._. 
~,(QQ-~J~:.;.}f.tnU(..attt! !Mefftut:!: ti!I.UWII 
----~­
~~l'.'lio<ll·-..--.
-...-­

'"'~"""" 
n-c,..n't-.h 
:l..""""f''lo<~-.--...."''­



L[ARN moM TODD. 
.Just ber.ause half.com is cheaper doesn't mean you need to buy twice as much History. Use your savings tor good on half.corn and try a video game console and games instead. 

Notre Dame does try to Freshman Kellie Seiacea increase its score in the went through the college report, Brown said, but always search proeess not long ago takes the rankings "with a but said she didn't look at grain of salt." rankings when she decided to 
"In some ways, we can apply, and later enroll, at argue that universities all Notre Dame. What attracted have such unique missions· her to the school, she said, and constraints and weakness­was the "academie prestige." es that to try to numerically "Everyone kno·ws Notre 
rank them is not even credi­

"/ think there is so
ble in some ways, but US much more about News ehooses 
Notre Dame that is 
to do that, and 

attractive other 
certainly par­ents and than just their prospective 
ranking."
students use that tool," he 
Katie Miller
said. 

Notre Dame senior 
On its Web site, Notre Dame lists its distinguished rankings, including its status as a top-25 school in the US News rankings, on its "About Notre Dame" page. 
Both observations and Admissions office research show students and their par­ents are "not fixated" on rank­ings, said Assistant Provost for Admissions Dan Saracino. 
"If you are ranked in the top 20, it affirms you are one of the top schools in the coun­try," Saracino said. "But a stu­dent is not going to select a school that is 17th over one ly like this place." 
Senior Katie Miller was glad that Notre Dame had moved up in the rankings but said that even if it dropped dra­matically, the school would still get a huge applicant pool. 
"I think there is so much more about Notre Dame that is attractive other than just their ranking," she said. 
Seniors like Miller may soon appreciate Notre Dame's high ranking a lot more when they begin to look for jobs. Lee Svete, the director of the Career Center, which was 
FOOTBALL HOURS 
FRIDAY Restaurant: 11 :00 am -Midnight Pub: 11:00 am-2:00am 
SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00 am -Midnight Pub: 8:00am -2:00 am 
574.631.2582 www.legendsofnotredame.org 

Damn is a great school," she said. 
Does she think No. 19 is an accurate rank for Notre Dame? 
"I think it should be ranked higher, but obviously I'm biased because I real­
eetdt't.ate witft .&p!t.M! 
Join us after the pep rally for food, drinks, and live music. Return on Saturday to cheer on the Irish and celebrate with friends and fans! 
@,EN~~~~oR~ 
• -~-.u ·.!~s 
ers are starting to look more elosely at the rankings when they decide whore to recruit. 
Svete cited BusinessWeek, which listed the Mendoza School of Businnss seventh in the country in its 2007 rank­ings of undnrgraduate busi­ness programs. That, Svete said, is an "extra selling point" for companies to recruit Notre Dame graduates. 
"I don't think it makes or breaks a deal, but I think it's an added bonus to be in the top 10," he said. 
For the past six years, US News and World Heport has also published a list of schools that have "outstanding exam­ples of academic programs that are believed to lead to student access," according to the magazine's Web site. 
Notre Dame's First Year of Studies, its International Study program and service learning offerings are all recognized in the unranked lists. Notre Dame also was ranked 20th out of 50 schools with the best values. The ranking was determined based on the per­centage receiving need-based grants, the average school cost after the grant and the aver­age discount from the total cost of attending the college. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
kriely@nd.edu 



··s13 l,tt Pr..liPOtk:n O(X?n to ~..>OHI lJ.S. m;:.:ttent!:: i !j v·..>.11r:.; r.f age Cl f:k.:Cr wtr.; Afd fir:.;t ·timu t~u~-:::m 0n !~1f.i.x:m. s::~ 0ff ~.m.:mt)titHl qom.'! fo: first ·tlrmJ p;Jh~h~J<;;c t-1 $SO or mwt\ Uht:iuding ,;l~:ppuvJ fJild t:unc1!ing, t)n iu~.wm onlv. Urrul nl'lfJ u1fm rJt:! zJ!jw·if..l. m1d (Jfi~Jr !llfiY nut 00 eN!Jl.".;ntd w."! any ott'lt:!r affur. cauprlfl or IJ!l'.tf!l~!Jfi. V0::1 wh~'!~e f1l'OI:=hi!t.ll,.t taxed tJf rcsuictcd. Offer ti;.;p!r~,m ~~~.Htm"tb-.ll. 30, 21-i.Ji' Jt 1, :59:59pn·t PT 
I 
I 


I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 

I Type in "overstudy" on half.com and get started 
I

I on your subject of choice today.• 
I 

I ~ W!! 00 U!H (:oJliblt tl"~>! I!V!Hif.il!l 01 H~tort iX ifl'ly suc:ll :iUtJ$1HIIW I ~Atrei~titre~iOI~iltlly~ lr: l!l~an:.t"J





I------------_, 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, August 31, 2007 CoMPILED rROlv1 Tt--·IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
8 killed as trains collide near Rio 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -A train slammed into a stationary train Thursday near a Rio de Janeiro depot, officials said. A firefighter said there were reports ofcasualties. 
The collision occurred about 200 yards from the Austin station on Hio's poor north side, said a firelighter who gave his name only as Sgt. Goncalves, in line with company policy. 
"We heard there were various victims, including fatalities," he said by telephone. Civil Defense officials said 60 firefighters were working at the site to remove victims. 
"Our priority is to give support to the sur­vivors, the passengers trapped in the wreck­age, and reduce the number of fatal victims," Col. Souza Filho, the head of Rio de Janeiro's Civil Defimse Department, said in an interview with the Globo TV network. 
Souza Filho said preliminary reports were that one train was empty and the other was carrying commuters. He said he didn't have an estimate of the number of victims. 
China replaces finance minister 
BEIJING-China replaced it.•;; finance minister Thursday amid report<; he was involved in a sex scandal and also named a new chief of secret police. Tlw rnshuflle appeared aimed at putting President llu Jintao's allies in key positions beforn a Communist Party meeting that will set policies fiw the next five years. 
Jin H1mqing. the fmance minister since 2003, was resigning "for personal reasons," a Cabinet spokeswoman said without elaborating, fueling speculation that he had run afoul of the Communist Party leadership. 
Rumors that the 63-year-old Jin was on his way out as finance chief had circulated for days, raising concerns in global financial circles. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Suspecious material found in office 
UNITED NATIONS-U.N. weapons inspectors discovered a potentially hazardous chemical warfare agent that was taken from an Iraqi chemical weapons facility 11 years ago and mis­takenly stored in their offices in the heart of midtown Manhattan all that time, officials said Thursday. The material-identified in inventory files as phosgene, a chemical substance used in World War I weapons -was discovered Aug. 
24. It was only identified on Wednesday because it was marked simply with an inventory number, and oflicials had to check the many records in their vast archives, said Ewen Buchanan, a spokesman f<w the U.N. inspection agency. 

Report brings more Iraq debate 
WASIIINGTON -An independent assess­ment concluding that Iraq has made little political progress in recent months despite an influx of U.S. troops drew fierce objections from the White House on Thursday and pro­vided fresh ammunition for Democrats who want to bring troops home. The political wran­gling came days before the report was to be ollicially released and while most lawmakers were still out of town for the August recess, reflecting the high stakes involved for both sides in the Iraq war debate. President Bush, who planned to meet Friday at the Pentagon with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is nearing a deci­sion on a way forward in Iraq while Congress planned another round of votes this fall to end the war. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Cocaine ring busted in SW Indiana 
EVANSVILLE, Ind. -Law enforcement offi­cers on Thursday announced a federal indict­ment that named more than two dozen men responsible for bringing crack cocaine into southwestern Indiana. 
All but limr of the 26 men named in the indict­ment were in custody after search warrants were served in Indiana, Illinois and Kentucky. 
"We certainly have put a heck of a dent in the drug dealing community," said David Wedding, chief deputy of the Vanderburgh County Sheriff's Department. 
Virginia Tech leader on defensive 
School president refuses to step down despite demands from angry parents 
Associated Press 
RICHMOND, Va. -With anguished parents demanding his firing, Virginia Tech's president bristled at suggestions Thursday that he bears responsibility for the bloodbath on campus, call­ing it a crime "unprece­dented in its cunning and murderous results." 
At a news conference 
where he was grilled about 
an independent panel's 
conclusion that lives could 
have been saved had the 
school warned the campus 
sooner that a killer was on 
the loose, Charles Steger 
suggested there may have 
been nothing anyone could 
have done to stop the April 
16 rampage by gunman 
Seung-Hui Cho that left 33 
people dead. 
"No plausible scenario 
was made for how this 
horror could have been 
prevented once he began 
that morning," Steger said. 
He said he will neither 
resign nor ask the Virginia 
Tech police chief to quit, 
despite bitter demands by 
some of the victims' fami­
lies that he and others be 
held accountable for the 
deadliest school shooting 
in U.S. history. 

"In my view of the world, the buck stops at the top," first burst of gunfire, thing the police learned cials, faculty, administra­said William O'Neil, whose including a warning or a that would have indicated tors have just been very son Daniel was among the complete campus lock­that a mass murder was blithe," Kaine said. "There students slain. "I think that down. imminent," he said at the has been deep grieving in this case, his lack of In the end, according to news conference in about this, and it's torn the leadership and his lack of the report, administrators Blacksburg. "The panel campus up." compassion for the families concluded that the shoot­researched reports of mul­Instead, he said he would is just astounding." · ing was a boyfriend-girl­tiple shootings on campus­focus on preventive meas­
It took administrators friend dispute and that the es for the past 40 years ures, such as better com­
more than two hours to get gunman had probably left and no scenario was found munication between the 
the first e-mail warning the campus. Also, the in which the first murder parents of troubled chil­
out after Cho killed two report noted, they were was followed by a second dren and the colleges they 
people in a dormitory. In afraid of causing panic, as elsewhere on campus. are planning to attend. · 
the interim, Cho mailed oft' happened at the start of Nowhere." "The information needs 
a video confession to NBC the school year, when the The panel, appointed by to flow both ways," the 
and then made his way first day of classes was Gov. Timothy M. Kaine, governor said. 
across the Blacksburg called off because an released its report late The governor's panel. 
campus to a classroom escaped murder suspect Wednesday, and Kaine said which spent four months 
building, where he killed was on the loose near cam­he was standing by Steger investigating the massacre, 
30 more victims and com­pus. and other top administra­said the two-hour gap 
mitted suicide. Asked whether he would tors and not pressing for could have been used to 
Steger said that during have done anything differ­their firing because they craft potentially lifesaving 
those two hours, adminis­ently that day, Steger said have sufiered enough. text or phone messages 
trators carefully consid­no. "This is not something warning students of the 
ered how to deal with the "I am not aware of any-where the university offi-gunman. 

PERU 


Nation still in bad shape after quake 
Associated Press. "In makeshift shel­At least 40 other people remain miss­
Associated Press 

ters made of cardboard and bed ing, said Alberto Visual, a director in 
Relief officials urgently appealed sheets in front of their destroyed Peru's civil defense agency. for more aid Thursday for earth­houses, families are living in cold and Despite substantial help initially quake survivors along Peru's shat­unhygienic conditions. They have no from Latin America, Europe, Japan tered southern coast. Medical help, latrines, no drinking water and no and the United States, some 200,000 blankets and tents top the list, along real space to bathe." people still need still need help to with food, water and latrines. "It's like one day after the quake," save their lives, said Elisabeth Byrs, 
Two weeks after the devastating said Dumont, whose group has 35 spokeswoman for the U.N.'s humani­quake, survivors are huddling in people operating mobile clinics and tarian affairs office, which has cardboard shelters in desperate, offering psychological counseling in appealed for US$37 million more in unhygienic conditions, said Doctors the disaster zone. donations. Without Borders spokesman Francois The magnitude-8 earthquake on The town of Cabeza del Toro is one Dumont, speaking from the town of Aug. 15 leveled most of Pisco, a port of many where survivors are in dire Guadalupe. city 125 miles southeast of Lima, need of help, said Mar Mora, an 
"We found the town completely killing at least 519 people, injuring adviser to the U.N. World Food destroyed," Dumont told The 1,366 and destroying 40,000 homes. Program. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 31, 2007 
Opener 
continued from page 1 
Pittsburgh to start the 2005 season. But that hasn't hampered many students' enthusiasm. 
.Junior Tony Piskurich is optimistic that Notre Dame will do well on Saturday ­and all season long. 
"I do have rnalistie expocta­tions for the soason and believe that our nnw players will bo ahln to contribute to tho team," Piskurich said. " ... I do believe wo will finish in the top 25." 
.Junior Mngan Planicka ochond Piskurich's optimism for tho upcoming football sna­son, 
"I do beliovn that it will be a learning nxpnrinnco, but I hope that we upsot some teams as the underdog," she The annual Dillon Hall Pep said. Rally, the dorm's signature 

For senior Lawrence event, took place Thursday, Sullivan, this is the beginning drawing hundreds of students of his final football season as to South Quad to watch the an undergraduate student at dorm's skits and listen to the Notre Dame. guest speak­
When asked if he is sad about  'Tm not really sad yet,  ers. the  This year, guest  
this being his final season, Sullivan replied, "I'm  although I may be at the end ofthe season . ... I'm just so  speakers included Weis, retired Indiana State  
not really sad  excited about football  Police Officer  
yet, although I may be at the  starting again. "  Tim McCarthy, tight end John  
end of the  sea­ Carlson, Iine­ 
SOIL  ...  I'm just  Lawrence Sullivan  b  a  c  k  e  r  
so  excited  senior  Maurice Crum  
about football  and  Chris  
starting again."  Zorich,  a  

Sullivan is hoping for at member of the 1988 National least an 8-4 record this sea­Championship football team. son and said he believes McGlinn freshman Courtney freshman .Jimmy Clausen will Ensslin said the rally made bo the starting quarterback her more excited for for the Irish. Saturday's game. 
"I love that the students have so much school spirit," she said. 
Another freshman, Lauren Edger was happy to see Weis make an appearance and thought it was nice to get a reprieve from her first week of college classes. 
"Since we just started class on Tuesday, this was a nice change of pace," she said. 
For freshmen like Edger and Ensslin, the contest will be their first game as stu­dents cheering on the Irish and a chance to execute the student-run cheers that they learned during orientation. 
Although this is not fresh­man Nola Seta's first Notre Dame game, she said sho is still thrilled about Saturday's home opener. 
"I am very excited for tho game and can't wait to do the push-ups when we score a 
touchdown," she said. 
A win would make it even sweeter for Seta, who is a native of Georgia and has many friends who attend Georgia Tech. 
"If we win, I could call all my Georgia Tech friends and brag about the game," she said. Junior Maggie Condit is also excited to see the fresh­men experience their first pep rally and the football game. 
"I am glad that they get to share in the Notre Dame experience." 
This season opener marks the 193rd consecutive sellout at Notre Dame Stadium. This will be the :Hth meeting between the schools, with Notre Dame leading the series 27-5-1. 
Contact Amanda Gonzales at agonzalS@nd.edu 


Ordinance 
continued from page 1 
marily affect students. 
Council member AI "Buddy" Kirsits, a co-sponsor, has said many neighborhood problems are caused by "a culture of drinking" among college stu­dents. 
The ordinance's other spon­sor, Council member Tim House, said student partying has required increased city response and resources. 
"There's a perception that things have gotten better, but when you look at the data, they've actually regressed," he said at the Aug. 20 com­munity relations committee meeting. "We have more instances of things that cost the city money." 
Later during that meeting, Chief Thomas Fautz of the South Bend Police Dopartmnnt disagreed. 
Fautz said polico had seen a "slight improvoment" in off­campus student partying last year, a change potentially related to the amendment addod to the disorderly house ordinance during the summer of 2005. 
The Common Council amendod the disorderly house ordinance, changing the num­ber of noise violations needed 

"They're making it sound tee meeting Monday. In that like the South Bend Police draft, the application submit­Department is the principal ted to the city 10 days in 
body that's trying to push this ordi­nance, he said. "I think if you look back at what our police chief said during the council meet­ing he basically list­ed some things to the effect that on a football Saturday, we don't have time to do 
"We've got legitimate bars, fully licensed, with 100 patrons spilling out onto the streets. Somebody's party with 25 people isn't even going to register on the radar." 
Capt. Phil Trent spokesman South Bend Police Department 
advance of an event was changed to a notification to the police department 24 hours before an event. 
"It doesn't do any good to have an ordinance that is ignored, not enforceable or taken to court," Luecke said after the com­

what the ordinance mandates we do." 
Trent emphasized the need to be "realistic" when enforc­ing laws. Telling seasoned police officers how to find out-of-control parties would use city resources while accomplishing little, he said. 
"If there's a party on East Washington Street with 400 people, they're not going to hide that very well," he said. "It's not going to be a news flash." 
One positive aspect of the proposed ordinance, Trent said, would be the require­ment of contact information for someone who considered 
munity relations committee meeting Aug. 20. 
Students had already responded strongly to the ordinance and its emphasis on drinking-related problems when the Aug. 21 shooting of two Notre Dame seniors ­both whom are recovering ­attracted campus attention to violent crime in South Bend. 
Discussion of the ordinance has highlighted one frequent misconception about the police department, Trent said. 
"One of the things we hear as a complaint would be, 'Why don't you guys have anything better to do than 


Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: Lent.il Soup&: Garlic Paste 
Come Dine With Our Family And Be Our Friend! 
115 Dixie Wt1y Nortl1, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 
Gourmet Sandwiches, Salads &Soups Plus Fantastic FAIR TRADE Coffees 
Just aWalk from Campus
Support local india establishments 
Open Every Day! 

Edison Plaza, 1631 Edison Rd, 273-6216 
One Per Visij $CREDIT &DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED! $ ExpiresMov2ooa We Have Wi-Fil Carr Ou1 Available 
for eviction from three to one himself responsible for the -in part because the meas­event. ure, like this proposP.d ordi-"You usually get out there nanco, was and ask who introduced owns [the while most house,] you 
studnnts were away from cam­pus for the summer. Though  "If there's a party on East Washington Street with 400 people, they're not going to hide that very well. It's not  get 199 shrugs," he said. South Bend M a y o r Stephen  
Council members  going to be a news flash."  Luecke has encouraged  
said  the  Council  
proposed  Capt. Phil Trent  members to  
ordinance  spokesman·  revise  the  
would pro­vidn policn  South Bend Pollee Department  ordinance before  
with infor­ bringing it to  
mation  vote.  The  
a  b  o u  t  city adminis­ 

large parties, the city's police tration has prepared a work­have their own concerns ing draft of a revised ordi­about tho legislation, police nance that was discussed at a spokesperson Trent said. community relations commit-


Recycle 
write tickets for underage drinking? Why are you so fix­ated on this as opposed to catching people doing crimes?"' he said. 
As with any public service agency, police departments are subject to a strict division of labor, Trent said. Some officers patrol the streets to prevent crime, while others serve as excise officers. 
No officer whose duties include checking for under­age drinking at Saturday tail­gates would otherwise be walking the streets to investi­gate <:rime, he said. 
Whether the current alloca­tion of resources to various police ventures is the best possible division, he said, can be debated. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle 1 @nd.edu 





R E s T A u R A N T 
;:;;;~·-;,;·~Far East em~~:~: ,;···;~~·tefor the markahle. bringing the true taste rd Thailand ·oss the wate1:~ and continents, just for you. This is a trip into the exoric and the delicious, with authentic 71~ai cooking that can "t bejl>und anywhere else in Afichiana. Come enjoy an elegant e1·ening ofsampling some ofthe world's finest cuisine that will excite yourfive senses: L.. _____s_w_e_e_£._s_o~!..::..~~:~~:.t!.~_·.\_'1_7i_cy_·._~_n_l~_l natural. 


211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 

www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 


Friday, August 31, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow Jones  13,238.73  -50.56  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,310  96  1,905  2,582,956,428  
NASDAQ  2,565.30  +2.14  
S&P 500 1,457.64 -6.12 FTSE 100 (London) 6,212.00 +79.80 




COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECEPIPTS (SPY)  -0.27  -0.39  146.15  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  +0.52  +0.25  48.33  
NTEL CP (INTC)  +0.76  +0.19  25.28  
SUN MICROSYS (JAVA)  +1.55  +0.08  5.25  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -1.12  -0.051  4.502  
13-WEEK BILL  -3.12  -0.120  3.730  
30-YEAR BOND  -1.11  -0.054  4.825  
5-YEAR NOTE  -1.56  -0.067  4.216  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.15  73.36  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -1.50  673.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.43  92.00  
Exchan  e Rates  
YEN  116.00  
EURO  0.7340  
POUND  0.4970  
CANADIAN$  1.0575  

IN BRIEF 
Toys 'R' Us product recalled for lead 
TRENTON, NJ -Toys 'R' Us is recalling thousands of art sets made in China due to excessive levels of lead in some black watr~rcolor paints. 
Wayne-based Toys 'R' Us Inc. and the 
U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission announced the recall Thursday, saying printed ink on the packaging of the lmaginarium Wooden Coloring Cases also contained lead. They said no injuries have been reported. 
"Toys 'R' Us has terminated its relation­ship with Funtastic, effective immediately," the company said in a statement. 
Toys 'R' Us bought the sets from Funtastic, a unit of a Hong Kong distribu­tion company called FPL Group. They are manufactured by a company in Ningbo, China, called Danxiang International Trading. 
The 213-item set contains crayons, pas­tels, colored pencils, fiber pens, water col­ors, a palette and other art supplies in a wooden carrying case. 
Wheat prices soar in tight market 
NEW YORK -Wheat prices surged again into record territory Thursday as dry weather menaced crops in the Southern Hemisphere, exacerbating the concerns of a world market bound by extremely tight supply and unrelenting demand. 
Other commodities finished mixed, with energy prices retreating slightly from sharp gains a day earlier and metals end­ing in a mixed range. Gold slipped at the market close, while industrial metals including copper and nickel rose modestly. 
The price of wheat has had a spectacular run higher since mid-May, as one wheat crop after another around the world has been damaged by too-hot or too-dry weath­er. Now the market has its eye on crops in the Southern Hemisphere: Forecasts are calling for dryness in Argentina and Australia, when the winter wheat crop emerging there needs moisture, said Richard Feltes, senior vice president and director of MF Global Research in Chicago. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
Stocks finish mixed amid worries 
Back-andforth session stand still despite concerns about economy, credit market 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK ­Stocks lin­ 
ished a back-and-forth ses­ 
sion mixed Thursday as  
investors grappled with  
weaker-than-expected eco­ 
nomic data and weighed the  
chances of the Federal  
Reserve lowering interest  
rates.  
Fed Chairman Ben  
Bernanke is expected to  
speak Friday at the central  
bank's annual conference in  
Jackson Hole, Wyo., and said  
in a letter Wednesday to Sen.  
Charles Schumer, D-N.Y.,  
that Fed policymakers are  
"prepared to act as needed"  
if the market's turmoil dam­ 
ages the economy. The Fed's  
next meeting is Sept. 18, but  
some on Wall Street expect  
the central bank could act  
sooner.  
The Commerce  
Department said second­ 
quarter gross domestic prod­ 
uct grew 4.0 percent ­its  
fastest pace in more than a  
year, and well above the 0.6  
percent increase in the first  
quarter. But the broadest  
measure of economic health  
came in slightly lower than  
many anticipated, and the  
report also suggested that  
business investment, not  
consumer spending, was the  
APmain driver of growth.  
An investor observes the early numbers at the New York Stock Exchange Thursday. TheIn a sign that Americans'  
mixed resuHs of the stock market came after the previous session's major tumble. spending power may keep  
declining, the Labor  percent pace in second half  In other economic news,  ring concerns about how  
Department said U.S. jobless  of the year," he said.  the Office of Federal Housing  well their profits will hold in  
claims rose last week to the  To some investors, that's  Enterprise Oversight said  a market where its tougher  
highest level since April.  not bad news, because  U.S. home prices rose just  and more expensive to get  
Employment has been one of  weaker-than-anticipated  0.1 percent in the second  deals done. Goldman Sachs  
the stronger pillars of the  economic readings bolster  quarter compared to the first  Group Inc., Merrill Lynch &  
economy recently, enabling  the argument for a rate cut,  quarter, the lowest quarterly  Co. and Morgan Stanley lost  
robust consumer spending. Considering how sluggish  which could loosen up the credit markets.  increase since 1994. A worse-than-expected  ground. Goldman fell $2.34 to $171.38, Merrill Lynch  
consumer spending has been  The Dow fell 50.56, or  quarterly earnings report  slid 93 cents to $72.18 and  
this quarter, it's likely to post  0.38 percent, to 13,238.73  from Freddie Mac due to  Morgan Stanley fell $1.05 to  
its worst back-to-back quar­ after dropping about 100  troubles in mortgage lending  $60.16.  
terly performance since  points early in the session.  fed some selling early in the  In one possible bright  
early 2000, said Michael  Broader stock indicators  day, as did signs that compa­ spot, some investors  
Strauss, chief economist at  finished mixed. The  nies are still finding that  regard the outlook for the  
Commonfund. And given all  Standard & Poor's 500 index  demand is low for commer­ technology sector as  
of the mortgage market  fell 6.12, or 0.42 percent, to  cial paper.  decent, giving the technol­ 
troubles, "there is a growing  1,457.64, while the Nasdaq  In addition, Lehman  ogy-dominated Nasdaq  
challenge for the economy to  rose 2.14, or 0.08 percent, to  Brothers lowered its ratings  composite index an espe­ 
continue to grow at a 2.5  2,565.30.  on investment banks, stir­ cially large boost.  

Salmonella prompts spinach recall 
Associated Press al, mandatory inspection and testing ed negative in earlier field and pro­
program overseen by the U.S. Food duction tests. Metz Fresh began 
FRESNO, CA -Consumer advo­and Drug Administration is needed. telling stores and restaurants on cates and some lawmakers say that "Eight thousand cartons left the Aug. 24 not to sell or serve the let­a Salinas Valley company's recall of plant for distribution in the U.S. tuce after a first round of tests came spinach because of a salmonella That's 8,000 too many," said Jean up positive. scare shows that the federal govern­Halloran, a food safety expert with "The first thing we are looking at ment must do more to protect the Consumers Union. "At this point, we right now is making sure this prod­nation's food supply, but industry are relying on the leafy green indus­uct, as much as possible, is under officials call it proof that their vol­try to police itself." our control," he said. "The next step untary regulations are working. Some growers said Metz Fresh's is to back up and take a hard look at 
Metz Fresh, a King City-based ability to catch the bacteria showed how this happened." grower and shipper, recalled 8,000 that the new testing regimes are Metz Fresh has complied with the cartons of fresh spinach Wednesday working. No illnesses have been California Leafy Green Products after salmonella was found during a reported from eating spinach linked Handler Marketing Agreement, a set routine test of spinach it was pro­to the company. of voluntary food safety rules draft­cessing for shipment. More than 90 "I think the test of the industry is ed after last year's E. coli outbreak percent of the possibly contaminat­how we react to these types of situa­in fresh spinach killed three people ed cartons never reached stores, tions," said grower Joseph Pezzini, and sickened 200. By joining the company spokesman Greg Larson who heads the board that adminis­program, participants also agree to said. ters the new produce safety rules. have their fields and plants cheeked 
California's leafy greens industry "No one was harmed by the product for compliance. adopted the voluntary regulations and that's important." In two separate plant and field vis­last year after a fatal E. coli out­Larsen said the recalled spinach, its earlier this month, California break, but advocates said a nation-which was picked Aug. 22, had test-auditors found no signs of danger. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, August 31, 2007 
Research 
continued from page 1 

hopes to gnt thn word out is through the devnlopment of a Web sito when~ students can find all the information and pointers they need to get start­ed on a research 
the in forma­tion hasn't bonn c~nntraliznd." she said. 

Currc>ntly. studc>nts intcrost­nd in conducting individual rnsmtrch can go to different cnntnrs, institutns and ofl'icns on campus to lind tlw l'inandal and acad11mic support they may nnnd to gnt startnd. Thn Knllogg lnstitutn for lnt.c>rnational Studic~s and the Undnrgraduatn Hnseareh Opportunity Program (LJHOP) has bc>Pn giving students research grants for more than a docado. 
Seioncn and c>ngineering stu­donts can also roceive finan­cial support for their research proposals from programs sponsored by the National Seienco Foundation, Lucero said. Another alternative may bn sidn-by-sidn partir.ipation in thn rosoarch ondoavors of 
spring somns­ter -will lwlp studonts iden­tify tlwsn possibilitins nasily. 

Lucnro said there might be a portion of tlw Web site dndi­catcHI to in d i vi d u a I proJ'i Ins that students can set up ­profilns that could include explanations of their l'ields of study, nxpertisn, intnrests and other pertinent information. Faculty membors would check those prolilos to bo paired up with undc~rgraduate research assistants. In the same way, students would be able to browse diiTc~rc~nt faculty pro­lilos to lind potential mentors or acadnmic advisors. 
"It would bo a morc1 coordi­nated nl'fort to try to get stu­dents and faculty together," Lucero said. " ... It's a great for students to meet the faculty and start developing the men­loring relationships that are key to the succnss of under­graduate research and the 
student's college career as enthusiastic students. research side for my project wnll." Sophomore Jeff Lakusta has and helping spread the word 
"There have been many researchers interested in
project. "Thoro undergraduate research may com­the health have bnen plete. CriSIS and
opportunities available to 
many under­Jacobs said rounded a graduate students for years but Lucero's role non-profit researc:h many people don't know will also organization, opportuni­include the Eyes on
about them because all the 
ties avail­"helping stu­Africa
information hasn't been 
abln to stu-dents dis­Foundation, to raise money to dents for centralized." seminate sponsor his relief opportuni­years but t h e i r ties and his research in the many poopln rnsearch region.
Cecilia Lucero
don't know findings "Father [James] Foster is 

Director of Undergraduate 
about thorn through pre­working with me both on the because all Research sentations 
and publica­

tions to pro­vidn recognition for those stu­dents who have excelled at research." 
Lucero said she's working on a commercial that would air during home football games. The dip might talk about the n~search activities of students and professors -a nod to researchers' hard work. 
Shn is also eyeing a campus­wide fair whern undergradu­atn students could exhibit their research accomplish­ments. 
Last May, the College of Science hosted a "Day of Hnsearch" where students pre­sented their findings to their peers and professors, and prizes were given to the top projects. Lucero said she wish­es a campus-wide researcl) 
facu Ity and "Most professors have gradual!~ stu­
projects lying around 
donts. 

but lack the manpower 
T h o s n 

options, how­needed to do cwnr. arc> sc~at­everything. Even tnrnd through­
younger students 
out thn UnivPrsity and like sophomores, or 
may bn diiTi­even freshmen, can 
eult to loc:ate, 

find some great
shn said. Shn 

hopes the Web projects to work on. " site -which should bo 

Andrew Harms 
ready for the 


senior 
She is aware, nonetheless, been researching the for the new 
that students may require IllY/AIDS cri­additional incentives to com­sis in South mit to an ongoing research Africa with project. some help That is why she and Jacobs from the also have emphasized the University. nnnd to improve the publica­During a trip tion prospncts for any works to the coun­undergradu­try, he a t e became 
fair could pro­vide students from other col­leges a similar opportunity to share their work with the campus com­munity. The logistics and coordination of a fair of that magnitude, however, make that scenario unlikely right now, she said. 
This semes­ter, she said, she'll focus on launching the 

Web site and developing one­credit seminars for second­semester freshmen who demonstrate an interest in conducting individual research. 
The seminars would intro­d u~n freshmen to different research methodologies, help­ing them learn to write grant proposals, track their findings and present them. 
Lu~ero said she might help create different seminars for fivn possible fields of research -soeial sciences, arts and humanities, s~ience, engineer­ing and business. Students in the seminars would be identi­fied by their academic advi­sors or professors during their 11rst semester as freshmen and encouraged to enroll in the class. 
And she doesn't expect to have problems finding driven, 
"Notre Dame has already proven to be an incredible resource, and the willingness offaculty to get personally involved in their student's interests is inspiring." 
Jeff Lakusta sophomore 
foundation," Lakusta said. "Notre Dame has already proven to be an incredible resource, and the willingness of' faculty to get personally involved in their student's interests is inspiring." 
Another stu­dent who has demonstrated undergraduate students are 
involved in research projects is senior Andrew Harms. lie said his work with radio tnch­nologies has helped him pre­pare for graduate school. llis findings in the lab complement the classroom, and he has enjoyed working elosely with the electrical engineering fac­ulty. 
"Almost every faculty mem­ber in tlw IElnctrical Engineering( department is more than happy to talk with students and work with stu­dents who are interested in research," he said. "Most pro­fnssors have projects lying around but lack the manpower needed to do everything. Even younger students like sophomores, or even fresh­men, can find some grc~at proj­ects to work on." 
To help students like Lakusta and Harms, Jacobs said, the University will continue to develop the infrastructure and the resources students need to conduct n~search. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
possible sanctions that 
Residence Life can levy


Hand 
against students that continued from page 1 have violated University 
rules. They range from a 
verbal warning to perma­
"It's not the school's nent dismissal. [suspension]," he said. Many sections of duLac "It's football's." prescribe specific pun­
What the University ishments for various handed out for Hand's crimes. However, there is violation is still a mys­no section that specifical­tery. Associate Vice ly covers solicitation of a President for News and prostitute which Information leaves Don Wycliff the ques­said the "It's not the school's tion of University punish­
[suspension] It's 
ad m inistra­m e n t
football's."
tion had no some­comment. w h a t Associate Charlie Weis o p e n ­V i c e ended.
Notre Dame Irish 
President for DuLac
football coach
Hesidence Life Bill Kirk did not return several phone calls Wednesday and Thursday. 
Even if they wanted to comment, Wycliff and Kirk would have to speak within the bounds of the Family Educational Hights and Privacy Act (FEHPA). FEHPA says that "schools must have written permission from the parent or eligible stu­dent in order to release any information from a student's education record," which means any comment from the University would have to come in the form of gen­eralities. 
According to duLac, the Notre Dame student handbook, there are 12 
does say 
t h a t 
"offen­sive sexual behavior is a serious offense," and that "students should be aware of Indiana state law," but while solicita­tion is illegal in Indiana, it is unclear whether solicitation constitutes "offensive sexual behav­ior." 
This open-endedness has created confusion among Irish fans, includ­ing those who post on the message boards attached to popular fan site ndna­tion.com. Some have even posited that the administration has decid­ed to ease punishments for duLac violations. 
"Maybe they changed it right after the MacAlarney debacle and 
Hand is just the first high profile student to bene­fit," one poster wrote. 
Posters on the message board have compared Hand's situation to that of junior basketball play­er Kyle McAlarney, who was suspended for the 2007 spring semester after being arrested on marijuana possession charges. 
"Suspension for an entire semester for smoking pot but not for soliciting a prostitute?" one poster wrote. "I don't get the administration sometimes." 
However, duLac says that "possession, use or misuse of any controlled substance, including, but not limited to, marijuana, cocaine, heroin, amphet­amines and depressants, is a serious violation. Students who possess, use or misuse such sub­stances shall be subject to disciplinary suspen­sion or permanent dis­missal." There is no such specific sanction provi­sion for solicitation or "offensive sexual behav­ior." 
In Hand's absence, fel­low junior Pat Kuntz and freshman Ian Williams will man the nose guard position. Weis said that Hand, who missed all of fall training camp, has to get back in shape before he can contribute on the field. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Kosher n1eals provided as option at universities 
UW-Madison to meet needs ofreligious students 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis.-Heather Zucker ate mostly salad and spaghetti during the years she lived in the University of Wisconsin-Madison dorms. Sometimes, her dinner was just a bowl of ice cream. 
Zucker wasn't being picky. She keeps kosher, and she said there were "slim pickins" for Jewish students in the din­ing halls. 
"It got old pretty fast," said Zucker, who graduated in 2005. 
That's about to change. UW-Madison is opening a kosher meat kitchen in a residence hall dining room starting this fall. Muslims who follow Islamic dietary laws, called halal, will also be accom­modated. 
A growing number of schools are offering kosher dining options, but few have full kosher meat kitchens, said UW-Madison housing director Paul Evans. Other schools with the service include the University of Pennsylvania and Cornell University. 
"We know this is being talked about because it's fairly unusual," Evans said. 
The goal is to make Jewish and Muslim students more comfortable and help the university attract potential stu­dents. 
About 4,000 Jewish students attend UW-Madison, making it among the largest Jewish student populations at 
U.S. public universities, according to Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life, a Washington, D.C.-based group that has foundations on many campuses. 
Kashrut, or Jewish dietary laws, pro­hibit mixing milk and meat, and bar consumption of pork and shellfish. The kosher laws detail how animals should be slaughtered. Muslim dietary laws also prescribe how animals should be killed, and bar alcohol and other items. 
The school spent $129,000 to buy equipment for the kitchen, which is expected to open in November as part of a renovated dining room in Chadbourne Hall. The university is hir­ing two mashgichim -Orthodox rabbis or those appointed by rabbis to monitor food preparation -to supervise the • kitchen. Rabbi Sholem Fishbane of the Chicago Rabbinical Council reviewed the university's plans to ensure compli­ance with complicated kosher laws. 
While the kitchen will be separated from other food preparation areas, the food will be served in a marketplace near other stations with traditional fare and have similar prices. 
Grilled chicken sandwiches, roast beef and fish will be on the lunch and dinner menus. 
"It's a whole new concept, a whole new cuisine that we're working with," said Bob Fessenden, the university's food service director, who worked with staff to taste potential dishes this sum­mer. Among their discoveries, he said, was a delicious soy crepe. 
Greg Steinberger, executive director of Hillel's foundation at UW-Madison, said many students who grew up eating kosher meats are forced to become veg­etarians in college. Others skip the dorms to live in apartments so they can prepare their own food or try to keep kosher by eating at Hillel, which offers kosher meals through the week, he said. 

Follow the financial news. Make the financial news. 
Please consult with your Career Services Department 
for interview dates and resume submission deadlines.
Join us for our company presentation: 
•Corporate Banking
Tuesday, September 4, 2007 
•Investment Banking
EVENT: MARKETS & BANKING PRESENTATION TIME: 5:00pm 
•Global Transaction Services 
VENUE: Club Room at Legends SPEAKER: Brennan Smith, Managing Director 
•Sales & Trading 
Investment Banking 
apply online at oncampus.citi.com 
Cffi® let's get it done~ I 
® 2007 Citigroup Inc. All rights reser\led. Cit1 and Cttl and Arc Des1gn are registereo service marks of CitH;~raup Inc. or its affiliates anti are used and registered throughotJt the world. Let1s Get It Done is a service mark at Cit,group Inc. Citigrm.:p Global Markets Inc. and Cit!bank. N.A. are equal opportunity employers M/F/D/V. 
page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, August 31, 2007 


Testimony starts in Iraq massacre trial 
Associated Press 

CAMP PENDLETON, Calif. ­A Marino tnstifind Thursday that he saw a roomful of frightorwd women and childrnn moments bofore they wero killed by his squad mates in lladitha, Iraq, but he said he did not snn who shot tlwm. 
l.anc~n Cpl. llumberto Mcmdoza was tlw first witness at a hnaring to detnrminn wlwther Stall" Sgt. Frank Wutorich, 27, of Mnridnn. Conn., will facn a court-martial on charges of murdering 17 civilians. 
Wutnrieh had bnnn ehargnd with murdnring I H Iraqis in a bloody combat operation that loft 24 civilians dead. but at the outsnt of Thursday's !waring prosecutors withdrew one mur­der count. 
While the numbnr of suspeet­ed murders makes Wuterieh's ease the biggest to have emerged against any U.S. serv­ice member to have served in Iraq, the hearing eomes after a string of setbaeks for Marine prosecutors. 
The ease eenters on whether Wuterich, who had never expe­rienced combat before, acted within Marine rules of engage­ment when he shot men by a ear and then led his squad in a string of house raids. 
Wuterich asserts that he was following combat rules and that lw assaulted the housns because he thought gunfire was coming from them. 
Mendoza described the events of Nov. 19, 2005, as being a fast­flowing series of engagements. Aftnr a Marine llurnvee driver was killed in a roadside bomb. the troops raided snvnral homos. 
"Whnn I opmwd the door, the first thing I sen is wonwns and kids laying down on a bed," Mnndoza, who is from Vorwzunla and has a heavy accent, reeallnd sewing in the sncond house lw lwlpnd raid. "I lwli!we thny wnw scarml." 
Anrial footage from an unmanned drone shows that Marines were engagnd in sever­al other combat operations around lladitha that day. The Associated Press obtained the footage on Thursday. 
Mendoza testified that he had 
shot an unarmed Iraqi man who 
opened the front door to the 
home, and that he shot a differ­
ent man in another house who 
ho thought was reaching for a 
weapon. 
Mnndoza said the killings were within combat ruins because the oceupants of the homes had been declared hos­tilo. 
Prosecutors called as a wit­ness Capt. Kathryn Navin. a Marine lawyer who testified that she instrueted Wuterich's com­pany on ruh~s of engagement in August 2005. 
Navin said she taught Marines to have "knowledge to a reason­able certainty that the target you are engaging is a lawful military target," though she con­eeded there were occasions when positive identification of every individual in a military strike is not needed. 
One of Wuterich's military defense attorneys, Lt. Col. Colby Vokey, said the government was no longer charging Wuterich with murdering an Iraqi man who died in the final house cleared by Marines. 
The count was withdrawn after the general overseeing the ease dismissed charges against another Marine accused of killing three other men in the same room of the house, ruling that they posed a legitimate threat, Vokey said. 
Mendoza is one of several Marines granted immunity by proseeutors to testify. He claimed not to have seen Wuterieh kill anyone in the two houses he helped elear with Wuterich. 
"I think he's a great Marine, sir." Mendoza said when asked by a defense attorney what he thought of Wuterich. 
Wutnrieh, who like all Marines in tho court wore desert eamou­llage, sat with his tattooed arms folded on the table in front of him and appearnd to be grind­ing his teeth. 
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT OAT OAT PCAf 
Welcome Back Students! 

SaveSlOO! 
Kaplan welcomes you back to campus with exclusive back-to-school savings: Enroll in any of our Classroom Course or Premium Online Course options and save $100'-in addition to any current promotions! 
Offer expires: 

8/31/07 Last Chance to Save! 
Enroll today! 


Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back:· 
Officer: Craig lied in interrogation 
Audiotape of arrest shows Idaho Senator complained of entrapment 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The offi­cer who arrested Sen. Larry Craig in a police undereover operation at an airport men's room accused the senator of lying to him during an inter­rogation afterward, aceord­ing to an audiotape of the arrest. 
On the tape, released Thursday by the Minneapolis Airport Poliee, the Idaho Hepubliean in turn accuses the officer of solieiting him for sex. 
''I'm not gay. I don't do these kinds of things," Craig told Sgt. Dave Karsnia min­utes after the two men met in a men's room at the air­port on June 11. 
"You shouldn't be out to entrap people," Craig told the offieer. "I don't want you to take me to jail." 
Karsnia replied that Craig wouldn't be going to jail as long as he cooperated. 
The two men disagreed about virtually everything that had occurred minutes earlier, including whether there was a piece of paper on the floor of the stall and the meaning of the senator's hand gestures. At no time did Craig admit doing anything wrong, although weeks later he pleaded guilty to a reduced misdemeanor eharge of disorderly conduet. 
"You're not being truthful with me," Karsnia told Craig during the interrogation. ''I'm kind of disappointed in you, senator." 
Karsnia later told Craig he was "sitting here lying to a 

poliee offieer," adding: "I expect this from the guy we get out of the 'hood. I mean people vote for you. Unbelievable." 
Meanwhile, more of Craig's Hepublican colleagues moved away from him Thursday in the wake of his guilty plea earlier this month to a reduced charge of disorderly eonduct in the undereover police operation aimed at sex solieitors. Hepublican National Committee officials had considered calling for his resignation early Thursday, Republicans with knowledge of the delibera­tions said, but had not done so by day's end. 
Sen. John Ensign of Nevada, who chairs the GOP's senatorial campaign committee, stopped short of calling on Craig to resign but suggested strongly that he should. 
"I wouldn't put myself hopefully in that kind of posi­tion, but if I was in a position like that, that's what I would do," Ensign told The Associated Press in his home state. "He's going to have to answer that for himself." 
Sens. Norm Coleman, R­Minn., and Susan Collins, H­Maine, each turned over to charity $2,500 in campaign donations they had received from Craig's politieal action eommittee. Coleman and Collins both faee potentially tough raees for re-election next year. 

NowleasingFor2008-2009 Condominiums For Sale orlease 
• 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 1,160 square feet 
• 
Large balcony and cathedral ceilings 

• 
Washer/dryer, dishwasher, central air conditioning 

• 
Walking distance to campus 


For Leasing Information Call: Susan Miller, Stadium Club Condominiums 574-243-7530 • stadiumclubcondos@sbcglobal.net For Sales Information Call: Lisa LeBlanc, Cressy and Everett 574-535-4663 • lisaleblanc@cressyandeverett.com 
Thursday, August 31, 2007 The Observer + ADVERTISEMENT page 11 





E'VE BEEN 
PUTTING OUT* EVERY NIGHT FOR 

ORE THAN 40 YEARS. 
*WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NEWSPAPERS. HAVEN'T YOU HEARD OF PARIETALS YET? 
Meet editors from News,. Sports, Viewpoint, Scene, Photo, Graphics & Ads to find out what you could do for the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's daily newspaper. 
Pleasejoin Us For 
The Observer Open House 

Sunday, September 2, 2007 3-5 p.m. Basement of South Dining Hall 
There will be food (you'll learn to take advantage of this). 
' . . ' . .
------------'--'---------------' 
page I2 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, August 31, 2007 
Judge rules astronaut Now-ak 111ay re111ove ankle 111onitor 
Bracelet no longer necessary because ofgood behavior; Navy Captain awaiting trial following attack against romantic rival 
Associated Press 

OHLANDO, Fla. -Former astronaut Lisa Nowak can removn an electronic monitor­ing bracelet from her ankle whiln shn .awaits trial on chargns shn attacked a roman­tic rival, a judge ruled Thursday. 
Nowak had argund that the brac:nlet was expensivn, bulky, uncomfortable and prnvented hnr from nxerctsmg, as requirml of a military officer. .I udgn Marc L. Lubet said that those~ daims did not matter, but that Nowak had behaved wnll nnough over the past sev<m months to remove the dnvic:n. 
Nowak, a Navy captain, said in a statnmPnt through lwr publicist: "It's a great redid not to worry about safdy issues related to thn batteries life whiln I'm driving. I'm also really looking forward to get­ting back into my former aero­bic fitness programs." 
The woman Nowak is accused of attacking had argued to require Nowak to continue wearing the device. Colleen Shipman said she still feared Nowak, who has filed an intent to plead temporary insanity. 
Nowak is still prohibited from contacting Shipman or Bill Oefelein, the former shut­tle pilot both women dated, Lubet said in the order. Nowak has no reason to travel to Florida, where Shipman lives, other than court, or to Virginia, where Shipman's boyfriend lives, the judge said. 
Nowak is also barred from neighboring Maryland, Delaware and Washington, D.C., without court approval, ac:eording to the filing. 
Shipman's attorney, Kepler Funk, condemned the ruling in a public statement Thursday and expressed concern the order didn't address Nowak's mental health. 
"Colleen Shipman has already been victimized once by Lisa Nowak, and now it seems she is being further punished for wanting to have a relationship with William Oefelein and try, despite the attack, to lead a normal life free from fear of further vio­lence," Funk said. 
"At some points the rights of the victim to feel safe in her own home should be given sig­nificant weight. In our opinion, justice requires that Lisa Nowak's aerobic fitness should not override Colleen Shipman's peace of mind." 
Lubet wrote Nowak was still under previous bond of $25,500 and that the military has assured him Nowak would face additional penalties if she violated the new conditions of parole. He also noted Shipman testified going to Houston, where Nowak lives, three or four times since the incident. 
"During these trips by Ms. Shipman to Houston, the elec­tronic monitoring GPS device afforded no protection or ben­efit to Ms. Shipman, as the defendant could freely move about Houston with no fear of violating any condition of the electronic monitoring GPS device," Lubet wrote. · 
Shipman has said that she felt safe in Houston because she was with Oefelein, her boyfriend, but that the monitor is comforting when she is alone. 
The bracelet cost $105 a week, Nowak said, adding that it kept her from exercising and swimming with her children. She also called it dangerous, because batteries have to be changed twice daily or a loud alarm sounds even while driv­ing. 
Nowak, 44, was arrested in February after confronting Shipman over a love triangle. 

The former astronaut is accused of stalking Shipman at the Orlando airport, then attacking her with pepper spray as Shipman arrived at her car. 
The married mother of three is suspected of driving nearly 1,000 miles from Houston to Orlando, using diapers to avoid taking breaks, to execute the attack. Police said she was carrying a duffel bag contain­ing a steel mallet, a 4-inch knife and a BB gun. 
Nowak suffered from major depression, obsessive-compul­sive disorder, insomnia and "brief psychotic disorder with marked stressors," according to the notice to plead insanity written by defcmse attorney Donald Lykkebak. 
Lubet has asked for another hearing before deciding on Lykkebak's requests to throw out Nowak's long arrest inter­view with police and the search of hnr BMW. 

Pet dog gets inheritance 
Associated Press 
NHW. YOHK Lnona 
llnlmsley's decision to leave 
$12 million to h<~r dog so it 
could livn out its life in luxu­
ry proved once and for all 
that she was not one of the 
little people. 
But legal experts say that, size aside, Ilelmsley's gift to her beloved pet -a Maltese namnd Trouble-wasn't unique. 
A growing number of peo­ple, not all wnalthy, have been setting up trust funds or adjusting their wills to ensurn that their pets are well can~d for if they die, according to attorneys and animal welfan~ groups. 
States have rushed to make such gifts easier. At thn closn of thn 1CJ<Jos, only a handful rc)eognized so­callc~d "pet trusts." Now, 39 slates plus Washington, D.C., have enacted laws dealing with such girts. 
The types of bequests vary. Some wnll-olT Amc~rieans go as far as to sot aside tens of thousands of dollars to allow their pets to continue to live comfot'tably in their past honws with a prol'nssional earntaknr, rather than be shippod ofT to a rnlativn. 
Othnrs I<Htve monoy for futuro vnterinary bills, or just to compensate a new owner for taking on the responsibility of a new dog or eat. 
Hac:hnl llirsc:hfnld, an ostato lawynr in Nnw Yol'k who specializes in pot trusts, said thn idna isn't so c:razy. 
"People really think of thoir pds as thoir babic1s," sho said. 
Yes, shn said, gifts like llnlmslny's are nxtraordi­nary. ller c:linnts more com­monly lc~ave $5,000 to $10,000, although she had orw who set aside $5 mil­lion. 
Tales about nceentrie mil­lionaires leaving chunks of thnir fortune to a pet go back dneades, but the ere­ation or trusts for that pur­pose became easier in 1990 because of an update of the Uniform Probate Code, a model upon which many states base their laws for by her brother, and that when it dies, its remains will be buried next to her own in a lavish farriily mausoleum. 

Hirschfeld, who was also a longtime acquaintance of 
regarding wills. 
Anima! welfare groups have also lobbied for a federal bill that would cre­ate tax benetits for a pet owner who creates sueh a trust, then leaves the 

"Twelve million is outrageous. Come on! Let's get real! If someone had come to me and said, 'I want to leave I 2 mil­lion bucks, I'd say, 'Why?'" 
Rachel Hirschfeld estate lawyer 
Helmsley's, said that even given the hotelier's famous pen­chant for fine living, the trust's size is star­tling. 
"Twelve million is outrageous. Come on! Let's get real!" she said. "If someone had 
remaining money to charity when the animal dies. 
Sara Amundson, a director of legislative affairs for the Humane Society of the United States, said even a small gift can keep a pet from winding up in dire straits. 
"As a nation, we still euth­anize 4 to 6 million cats and dogs every year, and a good number of those are pnts left without care when their owners die," she said. 
Pet owners of moderate means can ensure some sta­bility for their animals by including a few lines in their will spelling out who gets the family dog, said Kim Bressant-Kibwc, associate eounsnl of trusts and estates for the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. 
"Maybe it's a situation where a person only has $500 or $1,000 to leave for a pet's care, and that's fine," Bressant-Kibwe said. "What we want people to think about ..is making arrange­ments. 
The specifics of Helmsley's gift to Trouble are spelled out in private trust docu­ments and aren't publicly known. Iler will says only that tho dog will be cared come to me and said, 'I want to leave 12 million bucks, I'd say, 'Why?"' 

One possible reason, she speculated, is that money left over after the dog's demise might ultimately be destined for animal-welfare charities. 
A strongly written trust, she said, could likely protect the dog's gift from becoming the subject of a court fight. 
New York state law allows a court to reduce bequests to pets if a judge finds they are more than needed for the animal's care, and there is always the possibility that disappointed relatives might be waiting in the wings to argue that the dog got too much. 
Helmsley, a hotel and real estate magnate who died Aug. 20 at age 87, decreed that the vast bulk of her multibillion-dollar estate would go to charity, not to her family, although she made individual gifts of $5 million to $10 million to sev­eral relatives. 
She also expressly stiffed two grandchildren with whom she had feuded, say­ing in her will that they would get nothing, "for rea­sons that are known to them." 

Own a Piece o·f NO History Commemorating the 35th Anniversary of NO Coeducation 
At www.thanking·fatherted.com www.amazon.com and on campus at The Notre Dame Bookstore 
THEN 
NOW 
.UJ07 •Nfl Wi,t~un CJa.u and SwdmL c;ovemmml Officers
remtitin~po.ster 
Sr6.95
$10.!15 
$1 ofrom tbe Ja!e u_feach poJter wtl!be dmwted to ND Gmder Re!atiOtiJ Center 
In Bookstores Nationwide September 4th From Andrews MciVIeel Publishing 

Thanking

Tlunl:.ing FatiH·r Tt-d F·~und ..u1on 
... 
.o\nu Tht'N:H: D11dn J1 Jlmt·l-, fdn,,r 
ND alumnae and ND celebrities thank Father Tedfor the xifi of coeducation anddiscuss the impact oftheir ND educations. 
Profits benefit The Thanking Father 1MScholarship Fund 
The Thanking Father TedFoundation 
For more infornurtion. go to www. ThankingFatherTed.com 
Notre Dame WOmen ~ Connect 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

.. 
. 
.. ~= 

"CATERING 
Catet·ingjor every occasion 
www. PapaVinosCatering .corn 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka (574) 271-1692 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 



Confirmation 

Monday, September 3 -5:30-6:30 pm Sunday, September 9-5:30-6:30pm 
Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center 
Contact: Fr. John Conley 631-7888 or John & Sylvia Dillon 631-7163 
C-M 
( ·a.mpu:s. MiniMry 

Texas gov. cancels 
inmate execution 
In rare decision, murderer will serve life sentence 
right thing," Foster said as he 

Associated Press 
was being taken from the 
Huntsville Unit of the Texas 

HUNTSVILLE, Texas -In a Department of Criminal Justice, small cell a few feet from where where executions are carried 23 men this year have taken out, for a return trip to the their last breaths, condemned Polunsky Unit near Livingston, prisoner Kenneth Foster where death row inmates are received a surprising and unex­housed. pected message from a warden. He'll soon be moved to anoth-
He would live. er prison. 
Texas Gov. Rick Perry, in a Perry, a staunch supporter of rare and uncharacteristic move the death penalty who has Thursday, spared fought attempts Foster hours to water down before he was to Texas' laws on
'The first thing I did 

be executed for his capital punish­role in a San was drop to my knees ment, said cap­Antonio robbery­and say a little ital murder 
prayer I owe a lot 

ago. The decision should not be came on the heels ofpeople.'' tried together, of an equally as Foster and unusual recom­Brown were. 
Kenneth Foster 

mendation from "I am con­
the Texas Board of former death row inmate 
cerned about 

Pardons and 
Paroles. 
"The frrst thing I did was drop to my knees and say a little prayer," Foster said. "I owe a lot of people." 
The 30-year-old became only the second inmate since Texas resumed carrying out executions in 1982 that the parole board 
voted to stop an execution this close to punishment time. And in that case, in 2004, Perry reject­ed the board's recommendation and mentally ill prisoner Kelsey Patterson was executed. 
"I was real worried about 
that," said Keith Hampton, 
Foster's lawyer. 
He was walking toward the 
governor's office in Austin when 
he received a call about Perry's 
decision. 
"I did go into this thinking this 
is a governor who went ahead 
and let Kelsey Patterson be exe­
cuted," Hampton said. "It all 
happened so fast, to tell you the 
truth.... It's a good day." 
Not for Nico LaHood, whose 
brother, Michael, 25, was 
gunned down Aug. 15, 1996, on 
the driveway of his family's 
home. 
"No one requested to talk to 
us. No one. Nothing," a frustrat­
ed LaHood said after a reporter 
told him of Perry's decision. 
LaHood watched Foster's 
codefendant, Mauriceo Brown, 
die last year in Huntsville and 
had planned to be in the cham­
ber Thursday evening to see 
Foster's lethal injection. 
"For the governor to do that, I 
believe he folded to political 
pressure," LaHood said. 
Over his two-plus terms in 
office, Perry 
has commuted Texas law that 
allows capital murder defendants to be tried simultaneously and it is an issue I think the Legislature should examine," the governor said. 
Death penalty opponents had launched a public relations cam­paign to save Foster, specifically objecting to Texas' unique so­called law of parties, in which . each participant of a capital crime is held equally responsi­ble. 
Hampton, whose appeal to the Supreme Court focused on that issue, estimated at least a dozen of the 402 inmates put to death in Texas since the state resumed carrying out capital punishment in 1982 have been executed under the same law. 
Last weekend, a group picket­ed outside Perry's Austin church. 
"We commend Governor Perry for preventing this miscarriage of justice," said Sue Gunawardena-Vaughn, director of Amnesty International USA's Program to Abolish the Death Penalty. "We also share the gov­ernor's concerns about Texas death penalty law and urge him to examine all injustices plagu­ing the capital punishment sys­tem in his state." 
David Atwood, founder of the Texas Coalition Against the Death Penalty, applauded Perry for recognizing that the death penalty "had been grossly mis­applied in this case." 
Foster and Brown were tried jointly for killing Michael LaHood. Both prosecutors and defense lawyers asked for sepa­rate trials for the pair but the 
trial judge declined 
their requests. 

30 other death "'t all happened so Foster acknowl­sentences, but edged he and
fast, to tell you the

his hand had Brown and two been forced in truth . ... It's a friends were high the other good day.'' on marijuana and . cases. All were alcohol and had either juveniles robbed at least
Keith Hampton 

at the time of four other people their offenses Foster's lawyer in San Antonio that or mentally night when they retarded, peo-followed LaHood ple who the U.S. Supreme Court and his girlfriend. Brown got out has ruled cannot be executed. of a rental car Foster was driv­
This time, with the Supreme Ing, demanded car keys and a Court still considering appeals in wallet from LaHood, then shot Foster's case, Perry agreed with the man when LaHood didn't the parole board. He signed an immediately produce them. order Thursday that sends Brown ran back to Foster's car Foster to prison for life, calling it and they drove off. "the right and just decision." During the shooting, Foster 
"I was surprised, but I had was about 80 feet away, sitting faith he was going to do the behind the wheel. 



~fHE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 14 Friday, August 31, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Assessing priorities 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining flail, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Two weeks is all it takes for 10 people-including two many guests should people be allowed to host without apply­
EDITOR IN CHIEF 

Notre Dame students-to get shot in South Bend, but it's not ing for a permit? And how long before should they have to Maddie !-Ianna 
enough time for the Common Council to realize its priorities apply? MANAGING EUI'IllR BUSINESS MANAGER arc misplaced. Police, however. don't have time for those details. They have Ken Fowler Kyle West For more than a month. the Council has insisted on repeat­10 unresolved shootings to worry about. When they get shuf­edly reworking a party permit ordinance that its own police fled to other assignments-like checking up on a party with 
ASS'I~ MANAGING EDITOI\: Kyle Cassily 

department warns is unenforceable. The proposed ordinance 30 guests-attention inevitably gets diverted from more 
Ao;s·l~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
would require residents of houses with more than two unre­important concerns. NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley lated occupants to apply for a city permit for "The question is how far is everybody willing to VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King any parties that host more than 25 guests and stretch or fund the city's resources to nm:essarily serve alcohol. enforce this,': South Bend police public information 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Council members pitched the ordinance as a officer Phil Trent said last week. "We need to take
Chris I line OBSERVER 
way to crack down on disruptive house parties a really good look at all the city resources and our
SCENE EDITOR: 'il•e Andrew' 

that they and their constituents say have ability to do what we say we're going to do."
Editorial
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohb 

become a tiresome-and serious-problem. Two years ago, the Common Council amended its PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
The far more serious problem of gun vio­disorderly home ordinance, encouraging landlords GRAPIIIC.S EllfTOR: Madeline Nics lence, however, hasn't gotten nearly as much to evict rowdy tenants after a single noise viola­attention at recent Council meetings. tion. While off-campus parties are a noisy, messy headache
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez Admittedly, it's easier to prevent parties than shootings, and for South Bend residents, the legislation to address that
AD DFBIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 

it's up to the police, not the Common Council, to fight violent already exists. Spending wm~ks upon weeks struggling to 
CoNTROLlER: Tim Sobolewski 
crime. Still, as South Bend's governing body, it's the Council's enact a piece of legislation that's riddled with problems­
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
job to decide how city resources are allocated. And passing an when there are worse ones out there-is a waste of time. OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO ordinance like this will only stretch valuable police forces · The Council must pour hours, money and manpower into 
(574) 631-7471 thinner. stopping violent crime, not noise violations, if it truly wants to FAX Council members have spent weeks debating details: How better the city it was elected to serve. 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
TODAY'S STAFF 


(574) 631-6900 ohservad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) (>31-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) (>31-'5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 vicwpoim.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4'i43 spons.l@nd.cdu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
srnc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8H39 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLIN£ www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the i ndept·ndt·nt, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the llniVl'rsity ofNotre Damt• du Lac and Saint Mary's Colkgc. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commt•ntarics, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observt'f. 
Vkwpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I ;:tters to the Editor mnsr be signed and must indude contact informacion. 
Qurstiow ,ygarding Obsm1er policies should be dirr:cted to Editor in ChiefMttddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tht Oll\ctwr (llS11S "9') l-4111lUJ ~~ rublt~lu::d Mumlay thruugh Fnday cx.:c:pt ,luriiiJ; \'~.tm.md v;lo.Atullll'>(:rt.odt Awh'>l·uptilln LU The Uh11erYc:r 1~ $100 fur nm· 4t;;lilcrnk yt';tr: $'iS llu lllll.'lc:llll'~tn 
rhe0hll(rwr I' publ15hcd Jf t'OSTMA>TCR !124 S.•111h Dining H.tll St-nJ Jddrt~ ccmt<.:tiom to: 
NutiT [l,uur, IN 4M'56-0179 ThrOb..crvcr 

Pcrindic;~ljlmt.lf(e pitid .tt Nou-c Oo~me r.o. llox 779 .1111d ltddiriu1Jdl1111.i\ing officn. 024 Sourh Dining fbll 
Nom· D.~me, IN 465%-0779 
The Ol~MI' i• ;a nlt!mhct ut 1hc A»oo,;1,utd PrcM, All rtvrudu..:!inu nKhl~ att! l'cUrvtli. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
;G ­
1AM NOT GAY. I HAve NeVeR Be~N GAV. 1 HA~e U~eD "BeNGAV. 
NoT GA'f AM I.
J GAV NoT AM Me. Me AM 1GAV NoT./ MIAMI GAY IN MAY. 
Ho!N 6Ay VOU )AY. OH r;A~ l'M Nol ~Ay, fAH TH-e Tllll.t'T PA!'t>~. .... ''""'. """-.... 
....._' .. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, August 31, 2007 page 15 
NFL Metno: Ban Vick the equivalency of his dog fighting days 
One would imagine that whoever coined the state's tourism slogan, "Virginia is for Lovers," might have lived in the rolling hills of Surry County at a quaint-sounding address like 1915 Moonlight Road. Gary Caruso Tragically, for six years Moonlight 
Capital

Road housed the 
Comments

Bad Newz Kennels where characters called "Ookie," "T," "Q," "P-Funk" and "Funk" established, promoted and bankrolled a vicious illegal interstate dog fighting and gambling enterprise. Their primary concern had nothing to do with love. It was to kill the weak. 
Former Atlanta Falcons quarter­back, Michael Vick, a.k.a. "Ookie," not only financed the venture, but served his social needs by showing off before gamblers who used death as a means of wagering. Witnesses recall Vick per­sonally paying tens of thousands of dollars on lost bets. When Vick entered his guilty plea this week to only a single conspiracy count, he admitted in court documents that he was deeply involved in the venture and endorsed the hanging or drowning of poorly performing dogs. His associates admitted to shooting and electrocuting pit bulls. 
Remarkably, the man whose mini­mum salary was $130 million chose friends in need of financial backing for an ongoing gambling business that tortured and brutally killed animals. Vick not only managed and promoted an operation for hosting dog fights, but also purchased the main staging area that housed, bred and trained dogs. He approved rape stands that tied down aggressive females in heat, and automobile axils implanted into the ground so that a dog could run in a circle without hindering its chain. Vick was the primary source of fund­ing for property improvements, dog food, medicine, travel expenses and purse fees. 
Vick may also face state charges based on an 18-page federal grand jury indictment that outlines many of the sordid, heinous acts that his asso­ciates and other witnesses revealed in vivid detail. While Vick's attorneys deliberated to carefully word his plea in such a way that would prevent state prosecutors from preferring charges, federal witnesses and others yet to be called may compound Vick's legal problems. 
Vick's enterprise began flourishing in 2001. As the number of events increased, so did the size of the purs­es. In 2002, Vick hosted a "Grand Champion Fight" pitting dogs that each won five consecutive fights and sponsored from Maryland and the "Junior Mafia" of North Carolina. Quickly $300 bets grew to $13,000 per sponsor by March 2003. After Vick's dog lost, he personally took a book bag with nearly $23,000 in cash from his car to pay the winning sponsor. His associate then conferred with Vick about destroying the losing dog before ultimately electrocuting it. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Off-catnpus behavior to affect proposed ordinance 
Members of the student body: respectful neighbor. Introduce yourself 
As you know, student government to those living around you, and has been working extremely hard to encourage your neighbors to contact represent the best interests of the stu­you directly with any complaints they dent body in relation to the party per­may have. Be mindful of their sched­mit ordinance proposed by the South ules and try to avoid holding late night Bend Common Council. We have made parties outside. If you live on campus significant progress over the past and attend parties off campus, you month. The third public hearing on the have an equal responsibility to be ordinance is delayed until Sept. 17, respectful toward South Bend resi­and the Mayor's office recently intro­dents. duced an updated version of the ordi­We are all intelligent college stu­nance. I consider both of these devel­dents who are more than capable of opments to be positive and initial steps controlling our own actions. Have a in the right direction. blast celebrating our first home foot­
That being said, continued progress ball game, but be respectful of those is absolutely contingent on the state of living in the surrounding community. student behavior off campus in the We will continue to work our hardest coming weeks and throughout the to represent the students' interests, school year. but we can not be successful unless 
Do not perceive my statements as the student body contributes to our supportive of a cessation of student efforts in a positive way. parties. I enjoy going out with my Go Irish, friends, but I am also a strong advo­cate for students behaving as responsi­Liz Brown ble members of the South Bend com­student body president munity. If you live off campus, be a August 30 
Nothing mentions Vick's involvement in side betting, a typical practice among spectators at such contests. However, too many witnesses saw Vick attend numerous fights. In fact, the indictment cites a late 2003 fight at Bad Newz Kennels where federal cooperating witness No. 3 sponsored a dog. The witness was criticized by one of Vick's many regulars after the wit­ness yelled out Vick's name in front of the crowd during the fight. 
One of Vick's Virginia neighbors also owns a condominium in my neighbor­hood. As an entertainment promoter, he knows celebrities, politicians, ath­letes and journalists through gossip and alliances that barely reach the third degree of separation. The pro­moter sought out superstar Vick to become a regular with Vick's crew, attending training and fighting compe­titions in their neighborhood. His first­hand, eyewitness account of how Vick sanctioned the "rolling," or testing of dogs for fights, is gruesome. 
Kennel associates smeared raw ground beef on meek dogs before throwing them into the "box," or blood-splattered walled fighting ring, to watch them be eaten alive. Kittens and puppies whose demeanor was less than vicious, outweighed and outnum­bered, were often chased as a training exercise before eaten alive. Dogs that held promise as an aggressive fighter, however, were kept for further train­ing. 
America's dog fighting subculture is as useless and reprehensible as the Ku Klux Klan. Vick just may be the poster boy who helps end this barbaric and inhumane competition. Fifty dogs were seized from Vick's property. Nationally, nearly three million pit bulls each year are rescued but euthanized for being unfit to adopt. Nobody knows how many are killed by their handlers for poor performance. 
As for Vick, his fate will be deter­mined through three phases -federal court, state court and the National Football League. Vick knowingly spon­sored and sanctioned a death sport, sometimes driving from his home in Atlanta during football season. For example, in the fall of 2003, Vick and associates drove to South Carolina to wager $3,000 on their dog, "Magic." 
The NFL must judge Vick's callous disregard for life and his rampant gambling in light of its corporate stan­dards and ethics. The league should simply reclaim the time Vick wasted on the gambling, mutilating and killing of dogs while an NFL player -ban Vick for six years. After all, nobody can breathe life back into those dogs. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications consultant who owned a rescued pit bull while serving as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Fair pay for Huddle workers 
On May 6, three Huddle Employees Dame to pay us time-and-a-half accompanied by more than 50 stu­wages for all of our hours worked on dents, faculty and community mem­Football Saturdays. We also ask the bers presented a petition regarding University of Notre Dame to abide by pay and working conditions on a strict break schedule of one 15­Football Saturdays to University minute break for every four hours administrators. All but two of the 43 worked." For anyone who has seen non-student employees in this depart­the crowds in LaFortune on Football ment signed their names in support. Saturdays, this request should not 
The petition describes the long and seem outrageous. difficult hours worked by Huddle Not all the goals of the petition have Employees on these Saturdays as an been met. While it will clearly take endless stream of customers pass patience and persistence to right this through Sbarro, Burger King, situation, I ask you to join me in Starbucks, Subway and the Huddle demonstrating to these members of Store. It expresses concern over the the Notre Dame family that someone unnecessary stress placed on here does care about them. It's the Employees' lives and the lives of their little things that count. Treat these families on these weekends. members of our community with 
The petition concludes with the fol­respect, and express your apprecia­lowing statement: "Employees of tion for their service. It's because of Huddle Food Services are proud of these people who work so hard our work and certainly do not ask the behind the scenes that we can enjoy University of Notre Dame to sacrifice the great things that this University any part of its wonderful community has to offer. tradition on our behalf. However, we do ask that we are fairly treated and Stuart Mora fairly compensated for our work. We, senior the Employees of Huddle Food Campus Labor Action Project Services, ask the University of Notre August 30 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 16 
Friday, August 31, 2007 

By MICHELLE FORDICE Assislanl Scene Editor 

Sensually stunning, suspenseful, and thought-provoking without falling into pomposity, "Sunshine" immerses the viewer in its depths from the instant it begins. Though it senms to have slipped below mueh of thn summer einnma radar, "Sunshine" is a spm~taeular tilm that should definitely be eaught before it leaves theatres. 
In "Sunshine," an eight-member space crew has set out to re-start the sun, whosn death is threatening h u rnanity with extinetion. Just after crossing out of 

ployed schlub gets laid and gets a girl pmgnant. Two seniors in high school attempt to buy beer so that they can get laid. 
The last scenario is the synopsis for the recent summer comedy "Superbad," and it's the latest in a string of Judd Apatow projeets featuring horny men, boys and manboys with giant hearts. 
In "Superbad," Apatow puts on his producer's hat while Greg Motolla directs this H-rated teen flick starring 
contaet with Earth, the learus-2 begins pieking up the distress beaeon of their unsuecessful predecessors on the learus­1. 
After deciding to attempt to board the learus-1, the crew suffers an aeeident that forces them into a fight -not for their lives, but for the life of the human race. This is, of course, an exeellent start to a seience-fiction thriller, but "Sunshine" offers more than that to its viewers. 
Director Danny Boyle, know for his "28 Days Later" and "Trainspotting," suc­eeeds in expanding the conventions of this genre as he has done with others Oike "Millions," his take on more family-
centered film). 
"Sunshine" remains per­
Sunshine 
fectly balaneed on the line between science-fic­tion and something
Directed by: Danny Boyle 
more, asking questions 
without boring the audi­ence. 
Starring: Gillian Murphy, Michelle Yeah, Chris 
Evans and Cliff Curtis 

Unlike "Solaris," a film to which this has often 
been eompared, "Sunshine" is truly sus­penseful and enjoyably frightening. Yet, it still taekles questions of God and religion, guilt and 
nerdy Fogell (Christopher Jonah Hill ("Accepted") and Michael Cera ("Arrested Development") as Seth and Evan, two best friends dealing with their approaching separation as they venture off to different colleges. The friends are joined by the 

Mintz-Plasse), who pro­Even though [Seth projects as far back as cures a fake I.D. (with the "Freaks and Geeks" all
and Evan] spend the 

new moniker "McLovin") the way to the upcoming
whole movie pursuing 

so that the trio ean buy movie "The Pineapple beer for a graduation beer and babes, all Express." party and finally get some they're really trying Apatow clearly takes action. care of his own, and the
to do is hang on to

Co-writers Seth Hogen most notable cameos and Evan Goldberg start­each other. come from Martin Starr 
ed the script when they were just 13 years old, 

Superbad 
Directed by: Greg Motolla Starring: Jonah Hill, Michael Cera, Seth Ragen and Christopher Mintz-Plasse 

and the two main char­aeters are named after the pair. The much­revised result of their teen labor is a hilarious raunch-fest that rivals even the Apatow-written and directed "Knocked Up" for the best comedy of the summer. 
Hogen himself co-stars as one of two cops who befriend "McLovin" after a liquor store burglary prevents the boys from getting their beer for the responsibility, and how hard humans are willing to struggle for the survival of their species. 
"Sunshine" succeeds because it cre­ates realistic characters that the audi­ence can learn to like or sympathize with, and then asks them to sacrifice everything for the demands of a humani­ty that remains completely abstract. While many space disaster films, from "Deep Impact" to "Armageddon," contin­ually return to the story back on Earth, "Sunshine" refrains from doing so until the very end, after everything is said and done. Not only does this heighten the movie's sense of claustrophobia, but it also approaches its issues on a very pnr­sonal level. The characters are left alone with their beliefs and their dilemma, and nothing more. 
"Sunshine" is an absolutely stunning study in contrast. It uses every perspec­tive and sense it can, reveling in vibran­cy as much as darkness, strong score as much as silence, and panoramas as much as nearly suffocating close-ups. As a result, simply watching the film is a captivating experience. 
Backed by a strong cast that includes Michelle Yeoh and Chris Evans, Cillian Murphy (who has starred movies such as "The Wind that Shakes the Barley" and "Breakfast on Pluto," but is probably 
actors spanning Apatow 
{Bill, "Freaks and Geeks") 
and Carla Gallo (Lizzie, "Undeelared"), who has the honorable distinction of being eredited as Toe­Sucking Girl in "The 40-Year-Old Virgin," but will most likely forever be remembered for her credit as Period Blood Girl in "Superbad." Gallo's is eer­tainly a scene to be remembered, employing the same gross-out humor that made "Van Wilder" and "American Pie" instant suceesses. 
However, "Superbad" is more sophisti­cated and sensitive than "American Pie" or any other gross-out comedy we've seen in recent years. 
Apatow and the comedic fleet he's been training bring the laughs but, 
best known for his roles in "Batman Begins" and "Hed Eye") is a wonderful ~l!oice. fo~ the lead role of Capa in 
Sunshme. 

Every cast member does an excellent job of illustrating the multitude of reac­tions to the situations the crew faces and foreing the audience to sympathize with all of them. 
The film is not without its blemishes. Some of the situations feel a bit forced in order to progress the plot -and some of the eharacters remain somewhat pre­dictably heroie -but, on the whole, "Sunshfne" has a strong, uninterrupted storyline. 
Most of its faults can be forgiven in order to enjoy the drama they produce. Furthermore, the plotline is kept (within the realm of science-fiction) believable and understandable. 
If nothing else, "Sunshinn" holds your attention. Because it is suspenseful and exeiting, it ean be enjoyed on a very basic level. For the more interested viewer it can offer more,. and it does so in a way that allows them to eontem­plate without feeling forcn-fed philoso­phy with their popcorn. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

Even though they spend the whole movie pursuing beer and babes, all they're really trying to do is hang on to each other. Leaving behind a best friend to go to college is a situation many of us have faeed, but Seth and Evan are more co-dependent than most, and the under­lying tension of their inevitable separa­tion is prevalent throughout their entire adventurous evening together. 
"Superbad" is an extraordinary con­glomeration of talent, and its suecess on the big screen is the result of years of work by Apatow and the group of actors, writers and directors that he has collect­ed around him, with Hill and Cera as its latest additions. 
Just as "Knocked Up" made Seth Hogen a new staple in comedy, "Superbad" is sure to do the same for these two young actors. 
The Frat Pack may have been the reigning kings of comedy in the past few years, but 2007 is the year of Apatow and company. So far, they have yet to disappoint. 
Contact <;:assie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, August 31, 2007 
page 17 

By JAMES COSTA Assistant Scene Editor 
In a recent interview promoting "The Bourne Ultimatum," Matt Damon was asked who would win in a fight: Jason Bourne or James Bond? Very dryly, Damon replied that it'd be hard to com­pete with the gadgets and gizmos of Bond. 
In that response, however, Damon unin­tentionally defined the exact appeal of Jason Bourne, and why so many of us have already paid more than an hour's wage to watch his exploits on screen one more time. 
It's pretty simple. Jason Bourne is a man tormented by his inability to realize an identity that has already been defined for him in previous days and years. Thrown into a life of shadows, he must contend with ruthless and violent forces beyond his control as he goes about reclaiming the life that was taken from him. 
Loosely based on the Robert Ludlum novel of the same name, the film is a sequel to "The Bourne Supremacy" and the third flick of the Bourne Trilogy. It stars Damon as amnesiac CIA assassin Bourne with returning cast members Julia Stiles and Scott Glenn reprising their roles from the previous two Bourne films. The film continues the tale of Bourne after he lives through the unsettling "Bourne Supremacy" car chase in Moscow. Keeping with the international flair of the Bourne franchise, the film moves through the locales of Paris, London, Madrid, Tangier and New York City as Bourne searches for his natural identity. 
Differing from the spy swagger and pomp of James Bond is Jason Bourne's pounding silence throughout the film. Commenting on the decrease in spoken dialogue, Damon says, "We realized that Bourne is a lot more effective when he's not 
Of course, the film is wild as hell. Viewers can't forget that Bourne is a fme­ly tuned killing machine caught in a battle of fierce rebellion against the CIA opera­tives who so ably created him. Unfortunately for them, he's remembered enough over the last two movies to realize that he is neither who he thought he was nor the man the CIA thought it created. With this knowledge, Bourne is finally nearing the end of his journey toward redemption. 
The film's treatment of Bourne as a man whose humanity is coupled with his dead­ly side resonates strongly with the film's prevailing theme -the tense and anguished difficulty in surviving while retaining control of one's actions. Perhaps the most refreshing aspect of the film is its reliance on real human beings. Not to crit­icize "Harry Potter," "Cars" or any other movie that heavily relies on computer ani­mation, but audiences can appreciate that the images in the "Bourne" films aren't computer-generated. Especially in today's ever-unstable social climate, the film also hits a strong nerve with its sharp and top­ical realism. The cinematography is also shaky and unstable, an effect resulting from the extensive use of hand-held cam­eras. 
In Jason Bourne, there is a universal element of the everyman, someone won­dering who he is and who he .might be ­if only he could simply run away from it all, just for a chance to get back to where he should be. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 


The Bourne Ultimatum 
Directed by: Paul Greengrass Starring: Matt Damon, Julia Stiles, Scott Glenn, Joan Allen and David Strathairn 

talking, so we cut a lot of the original dialogue in the script." In short, the cuts worked. Bourne's silence highlights the perils of mind and body he faces as he struggles towards the film's climax. In place of verbal con­frontation and vocal eruption is a far more menacing and gripping experience of true deter­mination plagued by fear. 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, August 31, 2007 
MLB 

Yankees pull to within 5 after sweeping Sox 
Philadelphia 2 games back after 4-game sweep of Mets; Ordonez helps keep Tigers in playoff contention 
Angeles Angels and Detroit, head with one out in the ninth.
Associated Press 
New York rebounded quickly. The next pitch went to nearly 
NEW YOHK -With drama "We need wins. I'd tell you the the same spot, and Youkilis and !lair, thn New York Yankees same thing if we just beat a stared as plate umpire Angel completed another August high-school team three games in Hernandez ejected the pitcher. swPnp of tlw Boston Bed Sox a row," said Derek Jeter, who Chamberlain, his palms out, and moved into prirnn position went 4-for-4. "Now we have to was shocked. He said both for a Snptmnher playofl' run. play well against Tampa. pitches slipped and he intended 
Thern was a w1wk's worth of Otherwise these games don't nothing nefarious. highlights during tlw Yanknes' mean anything." "That's absolutely ridiculous," 5-0 victory Thursday: a no-hit Last year, the Yankees swept a Yankees manager Joe Torre said bid by Chien-Ming Wang into five-gamn series at Boston from about the ejection. tlw snventh inning, a pair of big Aug. 18-21, opening a 6 1/2-"Unfortunately, in a lot of situa­homo runs by Hobinson Cano ofl' game lead in the AL East. tions, the umpires do not apply Curt Schilling, a disputed play It's so different this season. common sense. And I've seen it involving Alnx Hodriguez that The Yankees, who outscored the too many times. And something lnd to the njection of Boston Red Sox 14-6 in the three games has to change. Either they have manager Terry Franeona. and outhit them 30-13, closed to school them or do something 
And thm1 in the ninth, Yankees within five games of the division that certainly gives them a feel rookie snnsation Joba leaders and put themselves in for the game better than they Chamberlain was tossed follow­position to possibly end the day showed today." ing a pair of pitches over Kevin in the wild-card lead. New York, Youkilis was angry. Youkilis' head. which began the day one per­"I didn't see any other pitches 
It's not even Labor Day, and centage point behind Seattle, going that far out of the strike alrnady there was late-season had not finished a day in playo!T zone," he said. "Who knows passion bntween these old foes. position since April 10, when what it really meant?" 
"If that young man is trying to the Yankees were 4-3. On June 1, five batters were gnt our attnntion, he did a very "If we play well enough, we'll hit when the Yankees played at good job," Francona said. be where we want to be," Jeter Fenway Park. pitched since last Friday after three hits Thursday, raising his 
Edwar Hamirez, another rook­said. experiencing a tired arm. major league-leading average to in, eomplPtnd a two-hitter and Chamberlain's ejection left Phillies 11, Mets 10 Looking for his first six-out .359 and helping the Detroit thn Yankens' first shutout of bad feelings all around. A rout, a rally and a rare call save in eight years, Wagner (2-Tigers beat the Kansas City Boston since Sept. 11, 2005. Throwing 98-99 mph, he gave the Phillies their first three 2) gave up Burrell's solo shot in Royals to avoid a three-game Following a 2-5 trip to the Los pumped a pitch over Youkilis' wins over the Mets in a pivotal the eighth and immediately ran sweep. 
series. into trouble in the ninth. "I don't check the batting Then came the wildest game Jayson Werth hit a leadofT sin­race. I'm just going to go up of all. gle, then stole second and third there and do my job," said 
Chase Utley hit an HBI single on consecutive pitches with one Ordonez, looking for his first off Billy Wagner in the ninth out. Pinch-hitter Tadahito batting title. 'Tm just going to inning and Philadelphia com­Iguchi's single to left tied it at play baseball, and we'll see pleted a huge sweep of first­10, after the season." place New York by rallying for a Jimmy Rollins was intentional­Jeremy Bonderman (11-7) victory Thursday in a back-and­ly walked after Iguchi stole sec­pitched seven strong innings to forth struggle that lasted 4 ond, bringing up Utley, who snap his six-game losing streak. hours. entered the game leading the Curtis Granderson joined 
By winning four straight NL in batting average. The All­Ordonez with three hits and a against the Mets, the Phillies Star second baseman, playing home run. moved within two games of the his third game after missing a "It's about time to do every­NL East leaders and suddenly month with a broken hand, thing-hitting and pitching," set up an exciting September worked a full count before lining said Ordonez, who had three pennant race. a single to right field to score RBls. "We haven't done that in a 
"We've overcome a lot of Iguchi and send the crowd into while. It was good for our obstacles," Utley said, referring a frenzy. tean1." to numerous injuries that have Fans chanted "Sweep! Sweep! The Tigers began the day 4 plagued the team. "We want to Sweep!" as they left the ball­112 games behind first-place win." park. One man held a broom he Cleveland in the AL Central and 
Mets nemesis Pat Burrell sneaked in. three back in the wild-card homered twice. Hyan Howard chase. and Aaron Howand also con­Tigers 6, Royals 1 "I think we have a great nected for the Phillies, who Magglio Ordonez is much chance to make the playoffs," wasted leads of 5-0 and 8-5 more interested in the American Detroit manager Jim Leyland 
AP before falling behind 10-8 in the League standings than the bat­said. "I think we've got a shot. eighth. That's when the Mets ting race. Whv not? There are a lot of called on Wagner, who hadn't Ordonez homered and got games to be played yet. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Buffalo Wild Wings is now hiring servers at both downtown & Grape Rd. locations. 574-232-2293 or 574-272-9464. Ask for manager or apply in person. 
Notre Dame items. Rockne. Leahy, Ara, Holtz. Helmets. Uniforms, Footballs. Old Programs & Tickets. Call 574-257-0039 or 574-277-NDND 
SOCCER REFEREES-needed for southside elementary school. Located near Erskine Golf Course on M1ami St. $35/per game. Call athletic director at 574-291-4200. 
FoR SALE 
Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun-room great SB neighborhood $93,000 call 269-445-2765. 
4 bdrm,2.5 ba home at 4210 Cross Creek Dr. Great corner lot on a cui­de-sac w/big deck & fenced-in yard. 10 min. to ND. The MLS #is 219961 or www.Kristinperk.com. Or call Kristin at574-274-2104 today. 
3 bdrm,2 full BA ranch at 52233 Ironwood Rd. Many updates. New flooring in kitchen & FR & newer cherry cabinets w/granite countertops & stainless steel appli­ances,glass-enclosed porch and 2­car garage. Just min. to NO. The MLS #to see on line is218253. For more info, please call Kristin Perkins at 574-274-2104 today or visit me at www.kristinperk.com 
Very nice 3 BR 2 BA ranch at 1213 Climbing Rose Ln in Mishawaka, IN. Easy 12-15 min. drive to ND. Fenced back yard, full basement w/egress window & large eat-in kitchen. Home is only 4 yrs. old. Call Judy Allie at 574-220-9043 for your private showing today. MLS # is 220031. 
FOR SALE · 4BR, 2.5 Bath, 2800 SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to ND. $217,500 243-1953 
Apt. complex. Ten 1-bdrm furnished units. Ready to rent. 4 mi to ND. Great investment, great tax write off or convert to condos. Call Larry 574-257-0039 or 57 4-255-9363. 
ND Collectibles Largest one of a kind selection for sale i.e. Rockne photos, Heisman autographs, old tickets, pins, helmets, jerseys, 1973/1977 team-signed footballs. Visit College Football Hall of Fame on Friday or Augies Locker Room on Sat & Sun, South Bend Ave. (SR 23), north of Linebacker across from Martins. Caii574-277-NDND or 257-0039. 
3Br-2.5Ba Ranch-fin bsmt-2 car gar-Lg fencd bkyd-32x20 deck­21x12 MBR-much more-Granger­574-243-3344. 
Prudential One Realty Lois McKinley 574-235-3278 (3BR. 5min to airport-20min. to ND $79,800) 3BR all garage­4min to ND $48,000. 

FoR RENT 

LODGING FOR FOOTBALL 
GAMES Visit 

www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast 
Accommodations. 

Non-smoking, Private Baths, 
Full Breakfasts. 

House for rent. 1 blk to ND. 1205 
N.St. Louis. 232-0875. 

House for rent. Walk to Campus. 3bdr. Washer/dryer, Landlord does yardwork. $750/mo. 574-250-1266. 
Fum. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. ND home games. Right next to ND. 574-273-3030 ask for Pat. 
AVAILABLE -ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS. (Thurs-Sat). Adorable 2 BDRM, 1.5 BA home in Excellent area, only 5 min. to ND. LVGRM + 
FAMRM & Screened-in Porch. No Smokers! Security Deposit. 574­360-8240.Furnished, 1 bdrm apt., 2 mi. to NO, AC, non-smoker, no pets. $450/mo + utilities, free laundry. fenced yard. 574-289-9365. 
Bed & Breakfast lodging w/alum family for ND home games. Great rates & nice accommodations. 574-243-2628. 
Furnished house for rent. 15 min. to ND. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4 mile to lake. Game wkends or whole year. Students welcome. 574-288-2726. 4BR ranch. Walk to ND. Fenced back yard. Appliances incl. 1219 N. Twyckenham. $936/mo. 574-231-0967. 
1 bedroom apt. for rent. Less than 15 min. from campus. 1 ,2 or 3 nights $500 for 2 people. $100 each additional person. 574-310-1904. 
1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet neighborhood. 1 milo ND. Laundry included. $400/mo. Call574-532-8718. 
TICKETS 
WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. www. victorytickets.com 
Want USC tix & will trade other games for USC. Call 574-276-8507. 
ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 57 4-288-2726. 
PERSONAL 
LASER CREATIONS Unique Products Thru Laser Technology. Laser etched logo gifts. signs, award plaques. name tags, rubber stamps, glass etching, etc. Call Jack 574-273-8662 or email: lasercr@comcast.net 






OUND THE NATION 
Friday, August 31, 2007 CoMPilED FROM THE OnsERVER'S \!\fiRE SERVICES page 19 
TENNIS 

College Football Polls 
AP Coaches 
tAam 
team 

1 usc (62) usc {45) 1 2 LSU (2) LSU (4) 2 3 West Virginia (1) Florida (9) 3 4 Texas Tex:as 4 5 Michigan Michigan (2) 5 6 Florida West Virginia 6 7 Wisconsin Wisconsin 7 8 Oklahoma Oklahoma 8 9 Virginia Tech Virginia Tech 9 10 Louisville Ohio State 10 11 Ohio Stale Louisville 11 12 California California 12 13 Georgia Georgia 13 14 UCLA Auburn 14 15 Tennessee Tennessee 15 16 Rutgers Rutgers 16 17 Penn Slate UCLA .17 18 Auburn Penn State 18 19 Florida State Nebraska 19 20 Nebraska Arkansas 20 21 Arkansas Florida State 21 22 TCU TCU 22 23 Hawaii Boise State 23 24 Boise State Ha~ii 24 25 TexasA&M TexasA&M 25 
NCAA Men's Soccer 
Coaches Poll 
team 
1 UCSB (B) 2 UCLA (7) 3 Duke (1) 4 Wake Forest 5 Virginia 6 Santa Clara 
7 Indiana 8 SMU 9 Maryland 1 0 NOTRE DAME 11 Calilornia 12 New Mexico 13 St.John's 14 North Carolina 15 Connecticut 16 West Virginia 17 Creighton 18 Washington 19 Northwestern 20 Saint louis 21 Clemson 22 Old Dominion 23 Harvard 24 UNC Greensboro 25 Lehigh 


around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Washington at Syracuse 8 p.m., ESPN 
WNBA Indiana at Detroit 8 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB Astros at Cubs 1:20 p.m., WGN 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -As a kid, Andy Roddick was hard­pressed to come up with a better birthday treat than going to the U.S. Open with his mom. At 9, he was thrilled to be on the scene while Jimmy Connors made a stirring run to the semifinals. 
''I'd get here for the first match, and I wouldn't Rleave till it was over. Those are probably my fondest memories, just sneaking into the nose­bleed sections," Roddick recalled Thursday. "I actually snuck into the players' lounge one time and stole a cheesecake." 
He still comes to Flushing Meadows at birthday time, nowadays as a competitor -and with a certain James Scott Connors tagging along as his coach. 
Roddick turned 25 on Thursday and marked the occasion by reaching the 
U.S. Open's third round, although not before losing the opening set and mov­ing on when his opponent, Jose Acasuso of Argentina, quit after the third because of a left knee injury. 
"That's the good thing about Grand Slams: You get in the grind, and who­ever doesn't mind the grind wins," Connors said after watching the match through silver wrap­around sunglasses. "The way Andy played today, especially in the second and third sets, is always good. As long as he's play­ing the right kind of ten­nis, that's all that counts." 
A trainer came out to wrap white tape above Acasuso's left knee after the second set, then added another bandage below the knee at the next changeover. By the end, he was as stiff and creaky as the Tin Man in "The Wizard of Oz," barely bending or moving at all, and the score was 4-6, 6­1, 6-2 when Acasuso decided he couldn't con­tinue. 
"I don't think you like winning matches like that," the No. 5-seeded Roddick said. "But at the end of the day, your goal is to get through." 
In other words: no com­plaints. Same for Donald Young, the 18-year-old Chicago native who was 0-11 in tour-level matches until last week and never had won a Grand Slam match until this week. 
Now he's in the Open's third round, and he didn't have to lift a racket Thursday, because his scheduled opponent, No. 13 Richard Gasquet, with­drew, citing a viral infec­tion. 
IN BRIEF 

Ga_y _sets meet record in 
20UM 

SAKA, Japan -Tired and sore, Tyson Gay didn't have energy left to celebrate completing one of the most impressive sprint doubles in the his­tory of the world track and field championships. 
"This was the hardest race of my life," he said. "I couldn't think or nothing. 
"I really couldn't put my arms up to celebrate. I couldn't even really jog on my victory lap." 
The latest dominant American sprinter pulled away from Jamaican Usain Bolt down the straightaway to win the 200 meters Thursday in 
19.76 seconds, breaking the meet record of 19.79 set 12 years ago by American Michael Johnson in Goteborg, Sweden. 
"Tyson is the man to beat right now hands down. He just proved it," bronze medalist Wallace Spearman said. 
Irish football star caught in 
dogfighting scandal 
DUBLIN, Ireland -A star of Ireland's Gaelic football league was exposed Thursday as a director of an illegal dog-fighting club, an under­ground gambling activity that has wrecked the reputation and career of Atlanta Falcons football player Michael Vick. 
The 17 -month undercover investi­gation by BBC Northern Ireland's "Spotlight" program, broadcast Thursday night, found evidence of 15 illegal dog-fighting operations in the British territory of 1. 7 million peo­ple. 
The program secretly filmed Gerard Cavlan, a 31-year-old mem­ber of the County Tyrone Gaelic foot­ball team, discussing his ownership of more than a dozen dogs _ and bragging about how one "hard­mouthed dog" gripped another in its jaws. 
"Sure he had him in the chest, and he shook him and he shook him for 25 minutes," Cavlan said during a conversation filmed covertly in his vehicle.h 
Tiger roars back after week­
long hiatus 
ORTON, Mass. -The crowd fol­lowing Tiger Woods around the TPC Boston grew steadily throughout the morning sunshine until it lined the length of the 18th fairway as he finished his pro-am Thursday at the Deutsche Bank Championship. 

Woods skipped the first round of the PGA Tour Playoffs last week at -­Westchester, saying his body and mind needed a brief vacation after back-to-hack victories in stifling heat, the second title coming at the PGA Championship. 
He looked plenty refreshed on the refurbished TPC Boston during the pro-am round, playing without a bogey and without much effort on his way to a 63. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 31, 2007 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Boise State extends winning streak to 14 games 
well they came out." endzone."
Associated Press 

Just about the only thing that Tharp, who took over·for BOISE, Idaho -Yes, Boise didn't go right for the Broncos Jared Zabransky, directed five State ran a trick play. came at the end of their eighth more touchdown drives before 
Coming off an undefeated drive, when they were finally the half for the defending season, the No. 24 Broncos ran stopped on fourth-and-goal Western Athletic Conference their winning streak to 14 from the 1 with the second champions. games -the longest in major quarter winding down. "I felt good out there," he college football -and even The overmatched Wildcats said. "We're still explosive, and dipped into the bag of tricks picked up just two first downs we have a lot of good players." that helped them upset in the first half, fumbling the Tharp led another touchdown Oklahoma in the Fiesta Bowl ball away on their next play on drive to start the second half, last season, beating Weber both occasions. making it 56-0 with 10:49 to go State 56-7 on Thursday in the "We wanted to come out and in the third quarter. He left the season opener for both teams. look fresh and fast," said game after completing 14 of 19 
Ian Johnson ran for 129 Weber State coach Ron passes for 184 yards and a yards and three touchdowns McBride. "But what we looked touchdown. and Taylor Tharp was steady in was tired and slow. I've never "He's a little different from Z his f'irst start at quarterback, been so disappointed in my life. [Zabransky]." Johnson said. "Z leading Boise State to touch­Boise State has now won 52 is a little more animated, but downs on its lirst seven posses­of its last 54 games on its home he went out and took control of sions and a 49-0 blue turf. that huddle. He was leading us. lead at halftime. Tharp, a sen­He was telling us everything we 
But the first ior, appeared needed to hear." touchdown had poised and stur­Johnson, who proposed to
''I've never been 
everybody dy, throwing the former cheerleader Chrissy
so disappointed
rernnrnbnring ball away when Popadics on the field immedi­that night in in my life." necessary and ately after scoring the 2-point January. hanging in the conversion that clinched the Wide receiver pocket to deliver Fiesta Bowl, sat out the entire
Ron McBride
Vinny Perretta, a 53-yard touch­second half. quarter when Jimmy Barnes hit br-fore the game, and it doesn't 
Weber State coach
who threw for a down pass to He did enough damage over Bryant Eteuati with a 21-yard get much better once the game score in the Titus Young just the first 30 minutes, his longest touchdown pass to make it 56-starts." Fiesta Bowl, before getting run coming late in the first 7. Boise State rushed for 386 lined up at hit. Tharp was quarter when he scurried By then, any nervousness that yards and seven touchdowns, quarterback on third-and goal slow getting up, and Petersen around the left side and cut up Peterson had about the season while limiting Weber State to from the 7 and ran up the mid­checked on him with a look of field, easily accelerating away opener had probably dissipat­74 yards. The Broncos threw dle for a touchdown. concern as Tharp walked off from defenders for a 54-yard ed. for another 199 while the 
"I was surprised how well the field. touchdown run that gave the "I was thinking about that Wildcats passed for 71. Boise they executed on both sides of "I kind of just chucked it and Broncos a 28-0 lead. before the game, and going, State ended up with 30 first the ball," said second-year got hit and got the wind Weber State, out of the 'Was I feeling like this last downs to Weber State's eight. Boise State coach Chris knocked out of me," Tharp Football Championship year?"' Peterson said. "I wasn't "This game we dominated," Petersen. "With as many nnw said. "But it doesn't hurt as Subdivision (formerly 1-AA) Big feeling good going into tonight said Broncos safety Marty guys as there were getting into much when you look up and Sky Conference, got on the because of so much uncertain­Tadman. "That's all I can say the mix, I was surprised how see your guy running into the board with 3:40 left in the third ty. It's a very painful time about it, We dominated." 

Fall 2007 ScheduJe 

Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some ofthe most pressing issues ofour times. 
~ 9/01-Georgia Tech "Why is Goethe's Faust the Greatest Work ofGerman Literature?" Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor ofArts and Letters 

"Why is Goethe's Faust ~ 9/22-Michigan State 
"Health Care Reforms: An Economist's Assessment"
the GreatestWork of 
William Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Economics
German Literature?" 
~ 10/13-Boston College "Global Ireland: From Celtic Twilight to Celtic Tiger" Luke Gibbons, Professor ofEnglish 
~ 10/20-USC "Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam" Asma Afsaruddin, Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies
Vittorio Hosie 
~ 11/03-NavyPaul G. Kimball Professor "Cops, Protest, and Rioting" Daniel Myers, Professor ofSociology
ofArts and Letters 
~~~ 11/10-Air Force
~­

"Theological Bur Nor Religious: The Case ofJohn Milron" Stephen Fallon, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
~ 11/17-Duke "Words and Music, Music and Words: The Songs of Franz Schubert" Susan Youens, J.W. Van Gorkom Professor of Music
12:00 Noon 
Saturday, September 1, 2007 3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted).Annenberg Auditorium, For more information, visit http:/ Isaturdayscholar.nd.edu 
Snite Museum ofArt 
UNIVERSITY OF 


NOTRE DAME 

Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Brees has good control of dangerous offense 
Efficient preseason bodes well for Saints 

Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS -Rookie Tyler Palko has been learning the Sainl<;' vaunted offense by study­ing starling quarterback Drew Brees' game film from last sea­son. 
Along the way, he's noticed sonwthing that might serve as a warning to defenses all across the NFL. 
"From what I saw with Drew last year on film to how he's operating now in the preseason, he's head and shoulders above what he was," Palko said. "When things are clicking, especially with someone like Drew, you can't be stopped, you can only stop yourself, and that's a fun offense to play in." 
Palko's observations would be onr1 thing if Brees was coming off a mediocre season. But Brees was the runner-up for MVP in 2006 after leading the NFL in passing. 
The Saints' starter, who threw for 4.418 yards and 26 touch­downs last season, is now more than a year removed from com­plicated throwing shoulder sur­gery. !lis arm has looked much stronger throughout the presea­son than it did a year ago, while his comfort with coach Sean Payton's versatile offense appar­ently has improved. 
He completed 90 percent of his passes (35-for-39) to numerous wide receivers, tight ends and running backs during his last three appearances in preseason games, then shrugged off those performances with seemingly no intention of patting himself on the back. 
"I think it's what you expect," Brees said. "In the preseason, you want to look efficient and sharp. That's obviously what I've tried to do." 
In improving from 3-13 in 2005 to a playofl' worthy 10-6 last sea­son. the Saints were fortunate not to have too many injuries at kny positions. If Brees went down. for example, it could be disastrous. 
But in good health, the league's leading offense in 2006 may be even better now. 
Reggie Bush had a tremendous last few months of his rookie sea­son, scoring nine touchdowns in his final seven games. He report­ed for training camp confident and fit, eager to join veteran run­ning back Deuce McAllister in a dynamic backfield that can pun­
ish defenses with power and speed. 
"Both of those guys appreciate what each other brings to the table. I think they both are guys that put the team first and they both want to see us be success­ful," Payton said. "The objective is for us to score enough points to win games. There's a flow to game sometimes that might fea­ture one more than the other. I think there are enough touches and I think there was a year ago for both of those guys to be effec­tive." 
Receiver Marques Colston, one year ago a little-known seventh­round pick from Hofstra, returns primed for a Pro Bowl season as the Saints' No. 1 receiver. The 6­foot-4 playmaker has bulked up by about 10 pounds in the weight room, surpassing 230. He'll be joined by returning starter and big-play threat Devery Henderson, along with veteran David Patten, who may have won the No. 3 receiving job with a strong preseason. 
And a new receiving threat has arrived in tight end Eric Johnson, who when healthy was among the most productive members of San Francisco's passing game. 
Meanwhile, the Saints' defense, which wasn't dominant but held the fort by making clutch stops, should be stronger and deeper. 
The Saints preserved the strength of their defense by extending the contract of defen­sive end Charles Grant, who worked effectively last season with fellow end Will Smith in the pass rush. 
And after last season's success, Payton, the reigning NFL Coach of the Year, didn't have to do much of a sales job to attract free agents. Linebacker Brian Simmons, safety Kevin Kaesviharn and defensive tackle Kendrick Clancy wanted to be in New Orleans, where they're all expected to contribute. Clancy, who was a starter for most of last season in Arizona, has so far unseated Hollis Thomas for a starting job. 
"I think players in our league look for destinations where they can win and places where the lit is right," Payton said. "Part of it is related to the contract and money. But hopefully, we contin­ue to become a place where guys look at, players, coaches or any­one for that matter, as a good spot to work in as an organiza­tion that's a winner." 
LPGA 

Steinhauer leads Classic 
Defending champion Sorenstam finishes day 4 shots back of lead 
Associated Press 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill. -U.S. Solheim Cup player Sherri Steinhauer shot a 5-under 67 in windy conditions Thursday to take a one-stroke lead in the LPGA State Farm Classic, while Annika Sorenstam was four shots back in defense of her last tour title. 
Steinhauer, the last of the 10 automatic qualifiers for the U.S. team for the Sept. 14-16 matches against Europe in Sweden, had five birdies in her bogey-free round on the Panther Creek Country Club course. Winless since the 2006 Women's British Open, Steinhauer played alongside Solheim Cup teammate Angela Stanford 
(72). 
"I think we do consider our­selves teammates out there and we're pulling for each other ... And we were talking about some things with Solheim out there today, and we're just really looking for­ward to the competition," said the 44-year-old Steinhauer, making her 20th appearance in the tournament. 

Sorenstam, the winner last year at the Rail Golf Club, had two birdies and a bogey in a round of 71. On Saturday, Sorenstam announced that she's marrying Mike McGee, her boyfriend of two years. It will be the second marriage for the 36-year-old Swede, who filed for divorce from David Esch in February 2005. 
"I think I played really well today," Sorenstam said. "I hit 16 greens and didn't miss any fairways, so I think I played very, very solid. I had a lot of chances and had a lot of looks out there. If that is any indi­cation of how I'm going to play the next few months I'm happy about it. I'm just going to go out there tomorrow and continue what I'm doing and hopefully it works out." 
Last season at Rail, Sorenstam won the last of her 69 LPGA Tour titles, closing with a 10-under 62 to match the lowest final-round score by a tournament winner in tour history. The tournament moved to Panther Creek this year after 31 seasons at Rail. 
"I thought today was tougher than the practice round and the pro-am," Sorenstam said. "The wind picked up and the ball trav­eled to different places. The greens are getting llrmer and the fairway is getting llrmer." 
Japanese star Ai Miyazato and Marcy Hart opened with 68s. 
"It was very windy today," Miyazato said. "I just tried to make one shot at a time. I had good concentration today, . so I feel very satisfied." 






AlPHABETICAl UST OF ClUBS AND ORGANinlTIONS 
200 Academtc Competition Club 510 Handball Choir, The Notre Dame 232 Pre-Law Society 201 Accounting Association, Notre Dame 511 Harmonia 233 Pre-Professional Society/AMSA 202 Actuarial Science Club 410 Hawaii Club -Na Pua Kai 'Ewalu 234 Pre-Vet Club, University of Notre Dame 109 Adworks 217 Health Occupations Students of America 734 Progressive Student Alliance 700 Africa Faith &Justice Network 218 Hispanic Business Student Association of Notre Dame 517 Project Fresh 400 African Students Association 219 History Club 235 Psychology Club, Notre Dame 203 Africana Studies 716 Human Rights, Notre Dame 735 Ranger Challenge Team (AROTC) 701 Agora, The 512 Humor Artists of the University of Notre Dame du Lac 236 Real Estate Investment 702 Amateur Radio Club of Notre Dame 310 Ice Hockey Team, Women's 736 Right To Life, Notre Dame 204 American Chemical Society, ND Chapter of Student Affiliates of the 717 Identity Project of Notre Dame 313 Rowing Club, Notre Dame 205 American Institute of Aeronautics &Astronautics, Notre Dame 411 Indian Association of Notre Dame 314 Rugby Football Club 206 American Institute of Chemical Engineers 220 Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 315 Running Club, Women's 207 American Society of Civil Engineers 221 Investment Club of Notre Dame du Lac 422 Russian Club 
American Society of Mechanical Engineers/ 513 Irish Dance Club, The 316 Sailing Club, Notre Dame
208 
Society of Automotive Engineers 

110 Irish Gardens 518 Saint Edward's Hall Players
209 Anthropology Club, Notre Dame 

718 Irish Marauders Drill Team 106 Scholastic Magazine
401 Asian American Association of Notre Dame 114 Irish Rover 237 Science Business Club, Notre Dame402 Asian International Society 
719 Iron Sharpens Iron 737 Scrabble Club
500 Bagpipe Band, University of Notre Dame 

412 Italian Club 738 Shades of Ebony
501 Ballet Folklorico Azul y Oro 

413 Japan Club 317 Ski Club/Team, Notre Dame
502 Ballroom Dance Club, ND/SMC 720 Jewish Club of Notre Dame 739 Social Justice in American Medicine703 Baptist Collegiate Ministry 

222 Joint Engineering Council, Notre Dame 238 Society of Women Engineers
210 Beta Alpha Psi 

107 Juggler, The 239 Sociology Club
503 Big Yellow Taxi 414 Korean Student Association 740 Sorin Rifle Team-Army ROTC211 Biology Club 415 La Alianza 423 Spanish Club, University of Notre Dame403 Black Cultural Arts Council 

223 Lambda Alpha Honors Society in Anthropology 318 Squash Club, Notre Dame
300 Bowling Club 416 Le Cercle Francais 741 Student Arts Society of Notre Dame301 Boxing Club. Notre Dame Men's 224 League of Black Business Students 240 Student Association lor Women in Architecture302 Boxing Club. Notre Dame Women's 

721 Leprechaun Legion 100 Student Government
404" Bra~il Club of Notre Dame 

722 Linux Users Group, Notre Dame 241 Student International Business Council704 Campus Fellowship of the Holy Spirit 514 Liturgical Choir, Notre Dame 519 Student Players, The Notre Dame405 Caribbean Student Organization of the University of Notre Dame 
225 Management Club 101 Student Union Board
705 Chess Club 

226 Management Information Systems Club. Notre Dame 242 Students for New Urbanism
706 Children's Defense Fund 227 Marketing Club, UNO Undergraduate 742 Sustained Dialogue at Notre Dame406 Chinese Culture Society 

311 Martial Arts Institute, Notre Dame 520 Swing Club
504 Chorale. Notre Dame 

417 MEChAdeND 243 Tau Beta Pi
104 Class of 2009 (Junior Class Council) 

723 Mediaeval Society of Our Lady of the Lake 424 Texas Club, The
103 Class of 2010 (Sophmore Class Council) 

228 Mexican American Engineers & Scientists/Society of Hispanic Prof. 113 The Observer
303 Climbing Club 

724 Militia of the Immaculata, Notre Dame 743 The Risk Club
900 Club CoordinatJon Council 

229 Minority Pre-Medical Society 112 TheShirt
707 College Democrats 

725 Mock Trial Association 105 The Show
708 College Libertarians of Ulrersity of Notre Dame 
726 Model United Nations Club, Notre Dame 521 Troop Notre Dame
709 College Republicans, University of Notre Dame 230 Mu Alpha Theta, Notre Dame 319 Ultimate Frisbee Club, Notre Dame 
...
710 Communion and liberation 

727 Muslim Student Association 522 Unchained Melodies
212 Computer Club, Notre Dame 728 Mustard 244 Undergraduate Women in Business505 Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora, El 

ens

418 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, ND 744 University Young Life
304 Cycling Club, Notre Dame 

I CJ

419 Native American Student Association of Notre Dame 425 Vietnamese Student Association of Notre Dame506 Dance Company 729 ND for Animals 523 Voices of Faith Gospel Choir, University of Notre Dame 
,......
111 Debate Team 925 NDTV, Student Broadcasting of Notre Dame 320 Volleyball Club -Men's, Notre Dame711 Detachment 225 AFROTC 

515 Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Company 745 Wabruda, The
108 Dome Yearbook 

730 Orestes Brownson Council on Catholicism and American Politics 321 Water Polo Club, Men's
213 Economics Club 

420 Organizacion Latino Americana 322 Water Polo Club, Women's
214 Entrepreneur Club 

731 Orthodox Christian Fellowship Club of Notre Dame 245 Women in Politics
305 Equestrian Club 

516 Pasquerilla East Musical Company 524 Women's Liturgical Choir
507 Farley Hall Players 732 Peace Fellowship -Notre Dame 323 World Taekwondo Federation Club712 Feminist Voice 

733 Perspectives 920 WSND-FM
306 Field Hockey Club. Notre Dame 

421 Polish Club, Notre Dame 905 WVFI 
307 Figure Skating Club, Notre Dame 312 Porn Pon Squad, University of Notre Dame713 Filii Mariae/Ch,ldren of Mary 231 Pre-Dental Society

407 Filipino American StudetOrganization of Notre Dame 215 Finance Club of Notre Dame dulac 
SOCIAl SERVICE ClUBS &lOCAl SERVICE AGENCIES
508 First Class Steppers of Notre Dame 714 FlipSide 600 AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist 625 Knights of Columbus. Notre Dame Council, No. 1477 308 Fly Fishing Club, Notre Dame 601 Alliance To Lead And Serve 626 La Casa De Amistad 216 Forum on Biomedtcal Ethics. Notre Dame 602 American Red Cross 627 LaSalle Council 102 Freshman Class CounciVJudicial Council 603 Best Buddies 628 LEAD-ND 408 Gaelic Society of the University of Notre Dame 604 Boys and Girls Club 629 Life Treatment Centers 409 German Club 605 Campus Girl Scouts -ND/SMC 630 Little Flower Catholic Church 715 Glass Club 606 Center for the Homeless 631 logan Community Resources 
.. 

309 Gymnastics Club NDSMC 607 Children's Dtspensary, Inc. 632 Logan Recreation Club 509 Halftime 608 Circle K, Notre Dame 633 Milton Adult Day Services 
.2 

609 College Mentors for Kids 634 Ms. Wizard Day Program Team 
c:n

SPECIAl GUESTS 610 Dismas House 635 Operation Smile Student Organization 
c 

915 Alliance for Catholic Education 611 Demers Mentoring Kids 636 Real Services 909 Athletic Promotions 612 El Campito, Inc. 637 Reins of Life, Inc. ·-~ 921-924 Campus Ministry 613 Experiential Learning Council 638 Robinson Community Center/Take Ten 0 916 Career Center 614 Family Justice Center of St. Joseph County 639 SBCSC PartnerUp/Read to a Child 
0 

910-913 Center for Social Concerns 615 First Aid Services Team, University of Notre Dame 640 Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulois Chapter) 
... 

917 Core Council for Gay and Lesbtan Students 616 First Book Advisory Board 641 Slice of Life ND 914 Educational Talent Search 617 Foodshare 642 SOS of Madison Center 904 First Aid Services Team 618 Freedom 22 Foundation 643 Special Friends Club of Notre Dame 919 Gender Relations Center 619 Friends of L'Arche 644 Students lor Environmental Action mDENT ACTIYmEB 


903 Legends of Notre Dame 620 Habitat for Humanity. Notre Dame 645 Super Sibs 918 Office of Alcohol and Drug Education/PILLARS 621 Healthwin 646 Trident Naval Society 907-908 RecSports 622 Helpful Undergraduate Students 647 United Religious Community 
SAD

901-902 Student Activities Office 623 Indiana Legal Services 648 Women's Care Center 906 Undergraduate Admissions Office 624 Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids 649 World Hunger Coalition 
IAD.ND.EDU 

Friday August 31, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MLB 

Aaron feels n1essage to Bonds is adequate 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE In Milwaukee, at least, Hank Aaron remains baseball's home run king. 
Aaron received that esteemed -if now outdated -introduc­tion as he and several other members of the 1957 Milwaukee Braves came to Miller Park on Thursday for a 50-year reunion of their World Series victory. 
While Aaron wasn't willing to hit the road to follow Barry Bonds' pursuit of his career home run record earlier this month, he was thrilled to travel back to Milwaukee to reunite with his former teammates. 
"I am very much enjoying this," Aaron said. "As I men­tioned before, some of these guys I haven't seen for a long time and I wanted to see them." 
Aaron originally said his reluctance to go see Bonds break his record in person was because he was getting older ­hn's 73-and simply didn't like to travel. 
But on Thursday, Aaron said that by not following Bonds around the country, he also could avoid answering ques­tions about whether he suspect­ed that Bonds' achievements came with the help of perform­ance-enhancing drugs -and whether that would taint the record. 
"I guess I kind of stayed out of that, really," Aaron said. "Because I didn't want to get involved. For seven or eight years, I went through a thing where people were talking about all of the other things. 
"If I had decided that I was going to go and follow Barry, or do anything like that, then peo­ple were going to start talking about steroids, and I didn't want to get into that. I didn't want to, didn't have to, so I kind of avoided it." 
Feeling he needed to do something to acknowledge Bonds breaking the record, Aaron recorded a short video tribute that was played on the scoreboard after Bonds hit his record-breaking 756th home run Aug. 7 -a solution that, at least in Aaron's mind. was the best way to bring closure to the situation. 
"I thought it was," Aaron said. "I certainly wasn't going· to fly to San Francisco or fly to Chic~go or anywhere else to be with anybody. I didn't think I had to. Because I wasn't pre­pared to answer all these ques­tions that people were going to have." 
Aaron said that no matter how he reacted publicly to Bonds breaking the record, he was "damned if you do, damned if you don't." 
But above all, he didn't want people to think he was resent­ful. 
"That's not true," Aaron said. "''ve said many times, records are made to be broken. I con­gratulated Barry, and that's enough." 
And with that, Aaron left to join his former teammates for a photo opportunity at a small Braves monument by the youth baseball field adjacent to Miller Park. 
The '57 Braves beat the New York Yankees in seven games in the World Series, and the city of Milwaukee hasn't seen much baseball success since. 
The Braves moved to Atlanta in 1966. The Brewers have made one trip to the World Series, in 1982. 
With the current Brewers team struggling to stay in con­tention in the NL Central race, the consensus among Aaron and the Braves' other stars seemed to be that the young Brewers are still a year away. 
"I've been watching this club," Aaron said. "It's just a young club. I think it's going to take another year before they really get to where they're probably going to be sure of themselves, and I think they're going to be all right." 
Del Crandall, a catcher for the Braves and former manager of the Brewers, said he couldn't offer much in the way of advice. 
"You have a very young ball­club here, and you've had prob­lems with your pitching," Crandall said. "And I don't think anything is going to do them any good except experi­ence, and they will probably all be much, much better [next year]. Everybody would like to win. We couldn't win in 1956. We weren't ready to win." 
After a strong start early in the season, the Brewers have hit an extended slump and went into Thursday night's game in Chicago 1 1/2 games behind the first-place Cubs. 
"Now, can they handle defeat after winning? Can they recover fast enough to make the next run, is going to be the ques­tion," former Braves outfielder Wes Covington said. 


Ken David Watercolors 
SCENES INCLUDE: THE GOLDEN DOME A DORM THE STADIUM THEGROTIO AND 43 OTHER SCENES 
INCLUDING SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 


EACH HANDCOLORED PRINT COMES IN AN 11 X14 DOUBLE MAT $29.95 PLUS SHIPPING 
3680 NE 15TH TERRACE POMPANO BEACH, FL 33064 954.782.3924 
FOR COLOR PICTURES OF ALL SCENES VISIT MY STORE, stores.ebay .com/notredamecollectibles 
Satisfaction Guaranteed or your money back. 

-
page 24 
MLS 
Beckhatn could tniss retnainder of season 
Midfielder diagnosed with sprained MCL 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -David Beckham could miss the rnst of' the Los Angelns (;ataxy's season af'ter being diagnosed with a sprained right knee Thursday. 
The English midlinldnr undnr­went an MHI nxam that con-f'irmed hn sprained the Chicago on Oct. 21. 
"It's just gone from one thing to another thing," Beckham said Wednesday night. "Maybe it's time for me to just say, 'I need the rest,' and get it right and don't come back until it's right." 
lie had already been nursing 
a left ankle 
injury that 

medial collateral "Maybe il :., time eaused him to ligament in his miss seven
for me to just
knee, thn team games since said in a statn­say, '/need the joining the team ment. rest,' and get it July 13. That 
Beckham. 32. injury occurred
right and don't 
was injured in a while playing for 
come back until 
tackle with England on June Paehuea mid­it's right." 6. fielder Fernando Beckham's Salazar in the extended
David Beckham
f'irst half of absence deals a 
Wednesday Galaxy midfielder serious blow to 
night's SuperLiga title match. The (;ataxy lost 4-3 on penalty kieks. 
lie was expected to be out about six weeks, and will imme­diately lwgin rehabilitation, the
-
team said. That would place his return at mid-October, when the Galaxy would have three rngu­lar-snason games remaining ­against Toronto FC on Oct. 13, New York on Oct. 18 and at 
the already slim 
ehanee the Galaxy had of making the play­offs. Its Major League Soccer record is 3-10-5 -last in the Western Conference. 
"The biggest thing is that we're markedly better when he's on the field,'' Chris Klein said after Wednesday's loss. "Just having his presence around thn guys gives us a mueh needed boost. When he's not there, it hurts us." 

The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 31, 2007 
NCAA lACROSSE 







Nifong denies wrongdoing 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -The former prosecutor who led the now­discredited Duke lacrosse rape ease never intentionally tried to mislead the court and believnd he gave all DNA test results to defense attorneys, a lawyer for Mike Nifong said Thursday dur­ing his criminal contempt trial. 
Nifong turned over all the information during the pretrial discovery phase in his ease against three Duke lacrosse players, said his attorney, Jim Glover. And when he told a judge the defense had all the DNA test results, it was a mis­take -but little more than an oversight. 
"The question is not whether those statements Mr. Nifong made are literally true or liter­ally false," Glover told Superior Court Judge W. Osmond Smith 
III. "The question is were they willfully and intentionally false and were they also part of an effort ... to hide potentially exculpatory evidence, and that's the issue before the court." 
Defense attorneys for the three falsely accused young men asked a judge to punish Nifong for initially telling the court he had turned over all DNA test results when he knew, and failed to diselose, that genetic material from multiple men was found on the accuser -but none from any lacrosse player. 
If held in contempt, Nifong faces up to 30 days in jail and a defense all the DNA testing line of up to $500. Nifong plead­results, though he didn't always ed not guilty to the charge at know the specifies in every the start of the hearing, whieh report, Glover said. began Thursday and was to During his cross-examination resume Friday. of Bannon, Glover tried to por­
Nifong, the formnr Durham tray the initial DNA report pre­County district attorney, led the pared by lab director Brian investigation into a woman's Meehan in May 2006 as ade­allegations that she was raped quate while suggesting no addi­
at  a  Mareh  tional informa­ 
2006 lacrosse  tion would have  
team  party  "The fact is. you've  helped dear the  
where she was hin~d as a strip­per. That spring, Nifong  got nothing significantly exculpatory  pJ~~~lfS. , . I hn Iact ts, you've got noth­ing signilicantly  
secured indict­ments against H e a d e Seligmann,  beyond what you already knew from the report itself"  exculpatory beyond what you already knew from the  
Collin Finnerty  report  itself,"  
and Dave Evans for rape, kid­napping and  Jim Glover Mike Nifong's attorney  Glover said to Bannon. "That's  

sexual offense. 
A month later, Nifong learned that a private laboratory determined the genetic material found on the woman was from several men, none of whom were Duke lacriJsse players. 

But Nifong didn't provide that information to the defense until October, and only then amid nearly 2,000 pages of raw DNA test data that defense attorney Brad Bannon testified Thursday took almost all of November to decipher. 
Glover said Nifong believed he was being truthful when he told the judge he had given the 
absolutely 
falsn,'' Bannon said abruptly. "And you know it... 
Meehan, who testified later Thursday, denied that Nifong told him to withhold any excul­patory material. He said he con­sidered the DNA results provid­ed to the defense to be an "interim" report since other test specimens had yet to arrive. 
Afterward, Meehan told reporters that he ineluded all test results by referring in the report to other "non-probative" but unspecilied DNA materials -the genetic material found on the accuser. 


----~ -------------~ 
Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
Johnson shakes off rust after ending holdout 
Losman, Edwards are efficient in win over Detroit; Campbell returns from injury looking sharp and healthy 
Associated Press 
ST LOUIS -Larry Johnson got the break-in work he needed while supplying a lackluster Chiefs-Hams preseason finale with just a smidgen of star 'power. 
Johnson, who ended a 25-day holdout earlier in the month. was the only starter of substance for either team who got on the field in St. Louis' 10-3 victory Thursday night. He shook off a bit of rust, carrying three times for 12 yards at the start of the Chiefs' first drive. 
"It was good to get in the game and get a couple carries," .Johnson said. "That's the tough­est adjustment, getting back in the speed of the game and getting your timing down with your olrfmsive linemen." 
Third string quarterback Hyan Fitzpatrick threw a 20-yard touchdown pass to Marques Ilagans in the third quarter to give the Hams (2-2) a 10-0 lead. Hagans, battling for an extra reeeiving spot, had four catches li>r 53 yards. 
The Chiefs (0-4) were held to a 40-yard field goal by Justin Medlock late in the fourth quar­ter and wound up winless in the preseason, trailing the NFL with 32 points. Kansas City lost the Governor's Cup game, a contest so uninspiring that the Rams bought the final 900 tickets to ensure a sellout for only the sec­ond time in six seasons. 
The Hams figure to have a 

high-scoring offense featuring Steven Jackson and Marc Bulger, but totaled only 46 points in the preseason. Jackson, who led the NFL with 2,334 yards rushing · and receiving last year, ended the preseason with only two recep­
tions and no carries. 
After ceremonial starts the pre­

vious two games, Jackson spent 
the whole time on the sideline 
watching the Chiefs. 
The Hams gave cornerback 

Fakhir Brown a start before he 
begins a four-game suspension 
for violating the league's sub­
stance abuse policy on Friday. 
Honald Bartell, a second-round 
pick in 2005, will be making his 
first career start in place of 
Brown in the Hams' opener Sept. 
9 at home against the Carolina 
Panthers. 
Chiefs defensive end Jared 

Allen, suspended for a DUI for 
the first two games, also made 
his final appearance before an 
enforced absence. 
Bills 16, Lions 13 
Trent Edwards will watch J.P. 

Losman take every significant 
snap, if all goes well for the 
Buffalo Bills this year. 
If it doesn't, the rookie quarter­

back hopes he can draw on expe­
rience from the exhibition sea­
son. 
Edwards directed a 90-yard 

drive that set up a tiebreaking 
field goal with 1:46 left, and Buffalo recovered a fumble on the ensuing kickoff to seal a win over the Detroit Lions on Thursday night in the preseason finale. 
"It's going to be a long stretch of sitting on the sidelines and watching, so I need to be able to use what I learned in the presea­son," Edwards said. 
Edwards was 18-of-24 for 182 yards, perhaps solidifying a job as Losman's backup ahead of Craig Nall even though coach Dick Jauron said the decision would be made soon. 
"I was really happy with Trent," Jauron said. "He's per­formed so well. He just gets a lit­tle better all the time. He's pretty good to start with, like we said when we drafted him." 
Losman was 5-for-6 over two drives. 
"I felt sharp, personally," he said. ''I'm definitely ready for next week." 
The Lions hope J.T. O'Sullivan is relegated to the sidelines this season, but like Edwards, he gained some needed experience in case Jon Kitna can't withstand 63 sacks as he did last season while taking every snap. 
Jaguars 31, Redskins 14 
Jason Campbell got a much­needed touchdown. Mark Brunell got a loud ovation. And most of the Jacksonville Jaguars got a night off. 
Campbell returned to the start-ing lineup after missing last week's game with a bruised left knee. He was 5-of-5 passing for 54 yards and a touchdown in Washington's loss to the Jaguars on Thursday night in the presea­son finale for both teams. 

Campbell played just one series, but it was exactly what the Hedskins (2-2) wanted to see from the third-year pro. Although he got hit once, he had ample time in the pocket and capped the drive with a 23-yard strike down the sideline to Antwaan Handle El. 
It was Campbell's first touch­down pass of the preseason, an encouraging sign for an ofi'ense that scored just 37 points in its first three games. 
"It couldn't be a better way for him to end the preseason," Brunell said. 
Brunell took over from there, getting plenty of playing time in his first game in Jacksonville as an opposing player. 

-
The face of the Jaguars for nine years, Brunell got a warm wel­come as he jogged onto the field. He didn't get quite the same reception when he threw a 14­yard TD pass to Ryan Hoag late in the first half to give the Redskins a 14-3 lead. 

• • • we still love you. 
We would like you to adopt Bri<3id's, Lismore and all ofthe facilities ofWaterford Estates Lod<3e as you await a new permanent home on campus in 2009. 
For University Club members, Waterford features: 
• 
Your own restaurant for breakfast -7 days/vveek 

• 
Your own restaurant t(x lunch -6 days/week 

• 
Your own restaurant for dinner -7 days/week 

• 
Your own space for meetin,gs or banquets for up to 500 people 

• 
Unlirnit:ed free parking 


• 
30% Discount on guest rooms 

• 
Complimentaty van service to/from the Circle on campus, Monday through Friday (11:30 a.m. -1:30-p.rn.) 

• 
Health club and pool privileges 

• 
25% Discount on all fc)od; 10% discount on all beverages 

• 
l'v1onthly billing to your own account 



We'll even display your stein collection until you ?1et a new horne. And, ifenough local members respond quickly, we should be able to put some ofyour previous 
staffback to work. 
Call me. 
Sincerely. 

c/l!(lkt: !B'T.t:nan 
(ND '71) \XIaterford Estates Lodge 52B!JO SR 933 North 
just north of the Notre Dame ca-mpus South Bend, IN 4(-)(-)37 (574) 272-5220 






Waterford 

estates lodge 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, August 31, 2007 

NFL Quinn keeps pushing for Brovvns starting job 
Rookie had to wait his turn, but led team on touchdown drive once he saw the field 

Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -Brady Quinn says he's ready to make an impact for tlw Clnvnland Browns and lw did in the pro­
-season finale. Wilen his next opportunity comes n~mains to be see11. The rookin from Notre Damn was el"fkient, if' unspectacular. leading tlw Browns to a touch­down in a I<J-<J vidory over thn Chicago Bears on Thursday night. Now. it's up to coach Horneo Crennel to decide if' Quinn's time is soorwr or later. Although incumbent Charlie Frye f'e1ds he did nothing to lose his job. Crennel said he won't announce the starter for the snason-operwr against Pittsburgh until rwxt week. "I think the competition has brought out the bPst in me on and ofT tlw field," Frye said. "Made me a stronger person, being able to handle diiTerent situations. It's pwilwd me." Quinn will continue to push if' Frye gets the nod. llis timH is coming for the Browns {3-11, but against tlw Bears, he had to wait a quarter. Frye played the lirst two pos­snssions, complnting two of five passes, and Derek Anderson led a lield-goal drive late in the first quarter before Quinn entered the game. The 22nd piek in the draft, he started the second and was 9-of-14 with 64 yards. lie threw an inter­ception but led a touchdown drivn. Overall, not a bad perform­ance. And not a bad preseason. Quinn was 29-of-45 with 300 yards, three touchdowns and one interception in three pre­season games, after reporting late to training camp because of a holdout. "I think I progressed," Quinn said. "1 think things went well not only for myself, but for our team, our oll'ense. We did a lot good things this preseason." It was not a good night for the Bears, who were shaky on 
-
special teams and lost rookie tight end Greg Olsen to a knee injury late in the first half. He was hurt while getting tackled after catching a short pass and will undergo an MHI. 
Chicago's Danieal Manning fumbled a kickoff near the goal line in the closing seconds of the first quarter after Anderson led the Browns to a field goal, resulting in a safety that gave 
Cleveland a 5-0 lead. Joshua 
Cribbs returrwd a punt 70 
yards for the game's first 
touchdown early in the second 
quartnr. And Quinn led a 50­
yard drive on the Browns' next 
possession that e rHI B d with 
Jnronw IIarrison carrying it in 
from thn 1 . 
Bears starting quarterback 
Hex Grossman left after the 
lirst possession _ a three-and­
out alTair in which he cornplet­
od a pass to Olsen for no gain. 
Cedric Benson had one carry 
for 2 yards. 
Brian Griese came in and 
completed one of three passes 
-a 12-yarder -bnfore giving 
way to Kyle Orton to start the 
second quarter. 
Pro Bowl defensive tackle 
Tommie Harris started for the 
Bears af'ter missing the first 
three preseason games while 
recovering from a season-end­
ing hamstring injury. 
"What did I accomplish in two series?" llarris said, repeating a question. "Just get­ting a feel of preparing for a game, staying at the hotel. get­ting my mind right for the game. I wanted to do that and not go to San Diego (for the season-opener) ... and have to do that for the first time." 
Otherwise, it was an unevent­ful conclusion to a difficult week for the Bears (3-1 ), one that began with linebacker Lance Briggs leaving his Lamborghini alongside a high­way after he crashed it early Monday morning. 
The Bears now can turn their attention toward their NFC title defense. They figure to be test­ed in the opener against the Chargers, where former defen­sive coordinator Ron Rivera is coaching linebackers. 
''I'm excited about using the experience I have from last year, starting 19 games, and hopefully that shows," Grossman said. 
Frye completed a 16-yard pass to Braylon Edwards on the game's first play from scrim­mage but did little else. Anderson was 6-of-9 for 53 yards-21 coming on a pass to Cribbs that set up the 24-yard field goal by Phil Dawson. 
Then, it was Quinn's turn. 
He was 4-of-4 for 27 yards on that touchdown drive as the Browns' lead grew to 19-0. 
"Really across the board, every position was just amaz­ing," Quinn said. "I think you can truly see that. 
MLB 

Rays complete rare sweep 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -The Tampa 
Bay Devil Rays finally found a 
city they didn't want to leave. 
The Baltimore Orioles could­
n't wait to get out of town. 
The Devil Hays completed 
their lirst road sweep in more 
than two years, getting a three­
run homer from ILl. Upton in 
an S-6 victory over Baltimore 
on Thursday night that extend­
ed the Orioles' losing streak to 
nine games. 
Josh Wilson and Akinori 
Iwamura also homered for the 
Devil Hays, who trailed in all 
three games of the series. 
Tampa Bay's last road sweep 
came in Cleveland on Aug. 12­
14, 2005, and tho Devil Hays 
hadn't won three straight on 
the road since September of the 
same season. 
"We talked earlier about fin­
ishing strong, and certainly to 
come out and get these three 
games ... it certainly sets us on 
the right track," Wilson said as 
the Devil Hays packed for a trip 
to Yankee Stadium. 
"Now we go into Nnw York," 
Wilson said, "and hopefully 
we'll play them tough and get 
on our way to finishing the sea­
son the way we want to and 
take it into next year." 
Nick Markakis and Kevin 
Millar homered for the Orioles, 
who won the opener of a 10­
game homestand before a 30-3 
loss to Texas began tho skid on 
the same day the team 
announced manager Dave 
Trembley would return in 
2008. 
It's enough to make a team 
want to go to Fenway Park for 
a thrne-game series against the 
AL East-leading Boston Hed 
Sox. 
"Yl~ah, maybe we'll start a winning streak in Boston," Trembley said. "That's the mind-set you've got to have. I don't think there's any other way to look at it. What's done is done." 
It was the worst 10-game homestand in Orioles history, surpassing a 2-8 mark in September 1987. Baltimore surrendered 100 runs to Texas, Minnesota and Tampa Bay­the most the Orioles have ever yielded in a 10-game stretch. 
Baltimore has been outscored 98-3S during the nine-game losing streak, which matches a season high. The last time it happened, in mid-June, the Orioles fired manager Sam Perlozzo after the run reached eight. 
Although the bullpen has received much of the blame for the current slide, Baltimore failed in the clutch Thursday, going 2-for-14 with runners in scoring position. 
"We had some chances to do some things and blow it open," Trembley said, "and we didn't." 
Tampa Bay starter Scott Kazmir (11-8) allowed five runs, four earned, in five innings. He struck out live to raise his single-season club record total to 194. 
AI Heyes gave up an RBI dou­ble to Corey Patterson in the ninth before finishing up for his 22nd save. 
Jeremy Guthrie (7-5) gave up six runs, five earned, and eight hits in six innings. The rookie went 0-2 in six August starts. 
Tampa Bay snapped a 5-5 tie in the sixth. Jonny Gomes led off with a double, advanced on an infield hit by Wilson and scored on a two-out single by Carl Crawford. 

Iwamura homered off Jim IJoey in the eighth to make it 7­5, and Greg Norton added a sacrifice fly in the ninth. That all but assured the Devil Hays their first three-game sweep in Baltimore; Tampa Bay swept a four-game series at Camden Yards in 199S. 
The first three battnrs to faco Kazrnir provided the Orioles with a 3-0 lead. Brian Hobcrts hit a leadoff' double, Patterson reached when Kazmir mis­played his bunt, and Markakis hit his 15th homer on an a 2-0 fastball. 
"We carne out like gang­busters and put three on the board in the first inning and we thought, 'Hey, we're ofT to the races. We're going to break this thing wide open,"' Trembley said. 
But Tampa Bay went ahead with a four-run li1urth. Wilson led off with his first major league homer. and Guthrie got two outs bofore Crawford dou­bled and Carlos Pena walked. Upton followed with his 21st home run, tho fifth in 12 games. 
"ILl. totally shirtod it back. turned the momentum around and gave us a much better feel about it." Devil' Hays manager Joe Madelon said. 
Baltimoro regained the lead in tlH~ bottom half' whon Millar homered into the fourth row of the left-field seats after a one­out single by Miguel Tejada. 


ND Freshman Ladies: 
CheerleadingTryouts 
September 2, 2007 @ 9 a.m. in the Joyce Center-Gym 2 
(above Gate 10) 
Questions: email Gold Squad Captain Nicole Villano at: nvillao1@saintmarys.edu or Blue Squad Captain Sami Mainieri at: smainier@nd.edu 

Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
NCAA FooTBALL 


LSU crushes Mississippi State 45-0 in opener 
Zenon and Danny McCray had Associated Press interceptions in the first half and Steltz added two more in the sec­
STARKVILLE, Miss. -Matt ond half. The Tigers needed the Flynn was average in his first help as a stout Bulldogs defense game as LSU's No. 1 quarter­held them scoreless on every back. It looked great compared drive but one that wasn't set up to the way Mississippi State's by a turnover. Michael Henig played Thursday Henig also fumbled the snap on night. a fourth-and-1 attempt after he 
Craig Steltz grabbed three of led the team on a nine-play drive I Ienig's record-tying six intercep­in the first quarter that put the tions and the second-ranked Bulldogs at the Tigers 36. It was Tigers rumbled past the Bulldogs one of only two serious forays as usual 45-0. Flynn and new into LSU territory. offensive coordinator Gary Henig tied the school record Crowton struggled to find a for interceptions in a game that rhythm early, but they received had stood since 1949, when Max plenty of help from Henig and Stainbrook did it against the Tigers' defense on a rainy Cincinnati, before giving way to night. Carroll midway through the 
"We knew the plays were going fourth quarter. It was Henig's to come," Flynn said. "It was fifth multiple-interception game really messy out there. The rain in 10 career starts and the most was really coming down out picks he's thrown since giving there. It was tough to hang on to away three passes against the ball, tough to put yards Alabama on Nov. 5, 2005, as a together." freshman. 
Just ask Henig, who practically How does a quarterback recov­handed LSU its eighth straight er from a six-interception game? win overall. The Tigers scored "A lot of prayer to clear my points after five of his intercep­head," Henig said. "I know a lot tions and a fumble by backup of people will say bad things this quarterback Wesley Carroll set week. But I can't pay attention to up another. that." 
''I'll be the first to admit he LSU coach Les Miles said he'd wasn't playing well," Mississippi never had team pick off six pass­quarter, JaMarcus Russell's Jacob Hester gave LSU a boost yards rushing. LSU also had four ­coach Sylvester Croom said. es in a game. replacement zeroed in on Early early and fmished with 68 yards sacks and a fumble recovery. "There's not a whole lot to say." "I hope it's not the last," he Doucet. The fifth-year senior QB rushing on 14 carries. He also Mississippi State can take some 
It was LSU's eighth straight said. finished with 128 yards on 12 of served as the lead blocker on two consolation in keeping the game win in the series with the Croom said the turnovers 19 passing with two touchdowns 1-yard TD runs by Keiland close in the first half. Last sea­Bulldogs. Since Mississippi undermined any chance the and no turnovers in his second Williams that helped the Tigers son, the Tigers led 21-0 after the State's last win in 1999, LSU has Bulldogs had. career start. Doucet had nine to a 17-0 halftime lead. first quarter and 35-3 midway outscored the Bulldogs 340-81, "You lose field position, you catches for 78 yards and a touch­While LSU's offense will have through a 48-17 win. including three shutouts by 42 or lose offensive opportunities and down. to find some consistency as the But the result certainly won't more points. the big thing is you can't give the Flynn also ran for 42 yards. team prepares for next week's take the pressure off Croom, who 
Mississippi State has lost 12 defense a rest," he said. "Flynn made good plays and game against No. 9 Virginia has lost 26 games in four seasons straight games to Top 10 oppo­While Henig struggled, Flynn was really the key to our efforts Tech, its defense appeared to be at Starkville and will be search­nents and 11 of its last 13 home gained confidence as the game on offense," Miles said. "He as dominating as last year. ing for his 10th win when the games. progressed. After completing 3 of moved well in the pocket and The Tigers allowed 146 total Bulldogs travel to Tulane on 
Steltz, Curtis Taylor, Jonathan 7 passes for 23 yards in the first avoided negative yardage." yards and held the Bulldogs to 10 Sept. 8. 




Coffee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, September 4 7:30-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

-
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone 1s welcome and confidentiality IS assured 



• 
1 1 _j 
page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, August 31, 2007 

Missouri 
continued from page 32 
Monday. Tlw Irish will now !'ace tournamnnt host Missouri today and Florida lntnrnational Saturday. 
"Tiw Invitational is a good opportunity to continue to play strong compdition and hnttnr oursl'lvns t'or thP Sl'ason," Brown said. "SpPcifically WP arn looking to be a much lwttnr hitting tnam." 
Tlw last tinw tlw Irish l'acnd tlw Tignrs, Missouri escaped 
-
with a :~-2 victory. The Tigers currenlly hold a 2-1 overall rncord and the No. 20 ranking in tlw nation. ThPy also are unde­!'natnd all-time against tho Irish, with a 2-0 mark. 
Notre Dame has nnvcr faced Florida International. and the 
Irish are looking for a win against the 2-1 Golden Panthers to start the series. 
"I think as a team we are going into this weekend really deter­mined," Brown said. "We're a competitive group and we don't likl) losing. We're looking to go umlefi1atnd this weekend." 
Thn Tiger Invitational marks the lirst of three tournaments in which tho Irish will compete before thn r:onfernnee slate bngins. Nnxt weekend the Irish will host the Shamrock Invitational, where they will face the College of Charleston, Alabama and Ohio. Their confer­ence season will begin with an away match on Sept. 22 against Pittsburgh. 
Notre Dame and Missouri square oil' today at 7 p.m. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
NBA 


Stern ansvvers gambling questions 
Special prosecutor hired to investigate referee betting scandal 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -David Stern detended his current referees, blasted a pair of former ones, and vowed to wait until a review of the NBA's officiating program is finished before he decides on any punishments stemming from gambling activi­ties. 
The commissioner was in Las Vegas on Thursday to watch the United States play Argentina in the FIBA Americas tournament, and it wasn't long before questions turned to gambling. 
The league recently chose former federal prosecutor Lawrence B. Pedowitz to over­see a review of its policies regarding gambling and its ref­erees in the wake of the Tim Donaghy scandal. 
Donaghy has pleaded guilty to betting on games, including some he worked, and providing inside information to others to help them win bets. An ESPN Radio report said the former official was set to name as many as 20 other referees who took part in gambling activity, though not necessarily crimi­nal. 
"There has been no release of any information, there have been leaked news reports about what Mr. Donaghy might have said," Stern said. "We think the fairest way to deal with this is to allow the referees to tell us what the facts are, and our ref­erees are very anxious to tell us what the facts are and then we'll know. And the speculation is hard for them, but we're very much on the same page as we seek to move forward. 

"Many people have been happy to condemn them on the basis of either disgruntled for­mer officials or press reports about what Mr. Donaghy is alleged to have said, and that's not fair." 
The former referees the com­missioner spoke of were Mike Mathis and Hue Hollins, who have been critical in some recent newspaper stories of the current state of the profession under director of officials Honnie Nunn. NBA o!lkials are generally prohibited from speaking to the media. 
"I think that their statements about current referees, whieh they're happy to take shots at, are kind of interesting," St1~rn said. "And I guess that's all I'll say, is that Messrs. Mathis and llollins at the end of their eareers were not model refer­ees. 
"A<> a starr·. the quality is a lot better than when Mr. Hollins and Mr. Mathis were roaming the floor, I might say. Certainly toward the end of their perhaps otherwise distinguished careers, so I'm very protective of our existing officials and their staff and their develop­ment, and I doubt very much that our existing stall' would do to their younger colleagues what Mathis and Hollins now find to be open. So when you talk about officials you should make the point that those are disgruntled former oflieials." 
S1Lern said Pedowitz and his stall' have as much time as they need to conduct their review, whieh will inelude intmviews with referees, and league and team officials. He said there would be "no holds barred." 
But he's not ready to say yet what will happen if more gam­bling aetivity among his o/lieials is proven. NBA pulieies prevent referees from any type or bet­ting, other than trips to tho raec traek during the oflseason. 
"Some of them might have aetua!Jy bought a lottnry ticket, or played bingo in a church. two forms of gambling that I'm sure everyone is vPry familiar with," Stnrn said. "I don't want to pmjudge it, but I think thern am sonw things that would per­haps cause me to pause morf\ than others. 
"And I think that's the prob­lem here, that everyone (says) 'Oh my God. I saw him play, I don't know what you eall it, $5 nassau on the golf eourse.' That's why rather than specu­lat{l about what they did or what would happen if they did it, we agree that the best way to do it is find out what they did and then understand it all." 

-
"These condos are a win-win proposition!" 
-Mike Golic, ESPN Persorwlity and former Notre Dmne footb811 pl8yet; Cl8ss of '85. 

You'll win when you stay in your luxurious Waterford Estates Lod<~~e Plus, purchase a unit now and \XIatetford will donate 2% condo unit fcJt· Notre Darne 1:()otlmll weekends and rnore-it compares ofthe purchase price to Hmmah Cr Friends-<J charity to a three-stm hotel with indoor and outdoor pools, fltness 1~cilities. founded by !V1nura ~md Charlie Weis to help improve the 

fRIENDS 

restaurant and an authentic Irish pub. quality oflife f(lr children and adults with special needs. 
7\nd, you'll win when you're not usin<~~ it--with an option to place your Freshmen Parents: Book now for 2011 (3mduation with only a $25 deposit. Corne over in person to visit Waterf~>rd flrst:-hand and we'll
unit in a protession~JIIy managed rental program. 
waive the deposit! 
c_.;ucst rooms still 8V8ilablc for most '07 horne footballg8nlcs. 



rru~ 

Located at 52890 SR 933,just north ofthe Notre Dalllt:: campus and minutes fron~ downtown South Bend and the South Bend Regional Airport. 

Waterford 
Contact W:.-1terford EsbJtes Lodge at (574) 272·-5220 
estates lodge or online at www.w8terfordest8teslodge.com 


. 

Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 


Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students  
Atria Salon, will be giving away 100 complimentary Haircuts & styles to the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. This is our way to say thank you for your support for the last 10 years, along with welcoming new students to our salon. Atria Salon Specializing in Color 574-271-8804 South Bend, IN 2039 South Bend Ave. www.AtriaSalon2.com Located off Ironwood and State Rd. 23 in the Martins Shopping Plaza-within walking distance from campus  
To qualify for this promotion, please call the salon coordinator@ 271 8804 and let them know your interested. *Certain restrictions apply. Atria salon 2has the right to refuse promotion without any advance notice. This promotion has no cash value. Expires September 20th, 2007. Please ask about our student discount cards.  

Michigan 
continued from page 32 
One of those freshmen, goal­keeper Nikki Weiss, is one of three keepers who has seen playing time throughout the preseason. Weiss, sophomore Kelsey Lysander and senior Lauren Karas received equal playing time, about 30 minutes each in both exhibition games. Coach Randy Waldrum has not decided on a starting keeper and will continue to rotate them until one separates from the others. 
Notre Dame has won 32 straight games at home and has not lost in 41 straight home games. The Irish are 17-2-0 in season openers. 
"It's definitely a whole new set of games, but a 32-game home winning streak is pretty fun," Cinalli said. "We love play­ing at home. Home crowds are so much fun, they really pump us up. Just having all the cheer­

:'!) 
*Eligibility subject to approval. Students must provide proof of enrollment at an accredited college/university or trade school when the account is opened. S100 minimum opening deposit required for new checking account. Additional restrictions apply. 
© 2007 Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. 


ing and our friends and family here really helps out a lot. I think that support is really key for us." 
Five starters graduated last year, but Cinalli said their spots have been satisfactorily filled. 
"Some of [the freshmen] have filled those roles, we've also had a transfer [junior Elise Weber, from Wisconsin] who's stepped into that hole and is helping with that a lot," Cinalli said. "And then some of the underclassmen have stepped up, so it's been everyone." 
The graduation of Jen Buczkowski and Jill Krivacek left a large hole at the midfield position. Freshmen Lauren Fowlkes, who had a goal against Virginia, should start there, along with juniors Brittany Bock and Becca Mendoza. 
Junior Carrie Dew, back from an ACL injury, will play along­side Weber and sophomores Amanda Clarke and Haley Ford in the backfield, helping to fill the void left by the departure of Christie Shaner and Kim 

Talk with a Wells Fargo Banker and get your PhD in Money-omics. 
With College Combo®, designed especially for college students, you get: 
• 
Free Wells Fargo College Checking® account* 

• 
No annual fee Wells Fargo® Check Card -now with Visa® payWave 

• 
Free access to Wells Fargo Online® Banking and Free Bill Pay 

• 
Free Direct Deposit of paychecks and/or financial aid 

• 
Free access to over 6,800 Wells Fargo ATMs Stop by your local Wells Fargo and talk with a banker today. 


Lorenzen. Cinalli and Waldrum said Weber has been a great help to the team since joining them this summer. 
Notre Dame is 12-2 against Michigan and defeated the Wolverines 2-0 in Ann Arbor last season. The Wolverines, who were 9-7-6 last season and lost in the first round of the NCAA playoffs, had a 1-1 pre­season record. They defeated Ohio 5-0 and lost to Dayton 2-1. 
Cinalli said Notre Dame's loss to North Carolina in last sea­son's NCAA championship and the subsequent tie this presea­son provided the team with extra motivation. 
"Obviously it was a heart­breaker, the national champi­onship," CinaHi said. "Coming into preseason and playing North Carolina, I mean, we completely dominated them and should have beat them, but we did tie them and so that kind of built our confidence going into the season." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

The Next Stage® 

NO WOMEN'S SOCCER COMMENTARY 
Students should 
support contenders 
Eight months after Notre Dame fell to North Carolina in the 2006 national champi­onship game in the Tar Heels' home state, a record crowd of 3,412 
Fran Tolan 

turned out 
at Alumni 
Field on Sports Writer Aug. 19 for the rematch of that final. The Irish played the defending champions to a 2-2 draw in the friendly. But tonight's contest is Notre Dame's first regular­season Irish home game. And the Irish deserve a tremendous home-field advantage. "Last year, the fan support had as much to do with us going to the Final Four as anything," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. While the crowd for the North Carolina game was a sellout, it was a group com­posed primarily of South Bend natives. Tonight, every student is back on campus, providing the main ingredient for a raucous crowd. "The local community has always been very supportive but it was great last year to have such student support," Waldrum said. "Let's be hon­est, the student body gives the games the great atmosphere." The Irish still are ranked No. 2 nationally despite the loss of five starters from the 2006 national title game. With enough fan support, it'll be easier to assure that the 
Irish will not fall in the rank­ings because of a setback at home. 
The effect of having a huge crowd on their side was evi­dent as the Irish outshot North Carolina 14-7. Because host Notre Dame was able to handily outplay the top­ranked team in the country, it is difficult to imagine that it could drop a match at home. 
Waldrum said that it was energizing to see so many students in the stands last year, even when weather con­ditions deteriorated toward the end of the season. 
Clear skies and warm tern­peratures are expected tonight. With the increased school spirit common to foot­ball weekends, fan participa­tion should swell. 
"We're expecting a packed house," Waldrum said. 
So, after this afternoon's pep rally, help one Irish squad in its first step towards anoth­er possible Final Four appearance. 
"We want [students] to come learn the chants and be loud and harass the other teams," Waldrum said. "We basically want them to do what good fans do." 
Because if they do, the unranked Wolverines don't stand a chance. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu 


page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, August 31, 2007 
1803 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 57 4-247-9293 
--UCLA 
continued from page 32 
America team. 
"We know they are going to bn a great tmun," Clark said. "Thny don't have any 'weak spots, but to be truthful we don't eithnr." 

Strikers "/Lapira/ is very quarterlinal berth Joseph Lapira in program histo­
excited and I think 
and Kurt ry.
he is ready to go"
Martin will The Terrapins load the Irish. will get their Martin is Bobby Clark chance for revenge starting for early this season
Irish coach
tho first time in his career but has emerged as serious scoring threat in Notre Dame's two preseason matehes. 
Lapira is the rnigning win­nor of the IIermann Trophy Award. widely recognized as the most prestigious national player-of-the-year honor. 
Notn~ Dame won both of its nxhibitions 3-0, over No. 9 New Mexico and No. 14 Northwestern. The key to its sueeess was striking early ­Martin scored goals within the first live minutes of both eon­tests. 
Lapira saw slightly less time than usual in the prnseason dun to a strained musde in his ealf. lie is nxpeeted to be at full strnngth for tonight's game. 
"lie's more than 100 per­cent," Clark said. "lie is very excited and I think he is ready to go." 
The 5-foot-1 0 :;peedster scored his first g:>al of the season against Northwestern earlier this week. Prior to that, Lapira's last goal broke a seornless tie in overtime of the round of 16 in last season's NCAA Tournament against Maryland. The goal ga.ve Notre Dame its first 
as they face the 
Irish Sunday in the 
final game of the 
Adidas/IU Classic. Maryland begins the season 
No. 7 in the nation, going 2-0­
1 in preseason play with wins 
Charming Sunnymedc Home 
1322 Longfellow Avenue 
1452 Sq. Ft. Firepla1:e. Hardwood Floors. Vaulted Family Room. Private Yard. Exp<:nsive Deck. 1.5 miles to ND. $124,900 
Rachel Thompson 360 -6360 



over Fairleigh Dickinson and Montreal and a 2-2 draw with Virginia Commonwealth. The Terps will also open up their season tonight against tourna­ment host Indiana. 
"We will get a good look at them on Friday and we will have an opportunity to really evaluate their team then," Clark said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 



Auditions 
ND Liturgical Choir NO Women's Liturgical Choir 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 2 4PM-6PM 
329 Coleman-Morse Center 
For more information please call 631-7800 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

ResLife 
continued from page 32 
diflcrently. Personally, I do not think either merits a suspension lor a semester, but my issue is less with the degree of the punish­menl<> and more with their relative im:onsistency. By refusing to addrnss tl1is inconsbtency, the University has ereated a number of perceptions I mn sure it dons not want circulating among stu­denl'l and fans. 
Onn such perception is that the University considers using drugs a morn significant crime than solicit­ing a prostitute. That would sur­prise mn. This is Notre Dame, right? The place where you can gnt in trouble just for being in an opposite-sex dorm room artor mid­night during the week? I supposn all thP rngulations the University has in placo to make this a chaste eampus do not mean that much. 
Just imagine the next time somebody rneeives a Rnsl ,i(i.~ lcJr breaking parietals. The obvious response of the student would be, "Well, I only broke parintals. Maybe next time I should go out and find a prostitutn inst1md. The University ean barnly touch me." Is this the message ResLile wishes to snnd to students? 
Maybe the University has aeted similarly in the past rogarding prostitution and handled the ca.s1~ similarly to Hand's. If so. then HesUii.l still contradicts tim striet rules it has established over many years regarding sexual rdations. 
Another perception tim University has created is that it favors football players over other athletes and students. I am eertain it does not want to create this per­ception. In the past, Heslife has used a still' hand when dealing with football players. Two years ago, when former fullback Hash<m Powers-Neal was arrested on charges of driving under the influ­ence, Hesl jfi~ suspended him from any extracurricular activities ­whieh meant missing the last half of his final season. Basml upon the precedent the University set in the cases of Powers-Neal and McAlarnny, its treatment. of I land i'l suspect. 
If the poliw had arrested a n~gu­lar student lew solicitation, tlwm would be no thron-game suspml­sion. It is hard to see HesLili• dol­ing out a slap on tim wrist whnn possessing martjuana equates a semnstnr-long suspension. Let me be clear-I am not saying tlw University favors football players -but given this set of circum­stances, that argument can cer­tainly be made. In this partiwlar ea<>P. perception is just a'> impor­tant lL'> rnality. 
It is hard to know the spndfk cireumstancns surrounding I land and MeAlarnny beeausn HnsLili1 refuses to diseuss individual <:a<;es. This policy, though dnsig1111d to proteet student privacy, contribu­tions to pnreeptions that ean some­times damagn the reputation of this University. 
In tim future, HnsLife must implement a standard, transpar­ent policy rngarding oll'-eampus arrest'> in whieh a punishmnnt could be amnnded with additional penalties depending on the ca'le. Thi'l might bn morn prudent than the curnmt policy, which L'l hard to decipher from tho outside. 
Such a policy would protect thn integrity ol'thn University's disdpli­nary system while prevPnting alle­gations about f~tvoritism. 
Until thnn, people will spnculatn -and the University will have to deal with iL'> silence. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessari(y those ofThe Obsenwr. 
Contact Chris !line at chineCiVnd.edu 


Thursday, August 31, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
MIKE MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 



CROSS\NORD 
discovery on a casino credit card
10 Vacuum 
statement

maintainers Down 36 Period to find
15 Like some fruit Opportunities to 
out more

bats and petrels run away froni 
16 Cornrow 37 Tough home companions?
component 2 Gustavo's good 38 Minor leader?
17 Whine 3 Require 18 Royal jelly 39 Carving in an 
4 Female role in consumer Egyptian tomb "Chicago" 
19 Jungian principle 41 Relief may follow 
5 "Paint the Sky 20 Samoan, e.g. it With Stars" 22 Kind of party 44 Botanist's beard singer 23 Top of a stadium 45 Unproductive 6 Suffix with proto­25 Comic character 46 Rubberneck ? Abbr. on a key 26 From Niger to 8 They're back on
47 Where cell Zambia: Abbr. board
phones don't 27 Hacker of the work 9 City on the Middle Ages Permian Basin
49 Weed-B-Gon 28 "The Dram 10 Extend
maker Shop" author awkwardly
50 200 milligrams29 Squeals 11 Sparkle
51 Popular30 Start of a 12 Cousin of a
reference work 

Spanish hyena
54 Match point?
Christmas 13 Be what you're

greeting 55 "Shoot!" not 31 Certify 56 Name on a truck 
14 Be a night watchman? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
21 Manhattan ave. 


---r--r-"T""'"'"'I 
.:.+~..a.-.:-.~ 23 Sudden impact 
~+=-+=-! 24 First home of the University of Nevada 
27 Firm assistant, briefly 28 Couple of pizzas? 

~~..a.-.:-.1 29 Revelation exclamation . 30 Work unit: Abbr. 31 Black-and-white 32 Spent from all the conflict 33 Webbed 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Barry C. Silk 

34 Generation-to-41 Big-league 48 King Claudius, generation promotional e.g. information event 49 Artist Jonn,
35 Poet Seeger 42 For some time known as the
43 Drinks a toast

37 Otherworldly one Cornish Wonder
45 It's massive and ·39 It's appetizing to 
relatively hot 
52 Malayaphids 46 _ Waitz, nine-Peninsula's 

40 What time New York Isthmus of ochlophobists City Marathon fear winner 53 Publicity 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JUMBLE 
JJWJWIID11~. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LATUF 
± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


i~i;fl] 

CHAPIL 
1 
rJ 
www.jumble.com 
IDOURNA j
rrr 
1-1 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WH~N TH~ TRICK FAIL-~0, TH~ MAGI­C.IAN WANT~ TO--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: rI I I JHIS r x I I JrI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: MERGE TWINE SEETHE IMPACT Answer: Developing a pot belly over the years is a ­"WAIST" OF TIME 
FRAN TOLAN 

HOROSCOPE 
Aries (March 21 -April20) 
Break a leg. Well, you don't have to be told because you're going to break your leg anyway today. 
Taurus (April21 -May 21) 
Detlef Shrempf will be on campus this weekend. Be very afraid. 
Gemini (May 22-June 21) 
You will receive your Frankenberry and myrrh from Boogar McFarland. 
Cancer (June 22 -July 22) 
Today, your Kleenex will be very cute ... quite literally. 
Leo (July 23 -August 21) 
Save your Confederate gold. The South will rise again. 
Virgo (August 22-September 23) 
Today, you'll put the 'J' in PB&J. 
Libra (September 24 -October 23) 
If you need advice about koalas, call (248) 408-5039. Ask for Jimothy. 
Scorpio (October 24 -November 22) 
Pogs are making a comeback. Be ready. 
Sagittarius (November 23 -December 22) 
Pegs are making a comeback. Be ready. 
Capricorn (December 23 -January 20) 
If someone of the opposite sex asks what your sign is, tell them it's 'Candy Corn.' His or her response will indicate if you have met your soul mate. 
Aquarius (January 21-February 19) 
Think of one part of a chicken that begins with each letter of the alpha bet. Here's a start: G is for gizzard. 
Pisces (February 20-March 20) 
Your weekend assignment: Try to find out what the Tech in Georgia Tech stands for. There has been some speculation but nobody really knows yet. 

-
·, 
THE OBSERVER 













PORTS
Friday, August 31, 2007 
page 32 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
One stE~p at a tinte 
No. 2 squad gets set for opening rnatch 
By BILL BRINK Sports Wri1n 
On the henls of a successful preseason. No. 2 Notre Dame op1~ns tlw regular season against Michigan tonight at 
7:30 on Alumni Field. 
Senior forward 
See Also

and captain 
"Students should

Amanda 
C i n a l I i support
seemed 

contenders."

slightly taken aback page 29 when askml what wor­ried the team most about the game against Michigan. 
"Worried'? I don't know if we're too much worried," Cinalli said. "I think we're just nxcited." 
The Irish tied No. 1 North Carolina 2-2 and beat No. 11 Virginia 3-1 in their prnseason campaign. Tho exhibition games gavn freshman players a chance to experience the game at the collngiat1~ level, and so far t!H~ transition to college has been smooth. 
"Tiwy'vn been doing really wnll for us." Cinalli said. "We already feel like they're veter­ans. which is great." 
see MICHIGAN/page 29 





MEN'S SOCCER 
No.1 UCLAawcrits in season deb·ut 
No. 9 Irish try to snap losing streak against top-ranked opponents 
By DAN MURPHY A'sociate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has faeed a No. 1 ranked team five times in program history. The result has b{Hm the same each timH: an Irish loss. 
But No. Y Notre Dame has a ehance to start its 2007 season with a bang by reversing that trend against top-ranked UCLA tonight. 
Four of the live losses have come at the hands of in-state rival Indiana -the most recent loss to the then-No. 1 Hoosiers being a 2-0 defeat in 2004 -and tht~ l'ifth was another 2-0 loss to Connecticut in 1YY8. The Irish were shut out in all live contests. 
"To start oiT the season beat­ing anyone is special, whether they are No. 1 or just another good team," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "The important thing in this game ls that we have to look after OU 1 ~selves." 
The UCLA match is part of the Adidas/IU Classic in Bloomington, Ind. The tourna­ment is in its 25th year and features four top-1 0 clubs this season. It has hosted the even­tual national champ nine times since 1982. 

The Bruins were only one goal away from elai ming their own national crown last year, but lost 2-1 to UC-Santa Barbara in the title game. UCLA returns eight starters from that squad and 16 total players -all of whom are hungry for a second chance at a championship. 
One key loss from last sea­son's UCLA squad was goal­keeper Erie Reed. But sopho­more Brian Perk, who takes over the starting role, played with the U.S. Under-20 National Team and was recent­ly named to the pre~:eason All-
see UCLA/page 30 
FooTBALL 
l{esLife's cLctions not consistent 
I am confused. 
Last winter, Notre Dame basket­ball player Kyle McAlarney wa<> arrested fbr possession of mari­juana. The University's Oflice of Residence 
Life suspend­ed McAlarney for the rest of the spring semester, afler lm entered a pre-trial diversion 

program to Chris Hine expunge the charge from Sports Editor 
hi<> record. 
This sum­mer, South Bend police arrested Notre Dame defensive end Derrell !land on charges of soliciting a prostitute. I land also entered a pre-trial diversion program. His punishment: a three-game sus­pension from f(Jotbal! coach Charlie Weis and, apparnntly, little from the University. 
Here's why I am confused. Both ommses occurred oil'campus and involve athletes in high-prolile sports. While duLae makes no explicit mention of prostitution, the University surely does not con­done either offense. It ha<> decided, however, to handle these cases involving high-profile athletes very 
see RESLIFE/page 30 
VOLLEYBALL 


Irish travel to Tiger In-vitational 
Team hits the road hoping to rebound after rough week 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
Sports Writer 
After two tough loses against No. 9 Minnesota and No. 7 Florida, Notre Dame will look for its first wins of the season this weekend in the Tiger Invitational in Columbia, Mo. 
"We played two tough teams last week," coach Debbie Brown said. "We played and hit much better against Florida than Minnesota. We hope to con­tinue this upward trend and improve both our play and our record." 
The Irish lost to Minnesota 3-0 in the first game of the weekend. The Irish played a closer match against the Gators, but Flordia won in four games. 
Though this weekend's tournament traditionally has four participants, Florida A&M withdrew from the field 
see MISSOURI/page 28 


'' 

' . . . 
.. .
' .. . . ' .
'
,• .... 


J~::J-t.ra D3JI.tJB1 :S) y.r.JJ.J.tJfJ 
D2}1aiJ9hla cnortfJIJ3J·-tor b~JIJfj9 3.1 IJBY'.I 9C!JaiiJ8 
·• . J .t t 
·~-!) !IYI J2.r! I J2J~ 

p~iDll9 !J.... 
!> . .
,,. I .......,~
. t

l'JYI¥1S,:.'·~·-··Rill 
a:.. >""'I
~'! •.._,.t iifilill, ·<~;~:,t 

•, page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 31, 2007 
Going back to a familiar unknolf\7ll 
In 2007, Irish fans stop back into the unknown. 
Some people dmad the unknown and limr that 2007 
will bring dis­appointing n~sults. Af'tnr all, who could blame them for thinking that way'! Last season, everybody 


knew who 
Chris Hine 

everybody 
was on the 
Sports Editor 

team. Quinn, Samardzija and Walker wern known quanti­tins. Thny worn rnliable, consis­tent and brought with thmn tho security of a good snason, but thosn days of security are now ovnr. 
This season is for those who rnlish the unknown and the ehanen to tak11 a journny that is sure to hold moments of both disappointment and exdtmnent. 
The first and most obvious unknown is at the quart1~rback position. Somo have callnd mad1 Chal"lin WPis arrogant for not rnvnaling his starting quar­tPrba<:k narlier, but in r11ality. what dill"nrnncn dons it nmlly make wh•~llwr or not fans learn the startPr Saturday morning or if they had lnarned a month ago? Tho startnr dons not have to dPal with all the preseason buildup of being Notre Dame's quarterback and maybP it will confusn (;norgia Tech. Maybe it will not. but it does not hurt to try. 
Fans should be eonlidnnt knowing that whoever gains the starting job had to bnat out two vnry good candidates this train­ing 1:amp and will be ready to take t.hn linld Saturday. Come Sunday morning, the question, "Who is tho starter'?" will be a distant memory and all thn talk will he about the play of the quartnrbaek. Hegardless. there is little to fimr given tlw talent at the position and Weis's ability to develop his quartNbacks into national stars, as he did with 
Quinn. 
On defense, the Irish bring back some familiar faces, such as defensive end Trevor Laws, linebacker Maurice Crum Jr. and safety Tom Zbikowski. The unknown hern is whether Corwin Brown's nnw 3-4 per­sonnel scheme can stop big plays and keep the Irish in games when they may not score bunches of points. 
Based on the results of sum­mer camp, the Irish are pushing thmnselves harder than ever on defense. Sophomore Darrin Walls beat out traditio 'lal starter snnior Ambrose Wooden for the cornerback spot oppmite Terrail Lambert. The competition for nach defensive spot must have been intense and only makes the secondary better in the end because everybody ha;; to push harder everyday in practice. 
Nobody knows what to expect from anybody this sea:mn. Hemember 2005, and having that feeling of uncertainty that the season could comf: crashing down or, if a couple things went right, could be memorable? 
I have the same feeling. 
Notre Dame has a roster mixed with veterans and younger players with 11ntapped potential. They face a sehndule, which, on paper, is among the hardest in the nation. Expectations should be low. 
But after all, this is Notre Dame-a place where the term "low expectations" doesn't exist. Maybe Notre Dame ca.n win 10 games and make it to another BCS bowl game, but the odds are that will not happen. 
Just have a little patience while some of the younger play­ers lind their groove c.nd this season could be a special one. In other words, wekomfl back to the unknown. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily lllose ofThe Observer. 



2007 Irish opponents 
' s 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterrord Estate.s l1x:lff-has hate! rrx)ms at reasonable rates fur upcoming NDfOotball wf'.ekends.) 
Next game at Notre Dame vs Fla. lntl. vs. App. State vsUAB at Toledo at Stanford vs Wake Forest vsldaho at Temple vs S.C. State vs UConn vs UCLA 

(0-0) 
• 
(0-0) 

~·;}~~ 
(0-0) 


(0-0) (0-0) 

Last game 
N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 
N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 

DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer Sophomore cornerback Darrln Walls tackles Georgia Tech wide receiver Calvin Johnson In Notre Dame's 14-10 win last September. 
Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 




A players' coach 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer KATE FENLON/The Observer Irish defensive coordinator Corwin Brown looks on during practice, left, and runs drills with cornerbacks Terrail Lambert and Ambrose Wooden, right. Brown has made an impact with the Irish on the recruiting trail, with Notre Dame receiving a slew of verbal commitments for 2008, including two from his hometown of Chicago. 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer  for him when you're out there because he's always right behind you, always pushing  had to say." . Sophomore Darrin Walls  cornerback says Brown  qualities. The Irish defenders say his padded past means something to them. Fifth-year  already pointing in Brown's favor.  
you. He knows how to get play­ "understands a lot of our situa­ senior Ambrose Wooden gets a  Early results  
Corwin Brown is  a  players'  ers to play, and you really do  tions" because "he's been in the  kick  out of Brown when he  In terms of recruiting, the  
coach.  want to play for him."  game, he knows what it's like."  challenges the cornerbacks to  Windy  City-native  Brown  
Yes, the product of the Bill  Laws says that Brown's youth  try and cateh a  ball with the  appears to have parlayed his  
Parcells-Bill Belichick-Al Groh­ is a  benefit in his relationship  More than just one change  coach defending them. Brown  ability to relate with young  
Eric Mangini coaching tree is a  with players, something related  When Weis announced that  runs drills with the team, trying  players and turned it into wind­ 
players' coach.  to what some of Laws' team­ Minter's contract would not be  to  prove "he's still got it,"  falls for the Irish. Less than a  
No, he's not a  lackadaisical,  mates say.  renewed and Brown would be  Wooden says.  week after his hiring, the Irish  
non-disciplinarian.  For other defenders, having a  the team's new defensive coor­ And Wooden isn't surprised  landed a  verbal commitment  
He's not a guy who is going to  coach whose playing experience  dinator, the offensive-minded  that players gravitate toward  from Chicago, running back  
play  favorites  or  coddle  was  substantial and recent  coach said he better under­ Brown's personality.  Hobert Hughes, who is expected  
starters.  means an extra level of comfort  stands Brown's scheme and his  "If you're at practice, he runs  to compete for playing time this  
And Brown certainly is not a  and respect. Brown played for  goals.  around.  Between  him  and  season as a true freshman. For  
guy who is going to say any­ the New England Patriots from  But the change  was  more  Coach Lewis, I think they sweat  the class that will sign letters of  
thing other than what he thinks.  1993-96, for the New York Jets  than just a man named Corwin  about two gallons a  day just  intent in February 2008 and  
But talk to the Notre Dame  from  1997-98  and  for  the  Brown replacing Rick Minter. It  running  around  with  us,"  enroll next summer, the Irish  
defense, and they'll tell you that  Detroit Lions fr:om 1999-2000.  was more than just the 3-4 per­ Wooden says. "He actually does  have taken an early lead in the  
the team's new, 37-year-old  Meanwhile, Irish head coach  sonnel grouping  the drills, gets in  recruiting rankings thanks to  
dernnsive coordinator is what  Charlie Weis didn't play any col­ replacing the 4­ at it, works press  12  highly-rated  defenders  
they think a  "players' coach"  lege ball, and defensive backs  3.  drills, all types of  announcing their intentions of  
should be. lin relates well. • • •  coach Bill Lewis ended his play­ing days 45 years ago, when he graduated from East Stroudsburg (Pa.) State. Though former Irish defensive  It was aggres­siveness replac­ing a passive defense. It was energy replacing  "He's a great players' coach. He knows how to get guys fired up"  drills. "It just kind of keeps us invest­ed. Sometimes you need that  eoming to Notre Dame. Two of those -linebaekers Steve Filer and Darius Fleming -are Chieago produets. Wide receivers eoach Hob  
Somnthing about the former standout at Michigan -who grew up in a tough neighbor­hood of Chicago, earned a spot  coordinator Hick Minter played in college at Henderson State (Ark.) in the 1970s, Brown's experience is more relevant and  analysis. It was two years of underperfor­mance replaced  Trevor Laws Irish defensive lineman on Corwin Brown  coach that you feel like he's one of the guys that you feel like you  Ianello is Notre Dame's recruit­ing coordinator but has ceded much of the Chieago region to Brown because of his connee­ 
in the NFL, studied the game  tangible for players aspiring for  by a new hope.  could talk to him  tions to the area and with its  
closely enough to land an assis­ NFL stardom.  Brockington  if  you  have  a  football coaehes.  
tant coaching gig in college and  "It's a  lot easier, too, when  says  one  of  question."  "If I wasn't into thP.re prior, he  
thnn a spot on a pro team's staff  he's actually played and he's  Brown's strengths is his energy,  Brown also has shown a pen­ probably  would  have  that  
-c:onnects with almost every  telling you things that you know  which  is  far  greater  than  chant for being like "one of the  [alone]." Ianello says. "But cer­ 
defender for the Irish.  you really can't question it  Minter's.  But  Lewis  insists  guys," Wooden says. During the  tainly, with anybody, if you  
"lie's a great players' coach.  because he's been there," Irish  Brown is more than just a rah­ summer, Brown sent text mes­ come  and you have eontacts  
lie knows how to get guys fired  linebacker Joe Brockington  rah coach; he's also an intellec­ sages to players, telling them to  some  place, we're going to use  
up," firth-year defensive line­ says.  "I think that was  the  tual. Indeed, Lewis says Brown  think about different situations  your eontacts. We'd be foolish  
man  Trevor Laws says. "You  biggest thing  ...  opening your  has taught the 44-year veteran  and alignments they could face  not to, regardless of where they  
really feel like you're playing  ears and listening to what he  of  coaching  things  about  and how they would react.  are.  
defenses and ways of interact­ The question for Saturday is,  "lie's got a  really good per­ 
ing with players.  will Brown's attitude and the  sonality,  a  really  good  
"Corwin is extremely bright.  players' positive response to the  demeanor, and he's very ener­ 
He has  a  great grasp of the  fresh blood result in a  better  getic.... I think he relates well.  
game of football," Lewis says. "I  defense?  He really relates well to the  
enjoy every moment I can be  Whatever the answer, the  high school players, and I think  
with him because he's a second­ change in schemes will surely  that they like him."  
ary guy, and I'm  a  secondary  be a major factor.  What  Weis  did  for  Notre  
guy, and so  we  enjoy talking  Junior  free  safety  David  Dame's offensive reeruiting  
about the same aspects of the  Bruton says the 3-4 will allow  almost immediately after being  
game."  the safeties to eoncentrate a lit­ hired is what Brown has done  
Every once in a while, Lewis  tle less on  run  containment  for the defense.  
walks past Brown in the foot­ beeause of the additional line­ Wooden sees a lot of the same  
ball office, sticks his head in the  baeker in the second line of  qualities between Weis and  
door and tells him how well the  defense. But when asked if that  Brown that makes them suc­ 
new defensive coordinator han­ would also mean an easier time  cessful.  
dled an on-field or in-classroom  defending the play-action pass,  "They  don't  B.S.  you,  
situation with players.  Bruton was cautious, though  Wooden says. "If they see some­ 
"He's really helped the sec­ optimistic.  thing in you, see a special talent  
ondary  tremendously  with  Among the more subtle differ­ you have, they're going to tell  
things he brought from his play­ ences in the defense will be  you about it.  ...  That's what I  
ing experience and his coaehing  more contaet by cornerbacks at  think they bring to the table  - 
experience  at  the  National  the line of scrimmage. Walls,  they're up-front. They'll tell you  
Football League level," Lewis  who saw limited aetion in 2006,  exaetly what they think of you,  
says. "He has a  great way of  added weight and core body  whether it's good or bad."  
relating to players. Playp,rs ean  strength to help him in bump  And,  at least in Wooden's  
really relatp, easy to him, and he  and run coverage.  view, that makes them players'  
ean relate easy to them."  While Saturday will be the  coaches.  
Brown's playing past and his  first true indication of how the 


Irish defensive coordinator Corwin Brown talks to Irish linebacker Brian ability to relate to young play­defense has responded to Contact Ken Fowler at Smith while he stretches with a teammate during practice Tuesday. ers aren't quite two separate Brown, another indicator is kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
-.-------; -­

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, August 31, 2007 

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 0-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Charlie Weis third season at Notre Dame career record: 19-6 at Notre Dame: 19-6 
Charlie Weis against head coach Georgia Tech: 1-0 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
r~otre Dame 2007 Schedule 
Sept. 1 Sept. 8 Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 

GA. TECH at Penn State at Michigan MICIDGANST. at Purdue at UCLA BC 
usc 

NAVY AIR FORCE DUKE at Stanford 

FB
Quarterbacks

26Tbo1Dll5 .wsd;;.app 
34 Aldridge 3 Jones 1J Sharploy 7 (.1l......, 32 Schmidt 
WR 

WR 19West 1J Griine. I Hord 82 P.Mris 
RT RG 
74Voang SIWenJIO!' 7SDcver 73Cllf\lfe!i 

No. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 
X 
9 

ll 
12 13 14 15 In 17 IH 19 2ll 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 27 2H 29 29 
30 
31 32 3..1 
34 
35 
35 
36 
37 3B 39 39 40 41 42 43 43 43 44 45 45 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 59 61 63 67 
oY 
70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 80 82 83 H4 85 
BH 
H~ 
90 Y! Y2 93 94 95 
% 
97 98 
Hoster 
Name Pos. 
D.j. I lord WR D.urin W.11ls DB l>l'mdriu!-1 Jom·~ QH Cary<.:r.ty DB Armando Allt.•n RB R11y llt·rring DB Jimmy ('J,tu~·n Qll 

Ht. Wt. YR 6-1 !9h JR 6-1 180 so lr4 21T so 5-11 180 Fl< 5-10 190 FR 5-10 197 so 6-3 207 FR 
R,wshon McNt.•il  DB  6-0  187  I'R  
Tom Zbikowski  Dll  6-0  207  SR  
[),wid Crimt.'S  WR  5-10  177  )R  
D.urin Br.tg);  QB  6-1  181!  SR  
Ev.m Sh.upl••y  Qll  li-2  216  Jl<  
Brandon W.1lkt•r  K  6-3  197  FR  
l.t-o h•rrint.•  DB  6-0  189  SR  
Justin Gilll'tt  QB  5-11  180  SR  
(;t.•tlffn•y Prkt•  ['  6-3  208  SR  
l>uv.tl K.un.u.t  WR  6-5  222  FR  
( :corgl' Wt•st  WR  5-10  197  so  
·n.•rrail l.ctmht.•rt  DB  5-11  191  SR  
B.my (;,,uup Jr.  WR  5-11  185  so  
Ambro!4t.' Woodt•n  CB  5-11  196  SR  
CokknTatl'  WR  5-11  188  FR  
W. D.tvld Willi,lm!lo  DB  5-9  173  SR  
Lt•on.ud Gordon  DB  5-11  194  so  
Munir Prinn•  DB  5-10  IH4  so  
Travis Thoma~  RB  6-0  216  SR  
D.tvid Bn1ton  Dll  6-2  207  JR  
Kyl•· ML"C.trthy  DB  6-1  207  so  
j,u.;ha.td Gctines  DB  6-0  203  so  
j.tk<• Rich.trdsvillc  WR  6-1  IRQ  so  
liMri~on Smith  llB  6-2  205  FR  
St.•rgit 1 Bmwn  DB  6-2  196  so  
Luke Schmidt  RB  6-3  24R  so  
Robt•rt I lught•s  RB  5-11  238  FR  
j.lml's Aldridge  RB  6-0  222  JR  
Natl•Whitalo..Pr  K  5-9  165  FR  
Kevin Smith  DB  6-0  180  SR  
De)(Clln!  DB  6-1  220  so  
junior Jithbic  RB  5-11  205  SR  
Wdllt• l.tm~  WR  5-9  183  SR  
Ry.m llu rkh.ut  K  5-11  196  so  
Kt•vin !Jn.,oks  TE  6-2  241  so  
M.lllrict.• Crum, Jr.  I.B  6-0  230  SR  
Scott Smith  LB  6-4  235  JR  
Kt·vin Wa:-;hingh>n  LB  6-1  241  JR  
Mike Anello  DB  5-10  170  JR  
Eric M.mst  ['  5-10  177  so  
Mike Anello  DB  5-10  180  so  
A•aph Schw.1pp  HI  6-0  261  JR  
john Lt.•onis  llB  5-9  169  JR  
Kris Pc1ttcrson  WR  5-11  185  JR  
Aaron Nagel  l.B  6-1  229  FR  
Stcve(.}uinn  LB  6-2  231  JR  
Toryan Smith  I.B  6-1  245  so  
Stt•ve I'dskorl'  I.B  6-2  2..15  FR  
Dan Wtongt.•r  OL  6-4  287  so  
Joe Brockington  I.B  6-2  240  SR  
MtlrrkC' Rich.1rdson  LB  6-2  244  so  
Anthlmy Vt•maglia  I.B  6-3  2..14  SR  
Erk ())sen  01.  lr4  303  so  
K••rry Neal  I.B  6-2  245  FR  
Dwight St••ph,•nson  DL  6-2  272  SR  
Chris Stt•w,,rt  01.  6-5  339  so  
J.j.Jansm  LS  6-3  242  SR  
JdfTi•ak  OL  6-5  301>  JR  
Tom lkmcmlt•rfcr  OL  6-5  285  JR  
Neil Kcnn••dy  [)I.  5-11  266  SR  
M.1tt l~omint•  OL  6-5  279  FR  
fl,trtl,•y Webb  01.  6-6  305  so  
Paul Duncan  OL  6-7  308  JR  
M•tt Caruf••l  01.  6-5  295  so  
Sam Young  OL  6-8  310  FSO  
Taylor l.:>t.•vt.•r  01.  6-5  289  FR  
Bob Morton  01.  6-4  292  SR  
Michat>l Turkovich  OL  6-6  301  JR  
john Sullivan  01.  6-4  303  SR  
Rich.trd Jarkson  WR  6-3  204  so  
Robby Pcuris  WR  6-4  209  so  
Mikt• R.tgorw  TE  6-5  230  FR  
Wi11Yt·atm.1n  TE  6-6  264  so  
S<Jnt Vos  WR  5-10  199  so  
Konrad Rt•ul.md  TE  6-6  255  so  
John Carlson  TE  6-6  255  SR  
john Ryan  I.B  6-5  253  so  
Eml•kd Nw.mkwo  DL  6-4  283  FR  
D••rrl'illland  [)I.  6-3  287  JR  
Paddy Mullm  Dl.  6-5  290  so  
Justin Brown  Dl.  6-3  261  SR  
Ian Wiliams  DL  6-2  300  FR  
Pat Kunt1  Dl.  6-3  285  JR  
Kdllt·n Wadt•  DL  6-5  257  so  
Tn•vorL.tws  Dl.  6-1  296  SR  

OLB 'IORyan 53 Richardson 

LDF. 981.aft 93 Mullen 
!.&! 
lWalls 22Wooden JLB ./,:­
n.B 
41) c"iiUU Jr. 5lB..o;:Jd~ 41 Smith , or 49 Smlllt 
<~-~ ~i·-, RDF.
Nl' . 4 
96Kuatz 
94Brmm 95 Wilhan111 't • 0'1' 51 St.,...._u Jr. 
!! ss 
RCB r7 Bruton 9 Zbikowokl . 20 L;i;;'bert 28 MtCanhy 6Rerring ' BMcNcil 
... 
I 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Jn two years as Notre Dame head coach, Charlie Weis has led the lri sh to back-to-back three loss seasons and t\\o BCS berths. Although he is just 1-5  Notre Dame's three­headed monster at quarterback is unlikely to live up to Brady Quinn's lofty standards in whoever-it-is' first start. Sharpley,  Darius Walker is gone, but five talented backs, each with different skill sets, replace him in the Irish backfield. Meanwhile, Notre Dame's offensive line is  Notre Dame has thme quarterbacks to choose from, but none of' them have any experience. Similarly, the Irish have a whole host of young wide rm:eivers. Tight end John  
against Top-1 0 teams, he is 18-1 against teams outside the Top 10­like Georgia Tech.  Clausen, and Jones have just one career completion between them.  young, but talented and huge -four of the starters weigh in at over 300 pounds.  Carlson is one of the best in the country and should make an impact against Georgia Tech.  
Gailey has never lost less than five games in a season at Georgia Tech but always gets his team up for big games, like the Yellow Jaekel<>' 14-10 loss  Taylor Bennett torched West Virginia's abysmal pass defense last season in the Gator Bowl in just his second start. Whether that's an indi­ John Tenuta favors speed over size, and it shows .on his defensive line, where the largest player is just 285 pounds. The entin~ front seven is  The Yellow Jacket pass rush has been terrorizing opposing quarterbacks since Tenuta has been defensive coordinator. Philip Wheeler is one of  
to ND last year. Defensive coordinator John Tenuta is one of the best in the game.  cator of things to come is still up in the air, but it was a promising start to his eareer.  fast, however, and the confusing blitz schemes the Jackets employ can make offenses look silly.  the best pass rushing linebaekers in the country. The defensive backs are solid, but not spectacular.  
Neither starter will be particularly experi­enced, but Bennett's  The Irish have a m a.F-~ze ad:¥"'autge up l'fi1)nt -. ant!.,tbf}~ re  Georgia Tech terror­ized Brady Quinn last  
performance against the Mountaineers gives him an edge. Not only  ~·cry d. oe·p. --~-ftat.'lha_c_K.­"ft'l1\i a ·•ho~,R~·~, of  year and there's no reason why they won't be chasing the new  
has he played in a big game, he played very well and will be confi­ p:ou)~dip!li; a· ; t~~ ~~~tJa~­:;, htftJ ~~-: ~ down,  Irish starter all day long. Notre Dame will have to get rid of the ball quickly to have  
dent coming into NO stadium.  allft[or ·~me big fou · · rter raM.  any success through the air.  

LLI 
:E 
<[ 
Q 
LLI 
0:: 
..... 
0 
z 
:::r::: 
(.) 
LLI 
..... 
~ 
C!J
c::: 
0 
LLI 
" 
en 
en 
~ 
<[ 
z 
<C 
Ken Fowler 
Managing Editor 

Chris Khorey 
Sports Editor 
Don't count on the new quarterback being the Notre Dame's quarterback (whoever it is) won't biggest difference in the Notre Dame offense. exactly remind people of Brady Quinn, but it won't That distinction will belong to Charlie Weis' imag­matter. The Irish running game will control the ination. After a reported meeting with West clock and the dnten.c;e, whieh will show immndiate 


Irish 

Virginia eoaeh Hich Hodriguez , Weis will utilize a improvement over last ynar, will set up at lnast onn spread-option oflense that will play to the Jacket touchdown with a turnovnr. 'l'ashard Choice will defen.c;e's weaknesses. For the first time since he get hi<> yards, but in the end Notre Damn will pull

experts 

got here and said he would create an offense out a hard-lhught delimsive battln. around il<> players, Weis will do just that. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 21 Georgia Tech 17 Georgia Tech 17 


Friday, August 31, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 





HEAD 
Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets 

Georgia Tech 2007 Schedule 


Sept. 1  at Notre Dame  
Sept. 8  SAMFORD  
Sept. 15  BC  
Sept. 22  at Virginia  
Sept. 29  CLEMSON  
Oct. 6  at Maryland  
Oct. 13  at Miami  
Oct. 20  ARMY  
Nov.1  VA. TECH  
Nov. 11  at Duke  
Nov.18  N.CAROLINA  
Nov. 25  GEORGIA  

JACKETS RUSHING JACKETS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame's defen­ The Irish· secondary  Geoff Price is one of the  Notre Dame is at home  
sive line is undersized  struggled last year, but  best punters in the nation  with low expectations,  
for a 3-4 set. The line­ with a lot of returning  and Tom Zbikowski is  which means a raucous  
backers should be much  talent and two former  always dangerous as a punt  crowd if things start  
improved over last year,  NFL defensive backs  returner. Freshmen  going well. Georgia Tech  
but they too are on the  coaches on the defensive  Armando Allen and Golden  has no film of Corwin  
small side. Defensive  staff, it should be  Tate will run back kickoffs  Brown's defense, has no  
coordinator Corwin  improved in 2007.  and have blazing speed.  idea who will start at  
Brown will have to vary  Meanwhile, Brown's 3-4  Brandon Walker and Nate  quarterback and will be  
his looks to confuse the  allows for blitzes from  Whitaker are still competing  caught by surprise by  
Jackets offensive line.  all sorts of angles.  for the starting kicking job.  new wrinkles from Weis.  
Tashard Choice came  Bennett looked good in  Durant Brooks is back  The Jackets come in  
into his own at the end of  the Gator Bowl, but West  to punt and Travis Bell is  looking for revenge  
the season, finishing with  Virginia's pass defense  back to kick field goals  after feeling like they  
over 1,500 yards and 5.0  was among the worst in  after making 12-of-18  let last year's game slip  
yards per carry. He did­ the country last year - last year. Bell is also per­ away. However, they  
n't see the ball much in  significantly worse than  fect on extra points in his  threw everything at the  
the opener last year  Notre Dame's, even.  career. The Jackets, how­ Irish last year in  
against the Irish, but he  Furthermore, Calvin  ever, have struggled in  Atlanta and Weis  
did manage to run for 58  Johnson has moved on to  kick coverage for the past  knows what to prepare  
yards on 14 carries.  the Detroit lions.  two seasons.  for.  
If Notre Dame's pass has 
Georgia, Wake Forest, and West Virginia all struggled to stop Tashard Choice -and so will Notre Dame. The Irish front seven will need big performances from its experienced members, like Maurice Crum and Trevor Laws, in order to have success.  

z 
0 
..... 
::a 
ITI 
c 
)> 
:s: 
ITI 
G) 
ITI 
0
::a 
G) 
:; 
.... 
ITI 
(") 
:::1: 


The Irish defense and special teams save the day 
Even without a clear successor to Brady Quinn, in this close game. Armando Allen runs back the Notre Dame's offense should still be ready for opening kickoff. The offense only manages to anything Tech can throw at them. Weis still has a pull together one impressive drive early in the potentially great running back combo in Aldridge 


Irish

second half, but it does not matter as the defense and Thomas. The one real question mark is holds Georgia Tech to limited second half whether Corwin Brown's defense is going to be yardage. Notre Dame starts off the year 1-0 and enough to stop Tashard Choice. But anything has gains key momentum heading into Penn State. to be better than the Irish defense in years past. 

experts

Jay Fitzpatrick Chris Hine FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 14 Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 Sports Editor Georgia Tech 10 Sports Editor Georgia Tech 14 


Friday, August 3 I, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 

Running backs look to establish offense 

By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
Travis Thomas spent almost all of last season on defense and special teams -a depar­ture from his natural position of running back -in order to hnlp bolster the Irish defense with speed. 
But Saturday, the fifth-year senior captain returns full-time to the offensive backfield and can already visualize the big plays he wants to make against Georgia Tech. 
"1 think everyone is excited right now, hopefully," Thomas said. ''I'm just looking forward to the first hit," 
Thomas is one of live running backs at head coach Charlie Weis' disposal this season, along with senior Junior Jabbie, sophomore James Aldridge and freshmen Armando Allen and Robert Hughes. The stable of running backs has allowed offensive coordinator Mike Haywood to expand his rushing attack in preparation for the Yellow Jackets. 
"You have different types of backs," Haywood said. "You have power backs, you have speed backs, and when you're going into all your different personnels -maybe three tight end sets, two tight end sets, three receiver sets -you spin backs in and out just to see how do they react versus this, how do they protect this blitz." 
The variability in the back­field is one of the biggest changes from last year's offense, when then-junior Darius Walker had 60 percent of all rushing attempts and 67 percent of all rushing yards for the Irish. 
Although having more run­ning backs available means each player gets less playing time, Thomas sees it as a bene­fit. 
"With the diversity that we have, it allows me to not only do certain things, maybe neces­sarily a little bit better than some of the backs," Thomas said. "But it allows me to get a rest in, and, you know, stay fresh, which is something not a lot of teams can do because they may not necessarily have the depth at this position." 
One reason the offense has so many backs at its disposal is the quick change the two fresh­man backs have made to col­lege football. 
"The freshmen are adapting pretty fast, surprisingly, and things are going pretty good," Aldridge said. "The older guys help out. Even though I'm a sophomore, I've been here for a while so I'm willing to help any­body out." 
And Aldridge himself is ready to start taking meaningful handoffs -something he had to wait on last year after a knee injury sidelined him for the first six games of the season. 
"I feel good. I mean, it's time to play. I'm past all the injury stuff and I'm ready to play now," Aldridge said. "Now I can do things that I wanted to do. No limitations, so I'm excited about it." 
The running backs will have the important task of taking the pressure off whichever quarter­back lands the starting job. Haywood and center John Sullivan said the most impor­tant thing a young quarterback can do is establish a rushing attack early, which will be a focus of this weekend's game. 
"When you run the ball effec­tively it allows for play action and just more passes in gener­al," Sullivan said. "It means they have to put more defend­ers in the box to try and stop the run. That's if you run the ball effectively though, which of course will be one of our goals." 
Another step in creating a better situation for the "quarter­back is for the running backs to perfect their pass protection schemes. Going against a Georgia Tech defense that Haywood calls "dial-a-blitz," the running backs have to be ready to protect the new signal caller. 
"You have to be conscious of your protections and your ­responsibility on every play knowing that they could throw something at you at any time, and we're expecting that," Thomas said. 
The running backs have focused on preparing for the blitz throughout their game planning. Haywood said they have spent two individual prac­tices solely focused on pass pro­tection and have gone against the linebacker squad in prepa­ration. 
The practice is important, Aldridge said, because of the difference between high school and college pass rushes. 
"In high school you may have somebody running in there and you can just butt them and the quarterback can throw the ball off," Aldridge said. "But in col­lege you really have to strain the gut to protect the quarter­back." 
Regardless of the quarterback on Saturday, the Irish offense will look to its tailbacks to ease the transition from backup to starter. 
"Whenever you have a young offense, you try to take as much practice off the quarterback as you can," Haywood said. "What we're trying to do is take pres­sure off the quarterback. put more pressure on more experi­enced players we have on our team." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

Dynamic duo highlight G-Tech attack 
Choice came into his own By CHRIS KHOREY late last season. rushing for Sports Editor more than 100 yards in each of his last seven games, 
Last season, as Notre Dame including a 169-yard perform­prepared to face Georgia Tech ance in the Gator Bowl against in the opening game of the West Virginia. snason, Irish dP!"ensive coach­"Obviously the mainstay of es had one name on their their running game is minds-Calvin Johnson. !ChoiceI." Irish coach Charlie 
But the Yellow Jackets' All-Weis said. "The thing about 
American wide  this kid. that I  
rneeiver,  who  always admire  
caught seven passes for 111 yards and a  "The thing about !Choice], that I  with running backs, is he's very, very  
touchdown against Notre Dame last fall, has moved on.  always admire with running backs, is he's very, very durable. "  durable." Choice said he felt like he could have run  
Johnson  was  for  more  than  
the second over­all pick in the  Charlie Weis Irish coach  100 yards in last season's  

NFL Draft. seleeted by the Detroit Lions in April. 
Into his place step two play­ers that were on Georgia Tech's roster during the game last September in Atlanta but were hardly household names -running back Tashard Choice and quarterback Taylor Bennett. 
Choice was the Yellow Jackets' starting running back against the Irish last year, but he carried only 14 times for 58 yards. 
Bennett was thn back-up to tlwn-starter Heggie Ball and had only snen action in three previous games. lie did not play against the Irish. 
Fast forward to a year later and Choice and Bennett make up a backfield duo that has Yellow Jackets fans excited about their offense. 
game against 
Notre Dame, 

but then-offen­sive coordinator Patrick Nix decided to concentrate on the passing game. 
"We didn't run the football as much, we didn't convert on that many third downs," Choice said. "Last year we had a chance to win the game but we came up a little short. We knew that we could compete with anyone. This season we want to show people that we can go into a hostile environ­ment and win games like that and do that for the course of the season." 
Bennett can point to his per­formance last year against the Mountaineers as proof that he can play well in big games. He threw for 326 yards on 19-for­29 passing and two touch­downs. 
"[The Gator Bowl] helped 
him tremendously," Yellow Jackets coach Chan Gailey said. "I think it helped every­body tremendously. The more experience you have, and the more positive experiences you have, it helps you." 
For his career, Bennett has completed 45 percent of his passes for 668 yards, with six touchdowns and two intercep­tions. 
But Weis said what impressed him most on film was Bennett's composure. 
"The thing that stood out about this kid is he shows very good poise," Weis said. "He has a strong arm. I think he's a very good athlete." 
Bennett will have to be poised coming into a hostile environment at Notre Dame Stadium against the new defensive scheme of the Irish under defensive coordinator Corwin Brown. But Gailey said his quarterback will be up to the challenge. 
"I think that our guys can make the adjustments that are necessary," he said. "The experience factor really plays a big part into that." 
Although Bennett has yet to start a true road game for the Yellow Jackets, Gailey said Bennett will be unfazed by the mystique of Notre Dame. 
"You can't let the situation get to you," Gailey said. "Our guys have been in some pretty tough places to play in and have been successful, so l don't think I have to go make a long speech about the Four Ilorse!llen or anything." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

..

. . . 
. . 

r page 8 . , . . . The Oburoa + PAID ADVERTISEMENT f,;day, Augu" 31, 2007 




