

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Basketball ticket sales, crowds strong 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Wrirer 
Last year's change to the Notre Dame's men's basketball student tick­eting policy may have helped keep this year's ticket sales strong and the crowd enthusiastic, said Director of Ticket Operations Josh Berlo. 
"I would say our ticket sales are pretty similar compared to the last couple years," Berlo said on Jan. 22, noting that while sales haven't signfi­cantly increased, crowd energy has. 
The policy for student tickets was altered last year to allow students to "share booklets," Berlo said, a change that has boosted consistent student attendance. 

This change was made "due to the fact that we had sold out our student tickets a couple years in a row and found that there were more students who wanted to attend," Berlo said. 
Due to the number of games on the men's basketball schedule, Berlo said, students were not always able to attend every game. The ticket poli­cy change was made to "make it so as many students as possible could attend [the games]," he said. 
The basketball team currently has a 17-game winning streak at home, something Berlo said probably also encourages attendance -which, in turn, helps the team. 
"The crowds this year have been great. They've been into the game, 
see TICKETS/page 4 



Students travel to D.C. for war protest 
Justice coalition. 
Junior Mike McCann said he was "a little hesitant at first" in deciding to go on the trip, not wanting "to go to something that was antago­nistic." But he said the protest didn't have that kind of spirit. 
"[It was] a message of peace and bringing home the troops ... There were people of a lot of different ages and a lot of different back­grounds. It wasn't just a bunch of hippie college kids -it was people in wheel­chairs, moms pushing kids in strollers, older couples and young kids," McCann said. 
Angulo said several pro­testers from other countries, including Iraq and England, were present. 
"[Foreign protesters] were 
see PROTEST/page 4 


BySONIARAO News Writer 
Notre Dame students returned to campus Sunday after joining tens of thou­sands in Washington, D.C. to protest the Iraq war and other policies of the Bush administration. Saturday's protest marked a "turning point in the anti-war move­ment," said Michael Angulo, vice-president of Notre Dame's Progressive Student Alliance. 
"I think that everyone had a really good time and I think that the protest in general was a really good thing," he said 
Angulo organized the group of 30 students to drive to Washington on Friday for the protest, a function sponsored by the United for Peace and 
Hanna elected 2007-08 Observer editor in chief 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer General Board elected managing editor Maddie Hanna as the 2007-08 editor in chief on Saturday. 
I Ianna, a junior French major 
and journal­ism. ethics and democ­racy minor from Meq­uon. Wis. who resides off campus after living in Lewis Hall, 


joined The Hanna Observer as a news reporter during the fall of her freshman year. Since then, she has covered a wide variety of beats, including student gov­ernment, campus crime and disciplinary procedures and the Office of the University President. 
''I'm thrilled to have this opportunity and I'm very lucky we have such a dedicated and talented staff," Hanna said. 
During Hanna's term as man­aging editor, she oversaw the day-to-day editorial operations of The Observer, where she saw "what works and what doesn't" while gaining a "broad sense of what we can do better," she said. Hanna also worked closely with the news department. 
"l have confidence in Maddie's ability to lead The Observer next year," outgoing editor in chief Mike Gilloon 
see EI C/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Com_puter sparks fire in Siegfried 
Dorm incurs minor damage, no injuries 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
Siegfried Hall was evacuated early Saturday morning when sophomore Dan Zimmerman's computer went up in flames, causing minor damage but leaving residents stranded out­side for almost an hour. 
Zimmerman was not in the room when his computer's bat­tery overheated and exploded, creating two-and-a-half to three-foot-high flames, Siegfried assistant rector Peter Lively said. 
A handful of Zimmerman's neighbors -including sopho­mores Tomas Castillo, Mike Hawking and Robbie Bernardin -smelled the smoke, immedi­ately unplugged the computer and opened the windows to vent the room. 
When the laptop ignited, they notified resident assistant Anh Nguyen and Lively, who grabbed a fire extinguisher and smothered the flames before the Notre Dame Fire Department and Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) arrived. 
Lively said Friday's fire was the most potentially destructive fire he has seen in his seven years at Notre Dame and Siegfried Hall. 
Residents became aware of the flames at approximately 
1:10 a.m., and NDSP and the firefighters arrived shortly 
see FIRE/page 6 


Alums awarded for excellence 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
Four exemplary Notre Dame graduates were honored on campus Friday with awards presented by the Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Awardees included journal­ist Hannah Storm, doctor Daniel Towle, artist Anthony Sorce and author Barry Lopez. 
Hannah Storm, Class of 1983, received the Rev. Arthur 
S. Harvey, C.S.C., Award for her notable achievements in the media. 
Storm was the first woman solo anchor of a network sports package when she served as host of NBC's base­ball and basketball program­ming from 1995-2002. 
She got her start as a sports reporter in South Bend when 
she worked for WNDU-TV in 
1982 while 
still an 
undergradu­
ate student 
at Notre Dame. She has 
a I s o 
anchored 
"CNN Sports 
Tonight" 
and worked 
as a sports 
anchor and 
reporter in 
Charlotte, 
N.C., and 
Houston and 
Corpus 
Christi, 
Texas. 
Storm is 
currently co-anchor of CBS 
News' "The Early Show." Storm was recognized for 
her achievements and pio-



neering role as a top female sports jour­nalist in 2005 when she received t h e American Women Radio and Television Gracie Sorce Award for outstanding n e w s anchor, and she has been nominated twice for an E m m y Award for Best Sports 


Lopez e I e v i s i o n Host. The Dr. Thomas A. Dooley Award for outstanding service 
see AWARDS/page 6 

r------------­
page 2 

I-­
-~-------· 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Looking good, ND 
After spending my Sunday immersed in writings of genocide, ancient trade and fine art for this week's classes, I've decided to devote this column to some­thing vastly more superficial for my own sanity and for your guilt-free Steve Kerins reading pleasure. 
While I was 
News Wire 
studying this after­
Editor
noon, I often glanced up at friends, classmates and strangers as they walked past my booth in LaFortune. As the hours passed, one thought kept popping into my head: 
"You're looking good lately, Notre Dame." Before I write further, let me be clear: I'm well aware that I'm no fashionista. 
Naturally, I like to look good when the weather is fine. True to my preppy roots, I value a golden fake-and-bake, double-popped pastels and liberal application of greasy hair products. But I recognize that in South Bend, there comes a point in January where even the best of us are tempted to leave suede jackets at home in favor of a much warmer North Face. 
Yet today, I witnessed something bold, something beautiful, and I'd like to raise my figurative glass to those of you who went above and beyond. It's 10 degrees outside, and you're still looking fine. 
It could be that those New Year's res­olutions to spend some time at Rolfs or cut back on late night LaFun runs are starting to show. Or maybe Santa splurged on some high-end Christmas clothing. Sometimes it only takes a mis­chievous grin at a friend across the room or a sultry glance up from your homework for your peers to take notice. 
In three-and-a-half years at Notre Dame, I've learned two key lessons the hard way. 
First, relentless cold, snow and the unyielding permacloud can make win­ter a depressing time in South Bend. 
Second, despite its numerous and varied positive attributes, our University can heap a hearty helping of Catholic guilt on the unwary. My philos­ophy, for what little it's worth, is that from time to time, it's okay to be super­ficial. 
I applaud our dedicated administra­tors, our talented faculty and many of our selfless and humble peers for their devotion to integrity, ethics and social justice. But I find that if I don't indulge in some quality self-absorption on a regular basis, their admonitions start to wear off for lack of behavior I can be ashamed of. 
So please, go ahead. Hike over to FunTan and start working on that bikini body. Spend some extra time on those abs so you can impress the ladies with more than your ability to shotgun beers. Throw pragmatism and grandma's birthday money to the wind, head to the mall and buy yourself those new shoes you've been greedily eyeballing. You know you deserve them. 
In fact, I might see you there, because I'm going to buy a pair myself. In the immortal words of Bobby Brown, it's my prerogative. 
Keep up the good work, Notre Dame, because you're starting to impress me ... right down to the surface. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 29, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE FIRST THING YOU THINK OF WHEN YOU HEAR 'JACK BAUER'? 

Elizabeth Pillari  Rob Wilson  Tomas Castillo  Ken Shamrell  Ted Lee  Brendan O'Rourke  
junior Cavanaugh  sophomore Stanford  sophomore Siegfried  sophomore Siegfried  freshman Alumni  freshman Dillon  
"Kevin Crowley."  "The great American hero  "Death, destruction and  "He's like Chuck Norris -except  "Unrealistic, but I want to be  "Spill more. "  


ofour time. " the savior of better." humanity." 



Stolen Bigfoot statue found without feet 
FEDERAL WAY, Wash. ­An imposing, wood-carved Bigfoot statue stolen from outside a doctor's office has been recovered -minus its big feet. 
An anonymous tip led police to the 400-pound sculpture beneath a pile of debris in a backyard about a block from where it was snatched Monday. Two people confessed and could face theft charges. 
The likeness of the leg­endary ape-like creature of the Northwest used to stand 8 feet high, but its 16-inch-long feet had been sawed off at the ankles, leaving it 18 inches shorter. 
''I'm glad we got him before they cut him anymore," said chiropractor Tom Payne, who had the statue made 5 1/2 years ago and planted at the foot of his secluded driveway as a landmark for patients. 
Dog reunites with family after six years 
ST. LOUIS -Cujo was a frisky 7 -year-old when he sneaked out of' his owners' south St. Louis yard in July 2000. Now, thinner and gray­er and with a tale that would be fascinating if only he could tell it, the golden retriever is back with the Barczewski 
family. 

"It's a miracle," Noreen Barczewski, 41, said at Friday's reunion. "We found 
him!" 

Six years and a side trip to Columbia can do a lot to a dog, but it was unmistakably Cujo. 
After slipping away from home, Cujo somehow ended up 120 miles in Columbia in the home of an elderly woman. When the woman entered a nursing home, the dog was sent to the Central Missouri Humane Society in Columbia. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


like him." 
IN BRIEF 
Vincent Carraud, professor of philosophy at the University of Caen, France is delivering a lec­ture entitled "The Anti­Augustinianism of Pascal" today at 3 p.m. in DeBartolo 207. 
There is an informational meeting for freshman and soph­omores interested in learning about how to receive funding to conduct research or participate in an internship in Africa, Asia or Latin Ameriea tonight at 6 p.m. in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
"The Vagina Monologues," a play performed by Notre Dame students, is holding auditions tonight from 7 p.m. to 9 in the basement social space of Pangborn. 
Naunihal Singh, assistant pro­fessor of political science and Kellogg Institute Faculty Fellow, will speak about "Military Weakness and Civil Wars in Africa," a Work in Progress Seminar, Tuesday from 12:30 
p.m. to 2 in room C-1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. A box lunch will be served following the semi­nar. 
Gwendolyn Oxenham, the 2006 Sparks Prize Winner, will read from her nonfiction work "Essence Game" in the Hospitality Room of Reekers Tuesday from 7:30p.m. to 9. The event is sponsored by the Creative Writing Program. 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair will be held Thursday from 4 p.m. to 6 in the Joyce Center Field House. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

20 15 

15 8 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
1.&.1 :::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
~ 
...J 
ct 
(.) 0 


HIGH 18
.... 

LOW 6 

8 6 


18 
5 

23 
5 

Monday, January 29, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professor looks at political stability 
By JACKIE MULLEN 
News Writer 
Professor Cecilia Martinez­Gallardo of the Centro de Investigaci6n y Docencia Econ6micas (CIDE) in Mexico spoke about the cor­relation between the average expected tenure of a cabinet member in 12 Latin American countries and the stability of that mem­ber's government in a lec­ture Thursday in the Hesburgh Center. 
Martinez-Gallardo said many presidents restructure cabinets in order to over­come congressional con­straints, and that the action is most typical of presidents with a weak political basis. 
She said cabinet appoint­ments supply a president with "flexibility in impend­ing crises" and allows them to "avoid deadlock." 
"Under certain circum­stances, presidents will find appointments the best strat­egy to move policy," she said. 
The equilibrium of a coun­try's government, so far as the cabinet influences the larger regime, is affected by the ability of the president to change the cabinet, the ability to use appointments to deal with problems and the constitutionally-imposed constraints on the president, such as formal censure power, she said. 



Based on her research, Martinez-Gallardo concluded that, counterintuitively, the presence of formal legisla­tive censure power increases the possibility of removing a cabinet member by 200 per­cent, compared to presiden­tial systems where the con­appointments to influence public conception regarding the effectiveness of the gov­ernment, and also as a scare tactic directed toward other members of the cabinet. 

However, in both parlia­mentary and presidential systems, she said govern­ments with majority coali­tions have more stable cabi­nets than single-party majorities. 
Martinez-Gallardo said the ultimate significance of the instability of cabinets is a mechanism "which allows 
gress does not wield formal cen­
"Under certain 
sure powers. 
circumstances,

However, s h e presidents will find 
acknowl­

edged that appointments the best this may be strategies to move 
a result of a 
policy.,,
political sys­tem volatile enough to 

Cecilia Martinez-Gallardo 
necessitate censure 
professor 
powers, 
CIDE
implying that the power in 
presidential systems to be more sta­ble as a regime." 
T h e dynamics created through the reappoint­ment of min­isters is often used as a political strategy when presi­dents find themselves unable to 
itself does not trigger the erratic membership of the cabinet. 
Martinez-Gallardo also said "presidential [systems] are almost by every account more unstable than parlia­mentary systems." 
She referred to presiden­tial systems' use of cabinet 

influence legislative policy. 
Martinez-Gallardo said she wishes to further study the impact of popularity upon cabinet tenure in the future in selected Latin American nations. 
Contact Jackie Mullen at jmirando@nd.edu 
Business club holds All-Council meeting 
ByJENNMETZ News Writer 
The Student International Business Council will hold its All-Council meeting this Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Mendoza College of Business' Jordan Auditorium, gathering students of all majors to hear board members speak about career and internship opportunities the club can pro­vide. 
Marketing director sophomore Megan Marsh said the club gives students the ability to gain hands-on experience with real­world companies. 
"It's a great club people aren't aware of," she said. "We send people around the world on internships and to work with major corporations." 
The club, which has been on campus since 1989, has worked with companies like Nintendo, Credit Suisse and Discover Card in the past. 
Marsh said she hopes the meeting will allow more stu­dents to get involved with SIBC. 
"We're really not that new," she said. "People just haven't heard of us. 
The club's goal is "to empower students through the ethical advancement of international commerce by developing leader­ship, entrepreneurial ability, practical management skills and global interaction," according to the SIBC mission statement. 
It focuses on areas including business, consulting, accounting, financ.e, global development, human resources, internship opportunities and marketing. Within these categories, mem­bers can participate in projects, which vary depending on the area of interest. 
"We learn presentation skills, gain contacts, learn communica­tion skills and are presented with leadership positions to become more involved," Marsh said. 
Marsh said the club has links to approximately 20 internation­al summer internships and an alumni network called the International Business Council. This network offers mentoring and networking events. 
Part of the club's vision is to work for peace through com­merce, said both Marsh and SIBC president Kevin Rauseo. 
"We as a council strive to make a difference in the world and ultimately achieve peace within it, through commerce," he said. 
Upcoming events this semester include a spring forum with speakers from the international business world and round table dinners for a smaller, more social setting to discuss projects and ideas. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


St de t I ter ati 
al 
4

ustness 
cil
.. . . 

AlL-COUNCIL INFORMATIONAL 
.i\re you look-ingfor atl 

-
I 
OJ'J'011:un-it!l to: 

Tuesday · January 30th · 7PM 
A Gain qual-ity real­7vorltl e:tperience B Travel 

Jordon Auditorium · Mendoza
C Inte171 abroad D Get a F1-ee T-Shirt E L4ll ofthe abo'l)e 

AlL MAJORS WELCOME 
Joitl tlte SIBC! 

For more info visit sibc.nd.edu 
NPeace 
Commerce"' 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 29, 2007 
Official warns of fiscal crisis 
their levels of cholesterol, eligibility "Everybody wants service. Comptroller General David requirements unlimited access to Whether Walker told students and fac­and the scope of through teach­
health care, as long
ulty members in the Jordan the essential ing children, 
as someone else will 
Auditorium Friday. services avail­serving in office 
In the first installment of the able should be pay for it." or volunteering Mendoza School of Business' revisited. in county hospi­"Ten Years Hence" lecture "Everybody tals, Walker
David Walker 
series, Walker updated stu­wants unlimited assigned young dents on the condition of the access to health U.S. Comptroller General adults the 
country's debt and urged them care, as long as to hold their elected officials someone else accountable for the expendi­will pay for it," Walker said. tures and taxation formulas "We're number one in obesity they may implement and people have to get their because the burden of their act together and assume a decisions will fall on the shoul­greater responsibility." ders of forthcoming genera­He suggested the distribution tions. of health care costs among the 
"We don't face a heart attack federal government, the indi­immediately but we have been vidual and the individual's diagnosed with cancer," employer. Walker said. "We need to start Similarly, he urged energetic treatment today or we'll face individuals to work beyond the 
catastrophic  minimum  
results in the  retirement age  
future."  "While some would  of 62 to allevi­ 
He called the existing fiscal policy "unac­ have you believe that the reason we're  ate the coun­try's pension obligations, as  
ceptable and unsustain­able," and sug­gested discre­ running these deficits is because ofthe war on terrorism and  well as a feder­al reexamina­tion of the com­pensation and  
tionary expen­ incremental homeland  taxation formu­ 
diture controls and all-encom­passing taxa­tion regula­ security costs, that's just not factually accurate."  las pertinent to retired citizens. T h e s e changes, if  
tions  to  pre­ implemented,  
vent further insolvency. As head of  David Walker U.S. Comptroller General  would drasti­cally affect the lives of  

the bipartisan Government Accountability Office (GAO), Walker audited different gov­ernment offices and said Social Security, health care and taxa­tion legislature will require fundamental reorganization before the crisis is averted. 
"While some would have you believe that the reason we're running these deficits is because of the war on terror­ism and incremental homeland security costs, that's just not factually accurate," he said. 
While the country accrued more than $450 billion in arrears last year, approximate­ly $100 billion were related to Iraq and Afghanistan, he said. 
The rest of the bill belonged Americans, but 

Walker said the fiscal crisis demanded drastic measures. 
"Tough choices are required," he said. "We will not be able to grow our way out of this problem." 
In response to the growing problem, Walker and the GAO launched the "Fiscal Wake-Up Tour," a series of nationwide forums to discuss the federal government's deficit and the challenges posed by existing fiscal trends. 
They've already visited sev­eral universities, including 
Ohio  State  University,  
University  of  Chicago,  
University  of  Colorado,  
University  of  Missouri,  

University of Nebraska and Duke University, according to the GAO Web site. 
Walker said it was important to awaken in young people the desire to serve their country, and he offered the students in Jordan personal advice, telling them to give two years of their lives to public 
responsibility of 
"making America great again." 
He also favored increasing the transparency and com­pleteness of the President's budget proposals and tax 
expenditures  to  return  to  
America its glory  - from  an  
accountant's perspective.  

That would deter uninhibited credit expenditures that "ungenerously grow upon prosperity the burden that [leaders today] ought to bear," he said. 
The taxpayers, he said, have failed to carry the load. 
Walker said $365 billion had been lost at the close of 2006 as result of the taxpayers' fail­ure to meet their obligations, excessive deductions and other tax-related violations. 
The GAO's reform proposals called for an expansion of the tax bases and a simultaneous conservation of rates that will stimulate further economic growth. 
Walker also scrutinized the intersection of taxation proce­dures and health care. 
"The single largest tax pref­erence in the code is still health insurance," he said in reference to the exemption of an employer's health insur­ance costs on the employee's return. 
He said this practice further disconnects the taxpayer from bearing the burden of his or her own health care, returning to his argument in favor of increased individual contribu­tions to the relief of America's deficit. 
"We will ultimately rise to the challenge," Walker said. "We just need to do it sooner rather than later." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
EIC 

continued from page 1 
said. "She has a wealth of great ideas and an excellent relationship with the staff." 
Hanna said she hopes to undertake projects during her tenure that include improving writing throughout The Observer, pushing for more investigative reporting and 
upgrading the newspaper's Web site. 
"I want our coverage to bet­ter serve the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities," Hanna said. "Also, The Observer is a great training ground, and I want to make sure students interested in journalism get the experience they need." 
Hanna will assume the posi­tion as editor in chief on March 5. 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
The United States' budget deficit may be approaching the $50 trillion mark, but despite the enormity of the fiscal cri­sis, citizens can curb the coun­try's liabilities by assuming responsibility -and reducing 

he agrees that attendance has shifted throughout the
Tickets 

season. "It seems like attendancecontinued from page 1 
has increased with the suc­they've made a lot of noise, cess of the team," he said, and they are really helping noting that the games our home court advantage," against conference oppo­Berlo said. nents have been well 
Sophomore Andrew attended. Monahan, who For freshman purchased a Sam Vos, while student ticket "The student general crowd booklet at the attendance
section has been 
beginning of appears to vary the season, has fun to be in." depending on attended every the opponent, home game. the student sec­
Sam Vos
He described tion seems con­
freshman
the typical crowd as "defi­nitely enthusiastic because most of the people who go are the die-hard fans and they are definitely into the games." 
However, Monahan said he has observed a change in attendance throughout this season as the team has increased its winning record. 
"I think at the beginning of the year it [attendance] was a lot like last year because people didn't have as big of expectations about the team," he said. 
Sophomore John Avila said 
sistently strong 
-something he attributed to students who pass tickets on to their friends when they can't attend. 
"The student section has been fun to be in," he said. "[The students] have been pretty rowdy and support­ive." 
Tickets are currently sold out for the upcoming game against Marquette. Berlo said on Jan. 22 his office is "sold out of student books at this point." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

• Free Haircuts • free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts •Free Haircuts • 
2 ~
J Atria salon 2 ~ 
c:

Specializing in Color ;;; ~ 
271.8804 
Help us celebrate the New Year. We are giving away 100 complimentary haircuts ~ to students of Notre Dame & St. Mary's. ~ 
~­

This is our way of saying thank you ~ for all your support for the past 10 years. i 
This Is a limited promotion and ce1hdn rest:Jlctlom:; apply. Please call the salon to schedule your complimentary 
i a· 

haircut and mention this ad to the receptionist at the time of booking your appointment.
. 
~ 
-5 Please present this ad to the receptionist before services are performed i 
e  ro  
1 ~  Atria salon 2 2039 South Bend Ave., South Bend, IN 46637  IEXPtREs, 1 Feb•ua'}' 14, 2007[  if ~·  
lL  ;;;  

• Sln::li!BH 00.1.:::1• Sln(U!BH aeJ;;j • SlnOJ!SH 88J::I • S~nOJ!BH OOJ::I• Slf10J!BH OOJ::I• S:jlKU!SH 98J::J • 51n0J!f4-l B8J.:I• 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
not anti-American, just against the war like we are," he said. 
Freshman Lara Roach, who made the trip to Washington independently of the Progressive Student Alliance, described the environment as less raucous than expected. 
"The atmosphere was pretty calm. A lot of people were handing out pamphlets and dif­ferent newspapers ... Everyone was really friendly," she said. 
Roach said actress Susan Sarandon was one of the more effective speakers at the protest. 
"She humanized the whole thing, and really made you think about those people as people and not the enemy or a to health care and Social Security expenses. 

"If there's one thing that can bankrupt this country, it's health care," Walker said. 
He said 50 million Americans are uninsured, and while legis­lators should aim to provide access to health care services to every citizen, 
target," Roach said. "The core values of America 
As for whether the protest are still there, but we just need had an effect on policy-making, to make sure they're expressed only time will tell. in Congress and the White 
"I think it's House," he said. going to take a McCann noted lot for political "It wasn't just a bunch that activism in leaders to lis­itself sends a
ofhippie college kids 
ten, but there message, no 
-it was people in
were a lot of matter the issue Congressmen wheelchairs, moms being protested. there that "If the
pushing kids in
spoke," Roach American pub­
strollers, older couples 
said. "I think lic just sat on that it's really and young kids. " their couches important that on Saturday people did it then that's just
Mike McCann
[protested] saying what 
junior
because over [political fig-time it just puts ures] are doing more and more is right," he pressure on [Bush] and the said. people in Congress." 
Angulo said he is still opti­mistic about America's capaci­Contact Sonia Rao at ty to change. srao1@nd.edu 

Atnerica's #l law school t<x trial advocacy is in beautiful Tampa Bay, Florida. 
w-0 ­
Call Stetson toll-free today STETSON'· 
at (877) t.AW•STET or e-mail us at ~-~ lawadmissions@law.stetson.edu. College o£ I..a.w··· 
. ~ 

ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 29, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER's WlR£ SERVJCrs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Cardinal: Vatican should resist China 
VATICAN CITY -Hong Kong's outspoken car­dinal Joseph Zen said it was time for the Vatican to take a more uncompromising line toward the Chinese government, which broke with the Church more than 50 years ago and has sought to maintain control of Catholic institutions. 
The Vatican has long indicated that it wants to establish diplomatic relations with Beijing, even at the cost of moving its embassy from Taiwan. Currently, worship is only allowed in govern­ment-controlled churches, but as many as 10 million Catholics are estimated to belong to unofficial congregations loyal to Rome. 
The last months have seen a series of arrests of priests in China, according to Asia News, a Vatican-affiliated news agency. At least 17 underground bishops have disappeared, been arrested or detained in isolation. Twenty priests have been arrested and at least five, detained on Dec. 27 in Hebei, are still in prison, the agency reported last week. 
Irish accept Protestant police force 
DUBLIN, Ireland-Sinn Fein members over­whelmingly voted Sunday to begin cooperating with the Northern Ireland police, a long­unthinkable commitment that could spur the return of a Catholic-Protestant administration for the British territory. 
The result -confirmed by a sea of raised hands but no formally recorded vote -meant Sinn Fein, once a hard-left party committed to a socialist revolution, has abandoned its decades­old hostility to law and order. 
It strongly improved the chances of reviving power-sharing, the long-elusive goal of the 1998 Good Friday peace pact, by Britain's deadline of March 26. 
Nearly all speakers said they were voting to dump their party's anti-police position for the sake of peace. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Pentagon to limit longer deployments 
WASHINGTON-In an action branded a back­door draft by some critics, the military over the past several years has held tens of thousand of soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines on the job and in war zones beyond their retirement dates or enlistment length. 
It is a widely disliked practice that the Pentagon, under new Defense Secretary Robert Gates, is trying to figure out how to cut back on. Gates has ordered that the practice -known as "stop loss"-must "be minimized." At the same time, he is looking for ways to decrease the hardship for troops and their families, recruit more people for a larger military and reassess how the active duty and reserves are used. 
"It's long overdue," said Jules Lobel, vice presi­dent of the Center for Constitutional Rights and lawyer for some in the military who have chal­lenged the policy in court. 
Prince Charles visits Harlem youth 
NEW YORK -Prince Charles and his wife Camilla visited Harlem Sunday, making a stop at a charter school where they answered children's questions and the prince took some time to shoot hoops with a basketball team. 
The Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall arrived in New York from Philadelphia by a private train and visited Harlem Children's Zone, which runs the Promise Academy and a range of social services for Harlem. The royal couple are on a weekend visit to the United States that focuses on youth development. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Fewer meth labs found in Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS-Changes in Indiana law restricting access to cold medicines and the way farmers handle chemicals have led to a decrease in the number of methamphetamine labs found in the state, according to the Indiana State Police. 
As the highly addictive drug spread into Indiana in the late 1990s, meth-lab discoveries went from something rare to something all too common. 
But the number of labs busted is declining. In 2004, police in Indiana found 1,549 labs. The number of clandestine labs declined in 2005 to 1,303 around the state, with 989 found by State Police. 
Biden: Weak support for Bush 
Committee chair estimates twenty Senators agree with President's Iraq plan 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman on Sunday dismissed criticism a resolution opposing a troop buildup in Iraq would embolden the enemy and estimated perhaps only 20 senators believe President Bush "is headed in the right direction." 
"It's not the American peo­ple or the U.S. Congress who are emboldening the enemy," said Biden, D-Del., and White House hopeful in 2008. "It's the failed policy of this president -going to war without a strategy, going to war prematurely." 
The Senate's top Republican, Mitch McConnell, cast doubt that a clear majority would be able to coalesce behind one of the many competing resolutions on Iraq. ''I'm not certain any" will get the necessary votes, he said. 
The Democratic-controlled Senate plans to begin debate this week on a nonbinding resolution declaring that Bush's proposal to send 21,500 more troops to Baghdad and Anbar province is "not in the national interest." 
Last week, Eiden's com­mittee approved the meas­ure on a near party-line vote of12-9. passed measure. They are peting proposals but con­Cheney again cited "signif­
In reaction, Bush chal­lining up alternatives that tended that Senate opposi­icant progress" in Iraq and lenged lawmakers not to express concern about a tion to the buildup was wide­said the war is part of a prematurely condemn his buildup or in other cases set spread. long-term fight against buildup and Vice President performance benchmarks "We will have a full throat­extreme elements of Islam. Dick Cheney said the admin­for the Iraqi government. ed debate on this policy," "It's not something that's istration would proceed even McConnell said Republican Eiden said. "I will make you going to end decisively, and if a nonbinding resolution leaders would not seek to a bet, you will not find 20 there's not going to be a day won Senate approval. block a vote on the nonbind­percent of the Senate stand­when we can, say, 'There, 
With the Senate having ing resolution with a fili­ing up and saying the presi­now we have a treaty, prob­just confirmed a new top buster. He called a proposed dent is headed in the right lem solved,"' Cheney said. 
U.S. commander for Iraq, resolution that focuses on direction." "It's a problem that I think Defense Secretary Robert benchmarks "the best way Cheney said most will occupy our successors Gates said it was "pretty to go." Republicans "recognize that maybe for two or three or clear that a resolution that "I think I can pretty well what's ultimately going to four administrations to in effect says that the gener­speak for virtually all count here isn't sort of all come." al going out to take com­Republican senators when I the hurrah that surrounds Indiana Sen. Richard mand of the arena shouldn't say this is the last chance for these proposals so much as Lugar said the public's con­have the resources he thinks the Iraqis to step up and do it's what happens on the cern against the war was he needs to be successful their part," said McConnell, ground on Iraq. And we're evident by the tens of thou­certainly emboldens the R-Ky. not going to know that for a sands of demonstrators who enemy and our adversaries." Biden acknowledged that while yet," according to a turned out for a protest 
Senate Republicans mostly votes in Congress could Newsweek interview rally Saturday in oppose the committee-splinter among several com-released Sunday. Washington. 

JAPAN 

P.M. calls for military reforms 
revise this postwar regime and make a U.S.-Japan security alliance, and to
Associated Press new start," he told Parliament, which become more of a player in global TOKYO -Japan must overhaul its opened Thursday for a five-month ses­peacekeeping operations. pacifist constitution, increase its inter­sion. He also said there is a need for a national security role and free itself of "It is our mission to create a beauti­stronger deterrent to the threat posed World War II's political remnants, ful Japan that will be able to withstand by neighboring North Korea, which Prime Minister Shinzo Abe told the challenges of the next 50 or 100 recently sent shock waves through the Parliament in a major policy speech years," he said. region with ballistic missile launches Friday. Abe's constitutional revision idea is and its first test of a nuclear device. Setting out his administration's focused mainly on eliminating a clause "Our alliance with the United States objectives for the coming year, Abe in the current document -written by is a foundation of peace in Asia and highlighted rewriting the constitution, U.S. Occupation authorities just after the world," he said. "I believe our bolstering Japan's security alliance Japan's 1945 surrender -that strictly nation must make contributions that with the United States and implement­limits the military to a defensive role are commensurate with our interna­ing classroom reforms that will instill and bans the use of force as a means tional status." a sense of patriotism in the nation's of settling international disputes. Abe has strongly advocated the con­youth. Abe said his is to free the military to stitutional revision since he assumed "Now is the time for us to boldly assume a stronger position within the office in September. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Monday, January 29, 2007 
Honduras and Peru; provided founding and sponsoring serv­While a Notre Dame student, His body of work includes financial support and medical ice opportunities for more than Sorce was awarded the presti­National Book Award winner,
Awards 

continued from page 1 
to humanity was presented to Daniel Towle, Class of 1977. Towle is a pediatric anesthesi­ologist with a commitment to humanitarianism. He has been active in Catholic organizations for 31 years, bringing medical care to families everywhere, from his hometown of Leawood, Kan. to Bolivia and Lesotho, Africa. 
Towle helped bring maternal and child healthcare to a remote region of Nepal by help­ing establish a health clinic there; was part of a recon­structive surgical team that has performed procedures on chil­dren with birth defects in technologies for under­equipped hospitals throughout Central and South America; and cared for children with severe burn injuries in Bolivia, according to Notre Dame's Department of News and Information. 
In 2005, Towle and several other Notre Dame alumni founded the Touching Tiny Lives Foundation, which is a non-profit "committed to ensuring the health and dignity of children impacted by the HIV/AIDS pandemic," accord­ing to the Foundation's Web site. 
Towle has encouraged and enabled current Notre Dame students to get involved in their global community through 25 students in the last 15 years through the department of anthropology and the Center for Social Concerns. 
For his outstanding accom­plishments in the fine and visu­al arts, Anthony Sorce received the Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, 
C.S.C. Award. 
Sorce received his under­graduate degree in 1961 and his master's degree in 1962. 
His work has been recog­nized extensively by the art community. Even before his time at Notre Dame, Sorce was awarded the Chicago Artists Guild Prize and received a diploma from the American Academy of Art, a school for professional and commercial artists. 

gious Ivan Mestrovic Studio Assistantship three times. In 1968, he became one of the youngest artists ever to win the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship for his "pioneering work and innovation in sculp­ture with polyurethane rigid foam," according to Notre Dame Magazine. 
Sorce currently resides in New York and has received the Faculty Research Award for Painting from the Research Foundation of the City University of New York six times since 197 4. 
Author Barry Lopez was awarded the Rev. Robert F. Griffin, C.S.C., Award for his achievements in writing. 
"Arctic Dreams," National Book Award finalist, "Of Wolves and Men," six collections of short stories and two collections of essays. 
Lopez recently co-edited "Home Ground: Language for an American Landscape" as well. 
Lopez has been previously recognized for his literary achievements with the Award in Literature from the American Academy of Arts and Letters, the John Burroughs and John Hay Medals and fel­lowships from the Guggenheim, Lannan and National Science Foundations. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 

SAG honors actors in ceremony 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Helen Mirren of "The Queen" and Forest Whitaker of "The Last King of Scotland" won Screen Actors Guild Awards on Sunday as best lead players, their latest prizes on the road to the Academy Awards. 
The road-trip romp "Little Miss Sunshine" won the prize for best film ensemble, the guild's equivalent of a best­picture award. 
Solidifying their positions as Oscar favorites, Mirren won for playing British monarch Elizabeth II and Whitaker for starring as Ugandan dictator Idi Amin. 
Eddie Murphy and Jennifer Hudson won supporting-acting honors as soulful singers in "Dreamgirls," reinforcing their status as Oscar front­runners as well. 
The best-picture Oscar race, though, remains wide open, with "The Queen" and "Little Miss Sunshine" up against three sprawling dramas, "The Departed," "Babel" and "Letters From Iwo Jima." 
Mirren said she initially was dismayed at the prospect of donning Elizabeth II's conser­vative wardrobe, including sensible shoes and tweed skirts. 
"I thought, I can't play any­one who chooses to wear those clothes. I just can't do it," said Mirren, who also won the guild honor for best actress in a miniseries as the current monarch's namesake in "Elizabeth I." 
"But I learned to love the person who chooses to wear those clothes, because I 
tiona! family drives to their little girl's beauty pageant. 
''I'd like to thank the engi­neers at Volkswagen for mak­ing a beautiful vehicle back in 1969 that is so comfortable, so safe," Kinnear said. 
Murphy, who built his career as a fast-talking comic player, began with a thank-you speech more appropriate for a serious thespian -but his sober demeanor proved a gag. 
"What a tremendous 
been happy, nonstop happy." 
The ensemble win for "Little Miss Sunshine" could give the low-budget film a best-picture boost at the Oscars. But acad­emy voters tend to favor heavy drama such as fellow nominees "Babel" and "The Departed." 
The guild category has never been a reliable forecast for how the top Oscar might play out. In the 11 years since the guild added the 

honor to be rec­"[... ]It's been the ensemble ognized by one's honor, only
most incredible year 
peers. I've been five winners
for me, ever. That's
acting for some have gone on 25 years now and been amazing at this to receive the this is a tremen­end ofmy life.,, best-picture dous honor," said Oscar, includ­Murphy, talking ing 2005's 
Helen Mirren 
in a British "Crash." accent. Best Actress, The guild's 
"No, I'm sorry," said Murphy, cracking up in laughter. "I feel goofy up here, 'cause I don't be winning stuff." 
As a powerhouse vocalist in "Dreamgirls," Hudson contin­ued her breakneck rise to movie stardom after becoming famous as an "American Idol" contender two years ago. Hudson thanked her co-stars, who included Murphy, Jamie Foxx and Beyonce Knowles. 
"Because of you, I was able to work and learn from the best. Yes, you are the best," said Hudson, who added thanks to the actors guild. "Just thank you for noticing little old me and accepting me." 
"Dreamgirls," which had been considered a potential 
best-picture 
favorite at the 

learned to love  "Just thank you for  Academy  
a person with­out vanity, but with a great sense of disci­ noticing little old me and accepting me."  Awards, was among the guild nominees for best ensemble  
pline  that  I  cast,  yet  was  
understand. With a great sense of duty that I under­ Jennifer Hudson Best Supporting Actress, SAG  shut out of the nominations for the top Oscar. Backstage,  
stand. And with  Murphy said he  
a  great deal of  and  his  

courage, and that I under­"Dreamgirls" castmates were 
SAG individual act­ing winners often line up with the Oscars, however. Three of the four guild win­ners for 2005 -Philip Seymour Hoffman of "Capote," Reese Witherspoon of "Walk the Line" and Hache! Weisz of "The Constant Gardener" ­all went on to receive Oscars, while all four guild acting winners for 2004 won at the Oscars. Whitaker, Mirren, Murphy and Hudson have dominated Hollywood's acting honors this awards season, all four also taking home Golden Globes. Mirren was diplomatic back­stage when asked if she wants the Oscar. "''m not going there right now," Mirren said. "But it's been the most incredible year for me, ever. That's been amazing at this end of my life." Mirren's "Elizabeth I" co­star Jeremy Irons won the guild's prize for best actor in a TV movie or miniseries. Other TV winners were America Ferrera of "Ugly Betty" and Alec Baldwin of "30 Rock" as performers in comedy series, and Chandra Wilson of "Grey's Anatomy" and Hugh Laurie of "House" as performers in dramatic 
the futon or next to a pile of papers," Zimmerman said. 
Fire 

He said the year-old com­continued from page 1 puter had not given him any trouble before. after. "You can take precautions 
Those in the building were to avoid these things but escorted outside for approxi­sometimes you just can't fore­mately 10 minutes before they see them," Austin said. ''I'm were allowed glad the resi­to enter the dents reacted first floor and quickly and
"You can take 
remain there called us." 
precautions to avoid
until the fire­Zimmerman's fighters were these things, but desk, walls and done examin­carpet were
sometimes you just
ing the third charred by the
can't foresee them.,,
floor, where the flames, but fire erupted. besides the "Every per­David Austin smell of molten son on duty plastic -which
NDFD captain 
that night was well trained and responded quickly to the call," NDFD Captain David Austin said. 
NDSP Officer Pat Holdeman handled the scene Friday and filed the official NDSP report, but he was not available for comment Sunday. 
Austin said NDSP officers supervised the evacuation while firefighters inspected Zimmerman's room. He also praised the residents' actions to contain the threat. 
Zimmerman said he had not done anything to contribute to the fire. 
"Before I get blamed for the incident, let me say the com­puter was not overheating on drove him away 
from his room 
this weekend ­the fire did not cause further damage. 
Zimmerman was waiting for both a new desk and a new computer Sunday night, but with a disintegrated hard drive and an illegible serial number, he said obtaining a replacement from Hewlett­Packard might take some time. 
He also said he didn't believe his battery was among the batteries recently recalled by several computer manu­facturers. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Golf, Tennis, Heated Pool, Beach 
Checkttout•tWWW.vrbo.com/3147 



stand." as surprised as everyone else shows. TV ensemble prizes It seemed the soft-spoken that the film received a lead­went to "Grey's Anatomy" for Whitaker was struck speech­ing eight Oscar nominations -drama and "The Office" for 
SPRING BREAK
less, rambling through some but not one for best picture. comedy. awkward words of gratitude. "We got eight nominations, "This is quite the honor hav­INFORMATION "I want to thank you for that was a great thing. We ing these people present this allowing me to have a moment were happy about that," he to us," Steve Carell, star of 
800-488-8828
like this," Whitaker said. said. "I was so happy to be "The Office," said of the "Little Miss Sunshine" co­nominated, I wasn't feeling award's presenters, the cast of www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
star Greg Kinnear thanked the disappointment about any­the sitcom classic "The Mary 
German automaker that thing. I was caught off guard Tyler Moore Show," including fREE SPRING BREAK 
designed the rickety minibus that we didn't get nominated Moore, Edward Asner and 
MODEL SEAR·CH CALENDAR*
the film's horribly dysfunc-for best picture but I've just Cloris Leachman. 
•VALID FOR FIRST 1000 RESERVATIONS. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, January 29, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow }ones  12,487.02  -15.54  
up:  Same: Down:  Composite Volume:  
I ,886  148  1,372  2,628,664,370  
U.S., E. U., developing world cannot agree on plan to liberalize trade, cut emissions 



COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.37  -0.16  43.57  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.16  -0.0 I  6.33  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.34  -0.07  20.53  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +0.50  +0.13  26.35  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.25  +0.0 12  4.879  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.10  -0.005  4.995  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.36  +0.0 18  4.980  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.06  +0.003  4.867  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +1.19  55.42  
GOLD ($ffroy oz.)  -3.70  650.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +2.10  100.20  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.5000  
EURO  0.7736  
POUND  0.5103  
CANADIAN$  1.1802  

IN BRIEF 
Intel tech taraets developina world 
DAVOS, Switzerland -New technoTogies are ready to be used to advance health care, while a plan to bring computers and fast Internet access to the developing world is being undertaken, Craig Barrett, the chairman of Intel Corp. said in an interview Saturday. 
In the spirit of the World Economic Forum's annual meeting, which has focused on bringing the fruits of technology to the developing world, he said a recent trek to countries like Egypt, Chile, Peru, South Africa and China, among others, showed that there is a need for cheap access to computers and the Internet. 
"It's a little bit like the education initiatives," said Barrett, who chairs the U.N. Global Alliance for ICT and Development. "Education is the key." 
Part of that effort, at least for Intel, is the deployment of programs focused on improving education and speeding up the availability of cheap access to computers and the Internet. 
The company has said it plans to train some 4.7 million teachers by 2011 in China, India, Egypt, Latin America, Saudi Arabia and South Africa, through its Intel Teach program. 
Intel also plans to donate more than 36,000 computers with Internet connectivity to Brazil, Chile, China, India and South Africa. 
YouTube will share revenue with users 
DAVOS, Switzerland -Chad Hurley, co­founder of YouTube, said Saturday that his wildly successful site will start sharing rev­enue with its millions of users. 
Hurley said one of the major proposed innovations is a way to allow users to be paid for content. YouTube, which was sold to Google for $1.65 billion in November, has become an Internet phenomenon since it began to catch on in late 2005. Some 70 mil­lion videos are viewed on the site each day. 
"We are getting an audience large enough where we have an opportunity to support creativity, to foster creativity through shar­ing revenue with our users," Hurley said. "So in the coming months we are going to be opening that up." 
Hurley, who at 30 is one of the youngest Internet multimillionaires, gave no details of how much users might receive, or what mechanism would be used. 
SWITZERLAND 
WTO negotiations end in impasse 
Associated Press 

DAVOS -The United 
States, Europe and other 
major powers made only a 
vague commitment 
Saturday to liberalize global 
trade, despite encourage­
ment from leaders attend­
ing the World Economic 
Forum. 

The nearly 30 countries 
that met on the sidelines of 
the forum to discuss the 
lack of progress in the 
World Trade Organization 
talks "expressed a strong 
wish for a quick resump­
tion" of negotiations, but 
stopped short of making 
improved offers to break a 
six-month deadlock. 
British Prime Minister 
Tony Blair told the forum 
later that he and other lead­
ers were hopeful a trade 
breakthrough would still 
come. 

"I think it is now more 
likely than .not, though by 
no means certain, that we 
will reach a deal within the 
next few months," Blair 
said. "There is a re-ignition 
of political energy and drive, 
and an increased recogni­
tion of the dire conse­
quences offailure." 
Blair said he also saw 
prospects for progress in 
combatting global warming 
because of a "quantum 
shift" in U.S. opinion, citing 
President Bush's State of the 
Union address and steps by farm goods and manufac­Lamy could not predict undermine the world's eco­
states like California to tured products acrimo­when negotiators might nomic growth and risk the 
reduce emissions. niously collapsed last July. again be ready to take up dangers of protectionism. 
But he said China and The U.S. and the EU pub­the hard numbers of a new But while pledges of com­
India also must commit to licly blamed each other for trade deal. mitment have never lacked, 
controlling emissions of the failure and both clashed "We are not going to ham­getting countries to open up 
greenhouse gases. with leading developing mer out a deal, but we do their markets to foreign 
If Britain stopped emis­countries India and Brazil have a responsibility to competition has been much 
sions entirely by shutting over slashing subsidies and move things forward," EU more difficult since the 
down the country, the cutting tariffs, particularly Trade Commissioner Peter round's inception in Qatar's 
growth in China's use of fos­in the agricultural sector. Mandelson told fellow nego­capital five years ago. 
sil fuels would make up the "There will need to be a tiators during the meeting. "Having one country go 
difference in just two years, new U.S. offer on farm sub­Blair and Brazilian first doesn't result in a suc­
he said. sidies. There will need to be President Luiz Inacio Lula cessful outcome. And focus­
The WTO meeting in the a new EU offer on tariffs. da Silva sounded confident ing on the 'top-line num­
Swiss Alps was the first joint There will need to be a new about progress Friday, a day bers' as we did last July 
attempt by trade and for­offer from India and Brazil after 65 of the most power­doesn't result in a successful 
eign ministers at reviving on manufactured goods," ful business executives outcome," U.S. Trade 
the talks since efforts to WTO Director-General warned that failure to reach Representative Susan 
clear barriers to trade in Pascal Lamy said. a new trade deal would Schwab told reporters. 

SWITZERLAND 
U.S. plan: Cut oil use without taxes 
Associated Press alternative energy sources. with ethanol, and by expected 
"The idea of taxing gasoline at an improvements in automobile fuel econ­
DAVOS -U.S. Energy Secretary increased level, which is something omy. 
Samuel Bodman defended President that gets discussed from time to time, I The Forum panel -which also 
Bush's drive to reduce oil consumption view as a highly divisive matter," he included Azerbaijan President Ilham 
without introducing a gasoline tax, said at a World Economic Forum panel Aliyev, Ukrainian Prime Minister Victor 
saying such a proposal would be too including presidents, prime ministers Yanukovych, Gazprom deputy chief 
divisive. and some of the world's top oil execu­executive Alexander Medvedev, Exxon 
Bush is asking Congress to aggres­tives. Mobil Corp. CEO Rex W Tillerson and 
sively expand the use of alternative "People in New York view the taxa­Royal Dutch Shell PLC CEO Jeroen van 
fuels, mainly ethanol, to reduce the tion of gasoline as one thing," Bodman der Veer -covered a range of topics 
need for gasoline and put the brakes added. "People in Texas, Wyoming, in from climate change to the rise of 
on growing U.S. oil use. areas where you have to commute state-owned producers. 
Bodman, a delegate at this year's very long distances view the taxation Tillerson and van der Veer stressed 
gathering of world business and politi­in a very different matter. That's just in that traditional fossil fuels -coal, oil 
cal leaders in the Swiss Alps, said our country." and natural gas -would remain the 
improvements in technology would Bush's proposal outlined in primary source of energy in coming 
make these goals possible, rejecting Tuesday's State of the Union address decades, and the challenge would be 
suggestions that fuel or emissions aims to cut gasoline use by 20 percent to make them cleaner and more effi­
taxes could help spur the move to by 2017, mostly by replacing the fuel cient. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 29, 2007 


Monday, January 29, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
spplie3,ions foP:the~,,,aoo'j'~98 term for the fellowing~jlQ~, 
. . 

Man.a.ging ··•Editor,... ·.Assistad1 Dallfli-~Jg·•·•·•··IE··dit.or 
News Editor, Sports Editor, Viewpoint Edito~, Sc{,ue Et:lito~, SaintMary's Editor, Photo Editor,Graphics·. Editor, Advertising Manager; Ad llesigll Manager, Controller, Web. Admmls to ~ Systems M~n~gat. 
APPLICANTS FORMANAGING EDITORAN.D ASSISTANT>MANirGING Elllrt'O.R SHOULD.·DEMONSTRATE .STRONG JOURNALISTIC.AND. MANAGEMENT SKILLS. AN IN+DEPTI:l UNDERSl'ANDJNG OF-NEWSPAJ?ER PRODUCTION, INCLUDING SKILLS IN··MlCROSOFf..WoRD,·.. QU~K ~f-:R.:eSS.. AND.E:ijO.'fOSIIOP~JS 1\EQUIRED 
EXPERIENCEWitH··MAciNl'OSHCtlMPmERS·IS·•·•HELPFUL;·.···· 
APPLICATIONS FOR MANAGING EDITOR AND ASSISTANT MANAGING. EDITOR SIIotJt:D Bif I 2 ·PAGES AND SHOULD EXJ.i)LAIN THEAPPLICANT'S QUALIEICA!JilONSANDG0ALS.APPL:tt:A.i10Ns FOR ALL OTHER POSITIONS.SH0t1LD BRAT LEAST ltiVE .PAGES. 
MANAGING EDITORAND ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR APPLICATIONS ARE DUE BY5 P.M. FRIDAYt FEB. 2 t WHILE APPLICATIONS FOR OTHER POSITIONS ARE DUE BY S P.M. SUl'NPJ\Y{ FEll. 4. ALL A:Pp~J(}~TI()NS SMOULD BE SUBMITTED TO MADDIE HANNAIN THE OBSERVER OFFICE, LOCAT".IEPJN !llE Sotff:H DINING HALL BASEMENT. 
PLEASE DIRECT QUESTIONS ABOUT THESE POSITIONS OilTHEAPPLICATION PROCEDURE TO MADDIE HANNA AT 63I­4541 AND MIKE GILLQQNAT 631-4542~ 
GAZA STRIP 
Palestinian factions urged to talk 
Associated Press 
GAZA CITY -Saudi Arabia's king urged Palestinian rival fac­tions Sunday to hold talks in the holy city of Mecca as fighting between the Hamas and Fatah movements persisted in Gaza with no clear winner emerging. 
Early Monday, Hamas fighters mobilized around the main Fatah stronghold, the Preventive Security headquar­ters, and threatened to attack. Information Minister Youssef Rizka of Hamas warned the two sides were close to civil war and called President Mahmoud Abbas of Fatah to order his forces back to their bases. 
The bitter rivals have been buying, smuggling and building weapons for months trying to gain an edge, but they have held back from all-out battle and find themselves in a stalemate. 
That leaves many Palestinians with grim hopes that a power­sharing deal still can be worked out between the Islamic mili­tants of Hamas and the more moderate Abbas of Fatah. 
Saudi King Abdullah called the factional fighting a "shame" that has undermined the Palestinian cause and urged both sides to join talks mediated by his country, Saudi Arabia's official news agency reported. 
"I urge them to hold an emer­gency meeting in Mecca to dis­cuss the contentious matters without any intervention from outside," Abdullah told the 
...··
.. ""ce··... 
:-r-.Te·· 

... U.:Lj-:. ,:·::·:_'···:·:~_: ,::,y::::. :::~:::··,:1·::::::.!:~:_:·:::: :····.·.....· ·.· ~:.·U1''·:·;1:::··::~::IIf::
The () 

. : 
Saudi Press Agency. raising the death toll to more 
"Our hearts bleed for what is than 60 since last month. happening in the land of our A battle erupted early Monday Palestinian brothers," he said. near the parliament building, "This great atrocity with all its where a Hamas fighter was unjustified and weak reasons killed, Hamas and hospital offi­has stained the Palestinian's cials said. honorable national struggle." Fatah gunmen killed a Hamas 
Both sides welcomed the security force member early Saudi king's offer but did not Monday and a Hamas activist in 
say  when  talks  Khan Younis on  
might Ghazi  be held. Hamad,  "Our hearts bleed  Sunday. Another gun­ 
spokesman for the  for what is  man,  whose  
Hamas-led govern­ment, said the Islamic group was in talks with  happening in the land ofour Palestinian brother.,,  affiliation was not immediate­ly known, and a 45-year-old  
Egyptian mediators.  civilian  were  
Bursts of violence have alternated with periods of  King Abdullah Saudi Arabia  also killed, hos­pital officials said.  

tense calm since the factional fighting erupted in December following the collapse of Hamas-Fatah coalition talks and Abbas' threat to call early elections. 
Clashes involving mortars, grenades, bombs and assault rifles have erupted sponta­neously, without clear objectives or central command, raged for a few hours, then suddenly fiz­zled. 
Experts expect the pattern to continue. "They are equal par­ties," analyst Nasser AI Lahham said. "No one can cancel the other out." 
Thirty Palestinians, including two children, have died during the latest outburst of street fighting that began Thursday, 
Several kid­

nappings also were reported in the factional conflict. The most brazen was in the West Bank city of Nablus, where Fatah gunmen walked into a bank and dragged out a local Hamas leader. 
Hot spots in the fighting include the headquarters of Abbas' security forces, Hamas­run mosques and the homes and offices of leaders from both sides, where guards hunker down behind concrete barriers and piles of sandbags. 
Traffic jams are getting worse by the day in Gaza City's already crowded streets because more and more roads are being closed to motorists by the rival security forces. 
Tourism_ jeopardizes future of national park 
Associated Press 
YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK, Calif. -The plunging waterfalls and soaring crags chiseled by the Merced River draw millions of visitors each year, but the crowds are pre­cisely what threatens the waterway and the park. 
Efforts to safeguard the Merced have spawned a court battle over the future of devel­opment in Yosemite National Park's most popular stretch. The case may come down to the challenge facing all of America's parks: Should they remain open to everyone, or should access be limited in the interest of protecting them? 
In November, a federal judge barred crews from fin­ishing $60 million in construc­tion projects in Yosemite Valley, siding with a small group of environmentalists who sued the federal govern­ment, saying further commer­cial development would bring greater numbers of visitors, thus threatening the Merced's fragile ecosystem. 
"The park's plans for com­mercialization could damage Yosemite for future genera­tions," said Bridget Kerr, a member of Friends of Yosemite Valley, one of two local environmental groups that filed the suit. 
The government is appeal­ing, fearing the ruling could 
..

.:::·:: ::'::_,_ ·:·,::::':''''==_:=-··., :_:.:.€/:(;. =:.·: 
. . . 

. . : . 
force the National Park Service to limit the number of people allowed into Yosemite each day, a precedent it does­n't want to see echoed in other parks. 
"I don't think we've ever had a ruling with these kind of implications," said Kerri Cahill, a Denver-based plan­ner for the park service. "It's going to have a direct influ­ence on the public who care about these places." 
The case has Yosemite's most loyal advocates sharply divided over how to balance preservation with access to public lands. Even environ­mentalists can't agree on how to minimize the human foot­print -some believe cars should be kept out entirely; others say visitors should have to make reservations in advance. 
Yosemite was the first land in the country set aside for its scenic beauty, declared a pub­lic trust in 1864 by Abraham Lincoln. Its 1,200 square miles of granite peaks and towering waterfalls became a national park in 1890, and with few exceptions its gates have been open to all ever since, though backcountry permits are limited to mini­mize the human impact on wilderness areas. 
The Merced itself is protect­ed under the federal Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. 
Tl·1E OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, January 29, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Tin lndepemknt, Daily Newspaper Servinr; Notre Dame ~md Saint MaryS 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. I @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POliCIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the 

Re-state of the Union 
The following excerpts are from various State of the Union Addresses throughout America's history. Due to space limitations, there's not much of each address, but I think that a pattern may emerge nonethe­less. 
Calvin Coolidge, Dec. 4, 1928: 'The practical application of economy to the resources of the country calls for conser­vation ... We have a conservation board working on our oil problem. This is of the utmost importance to the future well-being of our people in this age of oil-burning engines and the general application ofgasoline to transportation." 
Herbert Hoover, Dec. 3, 1929: "Conservation of national resources is a fixed policy of the Government ... Conservation of our oil and gas resources against future need is a national np,cessity." 
Harry S. Truman, Jan. 9, 1952: "In the Middle East political tensions and the oil controversy in Iran are keeping the region in a turmoil." 
Richard Nixon, Jan. 30, 197 4: "These measures will require the oil companies and other energy producers to provide the public with the necessary information on their supplies. They will prevent the injus­tice of windfall profits for a few as a result of the sacrifices of the millions of Americans." 
Gerald R. Ford, Jan. 15, 1975: "But in all honesty, we cannot put all of the blame on the oil-exporting nations. We, the United States, are not blameless. Our growing dependence upon foreign sources has been adding to our vulnerability for years and years, and we did nothing to prepare our­selves for such an event as the embargo of 1973." 
Gerald R. Ford, Jan. 19, 1976: "Taking a longer look at America's future, there can be neither sustained growth nor more jobs unless we continue to have an assured supply of energy to run our economy. 

Will McAuliffe 
Strategery Analyst 

Domestic production of oil and gas is still 
declining. 

Our dependence on foreign oil at high 
prices is still too great, draining jobs and 
dollars away from our own economy at the . rate of $125 per year for every American." 
Gerald H. Ford, Jan. 12, 1977: "In 1973 
we were dependent upon foreign oil 
in1ports for 36 percent of our needs. Today, 
WA are 40-percent dependent, and we'll 
pay out $34 billion for foreign oil this year. 
Such vulnerability at present or in the 
future is intolerable and must be ended." 
Jimmy Carter, Jan. 19, 1978: "Every day 
we spend more than $120 million for for­
eign oil ... Now we know what we must do, 
increase production. We must cut down on 
waste. And we must use more of those 
fuels which are plentiful and more perma­
nent." 

Jimmy Carter, Jan. 21, 1980: "The crises 
in Iran and Afghanistan have dramatized a 
very important lesson: Our excessive 
dependence on foreign oil is a clear and 
present danger to our Nation's security. 
The need has never been more urgent. At 
long last, we must have a clear, compre­
hensive energy policy for the United 
States." 

Jimmy Carter, Jan. Hi, 1981: "An effec­
tive national energy plan is essential to 
increase domestic production of oil and 
gas, to encourage conservation of our 
scarce energy resources, to stimulate con­
version to more abundant fuels, and to 
mduce our trade deficit." 
Honald Reagan, Jan. 26, 1982: "By 
deregulating oil we've come closer to 
achieving energy independence and helped 
bring down the cost of gasoline and heat­
ing fuel." 

George H.W. Bush, Feb. 9, 1989: "And in 
some cases, the gulfs and oceans off our 
shores hold the promise of oil and gas 
reserves which can make our nation more 
secure and less dependent on foreign oil." 
George H.W. Bush, Jan. 29, 1991: "Most 
Americans know instinctively why we are 
in the Gulf. They know we had to stop 
Sad dam now, not later ... They know we 
must make sure that control of the world's 
oil resources does not fall into hls hands only to finance further aggression." 
Bill Clinton, Feb. 17, 1993: "Our plan includes a tax on energy as the best way to provide us with new revenue to lower the deficit and invest in our people. Moreover, unlike other taxes, this one reduces pollu­tion, increases energy efficiency, and eases our dependence on oil from unstable regions of the world." 
George W. Bush, Jan. 29, 2002: "This Congress must act to encourage conserva­tion, promote technology, build infrastruc­ture, and it must act to increase energy production at home so America is less dependent on foreign oil." 
George W. Bush, Jan. 31,2006: "Breakthroughs on this and other new technologies will help us reach another great goal: to replace more than 75 per­cent of our oil imports from the Middle East by 2025." 
George W. Bush, Jan. 23, 2007: "For too long, our nation has been dependent on foreign oil. And this dependence leaves us more vulnerable to hostile regimes, and to terrorists who could cause huge disrup­tions of oil shipments ... raise the price of oil ... and do great harm to our economy." 
I hope you've caught on by now. 
For almost 80 years, our nation's leaders have been aware of and supposedly have been attempting to conserve our domestic resources while at the same time attempt­ing to curb our appetite for and depend­ence upon foreign oil. It's up to us as Americans to make this administration, Congress and ourselves accountable for such a change. Only through the elimina­tion of unnecessary tax breaks for big oil companies and establishment of incentives for alternative energies can we truly free ourselves from our oil addiction. 
ltlll McAuliffe is a senior political sci­ence major with a serious love for the Colbert Report and Fox News. All letters of support, disdain or funny Backer experi­ences should be forwarded to his personal assistant at mcauliffe.4@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infurmation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed ro Ediror in ChiefMike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'fhe-{)b.serrec (USPS 599 2-4000} Is puhtidred_ Mondayihrough friday =ptduring fillffi -and YllCarlDnperiods, A sllhscrlpUon ro The Obscrv;::ds:$1 QQ fQr one.~k year; $55 for mre :s~;:mes~er. 
1'h.¢ Ob$crvey is published at! POSTMASTER 024 S:O.,th Dining Hall Scmtaddresl>~ctiQm{{?: 
Nou. Dame.IN4G516-0779 "i"h<Observ« P"-eriodical postage paid ar Nom:: Dame ~o.ao,m and additional mailing Offices, 024 Sou.th Dining Hall 
Nom_ Dame, IN -455-56-t>n? 
The Ohscti'er is a ~mbet ofthe ~lui Ptii!;Ss. All-ttptoduaion tights .M-t ~-.. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Sports  
Amanda Michael  Chris Khorey  
John-Paul Witt  Dan Murphy  
Viewpoint  Ken Fowler  
Lianna  Scene  
Brauweiler  Tae Andrews  
Graphics  
Madeline Nies  


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Did the University handle Kyle McAlamey's case fairly? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Once the game is over. the king and the pawn go back in the same box. " 
Italian proverb 

THE OBSEltVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, January 29, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
McAlarney suspension evaluated 
University's decision consistent 

There is a common theme that students feel that McAlarney's suspension from school was completely overboard. What students fail to realize is that this seems consistent with Notre Dame's punishments in the past for marijuana. While I was at school I knew of another regular non-athlete student who was caught with weed and consequently suspended for a semester. Maybe in both cases the sentence didn't fit the crime but it appears as if this is what the school has deemed to be the correct punishment. The bottom line is if McAlarney did not do it then we wouldn't have this problem. 
Chris Orenchuk class of 2005 Cleveland, Ohio Jan. 26 

Punishment too severe for crime 
This is one of the many responses I'm sure you have received to Lucy Lopez' Letter to the Editor ("McAlarney suspension justified," Jan. 25) regarding the justification of Kyle McAlarney's suspension following his marijuana possession charge. I completely agree with her contention that Notre Dame is one of the most highly scrutinized in the world, and as such, must maintain its respected reputation. 
However, to suggest the unwavering appropriateness of this punishment for one of its students in possession of a small amount of marijuana is ridiculous. The purpose of rules and regulations for any organization, duLac for Notre Dame, is to provide protections for the individuals of the organization. I think it would be safe to assume that McAlarney accepted responsibility for his actions by committing to a pretrial diversion program in which he will be subject to random drug tests for the next 11 months and a substance abuse assessment. 
A suspension of two semesters already defies precedent because the most common punishment is a one-semester suspension. How can anyone expect that such a span away from school could benefit McAlarney? Is he going to grow intellectually by missing two semesters of classes, thus being forced to play academic catch-up for the rest of his undergraduate career? Does he need to have the constant reminder of his mistake by sitting at home until next fall to learn his lesson? Obviously, the university needed to administer some sort of penalty to McAlarney, but ifthe school wishes to protect its image, a punishment respecting a student's decision to take responsibility for his actions would be more appro­priate for next time. It is too bad they cannot renege on their decision on this case. 

Joe Runkle 
sophomore 
Keough Hall 
Jan. 26 

Case deserves better handling 
Kyle McAlarney made a grave error in judgment. Since he proba­bly hasn't even reached legal drink­ing age, he will have a lifetime to teach others how much he learned from this experience. 
Notre Dame appears to have made even greater grievous errors of judgment; first of all, by not releasing a public statement in defense of its actions. Right or wrong, this case needed to be han­dled more carefully due to the pub­lic exposure it has commanded. The McAlarney family and the entire Notre Dame community would have benefitted from an explanation from the University why athletic director Kevin White and basketball coach Mike Brey have reportedly responded that they were shocked by the hardline disposition handed down. Maybe it's because the University does not have a defensible position? 
After reading the student hand­book for the first time in over 40 years, I was impressed by its calling students to accountability for their actions. This accountability was noted to be a difficult process, "par­ticularly ... on those rare occasions when the conduct in question is so intolerable in terms of community standards as to warrant separation from the University." I submit that McAlarney's conduct was not intol­erable in terms of overall Notre Dame community standards. I was shocked to learn that first offense OWl's are punishable by discipli­nary "probation" for one semester, and second offense OWl's are pun­ishabla by disciplinary "suspension" for one semester: yet McAlarney received two semesters' disciplinary "suspension" for his marijuana pos­session arrest. 
Furthermore, normal society's constitutional due processes are unavailable to the accused. The potential is ripe for uneven, irra­tional application of both the disci­plinary process and its final judg­ment. I'm certain these disciplinary procedures were neither written nor endorsed by the University's school of law. Of even greater import, the handbook begins with the University mission statement, describing Notre Dame as a place of teaching and community prompted by God's grace to assist the world in creating justice grounded in love and that emphasis on community in Catholicism explains why Notre Dame has fostered familial bonds in its institutional life. 
It seems Notre Dame has ignored its own mission statement, maybe because we abandoned its underly­ing premises in handling this case. What are we actually teaching McAlarney? Was he provided jus­tice grounded in love? Have we actually fostered familial bonding here? By my count, our beloved University has undertaken its mis­sion for almost 165 years. It's time, and Notre Dame needs to get this one right. 
Michael Petersmith class of 1969 Houston, Texas Jan.26 

Cannot pull support for fashion show 
We at the Center for Women's InterCultural you a summary.) Margaret's House "Fashioning our Lives" with "real Leadership and Office of Civic and Social Engagement We have spoken to our partners at Memorial Hospital women on stage" who "model" how they have recreat­agree with Sarah Nielson's well-articulated objections and they are also very receptive to the concerns. ed their lives against a backdrop of extraordinary chal­in her Letter to the Editor ("Fashion show restrictions However, this event has been planned and the contract lenges like poverty, homelessness, addictions, racism unreasonable," Jan. 25) to the size specifications in the with Bernina signed for months, and so it is now too and physical and mental health challenges. We would recent email inviting students to model for the The late to change the shape of the "wearable art." It would also welcome any proposals for events to co-sponsor on Bernina of America Fashion Show fundraiser for the be very unfair to Memorial Hospital's great work -these issues in February in honor of National Eating Breast Care Center at Memorial Hospital. and more importantly, to women fighting breast cancer Disorders Awareness month. In addition, we recommit 
We appreciate Nielson and other students and faculty -to pull out our support at this late date. to our own ongoing work as educators to recognizing naming this problem so promptly, disagree with Given this, we would like to continue a conversation and speaking against oppression in all its forms and Bernina's perpetuation of the fashion industry's unreal­with our community about not only the best response applaud the Saint Mary's students who have done so in istic image of women's bodies in the size specifications now, such as registering our objections with Bernina in this situation. they gave to their artists and apologize for not being order to raise their awareness and influence any future alert to it ourselves much earlier in the sponsorship events they undertake, but also to commit ourselves to Elaine Meyer-Lee approval process. (If you are interested in further con­future actions and events that speak to these concerns. Director of the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership text on this process, such as the involvement of both One such event that we have supported in previous Saint Mary's students and breast cancer survivors in it, we can send years and invite more support for next year is St. Jan. 26 
'Bigot' an unfairly applied tertn 
As exemplified by Liz Coffey's column ("Save it for the toilet," Jan. 25), it's politically cor­rect these days to label someone who is opposed to illegal immigration as "anti-immigrant" and thus a bigot. I personally believe that bigotry is a terrible thing. As such, I consider it a serious charge to call someone a bigot. 
Anyone who makes the charge should have a good basis for it. In making the leap to call­ing those in the Minuteman Project bigots, Coffey fails to establish such a basis. Why are they bigots? Ifit's because most of those coming across the Mexico-Arizona border are Mexicans, then why aren't the "Minutemen" doing anything to stop Mexicans who enter our country legally? Why didn't they do this before 9/11? She fails to even address the pos­sibility that the modern-day "Minutemen" are motivated by a sincere desire to prevent ille­gal immigration and the dangers of terrorism and various other problems that come along with it. In fact, the only rationale she even entertains is that they are just bigots. I doubt that Coffey has been to the border or met any of the "Minutemen," yet she knows they are bigots? 
Coffey's making assumptions about people without really knowing about them sounds more like bigotry than anything about the "Minutemen." Is it bigoted to try and prevent people from coming into this country illegally? Ifthat's the case, then I guess all of our bor­der security measures are bigoted. The fact that we even have checkpoints where people must stop to come across the border legally must be bigotry too. U.S. Border Patrol Agents? 
Bigots, I guess. They are trying to stop illegal entry in to the U.S., after all. 
I am not sure I agree with the approach taken by the Minuteman Project. Anything that resembles vigilantism has the potential to degenerate into something dangerous, and gen­erally it is better to let law enforcement do its job. But that does not make the Minuteman Project a group of bigots. Ifshe is opposed to the Minuteman Project, is Coffey also opposed to adding more Border Patrol Agents to stop, or at least reduce, illegal immigration? Ifso, what is her solution to the problem? Or does she even think there is a problem? 
I happen to think one of the biggest problems our country faces is border security, partic­ularly in light of 9/11. Even with all the partisanship in Washington right now, you would be hard-pressed to find many in Congress on either side of the aisle who disagree with that. Given the seriousness of what is at stake with respect to terrorism, ifI have to, I am willing to endure being called (unfairly and inaccurately) a bigot for opposing illegal immigration. But it's too bad ifthat's the case. Maybe the hate finger is pointed in the wrong direction, Ms. Coffey. 
Geoff Spiess grad srudem offcampus Jan. 25 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Monday, January 29, 2007 
THEATER fEATURE 

'Le Medecin' just what the doctor ordered 
By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 
Despite the blanket of newly fallen snow and the obvious language barrier with most of its audience, the annual French Theatre Production class's per­formance of Moliere's "Le Medecin malgre lui" drew a full house Sunday at the DeBartolo Performing Art Center's (DPAC) Philbin Theater. 
With its blend of witty dialogue, physical humor and outrageous situa­tions, "Le Medecin malgre lui" drew the crowd in through the strength of the students. 
Moliere's centuries-old text takes its comedic cues from the exploits of Sganarelle, the frequently intoxicated stick collector who spends his days nursing (and often singing to) a bottle of wine and occasionally beating his wife. 
Few playwrights could create humor and sympathy out of such a character, but the strength of Moliere's comedic writing helps make Sganarelle a mem­orable and amusing protagonist. 

Professor Paul McDowell gives Sganarelle a thick, booming voice to match his faux-portly figure, and an over-the-top sense of self-importance helps cement the image of this most loutish of leads. 
The play opens with an angry dis­pute between Sganarelle and Martino (Anne Lauer), his beleaguered and oft­beaten spouse. The rapport between McDowell's Sganarelle and Lauer's Martine implies a humorous power struggle at the core of their relation­ship, with Martine criticizing his drunken gluttony and Sganarelle defending himself with roundabout "logic" and a large stick. 
To get back at her husband, Martine conspires with an unwitting pair of servants, Lucas (Tom Dorwart) and Valere (Mary Corrigan) try to trick Sganarelle into believing he is a doc­tor (or "medecin") in order to treat the dire condition of Lucinde (Jana Miller), the newly-mute daughter of a wealthy neighbor, Geronte (Michael Barrett). 
What follows is a zany mix of physi­cal comedy and Moliere's sharp wit, as 


By ANALISE LIPARI Assistant Scene Editor 

The latest in the "NO Presents: Live at the Morris" series of attractions at South Bend's Morris Performing Arts Center, the Moscow Festival Ballet's production of Tchaikovsky's "Swan Lake" elevated a simple Saturday night into a euphoric experience of music and dance. The prodigious skill of each member of the company, combined with beautiful cos­tumes, lush lighting and scenery and the venerable score itself, created an unfor­gettable evening of dancing. Despite being performed without the aid of an orchestra, and instead incorporating the use of a recording of the ballet's score, the production was an exuberant suc­cess. 
The three act story of "Swan Lake" opens at an event in honor of Prince Siegfried's birthday, at the behest of his mother, the Queen. Courtiers, peasants and the court jester each perform vari­ous dances in celebration of the Prince, and Siegfried receives a crossbow as a coming-of-age gift. The multiple smaller dances featured during this portion of the ballet were of a more lighthearted nature than much of the rest of the bal­let's more dramatic portions, especially the numbers where the court jester took center stage. 
As the ballet continues, that evening, Siegfried explores the woods with his crossbow and discovers a mysterious group of white swans who -in 
Ruthart. By day, the women are swans, but by moonlight chango back into their human forms. The queen of the swans, the beautiful Odette, falls in love with the Prince, and he vows to save her life by deelaring his true love for her at tomorrow's Ball. 
It is here, as Siegfried first discovers the bewitched swans, when the famous theme of "Swan Lake" is first heard, and Sganarelle comes to believe he is a doctor, and proceeds to treat patients with items such as wine and cheese. 
As is custom with most works of Moliere, at the center of the turmoil is a thwarted pair of young lovers, Lucinde and the poor but sweet Leandre (Matthew Goodrich). 
Lucinde has been promised by her father to an unseen and older wealthy man, and until Leandre's miniscule fortune can compete, the two are doomed. That is, until Sganarelle decides to get himself involved. 
Hounding out the cast are Heidi Storer as Jacqueline, the wet nurse in whom Sganarelle is all-too-interested, and Theresa Welch and Stephanie Brauer as Parette and Perrinette, respectively, two local women who misguidedly seek the help of the reput­ed "medecin" to treat their sick rela­tive. 
The production's energy and sense of humor undoubtedly came from the stu­dents. From Dorwart's Lucas, who stomps and hops across each scene, to Miller's gibberish mutterings as Lucinde pretends to be mute, the cast's care and dedication to the production shone through. 
As the case may often be with per­formances held in the Philbin Theater, the set itself was essentially nonexist­ent, with little but a stool and a pile of sticks to stand for forests and houses alike. 
With the colorful costumes and ani­mated performances, however, such a stark set allowed the focus of the pro­duction to be on both the players themselves and the humor of their speech. 
The continued strength and success of each year's performance is, accord­ing to McDowell, due to none other than the students themselves. 
"It's all because of what the students find in each other," McDowell said at the end of Sunday afternoon's final performance. "It's what they find in a playwright who hasn't graced this earth in over 300 years." 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
THEATER fEATURE 

Balletic beauty and grace astound in 'Swan Lake' 
The prodigious skill ofeach member 
the mythology of Highlights includ­the story -turn ofthe company. combined with ed the "Danse 
out to be an beautiful costumes. lush lighting Espagnole," with 
enchanted court its elegant, play­
and scenery and the venerable 
of women ful melody; the 
imprisoned by score itself, created an unforgettable "Danse an evil wizard, evening of dancing. Napolitaine," with 
the haunting melody subtly appears throughout the rest of the ballet as Odette's theme. Both mournful and love­ly, it conveys the aesthetic of the ballet as a whole in its simplicity and beauty. 
At tho courtly Ball the next night, the Queen urges her son to seek a queen, but Siegfried can think only of Odette. Other princesses are introduced, each with their own musical themes. 
its unique open­ing use of trum­pets; and the energetic "Mazurka." 
Hutbart strangely appears at the ball with Odile, his daughter who has been disguised to look remarkably similar to Odette. Mistakenly thinking that he is with the real Odette, Siegfried deelares his love for Octile, effectively dooming the enehanted swans to an eternity of imprisonment. It is only when Siegfried flees to Swan Lake and defeats Rotbart that he and Odette can finally be united and the swans can be free. 
The Russian Festival Ballet dancers, especially those in the roles of Siegfried and Odette, were remarkably talented. The role of Odette is considered to be one of the most technically difficult in the entirety of classical ballet, as the bal­lerina plays both the white swan, Odette, and the black swan, Odile, as well as performing over thirty fouettes en tour­nant during the ballet's third act. Olga Grigorieva, the ballerina who danced the role of Odette/Odile, seemed to have mastered the difficulties of the role with ease, playing both the timid and pure Odette and the seductive Odile very well. 
The costumes and scenery were very well done, adding to the production's elegant feel. The lighting in particular was striking. The ballet's finale closed with the rising of the sun, as a stage for­merly bathed in a blue and green wash was subtly overcome with the warm, pinkish-white glow of morning. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, January 29, 2007 
page 13 
THEATER fEATURE 
Shakespeare shake-up retells classic story 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
The story of Romeo and Juliet has been reinvented time and time again in everything from the 1996 "Romeo + Juliet" staring Leonardo DiCaprio and Claire Danes, to the upcoming animated film "Gnomeo and Juliet" starring lawn gnomes and produced by Elton John, but some versions stand out for their memorability and appeal. Summer Shakespeare's "The Romeo and Juliet Story: In Concert" brings the best of these together in a wonderful show that focuses on the timelessness of the love between Romeo and Juliet. 
The production, adapted by the pro­ducing artist director of Notre Dame's Summer Shakespeare, Jay Skelton, unites songs from Charles Gounod's opera "Romeo Et Juliette," Leonard Bernstein's "West Side Story," parts of Shakespeare's original dialogue, and an original narration. The music was pro­vided on-stage by the wonderful thirty piece New Millennium Orchestra of Chicago joined by nine Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Doug MacKechnie did a superb job as the narrator. In his role he took on nearly all of the play's characters except Romeo and Juliet, simply but strongly switching from one character to another with a small change in pos­ture or by using the occasional prop, such as glasses for Friar Lawrence. The choice to concentrate the action of the play not directly involving the two lovers into one actor was a wise one. MacKechnie was able to act as a sound­board for the love story around him so that the audience was allowed to con­centrate purely on the love of Romeo and Juliet, leaving behind for a moment the other plotlines and themes of the play that are generally more conflict­ual. 
The rest of the cast consisted of two pairs of lovers, one pair taking on the majority of the acting and the other the singing. Steven Marzoff and Blair Robertson made good use of their act­ing scenes to both pay tribute to the original Shakespearean dialogue and portray the youth and passion of Romeo and Juliet. Stacey Tappan, a Lyric Opera of Chicago soprano, and Jay Morrissey, tenor and Notre Dame alum, both rose to the occasion in singing the ranging parts between the opera and the musical. Together all four did a beautiful job depicting the love story and, most importantly, the transitions between the actors were smooth. Furthermore, by using multiple actors to play the same characters, as well as mixing the pairs, it allowed the audience to truly focus on Romeo and Juliet as a whole, and not one single production. 
"The Homeo and Juliet Story: In Concert" seamlessly united a 16th cen­tury play, a 19th century opera, and a 20th century musical into a production that showcased so many of the inter­pretations of Romeo and Juliet that it actually reduced the show down to the essential vision of the lovers. In doing so, it proved that the story of the two "star cross'd lovers" would romance its audience no matter their surroundings. 

"The Romeo and Juliet Story: In Concert" was a special off-season event for the Summer Shakespeare company whose proceeds went toward establish­ing the Dr. Paul A. Rathburn Scholarship Fun. Rathburn is a profes­sor emeritus of English at Notre Dame who founded Summer Shakespeare and received both the Charles E. Sheedy Award for Excellence in Teaching (1983) and the Frank O'Malley Award for Teaching Excellence (1999). 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Family 'Pursuit': Two Smiths star in 'Happyness' 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
The "Will Smith Show" has become something of a given at the American box office. Every several years, the comedic actor would turn out a block­buster film that went on to earn huge profits in its first weekend, quickly tapering off until the movie aired on network television 12 months later. 
These films -like "Men in Black" or "1, Robot" -were fun and turned Smith into a star, but aside from "Ali," never cemented his status as a legiti­mate actor. Smith's latest film, "The Pursuit of Happyness," however, puts this criticism to rest and has shown the world that Smith has immense acting talent. 
The film tells the true story of Chris Gardner (Smith), a salesman struggling to support his wife (Thandie Newton, "Crash") and son (Jaden Smith) while entertaining dreams of becoming a stockbroker in 1980s San Francisco. lie acts upon his goals -undergoing a 1-in-20 shot of becoming a broker -in the face of his wife leaving him and having to live out of homeless shelters with his son. Despite the fact that Gardner is extremely intelligent and hard-working, failure seems to find him at every corner, denying him his dream of becoming happy. 
It is obvious that "Happyness" (the title is misspelled because of the way the word is written on the wall outside Gardner's son's daycare center) was designed for Smith, and without him. it would not work. His charm and humor stand out against the suffering and sadness which he must endure, which creates a very real and emotional char­acter. The audience thrives on the high points and sinks to the low ones togeth­er with Smith, whose superb perform­ance earned him an Oscar nomination for Best Actor. 
Nowhere is this emotional roller coaster more apparent than in a scene where Gardner and his son go from playfully running from imaginary dinosaurs in a deserted subway station to shamefully trying to sleep in the sta­tion's bathroom while someone pounds on the locked door from the outside. 
Smith's son Jaden performs remark­ably well in his first big-screen appearance and the connection between real life father and son is evi­dent in their characters, which only makes the movie more believable. 
"The Pursuit of 
Happyness" is the first American film The Pursuit of 
for Italian director Gabrielle Muccino, who creates a
Happyness 

harsh, gritty world, but does
Columbia Pictures 

not bring anything outstanding to the table. Smith's act­ing dazzles here, but everything else seems so ordi-nary and unimaginative that one can­not help but wonder if the only intent in producing "Happyness" was for Smith to be nominated for an Oscar. 

This type of story is of course a recurring Hollywood theme, and just about anyone is able to guess whether Gardner succeeds in the end. In the face of these obstacles, one would hope that a director could keep the film fresh and original, but Muccino ­while he does not do a bad job ­attempts nothing to make the film stand head and shoulders above the many others that inhabit the genre. 
In spite of any possible missed oppor­tunity for "The Pursuit of Happyness" to be an outstanding film, Will Smith, like his character in the movie, takes on a seemingly insurmountable burden -to make the film a very good one ­and succeeds. "Happyness" ultimately becomes another "Will Smith Show," but one that is inspirational. uplifting and worth watching over and over again. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CIASSIFIEDS Monday, January 29, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Cavaliers come back to upset No. 19 Clemson 
Tucker drops 27 points as No. 2 Wisconsin tops the Hawkeyes 57-46, reaches best start in program history at 21-1 
time remammg this past Thursday night when officials 

CLEMSON, S.C. -Virginia did incorrectly added time after the more than surprise Clemson Clemson had tied things. down the stretch -the "We have to get it back togeth­Cavaliers shocked their coach, er," Clemson coach Oliver too. Purnell said. 'This one will hurt, 
When Virginia's Dave Leitao but we have to rejuvenate and talked with his team midway fight on." through the second half and Still, the Tigers looked like down 52-41, he didn't see much they were over that disappoint­left to make a run at the 19th­ment, moving out to a double­ranked Tigers. digit lead. Vernon Hamilton 
"'We're down 11, but it seems called for additional crowd noise like 40,"' he remembered say­after his 3 with 12:37 left made ing. "It didn't look like we had it 52-41. the kind of energy it was going The game seemed in the bag to take to come back and win the when Cliff Hammonds struck for ball game." his third 3-pointer to make it 61­
But there was Leitao celebrat­45 with 8:47 remaining. ing with his players after Jason Cain's tip-in with 15.5 seconds Wisconsin 57, Iowa 46 left capped a 16-point rally in Wisconsin eclipsed the best the Cavaliers' 64-63 victory start in school history by relying Sunday. on the formula that got it there. 
"I told our guys I'm not sure if Defense, poise and a whole lot I have ever seen a game like that of Alando Tucker. before," Leitao said. Tucker scored 27 points, Brian 
Cain's game-winner was his Butch added 13 points and 14 only basket of the game and rebounds and No. 2 Wisconsin ended a stretch where the beat Iowa 57-46 on Sunday, top­Cavaliers scored the game's final ping the school's old mark of 20­15 points. 1 set in 1915-16. 
"Last year, we wouldn't have Tucker went 11-of-14 from the done this," Cain said. "This is the floor for the Badgers (21-1, 7-0 first time in a long time we won Big Ten), who also extended the two conference games on the nation's longest winning streak road." to 17 games and improved to 5-0 
Combined with last Wednesday on the road. night's victory at North Carolina "For me as a player to be a of the Year honors was at it "I just read it, just trusted my 2006. State, it's Virginia's first back-to­part of this, it's special," Tucker again against the Hawkeyes. He instincts, and I was able to come "When I hit the game-winning hack ACC road success since the said. "This is a special team, and set the tone by scoring 17 points up with the ball and make a big shot at South Carolina, the first 2001-02 season -that's also the I have a gut feeling that we have in the first half -more than a play at the end," McNeal said. guy who was off the bench hug­last time the team won four con­so much more to accomplish. few of which came in trallic -to McHugh Mattis inbounded to ging me and on top of me was secutive league games as they But it just feels good to know help give Wisconsin a lead it Chris Howard, who was trying to Kevin Brophy," Stukes said. have now. that we're setting records here never relinquished. get the ball to Melvin Buckley 
For Clemson, it was the second at Wisconsin." when McNeal made the steal Virginia Tech 73 straight improbable defeat. The Tucker's had a lot to do with Marquette 70 and dribbled upcourt. Howard Georgia Tech 65 Tigers lost at Duke 68-66 on that. South Florida 68 hustled back to get defensive Zabian Dowdell scored 23 David McClure's layup with no The favorite for Big Ten Player Jerel McNeal had a hunch position under the basket, but points and A.D. Vassallo had 19 
Marquette was going to be fine. was unable to stop McNeal from to help No. 24 Virginia Tech beat 
"Everybody just had a look in scoring. Georgia Tech 73-65 on Sunday. their eyes like: 'Hey, we're going The Hokies (16-5, 6-1 Atlantic to pull it out. We're not going to Georgia 57, LSU 54 Coast Conference) have won lose this game," the sophomore The last time Levi Stukes sank three straight, six of eight and guard said Sunday after stealing a game-winning 3-pointer, the 12of14. a pass and driving nearly the first teammate off the bench to Their biggest lead was only 10 length of the floor to make a jump in his arms was Kevin points, coming on Coleman layup at the buzzer to give the Brophy. Collins' dunk with 17:43 remain­15th-ranked Golden Eagles a On the day Georgia honored ing, but Virginia Tech never victory over South Florida. Brophy, who died in an automo­allowed the Yellow Jackets to 
"It was an unbelievable reel­bile accident on July 19, Stukes pull any closer than three after ing.... It's just the character of delivered another last-second 3 Javaris Crittenton hit a 3-pointer this team," McNeal added. "It's to lift the Bulldogs to a win over 2:24later. not about me. It's not about one No. 21 Louisiana State on Georgia Tech (13-7, 2-5) has player. It's just about the team." Sunday. lost three straight to drop into 
Dominic James scored 16 Brophy's family traveled from lOth place in the ACC. The points and McNeal finished with Australia for a pregame ceremo­Yellow Jackets never led after 13 as Marquette (19-4, 6-21 won ny. The Bulldogs wear "Do it for Mouhammad Faye's basket in its sixth straight -all in Big Broph" patches on their jerseys the first minute of the game. East play -after losing its first this season to honor the player Anthony Morrow had 18 points two league games to Providence who came to Georgia as a walk­to lead Georgia Tech, which and Syracuse. on and earned a scholarship in began the game with the ACC's 
James made a dilTicult layup in his second year. best field-goal percentage at heavy traffic to tie the score with Stukes said he immediately 50.6 but was a season-worst 15 seconds remaining, then thought of his former teammate 36.6 percent against the Hokies. McNeal provided his heroics after making his first game-win­Crittenton, who scored 12 
AP after South Florida called a time­ning shot since he hit a buzzer­points on a 5-for-19 perform­out to set up a potential game­beating 3-pointer in overtime to ance, has missed 30 of his last winning play with 9 seconds left. top South Carolina on Jan. 14, 39 shots from the field. 
Associated Press 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15.  Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4  CASHIERS NEEDED. APPLY IN  
FoR RENT  Walk to Univ. Call561-596-0194.  bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08·09. $600/Bed/mo.  PERSONAL  WANTED  PERSON. UNIVERSITY­MARATHON, 405 933N IN ROSE­ 
574-360-2569.  LAND. HOURS WILL VARY AND  
2·6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER·  Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  Local family looking for a babysitter.  NO CALLS.  
SON/MO.  bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car  BETTER HOMES,  not go it alone. If you or someone  Preferably looking for a freshman or  
574-329·0308  garages. Call574-232-4527 or 269­ BETTER AREAS,  you love needs confidential support  sophomore.  
683·5038.  BETTER DEALS.  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  References required.  FoR SALE  
House available for 2007-2008.  BlueGoldRentals.com  Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more  Experience a must!  
Very Large,  Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm  information, visit our web site at  Transportation necessary.  2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR- 
Close to Campus,  houses available for sale/rent.  2 bdrm condo JPW & Grad wknds.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg·  QUIS LS. 4·DOOR. EXCELLENT  
Just Renovated.  Contact Meredith Allsop, Milligan  1 mitoND.  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  Call  CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE  
Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com  Real Estate 220·9817.  614-985-5003.  in The Observer.  (574) 247-9213.  OWNER, $6,500. CALL 243-5454.  

-

OUND THE NATION 
Monday, January 29, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE sERVICEs page 15 

Women's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 

team  record  points  
1  Duke  21-0  1235  
2  North Carolina  22-0  1212  
3  Maryland  21-1  1128  
4  Tennessee  19-2  1122  
5  Ohio State  18-1  1005  
6  Connecticut  17-2  1000  
7  Oklahoma  18-2  972  
8  LSU  20-2  873  
9  Stanford  18-3  856  
10  Arizona State  19-3  766  
11  George Washington  18-2  673  
12  Purdue  19-3  671  
13  Baylor  18-3  636  
14  Georgia  18-4  633  
15  Vanderbilt  18-4  503  
16  Bowling Green  18-2  485  
17  Marquette  19-2  444  
18  Louisville  19-2  367  
19  Middle Tenn. St.  19-3  359  
20  California  16-5  268  
21  Texas A&M  15-4  210  
22  Mississippi  16-6  177  
23  Michigan State  15-5  159  
24  Texas  14-7  125  
25  Nebraska  17-4  74  

Men's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team record points 

1 Florida 19-2 1759 2 Wisconsin 21-1 1720 3 UCLA 18-1 1679 4 North Carolina 19-2 1597 5 Ohio State 17-3 1470 6 TexasA&M 16-3 1438 7 Oregon 19-2 1387 8 Kansas 17-3 1248 9 Pittsburgh 19-3 1203 10 Duke 18-3 1091 11 Memphis 17-3 954 12 Alabama 15~5 937 13 Oklahoma State 18-3 867 14 Butler 19·2 856 15 Marquette 19-4 726 16 Air Force 19-3 676 17 Arizona 14-6 545 18 Nevada 19-2 534 19 Clemson 18-4 507 20 Washington State 11-4 418 21 LSU 13•7 392 22 NOTRE OAME 17-4 304 23 Indiana 15-5 210 24 Virginia Tech 16-5 177 25 usc 16-6 149 
Hockey CCHA Standings 
CCHA' overall team 

1 Notre Dame 2 Miami 3 Michigan 4 Michigan State 5 Nebraska-Omaha 6 Ohio State 7 lake Superior 8 Western Michigan 9 Northern Michigan 10 Alaska 11 Ferris State 12 Bowling Green 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Pittsburgh at Villanova 6 p.m., ESPN Kansas at Nebraska 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Ohio State at Purdue 6 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO -Tiger Woods is more interested in a fifth green jacket at the Masters than 11 straight victories on the PGA Tour. 
At this rate, he might have a chance to get both. 
Woods resumed his improbable pursuit of Byron Nelson with a pre­dictable result at the Buick Invitational on Sunday, winning for the third straight year to stretch his PGA Tour winning streak to seven. That's the second­longest streak in tour histo­ry behind Nelson in 1945, and there is little evidence anyone can stop him. 
"It ain't easy beating that guy," said Charles Howell III, who certainly tried. 
Woods caught up to the pack with a 3-wood from 276 yards to set up a 25­foot eagle putt on the ninth hole. He buried the hopes of his final challenger with a 9-iron to 2 1/2 feet on the 17th hole for birdie. His final act was figuring out how to get his ball out of a small hole in front of the 18th green, hitting it with the edge of his sand wedge to 3 feet for a par and a two-shot victory. 
It gave him a 6-under 66, the best score all week on the demanding South Course, site of the U.S. Open next year. Nelson's record often has been thought to be untouchable, which now describes the world's No. 1 player. 
"As far as how special seven is, you're in elite company," Woods said. "There's only one person ahead of you. He's one of the greatest legends in the history of the game. To be in company like with Mr. Nelson ... it's pretty spe­cial." 
This is the second time Woods has made a run at Nelson, who died in September. Woods won six straight in 2000, a streak that Phil Mickeslon stopped at Torrey Pines. But against a cast of challengers short on experience or victories, Woods met little resistance in winning at Torrey Pines for the fifth time in 10 tries. 
The only question is the veracity of the streak ­Woods failed to win once in Europe and twice in Asia during his run -and when he will resume his chase of Nelson's mark. 
Woods believes his win­ning streak ended when he lost in the first round of the HSBC World Match Play Championship last September, a European tour event. The PGA Tour record book only reflects its own tournaments. 
All that matters to Woods is his pursuit of Jack Nicklaus' record 18 profes­sional majors. 
IN BRIEF 

Federer reaches double digits
for Grand Slam titles 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Roger Federer captured his lOth Grand Slam singles title without dropping a set, finishing a dominating run through the Australian Open by beating Fernando Gonzalez of Chile 7-6 (2), 6-4, 6-4 in Sunday's final. 
Federer improved his winning streak to a career-best 36 match­es, became the first man in the Open era to twice win three straight majors and has won six of the last seven Grand Slam titles ­his only loss was in the French Open final to Rafael N ada!. 
It also was the first time that a champion went through a major without dropping a set since the 1980 French Open, when Bjorn Borg did it for the third time. Ken Rosewall, who was sitting in the stands, was the last man to accom­plish the feat at the Australian Open, in 1971. 
With Barbaro's life in the 
balance, doctors make cast 
PHILADELPHIA-A custom-made cast was removed and Barbaro under­went a procedure on his right hind leg Saturday, the same leg the Kentucky Derby winner shattered eight months ago in the Preakness. 
It is the first time in weeks the right hind leg has been the focus of con­cern. For months, it was the left hind leg that put Barbaro's recovery in serious jeopardy because of laminitis, the often-fatal hoof disease. 
"They did some procedures on the one he originally injured," co-owner Roy Jackson told The Associated Press on Saturday night. "He had a little bit of a bruise, an abscess. I should let New Bolton fill you in on the proce­dure." 
Gail Luciani, a spokeswoman for the University of Pennsylvania's veteri­nary school, would not confirm if a procedure was performed on Barbaro by chief surgeon Dean Richardson and had no additional comment. 
Cowboys may hire Turner 
over Garrett as head coach 
IRVING, Texas-Norv Turner got the best out of Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith and Michael Irvin when he was the Dallas Cowboys' offensive coordinator. 
He thinks he can do the same with Tony Ramo, Terrell Owens and the rest of the club as their next head coach. 
Turner interviewed for the job Sunday, becoming the seventh ­and likely final -candidate being considered by owner Jerry Jones. 
"I was excited to get a chance to visit and talk about things that are important to me," said Turner, San Francisco's offensive coordinator. "In this league, it's all about timing and circumstance.... I've got a lot of confidence in the things I can do. I think there are a lot of people in this league that look at it in that manner." 
Turner was the offensive coordi­nator in Dallas from 1991-93. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 29, 2007 
NFL 
Bears arrive in Miami to begin Super Bowl week 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Coach Lovie Smith thumbed through the Indianapolis Colts press guide on a three-hour flight that delivered the Bears from the cold of Chicago to the warm comfort of Florida -a trip that landed them back at the Super Bowl. 
"I looked at 18 pages of Peyton Manning," Smith said Sunday night, about two hours after the Bears touched down at Miami International Airport. 
The Bears know they will have to contain No. 18, the Colts' star quarterback, in one week at Dophin Stadium, or they won't finish off the goal they set for themselves way back in the spring. 
Wearing an orange tie reflecting one of the Bears' team colors, Smith bounded down the steps of the plane and hurried to one of six buses waiting to take his team to the hotel. 
"I was one of the first guys to get off the plane, I got a chance to get my seat real quick and see the players get off and see the smiles on their faces," Smith said. 
"We feel good about where we are right now, but you know they all say the same thing: One more step, and they can't wait. ... " 
Their chartered plane sport­ed a big Bears logo on the side when it arrived at Miami International Airport. As they taxied up, the pilot opened the window of the mammoth jetlin­er and flew a Bears flag. 
The temperature was about 60 degrees warmer than the frigid teens the Bears left on a trip that whisked them from snow-covered fields to palm trees. 
It also took Smith just three seasons to land the Bears back in the Super Bowl for the first time since 1986. 
The team hotel, just five min­utes away from the airport and miles from the glitter of South Beach, featured a big orange and blue 'C' on the elevator doors and a large sign above many of the doorways with "Finish" sandwiched by two said rookie Devin Hester, who Bears could be because they New Orleans and its top­Bears heads. played in college at Miami. "I play in what was the weaker ranked offense. 

Smith said Friday his plan told the guys everything starts NFC this season. Now come the Colts and their was to keep the Bears on a (at South Beach) at 1 o'clock, Their 15-3 record was met high-powered offense. normal schedule as much as so we'll already be in bed. with some skepticism, and "You know what? It finally possible. That will certainly be "Miami is a great place to quarterback Rex Grossman has sunk in today for the first time interrupted by media mob ses­visit and there are all kinds of been a question mark -good that we're in the Super Bowl," sions the first four days this things you can get into. We do one week, shaky the next, with cornerback Charles Tillman week, including one Tuesday at want to have a little fun, but a little of both thrown in said. "You see all the Super the stadium where they will careful of your surroundings. throughout 2006. Bowl 41 stickers and we get to face the Colts in a week. We're here to play a football The defense that led the NFL the hotel and we have all the 
The Bears didn't have a cur­game." with 44 takeaways wasn't as fans and media here -it's few Sunday night; it starts All season long they've tough down the stretch until a actually starting to sink in that Monday. dodged the doubters, who strong showing in the NFC I'm in the Super Bowl, that the 
"Our curfew is midnight," questioned just how good these championship game rout of Bears are in the Super Bowl." 
Insight comes from all ir cti ns. 
You bring something unique to the table, and at Ernst &Young, you'll be encouraged to speak up and contribute. Because we know that bringing together people with different backgrounds and perspectives lets us deliver quality results for our clients. It's why we've created a work environment of mutual respect that promotes your personal and professional growth and success. So visit us on campus or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
·.~ 
Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Se~vices · • . . i!J ERNST& YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do
© 2007 ERNST & YOUNG llP 

~-l 
Monday, January 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 


<tefe6ration of tfje 5east of tfjomas Jlquinas 
Patron Saint ofStudents and Universities 
5:15pm Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart January 29, 2007 
. John Jenkins, CSC, Celeb ran with the Notre Datne Liturgical Choir 
Bucks beat Knicks, end losing streak 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Up two with 28 seconds left, Mo Williams didn't want to give the charging Knicks another chance. 
"I told myself, 'I'm going to take the shot and if I do miss it, they aren't going to have a lot of time left,"' Williams said. "I had to set it up right." 
Williams had 30 points, includ­ing an awkward, 20-foot jumper with 3.1 seconds left, and 10 assists to lift the Milwaukee Bucks to a 107-105 victory over the New York Knicks on Sunday to snap a six-game losing streak. 
The Knicks nearly came back anyway after Williams' shot. 
Jamal Crawford hit an open 3 to make it 106-105 and the Knicks fouled Williams with 0.4 seconds left. 
Williams, who meant to miss his second free throw, made it, giving the Knicks a chance to tie or win. 
"The way things have been going lately when I made it I thought we were going to over­time," Williams said. "We played too well today to get a moral vic­tory." 
But Crawford couldn't get a 3­pointer off from the corner in time. 
"I was trying to rush just to get it up," said Crawford, who wasn't sure if the shot even would have counted. 
Williams, who missed the last nine games after spraining his left shoulder in a collision on Jan. 8 at Denver, brought some des­perately needed energy and bailed out the struggling Bucks after they nearly blew a 13-point lead with just under 9 minutes to play. 
Milwaukee, which had lost 11 of its last 12 and nearly complet­ed its first winless month at home in more than 15 years, outhus­tled the Knicks for most of the game before New York made a furious rally. 
"We just can't put ourselves in situations like that," said Stephon Marbury, who finished with 15 points. "We put ourselves in a tough situation where we had to fight to come back. Those guys, they hadn't won a game, so we kind of expected them to come out and play the way they played. For us as a team, we've got to come out more prepared." 
Crawford, who scored 17 points in the fourth and finished with 26, started by scoring the Knicks' first 10 points of the final quarter. He picked up his fifth foul with 5:05 left and the Knicks down 91-85, but New York didn't fold. 
Andrew Bogut, who had 18 points and nine rebounds, fin­ished a fast break with a dunk with 1:33 left to make it 102-95, but Marbury scored the next five points off two free throws and a long 3-pointer to make it 102-100 with a minute to go. 
NHL 
With injury probleins over, Ducks down Stars 

Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Jean­Sebastien Giguere refused to blame the Anaheim Ducks' recent skid on injuries to himself and defensemen Chris Pronger and Francois Beauchemin. 
Now that they're all back, there are no excuses. 
Andy McDonald scored twice and Teemu Selanne had a goal and an assist, leading the Ducks to a 4-1 victory over the Dallas Stars on Sunday. 
Pronger returned to the lineup after missing nine games with a broken left foot, and Beauchemin played for the first time since Dec. 26 after being sidelined for 11 games with a lacerated spleen. 
"We all know that injuries are part of this game, but it's not an excuse whether we're going to win or lose. It's about 20 guys working hard," Giguere said. 
"The fact that the three of us were injured had nothing to do with us losing some games. It had everything to do with guys not bearing down in our zone and not doing the little things we were doing at the beginning of the season." 
Playing for the first time since Jan. 19 because of the All-Star break, the rested and replenished Ducks displayed the form that resulted in their 25-3-6 start. The victory was only their third in 12 games and snapped a four-game losing streak. 
Dustin Penner also scored and Giguere made 30 saves after missing 11 games with a strained groin. 
The 2003 playoff MVP, who was leading the NHL with 23 wins when he was injured Dec. 26 at San Jose, gave up his only goal on a penalty shot by Jere Lehtinen with 12:14 remaining. 
---~--~-----~--~-----------­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 29, 2007 
NBA 
Finley shot gives Spurs OT victory 


The Allstate Insurance Company would like to meet you. 
We'll be sharing information about the company, our incredible growth and our 
hiring needs for Internship and Full Time Entry Level positions. This will also be 
your opp01tunity to talk to senior leader. Ifyou are majoring in Computer 
Science/Engineering, Finance, Business or considering a career in one of the 
following fields, don't miss this opportunity to learn more about the organization: 
System Analyst Project Manager Application Developer Corporate Relations Marketing Business Analyst Process Analyst Network Engineer 
Internship and Full time entry level candidates welcome! 
Meet the Firm 

Date: Wednesday, January 31st 
Time: 5:00p.m. ~ 7:00p.m. 
Where: Montgomery Theater LaFortune Student Center 
Allstate will be at the Career Fair on February I 
PIZZA AND SOFT DRINKS~ Business Casual Attire 
Allstate acc:epts resumes electronically through our web.s!te. Please visit us ;.i\ www.a!!stale,corn/careers 
~Allstate. 
rou·rc in IJood ht1nds. 

f.~IJ~;tnt'* ::.~<:cHpts reuurm:!H •:!lr:!dmnically throu9h Ollf wobt>iti:-. Please v:stt us .at wv...w.af!state JObs 
Monday, January 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish split road matches with Virginia, W & M 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
It may have been a long trip back to South Bend, but it was worth the trip for Notre Dame. 
The Irish fought severe weather delays coming home from Virginia and William and Mary in order to make it back for a match against Indiana today at 4 p.m. 
"There were obviously con­cerns about out ability to get into South Bend," head coach Bobby Bayliss said, "and for the guys to get a good night rest and be ready to play [Monday]." 
Notre Dame split its two matches this weekend. The Irish opened their season with a 6-1 loss to No. 8 Virginia Friday. Senior Ryan Keckley was the sole Irish player to gar­ner a win, knocking off Ted Angelinos at No. 5 singles 7­6(1), 6-2. Keckley battled the match on a sore ankle -play had to stop so that the senior could have his ankle taped to allow him to finish. 

The Irish fell behind early on in the match, dropping all three doubles challenges to the Cavaliers. Keckley and junior Sheeva Parbhu (No. 11) fell 8-4 to Somdev Devvarman and Treat Huey (No. 8). The other two matches followed suit with the No. 2 and 3 teams both dropping their matches 8-5. 
Besides Keckley's win, the rest of the day wasn't very suc­cessful for the Irish. After drop­ping set point in the first set, senior Stephen Bass (No. 14) succumbed to Devvarman (No. 8) 7 -6(6), 6-1. Parbhu (No. 30) struggled to succeed at second doubles falling 7 -6(2), 7-5 to Huey (No. 10). 

While Bayliss said the Cavaliers will 
ed the team off with an 8-5 win over Colin O'Brien and Alex Cojanu (No. 30). The rest of the matches went smoothly for the Irish, who went 6-0 in singles play. Parbhu battled against Cojanu (No. 49), driving the match into a third set to finally take the win 7­
most likely come 6(3), 3-6, 10-5. out of this week­"Perhaps it was Bass -playing at end as a top-S first match No. 2 singles ­team, he was routed O'Brien 6­
indecisiveness, per­
unsure of where 2, 6-2. Keckley exactly the Irish haps Virginia's just found another vic­faltered in the that good ... " tory with a 6-2, 6­match. 0 win over 
"Perhaps it was Marwan Ramadan
Bobby Bayliss 
first match indeci­to improve to 10-2 siveness, perhaps Irish head coach overall for the Virginia's just that season. good -it's hard Notre Dame will to know," he said. look to use its win over William 
The Cavaliers went on to and Mary to prepare for its defeat No. 5 Illinois 5-2 Sunday. match against Indiana. 
Saturday in Williamsburg "I was proud of the focus we proved more rewarding for had after losing a hard-fought Notre Dame. The Irish made up match the night before," Bayliss for their 6-1 loss to Virginia said. "We didn't have a lot of with a 7-0 dousing of William time to feel sorry for our­and Mary. selves." 
A sweep in doubles competi­tion gave the team an early 1-0 Contact Deirdre Krasula at lead. Keckley and Parbhu start-dkrasula@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles fall to Calvin 
for third straight loss 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's fell short to Calvin 129-86 Friday at South Bend's Washington High School. 
It was the Belles' third straight defeat in MIAA action. 
The Knights were able to come out on top for seven of the 11 swimming events. They had six different swimmers win individual events and won the 200-meter medley relay. 
Calvin was also able to secure valuable second and third place finishes in many events. 
Freshman Sara Niemann pro­vided a bright spot for Saint Mary's. Niemann won the 50­meter freestyle with a time of 
26.95 and the 100-yard back­stroke in 1:07.13. 
The Belles also won the 100­meter breaststroke as junior Kelly Tighe posted a time of 
1:16.22 and the 1,000-meter freestyle as Melissa Gerbeth posted a time of 11:03.88. 
Belles coach Ryan Dombkowski also found posi­tives in swimmers that didn't win. 
"[Freshman] Merec;lith Lierz had a fantastic swim in the 100 free as did [sophomore] Jennifer Nicol in the 100 but­terfly," Dombkowski said. 
Niemann talked about the mindset entering the meet and some of her personal goals. 
"For this meet against Calvin, I think everyone had the mindset that we would have the chance to compete against some very fast swim­mers," she said. "Personally, I wanted a chance to compete in some of my weaker events before conference, and have some fast competition to race." 
Despite the loss, Dombkowski said he thinks the team has improved this season. 
"I think we've made great progress both in and out of the water," he said. "Only four of our current team members were on the on the squad last year, meaning basically our whole team was new. 
"After almost a complete sea­son, we're not only better in the water in just about every event, but we're better as a unit as well." 
Niemann said she is excited about the young team's poten­tial in future years. 
"I didn't really know what to expect from Saint Mary's com­ing into the season," she said. "But as the season comes to a close, I couldn't be happier. Everyone has worked hard to improve and I excited to see what happens at conference, and what next year will bring. We've become more competi­tive and hopefully we can get even stronger next year." 
However, before the Belles can worry about the off-season and next year, they have the MIAA Swimming & Diving Championships in Grand Rapids, Mich. from Feb. 8-10. 
"We'll need to focus on improving the little aspects of our races; starts, turns, finish­es, etc," Dombkowski said of his team's chances in Grand Rapids. "We've already started resting a bit to get our bodies physically ready to be our best, but we also have to focus on strategy and getting our minds mentally prepared for the championships as well. 
"A three-day meet with pre­lims in the morning and finals at night can be both physically and mentally exhausting, so we'll have to be prepared for the challenges ahead." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at 
lreyes@nd.edu 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY & LESBIAN 



For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesdays, Jan. 30, Feb. 13, 20 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. Green Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune 
The Core Council invites you to drop in for conversation and good company. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured.,, 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 29. 2007 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
ND avenges only 2006 loss against Vanderbilt 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Wri rer 
The No.4 Irish kicked off their dual match season this weekend, winning two matches against Illinois and avenging their lone 2006 loss against No. 12 Vanderbilt. 
"It was great for us to come out and not only open our home schedule with a victory, but to get a victory against such a quality opponent is tremendous," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "I know this game meant a lot to our returning players after last season's meeting." 
Sophomore Katie Potts sealed the 4-3 victory for the Irish over the Commodores Sunday, rallying from a 5-3 first set deficit to defeat Vanderbilt junior Caroline Ferrell 7-5, 6-4. 
"It was a good tough match," Louderback said. "We needed to get a tough match in before the [ITA National Indoor Championship]." 
Notre Dame started the match against Vanderbilt by sweeping all three doubles matches and taking a 1-0 lead. 
"For us, it was a big win in the doubles," Louderback said. "It's big for us to go out and start 1­0." 
The No. 11 ranked team of sen­iors Catrina and Christian Thompson defeated Ferrell and Amanda Taylor 8-3, while the No. 5 team of sophomore Kelcy Tefft and junior Brook Buck survived a scare from Taka Bertrand and Catherine Newman to win 8-7 and give Notre Dame the doubles point. Freshmen Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik complet­ed the sweep in doubles by knocking off Liberty Sveke and Courtney Ulery 8-4. 
No. 41 Catrina Thompson won a pivotal singles match against No. 42 Taylor 6-1, 6-4. 
"Catrina Thompson played very well. She and Christian played very well in the doubles and then she had a good singles match," Louderback said. 
Ciobanu also won her singles match over Sveke 6-1, 6-4 to give the Irish a 2-0 lead on the day and improve her singles record to 12-4 on the year. 
"Cosmina played a very, very solid singles match," Louderback said. "[Sveke] is a hard kid to play indoors because she hits the ball big and comes into the net a lot." 
Vanderbilt gained some ground as its No. 57 Taka Bertrand defeated Notre Dame's No. 31 Colleen Rielley while Ulery defeated Tefft 7-6 (6), 6-1 and No. 24 Catherine Newman knocked off Christian Thompson 6-4, 6-1 before Potts clinched the match for the Irish. 
On Friday, the Irish swept Illinois and its head coach, for­mer Irish assistant Michelle Dasso, 7-0 in Champaign, Ill. 
The Irish are 2-0 in their dual match season and will next par­ticipate in the ITA National Indoor Championships Thursday. 
"It should be good because there are sixteen teams there and fourteen of them are in the top eighteen in the country," Louderback said. "It should be a good tournament." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
FENCING 
Top teams get best of Irish at NYU Duals 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
All wasn't right for the Irish. 
A week after finishing 16-1 in the Notre Dame Duals at the Joyce Center, Notre Dame post­ed a 7-5 combined record in the NYU Duals Sunday at the Coles Sports Center. 
The No. 4 Irish women went 4-2, highlighted by a thrilling 14-13 victory over No. 5 Northwestern. Senior epeeist Amy Orlando -a key figure in Notre Dame's comeback win over Ohio State last week --won 4-3 in sudden death over Wildcats freshman Christa French for the deciding point. 

The Notre Dame women also posted an easier, 16-11 win over No. 6 St. John's. The Irish fell 15-12 to Columbia-Barnard, while the Ohio State women returned the favor from the Notre Dame Duals to the Irish with a 14-13 win on neutral ter­ritory. 
The No. 5 Irish men went 3-3, falling to each top-1 0 team they faced while beating Stevens Tech, Yale and the host squad. Yale and NYU received votes in the most recent U.S. Fencing Coaches Association Top-10 poll. 
Stevens Tech participated only on the men's side and fell 17-10 to Notre Dame. 
Columbia, which finished fifth in the 2006 NCAA Championships, topped Notre Dame in both dual meets. The No. 2 Lions beat the No. 4 Irish 15-2, and the No. 4 Columbia men's team earned a come­from-behind victory over the No. 5 Irish. 
Notre Dame took an 11-9 lead with seven bouts remaining, but Columbia posted a furious come­back that included live straight wins for a 15-12 decision. 
The Irish tore through the host squad, beating the Violet men and women by identical 21-6 marks. The Violet women went 0-6 on the day, while the men were 2-3. 
Notre Dame beat Yale 22-5 on the men's side and 19-8 on the women's side. 
Two fencers at opposite ends of their college careers were Notre Dame's top performers in New York. 
Men's senior sabre Patrick Ghattas and women's freshman epeeist Kelley Hurley each fin­ished the competition 17-1 in the day's bouts. 
The Observer was unable to contact Irish coach Janusz Bednarski Sunday. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
ND SWIMMING 

Seniors strong in Shamrock 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

The Notre Dame men and women walked out of Holfs Aquatic Center for the linal time this season with a combined record of 5-3 in this past weHk­end's Sharnnu:k Invitational. 
Both teams hosted Big East rivals West Virginia and Connecticut in addition to out­of-conference squads Penn State and Oakland. The meet was scored as a quadruple dual meet between each of the live teams. 
The No. 19 women handily dispatched of Oakland (310-54), Connecticut (293-7(>) and West Virginia (222.50-147.50), but suffered their first dual meet loss of the season at the hands of No. 15 Penn State, 213.50 to 156.50. 
Of the four results, the Irish placed the most emphasis on their convincing win over the Mountaineers, who will likely be one of Notre Dame's toughest competitors at the Big East Championships. 
"We knew they were out to get us right now because this would be a good indication of where we stand going into the Big East [ehampionships]," sen­ior Katie Carroll said. "We feel more secure heading into the Big East knowing we have the ability to beat them." 
Carroll, one of many Irish seniors swimming in Holfs for the linal time this past week­end. left her mark. Her time of 
16:27.48 in the 1,650-yard freestyle bested her own pool record by more than 10 sec­onds. rellow senior Julia Quinn also set a new pool record as her time of 2:16.26 in the 200­yard breaststroke lert Julia llardy's 2005 mark in her wake. 
"I wasn't expeeting Ito get the result I did 1." Carroll said. "It hit a couple of us that this was our last time swimming at this place, so it was nice to go out on a high note." 
Carroll also touched the wall first in the 200-yard individual medley with a time of 2:02.40. Over the course of the two days, Notre Dame amassed nine sec­ond place linishes, two of which came from sophomore Christa Riggins, who placed second in both the 1 00 and 200-freestyle. Higgins also teamed up with Carroll, Caroline Johnson and Hebeeca Grove to take second in the 200-yard freestyle relay. 
On the men's side, No. 17 Notre Dame defeated Oakland (230-139) and Connecticut (284-86), but fell short against Penn State (221.5-147.5) and No. 19 West Virginia (228-142). 
Notre Dame was the latest to be overwhelmed by the Mountaineer tidal wave, which has destroyed 13 consecutive opponents in addition to a first place finish at the Maryland Invitational. West Virginia won 12 of the 20 events on the weekend, and the Mountaineers won 6 consecutive races on Saturday morning. 
"This weekend helped us realize that we have a major ehallenge [in West Virginia] ahead of us for the Big East championships," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "We've been in this position before, and we know what to do in it. Game 
on." 
A bright spot for the Irish was sophomore diver Michael Bulfin who picked up two of the three Notre Dame victories on the weekend. On Friday evening, Bullin set a pool record in the one-meter diving with a total of 
339.40 points, and he nearly duplicated his efforts on Saturday missing the pool record in the three-meter diving by 5.5 points. 
"He's an outstanding diver," Welsh said. "He's been doing very well all year, and every­thing is really coming together for him at the right time." 
Other highlights on the week­end for the Irish included sweeping the top 4 spots in the 500-yard freestyle led by senior Ted Brown's time of 4:31.55. Notre Dame also took three of the top five spots in the 200­yard freestyle. 
Both the men and women will travel to Louisville next week­end for their final meet before the Big East championships Feb. 14. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

IND\Y MORE BDDIS 
NO MORE TEACHERS' DIRTY LOOICS 
GET 2Do/o OFF* 
select Dummies® titles throughout February! 

--~~-~-----~ 
Monday, January 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Nova 
continued from page 24 
Wildcat forward Dante Cunningham and guard Reggie Redding cut the lead to 66-63 with 18 seconds left. 
After an inbounds pass slipped through the hands of irish forward Zach Hillesland, Villanova had a chance to tie the game, but Redding and forward Curtis Sumpter missed open three-point attempts, giving Notre Dame its 15th home victory of the season. 
"[Villanova] was really good. It's the best team that's come into this building. We just had a hard time scoring on them," Brey said. "I think it was a step forward for us because we haven't had to muck one out like that." 
A three-point goal by Villanova forward Shane Clark gave the Wildcats a 60-57 lead with 3:46 remaining -but that would be Villanova's last field goal. Notre Dame forward Ryan Ayers sparked the late Irish run a minute later with a three to tie the game at 60 and then converted two of three free throws on the next possession to give Notre Dame a 62-60 lead. 
"It felt good," Ayers said. "It was nice to be out there at the end, in crunch time, pull out a win, and help my team." 
The Irish played the last 7:12 without their leading scorer, for­ward Russell Carter -who's aver­aging 18.4 points per game this year, good for second in the Big East. 
"We were doing a pretty good job on (Carter) for once," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. 
Brey benched Carter, who fm­ished with 14 points on 3-for-11 shooting, after he picked up two fouls on consecutive possessions. 
"I took him out not to take him out the rest of the game. I took him out just to get a blow and have [assistant] coach [Gene] Cross talk to him a little bit," Brey said. "Then the group that was in there started playing pretty well. So, you stick with it and let that group fin­ish the game." 
Notre Dame struggled to just 21 points in the first half and faced a four-point halftime deficit. 
"They're doubling you, they're scrambling you. There's not a rhyme or reason to [Villanova's defense] sometimes, but it's so fast and physical," Brey said. "You're not running your offense against them. You're just trying to make two or three passes, hit the open man, and hope to make the right play." 

The lrish were able to work the ball inside better in the second half -whether through passing or penetration from point guard Tory Jackson-and create open looks inside and outside. Notre Dame shot 41 percent in the second half compared to just 29 percent in the first half. 
"It was just a matter of making more passes there. Their pressure kind of got to us in the first half and made us go faster than we wanted to," Hillesland said. "It was just a matter of calming down and making two and three more passes and just getting them to move around before we really attacked." 
Both teams had to adjust their respective game-plans to inconsis­tent officiating. 
The first foul of the game occurred with 13:23 left in the first half, but in the second half, Villanova was called for its seventh team foul after only 3 minutes of play. Cunningham and Oark each picked up their fourth fouls early in the second half. 
Cunningham, who finished with 11 points and seven rebounds, came out after his fourth, which gave Notre Dame an opportunity to work the ball inside. Irish for­ward Rob Kurz, who ended up with a double-double -compiling 10 points and 10 rebounds-also committed his fourth foul early in the half. 
The tight officiating in the sec­ond half allowed Notre Dame to shoot 29 free throws in the second half and make 24 compared to Villanova's 12-of-18 from the char­ity stripe. 
Reynolds led the Wildcats with 19 points on 5-of-14 shooting while forward Curtis Sumpter added 11 points and ten rebounds. 
Notre Dame avenged its 102-87 loss against the Wildcats two weeks ago in Philadelphia. 
The Irish travel to Syracuse Tuesday to take on the Orange in the Carrier Dome. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 



Return 
continued from page 24 
ment Friday that he will return to Notre Dame for summer classes and apply for re-admit­tance in the fall, in time for next basketball season. 
But his teammates' fears were assuaged a day sooner. 
"He left a message [Thursday] on a lot of people's phones say­ing 'don't worry about me, focus on the season,"' freshman point guard Tory Jackson said after Saturday's 66-63 win over Villanova. "Then he gave us a hint. He said 'we've got a lot of work to do next year. Once we received the messages, we were like, 'Man, he's coming back."' 
Irish coach Mike Brey announced McAlarney's plan to return to the team during Friday's practice, Jackson said. 
The news was especially important to the freshman point guard, who had been McAlarney's backup. 
"I was sad," Jackson said. "Kyle was a good friend and I looked up to him a lot, like an older brother. I'm happy that I get to play with him for two more years." 
Jackson wasn't the only Notre Dame player excited to hear of McAlarney's return. 
"We're excited to have him back next year because he's not only a good player, but also a great teammate," junior for­ward Rob Kurz said. 
Kurz said he was glad that McAlarney, who waited weeks between his arrest Dec. 28 and the announcement of his sus­pension last Tuesday, could have some closure of the situa­tion and plan his future with certainty. 
"We've been through a lot with him, although it's nothing compared to what he's been through," Kurz said. "We were all kind of frustrated with the process and how things ended up, but we know he's coming back now, basically for us, and that's good." 
McAlarney's high school coach, Rich Postiglione, said Friday he expected the sopho­more to return. 
"Kyle is a person who has a fierce loyalty to his school, to his coach, to his peers, to his teammates," Postiglione said. "Kyle wants to do this right. He wants to finish what he started. This is not a weak-minded kid who's going to take the best offer. He's stronger than that." 
Postiglione, who coached McAlarney at Moore Catholic in Staten Island, also said he's sure McAlarney will come back to Notre Dame stronger and even more driven to succeed. 
''I'm very proud of him and the way he's handled this," he said. "He hasn't run and hid. [He's] ready to move on and be productive." 

As a sign of unity and support for McAlarney, each Irish play­er wrote "23," the point guard's jersey number, on their shoes for the game against the Wildcats. 
Sophomores Zach Hillesland and Ryan Ayers also wore sweatbands on their arms with "KM 23" written on them. 
"We all just wanted to do something for him," Kurz said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

~---·-·­
[! 
JPWMass Lector -~Auditions 
.... -;.:: 
JP\V' Lector auditions will take place in the Basilica of the Sacred Heftrt on each of the follO\ving dates: 
Monday, January 29th at 4:00pm Tuesday, January 30th at 4:00pm 

Please attend one of rhe two auditions. For further information, please contact Ha.rv Humphrey at !j I 631-8520 or by email at humphrey.17@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Newsom drops 30 in road victory 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Center Erin Newsom had 30 points and 11 rebounds as Saint Mary's defeated Tri-State 83-66 Saturday in Angola, Ind. 
The win -the Belles' second over Tri-State this season ­boosted their record to 8-10, 7-4 in MIAA play. 
The Belles came out firing, leading 10-0 in the first five min­utes of the game and never trail­ing. The Thunder would battle back, closing the gap to as close as one, but went into halftime down 42-34. 
"It is very important to get off to a good start," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "If you don't, you play catch up the rest of the game. We try to set the tone of the game in the first couple possessions." 
In the second half, Tri-State kept the game surprisingly close, trailing by as little as three at some points. With 9:24 left in the game, however, the Belles took over and led by at least nine points for the rest of the game. 
Henley said the improved play of Newsom and forward Anna Kammrath, who had 11 points and 7 rebounds Saturday, has helped guards Alison Kessler and Bridget Lipke, the Belles leading scorers for most of this season. 
"We have been able to take the pressure off of Alison as we move along in the season," Henley said. "More and more players are step­ping up at the offensive end of things that we are a more difficult team to defend than what we were at the start of the year. I think that Alison and Bridget Lipke are carrying this team, there just isn't as much pressure as there was early on." 
Lipke had 13 points and 11 assists and came two rebounds shy of a triple-double Saturday. 
Rebounding -a part of the game the Belles struggled with early in the year and which Henley said she stresses often in practice -was not a problem for Saint Mary's against the Thunder. The Belles out-rebounded Tri­State 47-32. 
Saint Mary's now has sole pos­session of third place in the MIAA standings. It faces fourth-place Olivet at home Wednesday. 
The game also produced a mile­stone for Lipke, who broke the Saint Mary's record for assists in a career. Lipke, who now has 364 assists, passed Tammye Radke's previous mark of 353, set back in 1984-88. 
"[Lipke] understands the offense we have put in this season so well, that I let her call out our plays for the majority of the game," Henley said. "She has a great read on what her team­mates can do and she has also stepped up her on contributions this season at both ends of the court. [The record] is something that this team really strived to help her achieve and we couldn't be happier for her." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 29, 2007 
Hockey 
continued from page 24 
seized the opportunity, crashing hard into the net he picked up his 12th goal of the season and knotted the score at two. 
"I was overdue this weekend -I had a lot of chances -it was nice to see one fmally go in," Deeth said. "Our line battled all weekend so it was good to get a big one like that." 
Deeth, Condra and linemate Ryan Thang-Notre Dame's top scoring line this year -were successfully shut down for the majority of the game by a swarming Miami defense. 
The No. 8/9 RedHawks held Notre Dame to only three shots in the first period -its lowest total of the season. 
"I thought we were lethargic in the first period -it seemed like both teams spent a lot on Friday night. Tonight was a much slow­er paced game," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said Saturday. 
Senior captain Ryan Jones led the way offensively for visiting Miami with a goal and an assist Saturday night, bringing his week­sophomore Brian Kaufman cut across the crease and slid the puck over the goal line for a 2-0 lead. 
ND4, Miami 1 
A fired up Notre Dame squad got off to a quick start Friday night. The Irish scored three goals in the first 10 minutes of play and were able to coast to an impressive victory, adding a fourth tally in the second stanza. 

zipped over Effinger's shoulder and into the top-left corner of the twine. Fellow freshman Brett Blatchford and Kyle Lawson were credited with the assists. 
"That shot was pretty impres­sive, that's a pro shot," Jackson said. "When [Thangl has a good game, boy, you better keep your head up because he can shoot the puck with the best of them." 
While the freshman lit up the 
scoreboard -col­
lecting seven of 

Huskies 
continued from page 24 
Connecticut lead. Charles would finish the game with 12 points, 10 rebounds and nine blocks ­one shy of the second triple­double in Connecticut history. 
"I told Tina that this was her best defensive game, not just because of the blocked shots but I thought it was her best defen­
"When we've had success we have been really  "When he has a good game, boy,  the team's 1 0 points -it was the Notre Dame  sive game because she was in the right place at the right time most of the time," Huskies head  
good in the first  you better keep  veterans  that  eoach Geno Auriemma said in  
period and we had  your head up. "  played a huge role  his post-game press conference  
that  tonight,"  in shutting down  Saturday.  
Jackson said. Van Guilder net­ Jeff Jackson  one of the most dangerous lines in  The Irish finished the game with 18 turnovers, considerably  
ted the first score  Irish coach  the  country.  higher than their previous three  

end total to three "Our line battled Sawatske, was points. all weekend so it Kissel's fifth of the Jones' goal came year and first
was good to get a 

as the result of a since a Nov. 24 
Kyle Lawson mis­big one like that. " win over cue behind his own Nebraska­net with just over Omaha.
Kevin Deeth 

two minutes Thang rounded
Irish forward 

remaining in the opening period. The freshman defender turned the puck over and the RedHawks quickly worked the puck around the zone to Jones, who was wait­ing just outside the crease. 
In the second, Jones ripped a shot from the top of the circles on an odd-man rush. The puck bounced in and out of Irish net­minder Dave Brown's glove and less than two min­utes after the opening drop when he scooped up a rebound off of a Garret Regan shot. 
A few minutes later freshman Dan Kissel exploded off the bench in his first shift and beat Miami goalie Charlie Effinger with a low, hard shot to the stick side. The goal, which was assist­ed by senior defenseman Tom 
out the Irish 
offensive with two power-play goals against the CCHA's top penalty killing unit. 
"They pressure really hard so our strategy was just to move the puck and hopes seams would open up, and they did tonight and we were able to get pucks to the net," Thang said. 
The freshman's second goal was a laser wrist shot that 
"We did a lot of really good things and unfortunately our biggest problem was that we just couldn't score, and I think the turnovers were a result of not having the open looks we would normally get and maybe forcing the ball a little bit," McGraw said. 
One of the bright spots in the Irish loss, McGraw said, was the play of her three freshmen ­center Erica Williamson and guards Ashley Barlow and Melissa Lechlitner. 
"That's a pretty intimidating environment -the biggest crowd we'd played in front of since Tennessee -and thought they handled them­selves really well," McGraw said. "I think that we outscored their bench [23-16]. I think that's a big thing for us." 
The loss was Notre Dame's second in a row -the first time this season it has lost back-to­hack games. The Irish will try to turn their luck around Wednesday as they finish off a three-game road trip at Pittsburgh. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
Seniors T.J. 

Jindra, Michael Bartlett and Jason Paige were matched with Hobey Baker can­didate Nathan Davis and his line­mates all night long and were able to keep them from posing a serious threat for 60 minutes. 
"It's not always the most pres­tigious job, but it's what our team needed to win tonight and we did our job," Paige said. 
Brown, another senior, also came through big for the Irish between the pipes, making 26 saves on 27 shots while fighting oil' a constant crowd in front of his net. 
This weekend improvnd Notre Dame's record to 21-5-2 overall and kept them three points ahead of the HedHawks in the conference standings. After an impressive showing from Jackson's team combined with two losses by No. 1 Minnesota this weekend, the No. 3 Irish could jump a spot or two in the national rankings when released this afternoon. 
turnover totals. Notre Dame only gave the ball up 12 times against Marquette Jan. 23, 11 times against Syracuse Jan. 20 and 10 times against St. John's Jan. 16. 
On the other side, Notre Dame was able to take advantage of the Lady Huskies' mistakes, forcing 27 turnovers and outscoring Connecticut 22-19 after a giveaway. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

00®®~ W®Wrn ~rnll100@l 


rrrrnnJP oo®WAW 
Sample fares From South Bend to: Sample fares From Chicago to: 
Chicago $151 Madrid $258 
Minneapolis $151 Rome $304 

Want to work in TEXAS this summer? 
CAMP SWEENEY 
aresidential sports camp lor children who have diabetes 
INTERJ-JEWS: 
Debartolo Hall-Wed., Jan 31st, 5:45-6:45 pm .Joyce Center -Thurs., Feb I st, 4-8 pm Flanner Hall -Fri., Feb 2nd, 9 am -5 pm INTERVIEWER: Skip Rigsby 940-768-8250 To pre-schedule interviews, email skipr(ti)campsweeney.org by Friday, Jan 26th. 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportuni(V employer. 
NO TRACK AND FIELD 
ND Invite another success 
31 athletes qualify for the Big East tourney at weekend's home meet 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame continued its strong indoor track season with an impressive performance Saturday at the Loftus Center in the Notre Dame Invitational. qualifying an additional 31 ath­letes for the Big East champi­onships. 
The main reason the Irish have been so successful this season -especially at the Notre Dame Invitational -is their hard training in prepara­tion for the indoor season, said distance runner Patrick Smyth. 
"I think our training over break [has been important for our success]. The indoor season is so short that you really have to come into it as soon as possi­ble," he said. "So with the sea­son being so short you just have to get on it right away and try to get in at a fast time and try to qualify for the NCAAs." 
The Irish were headlined by their men's mile team, which qualified six runners for the Big East meet and took home six of the top 10 final times. 
Leading the pack for the men's mile race was senior All­American Thomas Chamney, who set a new personal best with a finish of 4:02.63. Following Chamney across the line for the Irish were junior Jake Watson and sophomore Smyth. who each set new best­times at 4:03.30 and 4:08.89 respectively. Joining these three in qualifying were senior Todd Ptacek (4:09.45), junior Adam Currie (4:12.06) and junior Brett Adams (4:12.98). 
"With our long break we have to work hard," Smyth said. "I know Thomas Chamney and Jake Watson !went] to Albuquerque, which is 6,000 plus feet of altitude, and I was in Salt Lake City, Utah, which is in the high altitude and we all trained [hard] and came back in shape." 
The men's team's sprinters also performed well at the invite, garnering 10 bids. Freshman Jeff Farnell set two new personal bests in the 60 meters and 200 meters, as did senior Jordan Powell in the 200 meters and 400 meters. Freshman Austin Wechter and sophomore Bill Buzaid also qualified in the 400 meters. Rounding out the male quali­fiers were sophomore Bob Kueny in the 500 meters and junior John Cavanaugh and freshmen Jim Notwell and Cameron Eckert in the 800 meters. 
On the women's side, the sprinters were able to hold their own, with seven qualifying 

times. Even though the Irish 
earned seven bids, they only 
went to four different runners. 
The trio of senior Okechi 
Ogbuokiri, junior Crysta 
Swayzer and freshman Joanna 
Schultz were all double quali­
fiers in both the 200 and 400 
meter dashes. Junior 
Dominique Manning set two . new personal bests, winning the 
60-moter dash in only 7.85 sec­
onds and qualifying for the 60­
meter hurdles in 8.61 seconds. 
Also qualifying for the women 

were Brianne Schmidt in the 
800 meters, sophomore llcidi 
Rocha and freshman Lindsey 
Ferguson in the 3,000 meter 
and seniors Amy Kohlmeier and 
Katie DeHusso in the mile. 
With the impressive qualifying 

numbers and one meet remain­
ing, the Irish are confident in 
their chances at a Big East 
indoor championship this sea­
son. 
"Everybody's showing that 

they're in shape and they want 
to win a Big East title," Smyth 
said. "I think we were third last 
year and we're showing some 
more motivation. I know a Jot of 
the sprinters are getting a lot 
more people qualified, and the 
distance team is holding our 
own as well." 
The Irish resume competition 

this weekend at home with the 
Meyo Invitational. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
Monday, January 29, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

BLACK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 
For baby back ribs, that they continue to be sweet ...tender... juicy...and delectable. ...and delicious. We pray to the Lord. 

WILLSHORTZ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJWJWW)1JJ:.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 

That's It's all coming to form four ordinary words. back to me 
BEIPD 
I I I 


©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CLUHG 
1 

rJ [J
tBISMUT 
WHAT THE: FORME:R ARTIST DID WHE:N

J [] I I 
HE: RE:TURNE:D TO 
www.jumble.com 
THE: E:ASE:L-. 

PINTUR 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rI J [ J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: "[ I I I I I I ]" rn 
(Answers tomorrow) I Jumbles: DICED TRULY OUTFIT POLISHSaturday's 
Answer: When she helped Mom bake a cake, she turned into a -"FLOUR" CHILD 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Chelsea Brummet. 20; Elijah Wood, 26; Joey Fatone Jr., 30; Sarah McLachlan, 39 
Happy Birthday: Think big this year and you will get the returns you are looking for. The limitations of the past are lifting, making it possible to follow through with your plans. Join forces with people who have similar ideas and interests. You can make personal changes that will help your emotional outlook and help you establish a more secure environment. Your numbers are 8, 12, 22, 29, 36, 47 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You may feel the urge to travel or get involved in something unique. A problem may arise if you don't stick to the rules. Don't jeopardize your reputation or take a risk. Common sense will serve you best today. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone may offer to help you out but chances are this person will let you down. Empty promises and trouble with groups or organizations you are involved with will keep you on your toes. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Today, you can impress, muster up help and talk others into doing and seeing things your way. A change in a partnership will be sudden but, in the end, be exactly what you need to move along. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Invite friends or family over for a little get-together. You'll discover information about someone you know can give you the upper hand in a situation you are involved with. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love is on the rise and you should be doing everything in your power to romance the one you care about. If single, you will meet someone very special. Overspending may lead to a money problem. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Get out and do something challenging. If you stick around and try to deal with some of the emotional or personal issues at home, you will probably lose. Put in extra hours on a project you are working on. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): This is your day to impress, promote and, in general, be the life of the party. You can take on a challenge or spend time pampering yourself. Mingling and enjoying activities, events or travel will all lead to romance. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make a couple of changes that will help you out long-term. Today is about creating and pulling things together whether it is a project, a relationship or spending more time with those whom you've been neglecting lately. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may feel pushed and pulled emotionally but that's what it will take to get you to do what needs to be done to move on. Let go of the things and people who are no longer a benefit. You can find happiness, security and a better future. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will be able to make a change that will count but don't sacrifice something you may need in the future. Someone may pull out of an agreement or want you to contribute cash. Think twice before doing so. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Surprise everyone by trying something new. A job you can do from home will help bring in extra money. Use your inventive mind and you will come up with whatever solution you need to help you get ahead. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Steer clear of anyone who is overindulgent, overbearing or wanting a handout. Play it low key today and putter around the house. A sudden change in your personal life will take you by surprise. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are a great communicator and a compassionate friend. You are intelligent, original and extremely intuitive. You are open-minded, adventurous and worldly. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenia/ast.com for confidential consultations 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Cry after "Forward!" 
6 Solder 10 Belgrade native 14 Central Florida 
city 15 Words of understanding 16 Peter, Paul and Mary, e.g. 17 Holiday 
decoration 20 Retain 21 Numbered work 
of a composer 22 "Come in!" 23 Preservers of 
preserves 25 "This looks bad!" 27 Cleopatra's 
lover 30 Hissy fit 31 Air blower 34 Like a pitcher's 
perfect game 35 Flub 65 Snapshot 
DOWN 1 Make fun of 2 Liniment target 3 Like one in a 
million 4 Business that routinely 
overcharges 5 Possesses 6 Ones likely to 
chicken out 7 Biblical pottage purchaser s First chapter in a primer 9 Morning 
moisture 
10 Shorthand pro 
11 The "E" in 
Q.E.D. 12 Baptism or bar mitzvah 13 Danish Nobelist Niels 18 British Conservative 19 What homeowners don't have to pay 24 1998 animated 
bug film 26 Player of 45's 27 Site for a 
monitoring bracelet, maybe 28 Hopeless, as a situation 29 Feudal landholder 30 Whiskey drinks 31 Confronts 32 Sky-blue 
36 Look into a crystal ball 37 Holiday decoration 40 Fabric fuzz 41 Memo opener 42 Plural of 21-Across 43 U-turn from WSW 44 Assns. 45 Frigate or ferry 46 Fleeting trace 47 Neat 48 Offspring 51 Butcher's cut 53 Shopping place 57 Holiday decoration so Abbr. before a colon 61 Feed the kitty 62 Make amends 63 General emotional state 64 Some boxing decisions, briefly 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

33 View from Mount Everest 
35 Ship-to-shore accessway 
36 Insect whose larvae destroy foliage 
38 Broadcasts 
39 the line (behaved) 
44 Pig's sound 45 Handful for 
Tarzan 46 Coiled 47 Multiplied by 48 Pillow cover 49 Famed Roman 
censor 50 Diggin' 
52"__ be in England": Browning 

54 Suffix with buck 55 Long, angry 
discourse 56 Lt. Kojak 58 Krazy_ of 
the comics 59 Doze 
j 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, January 29, 2007 
page 24 
,-· 
HOCKEY 
Besting the best 
Irish win one, tie one to move to 9-1-1 when playing ranked teams 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
With seven minutes remaining in Saturday night's game, Miami goaltender Jeff Zatkoff looked poised to collect his second shutout of the season and earn a series split with No. 3 Notre Dame -but that changed in a flash. 
Two Irish goals tied the game as the squads skated to a 2-2 draw at the Joyce Center in the second game of a weekend series between Notre Dame and the No. 819 Hndl-lawks. 
Junior Mark Van Guilder got the Irish on the scoreboard by deflecting aWes O'Neill shot from the point past Zatkoff at 13:16 of the third period. 

"[Senior center Jason] Paige got a big faceoff win and we just tried to get some bodies in front of Zatkoff," Van Guilder said. "Wes made a great play to put the puck right on my stick and I just had to tip it in." 
The goal provided a much needed spark for a Notre Dame club that struggled to get any offense going through the first 50 minutes of play. 
Four minutes after Van Guilder scored, sophomore Erik Condra created a turnover behind the Miami net and the loose puck squirted out in front of the crease. Freshman Kevin Deeth 
see HOCKEY/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish get good win, good news this weekend 
Falls raced down the floor andFalls scores 23 points laid in two of his game-high 23 McAlarney decides to 
in Big East showdown points to give the Irish (17-4, 5-3 return to school after Big East) a two-possession lead 
with Wildcats Sunday they would not relinquish en route serving his suspensionto a 66-63 victory Saturday over Villanova (14-6, 3-4) at the Joyce By CHRIS KHOREY 
By CHRIS HINE 
Center. Associate Sports EditorSports Writer 
"For Harangody, getting that thing loose there and making a In the days immediately fol­
With just over a minute to play hustle play, that was the play of lowing sophomore Kyleand Notre Dame leading 62-60, the game," Notre Dame coach McAlarney's suspension from Villanova guard Scottie Reynolds Mike Brey said after the game. the University for marijuanadribbled around a screen at the "[Luke] diving on the !loor right possession, his Irish teammates top of the key and met Irish for­there probably was the key play to were on edge -would he ward Luke 1-Iarangody. break it open." decide to come back to Notre 
The freshman big man, who fin­Falls' bucket wa<; a part of a 9-0 Dame or transfer to another ished with four points and seven Irish run that gave Notre Dame a school? rebounds, knocked the ball away 66-60 lead with 37 seconds McAlarney cleared up the from the sure-handed Reynolds, remaining. Late free throws by speculation with the announce-and it ended up in the hands of Irish guard Colin Falls. see NOVA/page 21 see RETURN/page 21 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Huskies shut down ND sharpshooter Allen in victory 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Despite plenty of effort from start to finish, Notre Dame could not get a shot to fall, los­ing to No. 517 Connecticut 64-47 Saturday night at Gampel Pavilion in Storrs, Conn. 
"I think our resilience again [was a strength]. I think it's been tremendous," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said Sunday by phone. "I think we really just couldn't make a shot and we played pretty good defensively." 
Notre Dame was unable to find its offensive rhythm throughout the game, shooting only 24.2 percent (16-of-66) from the floor to Connecticut's 
46.7 percent. 
One main aspect of the team's offensive struggles was the fact that guard Charel Allen -Notre Dame's leading scorer -was unable to find her shot, finishing with only eight points on 2-of-17 shooting. 

"We really need Charel to shoot the ball. That's something she's been doing well for us all year long," McGraw said. "She was covered really well and Kalana Greene from Connecticut did just a great job on her." 
McGraw also said that one of the most important issues in the Irish offense based on the loss at Conneetieut will be to find another consistent scorer to complement Allen. 
"We needed somebody to step up and take over a little bit of the scoring," she said. "And Crystal Erwin did a very good job, and Erica Williamson. But we just need a little bit more help for her." 
The Irish played tight against the Lady Huskies for the first half' and were only down 12-11 at 10:39 to play in the half after forward Erwin sank a 3-pointer. 
But the Irish offense started to lag as Connecticut pulled far­ther away and the half drew to a dose at 29-23. 
Following the intermission, the Irish were unable to create an offensive spark and the Lady Huskies quickly increased their lead. Huskies center Tina Charles took control of the game in the post, blocking shots and grabbing rebounds to secure the 
see HUSKIES/page 22 


NO TRACK & FIELD SMC BASKETBAll ~D WOMEN'S TEN~IS ~D SWIMMING ~11 ME~~s TENNIS NCAA ME~'S HOOPS 
w 

c.,:) ND Invitational Saint Ma~'s 83 Irish avenge their only Shamrock Invite The Irish split a pair of Virginia 64 z Tri-State 6 loss of last year by taking matches against Virginia Clemson 63::5 Irish qualify 31 more Sophomore Erin down Vanderbilt this In the last home meet and William & Mary on The Cavaliers come = 
athletes for Big East Newsom scores 30 weekend. of the year, the men's a two-day road trip. from behind in the last Tournament coming up points in Belles victory and women's teams 10 minutes to upset the
cc 

in February. on the road. combine for a 5-3 record. Tigers.
!i page 22 page 21 page 20 page 20 page 19 page 14 



