
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 8 THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 6. 2007 

Authorities nab bank scam suspect 
Police in Fullerton, Calif., find 18 fraudulent NDFCU debit cards in man's vehicle 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Authorities in Fullerton, Calif., arrested an individual Tuesday in connection with the e-mail scam that prompted more than 60 Notre Dame Federal Credit Union (NDFCU) members to give their credit card numbers and passwords to a swindler mas­querading as the credit union. 
Sgt. Tom Conklin from the Fullerton Police Department said a man was arrested Tuesday at 1 a.m. after the 
highway patrol pulled over the car he was in and found 18 fraudulent NDFCU debit cards inside. The man was driving a vehicle that had been reported stolen in Chicago. 
Conklin did not release the suspect's name, but he con­firmed the man is directly con­nected to the NDFCU scam that began Friday when users received a series of e-mails that redirected them to a mock-up of the credit union's Web site. Users were asked to enter their account numbers, passwords and security codes. 
NDFCU President Leo Ditchcreek said Tuesday more than 60 customers clicked on the fraudulent link to review their account information after an e-mail told them there were "one or more unsuccessful attempts to log in to your Online Banking Account ... from a for­eign IP address." 
Ditchcreek said at least five accounts were credited charges and withdrawals that added up to over $2,000. 
The credit union's technology staff tracked the origin of the e­mails and the illegitimate NDFCU Web site to a service provider in the Netherlands. The withdrawals, however, were traced back to the areas around Westminster, Calif. 
"The Web site was set up through a service provider in the Netherlands, but whether or not somebody in the Netherlands was involved in the scam is still unclear," Ditchcreek said. "The suspect was able to use the account numbers and security codes our members entered into the fake 
see NDFCU/page 4 


PILLARS stops giving out BAC cards 
Campus group officials feared charts were misinterpreted as licenses to drink alcohol 
Lawrence said. 
Lawrence is an advisor to Peers Inspiring Listening, Learning and Responsible Socializing (PILLARS), a student organization that works to limit abusive drinking. The group decid­ed this year not to promote their "Green Zone" cam­
paign  to  incoming fresh­ 
men.  
The  BAC  cards,  which  

were issued to freshmen in previous years, included a gender-and weight-specific chart that estimated a per­son's BAC based on the number of drinks consumed and the number of hours spent drinking. 
see PILLARS/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Johnson leaves for nevv post 
Mentor, administrator spent 15 years at ND 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
After 15 years at Notre Dame -years of studying, administering and counsel­ing -Chandra Johnson has moved on. 
The for­m e r Assistant to the President a n d Associate Director of Campus Ministry, w h 0 shaved her head in protest of the University's 2004 fir­ing of Tyrone Willingham, began work as Executive Director of the An-Bryce Foundation in McLean, Va. on Aug. 15. 
The Foundation -founded by prominent black philan­thropists Beatrice and Anthony Welters -is dedi­cated to supplementing the educational and cultural experiences of young people in the Washington D.C. area and other underserved com­munities throughout the country. 
"My charge is to update the Foundation's mission 

see JOHNSON/page 4 


By GENE NOONE News Writer 
Blood alcohol content (BAC) cards -which use green, blue and red zones to show the effect of certain numbers of drinks for par­ticular body weights and genders -will no longer be distributed by PILLARS. 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education (OADE) director Kelly Lawrence said the cards were misinterpreted as licenses to drink. 
"Every freshman is under­age, and giving them a card that says you can have a certain number of drinks and still be safe seems to condone drinking," 
Trasvifia addresses inunigration 
Speaker likens controversy to 'schizophrenia' in the United States 
By CLAUDIA 
BRAGA-HENERBY 
News Writer 
America's "schizophrenia" concerning immigration was a main theme in Wednesday's lecture by guest speaker John Trasviiia, an influential voice in the continuing debate over Latino immigration. 
Focusing largely on United States history and the continu­ing vacillation on immigration issues, Trasviiia's speech was a lesson in politics, history and acceptance. 
A piece of Trasviiia's schizo­phrenia theme concentrated on the welcoming of migrants into America. 
"Sometimes [immigrants] are welcome, and sometimes 
they're not, depending on their country of origin and the time period," he said. He cited Indianapolis as an example of a city that welcomes and helps immigrants. 
Trasviiia mentioned the city's high naturalization rate and the positive repercussions that has for a community. 
Trasviiia also focused on America's history regarding immigration policies and sen­timent-from the 1800s on -touching on various influx­es of certain immigrant groups. 
"The debate [on immigra­tion] needs to be elevated from a debate where we sim­ply scream at each other, into a national conversation about immigration," Trasviiia said. 
To the average Notre Dame student, immigration should be an issue to get involved with, Trasviiia said. 
"Immigration has far-reach­ing implications for every business, family and commu­nity . . . students will be enter­ing into a workforce of a more interdependent world." 
A native of San Francisco, Trasviiia graduated from Harvard University and went on to study at Stanford Law School. He has held many prestigious political and non­political positions, and is cur­rently the presi~ent and gen­eral counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF). 
According to its website, 
see LECTURE/ page 4 

Holland nan1ed new dean of Grad· School 
By ALLEN MURPHY News Writer 
Peter Holland, a renowned Shakespeare scholar and longtime Notre Dame professor, has been named acting 
dean of the University's Graduate School. University President Father John Jenkins made the appoint­

ment at the 
Holland
recommenda­tion of University Provost Thomas Burish. 
The decision to select Holland was not a difficult one, Burish said. 

"I consulted with a number of people on campus ... and his name came up again and again," he said. 
Until Monday, Holland was the chair of the Department of Film, Television and Theater and held an appointment in the Department of English as the McMeel Family Professor in Shakespeare Studies. Holland is also the academic direc­tor of Actors from the London Stage, president of the Shakespeare Association of America and editor of Shakespeare Survey. 
"I have a lot of titles," Holland said. "But, I think the McMeel Family chair is the official one. It's 
see HOLLAND/page 3 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 6, 2007 
INSIDE CoLUMN 


Hey, vvhat's the GP? 
I was l'rnquently asked this by my b1~lovnd traveling entourage (moment of silm11:e) that I met during my six-week immersion program in Toledo, Spain, this summer. No, the "GP" didn't stand f(Jr "good padla," but "game plan" a 
Rohan Anand
desirable plan-of­
action for tho 
).,'TOUp. 
News Wire 
In travel con­
Editor
tnxt, a "game 
plan" includns the 
smallest excursion 
to thfl pharmacy (a.k.a. boxnd-Sangria 
runs) to the most treacherous (and 
dumbest) idea of participating in the 
Pamplona bull runs. My dad was the 
original master of the GP of my yester­
years ol' liunily travel. So, I stuck to my 
lineage so that whenever I had to rally 
my friends (or at least was nominated 
to do so), I suggested we stil:k with a GP. 
The CP took us atop a beautiful rock 
overlooking Tolt~do (where we trekked 
up beliJrn sunset and enjoyed our phar­
macy purchases). late into the bouncing 
nightlili1 of Barcelona dancing on plat­
forms 'til sunrise, and miles oll"shore 
Costa dnl Sol on a sailboat into the 
dear-blue MPditnrrarwan. 
The GP became our staplo, a passport to sites and rnnrnorios. Many fellow I >omers will depart soon to study in Spain for this smnester or in the future. So, when time eomes lin· you to limnu­late your own (;p, you might rncall some of the following things Ilnarned (or wish I had known before) along the way. 
Inter-European travel: Student hostels and low-nJst transportation services makes securing the weekend getaway mw:h simpler with less planning time and tighter budgel<>. Ilowever, do your research beliJrn booking a seat on a sketchy-sounding airline like "Compania (.ow-Cost." Many discount t:arriers like EasyJet lly to unheard of "alternative" airporl<> for major cities that may be 50 milns away from the actual city. Double cheek to make sure that the $10 seat you bought isn't a cardboard box, either. Always carry your passport even for a domestic flight (!learned that the hard way). 
Nightlife: Admission into dubs is expensive, but drink f(Jes are exorbi­tant. Since most clubs don't get packed until around 2 a.m., stick to bars before and you'll still have money in the bank. If you are in big groups, enter by stag­gering; otherwise bouncers won't let you in because of overcrowding. 
Post-party: You may return to your inexpensive hostel at 7 a.m. and kiek yourself upon discovering that some do not provide towel<> or bed sheets free of charge. Some also have eurfews, so if. you call it an "early night," at 4 a.m. and miss the deadline, you'll be banging oul<>ide the door and be mistaken for the drunken village idiot. 
My best advice ean be heeded before departure. Gather everything you plan to take with you, unpaek half, and leave it at home. Airlines are no longer gen­erous with baggage allowances. Leaving room in your bag prevents you from worrying about paying extra bag­gage lees for all of the sweet schwag you bought for your friends on your inward journey. Plus you'll be too broke to pay them anyways. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we make a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT KIND OF MUSIC WOULD YOU LIKE TO HEAR IN THE DINING HALLS? 



Kevin McKernan Eileen Murphy Melissa Dondalski Alec Hirschauer Crystal Truong 
freshman senior sophomore senior senior Morrissey McGlinn Howard O'Neil Farley 
· "Modern rock "Different music "Something that "Freebird. '' "/ really have 



no preference. Just as long as there's music. " 
IN BRIEF 

The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will hold screen­ings of the film "Dying to Live" tonight at 7 and 10 p.m. Director Dan Groody will be present for discussion. Admission is $:{. 
There will be a welcome back picnic for all students tomorrow from 4 to 6 p.m. The event is sponsored by Multieultural Student Programs and Services. The picnic will b1~ held at the Fieldhouse Mall. The rain location will be the LaFortune Ballroom. Food is free. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play the College of Charleston in the Shamroek Invitational Friday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame men's soccer team will play Rhode Island Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Show will take place Friday at R p.m. in the Joyce Center. OK Go and Lupe Fiasco will headline the concert. Tickets are on sale in the LaFortune Box Office for $10. 
There will be a Biathalon (one half mile swim and two mile run) on Saturday at 10:30 
a.m. Contact Bill Reagan for more information. Registration needed. Open to students only. 
The film "Panther Panchali" will be shown Saturday at 3 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

because it's for every day of you can digest incredibly the week ... like easily to . . . like underplayed classical Dave Matthews everywhere. " Sundays or Band on loop. " 
classic rock Thursdays." 


JESSICA LEE/The Observer Trumpet players in the Notre Dame Marching Band practice Wednesday. The Band will send members to the Penn State, Michigan and Purdue football games. 
OFFBEAT 
Momma moose bashes through door 
POCATELLO, Idaho ­Anita Ovard moved to her small home in this town in the western foothills of the Rocky Mountains because she wanted to see more wildlife. But the view got a little too close when a moose decided to make itself at home in her front room. 
Ovard spotted two baby moose in her yard when she pulled into the drive­way Tuesday. She immedi­ately started looking for the mother moose, spotting the massive animal just before it plowed through her storm door and front door. 
"There's a big gouge, and you can see where the whole front of the [moose's] body went right through it. It broke the wood frame," Ovard told the Idaho State Journal. 'Try telling that to an insurance company." 
Shoppers browse unstaffed Colorado store 
NORTHGLENN, Colo. ­They could have left the tree completely bare. But some honest shoppers at an unstaffed Dollar Tree store must have decided that honesty was the best policy while searching for bargains on Labor Day. 
About 15 shoppers walked through the front doors of a closed Dollar Tree store Monday after a lock on the doors mal­functioned. 
They also didn't see, or ignored, a sign on the doors indicating the store was closed for the holi­day. 
Northglenn Police spokesman Ian Lopez says one woman became suspi­cious when there was no one at the register to ring up her purchase, so she called authorities. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

...I
c:c 
(,) 0 


HIGH 75
..... 

LOW 55 

65 45 

HIGH LOW 


-----------------------------. 
Thursday, September 6, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Members elect leaders 
Faculty Senate meets for first meeting ofthe school year 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Several elections and a prolonged discussion on a proposed •revision of Notre Dame's Academic Articles highlighted Wednesday's first meet­ing ol' the Faculty Senate this year. 
Biology professor Kristin Lewis and physies professor Morten Eskildsen were Committee Chair Nasir Ghiaseddin on faculty health care issues, the Senate discussed the Academic ArtiCles. 
"The Academic Articles are a con­tract between the faculty and the administration," Jessop said. 
The separateness of the faculty and the administration remained a con­stant theme throughout the meeting. Fox said she hopes University President Father John Jenkins' self­
voted the Senate's co­appointed advisers
'The Academic 

secretaries, and profes­on the search and
Articles are a

sional specialist in the review committee for Legal Aid Clinic Judy contract between the the Provost would Fox was voted faculty and the not be "administra­Academic Affairs tive stooges." 
administration. '' 

Committee Chair. Seth Brown, the 
One faeulty senator chair of administra­represents each univer­Colin Jessop tive affairs, joked sity department, with Senate chair that the requirement 
Colin Jessop acting as Senate Chair. The only unrepresented departments are Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering and Theology, which has not had a representative for several years, Jessop said. 
Jessop presented a PowerPoint presentation on "Senate 101" for the new senators. "The real power is at the Academic Council, not the Senate," he explained, "but the Senate has the capacity to lobby on issues that concern the faculty." 
Mark Dehmlow, the vice chair, is scheduled to upgrade the Faculty Senate Web site soon. He is also look­ing to expand it, possibly with Wikipedia articles or blogs. A quar­terly Senate newsletter, set to pre­miere this fall, is in the works as well. 
After a brief report by Benefits 
that the academic 
provost must appoint an advisory committee from the fac­ulty of the law school or the architec­ture school before appointing a new dean for the school is "the closest thing we have to actual faculty power." 
Only the first few amendments to the articles were covered in this ini­tial meeting. The amendments are "trying to clear things up" for both the faculty and administration, Fox said. 
The meeting opened with cama­raderie, as professors exchanged repeated cordial greetings. An open­ing prayer followed, in which Jessop asked God to "grant us grace and humility in our discussions." 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
Nevv book calls for an active response to global terroris111 
Special to The Observer 
The two Notre Dame scholars whose research demonstrated -before the Iraq war-that it was highc ly unlikely there were weapons of mass destruc­tion in Iraq are co-editors of a new book on counterter­rorism. 
In "Uniting Against Terror: Cooperative Nonmilitary Responses to the Global Terrorist Threat," just released by MIT Press, George A. Lopez and David Cortright argue that winning the fight against global terrorism requires a bold new strate­gy -one based on coopera­tion rather than military 
Holland 
continued from page 1 
the position that brought me to Notre Dame." 
The specific responsibili­ties associated with being acting dean, however, are yet unknown. The position did not exist until recently when the University split the Office of Research from the Graduate School, Holland said. 
"We took one position and divided it into two," Burish might. 

"The punish-and-destroy model is not the answer," Lopez said. "Despite six years of military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, terrorist attacks and suicide bombings are on the rise. Diplomatic strategies can and do work effectively, but they have been overshad­owed by the constant drum­beat of war." 
"Uniting Against Terror" examines diplomatic and economic responses that have worked since the ter­rorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, especially those of the United Nations, the Financial Action Task Force, the European Union, and a wide array of multilateral 
said. The two positions cre­ated by the split are the vice president for research and the dean of the Graduate School. The current vice president for research is Professor Robert Bernhard. 
During his time as acting dean, Holland hopes to improve conditions for graduate students living, studying and working at Notre Dame in the hopes of "attracting better and better graduate students," he said. 
The next step is to find someone to fill the position permanently. 
institutions. It also address­es the changing face of ter­rorism and al-Qaida and recommends effective non­military counterterrorism strategies. 
The book includes a fore­word by former U.S. Rep. Lee H. Hamilton, co-chair of the 9/11 Commission that studied in-depth the rise of al-Qaida. More recently, Hamilton co-chaired the Iraq Study Group. 
"Lopez and Cortright have done a huge service to all those interested in pursuing the pros and cons of an activist foreign policy, short of the recourse to war," said 
A. Peter Burleigh, former 
U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. 
"We are now going to do a national search for the dean of the Graduate School," Burish said. 
In the coming weeks, the Graduate Faculty Council will elect a search commit­tee to fill the position. The hope is that the new Dean will benamed in July 2008, Burish said. As for whether Holland will be a candidate for the permanent position is "totally up to him," Burish said. 
Contact Allen Murphy at amurphy6@nd.edu 

SENIOR PORT ITS! Sign up on the internet NOW @ www.LaurenStudios.com to ensure your place in the 2008 DOME Yearbook (Use the school password DOME to access the Notre Dame Schedule) Who: Class of2008 Students When: Pictures taken Now-Sept. 21 Where: La Fortune 108 Why: To be in your 2008 Notre Dame J)ome Yearbook --__;---------·-··--··------....::__ :;:..---­-...:::-....; /----~ Re1ne1nber -"'~ f Sign Up Today! ~ ~ www.LaurenStudios.conz ) ~~~  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 6, 2007 
NDFCU 
continued from page 1 
Web site to manufacture ATM cards in California using that information and withdraw cash immediat11ly." 
1111 said the Fullerton Police Department contacted him Wednesday after the discovery of 18 debit cards that matched accounts the NDFCU had blocked as a result of the scam. 
"The individual that was arrestnd [Tuesday in Fullerton[ had in his possession 18 difl'er­ent cards with some of our mem­bers' debit card numbers," Ditchcreek said. 
Conklin did not say whether the man was still in custody, nor what charges were or could be brought against him. Conklin also said he did not know if the suspect had any accomplices. 

And though the man was directly tied to the NDFCU scam, Ditchcreek said the police didn't know yet if he was responsible for sending the e-mails or setting up the illegitimate Web site. 
The e-mails that went out were directed to a combination of students and the general pub­lic, NFCU members and non­members alike, Ditchcreek said. The origin of the e-mail list that was used is still unknown, he said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
MALDEF's mission is "to foster sound public policies, laws and programs to safeguard the civil rights of the 45 million Latinos living in the United States and to empower the Latino commu­nity to fully participate in our society." 
"We're the law firm for the entire Latino community, and not just the immigrants," Trasviiia said of MALDEF. 
The lecture was the first in a series of public policy lectures sponsored by Notre Dame's Institute of Latino Studies, given by influential voices for 

Latino affairs in present day New Vision for the Future." America. Each Wednesday through the "Latino middle of 
Immigrants October a doc­
"Sometimes
in America, umentary will Our Past and [immigrants] are be shown in Our Future," welcome, and 126 DeBartolo the title of Hall about
sometimes they're not, 
the series, immigrants 
will run depending on their from varying through the country oforigin and the countries 
entire aca­throughout the
time period. " 
demic school world, inelud­
' 

year, the ing China,
John Trasvina 
Mexico and thenext install­
MALDEF President
ment coming Dominican 
Dec. 7, said Hepublic. Both Yolanda Lizardi Marino, the 
the lecture and the film series are open to the public. 
Institute's director of academic affairs. 
Trasviiia's talk was entitled Contact Claudia Braga-Henebry "A Public Policy Agenda and a at cbragahe@nd.edu 

president asked his former The cards were intended healthy, responsible way," receive medical attention. they are drinking in a 
pupil if she would work for
JohnsonPillars 

him as Assistant to the antee. But some students Some students said they 
as a guide and not a guar­Lawrence said. 
continued from page 1 President.
continued from page 1 

She became the first To stay in the "green diabetes and epilepsy, and and found them helpful, 
with health concerns, like appreciated the BAC cards 
with a 21st century focus of woman to serve as Assistant zone," the lowest zone, underage students who like sophomore Matthew 
educating the whole person to the President and engaged one's BAC had to be received tickets from Johnson. Johnson still has 
irrespective of ethnic back­in University-wide planning between .02-.059. The police, complained they the BAC card he was given 
ground, economic status or while continuing to counsel cards said people who have were "in the 'green zone"' during a PILLARS program 
educational opportunity," and meet with students. She a BAC in this zone may and thought they were last year. 
Johnson said. was also a popular speaker The popular mentor and on the national level,experience loss of shyness being responsible, said "I think the cards are and minor impairment in senior Elizabeth Miller, a useful in giving students a 
advisor to many students addressing African­reasoning and memory. If a member of PILLARS. guide for drinking respon­
throughout the Notre Dame American spirituality as well person's BAC rises from "This year we are pro­sibly," he said. "But I can 
community will be available as other topics, Malloy said. .06-.24, they enter the moting responsible drink­see how some people could 
to say goodbye in person Johnson's talent for pro­"blue zone," a warning ing -if one chooses to misinterpret the informa­
from 7-8:30 p.m. today in viding inspirational and zone that includes side drink -which is two tion and get themselves in 
the Coleman-Morse Center challenging counseling is effects ranging from drinks in three hours for trouble." 
student lounge. one of her great gifts. said impairment of vision and females, or three drinks in Although the BAC cards 
Through her work in the Priscilla Wong, associate speech to very poor deci­three hours for males," will no longer be issued by 
Officer Group and at Campus director for administration sion-making skills. Miller said. PILLARS, those who would 
Ministry, Johnson helped to at Campus Ministry. The "danger zone" for PILLARS' approach this like to use them as a guide 
steer the development of "I don't think anybody can drinking, also known as year will stress the alcohol can pick them up at the 
Notre Dame as a community say they have not changed the "red zone," was any policies listed under OADE office, where 
that strives to welcome peo­because they met her," Wong BAC .25 and above. In this Indiana state law as well Lawrence said counselors 
ple from all backgrounds, said. "She's the kind of indi­zone, the cards said, peo­as University alcohol poli­will help them interpret 
said University President vidual who makes you think ple experience symp­cies, Lawrence said. and understand the cards 
Emeritus Father Edward and feel deeply as a human tomssuch as stability prob­"PILLARS would like to better. 
"Monk" Malloy, under whom being. She inspires others to lems and loss of conscious­be more of a presence on 
Johnson worked in the be excellent." President's Office. When Malloy left office in
ness. If a person appeared campus, in the dorms and to be in the "red zone," the look at the wellness of Contact Gene Noone at 
"Primarily she helped to 2005, Johnson joined card said, they should individuals making sure enoone@nd.edu 
conceive of Notre Dame as a Campus Ministry full-time as more diverse, community­associate director. Though oriented type of place," he some of her work focused on said. cross-cultural ministry, 
Johnson entered Notre Johnson said her counseling Dame in 1992 as a first-year and guidance were in no way undergraduate student. limited to a specific set of 
Though she was 38 years students. old, her brother had encour­"Students, they could come aged her to pursue her love to me," she said. "I was spir­of religious education by. itual direetor to students studying in theology. from all baekgrounds." 
Johnson was the only Johnson became close to entering freshman then or many students and found it since who was that far difficult to tell them she was removed in age from the leaving -as she did on July average majority of students. 1, a day before her official 
"We've never admitted announcement. anyone like me since," she Senior Elizabeth Adams, said. "That's why I believe it who worked closely with was just meant to be." Johnson on the Martin 
She first met Malloy when Luther King Day committee, she enrolled in his under­said Johnson was an inspir­graduate seminar. ing teacher who challenged 
Though the other students her students to think of were half her age, Johnson themselves not only as Notre quickly became a "trusted Dame students. but also as confidante" to many of them, citizens of the world. Malloy said. "Her door was always 
"She seemed to me as an open," Adams said. "As African-American woman to much as I've worked with help other African-American her during three years, I've students or students strug­spent as much talking about gling with identity issues to her grandehildren and my make that transition," he family and boys. said. "She really was a mentor 
While still an undergradu-and a girl friend at the same ate, Johnson became time." involved with Campus Malloy said he will miss Ministry and studied at the Johnson, but he expressed Ecumenical Institute for confidence in her new mis· Theological Studies in sion. Jerusalem. After graduating ''I'm glad she's been given in 1996 with a degree in the­a new set of challenges," ology, Johnson went to work Malloy said. "We don't all for Campus Ministry, where have to stay here. We can go she created a program out and help improve the designed for undergraduates world." of African descent and began to counsel students. A posi­tion opened in Malloy's office Contact Karen Langley at in 1998, and the University klangle 1 @nd.edu 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.--------------------------------------------~ 
ORLD & NATION 


Thursday, September 6, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel accepts Darfur refugees 
JERUSALEM -Israel will grant citizenship to some of the hundreds of Muslim refugees from Sudan's violence-ridden Darfur region who have already arrived, Interior Minister Meir Sheetrit said Wednesday. 
Sheetrit said he would work with the United Nations to set a quota of refugees who would be naturalized. While he estimated 300 Darfur refugees have come, other government offi­cials and refugee advocates put the number at between 400 and 500. 
The arrival of the Darfurians has touched off hot debate over whether the Jewish state, founded after the Nazi genocide, has a duty to take in people fleeing persecution. Fighting between pro -government militias and rebels in the western Sudanese region of Darfur has killed more than 200,000 people and displaced 2.5 million since 2003. 
lbree Muslims arrested for bomb plot 
BERLIN -It was just a vacation cottage sitting in a small town. the quiet hometown of 900 peo­ple. 
But inside, prosecutors said Wednesday, three men were readying a nefarious plot-an "immi­nent" bombing aimed at Americans in Germany. 
The cottage didn't provide the refuge that the trio expected, authorities said. They had been watched constantly for six months in a mammoth surveillance operation involving 300 security offi­cers. before an elite anti-terror unit swooped down on them at the cottage Tuesday. 
The men -two German converts to Islam and a Turkish citizen who prosecutors said shared a "profound hatred of U.S. citizens." -allegedly obtained military-style detonators and enough chemicals to make bombs more powerful than those that killed 191 commuters in Madrid in 2004 and 52 in London in 2005. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Ohio Rep. found dead in aparbnent 
WASHINGTON -Ohio Rep. Paul Gillmor, a Republican whose political career covered four decades, has died, party officials said. 
"Born, raised and educated in our home state of Ohio, Paul never lost sight of the rea­son he came to Congress -to serve this great institution and his constituents with dedication and distinction," House Republican Leader John Boehner, also of Ohio, said in a state­ment. 
"With the passing of Paul Gillmor, the people of northwest Ohio have lost a favorite son," said House Republican Conference Chairman Adam Putnam, R-Fla. 
The body of the 68-year-old congressman was found by staff members who went to his apartment Wednesday after he failed to show up for work, according to a Republican aide who spoke on condition of anonymity pending an official announcement. There was no immediate word on the cause of his death. 
Singer arrested for drug possession 
MIAMI BEACH -Pablo Montero was arrest­ed on suspicion of possessing cocaine and driv­ing recklessly, according to police reports. 
The Mexican singer and actor, whose legal name is Oscar Hernandez, was stopped by police about 1:30 p.m. Friday for allegedly run­ning a red light in his white BMW sport utility vehicle and then making a left turn from a right-turn only lane. The arrest in Miami Beach came two days after Montero, 38, helped pres­ent nominees for this year's Latin Grammy Awards at a press conference there. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Man with stockpile jailed until trial 
SOUTH BEND -A man will remain locked up until his trial on charges that he stockpiled nearly 80,000 rounds of ammunition in his home in the belief the world was on the brink of violent eco­nomic collapse. 
U.S. Magistrate Christopher A. Nuechterlein said Tuesday that Kevin Rieder, 38, poses a dan­ger to the community and does not seem to be a good candidate for release based on his record of not complying with prior court orders. 
Rieder faces a federal charge of illegal possession of ammunition in violation of an earlier restraining order taken out by an ex­girlfriend. 
CoMPilED rROM TI--·IE OBSERVER'S vVIRE SERV1CES page 5 
NICARAGUA 
Hurricane tolls rise in Latin America 
Central America deals with impacts from Felix, Mexico prepares for Henrietta's second landfall 
Associated Press 
PUERTO CABEZAS, Nicaragua -Doctors threw together a makeshift clinic Wednesday to tend to the injured after powerful Hurricane Felix flooded their hospital and wrecked villages on Nicaragua's Caribbean coast. Remnants of the storm drenched Central America in rain and the death toll rose to nine, with at least 11 peo­ple missing. 
Far to the northwest, Hurricane Henriette took aim at Mexico for the second time in two days, moving toward the port city of Guaymas with top sustained winds of 7 5 mph. Seven deaths were reported from the Pacific storm, which hit Baja California on Tuesday. 
Nicaragua was flying food and other emergency sup­plies to the regional capital of Puerto Cabezas, but said help had not yet reached villages cut off when Felix roared ashore Tuesday .as a Category 5 hurricane with winds of 160 mph. 
The dead included a man who drowned when his boat capsized, a woman killed when a tree fell on her house and a newborn who died shortly after birth because her mother couldn't get med­ical attention. 
Among the missing were four fishermen whose small sailboat sank as Felix's cen­ter passed overhead. A sur­vivor, Fernando Pereira, 24, said he clung to a piece of wood for 12 hours, despite a dislocated shoulder, and washed ashore at the village of Sandy Bay only hours after Felix made landfall there. He hadn't seen his friends since. 
"I felt horrible," he said. "I was drinking salt water, and I thought I was going to die." 
Others were caught in the sea as well. Jelivaro Climax, 22, said he had to swim through enormous waves to reach shore. 
"Lightning flashed through a pitch black sky," he said. "I don't know how I survived. I swam with everything I had, and I was sure the sea would 

AP Residents of Puerto Cabeza, Nicaragua, await emergency assistance in a makeshift clinic Wednesday, a day after Hurricane Felix made landfall in Central America. 
take me." 
Felix swept over the Miskito Coast, an impover­ished region where about 150,000 people live in jungle settlements. Their hamlets of wooden shacks and coconut groves are remote even in good weather, reachable only by air or flat -bottom boats. 
The Miskitos, descendants of Indians, European settlers and African slaves, live semi­autonomously, much like people on Indian reserva­tions in the U.S. 
There wasn't enough fuel after the storm for boats to make long trips, and Felix snapped steel cables that guided a small ferry carrying people and cars from Puerto Cabezas to the village of Wawahum. 
Johana Aliberto Maquiave, 36, was stuck in Puerto Daniel Ortega flew over the Cabezas, trying to get back to area to survey the damage. her family in Sandy Bay, the He said that the U.S. and village where the eye of the Venezuelan offered aid and storm hit. that Cuban doctors were 

"I want to know what hap­already on the ground. pened to my three children," Nicaragua's military flew in she said, fighting tears. "The sheets, mattresses, food and poor kids stayed with their first aid materials. dad. I am here with nothing. Residents hacked at fallen I came on Sunday to buy trees with machetes, trying food." to uncover the remains of 
Felix wiped out crops and their humble homes. There damaged most of the 70 tons was very little electricity, of food and emergency goods running water or telephone that had been flown in before service. the storm. Larry Hansack, 38, gazed 
On Wednesday, it was hard at a sea littered with splin­to find a building that wasn't tered wood and shattered tin, damaged. Puerto Cabezas' wondering about his nephew, hospital was filled with a fisherman who disap­water, and doctors attended peared at sea. "There's no to the injured at an impro­one to help me, and every­vised clinic. thing is disorganized," he 
Nicaraguan President said. 
Wrestler's injuries may explain killings 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Pro wrestler Chris Benoit suffered head trauma from his years in the ring that could help explain why he killed his wife, son and himself, a doctor who studied his brain said Wednesday. 
The analysis by doctors affiliated with the Sports Legacy Institute sug­gests that repeated concussions could have contributed to the killings at Benoit's suburban Atlanta home, though there was no way to know for sure. 
"Whether it is the sole factor, I believe, is speculation, and I will not go there," said Dr. Robert Cantu, a member of the Waltham, Mass.­based institute, which researches the long-term effects of concussions. 
The level of brain damage Benoit had could have caused depression and irrational behavior, said Cantu, who also is chief of neurosurgery service at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass. 
The wrestler's father, Michael Benoit, said Wednesday he agreed to the testing of his son's brain because murder-suicide was so out of character. He said his son com­plained about suffering concussions, but that he knows of no medical records or records kept by the wrestling league to support the diagnosis. 
Steroid use also has lingered as a theory behind the killing~. since anabolic steroids were found in 

Chris Benoit's home and tests con­ducted by authorities showed Benoit had roughly 10 times the normal level of testosterone in his system when he died. 
Some experts believe that use of testosterone can contribute to para­noia, depression and violent out­bursts known as "roid rage." 
Dr. Wendy Wright, an intensive care neurologist at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta who was not involved in the study of Benoit's brain, said multiple concussions could cause long-term brain injuries, but the symptoms were unclear. 
"This isn't something you would expect to see turn on one day and have someone fly into a vicious rage," she said. 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 6, 2007 

know no boundaries 


S U N DAY, S E PT EM B ER 9 AT 7 P. M. BROWNING CINEMA, DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Introduced by Rev. Joh n I. Jenkins, c.s.c., Presdent and Bill PurreII, CenterforSocial Concerns 

~~-~-~-~~-~-~~-····························································~-~~-~-~--~~-~-~~········································· 
WOR!LD VI.W I$ AH IHITIATIVI! F'R")IH THI! ")F'F'IQI! ")F' THI! PRI!$II>I!HT T") PR")IH")TI! Q")H$TRUQTIVI! I>IAL")q!JII! A&")UT l$$!,111!$ ")F' RAC>I!, C>LA$$, I!THHIC>ITV, RI!Liqi")H, AHI> qi!HI>I!R THR")!JiqH THI! ART$. 
A I> I> ITI ") H A L ~ e e 7 F' A L L $ I!IH I!$ T I! R I! VI! H T $ 
•••••••••••• llllllilllllllllllll ................................................................11 .........1111 ............................................................................................................................................. 
EJ Aat• Fnlm A Sllc Ct~t~«~n RHMh01 A flWifln City fJI ~nand .161ti» lnri$/IH Chllllwl September 2J Septeni1 er 29 October 3 City fJI Slid December 8 Join 1l irector Greu ory IJa w Join OJ Spooky Od:ober 4 Join 1l ire ctor Katia ~~ n1l 
Join ~lrmmkers Lean1lro Finnil'lo an1l L11is IJa,;imento 


Thursday, September 6, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 

Dew 13,305.47 
-143.3~

Jonu 
!:Jtnl'l!: IJ'.OI'!a': 
u u•~ 



COMF'Af4Y '!iaC.HAI.IG E ;j:GAII.I p R.Ic. E 
S&..O OeP ReO:?LOTS (SPY)  -o.w  -1.29  1"17.79  
PO!VeRSHAReS (Q QQQ)  -1.01  -o.5o  "19 .ffi  
APPLe I~C(AA?L)  -5.13  -7."10  136.76  
SUN 1'-liROSYS I~IC (JAVA)  -2 ..Xi  -o.u  5.37  



10-YcAR i"IOTe  -1.;:t5  -o.Ofi5  "1."17.3  
1.3-We8{ 8ll.L  -1."10  -o.o.so  "1.220  
.30-Y'CAR 80~10  -1.2.2  -o.059  "1.700  
5-Yell.R t·~n:  -2.51  -o.107  "1.155  


i-0.65 75.7.369

UG'HT CRUOe ($fatJI.) 
-OiiO 690.70 PORi{ 8-eli..D:S (O!!{Jts,oltJ.) 
G'OLO ($/Tray aq -1.65 fifi.7fi 

Y'CN 1152600 eURO 0.7.329 POU~IO 0."195.3 
CAI"IAOWI $ 1D533 
IN BRIEF 
FAA orders inspection of new 737 jets 
WASHINGTON -Federal regulators ordered inspections of the wing slats on all newer Boeing 737 jetliners based on find­ings about the fire that destroyed a China Airlines 737 in Japan last week. 
The orders apply to the owners and oper­ators of 783 U.S. airplanes but will likely be imposed by other countries on the entire worldwide fleet of 2,287 newer 737s, Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Les Dorr said Monday. 
Dorr said the move was prompted by the fire in Japan and one other incident. 
The FAA's emergency airworthiness direc­tive, issued Saturday, applies to all 737­600, -700, -800, -900 and -900ER series planes, the first of which entered service in January 1998 with Southwest Airlines, which flies only 737s. In the United States, the planes also are used by Alaska, American, Continental, Delta and other car­riers. 
Business owners returning to school 
NEW YORK -As the fall semester begins at colleges and universities across the coun­try, thousands of small business owners will be among the students. Many people who run their own companies realize they need to learn more about finance, marketing and managing, and so they decide to squeeze courses into their already tight schedules. 
Peter Figueredo, CEO of NETexponent, a New York-based advertising agency, had run the company for three years when he real­ized he needed to learn more about operat­ing a business. 
"I know the actual type of advertising and marketing we do extremely well," Figueredo said. But "how to manage people, set up an infrastructure, finances, human resources was still something very new to me." 
So in 2004, he began a three-year pro­gram on entrepreneurship at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Besides classroom learning that led to his being granted a certificate from MIT, he came away with a network of other small business owners who he still turns to when he needs help or advice. 
---;-~--~---------­

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 

page 7 

U.S. mortgage crunch expanding 
Declining home prices and rising interest rates creating national nightmare for homeowners 
Associated Press 
OCALA, Fla -The walls are bare, the closets are empty, and Connie and Timothy Pent and their two teenage children are living out of boxes as they wait for a dreaded knock at the door of their three-bed­room house in Ocala, Fla. 
They've fallen behind in payments on their home loan, and their lender told them in July that foreclo­sure was imminent. 
"We thought we were fine," said Connie regret­fully. "You never know." 
An increasing number of homeowners and prospec­tive homeowners are get­ting caught up in the fast­spreading mortgage crisis that is claiming victims from all income levels and demographic groups. Like the Pents, many are trying desperately to get their loan terms reworked but are finding it's difficult in a tightened market. 
For five years, the hous­ing boom put money in the pockets of lenders, brokers, realtors and investors and granted easy mortgages to homeowners with both good and blemished credit. But as home prices decline and interest rates climb, the cracks in the housing market's foundation are widening. 
Exotic mortgages, once hailed for helping to increase U.S. homeowner­see their homes sell at auc­interest rates because of because of the changing ship to its highest level at tion. blemishes on their credit market. 
68.9 percent, have become "The increasing availabil­record. The Center for Others were sold on too the undoing of many. ity of mortgages has been Responsible Lending esti­much house, piled up huge 
Loans with adjustable an important and positive mates that 2.2 million sub­loans based on .the inflated rates, payment choices and long-term trend," said prime home loans made in value of their property and loose requirements have Doug Elmendorf, a recent years have ended or didn't fully understand the trapped borrowers in too­Brookings Institution econ­soon will end in foreclo­interest rates they would high payments with few omist. "But like many posi­sure. have to pay. options for escape. Some tive developments, this one But there are many other Nearly $1.12 trillion have taken on second and was taken to an unjustifi­ways to be hurt in the worth of hybrid and tradi­third jobs, depleted sav­able extreme." mortgage crunch. tional adjustable-rate ings, retirement and col­Many of the victims are Many prospective home mortgages were originated lege funds and wrestled subprime borrowers _ buyers, through little fault in 2005 and 2006, while with lenders to stave off those like the Pents who of their own, are having $779.13 billion of interest­foreclosure. Those who fail don't qualify for market trouble getting mortgages only ARMs were issued in 
JAPAN 
Pension system crisis hits seniors 
Associated Press side Tokyo, felt defrauded. "Had I not An interim government report 
asked, I would have never gotten the released in July alleged widespread 
TOKYO -After reading a book this money back," he said. incompetence at the Social Insurance year about serious flaws in Japan's The pension mess, fully disclosed in Agency: records kept in yellowing pension system, retired deliveryman May, has landed on one of the world's files instead of on computers, evi­Yoshikazu Hirano thought he'd check fastest-aging societies: 21 percent of dence of possible embezzlement of his own records just to be safe. its 127 million inhabitants are 65 or funds, and rampant clerical mis­
He's glad he did: The 74-year-old older and some 25 million retirees takes. discovered the government had are collecting pensions, rising to 35 "The organization had little sense shortchanged him by 460,000 yen million by 2040. of compliance," said the report, ($3,770) in benefits he accrued while People have flooded pension offices which blamed the mess on faulty gov­driving a truck for three years in the and 24-hour call centers seeking to ernance, low morale, lack of profes­1950s and 60s. check their records, and titles such sionalism and ignorance of "the duty 
Hirano wasn't alone. Shortly after­as "Recover your pension!" fill book­to protect the people's rights." ward, the government confessed to stores and newsstands. The agency was established a losing track of pension records linked The confusion has hit Prime decade ago to unify three separate to an astounding 64 million claims -Minister Shinzo Abe. The outrage pension organizations -one for self­igniting a scandal that has punished contributed to a plunge in his popu­employed or non-workers, another the ruling party at the polls and erod­larity and forced him to delay an for company employees, and the ed confidence in the ability of the upper house election for a week -third for public servants. With 70 
world's second largest economy to to no avail, since his ruling party was million members and $1.3 trillion in support its growing legions of elderly. trounced at the polls anyway, though reserves, it is one of the world's Hirano, who is single and lives out-he remains in office. largest. 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 6, 2007 



----------------------------~ 
page 9 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 6, 2007 
Panel refuses to disrrriss co111plaint against Craig 
Senator launches campaign to stay in office 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -To the dis­may of fellow Republicans, Sen. Larry Craig launched a deter­mined drive to save his seat on Wednesday, vowing to stay in oiTice if allowed to withdraw his guilty plea in a men's room sex sting. 
Craig's campaign suffered ~n instant setback, however, when the ethics committee refused to set aside a complaint lodged against him. "Pending Sen. Craig's resignation, the commit­tee will continue to review this matter," the committee's senior senators wrote. 
The decision to deploy his legal team marked a reversal of his pledge to resign on Sept. 30, and 
"We are proceeding

raised the possi­quit Congress bility of a pro­based on the drew wide­tracted legal spread sup­
assumption that there is 

and political port. Only a
going to be a

struggle, much few members of it playing out transition at the end of of the rank­in public, with and-file
the month." 

gay sex at its expressed con­corn. cern that the "I thought he Jon Hanian leadership was made tlw cor­Idaho governor's spokesman acting in 
rnct decision. thn dif'licult but 1:orrnct decision to resign" over tlw wnekend. said Senate Hnpublican Leader Mitch McConnpll of Kentucky after he and Craig spoke by telephone. "That would still be my view today." 
Craig made no public state­nwnts during the day, although he met privately in Boise with Idaho Gov. C.L. Otter, who has the authority to lill any vacancy in the state's Senate delegation. 
"We are proceeding based on the assumption that there is going to be a transition at the end of the month," said Jon Jlanian, Otter's spokesman. "The senator's staff is going to work with ours to that end." 
But McConnell heard some­thing different when he talked with his longtime Senate col­league. lie said Craig had told him he now intended to remain in Congress if he is permitted to withdraw his guilty plea by Sept. 
30. "II' he is unable to have that disposed of prior to Sept. 30, it is his intention to resign from the Senate as he expressed last Saturday," he said. 
The GOP leader spoke hours after Craig's attorney, Stanley Brand, asked the ethics commit­tee not to investigate a complaint because events were "wholly unrelated" to official duties. 
Committee action eventually would lead the Senate down a path of dealing with "a host of minor misdemeanors and trans­gressions," Brand added in a let­ter that was hand-delivered. 
In a written reply several hours later, the panel's chairman and senior Republican wrote that Senate rules give the com­mittee authority to investigate lawmakers who engage in "improper conduct, which may reflect upon the Senate." 
"The committee has reached no conclusions regarding the matter," wrote Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., and John Cornyn, H-Texas. "Pending Sen. Craig's resignation, the committee will continue to review this matter." 
A second attorney for Craig, Tom Kelly, was in Minnesota, evidently preparing to file papers seeking to have the senator's guilty plea withdrawn. 
Lawyers not involved in the case have said Craig faces a diffi­cult challenge, pointing to Minnesota Rules of Criminal Procedure requiring that a defendant show a "manifest injustice" to withdraw a guilty plea. 
In Craig's case, he voluntarily signed a plea agreement that included a provision stating that the court would not accept such a confession of guilt from anyone who believed himself innocent. 
The legal fine points aside, Craig's turnabout was the sub­ject of a lengthy closed-door dis­cussion among Senate Republicans during the day. One participant said McConnell's con­certed effort to prod Craig to 
haste, added 
this lawmaker, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the meeting was private. 
There was other evidence of the discomfort his case has caused fellow conservatives. 
A dozen conservative activists attending a press conference on one of President Bush's judicial nominees declined to answer questions about Craig, including whether they wished to see him resign or remain in office. 
They included Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research Council; David Keene, president of The American Conservative Union; Grover Norquist, presi­dent of Americans for Tax Reform; and Wendy Wright, president of Concerned Women for America. 
For his part, McConnell turned away questions about Craig's sit­uation. Asked whether fellow Republicans could embrace Craig if he disposed of the case and returned to Washington, the GOP leader said he would not answer hypothetical questions. 
Asked if Craig had been disin­genuous when he told him on Friday he intended to resign, McConnell declined to say. 
And when asked whether Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., had been helpful in resolving the contro­versy, McConnell said, "You'll have to talk to Sen. Specter about his views." 
Specter said Sunday he would like to see Craig "seek to with­draw the guilty plea, and fight the case." Specter, a former prosecutor, said he believes the Idaho lawmaker could be vindi­cated. 
He declined to elaborate fur­ther when asked during the day. 
Craig drew one expression of support, from fellow Idaho Republican Sen. Mike Crapo. 
"I support whatever Larry does," said Crapo. "Everybody has a right to try to vindicate themselves." 
Several officials have said Crapo played a key role in last week's events, serving as an intermediary of sorts between his home state colleague and Republicans in Washington eager to see Craig resign. 
A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 
Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates LodAe has hotel roomsatreasonable rates fur upcomingNDfuotballweekends.) 

looking & feeling GREAT...come see me! 

For all your cosmetic, skin care and hair removal needs come to our South Bend location just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street Peggy is a licensed aesthetician and specializes in Jane lreda!e mineral-based makeup, laRoche-Posay skin care products, facials and waxing services. 
From your face to your legs, Peggy will 
have your skin feeling smooth, soft & 
beautiful! 

Call Peggy Today! 
Peggy Dibble 574.282.2020 
Aesthetic/an ... and don't forget to mention this ad!! 
Peggy is available: 

Monday-Friday: 9am-5pm Saturday: 8:30am -12:00pm & FACIAL PLASTIC Su<GERY 


401 N. Michigan St South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 
..--------------------~----------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, September 6, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

A spirituality for beginners 
1~0. Box 779, Notre !lame, IN 46S56 014 South Dining Hall, Nmrc Dame, IN 46556 

"To follow Jesus is always a begin­and experience, but to lose, momentari­degree disoriented, restless. If you are 
EDITOR IN CIIIEI' 

ning; it is The beginning happening ly, their daily comforts and encounter not feeling some snnse of freshness and 
Maddie IIanna 

once again." something fresh and new. its eorresponding disorientation, you MANAGING EDITOR BliSINF.SS MANAGER -Father Julian Carn)n Peter and others risk making this are probably not really beginning this Ken fowler Kyle West journey into the desert. Evidently, they year, but just eontinuing last year. Every once in a were dissatisfied with some aspects of Beginnings demand restlnss hearts. In
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Father Lou
while, and especially their daily lives-pnrsonal, social, faet, restless hearts are about the only 
A.~Sl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone DeiFra
when we arn starting political, whatever. So they wander into cogent explanation for 10,000 of us NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley something new, it the desert, let go of their daily, insulat­gathering together in the northern
FaithPoint 

Vll'.WPOINT EDITOR: Joey King helps to remember: ing routines, to see what is there, what woods of Indiana to study for a year SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey The first disciples of directions the outrageous, compelling together. Jesus had no idea what they were get­Baptist would propose. Coming to know the burning questions
Chris Hine ting into. Who knows how long they waited? All inside of us, the ones that have driven 
ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews That is to say, they didn't just wind up we know is that one day, the Baptist us to this place, can be a great spiritual
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

disciples. They had to begin somewhere. finally proposed -a new beginning. exercise to begin this semester. In fact, 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 

Beginnings, by definition, are incom­An unidentified figure mysteriously John's Gospel suggests that in the fol­GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies plete -they are the initiation of some­enters the scene. John points to him as lowing of our restlessness -the ques­ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez thing that is not yet. As such, begin­he walks by, and says to the disciples, tions about ourselves and our world nings are filled with a freshness, a "There goes the one we have been wait­that bug us, that a professor raises and
AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kdly Gronli 

sense that anything can happen. And ing for." It must not have been what remain with us all day, that are on our 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

so, beginnings are also filled with most of them expected, for only two dis­minds when we go to bed and when we 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 

uncertainty, disorientation, even some ciples -Peter's brother, Andrew, and a wake up, the person we can't get off our OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO fear. second, unnamed -follow. And even minds -are ol'ten invitations from 
(574) 631-7471 This was true for Peter and the first they don't know exactly what they're Jesus to ... Well. it is hardly possible to fAX disciples. John the Evangelist captures doing. They just walk behind this mys­articulate all that we are searching for,
(574) 631-6927 

the "spirituality of beginning" -terious figure, and can't even compose horn at the beginning. 
ADVERTISING 

famously and sublimely -in the first themselves enough to ask him where Ilere, perhaps, in our uncertainty and
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@1nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF chapter of his Gospel. John the Baptist he's going. unarticulated hopes, and even in our 
(574) 631-4542 stands waist-high in the Jordan River, Finally, perhaps sensing their growing fears, we can gain 1:alming, leg-steady­MANAGING EDITOR screeching and screaming a brilliant disorientation, Jesus turns and asks, ing, dream-inspiring consolation from 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 

new message of the coming of God's "What are you looking for?'' Surely, he the bnginning of the journey of the first 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

Kingdom. IIis message is full of hair­already knows the answer-they don't diseiples. They followed restlessness
(574) 631-4324 

BUSINESS OFFICE raising imagery, but also full of convic­really know. into a desert, trailing behind a mysteri­
(574) 631-5313 tion and resonance, which would At a loss, and now feeling how far ous man, until one day, their restless­
NEWS 0ESK explain the crowds that evidently jour­from their familiar comforts they have ness provoked a conversation with God. (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
neyed into the desert to hear him· strayed, they make a plea for a home­"What are you looking for'?'' 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

preach. cooked meal around a lire. "Teacher," "Teacher, we hardly know oursPlves, 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoim.1@nd.edu 

In the Bible, big things often begin in they ask, "where is your home'!'' but you seem to know a way. Will you
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 
631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu the desert (see the 10 Commandments, Jesus. in turn, invites, with thrne show us where our hearts ean find SCENE DESK or Jesus' Temptation). But this is a bit indelible words, right to the heart: rest'?" 

(574) 
631-4540 scme.l @nd.edu counter-intuitive. When we begin some­"Come and see." And so it begins. "Come and see.~· 


SAINT MARY'S DESK 

thing, we usually prefer to begin from a It can often be helpful to recognize in 
smc. I @nd.cdu 

place of strength and move along with the stories of Scripture the stories of This week's Faithl'oint is written by 
PHOTO DESK 

some certainty from there. The desert is our own lives. Perhaps in this story of Father /,ou DelFra, director of campus
(574) 63I-Il767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS not a. pla.en of strength or certainty. In the beginning of the disciples' journey Bible studies in the Office ofCampus 
(574) 631-8839 the Baptist's desert, life hangs by a we can see some semblance of our Ministry. lie can be reached at del­thread. No one actually lives there story, here at the beginning of a new fra.2@nd. edu 
THE 

(except him), and insects are standard semester. The views expressed in this column 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 

fare. Ilis disciples go there, not to be All of us -whether freshmen or life­are those of the author and not neces­
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

comforted in what they already know time Domers -begin this year in some sarily those ofThe Observer. 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Ltc and Saint Mary's College. F.ditorial conrcnr, including advcrriscmcnrs, is EDITORIAL CARTOON not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on conrcnr. 
The nt•ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, A~sisranr Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not ncct'SSarily those ofThc Observer. 
Viewpoint space i.s available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qttntions regarding Observer policies should be dirrxtd to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hmma. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11tc Oh11Crvt'r (USrS 599 2-4000) i1 publi.hcd Mnnd.ay rhrnugh l;rido~.y cx~:epr during u.un ltnd vo~~o&uon periods. A whw.:nprNm co ·n,c Ol»crv~ i1 $100 for one Jcademic ytotr; $~'i li1rUOC'JCIIH:~C( 
The Ol>!~crVt'l ~~' puhllllhcd "" POSTMASTER n24 Sotuh Dmin& If11ll Stud .uiJre.o>scorn:.:uton~tlt}; Nnrrc [)~~;me. IN 4ti'i'i(,..Q779 TheOhM::rvc.r l'c:m~tlrLJijlu~l.fKC po~id a1 Nurrr O.tmc P.O.IluxniJ o111d uldtuun•l mailmg offiCeS. ll.!ol South Dinintt Ho~ll 
Nout D.ame. IN 4bS56·11779 
The OI'Hjcrvc:r b. a mcmher uf rhc AsiiUC.:I.Ifttl PrG'o. All tcllruductiun nWu~ .uc fCllt:rYe~.l. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Kaitlynn Riely Chris Khorey Katie Kohler Lorenzo Heyes Hohan Anand Jay Wade Graphics Scene Matt Hudson Cassie Belek Illustrator Viewpoint Robert Scully Bethany Whitfield 

OBSERVER POLL 
Is it safe to live off campus? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"When all is said and done, the weather and love are the two elements about which one can never be sure. " 
Alice Hoffman American author 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 6, 2007 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Student activis111 discussion continues 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Recent Letters to the Editor have dis­cussed the ability of the Notre Dame stu­dent body to rise up against injustice. I feel it is my civic duty to point out that recent events have proven we are not up to the challenge. 
Last year, at the end of second semes­ter, South Dining Hall took away our Cocoa Puffs, replacing them with the generic brand, but we did not speak out. Now, they have taken away even the generic version, and yet there is still no protest. 
I must admit that I am ignorant as to the reason for this outrageous act. Perhaps a survey of the student body on cereal preferences was poorly run, and thus led to the incorrect result that 
Fight for your Cocoa Puffs 
Cocoa Puffs is not a favored brand. I do 
not know. What I do know is that in American history, when­ever evil dictators have tried to take away the things we hold most precious, there has been a revolutionary force present to provide resistance. The British were repelled when Alexander · Hamilton unleashed his sword and drove them back to their gloomy island. Franklin Delano Roosevelt was slain by polio, which 
admittedly may not have been American. Regardless, the point is that Americans will not stand and watch while their free­
dom is taken away. Now, we must follow this example. We 
must find the person or people in charge of cereal choices for South Dining Hall, and we shall 
fight them in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we shall never surrender. 

For they have taken away our Cocoa Puffs. No longer can I find glory in a bowl after I fail a test. No longer can I wake up on a weekend morning to be greeted by the scent and taste of love, crunchiness and chocolate. 
Instead, South Dining Hall would have me seek comfort in a bowl of Cookie Crisp. But I will not be sated by little cookies in milk. I demand my puffs of cocoa, and you should too. Rise, Notre Dame student body, and fight for what is right and good in this world. 
Will Guappone 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Sept. 5 

Fighting for our right to party 
I would like to applaud Tom Martin's intrepid defense of the anti-South Bend Ordinance Movement ("Keep fighting ordinance," Sept. 4). He makes an excel­lent correlation between people who protest unjust laws and those affected by those laws themselves, and I echo his admiration for the Darfur dining hall activists (who are, assured­ly, all from Darfur them­selves). 
Andrea Laidman's injunc­tion to care about events and laws so far removed from our bubble is patently unreasonable ("You gotta fight for your right," Sept. 3). However, we must keep in mind that even the ter­rorist liberals are part of our great Notre Dame fami­ly, and it falls upon us to help them reevaluate their priorities. 
Perhaps we should take Martin's commentary to the next logical step. Thanks to the ingenious wire-tapping laws that Laidman men­tioned in her fulsome anti­freedom treatise, we can lis­ten in on their devious schemes and easily deter­mine likely candidates for reeducation. 
It would be simple to get their names from the revo­lutionary hotbeds of the Progressive Student Alliance listserv, or the names of the students who have attended peace march­es or pro-choice demonstra­tions. And of course, every owner of a Michael Moore movie has got to go. Jail the terrorist students, and when they have spent weeks with­out beer or 25-person par­ties, maybe they will appre­ciate the struggle of we patriotic youths, fighting for truth, justice and our right to party. 
Jacqueline Collins 
senior 
Pasquerilla East Hall Sept. 4 
Criticism downplays important issues 
As a close, personal friend of Andrea Laidman's ("You gotta fight for your right," Sept. 3), I can con­firm Tom Martin's accusations ("Keep fighting the ordinance," Sept. 4) that she is a terrorist and a misguided youth are entirely true. Not only is she a political science and peace studies major, like Osama bin Laden (terrorist), Jane Fonda (misguid­ed youth) and Hugo Chavez (apparently a combina­tion of the two), but she is the co-founder of a group called Notre Dame Students Against State Killing (ND-ASK), an organization that is attempt­ing to remove the American death penalty in favor of a more vigilante-like system of killing people for the atrocities they may or may not have commit­ted. 
I would like to take this time to point out some of the high points of Martin's argument, which, unlike Laidman's mostly made up argument, appears to have come directly from God (thanks JC!). First, Martin hits an early peak by contrasting Laidman's opinion that Notre Dame students are not active enough by pointing out those people in SOH that made him sign a Darfur banner. See Laidman, Martin unwillingly signed a piece of paper protest­ing genocide and that's pure noble activism. What do you want him to do, read a book on the subject and write his senator? Good luck, grandma. 
Secondly, Martin points out what college is really about, not protesting or even learning, but good old-fashioned partying. And like he says, this is college, a place not where we are to be young and idealistic and actually care about humanitarian crises or the systematic rolling back of civil rights and liberties in the U.S., but rather where we can have more than 25 of our close personal friends over, drink booze, sweat and maybe make out with some guy or girl we have never met-go college! 
Finally, I want to high-five him on that last line: Defending America from terrorists, wherever they may-lie. See, it's a pun-not only is he insinuating that the terrorists are lying down (which is proba­bly why we still cannot find Osama), but he is also insinuating that Laidman is telling a lie. Or more than one, for that matter. And h·e is right, Laidman's column is filled with falsities -there are no Americans held at Guantanamo Bay without charge, there are terrorists. Hurricane Katrina didn't reveal inadequate federal response, it was just a big hurricane man, what do you think, we can predict the weather? 
I think I've made my point. So thank you, Martin, for protecting us from the delusions brought on by the liberal media. I'm glad to know that the next time we are in need of someone to defend this helpless body of predominantly upper-middle class white males, Martin will be there chanting U.S.A. and pouring chocolate milk all over his face (see old facebook profile pictures). 
Michael Warren Redding 
senior 
offcampus Sept. 4 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Thursday, September 6, 2007 

By MICHELLE FOR.DICE A'sisranr Scene Editor 
In conjunction with this year's Notre Damn Forum on Immigration, the DeBartolo Perf!Jrming Arts Center is pre­senting a sixth-month long cinema series, "Immigration: A Notre Dame Perspective," featuring films that depict the lives and struggles of immigrants. While the forum's f()(:us is on th11 Unitlld States, the film series expands to an international level. increas­ing the eontext of immi~:,rration for partici­pants in the forum. To purchase ticket<> for all of thnse lilms, contact th11 I>PAC ticket ollke at 574-631-2800. Tieket<> are $3 f(Jr student'>. 
"Dying to Uve," Sept. 6, 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Dirneted by Notre Dame faculty member Hnverend Daniel G. Groody, "Dying to IJve" is a documentary that interviews Pulitzer Prize winning photographers, theologians, Church and congressional leaders, activists, musicians and the immigrants themselves in order to prnsent a study of immigration that incorporates Catholic conceptions. A reflection guide accompany­ing thn film can be tiJUnd through the Notre Dame website and Hev. Groody will be at the showing lilr discussion. 

"Romantico," Sept. 6, 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
"Homantico" is a documentary portrait of Carmel Muniz, a 60-year-old Mexican mariachi player who is returning to his family after living in San Francisco for years. Colored by the music Mufiiz plays, the film vividly depicts the unhappy choice of many immigrants between supporting their family and actually being with them, as well as the changing nature of crossing the border between the United States and Mexico. "Homantico" was nominated for best picture at both the Sundance and Indepnndent Spirit film festivals. 
"The Namesake," Sept. 20, 7 p.m. and 10p.m. 
"The Namesake," directed by Mira Nair and based on the novel by Jhumpa Lahiri, follows two generations of the Ganguli fam­ily, beginning with the immigration of A-;hima and Ashoke Ganguli from India to the United States. Eventually, their children Gogo! and Sonia are born. Unlike their par­ents, the two siblings have little connection with India and struggle with many of their parent's traditions. Gogo! in particular feels hindered by his name, which he feels sepa­rates him from the Western society he wants to belong to. As the mm progresses, Gogo! learns the sig-nificance of his name and begins to find a balance between his home and his heritage. "The Namesake" is in English, Bengali, Hindi, and French with English subtitles. 
"EI Norte," Sept. 27,7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
"El Norte," an American and British film, is broken into three parts, describing the Guatemalan government's oppression of the Quiche Indians, the immigrant<;' jour­ney from Guatemala to the United States and finally the lives of illegal immigrants once they reach their destination. "El Norte" was the first American independent film to be nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. Director Gregory Nava will be present at the screening for discus­sion with the audience. "El Norte" is in Spanish and Mayan with English subtitles. 
"In America," Oct. 14, 4 p.m. 
"In America," directed by Jim Sheridan, describes the trials of immigration through the eyes of children as it tells the story of Christy and Ariel, two young girls emigrat­ing with their parents from Ireland to New York. While their parents are struck with the difliculties and struggles of immigrat­ing, the girls see the magic and adventure their new country has to offer. Sheridan based the film on his own experiences, writing the screenplay with his two daugh­ters. "In America" was nominated for many awards, including three Oscars, and received 15 wins. 

"The Golden Door (Nuovomondo)," Jan. 17, 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Set at the beginning of the 20th century, "The Golden Door" illustrates a more his­torical view of immigration. Italian widow­er Salvatore Mancuso set'i out to move his entire family to the United States. The film fO<:uses on the difliculties of reaching the United States at the time, highlighting the determination of immigrant'> to reach their destination. Director and writer Emanuele Crialese's picture won Best Film and both the Venice and Yerevan International Film Festivals. "The Golden Door" is in Italian and English with English subtitles. 
"9 Star Hotel," Feb. 14, 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
"9 Star Hotel," an Israeli documentary, depicts immigrants traveling from Palestine into Israel. Thousands of young Palestinian men cross into Israel looking for jobs in construction. "9 Star Hotel" is the nickname for the makeshift hut<> in the hills outside of the city that these young men live in. The film won the Best Documentary Award at the Jerusalem International Film Festival. "9 Star Hotel" is ill Arabic and Hebrew with English subti­tles. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

By JAMES COSTA A'sistant Scene Editor 
Thern an~ few act-; who have the ability to capturn a listener's attention immediate­ly and not let go until the last note of the album slowly fades to silence. Antony and tho .Johnsons' "I Am a Bird Now" is one of those albums. 
From Uw first song, Antony's voice flows in an expression of loneliness, an articula­tion of evnry lhding wn've ever wished we could convey and found ourselves cursed without tho ability to lind the right words. .Just as Antony finds the words, he also finds the music, and the result is exhilarat­ing, despairing and haunting. 
"I am a Bird Now" is a eomplex record and fulfills a host of meanings. It's a soul record, which means that it does not fulfill a strict definition of the genre and so can­not be classified as such. Yet the music is strong. It's disturbing, it's searing, it's pained, and it's elegantly raw. It is soulful as any enduring soul record should ever be. 

One of the disc's strengths is its insis­tence on moving bnyond the realm of sim­ple music. Much more than a series of 11 separate tracks, Antony brilliantly guides the listener into a wholly new sphere of melodious storytelling. Quite akin to the confusing nature of David Lynch films such as "Mulholland Drive" and "Blue Velvet," the music is at once confession and accusa­tion, a note of lasting return and final departure. 
Most songs on the
I am a Bird Now 

record are a reflection of the gender-bending expe­
Antony and the Johnsons 

riences of Antony's life.
Released by: Secretly Canadian 

However, the songs are not. labored by their thick
Recommended Tracks: My Lady Story, You 
content. Rather, they illu­
Are My Sister, Fistful of Love 

minate a reality so mal­

leable to the listener that each tune becomes, with a bit of reflection, an oppor­tunity for thought and poignancy regardless of one's stance on the inspi­ration for the song. While 

Photo courtesy of this.bigstereo.net Antony and the Johnsons, a band based In New York City, perform on "The Late Show with David Letterman." "I am a Bird Now" Is the band's second studio album. 
the dillieulties faced by Antony are at times excruciating, the album emerges as a tes­tament to hope and perseverance. 
A particularly moving song is the album's bridge song "Fistful of Love." Featuring Lou Reed of the Velvet Underground, the song has one of the more upbeat tempos of the album. 
Its lyrical message, however, conveys a deep understanding of the cruelty some­times found in the search for love. While he is an owner of a wounded perception of love, Antony nonetheless sings honestly of his personal struggle for acceptance from a distanced lover. So different from much of today's musical offering, the song's lasting power is in its assurance that the words are sung from the mouth of a real person. 

Adding to the appeal of the album is the stellar lineup of guest appearances, includ­ing Devendra Banhart, Hufus Wainwright and Hob Moose of Suijan Stevens. Lending their talent<> to the Johnsons, the record is arranged with each song continuing the story of Antony until the moment comes when tl1e record ends, and it is dear that he has finally shed the burdens of life ­free as a bird, free at last. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Thursday, September 6, 2007 
page 13 


"Between Figurative and Abstract: Julia Alvarez and Gao, a lecture by Recent Paintings by Gao Xingjian" translator Mabel Lee, a screening of his film, "La Silhouette sinon l'ombre," as 
The Snite Museum of Art will exhibit well as the performance of scenes from paintings by Gao Xingjian. Born in two of his plays -"Nocturnal China and currently living in Paris, Wanderer" and "Escape." Gao deftly navigates Eastern and Mabel Lee, honorary associate profes­Western philosophical r.:-=-=----=--.,...-=-=------, sor in Chinese studies, and artistic traditions Where: Snite Museum University of Sydney, thtough a broad array of Art, O'Shaughnessy prepared an essay on of media. Perhaps best Gao for the exhibition known as a Nobel Prize Galleries West catalog. It describes the Laureate in Literature Until: Nov. 11 interplay between his lit­-he is a poet, novelist, erary and visual realms playwright, screen-and situates his unique writer and librettist -he is also a point of view at the intersection of painter and filmmaker. Indeed, his Eastern and Western cultures; between painting exhibition is augmented by traditional and contemporary Chinese Gao's fall 2007 visit to Notre Dame-a painting; and, within his quest for an literary conversation between author artistic freedom found in solitude. 
photographs, and ranged from blue 
through gold, brown, orange, violet, and 
brick red. What we call "white" is often 
Photography is often divided into two cream or yellow or ivory. A true "black" categories: color and black-and-white. usually turns out to be a dark gray, pur­The reality, however. is much more com-·ple, or brown. plex. There is no totally "realistic" color A group of photographs from the photographic process. ~;;----=---::--;-;------, museum's permanent col­Some are pastel and Where: Snite Museum lection has been chosen dreamy. some feature of Art, Sholz Family to illustrate a few of the bright "National varieties of color in the Geographic" landscape Works on Paper Gallery medium. Ninteenth-cen­colors. and others seem Until: Oct. 14 tury images include land-harsh and unreal. scapes by Timothy 
The same is true in "colorless" mono-O'Sullivan, George Barnard and an chromatic photography. The prints of anonymous French photographer. A pic­the 19th century are frequently repro-ture of a Japanese groom by Felice Beato d uced in books in monotonous sepia. is meticulously hand-colored, and the Thnse early images actually had many cyanotype process produces an image in shades of color. going back to the first vivid blue. 

"19th-Century French Drawings from the national or international museum exhibi­Museum's Collection" tions. This showing coincides with the first 
The Snite Museum's collection of French publication devoted specifically to the 19th-century paintings and sculpture is museum's collection of 19th-century available to be studied at any time, since it French drawings. The 19th-century was is now on long-term display in the perma-an especially bountiful time for draftsmen nent exhibition galleries. ~;;----=---::--;-;------, who chose to represent a 
Less-frequently placed Where: Snite Museum wide range of subjects in on view are the of Art, O'Shaughnessy their works -a variety of Museum's 19th-century Gallerl·es II and Ill landscapes, portraits, his-
French drawings and torical subjects and figure watercolors. This collec-Until: Oct. 21 studies will be on view. tion contains numerous Included in the exhibit is a
L_____________J 
precious works on paper, dating from the selection of 50 drawings by prominent neo-classical movement through post-draftsmen of the period such as David, impressionism. On many occasions draw-Ingres, Delacroix, Millet, Daumier, ings from the collection have been request-Pissarro, Gauguin and Cezanne. It is the ed and have been sent out on temporary first time the majority of these drawings loan to be featured as part of major has been placed on display in the museum. 

"Rarely Seen: Selections from the peasants, dancers, temple attendants,  
O'Grady Collection of 19th-Century mothers with children, families, tea  
Photographs of Asian Women" pickers, waitresses courtesans and oth­ 
ers.  Some of the photographs have  
Visitors  to  the  O'Shaughnessy  been delicately hand-painted,  a  prac­ 
Galleries this fall will come face to face  tice common in Japan, where colorists  

with a wide variety of "-="=----=--.,...-=-=------, of woodblock prints women who lived in Asia Where: Snite Museum found new work in in the 19th century. They of Art, Milly and Fritz the photographic
survive today in photo-studios. graphs, taken in such Kaeser Mestrovic Studio The photographs places as India, Tibet, Gallery have been selected China, Vietnam, Korea, the from a much larger Philippines, Bali, Ceylon Until: Oct. 14 number of prints, (now Sri Lanka), Burma assembled in only (now Myanmar), Siam (now Thailand) two years, thanks to the generosity of and Japan, from the 1860s through the Robert E. O'Grady and Beverly turn of the century. O'Grady. A future exhibit of the entire 
Among the 50 images are women collection, with a catalogue, is being noted for their beauty -weavers, planned. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 6, 2007 
Indians hand Twins second sweep in 10 days 
Baker carried a perfect game
A pair of A's homers 

into the ninth in that one, and was two outs from a no-hitter
takes down Angels 

when Mike Sweeney broke it up.
Associa1cd Press 

On Wednesday, Grady 
T lw surging Cleveland Sizemore needed just two pitch­Indians completed another es to get the first hit off Baker, sweep of Minnnsota and lnft the lining a single to center field to Twins bardy clinging to thnir lead ofT the game. Baker then playoff hopns. hit Asdrubal Cabrera in the 
Vidor Martirwz had two hits back with a pitch and gave up and two HBis to baek a quality an HBI double to Travis Ilafner. start from Fausto Carmona. and Martinez followed with anoth­Clevnland beat Minnesota (,-2 er double to score two more on Wednesday for its sncond runs, and it was 3-0 Indians swoop of tho Twins in the last before the smattering of Twins 10 gamos. fans even got settled into their 
Carmona ( 15-8) allowed two seats. It took Baker 27 pitches runs and eight hits in 7 1-3 to get his first out of the game. innings to help th~) AL Central The right-hander · fr'om leaders to their 11th win in 12 Louisiana walked a tightrope all games. Six of those victories afternoon, wobbling a few times have come against the Twins. but never being knocked ofT. who had won five in a row The Indians had a leadoff sin­whnn they walked into Jacobs gle in all five innings Baker Field on Aug. 27 looking to cut worked. But he got some timely into Cleveland's 6 112-game strikeouts, including one of ter .Justin Morneau to ground first home run in 21 games The Yankees planned to take lead in the division. Martinez with the bases loaded out with runners on the corners since Aug. 13. Ellis made it 5-2 him out of the starting lineup 
But the Twins were swept out in the fourth, and stranded nine to end the inning. in the seventh with an RBI sin­because of his sprained right of the Jake, split a series with baserunners to limit the dam­gle off Chris Bootcheck after ankle, but A-Hod talked his way Kansas City, and were swept age. Athletics 6, Angels 2 Murphy hit his fifth homer. in. Then he homered twice in again this week by the Tribe. Carmona breezed through the Maybe .Joe Blanton was just Ellis' 17 homers this season an eight-run seventh inning to Minnesota now trails the first four innings against a due against the Angels. are a record for an Athletics lead New York over Seattle Indians by 12 1/2 games. Twins lineup he has dominated Blanton settled down after a second baseman, topping the Wednesday night and help the 
Cleveland began the day with all season. He entered the game rocky start and Mark Ellis hit a previous mark of 16 set by Yankees open a three-game a seven-game advantage over with a 1.14 ERA in three previ­three-run homer, leading the .Jimmie Dykes in 1921 when the lead over the Mariners in the second-place Detroit. The Twins ous starts against the Twins. Oakland Athletics to a victory team was in Philadelphia, and AL wild-card race. were eight games out of the The wiry Dominican needed over Los Angeles on matched by Davey Lopes in Rodriguez arrived at Yankee wild-card spot. just 54 pitches to get through Wednesday. 1983. Stadium limping following a 
Rafael Perez got five outs for the first four innings, but gave After entering the season with "It's a neat feeling," Ellis said. collision with Seattle third his first major league save. up two runs and four hits in the an 0-6 record against the "Last year I had 11 home runs baseman Adrian Beltre on 
Scott Baker (8-7) gave up firth to let the Twins back in the Angels, Blanton has won all and missed a month of the sea­Tuesday, and the team's med­three runs and 11 hits with six game. three of his decisions against son. I love being productive and ical staff sent him downtown strikeouts in five innings, a Luis Rodriguez had a sacrifice them this year. driving in runs, but my defense for an MRI exam. Rodriguez rnsounding step back from his fly and Torii Hunter added an "It's always a close game with is the reason why I'm in the big pronounced himself "ready to stellar outing on Friday against HBI single to make the score 3-them, and as a pitcher it's fun," leagues." roll" and was upset that he had the Royals. 2, but Carmona got cleanup hit-he said. "When you face a line­Ellis hasn't made an error in to go for the scan. 
up like that, you really have to 99 games, also a club record About an hour before game throw your A-game that day for a second baseman. time, Yankees manager .Joe and really compete." "There have been some good Torre said A-Rod likely would 
Blanton (12-9) threw 99 second basemen here -I've be limited to pinch-hitting duty. pitches, giving up six hits with looked at the list a little bit -Rodriguez then tested his ankle one walk and three strikeouts so I do take a lot of pride in that with a few jogs in right field in winning for the fourth time record as well," he said. while the Mariners were finish­in live decisions. Huston Street Saunders gave up four runs, ing batting practice. lie ran in struck out two in a scoreless seven hits and two walks. He foul territory toward the ninth. struck out four. dugout, up a runway and into 
"I still felt good enough and I "I was cruising along, I made the Yankees' elubhouse. probably could have finished," a bad pitch and Ellis hurt me on ''I've got to talk to the manag­Blanton said. "But lluston had­it," Saunders said. er," he said with a determined n't pitched in a couple of days The Angels took a 2-0 lead look, never stopping as he went and I was pushing 100 pitches." soon after Heggie Willits and through the door. 
Donnie Murphy had a career­Orlando Cabrera led ofT the first lie walked and popped out in high three hits and two RBis for inning with consecutive singles. his first two plate appearances Oakland, including a homer Vladimir Guerrero struck out. against Jarrod Washburn (9­leading ofT the seventh inning to but Garret Anderson followed 13). Then, with the Yanhes chase .Joe Saunders. Ellis also with a run-scoring single that trailing 2-1 in tho seventh, singled in a run. sent Cabrera to third. Maicer Hodriguez hit a 3-2 fastball 
After giving up two runs in lzturis added a sacrifice fly. over the retired numbers the first, Blanton shut out the Anderson tied a club record behind the fence in left-center. AL West leaders for the next of 10 consecutive games with at Pinch-hitter Jorge Posada's seven innings. least one HBI. He matched Fred bases-loaded walk off Sean 
"My slider was pretty good Lynn (1984) and Wally .Joyner Green put the Yankees ahead, and it was really effective," he (1986). and New York padded the mar­said. gin on .Johnny Damon's run­
The A's went ahead 3-2 on Yankees 10, Mariners 2 scoring grounder, Melky Ellis' homer off Saunders (7-3) Alex Rodriguez had a night Cabrera's RBI single and Derek with one out in the fourth -his befitting legends. .Jeter's two-run double. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
..  
Varsity Clubs of America is looking  Furnished house for rent. 15 min. to  Babysitting: CollegeSitter.com is a  
WANTED  for part time bartenders. Must have night and weekend  FoR RENT  NO. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4 mile to lake. Game wkends or whole year.  TICKETS  new site which connects NO stu­dent babysitters with area families.  

 availability. Apply at  Students welcome. 574-288-2726.  Student sitters looking for babysit- 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for  3800 N. Main St.. Mishawaka. 574­ LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX.  ling work should visit  
southside elementary schooL  277-0500.  GAMES  1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet neighbor- PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  CollegeSitter.com/student/ to fill out  
Located near Erskine Golf Course  Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for  hood. 1 mi to NO. Laundry included.  their FREE profile.  
on Miami St. $35/per game. Call  24  $400/mo. Call574-532-8718.  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  
athletic director at 574-291-4200.  FoR SALE  Quality Bed and Breakfast  ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232­ LASER CREATIONS Unique  
Accommodations.  Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms.  0964. www.victorytickets.com  Products Thru Laser Technology.  
Tutor for Calculus 3. Fee nego- Condo For Sale  Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full  Walk to NO. 574-876-7341. For  Laser etched logo gifts, signs,  
liable. Call 574-276-8299.  2 br twnhse w sun room great SB  Breakfasts.  Football weekends, call 574-532­ NO tickets for sale. Best Prices.  award plaques, name tags, rubber  
You can also email us at rae­ neighborhood $93,000 call 269­ 1408.  57 4-288-2726.  stamps, glass etching, etc. Call  
sport@nd.edu  445-2765.  Furn. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6.  Jack 574-273-8662 or email: laser- 
NO home games.  FOOTBALL HOUSE ­ cr@comcast.net  
Friendly smiling servers needed.  FOR SALE -4BR, 2.5 Bath.  Right next to NO. 574-273-3030 ask  3 bedroom home, 5 blocks from  PERSONAL  
Full or part time openings. If you  2800 SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to NO.  for Pat.  campus for rent on football week- NFL Week 1 predictions  
are friendly and smiling. we will  $217,500 243-1953  ends, JPW, Graduation. Operated  Competitive no-check hockey  INO over NO, DEN over BUF,  
train you. Some cook positions  Bed & Breakfast lodging  as a weekend rentaL Great alterna­ league. October through March.  PITI over CLE, PHIL over GB,  
available too.  2 bdrm/1 bath condo.  w/alum family for  live to stupid hotel prices on those  Contact Bill at 574-236-5107 or  CAR over STL. MIN over ATL.  
Apply in person  Nice area. 4 miles from campus.  NO home games.  weekends.  email billl@ steelwarehouse.net.  NYJ over NE, MIA over WASH  
52285 US 31 N South Bend.  $74,900. Call Meredith. Milligan  Great rates & nice  www.notredameliving.com or call  Final roster spots filling up. All  TEN over JAC, HOU over KG,  
Damons Grill eoe  Real Estate 220-9817.  accommodations. 574-243-2628.  Alex 212-418-6937.  games played at the Ice Box.  SO ove CHI, DAL over NYG  

-.,-----------------,-.----------------------~---­


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 6, 2007 
Major League Basebal~ 
American League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 84·55 ,6{)4 6·4 New York 77-62 .554 5~5 7.0 Toronto 70-68 .507 6·4 13.5 Ballimore 60·77 .410 2·8 23.0 Tampa Bay 57-82 .413 7-3 27.0 
American League Central 

team record perc. last 10 Cleveland 81-58 .583 9·1 Detroit 73-65 .529 4-6 Minnesota 69-71 .493 2-8 Kansas City 62·76 .449 5·5 Chicago 59·79 .428 3-7 
American League West 
team record perc. last10 
Los Angeles 82·57 .590 7~3 Seattle 74·63 .540 H Oakland 69·72 .489 4·6 Texas 64-74 .464 8"2 
National League .East 
team record perc. last10 New York 78-61 .561 5·5 Philadelphia 73-66 .52S 6-4 5.0 Atlanta 71·69 .507 4-6 7.5 Washington 62·77 .446 4-6 16.0 Florida 60-79 .432 H 18.0 

National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB. Chicago 70-67 .511 4-6 Milwaukee 70·68 .507 5·5 0.5 St. Louis 68·67 .504 H (O Cincinnati 63·77 .450 3·7 8.5 Houston 62·77 .446 5·5 !J.O. Pitlsburgh 60·78 .435 3·7 10.5 
National League West 
team record perc. lasno San Diego 76-62 .551 6-4 Arizona 77-63 .550 4-6 Los Angeles 73-65 .529 7-3 3.0 Colorado 72·66 .522 1-3 4.0 San Francisco 62·77 .446 5·5 14.5 

NCAA Volleyball CSTV/ AVCA Coaches' Poll 
team record previous 
1 Nebraska 4·0 f 2 Stanford 4·0 2 3 Penn State 3·1 3 4 usc 6·0 4 5 UCLA 3·1 5 6 Florida 5-0 7 7 Texas 2·2 6 8 Washington '6•0 8 9 BYU 5·0 15 10 Wisconsin 5-1 10 11 Dllke 5·1 14 12 Minnesota N 9 13 Ohio 4·1 23 14 Michigan 6·0 20 15 California 5·1 11 16 Hawaii 3-2 16 17 Cal Poly 3·2 18 18 San Diego 2-3 12 19 Santa Clara 5·1 19 20 Ohio State 4·1 13 21 LSU 6-0 22 22 Kansas State 5·2 25 23 Dayton 6·0 NR 24 St. John's 7-1 NR 25 Middle Tennessee 6·0 NR 

around the dial 
TENNIS 
U.S. Open Quarterfinals 11 a.m., USA 7p.m., USA 

CoMPilED FROM THE OBSERVERS WIRE SERVICES 
U.S. OPEN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-For bet­ter or worse, Nikolay Davydenko is back in the semifinals at the U.S. Open. 
Smack in the middle of tennis' gambling scandal, the fourth-seeded Davydenko once again looked untouchable Wednesday, beating No. 10 Tommy Haas 6-3, 6-3, 6-4. 
Davydenko is the only man who has not lost a set in the tournament. 
The Russian expects to meet soon with investiga­tors. A British online gambling company tracked bettors putting 10 times the usual amount of money on a match he played in August, most of it backing his 87th­ranked opponent; Davydenko quit in the deciding set with a foot injury. 

Next up, Davydenko was to play the winner of Wednesday night's matchup between No. 1 Roger Federer and No. 5 Andy Roddick. Davydenko has never beaten either one -he's 0-9 against Federer and 0-4 vs. Roddick. 
Also at night, two-time Open champ Venus Williams was to play No. 3-seeded Jelena Jankovic in the quarterfinals. 

Davydenko beat Haas in the quarters at Flushing Meadows for the second straight year. This was a frustrating defeat for the German, who flung his racket into the net, hit a ball into the stands and chastised the chair umpire. 
Davydenko joined a pair of Russian women in the semifinals. 
Svetlana Kuznetsova advanced that far for the first time since winning the 2004 title, beating unseeded Agnes Szavay 6­1, 6-4. 
"It's my favorite tourna· ment. I love New York," said the No. 4-seeded Kuznetsova, who's been 
IN BRIEF 
Manning opens children's 
hospital 
INDIANAPOLIS Peyton Manning has a collection of MVP trophies and starred in numerous commercials. Now, the Colts quar­terback has a children's hospital named after him. 
The St. Vincent Children's Hospital was renamed Wednesday as Peyton Manning Children's Hospital at St. Vincent. 
Manning has had a strong public and private relationship with the hospitals since he joined the Colts in 1998. He said he was honored to be so closely associated with the children's hospital, which St. Vincent opened in 2003 to care for critically ill and injured children. 
"In the NFL, the name on the back of the jersey is emblematic of a player's commitment to con­tribute in any way he can to the success of that team," Manning said. 
Matsuzaka's ERA takes hit in 
past few starts 
BOSTON-The $103 million man has a 7. 61 ERA in his last four starts. 
Daisuke Matsuzaka is struggling at a bad time for the Boston Red Sox. They have baseball's best record and want to build momentum as the pennant race heats up. Lately, he's been a momentum stopper. 
Before winning his first game in more than a month on Monday he allowed seven runs in that one the right-hander had lost his three pre­vious starts. And those losses ended a pair of two-game winning streaks and one four-game surge. 
That's not quite what the Red Sox hoped for when they paid $51.11 million for the right to negotiate with his Japanese team, and then gave the celebrated rookie a $52 million, six-year contract before throwing a single pitch in the majors. 
page 15 
wearing Yankees baseball caps when she's not play­ing. "It doesn't matter how I feel, I just come to this court and always want to give my best." 
She'll face fellow coun­trywoman Anna Chakvetadze, who swept the last six games to elim­inate No. 18 Shahar Peer 6-4, 6-1. 
It will be the sixth-seed­ed Chakvetadze's first Grand Slam semifinal. Kuznetsova can count on an edge in experience, having made it to the 2006 French Open final, in addition to claiming her only major champi­onship at Flushing Meadows three years ago. 

K.ahne gains momentum 
toward end of season 
DOVER, Del. -Kasey Kahne entered last year's race at Richmond on the brink of qualifying for the Chase for the championship. 
With all the pressure on the baby­faced star, Kahne finished third in the race and qualified in the 1Oth and final spot. The result seemed almost expected from a driver who won a series-best six races in 2006, and maneuvered his way up to eighth in the final points standings. 
When the green flag drops there this week in the final race before the 10-race Chase begins, Kahne's only pursuit will be for his first victory. 
''I'd much rather have the pressure of having to be in the top 12, or hav­ing to win a race to get in, then not having any pressure or not having a chance," Kahne said Wednesday. 
Kahne's startlingly gloomy season which had him deep in the points standings around spring training. 
r-----.-----..
--,-----------.-~-~-­
... 

page 16 The Observer +PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 6, 2007 

8:00 -joyce Center -Doors open at 7:00 Tickets are $1 0 and available at 
the laFonune Box Office ND/SMC/HCC Student ID required to attend 

-~--------~----:-c-:---­
Thursday, September 6, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Braves oust division-rival Phillies in wild finish 
Piniella's managerial changes help produce offense for the Cubs, as they remain in first place by a half game 
AP 

Associated Press 
The BnlV!~s will have a hard time making the playoffs, despite their most remarkable eomebaek of the season. So they went ahead and celebrat­ed as though this one was for a championship. 
Matt Diaz capped an improb­able rally with a two-out, three-run double in the ninth inning, giving Atlanta a CJ-8 vic­tory over the Philadelphia Phillies on Wednesday. 
The Phillies squandered leads of 5-0 and 8-2, giving up four runs in the eighth and watching in disbelief as Diaz's liner skid­ded off the tip of Chris Hobertson 's glove with the bases loaded. 
''I'm not believing that," said Philadelphia manager Charlie Manuel, whose team remained five games behind the NL East­leading New York Mets. "I totally can't believe that. I've never seen that -ever. It's mind-boggling." 
The Braves' chances looked slim when Brett Myers (3-6) retired the first two hitters in the ninth with an 8-6 lead. But Jeff Francoeur and Martin Prado hustled to beat out infield hits, and Yunel Escobar walked to load the bases. 
That brought up Diaz, who entered the game as a pinch-
hitter in the seventh. He went the opposite way with a liner that eluded Hoberson's lunging attempt and stuck at the base of the wall. 
Roberson hit the relay man, but the throw home was up the first-base line. Escobar slid across with the winning run, thrusting his right index finger toward the stands. Diaz, who had just rounded second. pumped his fists and was mobbed by his teammates in a wild pile beside the pitcher's. mound. 
"When I got it in the air, I thought I got too much," Diaz said. "I didn't realize how shal­low he was playing." 


Braves outfielder Matt Diaz is surrounded by his teammates after he hit a game-winning, three-run double in the bottom of the ninth of Atlanta's 9-8 victory Wednesday. 
A bit ofIreland in your own backyard. 
' s 
Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, heartyfood and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates Lodge has hotel roomsatreasonablerates fur up<.:oming NDiUotball weekends.) 
Manuel remained on the top step of the dugout for at least a minute, watching the celebra­tion and subtly shaking his head. Finally, he headed for the clubhouse. 
"It didn't look good," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "But we did it." 
The Braves still must face reality. They won for just the second time in six games on a crucial homestand against their top two rivals in the NL East, having been swept by the Mets last weekend. 
Atlanta is 7 112 games behind New York, which lost 7-0 to Cincinnati. 
"Whatever happens, we're going to play till the end," Francoeur said. "That was the most exciting game of the year for me." 
Braves starter Tim Hudson allowed five runs in the first two innings, and the Phillies added three more in the sev­enth off Oscar Villareal for an 8-2 lead. Rafael Soriano (3-3) got the win with a scoreless ninth. 
Atlanta sent 10 hitters to the plate in the eighth, scoring four runs off Tom Gordon. But it looked like another frustrating finish for the Braves when Kelly Johnson popped out on a 2-0 pitch from Myers with the bases loaded, then Chipper Jones hit a lazy fly to left for the third out, slamming his bat in disgust. 
Gordon blamed himself for letting the Braves back in the game. 
"It's devastating," he said. "We need to win those kind of games. I take responsibility for it." 
Myers struck out Mark Teixeira to start the ninth, and Brayan Pcna grounded out to first. Francoeur hit a grounder past third that shortstop Jimmy Hollins fielded in the outfield grass, giving him no chance to throw out the runner. Prado followed with a high hopper off the plate, just beating Myers' throw to first, which pulled Ryan Howard off the bag any­way. 
"When Prado got that base hit off home plate, I thought, 'Uh oh, something's going to happen here,"' Atlanta's Willie Harris said. 
He was right. Diaz came through with the biggest hit of all, giving the Braves a glimmer of hope in the playoff race. The team that won 14 straight divi­sion titles from 1991-2005 has only 22 games left to avoid missing the playoffs for the sec­ond year in a row. 
"It happened so fast," Myers said. "The game got out of con­trol: cheap hits, balls falling in." 
Hudson gave up 11 hits in five innings. The remarkable comeback kept him from his third straight loss and kept the Braves (71-69) above .500. 
"This is the kind of win we've been needing for a long time," Hudson said. 
Pat Burrell hit his 25th homer in the second, a two-out drive over the center-field wall that put Philadelphia ahead 5­0. 
Kyle Kendrick breezed through the first five innings, allowing just three hits. The Braves finally broke through in the sixth, knocking out the rookie with three straight hits that included Harris' leadoff homer. 

The Phillies Hscaped with a 5­2 lead wlwn Aaron Howand raced over from center to make a sliding catch on Francoeur's blooper toward left, then Andruw Jones struck out against Kane Davis. 
But there were more come­backs to come. 
"We had no business winning this game as lousy as we played the first few innings," Chipper Jones said. "We got lucky." 
Cubs 8, Dodgers 2 
Ted Lilly got his first win in nearly a month and Aramis Ramirez homered to help the Chicago Cubs beat the Los Angeles Dodgers on Wednesday night. 
The Cubs remained a half game ahead of Milwaukee in the NL .Central. The Dodgers started the night in third place in the NL West, three games behind San Diego and Arizona. 
Lilly (14-7) allowed two runs and six hits in 6 2-3 solid innings to win for the first time since Aug. 9 and tie Carlos Zambrano for the team lead in wins. 
Ramirez hit his 20th homer, a two-run shot in the third for a 3-0 lead against lefty Eric Stults. 
Stults (1-3), recalled Tuesday from the minors for the fourth time this season, got the start because David Wells is serving a seven-game suspension. In his sixth major league start, he gave up eight hits and four runs -three earned -in 4 1­3 innings. 
Lilly left leading 4-1 after giv­ing up a two-out walk to Mike Lieberthal in the seventh and Carlos Marmo! relieved. Pinch­hitter Olmedo Saenz hit a liner to center and when Chicago's Felix Pie slipped, the ball rolled all the way to the wall, allowing Liberthal to score and giving Saenz an RBI double. Pie had just entered the game in the sixth as a defensive replace­ment. 
Liberthal's double, a single by Stults and sacrifice fly by Rafael Furcal got the Dodgers their first run in the fifth. 
But the Cubs got it right back when Mark DeRosa doubled, Derrek Lee singled and Dodgers' right fielder Matt Kemp fielded the ball and threw it over catcher Liberthal's head for an error. The ball bounced off a brick wall and DeRosa took off for the plate to put Chicago ahead 
4-1. 
Trying to shake up his offense, Cubs manager Piniella made some changes in his line­up, inserting Craig Monroe in center, Honny Cedeno at short and Pacific Coast League Player of the Year Geovany Soto behind the plate to start the game. 
Monroe doubled in the sec­ond and scored on Soto's RBI single. And when the Dodgers had a runner at third with two outs in the third, Cedeno made an alert play, grabbing Juan Pierre's hard liner after it deflected off third baseman Ramirez's glove. 
The Cubs tacked on four in the eighth on an HBI double by pinch-hitter Hyan Theriot and run-scoring single from Jacque Jones, two regulars who didn't start the game. DeRosa then hit a two-run single through a drawn-in infield to make it 8-2. 

--------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 6, 2007 
Giants and Jets unveil design of new stadium 
New $1.3 billion facility, set to open in 2010, will be owned by 2 NFL franchises for the first time in league history 
Associated Press 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. -The NPw York Cim1l<> 1md Nnw York Jel'i brokP ground Wednesday on the lirst stadium to 1)(~ jointly ownnd by two NI:J. tParns and unveiled how a.n~hiuwl'i plan to make two mmpd­ing u~ams f(~p) at home in a $13 bil­lion stadium. 
"I •:nsuring that tlw st;ulium would li•nl like honw to both tnams and both groups of fans was our goal and also orw of' the biggnst dutl­lnngPs in thP dPsign of llw sutdium," said Stnvn Tisl'h, chairman and nxPcutiw vicP pn•sidnnt of llw Nnw 


York Cianl'i. 
To do that, tlw stadium will f'pa­tum 1m night -sun-y nwga display. rallnd tlw "(;n~at Wall." with 400­f'oot-long by 40­foot-h igh pan.-ls f'Paturing Pitlwr tnarn 's logo or n.-u­tral colors (( w non­li II 11l>all PVI'nl'i. 
Tisch, Giants PmsidPnt and ( E l .John Mara and .lnl'i ( :tminmu1 ml(l CliO Woody 
.lohnson unwilPd lllP dnsign at a cnr­nmony also atu•nd­nd by NPw .lnrsPy 
"Ensuring that the stadium would feel like home to both teams and both groups of fans was our goal and also one ofthe biggest challenges in the design ofthe stadium." 
Steve Tisch Executive Vice President New York Giants 
(;ov. .Jon S. Corzirw and NFL ( :mnrnissionnr Hogt•r Goodnll. 
Thn ynt unnanwd building, for whid1 ownnr'S <trP still working on a narning-righl'i dna), will host 20 Nf'L garnns nach stmson -more than any li•otball sutdium in tho country. 
Construetnd next to the existing Giants Stadium, the new field is nxpecu~ 111 o!Jfm for the 2010 sea­son and seat 82,500 in a bowl­dt~t.,rn, where seal'> in the front row 1trn 46 lhet fi-om the sidelines. Fans also will find a 300,000-square-foot outd<x>r pla7,a f<>r tailgating. 
While Wednesday's event marked thn ollidal ground breaking, infra­structure work is alrP.ady under way on the open-air facility at the Mnadowbmds sporl<> mmplnx. 

Along with the desi~-,rn of the build­ing, pbmners have benn working to makn aeeess to thn facility nasinr. Lanes into the Meadowlands will inerea.'ie to more than 40 fi·om the existing 1 6 and a nnw rail liu~ility will mnnect the stadium to Nnw York's Penn Station through Sneaueus !)(~ginning in February 2()09. 
'l11n tncuns cleared a large hurdle last month whnn nach eompletml separate $650 million linaneing deak CitiCorp is fimmcing llw Jel'i' portion, while investmnnt banks Goldman Sachs and Lehman Brotlwrs arn financing tho GianL'i' 
deal. 
The tnams also rnenivnd a financial boost earlier this ynar when NFI. owners approved $300 million in loans for stadium work. 
The teams announend phms to build a stadium togetl11w two ynars ago, aftnr the Jet<;' plans Hw a stadium on Manhattan's West Side fp)J through. Tlw Ciants had been planning to build a nnw stadium thnm­
sdvns. 

Now, tlw Gianl'i also will eonstrud a nnw training facility at tho Mnadowlands, while tho Jets are building their own in 1•1orham P1trk. 
N.J. 

Tim sutdium L<> onn ofsoveral now major S!Jflrl'i ladlitins opnning in l11n New York metropolium area. New homes al'io are being built f(>r the New York Mets, the New York Yankees, the New Jersey Nets and the New Jersey Devils. 
The Devils hockey team is leaving Continental Airlines Arena at the Meadowlands for the Prudential Center, opening in downtown Newark in October. 
AP 
Team owners and league executives unveil design plans for the new Giants-Jets stadium at a ceremony Wednesday In East Rutherford, N.J. The facility is expected to be finished by 2010 and seat 82,500 fans. 
STUDENTS 
Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 9th and September 16th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
If you have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 

Thursday, September 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Federer triumphs in tight match over Roddick 
Swissman advances to semifinals; 2 victories away from his fourth consecutive U.S. Open title 
Associated Press 
To Andy Roddick's credit, he played nearly flawlessly against Roger Federer, serving bril­liantly, returning well, too, and giving tennis' top player a tough time. 
To Roddick's dismay, it all added up to yet another loss. 
In a match as tight as could be for 2 1/2 sets Wednesday night, Federer was barely bet­ter on the most important points and emerged to edge Roddick 7-6 (5), 7-6 (4), 6-2 in the quart!~rfinals, moving two victories away from a fourth consecutive U.S. Open title. 
'Tm not walking otl' with any questions in my head this time. I'm not walking with my head down." 2003 !~hampion Hoddick said after falling to 1-14 against 
Federer. "It was a very was far more 
"I made him high-standard downcast as he play as well as missed a back­
match. I was very

he can play." hand long, for 
Both came out pleased with my the first break wearing black performance. " by either player. shirts and Federer broke shorts, Roddick again to end the
Roger Federer 

adding a base­match and 
Swiss tennis player

ball cap. and extend his own 
second tiebreaker. At 4-4, Roddick unleashed a 140 mph serve, and Federer conjured up a backhand return that put the ball right at the opposite base­line. Roddick couldn't handle it, and two points later, Federer's 128 mph service winner put him ahead by two sets -and sent many in the partisan crowd streaming for the exits. 
How different things could have been. 
As Federer noted, matter-of­factly: "I could have been down two sets to none." 
Federer earned his first break point all evening at 3-2 in ·the third set. Roddick erased the first with the help of a for­tuitous net-cord bounce, and he laughed a bit at his luck while trudging back to the baseline. Seconds later, his expression 
Federer his trademark ban­danna. The outfits matched and so did the level of play, right down until late in the third set, when Federer finally earned his first break points. 
This rematch of last year's 
U.S. Open final was hardly the mismatch one might have expected. 
"It was a very high-standard match. I was very pleased with my performance," Federer said. "I thought actually Andy also played very well." 
That's for sure. 
Banging serves consistently at 140 mph, Roddick hit 14 aces and didn't have a single double-fault. Then again, Federer came up with 15 aces, also never double-faulted, and erased the only break point he faced, in the second set. 
Both played remarkably cleanly, combining for 90 win­ners (48 for Federer) and only 42 unforced errors (18 for Federer). 
It was riveting stuff, even if the score showed it ended in straight sets, and was the sec­ond half of a double feature in Arthur Ashe Stadium that began with Venus Williams coming back from a set and a break down to beat No. 3 Jelena Jankovic 4-6, 6-1, 7-6 (4). That put two-time U.S. Open champion Williams in her first semifinal at Flushing Meadows since 2002, and she now meets No. 1 Justine Henin, the player who eliminated Serena Williams. 
In the other women's semifi­nal Friday, 2004 U.S. Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova will face No. 6 Anna Chakvetadze. 
No. 1 Federer vs. No. 5 Roddick came down to those two tiebreakers. 
With Federer ahead 5-4 in the first one, Hoddick smacked a 130 mph serve that Federer got back. Hoddick charged the net behind a good approach shot, but Federer flicked a cross-court backhand passing winner, leaving the American cursing. 
At 6-5, Federer hit a 122 mph ace and slowly punched the air to celebrate while Roddick muttered to himself. 
It was almost the same in the 
record by get­
ting to a 14th consecutive Grand Slam semifi­nal. That's where he will meet No. 4 Nikolay Davydenko ­against whom Federer is 9-0. 
"I've got a pretty good record against him. Never lost," Federer said. "But let's not get ahead of ourselves." 
Well, let's, if only for a moment. Should he defeat Davydenko on Saturday, Federer would add to another of his own records by making a 1Oth straight major final. And a victory Sunday would not only make Federer the first man since the 1920s to win the American Grand Slam four years running, it would give him 12 Grand Slam titles over­all -only Pete Sampras, with 14, won more. 
Does Roddick feel a bit sorry for himself, given that he hap­pened to be born almost exact­ly a year after the man who may very well go down as the greatest tennis player in histo­ry? 
"No," he said. "I get to play in atmospheres like that." Well, does Roddick think he can beat Federer? "Yeah," he said. "If I didn't, I wouldn't be out here." 
He looked good early. In the match's fourth game, Roddick turned it up a notch, pounding an ace at 140 mph, a service winner at 142 mph and deliver­ing another serve at 146 mph. Remarkably, Federer put that last one in play, an indication of just how talented a returner he is. 
Roddick serve-and-volleyed at times, even on a second serve, and covered the net well, early, winning the point on six of his first eight trips forward. 
All the while, his coach, five­time U.S. Open winner Jimmy Connors, sat in the front row of a guest box in a jacket and blue tie, occasionally offering encouraging yells or claps, at other times gnawing on his fin­gernails. · 
Roddick got plenty of support from a partisan sellout crowd of 23,733, a celebrity-specked audience that included Andre Agassi, the eight-time major champion who returned to the scene for the first time since retiring after last year's Open. 


Large Pizza cheese &2Toppings 
99 
Free Delivety 01 Campus
ONLY tiM~•Itru~ ~fJv.l'ri(oll, tm:, ·1~~1'/ 11411 ~ ~11:,1'1 M~ ~II)' b)' ~.Jitio)(l. ~1·1>11 <t.tr ~iM.I)~·Int pulti~1t~~ ~a~~l1 ~1'1~. 
~.~~l~n~~. 51~243•11 22 
SERVING NOTRE DAME &ST. MARY'S 
OPEN FOR LUN01 DAIL)' 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 6, 2007 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Michigan defeat not the only Big Ten problem 
Williams expected to start next week after hit to head; Appalachian State merchandise sells in Columbus 
Associated Press 
These arc bleak times for the 
Big Ten. 
.Just last November the confer­
ence had the top two teams in 
the nation (Ohio State, 
Michigan) and they played in a 
thrilling showdown before a 
huge television audience. 
Sincn then. the Big Ten has had numnrous highly visible failures. 
The lnague went 2-5 in bowl games, with its two highest-pro­lile teams getting c:reamed. The Buckeyes were humiliated 41­14 in the BCS national champi­onship game a few days after the Wolverines took a 32-18 bnatdown from Southern California in the Hose Bowl. 
Asked if the Big Ten's strcmgth has wilted. Penn State's .Joe Paterno said to reporters, "I don't know. You guys need to writ11 something. You got to cre­ate sonw headlines. At one time last year we thought we (confer­ence teams) wen\ the greatest thing that evPr happennd in our lives and wn got in a couple bowl games and Big Ten didn't do quite as well." 
Those Wl\re the salad days compared to last Saturday, whnn Big Ten favorite Michigan, ranked No. 5 in the nation, was upended 34-32 by Appalachian State -the first time a ranked team has ever lost to a team from the Championship Subdivision (formerly 1-AA). 
The Wolverines subsequently spiraled out of the Top 25, the greatest fall ever. 
Buckeyes coach Jim Tressel was asked if Michigan's loss was just another black eye for the conference. 
"We don't spend any time looking in the mirror at those black eyes," he said. "That was September 1st. What's most important, black eyes heal well before Novnmber. The Big Ten's going to bn a good confnrencc." 
Reconstituted Juice 
Illinois QB .Juice Williams left Saturday's 40-34 loss to Missouri in the sm~ond quartnr after taking a shot to the head. But coach Hon Zook says Williams. who had blurred vision after the hit, is expected to start on Saturday against Western Illinois. 
Backup Eddie McGee threw for 257 yards and a touchdown whiln leading the Illini back from a 24-point defieit. But he also lost two fumbles and threw two intnrccptions. 
Rubbing It In 
Thnrn's a popular bumper 
SuN: FIRST 250 RECEIVE A LONG-SLEEVE SHIRT 

sticker in the Buckeye state that reads, "I root for two teams: Ohio State and whoever is play­ing Michigan." 
So it was only a matter of time before Ohio State fans adopted Appalachian State. 
Not long after the Wolverines' loss to the Mountaineers, at least one enterprising street vendor was doing brisk business selling Appalachian State T­shirts near the Ohio State cam­pus. Columbus stores say they're overwhelmed with requests for similar items com­memorating the upset. 
"If I had a dollar for every time someone's asked, I could retire," said a manager of one store. 
Slippery Fingers 
Iowa QB Jake Christensen, making his second career start, was just 12 of 29 for 133 yards in a 16-3 win over Northern Illinois. 
But Christensen was victim­
ized by  a  number of drops,  
including  several  by  Andy  
Brode!!.  

Brodell is expected to be the llawkeyes' top reeeiver follow­ing the suspension of Dominique Douglas. 
"They're not trying to drop the ball." Christenson said in defm1se of his receivers. "You can't get mad at them." 
MAC Attack 
Bowling Green travels to Miehigan State, hoping to become only the second Mid­American Conference team to beat two Big Ten squads in the same season. 
Bowling Green beat Minnesota 32-31 in overtime last week. 
In the 2003 season, the Falcons beat Purdue 27-26 in the regular season, then han­dled Northwestern 28-24 in the Motor City Bowl. 
Getting Physical 
When James Hardy worked out this summer, he was already preparing for defend­ers who wanted to play press coverage. 
So when Indiana's 6-foot-7 receiver got knocked around a couple of times against Indiana State, he simply got back up and beat the Sycamores secondary for three catches, 153 yards and two touchdowns while draw­ing two more pass interfer­ence penalties. 
''I'd rather them play me like that rather than playing off me because that's what I've been working on the 


ENs SoccER 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 7TH • 7:30 PM 
vs. RHODE IslAND 

SUNDAY, SEPT. 9TH • 2:00 PM 
vs. NoRTHERN ILLINOIS 
AP 
A Michigan fan looks dejected during the Wolverines' 34-32 loss to Appalachian State Saturday In Ann Arbor. Mountaineers merchandise has seen a massive increase in sales in other Big Ten cities. 
whole offseason," he said. 
Red Menace 
With a QB competition, a top­10 ranking and lofty confer­ence expectations, Wisconsin coach Bret Bielema had plenty to dwell on before the opener against Washington State. 
!lis last thoughts kept drift­ing back to a fashion state­ment. 
Shunning the traditional red jerseys and white pants, Wisconsin came out wearing all red and went on to beat the Cougars 42-21. 
"For like three weeks, that was my last thought every night before I went to bed," he said. "I threw it out to my staff and they unanimously pretty much said, 'No, don't do it."' 
Bielema said he got the idea from his players and decided to go with the fashion-forward look without the knowledge of former coach and AD Barry Alvarez. who wasn't sold on the change and said so on national television. 
Bielema said he got a mixed reaction overall, but felt it helped establish a team identi­ty. 


Thursday, September 6, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Hope 
continued from page 24 
"Our outside attackers really wreaked havoc with Adrian's defense," Schroeder-Biek said. "They did a fantastic job of finding holes in Adrian's block and on their floor. Marisa Gross played with unbeliev­able intensity on defense." 
Schroeder-Biek said the 17 digs by Gross were even more impressive because they came from the defensive specialist position. 
"That's a number you usual­ly see a libero with, rather than a defensive specialist," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Although Schroeder-Biek hopes the defensive play con­tinues against the Flying Dutch, the third-game melt­down is something she'd like to avoid having to see again. 
"I definitely saw a lot of 

good things out there [Tuesday], but I also saw a lot of things that we need to fix," she said. "The fact that we deflated in the third game when we had shown such competitive spirit in the first two games of the match is something that we can never allow to happen again if we want to achieve the goals that we set for ourselves." 
Despite the disappointment of the loss, Schroeder-Biek said Saint Mary's can recover and have a good season ­starting tonight against Hope. 
"I have confidence that we will fix those things and that we will learn from this ... it was our first conference match of the season against a tough team," she said. "We will get it all together and have an exciting year of vol­leyball ahead of us." 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleona01 @saintmarys.edu 


There will be a meeting for any 
Notre Dame freshman students '}.007 cteltit .1e~tibal anb ~hiblanb ~ames
interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting 

Saturday, September 8'", 2007 -Rosel<md Park 
will be held on Monday, 
Just HMile North ofNotre Dame-Cripe St. .lust OffS.K. 9/J!J 
Festivities Begin at lOAM RAIN or SHINE and Include:
September lOth, at 4:15p.m. in 
l:ry;u_l \'c:kler Imitational Highland Games " 1\ 1\ 1Scottish Clan Hoodts 1"-J V V
the Joyce Center Athletic 
.MtTchant Booths 
Notre Dame and St
hish Dance 
Mary's Students: Take 

Training Room. 
Shl'l'{> Dog Demonstrations 
the #5 Bus to North 

Clydesdale IIorses/Scouisb Caulc Village Mall where a 
llltimate Frisbee Tomnament 
Trolley will take you to thcpark ~

daY and Friday are Latin Tug of\Var Competition 
~nurs 

Food, Drink, ;md Emertainmcnt Stage 
~~ 

·Music-Bagpipe B;mds, Celtic Hands 
.. Palacio 
Children's Activities And l\luch \-1ore ... 

A<hnission: $5 Adults, Children I 2 and under, S2 (Ages 2 ;md under are hee) 
KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer 

Saint Mary's senior midfielder Justine Higgins looks to pass during the Belles' 1-0 win over 
Manchester Wednesday. 
but was unable to convert. MacKenzie attributed the
Unbeaten 
shutout to the outstanding continued from page 24 
play of Mahoney and the 
four defenders in front of three games. Belles coach her. Caryn MacKenzie believes "I want to give a lot of this kind of offensive bal­credit to Amy Mahoney," ance will be beneficial. MacKenzie said. "She made 
"One of the best things a handful of amazing 
about this team is that everyone is v e r y unselfish," MacKenzie said. "They don't care who puts it in the back of the net. They just want to cele­brate with whoever does it." 
Manchester sophomore 
"One of the best things about this team is that everyone is very unselfish. They don't care who puts it in the back of the net. They just want to celebrate with whoever does it." 
Caryn MacKenzie Belles coach 
saves." 
Neither team could find the back of the net in the first half, although the Belles managed to register s e v e n shots on goal. 
T h e S a i n t Mary's defensive 
"They just keep getting

ATHLETIC TRAINING 
better and better," MacKenzie said. "They're able to recover well and

& SPORTS MEDICINE 
communicate with each 

other. 
"The outside backs get 

involved in the attack, and 
the entire unit serves as a 
great anchor for the rest of 
our offense. I couldn't be 
happier about how they 
have been playing." . On the offensive side of 
the ball, goals are not yet 
coming in bunches, but 
MacKenzie thinks that will 
change. 
"We possess the ball very 

well and make very good 
decisions," MacKenzie said. 
"We play a much quicker 
game then we did a year 
ago, but sometimes we're 
looking for the perfect 
opportunity, even though 
that may never come, as 
opposed to just putting 
balls on frame and seeing 
what happens." 
The Belles' record now 

stands at 3-0, while 
Manchester falls to 1-2. 
With the goal scoring bal­

ance the Belles have shown 
so far, it is clear that they 
have numerous offensive 
weapons. 
They will attempt to 

extend their season open­
ing win streak to four 
games when they visit 
Hope Saturday. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

Paige Koomler, who scored four goals in Sunday's game against Tri-State, had a prime scoring oppor­tunity in the 84th minute unit, comprised of senior Justine Higgins and junior Whitney Fron on the out­side and sophomores Bridget Ronayne and Jessica Slean in the mid­dle, also had a strong game. 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 6, 2007 
5th years 
continued from page 24 
advantage of' tlwir final year of eligibility. Civen how the 2006 season ended. it was an easy dndsion. 
No t r n Da nil' 1'1~ a e he d t h n round of' eight. f'or t.hn f'irst time in sdwol his­tory, hut took a h a r d ­f'ought., 3-2 loss to Virginia. Tho Irish were lnl't wondering what could have bnPn. 
"IThn loss to Virginia[ lnav~:s a. hungn~ in .ro~Ir stom­ach. Miller said. Its some­thing you know you can do bnttnr with, and you want to get hack again." Cahill echoed Miller's senti­nwnts. "Thorn wasn't any 



closure," "/The loss to Virginia/leaves lar high C a h i I I a hunger in your stomach. praise for his s a i d . teammate,
It:<; something you know you 
" I L a s t saying that 
can do better with and you
year I was Cahill is one unf'ortu­want to get back again." of the best n a t n goalies in the bncause nation.
Ryan Miller 

we had a Millnr him-
Irish defender 

sen­self will be
groat ior elass. but with this ynar's guys, the sky is the limit." 
Whatever potential Notre Damn has this season, Cahill and Miller are sure to be a big part of it. 

Known for making jokes with his teammates, Cahill also tends to get the last laugh against his opponents. In his two-plus years as a starter, Cahill has compiled a career record of' 27-13-4, and his three shutouts in the NCAA tournament are a pro­gram record. 
Last season, Cahill was an a II-InC EAST t. hi r d-t n am selection with a 0. 77 goals­against average and .R17 savfl percentage. 
lie kicked orr his final sna­son in similar style. earning Big East goalknnper-of'-thn­wnek honors last week af'ter collecting four saves in Notrfl Dame's 2-1 overtime win over No. 1 UCLA in Bloomington, Ind. 
"It is [Cahill's] third year being the starter, and that's groat experience for him," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "lin's always had great hands, but he's now improved so many things. lin's a great 
goalkeeper." 
M i I I n r 
offered simi­
.i ust as essential as Cahill to any 
Irish title hopes this season. 
The fifth-year marking baek has been a starter since the day he arrived in South 
ISSA's ANNUAL WELCOME/ WELCOME BACK PICNIC 
All international students and their host families are invited to welcome in the new academic year. 
Friday, September 071h@ 5:30pm 

Holy Cross Field (across from the Grotto) (Rain location: Stepan Center) 


Contact ISSA at 631-3825 with any questions. 
F.venl sponsored by lnlernalional Student Services & Activities 
Bend, and the only reason Miller is back this season is because of a knee injury that ended his freshman year after two games. Since returning from the injury, Miller has been a staple at right back for the Irish, start­ing 65 straight matches dat­ing back to his sophomore 
season. 

"[MillerI is a seasoned vet­eran when it eomes to games, and a lot of guys respect him for that," Cahill said. "People turn to him whenever we're about to faee a good team, and he's always going to be poised because he's been there a few times before." 

srtdGl gmt 1o " QIIIIQanm Wvdn~duy Svptmbw U, 1007 •7:30 pm Morris Ptrforming arts Ccmm Sooth Btnd, Indiana rKllltl o. lol•rtow ot lht ""'"' a.. Ollitw,.lopfi -in 
lilnlltn,l•i'ont tm. ~a.. Oliu, a...p ily pllont ~~~/DI-9190 otoolilw WWW.IIHlf!IK....r.01g 

About the only plaen Miller hasn't been in his earner is the College Cup -soecer's version of the Final Four. 
Along with Cahill, he has one more chance· to change that. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Recycle The Observer. 
i~p:·:: 
"{0~ 

Thursday, September 6, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 


MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
Ncto· Whf11 r.ootll An<:Y4 duC!> r. lhis p1vtk i!ip~Nw to ilc miminq 
0\'IH)' ,;jJlftt.W 1$11\ f.lrt dJCd 
AetOtl$ 

4 Cornroon 
~t;db>,onxm c~tui"!Ws 
lO C,:..f,'(.~tk ot ~ill t 4 Wf!rl oo >md oo 
tSL~ H~ H'!Try, ~ 
r;omt"lhlf'9 r.ew 21 f:J~lt\ott llit"dS. 2? like lloO!M low rlf«l huildi~~< 
2:3 Wf)&t itl~s, fil,!), 25 $tlfli)t 'lltlh &~.(let 2'91ntll.iiJIJtai <Ntlh 
s~rtet 
~~-h0f(l ~~ tr'llY ~lh« to wa1Ctt <) ~""' 
36 End ol a m.Jtch 
36~1629 'tfflt.t Jlctn~ gr~tt< 
::>.'! &mm¥4' <:)X>X 
~Abt:a 
:¥J PM!tooo 40Dff.m 
~ft:opfiate 
4::.! lmilllre 
44lti&tl plilywt(ftt( wtw Wlolt• •lht> 
Shru.k"'v of a­Gorur.an" 
.u:J fhn mAight& kwdom Att:lf 
41 Cf,t,_iltlfyf1V.Ifi ~ (;t!AAc~(J( 
KotlfAd 
Adeniloot 
4a'tkm~, 
(2001 Pixm-,Hroj 49 LOt!Q·bde-d 
w,dn;}bitd &4 Shade of ~et:-tl 55 T&g.i!t cf 
ct¥JIIdtoklr~ ~t; e.ut()t"f)' 

p~"'.brt~ 
2ft fill, 3.& d rood 43M~~(-,~ 54 fO!lll@f f¥;y&lt:n \ll$it arww ~··ro~Vf
44 ~ lii.ll\}UAi)<) 32Mint~ 56 SOOltrl!lhal
50 fll,Ut$ fA l~"h 

$3Bb<::~lik 
krts &!'F.Iclirh that~ 3S Fa&j Armr~n 
OJIIJ!Uit warm:., ~· 
Slllk~ 8001€1 t;nirtfr

patrit:t SiiM 
!.tl!MllflO
ICi'txfl~~

39~~1rillV~ 
Attif. ' 
51::\t~ IO t~:£11•

WAt 
ilf~,()fi#
52 M>:x•t' $b\Wf {n~) 6{!GI.tj&

42 Syrrbol in Wal· Mall ads 5::1 H.S. eJmn 61 'Mrily 
For MSw(H$, can t·900·2SS·5656, $1.20 a minv~; «. -.,m tl 
etadit care, 1~1.4.0554. Annu;alwilscnp$QN 9rq availstJ!q kit th9 ~ ¢1 St:M1ly · t.t!)SSWOtdSfrom the kl.st 00 yea;s; 1-800·7-ACROSS. 
Onlmq subr;criptmn;; ~& puufq itnd ~rq tl'tQn 2,000 
pas1 pu.ttlea. nyllm.s.eomtctooswords {$39.95 a yean Sh!ilnJ tips;; nyli~ cQmJpu~torum. C~svK>Jds fer )!OUJl9 soti«S; rt;timK.CMl,1@Atrti~'Xt.IO<dS. . 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 €rxtt£h l>Hf'£J wh; 
'"'"*' lhf' 
)'(ll%1tYi41 :!;<)!'1 .r;f Wifl.;«ntl¥! (>)flQU>:JtQ! 
$28:~tcl•; 
64 GMUM 1YJ4t1 6!.\ CorclorlimJ 
WOJ'd$ wr Scma dr.t; 68 Wtt."il $<\lme 
bfnwsrts broYF..e 
D<wrn t SI)Wi~h catd 
StJtl 
2 Kind td nih!: 
AIU. 
~ lnoet". Prt~ll~ 4 too:tm~mo 5 Patt (}I a 
'111\i<Slt<l<n taNJWUI 
u One ·~·.,buy lhi~s 7~1.10 
Oeudu$ e Ai:ound {with) 
G ~-eotot(J lOCMd, cg t1 ~·•· Pttl!X 
HOI'lf!l'Y~S 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Thursday, September 6, 2007 
page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Unfinished business 
Cahill, Miller return for fifth seasons to avenge loss in 2006 NCAA quarterfinals 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Wrircr 
With a 1:areer goals-against avnragn of O.X1, fifth-year Irish goalkeeper Chris Cahill looks good in goal. But his (,­foot-6 frame may look oven bnttnr in spandex. 
.lust ask Notre Dame strnngth and conditioning coach Hick Perry. 

At last ynar's season-ending ..banquet, Cahill, in front of 300 fans and alumni, pre­snntnd Perry with a full-body picture of thn lanky kenper flexing in spandex. That snr1sn of humor is one reason Cahill's coaches and team­mates arP glad to have him around l"or on«-morn season. llis play just might lw anoth­
-er reason. 
Both Cahill and l"nllow f'il'th­ynar senior Hyan Miller decided last spring to take 
see 5TH YEARS/Page 22 


SMC SOCCER 

Win streak continues for squad 
Saint Mary's blanks Manchester for third victory of season 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sporrs Wrirer 

Saint Mary's won its third straight game Wedne~day in its home opener, shutting out Manchester in a 1-0 win. 
Belles sophomore forward Micki lledinger netted the game's only score, getting a shot off from 10 yards out that bounced off the cross­bar and trickled past the goal line in the 66th minute. 
With her game winner, Bedinger became the l"il'th Saint Mary's player to regis­ter a goal in the Belles' first 
see UNBEATEN/Pge 21 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles to face Hope in defensive show-dow-n 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hoopsters unveil schedule 
Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame Men's Basketball 

SMC, Flying Dutch combined for 107 digs in previous matches 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD Sports Wrirer 
After a frustrating loss to open the MIAA season Tuesday, Saint Mary's will need to play with more consis­tency again !lope tonight in Holland, Mich. 
The Flying Dutch (3-1) are coming off a 3-0 win against Olivet. Hope is a strong defen­sive squad -they nearly dou­bled the Comets in digs, 55­38. 
The Belle~ began league 

play Tuesday with a loss to Adrian. The three-game defeat (25-30, 28-30, 11-30) dropped their record to 1-3 on the sea­son and 0-1 in the MIAA . 
The first two games were hard fought, but the Belles came apart in the final game. 
"We had some struggles with offensive connections," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "If I could ignore the third game of the match, I would say that we played a very competitive match." 
The Belles did have incredi­bly strong defensive play, which was lead by senior defensive specialist Marisa Gross' her 17 digs. As a team, Saint Mary's had 62 digs. 
see HOPE/Page 21 
Notre Dame released its schedule for the 2007-08 sea­son Wednesday. 
For the first time since 11/2 expanding to 16 teams. the 11/7Big East will have an 18-game 
11/12
schedule, with each team in 
the conference playing each 
other at least once. 
11/16
The schedule also ineludes 
11/17
three home-and-home 
11/18
matchups. Notre Dame faces 
11/19
Marquette, DePaul and 
Connecticut twice. 
The Irish will face West 11/24 Virginia and Connecticut at 11/26 home during winter break, 12/1 with the remaining home 12/4 games against DePaul, 12/8Connecticut, Cincinnati, 
12/22
Providence, Pittsburgh, 
12/29
Syracuse and St. John's while 
12/31
the spring semester is in ses­
1/3
sion. 
115
In November, Notre Dame 
1/12
tips off its season with two exhibitions followed by a game 1/15 against Long Island in the 1/19 Joyce Center before heading to 
1/26 the U.S. Virgin Islands to play 
1/31 in the Paradise Jam tourna­
2/2 ment. The Irish return to 
2/6
South Bend and will play 
219 
seven more non-conference 
2/13
games at the Joyce Center. 
2/17
They will travel to New York 
2/21
to play Kansas State at 
2/24
Madison Square Garden in the 
2/28
Jimmy V Classic. 
3/2
Notre Dame is slated to play eight games on either ESPN or 
3/5 ESPN2, and its game against 
3/8 Syracuse on Feb. 24 will be 
3/12-3/15 broadcast on CBS. 
3/20-3/23 The Big East tournament is 
3/27-3/29scheduled for March 12-15, 
4/5
with the NCAA Tournament 
4n
beginning March 20. 

2007~08 Schedule 
St. Ambrose (lA) -Exhibition St. Edward's (TX) -Exhibition Long Island 
U.S. Virgin Islands Paradise Jam Tournament Monmouth Baylor Wichita State Charlotte/Georgia Tech/Illinois-Chicago/Winthrop 
Youngstown State Colgate Eastern Michigan Kansas State @Madison Square Garden Northern Illinois San Francisco Brown North Florida West Virginia Connecticut @Marquette Cincinnati @Georgetown @ViUanova Providence DePaul @Seton Hall Marquette @ Connecticut @Rutgers Pittsburgh Syracuse @Louisville @DePaul StJohn's atUSF Big East tournament NCAA First and Second Round NCAA RegionaJs NCAA Semifinals NCAA Championship Final 



