~-~-----------------------------------------------, 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Hesburgh recalls, contrasts activislll during Vietnam. era, today 
Alumni, University President Emeritus emphasize different natures of demonstrations from 1970s to present 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
Assistant News Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the sec­ond article in a three-part series examining activism at Notre Dame: its current role on cam­pus, how that role has changed and what those changes mean for the future. 
A<> is the case with universities nationwide, activism at Notre Dame has redefined itself as an effort to steer the boat in a cer­tain direction, rather than rock­ing it. 
Many college students of the late 1960s and early 1970s turned to sit-ins. lie-ins and stone-throwings to get their point across, inducting those at Notre Dame -until then­University President Father Theodore Hesburgh told them, "Enough." 
He established guidelines for protestors, allowing their voices to be heard while prohibiting any infringement upon other stu­dents' rights. Violent protests stopped and other universities attempted similar efforts. 
While the heated, excited activism of the 1970s has sub­sided nationwide, there still remains a stereotype that Notre Dame lacks passionate protest­ing. 
Is the climate today an exten­sion of Hesburgh's influence, where the University's readiness to discuss problems makes activism unnecessary -and therefore somewhat invisible ­at Notre Dame? Does today's lack of loud protest stem from apathy? Or is activism simply not what it used to be? 
"Tough Times" 
When the possibility of a war in Vietnam came to light, college students from Berkeley to Columbia staged violent protests, taking their anger against the 
U.S. government out on ROTC buildings, CIA recruiters and their university presidents ­who, they claimed, were hiding behind closed doors and not li<>­tening to them. 
At Columbia, students took over President Grayson Kirk's office, where they rummaged through his files, drank, smoked 
see APATHY/page 3 

STUDENT SENATE 



Shappell gives last speech, launches initiative 
Outgoing representatives pass resolution recognizing Zahm Hall as 'Zahm House', approve Union endowment 
By KAITLYNN RIELY  By KAITLYNN RIELY  
Assistant News Editor  Assistant News Editor  
The Student Senate meeting ran nearly two hours  In her third and final State of the Student Union  
Wednesday as senators packed the agenda to pass  address Wednesday, student body president Lizzi  
new items of business before their terms end Sunday  Shappell announced the creation of a Student Union  
and newly elected senators take their places.  Endowment ­ a new account that she says will leave  
The Senate approved three new amendments and  "a lasting impression on student life at Notre Dame."  
passPd one resolution regarding the official name of  "This initiative, more than any other, leaves a lega­ 
Zahm llall. as well as a letter to Provost Tom Burish  cy," she said. "By supporting this endowment, you  
from the Multicultural Affairs committee (MAC).  impact future student bodies."  
Zahm senator Luke Derheimer reintroduced the  The endowment fund will be created with money  
well-known, but never-passed resolution arguing the  from the Student Union's Carry-forward account and  
Notn~  Dame student body should formally recognize  ·  royalties accrued from The Shirt project, Shappell said.  
Zahm Hall as Zahm House. Although several senators  Fiscal policy changes to Financial Management  
argued against passing the resolution, the majority of  Board (FMB) bylaws will budget for 50 percent of rev­ 
senators supported it. The resolution passed 20-6.  enues above $250,000 from The Shirt Project and  
The letter to Burish  -which encourages the  funds exceeding $100,000 in the Carry-forwardCHRIS MASSAD/The Observer  
see SENATE/page 4  Zahm senator luke Delheimer, stors pass a resolution recognizing  econd from left, reacts as sena­Zahm Hall as 'Zahm House.' see SENATE/page 4  


Messinger urges action in Darfur 
Lecture calls students to strive for peace 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
With compelling descriptions of the town massacres in Darfur and a call to social and moral consciousness, American Jewish World Service (AIWS) President Ruth Messinger urged her audi­ence Wednesday at the Eck Center Auditorium to help stop the ongoing killings in the African region. 
"There's a genocide in Darfur," she firmly told students in her lec­ture, "Bearing Witness: Crisis in Darfur." 
see DARFUR/page 6 

BCAC shovv to highlight fashion, hip-hop culture 
By GENE NOONE 
News Writer 

The students in the Black Cultural Arts Council (BCAC) have spent a week polishing the runway and perfecting their struts for Saturday's annual spring fashion show at the Century Center in South Bend. 
Titled "I Love Hip Hop," this year's production marks the BCAC's 30th anniversary -but while the history of the club will be a focal point, the history of hip-hop will take center stage. 
"The show takes a look at the evolution of hip-hop and its impact on fashion not only as a style of music but also as a culture," said junior Brittny Flint, one of the show's coordinators. 
Flint said students will model clothing from DEB, Cache, the Gap, Charlotte Russe, New York Style and 101 Collections to the beats of hip-hop hits. 
"It is a huge production that everyone has put a lot of hard work into," she said. 
Twenty-nine Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will model the designs, Flint said, while near­ly 40 students will be involved in the production's overall organiza­tion. 
The team of coordinators collab­orated to bring different fashions to the show -but they also brought a new perspective to the BCAC's production. 
see BCAC/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 29, 2007 

INSIDE COLUMN 


A series of unfortunate events 
I went to sleep late and when I woke up this morning I got tangled up in my bed sheets and the loft's 
Marcela Berrios 
ladder and I fell oft' the bed and landed 
Associate
on my right ankle 
News Editor 
and I made a noise loud enough to wake up my roommate and I could tell it was going to be a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day. 
My roommate Alexa called NDSP and soon three firemen came to our room but I couldn't get up from the floor to change my clothes or brush my teeth because my ankle hurt too much so they saw me in my ugliest pajamas and carried me down the lobby and to Health Services with bad breath. I think I'll move to Australia. 
The nurse looked at my X-rays and said I had a nasty sprain and a hairline frac­ture and she gave me crutches and then I asked as a joke ifit was a bad idea to go dancing at Fever and drink until sprain­ing my left ankle. She didn't even answer. I could tell it was going to be a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day. 
By the time I returned to McGlinn it was noon and I hadn't showered and smelled like Ben Gay so I hopped in to take a bath and forgot I had scheduled a phone inter­view about my summer internship at that time. Next week I'm moving to Australia. 
On my long walk from McGlinn to DeBartolo it was raining, I remembered my freshman year living in Walsh and its central location and I wondered if air con­ditioning was worth the switch to McGlinn because the distance factor was adding to my excruciating pain. It was a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day. 
I finally arrived at DeBartolo only to realize the class I had rushed to catch had been let out early and I went to the bath­room to see why my arms and upper body hurt so much. 
I lifted my shirt and the area under my arm was red and my friend Goose told me I shouldn't place the weight of my body on the arm support bar but rather on the hand bar. I think tomorrow I'll be bruised as ifsomeone had dropkicked me. 
I thought I would check Televisionwithoutpity.com to read about Monday's episode of "24," which I missed and didn't tape, but at least I could always read the summary online. For the first time since I can recall, however, Televisionwithoutpity.com was down and I couldn't get my daily fix of Hollywood with a twist of sarcasm. I was having a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day. 
Dinner was out of the question because I had to work at The Observer all night so I got Grah-n-Go. I don't need to tell you why this only contributed to my bad day. 
My friend liz told me "Model Behavior," a Disney Channel original movie starring Justin Timberlake in his *NSYNC days was on, but I knew no one at The Observer would want to watch it so I repressed my guilty pleasure and realized there's no freedom of expression at Notre Dame ifI can't tell everyone I still pray for an *NSYNC reunion without fearing rolling eyes. 
Maybe I could move to Australia and away from the anti boy-band Scrooges. 
My mother, however, called while I was at work and said I just said that because I had a bad day and that some days are like that -even in Australia. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publication and strives for rhe highest standards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will malre misralres. Ifwe have made a misralre, please conract us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE BASEBALL TEAM? 






Andrew McKinley  Eleanor Bradley  George Kiamos  Sean Smith  Sarah Valdes  
sophomore Keenan  junior Breen-Phillips  freshman Keough  sophomore Kennan  junior Breen-Phillips  
'The Braves. They are ready for another I 4­ "The Yankees because when they lose my  "Evil Empire. The greatest organization in  "Philadelphia Phillies. Cole Hamels equals  "Houston Astros because I'm from Houston  

year reign. " friends are sports history. " ace. 
miserable. " 


DUSTIN MENNELLNThe Observer 
Sophomores Brian McArdle, far left, and Nathan Loyd pilot the "Land Yacht" Wednesday outside Keough Hall. 
OFFBEAT 

Man: Ex's sex change should end alimony 
CLEARWATER, Fla. ­Lawrence Roach agreed to pay alimony to the woman he divorced, not the man she became after a sex change, his lawyers argued Tuesday in an effort to end the pay­ments. But the ex-wife's attorneys said the operation doesn't alter the agreement. 
The lawyers and Circuit Judge Jack R. St. Arnold agreed the case delves into relatively unchartered legal territory. They found only a 2004 Ohio case that addressed whether or not a transsexual could still collect alimony after a sex change. 
"There is not a lot out 
there to help us," St. Arnold said. 
Roach and his wife, Julia, divorced in 2004 after 18 years of marriage. The 48­year-old utility worker agreed to pay her $1,250 a month in alimony. Since then, Julia Roach, 55, had a sex change and legally changed her name to Julio Roberto Silverwolf. 
Man's ear bitten off In soccer brawl 
ATHENS, Greece -Four men have been arrested on the island of Crete after part of a man's ear was bitten off during a brawl after Greece's 4-1 loss to Turkey in a European Championship qualifier. 
The incident occurred Saturday near the town of lerapetra during a fight between Bulgarian workers and local Greek men who had been watching the match on television, police said Tuesday. 
Local businessman Dimitris Tsimbibakis was hospitalized after a man bit his ear. He told authorities he had inter­vened to try and break up the fight but was beaten by four Bulgarian men. 
The fight apparently start­ed after the Bulgarian men cheered Turkey's goals. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 :I: 

!;;: 
1.&.1

:= 
...... 
<[ 
CJ 


0 

HIGH 55 HIGH 50 HIGH
.... 
LOW 43 LOW 38 LOW 

baby." 
IN BRIEF 
Ceyl Prinster, a 1976 Notre Dame graduate and executive director of the Colorado Enterprise Fund, will deliver the lecture entitled "Building a Balanced Life: Strategies for Combining Career and Family" today at 5 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy. 
Howard Schultz, tho founder and chairman of Starbucks. will deliver the 2007 Frank Cahill Award tonight at 7 p.m. in Jordan Auditorium in Mendoza. His lecture is entitled "Entrepreneurship and Ethics." 
Married lecturers and schol­ars James Whitehead and Evelyn Eaton Whitehead will give the lecture "Spirituality and Sexuality: The Marriage of Eros and Grace" tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary's. 
Judge Victoria Marina de Aviles will deliver a lecture enti­tled "El Salvador Reform of the Judiciary" today at 8 p.m. in Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The lecture will be in Spanish, but an English translation will be available. The event is spon­sored by Latin American/North American Church Concerns (LANACC) in the Kellogg Institute. 
General Richard B. Myers, former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff will deliver the lecture "Up Front on the Future of Global Security" at the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business at 
10:40 a.m. as part of the Ten Years Hence lecture series. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 55 HIGH 48 LOW 38 LOW 30 
Atlanta 64 I 58 Boston 49 I 39 Chicago 45 I 37 Denver 54 I 40 Houston 71 I 61 Los Angeles 57 I 50 Minneapolis 50 1 42 New York 73 I 47 Philadelphia 68 I 50 Phoenix 69 I 51 Seattle 53 I 40 St. Louis 72 I 57 Tampa 84 I 61 Washington 70 159 
Thursday, March 29, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Conference honors Dunne's teaching 
Theologian has been at University for 50 years 
Special to The Observer Mary Anne Wolfe, professor 
of child development at 
"Seeking the Heart's Tufts University and Colleen Desire," a conference hon­Moore, coordinator of for­oring Rev. John. Dunne, Rev. mation activities in Notre John A. O'Brien Professor of Dame's Echo: Faith Catholic Theology, for his Formation Leadership half-century-long presence Program. on the faculty at Notre At 3:30 p.m., Father Dame, will be held Friday to Dunne, a pianist, will give a Sunday at McKenna Hall. musical performance of his 
Judge John T. Noonan of own work, accompanied by the 9th U.S. Circuit Court, a Quinn Pilari, executive former member of the Notre assistant at South Bend's Dame Law School faculty Center for the Homeless. and a close friend of Father The conference will con­Dunne, will give the confer­clude on Sunday at 10 a.m. ence keynote address at 7 in the chapel of Welsh 
p.m. Friday. Family Hall with a Mass at 
On Saturday at 9 a.m. which Father Dunne will there will be a panel discus­preside. sion on "John Dunne and A 1951 Notre Dame alum­Contemporary Spiritual nus, Father Dunne began to Theology." . Panelists will teach at Notre Dame when include theologians Jon he returned from studies at Nilson of Loyola University, the Gregorian University in Chicago, Elizabeth Carr of Rome in the fall of 1957. Smith College and William One of the University's most 
D. Collinge of Mount Saint popular, even beloved teach­Mary's College. ers, he has written numer­
Following the discussion, ous influential works on three former students of theology and the spiritual Father Dunne will speak on life, including "The City of "John Dunne as Teacher." the Gods," "A Search for The three are Rev. Timothy God in Time and Memory," Scully, C.S.C., professor of and "Way of All the Earth." political science and direc­He has taught arguably tor of Notre Dame's Institute more Notre Dame students for Educational Initiatives, than any other person. 
Hesburgh wrote in his book. "It sort of balanced both sides," said Andy Dotterweich, also a The 1.5-Minute Rule 1971 graduate, of the 15-Minute continued from page 1 So Hesburgh wrote a letter Rule. "It let people ·express them­
which he sent out to students selves, but it stopped the disrup­cigars and defecated on his rug. while they were home for Easter tion of the campus." After a confrontation with protes­Break, knowing their parents tors, Swarthmore College would read it, too. The letter out­"New" activism President Courtney Smith had a lined what was eventually dubbed So, Notre Dame saw its fair heart attack in his office and died. the "15-Minute Rule": Students share of protests as Vietnam was 
"Whereas here, I was up there could protest, but when they were getting unde_rway, but as in my office [in Main Building] asked to stop, they had 15 min­Dotterweich can attest, normal life every night after supper," utes to cease and desist before went on at the time. He continued Hesburgh said Tuesday. "The they were suspended for the to attend all his classes through­lights were all on, the door was semester. Were the students to out the protest. open. Anybody who wanted to continue for an additional five "The anti-war movement could knock on the door and come minutes, they would be expelled. always knew that it was a minori­in, and I had groups ofstudents all The letter, Hesburgh recalls, ty at Notre Dame," Shaughnessy night long coming in and out. was reprinted in full in the New said. "Notre Dame is a school of 
"We had some good discussions, York Times, the Washington Post privilege." and we even saved a lot of prob­and the Christian Science-Monitor, Just like back then, loud lems because ofthat." and was met with positive feed­protests today are rare occur­
Still, there was a thriving anti­back from the Notre Dame com­rences, but when it comes to char­war movement at Notre Dame, munity. ity, "There is probably a similar said Michael Shaughnessy, a the­"Still, I knew it would be tested amount, maybe even more now, ology teacher at St. Ignatius and of course, it was," Hesburgh of kids involved in service work," College Prepatory High School in said. On a day when recruiters said Shaughnessy, who teaches a San Francisco who graduated from the CIA and Dow Chemical moral theology/social justice from Notre Dame in 1971. Sit-ins, were scheduled to visit the course at St. Ignatius. ''I'm not lie-ins and student strikes were Placement Office (now the Career sure there's as much advocacy common occurrences, he said, Center), about 12 students laid in work, working to change social especially during the 1969-70 front ofthe door to that office. structures." school year. The dean soon arrived and gave But Dotterweich disagreed, cit­
As Hesburgh wrote in his auto­them 15 minutes to move-they ing the Notre Dame Right to Life biography "God, Country, Notre didn't. He suspended them, and group as an example of "new" Dame," students were threatening they rose before the remaining activism. to torch the ROTC building (the five minutes and thus were not "A group goes to Washington 
former security building behind permanently expelled. Then, they and stands up for life is practicing Lyons Hall). A mob also interrupt­headed straight for Hesburgh's activism, and a very positive [type ed a Board of Trustees meeting, office and asked him to rethink of activism]," he said. "I've seen in demanding to speak to a trustee -the suspension. pictures the large white crosses and when the long-time black civil "I said, 'Hey guys, you're tooth­they put out on the campus at rights activist Bayard Rustin, then less tigers. You want to protest, times. They're trying to help peo­a trustee, went out to greet them, you take the consequences. Now I ple understand the horror of they insulted him. told you that if you didn't obey the abortion. It's a different type of 
"I was in favor of the right to dean of men when he told you, activism, but it's a much more protest, but not when the protest you'd be suspended," Hesburgh productive one than what went on interfered with the right of stu­said. "You've had your fun, but back in the late '60s and '70s." 
dents being able to attend their now you have to get out ofhere."' classes or administrators being And students accepted their Contact Eileen Duffy at unable to get into their offices," share ofresponsibility. eduffyl@nd.edu 
Apathy 
1. ·

I iI.JlJr·. r ....~. ,.JJJ. ~····J-~J-.· j~·lJ···•.···'..J IJ····.J·..J .\j. lJ.·· .~.· n r l lJ.... -"!j· .J'•. J·.rr 1· f...J r 1.-'J'j···J
· , r; · , r , · · .. , · ·· ··· · · ~ ·· r.1· · r; ~ r: r ·
·~
J j_, -'.. ..!) :_;_ ..·.,· ........·.., •!J ..... ·. ··,··· J·.·... li~ .... ··. ·.....,......·..:...; _.j,:_j_ .J 
Prices Sizzle 40%-80% OFF 
risll8 Sllllllalllatdl31sf IIDIII 1PM to 3 PM to,.,lamei 11811e1Jame ltisll Bluls Rhema lfcKIJifllt BIJII Darius Walker. ·"



Purdase.,DMJe,.,,.,.,..item
• 
llllllla•• ..,.,.,__FREE! 
-.,.....tal& 
'I 
I 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 29, 2007 
Stanford senator Oscar Garcia pus senator, there will be an option on 
tion. 
asked Shappell about the possibility the voter's ballot to abstain, "but a 
Shappell said she was

Senate 
Shappell
that a person running a joke cam­vote to abstain will not count as a 
proud of this new initiative 
paign, if elected, could be fiscally irre­valid vote." 
as well as other accom­
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 
sponsible and spend all the extra In the unlikely event that the two 
plishments of her adminis­
provost's office to strengthen its money in the account. tickets received the same amount of 
account to be added to the tration, including the first­
efforts to recruit minority faculty Shappell said the system of checks votes in the run-ofT election, the sec­
Student Union ever Community Summit, 
members -also received strong sup­and balances already in place should ond amendment changes the current 
Endowment. an Eating Disorders 
port from the senators, passing with prevent that situation from occurring. process where senators cast a vote in 
"With the combination of Conference, the College 
25 votes in favor and one abstention. "They would have to spend about line with their dorm constituencies to 
these two funds, we have Headership Program and 
Destinee DeLemos, the chair of triple to quadruple of their budget to a process where, Jlollon said, the win­
nearly $700,000 to invest the formation of a 
MAC, said her committee has been get rid ofthis," she said. ner will be the ticket that wins the 
in an endowment for the University committee on 
working on this letter throughout the The Senate passed the resolution most Senate constituencies. In the 
benefit of the entire stu­cultural competency. 
semester. The letter refers to 26-0. The Senate also approved the ca..<>e of a tie within a residence hall, 
dent body, both current Of the 35 items on her 
University President Father John Student Union endowment as the that senator will then cast the doeid­
and future," Shappell said. platform, Shappell said 
Jenkins' 2005 faculty address, in topic that Shappell will present at the ing vote. 
The FMB and the she achieved 32. She 
which he said he would make recruit­spring Board of Trustees meeting. Although most senators were 
Council of Hepresentatives thanked the representa­
ing faculty from underrepresented Senate Oversight committee chair preparing to leave oflice last night, 
will manage the endow­tives present for helping 
groups a priority in his administra­Chris Hollon presented and passed ono senator was inducted into office 
ment. In the first year, her to accomplish nearly 
tion. two amendments to clear up confu­after a resolution was passed to 
Shappell predicted that the all her plans. 
The letter to Burish urges his office sion about wording in the Student remove Dillon senator Matthew 
FMB will be able to allo­"Everyone involved in 
to "be morp proactive in this initiative Union Constitution regarding election Lodwich from oflice. 
cate approximately this administration worked 
and be responsible for ensuring that results. Lodwich was removed from office 
25,000-30,000 additional tirelessly to ensure the 
departments are expending the prop­Many senators expressed a desire for his outstanding absences since 
dollars amongst all the success of these initia­
er efforts and resources to both obtain for a change to the Student Union being appointed Dillon's senator earli­
Student Union organiza­tives," she said. 
and retain minority faculty members." Constitution after an inconclusive run­er thL<> semester aftnr fi>rm!w senator 
tions. Shappell told the sena­
DeLemos' committee will also off election in mid-February led to a Tyler Langdon informed the Senate 
Shappell called this a tors that she enjoyed 
attach to the letter a summary of their closed Senate to deeide the next stu­last fall that he would be studying 
"fiscally responsible deci­working with them and 
findings on minority faculty recruit­dent body president and vice presi­abroad this semester. 
s.ion" and one that has thanked them for con­
ment. dent. The two amendments intro­Director of Communications Alex 
been a long time eoming. tributing to her adminis­
Breen-Phillips senator and vice duced greatly reduce the chance the French, a former O'Neill resident, was 
"Since my time at Notre tration's success. 
president-elect Maris Braun com­deciding vote will be given to the sworn in as acting Dillon senator. 
Dame began nearly four "I am confident that I, 
mended DeLemos and her committee Senate. 
years ago, student govern­along with the rest of the 
for their work this semester. Braun said she supported the intent In other Senate news: 
ment has talked about senior class, am leaving 
"I thlnk Senate should congratulate of the resolutions. 
starting a programming the University in the able 
Destinee [DeLemos) and her commit­"I thlnk clearly there were a ton of + Chief executive assistant and 
endowment," she said. hands of the remaining 
tee," Braun said. "I think that Dr. issues this year that really stressed president-elect liz Brown announced 
"The Board of Trustees student body," Shappell 
Burish deserves to devote his atten­Senate out," she said. 'This was the the winners of two awards-the Irish 
report in the spring of said. 
tion to this, so good job." best solution that Chris and the Clover award for service to the stu­
2004 was on this topic, Shappell and vice presi­
Student body president Lizzi Oversight committee found. No one dents of Notre Dame by a student, 
outlining why additional dent Bill Andrichik will 
Shappell introduced a resolution that wants to see what happened this year staff or faculty member and the Frank 
funding is needed to end their term on Sunday, 
clarifies language regarding the happen again. It wasn't fun for any­O'Malley award for service to students 
improve student life. at which point current 
Student Union's carry-forward one, and it didn't reflect well on the by a faculty member. Shappell and 
Unfortunately, this endow­Chief Executive Assistant 
account and announces a Student Constitution." Director of Student Activities Brian 
ment was never realized Liz Brown and current 
Union endowment. Both amendments were passed by Coughlin received the Irish Clover · 
-until now." Breen-Phillips senator 
The amendment states that the the Senate. award and history professor Father 
But Shappell clarified Maris Braun will become 
carry-forward account should never The first amendment, to section VI Bill Miscamble received the O'Malley 
this is not just a program­president and vice presi­
exceed $100,000 and that all excess of the Constitution, states that in a award. 
ming endowment, since its dent, respectfully. 
funds above this amount will be run-off election, for the student body 
returns will be placed into 
placed in the Student Union endow­president, vice president, class ofli­Contact Kaitlynn Riely 
the overall Student Union Contact Kaitlynn Riely 
ment. cers, off-campus president or ofr·cam-kriely@nd.edu 
spring budget for alloca-kriely@nd.edu 



BREAKING BREAD 
Tbe Way oftbe Pilgrim 
.Join fello'\\' students and faculty for· dinnet and an evening of faith-based discussion 
1Vlonda~y, Aptil 23 at 6;00 pm Notre Dame Stadium Press Box 
Featuting guest speaker Dr. Timothy George 

Dc.::an of~ tbe Be4:don D£vinily School at Santjort) 
If interested, e-n1ail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give us ~your nanu:, local address, class and major. Spaces are lin1ited to eighty students. Priority will be given to those vvho ha·ve never attended. \\le vvelconte aU students regardless of faith con1nutment. 
SpontftWec) hy tbe .iVotre Darne C'enter for Etbtt\f tuJ() Culture 
http;//ethicscenter.nd.edu 


·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 29, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Nun key to late pope's beatification 
PARIS -Sister Marie-Simon-Pierre is the French nun whose testimony of a mystery cure from Parkinson's disease will likely be accepted as the miracle the Vatican needs to beatify Pope John Paul II, an official at the Paris maternity hospital where she works said Wednesday. 
The identity of the nun has been one of the Catholic Church's most closely guarded secrets. The nun says that she was cured of Parkinson's after she and her community of nuns prayed to John Paul. 
In Rome, Monsignor Slawomir Oder, the Polish cleric spearheading the John Paul's beatification cause, said the bishop in the woman's diocese would announce details about her case during his Palm Sunday Mass this weekend. 
U.S., Russia discuss missile defense 
WASHINGTON -Russian President Vladimir Putin registered his concerns Wednesday with President Bush about a planned U.S. missile defense system in Central Europe in a conversation that highlighted strains between the two nations. 
After the phone call, a White House spokesman said Bush emphasized to the Russian president that missile defenses in Europe were intended to protect against an evolving threat from the Middle East. 
It is "a threat that we share in common with Europe and Russia," said Gordon Johndroe, the National Security Council spokesman. 
According to the Kremlin, Bush expressed a willingness to discuss the project with Russia in detail in the interest of mutual security. 
A longtime analyst of U.S.-Russia relations said the relationship between the two coun­tries "is in serious trouble." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Gonzales: Prosecutors not loyal 
WASHINGTON -Eight federal prosecu­tors were fired last year because they did not sufficiently support President Bush's priorities, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales' former chief of staff says in remarks prepared for delivery to Congress on Thursday. 
Separately, the Justice Department admit­ted Wednesday it gave senators inaccurate information about the firings and presiden­tial political adviser Karl Rove's role in try­ing to secure a U.S. attorney's post for one of his former aides, Tim Griffin. 


Leader calls for opening of Nazi files 
WASHINGTON -A Jewish leader who survived the Holocaust as a boy by hiding in basements and attics urged countries to speed the opening of vast files on Nazi con­centration camps and their victims. 
Leo Rechter, president of the U.S.-based National Association of Jewish Child Holocaust Survivors, told Congress on Wednesday that Nazi war records stored in Bad Arolsen, Germany, should be opened urgently for a dying generation of survivors. 
Witnesses testifying Wednesday expressed frustration the commission has waited so long to release the files. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Children struck by sleeping driver 
INDIANAPOLIS -A motorist who police say fell asleep at the wheel struck two Somali siblings who had been in the U.S. a week, killing one of them. 
Shukri Mohamed Ibrahim, 9, was pro­nounced dead at the scene Tuesday. Her brother, Hassan Mohamed Ibrahim, 14, was in critical condition Wednesday at Methodist Hospital. 
The boy was riding a bicycle and his sister was on foot behind him along a city street, police said. 
Indianapolis Metropolitan Police said Margaret Graves, 42, apparently fell asleep before her car crossed two lanes of traffic, striking the children. 
IRAN 


British captives shown on Arab TV 
Blair won't negotiate with Iran except to discuss the return ofsailors, marines 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN -Iran aired a video Wednesday of 15 cap­tured British sailors and marines, showing the only woman captive saying her group had "trespassed" in Iranian waters. Britain angrily denounced the video as a "completely unaccept­able" display of prisoners. 
The Iranian foreign minis­ter said officials would look into releasing the female sailor soon, but backed off reports she would be freed Wednesday or Thursday. 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair's government announced it was freezing all dealings with Iran except to negotiate the release of its personnel, adding to a public exchange of sharp com­ments that pushed up ten­sions in a standoff helping fuel a spike in world oil prices. 

Britain's military released a GPS readout it said proved the Royal Navy personnel were seized 1.7 nautical miles inside Iraqi waters Friday. But Iranian state tel­evision quoted an unidenti­fied Iranian official as saying the first phase of an investi­gation had determined the two British boat crews were "definitely" in Iran's territori­al waters. and black head scarf, she sat release Turney, Mottaki told After the footage was 
A few hours later, a brief in a room before floral cur­the Associated Press, "We aired, Foreign Secretary video of the captured Britons tains and smoked a ciga­will look into this as soon as Margaret Beckett said she was shown on Iran's Arabic rette. possible." was "very concerned about language satellite television Turney was the only He said earlier reports that these pictures and any indi­station, AI-Aiam. detainee to be shown speak­he had said she could be cation of pressure on, or 
One segment showed ing, giving her name and freed Wednesday or coercion of, our personnel. ... sailors and marines sitting in saying she had been in the Thursday were incorrect. "I I am particularly disappoint­an Iranian boat in open navy for nine years. was probably misquoted," he ed that a private letter has waters immediately after "Obviously we trespassed said. been used in a way which their capture. into their waters," Turney Earlier in the day, Mottaki can only add to the distress 
The video also displayed said at one point, her voice told AP on the sidelines of an of the families." what appeared to be a hand­audible under a simultane­Arab summit in the Saudi The third Geneva written letter from Faye ous Arabic translation. capital, "Today or tomorrow, Convention bans subjecting Turney, 26, to her family. "They were very friendly and the lady will be released." prisoners of war to intimida­
"I have written a letter to very hospitable, very The Turkish television sta­tion, insults or "public the Iranian people to apolo­thoughtful, nice people. They tion, CNN-Turk, had also curiosity." Because there is gize for us entering their explained to us why we've reported him saying no armed conflict between waters," it said. The letter been arrested. There was no Wednesday she would be Iran and Britain, the captives also asks Turney's parents in harm, no aggression." freed "today or tomorrow." would not technically be Britain to look after her 3-Iranian Fore.ign Minister But the talk of releasing classified as prisoners of year-old daughter, Molly, and Manouchehr Mottaki backed Turney did little to calm war. her husband, Adam. off predictions that Turney British anger. Blair told the House of 
The video showed Turney could be freed Wednesday or Before the broadcast, a Commons that "there was no in checkered head scarf and Thursday, saying Iran will spokesman lor Blair said any justification whatever ... lor her uniform eating with look into releasing her "as showing of British personnel their detention, it was com­other sailors and marines. soon as possible." on TV would be a breach of pletely unacceptable, wrong Later, wearing a white tunic Asked when Iran would the Geneva Conventions. and illegal." 


Bush, Congress at odds on Iraq 
in the field," he said. "If Congress fails After passage, the next step would
Associated Press 

to pass a bill to fund our troops on the be a House-Senate compromise meas­
WASHINGTON -President Bush front lines, the American people will ure almost certain to include eondi­
and ·the Democratic-controlled know who to hold responsible." tions that Bush has said he fmds objec­
Congress lurched toward a veto show­Bush spoke as the Senate moved tionable, and the president's remarks 
down over Iraq on Wednesday, the toward passage of legislation that seemed designed to lay the political 
commander in chief demanding a would require the beginning of a troop groundwork for a veto showdown with 
replenishment of war funding with no withdrawal within 120 days, and the new Democratic majority later this 
strings and Speaker Nancy Pelosi would set a goal of March 31. 2008, spring. 
counseling him, "Calm down with the for its completion. Confidently predicting his veto would 
threats." The House approved a more sweep­be sustained in Congress, he said, 
Bush said imposition of a "specific ing measure last week, including a "Funding for our forces in Iraq will 
and random date of withdrawal would mandatory withdrawal deadline for begin to run out in mid-April. 
be disastrous" for U.S. troops in Iraq nearly all combat troops of Sept. 1, Members of Congress need to stop 
and he predicted that lawmakers 2008. making political statements, and start 
would take the blame if the money ran Both bills would provide more than providing vital funds for our troops. 
short. $90 billion to sustain military efforts in They need to get that bill to my desk 
"The clock is ticking for our troops Iraq and Afghanistan. so I can sign it into law." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 29, 2007 
Darfur 
continued from page 1 
Messinger, a former Democratic nominee for mayor of New York City, encouraged action from all individuals in what she called, "the moral legacy we will leave to our children and grandchildren." 
She said the Janjaweed militia, a group funded and armed by the Sudanese government, has waged genocide against the inhabitants of the Darfur region in the eastern part of Sudan since February 2003 -although there are very few distinct ethnic or religious dif­ferences between the two sides of the conflict, Messinger said. Both the Darfurian residents and the .Janjaweed militants, she said, are Muslim. 
"You can go online and read the complete history of the genocide, but you simply can't get it to make sense," Messinger said. 
The region's Muslim identity, however, cannot be automatically treated as an explanation for the genocide, she said, cautioning stu­dents against faulting a religious identity for an act of human evil. 
"Don't make the mistake of assigning [the blame] to any one group of people," she said. "Whatever it is that caused this is the same as it was in Germany and Cambodia." 
Messinger framed her speech as a "plea to a powerful universi­ty" to help stop the genocide in Darfur and prevent further mas­sacres in the world. She urged Notre Dame and Indiana to divest from companies that buy or sell Sudanese oil, as 38 other colleges and universities across the nation have done already. She also said individuals should push private investing firms, such as Fidelity and Berkshire Hathaway, to fol­low that lead. 

Messinger said each of the 2.5 millitm Darfur refugees has his or her own story -but all of these stories "are chillingly the same." 
When the Janjaweed attack a village, they start by bombing the town using Sudanese government planes painted white to look like humanitarian aid planes, she said. The Janjaweed militia then enters the village on horseback and trucks, brandishing knives, slaughtering the men, raping the women, killing·the children and killing the livestock, whose car­casses they use to contaminate the well water, Messinger said. 
"Rape is being used as a weapon of war in Darfur," she said. "It is incomprehensible, but it is happening." 
Messinger described the refugee camps in Darfur and Chad as "appearing to stretch for­ever across the desert." 
In these camps, the women attempt to support themselves by gathering firewood, but they often must venture more than two kilo­meters outside the camps -at risk of attacked by the Janjaweed -to find any tree branches. 
One woman, nonetheless, told Messinger she wouldn't consider sending her husband or her son because she feared they would get killed ifthey were captured. 
"I only get raped," she said. 
In light of the tragedies that are repeated every day in Darfur, the question of what needs to be done to stop the cycle naturally pres­ents itself, she said. 
While Messinger said she acknowledges no single individual can save the world, every bit of effort counts. She cited an old Hebrew teaching that says "It's not our responsibility to complete 
the world, but we're not allowed 
to refuse to participate." 
Individuals can participate by 
contacting local officials, especial­
ly at the state level, she said. After 
the Indiana House of 
Representatives unanimously 
passed Bill 1484 that mandated 
divestment from companies that 
give money to Sudan, the bill died 
Wednesday. The chairman of the 
committee that reviews House 
bills before they are presented to 
the state senate rejected tho reso­
lution -a disappointing event for 
Messinger. 
Messinger urged individuals to 
become informed in these issues, call the White Ilouse comment line, write to local newspapers, raise awarnness in the communi­ty and tell family and friends about the cri<>is. She told students to consider participating in the ongoing Africa Awanmess Week on campus, as there will be a ·march Thursday outside Main 
Building to protest the gnnoeide. 
Messinger said people always 
question what they would have 
done had they been presented 
with the opportunity to save Jews 
during the Holocaust. But she said 
she does not bnlieve this question 
is relevant, saying individuals 
should "question not what would 
you have done, but what are you 
doing." 

She termed her organization's 
work in Darfur a "Holocaust 
memorial program," inviting stu­
dents to help stop the bloodshed 
before the tragedy reaches levels 
of atrocity akin to the Holocaust. 
"There's a lot of work to be 
done, and I hope that more of you 
will join us," she said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
BCAC 
continued from page 1 
Saturday's f~shion show will differ from il<> predecessors in il<> Fundraising effort, assistant show 
coordinator senior Jason Laws said. For the first time, he said, the. pro­duction is support­ing a charity. 
All ticket pro­ceeds and addi­tional donations collected at the door will benefit Touching Tiny Lives (TTL), an organization that works with chil­dren in Lesotho who suffer from 

"We chose this "We are expecting a great turnout." · 
organization after 
For 30 years, the 

realizing that ... BCAC fashion with TTL we would show has been a 
highlight of Notre 

know· exactly how 
Dame's annualthe funding would Spring Visitation 
help those in need. " Weekend. From today w1til Sunday, prospective
Jason Laws 
African-, Asian-, 

assistant coordinator 
Latino-and BCAC fashion show Native-American 
IIIV/AIDS, Laws said. 
Through clinical care and the promotion of global responsibility, lTL strives to heal and offer hope to the children and communities of Losotho, the organization's Web site said. 
"We chose this organization after realizing that amongst many of the international non­profit organizations that work to fight against the struggle with HIV/AIDS, with TTL we would know exactly how funding would help those in need," Laws said. "We know the funding will go directly to Lesotho, SQUth Africa." 
Another new addition to the show is the creation of a $1 "Be VIP for 1 Night" raffie, he said. On Friday, four students will be drawn as winners of a VIP pack­age that includes a $25 debit gill card, red carpet treatment before the show, a special photo-op and 
students will be visiting campus to 

get  a  taste  of  
undergraduate  life  at  the  
University.  

Each year, Spring Visitation participanl<> take part in a variety of activities that help them under­stand college life at Notre Dame -and the fashion show contin­ues to be one of the most enter­taining events of the weekend, Flint said. 
Students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are welcomed at the show and the red carpet events leading up to it starting at 7:30 
p.m. Saturday, she said. 
Free shuttle transportation to the Century Center will be provid­ed at the Ubrary Circle every 15 minutes starting at 6:15 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
VIP seating for the winner and two guests, Laws said. Proceeds from the raflle will also go to TTL. 
Organizers said they did not expect student attendance and participation to be a problem. 
"Because it is the 30th year 

anniversary of the fashion show, it.makes this year even more excit­ing," Flint said. 
ATTENTION: STUDY ABROAD STUDENTSIII NOW OFFERING HALF·YEAR LEASES!! 
lafayette Square Townhomes 
I 4 and 5 Bedroom rovvnhomes 
• 6 Blocks from C1mpu ~ • 2 Bdt~nooms 

It's a whole new place! 
f•,leq.. f"''("!:ii t"'V•Jt)r.;;·h1:M q f'P!:li'J"''"tr"'tl{''~·
i :h....~-h. ~ \:..1' ...... ·~~ -~.# ~ "!: ·• == ,.,..,.. '~~...d 1. fJ (~ .. , f tilr ~a ~1 , t f::...> ~ t 
Newly ,remodeled for 20()7.,2008 
www.kramerhouaes.com 




Renting fast· call today for 2007. 2008 

Contact Kran1er at 1574) 315-5032 or f574) 234-2436 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Thursday, March 29, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

12,300.36 -96.93

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I, I 55 I42 2,093 3,059,053, I 78 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I 
PRICE 43.52

NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ)  -1.07  -0.47  
S&P RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.73  -1.04  
CMGIINC (CMGI)  -5.79  -0.14  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -0.17  -0.01  

141.82 2.28 6.05 
Treasuries 

I0-YEAR NOTE +0. 17 +0.008 4.620 13-WEEK BILL -0.20 -0.0 I 0 4.910 
30-YEAR BOND +0.46 +0.022 4.831 5-YEARNOTE -0.16 -0.007 4.490 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.15 64.08 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.1 0 672.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) "0.40 I 0 1.20 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
117.0200 EURO 
0.7511 POUND 
0.5094 CANADIAN$ 
1.1590 

IN BRIEF 
U.S., Iranian tensions affect oil prices 
NEW YORK -Oil prices rose to a six­month high above $64 a barrel Wednesday amid rising tensions between Iran and the West and as inventories declined in the U.S. 
Though denied by the U.S. military, it was rumored that Iran fired a missile at an American ship in the Persian Gulf. 
Iran, one of the largest oil producers, is located along the Strait of Hormuz, through which much of the world's oil is transport­ed. Traders worry that oil supplies could be disrupted if unrest escalates there. 
Falling U.S. inventories of crude oil, gaso­line and distillates added to supply con­cerns, keeping prices high. 
Humors about a military confrontation spurred panic buying in after-hours trading Tuesday, sending oil prices above $68 in a matter of minutes. Hising tensions between Iran and the West have created a potential­ly dangerous situation in the Gulf and mar­kets are jumpy. 


Bemanke scolds investors as stocks fall 
NEW YORK-Stocks fell Wednesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke chided investors who may have looked past long-standing concerns about inflation. The Dow Jones industrials fell nearly 100 points, the third straight session of declines. 
A rise in oil prices to a six-month high and a weaker-than-expected rise in orders for large manufactured goods compounded investors' concerns Wednesday. 
In Capitol Hill testimony, Bernanke said while core inflation slowed modestly in the second half of 2006, recent readings remain "uncomfortably high." He also said troubles among some mortgage lenders that cater to those with poor credit don't appear to have spread to the broader economy, though he added the situation requires further obser­vation. 
Stocks rallied last week after investors interpreted language from the Fed as open­ing the way to the possibility of a reduction in interest rates. But concerns about stub­born inflation could reverse investors' hopes for a reduction in rates, even as the economy continues to cool. 
Free trade talks face opposition 
U.S., South Korea discuss specifics while anti-FTA protestors rally outside 
Associated Press 

SEOUL -South Korean  
and U.S. negotiators were  
bogged down in tough free  
trade talks, an official said  
Wednesday, as opponents  
of the proposed deal again  
took to the streets to  
denounce it.  
"Not a single issue is  
easy," Min Dong-seok,  
deputy minister for trade  
at South Korea's  
Agriculture and Forestry  
Ministry, told reporters.  
"Both sides have out­ 
standing differences and  
are engaged in a tug of  
war."  
While most sectors have  
been settled, negotiators  
acknowledge that automo­ 
biles, South Korea's rice  
market and the status of  
South Korean goods man­ 
ufactured in North Korea  
are among a handful of  
contentious issues block­ 
ing a deal..  
Time is a critical factor  
as the two sides are trying  
to conclude an agreement  
by the end of this month  
to have it considered  
under special U.S. presi­ 
dential authority.  
That so-called "fast  
track" power allows  
President Bush to send  
trade agreements to law­ 
makers for a straight yes­South Koreans participate in a candle rally in protest of negotiations inside Seoul City Hall  
or-no vote without amend­between the U.S. and South Korea Wednesday.  
ments, seen as making it  
easier for passage by a  ment would boost eco­ rally in front of the U.S.  songs critical of the deal.  
Congress sometimes skep­ nomic ties between two  Embassy.  "We don't want to eat  
tical of trade deals.  countries that already do  "Korea's negotiators are  mad cow disease U.S. beef  
An agreement to slash  more than $75 billion in  unjustly forcing the con­ in our cafeteria food,"  
tariffs and other barriers  trade a year.  clusion of the talks only  sang a ·group of elemen­ 
would be the biggest for  South Korean oppo­ for the sake of concluding  tary school students.  
Washington since the  nents, however, fear an  them," said opponent Park  Washington is pressing  
landmark North American  influx of cheaper U.S.  'Seok-woon, reflecting the  for the removal of restric­ 
Free Trade Agreement  goods will harm liveli­ anger of opponents who  tions on American beef  
with Canada and Mexico  hoods and cost jobs.  feel South Korea is rush­ imports, absent from  
in 1993.  Protests by farmers,  ing the deal for the United  South Korean markets for  
South Korea has refused  workers, students and  States.  more than three years  
to discuss including its  anti-globalization activists  Park is executive direc­ after mad cow disease  
rice market in the deal,  in South Korea have  tor of the Korean Alliance  was discovered in the  
claiming the staple food is  dogged the negotiations  Against the Korea-U.S.  United States.  
a "sensitive sector" that  since they began almost  FTA, which comprises  The beef issue is techni­ 
should be excluded.  10 months ago, though  about 300 different  cally not part of the free  
Washington, at odds with  numbers have dwindled.  groups. The organization  trade talks. U.S. lawmak­ 
North Korea over its  The biggest, in July, num­ held a candlelight protest  ers, however, have said it  
nuclear program, says any  bered about 25,000 peo­ Wednesday evening.  will be difficult for a deal  
deal should include only  ple.  Police estimated about  to win congressional  
goods made in South  On Sunday, 7,000  1,300 people gathered  approval unless the dis­ 
Korea.  demonstrators took to the  near Seoul City Hall,  pute is t.esolved.  
Government officials on  streets of the capital, cul­ chanting slogans and lis­ U.S. officials say their  
both sides say an agree­ minating in a peaceful  tening to speeches and  beef is safe.  

New rules make HSAs appealing 
Associated Press copays at doctors' offices, prescrip­accounts with $1.2 billion in deposits 
NEW YORK-New rules governing tion and nonprescription medicines, at the end of 2005. 
Health Savings Accounts are making and hospital services not covered by She predicts further growth, in part 
them more attractive to consumers, insurance. because more companies are offering 
who can use HSAs to help reduce Because unused balances in the high-deductible insurance plans to 
health insurance costs now -and, HSAs can be rolled over from year to their workers. That's because these 
potentially, in retirement. year, some financial advisers are sug­plans are less costly for employers 
Health Savings Accounts are like gesting that the accounts can be a and employees than traditional 
Individual Retirement Accounts for way for families to accumulate money health policies but still give workers 
health care. They were created by to be used to cover health care costs coverage for medical catastrophes. 
Congress in 2003 so that workers in retirement, including Medicare "Employees who hadn't J?een able 
could cover some of their medical deductibles and long-term care insur­to get insurance coverage are enthu­
costs with pretax money if they have ance. siastic if they can high-deductible 
high-deductible health insurance JoAnn Mills Laing, author of "The policies because it gives them peace 
plans. Consumer's Guide to HSAs," said that of mind," said Laing, who is chief 
The idea is that workers and their there were 3.6 million HSA accounts executive of Information Strategies 
employers can fund the tax-free at the end of 2006 with $5.1 billion in Inc., a human resources consulting 
accounts, with withdrawals used for deposits, up from 1.1 million firm in Ridgefield, N.J. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 29, 2007 
Democrats predict surplus 
House plans to create windfall in five years iftax cuts allowed to expire 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -House Democrats pressed ahead Wednesday with a budget plan predicting a sizable surplus in five years, but only if President Bush's tax cuts expire in 2010 as scheduled. 
The majority Democrats' $2.9 trillion budget outline for next year would produce a $153 billion surplus in 2012 while raising spending for vet­erans, education, defense and national security. 
Democrats say the plan would finally mean a surplus after years of red ink under Bush and a GOP-controlled Congress. 
Republicans sa:d allowing tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 to expire in 2010 would amount to the "largest tax increase in American history." 
The future of the Bush tax cuts will likely be decided after the 2008 presidential election. While in the majority, congres­sional Republicans never held votes to make all of them per­manent, despite Bush's annual calls to do so. 
Under Congress' budget process, the annual budget resolution is a nonbinding out­line that guides future legisla­tion. It allows the two parties to show voters their competing fiscal visions, often without having to take the politically difficult votes to implement them. 
The Democratic budget blue­print calls for a nearly $25 bil­lion increase next year for domestic programs popular with lawmakers in both par­ties, approving Bush's record budget increase for the Pentagon's non-war budget and $145 billion for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan next year. 
Those spending boosts would cause the deficit to rise from $209 billion this year to $241 billion in 2009 before increased revenues from the expiration of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts rapidly generate a surplus. 
Republicans credit those tax cuts -on income, invest­ments, estates, married cou­ples and families with children, among other things -with reviving the economy from a recession early in Bush's first term. 
Extending those tax cuts would cost about $250 billion in 2012 alone. Democrats acknowledge many of the pro­visions -especially those aimed at middle-income tax­payers -will be renewed. 
"That decision will be taken when we reach it. When we have to cross that bridge, we'll cross that bridge," said House Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt Jr., D-S.C. "We hope we'll have a surplus by that point in time." 
For now, the budget plan would require lawmakers 
seeking to cut taxes or boost benefit programs -such as Medicare, children's health care or farm subsidies -to "pay for" the changes with tax increases or offsetting spend­ing cuts. 
That rule would greatly com­plicate efforts later this year to boost funding for a popular health insurance program for poor children. 
Democrats opted to put off politically painful decisions on shoring up the finances of Medicare and Social Security. 
Republicans countered with an alternative plan cutting $279 billion from federal bene­fit programs such as Medicare and Medicaid over the next five years -far greater cuts than proposed by Bush in February. 
The plan, authored by Paul Ryan of Wisconsin, top Republican on the budget panel, would fully extend the 2001 and 2003 rounds of tax cuts, at a cost of about $450 billion. But Ryan's plan is cer­tain to lose by a big margin Thursday. 
The Democratic measure is largely a response to com­plaints that Bush has short­changed programs funded each year by appropriations bills -including education, health research and grants to local governments -while offering big increases to the Pentagon and providing tax cuts tilted toward affluent, GOP-leaning constituencies. 

Marine Corps prohibits ne"W 'extra-large tattoos' 
Associated Press 
OCEANSIDE, Calif. -Five tat­tooed skulls stretch from Marine Cpl. Jeremy Slaton's right elbow to his wrist, spelling out the word "Death." He planned to add a tattoo spelling "Life" on his left arm, but that's on hold because of a Marine policy tak­ing effect Sunday. 
The Marines arc banning any new, extra-large tattoos below the elbow or the knee, saying such body art is harmful to the Corps' spit-and-polish image. 
Slaton and other grunts are not pleased. 
"I guess I'll get the other half later," grumbled the 24-year-old leatherneck from Eden Prairie, Minn. "It's kind of messed up." 
For many Marines, getting a tattoo is a rite of passage. They commonly get their forearms inscribed to remember fallen comrades, combat tours or loved ones, and often ask for. exotic designs that incorporate the Marine motto, Semper Fi, or "Always faithful." 
Dozens of Marines from Camp Pendleton, the West Coast's biggest Marine base, made last­minute trips to tattoo parlors in nearby Oceanside before the ban kicked in. 
"This is something I love to do," said Cpl. David Nadrchal, 20, of Pomona, who made an appointment to get an Iraqi flag and his deployment dates etched onto his lower leg. "The fact I can't put something on my body that I want -it's a big thing to tell me I can't do that." 
Nadrchal said he is unsure whether he will re-enlist: "There's all these little things. They are slowly chipping away at us." 
Marine Corps Commandant Gen. James T. Conway announced the policy change last week. 
"Some Marines have taken the liberty of tattooing themselves to a point that is contrary to our professional demeanor and the high standards America has come to expect from us," he said. "I believe tattoos of an excessive nature do not repre­sent our traditional values." 
The ban is aimed primarily at "sleeve" tattoos, the large and often elaborate designs on the biceps and forearms of many Marines. Similar designs on the lower legs will be forbidden as well. So will very large tattoos on the upper arm, if they are visible when a Marine wears his work­out T-shirt. Small, individual tat­toos will still be allowed on the arms and legs. The Marines already ban them on the hands. 
Marines already tattooed are exempt from the ban but cannot add to their designs anyone caught with fresh ink in the wrong places could be barred from re-enlistment or face disci­plinary action. Getting a prohib­ited tattoo coulq constitute a vio­lation of a lawful order, punish­able by up to two years in prison and a dishonorable discharge, Marine spokesman 1st Lt. Brian Donnelly said. 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hirin·g Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Adtnissions sta±T, the counselor is expected to tnake an important contribution to the recruihnent and selection of the first-year class by managing relations \Vith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and alutnni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and cotntnunication \Vithin the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual infonnation sessions. 
There are currently three counselor positions available on our staff for 2007-2008. 
Among our candidates, vve vvill seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish will be strongly preferred.) We \Vill also seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. Additional responsibilities \Vill be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrolhnent. Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity \Vith all aspects of student life at 
Notre Dame. Essential qualities include strong cornmunication and organizational skills, enthusiastn, diplotnacy and the \Villingness to \:v-ork long hours, including many evenings and Saturday tnomings. 
Please Note: Interviews will be scheduled after Easter. Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. 
Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.n·d.edu to be considered. Requisition # 020070065 
Thursday, March 29 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Ohio University revokes degree after plagiarism case 

information in a thesis, she said. 
Officials said 3 8 cases are pending. Since very few of the theses pulled from the random sample were flagged for possi­ble cheating, the university will not expand its review unless further allegations arise, Russ College Dean Dennis Irwin said. 
"We have remained commit­ted to due process -for the documents, authors and faculty involved ... while creating the country's best system for deal­ing with the issue. Any other documents discovered will be subject to the same scrutiny." 
WWII 
•
airmen honored 
Tuskegee pilots first all-black military unit 
Associated Press 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. Hecognition has been a long time coming for Milton Crenshaw and other members of the Tuskegee Airmen, the first all-black unit in the Army Air Corps. 
But now, in the span of one week, Crenshaw has bePn hon­ored by the state of Arkansas, and he and other survivors of the unit will receive the Congressional Gold Medal for their work as fighter pilots dur­ing World War II. 
Without men like Crenshaw, the unit would not have been as successful, Gov. Mike Beebe said Tuesday as he presented Crenshaw a plaque for his dedi­cation, service and commit­ment. 
"I don't think there's any question that nobody had a greater track record as a unit in World War II than the Tuskegee Airmen," Beebe said. "Over 100 kills and . . . not a single loss in combat as a result of enemy fire. That didn't just happen, somebody trained those guys to be that good." 
Two historians have said research shows the Airmen did lose some planes to enemy fire during World War II, and one former bomber co-pilot said last year that his plane was shot down while being escorted by the unit. Few would question, though, that the Tuskegee Airmen made a powerful contri­bution. 
Crenshaw, 89, was named Primary Flight Instructor in 1942 at Tuskegee Army Air Field in Tuskegee, Ala. 
"I sent all the other guys over there," Crenshaw said. "My job was to shove them out and make sure they had a good understanding ... of how to go out, fight and come back to home base." 
On Thursday, he and about 200 other survivors of the Tuskegee Airmen will receive the Congressional Gold Medal in the Rotunda of the Capitol, a venue their race once would have prevented them from entering. The medal is the high­est civilian award bestowed by Congress, and also may be awarded to military personnel. 

Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Ohio University revoked the master's degree of a mechanical engi­neering student accused of using others' work in a thesis, the most severe action yet in a review of dozens of research papers, the school said Wednesday. 
The university would not identify the student or give details about the questioned portions of the thesis, citing academic privacy laws. 
The student appealed after being notified of the university's 
,~­
i 
I 
I 
! f,,_ c 's 1:..--plan that gJts me ""-~!}thing I net-d: 
.FREE Incoming Picture Messages 

j(us.Cellular 

Wc cum,-d with )'Oil'.
--_ 
Check out the ALL NEW getusc.com
!•••• Devin 
Oklahoma 
1 -888-buy-uscc 
--, __"'Jo :---_-.., Motorola Silver RAZR 
~"~~.:· !:,.-::,' :·:::~::..;:,·• 
Mobile AJM"' application Is a separate service requiring separate set·up. 

Off~ 'tal::J -~1tt1 ~)·;a )eaJ' YJ"'f1t): agr€0C"lfJ1! ~_1('1 n1de 3:132 P~1t:S ::::f $48.9-3 d~·."! hJjl:;! ,t\1! ~&i!c:)? apreer,!p,nt sut.je;:t tc rm... le.'"1ir:.31:Gf: it'f. Crwt Jr_.pi:JoJ! [~.£{~..: $:{} GLttV"JI!cn 1&4. s:~::. eqJ.uooni til::flQB lffi ;~OtT:l~n~ Mg~. fn-33. Sttctk:lrges. cvernpe ~.:hargi:$. i3t{~ ~:t>:n:i npp~y. $0.00 ~f'(l\Ki:UV (b:.~ P.f:o:s..u.; h.?e atl~A ti~:<> ~~ ~nt :; IJX ~':I Ql'.i&.fr':fr#:t k:.:.!uir~~ \.ha!qf;. i ocr~ ~=~t.·•• ,:.. ._. ..<.":~:.¥' ~!(i :~m!ity ~'<tf '.i&y.l.~.:ge n-.r.rlf!! up to th.: r~::xr !d rr~=~Jt;; U~: !)! W'...~W ~xnJitu!f~ Cf':.Y;~ncu Gf r;;.lll"!'f.'l<: ;:rF"J a.MU.~.rn.~ (){:\::~ ff..'S1rif.ii.l~ :JP;lj. Unlimited CALL ME Minutes• f.!e :"(:: :W.~xi f!'C:'T: :Yt:iO;}'~ mf'~•:,:; .1:-,; ;::·::-; <;t;:l:!:,}t.!f:: ;;r:.tv v.t(;fl rr:£.$-:.1),1 ca~· ··: -.~~:t~ ~·~-.~ ~~~ .xr..-, Lcx;r:i :Jll:f~ ffCG Cific<t frcrn ~:n"'.Ui et.fir:g a:::<J Unlimited Nights & Weekends ..<~.id M:r~d:t; tw'Gt('l!: Fffin~! prr:. t1 6:h9 ari. £J:x::l.':di ooy Sa~:;:ttry !rid.'~:-;. 'J rt:t ?::U Wt:~~e:l1 mnu;es :;;~ .1;n:::::ti.l :r: I..X~-\! f.:&.=1ng ar~l cny Picture Messaging ral.i'ft% U.S (.~H::l!-s· ~.:r;r.a~w.j ph~.:tlfi! ani u:.1..1iJfl lt:Ml Picu.l!e WB:.~1g::r.; iJI'l~Y av:~:~.U.*.: iJil f.&.W~?-'>'>11 ()'_'!fl.~jge :;ifi:!::l•. Yr;.; nkl¥ lit! dtJQ:;:'G fOf f.ic!HtP-:f:ff.)."<:.~;; sw.:: !ro11: you: rtn"le. ~'Bn ii no~ tl$1i'Y'$red 1c1 1!11:; ·n!l:f~~~1 ~Jf:ll.lJB :C· f."f,Jien L":f o:tnootbi~i i&..X.'E$. US. C~,U,:J(» is ::01 resr;ons:b.:.3t..:~ cor:ter:t oi pict:.:!Bf. Text Messaging ::i:g1!al r::fo'lO 3:')j 30:\-10:· (equi."t'Ci. Lh3-3!'3 rr:us! be :r.lh;.i: ·1~.$itBi iL'(:Ji a:UirJg area iO! 3et\'kx to v..'C.rk.. ~-tnei~)rl:jjlty rn~y~J~~)'J!'!I'J on ot"lef carnert reb\(il'i-0 ar:!j rt:t.ne~: U.S. Ce<k;ia« ~iGe:~ n::;t qi;(J'flr!lre :fiff>:1..'\~ ~~.ffi ct. ~irr:ei~ltf.:..~. Ir,o.~teroc1er iirnil par rr~~:ve kY le:4 :':\a&;;-:igir~J. U.S. f.R!tJ~~·i wJ: :~xn9.ble kt cu:t.er:t o: ?Pef.H'~Ih. A. cn._-tl~le of $0 1:; per outqrJlng rnes::;a~1e c:.pn!ies If :v; :?'*'~Mgin~! patY.<\le i~. ~1;11e::te:1 r:.: i:lJ~o:.ir:q p:)'.i<c'Y,Jf.: !!:nit ~ ,;_,.,a;eded FD! ~~\8!1..::: ~·Cf®l-t.W1. tT,:.t~ W:lter:t jr~·flRJg you: ~hY~,:: n:;rr:tJer m:.ry be ir:turc.1Yt.it£KI by tt:r!j !)illtiE..:S f'Jy y;:?"J U.S. CJJit.i~t~'8 b:tM:.wfa:·:g \'Gli SJIGi.:.~ t(:J tiO tx::J1d tt; Jil tB."~:':S m:d a.tK.tllr.~m 31 Y~WW u~o.:~.;~.L'cnv;1es&?Jtngi.:Jn~3} «..' 2tXJT ACt U.C. .AU ~igilts f1trov1..l(i . 
.'\~"· .•.. ':.~ -.-..~. ,,..,ft-;.-'~·.~·~f" t: {"'1':" :;.-.! ;,t.... l ~~<::!f::·~: :··.;.-;·~-: :.!' ..>!!;>1"'!~-,:jjf·: ,-~(:1 l.t:': "'dj::!~4· 
1 000 Anytime Minutes for $49.99 
• 
Unlimited CALL ME Minutes® 

• 
Unlimited Night &Weekend Minutes starting at 7 p.m. 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 


plan in February, but Provost Kathy Krendl denied the appeal. 
The university said it was fin­ishing up a sweeping review of dissertations and theses it start­ed last year after a graduate student reported to administra­tors that he found plagiarized passages while doing research using archived theses in a uni­versity library. 
The school, which barred two professors who oversaw many of the theses from advising graduate students, checked 180 mechanical engineering papers for cheating. Some of the papers were selected randomly from 1, 500 submitted since 1980 to the school's Russ College of Engineering and Technology. The university, in Athens in southeast Ohio, used computer programs to compare them with papers that had simi­lar titles or departments, check­ing for duplications in the texts. 

Colleen Girton, a spokes­woman for the engineering col­lege, said the school undertook rigorous steps to root out pla­giarism, and a Rutgers University professor specializ­ing in academic dishonesty agreed. 
"I don't know of any other school that has gone to such great lengths to identify cheat­ing," said Donald McCabe, who helped Ohio University officials design their review process. 
Twelve graduates were required to rewrite all or parts of their theses that contained minor infractions, such as improper citations of others' work, university spokeswoman Sally Linder said. A decision to strip someone's degree means the student went beyond improper citation by being intentionally deceptive and knowingly using plagiarized 
Take our best network challenge, 
•
test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, March 29, 2007 
THE OBSERVER I wish I weren't a liar 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro 'Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
Paul Coffey was one of the greatest defensemen ever to play in the National Hockey League. During his career, he scored 396 goals and played in 14 NHL All-Star Games. 
So sometimes when I want to impress people, I say that this sovereign on skates is my uncle. We do share a last name, after all. 
I tell them that Uncle Paul was born in Ontario, Canada, and that he's 45 years old. I even mention that Uncle Paul ranks second all-time among NIIL defensemen in career goals, assists and points. 
The statistics are true. But is it true that he's my dad's brother? Absolutely not. 
I could admit to being a liar. but in the spirit of a certain upcoming holiday, 
a.k.a. April Fool's Day, let's just say that I attempt to fool people-tho problem being that few people are, in fact, fooled by my fib. 
Why? Because my potential fool-ees always want to know more. The typical fib-breaking question-"What's your Uncle Paul like at Thanksgiving dinner?" 
But of course, Paul has never spent the fourth Thursday of November feast-

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey 
Grind 

ing on my Grandma Tootsie's prized bird. 
I could've answered my potential fool­ees by citing Paul's Canadian heritage and then insisting that he doesn't observe Amerkan Thanksgiving. But that would've been just as disappointing as the answer I usually give -I attrib­ute Paul's Thanksgiving absence to a family feud. 
This obviously prompts more question­ing, as the potential fool-ces try to glean insight into Paul's character. The ques­tions -"Why would your father light with a three-time winner of the James Norris Memorial Trophy?" "Doesn't your turkey-basting grandmother miss him?" "And if' Paul were at Thanksgiving, would he watch the Detroit Lions game on TV?" 
But of' course, I can shed no light on his NFL loyaltic~s. While I may have memorized some of the celebrated num­ber seven's statistics, I don't know wh0ther he'd l'old or crumple his napkin. I don't know whether he'd want the dark meat of the turkey or the white meat. I don't nven know whether he'd usc his fork or his lingers to eat that turkey. 
But I do know this-life is in thn details. 
Anyone who can spell "Wikipedia" can see that Paul Col'l'ey was inducted into the NIIL Hall of Fame in 2004. But what about the first thing he said after he heard he'd be commemorated forever in Toronto? Who was the first person he told? And how did he choose the outfit he wore to the ceremony? That's what makes Paul interesting; that's what his life's about. 
I don't know those details. So clearly, I don't know Paul either. 
Likewise, your 3.96 GPA and Flex 14 Meal Plan can only say so much about you. And what people want to know about you is not that you've been on the Dean's List every semester. Anyone who ean hack into IrishLink can see that. But instead -why do you always study in that particular study carrel? Why can't you survive without reading the New York Times before breakfast every morning? What's the one thing that you're most thankful for? That's what makes you interesting; that's what your life's about. 
In the end, it wouldn't make me much more interesting if Paul Cofl'ey did, in I'aet, mail me a check for my birthday each year. Perhaps what makes me interesting is that I feel so compelled to lie about it. 
Life is in the details. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. /fer column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERYERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is nor govemed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on coment. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofTbe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all'readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tions regarding Observerpolicies should be directedw Editor in ChiefMike Gil/Qon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhliWd Monday through Frir.by ~cpt during exam and vacation periods. Asubscription ro The-Obsc:rvcr is $100 fur one ~cmic ~r; $55 for one sc:matcr. 
The Observt.r is publish((l ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall &ndaddrCss corrections t-o: Notre Dam.e.-JN 46156-0779 TheOb=va PeriodkaJ posuge: paid :u Notte Dm.c: P.O. Box 779 and additional. mailing offices. Ol4 South Dining Hall 
Nutre Dame, IN 465-56-0n9 
Tht obsc~r is. a mtmbcr ofthe Associated Pres!~. All ttpmduction rights: art 
r~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Clarifying leprechaun origins 
In his March 26 Letter to the Editor ("Logo conflict embar­rassing"), freshman Charles Cossell wrote that Notre Dame's leprechaun logo was actually designed by Cathedral High School. That is incorrect. According to University records, the leprechaun character was designed by the late Ted Drake of Elkhart, Ind., and used for the first time in 1964. Mr. Drake also created the logo of the Chicago Bulls, designed several 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

wwwcaglecanoonsco~~ 77/ePe.(JrJ::ttZpa;T~/.Z.'i'/07 
Notre Dame football program covers and did all the print art­work for the children's program "Kukla, Fran and Ollie." 
Dennis K. Brown Assistant Vice President News and Information March 28 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Graphics OBSERVER POLL 

Marcela Berrios Madeline Nies Kelly Meehan Sports 
~s b · 1·1
·i

1.Ju ,nut a.etter 1
Mandi Stirone Jay Fitzpatrick What is your take on 

"Success is how high you bounce when you hit bottom. " 
John-Paul Witt Bill Brink activism at Notre Dame? 
Viewpoint Tim LaBarge Alyssa Scene 

~1: to the Editor at li
·:''t . ' . . . . ............... ··. .·• .. .. .. .. ··' 
General George Patton 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

former U.S. Army general 
Brauweiler Erin McGinn 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

••~ www.ndsmcobserver.com 1: 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 29, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Protests aimed at solidarity 
I want to offer a reflection on the purpose ofthe protests held by members ofthe Catholic Peace Fellowship and Catholic Workers questioning the presence of ROTC at Notre Dame. In "Solicitudo Rei Socialis," Pope John Paul II told Catholics that the only way to dismantle structures of sin is to approach them in a diametrically opposed attitude, i.e. solidarity {SRS, no. 38). In this spirit of Christian solidarity, the protest held in front ofthe Main Building called the administration to examine its contribution in training sol­diers to fight in a war that two popes and the vast majority of bishops worldwide have called illegal, immoral and unjust. 
This is not to say that the soldiers that ROTC trains are immoral or unjust people. It is my firm conviction, however, that this has to do with the ethical formation that Notre Dame tries to provide and not with a ROTC program that systematically trains many of our noblest young men and women to dehumanize the other and surrender their con­sciences. In effect, ROTC soldiers are put in a position in which, as Christians, they must dismiss the prevailing norm of our military, that soldiers ought not be conscientious peo­ple. In this way, the protests were a call to solidarity not only with Iraqis, but with soldiers who struggle to live their faith in conscience. 
This protest must also not be viewed in isolation. One problem with protests in general and the anti-war move­ment in particular is that they are done in confrontation with those in power. However, to encourage conversion of hearts and the fostering of solidarity for peace, dialogue and common discernment are also necessary. The Notre Dame Peace Fellowship, ofwhich I am a member, has been and will continue to be dedicated to dialogue and friendship with the soldiers on our campus. In this way, it can be hoped that conscience can be restored to our consideration ofwar and peace, and that Americans reject a dehumanized vision of the enemy and build peace with love in our hearts. 
Bradley Jenkins off campus senior March 28 
Students not apathetic 
Believe it or not activism, can be practiced by both liberals and conservatives. The March 28 cover story ("Campus struggles with activism, apathy") only tells a partial story from a biased point of view. From the ridiculous claim that the Iraq war may "potentially" last as long as our 20-year involvement in Vietnam to the one-sided coverage of social activism, Eileen DuftY and Meghan Wons fail to tell a truthful and fair story. Conservatives proudly and strongly have taken action in defense of our positions. Scores of students traveled to our nation's capital to mark the anniversary of the infamous Roe v. Wade decision. Many more were active on Rep. Chocola's re-election campaign. Is that not activism? While it may be true that Notre Dame does not have the level of activism of UC-Berkeley, the levels are far healthier than the authors portray. 
Patrick George Siegfried Hall sophomore March 28 

Calls to examine the repercussions of our actions · 
We owe it to the University 

It is sadly ironic that Patrick McMaster's insights ("Nothing wrong with our 'Reputation,"' March 28) appeared on the same day as a piece examining student apathy. I hope McMaster's jocular tone shows he meant to exaggerate. However, ifhis letter is even partly based on gen­uine viewpoints-his own, or of anyone in our community-we have other serious problems on our campus. To be clear, this isn't a tirade against college drinking. 
We're all supposed to be adults here: we can make our own decisions. But ifour entire social lives revolve around the Bud lights in our hands, I think we're negatively impacting Notre Dame beyond Friday night. We're disrespecting our futures and those who work to offer us futures. McMaster discusses students' lack ofreal responsibility, and he's right. I'm not support­ing a family or running a country; I can afford to have fun. Time with friends is an essential part of our college experience. However, I hope we're not paying more than $40,000 a year just to get wasted every weekend and attend a few classes in between. 
Think of everyt11ing else we have to engage us. Academic inquiry and research beyond our normal classes. Creative and performing arts. Service and social action groups working on issues in our local and global communities. These, and much more, teach us to stretch our minds beyond textbook information and to develop an informed worldview-essential quali­ties for our leadership. Having a couple drinks on occasion probably doesn't prevent us from engaging in what our university has to offer. But we could question whether excessive drinking now keeps us from opportunities we can't buy at a bar. That would be disrespecting our future. Tied in with personal lack of respect is lack ofrespect for our educators. I'll use the term edu­cator broadly: from professors and administrators to all the service people who run our school. 
Don't we understand that everyone here is working for our benefit? I've talked to numerous custodians who enjoy their jobs here because they love to see students inspired. Again, we don't need to forsake all "normal" college social life to respect our educators. However, maybe we should think carefully about how we show gratefulness to people who give us so much. Don't we owe it to ourselves, and our community, to take advantage oftl1e whole Notre Dame experience? To not waste it away? 
Brennan Bollman 
Lewis Hall 
sophomore 
March 28 

Creation doesn't entitle excess 
Fifty. Seven. Zero. Fifty is the nunilier of dollars I would pay Patrick McMaster to read Aristotle's Nicomachean Ethics. Seven is the nunilier of times I swore while reading his Letter to the Editor. Zero is the nunilier oftrue statements he made in it. 
Is all we have to worry about as Notre Dame students when to eat? If so, then my pessimism about intellectual life on this campus has been confirmed. If any­one really thinks that he is attending this University, at the cost of 40 some-odd thousand dollars a year, simply to get wasted and "have fun,'1 then the so-called "townies" do have a right to be upset. Are we not students at the nation's foremost Catholic university to develop our minds and to learn how to lead a life ofvirtue? 
McMaster's letter shows that the for­mer has been forgotten and the latter has been mocked. If God did not want us to partake in the miraculous golden good­ness that is beer, why would he create it in the first place? What about food? If he didn't want us to eat it, then why would good-tasting food exist? The answer is that God most certainly wants us to par­take in the things of creation, alcohol and good food included. However, the ability to partake is not license to abuse. To jus­tify drunkenness to the point ofvomiting with a miracle of our Lord is analogous to justifying severe obesity with God's cre­ation offood to begin with. Just as a puri­tanical, or as McMaster calls it, a "prohi­bition-reminiscent," attitude errs on a deficiency in partaking in pleasure, so too 
does his attitude err on the side of excess. Both puritanism and drunkenness with regard to drinking are vices, and virtue is found in temperance -knowing what, where, when and {perhaps most impor­tantly) how much to drink. 
I now realize I erred in my earlier statement; one thing McMaster said is almost correct, and sadly so. His letter itself proves it: "trying to convince college students not to drink makes less sense than the Church of Scientology." But this effort is only absurd because of the outra­geously widespread lack ofrationality among students. I would not be surprised ifthe majority of students, who, accord­ing to McMaster, lack any rational capaci­ty when it comes to pleasure, are inca­pable of being convinced of any truth at all. 
John Buttaci Morrissey Manor sophomore March 28 
Purpose of 'Touchdown Moses' 
No.1 Moses 

I am sure you have received many letters in regards to the March 27 Letter to the Editor titled '"First Down Moses" underlies negative attitudes toward other religions.' "First down" Moses? Are you kidding? This was a man who parted the Red Sea, spoke with burning shrubbery and induced swarms oflocusts to descend upon the Egyptians. Does the scowling statue with finger upraised really appear be celebrating a first down? Are we return­ing to the dark days of the Bob Davie Era where a first down was cause for biblical figures to stand on the heads ofthe vanquished in celebration? While we're making ludicrous comparisons between fig­ures such as Moses and the Sept. 11 tragedy, why not knock the individual on the library down a few pegs. How about "Complete Catch" Jesus instead? Don't sell the proud tradition ofthe University short -it's "Nunilier One Moses." 
Matthew McCoyd Chicago, Ill. Class of2000 March 28 

Moses was an honorable man 
While reading the March 27 edition of The Observer, I saw the Letter to the Editor by Xavier Lebec regarding First Down Moses. What Lebec fails to realize in his argument is that a greater picture exists. 
First, let us for a moment discuss gods {not just the Jewish/Christian God) at the time the Old Testament was writ­ten. Gods were viewed at that time as wrathful deities, capa­ble oftwo emotions: neutrality and anger. People from every nation would smite others in the name oftheir god. The more violence displayed, the more powerful the god was viewed to be. In order to contend with the other gods, the Jewish/Christian God had to follow a sinillar model. It would be far too idealistic to assume that the Israelites would have followed a pacifistic, "weak-looking" God, when they were surrounded by hundreds of other powerful gods. However, one major difference exists between the Jewish/Christian God and the other gods: the element oflove. The Jewish/Christian God is the only God from that time period to exhibit love and compassion for his people. This is not to say that God did not punish his people; the verses Lebec cites from Exodus describe an instance in which God had to correct his people. The difference is in God's reaction after the punishment, which is one oflove. 
In addition, It would be incredibly foolish to assume that any god would condone the worship of other gods. I challenge Lebec to find any god that condones the worship of gods from other religions. I very seriously doubt that Buddha would con­done the worship ofJesus, or that Allah would allow his peo­ple to worship Buddha. We shouldn't hold the Jewish/Christian God to any other standard. 
Lastly, to hold the University responsible for building "a stat­ue commemorating atrocities sinillar to those of Sept. 11" is not only irrelevant, but completely inappropriate. This is a Christian institution, and it simply built a statue to a man vital to the history ofthe Christian faith. Moses was simply follow­ing God"s command, as he was told to do. To blame Moses and label him a "terrorist" is offensive to the Christian faith. Moses is ofincredible importance to the development ofthe Jewish and ultimately Christian faith, and he should be rewarded and honored as such. 
Nick Bloom Zahm Hall freshman March 27 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, March 29, 2007 
MOVIE REVIEWS 
'Shooter' hits mark for some, fires blanks for others 
By ERIN McGINN Assistam Scene Ediror 
Arguably the best action films are a solid combination of tension. explosions and comedy. If it has a serviceable plot, that's even better -but it's not entirely necessary. "Shooter," directed by Antoine Fuqua ("Training Day"), definitely meets these criteria. 
The f11m opens with a prologue that introduces Bob Lee Swagger (Mark Wahlberg). a Marine sniper, and his 

partner who are Ethiopia. The mis­sion goes wrong, his partner is killed and Swagger is left without sup­port and forced to find his own way out. 
Flash forward 36 months and Swagger has exiled himself to 
on a mission in 
Screenwriter
Shooter 
Jonathan Lemkin ("Lethal Weapon 4") does a fairly good job taking the politically-heavyDirector: Antoine Fuqua novel and turning it Writer: Jonathan Lemkin into a high-octaneStarring: Mark Wahlberg, Michael Pena, Ned 

action flick. The 
Beatty and Danny Glover 

an isolated cabin in the Wyoming moun­tains with only his dog for company. He is visited by retired Colonel Isaac Johnson (Danny Glover) who comes with a patriotic proposition. According to their sources, someone is going to attempt to assassinate the President dur­ing one of his upcoming public appear­ances. The Colonel asks Swagger to check out the three sites where the President will appear and determine how an assassination could be pulled off. 
Swagger's reconnaissance is used against him and he is set up as the one behind the attempt. During his escape, he disarms new FBI agent Nick Memphis (Michael Pena, "Crash"), and Memphis 
MARK WAHLBERG FUN FACTS Former singer for Marky Mark .and the Funky Bu:Qch Brother Donnie was in The New Kids on the Block·. · Former underwear model for Calvin Klein Has .a third ni,pple on the left side of his chest . . Has a tattoo ofBob M.atley on his shoulder Nominated. for an Academy Award for "The Departed" · 


secretly looks into the case when he real­izes that there arc facts that don't match up. He evades the government of'lieials, which sets up the cat-and-mouse chase that dominates the movie. 
On the whole, "Shooter" works wnll as a shoot-em-up action flick that is steeped in political intrigue, in the vein of the "Bourne" movies. Like the "Bourne" franchise, "Shooter" is also taknn from a book -it's based on Stephen Hunter's novel "Point of Impact." Depending on the success of the movie, ·thern are two more Swagger books that could be made into movies, giving Wahlberg his first 
franchise. 
weakest part of the 
film is the political intrigue that remains in the film, as it is extremely undeveloped and only used when it is needed to continue the action. The last quarter of the movie takes a downward spiral in terms of plot, becoming highly unrealistic and at times confusing until the very end of the film. 
Aside from the frequent explosions, the film's real enjoyment comes from its per­formances. Mark Wahlberg does an out­standing job as the renegade action hero and has further solidified himself as one of the big players in Hollywood today. Also turning in a great performance is Michael Pena as the FBI agent still wet behind the ears. The scene-stealer of the film however goes to the brief appear-
By BRIAN DOXTADER Senior Staff Writer 
Howard Hawks once quipped that a great film is "three good scenes" and "no bad scenes." Antoine Fuqua's "Shooter" manages to fulfill the former, but it's the second part of Hawks' definition that sinks the film. As per its title, "Shooter" doesn't have a lot on its mind, past blood-letting destruction, but its pretense toward social awareness renders the picture inelleetive, even as a mochanical blockbuster. 
"Shooter" follows Bob Lee Swagger (Mark Wahlberg), a retired military sniper who is pressed back into service by Colonel Johnson (Danny Glover). Johnson informs Swagger that there is going to be an attempt on the President's life and asks him to help figure out where and when the killer may strike. Swagger reluctantly agrees, but soon discovers that the whole thing is a set-up and he is chased by the FBI. Along the way, he enli<>ts the help of a rookie agent named Nick Memphis (Michael Pena) and 

ance by Lev on I lelm ("The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada"), who delivers an unforgettable turn as the expert of all things gun-related. Ned Beatty ("Rudy") and Elias Koteas ("Zodiac") do well in the bad-guy roles as a corrupt senator and nearly-psychotic agent. 
Turning in a surprisingly awful per­formance is Danny Glover. Not only is he completely unconvincing (and seemingly bored) throughout the film, but for some unbeknownst reason he speaks with an atrocious and laughable lisp. It's similar to when someone shoves a lot of cotton in their mouths to try to imitate Brando in "The Godfather," and instead comes off looking like a slobbering idiot. Considering the experience that he had in the "Lethal Weapon" franchise, it is highly disappointing to see him doing such a poor job. · 
While it is far from being a perfectly­contrived action flick, "Shooter" accom­plishes what it's there to do and is an enjoyable popcorn movie. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

his partner's old Shooter written that the initial 
and monologue scenes, tries to question what patriotism truly is. Unfortunately, most of the scenes are contrived, and one particular mountaintop confrontation is so awkward and badly­
girlfriend, Sarah (Kate Mara). It isn't long before he dis­covers a full-blown conspiracy involv­ing Montana Sen. Charles Meachum (Ned Beatty). 

It's not that "Shooter" is a badly made film, though its penchant for awkward cuts renders parts of it initially (and momentar­ily) incomprehensible. There are several well-choreographed scenes, particularly an opening sequence (which ultimately winds up being the film's best segment) and a carnage-ridden battle outside of a house. 
The problem, however, is that "Shooter" is not nearly as complicated as it sounds. In fact, it purports to be a "thinldng-man's thriller" and, through awkward dialogue reaction is to cringe. 
As "Shooter" progress­
es, it becomes increas­
ingly obvious that the 

violence of the tilm is not the means to an end, it is the end ­Swagger's solution seems fueled by the sys­tem's failures, but that's precisely when "Shooter" loses the thread and becomes unrealistic and unlikeable. 
The film's pretenses toward social awareness make it even more mindless ­its naivety is cloying, its observations shal­low and contrived, its convictions laugh­able. There are no more redeeming quali­ties here than there were in "Rambo," and at least that film had the courage to revel in its buffoonery. "Shooter" is ultimately so simple-minded in its vigilantism that it becomes almost offensive -the longer the film drags on and the more people that Swagger kills, the harder it becomes to support him as a character. Yet the film treats Swagger like the ultimate hero ­the audience is clearly supposed to root for this guy, but his methods and ruthless and his moral character questionable. 
Nothing really sets "Shooter" apart, and the problems of plotting and dialogue are enough to make it a forgettable film. Wahlberg is game throughout, but not even his charisma can save "Shooter" from being another picture that fails to live up to Fuqua's potential. Nobody will likely go into "Shooter" expecting a masterpiece, but they might be expecting a fun and exciting, if pointless, action thriller -but even that audience will leave disappointed, because "Shooter" is a film that wants to be mor:e, when it should've known enough to be less. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, March 29, 2007 
page 13 
DVD REVIEW 
'Blood Diamond' sparkles on special-edition DVD 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Very seldom do movies come along that combine an all-star cast, heavy action and a eompelling moral message into a successful and cohesive package. "Blood Diamond" is one of those movies. 
This Ed Zwick ("The Last Samurai") film examines what happens when dia­mond smuggler Danny Archer (Leonardo DiCaprio) and a fisherman named Solomon (Djimon Ilounsou, "The Island") eross paths in war-torn Sierra Leone while rescuing both a rare and immensely valuable pink diamond and the tisherman's kidnapped son from sav­age militia forces. 
What ensues is a tense and jealous conf1iet between Archer's desire for the diamond and Solomon's quest to reunite with his son. Each man is forced to help the other in order to achieve his goals, until each realizes he is working harder to help the other man than himself. 
A war journalist (Jennifer Connelly) who accompanies the two men serves as the lens through which the events of the 
Blood Diamond 
Two-Disc Special Edition 
Warner Horne Video 


movie occur, offering insights and chal­lenges to their dilemma, but never judg­ing anyone's actions, no matter how self­ish they may be. 
The actors in "Blood Diamond" are superb, especially DiCaprio and Hounsou, whose performances earned them Academy Award nominations for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actor, respectively. DiCaprio shows a dark and tormented side -while pulling off a South African accent -that continually forces the audience to question his motives and morals. 
This movie is Hounsou's jump from obscure supporting actor to lead actor, for his role is just as central to "Blood Diamond" as DiCaprio's. He handles the spotlight with ease and demonstrates that he has the ability to act right along­side the major players in Hollywood. 
The tale "Blood Diamond" tells is very human, but the scope is as epic of any of Zwick's prior films, including his most recent, "The Last Samurai." The main action scene in the film is the recreation of the siege of Freetown, a 1999 rebel attack. on Sierra Leone's capi­tal city. The violent and brutal scene 

lasts several minutes and is heavy on gun­shots, explosions and adrenaline, setting the tone for the rest of the film. 
The third critical component of "Blood Diamond" is the grip­ping message it tells about "conflict dia­monds"-diamonds acquired in war-torn countries like Sierra Leone of the 1990s and sold on the world market. The images and plot (which is inspired by a true story) give audiences cause to stop and wonder where our jewelry really comes from. 


The two-disc special edition DVD has special features that give viewers further cause to wonder about this important topic. "Blood on the Stone" is an inform­ative hour-long documentary that details the journey of a diamond from the earth to the store, shedding light on this some­times difficult and tension-filled process. 
Other features include an inside look at the effort put into the siege of Freetown sequence and an insightful commentary from Zwick. The presenta­tion of the film is excellent, especially highlighting the sound editing and mix­ing, which also earned "Blood Diamond" an Oscar nomination. 
While "Blood Diamond" did not win any Oscars among its five nominations, this does not detract from the fact that it was one of the best films of 2006. Strong acting combines with an exciting and thought-provoking story that keeps the audience engaged from beginning to end. While the two-disc DVD does not overflow with features, there is a perfect mix of extras that detail both the film and its message. Just like the title sug­gests, "Blood Diamond" is ultimately all about a mix -between brutality and beauty -where we all must find a happy medium. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'The Host' fails to deliver thrills with killer tadpole 
"Mimic," replaced 
The Host

instead by "Turistas" decide to ignore and "The Texas 
this to try to Chainsaw Massacre." hunt and kill 
For whatever rea­the giant tad­son, Hollywood pro­pole, thus res­
Director: Joon-Ho Bong 

ducers have deemed cuing Hyun-seo.
Writers: Chul-hyun Baek and Joon­

giant monsters no The problem
Ho Bong 

longer scary enough with "The Host" 
Starring: Kang-ho Song, Hie-bong 

to warrant lavish is that it tries 
Byeon, Hae-il Park and Du-na Bae 

budgets and produc­to combine 
comes of age, the ungainly looking monster decides to wreak havoc on the residents of Seoul, eating some and taking others back to its sewer lair. 
One victim whom the monster keeps alive is Hyun-seo, the granddaughter of Park Hee-bong, who operates a snack bar on the banks of the river. Although the U.S. military declares quarantine throughout the entire city, Park and his three dysfunc­tional children 

By SEAN SWEANY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
With the abundance of "slasher" films taking over the horror genre at the box office, Hollywood seems to have shied away from making the "monster" film in attempts to scare audiences. Gone are films like "Godzilla" and 
tions. Fans of the fad­ing genre received cause to hope when it was announced that the South Korean monster film "Gwoemul" would be released in the 
U.S. under the title "The Host." 
As a highly anticipated foreign film, expectations were high that "The Host" would become the next "Jaws" upon its stateside release. Unfortunately, some­where between a tadpole being mutat­ed into a giant tadpole and people try­ing to kill it with Molotov cocktails, the film falls far short of these expecta­tions. 
The movie begins when a U.S. mili­tary facility dumps toxic chemicals into Seoul's Han River, eventually causing an innocent tadpole to morph into a giant, man-eating tadpole. When it several movies 
into one. There is a storyline about the deadbeat sin­gle father trying to raise a daughter. There is a storyline about a family try­ing to cope with its emotional difficul­ties. There is an undercurrent of satire about U.S. involvement in an affair that should rightfully be handled by South Korea. And hanging over all of this is a storyline about a giant mutant tadpole. 
No matter that any of these stories could have potential if developed prop­erly -they are so lazily developed by director Joon-Ho Bong that no one ends up caring at the end of the film which characters will live or die. More often than not, humor arises -unin­tentionally -out of situations in the film, even in what should be a sad scene when the family is mourning the death of one of their own. 


The most depressing aspect of "The Host" is that the monster is not scary. The CGI is poor and the monster mostly lumbers around like a St. Bernard, making it funnier than anything else. We assume that the monster is a "host," but this is not made clear, nor is there anything at the end of the movie to frighten viewers that the mutant has spawned offspring that will continue to terrorize society. 
The two-hour running time seems to drag on interminably, and at the film's conclusion, one wonders whether the plot could have been carried out in half the time so as to endure only half the pain. 
There is a chance that "The Host" is intentionally trying to be a B-list movie, but it fails at that goal. It also fails to do what a good monster movie should do -make the viewer fear the mon­ster. 
Viewers can rest assured that if they choose to endure "The Host," they will be no more afraid of tadpoles coming out of the theater as they did going in to it. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 29, 2007 
NBA 

Marbury's clutch three clinches win for Knicks 
Pierce leads Celtics to double-OT win over Magic, Wallace and Bobcats defeat Hawks in franchise-record 27th win 
Associated Press Quentin Richardson during "It's about us getting stops, what was their longest skid of but more importantly wanting 
NEW YORK -The way things the season. to assert the effort to get stops," have been going for the New "I think we've got a talented Cavs coach Mike Brown said. York Knicks, it wouldn't have team. I think we're talented James said the problems were been a surprise if Stephan enough to adapt to any kind of on both ends of the floor, not Marbury's 3-pointer spun out. situation," Curry said. "We've just on defense. 
But down it went, and the been hit with a lot this season "I never disagree with my Knicks' lagging spirits -as and have been fortunate to play coach," he said. "He puts us in well as their playoff hopes -through it. You've just got to go a position to win basketball went up. out there and play hard." games. I think at times it was, 
Eddy Curry scored 13 of his LeBron James scored 24 at times it wasn't. 25 points in the fourth quarter, points for the Cavaliers, who "We had some opportunities Marbury rattled in a clinching had a chance to tie the game at to win, we had some opportuni­3-pointer with 8.5 seconds left, 94, but Zydrunas Ilgauskas ties to lose the game. WP lost and New York beat the made only one of two free the game on the defensive end." Cleveland Cavaliers 97-93 on throws with 34 seconds left. The short-handed Knicks, Wednesday night to snap a four­The Knicks ran the shot clock playing without three key play­game losing streak. down before Marbury launched ers, got a big game from Curry, 
The injury-depleted Knicks a 3 from the right side that who was a surprisingly strong lost yet another starter, but won seemed ready to bounce out 11-for-14 from the free throw for the second time in eight before falling in. line. He twice had baskets early games and are 1 1/2 games "I saw that thing roll around in the fourth quarter after behind Orlando for the final like five times," Frye said. "I Cleveland had cut New York's playoff spot in the Eastern was just like, maybe if I put my lead to one point. Conference. arms up it will go in. But you New York led for the final 8­
"I have said before, we are know what, as soon as he shot plus minutes, but never by not going to cave," Knicks it I knew it was going in. It was more than five points. Marbury coach Isiah Thomas said. "We just one of those games where hit another key 3-pointer with are going to keep fighting and the stars were aligned in our 1:41 left after James turned it keep competing. It may not be way." over with the Cavs having pretty. As long as we have five, Sasha Pavlovic added 20 closed to 91-89. we are going to go out, compete points for the Cavaliers, who "It's something that's need­and play as hard as we possibly fell three games behind Detroit ed," Marbury said. "It was a outscored Orlando 15-6 in the playoffs." can." for best record in the East. The team effort tonight. The way second overtime to finish their 
Marbury and Channing Frye Cavs, who clinched a playoff Eddy played, he played great, home stand 2-2. Mavericks 105, Bucks 103 each finished with 16 points for berth Tuesday, fell to 1-1 on a he shot free throws extremely Pierce also had seven The Dallas Mavericks were the Knicks, who have been five-game road trip while they well tonight, and he hasn't been rnbounds and five assists while back home without a break playing without Jamal vacate their arena for the shooting them well. So every­playin·g 53 minutes, the most after their first 6-0 road trip and Crawford, David Lee and women's Final Four. body contributed." since Feb. 9, when he returned Dirk Nowitzki was out after 
from a 24-game absence with a hurting his ankle in the first Celtics 105, Magic 96 stress reaction in his left foot half. 
If this was the end of Paul and infected left elbow. The Milwaukee Bucks. in the Pierce's season, the Boston Celtics coach Doc Rivers running for a lottery draft pick Celtics captain couldn't have almost took Pierce out in the instead a playoff spot, wanted done much more to help his third quarter, when he banged the upset. team. his left elbow in a serum. None of that kept the 
Pierce scored 32 points -Thankfully for the Celtics, Mavericks from winning their inducting 15 after llw third Pierce lobbied to remain in. 60th ganie, to mat<:h their fran­quarter -to lead the Boston After sending the game into chise record Wednesday night. Coltics to a double-ovnrtime win overtime with an 18-foot "To talk about 60 is pretty over the Orlando Magie on jumper at the nnd of regulation impressive, especially the way Wodnesday night. and into double overtime with a we started," coach Avery 
After the game -and follow­long 3-pointer at the nnd of the Johnson said. "These types of ing a lengthy ic(~ treatment -first extra session, Pierce gave games, we could easily lose, but Pierce talked about shutting it Boston the lead for good whon they refuse to lose." down for the rest of the season. his free throw made it 93-92 It is the third time the 
"My body, l'ye got to start lis­with 2:57 left. Mavericks have won 60 games, tening to it," hn said. Jefferson then scored eight all in the last live seasons. The "Sometimes it hurts for me to straight points to secure the win top team in the Western straighten out my arm. f'vo got for Boston. Conference has 11 games left in to think about my future and Ilis jumper made it 95-92, he this regular season, the one that I've got to listen to the doctors then followed a long lledo started with four straight losses. and see what they think. I've Turkoglu jumper with six "We just wanted to keep it been a little rebellious, I know I straight points to stretch going," Devin Harris said. "We have. But I think that's just me Boston's lead to 101-94. had a great road trip, but there being stubborn, being a com­"Our captain hit some big­were a lot of hurdles tonight we petitor. You've got to be smart time shots, and we just fed off had to overcome." also." that," Jefferson said. "We're With their star out after hurt­
AI Jefferson added 23 points getting more and more excited ing his left ankle in the first half, and 13 rebounds, Delonte West for next year because if we Jason Terry had 27 points with scored 17, and Kendrick would have had our full team a couple of key late baskets and Perkins had 11 points and 12 all year, there's no doubt in my the go-ahead free throw for the rebounds for the Celtics, who mind we would have made the Mavericks. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Join the JanSport team! JanSport is currently seeking 
Student Ambassadors 
during Fall 2007 for IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. an on-campus paid internship. $15.50 base-appt. For more info flexible schedules, on the position no exp.needed, visit:www.jansport.com/students customer sales/service, Or email: conditions apply, jason_lucash@ vfc.com 
WANTED 

3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for  Very large home for rent for next  0 Bottom, thou art translated. Flute,  
FoR RENT  07/08 school year. On line see rent-nd.com or mmmrentals.com.  school year. 1 block east of cam­pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4  Snout, Starveling, Snug, Quince.  
Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­ huge bedrms/3 full baths/large  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
spot. net or phone 574-277-4759.  kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3  Do not go it alone. If you or some­ 
andersonNDrentals.com  decks overlook huge fenced yard.  one you love needs confidential  
RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5  Very private & safe! Must see! 239­ support or assistance, please call  
BETTER HOMES,BETTER  bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm.  707-2025.  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1·7819.  
AREAS,BETTER DEALS.  Call312-545-5123 or email  For more information, visit our web  
BlueGoldRentals.com  mitchell.58@nd.edu  5 rooms for rent, summer 2007. 741  site at  

all ages 17+, Eddy. Very close. available NOW if http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­positions in all of Now leasing for 2007/8. Great 1 bdrm apts available summer & fall necessary. $300/mo per person. nant.shtml Indiana & Michigan. FoR SALE houses close to campus. 07. 1 mi to NO in quiet historic (913)481-1918. acrutchf@nd.edu or see our bi-weekly ad in The 273-3835 Anlanproperties @comcast.net neighborhood. $575/mo. Observer. www. workforstudents:com 'NO CONDOS' NEW 2/3 BR, Laundry/Security. Call574-532­
2 bath condos Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9. 8718. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­
PERSONAL 

NEED A SUMMER JOB? Minutes from campus Close to campus. ONE WHO IS? Camp Tannadoonah is hiring Starting in 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Condo for rent-walk to NO/SM. Grt Adopt: A young loving couple long You do not have to be alone. We 2007 camp staff. $130,000s Properties at 532-1896. loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli. to share their Hearts and home with want to help. Call our 24 hour confi-Have the best summer 574-252-2427 A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 + a newborn & will provide Endless dential hotline at 1-800-No-ABORT of your life! ndcondos.com Large 2-bdrm condos, 18027 & util. 630-417 love. Expenses paid call Eileen & or visit our website at Visit www.tannadoonah.org Reserve Yours Today! 18041 Bulla Rd. Call574-233-4590. 8763/MCL214@ aol.com Ed at 1-800-718-6577 www.lifecall.org 

OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 29, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 

M IAA Conference  
Softball Standings  
team  conf  
record  
1  Adrian  2·0  
2  Alma  2·0  
3  Hope  2·0  
4  Calvin  0·0  
5  Saint Mary's  0·0  
6  Tri-State  0·0  
7  Albion  0-2  
a  Kalamazoo  0-2  
9  Olivet  0-2  

overall record 
10·2 
15·7 
9·5 
4·8 
10r1 
1Q.4 
7-11 
3·8 
10·6 
NCAA Women's Lacrosse IWLCA Top 20 
team points 


1 Northwestern 298 2 Duke 283 3 Georgetown 242 4 North carolina 241 5 NDTREDAME 224 6 Princeton 214 6 Dartmouth+ 214 8 Maryland 210. 9 Virginia 194 10 Johns Hopkins 159 11 cornell 143 12 James Madison 122 13 ::1
13 Richmond 111 11 
ill~

14 Penn State 101 19 15 Syracuse 87 18 16 Hofstra 74 17 11 BU 73 19 18 Stanford 51 16 19 Vanderbilt 39 NR 20 Penn 27 20 
around the dial 
NBA Pistons at Bulls 8 p.m., TNT 
NIT BASKETBAll. West Virginia vs. Clemson 7 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS Sony Ericsson Open 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX-NFL com­missioner Roger Goodell hopes to hand down disci­plinary measures within 10 days of meeting with Tennessee cornerback Adam "Pacman" Jones and Cincinnati receiver Chris Henry. 
Goodell's new, stronger player-conduct policy has not been fully formulated, but he'll still meet next Tuesday with the two play­ers, who have had numer­ous run-ins with the law. 
"These are part of the hearings I've had with a player or coach facing dis­cipline decisions," Goodell said Wednesday as the league meetings conclud­ed. "It's to get their per­spective, look them in the eye and get them thinking. They are clearly (designed) to give me better info and more facts. I do it fre­quently." 

It could happen even more often, given the num­ber of off-field incidents that have recently plagued the league. 
Jones has talked to police in 10 separate inci­dents since being drafted in April 2005 and has been arrested five times. On Monday, Las Vegas police recommended prosecutors file a felony charge of coercion and misdemeanor charges of battery and 
IN BRIEF 
Bears fan prohibited from 
changing name to Manning 
DECATUR -Chicago Bears fan Scott Wiese is no Peyton Manning after all. 
Macon County Judge Katherine McCarthy ruled this week that Wiese can't legally call himself Peyton Manning because it would be too confusing and might infringe on the privacy of the Indianapolis Colts quarterback. 
And that's fine by Wiese. The 26-year-old resident of Forsyth, just north of Decatur, only was trying to change his name to make good on a bet he lost when the Colts beat the Bears in the Super Bowl. 
"I had told the judge that I was not doing this because I wanted to change my name, but I was doing it because I was honoring a bet," Wiese told the Decatur Herald & Review after Monday's ruling. "I think she understood that." 
threat against Jones, stem­ming from a Feb. 19 strip club fight and shooting. 
Henry is among nine Bengals players arrested in less than a year. He had four arrests in 14 months, including marijuana pos­session, a weapon charge and a drunken-driving count that resulted in a guilty plea to reckless operation of a vehicle. 
"I won't lump all of these incidents into a bowl and deal with it," Goodell said. ''I'm not trying to send a signal here and make examples of people. We'll do what we need to protect the integrity of the NFL. That's our objective." 
Jones' attorney, Manny Arora of Atlanta, said they hope the commissioner will wait until the Las Vegas case is resolved before taking action. 
If not, Jones is prepared to fight it legally, Arora said, especially if Jones were to receive a one-year suspension. 
"It's going to end up being a big fight. There'll be injunctions," Arora said. "The NFL will fight this and that. We're going to draw it out through the court, and the attention's going to go through the roof." 
The new player-conduct policy is expected to be in place before the April 28­29 draft. 

49ers ~back Gore gets 
new contract after big season 
SAN FRANCISCO -Running back Frank Gore has agreed to a four-year contract extension with the San Francisco 49ers, a reward for his team-record 1,695 yards rushing last season. 
Gore, who led the NFC in rushing in his second pro campaign, was due to earn $435,000 in the upcoming sea­son. With the extension, the Pro Bowl running back will be under contract to the 49ers through 2011 with a deal containing more than $14 million in guaranteed money. 
Niners coach Mike Nolan confinned the deal Wednesday morning at the NFL meetings in Phoenix. 
"He agreed yesterday," Nolan said. "He had a good day. 
"It's a little early; Frank just finished his second year. But we identified somebody we want in Frank. He's a young player and we wanted to extend it and it's still very early in his career." 
Roddick forced to retire 
from match due to injury 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Andy Roddick retired with a strained left hamstring in the first set Wednesday, allowing Andy Murray to advance to the semifinals of the Ericsson Open. 
Roddick said the injury occurred in the fifth game lunging at a shot. He called it quits trailing 5-3. 
"I just kind of jarred something at first," he said. "More and more it started becoming like a sharp pain, and then I started feeling it even when I was just kind of cruis­ing around the court, not even in points. It was steadily getting worse, which isn't a good sign." 
An MRI exam was scheduled. The injury leaves in doubt Roddick's availability for the U.S. Davis Cup team's match against Spain on April 6-8. 
Roddick said he thought of Davis Cup the moment he hurt himself. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Florida starters 111ake repeat chance possible 
Noah and Gators look for first back-to­hack titles in 15 years 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -When Corey Brewer, AI Harford and Joakim Noah announced they were coming back to Florida after last season, they were her­alded as unselfish. 
If they decided to stay another year, they might be considered foolish. 
That's why the Final Four probably will be the fmal run for coach Billy Donovan's dream team. Brewer, Harford and Noah are expected to turn pro after the season, breaking up the best team in school history and arguably one of the best in the college basketball in recent years. 
"We're just trying to fmish out strong and then we'll let the fans know and everybody else know what the deal is," Brewer said. "If we go out, we hope we go out with a national title." 
The Gators (33-5) are trying to become the first team in 15 years to win consecutive nation­al championships. They play UCLA (30-5) in the semifinals Saturday night in Atlanta, a rematch of last year's title game. 
Brewer, Harford and Noah combined for 41 points, 23 rebounds, 10 assists, nine blocks and four steals in the 73­57 victory over the Bruins in Indianapolis last April. ' 
Many thought the three soph­omores would turn pro a few days later, and probably end up as NBA lottery picks. But they surprised everyone by announc­ing in a choreographed skit at the team's championship cele­bration that they would be back to try to make history. 
It may have been an easy decision for Noah and Harford because of their family situa­tions; both grew up with money because their fathers were pro­fessional athletes. 
It was much more difficult for Brewer, whose dad farmed 100 acres of tobacco and soybeans in Portland, Tenn., and also moonlighted as a garbage col­lector in order to provide for the family needed. 
All the hard work might have taken a toll, too. Brewer's father, Ellis "Pee Wee" Brewer, had open-heart surgery and three angioplasties in recent years. He also had a leg ampu­tated in October because of complications from diabetes. 
"It was a tough decision," Brewer said about returning. "We could take care of our fami­lies, but we decided why not come back for another year and enjoy each other because we might not ever play together again." 
They've been even better this time around. 
Brewer improved his outside shooting. Harford developed post moves, started using his left hand and added a mid­range jump shot that he makes with regularity. Noah also got better with the ball and in the paint. 
Although all three honed their skills for the next level ­prompting speculation that they won't risk injury again by returning next year -they came back this season for other reasons. 
They wanted to play together, enjoy another year living togeth­er-Brewer, Harford, Noah and Taurean Green have been room­mates for three years -and make another postseason run. 
"We want to create a legacy," Noah said. "We want to make history. But we realize that we haven't won two championships yet. That's the goal. That's the ultimate goal. And it's close. It's really close. We realize to get there our total focus has to be on UCLA and nothing else." 
Regardless of how the season ends, the Gators already have established quite a legacy. 
They have won three consecu­tive Southeastern Conference tournament titles, an outright SEC regular-season title, a national title, two school-record 17 -game winning streaks and a school records for victories. 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Final Four teams emerge 
Volunteers, Scarlet Knights, Tar Heels and Tigers to play for title 
Associated Press 

Half of the women's Final Four turned out as expected, with top seeds Tennessee and North Carolina facing off in a national semifinal. 
From the other side of the bracket emerged two unlikely championship contenders. 
LSU, burdened by controversy, and Rutgers, loaded with fresh­men, each upset a No. 1 seed to make it to Cleveland and create an unlikely matchup in the other semifinal on Sunday. 
"It's so hard to get to the Final Four now -the regionals are a lot like the Final Four used to be because there are so many great teams," North Carolina coach Sylvia I latch ell said Wednesday. "So many of the great teams have been eliminated. It's just so much more difficult to get there." 
Perhaps nobody had a tougher job than LSU acting coach Bob Starkey, who took over after Pokey Chatman's sudden resig­nation March 7 amid allegations of improper conduct with a for­mer player. 
Starkey won four straight games, including an upset of top-seeded Connecticut, to deliv­er the Lady Tigers' fourth straight Final Four appearance. 
"This has been a focused team from the very beginning of the season," Starkey said. "It made my job a little bit easier. I didn't have to create something that wasn't there. I just maybe had to draw them back and remind them of what we established." 
But reaching the sport's biggest stage is nothing new for the other thren coaches. 
Tennessee is making its 17th Final Four trip under Hall of Fame coach Pat Summitt, while 

Coffee at the Como 
f{)r Gay, Lesbian, BisexuaL and Ques.lmnmg St uctents. at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, April 3 
7:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
fh~ Ct>i'*· f.:;.~ma: ~~·31~~ g;:;~~. ~~t'*~~ t~tl =~~·•.~.\'H:,.&~==· f%-H=~~~ ~·f' th!i r*~ta:: o.u:*~ ~ar:Wt t~r l<~tt~. ft.W' lSt-~f\·M~ M W·':1 ;;f"fk~,-,:n:JJ ;i:J1t'lli:iri~ ''f:'; f.h Cf.>-·\-t:•. 
COME SEE WHAT'S NEW AT TURTLE CREEK!! 
We're Renovating AGAIN! New POOL-HEATED!! New LANDSCAPING New BASKETBALL COURT 
574-272-8124 
Office Hours: 
M-F9AM-7PM SAT 10 AM-4 PM SUN 12 PM-4 PM 
®
EQUAl HOUSINCO OPPORTUNITY 



Hatchell has the Tar Heels here for the second straight year and third time overall. 
Rutgers coach C. Vivian Stringer, the only coach to take three schools to the Final Four, is here for the fourth time -a quarter-century after bringing Cheyney to the 1982 national semifmals. 
This time, she coaxed a Rutgers team that started the season 2-4 with five freshmen and no seniors to the Big East championship. 
Then, the fourth -seeded Scarlet Knights (26-8) beat Michigan State on the Spartans' home floor, stunned No. 1 over­all seed Duke in its Tobacco Road backyard and routed third-seeded Arizona State to claim the Greensboro Regional championship. 
"All (the) credit is to the play­ers who persevered and believed when I think probably no one else believed," Stringer said. 


Thursday, March 29, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 


MLB 
Prior left off Cubs' opening-day roster 
Optioned to Triple-A Iowa after last game 
Associated Press 
MESA, Ariz. -Mark Prior was sent to the minors Wednesday where the Chicago Cubs hope he can regain the form that made him an 18­game winner and All-Star selection four years ago. 
Prior, whose career has been slowed by an assortment of injuries, was optioned to Triple-A Iowa right after his final spring training start. 
"It wasn't easy. But at the same time, this is good for his career," new Cubs manager Lou Piniella said. 
Prior had left the Cubs' clubhouse and wasn't avail­able for comment after pitch­ing just three innings in Chicago's 4-4 tie with the Colorado Rockies. 
"He handled it OK. He was­n't happy. He wasn't pleased. But you don't expect that," Piniella added. 
Prior, the second player cho­sen in the 2001 draft after a stellar final college season at Southern California, broke in with the Cubs in 2002. He has a 42-29 record, including 18­6 in 2003 when helped pitch Chicago into the playoffs. 
He was on the mound for Game 6 of the NL champi­onship series against Florida with the Cubs leading the series 3-2 and the game 3-0 before the Marlins rallied with eighth runs in the eighth. Florida went on to win Game 7 and then captured the World Series. 
Prior, 26, has started the last three seasons o~ the dis­abled list with an assortment of injuries to his Achilles, elbow and shoulder. He was limited to nine starts by shoulder problems a year ago when his record was just 1-6. 
He had four appearances and three starts this spring, pitching just 10 1-3 innings. 
The decision to go with Wade Miller as the fifth starter was announced Tuesday, so there was no place in the rotation for Prior, and his final spring outing really had no bearing on his chance to make the team. 
"I didn't want him to go out here and really really push to get a spot when in turn we had already made a decision on Miller," Piniella said. 
"I told Mark that there is a marked difference between what we are seeing now from what we were seeing much earlier in the spring. He's come a good ways. He just needs to continue to work." 
Prior gave up two hits and three runs against the Rockies, but they were all unearned because of sloppy play by the Cubs' outfield, which committed three errors. 
"He's making progress," general manager Jim Hendry said. "Every time out, he's been better. He's not quite there yet and I don't think he would disagree with that." 
Hendry said a member of the Cubs' staff would be pres­ent at every one of Prior's starts for Triple-A Iowa. 
"And obviously when he gets back to being where you want him to be, he'll be able to help us," Hendry said. "We'll make a spot for him when he's ready. I promise you that." 
But Hendry didn't put a timetable on Prior's return. 
"As long as he is making progress, what is the right time frame? A couple of weeks, a month?" Hendry said. "To me, if he keeps get­ting better, it will show up when he's ready for us." 
It was a long day for the Cubs' outfield. Alfonso Soriano missed a sinking liner for an error in thn first, ClifT Floyd had two errors in left. and Soriano and right fielder Jacque Jones let Troy Tulowitzki's long fly fall between them in the second for a double that led to a run. 
Soriano hit his fourth homer of the spring in the third, but then couldn't rP.ach Matt Holliday's fly to center that went for an RBI double in the fifth. 
Derrek Lee and Aramis Ramirez hit back-to-back homers off Tom Martin to tie the game in the sixth. 
Rockies starter Aaron Cook. who entered the game 4-0, allowed three hits and two runs -one earned -in four innings. 


-,.) presents
F 

A1nerican Catholic Studie:'i Se11zinar ••Las Ciuadalupanas de Queretaro: En1 bodied Devotional Per:formances and the Political Economy o:f Sacred Space Production" Elaine A. Peiia University o:f Illinois at Urbana-Champaign 
Thursday, March 22, 2007 
4:15 .m. 1140 Flanner Hall 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Collison tnakes Bruins forget they lost Fartnar 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -UCLA fans were in mourning last June when Jordan Farmar, the Bruins' outstanding point guard, passed up his final two years of eligibility to turn professional. 
With the emergence of Darren Collison, memories of Farmar, who's mostly sitting and watch­ing as a rookie with the Los Angeles Lakers, have faded. 
"Jordan was very good. Darren has some natural athleti­cism, some natural quickness, that allows him to do some things for our team that we couldn't do last year," said UCLA coach Ben Howland. "Because of that, our team has really flour­ished." 
Collison has been especially effective in UCLA's march to the Final Four, averaging 13.8 points and doing an exceptional job of hawking the opposition's back­court players in four NCAA tour­nament games. 
UCLA leads with its defense ­one of the nation's best -and Collison is an extremely impor­tant ingredient in that regard. 
~ 
Sample.fares From South Bend to: 
Chicago  $131  
Atlanta  $182  
New York  

"Darren's probably a better on-ball defender than Jordan," Howland said. 
Collison played in all 39 games for the Bruins last year, averag­ing 5.5 points, 2.3 assists and 0.9 steals. The 6-foot-1 sophomore from Rancho Cucamonga aver­aged 12.8 points, 5.7 assists and 
2.3 steals this season. 
"Last year, I was providing energy ofT the bench, and I did absolutely what it took to help the team win, in whatever aspect," Collison said. "This year, I have a much bigger responsi­bility and a much bigger role. 
''I've got to be more mature in how to approach situations. I am an extension of the eoach. That's a big leadership role. I've got to make sure everybody's doing their job." 
Collison and the Bruins reached the NCM championship game last spring, losing 73"57 to Florida. The teams meet again Saturday in the national semifi­nals. 
"They came in for a reason. We came there just to be there," Collison recalled of last year's title gam_e. 
~ample fares From Chicago to: 
London $273 
Rome $379 
lerms:AII far5are based on roundtrip ~ave! and indudea StudentUni'leoeservicefeeof$5. Oome!tic fare~ include• 7.5%US traBJportation ta~ Other tam and fees vary, depending on the ~inerary and a~e not included. Fares are subject to availability and change without notice. Domestk flights must be purchased 8days In advart<eand require a1 day min stay including aSat night required maxstay is 30 days. fares valid Mon-Thu untH Mar 30. Interna­tional flights valid Mon-Wet1 Europe fares must be purchased 7days In advance by Mar 25 and require a 4 day min stay amax stay of 365 days. Valid f01 departure~ through Mar 15. Asia/Aurtralia fares must be purchased 4days in advance and requl" a2day min stay max stay of 365 days. Alia fares are valid for departures through Mar 31.Austral~ fares arevalid fur departures from Apr 1through Apr 17. Blackout dates and other restrictions may apply.
ec:• StudentUniverse.com 

RecSports has student employment openings for this Summer and the 2007-2008 academic year. 
Become a part of the RecSports Family and share in the joy of helping others attain their recreational goals. 
Applications are available on line@ recsports.nd.edu or by visiting the RSRC. First consideration will be given to those applying by April 21, 2007 Questions call 1-6100 


BROADMOOR PLAZA 
291-4000 
-

Thursday, March 29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL 
Miller, Sabres outlast Devils' patient gameplan 
Flyers put damper on Carolina's playoff prospects, Stumpe! forces shootout-then wins it as Florida beats Atlanta 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO. N.Y. -Now this was more to Ryan Miller's lik­ing. 
Unhappy with the Sabres' last outing, the goaltender was impressed with the patience Buffalo displayed in a 4-3 win over the New Jersey Devils on Wednesday night. 
Not only did the Sabres beat the opportunistic and defensive­minded Devils at their own game. the win inched Buffalo doser to clinching the Eastern Conference title. 
Not a bad way for the Sabres to bounce back from a sloppy 4­1 loss at Toronto last weekend, a game in which the goalie questioned his team's effort. 
"We got the rewards for play­ing the right way," said Miller, who stopped 28 shots. "The Devils play a very patient sys­tem that benefits them come playoff time. And we feel if we can play against that, we can play against a lot of teams in this league." 
Jochen Hecht scored twice, while the Sabres also got goals from rookie Daniel Paille and Ales Kotalik -both forwards playing their first games after missing extended stretches due to injuries. 
With six games left, the Sabres ( 49-20-7) extended their lead atop the East standings to seven points over the Devils, as well as idle Pittsburgh and Ottawa. Buffalo also moved into a tie for first place in the NHL with Nashville. 
Scott Gomez, Paul Martin and Zach Parise scored for the· Devils (45-24-8), who were coming off a 3-2 victory at the New York Islanders on Tuesday. Martin Brodeur stopped 19 shots and remains three wins short of matching Bernie Parent's single-season record for victories. 
Brodeur has 44 wins, tied with Vancouver's Roberto Luongo, for the NHL lead. 
"They hit their shots," said Brodeur, referring to the Sabres' final three goals coming on one-timers or off rebounds. "They sat back and were a pret­ty patient team. They didn't give us too much and they capital­ized on their opportunities." 
Just the way Sabres coach Lindy Ruff drew it up. It wasn't pretty, leading to a dull first two periods, but it was effective. 
"I think this was a real good win for our team," Ruff said. "The fact that we had to tone down the style of our play, that we had to be a lot more patient. And I thought we cleaned up a lot of the careless errors and the careless turnovers." 
The Sabres, who never trailed, took control when Paille and Hecht, with his second of the game, scored 4 minutes apart in the third period to put Buffalo ahead 3-1. 
Paille, back after missing 15 games with a broken finger, scored after Brodeur made the initial save on Adam Mair's shot from the right circle. Paille then beat Martin to the rebound and slid it through the goalie's legs. 
Hecht scored on a one-timer from the right circle, set up by 


AP New Jersey goalie Martin Brodeur, right, fails to block a Jochen Hecht shot during the Buffalo Sabres' 4-3 win over the Devils. 
Large 
Daniel Briere's cross-ice feed during a 3-on-2 rush. 
Martin cut the lead to 3-2 with 6:11 left, but Kotalik sealed the win 2 minutes later with a one-timer from the left circle. Kotalik returned after missing 16 games with a knee injury. 
"Now they have to go a long way to catch us," Kotalik said of the Sabres' conference rivals. "It's always a little confidence­booster for upcoming games." 
The Devils have the Atlantic Division race to focus on ­they're tied with Pittsburgh and both teams have five games left. 
The Penguins are on roll, 8-2­0 in their last 10, while the Devils are slumping, having lost five of their past eight. 
"They're not losing any games. They're just getting points left and right," Brodeur said of the Penguins. "So that's what we're aiming, to win every game and getting on a roll before the playoffs start." 
Flyers 5, Hurricanes 1 
With two road losses in two nights, the Carolina Hurricanes are perilously on the brink of spending the postseason at home instead of defending the Stanley Cup. 
Martin Biron stopped a penal­ty shot among his 23 saves and the Philadelphia Flyers stymied Carolina's playoff push with a win Wednesday night. 
"We need to put a good streak together," Carolina coach Peter Laviolette said. 
The Hurricanes could have moved into a playoff position in the Eastern Conference with a win. Instead, the defending champions are still on the out­side of the cutoff line after their second loss in two nights. 
They lost 6-1 at Toronto on T\tesday night and desperately need points out of all their final five games if they want to get back to the postseason. 
"Obviously, these are tough losses," Laviolette said. "We're in a fight to get back into the playoffs, so we need wins and we need to come on the road and take away points. We took away nothing." 
The NHL-worst Hyers were all but eliminated from the postseason picture in November and entered on a four-game los­ing streak. But sturdy goaltend­ing from Biron, two goals from Jeff Carter, and one each from Derian Hatcher, Mike Knuble and Braydon Coburn were enough for only their ninth home win this season. 
Ray Whitney scored his 30th goal for the Hurricanes, who have 84 points with five games left and trail Montreal and Tampa Bay by two points each for the final playoff spot. Montreal and Tampa Bay were both idle Wednesday night. 


"It doesn't mean we're out of the playoffs by any means," for­ward Craig Adams said. "Our fate is going to be in our hands. To lose two in a row is certainly going to make it a lot tougher." 
The Flyers went up 1-0 on Carter's 12th goal of the season late in the first. 
Then the Flyers got feisty after Adams drilled defenseman Denis Gauthier into the boards behind the net. Flyers defense­man Randy Jones went after Adams and got into a fight in the circle and was hit with a double minor. When the Flyers killed the penalty, they got one of the loudest ovations of the year. 
While Gauthier sprained his right wrist, the fight might have sparked them. 
A hooking penalty against Carolina was still being announced when Hatcher slid the puck between John Grahame's pads for a power­play goal and a 2-0 lead mid­way through the second. Grahame made 20 saves. 
Minutes later, Biron got to prove why the Flyers awarded him a $7 million, two-year con­tract a day earlier that firmly established him as their No. 1 goalie. 
Flyers defenseman Lasse Kukkonen closed his hand on the puck in the crease, setting up a penalty shot. Justin Williams streaked down the ice, but his shot was wide right and knocked off of Biron's leg pad and glove as the crowd roared in celebration. 
''I'm not known to be a great penalty shot or shootout guy, 
but you get lucky once in  a  
while," Biron said.  
Whitney  pulled  the  

Hurricanes to 2-1 with his shot from the point with 3.7 seconds to go. 
Any momentum the Hurricanes were hoping would carry over into the third was wiped out once Knuble and Coburn scored a little more than 90 seconds apart for a 4-1 lead. 
Carter added an empty-net goal with 32.7 seconds left. "We found a way to get that 
momentum back, get after it and have a great third period," Flyers coach John Stevens said. "Certainly, it was a great sign for us." 
Panthers 3, Thrashers 2 
The Florida Panthers are finally getting the hang of shootouts. They hope it isn't too late. 
Jozef Stumpe! scored the tying goal in the third period and notched the clincher in the shootout, leading the Panthers to a victory over the Atlanta Thrashers on Wednesday night. 
It was Florida's second victory in three shootouts after losing its first seven of the season. 
"If we'd won maybe half of those, we'd be in a different position right now," Stumpe! said. "But this was our problem and hopefully we're going to solve it and get better and better at it." 
Bryan Allen also scored for the Panthers, who are hanging on to slim playofl' hopes. Florida is in 12th place in the Eastern Conference and trails eighth­place Montreal by six points with five games left. 
The victory was only Florida's fourth in 18 overtimes this sea­son. The Panthers' 14 overtime losses arc tied for the most in the league with the Los Angeles Kings. 
Craig Anderson, in goal for Florida after Ed Belfour started a franchise-record 27 consecu­tive games, stopped 33 shots in regulation and overtime. He then stopped Vyacheslav Kozlov and Marian Hossa in the shootout. 
Anderson was 4-0 in shootouts this season for Rochester of the AHL, including three straight between Jan. 12-16. 
"It's a terrific feeling," Anderson said. "I give credit to the guys. If we don't score, we don't win. It's up to those guys to put it in, and they did a terrific jobofit." 
Vyacheslav Kozlov scored twice for Atlanta, which increased its Southeast Division lead to three points over idle Tampa Bay. Both teams have five games remaining. 
Kozlov also had a goal disal­lowed in the second period when the score was 1-1 after it was ruled he had kicked the puck in. 
Free Delivery On Campus 
Limited time oft~r. Price~; tax, delivery areas & charges may Vi.HY by location. Excludes other offers. Gocti at purtidpat;ng locations only. 
52750 IN 933 
•
N. of Cleveland Rd. 574.. 
SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
Pizza 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 29, 2007 
NBA 

Nets win, gain stronger hold on playoff spot 
Spurs buckle down on defense and rally in fourth quarter to defeat Hornets 92-88, Barry hits four las~-quarter threes 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. ­Rookie Josh Boone again pro­vided the New Jersey Nets a late-season lift in their push to nail down a playoff berth. 
Boone scored a career-high 22 points Wednesday night to lead the Nets to a 118-94 victo­ry over the Indiana Pacers. 
Boone came off the bench to hit 11 of 13 from the field. He also pulled down 10 rebounds in his second strong game. Boone was perfect on all 10 shots from the field in the Nets' 113-107 overtime win in Charlotte on Saturday. 
"It's great to be able to come out and contribute," Boone said. ''I've been working really hard in practice and waiting for my shot. Hecently, I've been get­ting it and I've been trying to make the best of my time." 
Bostjan Nachbar added 20 points before fouling out with 3 minutes remaining. Richard Jefferson had 14 points, Vince Carter scored 13, and Mikki Moore and Jason Kidd each had 12 as the Nets had six players in double figures. 
With the win, the Nets moved into seventh place in the Eastern Conference, a half­game ahead of Orlando and two games ahead of the Pacers and Knicks. 
"Indiana played last night and was short-handed without their best player," Nets coach Lawrence Frank said. "We took advantage of a team being short-handed and that is encouraging." 
Jermaine O'Neal, the Pacers' leading scorer, sat out the game with left ankle and knee sprains. Indiana could not over­come his loss, although Troy Murphy, who started in O'Neal's spot, had 13 points and 14 rebounds. 
O'Neal was averaging 20 points per game and had scored 39 and 32 points in his last two games. 
Shawne Williams led Indiana with 19 points. Mike Dunleavy added 14, Danny Granger and Darrell Armstrong each had 11, and Jamaal Tinsley had 10. 
The win was the second straight for New Jersey and its third in three games with the Pacers this year. 
Indiana has lost 16 of its last 18 games and 10 straight on the road. 
Carter hit a 3-pointer 2:29 into the game to give New Jersey a 9-6 lead. The Nets never trailed the rest of the way. 
New Jersey expanded that lead to 32-21 after one as Carter set the pace with nine points. 
The Nets lead by as many as 22 in the second quarter and took a 60-43 lead into the lock­er room at the half. Boone was 5-for-7 in the first half for 10 points to share the Nets' half­

time scoring lead with 
Jefferson. 

"Our undoing was the first 
half, where we shot 24 percent 
and gave up 58 (percent)," 
Pacers coach Hick Carlisle said. 
"You are not going to beat a 
quality team doing that, espe­
cially on the road. We have to 
be a lot better. We weren't. The 
result is obvious." 

The Nets outscored the Pacers 
31-23 in the third quarter as 
Kidd came alive with eight 
points after scoring only four in 
the first half. 

Kidd sat out the fourth quar­
ter and Carter played only 2 
minutes as the Nets reserves 
held the Pacers at bay. 
Spurs 92, Hornets 88 

Tim Duncan knew the San 
Antonio Spurs had to do some­
thing in the last quarter. · 
Down nine points going into 
the period, Dum~an had already 
done plenty, scoring 12 points 
in the third and hitting his first 
3-pointer of the season. 

So the Spurs turned up the defensive effort. holding the New Orleans Hornets to just 13 ·fourth-quarter points to win 
Wednesday. 

"We gave up a lot in tho previ­
ous quarters. It was a great way 
to turn it up," said Duncan, who 
led the Spurs with 31 points. 

Brent Barry hit four 3-point­
ers in the fourth quarter to help 
the Spurs rally for their fifth 
straight victory. lie finished 

with 15 points. Michael Finley added 13 and Manu Ginobili scored 12 for San Antonio. 
The Spurs swept their four-· game series with the Hornets, who have lost two in a row and are 4-6 in their last 10. New Orleans lost at home Tuesday to the league-leading Dallas Mavericks, 105-89. 
Chris Paul scored 20 points to lead six Hornets in double fig­ures. David West added 16, Jannero Pargo scored 13 and Hasual Butler had 12. 
Barry keyed the fourth-quar­ter rally. His third 3-pointer of the fourth quarter tied the game at 77 with 6:39 left. 
Finley's 3 gave San Antonio an 80-77 lead before Pargo tied it again. 
<f!fif:) 
.., ..__;. 
~ 
-

Blood 
Discussion· lecture Panel 
Thursday 

March 29th 9:00pm 141 DeBartolo 
Speallers 

Professor WaHer, Econon"'lics Department Professor Singh, Political Science Department Timothy Paulus~ Kroc Institute MA student frorn Liberia 
The speakers will discUS.:S the oonfll<;ts ot Africa and the diamond industry as portrayed in the movfe Blood Diamond They Will alSo participate ln a 15 minute O&A session aftetWatd. AH attendants wtlt recieve a free SUB movie pass for any
sub.nd.edu 

showing of Blood Diamorld t~y chooSle. 



Thursday, March29, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 


Brown 
continued from page 24 
The Hobey Hat Trick includes Brown, junior for­ward Eric Ehn of Air Force and sophomore forward Ryan Duncan of North Dakota. The three finalists were picked by a 25-member selection com­mittee from a pool of 10 semi­finalists originally chosen by votes from every Division I head coach. 
"This is the ultimate in recognition," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. ''I'm very happy for David, and I'm happy for our team too, because they're a part of David's success." 
The Hobey Baker is awarded to the college hockey player who displays, "strength of character on and off the ice, outstanding skills in all phases of the game, sportsmanship and scholastic achievements," the Hobey Baker Web site said. 
Brown, a native of Stoney Creek, Ont., was recently named CCHA player of the year and tournament most valuable player, after back­stopping the Irish to their first league regular season and playoff championships. 
"As a coach, you're really a teacher and when you see your students recognized for things you have worked with 
Irish win marks sixth shutout this season 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame wins this season, it wins big. The No. 5 Irish swept Michigan State 7-0 on the road Wednesday to bring them to 1 7-3 on the season ­their sixth shutout so far. 
Due to inclement weather in East Lansing, the match, original­ly scheduled to be outside, was moved indoors. 
Notre Dame has struggled with the courts of the Michigan State Indoor Tennis Center in the past. The Irish inched past the Spartans in February 2005 with a 4-3 victory. 
With the decisive 7-0 win, Notre Dame ended any troubles it had with East Lansing. 
"This year, we laid those ghosts to rest," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
The Irish jumped out to an early lead taking the doubles point. The team has faltered in doubles play recently but regained its momentum in its past two matches. 
Notre Dame relied heavily on singles play to secure wins in the final rounds of the Blue/Gray National Tennis Classic earlier this month. The Irish dropped the doubles point to Tulsa and Alabama in the semifinals and finals of the tournament before going on to win each match, and ultimately the championship 4-1. 
Bayliss said while the team has been struggling in doubles play, it has also been competing against very strong opponents. Tulsa's No. 41 duo of Diego Camacho and Ross Cunningham defeated Notre Dame's Barry King and Brett Helgeson 8-3 in the semifi­nals of the Blue/Gray. 
"We've been playing some pret­ty darn good doubles teams," them on, it's rewarding," Jackson said. "I spent a lot of personal time with David, and I certainly don't take any credit for his success, but I'm proud the time we spent together has helped him be recognized as one of the best players." 

Brown's superb stats, along with his league hardware, helped to make a case for his Hobey candidacy. The senior led the nation in goals-against average (1.58) and wins (30) this season, while he finished second in save percentage (.931). 
Jackson, who owns two national championships, has never had one of his players named to the final three Hobey spots in his eight years behind a college bench. The coach, in his second year at Notre Dame, said he first began to believe that Brown would make a run at the Hobey after the team turned the corner into the flnal third of the season. 
"When we won [the CCHA championship] at the Joe, I thought that might have pushed him over the top as a finalist for sure -if not the winner," Jackson said. 
After Notre Dame's 2-1 loss to Michigan State in the NCAA Tournament regionals Saturday, Brown's season was cut short one game before the Frozen Four -the weekend in which the Hobey is award­ed. Brown, however, is not the only one of the three finalists whose season is over. 
Ehn fell 4-3 to Minnesota with the rest of his Air Force squadron in the first round of the Tournament's Denver regional. Ehn finished the sea­son second in the nation in points (64) and assists (40), while he scored 24 goals. He is the first player from one of the military academies to make the top 10. 
North Dakota's Duncan. however, will be playing in St. Louis the day before the pres­entation when the Fighting Sioux face Boston College in the national semifinal. The 5­foot-8, 155 pound forward had 31 goals and 26 assists to fin­ish fourth in the nation in scoring with 57 points. 
Only two goaltenders have won the Ilobey in the award's 26-year history, the last of which was Ryan Miller of 
Michigan State in 2001  - now  
an  NIIL  All-Star  with  the  
Buffalo Sabres.  

"[The Hobey) should be about the player that has had the greatest impact in making his team successful," Jackson said of the Award. "And I don't think any one fits in that category as much as Dave does." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Notre Dame blanks Spartans 



Bayliss said. 
The Irish doubles teams had an easier time against Michigan State. Stephen Bass and Andrew Roth spent little time defeating Tyler Sauerbrey and Jason Norville 8-1 at the No. 3 spot. The No. 2 Irish doubles team of Brett Helgeson and Graham King clinched the doubles point with an 8-4 win over Michael Flowers and Alex Forger. Ryan Keckley and Sheeva Parbhu were unable to finish off the Irish burst and fell 8-6 to Adam Monich and Nick 
Rinks. · The team has been working on improving doubles play, Bayliss said, and it has paid off. 
"We have focused on our posi­tioning and our shot selection and it is paying some dividends," he said. 
After securing the doubles point, Notre Dame readily took to singles play. King was first off the courts for Notre Dame with a 6-0, 6-0 victory over Norville at the No. 4 spot. Keckley was next in line with another straight-set vic­tory, defeating Scott Rasmussen 6-3, 6-4. No. 54 Parbhu clinched the win for the Irish with a 6-1, 6-4 win over Forger. 
No. 8 Bass was last off the courts for the Irish as he battled in his second set against No. 45 Rinks. Bass took the first set 6-3 from Rinks but the second set was neck and neck and was forced into a tiebreaker. Bass finally won the set 9-7 for the match victory. 
"[Bass] is a terrific competitor," Bayliss said. "He hit big serves at key times in the match, and the win was a result of his ability to attack while still maintaining a solid back-court game." 
Bass's win over Rinks swept the match for Notre Dame. The Irish next take on No. 3 Ohio State Friday on the road. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
~--pag< 22 ------~ -Th< Ob;,ro" ~ ------~-~---~-T-h-u-rs-d-ay, March 29, 2007 
SPORTS 
~ ========================================================================================================== 
' 
' 
Cougars 
continued from page 24 
in to pitch and walked two batters, but did not allow a run. 
Storrs couldn't continue his suc­cess in the fifth, as Irish pinch hit­ter Eddie Mendiola drove in two with a single off Storrs to put Notre Dame up by 10. 
Storrs' replacement, right-han­der Edwin Loza, kept the Irish scoreless in the sixth, but allowed five hits and four runs in the sev­enth and had to be pulled. 
All in all, the Cougars used five pitchers, who combined to allow 17 hits and walked 10 batters. Starter Robert Vargas went two innings, allowing five runs on four hits, while walking five and strik­ing out just one. 
Irish starter Eric Maust threw six shutout innings, scattering four hits and striking out five to improve his record to 2-0 on the season. 
"He's really done the job for us," Schrage said of Maust. "He's really a strike thrower." 
Chicago State threatened to score in the top of the sixth, but catcher Kyle Kupiac was thrown out trying to score from first on a 


Wenger -Young's high school Anything can happen and drop
Line01en 

teammate from St. Thomas you down. 
Aquinas in Coral "I don't want to continued from page 24 Springs, Fla. -is come out and say
"I probably don't 
one of four candi­I'm going to win the John Latina said. "Whatever you dates battling to show [my vocal job, but I feel confi­gain experience-wise, you don't play next at guard side] to [the medial dent with the way want to lose that. It's good to along with rising thatl play."
very much. but 
have an experienced player play sophomore Dan Rising sopho­at a position he feels very com­Carufel, rising jun­behind closed mores Will fortable with." ior Mike Turkovich doors it comes out Yeatman and Latina also said he has confi­and rising sopho­Konrad Reuland
sometimes. " 
dence in rising junior Paul more Eric Olsen. In will bide their time Duncan's ability to fill in at left the 20 minutes of in Carlson's shad­tackle for Ryan Harris, but also practice accessible John Carlson ow. Yeatman emphasized that personnel to the media Irish tight end appeared in 12 could change before the end of Wednesday, games last season spring practice. Turkovich ran while Reuland 
"Paul's an athletic guy and through d_rills at left guard with appeared in seven. Reuland said he's played both, the first team. waiting behind Carlson will ulti­and he's going Wenger is not mately pay off in the end. into his third year "You can't expect confident about "Looking at what Coach Weis in the program. his status as one has done in the NFL -his tight
yourself to always be
So I expect him to of the two start­ends have always caught a lot of 
the number-one guy. 
do a good job at ing guards. passes," Reuland said. "Coming that. I feel like Anything can happen "No, I don't here, his first season was my he's going to be expect myself to senior year of high school. So, I
and drop you down." 
OK," Latina said. be a starter from wanted to see what they had to "Paul's played here on out," offer in terms how often they both sides for two Dan Wenger Wenger said. "It's throw the ball to the tight end years, Sam's only Irish guard always a competi­and how much they involve the been on the right. tion at this level. tight end in the offense. I was Nothing's etched There's always a really pleasantly surprised." in stone, but that's where we arc new depth chart everyday. You right now." can't expect yourself to always Contact Chris Hine at 
Rising sophomore Dan be the number-one guy. chine@nd.edu 
double by second baseman Kyle Grow. 
Maust's replacement, right-han­der Andrew Schied, allowed the Cougars to get on the board in the top of the seventh with two runs, and Chicago State scored two more in the ninth off walk-on John Seabaugh to provide the fmal mar­gin. 
Notes: 
+Nineteen players got at-bats for Notre Dame, with 15 of them reaching base and 12 getting hits. The Irish also used four pitchers, and graduate ·student Matt Weglarz was inserted as a defen­sive replacement in the ninth to become Notre Dame's 24th player to see action. 
"There's a lot of guys that work hard that nobody ever sees," Schrage said. "It's good to get them out there a little." 
+Brezovsky, a junior, started in left field for the first time since his freshman year. 
+The Irish stranded double­digit runners for the third game in a row, leaving 13 men on base. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

The Notre Dame Student Peace Conference 2007 presents: "Unmask the Unknown: Understanding the Other, Discovering Ourselves" 

-

Friday, March 30-Saturday, March 31,2007 at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Dept. of Finance, Dept. of Romance Language, Campus Ministry, the Institute for Church Life, and the Nanovic Institute for European Studies For further information visit: kroc.nd.edu/peace07.shtml 
<bJ.tp_:L/.km~_,nQ__,_t;du/pcacc07.~htrnl> 
TliiS EVENT IS FREE AND OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
This Weekend in Irish Athletics 
Friday, March 30 Sunday, April 1 7:00pm 1:00pm 
# 12 Not:R,e 10ame 
vs. #20 Connecticut vs. Duquesne
Women s LacRosse 

Free T-Shlrts to the First 100 Fans! Free ND Crocs to the First 100 Fans! 
Free free food from McDonald's for early arriving fans! 

Saturday, March 31 Sunday, April 1 12:00pm & 2:00pm 12:00pm & 2:00pm vs. Pittsburgh vs. Syracuse 
Free mousepod to first 150 fons! Free ND Wiffle Bot to first 150 fonsl 


Sunday, April 1 1:00pm vs. Illinois 


Admission is FREE to all the events above. www.notredamepromotions.com 
~------­
Thursday, March 29, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
I 'I'-\ SOAA'J SIR. Few wE.E.\'.5 su-r I'JO&:>Di C:Jf.S-rS wE. 
WO\ol , OI'JL>.i A 
IN'To ~€-~ 11:. fE«.T 
\NITI-{ou.-r A. -::'>MILE. Ae.oul -ro :fu'S,T \':.\t>DINU" \ SiA12-'TEt> ON 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
1:..1"\PLO'tEE 

BLAcK DoG 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
76. In the last four years, how often, on a.-erage, ha,·c you engaged in the following? 
Drinking appktinis, Welch'sgmpe soda or Big City Light 0 0 0 Taping furtics ro your hands w hooking l)p.wltf\.sni!ggletootha a Enjoying cookies or icc cream or crack 0 0 Waking up with your pants ol'f in Detlai'tlilo ,{ ,,,,,M, Eating fro-yo or crying yourself to sleep Running from an NDSP chariot or paying with exact change a Meeting a Jewish person or caring ahout what a gremlin says 0 0 Waking up in Alumni or playing with a ii<irf\veap<ln . . a 0 Wearing a scatbelt or doing something else stupid 0 0 Using a computer to ask someone out or going· 
0

commando h1 white athletic shorts · ...,.,."'"· · · Eating Hamburger Helper or attending a renaissance fair 0 0 0 
LIAMMORAN 
76. (Continued) In the last four years, how often, on average, hon.:e you enga~ed in the following'! 
Licking your Jh:ig~r:\?ij~llr~Jum.ing a page or·''9lll'!Uf!!JPtl!l.1 a beer bottle :·:=.:,:.:.:i,::w::::~nw·:.:· 
Reading a 5 paragraph essay by someone of another race or ethnidty 
Going ape-~tHHiriit#,il'ii!'lgtialllady ur wearing ii ~qtipi~i:e 
Arguing abollt gays in the military with someone of anoth~r rae~ <lr ethnidty or being on St. Mary's campus 
Pregmning mas~ ;:;!' ;1~~~~ing yolll'Sel f g6iiii ~ \h~ 
bathroom ·.:i::::?}''''''''''"'...... ·· · .......w.·.·.··.. 

on your roommate's sh** 

WILL SHORTZ 

beginning31 Sharif of "Doctor 45 Significant 5/25/92
Zhivago" 46 Gone 54 "Get --!"
32 Clears out 33 Alto 47 Bellyached 55 "Behold," to Cicero
34 "You wish!" 
51 String ensemble, 38 Clever maybe 56 Castle 
39 Cleverness 57 "Que ?"
52 Vantage point of 40 Holy Trinity part Zeus, in Homer 58 Dye holder 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
A THEW 

I I J 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HALET 
± 
tSINIST j

J r x I I 
www.jumble.com
tSIGHAR 

J I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT THE: OPE:RA SINGE:!< DID WHE:N SHE: TOOK THE: OC.E:AN VOYAGE:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: [ THE [

I I) I I I J'l I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I 
Jumbles: SHYLY AGONY TAWDRY SUNDAE Yesterday's Answer·. Wh h d'
y t e e 1tor rejected the italic headline ­IT WAS "SLANTED" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julia Stiles, 26; Vince Vaughn. 37; Reba McEntire. 
52: Dianne Wiest, 59 

Happy Birthday: You will have to dig deeper if you want to do things right the first time around this year. Not everyone will be upfront and willing to share information. Do your own research to stay ahead of the competition. Your strength will be your persuasiveness coupled with preparation. Your numbers are 10, 19, 23. 38, 40. 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You will be entertaining and able to talk anyone into anything today. Your dynamic approach and worldly views will captivate and excite. Don't sell yourself short -· you are worth your weight in gold. 5 stars 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Use your head and you will come up with the right decision. Don't let your emotions lead you in the wrong direction. An older friend or relative will cause you trouble. Be honest but don't reveal too much. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Someone may twist things around to get your attention. Go to the source if you question what you are being told. A chance to make a positive change at home is apparent. Financial and legal matters can be cleared up. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Put your ideas into play before someone else beats you to it and takes all the credit. Your experience will pay off. A job opportunity will lead to a brighter future. Consider starting a small business on the side. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may be tom between telling all or keeping things to yourself today. A money deal may fall through if you aren't honest. Focus on networking, feeling­out situations and getting to know the people you are doing business with. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Problems with older relatives, children and dealing with institutions will be worrisome. Partnerships must be looked at closely. If a relationship is no longer equal, you may want to change the ground rules or move on. Money is heading your way. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You should be considering a trip or some fun events that will bring you a little pleasure or ease your stress --but don't overspend. A connection you have to someone older will be enlightening. There is much you can gain from someone else's wisdom. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get down to business, especially if it has to do with the creative or publishing and promoting what you do best. Network all you can and focus on closing deals. 2 stars 
··~ 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): MaKe some changes to your home or change your 
scenery by taking a trip. Refrain from heing gullible. Someone is likely to feed you false 
information. Question anything you don't understand. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend time with someone you truly care about. If you 
surprise someone with a gift or a proposal of sorts, you will get a wonderful response. Be 
imaginative and you will turn heads. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let your emotions get the better of you. Be honest 
with yourself and others if you want things to turn in your favor. You have the discipline 
to quit old habits and the strength to move in a more progressive direction. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you've been working on something important, share what you are doing with someone who can contribute. Someone from your past may be able to provide you with exactly what you need now. If you haven't been friendly with this person, try to make amends. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are goal-oriented. always willing to take on a challenge. You have big ideas and lots of pizzazz to help you muster up favors and approval. You are sure-footed and steady. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Guffaw 5 "Warmer" or 
"colder" 
9 Narc's find 14 Dark side 15 George 
Washingtons 16 On the 31st of 
February 17 Western flattop? 18 Fictional home 
of Gerald O'Hara 19 Shelved 
20 Tantrum expected from a money player? 
23 Ram's home: Abbr. 
Speedwagon 25 French possessive 26 Preventive maintenance on a water barrier? 33 Turkish title 
35 It may result in a landslide 36 Org. with a snake in its logo 37 Sailing 38 Contemptible sorts 40 Fast one 41 Diamond 42 Shoot out 43 Dynamos 
44 Beachgoer wearing bug spray? 
48 Source of some plywood 49 Mining target 50 Warsaw Pact member: Abbr. 
53 Bit of mischief that won't be noticed for years? 
58 Gila monster's defense 
59 Store on Harvard Square since 1882 60 When the shipwreck occurs in "The Tempest" 
61 Gillette of stage and screen 62 Heart 63 Piece of Variety news 
64 Conveys 
65 Scratched (out) 
66 Film dog 
DOWN 1 Plants used for 
fiber and food 2 Blatant 3 What a man 
making a comeback may get back to 
4Count_, villain in Lemony Snicket books 
5 Traditional cold 
remedy 6 Befuddled 7 Coup victim of 
A.D. 68 8 Ruler of the Cossacks 9 Summer treat 
10 Crofter, in Britain 
11 Enterprise rival 
12 Sunnis, e.g. 
13 Land once ruled by the Hapsburgs: Abbr. 
and Lois, in the funnies 
22 Act broadly 
27 "So that's it!" 
28 Patti LuPone Tony-winning role 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, March 29, 2007 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

All guts, no glory 
Weis' offensive line returns two starters 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Media attention this spring may be focused on the skill positions, but Notre Dame's success hinges upon the play of the offensive line. 
Next season, the Irish return two starters to the line -fifth­year senior center John Sullivan and sophomore right tackle Sam Young -along with tight end John Carlson. 
Carlson, who was named offen­sive captain along with Travis Thomas, returns this spring after catching 47 passes for 634 yards last season and is adapting to his new leadership role. 
"Believe it or not. I do have a vocal side," Carlson said. "I prob­ably don't show it to [the media] very much, but behind closed doors it comes out sometimes." 
Carlson said he plans to lead more by example than words -a leadership style that runs in his family. 
"When I was a freshman in high school, my older brother Alex was a captain on my football team, basketball team and tennis team. Believe it or not, I played tennis," Carlson said. "We had a good relationship as brothers, but I always aspire to be like him as an athlete. He was one of those guys who led by example. He wasn't real vocal. When he need­ed to be he was, but I found just observing it was more effective at least with the guys we were around. That's what I aspire to be." 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis assigned a leadership position to Sullivan as well. Monday, Weis announced Sullivan would repre­sent the offensive line on the leadership committee. Sullivan will anchor an offensive front that returns just one other starter. 
Young will remain at right tack­le where he played last season, despite speculation that he would move to left tackle. 
"Anytime you got a guy that started 13 games at a position, he has a comfort playing that posi­tion," Irish offensive line coach 
see LINEMEN/page 22 


HocKEY 
Brown picked for Hobey Hat Trick 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writer 
Irish goalie Dave Brown took another step toward col­lege hockey's ultimate prize -the Ilobey Baker Memorial Award -when the senior was selected to be one of three finalists to appear for the presentation April 6 in St. Louis, the Hobey Baker. Foundation announced Wednesday night. 
It is the first time in school history that an Irish player has reached the final three, continuing a season of firsts and never-have-befores for Notre Dame. 
"It was a great feeling to actually reach that goal of becoming one of the elite players in college," Brown said. "More than anything it really helps to push Irish hockey to the forefront." 
see BROWN/page 21 

BASEBALL 

Irish hitters crush 
lowly Chicago State 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Ediror 

Notre Damo ended its three­game losing streak Wednesday with a resounding 14-4 win over struggling Chicago State on a rainy evening at Frank Eek Stadium. 
"We talked to the toam about not getting down and not getting frustrated," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "They were loose today, they didn't stress out-they knocked some runs in. We really needed this from an emotional standpoint." 
The Irish evened their record at 12-12 with the non-conference win, while the Cougars dropped their second-straight game to fall to 1-24 on the season. 
Notre Dame got on the board early and often, getting two runs in the bottom of the frrst on an HBI single from center fielder Danny Dressman. The Irish added to their lead in the second when shorL<>top Brett Lilley, second base­man Jeremy Barnes and right fielder Michael Wright all crossed the plate to put Notre Dan1e up 5­0. 
The rout continued in the third, when left fielder Ross Brezovsky scored on a single by catcher Michael Smith. Smith reached home on a single by Lilley later in the inning, and Lilley scored on a single by third baseman A.J. Pollock. By the end of the liming, Notre Dame wa<> up 8-0 and every Irish player had reached base. 
The Cougars finally stopped the bleeding in the fourth. Side-arm­ing right-hander Mike Storrs eame 
see COUGARS/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 

,_ Notre Dan1e postpones n1atchup with Rockets because of rain 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
The only thing that could keep Notre Dame from another home win Wednesday wasn't its sched­uled opponent Toledo -it was the weather. 
Inclement weather postponed the non-conference matchup between the Irish (14-12) and the Rockets (4-14) to today. The game will still take place at 6 
p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Notre Dame enters the contest having won five in a row at home, a streak led by a red-hot pitching staff. Sophomore Brittney Bargar is 3-0 over the streak with an ERA of 0.35 and 20 strikeouts in 20 innings. For her three sparkling complete games, Bargar was named Big East player of the week. 
Freshman Heather Johnson, 

one of Notre Dame's offensive leaders during the streak. was also named to the Big East honor roll for the week. In the five Irish wins, Johnson battHd .538 with five doubles and six RBI. The infielder posted two three-hit games -including three doubles against Seton Hall -to match a Notre Dame record. 
The struggling Rockets head into South Bend on a three-game skid. Pitching woes have been the main source of Toledo's struggles -the Hockets have given up an average 6.8 runs per game. 
One of the few bright spots for Toledo this season has been first baseman Leslie Strong. The jun­ior has batted .370 on the sea­son, including four homers and 11 RBI. Aside from Strong, how­ever, the Rockets have also struggled on the offensive end ­no other batter is hitting over .250. 
The game against Toledo is an out-of-conference break for the Irish, who will return to Big East play this weekend with double­headers at home against Pittsburgh and Syracuse. The Hockets begin MAC conference play Saturday against. Buffalo. 
Contact Michael Bryan at 
mbryan@nd.edu 





