
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 82 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12,2007 
1 Qlassics' stirs quiet controversy 
Former Queer Film Festival undergoes second name change in two years to avoid conflict 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Assistant News Editor 
While Saturday's "Qlassics: Reimagining Sexuality and the Self in Recent American Cinema" marked the fourth year and second name change for the former Queer Film Festival, this year's event came and went rela­tively quietly -and that, said organizers and FTT professors, is what the University wanted. 
Film, Television and Theatre professor Jill Godmilow said this year several faculty mem­bers in the College of Arl'i and Letters ques­tioned the use of the words "gay" and "lesbian" in last year's title, "Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives and Spectatorshlp." 
"There's an attempt to disguise [the former Queer Film Festival] as another academic event and not one specifically gay and lesbian because the University is embarrassed by it," said Godmilow, who has served as a faculty advisor to students organizing the annual gay and lesbian film screenings since they began in 2003. "The ultimate goal is to make it go away and if every year they keep imposing restric­tions on it, eventually they will strip off its iden­tity and it will be lost." 
College ofArts and Letters Dean Mark Roche did not return Observer phone calls Sunday. University spokesman Don Wycliff said he was unaware of any discussion surrounding "Qlassics." When asked about any connection between the event's name change and the clos­ing statement on academic freedom University President Father John Jenkins issued last April, Wycliff again said he hadn't heard of "Qlassics." 
Last year's "Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives and Spectatorshlp" marked the first name change to the Queer Film Festival. In winter of 2005, talks between the FTT department and a University commit­tee on academic freedom created by Jenkins focused on the words "queer" and "festival" and sought to portray the event in a more aca­demic context. 
When "Qlassics" coordinator senior Patrick Wall contacted the Office of Arts and Letters and the FTT department this January seeking sponsorship for the film screenings, he said 
see QLASSICS/page 6 


State wages rise, campus sees little change 
Student workers may get future salary jump 
By EVA BINDA 
News Writer 
The Indiana House of Representatives voted Jan. 31 to increase the state's minimum wage incrementally from $5.15 per hour to $7.50 per hour by Sept. 1, 2008 -a move that will have "little impact" on the University's staff and student employees, said a member of Notre Dame's Department of Human Resources. 
"We review our salaries every year and adjust them to be competitive with the market," said Human Resources Manager of Compensation Violet Bloom. 
Only one pay level is current­ly below $7.50 per hour, she said. 
Kathy Stopczynski, chair of the Staff Advisory Council, said she "really hasn't heard too much discussion on this [mat­ter]," especially since the wages in her own department are cur­rently above minimum wage. 
Stopczynski also said this topic has not been brought up at Staff Advisory Council meet­ings. 
Nick Krafft. leader of Notre Dame's Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP), which aims to secure a "living wage" for all campus staff members, said thls legislative move is a "good thing." However, he said he would like the administration to "take a harder look at these issues. We just hope the admin­istration will continue to work with CLAP towards making 
see WAGES/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Student robbed on Bulla Rd. 

Police continue their search for suspects 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 

Police are searching for two white college-age males who allegedly robbed a male stu­dent early Saturday morning, officials said in an e-mail. 
The man was walking back to campus alone when he was approached by two men in a teal Chevrolet Suburban at the corner of Bulla Road and Twyckenham Drive on the east side of campus. 
"The suspect used his vehi­cle to block the student's path, threatened to harm the student and demanded money from him," the e-mail said. 
The suspects, who remained in the vehicle and displayed no weapon, took money and clothing from the student. 
Following the incident, the student proceeded to walk west on Bulla Road until he saw a Notre Dame Security/Police patrol car and reported the incident. 
NDSP, as well as city and county police, searched the surrounding area but did not locate the suspects, the e­mail said. The suspects allegedly drove west from the scene on Bulla Road and then continued south on Leahy Drive. 
The first suspect is 
see NDSP/page 4 


Conference facilitates discussion 
Film, lectures on eating disorders draw crowds 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
The Inaugural Notre Dame Eating Disorders Conference, "Eating Disorders and the Campus Culture," concluded Saturday after three days of discussion about a topic that "needs to be discussed," said organ­izer and Notre Dame graduate stu­dent Ali Wishon. Whlle Wishon said attendance was "a little disappoint­ing," the first of what she says will become an annual event was a suc­cess, crediting the "wonderful quality of speakers." 
The highlight of the event for Notre Dame students in attendance was the showing of the film "THIN," an award-winning documentary about "girl culture" and eating disorders by 
see EDC/page 4 


For:mer Secretary of Education visits ND 
Paige to address No Child Left Behind Act 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 

Rod Paige, the former Secretary of Education under President 
George W. B u s h charged with imple­menting the controver­sial No Child Left Behind Act, will 


a P p e a r Paige tonight as the keynote speaker in the campus-wide Black History 
Month celebration. 
In his address, Paige will focus on his involvement in No Child Left Behind, connecting it to the history of racial inequali­ty in the country's educational system, according to 
Multicultural  Affairs  
Committee  (MAC) chair  
Destinee DeLemos.  

"Dr. Paige embodies values important to Notre Dame," DeLemos said. "His intention in implementing No Child Left Behind was to cure education inequality in this country." 
Education became a central issue during the Bush adminis­tration, as Bush sought to implement national standard­ized testing to measure stu­dents' performance. 
"George W. Bush called edu­cation 'the civil rights issue of 
see PAIGE/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 12, 2007 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Dog days of college 

During winter break, I was cleaning out my bedroom closet when I made the discovery of a lifetime. 
Better than my saved box of notes I exchanged with my friends during mid­dle school, more noteworthy than my high school yearbook and cer­tainly more enter­taining than my elementary school journal. 
My discovery revealed the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's class regis­ter -more com­monly known as the "dog book" ­containing the sen­ior snapshots of my classmates. 
To some, this phrase might seem as foreign as a sunny day during a South Bend winter, but for those of us who experienced the "prehistoric" Facebook-free life, the "dog book" con­jures memories of fun, friendship and -more commonly -sheer embarrass­ment. 
I am not sure if this class register still exists, but I can be certain that ­thanks to Web sites like Facebook -it does not have the same impact it once did. 
The sad thing is, the virtual vice flails in comparison to the glory the dog book once held. 
The 8 x 11 blue paperback does not give participants the option to change their mug shot on an hourly basis ­what you see is what you get. 
You cannot add that Dave Matthews Band quote to symbolize your feelings of lost love, you cannot supplement your serious pic with a "**Gettin' LOCO in AcApUlCo**" album and you certain­ly cannot make others wonder about an inside joke posted on a friend's wall. 
With the dog book, everything remained a mystery. 
When the dorm room phone rang on a Friday afternoon and "John Doe" asked you to the Dillon SYR, you quickly looked him up in your trusty dog book and took what you could get ... maybe. 
Feeling bored with some friends? Rank the best-looking students of the opposite sex. 
And who can forget panning through the pages to figure out whom exactly you met at that dorm party the night before. 
Maybe being a part of the "dog book" generation has made us a little gutsier (not knowing the relationship status of a crush), maybe it made us a little less judgmental (maybe he just took a bad picture) or maybe it just made us all a little more bizarre (extending an invita­tion to a total stranger). 
In any case however we looked ­skinnier, fatter, mulleted or hairier ­during the summer or fall of 2002 will be forever immortalized in the book that is a classic example of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's freshman tradition. 
So here's to those of us who look ugly, hot, scary, nerdy or just plain crazy in their high school senior portrait. It is time to sit back and laugh because the dog book does not forgive with "recent­ly updated profiles." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at 
kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Kelly Meehan 
Saint Mary's Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR SPRING BREAK? 






Gary Burke  James McCaughan  Jennifer Jutakeo  Liz Lee  Tom Kingsbury  
sophomore Stanford  freshman Siegfried  sophomore P.W.  junior P.W.  sophomore Alumni  
''I'm going to  "The Key Rat  "Getting away  "Ultimate  "To rock. So  
Thunder Bay,  Regatta. It's  from Indiana  tourney down  hard."  
Canada, eh?"  only five  and going back  in Georgia,  
minutes from  to L.A."  baby!"  


my house. Yeah!" 


LAURIE HUNT/The Observer 
The windows of Cavanaugh Hall reflect its residents' reactions to Illinois Senator Barack Obama's official entry into the 2008 presidential race. 
OFFBEAT 
Cat survives frozen ordeal 

LOSANTVILLE, Ind. -A cat found half-frozen in a water trough is recovering, but may lose his tail. 
Melissa Jones said she found the cat Tuesday when she stepped onto her porch for a cigarette. His tail and hind legs were stuck in about three inches of ice. She and her husband used buckets of hot water to free hlm. 
"His little ears are droopy and purple and so are his lit­tle feet," Jones said, adding that his new nickname is "Droopy." 
In the morning, she took the seven-month-old yellow and white tiger cat to a vet-
TODAY 
0::: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
_, 
c( 
(.) 0 

erinarian, where he was given an antibiotie. The vet recommended a regimen of warm water and loot and tail massages to help its circula­tion, but still may lose its tail. 
Jones says the family will probably keep the cat indoors from now on. 
Truck spills 40 tons of cow intestines 
SHEBOYGAN, Wis. ­About 40 tons of cow intes­tines and bones spilled onto a major hlghway aftnr a truck driver bncame distracted by his digital music player and his semitrailer tipped over, officials said. 
Authorities dosed parts of Interstate 43 for about two hours Thursday while the beef byproduct was cleaned up, said sheriffs Sgt. Blaine Spieer. 

The accident happened in the town of Mosel when 25­year-old Ryan Engle's truck veered off the road as he adjusted his MP3 player, Spicer said. 
Engle, of Kenosha, was cited for inattentive driving and taken to a hospital with non-lile threatening injuries, Spieer said. 
The truck had to be towed from the scene. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONlGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

HIGH 25 HIGH 15 HIGH 17 HIGH 15
...I 

LOW 13 LOW 13 LOW 12 LOW 2 
IN BRIEF 
Vote today in the Notre Dame student body presiden­tial and vice presidential elec­tion. Students can vote in the LaFortune Student Center, the Mendoza College of Business, DeBartolo Hall or from their personal computers. 
As part of Ethics Week, Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business, will present a lecture entitled "Peace Through Commerce" at 12::~0 p.m. today at the Giovanini Commons in the College of Business. 
Prominent Indonesian politi­cian Amien Rais will speak on "The Impact of Globalization on Islam and Democracy in Indonesia" today at 3 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The event is spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies and the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 

Former U.S. Secretary of Education Rod Paige will deliver the Black History Month Keynote Address tonight at 7:30 in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Paige will dis­cuss American education, including the No Child Left Behind Act. 
The Hungarian State Folk Ensemble will perform Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $36 for the general public, $30 for facul­ty/stafli'seniors and $15 for stu­dents. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an euent to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 

HIGH 14 HIGH 22 LOW -2 LOW 5 
Atlanta 49 I 26 Boston 31 I 13 Chicago 16 I 2 Denver 43 I 25 Houston 55 I 42 Los Angeles 64 I 53 Minneapolis 8 I -10 New York 32 I 20 Philadelphia 34 I 18 Phoenix 75 I 54 Seattle 50 I 41 St. Louis 30 I 16 Tampa 71 I 55 Washington 32 I 18 
Monday, February 12, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Week dedicated to ethics, peace through collllllerce 
The primary goal of Ethics may want to pursue the area Mendoza culture and to
College of Business to 
Week is for faculty to explore in papers, presentations and become aware of accepted
host 10th Ethics Week these matters in depth and class discussions. ethical practices in the busi­facilitate discussion about Ethics Week always takes ness world. · ethical matters that are rele­place around or during the "This week sends a signal vant to the business world week of Valentine's Day, -this is something we think
ByJENNMETZ 
today, said Kenneth Milani, Milani said. is very important. We are
News Writer 
faculty coordinator of Ethics "On Valentine's Day, if you leaders in this area," Milani Week. already love some-one, you said. 
This week marks the A secondary goal of the do something to explicitly According to Milani, the Mendoza College of week is to establish the foun­show that," he said. "We events will compliment what Business's lOth-annual Ethics dations for future ethical dis­practice business ethics 24/7, is learned in the business Week, a program of events cussions both in and out of but we set this week aside to classroom and introduce dedicated to the discussion of the classroom. Milani said explicitly show our dedica­speakers who don't come into ethical matters in the col­organizers hope once the tion to [ethical practices]." classes on a regular basis. lege's undergraduate and area of ethics has been close­He said the week allows Among other topics, Ethics graduate classes, according ly examined, both undergrad­incoming students and facul­Week will allow students to to event organizers. uate and graduate students ty to get involved in the look at the role of business 
Insight comes from all ir ti n Ill 
You bring something unique to the table, and at Ernst &Young, 
you'll be encouraged to speak up and contribute. Because we 
know that bringing together people with different backgrounds 
and perspectives lets us deliver quality results for our clients. 
It's why we've created a work environment of mutual respect 
that promotes your personal and professional growth and · 
success. So visit us on campus or at ey.com/usjcareers. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services E!/ ERNST& YOUNG 
© 2007 ERNST & YOUNG llP 
Quality In Everything We Do 

ethics in achieving world 
peace and a vibrant world 
economy. 
The lineup of events for the 

week ·includes "Peace 
Through Commerce," a lec­
ture by Carolyn Woo, dean of 
the College of Business. It 
will take place at 12:30 p.m. 
on Monday at the Giovanini 
Commons in Mendoza. 
Milani said the lecture is 

the follow-up to a conference 
on the same topic held last 
November. 
"It's important for the busi­

ness world to get involved in 
a productive way," he said. 
Milani cited many examples 

of the ability of commerce to 
generate world peace, includ­
ing the direct connection 
between impr_oved economic 
conditions and decreases in 
violence in Ireland and South 
Africa. In recent stateside 
emergencies, Milani said 
Wal-Mart and Target's eco­
nomic influence helped dev­
astated areas get back on 
track when FEMA alone 
could not. 
Tuesday features "Ethics 

and Executive Education: 
Examining the Essential 
Elements," a lecture given by 
Joe Hold, director of execu­
tive education programming 
at Mendoza. The lecture will 
be held at 12:30 p.m. at the 
Giovanini Commons. 
On Wednesday, Professor 

Monle Lee of Indiana 
University and Professor Jack 
Rube of Saint Mary's will 
deliver a lecture entitled 
"Teaching Business Ethics in 
International Courses" at 
noon at the Giovanini 
Commons. 
The week concludes on 

Thursday when Mark Albion, 
a social e·ntrepreneur, New 
York Times best-selling 
author, former Harvard 
Business School professor 
and co-founder of Net 
Impact, an organization that 
promotes new models for 
responsible business deci­
sions, will facilitate a presen­
tation, "True to Yourself" at 
noon at the Giovanini 
Commons. He will later pres­
ent a lecture called "Making 
a Life, Making a Living: 
Reclaiming Your Purpose and 
Passion in Business and in 
Life" at 7 p.m. in the Jordan 
Auditorium of Mendoza. 
"Students should set aside their time to see at least some of the speakers," Milani . said. "This is an opportunity to see world-class people give their input on topics of ethics 
in an intimate setting." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 12, 2007 
inaugural event, Wishon said. "I think that that people [were 
EDC 


ND program_ offers tax assistance 
TAP prepares returns for low-income families in the area at no cost 

Saint Mary's who has been a Domestic clients must have 
By AMANDA SHROPSHIRE TAP volunteer for two years. made less than $35,000 in 

News Writer 

Matt Adams, chair of the the past year to be eligible 
TAP student administrator for the service. All interna­
This time of year is stress­group, said one of TAP's pri­tional faculty members, ful for wage-earners across mary goals is to help fami­researchers, students and the country as they scramble lies with significant financial visiting scholars are able to to file their tax returns by need. receive assistance. April 15. But with the help "One of the main benefits Taxpayers seeking assis­of the Notre Dame Tax we provide is calculation of tance must bring copies of · Assistant Program (TAP), life the Earned · their federal for members of the greater Income Credit and state tax South Bend community is [EIC], which is "It just feels so returns from just a little bit easier. a special credit the past year
good when you give 
For· nearly 40 years, the for low income and other rele­
someone a $s,ooo
TAP volunteer corps -made individuals," vant documents up of students, faculty, staff Adams said. refund, because such as medical and Certified Public "With the EIC, a bills, personal
that money means
Accountants -has been family with two property taxes,
so much to them."
committed to helping local children and real estate taxpayers who are eligible around $10,000 taxes and char­for assistance, file their in yearly Stefanie Broderick ity donations to returns on time. income can one of the 10
TAP volunteer
Before they can offer their receive up to a locations where services, volunteers must $4,000 refund TAP services prove their knowledge of on their tax are offered six 
U.S. tax law by completing a return, meaning we can pro­days a week. The largest of two-credit pass/fail course. vide a family with up to 40 these include the South The four-week course is percent of its yearly earn­Bend and Mishawaka public open to both Notre Dame ings." libraries, Adams said. and Saint Mary's students, TAP is funded by the This year, as the program allowing them to gain aca­Mendoza College of volunteers prepare for a demic credit as well as valu­Business, making it possible busy season, Adams said able experience in account­for the program to file over their goals are measured not ancy and community serv­1,000 tax returns each year in numbers, but in quality. ice. at no cost to the taxpayer. "We try to make ourselves 
"It just feels so good when According to TAP's Web available to the community you give someone a $5,000 site, the program serves the in as many ways as possi­refund, because that money needs of both domestic and ble," he said. means so much to them," international taxpayers who said Stefanie Broderick, a are eligible and equipped Contact Amanda Shropshire at senior accounting major at with the appropriate forms. ashropO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
.,...
continued from page 1 
photographer Lauren Greenfield, said Wishon. 
"It gave people the opportunity to see someone struggling with an eating disorder," Wishon said. 
"It was just sort of a stunned silence," Wishon said of the audi­ence reaction to the film. "The looks on people's faces were incredible. It was a very emotional event, especially for people who have loved ones who have suf­fered from eating disorders." 
About 200 people attended the showing of the film. 
Keynote presenter Roberto Olivardia, a Harvard Medical School scholar and eating· disor­ders expert, also received a posi­tive response, WIShon said. 
"I had several people who said that he was among the top, one of the best presenters that they have ever seen," she said. 
Student Senate gender issues co-chair Ashley Weiss, a confer­ence organizer, said Olivardia addressed many facets of male eating disorders, discussing the formation of body image ideals from action figures like G.l. Joe, which leads to disorders like mus­cular dysmorphia. 
"People were really ·interactive and responsive to Dr. Olivardia's presentation," Weiss said. 
Presenters and other experts at the event also complimented the organization and quality of the impressed] that Notre Dame is on the .forefront of this conversation," Wishon said. "Everyone that came was so impressed and said it is something that doesn't seem to be addressed elsewhere. 

"All of our speakers have been to many national conferences like this, and they all had positive things to say about the confer­ence," Weiss said. "People who do this for a living -going from con­ference to conference and study­ing eating disorders -were very [complimentary]." 
The conference drew graduate students in addition to the presen­ters' colleagues and other experts in the field, Wishon said. 
Notre Dame alumnus Ted Weltzin, medical director for eat­ing disorder services at Rogers Memorial Hospital in the Milwaukee area, was one such expert. Weltzin expressed interest in serving as an advisor for future conferences, Wishon said. 
Part .of the conference's goal, Wishon said, was to foster a better understanding of how the campus environment plays a role in the development of eating disorders -something she said was addressed by presenters. 
"The presenters were saying that campus culture is part of a larger problem," Wishon said. 
Planning has already begun for next year's conference, Weiss said. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

Wages 
continued from page 1 · 
Notre Dame a better place to work." 
A living wage is the hourly rate of income that a worker in a spe­cific area must make in a 40­hour workweek to support a family of four. To establish a liv­ing wage at Notre Dame, CLAP has suggested a minimum $12.10 per-hour wage, or $25,164 a year, for University employees. 
Unlike full-time staff members, Notre Dame's student employees may eventually see a pay increase as a result of the Indiana bill. 
Currently, determining the stu­dent minimum wage is "part of the greater budgetary process that the University goes through each year", said Joe Russo, director of Student Finance Strategies in the Office of 
Financial Aid. 
Students at Notre Dame have typically been paid well above the state minimum wage of$5.15 per hour, Russo said, and increases to the base salary are considered each year. 
The student minimum wage for the 2006-07 academic year is currently $6.75 per hour. This is considered the basic rate, 




NDSP 
continued from page 1 
described as an approximate­ly 18-year-old white male wearing a black-brimmed hat and a puffy black winter jack­et, the e-mail said. The sec­ond suspect is described as a white male wearing a gray­white hooded sweatshirt. 
NDSP asks anyone with information about this crime to contact its office at 631­5555. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

according to the Student 
Employment Web site. The inter­
mediate rate is $7.15 per hour, 
and the skilled rate is $7,65 per 
hour. 
"Another increase is scheduled 
to go into effect this summer, 
raising the minimum hourly rate 
to $6.90," Russo said. 
Russo said while the move by the Indiana House has not imme­diately affected on-campus stu­dent employees, the University budget cycle for 2008-09 will .likely "take into account any changes to the minimum wage 
law." 
"We would hope that a higher 
minimum wage would give stu­
dents a better opportunity to 
earn additional resources to help 
meet some of their educational 
expenses," Russo said. 
Contact Eva Binda at 
jbinda@nd.edu 
Turtle Creek Apartinent Ho·Ines 
THE Place to be at ND!! 
Join us at the Clubhouse on February 14th for a 
Valentine's Day Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dip into a BUFFET of 
CHOCOLATE GOODIES TREATS, OHMY! 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 12, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Portugal faces abortion referendum 
USBON -Portugal was deci<ling in a national referendum yesterday whether to discard its strict abortion law, a battle that pits the Socialist gov­ernment against conservative parties and the Catholic Church. 
The center-left Socialist government wants to grant women the right to opt for abortion during the first 10 weeks of pregnancy. 
Portugal, where more than 90 percent of people say they are Catholic, has one of the most restric­tive abortion laws in the European Union. The procedure is allowed only in cases of rape, fetal malformation or if a mother's health is in danger, and only in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. 
In 23 other EU nations, abortion is permitted within much broader limits. Women can ask for abortions up to the 24th week of pregnancy in Britain and up to the 12th week in Germany, France and Italy. 
Portugal's effort to change the law, though, has run into emphatic opposition from the influential Church, which wants to keep restrictions in place. 
At midday, turnout was low, with fewer than 12 percent of eligible voters casting ballots. The sin­gle question on the ballot asks voters ifthey want to allow abortion up to the 1Oth week. 
Afganistan beset by foreign fighters 
KANDAHAR -An estimated 700 foreign fight­ers are operating in a southern Afghan province where Taliban fighters overran a town earlier this month, the provincial governor said Sunday. 
The foreign fighters _ from Chechnya, Uzbekistan and Pakistan _ are operating in three volatile areas of Helmand province, including Musa Qala, which Taliban fighters have controlled since Feb. 1, Gov. Asadullah Wafa said. 
He said the government was conducting nego­tiations with tribal elders, urging them to pur­suade the fighters to leave. 
NATIONAL NEWS ­
Iran's involvement in Iraq discussed 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration is haunted by the history of intelligence blunders about Saddam Hussein's supposed weapons of mass destruction as the United States tries to document that Iran is providing lethal help to Iraqi fighters. 
Government officials familiar with the Iran dossier's documents and slides, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the materials still were classified, said they make a compelling case about Iranian actions in Iraq. 
Among the evidence the administration planned to present are weapons that were seized over time in U.S.-led raids on caches around Iraq, said one military official. Other evi­dence includes documents captured when U.S.­led forces raided an Iranian office Jan. 11 in Irbil, a city in Kurdish-controlled northern Iraq about 220 miles north of Baghdad, officials said. 


Bush proposes cuts to fuel consumption 
WASHINGTON -President Bush asked Congress to help solve "one of the great chal­lenges facing our generation" by approving proposals he says will cut U.S. gasoline con­sumption by up to 20 percent over 10 years. 
"Every member of Congress who cares about strengthening our economy, protecting our national security and confronting climate change should support the energy initiatives I have set out," the president said Saturday. "We can leave behind a cleaner and better world for our children and grandchildren." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Darfurians find new home in Indiana 
ELKHART -Hundreds of refugees from Sudan's troubled Darfur region have flocked to northern Indiana to make a new start amid the culture of the Midwest. 
Churches and other groups have sponsored trips to Sudan and organized efforts to bring refugees here. The nonprofit Web site SaveDarfur.org lists almost two dozen aware­ness groups within 150 miles of Elkhart. 
Suliman Giddo of a Fort Wayne group called Darfur Peace and Development says the Fort Wayne area is home to the largest pocket of Darfur natives in the United States -as many as 300 people. 

Iraq resolution vote expected soon 
Democratic Congress to pass measure expressing 'disapproval' of Iraq war 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Even before they cast symbolic votes against the Iraq war, newly empowered congres­sional Democrats are clam­oring for a chance to limit and eventually end U.S. involvement in a conflict that has killed more than 3,000 troops. 
"Will I vote for a nonbind­ing resolution? Yes, but it's insufficient," says first-term Rep. Joe Sestak of Pennsylvania, author of one of more than a dozen com­peting proposals that would impose a deadline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops. 
"I think eventually without a question that we will have the House move to that posi­tion," the former three-star admiral added. "The country is already there." 
Sestak spoke in an inter­view just off the House floor, which will serve as a nation­ally televised stage this week for a marathon debate over Bush's war policy. 
A vote is expected by week's end on a nonbinding measure that expresses dis­approval of the president's recent decision to dispatch an additional21,500 military personnel to Iraq. The meas­ure also affirms support for the troops. 

Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D­Calif., and the Democratic the anti-war organization Pentagon from sen<ling addi­dozen detainees who will leadership have firmed up MoveOn.org for the strategy tional troops "unless they stand trial. support for the measure by and defections have been have adequate training and In the complicated politics repeatedly promising it will few. unless they have adequate of the war, the spen<ling bill be followed by bin<ling legis­At the same time, pressure equipment." would face daunting hur­lation. "Our goal is to end has been building. Murtha, D-Pa., said he dles. the war," one Democrat War critics have told Reid believes the Army may have Democrats determined to quoted Pelosi as saying at a they want to use anti-terror­no units that can meet those end the conflict have said recent private caucus. ism legislation that is expect­standards, meaning Bush's they will not approve any 
Senate Majority Leader ed on the Senate floor in attempt to increase the num­more money to keep it going. Harry Reid of Nevada has March as a way of forcing ber of troops in the war Republicans who support pursued the same course, votes on proposals to end the would be checked. Bush's policy would be hoping to enlist a bipartisan war. The measure also may be unlikely to support limits on majority behind a measure In the House, the leader­amended to forbid creation his power as commander in that expresses disagreement ship is planning to turn of any permanent U.S. mili­chief. with Bush's plans. Bush's request for additional tary bases in Iraq and razing Unlike a nonbin<ling meas­Republicans have so far military money into a mid­the Abu Ghraib facility that ure, legislation is always blocked consideration of the March debate over the war. was at the center of a pris­subject to a presidential resolution. Rep. John Murtha, who oner torture scandal. veto. 
Two Democrats have said heads a subcommittee with Murtha said it is possible But opponents of the war, they will oppose the resolu­jurisdiction over defense the bill will also call for the their strength increased in tion as too weak, even as a spending, told reporters he closing of the facility in last fall's congressional elec­first step. But Reid's office hopes to add a provision to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, tions, say public opinion is has enlisted the backing of the bill that would forbid the except in the case of several moving their way. 

CHINA 



Korea talks stall over energy aid 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -International talks to persuade North Korea to dismantle its nuclear program verged on foundering Sunday over the coun­try's demands for energy aid, and would end after one more day of negotiations, envoys said. 
A day of meetings and an unscheduled nighttime session by the negotiators from the United States, China, North Korea and three other countries failed to achieve much progress, envoys from Japan and South Korea said. The six envoys agreed to recon­vene Monday. 
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State 
Chris  Hill  said  the  talks  had  
snagged  on  the amount of energy  
assistance  Pyongyang is  to  be  

awarded as an inducement for dis­arming. But he said that a deal could still be reached Monday, which would be the final day of talks. 
"The situation remains severe," Japanese envoy Kenichiro Sasae told reporters late Sunday. He added that North Korea offered no new proposals. 
South Korean envoy Chun Yung­woo said the sticking points touch on vital interests of many of the parties. "It's not a situation where 
a breakthrough is in sight," Chun said. 
Negotiators had hoped that the talks would concrete steps by North Korea to dismantle its nuclear programs in more than three years of negotiations and especially since Pyongyang's suc­cessful nuclear test in October. 
Pressure for a breakthrough was high, in part because the United States has said it would be point­less to continue the often inconclu­sive negotiations without progress. 
"Because this round could be the crossroads, today's talks took place in an atmosphere of height­ened tension," Sasae said. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 12, 2007 
said. "And also because "[Paige] carries an image of Department of Education was the debate, and why he support­Condoleezza Rice is impossible to African-Americans that isn't not without controversy, as No ed No Child Left Behind," Henry
Paige 

book during Black History associated with arts or entertain­Child Left Behind became an said. continued from page 1 Month." ment," Henry said. "Of all the unpopular program because of Paige will speak at 7:30p.m. in 
Senior Broderick Henry, also a speakers we could have chosen its strict requirements at the Room 101 of DeBartolo Hall. our time.' Because of this, we felt member of MAC, said choosing from, we felt he could best con­state level, according to Henry. Dr. Paige was a perfect choice Paige was an easy decision for tribute to a dialogue on campus." "We thought it would be inter­Contact John-Paul Witt at for a keynote speaker," DeLemos MAC. Paige's two-year tenure at the esting to hear !Paige's] side of jwittl@nd.edu 

Qlassics 
continued from page 1 
several faculty members -whom he would not name -asked him to avoid using "gay" and "lesbian" in the title. 
Working against the clock with a reduced staff of student organizers, Wall agreed to another rename. 
"After some discussion, the stu­dent organizers, myself included, freely chose to use a title that we created that didn't have the words lesbian, gay, bisexual, and trans­gender in it," Wall said. "We decid­ed to do this because the event date was already so near that we didn't think we had enough time to debate with faculty members over the title." 
FIT chair Peter Holland referred Observer phone calls to FTI pro­fessor Pamela Wojcik. 
Wojcik, Wall's faculty liaison, said the University wanted to avoid the controversy that has traditionally surrounded the annual event, which was held Saturday in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
"The University administration is trying to allow the event without ruffiing feathers," she said. "The organizers were, in fact, still not allowed to use the word 'queer' and they were dissuaded from using the words 'gay' and 'les­bian."' 
Wojcik declined, however, to name individuals who expressed concern with the title. 
Wall said when the student organizers suggested to the FTT department and College of Arts and Letters a name that included "LGTBQ" -lesbian, gay, transgen­der, bisexual and questioning -in the title, "certain faculty members asked if we could come up with a different title that didn't use those words so as to avoid the kind of controversy and outside criticism that arose last year in response to the old title, 'Queer Film Festival."' 
Wall said he then met with sever­al professors to discuss a name change, which he said was a sug­gestion, not an order. 
"No one wants to say, 'We won't let you say this,' so they were say­ing, 'We would feel much more comfortable if you don't succinctly use these words," he said. 
After he agreed to a new title, Wall said he sent letters to other Arts and Letters departments requesting sponsorship. 
"Qlassics" organizers received financial support from the FTT department and the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's (GALA-ND/SMC), as well as endorsement from the his­tory department, the gender stud­ies program and the Hesburgh Program in Public Service. 
The departments and groups that sponsored past Queer Film Festivals and last year's Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narratives and Spectatorship include the FTT department, GALA-ND!SMC. the English depart­ment, the anthropology depart­ment, the history department, the Counseling Center and the gender studies program. 
Wall said he didn't think the name change request came from "the administration or the Main Building" but rather from faculty members in departments that worry about the response of the alumni. 
"I think some of these [Arts & Letters] departments are really worried about the criticism they may receive from the more conser­vative alumni," Wall said. 

Despite the success of last spring's Gay and Lesbian Film: Filmmakers, Narrators and Spectatorship -which broke attendance records from prior Queer Film Festivals -only three students joined Wall's staff of event coordinators. 
Wall and seniors Ishira Kumar, Lisa Goepfrich and Alisa O'Connor worked since December to rally sponsors and Arts & Letters departments to endorse the Qlassics film series. 
In addition to the department sponsors mentioned earlier, Wall said he also received a generous offer from AllianceND -a gay and lesbian support group on campus, unrecognized by the University ­to help promote the film series. 
Junior Stacey Williams, AllianceND secretary, said she was concerned when she didn't see any posters advertising the upcoming film event. 
Though AllianceND was "not in a position to help financially," Williams said the organization jumped to help publicize the screenings on campus. 
"We definitely offered to help with getting the word out," she said. "I sent out a few e-mails to the Progressive Student alliance Listserv, which is pretty extensive, as well as the Feminist Voice Listserv -groups we thought would be attracted to the film festi­val." 
Wall again said the rushed and understaffed situation in which he, Kumar and Goepfrich organized the event made it difficult to pro­mote the film series. 
However, he said the attendance increased as Saturday progressed, and the speakers were engaging. 
"Overall, I'd say the event, though certainly scaled down from last year, was still a success and hopefully accomplished its mission to create an academic space in which to connect with these impor­tant films and the issues they raise," he said. 
This year's event wasn't as big of a production as past gay and les­bian film festivals, Wall said, partly because it wasn't organized as early, and partly because of the theme. 
"Rather than focusing on the newest films and biggest filmmak­ers, we decided to focus instead on movies we considered LGBTQ clas­sics," Wall said. 
One of the featured films was Godmilow's "Roy Cohn/Jack Smith," two semi-biographical Broadway monologues contrasting two AIDS-afflicted, homosexual 
· men in the 1990s. 
She directed famed homosexual actor Ron Vawter before his death in 1994 due to AIDS-related com­plications. 
Wall said he hoped students attending the Qlassics film series would see "Hoy Cohn/Jack Smith" and understand some of the issues faced by homosexuals, which he said were relevant in the Notre Dame classrooms as well. 
"Student<; here are w1easy deal­ing with homosexuality," Wall said. "They struggle to reconcile their desire to be kind to other students and their belief that there is some­thing wrong with homosexuality ­and so our solution to th0 problem is just to ignore it completely and pretend it's not an issue on cam­pus." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
JUNIORS AND SOPHOMORES IN ARTS & LETTERS, ENGINEERING, SCIENCE If you are a First Generation College Student from a Low-1 n come Family OR 
• African American, Hispanic, or Native American 
Learn about joining the 

THE CNAIR SCHOLARS SUMMER PROGRAM AT NOTRE DAME 
INFORMATION AND REFRESHMENTS 
MONDAY,FEBRUARY19,2007 5:30-6:30 PM ROOM 218 MAIN BUILDING 

Please register to attend with Ms. Mary Nichols (631-7514 or mnichols@nd.edu) 
(Visit the program at http://www.nd.edul-mcnairl 
For all of your skin care & hair removal needs come to our South Bend location just a couple miles from campus on North 
Michigan street. Peggy is a Licensed 

Aesthetician and specializes in Bikini, 
Brazilian, and full leg wax. From lip to leg, 

Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth 
and soft so you are ready to hit the BEACH! 


Peggy is available 

• Monday * FridayPeggy Dibble 9am*Spm
Aesthetician 
• Saturday 8:30am -12:30pm 

Call Peggy TODAY/ NfrCHIANA EYE CENTER 

. :····.···:,;.::·:·:==.·=

574.282.2020 





t •.. 
...and don't forget to mention this ad!! 
& FACIAL PLASTIC SUJ<GEI<Y 

401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, February 12, 2007 
page 7 

Dow 

12,580.83 -56.80

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,00 I 134 2,263 2,952,295,190 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.96  -0,28  28.98  
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ)  -1.37  -0.61  43.84  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.54  -0.33  21.03  
CISCO SYS INC (SUNW)  -1.67  -0.11  6.48  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +1.14  +0.054  4.784  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  5.0 IS  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.58  +0.028  4.865  
5-YEARNOTE  + 1.12  +0.053  4.778  
CommocJ;ties  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.18  59.89  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +9.50  672.30  
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.)  +1.23  104.80  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.8850  
EURO  0.7688  
POUND  0.5036  
CANADIAN$  1.1742  

IN BRIEF 

Cronkite: Media values profit over truth 
NEW YORK -Pressures by media companies to generate greater profits are threatening the very freedom the nation was built upon, former CBS News anchor Walter Cronkite said Thursday. 
In a keynote address at Columbia University, Cronkite said today's journalists face greater chal­lenges than those from his generation. No longer could journalists count on their employers to pro­vide the necessary resources, he said, "to expose truths that powerful politicians and special inter­ests often did not want exposed." 
Instead, he said, "they face rounds and rounds of job cuts and cost cuts that require them to do ever more with ever less." 
"It's not just the journalist's job at risk here. It's American democracy. It is freedom." 
Cronkite said news accuracy has declined because of consolidations and closures that have left many American towns with only one newspa­per. And as broadcasters cut budgets and air time for news, he said, "we're all left with a sound bite culture that turns political campaigns into political theater." 
The former anchor urged owners of media com­panies -newspapers and broadcast alike -to recognize they have special civil responsibilities. 
Businesses struggle with dating womers 
NEW YORK -Most small business owners have to deal at some time or another with employees who date, fall in love and probably break up: It's pretty hard to prohibit workers from becoming romantically involved, but own­ers can take steps to ensure that a relationship doesn't get in the way of getting the job done. 
Problems can arise no matter how the rela­tionship turns out or even if the relationship never gets off the ground. So human resources consultants say all companies should have a policy on dating and relationships among co­workers, and to be sure that employees are aware of it. 
There are two very critical reasons for formu­lating such a policy. Relationships can affect productivity, and not just that of the dating co­workers. Even more serious is the fact that workplace affairs of the heart have the poten­tial of turning into sexual harassment suits against an employer. 
But many HR experts say that realistically, such policies can't outright ban dating. 
NASDAQ fails in bid for LSE 
London Stock Exchange announces work on alliance with Tokyo Stock Market 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The 
Nasdaq Stock Market Inc., 
having failed in its $5.3 
billion hostile takeover bid 
for .the London Stock 
Exchange, is now seen 
scrambling to lay out a 
European strategy that will 
appease its shareholders 
and ensure that it won't be 
left behind as other major 
exchanges consolidate. 
The world's largest elec­tronic equities exchange was dealt a crushing defeat Saturday by LSE shareholders who over­whelmingly opted not to accept the bid. The Nasdaq's dogged pursuit of the British bourse lasted almost a year and left Nasdaq empty-handed as rival operators NYSE Group Inc. and Euronext NV integrate into the first marketplace to span the Atlantic. 
Analysts say Nasdaq CEO Robert Greifeld is now under intense pressure from investors to cut a deal that will keep his exchange competitive. Wall Street could get a glimpse at Greifeld's next move when he speaks to analysts after the Nasdaq reports third-quarter earnings Tuesday. 
"He's built up so much expectation that if he were to abandon Europe there embarked on a broader Nasdaq still holds. The Nasdaq has brag­would be very strong dis­alliance with the Tokyo Meanwhile, a spokesman ging rights for the speedi­appointment among share­Stock Exchange that could for the LSE told reporters est stock executions, but holders," said David lead to a combination. in London that the the NYSE's recent intro­Easthope, an analyst with There is also speculation exchange is already work­duction of electronic trad­business consulting firm that NYSE Chief Executive ing on a strategic alliance ing is designed to chal­Celent. "Shareholders are John Thain might take with its Tokyo counterpart. lenge that. looking for them to exe­advantage' of the Nasdaq's The fierce rivalry Until Saturday's defeat, cute on two strategies: Get failed bid to make his own between the NYSE and the Greifeld had a string of your European strategy in run at the LSE, either Nasdaq is palpable. They successes at Nasdaq. He's place and simultaneously through an acquisition or are fighting for market taken a market that was execute one in Asia." most likely a broad share in the U.S., where once run by the nation's 
That's exactly what the alliance. The NYSE, which regulations allow stocks broker-dealers and turned New York Stock Exchange declined to comment about listed on one exchange to it into one of Wall Street's has accomplished. So far such a deal, would face not be traded on another. They hottest public companies, this year, the Big Board only competition issues in have also been gunning for bought electronic trading closed the deal to buy Europe but also be forced more stock listings, some­platform Instinet for its Paris-based Euronext, to contend with the nearly times persuading compa­technology and has taken secured a stake in India's 30 percent stake in the nies to defect from one to trades away from the National Stock Market, and London exchange that the the other. NYSE. 



Stocks down amid rising oil prices 
Associated Press central bankers are viewing the econ­Broader stock indicators also fell. 
omy, and which way it might lead on The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 

NEW YORK -Wall Street retreated interest rates this year. 10.25, or 0.71 percent, to 1,438.06, 
sharply Friday as investors glumly Investors also digested a handful of and the Nasdaq composite index was 
absorbed a spike in oil prices and earnings reports and watched the down 28.85, or 1.16 percent, at 
comments from two Federal Reserve movements of crude oil, which 2,459.82. 
officials that unexpected economic crossed $60 per barrel for the first For the week, the Dow fell 0.57 per-. 
growth could prompt an interest rate time since early January. MasterCard cent; the Nasdaq dropped 0.65 per­
hike. Inc. also weighed on the market after cent; and the S&P declined ·o.71 per­
Stocks had spent most of the session it warned 2007 margins might be cent. 
in positive territory after ThursdaY's weaker than they were last year. Bond prices fell sharply following 
pullback made for fertile ground for "I do think that in order for this speeches by the two Fed presidents; 
bargain hunters. The market also got , market to continue to rally, we're the yield on the benchmark 10-year 
a lift from analyst upgrades of the going to need further confirmation of Treasury note rose to 4. 78 percent 
automobile sector, which sent Ford an economy that's growing and the from 4. 73 percent late Thursday. The 
Motor Co. and General Motors Corp. risks of inflation have abated," said dollar was mixed against other major 
higher. Peter Cardillo, chief market economist currencies, while gold prices rose. 
But investors began to sell after St. for Avalon Partners. Also influencing the fixed-income 
Louis Fed President William Poole and The Dow Jones industrial average market were comments from 
Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher fell 56.80, or 0.45 percent, to Cleveland Fed President Sandy 
both warned rates will go higher if 12,580.83 after also pulling back on Pianalto that "recent data are encour­
inflation doesn't ebb. Wall Street has Thursday amid concerns about the aging" for the housing sector, accord­
been looking for any clues about how housing market. ing to prepared remarks. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, February 12, 2007 
THE OBSERVER Silencing Rallladan stunts progress 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Raben Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Menndla GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLW: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 . 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(5ii) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obspheto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

With all the recent excitement over this year's top-1 0 recruiting class (kudos to Coach Weis) and the talent that it brings to our football program, many couldn't help to still discuss the one (or three) that got away. However, I'd like to shift focus away from football for just a couple of minutes and talk about the one that really got away, the one that would undoubtedly make waves at Notre Dame like never before. 
Scrolling through the New York Times magazine online last Sunday, I felt intense frustration as I read one particular article. This artiele wasn't about American and Iraqi deaths incurred in Iraq by roadside bombing, the Iranian nuclear program, or the recent arrest of several Muslims in Britain accused of plotting to kill an Islamic member of the British armed forces. The article was about Tariq Hamadan, a man who could certainly shed light on these aforementioned, all too commonplace, topics. Reading through the article one gets a great sense of admiration for his eloquence and his constant efforts to "bridge a divide and bring together people of diverse backgrounds and world views." Although Ramadan comes from a genealogical tree that has its fair share of Muslim extremists (his grandfather founded the Muslim Brotherhood) he has chosen a different route: modera­tion and practical application of Islamic faith to the world we live in. While he decries neoliberal economics as inher­ently unjust and states that global capi­talism is the "abode of war," these inflammatory statements aren't simple empty statements tailored for the FOX news ticker but rather a provocative means of entering into a dialogue. As opposed to Ann Coulter, Tariq Ramadan doesn't exude controversy as a means of being controversial; he simply has strong, meaningful opinions that war­rant intense scrutiny and discussion in today's social and political climates. 

These meaningful, well-articulated opinions are now discussed at Oxford where he is a research fellow. 
He was supposed to be here. 
However, this wasn't a case of his reneging on signing day. Quite to the contrary, his children were enrolled in South Bend schools, his furniture had all been shipped here, his visa was in 
.order and he was fully prepared to begin teaching at the Kroc Institute. However, as the New York Times maga­zine article articulates, about $900 that he donated to charities led to the revo­cation of his visa. Nine-hundred measly dollars which he had donated to two different aid organizations that help Palestinians are, according to the U.S. State Department, the reason that he's not here. This money was given to charities that, at the time, were not on any blacklist and continue to run legiti­matoly and without scrutiny in Europe. However, at some point after his dona­tion, the United States decided that it was giving money to Hamas, the radical and violent Palestinian group. Despite the ex-post facto nature of the blacklist­ing, the present administration, in its infinite wisdom, decided to bar this valuable and much-needed voice from entering our country and teaching at our University. 
Heally? Nine-hundred dollars donatnd to two legitimate charities whose activi­ties weren't yet called in to question is enough to keep Tariq Ramadan away from America and its students? 
I don't buy it. 

What we have here is yet another iteration of the U.S. administration's desire to ignore and obstruct voices of dissent, even if that dissent is entirely well-founded and academic. Tariq Hamadan has an important place in American society and an invaluable role to play in this country's academic institutions. Due to the heroic and insightful efforts of those at the Kroc Institute such as Professor Scott Appleby, we almost had one of the most prominent Islamic voices right here on our campus. We almost had the oppor­tunity as students to be consistently challenged in our world views and our view of Islam in modern society. We were a simple visa away from being able to comprehend the issues that plague Muslims in Europe and the Middle East as well as, at an ever­increasing rate, those who reside in the United States. The Bush administration will have none of it. 
Barring one prominent and contro­versial scholar from entering our coun­try isn't the cause of our issues; it's a symptom. It shows us that the level of education, the prevalence of discourse, and the tenet of free speech that mil­lions have fought for and sworn to pro­tect, both in the courts and on the field of battle, aren't as high of a priority to this administration as we'd like them to be. As the next generation of leaders, we must be vigilant of those who would limit our access to controversy and attempt to curtail any serious discus­sion of issues which divide societies across the globe. 
We deserve better and we must demand better. 
Will McAuliffe is a senior Political Science major with a serious love for the Colbert Report and Fox News. All letters ofsupport, disdain or funny Backer experiences should be forwarded to his personal assistant at mcauliffe.4@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's. EDITORIAL CARTOON College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is · nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns !!resent the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2--4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except d1.1ring exam and vacation periods. A subscription m The Ohscrvcr is $100 for one academic year: $'l5 for nne ocmtSter. 
The Obscrvt"r is published ar: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H:ill Send address corrccrions to; Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid ar Nom Dame P:O.Boxm and additional mailing offices. 024 So1.1th Dining Hall 
Noltt Dame, IN 465:56-0n9 

The Observer is .a lll(;~her ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 


News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
Amanda Michaels Tim Dougherty John-Paul Witt Chris Hine Viewpoint Lorenzo Reyes What was the most important 


Submit aLetter 

''Time is not what you think. Dying? 
Lianna Scene 

factor in your vote for student 
Not the end of everything. We think

Brauweiler Marty Schroeder 
it is. But what happens on earth

body president? 
Graphics 
is only the beginning." 


to the Editor at
Madeline Nies 
Mitch Alborn

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
author


www.ndsmcobserver.com
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT

Monday, February 12, 2007 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A call to teach and change the nation 
We all are so very fortunate to call ourselves part of the Notre Dame community. 
We all have received excellent educations, and will likely have great success in whatever it is we choose to do with that education. I issue to you a challenge: use your education to create more educated, inquisitive people ready to take on the world. In sum, more people like you. 
In the beginning, Teach For America (TFA) was an idea nothing more than an undergraduate senior thesis about a national teacher corps. The basic idea was that an excellent education can be utilized to change children's lives-to give them new opportunities to meet the challenges associated with poverty. The key to this new life is an education. 
I was first reached by an amazing TFA presenter that spoke to a group in O'Shaughnessey in fall 1992. She spoke of the need to fill teaching positions in under-resourced, under-fund­ed schools throughout urban and rural areas in the United States. It was if she was speaking directly to me. Me, a Latina woman fluent in Spanish, who had an excellent education and many opportunities in life. Could I provide opportunities for children who had few? 
I answered the call and applied. "What about law school?" said my parents. I told them that a TFA experience would pre­pare me for law school. I told them I wanted to go to law school in order to provide legal services in the public interest. Except what did I know about what was needed in the public sector? I wanted to live it and learn how I could best serve the greater community that gave me so much. Fortunately, I was accepted in 1993 and my parents begrudgingly accepted my decision. 
I had tbe privilege of teaching wonderful bilingual kinder­gartners in inner-city Houston. Make no mistake, this job was not easy, and struggles are exceptionally difficult to stomach when one is used to success. The TFA experience is not for the weak or meek of heart, but for those who hear the call to serve in the classroom. Many tears were shed, many sleepless nights were spent pouring over books and acquiring materials for "my babies." But in the end, the efforts were well spent. My five-year-old students could read, write, add and subtract. A full quarter of my class could multiply. But my greatest achievement was getting one of my most neglected students to go from being unable to hold a pair of scissors, to being able to read sight words in one year. Miguel, wherever he is in the world, can read. I had a hand in making sure this one child is literate, and not illiterate. 
I do know where Lizette is today. She writes me during the holidays and lets me know about her activities and school. She sent me pictures of her quinceanera (traditional coming-of­age birthday celebration). She is now 17 and in the National Honor Society. 
As for me, after TFA I did go to law school, and am now a practicing criminal defense attorney at the Federal Defender's Office in Buffalo, N.Y. I see the difference that literacy makes every day, especially when I speak to a client that is illiterate. Would this person be sitting before me in chains if he had learned how to read? Would she have had more options in life if there had been someone who cared enough to give her opportunities to succeed? 
As I present a case before the judge in federal criminal court, I remember my students. They were my first audience, where I learned to communicate a message, to make my point. As I speak to a confused and scared client, or to a client's dis­traught family member, I remember the lessons my small stu­dents taught me about speaking softly to those who raise their voices to defuse a tense situation. 
More than 10 years ago, I was privileged to give two years of my life to the children of Houston. In the beginning, Teach For America had great goals and ideals, with the hope that the face of education could be changed. More than a decade later, those goals are being met one teacher and one classroom at a time. Now there is a new generation of children that thirst for the knowledge that will bring them a bright future. 
llow will they achieve this amazing education? Who will lead these children with oftentimes few resources and few role models down the ardent path of learning and achieve­ment? Who will counsel them through the failures and strug­gles that accompany any new endeavor that requires effort? Can you guide the future leaders of the community and nur­ture their desires to make things better? Can you grow the skills and abilities that they will need to succeed? 
Can you give two years of your life to create an indelible mark on a child? Can you change the future for the better? Can you help build the foundation of communities by prepar­ing those who will lead them? 
The final deadline to submit applications is Feb. 18. It can be found at www.teachforamerica.org. As a fellow Notre Dame alumnus and TFA alum. I ask you: Will you answer the call? 
Roxanne Mendez Johnson Houston class of 1993 Feb. 8 
page 9 

Fair Trade m_ay not be so fair 
Over the past year or so there has been a often unable to achieve higher levels of eco­lot of activism by various student groups to nomic growth for the very reason that their introduce Fair Trade coffee at Notre Dame. economies are too heavily dependent on pri­While I applaud these student groups for mary products. This economic phenomenon is their effort in trying to help coffee farmers in perhaps best explained by the Prebisch­developing countries, I think they are com­Singer thesis which has proven that terms of pletely overlooking the negative repercus­trade for primary commodity exporters has a sions of this campaign. tendency to decline. In order for developing 
While Fair Trade sounds like a noble idea countries to achieve higher levels of econom­from a theoretical standpoint, the broader ic growth they need to, among other things, economic effects could actually be quite transition from an agrarian economy into an harmful to developing countries and their economy that is based on manufacturing. farmers. Without getting into complex eco­I am not saying that encouraging Fair nomic theory, let me tell you why. For a start, Trade in and of itself is going to impede eco­commodities like coffee have a low price for nomic development. But surely with the Fair one main reason: there is an overproduction. Trade subsidy it will take incentives away By paying farmers a guaranteed Fair Trade from farmers and governments to diversify premium (which acts as a subsidy), it encour­their economies. I would urge the Student ages other producers to enter the market, Senate to reexamine this issue more carefully thereby driving overall prices further down before deciding to implement a change that and making non-Fair Trade producers in may prove to be potentially counterproduc­these countries poorer. tive. 
More importantly, with a guaranteed premi­um there becomes less incentive for govern­Atul Adhikary ments and farmers in developing countries to graduate student diversify from coffee farming into other non­off campus commodity sectors. Developing countries are Feb. 10 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


'BABEL' ASTOUNDS As TALE OF HUMANITY 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Editor's Note: This is the first in a five­part series on the 2007 Oscar nominees for Best Picture. 
As a film, "Babel" is very similar to last year's "Crash," which also involved a very convoluted and unlikely plot that tied together many different people from differ­ent walks of life. Also like "Crash," "Babel" is a film centered around the basic human­ity that ties together people, regardless of how different they might seem. 
"Babel" features Brad Pitt, who takes some time off from his typical routine of Hollywood star-glitter in such films as "Mr. and Mrs. Smith" and "Ocean's 12" to roll up his sleeves and get his hands dirty with some real acting. In doing so, he confirms his status as a legitimate actor with some real chops instead of being just a pretty face. Replete with a graying beard and some gristle on those chiseled features, Mr. Pitt does a good job of portraying Richard, a haggard husband trying to save his wife after she's shot while vacationing in Morocco. 
What may surprise most viewers is that 
Babel 

Director: Alejandro Gonzalez Ifiarritu Writer: Guillermo Arriaga Starring: Brad Pitt, Cate Blanchett, Gael Garcia Bernal, Boubker Ait El Caid Pitt is not actually onscreen during much of the film. While his headshots are nice to splash on movie posters and marquee headlines, the story actually revolves around six different families with compli­cated and coincidental relationships. Cate Blanchett plays Pitt's estranged wife Susan and spends much of her time in "Babel" knocking on death's door and squirming in anguish as she is shot relatively early on in the movie. 
Boubker Ait El Caid plays Yussef, the young son of a Moroccan goatherd. When he is given a rille to shoot marauding jack­als, one thing leads to another and he and his brother end up shooting a tour bus con­taining Richard and Susan, which sets the whole Rube Goldberg-type plot in motion. 
While Richard and Susan are gone vaca­tioning in Morocco, their children are left in their San Diego home under the watchful eye of their nanny, Amelia, played by Adriana Barraza. After Amelia decides to take the kids to her son's wedding down in Mexico, the trio runs into trouble as they try to return to the country. On the other side of the globe, Rinko Kikuchi plays Chieko, a deaf-mute Japanese schoolgirl who is experiencing the advent of her teenage sexuality but is frustrated by her inability to communicate with young men -or them with her. 
The Kevin Bacon-esque game of six degrees of separation links the plot togeth­er, but what director Alejandro Gonzalez Ifiarritu is getting at is the underlying humanity, which ties all of humanity together. Extremely well made, "Babel" features beautiful sprawling shots of the Moroccan countryside and interesting and artistic editing. It's a tad long, clocking in at over two hours, but it's worth the extra film reel. 

Ifi.arritu, of previous fame with his 2003 hit "21 Grams," weaves a clear motif of communication throughout this sprawling and beautiful film. Whether it's the lan­guage barrier Richard faces in his time of crisis in Morocco, or Chieko's inability to communicate with the world around her, Ifiarritu is focused on fmding what exactly it is that gives people their sense of self. In addition, he clearly has a lot to say in terms of his political message, given the portrayal of the American government in the film as it deals with the international politics of securing Susan's rescue in Morocco and the Mexican-American border dynamic. 
Appropriately enough, "Crash" managed to make like its own title and crashed the Oscar party en route to scoring Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay awards, beat­ing out previous frontrunner "Brokeback Mountain." With a little luck and some Academy love, Ifiarritu may fmd himself lifting a trophy with a golden man for this well-made and beautiful film. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
MEXICAN DIRECTORS TAKING HOLLYWOOD BY STORM 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
American directors have long dominated Hollywood and the Academy Awards. Foreign directors have had difficulty mak­ing inroads into the upper echelons of Hollywood. Granted, there are notable exceptions such as Ang Lee from Taiwan and Michel Condry from France who made "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" and "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind," respectively. However, this year marks a paradigm shift inside the highest awards of American (and many would argue world) cinema. A group of Mexican directors has taken Hollywood by storm-a group simi­lar to the French New Wave of the 1960s. Not similar so much in filmmaking style, but similar in bringing creative talent and amazing films from outside of the United States. 
Alejandro Gonzalez lnarritu 

Born in Mexico City in 1963, Alejandro Gonzalez Ifiarritu entered movies by study­ing filmmaking under Ludwik Margules and directing under Judith Weston. During the 1990s, he worked for Mexican TV com­pany Televisa and became one of their youngest directors. Moving on from Televisa, he set up Zeta films, which focused on advertising and short films. 
His entrance into the world of feature filmmaking came with "Amores Perras." 

Written by longtime accomplice Guillermo Arriaga, the film was nominated in 2001 for the Best Foreign language film and brought lfiarritu to fame. This fame mate­rialized itself in the invitation to direct the film "21 Grams" and work with famed Puerto Riean actor Benicia del Toro. This film garnered high critieal praise from art film circles and del Toro and Naomi Watts received Academy Award nominations for their performances. The success of this film translated into the current nominee for Best picture, "Babel." Regarded by many to the this years frontrunner for Best Picture due to its Golden Globe win, "Babel" has marked Ifiarritu's entrance into the inner eireles of Hollywood directors and his first definite mainstream success. 
Guillermo del Toro 

Del Toro rose to Hollywood fame through a different path -he began his career by directing big budget comic book films such as "Blade II" and "Hellboy." Instead of mov­ing closer and closer to Hollywood, del Toro began his career there and has moved fur­ther and further away while still retaining the credibility and fame he built up. Moving away from comic books this year, del Toro released the almost universally critically acclaimed "El Laberinto del Fauno [Pan's Labyrinth]." The favorite to win the Oscar for Best Foreign Language Film, "Laberinto" has stolen the hearts of view­ers around the world with its story from civil war-era Spain. 
Alfonso Cuar6n 

The third member of the Mexiean direc­torial trinity, Alfonso Cuar6n entered fea­ture filmmaking with "Solo Con Tu Pareja [Only With Your Partner]"-a dark come­dy about a playboy businessman who con­tracts HIV It was very popular in Mexico and garnered him some attention not so mueh with the American public but with the industry. His big break in the American film scene came with the provocative "Y Tu Mama Tambien." This was made in Mexico with a Mexican cast but was a smash hit in the American art-house circles. Producers noticed and gave Cuar6n the helm for the third installment in the Harry Potter series, "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban." Cuar6n was criticized by "Potter" fans for not following the book religiously. However, many critics regarded this film as a drastic improvement over the previous two "Potter" films. 
Following this was his latest effort, "Children of Men" starring Clive Owen, Julianne Moore and Sir Michael Caine. He, more so than the others, has had massive success both with Spanish and English lan­guage films. 
All three of these directors represent the filmmaking talent and creativity from Mexico. In an age when Hollywood can do little more than make sequels, these men are making some of the most creative and highly acclaimed films of the year. From the fantasy of "El Laberinto del Fauno" to the grittiness of "Children of Men" to the epic sweep of "Babel," these three men promise that the Mexican cinema is alive and well and American directors could cer­tainly learn much from them. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, February 12, 2007 
page 11 
lsc~&fb:Rol 
Eddie Murphy needs to re-find inner comedian 
In case you missed it, "Norbit" was the top movie at the box office over the week­end. "Norbit," as in another movie where Eddie Murphy plays multiple roles, again donning a "fat suit" to play a character that interacts directly with his normal, thin self. Call me a Debbie Downer, but the repeated trend of Murphy playing numerous roles within a film reeks to me of the death of his comic ability. 
Gone are the days of Murphy's standup rou­tines, his "Saturday Night Live" career and the "Beverly Hills Cop" movies. In other words, gone are his funny days. The movie "Coming to America" ­while entertaining-started the trend of Murphy playing multiple roles in the same film, most notably the African prince Akeem. By all accounts, this was a good movie, and Murphy showed a fair amount of acting versatility in the various roles he played. 
It seems that he liked doing this so much, he wanted to play more than one character as often as he could. He did it again in Wes Craven's "Vampire in Brooklyn." You've probably seen the DVD cover at Blockbuster and laughed as you passed it by. It highlights Eddie Murphy looking like one of the most inept vampires of all time while holding a swooning Angela Bassett. Most critics panned the film and Murphy's attempt at portraying multiple characters when he couldn't even get one of them right. 

One would think Murphy might have stopped trying the multiple roles thing after this flop, but the next year, he starred a whopping seven times in "The Nutty Professor." This was another film that was mildly entertaining, but each of Murphy's characters seemed at times so similar, that you couldn't help but wonder why Sherman Klump needed such a large, neu­rotic family when they were all nearly identical anyways. 
"Bowfinger" was another film in which Murphy played two characters, and while it wasn't awful, it was quirky enough for many people (this writer included) to dis­like it. The greatest insult occurred when Murphy reprised his seven roles in "The Nutty Professor II" and managed to make all seven characters even more similar than the first go-round. "The Nutty Professor II" seemed to have been pro­duced solely to give Murphy a chance to act as different characters in a desperate attempt to show the world that he was still funny. 
Aside from "Shrek," most of his following movies disproved this point, most notably "Showtime", "The Adventures of Pluto Nash" and "The Haunted Mansion." After the "Mansion" flop, Murphy stayed away from starring roles for nearly four years, until "Norbit." 
To digress, recently Murphy earned an Oscar nomination for "Dreamgirls," but in this film he is both serious and a support­ing actor -two facets of acting where he is on unfamiliar ground. Perhaps this is tl1e sign of a new Eddie Murphy, an unfunny, serious Eddie Murphy, which would be a shame since he used to have such a knack for comedy. 

He tried to revive that knack with "Norbit," but the movie is just plain unfun­ny (blame the high ticket sales on Murphy's popularity because of "Dreamgirls," not the quality of "Norbit"). He has returned to his ways by playing three characters and once again wearing a fat suit as one of them. 
The idea of a fat suit is inherently funny when an actor does it one time, much like Ben Stiller did at the end of "Dodgeball." However, Eddie Murphy has now done this 
... 
so many tin1es, people eome to expeet him to wear the fat suit in multiple roles in his new films. 
Lets hope that it doesn't come to that. Lets hope that Eddie Murphy rediscovers his comic self and doesn't go down the potentially devastating road of 'The Nutty Professor III: Thee Times the Klumps." 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LEGENDS REVIEW 
Ben Kweller heats up frigid night at Legends 
ByTAEANDREWS 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Word of mouth is a funny thing. From the absence of posters and general lack of official fanfare, Ben Kweller might have thought he was sneaking in the back door as his tour bus pulled up for a pit stop in South Bend last Friday night. However, like a game of colle­giate "Telephone," news of Kweller's impending arrival spread across cam­pus, resulting in hundreds of Domers making the journey across a frigid cam­pus to Legends. 
And so concert-goers found them­selves huddled and shivering outside of Legends last Friday night an hour before Kweller took the stage. However, despite the cold, anticipation built to . the point of bursting as the muffled sounds of the band soundchecking and rehearsing onstage reached the frozen ears of those waiting outside in the Siberian tundra that was Notre Dame. A lucky few managed to wait indoors, which opened shortly after 10:30, offer­ing a blessed respite from the sub-zero temperatures. 
It was worth the wait. Greeted with raucous cheers and excited applause from the moment he stepped onstage, Kweller flashed a youthful grin and clearly fed off the crowd's energy as the night went on. Dressed in a Where's Waldo-esque striped T-shirt, a corduroy jacket, and a tight-fitting pair of women's jeans, the cherubic-faced crooner looked every bit the face of boyish rock rebellion as he sang onstage with his carefully-groomed curls bouncing every which way as he rocked all night long. 
With lyrics that range from silly to sweet, the best part of Kweller is that he manages to switch between ener­getic rock anthems and simple but sweet love ballads. Sometimes he even manages to do both in the same song, as he did while playing "On My Way." Starting off with a simple "boom-chika" strum reminiscent of Johnny Cash, Kweller dropped lyrical gems such as, "I wanna kill this man I but he turned around and ran I I'll kill him with karate that I learned in Japan" before finishing on a softer note with lyrics such as, ''I'm in love with someone I who's as pretty as a flower I her life gives me power I so I'm buying her a ring." In addition, Kweller played hits such as "I Need You Back," "My Apartment" and "The Rules." He also showed off his sweeter side, just in time for Valentine's Day, with songs such as "Believer" and "The Rules." 
That's the essence of mop-topped rocker -his ability to capture the fun and spirit of rock 'n roll and then shake things up with a varied array of differ­ent-sounding jams. 
Whatever he was doing, it was work­ing, as the crowd went along with every song he sang. Legends was filled to capacity, and the Kweller-crazed and uninitiated alike jammed out in unison as the audience turned into a sea of bobbing heads sprinkled with the occa­sional mosher jumping up and down and screaming along in unison to every lyric with as much passion as Kweller himself. 

After the band left the set, the stage didn't remain dark for very long as the audience immediately roared with thunderous applause and call for an encore. Kweller didn't make them wait for long, coming out for a solo bit in which he showed off his musical versa­tility, playing a cover of Garth Brooks' "Friends In Low Places" and Roger Miller's "Chug-A-Lug," which set off a round of restaurant-rocking choruses of "chug-a-lugs" and "hi-dee-hos." Finally, Kweller gave the audience what it had been waiting for all night, pulling his band back onstage for a rendition of his signature anthem, "Wasted and Ready," which set off the crowd like a powder keg. Good luck trying to quell that audi­ence and silence the energy of the old and new fans alike. 
Ben Kweller's playing at Legends is appropriate enough for a burgeoning rock star, as he is quickly blossoming into one of the most loved, especially here on campus. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew 1 @nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 12, 2007 
NBA 

Pavlovic nets 21 as Cavs down Lakers 99-90 
Dwyane Wade scores 26 in Miami victory 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Sasha Pavlovic scored 13 points in the fourth quarter, picking up the slack for LeBron James, and the Cleveland Cavaliers shut down Kobe Bryant in the final minutes for a 99-90 win over the Los Angeles Lakers on Sunday. 

Pavlovic, suddenly a major cog in Cleveland's offense, fin­ished with 21 points, Zydrunas Ilgauskas 17 and Anderson Varejao 12 -11 in the fourth -as the Cavaliers improved to 20-7 at home with their second straight solid effort. 
James had 18 points, eight rebounds and five assists, but he deferred to Pavlovic and others down the stretch, and Cleveland's supporting cast came through. James was outscored 25-7 by Bryant in the second half, but the All­Star forward got to crown the Cavs' win with a soaring dunk in the final seconds. 
Bryant scored 36 points to lead the Lakers, who went 3-5 on an eight-game swing through the bitterly cold East. Bryant scored Los Angeles' first 14 points in the final peri­od, but with Larry Hughes guarding him, he didn't score again in the final 3:39 after making two free throws to tie it 81-all. 
Vladimir Radmanovic scored 12 points and Lamar Odom 11 for the Lakers, whose bench was outscored 46-15. 
Varejao made two free throws for the Cavs -the NBA's worst team from the line -with 3:20 to go and James followed by making a pair for his first points of the second half to make it 85-81 with 2:59 left. 
The Lakers, who led by three points entering the fourth, got within 86-85 on Smush Parker's jumper before James drove and passed to Varejao, who sunk a 17 -footer to put the Cavaliers ahead by three. 
On the Lakers' next trip, Hughes slapped the ball out of Bryant's hands and it was picked up by Pavlovic, who raced to the other end and was fouled by Parker while making a layup. Pavlovic, who came in averaging 14 points in his last six games, completed the three-point play to put the Cavs ahead 91-85. 
With the Cavs paying extra attention to Bryant, none of the other Lakers stepped up and when Varejao made a three­point play with 4 7 seconds left the Cavaliers were up 93-87 and on their way to a second straight impressive victory after beating Miami on Friday. 

Bryant made seven free throws and outscored James 11-0 in the third period when the Lakers overcame an 11­point halftime deficit to take a 6 7-64 lead. Cleveland went 4­of-25 (16 percent) from the field in the quarter with James missing all five of his attempts. 
Hughes hit a 3-pointer and rookie Daniel Gibson, who challenged Shaquille O'Neal on a drive to the basket Friday, made a three-point play as the Cavaliers outscored the Lakers 9-1 to take a 52-41 lead at halftime. 
James, who earlier this sea­son drained an 80-foot, buzzer­beating 3-pointer in Boston, dropped one from 55 feet at the end of the first half but the shot was disallowed because it came just after the horn. 
Heat 100, Spurs 85 
Once Dwyane Wade got rolling, things seemed almost easy for the Miami Heat. 
Wade -virtually silent offen­sively for the first three quar­ters -had 18 of his 26 points in the final period and the Heat held San Antonio without a field goal for more than 7 min­utes down the stretch on the way to beating the Spurs on Sunday. 
He was 3-for-9 from the field entering the fourth, then hit 7­of-10 shots in the final 12 min­utes, falling two points short of matching the Spurs' offensive total in the stanza by himself. Miami outscored San Antonio 31-20 in the fourth. 
"It was a great game until Dwyane Wade decided to take over," Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. "And then it was over." 
Shaquille O'Neal had 16 points in 25 minutes; he didn't play in the final 15:44, partly because he's still coming back from knee surgery, partly because the smaller lineup the Heat used did well enough to not necessitate his return. Jason Kapono added his first career double-double, 13 points and 11 rebounds. 
The win was Miami's fifth in its last six games and pulled the Heat within one game of the .500 mark again; Miami (25-26) can get there Tuesday when it hosts Portland in its last game before the All-Star break. 
"We're just trying to continue to get better," Wade said. "If anyone knows basketball, they understand that we're not going anywhere, that we've been having a lot of injuries. But we're getting it back. That's our whole focus, to keep 

going this way." me a little bit," Parker said. seven points midway through 
Manu Ginobili had 26 points Fueled by an early 18-0 edge the final quarter, but O'Neal off the bench for the Spurs, in bench scoring, the Spurs led then hit two straight baskets who fell to 2-4 on their eight­31-25 with 7:13 left in the first and Dunleavy added another to game road trip. Tony Parker half before Miami's reserves push Indiana's lead to 89-76. added 20 for San Antonio, began contributing. Eddie Los Angeles came no closer while Tim Duncan finished Jones had eight points, three than 11 points the rest of the with 13 points and 11 assists and a steal in a 17-1 way. rebounds and Brent Barry run over a 3-minute stretch -"I asked him, 'Do you always scored 11. all with Wade on the bench -shoot this well against your 
"We're still not playing physi­that put Miami up 42-32 with dad?"' Pacers coach Rick cally enough, tough enough," 3:54 left. Carlisle said of the younger Popovich said. "We're playing Dunleavy's shooting. "He said soft for too many minutes in Pacers 94, Clippers 80 it's usually feast or famine. the game. Just hoping and beg­Take that, Pops. "The way he played today not ging." Mike Dunleavy, playing only was a real key for us to 
The Spurs were within one against his father's Los Angeles win but demonstrated the kind point twice in the final quarter, Clippers for the first time since of tone he can bring to our but missed eight straight shots he was traded from Golden team," Carlisle said. over a stretch of 7:12 -and State to Indiana last month, hit Dunleavy, Troy Murphy and Miami capitalized, outscoring nine of 12 shots, scored 20 Ike Diogu came to Indiana as San Antonio 20-8 during that points and had three steals in part of an eight-player trade drought to open a big lead and the Pacers' victory on Sunday. between the Pacers and eventually prevail in a Jermaine O'Neal had 21 Warriors last month. matchup of the last two NBA points and set an Indiana fran­"We're finding out he's a champions. chise record for career blocked much better defensive player 
"We'ro just not able to get shots as the Pacers snapped a than people ever gave him over that hump when we need three-game losing streak. credit for," Carlisle said. "He's to," Duncan said. "The consis­"I have mixed emotions," working hard on his whole tency is not there, offensively Dunleavy said of playing game, particularly his shoot­and defensively." against the team coached by ing. And you can see the 
Wade single-handedly kept his father, Mike Dunleavy Sr. "I progress he's made." the Spurs off the seoreboard wanted to beat him real bad, Dunleavy hit both of his 3­twice midway through the but I also want to see them do point attempts Sunday, and his fourth quarter, with a pair of well. I hope they win the rest of 20 points marked the first time highlight-reel blocks against their games, but the most this season he has scored at Parker near the basket. Both important thing is our team." least that many in consecutive came within a 9-seeond span The Pacers took control with games. and represented Parker's only a 16-0 run at the end of the "He's playing comfortably in attempts in the fourth, during second quarter and built their this (Pacers) system," said which San Antonio shot 5-for-lead to 23 points early in the Mike Dunleavy Sr., who has 
17. third period. won nine of 14 matchup "Great defense. It surprised The Clippers rallied within against his son's teams. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds tor content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR­QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE OWNER,$6,500. CALL 243-5454. 
FoR RENT 
2-6 BDRM HOMES. $245/PERSON/MO. 574-329-0308 

andersonNDrentals.com 
House available for 2007-2008. Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
BEITER HOMES,BETIER AREAS,BETIER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
Newly renovated home for rent, 3 bedrooms, 2 baths, close to ND/SMC. Available now and for 07-08. Inquire @574-289-7791. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. BUM· BACAHOUSES offers you the student big savings for 1 ,2 or 3 yr. lease. Super clean. Visit our web site and compare us to the competition. Call Cosimo 277-1875. 
Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2-car garages. Call 574-232-4527 or 269­683-5038. 
PERSONAL 

COMMON SENSE COMPUTER repair, clean-up, reload, data back-up. Student discount. 
1.5 mi. from ND 728 E. Colfax 574-217-8851 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web site at http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
ConcordParty.org ­We Listen 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Happy Valentine's Day, Taylor! Love, Chris 
Zach Braff, say you'll come back for a seventh season of "Scrubs." 
Has anybody in Fisher seen Muffin lately? 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 12, 2007 CoMPILED fROM THE OBSERVERS WIRE SERVICES page 13 
MLB
NHL 

:\t1I!i\u::::==,· ··· Eastern Conference, Atlan.tic; r)ivisi011 
team record pti$. ··••·••••••• la~t Io New Jersey 34•16-6 74 
/~2~2 Pittsburgh 29•17·9 67 N.Y. Islanders 26·22·6 60 
N.Y. Rangers 27>24·5 ;plJ Philadelphia 14·33-8 36 
team record pt~~·········\ 
Bullalo 38.-15-4 80 Ottawa 32·22·3 67 Montreal 2H2•6 64 Toronto 27-22-7 61 Boston 25·25"4 54 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
. team record pts. last 1() Atlanta 30-19-9 69 4•54 Tampa Bay 31-24-2 64 N"O Carolina 28·23-7 63 3·5·2 Washington 23-Z6·8 54 3~64 Florida 21-25·11 53 4·4·2 
Western Conference, CentratDivision 
team record pts. last 10 
Nashville 38-16·3 79 6"4·0 Detroll 35·15·6 76 6"3:4 . St. Louis 22·25-9 53 5-4-1 Chicago 22-27-7 51 5·5"0 Columbus 22·29·5 49 5~5·0 
Western Conference, Northwest DiVision team record pts. ··last Jo Vancouver 31·21·4 66 5•2·3 
Minnesota 31-22·4 66 7-2·1 Clllgary 29·16·8 66 5•N Edmonton 27·24·4 58 6·4·0 Colorado 26·25•4 56 ·..·4•5•1' 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record ·lat;tJ.o 
Anaheim 33-15·8 3·6-1 San Jose 35"19·1 ····· tt:4~1 Associated Press draft out of Cretin-Derham Mauer with the Twins eligible for free agency
Dallas 34-20-2 7~2~1 
Hall High School in St. through at least 2010, the after the 2009 season.
Phoenix 25"29-2 4•6•0 
MINNEAPOLIS -·AL Paul, Minn., Mauer was year the team is scheduled "This is a good day for
los Angeles 19,30·9 · · ·· 3"4~3< batting champion Joe eligible for arbitration this to begin playing in a new this organization, and I Mauer and the Twins winter for the first time. Minneapolis ballpark. feel like it's one of those agreed Sunday to a $33 He became the first catch­That didn't mean Mauer deals which is going to 
million, four-year contract, er to lead the majors in gave Minnesota a home­work for both sides," Ryan avoiding salary arbitration batting average and the town discount, however. said. "You have to be com­
NCAA sasketbali··· · 

Men's Big East Sta.o.dlnls······ 
and giving one of the first AL catcher to win the He gets $3.75 million fortable with how a play-· team's young stars the batting title. this year, $6.25 million in er's going to respond to 
cqntf!reru;~tx o1Jeta.~~' 
security of a long-term "We're extremely happy, 2008, $10.5 million ih security. I don't think
team •record. .. :r¢qf!rd 
deal. because there is not a 2009 and $12.5 million in there's any question how
:.::::,;:.:.::::::::::·.·:·: .. 

The 23-year-old catcher player who belongs with 2010. Mauer has addition­Joe's going to respond to
1 Pittsburgh 
hit .347 with 84 RBis last the Twins more than Joe al award bonuses and gets that."
2 Georgetown 
tt·~· 
.··.·····
10-f ••...•... ·.···•::··~,:=···················· 
year to help the Twins Mauer," his agent Ron the right to designate Mauer's rookie season in
a Marquette 8·3 
rally from a 12 1/2-game Shapiro said on Sunday. three teams each year that 2004 was cut short by a
4 West Virginia 
deficit to win the AL Shapiro represented two he can't be traded to with­knee injury that raised 6 NOTRE DAME 6·5 ·1•~•r···· 
5 louisvllle ~J~····•·.. tNt 
Central on the final day of "Hall of Famers, out his consent. some questions about how 1 Syracuse 6·5 tNJ 
the regular season. He Baltimore's Cal Ripken and "This is a market deal," his body could handle the a Villanova s~5 11-1 
played in his first All-Star Minnesota's Kirby Puckett, general manager Terry physical demands of his g Providence 5·5 15•8 
game last summer. who spent their entire Ryan said. "Don't worry position behind the plate. 10 DePaul 5·6 14-11 
Selected with the first careers with the same about that." But he has been fine ever 11 St. John's 5"7 1441 

pick in the 2001 amateur. team. The deal will keep Mauer would have been since. 12 Connecticut 4•6 .1.5~9 

13 Seton Hall 3•7 1N1 14 South Florida 3~a 12~13 15 Rutgers 3•9 10-15 16 Cincinnati 1·9 .· 10-14 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Louisville at Pittsburgh 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma State at Texas 9 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Texas at Oklahoma 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NLL lACROSSE Buffalo at Chicago 8 p.m., CSN 
IN BRIEF 

Mickelson ties Pebble Beach 
record with 5-shot win 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. -Anyone 
worried that Phil Mickelson was emo­
tionally scarred by that U.S. Open col­
lapse can relax. 

Mickelson finally got his season on 
track Sunday by closing with a 6-under · 66 under surprising sunshine to. tie the tournament record at the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am and win by five shots 
for the 30th victory of his career. 
Mickelson overcame a double bogey 
with a lost ball early in the round with 
three birdies in a four-hole stretch along 
the ocean, turning a tight race into 
another runaway. He matched the 
largest margin of victory at this tourna­
ment, winning by five shots over Kevin 
Sutherland (71). 

It was the 11th time in 15 seasons that 
Mickelson won on the West Coast Swing, 
and the timing couldn't have been better. 
He had started his season slowly, allow­
ing the conversation to linger on his gaffe 
last summer at Winged Foot. 
Yates' 2 on Daytona 500 front 
row 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -Robert Yates Racing went from skid row to the front row, emerging from the darkest season in team history to take the Daytona 500 spotlight. 
At least for a week. 
David Gilliland and Ricky Rudd won the top two starting spots Sunday in qualifYing for the Daytona 500, putting Yates back on the racing map after a horrendous season. 
"There was a time last year when I felt like I maybe was the problem, and wasn't in love with it and really wanted to leave (racing)," Yates said. "I could have walked out of here last year. I want this next year to get this thing up, get the sky that was falling on us, get it up." 
That dark time saw Yates lose his drivers, a sponsor and both of his crew chiefs in a tumultuous year that saw the once-proud team collapse to the point that Yates was convinced he was dying. 
Noble Court on pace for 
Kentucky Derby witfi win 
ARCADIA, Calif. -Noble Court made a big move to the front approaching the stretch and then fought off a late challenge by Law Breaker to win the $150,000 San Vicente Stakes for 3-year-olds Sunday. 
The victory kept Noble Court on the Kentucky Derby trail, with his next start set for March 1 7 in the San Felipe Stakes at Santa Anita. 
A surging Law Breaker ran out of room at the wire, losing by a neck for trainer Bob Baffert, a three-time Kentucky Derby winner whose other promising 3-year-old, E Z Warrior, was back in the barn with a sore foot. 
Baffert won the San Vicente last year with Fusaichi Rock Star. 
Noble Court covered seven fur­longs in 1:23.12 under Corey Nakatani, aboard for the third time in the colt's four-race career. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 12, 2007 
NHL 

Havlat leads Blackhawks over Blue Jackets 
Dallas rocks Colorado, Red Wings roll Flames 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS-Martin Havlat is playing well. It's no coincidence that the Chicago Blackhawks are, too. 
Havlat had a goal and two assists and. the Blackhawks scored three times in the open­ing period and then held off the Columbus Blue Jackets 5-4 on Sunday. 
"I feel I'm playing the best hockey I've ever played, for sure," said Havlat, acquired along with Bryan Smolinski from Ottawa in a blockbuster deal last summer. "That's my goal every year -to be better than the sea­son before." 
Havlat has seven goals and three assists in a six-game goal streak. 
Peter Bondra and Smolinski each had a goal and an assist and Patrick Sharp and Martin Lapointe also scored for the Blackhawks, who have won five of their last seven games. 
A few Blue Jackets fans chant­ed "We want a re-fund!" in the third period -before their team came back with two goals to almost force overtime. 
Anson Carter, Ron Hainsey and David Vyborny each had a goal and an assist and Alexander Svitov also scored for Columbus, which dropped behind the Blackhawks into last place in the Central Division. Brian Berard and Rick Nash each added two assists. 
Down 5-2 with less than 11 minutes left, the Blue Jackets drew within one on Vyborny's rebound goal with 3:58 remain­ing. They almost tied it with just under 2 minutes left when goal­tender Nikolai Khabibulin stopped Vyborny's shot from the high slot. 
"Khabibulin played fantastic and he saved us at the end," Smolinski said. 
Before a national television audience -a first for the 6­year-old Columbus franchise ­the Biackhawks dominated at the outset. 
Outshooting the Blue Jackets 15-3 in the opening period, they scored three times in a span of 3:38. 
"We started· poorly again," Columbus coach Ken Hitchcock said. "We have some competitive issues that we have to deal with." 

At the 9-minute mark, Cam Barker's slap shot from the left point glanced off Radim Vrbata in the slot and resulted in a big rebound that Sharp netted from the edge of the right circle. 
Just over a minute later, Havlat passed to the back boards to Tuomo Ruutu, who saucered a centering pass that Smolinski converted for his 12th goal. 

The Blackhawks, who have outscored Columbus 12-4 in the first period of their six meetings this year, made it 3-0 on their next shot. Havlat ended up with the puck at center ice after a giveaway by Berard. Havlat skat­ed past defenseman Rostislav Klesla, who hooked his right arm as he went past, and swooped in alone on goaltender Fredrik Norrena, whose new two-year contract was announced just before the game. Havlat skated to an abrupt stop at the left goal mouth and then reached back to flick the puck past the goalie. 
"It was a tough game -the sixth game of a road trip," coach Denis Savard said. "There were little, wee mistakes we work on every day-we'll fix it. Part of it is not focusing on what we need to do in our coverage. It's going to happen. It's a young team. Tonight fatigue might have set 

in." 
Norrena was replaced by Pascal Leclaire, who had missed the last 21 games because of knee surgery. 
The Blue Jackets cut the gap to 4-2 with a pair of power-play goals. 
Anson Carter's centering pass for Nash went off his stick and to Hainsey for a one-timer with Columbus on a two-man advan­tage. 
After Lapointe's wrister on a rush made it 4-1, Carter scored on a jam shot off Vyborny's nifty pass through the crease. 
In the final period, Bondra scored off a rebound of Havlat's shot from the high slot, with Svitov answering with a wrist shot from the right dot and Vyborny closing the scoring by going high over Khabibulin's shoulder to set up the wild fm­ish. 
Detroit 7, Calgary 4 
Henrik Zetterberg had two goals and two assists, lifting the Detroit Red Wings to a win over the Calgary Flames on Sunday night. 
Joey MacDonald his first career win in goal as the Red Wings outshot the Flames 50-20. 
Detroit also got a goal and an assist each from Tomas Holmstrom, Mathieu Schneider, and Jason Williams, and Pavel Datsyuk, and Johan Franzen also added a goal each. Nicklas Lidstrom and Dan Cleary each had two assists. 
Roman Hamrlik had a goal and an assist for Calgary, and Alex Tanguay, Jeff Friesen, and Mark Giordano also scored. Miikka Kiprusoff stopped 11 of 14 shots before being replaced by Jamie McLennan. 
Detroit chased Kiprusoff with three first-period goals. 
Zetterberg opened the scoring with a wrist shot from the high slot after Kiprusoff misplayed the puck behind the net. Datsyuk put in the rebound of Holmstrom's shot for his 17th goal, and Schneider beat Kiprusoff with a slap shot from the point 1:10 later. 
Kiprusoff was then pulled. The Red Wings outshot the Flames 17-5 in the period. 
The barrage continued in the second period. Zetterberg got his second goal of the night and 26th of the season, on the power play, before Calgary got going. 
Tanguay capitalized on a turnover in front of the Detroit net by Franzen and beat MacDonald just 42 seconds later for his 16th goal. 
But Williams and Holmstrom both scored in the middle period. 
Dallas 7, Colorado 5 
Even without All-Star goalie Marty Turco finishing games, the Dallas Stars are winning and making up ground in the Pacific Division. 
Jeff Halpern had a goal and two assists in a victory over the Colorado Avalanche on Sunday, when the Stars set a season high for goals and were involved in a 12-goal game for the first time in more than nine years. 
The Stars' scoring surge came a day after their 1-0 victory over division-leading Anaheim when Mike Smith started instead of 
AP 

Chicago goalie Nikolai Khabibulin makes a save as Blackhawks defenseman Duncan Keith and Blue Jacket wing man Nikolai Zherdev battle for the puck in Chicago's 54 win over Columbus Sunday. 
Turco, who Sunday was pulled against Minnesota, Turco gave Smith came in against the Avs from his second straight start two goals on seven shots in the after Paul Stastny and rookie after allowing two goals in less first eight minutes. Dallas Wojtek Wolski scored 49 seconds than a minute midway through rebounded to win 4-2 after apart midway through the sec­the second period. Smith took over. ond period to get Colorado with­
''I'm disappointed that I let the The Stars have still won three in 4-3. guys down. They weren't great straight games and five of their Turco allowed three goals on goals," Turco said. "I haven't last six. With 70 points, they are 15 shots, the other in the closing been my best the last couple four points behind Anaheim and minute of the first period when weeks and it's making Tip (coach only one behind second-place he let a puck through and Dave Tippett) a little nervous." San Jose, which plays in Dallas behind him, and Joe Sakic 
In his previous start Tuesday next Sunday. knocked it into the net. 
Con~.e a:nd Listen 
Con~.e a:nd Read 
Con~.e a:nd .Play 
Lectio@Eieven 
A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
February 13 featuring: Music by the Lazy Susans Readings by Henry W einfield (PLS) 
Lectio@,Eieven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser@nd.edu or call 631-3923. 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 
Monday, February 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles edge Hornets in late 1110111ents 
Lipke's free throw with seven seconds remaining seals victory 
By DAN COOPER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's point guard Bridget Lipke hit her second free-throw with seven seconds remaining, which ended a sec­ond-half Kalamazoo surge and gave the Belles a 62-60 victory Saturday at the Anderson Athletic Center in Kalamazoo, -Mich. 
Kalamazoo (3-19, 2-12 MIAA) entered the game on an eight­game losing skid, winning only one of their previous 14 games. Saint Mary's (10-11, 9-5 MIAA), on the other nand, had won four of its last five and appeared on a roll before Saturday's scare. 
The Belles jumped to an early lead but struggled down the stretch. 
The Hornets ended the game on a 14-4 run before Lipke's free throw gave the Belles a 62-58 lead. Though junior Kalamazoo guard Therese Demres hit a layup with one second left, Kalamazoo didn't have time for another score. 
"It was senior day [for 
Kalamazoo] and they played with emotion," Saint Mary's coach Jennifer Henley said. "They are a scrappy team, and we couldn't put them away." 
Lipke hit a jumper with 10:51 left in the first half that gave the Belles 
Gas Technology Institute (GTI), the nation's leading research and development and training organization serving energy markets, has an opportunity for a Senior Engineer in our Gasification Group. 
Responsibilities include planning, designing and conducting experimental work for evaluating new dasses of membranes. Lead project team and manage project tasks, prepare project reports, proposals and technical presentations. Interface with clients and lead project teams for membrane characterization, design, fabrication, and testing. Apply R&D to develop advanced membranes for both high and medium temperature gas separations. 
MS or PhD in engineering or material science is required. Minimum 5 to 10 years hands-on experience in inorganic membrane synthesis, fabrication, characterization and processing is required. Must be familiar with solid oxides, ceramics, metals or catalysts. Knowledge of hydrogen gas separation and membrane reactor applications is desired. Team player with demonstrated capabilities in innovation, creativity and problem solving is a must. Excellent verbal and written skills are required. 
Must have authorization to work permanently in the U.S. Please visit our website at: www..g_;:~_sJ.~.(;J:mQJ.Qgy,Qrg and apply online. Only accepting online applicants. EOE 

"[Kalamazoo] is a 
final six minutes. scrappy team, and On a night 
we couldn't put when guard 
Allison Kessler

them away. " 
struggled with 3­of-17 shooting Jennifer Henley from the floor, Saint Mary's
Belles coach 
a 10-point lead at 18-8. Saint Mary's maintained that lead and was in control 32-22 at the half. 
The second half, though, was a different story. 
The Hornets came out of the locker room on fire, jumping out to a 15-5 run which cut Saint Mary's lead to 38-37 with 14:15 remaining. 
The Belles responded over the next eight minutes and built a seemingly comfortable 58-46 lead. But they couldn't put Kalamazoo away, making. only one field goal in the 
received contri­

butions from the bench. Sophomore guard Katie Rashid stepped up with 12 points on 5-of-9 shooting. 
"Katie stepped up and hit some buckets," Henley. "She re':lly ~?ok the pressure off of Allison. 
Though Kessler struggled from the field, she was able to get to the foul line and knock down 7­of-8 from the charity stripe. Kessler also reached the 1,000­point milestone for her career becoming only the eighth player in Saint Mary's basketball histo­ry to accomplish the feat. 
"It is a huge, huge milestone especially as a junior at the col­lege level," Henley said. "[Reaching the milestone] was definitely something we talked about as a team, and we are all proud of her." 
Saint Mary's returns home to face Albion at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. Saint Mary's lost 72­69 in their last meeting at Albion on Jan. 17. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper 1 @nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish fall against No.6 Dartmouth 
Notre Dame falters 14-13 in scrimmage 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame fell short in its exhibition against No. 6 Dartmouth Saturday in Hanover, N.H., dropping the contest 14-13 in the team's final game before the No. 5 
Irish begin their regular season this weekend at J a m e s Madison. 
The Big Green and the Irish scrim­m a g e d through con­trolled situa­tions earlier in the day with 10 offen­sive and 10 defensive turns for each team. In the afternoon the 
"For the first game ofthe year, it was a very high-caliber and fast-paced scrimmage -what you would expect from two final four teams." 
Tracy Coyne Irish coach 
teams then played an exhi­bition match in a rematch of last season's NCAA semi­final Dartmouth victory. 
Despite the close loss, Irish coach Tracy Coyne was very impressed by the performance of both teams. 
"For the first game of the 
. year, it was a very high-cal­iber and fast-paced scrim­mage -what you would officials were shocked how fast the game was moving for an exhibition, and watching the tape it would look much more like a mid­season game than a scrim­mage." 
The Irish will now begin preparing for their first regular season opponent, No. 12 James Madison. Notre Dame will travel to Harrisonburg, Va., for its Sunday matchup. 
"I think we have a few things left to fine-tune," Coyne said. "But I think this exhibition has given us the extra push and renewed our commit­ment for this year." 
Notre Dame also received news Friday that Ohio University had canceled its women s 
lacrosse program -signifi­cant because the two teams were scheduled to play later this season. 
"It's discouraging news for a major university to cancel their program," Coyne said. "It left us and a lot of other teams scram­bling to find another oppo­nent for this season." 

expect from two final four Contact Michael Bryan at teams," Coyne said. "The mbryan@nd.edu 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 12, 2007 
SMC SWIMMING 
Gerbeth shines, Belles finish sixth in MIAAs 
Saint Mary's season ends as sophomore becomes second swimmer in school history to win an event at conference meet 
2003. Gerbeth also earned a Gerbeth said. "Almost every­lot to everyone being a little ward to next year to see theBy LORENZO REYES 
third-place finish in the 400-one dropped time in their more relaxed going into their maturation of a young team
Sports Writer 

yard individual medley and a events, and Saint Mary's did events," Gerbeth said. with the new coaching staff. 
fifth-place fin-better in scoring Though the "Going in at the 
The Belles' season ended ish in the 500-than they have Belles finished beginning, Saturday with a sixth-place yard freestyle. "It took everyone a in a long time. I toward the bot-think everyone finish at this weekend's MIAA Andrea dropped time in tom of the was a little
while to adjust to 'The MIAAs was an
championships in Grand Keller of Hope my events as league this apprehensive Rapids, Mich. The Belles finished sec­everything and well and did a weekend, amazing event for because the team received 133 points to finish ond in the everyone, but we had lot better both Gerbeth said all of our team. " was made up of sixth out of seven teams, but 1,650 freestyle with my times she hopes her mainly new
a lot of bonding time 
well short of first-place with a time of and placing than first-place finish swimmers, and
and became really Melissa Gerbeth 
Calvin, which dominated the 18:00.89, what I expect­will steer the there was a new competition with 675.5 points. while the comfortable." ed." team in the Belles swimmer coaching staff," Sophomore Melissa Gerbeth Belles' Lindsey Gerbeth also right direction. she said. "It took became only the second Nelis placed credited her the "Hopefully my everyone awhile
Melissa Gerbeth 
swimmer in Saint Mary's his­1Oth in teammates with win in the mile to adjust to
Belles swimmer 
tory to win an individual 18:43.79. keeping each will give Saint Mary's swim­everything and everyone, but event at the conference meet, The team other focused, ming a little more respect, we had a lot of bonding time taking the 1 ,650-yard was pleased which helped and we will start building up and became really comfort­freestyle with a personal best with the weekend showing, her attain individual success. the program to be more com­able." 
17:51.31. She is the first win­Gerbeth said. "Our team was so support­petitive with the teams like ner since Megan Ramsey won "The MIAAs was an amaz­ive of one another at the Calvin and Hope." Contact Lorenro Reyes at the 100-yard butterfly in ing meet for all of our team," meet, and that contributed a Gerbeth said she looks for-lreyes@nd.edu 
VAI\IESSA GEM PIS/Ihe Observer 

Irish senior Barry King competes in Notre Dame's 5-2 victory over Florida State Feb. 2. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish rally to defeat Wisconsin 5-2 
Team fights off early deficit to beat Badgers 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 

Wisconsin was looking for its second upset of a ranked team this week against No. 9 Notre Dame Sunday, but the Irish had other plans. 
Notre Darrie bounced back from early deficits to fight off the Badgers 5-2. 
Wisconsin -still high from its upset of No. 10 Miami -had the Irish on their heels from the beginning, taking the doubles point for the early 1-0 lead. Nolan Polley and Moritz Baumann won 8-6 against No. 11 Sheeva Parbhu and Ryan Keckley in No. 1 singles. Stephen Bass and Andrew Roth 
__[____~ 

beat Michael Dierberger and Michael Muskievicz 8-3, but the Badgers locked up the doubles point when Jeremy Sonkin and Lachezar Kasarov secured an 8­5 victory over Brett Helgeson and Barry King. 
"It was a set-back at [No. 1] and [No. 2] doubles for us, but hopefully only a temporary one," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
The singles matches that fol­lowed were just as close as dou­bles play, but Notre Dame was able to pull away with victories in five out of the six matches to win the overall contest. 
Helgeson and King both fin­ished off their opponents in straight sets. Helgeson defeated Baumann, 6-4, 7-6 (3), to gar­ner his sixth-straight victory, while King battled against Dierberger to come away with the 6-3, 7-5 win and improve to 5-2 in dual action. 
"[Wisconsin] didn't quit at all, they didn't check out at point when they got behind -they made us really earn it," Bayliss said. 
Second and fourth singles proved to be a little bit more trying for Parbhu and Keckley. Parbhu dropped his first set 5-7, but rallied for nearly perfect 6-0 and 6-1 wins in the second and third sets for the victory. 
"As the match went on [Parbhu] got better and better, and in the last two sets he was nearly flawless," Bayliss said. 
Keckley also dropped his first set 4-6, but fought back to win 6-2 and 6-3 in his second and third matches, respectively. 
Bayliss said Keckley showed a lot of poise. Keckley suffered from back spasms in the second set and had to take a medical timeout to be attended to by a trainer. He came back from his injury and never looked back to take his sixth-straight match win in dual play. 
Bass saw little trouble at No. 1 singles as he took the first set 6­1 from Sonkin. Bass again jumped to the early 1-0 lead when Sonkin dropped out of play due to a back injury. 
Wisconsin's only singles point came during No. 6 singles when Felipe Bellido dropped the first set 5-7 to Roth, but picked up his game to win 6-4 and 6-3 in 
the  second  and  third  sets,  
respectively.  
Although  the  Irish  left  

Madison with a victory behind them, Bayliss said he would like to see the team step up its play in the coming days. He said that the team will try to focus on doubles and net play to prepare for upcoming matches in the USTAIITA National Team Indoor Championships. 
Bayliss expects to see a strong .showing from the Badgers throughout the rest of the sea­son as well. 
"[Wisconsin] is a very much improved team," he said. "l can see how they beat Miami, and they will definitely get some good wins along the way." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

Happy Valentine's! 
Half price hair cut with any color service, or $5 off a haircut. 
Offer ends March 31, 2007. 
Two locations: Ironwood-574.277.6767 Heritage Square-574.272.6767 
Gift cards available for your valentine! 
Salon Nouveau 



Monday, February 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Fencing 
continued from page 20 
senior Aaron Adjemian and sophomore Karol Kostka went 8-3. 
Senior Frank Bontempo went 9-1 in the foil while teammate Jakub Jedrkowiak finished 9-3. 
On the women's side, senior sabre Valerie Providenza went 12-0 to reach 173 regular-sea­son wins in the weapon, break­ing the old Irish women's record set by Destanie Milo (166 wins). 
Providenza's performance came on a day in which the Irish had only one close call, <:J. 16-11 win over Air Force. The Falcons led 10-9 through 19 bouts, but the Irish won five in a row to seal the victory. The match included five sudden deaths in the nine-epee bouts 
Blankenship's Garden Center 
103 N. Dixie Way Roseland ( 5 minutes from campus) 
574-271-0849 
Valentine's Day Roses 
1 dozen boxed  $49.99  
1 dozen in vase  $69.99  
l/2 dozen  bouquets  $22.99  

Anlan Properties, LLC Off-Campus Student Housing CURRENTLY RENTING FOR THE 2007/08 & 2oo8jog ACADEMIC YEARS 
WALKING DISTANCE 
TO CAMPUS! FOR INFO &APPOINTMENTS 574·532.1896 
anlanproperties@corncast.net 
.. lll 

Purchase tickets at the Saint Mary's College box office or by calling (574) 284-4626. 
MoreauCenter.com 
and 10 bouts decided by one touch. 
Individually, junior foilist Melanie Bautista's (7-0), sopho­more foilist Emilie Prot (8-1), sophomore sabre Ashley Serrette (10-2) and senior epeeists Eleanor Leighton (1 0­
3) and Amy Orlando (8-3) led the way for the Irish women. 
Despite the strong showing without top performers senior sabre Patrick Ghattas and freshman epeeist Kelley Hurley, Bednarski is keeping a cool head about the team. 
"We still need [to] work ­work hard to improve ­because such competition is where we prove ourselves against the best teams," he said. 
The Irish duel next at the Northwestern Duals Feb. 24. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Barlow replaces center D'Amico as starter, scores 13 in victory 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
For the first time in 2 7 games this season, Notre Dame changed its starting lineup -inserting freshmen guard Ashley Barlow for cen­ter Melissa D'Amico. 
The move proved effective, as the Irish beat DePaul 78-70 Sunday night at the Joyce cen­ter. 
Notre Dame (16-8, 7-4 Big East) fell behind early, trailing by as many as six points four dif­ferent times in 
"When the refs let us
the first half. in there and Guard Allie play, why not go after get some Quigley scored quick fouls,
a loose bali, dive for a
the first 11 but I had to
loose ball and go
points for the just play Blue Demons and after the rebound?" through it and 17 points in the in the second first half. half I think I
Charel Allen
But with 7:28 showed
Irish guard 
remaining in the half, the Irish put together a nine-point run and took a 22-19 lead with under six minutes remaining. Notre Dame held the lead for the rest of the game. 
Notre Dame started four guards to counter DePaul's smaller, quicker lineup. D'Amico and center Erica Williamson saw just 24 min­utes combined. 
"We wanted to go small," Notre Dame head coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought in the Louisville game we had a stretch with Crystal [Erwin] at the side and our small team in and we looked pretty good and I thought defensively that would be a good thing to try. 
improve­
ment," she 
said. 
Barlow scored 12 points in the second half and played tight, aggressive defense. On one play, she ran the length of the court and broke up what looked like an easy fast break layup -knocking the ball out of bounds and flying into the cheerleaders in the process. That play resulted in a turnover on the inbounds pass and a Notre Dame fast break. 
Barlow wasn't fazed by her first start, even though the game was televised on ESPN2 and drew a crowd of 7,579, the second largest of the sea­son. 
Notre Dame's quick lineup led to opportunities in transi-And I think it was pretty suc­cessful. I think Erica [Williamson] did a pretty good job when she was in there but the small team really helped." 
The Irish were more intense and physical in the second half, led by guard Charel Allen who finished with 25 points and 13 rebounds -her third double-double of the season. 
"When the refs let us play, why not go after a loose ball, dive for a loose ball and go after the rebound?" Allen said. "And that's w~at I did. They weren't calling anything so you just have to go with the flow." 
Barlow had a rocky start, accumulating two fouls in the first six minutes of the game and scoring only one point in 
the first half. 
"It was 
tough to come tion, which also allowed the 
Irish to control the game. 
"I thought that's where we broke the game open," McGraw said of the team's transition play. "They looked a little tired after they ran us in the first half, and we were able to get some steals, force some turnovers, and that got our running game going." 
Notre Dame forced 23 turnovers while only turning the ball over themselves 17 times. 
"Ashley got a couple of steals and we got our hands on the ball," McGraw said. "We're pretty good at turning the ball over. Most teams turn it over at least 20 times against our defense, and that really gets us going." 
The Irish defense was much tougher in the second half, holding Quigley to three points and one shot attempt. 

"In the first half, the shots were coming easier," Quigley said. \ 
Blue Demons coach Doug Bruno felt that his team's loss resulted not from lack of exe­cution, but because of Notre Dame's disruptive defense. 
"Notre Dame did a great job of defending us and making us confused offensively," he said. "That resulted in our turnovers in the first half. We really were hard-pressed all game to find a rhythm offen­sively and that's to the Notre Dame defense's credit." 
Allen's 13 rebounds were a career high, surpassing her previous best of 10. This was her seventh game with 20 or more points, five of which have come in the past eight games. The win moves Notre Dame into three-way tie for fifth in the Big East conference. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 12, 2007 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
tion, that's what they're there for -to see some goals." 
No. 1 Notre Dame (24-5-4, 18-3-3 CCHA) allowed Nebraska-Omaha to create some last-moment heroics of its own Saturday night when the Mavericks erased a 2-0 Irish lead with two goals in the last five minutes of the third period. The Mavericks (13-13-8, 10-10-4 CCHA) pressured throughout over­time in the second game, but the score ended tied 2-2. It was the fourth meeting between the two teams this season, with Notre Dame win­ning the series 2-1-1 after a split on the road in Omaha earlier in the year. 
The tie will slow Notre Dame's ability to clinch the CCHA regular-season title. The Irish need to take three points out of their next four games to eliminate third­place Michigan and fourth­place Michigan State from the race, while second-place Miami sits in front of the Michigan schools because it has played two more games to date. For the Mavericks, the tie was crucial as it allowed them to remain in a tie for fifth-place with Ohio State -and in position for a key first-round matchup against last-place Bowling Green. · 
Louisville 
continued from page 20 
singles and No. 3 doubles, giv­ing Notre Dame an opening 1-0 

"This is playoff hockey. minutes, but solid pressure in That's what usually happens the Mavericks zone -and a this time of year," Jackson power play after Nebraska­said. "Everybody is playing Omaha defenseman Eddie Del passionate for positioning, Grosso was whistled for hit­and Nebraska did that." ting after the whistle ­
Until the third period of allowed Notre Dame to tie the Friday's 4-2 Irish win brought game. a deluge of goals, it appeared Irish center Justin White that both teams would grind carried the puck to the right the game into a 0-0 tie. The circle and took a low shot Irish clogged up the through the Mavericks Mavericks in their own end defense that was redirected with a conservative neutral­past Dupont at 11:02 to make 
zone  trap, while  it 2-2.  
Nebraska-Omaha  "It's frustrat­ 
was content to tie  ing when  you  
up the middle of  "It's been a  get  a  lot  of  
its own zone and keep Notre Dame to the boards and  different guy every night in games like  chances and you can't score," White  
devoid of scoring  this, and it was  said. "But  we  
chances from the slot.  [Deeth's} night. "  knew we were taking it to  
But  Deeth  them  and  we  
changed  the  Jeff Jackson  knew  that  
tempo  of  the  Irish coach  throughout the  
game  when  he  year we've had  
banged  home  a  a  good  third  
rebound off a shot  period,  so  we  
from defenseman  just went  out  

Noah Babin only 1:46 into the there pretty confident." third period for the 1-0 lead. Deeth then buried the puck 
Nebraska-Omaha responded past Dupont with only sec­just over two minutes later onds remaining after Thang's with a one-timer from center forechecking down low Jeric Agosta past Irish goalie opened up Deeth's chance. Dave Brown, who had not Center T.J. Jindra added an recovered from the initial empty-net goal with less than save when Agosta slapped in three seconds left for the 4-2 the rebound. Mavericks right final. wing Dan Charleston gave his "It's been a different guy team the 2-1 lead at 4:52 into every night in games like this, the third with a power-play and it was [Deeth's] night," goal. Jackson said. "He took 
It took the Irish another five advantage of some good 
opportunities. What a  way to  
win the game."  
. On  Saturday  night,  

Charleston and Mavericks center Bryan Marshall did their best Deeth impression with two goals late in the third to erase the Irish lead and force a 2-2 tie after over­time. 
Charleston took a shot that deflected off and over Brown's shoulder and did a slow, end-over-end arc into the back of the net 15:48 into the third period to cut the Irish lead to 2-1. Marshall then skated into the low slot and beat Brown with a wrist shot to the low stick side with 
1:43 left in the game to tie it. 
"That's a big tie for us," Dupont said. "We knew that how close we were last night, we knew if we continued to play a full 60 minutes tonight, we'd have a good chance to have a good outcome~" 
Babin got the Irish on the board first -and prevented a repeat of Friday's scoreless first two periods -with his goal 4:23 into the first period. Right wing Christiaan Minella took a shot from the high slot that went wide right of the net, but deflected off the boards back to the front. The puck was swatted away by a Mavericks defenseman to the top of the right circle where Babin waited and ripped a shot past Dupont. 
Irish right wing Erik Condra gave Notre Dame a 2-0 lead 
4:44 into the third period 
Buck defeated Louisville junior cially, she's just very, very and Tuesday to prepare for No. Robyn White and senior Natalie tough." 21 Michigan, which faces Notre Laszkowski 8-2 to give the Irish Freshman Cosmina Ciobanu Dame Wednesday at 4 p.m. at the doubles point and a 2-0 clinched the match for Notre the Eck Tennis Pavilion. match lead. Dame with her swift 6-0, 6-0 
"They had never played dou-defeat of Cardinals freshman Contact Chris Hine at bles together before," Jo-Anne Van Aerde. Ciobanu chine@nd.edu 
lead  and  a  Louderback  
breather  for  said. "They're  
Thompson  and  both just good  
Tefft. "We got to get them out of the  "It was nice to get those two matches  doubles play­ers and play­ing together  
lineup," Louderback said. "They had to sit  over very quickly and win the match."  they were very tough." Catrina  
out a match any­ Thompson  
way  because  Jay Louderback  gave the Irish  
they played too  Irish coach  a 3-0 lead with  
much in the fall."  her win  over  
With the forfeit  White in No. 1  
of the Cardinals'  singles 6-0, 4­ 

No. 3 doubles, the Irish only 1. White was forced to retire needed to win one of the two before the match was over due remaining matches to claim the to an injured shoulder. doubles point. Senior Catrina "I thought Catrina played Thompson -playing without well. She was up 6-0, 4-1 her regular partner Christian quickly," Louderback said. Thompson -and junior Brook "Indoors, at our courts espe-
Brown 
continued from page 20 
to land a few. 
In the first period, Brown had the best seat in the house, even though that's not much to brag about at the Joyce Center. The first save he had to make wasn't until Mavs' defenseman Dan Knapp got off a desperation shot from center ice as the horn blew. In fact, the first Irish goalie to touch the puck was backup Jordan Pearce, who made a nice glove save when an errant pass was deflected into the Notre Dame bench. 
That was the second time this season that an Irish opponent was held to one shot on net in a period -the first was in a 3-0 shutout against Army Oct. 27. The Black Knights tallied up a whopping seven total shots in the contest. Low numbers like those have become the norm at Notre 

Dame; the last time a team regis­
tered higher than 20 was Mia:r~i 
more then two weeks ago. · Brown currently owns the 
NCAA's top goals against average 
at 1.72 and the third best win­
ning percentage (.817), while 
ranking only 12th in save per­
centage. A lot of the credit for 
those numbers goes to his team­
mates who have consistently 
eliminated rebound chances and 
odd man rushes with physical 
play throughout the season. That 
extra support has catapulted 
Brown into the national spotlight in his senior year, making him a 
media favorite as well as a lead­ing candidate to nab hockey's 
highest honor -the Hobey 
Baker. He would be quick to tell 
you that those honors are as 
much of a reflection of the team 
as on his own personal success. 
However, Irish coach Jeff Jackson and Brown both agreed that seeing a steady diet of 30 when he roofed a loose puck into the open left side of the net. 
The Mavericks struggled in the first period to generate any offense, getting their first shot of the game off with one second left in the period -a long dump-in from beyond the blue line that Brown easi­ly handled. 
"We weren't getting much offense because [the Irish] were doing such a good job defensively against us in the first two periods," Mavericks coach Mike Kemp said. 
Brown stopped 34-of-38 shots faced during the week­end, while Dupont made 49 total saves. 
+Notes: 
A large portion of Section 6 of the Joyce Center -the Notre Dame student section -was roped off with yellow police tape for Saturday's game, while ushers kept stu­dents from entering. A rou­tine inspection of the bleach­ers after Friday's game revealed that several rows of seats had been damaged fol­lowing the late-game celebra­tion, Assistant Sports Information Director Tim Connor said. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
American Hair Cuters 574-273-1286 

r/Style men's Cuts. Ladies Style: Cuts/Perms/Color!Waxings. 
On the corner of SR 933 and Brick Rd. 
STUDENT DISCOUNT -with ID. Walk-ins or Appointments Welcome 
preserved her spotless play in dual match competition (7 -0) and improved her over overall record to 17-4. 
"It was nice to get those two matches over very quickly and win the match," Louderback said. 
The bright spot for the Cardinals was Laszkowski's vic­tory over No. 31 Colleen Rielley 2-6, 6-4, 1-0 (10-8). Rielley lost her third straight and dropped to 2-5 in dual match play. 
Irish sophomo,re Katie Potts defeated Louisville sophomore Natalie Baez 6-1, 6-4, and Buck beat Cardinals sophomore Bianca Gorbea 6-3, 6-4 to round out the scoring for Notre Dame. 
The Irish will use Monday 

FACULTY/STUDENTS 
Brand New Dublin Village Townhomes for Rent Across from St. Mary's -behind Perkins 3 or 4 BR units available, 3 1/2 baths, 2-car attatched garage 
call Linda @ 708-460-5500 
shots a game may have made those impressive stats even bet­ter. Facing a constant flow of action during a game is easier for a goalie than staying mental­ly focused in between spurts of offense that add up to the 15-20 shots he has been seeing on an average night this year. 
That doesn't mean that the Notre Dame defense will slack off in the last two weeks of the regular season. Brown and Jackson are both more than happy with the formula that has earned them a 24-5-3 record and a first round bye in the CCHA playoffs. And as for the stats, the only one number they need to be concerned with is No.1. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu. 

SALON ROUGE
Specializing in color and cuts 

$1 0 OFF WOMEN'S CUT $5 OFF MEN'S CUT 
Discount good Mon-Fri with Nicole or Emily. 
(Not good with any other offer.) 
Need Color?? We'll take an extra $5.00 off. Close to Campus-right on Edison Road 
call 258.5080 
620 W. Edison, Suite 126 Mishawaka, IN 46545 salonrougeinc.com 

Monday, February 12, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

CROISSANTWORLD ADAM FAIRHOLM 
\  L\¥"-E.  -ro  r'-tEq'f'-E-A.  1...\"TT"'U:.  AUl-IU ~\,  '[:loa(l..<:.  AftJ:.  
~IT ... L\KE.., I'U..  A$1(:.. 1\-\E.l'-\  \-\OW  of'E.N -\4to.~E.  C.OME.  
1HE.•{F..E.  'CoiN(;:I  ANI>  At>t::>  ON  
"11-tAN\o::.S~  ~uT  oTI-"\E.to1...  

I 'I..L "':>U"S.'T 'STA~E. Of"F SPAU::.. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
LIAMMORAN 

JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RAYRA 
j 
1 
rr I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
MIILT 
j
[J [ (] 
PUNCOO ± 
www.jumble.com
tUNBOCE I J I [J 
A: 
"( I I I J" r0Je riiiiiiJ 
(Answers tomorrow) , I Jumbles: LISLE BERET TORRID GYRATE 
Yesterday s Answer: The postal clerk was good at solving anagrams because he was a-LETTER SORTER 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kelly Rowland, 26: Mike Shinoda. 30: Jennifer Aniston, 38; Burt Reynolds, 71 
Happy Birthday: You can dream all you want but actions speak louder than words. You have to be willing to take on whatever task is necessary if you want to get ahead personally or professionally. You may make a few mistakes along the way but that will be better than not making any decisions or progress at all. Your numbers are 9, 15, 19, 25, 38. 47 
ARIES (March·21-Aprill9): Don't look at the obvious--use your intuition and you will find out that there is a lot more going on behind your back than you realized. Getting angry and upset won't help. Be smart and talk to the right people to protect yourself, your assets and your future. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Relying on others will only lead to disappointment today. Make your own arrangements and take the initiative. If you surround yourself with positive people, you will get positive results. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't worry so much about the things you can't change. You may have to rethink one of your relationships. Don't let your emotions steer you in the wrong direction. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Make some changes around your home. A move, renovating. redecorating or just setting up new rules to live by will tum out well. The more you do to improve your emotional and physical situation, the better you will feel. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll attract a lot of attention today if you get out and participate. Today should be about having fun but be honest about your intentions. Someone could turn into a pest if you are too friendly. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't take things so literally or criticize others today or you will end up in a scuffle over nothing. Sudden changes in the way someone views you will probably leave you perplexed. You can make amends by doing something nice. 2 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel, visit friends, do things with children or socialize. Attend an event that can offer you a new way of seeing things or grabs your attention as a new hobby or interest. You will be entertained and enlightened. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep moving, don't look back and do everything in your power to finish what you started. This can be a perfect day for love, networking. socializing and getting back to doing the things you love the most. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You have to follow through and do what you feel is necessary but don't do so at someone else's expense. Be fair and make sure you deserve what you are going after. Don't overreact or exaggerate. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend the day puttering about, finishing off odd jobs. You'll be surprised how much you get accomplished and how much you please the people around you. You can formulate a game plan for future prospects. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your charm will lead to a proposal or offer that will be difficult to turn down. You may not realize how much you can actually do to help others. Take the lead and you may spare someone from making the same mistakes you made in the past. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be too eager to share your thoughts. Someone is likely to twist them around and use them against you. Hang on to what you've got--this is not the time to lend, borrow or share. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are an inventor and a person with a passionate eye. You are helpful but able to remain detached. You are reliable and worldly. You like to think big but that often gets you into trouble. 
Eu)<enia's Web sites: astroadvice.com(or(un, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHE:N THE: GAR­DE:NE:R 5POITE:D THE: DYING SHRUB, HE: GOT TO THE:--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

BLAcK DoG 
WI:. A!IE uN·V<iTT£6 To IJIUt./6.-IIJ(r Y'o>v 
Fii-&E LE./rAl. MV~t '­Fol'-' WitJOOWS 
Tl-tltOIJ,;Ii ooll.. 
p.AltT.VEitS"Hil' wrr11 !l.IJ~; "'E1"W#/LI<.S. 
1iME.!l 
ANI> &EU..VS£ 
~o<E.. ~El.,\~VE. ~D!I 
"t'\'II.J Crl eo ME. IN 
111iUES, \.lEO 'J> 1-llo$. "t'o i>ITI<d ~<I <C. tiVII.. NEW' ftvloJf/1/'Jt:.. 
M ...TE. .•• 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

63 Nabisco best­seller 64 160 square rods 65 Jim Morrison's group, with "the" 66 Feathered 
missile 67 "Sure, go ahead" 
DOWN center 2 "Gone With the 
Wind" surname 3 White House 
setting 4 Likely 5 Like many 
evangelicals 6 Loads 7 Arterial blockage a Shish 9 Canis lupus 
familiaris, for dogs 10 Compassionate 11 Neighbor of Pakistan 12 Actor/director Tim 13 Slithery 21 Corporate V.I.P.'s 22 "Phooey!" 24 "How sweet !" 
27 Wide-eyed 28 Toward the bottom 
30 1963 #1 hit for the Fireballs 31 Daredevil Knievel 32 Impudent talk 
WILLSHORTZ 


33 President  43 Great Salt  53 "Metamorpho­ 
before Taylor  Lake's state  ses" poet  
34 Inter  45 Wood­ 54 Nevada city  
36 Too 39 Moisten, as  smoothing tool 47 Result  55 River through Florence  
poultry 40 Mars' Greek  49 Atlantic food fish  56  avis  
counterpart 42 New York  51 Shadow 52 Actress Parker  57 One getting a manual  
N.H.L.'ers  61 Confucian path  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Mrs. Dithers of the comics 5 Holder of billiard balls 9 County, in 
Britain 14 Breakfast chain 15 Jazz's Fitzgerald 16 Blender setting 17 Huge 18 Numbskull 19 Modern missive 20 Anger 21 Carnival treat 23 More shrewd 25 "It's not easy 
_green" 26 Like some 
modern music 29 Pieces 33 Lindbergh's 
trans-Atlantic destination 35 Farm billies 37 Charlottesville sch. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
38 Cutlass, e.g., informally 
39 Starts of 21­and 53-Across and 3-and 30-Down 
40 Gets older 
41 Golf ball position 
42 Storms 
43 Eurasian 
mountains 
44 The Jayhawks of the Big 12 46 Groove-making 
tool 
48 Tiny hill dwellers 
50 Skip 
53 Carbonated 
citrus-flavored drink 58 Medical care grp. 59 Cape_ Islands 60 Diaper problem 61 Keep_ on (watch) 62 tube 
.;.;.J..;~...&..;..;..&...;;;.J.~..;.L;....L.:.J 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, February 12, 2007 
page 20 
NO HOCKEY 

Last-second leap 
Deeth sparks late win Friday before Mavericks force 2-2 tie Saturday 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Wrirer 

Irish center Kevin Deeth took it to Nebraska-Omaha goal­tender Jeremie Dupont, then he took it to the student section in the last seconds of Friday's 4-2 win over the Mavericks at the Joyce Center. 
Deeth capped a six-goal third period between the two teams with a backhand wraparound goal past Dupont with 10 sec­onds left in the game to give the Irish the 3-2 lead. It was Deeth's second goal of the night, and the freshman cele­brated by jumping into the glass in front of the Notre Dame student section, where he was mobbed by teammates. 
"It's kind of a joke on the team, something we always talk about doing," Deeth said of the game-winning leap. "To quote [right wing linemate] Ryan Thang, he says 'Taking it to the band.' I kind of go a little bit more toward the student sec-
see HOCKEY/page 18 

At right, center Kevin Deeth shoots during Notre Dame's 4-2 win Friday. Below, Deeth celebrates in front ofthe student section after his game-winning goal.
•

PHOTOS BY LAURIE HUNT AND VANESSA GEMPIS 
Hobey Baker candidate must stay sharp even as pressure remains light 
Any goalie in the nation would be thrilled with the opportunity to suit up for Notre Dame. From front to back, the Irish smother opposing offenses by playing tough in their own zone and controlling the puck. But for Hobey Baker candidate Dave Brown, his sup­porting cast can quickly become an Achilles heel. 
Brown faced 22 shots in Saturday's 2-2 tie with Nebraska­Omaha, more than half of which came in the last eight min­utes of regulation and the five minute overtime period. The senior was as cold as ice when the Mavericks finally clicked, scoring both of their goals in the last 4:12. It was like stepping into the ring with Mike Tyson after nine rounds of Sock-N-Boppers against Sister Mary Grace-he's probably going 

Dan Murphy 
Sports Writer 

see BROWN/page 18 
fENCING 

Men, women slice up Duke Duals 4-0, 4-0 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sporrs Ediror 
Flat tires can slow Notre Dame, they just can't stop the Irish. 
After arriving in Durham, N.C., seven hours before Friday's 9 a.m. start of the Duke Duals, Notre Dame start­ed sluggishly but rebounded to dominate the rest of the tour­nament. 
The No. 4 Irish women and No. 5 Irish men each went 4-0 in team bouts over North Carolina, Duke, Johns Hopkins and Air Force. The team col­lected five of the six cups pre­sented to the best team in each weapon for both men and women. 
"We expected that we can win but it's always good to be sure and get this result," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "Of course it was not easy in some certain cases." 

The Notre Dame men, who competed Friday, arrived at their hotel a little before 2 a.m. that day because of mechanical trouble at O'Hare International Airport. 
The men's sabre team lost five of nine matches against the Tar Heels to kick off the competition, but the foilists' recovered with a 8-1 perform­ance against UNC. Coincidentally, the foilists' 5-4 loss to Duke cost the Irish the cup in their weapon, which went to the Blue Devils. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said once the sabres got their adrenaline going, they found their rhythm. The group went 7-2 against Duke and Air Force and 9-0 versus Johns Hopkins. 
Sophomore Bill Thanhouser's 10-2 mark lead the way for the unit, and senior Matt Stearns finished 9-3. In the epee, junior Greg Howard went 8-2 while 
see FENCING/page 17 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish shoot down Cardinals 
Louderback rests key players versus short­handed Louisville 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame was able to rest key players while put­ting a short-handed Louisville squad to rest 6-1 Friday at home for its first Big East win of the season. 
"This was good, especially coming back after the [ITA National Team Indoors]." Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
Senior Christian Thompson and sophomore Kelcy Tefft sat out the match for the No. 3 Irish. Due to team injuries, No. 71 Louisville had only five play­ers for the six singles and three doubles matches. The Cardinals forfeited No. 6 
see LOUISVILLE/ page 18 




ND WOMEN)S BBM1 MEN'S TENNIS SMC SWIMM!NG SMC BASKETBALl ND WOMEN'S lAX NBA 
LLI 

(,) Notre Dame 78 Notre Dame 5 Melissa Gerbeth Saint Mary's 62 Dartmouth 14 Miami 100 
z DePaul 70 Wisconsin 2 becomes the second Kalamazoo 60 Notre Dame 13 San Antonio 85 Guard Ashley Barlow No. 9 Irish come back swimmer in Saint Bridget Lipke's free Irish lose final Guard Dwayne Wade 
::5 

scores 13 in her first from an early deficit to Mary's history to win throw with seven preseason tuneup in finishes with 26 points
c.::. 

start of the year for the beat streaking Badgers. event at MIAA seconds left lifts the rematch of last year's to lift the Heat over the
c:z: 

Irish. Conference meet. Belles over the Hornets. NCAA semifinal. Spurs.
=: page 17 page 16 page 16 page 15 page 15 page 12 




