
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 15 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17,2007 
Ordinance undergoes drastic changes 
Student body president Brown expects South Bend Common Council to pass party resolution tonight 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 

Major changes have been made to the ordinance proposed by the South Bend Common Council to control student par­ties, said student body president Liz Brown, who expects that Council members will approve the ordinance at their meeting tonight. 
The biggest modification is that the ordinance will not require rnsidents of boarding houses ­defined as houses where more than two unrelated people live ­to register for a permit from the city before holding a gathering at which more than 25 people would have access to alcohol. 
"Although the bill contains all the permit 
and regis­tration lan­guage for social gath­erings, it also stipu­lates that such a pro­gram will 

not be Luecke enacted unless a subsequent ordinance is passed by the Common Council, which would require another set of public hearings," Brown said. 
The new ordinance will also establish a community coalition composed of members of the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. 
"We think it makes sense to bring together city officials and University officials and students and residents to discuss, not just student parties, but neighbor­hood watches ... and anything that might come up," Brown said. 
She said the language regard­ing the coalition was still in the process of being finalized Sunda~ The South Bend Community Relations meets Monday evening and will be fol­lowed by a public hearing at 6 
p.m. to discuss the ordinance. 
The newly drafted ordinance, Brown said, directs the Common Council to evaluate how well the coalition and other efforts to address the issue of disruptive student partying work -and if they do not work well, the option to revisit the registration process is still "on the table." 
''I'm happy with the way this has turned out," Brown said. 
Brown, along with student body vice president Maris Braun, was first alerted to the proposed 
see TOWNIpage 6 

Kroc panel debates meaning ofwar 
Scholars, military personnel and correspondents discuss definition of conflict, tactics 
By BRIAN McKENZIE AND 
NICK BOCK 
News Writers 
Gerard Powers, director of policy studies at the Kroc Institute, com­mended two visiting general<; who spoke at the "What is War?'' con­ference this weekend because, Powers said, "you can't talk about war and peace without under­standing the situation on the ground." 
The conference, hosted by the Kroe Institute Friday and Saturday, IP.aturod speeches by scholars, mili­tary personnel and war correspon­dents. It was held to help the International Law Association for­mulate a more precise and modem definition of war, which i.<; "central to protecting fundamental human rights that can be legally suspend­ed during formal wartime," aecording to a press release by the Kroc Institute previewing the event. 
Two former commanders of U.S. and British forces in Bosnia com­posed the military panel, which filled an auditorium well beyond capacity. U.S. Gen. William Nash and British Gen. Michael Rose focused on how international law and morality affected war policy. 
According to Rose, obeying the rules of war was an important way to mobilize public support. Violations, he said, undermined the mission, promoting the forces of civilization. Nations that lose the moral high ground "don't have a 
see WAR/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students, temn suffer third loss 
Campus attitude grim after Michigan defeat 
By MARCELA BERRIOS and 
KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writers 
With the realized fear of an 0-3 record to kick off the year, saying students are disappoint­ed, frustrated and pessimistic about the rest of the football season would be an understate­ment. 
"We sucked," sophomore Steven Mazer said about Notre Dame's 38-0 loss to Michigan Saturday. "I have some friends coming this weekend for Michigan State. We're going to get killed." 
And he wasn't alone in his gloomy forecast. 
Many students said they were embarrassed by the crushing defeat at Ann Arbor, and they don't expect the first post­Brady Quinn season to get bet­ter. But at a school where tra­ditionally, the fall semester equals the football semester, they said they're still planning to attend the remaining games. 
"The score isn't the impor­tant thing. It's the atmosphere," freshman Natalie Parra said. "Even when we're losing, it's a great atmosphere." 
But some upperclassmen think it's easier to stay as posi­tive as Parra when there are still three years of football ahead. 
see GAME/page 3 



Honors progra111 attracts students 
Seminars, funded research highlight Glynn Family program 
By EMILY KEEBLER 
News Writer 
The first Glynn Family Honors Program students arrived for freshman orientation only weeks ago but already have immersed themselves in engaging course­work. 
Sophomore Katie Woodward, who is in the program, said the honors program added to Notre Dame's appeal when she looked at collnges. 
"It made me more inclined to eo me .... Not only do I get to be at this great university, but I get to have the small college atmos­phere where everyone knows everyone and you get personal attention from the professors," · 
Sophomore Kristina Sault speaks with Professor C.F. Delaney in the see HONORS/page 4 honors program lounge. Delaney is also the director of the program. 


Int.'l enrollment at 10-yearlowfor SMC 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's is furthering its recruitment of international prospects as its enrollment of such students hit a 1 0-year low this semester. 
The College has only eight international students this year, including two freshmen. Saint Mary's is striving to increase its international student population to three percent by the 2012, vice president of enrollment management Dan Meyer said. The eight students compose less than one percent of the student body. 
The College utilizes a number of electronic resources to target potential students abroad. While no one from the admissions office has traveled international­ly for a number of years, the office does have a number of contacts in other countries. 
"We seek names from high school counselors who are a good source for international students participating in study abroad [and] exchange pro­grams," Meyer said. 
The office also contacts alum­nae who are living in other countries and asks them to help with recruiting. 
"While we don't have organ­ized alumnae chapters over­
see STUDENTS/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 17, 2007 
INSIDE CoLUMN 

Jets .update 
Onn week after a nail-biting loss 
to the New 1\ngland Patriots, new 
Jets starting quarterback Kellen 
Clmnnns led a furious comeback 
nffort. throwing for 177 yards in 
the fourth quar­
ter. But a Hay Greg Arbogast
Lewis in tercep­
tion in thn nnd 
zone sealnd a 
Sports Writer 
20-13 win for the 
Havnns. 
In the post-
game press conference, Jets coach 
Eric Mangini eouldn't eontain his 
frustration, 11speeially with 
Clemons. 
"If Kellen (Clemens] had played like lw did in the fourth quartnr for thn l'irst thrnn quart11rs, he would have thrown for over 700 yards," Mangini said. "The day was not a r.omplntn loss, hownvnr. I did have Carson Palnwr on my fantasy tnam." 
Down 17-3, thP r.onwbar.k niTort startnd lwtw11en tlw third and fourth quart11r when Mangini rushnd his tPam into thn locknr room wl111n1 thPy receiv11d a "price­less pPp talk" from Indianapolis Colts quart11rbaek Pnyton Manning. 
"It's all about f'inding thn right ehannnl at the right timn," Mangini said. "You know P11yton is out thorn sonwwhnrn. i\ftpr all. hn is thn face of tho NFI.. him and Tank Johnson." 
Fornwr starting <)B Chad 
Pennington said. Mangini "can't 
motivatn us likP PPyton dons." 
"I nwan Coach is hnn1 all thn time. We only get to SilO Peyton oncn or twil:n a eommnreial bn11Lk, and somntinws only l'or 30 snconds. Wlwn Peyton speaks, we Iiston." 
Thn Jnts dnfense -paranoid of having its signals stolen after last week's antics of voyeur Bill Beliehick-trind a nnw tactic this Sunday, rdusing to call dnl'onsive plays. Jnts LB Jonathan Vilma supportml the decision. saying. "Sure it eroated some problems early on, but we came togethnr and worked as a team. It's a lot like that shamnless attempt at ratings by CBS, Kid Nation. 40 kids. No adults. Ono town. Will thny all per­ish in a drought'! Wednosday on CBS. Those poor kids." 
Tho fallout continues this week from the largost scandal since Enron-the controversy sur­rounding Bill Belichick's illicit vidnotaping of other men. NFL commissioner Hognr Goodell has stripped tho Patriots of all their futun1 draft picks, so long as Beliehiek livns. It is now r.lear that the new commissioner is not here to mess around, having put the Patriots in quite the moral quandary. 
The qunstion now becomes, how far are they willing to go to win? 
This article was written in col­laboration with Rob Wilson. It should also be said that this is a work offiction, although we admit that the events mentioned are eeri­ly similar to those of the actual universe. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@n d. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reporting error, Friday's article tided "Women's lmerhall Football: Phoxes open season eager to return to finals" incorrectly named last year's imerhall champions as Pasquerilla East. l'asquerilla West won. The Observer regrets this error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD GET ANY TATTOO, WHAT WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 



Alan Geygan Jonathan Liedl 
sophomore freshman Keough Dillon 
"J wouldn't get ':4 hippogriff a tattoo. I don't on my lower have the back. They're muscles to show sexy." it off" 

Rachel Washington 
freshman Pangborn 
':4 treble clef and in the middle ofit would be the word 'fulmine,, which means lightning because I love music and lightning." 



Mike Reyes sophomore Dillon  Joey Brown junior Dillon  Seth Sutton sophomore O'Neill  
"Your name on  ':4 potato ... just  ':4 can ofbutter  

my rear end." 


VANESSA GEMPISffhe Observer Howard girls cheer for Brittany Bock, their favorite player, during Friday night's women's soccer game against Princeton at Alumni Field. The Irish won 4-2. 
OFFBEAT 

Firefighters save donkey trapped in well 
UNOEHWOOO, Minn. ­!\ donkey is happily eating grass again after falling down a dry, abandoned well and being freed in an intensive rescue effort. It appeared that the animal wandered away from its farm and onto some boards covering the well, which broke, said Bruce Huseth, fire chief in this western Minnesota town. 
Firelighters quickly real­ized that the animal, which belongs to farmer Warren Gundberg, could­n't just be pulled from the abandoned well on Bryan Nelson's land. 
So they started pulling away earth with a tractor and dismantling the well block by block Thursday. Once one wall had been taken apart, f'iref'ighters put a harness around the donkey and guided it out with a rope. 
"Whatever it takes," Nelson said as he watched his well come down. "I love animals, and I'm just glad it's OK." 
College student leader charged wth DUI 
BLOOMSBUHG, Pa. -Bloomsburg University's student government presi­dent was charged with drunken driving just weeks after saying the media has unfairly por­trayed students as irre­sponsible. 
Christopher Bevan, 21, was pulled over last week­end after a campus police officer said he saw the stu­dent driving more than 50 mph in a 15-mph zone. 
A breath test showed Bevan's blood-aleohol level was .147 percent, authori­ties said. The legal limit for drivers in Pennsylvania is .08 percent. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 0::: 
UJ 
::1: 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
...... 
c( 
(.) 

0 
..... HIGH 78 HIGH 68 HIGH 83 HIGH 85 LOW 57 LOW 47 LOW 65 LOW 68 
because." with wings." 
IN BRIEF 

!\ Constitution Day lneturn entitled "The Constitution Goes to War: National Security and the Hole of the Court" will tak1~ plaen today at 4 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo Hall. The event is open to tho publie. 
The rosary will be said tonight at 6:45 at tho Grotto. Thn rosary is said daily. 
!\ panel discussion titlnd "Pursuing a Career in Industry after Graduate School" will take plaee Tuesday at :1:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall, room 13S. Panelists include Dt·. Hobert Dunn, diroetor of the Integrated Engineering and Business J>raetiee Currieu lum at Notre Dame; James Mason, Zimmer Corporation; and Suhas Vaza, project managnr in-the Govornment Programs Office at Edison Welding Institute. 
A webeast, on "Exit or No Exit? Morality & Withdrawal from Iraq" will take place Tuesday from 6 p.m. to S. This lecture will bo broadcast live from Fordham University (NY). The event will take place in C-103 in the lleshurgh Center for International Studies and is sponsored by the Kroc Institute. 
"The Camera and Hainbow: Color in Photography" exhibit will show in the Snite Museum of Art on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The exhibit is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 84 HIGH 85 LOW 59 LOW 59 
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 172 Minneapolis 801 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 1 49 
,----------------~-·~--~---­
Monday, September 17, 2007 it. But this game was just a 
waste of money." She said she might still go continued from page 1 to Purdue, based on the out­come of this weekend's game. 
''I've noticed for seniors, the "It's my senior year. If I pessimism has settled in don't go now, I won't get a much faster," senior Jessica chance to do it later," she Hodriguez said. "And you said. can't blame them. People But students who are not want their senior year to be graduating yet said they the best it can possibly be, aren't motivated enough to especially their last football travel and spend money to go 
Ga01e 
season  as  see  Notre  
undergrads."  Dame  play  
Rodriguez said she's heard many of  "If[the Irish] were doing better, I'd be  elsewhere. "If [the Irish] were  
her classmates  more inclined to go to  doing better,  
say they're not willing to drive  an away game.  I'd be more inclined to go  
to  any  more  to  an  away  
away  games  Emerson Coffeli-Dwyer  game," junior  
this  season  junior  Emerson  

because "it's not worth it." She said she's personally never been to an away game and she likely won't make the effort to attend one -even if it's her last chance to do it as a student. 
'Til probably end up regret­ting having spent money on another defeat," she said. 
Senior Camila Bernal, who drove to Michigan this week­end, said she paid $80 for tickets, while scalpers at Ann Arbor were selling for $25 Saturday -and she felt slightly cheated. 
"Both teams were really bad, so people didn't value those tickets as much," Bernal said. "If we were real­ly good, like we have been in the past, people would be willing to pay hundreds of dollars, and it would be worth Cofell-Dwyer 
s a i d "Anything less than stellar won't convince me to drive all that way." 
Sophomore Dan Dixon said he was also hesitant about going to an away game this season in light of Notre Dame's recent performances. 
"We were thinking about going to Purdue, but with the way the team's been playing, it might not happen," Dixon said. 
But while his enthusiasm about Notre Dame football is dwindling, Dixon said his friends from rival colleges are still excited about coming to a game. 
"I've got friends from Boston College. They think they're going to win, so of course they'll come," he said. 
Other potential visitors, 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
however, may actually be deterred from journeying to South Bend unless it's to see Notre Dame win. 
Saint Mary's freshman Claire Yancy said she had planned to have guests dur­ing a home game this season, but the team's losing streak has affected their excitement about the trip. 
"I have a couple people coming to visit. I don't think they want to pay [for football tickets] anymore," Yancy said. "They keep watching Notre Dame play, and they feel sad -but they still want to come. It's the experience." 
And that half-heartedness may be the tone of the sea­son. 
"My uncle is coming in from Ohio for Michigan State. We're not really expecting anything from the game itself, but the tailgating should be fun," sophomore John Maltese said. 
A few students, however, remained steadfast in their support of the team. 
"The biggest thing we need to do as fans Saturday against Michigan State is -no mat­ter the score -to give our 110 percent and let the team know how much we care," freshman Sean McCullough said. "For the first game I came fully dressed as a lep­rechaun and I intend to do that at each home game. We could be 0-8 and I'll still dress the same way." 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle@nd.edu and Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

Court exposes plans to destroy Sears Tow-er 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -To hear prosecutors tell it, Narseal Batiste and six followers formed a budding homegrown ter­rorist cell determined to rival the Sept. 11 attacks by toppling the Sears Tower in Chicago. 
In the same court building where Jose Padilla was convicted last month, trial begins this week for seven men who federal prosecutors say envisioned a "full ground war" that would eventually replace the 
U.S. government with an Islamic regime. 
"I want to fight some jihad," Batiste said in a 2006 conversation tap~d by the FBI. "That's all I live for. 
Defense lawyers and supporters of the so-called "Liberty City Seven" say the men never sought to hurt anyone and amassed only one gun and a few knives and machetes. They say the alleged terror conspir­acy was driven by a pair of paid FBI informants -one claiming to be an al-Qaida emissary. 
"These guys never left the United States. They never traveled to the Middle East," said Albert Levin, attorney for defendant Patrick Abraham. "They never had any way of carrying out what was dis­cussed. Thi<; was pure words." 
Batiste, the leader of an obscure religious sect, and the others from Miami's blighted Liberty City neigh­borhood each face decades in prison if convicted. The four-count indictment includes charges of con­spiracy to levy war against the United States and conspiracy to provide material support to al­Qaida. 
Jury selection is scheduled to begin Tuesday and take one to two weeks. The main prosecution case is expected to last at least six weeks. 
The trial will be held before U.S. District Judge Joan Lenard, one floor above the courtroom where a jury in August convicted Padilla, the former enemy combatant, and two other men on murder conspiracy and terror support charges. 
The trial promises to test anew the Bush administration's post­Sept. 11 strategy of disrupting potential terrorists in the earliest possible stages. When it comes to terror cases, federal officials say, arrests can't wait until the prover­bial fuse is lit. 

NAME THE BLOG! *WIN A SWEATSHIRT 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Hesburgh Libraries 
For the latest in online resources & services Check out the ND Libraries' new blog 
http://libinfo.library.nd.edu 


Help us name the blog & WIN aND Sweatshirt of Your Choice 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 1 7, 2007 
nator Wendy Wolfe said. Eaeh honors program student Program participants study in completes a senior project, rang­


Honors 

either the College of Arts and ing from the completion of a continued from page I Letters or the College of Science novel or thesis to empirical work or, in some cases, both. Thus, the in psychology labs or seienee Woodward said. honors program creates a bridge researeh tied to faculty-funded 
Delaney said "the high intensi­between two colleges that many research. ty seminars and the way in universiti11s already combine. "Getting to work specifically which ]students are] dirednd to "[The program] provides stu­with a professor is going to help do serious rnseareh" am among dents at the high end academi­in the long run," Woodward said. the program's best characteris­cally to do small, intensive semi­"It's not just something you're tics. nars in all the courses that fall reading about but something 
Despite tlw unique opportuni­under the university require­you're actually doing." ties. the honors program allows ment," Delaney said. Antoniak agrees that the for student participation in uni­"My honors elasses are my prospect of condueting funded versity adivitills-including var­favorite because they are so research is exciting for a college sity athletics, band, and study­small and the teachers are student. abroad programs. amazing," freshman Glynn schol­"Even besides the praetical 
''I'm not going to deny that the ar Maria Antoniak said. advantage of getting into grad dasses are a lot of work, but Antoniak also notes that invita­school, it's just exciting that I everyone I know is so involved tion into the honors program might get to travel and conduct with different activities like eased the pressure of a cross­research in my field as an under­sports, music, and social service. continental move from Riehland, graduate," Antoniak said. No orw just sil'i in the library on Wash. Students in the program also a Saturday night," Woodward ''I'm from so far away and did­have the opportunity to partici­said. n't know anyone here so the idea pate in sponsored trips, including 
Alumnus John W. Glynn and of getting to know people before an annual fall trip to the his wife, Barbara, donated $10 I eame made me feel better Stratford Shakespeare Festival. million to the department, which about the distance," Antoniak "Getting to see everyone out­used to be known as the Arts and said. side the classroom was great. ... Letters and Science Honors Wolfe does not think the pro­The people in the honors pro­Program. gram excludes its participants gram are some of the coolest, 
"]The gift] will enable us to "from the regular Notre Dame most intelligent and most inter­guarantee all the students sum­community in any way but to esting people I've ever met," mer research money for at least enhance their educational expe­Woodward said. one year," program director C.F. rience by having small seminars In some cases professors also Delaney said, adding that the during the freshman year." deepen the sense of community. program is now prepared to "I really enjoy teaehing first­Woodward, for example, and her enroll 100 studenl'i annually. semester freshmen .... We have a freshman seminar classmates 
Admission to the honors pro­year-long honors humanities recently met at their professor's gram follows the university seminar, and you get the same home. admission process. Selection is group of 17 student the whole "Our class really bonded," based on academic credentials year reading interesting stuff," Woodward said. "We've actually -SAT scores over 1500 and Delaney said. had parties and gone out togeth­class ranking in the top 1 to 2 " ... All of the virtues of the er. That really made the experi­percent -and a student essay Notre Dame community are ence for me. I wouldn't have had expressing interest. available to them.... The only an experience like that if I wasn't 
"They eo me in as freshmen ... really important difference is the in the honors program." it's neat to see them grow and go intensive seminars and the off and do all these fantastic emphasis on the senior cap­Contact Emily Keebler at things they do," program coordi-stone," Delaney said. ekeebler@nd.edu 
ordinance -whieh does not stipulate a registration, notifiea­

Town 

tion or permit proeess -was the result of "honest, frank
continued from page 1 

communications between ordinance in late July. Since 1weryone involved," Brown said. then, she has met with Common "I think it was probably Council members, South Bend refreshing for the city to see Mayor Stephen Luecke, repre­myself. as a representative of sentatives from the Police the students, and some repre­Department, dty attorneys and sentatives from the University University representatives. to say, 'This is something we 
Brown and Braun sent e­take seriously, this is something mails to the student body in we want to address, but let's August, before most students talk about how we can do it in had returned to school, notify­other ways,"' Brown said. ing them of the ordinance and Brown croditnd improved ofT­student government's actions to campus student behavior since oppose its passage. the school year started for the 
Eliminating the permit regis­changing direction of the ordi­tration process and forming a nance. At student government community coalition are two meetings, Brown had urged objectives Brown has said she students to be respectful to aimed for in the past month and their South Bond neighbors. a half. The original proposed "The biggest motivating fae­ordinance -co-sponsored by tor [towards changing the ordi­Council members Timothy nance] is students coming House and AI "Buddy" Kirsits" through and hriving some legiti­-would have required resi­macy to my claims when I said dents of boarding houses to we wanted to work on this," she apply to the city for a permit at said. least 10 days before hosting an Few parties have garnered event with alcohol and more complaints in the past few than 25 people. The application weeks, Brown said, and police fee for an event permit would have reported that students cost $15. were cooperative if the police 
If that ordinance had passed, did show up. residents who did not register Brown said building relations gatherings and were caught between the students and South would be required to pay a Bend is an ongoing process. $500 fine and a $1,000 fme for "We need to continue to work each subsequent violation. hard with the city, with the 
The city administration pro­community organizations to posed a revision of the ordi­address these issues, but we nance in August that would have proven with our behaviors have required event-holders to that there are other ways to notify the police department 24 address this issue," she said. hours before the event, rather than submitting an application to the city 10 days in advance. Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
The current version of the kriely@nd.edu 
Huron offers rewarding internships and exciting career opportunities. Visit us on campus at these events: 
··:.:Ember 19th-C;=ife2r t:xoo 
. ­
-. 
!tc,mher 24th -(~·u·., or, PrPsPntat':'~1
r .J • --., .,.~ --' ~ ---,...., -... "'_,. ~ 
<:;: ;·::'' ; rnb::r 25th-Re.~-~'Hne Dr-op Deacliir~c' 
Huron was ranked on BusinessWeek's List of Hot 100 Growth Companies 
and on Consulting Magazine's 10 Best Consulting Firms to Work For. At Huron, you can expect: 
• 
Unparalleled job opportunities; 

• 
High profile client experiences; 

• 
Knowiedge sharing, training, and mentoring; 

• 
Collaborative work environment; and 

• 
Career advancement 


At Huron, We invest in you. 
To find out more about employment opportunities, visit our website at: 

www.huronconsultinggroup.com/careers 
Hu<oo eon..ulling G!oup io ""equal~ ""'Pi<¥~< We r~~C:<Ut. ~..,.,.,.__ llanSief. promo:e and !rain-regard to age, race ooior • .,.._. marllal-. sexual-·~irlEI\Iity. ~origin reiia10<1. V"""""' em or"""""" 81atus. physical
ar"""""' -.aly. creed """""5tlilus0lany-SWu•pmleclod bl' le<leral. Olaleor localtaw. Huron CMsulinQ ~ hollpl-~ll!ldrtm """"*"'~that arioelllliiiQalioo. d$jlllleS, in..,Siag-. reg~~lalo<y 
~· PIOWt-. 1lr>ilr>cial _...._are_. liO<JrC8tS ot sognlficaj\t ~or chllngG Til$ ~Y a!!o holpo clients <leliwlr 
Hu
=~...-~r:-~~=ltraleQic,~~~~~1:...'=~= 


....,._, ililldingaca<IOme.__. ~OIQIIIli:t-. and~tllartepr0!9enltltesevatious0f!l'l'llziii10M. CONSULTING GROUP 
"l!Jfi170Humn~~lnc 







ORLD & NATION 
~ -~ 
~ 
j 
Monday, September 17, 2007 CoMPILED FROM TI--lE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sectarian violence prompts arrest 
BAGHDAD-The U.S. military on Sunday announced the arrest of a suspect in the killing of a sheik who spearheaded the U.S.-backed Sunni revolt against al-Qaida in Iraq, even as the terror network launched a campaign of violence during the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. 
Dozens of suspected Sunni insurgents raided Shiite villages north of Baghdad, killing at least 15 people and setting homes ablaze, police said. A bicycle bomb exploded at a cafe serving tea and food during the Ramadan fast in northern Iraq. 
The surge of bloodshed-with 54 people killed or found dead nationwide -occurred a day after al-Qaida announced a new campaign aimed at countering U.S. and Iraqi claims the terror move­ment is reeling following the U.S.-led offensives around the Iraqi capital. 
Greece elects new prime minister 
ATHENS -Conservative Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis declared victory in Greece's parliamentary election Sunday, although official results showed he would have a slimmer major­ity in parliament. 
Karamanlis overcame widespread anger and accusations of incompetence following devastat­ing forest fires that killed more than 65 people last month, and a challenge from a split in the right-wing vote to win a second four-year term. 
'Thank you for your trust. You have spoken loud and clear and chosen the course the coun­try will take in the next few years," Karamanlis said as thousands of party supporters thronged the streets of central Athens. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Clark endorses Clinton campaign 
NEW YORK -Democrat Hillary,Rodham Clinton was endorsed Saturday by retired Gen. Wesley Clark, who sought the party's nomination in 2004 and whose sterling military credentials could bolster her bid to be the first female commander in chief. 
Clark, the former supreme allied com­mander of NATO, praised the New York senator as "a remarkable person" with the skills and experience to be president. 
"She will be a great leader for the United States of America and a great commander in chief for the men and women in uni­form," Clark told reporters in a conference call with the former first lady. 
Clinton welcomed Clark's endorsement as a "real sign of confidence" in her ability to lead the military as president. "He and I have been friends for 25 years, and I am deeply admiring of his leadership," she said. 
Bond set on accused accessories 
MIAMI -A judge set bond at $250,000 each for three of six people accused of aiding a man suspected of killing a Miami-Dade police officer and injuring three others. 
Bond was set Saturday for Alba Bello; her boyfriend, Lazaro Guardiola; and her son, Alain Gonzalez, who are charged with accessory after the fact, said Janelle Hall, a jail spokeswoman. 
The judge mandated that the three give an account of where their bond money would come from, Hall said. All three remained in jail. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Initial tests after fire indicate clean air 
RICHMOND, Ind. -Tests at the site of a fire at Richmond's Primex Plastics storage facility show air quality to be normal. 
Billowing cloud of black smoke from the downtown fire Friday prompted concerns among local authorities that it might contain toxins. 
However, Richmond Fire Department Battalion Chef Jerry Purcell says the air quality is fine. He says people living near the site still should keep their windows closed. 
Local officials say representatives of the Federal Emergency Management Agency are ~~ aP~-th~·this -v;eekefttb..­

Bush selects new attorney general 
Retired federal judge Michael Mukasey is called upon to replace Alberto Gonzales 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON President Bush has settled on Michael B. Mukasey, a retired federal judge from New York, to replace Alberto Gonzales as attor­ney general and will announce his selection Monday, a source familiar with the president's deci­sion said Sunday evening. 
Mukasey, who has han­dled terrorist cases in the 
U.S. 
legal system for more than a decade, would become the nation's top law enforcement officer. 

The 66-year-old New York native, who is a legal adviser to GOP presiden­tial hopeful Rudy Giuliani, would take charge of a Justice Department where morale is low following months of investigations into the firings of nine 

U.S. 
attorneys and Gonzales' sworn testimo­ny on the Bush adminis­tration's terrorist surveil­lance program. 


Bush supporters say Mukasey, who was chief judge of the high-profile courthouse in Manhattan for six years, has impec­cable credentials, is a strong, law-and-order jurist, especially on national security issues, and will restore confi­dence in the Justice Department. the Supreme Court, would given Mukasey less-than­Belknap in 1976 after 
Bush critics see the show the president's com­enthusiastic reviews. serving as assistant U.S. Mukasey nomination as mitment to nominating Some legal conservatives attorney in the criminal evidence of Bush's weak­people who could be sup­and Republican activists division of the Southern ened political clout as he ported by both Democrats have expressed reserva­District, where he rose to heads into the final 15 and Republicans. tions about Mukasey's become chief of its official months of his presidency. Last week, some Senate legal record and past corruption unit. During It's unclear how Senate Democrats threatened to endorsements from liber­his 18 years as a judge, Democrats will view block the confirmation of als, and are already draft­Mukasey presided over Mukasey's credentials, but Olson, who represented ing a strategy to oppose thousands of cases, early indications are that Bush before the Supreme his confirmation. including the trial of Sheik he will face less opposi­Court in the contested Mukasey was nominated Omar Abdel-Rahman, tion than a more hardline, 2000 election. Democratic to the federal bench in who was accused of plot­partisan candidate like senators have theorized 1987 by President ting to destroy New York Ted Olson. that Bush might nominate Reagan. He was chief City landmarks. 
Mukasey has received Mukasey, in part, because judge of the U.S. District In the 1996 sentencing past endorsements from he wanted to avoid a Court for the Southern of co-conspirators in the Democratic Sen. Chuck bruising confirmation bat­District of New York case, Mukasey accused Schumer, who is from tle. before he rejoined the the sheik of trying to Mukasey's home state. The possibility that Bush New York law firm of spread death "in a scale And in 2005, the liberal would nominate Mukasey, Patterson Belknap Webb unseen in this country Alliance for Justice put however, inflamed some & Tyler as a partner in since the Civil War." He Mukasey on a list of four supporters on the GOP's September 2006. then sentenced the blind judges who, if chosen for right flank, who have He first joined Patterson sheik to life. 

INDIA 

Govenunent opposed by religious leaders 
Associated Press ologists spoke up last week. A report forced to disavow the archaeologists' to the Supreme .court by the words and asked the Supreme Court Archaeological Survey of India said to give it three months to reframe its 
NEW DELHI -For the new India the shoals were the result of "several legal position on the channel. and its booming economy, the idea millennia of wave action and sedi-"Rama is an integral part of the life seemed eminently sensible: dredge a mentation" and "the issue cannot be of the Hindu," Law Minister H.R. shipping channel between India and viewed solely relying on the contents Bharadwaj told reporters. the nearby island of Sri Lanka, cut-of mythological text." For the government, led .by the ting voyages between the subconti-To right-wing Hindu groups, those secular Congress party, it's a big set­nent's coasts by up to 30 hours. were fighting words -a dismissal back which could slow the What could religion possibly have to of Hinduism's holiest texts. Sethusamudram Ship Channel do with it? L.K. Advani, a leader of the Project for years. It has also given 
Everything, it turns out. The proj-Bharatiya Janata Party, the most powerful political ammunition to the ect has set off a blistering debate powerful Hindu political party, called opposition, led by the Bharatiya about who created the shoals and the government's position "an insult Janata Party. sand to be dredged: Mother Nature to millions of Hindus all over the The issue highlights the fine line or the Hindu god Rama. world." Indian governments walk in a coun-
The plan had angered Hindu lead-Hindu protesters marched. They try that is 81 percent Hindu but also ers from the outset, but things grew blocked traffic and stopped trains. has millions of Muslims and many ...fttfwhottep·-afrer govet'rullen+-tti•clute-Dn· F~y.·~oveF~··~~eligi~"'·,•,, ·· ,.,_...,.,_,,...,.,... 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 17, 2007 
Todd Whitmore, an associate
War nd. 
continued from page 1 
woapon tell," hn said. 
Hose strnssed that the role of 
peacekeepers was to "!avoid being] 
mmplicit in evil" but to enforce the 
rule of law objectively. 
Nash also spoke about prnventing 
war crimes. lie said that peace­
keepers have to be "even-handnd" 
but advance an agenda, such as 
promoting the Dayton Accords. 
I laving a dear mi'>sion empowered 
peaeekeepers in Bosnia, he said. 
IIn oxplained tlmt toea[ policemen 
were oflm1 confused that Western 
soldiers interrupted abuse aimed at 
members of tlwir etlmie eommuni­
t y 
Powers called the gmwrals' per­spnetives "nncessary to under­standing critical issuos pertaining to war." 
To sophomore Nkk Bloom, the conlilrencll was "lincrodibly impor­liultl to our muntry ... It i<> impor­litnt li1r us to listen to 1,rreat minds like those at tlw conlilrence to gain a deeper understanding of the dr­eumstancos, trials and successes we face in eonllict with other nations 
Mike Gol<;ch, a jw1ior political sd­enco m1~jor, eonsidornd the assess­ments valuable and credible because "they have been there." The panel of war correspondenl<; included four journalists, who spoke about the difficulties of reporting the truth when every f.,Tfoup in a eontlict has their own agenda: Pamela Constable, a Washington Post writer, said that even the Marines she emb1ldded with only had "one version of the trutl1" and spoke favorably of some Taliban goals, while downplaying otlwrs. 
Darrin Mortenson. of the Mershon Center for International Security; said that thll Marines he had berm working with pressured him to slant his eoveragn. Ollknrs would somntimos post his artides al'tm highlighting passages they disagmnd with. he said. 
Tho journalists agreed that unmvoring tlw trutl1 was very clilli­eult. Constable and MortPnson WIWI' slittiorwd on dillilrent sides of Fallujah, Iraq. and their a1:counts of tim mnllkt Wl~fll nntirdy clillilr­nnt. 
l~nwst Torriero said thn nnws nwdia have not bePn able to gnt at tlw truth. In one C<L'>e. Anwricans and Iraqi governnwnt forces put hoods owr Iraqi nwn. but journal­islo.; wern unabln to dnterminn who tlu~y wern or why thny worn hood-professor of social ethics at Notre Dame, used his experiences in Northern Uganda to define war. He argued that. war has become "more than an extension of political means." For some armed groups, war has become a "social fever dream." 

Heaehing reconciliation and understanding the motivations behind war requirnd "Uoining] the h~gal and political with the cultur­al," Whitmore said. 
Thomas Grassey, a professor at the Naval War College, offered individual-level situations that, he said, showed how obeying the Jaw could bn unethical. Historians Jeremy Black and Williamson Murray analyLed tl1e evolving defi­nition of war by considering histori­cal and current evenl'>. 
Jeremy Black, a hi'itory professor at the University of Exeter, refer­enced St. Augustine's classic defini­tion of war. I le said that the nature of war has since changed lunda­menuuly. 
"Now, to get people to support war, you have to moralize it great­)y. .. 
Williamson Murray asserted that introducing morality to war was dangerous. He emphasized the fric­tion between morality and justice. Murray al<;o believed that the ills­tinction between mistakes and intentionality must be made when analyzing human right<; violations. 
The panel of peace researchers looked at the formal definitions of "armed conflicts" and how the cur­rent trend of "rhetorical wars" is changing it. 
"It i<> not onfy hard to define war, but also to define what they are about," said Peter Wallenstein, a research professor at the Kroc Institute. 
Wallenstein urgPd against defin­ing a "war" as a conflict that caus­es a given number of combat­dnaths per year, as one influential study by University of Michigan resllarcbers clOP$. _ 
John Darby, a professor at the Kroc Institute, focused on the Global War on Terror. Calling it a "rhetorical war," Darby argued that dndaring war on a ·concept ha<; dcv;uued the definition of war. Thorn are no geographical bound­aries to these wars, and some countries are adopting the plat­forms of' anti-terrorism to justify othnr agend<L'>, he said. · 
Contact Brian McKenzie and Nick Bock at Mckenzie.12@nd.edu and nbock@nd.edu 



Students 
continued from page 1 
seas," Meyer said, "Wf! are gathering ltheirl names so we can contact them regarding their willingness to assist in eon­taeting international students who apply from thnir countries." 
Along with Saint Mary's, Notre Dame is inereasingly trying to reeruit international students. 
This year, the plurality of international students came from South Korea, said Huben de Jesus C. Mt~dina, assistant director of' international opera­tions. 
"Her.ruitrnent lot' international students I is very similar to the way we recruit domestic stu­dents,'' Medina said. 
Hepresentatives from the University travel to difl'crent countries each year to visit high sdwols during the day and host "information nights" during the evening. 
Alumni clubs in different countries from which the University recruits also play a large role in encouraging aeecpted students to attend Notre Dame. 

The Ol'fice of Undergraduate Admissions will host its first I lesburgh International Scholars Weekend in April, which Medina said will be for international prospects what Spring Visitation weekend is for minority prospects. 
There is a difference in appli­cation procedures for interna­tional students. Whereas domes­tic applicants complete "need­blind" applications for admis­sion, the University has a "need­aware" admissions process, Medina said. 
"Thus a student's financial sit­uation is taken into account when evaluating their applica­tion as we have very limited financial aid available for inter­national students," he said. "On average we give out no more than 15 partial international financial aid packages every year." 
The University currently recruits international students in A<>ia, Central America and South 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Monday, September 17, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,442.52 +17.64
Jones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,792 95 1,442 2,652,294,645 
AMEX ___ 2.;297;~~~~-~-~~,:* NASDAQ 2,602.18-+1.12 NYSE 9,67~;65 w%!4ilflg;~~~ffi~j!l S&P 500 1,484.25 +0.30 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,127.42 +306.23 FTSE 100 (London) 6,289.30 -74.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
SUN MIROSYS INC (JAVA) -1.21 -0.07 5.73 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.01 -0.01 148.90 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIR!) +2.03 +0.07 3.52 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.08 +0.04 49.22 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.45 -0.020 4.462 
13-WEEK BILL -1.77 -0.070 3.880 
30-YEAR BOND -0.40 -0.019 7.724 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.38 -0.016 4.177 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.99 79.10 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.10 717.80 
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.23 89.63 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 115.3150 
EURO 0.7210 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0303 
BRmSH POUND 0.4981 
IN BRIEF 
Stocks fall due to poor retail sales 
NEW YORK-U.S. stocks fell Friday after the government reported August retail sales excluding autos fell sharply, suggesting that consumers held off spending in the face of turmoil in the financial markets. Bond prices jumped. 
Also pressuring stocks was news that the Bank of England approved emergency fund­ing for lender Northern Rock PLC to head off a possible liquidity crisis. Northern Rock issued a profit warning and blamed the shortfall on credit market turmoil. 
In the first hour of trading, the Dow Jones industrial average fell 53.24, or 0.40 per­cent, to 13,371.64. 
Broader stock indicators also fell. The Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 6.55, or 
0.44 percent, to 1,477.40, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 11.7 4, or 0.45 percent, to 2,589.32. 
Bonds rose, with the yield on the bench­mark 10-year Treasury note falling to 4.41 percent from 4.48 percent late Thursday. 
Gold remains steady on the week 
NEW YORK -Gold prices ended essen­tially flat Friday, reversing an early rally, as investors made cautious bets ahead of the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates next week. 
It was a quiet finish to a volatile week in which gold hit its highest level in more than a year and the U.S. dollar sank to a 15-year low on expectations the central bank will trim the federal funds rate on Tuesday. Some investors turned to gold to hedge against inflation. 
In other commodities markets, oil prices fell from the $80-a-barrel mark and gasoline prices eased, while industri­al metals finished the session mixed. Agriculture futures rose broadly. 
Still, Friday's weak figures further solidified expectations that the Fed will cut interest rates. For many investors, the question has shifted from whether the Fed will cut rates to by how much. But nothing is guaranteed and trading remains jittery in many markets. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
Bloomberg builds up philanthropy 
Billionaire mayor will disclose $165 million in charitable giving in 2006 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Whether Michael Bloomberg decides to run for presi­dent in 2008, it is clear he is serious about building up his philanthropic giv­ing. 
The billionaire mayor is expected to disclose short­ly that he gave $165 mil­lion to more than 1,000 charities in 2006, and is forming an organization called Bloomberg Philanthropies that will organize all of his giving: his personal one-time con­tributions, his company's donations and the projects undertaken by the new foundation. 
He recently purchased two buildings near his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side to use as the headquarters and has begun to assemble a staff that is sketching out some of the foundation's first projects. He is even recre­ating another Bloomberg bullpen there -his trade­mark office arrangement that has everyone sitting together with no walls. 
Despite the speculation that Bloomberg will dip into his fortune to bankroll a presidential run, the bil­lionaire insists that when he leaves City Hall at the end of 2009, he will take a vacation and then focus on giving his money away. 

But if he were to run for president while also oper­ating a foundation, it would be a historic moment in the philan­thropic world and likely a tricky road to navigate. 
"It has never happened before -people who are affiuent do run for presi­dent, but nobody who's had such a major role in philanthropy," said Stacy Palmer, editor of The Chronicle of Philanthropy. "Foundations are really not allowed to be involved in politics at all, so he would have to be extra careful so that one world doesn't mess with the other." 
Palmer said the fact that Bloomberg is creating an official foundation is a sig­nal "that even though he's been giving generously, he is going to ratchet up his giving and needs some­thing more formal. 
"He's already supporting a huge number of chari­ties, but this is probably a sign that he needs more professional advisers and may be thinking about something more ambi­tious," she said. 
Estimates of Bloomberg's wealth range from $5.5 billion to more than $13 billion, and his riches would multiply if he sold the financial information company he founded in the early 1980s. He said last year he had decided not to sell at that time. But he had previously indicated that establishing his foun­dation would probably involve selling the compa­ny. 
Bloomberg has been giv­ing his money away for many years. Since he has been in office, his staff has released annual lists of where his money goes and the total amount. 
Every year, he is giving more money to more groups. In 2005, he gave $144 million to 987 organ­izations, compared with $139 million to 843 groups in 2004 and $136 million to 653 charities in 2003. 
Evista approved for breast cancer use 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Eli Lilly and Co. can sell its osteoporosis drug Evista to doctors as a two-for-one treat­ment that also prevents breast can­cer. 
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved the use of Evista as a preventive measure to reduce the risk of invasive breast cancer for some women, Lilly announced Friday. 
Evista rang up slightly more than $1 billion in sales last year as Lilly's fifth best-selling drug. Analysts say the newly approved use should bump future sales. 
"This isn't going to be a windfall indication, but we expect this will help to modestly grow Evista sales," said Brandon Troegle, who covers Lilly for Morningstar. 
Lilly introduced Evista in 1998 for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis, the disease of pro­gressive bone loss. But it also has been testing the drug as a cancer preventer for 10 years. The compa­ny applied for the new use after conducting studies on about 37,000 postmenopausal women, spokes­woman Sharon Corbitt said. 
The FDA approval means Lilly can market it as a once-daily pill to reduce the risk of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and those at high risk for the aggressive cancer. The drug doesn't treat existing cancer. 
Doctors could have prescribed the drug as a preventive measure before the FDA approval, but Lilly couldn't market it that way. Analysts say they're not sure how many new patients the drug will attract. 
Roughly 180,000 women are diagnosed with invasive breast can­cer each year, according to the American Cancer Society. 
Lehman Brothers analyst Tony Butler said he doesn't think Evista will draw many new patients who don't have osteoporosis already. He believes a small pool of doctors already use the drug in its cancer­preventing role. 
"I think it's hard to say you might be at risk for breast cancer, take this," he said. "I think it's easier to say you need this for osteoporosii? and you've got a history of breast cancer." 
Evista's sales grew only 1 percent in 2006 and in the second quarter of this year. Troegle believes it might see as much as 10 percent growth in 2008, thanks in part to the new use. 
"It gives them a competitive advantage in a field that's going to be increasingly competitive," Tooley said. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 17, 2007 
Simpson arrested 
byLVPD 
Associated l'ress 
LAS VEGAS-O.J. Simpson 
was arrested Sunday and faces 
multiple felony charges in an 
alleged armed robbery of collec­
tors involving the former football 
great's sports memorabilia, 
authorities said. 
Prosecutors were planning to 
charge Simpson with two counts 
of robbery with use of a deadly 
weapon, conspiracy to commit 
robbery. burglary with a deadly 
weapon, two counts of assault 
with a dnadly weapon and coer­
cion, said Clark County District 
Attorney David Hoger. 
A conviction on the most seri­
ous charge, robbery with use of a 
deadly weapon, could bring a 
sentence of thrne to 35 years f(Jr 
each count, he said. 
"lie is f'aeing a lot of time," 
Hoger said. 
Simpson was transferred to a 
detention center for booking 
Sunday evening, Dillon said. 
Dillon said he did not know 
whether Simpson would be able 
to post bail and be released 
Sunday. 
"lie was very cooperative, 
there were no issues," Dillon 
said. 
At least 1me other person has 
been arrested and police said 
Sunday that they were searching 
lor f(mr others in connection with 
the allegnd armed robbery that 
occurred in a room inside the 
Palace Station casino-hotel on 
Thursday. 
Police Lt. Clint Nichols said 
Simpson invoknd his right to an 
attornny immediately after being 
arrested. 
Simpson, 60, has said he and othnr people with him were retrieving items that belonged to him. Simpson has said there wnrn no guns involved and that he went to the room at the casino only to get stolen mementos that induded his llall of Fame certifi­cate and a pkturn of the running back with J. Edgar Hoover. 
Simpson told The Associated Press on Saturday that he did not call thn police to help redaim the items because he has found the police unresponsive to him ever since his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Hon (;oldman, were killed in 1994. 
"The policn, since my trouble, havn not worked out for me," he said. noting that whenever he has called the police "It just bneomes a story about O.J." 
The fleisman Trophy winner, ex-NFJ. star and actor lives ncar Miami and has been a tabloid staple since his ex-wife and c;oldman were killed in 1994. Simpson was acquitted of mur­der charges, but a jury later held him liable for the killings in a wrongful death lawsuit. 
Police said two firearms and other evidence were seized at a private rnsidnnce early Sunday. 
Waltnr Alexander, 46, of' Arizona, was arrnsted Saturday night on two counts of robbnry with a deadly weapon, two counts of assault with a deadly weapon, conspiracy to commit robbery and burglary with a deadly wnapon. 
lie was released without bail on Saturday night, Dillon said. 
Besides the two firearms, police said they snized other evi­dnnen during early morning searches of two residenees, Lt. Clint Nichols said. 
THAILAND 

Coastal crash kills 87, cause still uncertain 
One-Two-Go Airlines plarie skids off rainy runway in Phuket with 130 people onboard 
Associated· Press 
PIIUKET -A passenger plane filled with foreign tourists crashed Sunday as it tried to land in pouring rain on the island of Phuket, splitting in two and bursting into flames, offi­eials said. At least 87 peo­ple were killed. 
The budget One-Two-Go Airlines domestic flight OG269 was carrying 123 passengers and seven crew members from the capital, Bangkok to Phuket -popu­lar among tourists for its pristine beaehes and one of the areas hardest hit by the 2004 tsunami. 
Survivors described their 

escape from the airplane's windows as fires and smoke consumed the plane. 
"I saw passengers engulfed in fire as I stepped over them on way out of the plane," Parinwit Chusaeng, a survivor who suffered minor burns, told the Nation television channel. "I was afraid that the airplane was going to explode so I ran away." 
Wallop Thainua, the coun­try's deputy health minister, said he received a report that 87 people were killed in the crash, many of their bodies laid out in an airport building. 
Officials at the scene said the McDonnell Douglas MD­
82 crashed in a downpour, skidded off the runaway and broke in two. 
Officials said it was too early to establish the cause of the crash, but some said weather was likely a factor. 
"The visibility was poor as the pilot attempted to land. He decided to make a go­around but the plane lost balance and crashed," said Chaisak Angsuwan, director general of the Air Transport Authority of Thailand. "It was torn into two parts." 
Local television reports showed parts of the twisted and smoking wreckage sit­ting off to the side of the runaway. Masked rescue workers converged on the 
plane, carrying away bodies wrapped in white sheets. 
Lt. Gen. Amporn Charuchinda, chief of the police forensic bureau, said that the authorities might move some of the dead bod­ies to a mortuary in Phang Nga province where some of the tsunami victims were kept. Some 8,000 people were killed in Phuket in the 2004 disaster. 
Sunday's crash is the country's deadliest aviation accident since Dec. 11, 1998, when 101 people were in the crash of Thai Airways plane at Surat Thani, 330 miles south of Bangkok. Forty-five people survived. 


Introducing an enlightening new idea: Your Navigator from U.S. Cellular~ It's a GPS system with a local search function built right into your phone. With voice-guided, turn-by-turn directions, clarity and direction are just a call or a visit away. 
U.S. Cellular is wireless where you matter most!"' 
*US.Cellular 
getusc.com 1-888-BUY·USCC 
Application and usage charg"" apply. C2007 U.S. CeNular Corporation. 
-----------------------------------~-­
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Rice's arrival preetnpted by Israeli-Palestinian discord 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM Prime Minister Ehud Olmert indi­cated on Sunday that there would be no major break­throughs in peacemaking ahead of a U.S.-sponsored peace conference this fall, prompting a Palestinian threat to skip the gathering. 
The crisis erupted just days before the arrival of Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, who is 
expected in the region Tuesday to gauge progress on preparations for the confer­ence. U.S. officials have said little about the meeting's agenda, and the list of par­ticipants has not been set. 
At a meeting of his Kadima Party, Olmert dismissed recent reports that he and Abbas had agreed on binding principles to guide peace talks, officials said. Instead, he said he and the Palestinian leader would go no further than a non-bind­ing declaration of intent. 
"There is a difference between an agreement on principles and a declaration of intent," a participant in the meeting cited Olmert as saying, speaking on condition of anonymity because the meeting was closed. 
Without the outlines of a final peace deal, the Palestinians say, the confer­ence will be a failure. 
"If Olmert says there'll just 

ACAflEl\1IC YEAR 2008-9 For Social Science and Histor·y m~ljors with a good level of French 
lNFORIVlATION MEETING 
TUESDAY, SEPTEl\fBER 18, 6:30pm 202 DBRT 
APPLICATl()NS: http://ww'v.nd.edu/,....,ois 
Live, learn, and "\Vork in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester "\vith the 
be a declaration, it's not worth going to this meeting," said Nimr Hamad, an adviser to Abbas. 
Peace talks have snagged in the past over three key issues _ final borders, control over disputed Jerusalem and a solution for millions of Palestinian refugees. 
Olmert and Abbas have broached these topics in recent talks, but the Palestinians have been press­ing for greater Israeli com­mitment ahead of a. confer­ence. 
After years of deadlock, peace efforts have gained momentum following the Hamas group's violent takeover of the Gaza Strip and Abbas' subsequent expulsion of the Islamic group from government. With Barnas out of the govern­ment, Western powers hope the moderate Abbas will have a freer hand to negotiate with Israel. 
But analysts question whether he or Olmert is 
strong enough politically to 
make the concessions that 
would be needed for agree­
ments on the explosive issues 
that divide the two sides. 

At their latest meeting last 
week, Olmert offered some 
gestures meant to bolster 
Abbas in his power struggle 
with Barnas, like proposing 
to release an unspecified 
number of Palestinian pris­
oners during the current 
Muslim holy month of 
Ramadan. 

Israel holds about 11,000 .Palestinian prisoners, and 
their fate is an emotional 
issue in Palestinian society. 
Olmert and Abbas are 
scheduled to meet every two 
weeks leading up to the 
November meeting. 

In Gaza, meanwhile, a 
spokesman for Gaza's Barnas 
rulers, Taber Nunu, said the 
Islamic militant group had 
"renewed" its commitment to 
a mutual truce with Israel, 
which has broken down amid 
Palestinian rocket attacks 
and Israeli retaliation. 
RussiA 

Suspected KGB killer to run for Parliatnent 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -The sole sus­pect in the radiation poison­ing death of a former KGB agent announced plans to run for parliament Sunday on the ticket of a pro-Kremlin ultra­nationalist party. 
Andrei Lugovoi, another for­mer KGB officer who met with Alexander Litvinenko at a London hotel bar on Nov. 1 hours before Litvinenko fell ill, told state-run Russia Today television that he had no desire to go into politics but changed his mind because of British accusations. 
Now a Moscow businessman who runs a private security agency, Lugovoi said Sunday 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WASHINGT N "R:" GRAM 

Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is November 15,2007. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday, September 24, 2007 231 Hayes-Healy, 4:30 p.m. 
With special guest Dan LeDuc, Deputy Editor of The Wa.rbington Po.rt, and Notre Dame Washington Program Faculty Member 
that he would be No. 2 on the list of Vladimir Zhirinovsky's Liberal Democratic Party in December's parliamentary elections. 
Litvimmko, who became a vocal Kremlin critic and sought asylum in Britain, died Nov. 23 in a London hospital after ingesting radioactive polonium-210. On his deathbed, he accused Russian President Vladimir Putin of being behind his poisoning ­charges the Kremlin has fiercely denied. 
Britain has identified Lugovoi as the main suspect in the death and and demand­ed his extradition. Russia has rejected the demand, saying its constitution forbids it, and Putin has called the demands a vestige of British "colonial thinking." 
Lugovoi has dismissed the accusations and accused British authorities of hurting his business interests. 
"I was a businessman, but no longer, thanks to the dis­gusting policy of British pros­ecutors which led to this political hysteria," Lugovoi told Russia Today. "With the situation being highly politi­cized by British opponents, I find myself in the midst of a political wave of interest in me." 
Zhirinovsky, a flamboyant politician who heeds the Kremlin's orders, said his party congress would confirm Lugovoi's position on the party list on Monday. He dis­missed British charges against Lugovoi as "an attempt to organize provoca­tions against our citizens," the Interfax news agency reported. 
Tensions over the Litvinenko case have badly hurt the bilateral ties, and the two nations recently have announced tit-for tat diplomat expulsions. 
r page 10 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 17, 2007 
FBI pushed plea deal, lavvyer says 
Agents deny any wrongdoing in federal corruption investigation 
Associated Press 
ANCIIOHAGE -The Justice 
D1~partment inappropriately 
prnssured a former state law­
maker to consider pleading 
guilty in a corruption case, 
according to his lawyer, who 
wants a federal judge to review 
the agency's aetions. 
The claim is surfacing in a bribery investigation that has now stretched to Capitol Hill, where Sen. Ted Stevens and Hop. Don Young, both from Alaska, arn under scrutiny. 
A lawyer for former state Hep. Vie Kohring said the FBI recent­ly used anotlwr state lawmaker, who was cooperating with investigators, to press Kohring to take a plea deal. 
Investigators normally are prohibited from contacting defendants once they have a lawyer. 
Kohring has pleaded not guilty to bribery and extortion charges despite what dnfense lawyer John llenry Browne eont1~nded was persistent pressure from the .Justice Department to change the plea. 
That pressure culminated nH:nntly, Browne said, when Kohring's former aide reeeived a call from an aide in state Snn. Fred Dyson's office. The mes­sage, Browne said, was to take a plea deal. 
It was only last week that Browne learned Dyson had been working with investigators sinee 2006. Details about the coopera­tion emergod in a rolated trial and showed that Dyson helped prosecutors persuade oil con­tractor Bill Allen to cooperate in the overarehing investigation. 
Allen, the founder of the polit­ically powerful oil services com­pany VECO Corp., became a key witness against Kohring and other lawmakers and has pro­vided investiga­tors information denied making the overture at the government's prompting. But he again encouraged Kohring to consider a deal. 
"My sense of the FBI investi­gations is that it is not a witch hunt and that they mostly want to nail the really bad guys," Dyson wrote in an e-mail to Kohring's lawyers, who provid­ed the message to The 
Associated Press. 
Dyson wrote 

about Stevens. "Here we have that Kohring "Here we could "avoid a
somebody who's a
have somebody good deal of who's a lapdog lapdog for the stress and bad for the govern­government press at trial by at ment encourag­least sitting down
encouraging me and
ing me and Vic with the Feds" to
Vic not to exercise our
not to exercise eonsider an our right to right to trial. " attractive alterna­trial," Browne tive." said. Kohring is one
John Henry Brown 

Bryan Sierra, of several Alaska 
defense lawyer 

a spokesman at lawmakers under 
the .Justice Department's headquarters in Washington, which is prosecut­ing the case, declined comment. 
Browne planned to raise the issue in court Monday during a pretrial hearing. If he persuades a judge that Dyson initiated the contact at the government's behest, it could sink the govern­ment's ease against Kohring. 
A telephone message left at Dyson's home was not immedi­ately returned Sunday. When Kohring's lawyers questioned Dyson about his FBI eontaets in an e-mail last month, Dyson 
Strike loo111s betvveen GM, labor leadership 
indictment for their dealings with VECO. 
Allen, a longtime friend and political supporter of Stevens, testified last week that his employees helped renovate the senator's home in 2000. Stevens has said he paid every bill he received. 
VECO also helped organize fundraisers for Young, who has come under scrutiny in the investigation. 
Prosecutors have asked whether Kohring has any infor­mation about Stevens but he does not, Browne said. 
FRANCE 

Melting Arctic ice 111ay uncover nevv routes 
Associated Press 

PARIS -Arctic ice has shrunk to the lowest level on record, new satellite images show, raising the possibility that the Northwest Passage that eluded famous explorers will become an open shipping lane. 
The European Spaee Agency said nearly 200 satellite photos this month taken together showed an ice-free passage along northern Canada, Alaska and Greenland, and ice retreat­ing to its lowest level since sueh images were first taken in 1978. 
The waters are exposing unexplored resources, and ves­sels could trim thousands of miles from Europe to Asia by bypassing the Panama Canal. The seasonal ebb and flow of ice levels has already opened up a slim summer window for ships. 
Leif Toudal Pedersen, of the Danish National Space Center, said that Aretic iee has shrunk to some 1 million square miles. The previous low was 1.5 mil­lion square miles, in 2005. 
"The strong reduction in just one year eertainly raises flags that the ice (in summer) may disappear much sooner than expected," Pedersen said in an ESA statement posted on its Web site Friday. 
Pedersen said the extreme retreat this year suggested the passage could fully open sooner than expected -but ESA did not say when that might be. Efforts to contact ESA officials in Paris and Noordwik, the Netherlands, were unsuccessful Saturday. 
A U.N. panel on climate change has predicted that polar regions could be virtually free of ice by the summer of 2070 because of rising temperatures and sea ice decline, ESA noted. 
Russia, Norway, Denmark, Canada and the United States are among countries in a race to secure rights to the Arctic that heated up last month when Hussia sent two small sub­marines to plant its national flag under the North Pole. A 
U.S. study has suggested as much as 25 percent of' the world's undiscovered oil and gas could bn hidden in the area. 
Environmentalists fear increased maritime traflie and ell'ort<; to tap natural resources in the area could one day lead to oil spills and harm regional wildlife. 
Until now, the passage has been expected to remain dosed even during reduced ice cover by multiyear ice pack -sea ice that remains through one or more summers, ESA said. 
Heseareher Claes Hagner of Norway's Fridtjof Nansen Institute, which works on Aretic environmental and political issues, said for now, the new opening has only symbolic meaning for the future of sea transport. 
"Houtes between Scandinavia and Japan eould be almost halved, and a stable and reli­able route would mean a Jot to eertain regions," he said by phone. But even if the passage is opening up and polar ice con­tinues to melt, it will take years for sueh routes to be regular, he said. 
Associated Press 
DETHOlT -Contract negoti­ations betwnen General Motors Corp. and the United Auto Workers roached a critical point Sunday as local union officials hopnd for an agree­mont but prnpared once again l'or a possible strike on Monday. 
Lnaders at l'aetorics across 
the country received conflir.t­
ing reports out of Detroit 
Sunday af'tcrnoon. Several 
roported progress and opti­
mism but said that if no agree­
mont was rnached Sunday 
night, the union would walk 
out Monday morning. A local 
in Arlington, Texas, however, 
told its mmnbers to report as 
scheduled Monday. 
At a union meeting Sunday af'ternoon, UAW Local 735 Presidnnt Chuck Hogers told mombnrs l'rorn a GM transmis­sion complex ncar Ypsilanti that he was told by one of tho nogotiators that if no agree­ment was reached Sunday, they will go on strike. 
Two other local leaders also said they wore told to cxpoet a strikn if no agreement was roaehnd Sunday. They asknd not to bo identified becausn the talks are private. 
Hogers told union members that the union came within minutes of striking Friday night whon President Hon Gettolfingnr walked out of a bargaining room after getting into a dispute with GM nego­tiators. But GM Chief Financial OITieer Fritz Henderson inter­vened and brought Gettelfinger back to the bar­
'--­
gammg table, and progress has been made since then, Hogers said. 
GM's contract with the UAW was to expire at midnight Friday, but the union extended it on an hour-by-hour basis. The strike threat loomed until early Saturday, when negotia­tors told local leaders to stand down. 
Strike talk often is heard when negotiations get elose to or pass the contract expiration deadline. 
"I heard things are moving kind of in the right direetion," said Dave Green, president of one of two locals at the Lordstown, Ohio, plant that makes small ears for Chevrolet and Pontiac. "We let our folks know a strike is not out of the question," he said, adding that he hoped for a resolution. 
Bargainers worked all day Saturday, taking a rest break at 9 p.m. and resuming negoti­ations at 11 a.m. Sunday, said GM spokeswoman Katie McBride. She reported progress but said several tough issues remained, declin­ing comment on speeilies. 
A message was left for UAW spokesman Hoger Kerson. 
Local 276 at a GM sport util­ity vehicle plant in suburban Dallas told workers on its Web site Sunday to report to work as seheduled. 
"The instructions for all employees at the General Motors Assembly Plant in Arlington, Texas, remain the same: You are instrueted to report to work at your normal time on Monday," a notiee on the Web site said. 


$$$$$$$$$$$ 

rn Money!/ 
Participate in an Experiment at Notre Dame 
In Less Tan Two Hour~ 
For more info please visit http:/j\\1"\\1'\-V.nd.edu/"'interact 

-----~~-------~---------~----, 
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

A Bette{it" for 
OVCt-V[,cutv ~CtWCt¥'~ lM'\d; ~w-vv 

N.D. Community $10.00 in advance, $15.00 day of race Alumni $15.00 
Register in Advance at RSRC or Download registration form@ recsports.nd.edu Advance registration ends@ 7:00p.m. Fri., September 28 
Race day check-in @ Legends For more information, call631-6100 or visit recsports.nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Monday, September 17, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
The state of state killing 
1~0. !lox 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Iianna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken l'owler Kyle West 
Ass·I: MANAI;JNG EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A<>s·I: MANAI;JNG EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EmTOR: K.ucn L1ngley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hinc ScENE EmToR: 'Etc Andrt•ws 

SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVEI!TISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
All DFSIGN MANAGER: Kelly (;ronli CONTROLLER: 'l'im Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardi:t 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.~1-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vit-wpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto<iz'nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 

POLICIES . The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Colk-ge. Editorial content, induding advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A'siswm Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns prcscm the views of th<: authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Obs~rv<·r. 
Vi<-wpoinr space is available to all readers. The rrec expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lcrrer' ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact inl{>rmation. 
Q11miow 11!garding Observer policies should be directed to Editor i11 CbiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'J1u·l Jh"'rvt•r (Usrs -.;r)iJ l-4000lrs publtll~t;~l Mu11d11y tluuugh FriJo~.y C'XI.:cpr dunng CJC;tlll .tnd v.h:Ktmn J>riLt~tlr.. 1\ llllh'l(:ttpiiHII U:'l fhr l >1'*-'rvrr •• $1111) lm mu· .r(~drrnu 
yur:$,'5Utrouc~~em..:.rrr 
!'he <>hr.crvcr aa puhlr•hc..t .u: I'OSTMASI'ER UH '><•t.nh DinmB H.all ~nJ .~Jdn:li:ll corrc..tions to. Notre l>.une': IN -tM'\(,-07'1'l ThrOhK"rvtr l'etuH.itu.l ptlll~.: p.iud ;u Nn1rc Damr P.O. Bm~779 .and •Uduiunal mailinj~ offkc~ 024 South Dining H.dl 
Notrt D;amc, IN ofi6'i<;6-0779 

The Oh~oerver b .tmcmbcr tJt the A.uu.:t.unll'rCJS. Allrcpruo:luuion nghr~ arc: ~rvc(l 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Mandi Stirone Lorenzo Reyes Allen Murphy John Whitty 
Brian McKenzie Scene Graphics Analise Lipari Jared Wafer Viewpoint Lianna Brauweiler 
About every six days in Texas, a man is killnd by lethal injection. This is the pace set by the current calen­dar of' executions, where a total of 10 men worn sdwdulod to die in August and September. Two 
Andrea
men have recently 

Laid man 
had their doath sen­tences thrown out -High Sounding 
taming the f'requen-Words cy of executions slightly -in rare instances for Texas: A commutation by Governor Hick Perry and a stayed execution by a Dallas county judge. 
Thirty-nine executions have occurred so far in 2007 across the 
U.S. Twenty-four of those have been in Texas. No other state has executed more than three inmates this year. 
The death by lethal injection of Johnny Conner on Aug. 22 marked the state's 400th execution since the reinstatement of the death penalty there in 1982. That's an average of 16 executions per year over a quarter of a century. 
Sixteen deaths per year is a shock­ing statistic, but it fails to capture the reality of' the death penalty in Texas. Calculating the average number of executions doesn't reveal that 315 of the 400 executions in Texas have occurred in the past 13 years under the tenure of only two governors. 
From 1994 to 2000, 152 inmates were killed under then-Gov. George 
W. Bush. From 2000 to today, 164 have been executed with Gov. Perry in charge. 
These two governors have achieved the highest numbers in American his­tory for a state in killing its own citi­zens. And to what end? The murder rate in Texas remains more than dou­ble that of any state without the death penalty in the nation. 
While executions continue to climb in Texas, they're declining nationally, returning to levels of the early 1990s when the American public found the death penalty far Jess appealing than it has in the last decade. Overall sup­port for the death penalty is down, and a 2006 Gallup poll reported that f'or the first time, more Americans expressed support f'or life without parole as a sentencing option than for the death penalty. 
A more recent poll by the Death Penalty Information Center (DPIC) in Washington, D.C., found that 58 per­cent of Americans want a moratorium on executions. A poll by the American Bar Association in Indiana reported that 61 percent of Hoosiers agree. 
In an interview with Newsweek. Hichard Dieter, executive direetor of the DPIC, said Americans are not expressing total opposition or moral objection to the death penalty, but rather concerns about how the state's ultimate punishment is used and implemented. The big issues are pro­tecting the innocent, unfairness and disbelief in the death penalty as a deterrent. 
Aceording to Dieter, who comes to campus this week to deliver the open­ing lecture of a five-part series on the death penalty, "[TJhere's common agreement about who's on death row: People who can't afford their own lawyers, and a high percentage of minorities. The end result is dissatis­faction." 
Dissatisfaction, skepticism, and waning support for the idea that minor reforms can bring fairness. 
Even Perry expressed concerns about fairness, with his commutation of Kenneth Foster on Aug. 30. Foster was sentenced to death even though he did not pull the trigger in the 1996 murder he was convicted of, under a Texas law that makes an accomplice to murder subject to the death penal­ty. 
Foster was driving with a group of friends late into the night on Aug. 15, 1996. They were heavily under the influence of drugs and were commit­ting arnwd robberies. Ono confronta­tion between Foster's frim1d, who had exited thn car, and a man on the street ended in murder. Foster was sentnnecd to death in thn ease, though he sat eighty fnet away in tlw car when his friend's gun went ofT. 
The approach of the scheduled exe­cution of Foster for Aug. 30 (the date of his commutation) received interna­tional attention and petitions for his exe-cution to be called ofT. 
The idea of executing the man who didn't pull the trigger was just too much, even for Perry. 
"After carefully considering the facts of' this ease, along with the rec­ommendations from the Board of Pardons and Paroles, I believe the right and just decision is to commute Foster's sentence from the death penalty to life imprisonment," Perry said in a statement. "I am coneerned about Texas law that allows capital murder defendants to be tried simul­taneously, and it is an issue I think the legislature should examine." 
As a nation, America is losing confi­dence in the death penalty. That's the verdict of polls, interviews, nation­wide trends, events like Foster's com­mutation and the stance of experts like Mr. Dieter, who believe that a moratorium on executions is the solu­tion Americans want. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior politi­cal science and peace studies major, and the Director ofNotre Dame Against State Killing (ND ASK), a campaign for a moratorium in Indiana. Her column's title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too Jew actions that correspond with them. " She can be contacted at alaidman@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 

Notre Dame Football2007: Great? Greatest? Abstain? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Thoughts are like arrows: once released, they strike their mark. Guard them well or one day you may_ be your own victim. " 
American Indian proverb 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, September 17, 2007 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Adopt a code of conduct for apparel 

Step up efforts for worn_en's hockey 
I recently saw the announcement that Notre Dame will be investing in a new hockey facility. This is a great move for the University and the CCHA. In order to build a hockey cul­ture, I believe it is critical to have a competitive women's program as well. Most of the recent NCAA men's champi­onship teams have women's programs, often great ones! 
What is Notre Dame's plan for women's division I hockey? Just look outside: Minnesota, Wisconsin, Harvard, St. Cloud State and Ohio State have programs. Plus, we might as well beat the Wolverines to it. 
Jim Lohan Eden Prairie, Minn. Sept. !4 

'Deuces Manor' in poor taste 
One of my closest friends freshman year was extremely over­weight. One night at dinner, she asked me to go up and get her dessert so that no one would know she was eating ice cream. She felt too self-conscious -not to eat the dessert, but to have her fellow peers judge her as they watched her pick up those "unnecessary calories," shamefully bringing them back to her table. 
To me, this interaction was devastating, but what is even more of an issue is the fact that this isn't a singular or unique case. Wednesday's "Deuces Manor" comic strip represents a serious problem on Notre Dame's campus. Body image is a real topic and a real issue. There are eating disorders at Notre Dame. Is this something to joke about? I don't think so. Should my dining hall tray or my presence in the fro-yo line be monitored? I hope not. 
It is not easy to be a woman at Notre Dame. At a school where most women are athletic and intelligent, there are defmite pres­sures to look and be a certain way. Instead of poking fun at the overweight, perhaps we should seek to understand the pain that so many go through because of the pressures of body image. We are members of a top academic and religious institution that prides itself on forming its students towards goodness and truth. Shouldn't we be slightly above writing, publishing and laughing at such a comic strip? Not only is this a blatant insult to the intel­ligence of the Notre Dame student body, but it also represents a great lack of compassion and understanding. 
Meghan Lueck senior Cavanaugh Hall Sept. 13 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
On March 6, 2001, then-University President Edward Malloy signed the Workers Rights Consortium (WRC), allowing Notre Dame to join more than 100 schools that were a part of the process to make a positive statement against sweatshops that made its T-shirts and other articles of clothing. Because of Notre Dame's powerful influence in the collegiate apparel industry, the signing of the contract was considered a huge suc­cess for the WRC. 
llowever, the gains the WHC bring are under con­stant threat due to the destructive pressures of the apparel industry, and the majority of college apparel continues to be made in factories that violate workers' rights. A large percentage of the factories have, in fact, closed down because making change factory-by-factory makes the improved factory uncompetitive unless there is an incentive outside the system of competition. A factory that is paying better wages and implement­ing reforms in order to comply with codes has higher operating costs and is less competitive based solely on price. 
To ensure that the principles behind the codes of conduct become a reality, an additional program was created in order to subject all companies that produce collegiate apparel to the same higher standard. Last year, United Students Against Sweatshops (USAS) launched a new national campaign to get college apparel to be produced in a set of sweat-free designat­ed factories. Under the Designated Suppliers Program (DSP), university licensees are required to source most university logo apparel from supplier factories that have been determined by universities, through inde­pendent verification, to be in compliance with their obligation to respect the rights of their employees ­including the right to organize and bargain collectively and the right to be paid a living wage. 
While it is true that the collegiate sector is only a small portion of the global apparel industry, colleges and universities have the freedom to influence the apparel market. If Notre Dame joins the DSP, it will become a model for other apparel sectors as well as for other colleges and universities across the country. While it cannot be assured that the DSP will solve the sweatshop problem even in the collegiate sector, it surely is a better answer than other policies being pro­posed elsewhere. So, in 2001, Notre Dame decided that it would actively oppose the exploitation of workers in other countries. Notre Dame also decided to take a stance on where its apparel would be made, and decid­ed that it would live up to the Catholic standards of ethical and moral practices. Why not take the next step to ensure that the expectations are truly being met? 
Ashley Williams junior McGlinn Hall Sepr. 16 
----~­

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Monday, September 17, 2007 

"Champagne Supernova," sharing nature, but the couples in the audience sounded exactly like their CD, a credit to By NICOLE EGGENBERGER together the excitement of a classic '90s were eager to share that single romantic the musicians as great live performers. Staff Writer hit. Some actually left after that song, moment. The set also enhanced their sound with 
probably thinking that the night couldn't Large groups of guys synchronized flashing 
The Plain White T's looked terrific and get any better. also went to the concert lights and TV screens fea­sounded even better during their per­Though "Champagne Supernova" was together, perhaps hoping The Plain White Ts turing close ups of the per­formance at Legends Friday. The only a tough song to follow, the Plain White to bump into groups of formers. Every time the
finally gave in and
thing lacking, unfortunately, was the T's opened with "Our Time Now," an girls, but may have upset lead singer smiled, the audience. upbeat anthem that got the audience the girls instead by block­played their famous girls in the audience The popular campus venue met capac­screaming along to its simple chorus of ing their views of the hit near the end screamed, giving the band ity for the concert, but many concertgo­"Oh Oh, Oh Oh." stage. even more energy. Its per­
oftheir show -or 
ers weren't really die-hard Plain White After the opening track, however, the During and after each formance could not have T's fans. Most of the audience seemed to crowd's excitement quickly died down. song the band played, what the audience gone better. have only one reason The realization people in the marked as the The Plain White T's gave for being there -to set in that it audience the audience members
end oftheir
hear the band's hit would have to The music playing would loudly exactly what they wanted
Most ofthe audience 
song "Hey There wait another during the break request that show, since many in a great performance of Delilah," and to hear it seemed to have only hour for the they play left immediately the song "Hey There
between acts was 
as quickly as possible. one reason for being song it wanted "Delilah." Delilah," but also showed
after the tune·s
The evening began -"Hey There the evening·s most The Plain them that there's far more
there -to hear the final notes.
with Chicago-based Delilah" -and memorable highlight White T's to this Chicago-based band
band·s hit song "Hey 
rock band Plunket as the crowd grew finally gave than only one hit song.
for some.
the opening act. For There Delilah,,, and restless. in and played their famous These newcomers know how to enter­much of the perform­There was a hit near the end of their tain by interacting with their audience,
to hear it as quickly
ance, the audience surprisingly equal mix of boys show -or what the audience marked and they could sing well and clearly
as possible.
socialized and and girls in the audience, as the end of their show, since many left amid the noise of the venue. harassed the band though most didn't seem to be immediately after the tune's final notes. The audience may not have given the members to put the there for the songs. Most of Though the crowd didn't seem too into Plain White T's very much to work with, Plain White T's on stage instead. the guys were with their girlfriends, it, the Plain White T's were definitely but thankfully the band gave its all to 
The music playing during the break possibly fulfilling their girl's desire to be there to rock, playing an amazing show. the crowd. between acts was the evening's most someone's "Delilah." Ironically, that par­They had great energy and obviously memorable highlight for some. Everyone ticular song is unlike most of the band's enjoyed playing live to try and promote Contact Nicole Eggenberger at belted out the lyrics to Oasis' other tracks, due to its soft, lullaby-like their other songs. Their performance neggenbe@nd.edu 


··· ... TLS simplif!t:s 
.,.... , ...

Sh speare wtth 
'' 
·acbeth'' 


OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Jarred Wafer 
characters by adding further accouter­own instruments, the cast replicated make all of the artistic decisions, ments to their base costumes. As a some of the mysterious portions of the resulting in a collaborative effort thatBy MICHELLE FORDICE result, it was occasionally hard to dis­play very well. The scenes with the stayed true to the original
A~sistalll Scene Editor 
tinguish which character they were witches were satisfyingly eerie and Shakespeare. 
Upon returning happily vir.torious playing. It would have been easier if peculiar. Furthermore, with so few actors on from battle and in the midst of a storm, each actor wore a black base and then This type of production would also be stage, each had to stretch and diversify tragie Seot Maebeth remarks, "So foul added a different identifier for each difficult for first-time viewers of the himself to fit into all of the parts. The and fair a day I have not seen." role he filled. play to understand. Five actors play same actor who played a witch in one The recent production of "Macbeth" Furthermore, if the company wanted more than 25 parts, sometimes simul-scene would go on to play a king or a 
by tho Aetors from the London Stage in  to pursue period  cos­ taneously, and there is lit­ murderer in the next. Will Ashcroft  
Washington  Hall this  tuming,  it  tle  environ- especially  rose  to the  
past weekend was simi­larly d iehotornous. While it was an exeel­lnnt show, it managed to inelude some striking faults. Surprisingly, the simplo production had. at timns, too rnueh going on. Tho Aetors from the London Stage are known for pursuing a minimalist interpreta- While it was an excellent show, it managed to include some striking faults. .~'urprisingly, the simple production had, at times, too much going on.  should have done so across the board. Some characters had kilts, and others wore ties and North Face jackets. As a whole, the results were messy.  While it is possible to pick up the plot through the dialogue and action, it is a challenge to catch everything, especially in a play where some ofthe major actions occur offstage and all ofit  ment to guide the audience. While it is pos­sible to pick up the plot through the dialogue and action, it is a challenge to catch every­thing, espe­cially in a play where some of  With no director, it was up to the actors to make all ofthe artistic decisions, resulting in a collaborative effort that stayed true to the original Shakespeare.  occasion. Playing six roles, Ashcroft was the crowd favorite as the drunken Porter and was also very strong as Banquo. While this production of' "Macbeth" by the Actors from the London Stage had some faults, it succeeded in its intent. For someone familiar with tlw play, it was a  
tion of ShakespPare's plays. As such, this production of "Marbnth" did not includo nlaboratn  In defense of the company, "Macbeth" is a particu­ is in Shakespearian English.  the major actions or.cur off stage and all of it is in Shakespearian  chaneo to see the text in a very different format. More alive than words on a page, but not visually  
sots or props. Yet, tlwrn still seemed to  larly difficult play  to  English.  overwhelming like other produetions,  

be mon~ on stage than was nnoded. reduee. It is filled with magical ele­All of the plays presented by the this actor-driven version let 
Som1~ of tho r,haraeters, including ments that require some special Actors from the London Stage are a Shakespeare's story risn above its trap­Macbeth and Banquo, worn fully cos­effects. The company succeeded in celebration of the strengths of the pings. tumnd rather than marked by a single keeping this part of the play as simple actors they feature, and this version of piecn of clothing. The actors would as possible. "Macbeth" was no different. With no Contact Michelle Fordice at often signify that tlwy wnrn switching Using· light effects and playing·their director. it was up to the ar,tors to mfordiCe@nd.edu 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
I I I I 
I 
NSIDER 
OTHE 
Monday, September 17, 2007 BSERVER Michigan 38, Notre Dame 0 . 


Notre Dame looked helpless to stop Michigan or to score; now will startfrom scratch 

By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. -For the third straight week, Notre Dame's offense stumbled and fumbled its way to a blowout loss. 
Michigan (1-2) followed the lead of running back Mike Hart and beat the Irish 38-0 in front of a relieved crowd of 111,178 at Michigan Stadium Saturday.. 
Hart ran 35 times for 187 yards and two touchdowns as Michigan redeemed itself after a blowout loss to Oregon and a defeat at the hands of Football Championship Subdivision (for­merly Division 1-AA) Appalachian State to start the season. 
For Notre Dame, there was no change of fortunes. It lost 33-3 to Georgia Tech on Sept. 1 and 31-10 to Penn State a week ago. 
Notre Dame once again failed to establish either a rushing or passing attack against Michigan, totaling only 79 yards on 55 offensive plays. Freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen was 11-of-1 7 for 7 4 yards with one interception, but sacks of the freshman cost the Irish 65 yards. 
The interception was indica­tive of the way Notre Dame's offense operated. On the play, the offensive line failed to sus­tain a block, and all four Wolverine defensive linemen rushed into the backfield. Clausen dropped back, but line­backer John Thompson inter­cepted the pass intended for David Grimes. 
The Irish also failed for the third game to break even on the ground -finishing with -6 yards. Sophomore James Aldridge was the only bright spot, with 51 yards on 10 car­ries -though much of his yardage came against Michigan's second string. 
The Michigan defense plowed through the Irish line on passes and rushes, recording 14 tack­les for loss, including eight sacks. 
"We gotta do a better job [on pass protection]. We've gotta start seeing improvement from game to game," said sophomore Sam Young, who switched to left tackle from right tackle for most of the game. 
Clausen looked confused against the Michigan defense, which used disguised coverage and blitzes. 
"We'd come up on different plays and mix up his mind," Wolverines linebacker Chris Graham said. "Once we did that, he didn't know what to do. We tried to keep things moving the whole game." 
But the Irish added a new wrinkle to their offensive faults -fumbles. Notre Dame fum­bled five times in the opening quarter, including John Sullivan's snap on the game's first play, which went over the head of running back Armando Allen, who was lined up in the shotgun. 
The Wolverines weren't per­fect, but they didn't need to be. 
Michigan freshman quarter­back Ryan Mallett finished 7 -of­15 for 90 yards in his first start but had three touchdowns. 
"Our objective in the red zone is to make him throw it and not run it," Irish safety David Bruton said. "So if we get them to throw it in the red zone, that means we're achieving one goal but they're still getting points." 
Michigan took an early 3-0 lead after forcing Notre Dame to punt on its opening posses­sion. The Wolverines went up 10-0 minutes later when Hart ran two yards to cap a six-play, 21-yard drive that began after a Clausen fumble. 
On Michigan's second score, Hart ran left into a crowded Notre Dame 3-yard line, but bounced back outside, found space and ran in for the score, putting Michigan up 17-0 with only 21 seconds expired in the second quarter. 
"Obviously we were going to try to run the ball, regardless. I don't think it was anything about taking advantage of them," Hart said. "With a fresh­man quarterback we had no choice but to try and run the ball." 
Hart was nearly unstoppable in the second half. The senior pounded the ball up field for 50 of the Wolverine's 79 yards on the team's final scoring drive. 
"We kept going getting five and six yards a carry," Hart said. "If you keep getting that you're going to keep running the ball." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Mike Hart 

Michigan's running back came through on his guarantee ofa Wolverines victory with35 carriesfor I 87 yards and 2 touchdowns 
stat of the game 
79 

Yards of total offense for Notre . Dame. The Irish failed to gain positive rushing yardage for the 
third game this season. 

play of the game 
John Sullivan's first bad snap 
The fifth-year center snapped the ball over running back Armando Allen's head on the contest's first play, setting the tone for the game. 
,., ).ll 
quote of the game 

''I'm going to take ml/ beating like a man. 
Charlie Weis, Irish coach During his post-game news conference 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September I7, 2007 
report card 
quarterbacks: Clausen held on to theD ball too long and often against the WoiVPrines. liven though the line oll'erPd little protection. he could have done bntter. 
D 
running backs: The running backs did managP to rnovn forward 96 yards, but most of that eame in garbage 
tinw in the fourth quarter against 
Michigan's second string. 
D-
receivers: Thn wide outs consistently failPd to get open against tlw Michigan secondary. Dropped passes -includ­
ing orw by a wide open John Carlson ­
killed any semblance of Irish oll'ense. 
F 
offensive line: The line let Michigan defenders into the backlield through­
out the game-(lV(1Jl on simple !'our­
man rushes. The line has failed to 
play dPcently all season. 

defensive line: Notrn Dame eould not getD-any prPssurn on Mallett and looked · helpless against llart, giving up 289 rushing yards in the game while failing to saek Mallett. 
linebackers: Notre Dame's blitzes 
F 
were easily pieked up by Wolverines 
block(~rs and poor taekling allowed 
se(~mingly busted plays to go for pos­itive yardage. 
c 
defensive backs: Mallett eornpleted only 7­ol'-17, but had thrne passing toU(~hdowns. The safi~ties played well, 
but shaky eornerbaek coverage eost the 
Irish l'ruda.l yards. 

8-
special teams: Price punt(~d well again, 
averaging 43.3 yards on seven punl<>. 
Tate n~turnnd 5 kicko!ls I'IJr 133 yards -inducting a season-high 40 yarder. 
coaching: Somnhow, thP lrbh looked 
F 
wors(~ tlum they did against (rl1orgia 
Tm~h. Wnis admittnd that he did not pre­
pam tlmrn well enough. 

overall: Notm DarnP.fh.iloo in 
almost nvery aspect of tho !fclllle 
Saturday. Wnis' mtum to training
0.85 
('<Ullp i<> only proof that thi'i sea'i<m i<> almost mrnpiPtnly h,t. 
adding up the numbers 
Consecutive quarters the Irish have failed to score an offensive touchdown dating back to 
14 

January's Sugar Bowl. 
1 
Play in Michigan territory Notre Dame had in the first half. Clausen fumbled the ball for a loss of 
14 yards to the Irish 40. 

Sacks for Michigan, resulting in a loss of 48 
8 

yards for Notre Dame. The Irish had no sacks. 
43 
Points Notre Dame has surrendered on drives of 38 yards or less this season. 
Notre Dame has given up 102 total points. 
Fumbles Notre Dame has this season, losing five of them. The Irish fumbled only 13 times 
12

in 2006, losing six. 
23 Sacks allowed by the Notre Dame offensive line this season. The Irish only allowed 31 
all of last season. 

Punting yards from Geoff Price, 
303 
including two kicks of over 50 yards. 
Points Michigan scored in the fourth quarter 
Saturday, the first quarter an opponent 
failed to score against the Irish. 
ANN AHBOR. Mieh. -There was Tom Zbikowski, taking accountability. 
The lirth-year senior strong safety with P.ight tackles-ineluding five solo -took questions and said he needed to do more. SurP., he wasn't beat deep even once and was in the mix all day, but the team-his team-didn't per­form. 
There was David Bruton, taking accountability. The junior but first year-startflr at free safety said he felt like he was making too many mental errors. The man who got beat once for a touch­down but has played even bet­ter than his pmd­ecessor {Chinedum Ndukwe, who is now in the NFL) took some of Notre Dame's problems on his own shoul­ders. 
There was the defense, taking accountability. 
Corwin Brown has come to Notre Dame and changed everything. The defense underperformed Saturday, but not by much. It broke a few times, but it hasn't been given anything close to a 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Writer 
ehance all season. Opponents' drives 
seem like thPir beginning on the Irish 
side of midlield more often than not. 
And yet the defense seemingly never quit. Yes, Terrail Lambert's pass inter­ference was a penalty of frustratlon, one of laziness. But where was he the rest of the game? Haeshon MeNeil took over at the cornerback spot for most of the remainder of tile game. 
This defense deserves an ofl'ense that can score -let alone, an offense that can threaten to scon1 or help the field position battle. 
Instead, what the defense has is an offense witllout leadership. 
Let's look at the guys who am sup­posed to be the role models for the group. 
Where was Travis Thomas Saturday? The fifth-year senior captain cost Notre Dame 31 yards with a 15­yard clipping penalty that negated Zbikowski's 16-yard punt return into Michigan territory. 
Where was John Carlson? The lifth­yP.ar senior captain and preseason All­America tight end cost Notre Dame il<> biggest pass play of the day by getting alligator arms and allowing freshman Jimmy Clausen's pass to sail through his hands because a Michigan safety was about 10 yards away. 
Where was John Sullivan? The fifth­year senior captain cost Notre Dame any early momentum by beginning the 

ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen is cornered by Wolverines defenders Brandon Graham, 55, and John Ferrara, 94, Saturday. 

game with a snap over freshman Armando Allen's hoad, a snap that Jed to a 17-yard loss and the Irish having a second-and-27 from their own 1-yard line seconds into the game. 
Where wa<> any ollensive veteran stepping up to help the young kids? 
Nowhere. 

When talent ).,TfaduatP.s, you neP.d guys who can corral the young players and lind the best in them. On oflimsP., 
Notre Dame has (()reed tlw worst to 
come out of il'i inexperiP.nced but tal­
ented frnshmen and sophomores. 

At this point, Charlie Weis has to stop thinking about what he owes his filth­year guys. Irish fans shouldn't com­plain if he benehns John Carlson in Javor ofWill Yeatman, who has bmm a better blocker -and a bigger a<>sot to the toam-in three gamP.s this sea<>on. No one should complain if John Sullivan takes a snat in lavor of Thoma<> Bnmenderlcr, the junior trans­fer from Northwestern who grew up in Mishawaka. 
And no one should complain if Travis Thomas takes a game or two on· becausn of his poor play and stupid penalties. 
In fact, peoplP. who. care about tho program should eornplain if Weis i<>n 't willing to ·make a change lrmn the vet­erans to younger guys. Some of tlw vet­erans have had their shot this year and failed. If they can't get the job done or help the younger guys develop, them what's so grP.at about experience? 
Nothing. 

That doesn't mean that Weis' job should bo sal'o and the coaehes arcm't to blame. Ofl'p,nsivn line coac~h John Latina has a<> many four and live-star players as any coach in thn country but the worst line in Division I. If that does­n't warrant a firing, nothing does. 
But morn than any thing elso right now, Notrn Damo needs a leader on oflimso. It needs a wholesale changn­and not just swapping a f(~w ommsivr~ linemen from play to play. If the oflimse sputters next week, Weis nneds to send in the entirll second string fhr a series or two to shake things up. 
Veterans deservn nothing. The defense deserves better. 

The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd. edu 

Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Weis returns team to preseason 
NO failure so far leads to new training camp mentality 
ANN ARBOR, Mich.-Notre Dame is starting over. 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said after Saturday's loss that Notre Dame has re­entered preseason "training camp" mode. 
"We're starting 
Ken Fowler

training camp !Sunday]," Weis 
Analysis

said. "Obviously after three games in, the team is heading in the wrong direction, and [the] only way I know to fix it is to come out swing­ing," Weis said. 
What that literally means is that the Irish will be spending less time watching tape and preparing for defenses and more time in pads and practicing plays, 
"I can't worry about Michigan, I can't worry about Michigan State," Weis said. I have to worry about Notre Dame. I have to worry about me, about my coaching staff, about my players-and justifiably so after you lose a game like that." 
When Weis began his post-game news conference, he said he would take his "beating" and answer as many questions as reporters had. About 10 minutes into the conference, Notre Dame's media relations director said there would be "one more question," but Weis said he would continue answering questions ­and did, for another 10 minutes. 
It was the definite change in Weis's routine in the move from Week 3 to training camp. 
Weis cancelled his usual Sunday news conference and moved his mid-week news conference, at which he answers questions about the upcoming opponent, to Thursday from Tuesday. He will talk about the team's practices and whatever progress it makes Tuesday and Wednesday night. 
But there will be some significant dif­ferences from the two-a-day training camp that began Aug. 6 and lasted until the week before Notre Dame and Georgia Tech kicked off the season. 
The biggest week-to-week change for the players was Sunday's padded prac­tice, which replaced the film study and classroom work it usually does the day after a game. 
Notre Dame 
Season Statistics 
Sacb===========23 
()ffensive TDs  0  
Rushing Y ar·ds  ~14  
Total Yards This Season  345  
()pponent Yds/Game  351,.3  
Total Score  102·l3  

NCAA rules limit teams to 17 hours of out-of-game football time each week. So, Weis said, the Irish will go into Saturday's Michigan State gariie after practicing for four hours on Sunday, Tuesday and Wednesday. Monday is the team's day ofl'. 
Through three games, Notre Dame has accumulated only 359 yards passing and negative-14 yards on the ground. The Irish have fumbled 12 times and lost five, have committed 24 penalties and have surrendered 23 sacks. 
Against Michigan, Notre Dame took its largest step back. Still without an offen­sive touchdown on the year, the Irish failed to threaten for a touchdown and had only one play in Michigan territory in the first half. 
When asked if the return to "training camp" meant all positions would be open for competition, Weis skirted the issue. He said the starting point for the team would be installation of the offense. 
For Weis, the reversion to training camp mode is a stark admission that his strategies were not working and his game planning was deficient, at least in trying to minimize Notre Dame's weak­nesses. 
"We've come up short every time," Weis said. "What we're going to do is we're going to start from the beginning." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd. edu 
•
scoring SUIDlllary 

1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 0 0 0 0 0 Michigan 10 21 7 0 38 
First quarter Michigan 3, Notre Dame 0 
Jason Gingell field goal with 10:53 remaining Drive: 7 play, 21 yards, 2:35 elapsed 
Michigan 10, Notre Dame 0 
Mike Hart 2-yard run with 7:34 remaining (Gingell kick). Drive: 5 play, 21 yards, 2:37 elapsed 
Second quarter Michigan 17, Notre Dame 0 
Mike Hart 3-yard run with 14:39 remaining (Gingell kick). Drive: 3 plays, 38 yards, 0:22 elapsed 
Michigan 24, Notre Dame 0 
Greg Matthews 26-yard touchdown reception from Ryan Mallett with 11:34 remaining (Gingell kick). Drive: 5 plays, 48 yards, 1:22 elapsed 
Michigan 31, Notre Dame 0 
Adrian Arrington 5-yard touchdown reception from Ryan Mallett with 00:25 remaining (Gingell kick). Drive: 3 plays, 38 yards, 0:22 e.lapsed 
Third quarter Michigan 38, Notre Dame 0 

Mario Manningham 13-yard touchdown recep­tion from Ryan Mallett with 4:10 remaining (Gingell kick). Drive: 1 plays, 79 yards, 4:55 elapsed 
-
statistics 
total yards 


rushing yards 
Mlf~H 2au 

passing yards 


return yards 



Jones did not make trip, enrolls at NIU 
time of possession 

Irish 0-3 for second  else," Weis said. Irish safety Tom Zbikowski  Tight converage Despite surrendering 38  100,000 people Saturday, with an attendance of 111,  
time in NO history  was not as forgiving.  points  - including three  178. Notre Dame is only the  
"Obviously it's disappoint­ passing touchdowns ­ Notre  second school in NCAA histo­ 

 ing  when  it's  somebody  Dame's defense continues to  ry to  play in consecutive  
By JAY FITZPATRICK  that's  on  your team," he  impress. Wolverines quar­ road games with 100,000  
Associate Sports Editor  said. "But if you're not going  terback Ryan Mallett only  fans. The only other school  
to be with  us one hundred  threw for 90 yards against  was Minnesota in 2005  - 
ANN ARBOH,  Mich.  - percent, then it's not neces­ Notre Dame, leading to  a  also  at  Penn  State  and  
Notre  Dame  sophomore  sary for you  to be  on this  season  average  of 114.0  Michigan.  
quarterback Demetrius Jones was not on thn bus to Michigan Friday.  team." Our losing ways  passing yards against. If the Irish could hold this average, it would be the best  The combined attendance of 221,256 is a new NCAA record for two-game atten­ Clausen  passing 11-17-1 Mallett  7-15-0  - 
Jones enrolled at Northern  This season marks only the  single season pass defense  dance.  rushing  
Illinois but,  as  of Sunday  second time in Notre Dame  since 1980 when the Irish  Aldridge  10-51  Hart  35-187  
night, was listed in both the  history that the team started  surrended only 103 passing  A nose for the ball  Allen  9-24  Minor  17-82  
Notre Dame and NIU direc­ 0-3. The only other time was  yards per game.  Irish safety Ray Herring  Thomas  1-13  Brown  4-10  
tories.  under Bob Davie in 2001,  picked up two fumbles in the  Tate  1-5  Potempa  2-9  
In the postgame news con­ when the Irish lost to No. 23  Running Hart  fourth  quarter Saturday.  receiving  
ference, Weis said that Jones' departurH should have nothing to do with how Notre Dame's loss should be viewed.  Nebraska, No. 23 Michigan State and Texas A&M. No coach has ever started 0-4. Notre Dame has also lost five consecutive games dat­ With a 5-yard run in the third quarter Saturday, Wolverines running back Mike Hart moved into third place in the all-time  These were the first ever fumble recoveries for the junior, as well as the first time a Notre Dame player had two fumble recoveries in  Grimes West Carlson Schmidt  3-10 2-23 2-13 2-11  Manningham Arrington Hart Matthews  2-35 2-15 2-14 1-26  
"It came as a surprise, but  ing back to 42.-21 loss at USC  Michigan rushing ranks with  the  same  game  since  tackling  
I'm not going to cop out and  Nov. 25.  4,184 yards, passing Tyrone  Gerome Sapp against Navy  Bruton  9  Graham, C.  7  
blame him for our perform­ This is the longest losing  Wheatley. Only Jaime Morris  in 2001.  Zbikowski  8  Thompson  6  
ance here today. I don't want  streak in Notre Dame history  (4,393) and Anthony Thomas  Brown, J.  8  Chambers  5  
to blame anyone besides myself for our performance today. Yes it was a surprise we lost today 38-0 and I'm not sitting here pointing a  since Joe Kuharich lost five games in 1963. Notre Dame's longest ever losing streak is eight games in 1960, also under  (4,472) have more rushing yards in Michigan history. Huge crowd Notre Dame played in front  Coin toss Notre Dame won the toss and elected to receive. Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at  Ryan Laws Crum Stephenson Kuntz McNeil  7 7 7 6 6 5  Warren Engleman Crable Harrison Graham, B. Jamison  5 5 5 5 4 3  
finger  at  him  or  anyone  Kuharich.  of a  crowd of more  than  jfitzpaS@nd.edu  Brockington  5  Trent  3  

ge 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 17, 2007 
ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Contplete annihilation 
Nothin).{ WPnl right l'or Notre Dame during its 38-0 loss to the lolvnrinos in Mkhi).{an Stadium Saturday. Tho o!Tonsive line failed 
o block throughout tlw gamn. That led to l'ailurn in both the run­ing and passing ganw. Thn Irish wore unable to muster any sem­ann~ o!' a passing game l'or tlw third straight wonk. while quarter-hark .Jimmy ClausPn was sacked 8 limes and fumbled twice. On 
•l'nnsn. Wolwri1ws running back Mike llarl backnd up his guaran­e l'or a Michigan win with 187 yards rushing and two touchdowns. Volvnrines freshman quarterback Hyan Mallett had plenty of' time 1 thn pocket. passing l'or 90 yards and three touchdowns on seven 1111pletions on 17 allPmpls. Thn pnrl'ormance was so bad that Weis ; restarting training camp this wenk and said that the entire team 
and gamnplan are back in preseason mode. 
ALLISON AMBAOSEfThe Observer 

'P left, Wolverines defenders Donovan Warren and Stevie Brown tackle Irish tailback James Aldridge; top right, Wolerines quarterback Ryan Mallett rolls; middle, Wolverines taii­JCk Mike Hart stiff arms Irish cornerback Terrall Lambert; bottom right, Hart plows Into the endzone; bottom left, Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen looks to pass under pressure. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, September 17, 2007 
page 15 

By DAMON JASON Staff Writer 
"BioShock" is one of those rare games that takes an established genre and cre­ates something much more. With a first­person shooter setup, "BioShock" incor­porates role-playing and action-adven­ture elements, as well as including con­ventions from survival horror titles like "Resident Evil." The result is a game that is undoubtedly the best example thus far of what is capable on next-generation consoles. 
As the sole survivor of a plane crash, the game's main character, Jack, is stranded in the Atlantic Ocean. Struggling to get by, Jack ends up stum­bling upon the underwater city of Rapture. In its current state, Rapture is nothing but a shadow of the underwater utopia it was once intended to be. Creatures called Little Sisters, Splicers and Big Daddies roam the city, and it is clear that you must do anything to sur­vive. 
From the start of the game, Jack learns that the heart of the problem -why things went so badly so quickly in Rapture -was the clamor for a sub­stance called ADAM. ADAM is a sub­stance resulting from a form of stem cell research, and by using this matter, it is possible to undergo a number of genetic modifications (or Plasmids). Existing in many forms, such as incinerate, lightning and telekinesis, these plasmids can be used in a variety of ways to defeat your enemies. In order to survive the horrors that exist in Rapture, Jack must equip and effectively use these genetic upgrades to his advantage. 

"BioShock" gives players the standard conventional weapons, including pistols, shotguns, machine guns and melee weapons. Effectively switching between conventional weapons and plasmids is essential for your survival in Rapture. For example, you may have to stun an enemy with lightning, then whack it with a melee weapon to defeat it. Switching between the conventional weapons and plasmids feel surprisingly intuitive, and overall "BioShock" controls incredibly well. 
All plasmids are purchased from Little Sisters, who roam around harvesting ADAM from corpses scattered through­out Rapture. While powerless on their own, Big Daddies accompany each Little Sister. The Big Daddies are immense, armor-clad behemoths that will do any­thing to protect the Little Sisters and the ADAM they collect. By using a combina­tion of conventional weapons and plas­mids, none of these creatures should pose too big of a problem. After taking care of the Big Daddies, the ADAM car­ried by the Little Sisters is yours for the taking. 
Aside from various boss battles, the other creatures that garners will often encounter are called Splicers, which are essentially Rapture survivors who have gone insane in their lust for ADAM. 
Existing in multiple 
forms, none of these creatures are too hard to defeat. 
Graphically, the game is a beast. Powered by the popular Unreal Engine 3, everything in the world looks simply amazing, especially in HD. While the game itself can be completed in 15-18 hours, garners will likely spend more time just simply explor­ing the city of Rapture. The realism of the 
OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Jarred Wafer 

"BioShock" takes place '~~:t~~~~··~~~: mythical city of Rapture. 
graphics helps add to the game's creepy atmosphere. Combine these visuals with a superb audio soundtrack, and this game is genuinely scary. 
If there is anything players can fault the game for, it is the fact that there is no death penalty. When Jack dies, he simply resuscitates in the nearest Vita Chamber, with most health and inventory in tact. Everything else in the world remains exactly as it was before dying, including damage dealt to enemies. While this cer­tainly takes away the frustration that accompanies backtracking over the same area multiple times, it does make game play a little too easy. Aside from this small deficiency, there is nothing nega­tive to be said about this game. It con­trols perfectly, looks beautiful and is gen­uinely fun to play. 
"BioShock" is likely to be one of the best games released this year. Aside from creating a very entertaining and fun gaming experience, the developers deliv­er in creating one of the most engrossing stories ever featured in a video game. 
Contact Damon Jason at djason@nd.edn 

SCENE AND HEARD 
Loving and leaving Ann Arbor 
You don't shave when you're head­ed to Ann Arbor, Mich. Some might argue you don't shower either, in order to better fit in with the local denizens. Either way, one thing remains: Ann 
Arbor is still the place where class goes to die. 
The place has a Joseph Conrad­esque "Heart of Darkness" feel to it, an "Apocalypse Now" sensation of 


descent into mad-Tae Andrews 
ness, with the utter certainty Scene Editor that the locals are most definitely unfriendly and will not hesitate to make their opinions known. 
You go there for two things: Get a win, and get the heck out of there. On the whole, taking in a Notre Dame-Michigan game is much like how I'd imagine fighting a real wolverine inside a Port-a-Potty would be: It's unpleasant, it smells bad and you try not to touch any­thing. 
No man, woman or child sporting the wrong colors is safe in Ann Arbor. 

That being said, the U of M isn't entirely without its charms. The blue and maize (always original, the Michigan student section has dubbed the yellow color scheme the "Maize Out") pompous morons pumping their fists (and the free yellow pom­poms stadium officials hand out) fail not to impress with their never-end­ing chants of that jarring headache, "Hail to the Victors." 
To top it all off, they finished each rendition with a new signature catch chant at the end-"You suck!" As my friends and I sat there cringing and taking in the suffering, there wasn't a whole lot we could do to refute this claim, and so we sat and took our medicine quietly. 
I have to say, the Ann Arbor expe­rience of two years ago was much better. Then, there was the pleasure of watching the Michigan unfaithful booing their own team and tossing their pom-poms onto the field before escaping like scurvy rats from a pirate ship after a 17-10 Irish upset of third-ranked Michigan. 

Heading to Ann Arbor is a masochistic experience; you have to be prepared for people yelling at you and potentially drenching you in car­bonated beverages. Not to mention the possibility of a Wolverine victory. 
On our way out, as we were hum­bled and tired, a Michigan man tossed out a final parting shot, adding insult to injury. 
"Thanks for coming, you guys," he said, his mullet wreathing his shoul­ders underneath the Michigan ball cap tucked tightly on his head. In his hand he held a maize-colored pom­pom, a fluffy victory memento. 
"No problem," I said, stalling for time. Tired, cold and nearly out of comebacks, I nonetheless managed to come up with at least a halfway decent parting shot. 
"Real men don't wave pom-poms." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tae Andrews at 
tan drew 1 @nd:edu page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 17, 2007 


NFL 

Browns win shootout behind 554 offensive yards 
Lions end 10-game losing streak against division rival Vikings with a 37-yard field goal in overtime to win 20-17 
and countless missed tackles. 
Associated (l~ss 
Even Cleveland fans, who bolt­

CLEVELAND Another ed thn stadium early a week bizarrn WPPk of twists, turns and ago. got a chance to party, not turbulence in Clevnland endPd long af'ter a few of them dumped with morn absurdity: Browns 51, beer on Bengals wide receiver Bengals 45. Chad Johnson. 
Co figure. Clnvnland racked up 554 yards 
l>nrnk AndPrson threw five of total olTense, seored its most touchdown passes, .Jamal Lnwis points since returning to the rushed for 216 yards and the loaguP in 1999, and for the time Clewland Browns. so desperate being, took some of the heat ofT after !wing embarrassml in tlwir coach Homeo Crennel, who home opener that thny traded improved to 11-23 in his third their starting quarterback two season. days lal<~r. outlasted the For once. it all fell into place Cincinnati Bengals and Carson for tlw Browns. l'alnwr 51-45 on Sunday. ''I'm excited about this win," 
Palmer tossed a earner-high said Edwards, who had eight six Tl>s, but his final chance to catdws for 146 yards and two rally t.lw Bengals (1-1) ended Tl>s. "For the first time in a long when he was intercepted at tlw time I'm excited to go home and Browns' 27 with 21 seconds left watch our highlights." by corrwrback Leigh Bodden, The dips will be dominated by who had missml practice time Anderson, who was only expect­this we1~k with a groin injury. ed to hold down the starting job 
Tlw pkk capped an 1wentual until rookie Brady Quinn was seven days and an historic after­ready. That plan, too, may be noon for the Browns. who had a scrapped following the 24-year­:wo-yard passer. a 200-yard old's breakout performance. rusher and two 100-yard When Frye got traded, receivers ( Braylon Edwards and Edwards said he a few receivers Kellen Winslow) for the f'irst met with Anderson. time sinr.e joining the NFL in "We told him, 'We're behind pick, Anderson has always had Baltimore Havens. Now, they series. 1950. you and you are here because the physical gifts but has been have some doubts, especially The Lions and Vikings com­
"Not in my wildest dreams you can play,"' Edwards said. plagued by bad decision-mak­about an already suspect bined for nine turnovers in regu­could I have imagined it," "He was commanding in the ing. This time, he was strong defense. lation -and two missed field Bodden said. huddle. This is the first time he and smart. "I don't think anybody expect­goal attnmpts in the final 35 see­
Who could? was the guy. He came in and "1 wouldn't say I was nerv­ed this game to shake out like onds. 
The toams combined for 96 pulled it all together." ous," Anderson said of his fourth this," Palmer said. "If anything, The 1Oth turnover -Brooks points, 1,0H5 yards of offense A former sixth-round draft career start. "I was happy with it's a good reminder for us that Bollinger's fumbled snap-gave the way things turned out." it doesn't matter who you play. Detroit the ball at the 50. Jon 
It was just the third time in This is one of the tougher losses. Kitna, who missed about two NFL history that two QBs threw I thought we had this win. I feel quarters after bning shak1m up, five TD passes in the same like I'm mourning over a loss. ran the ball twice to pick up a game. Oakland's Tom Flores (6) I'm just going to try and shake it key first down. and Brian and Houston's George Blanda (5) off." Calhoun's 17-yard run set up both did it on Dec. 22, 1963. and Lewis averaged 7. 7 yards per Hanson's kick. Billy Kilmer of New Orleans (6) carry thanks to a 66-yard TO Detroit (2-0) has won its open­and Charley .Johnson of St. Louis burst in the third quarter and ing two games for the first time 
(6) also did it Nov, 5, 1969. 4 7 -yard run in the fourth that in three years. The last timB, the 
Joe Jurevicius caught two TD set up Phil Dawson's 18-yard Lions finished (J-1 0 -their best passes and Kellen Winslow had field goal that put the Browns up record since Matt Millen was one for the Browns, who finally 51-38 with 5:44 left. given eontrol of the franchise in got to show ofl' their new offense Chad Johnson's second TD 2001. under f'irst-year Coordinator eatch pulled the Bengals within The Vikings (1-1) had plenty of Hob Chudzinski. 34-31 in the third, and as the chances to start 2-0 for the sec­
Out of timeouts, the Bengals NFL's most eecentric showman ond straight year, but lost many got the ball at their 9 back with promised, he jumped headfirst of the opportunities as Tarvaris 
1:03 left. N'ter two completions into the Dawg Pound, where he Jackson tied a team reeord with got them to the 20, Anderson was baptized in a shower of four interceptions. threaded a 30-yarder over the beer by Cleveland's rowdiest Both te<uns had a shot to win middle between two defenders fans. at the end of regulation. to Johnson, who had 11 catches Hanson pushnd a 48-yard field for 209 yards and two TDs. Lions 20, Vikings 17 goal try to the left with :~5 sec­
One play later, Palmer tried to The Minnesota Vikings and onds remaining aftnr making 18 feather another pass down the Detroit Lions took turns blowing straight field goals dating to Nov. sideline to Johnson, but Bodden ehances to win the game. 19, 2006. made a pick the Browns won't In the end, Jason Hanson's 37-The miss gave Minnesota soon forget. yard field goal in overtime lifted another chance, but Hyan 
The Bengals came in feeling Detroit to a victory over Longwell elanged a 52-yard good about themselves following Minnesota on Sunday and ended attempt on· the lel't upright with a Monday night win over the a 10-game losing streak in the two seconds left. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS all classifieds for conrenr without issuing refunds. 
Babysitter for 16-mo-old boy. Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. 2bdrm house w/basement, wash-Mark from ABC Cab is Back!!! NOW Weekdays from 4-7 p.m. Call574-Walk to ND. 574-876-7341. For er/dryer. Corby at Eddy 57 4-232-Driving for American Cab Co On WANTED 229-3020. Football weekends, call574-532-9QB1 PERSONAL Wed,Thurs,Fri,Sat,Nights. Cell574­1408. 360-6480. Fnendly sm1l1ng servers needed. LASER CREATIONS Full or part time openings. If you FoR RENT FOOTBALL HOUSE -TICKETS Unique Products UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do are friendly and smiling. we will 3 bedroom home, 5 blocks from Thru Laser Technology. not go it alone. If you or someone train you. Some cook positions LODGING FOR FOOTBALL campus for rent on football week-WANTED-ND FOOTBALL TIX. Laser etched logo gilts, you love needs confidential support available too. Apply in person GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-ends, JPW, Graduation. Operated PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 signs, award plaques, or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 52285 US 31 N South Bend. trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and as a weekend rental. name tags, rubber stamps, Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more Damons Grill eoe Breakfast Accommodations. Non-Great alternative to stupid hotel FOR SALE: ND glass etching, etc. information, visit our website at: smoking. Private Baths, Full prices on those weekends. FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME Call Jack 574-273-8662 http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-STUDENT WORK $12.75 base-Breakfasts. www.notredameliving.com GAMES. 574-232-0964. www.victo-or email: lasercr@comcast.net nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad appt. Flexible schedules. or call Alex 212-418-6937. rytickets.com in THE OBSERVER. no experience needed. customer 3 bdrm house. Walk to ND. Washer If you or someone you 
sales/service, conditions apply, all & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighbor-Huge room in very spacious ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. care about has been sexually NFL Week 3 picks ages 18+, hood. Landlord does yard work. No private apt. 4 blks from S.campus. 574-288-2726. assaulted. visit PHI over DET, NYJ over MIA, 574-273-3835, www.workforstu-Pets. No Section 8. Call 574-250-$275. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. NE over BUF, SAL over ARI, dents.com 1266. robworland@ sbcglobal.net Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. shtml NO over TEN, SD over GB 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September 17, 2007 Cnrvt.PILED FROM Ttu: OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Major League Baseball American League East 
team  rncord  perc.  last 10  GB  
Boston  90-59  .604  6-4  
New York  84-64  .568  8-2  5.5  
Toronto  74-75  .497  3-7  16  
Baltimore  64-84  .432  4-6  25.5  
Tampa Bay  63-87  .420  5-5  27.5  

American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB Cleveland 87-62 .584 6·4 Detroit 83-67 .553 8·2 4.5 Minnesota 72-77 .483 H. 15 Kansas City 64-84 .432 2·8 22.5 Chicago 64-85 .430 5·5 23 
American League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB Los Angeles 87-62 .584 5·5 Seattle 78-70 .527 4·6 8.5 Oakland 74-76 .493 6-4 13.5 Texas 69-79 .466 5·5 17.5 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB New York 83-65 .561 5·5 Philadelphia 80-69 .537 7-3 3.5 Atlanta 76-73 .510 6·4 7.5 Washington 66-83 .443 4-6 17.5 Florilla 65-84 .436 5-5 18.5 
National League Central 

team record perc. last 10 GB Chicago 78-72 .520 7-3 Milwaukee 76-72 .514 6-4 1 St.louis 70-78 .473 1-9 7 Cint:innati 68-81 .456 6-4 9.5 Pittsburgh 66-83 .443 5-5 11.5 Houston 65-64 .436 :H 12.5 
National League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Arizona 84-66 .560 7-3 San Diego 81-67 .547 5-5 2 Los Angeles 79-70 .530 6-4 4.5 Colorado 77-72 .517 5-5 6.5 San Francisco 66-83 .443 4-6 17.5 
MIAA Volleyball Standings 

team league overall 
3-0

Calvin 8-3 
3-0

Hope 8-3 
3-1

Adrian 6-6 
2-1

Tri-State 4-7 
2-2

ST. MARY'S 5-6 
1-2

Olivet 2-9 
1-3

Alma 5-11 
1-3

Kalamazoo 2-6 
0-4

Albion 0-7 
around the dial 
MLB Cincinnati at Chicago 8:00p.m., Comcast Sports Net 
NFL Washinton at Philadelphia 8:30p.m., ESPN 
PGA TouR 


Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The FedEx Cup didn't change anything but Tiger Woods' bank account. 
The PGA Tour's "new era in golf' came to a familiar conclusion Sunday when Woods captured the Tour Championship in record-set­ting fashion, closing with a 4-under 66 for an eight-shot victory at East Lake and his seventh title of the season. 
The only difference? 
This was the first time Woods walked away from one tournament with two trophies. 
Along with winning the Tour Championship and its $1.26 million prize, Woods was a runaway winner of the FedEx Cup and the $10 million that goes into his retirement account. 

If this was supposed to be the "Super Bowl" of golf, Woods spent most of the final round running out the clock. 
He stretched his three­shot lead to four at the turn, and the only drama was whether he would break the 72-hole scoring record on the PGA Tour. He had to set­tle for a 23-under 257, his career low on tour and breaking the Tour Championship record by six shots. 
"I hit it good this week," Woods said. ~It's been a phenomenal week" 
Masters champion Zach Johnson closed with a 68 and tied for second with Mark Calcavecchia, who shot a 71. 
Steve Stricker and Phil Mickelson were the only players with a realistic chance of capturing the FedEx Cup, and their hopes were gone by the weekend. Stricker closed with a 67 and wrapped up second place in the PGA Tour Playoffs, giving him a $3 million retirement boost. 
The FedEx Cup was a points race that began in January, with the points reset after the majors for a four-week stretch of the PGA Tour Playoffs. Woods skipped the first playoff event in New York, tied for second outside Boston, then won the last two tourna­ments to win by an over­whelming margin . 
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem first presented Woods with the crystal tro­phy from the Tour Championship. Before handing him the FedEx Cup trophy, Finchem alluded to the tour's promotion of the FedEx Cup by noting it had never been kissed. 
And it still hasn't. 
Woods simply held it aloft as the thousands around 18th green cheered. 
"Once you got into the playoffs, you're playing against the best guys and the hottest players. You have to play well," Woods said. "We had some great drama. In the end, it was a lot offun for all of us." 
IN BRIEF 

Bowyer gets first Nextel Cup 
win m New Hampshire 
LOUDON, N.H. -Clint Bowyer vowed to use the Chase for the cham­pionship to raise his Nextel Cup pro­file. One race in, and Bowyer is NASCAR's newest race winner. 
Bowyer raced to his first Nextel Cup victory Sunday, starting from the pole and leading all 221 of the 300 laps to win at New Hampshire International Speedway. 
Bowyer entered the 12-driver Chase as the only contender without a victory, and had never finished higher than third in his short Cup career. But he's inched closer and closer to the front of the field, and thought he had a chance at a win last week in Richmond but spun his Chevrolet as he was making a pass for the lead. 
It brought him into the Chase open­er as the 12th seed, trailing defending series champion Jimmie Johnson by 60 points and acutely aware of his ranking. 
Phoenix shocks Detroit on 
the road to claim WNBA title 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. Phoenix's fast start made the Mercury the WNBA's first road champion. 
Penny Taylor scored 30 points and the Mercury cruised to a 108-92 vic­tory Sunday over the defending champion Detroit Shock in the fifth and deciding gam!'\ of the WNBA finals. Cappie Pondexter added 26 and Diana Taurasi had 17 for Phoenix, the first road team to win the title away from home. 
The Shock lost the last two games of the stlries, foiling their bid to become the third WNBA team to win back-to-hack championships. 
Phoenix, taking some steam out of the fired-up home crowd, raced to a 20-9 lead midway through the first quarter. Taurasi had eight points, including 2 3-pointers, in that stretch as Phoenix came out firing against the frazzled Detroit defense. 
Eaks rallies for second win 
at Greater Hickory Classic 
CONOVER, N.C. -R.W. Eaks won his second Champions Tour title of the year Sunday, closing with a 2­under 70 to hold off Jay Haas and Rod Spittle by two strokes in the Greater Hickory Classic. 
Eaks finished with a 17 -under 199 total to break the tournament record of 16-under 200 set by Haas in 2005. 
"That's the hardest thing I've ever had to do," said Eaks, who rallied from a five-stroke deficit to force a playoff with eventual winner Andy Bean last year at Rock Barn Golf and Spa. "I always told myself that if I ever had that kind of a lead, it'd be the easiest thing to do to keep it, but it's not. ... I'll never do that again ­at least not intentionally." 
Eaks, who held a three-shot lead over Spittle entering Sunday's final round, extended his margin to six strokes with three birdies on the front nine at Rock Barn's Jones course. 


~--T.-'he-Ob'~" ~· S~~RTS
1:8 -------Monday, s,ptomb,, 17, 2007 
t ~~===========-~====~==========================================================================~~========~========== 

:I FORMULA ONE 
Raikkonen vvins third Belgium Grand Prix 
Associated Press 
BEL<;IUM ~ Kimi Haikkonen won the Belgian (;rand Prix for tho third straight time, boating Ferrari teammate Felipe Massa on Sunday in thn first raee since Formula One was rocked by a $100 million finfl in the sport's spy scandal. 
World champion Fernando Alonso took third ahead of McLaren teammate Lewis llamilton after an opening cor­nor duel, rndudng the rookie's load in the driv•~rs' standings to two points with three races remaining. 
Haikkonen 's victory only looked in doubt when Massa launched a latn attack with three or the 44 laps to go. When it was clear Massa would not get past the Finn, the two drivnrs eased up to coast at the c:lwckered flag. 
"It was a perfect thing for the team, 1-2," Haikkonen said. 
Haikkonen celebrated by spinning his ear on the track. snnding a white plume of burnt rubber up in the air in front of (>5.000 fans at the 4.325-mile track. With his victory, Haikkonen also maintained his outside chance to win the world title. 
"We haven't given up hope. We are still in the hunt," Haikkonnn said. "We just keep pushing and sen what hap­pens." 
In the standings, llamilton has 97 points and Alonso has 
95. Haikkonen is third with 84 and Massa fourth with 77. With races still to come in Japan, China and Brazil. a maximum 30 points can be won. 
Another clean race for both Alonso and Hamilton even though none got close to win­ning was good enough for McLaren after a tumultuous week. 
"W•1've got a great world championship," McLaren team leader Hon Dennis said. 
The 1-2 victory also assured Ferrari of the constructors' title since McLaren was thrown out. Ferrari has an insur­mountable lead of 161 points, with BMW Sauber second with 90. 
Haikkonen finished Sunday in 1 hour. 20 minutes, 39.066 sec­onds, beating Massa by 4.695. Alonso was 14.343 back, and Hamilton 23.615 behind. 
Nick Hcidfeld in a BMW Sauber was fifth, ahead of Williams' Nico Rosberg. 
Even though Spa has the most spectacular track on the circuit, the race was unevent­ful. with the top four on the grid finishing in the same posi­tions and never overtaking each other. The only momen­tary chances came during the drivers' two pit stops. 
The biggest incident came at the start and highlighted the hot rivalry between McLaren teammates Alonso and llamilton. 
Alonso, starting third on the grid ahead of Hamilton, imme­diately moved over to attack the Source hairpin, blocking Hamilton's way. 
Coming out and gathering speed, Alonso went wide and pushed llamilton onto the side­track. 

v ~ -~'§i!it,.­

Reel Influence 
Your Future. Your Vision. Your Video. 

If it's Monday 
You've got 
to do Chill's! 

Monday.
ble:ordsr. 

c 

Mishawaka 4810 Grape Rd. 
271.1330 

* Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to close. 
v ~~ ~}-..... '~,,~ ~
v "" 
· · . + 
,.,, " < v :~ t 
page 19 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 17, 2007 
Cubs take down Cardinals, stay in first place 
Tigers beat Twins behind solid performance from pitcher ]urrjens, who retired 16 of the first 17 batters faced 
times for the Cardinals. location today. He shut us down backer, allowing Timo Perez to "We pretty much gave them 
Associated Press 
Ankiel had been 2-for-29 with for a long time." score from first and Ramon the ballgame with mistakes 
ST. LOUIS -Jason Marquis 10 strikeouts and no RBis in 10 Tim Byrdak, Fernando Santiago to reach third on the early," Gardenhire said. has come back to haunt his for­games following a report he Rodney and Joel Zumaya com­error. Santiago scored on Baker settled down after the mer team. received human growth hor­bined in relief before Jones Brandon Inge's ensuing sacri­fifth and recorded back-to-hack 
Matt Murton hit a three-run mone in 2004. Before the worked through a shaky ninth. fice bunt to make it 3-0. 1-2-3 innings before being homer, and Marquis allowed report, he hit .358 with nine After allowing an RBI single to "Sometimes that happens, but pulled for Pat Neshek. Baker just one run while pitching into homers and 29 RBis in 23 Nick Punto, Jones got Michael you have a responsibility to con­lasted seven innings, allowing the seventh inning to lead the games. Cuddyer to ground out with the tinue to pitch and try to provide eight hits and striking out three. Chicago Cubs to a 4-2 win over Chicago scored all four of its bases loaded for his 37th save a good start and keep the team Minnesota, the reigning AL the slumping St. Louis Cardinals runs in the third off Mulder. in 42 chances. in the game," Baker said. "It Central champion, was swept on Sunday. Alfonso Soriano began the "Of course I made it interest­just stinks giving up a leadoff for the eighth time this season. 
Marquis says he gets no spe­inning with a double, but was ing," Jones said. home run." The Twins finally broke cial thrill out of beating St. still at third with two out when Curtis Granderson led off the Gary Sheffield scored from through in the sixth when Nick Louis, where he won 14 games Mulder walked Aramis Ramirez. game by sending a 3-1 offering third on a double play in the Punto legged out a double. last season. But he was happy Murton then followed with a from Scott Baker (9-8) off the third and Detroit added two Jason Tyner followed with a to drop the defending World 366-foot homer off the left field right field seats. more runs in the eighth on a standup triple to erase the Series champion Cardinals foul pole that made it 3-0. The next inning, Baker made double by Carlos Guillen and a shutout and Leyland promptly another game off the pace in After Craig Monroe doubled a bad throw to first on a come-sacrifice fly by Ivan Rodriguez. signaled for Byrdak. the NL Central. and Soto reached on an infield 
"Obviously it's big because it single, Ronny Cedeno drove in slowly takes them out of the Monroe with a single to center. equation," Marquis said of the Schumaker cut it to 4-1 with a Cardinals, who have lost 10 of pinch-hit single off Chicago 11 and fell seven games out of reliever Carlos Marmo! in the first. "But a win is a win." seventh. He stayed in the game 
Geovany Soto had a career­and made it 4-2 with a two-out, high four hits for the Cubs, who RBI single off Bob Howry an took three of four games in the inning later. series and maintained their one-game lead over Milwaukee Tigers 6, Twins 4 
in the NL Central. After sweeping the Minnesota 
"We're in pretty good shape," Twins, Detroit wasted little time said Chicago manager Lou in looking forward to a crucial Piniella. "We're going home three-game series at division­with two more wins than the leading Cleveland beginning team directly behind us." Monday. 
Things are going in the oppo­But the Tigers did spend a few site direction for the Cardinals, minutes celebrating Todd Jones' who lost a four-game series for 300th career save. the first time since dropping "Great win for us, good for 
three of four at home to (Jones), off to Cleveland," Tigers 
Milwaukee to begin the 2004 manager Jim Leyland said. 
season. But St. Louis manager Jones became the 21st pitcher 
Tony La Russa saw some posi­in major league history to reach 
tives in the defeat. the milestone and Jair Jurrjens 
"It's a loss, but all you had to took a no-hitter into the sixth do was watch the way the club inning in only his fifth major (battled) when we got down 4-league start, as the Tigers beat 0," La Russa said. "It's a group the Twins on Sunday to com­to admire." plete the three-game sweep. 
After helping St. Louis win the "We've got a 260-yard division last season, Marquis approach to win the Open, and (12-8) signed with the Cubs as a we've got to stick it on the free agent. Marquis allowed one green," Jones said, using a golf run and live hits, walking two analogy to describe his team's and striking out four in 6 1-3 playoff chase. innings. The Tigers won their seventh 
"I was making pitches when I consecutive game against the 
needed to," Marquis said. "I Twins and pulled within 4 1/2 
was aggressive within the strike games of Cleveland in the divi­
zone, getting ahead of the hit­sion. The Indians lost 4-3 to 
ters, which made me a lot more Kansas City earlier in the day. 
effective." "We've got a slugger's chance, 
-
Ryan Dempster pitched a and it's great," Jones said. scoreless ninth for his 28th save Leyland started Jurrjens on in 31 opportunities, and Sunday so that Kenny Rogers Chicago wrapped up a 7-4 road could pitch the opener against swing. the Indians. Jurrjens (3-1) 
"We did what we had to do on retired 16 of 17 batters -his 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
this road trip," Piniella said. one blemish a walk to Brian 
INTERNATIONAL STlH>Y PROGRAMS fN 
"Now it's a 12-game season." Buscher -before giving up two 
Mark Mulder (0-3), making extra-base hits in the sixth. 
his third start after spending Jurrjens, who left the club­
most of the year recovering house before reporters had a 
DUBLIN, :IRELAND
from surgery to his pitching chance to speak with him, was­
shoulder, lasted three innings n't overpowering but displayed 
Fall 2008, SI>RING 2009, A Y 2008-9,
and gave up four runs and good control and was content to 
seven hits with three walks. let the Twins swing and harm­
SUMl\'IER 2008 Mulder has allowed 17 runs and lessly fly out. 22 hits in 11 innings-a 12.27 "He pitched very well," ERA -in his last three starts. Leyland said. 
liVFOR;HA TI01V ft1.EETING "I had one bad inning," Tho Curacao-native, who Mulder said. "My arm kind of began the season in Double-A 
\Ved:nesday, September 19, 2007
dropped in the second inning." Erie, lasted 5 1-3 innings with Skip Schumaker, who came in six strikeouts and a walk. 
5: 00 pm 141 DeBartolo 
as a pinch hitter, drove in both "He pretty much shut us 
St. Louis runs. Rick Ankiel had down," Twins manager Ron 
two hits and reached base three Gardenhire said. "He had great 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBE.R 15,2007 FO.R FALL. SPRING. 
AND ACAOEMIC YEAR 2008-9 
MARCH 1, 2008 FOR SlJMME.R 2008 
.. 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-ois 




l ~ 
~ ~ 
-_j 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 17, 2007 
NFL 

Broncos need overtime field goal to top Raiders 
Shanahan calls strategic timeout to foil Janikowski's game-winning attempt; Denver now 2-0 as Oakland drops to 0-2 
Associated Press 

DENVI\H -The crowd J.{roaned. the Haidnrs celebrated and Mike Shanahan smiled. 
The Denver Broncos coach may never have callnd a smarter timeout. 
Jason Elam's 23-yard field J.{oal with 5:4H left in overtime !-{ave the Broncos a 23-20 win over Oakland just minutes aftor tho Haiders had exulted ovnr what they thouJ.{ht was their own wild win. 
Sebastian .Janikowski nailed a 52-yard field goal at 11:13 or overtime. But as the Haiders rushed the lield in e1~lebration and many of' the Broncos hun!-{ their heads in defeat. referee Walt Anderson ruled that Denver had called a timoout just before the snap. 
On the rPtry, Janikowski's high -an~ ing kick hil tho le l't upright, fluttering tho flag atop the polo and giving tho Broncos new life and tho ball at their 42. They drove to thn Oakland 6 and Elam nailed it on first down -and the Haiders didn't bother calling their own tirnnoul. 
"They stole it from us and we stole it right back," Elam said. 
"I feel bad," Broncos safety John Lynch said. "But not real­ly." 
The Haiders (0-2) swore they never heard the whistle. 
"Nobody was aware they called timeout," lamented Oakland's rookie coach, Lane Kiff'in. "They rushed just like thern wasn't a timnoul. Maybe somobody's got to tell me the rule. They should tell the ref to blow it just before he kicks it." 
Shanahan knew exactly when to eall it: right as long snapper Jon Condo looked up. 
"When you take it down to a millimeter of a second, that works pretty good," Lynch said. "Mike's timing was unbeliev­able. I was standing next to him when he told the referee, 'We're going to call a timeout.' But then I'm saying, 'All right, do it! Do it!' And he did, I think with 2 seconds, and thn guy blew his whistle." 
Thn Broncos insisted they wcrnn'l so much trying to icc .Janikowski as they worn hoping to get their rushers a breather. Sure enough, Janikowski pushml it ever so slightly to the left whon Dre' Bly applied pres­sure oil' the corner. 
.Janikowski, who missed three field goals last week, had split thn uprights from 65 yards in pregame warmups, and his miss in overtime looked like it could have traveled 80 yards had it not clanked off the yellow pole. 
''I've never seen anybody hit the top of the upright from 52 yards out." Elam said. "lin's very talented." 
.Janikowski's leg strength had the Broncos on edge. 
"That's what we were fearful of on that last drive," Lynch said. "lie can be erratie, but you know he can kick the ball from 70 yards here." 
.. 
This was the first time since Green Bay did it in 2004 that an NFL team had won consecutive 
games on the last play. Elarn hit a 42-yarder as limn expired to give Denver a 15-14 win at Bull'alo in the opener. 
"When you keep playing, good things happen," Lynch said. This one wasn't nearly as fre­
netie a finish as that one, when the Broncos had no timeouts and only 10 seconds to get off the mirade kiek. But it was just as satisfying to the Broncos (2­0), who won their eighth straight home opener and handed the Haiders (0-2) their 11th straight loss overall. 
"It was tough," Haiders quar­terback Josh McCown said. "Because you go from total ela­tion, you're excited, you came on the road and got a win, and it takes the wirul right out of you. It's unfortunate for 'Seabass.' He nailed it, the first one." 
The Haiders overeame a two­TO halftime deficit and grabbed a 20-17 lead with 8:55 left in regulation when linebacker Thomas Howard intercepted Jay Cutler's tipped pass returned it 44 yards for a touchdown. and Oakland got the 2-point conversion. 

let your imagination soar 
By putting our collective imagination to work for a better future, GE's changing the world, one innovation at a time. That's why we were named one of the Most Innovative Companies by BusinessWeek in 2007. At GE, we invite you to let your imagination soar with a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology 


Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 ... 

WOMEN'S GOLF 
American women win Solheim Cup 
Morgan Pressel upsets Anika Sorenstam to give U.S. victory 
Associated Press 
SWEDEN -The Americans were hardly chokers when the stakes were highest at the Solheim Cup. 
Doggone good was more like it. 
Dominating the singles match­es like they always have, the Americans celebrated one of the most coveted wins in women's golf Sunday, a 16-12 decision over Europe that ended any thought that they might be the "Chokin' freakin' dogs," that Dottie Pepper said they were. 
Led by Morgan Pressel's upset over Annika Sorenstam and Stacy Prammanasudh's surpris­ing win over Suzann Pettersen, the Americans went 8-3-1 in sin­gles. They cap­tured the Solheim 
ers,"

"I thought we had a
on foreign soil for Pressel's grandfa­only the second lot of talent on our ther, Herb time. Krickstein, who
team but that it 
"I was pretty watched all week
would be tough to do
excited when we from the gallery. won it in my it over here ifyou go "When it comes rookie year," by history.·· down to singles, Paula Creamer there's no hiding said of the 2005 anybody, and that 
Betsy King 
win at Crooked really shows." Stick in Indiana. American captain Nicole Castrale said. "It wasn't like we were playing that bad. It wasn't like we were giving it away." 
When the singles rolled around, those setbacks were for­gotten and the Americans took control quickly. 
At one point, they led in eight of the 12 matches with a few more tied. Red dominated the scoreboard and there was no way the Europeans could ignore it. 
Inkster took a big early lead for a 4-and-3 win over Iben Tinning. Pat Hurst led almost the whole way in a 2-and-1 win over Sophie Gustafson. Pressel got her first Solheim Cup win, 2 and 1 over Sorenstam -in Sorenstam's home country, no less. 
The Americans improved their winning percentage in singles to .602 over the history of the tour­nament. 
"Without this sounding wrong, the feeling was that our team had the better play­said 
''I'm even more excited now." 
They did it in rain and wind and cold, the kind of week in which the love of the game ­what the Solheim Cup is all about -is the about only thing that could possibly get someone out on the course. 
And they did it with a bit of a chip on their shoulders, placed there by Pepper, the former American player and firebrand who is now an analyst on the Golf Channel. 
On Saturday, after the United States turned a couple of looming wins into disappointing ties, Pepper called the Americans "Chokin' freakin' dogs"-a com­ment she made when she thought she was ofT the air, but wasn't. 
"It was hurtful, very, very hurt­ful to all of us on the team," said assistant captain Beth Daniel. "Dottie's been there. She knows what it's like. Even if she said it off the air, it was ill-spirited." 
Back on the air Sunday, Pepper said she stood by the comments. The Americans insisted they had let the whole thing go by the time they went to bed Saturday night and were just concentrating on winning. 
But before the winning started, there were a few more disap­pointments. · 
Because of the brutal weather, the fourball matches needed to be finished early Sunday. And when CTeamer and Brittany Lincicome each missed 3-foot tap-ins on No. 17, it cost their team a hole, the lead and eventu­ally a half-point in a tie against Linda Wessberg and Maria Hjorth. 
The Europeans went into the final round with an 8 1/2-7 112 lead, and the Americans -with four rookies on the team ­looked like they really might be too young and nervous to actually win this event. 
"But we knew 16, 17, 18, they're tough holes," Juli Inkster made an 8-footer 
to close out a 3­and-2 victory over Bettina Hauert and make things official, giving the United States 14 1/2 points to secure its second straight win, but first on foreign soil since 1996. 
"None of us feel like losers," Laura Davies said. "We lost to a better team today." 
After Castrale closed things out, the Americans piled into a big golf cart to watch the rest of the now-meaningless matches. Laura Diaz waved an American flag. Later, they got in a big hud­dle and cheered "U.S.A, U.S.A, All the way!" 
"I thought we had a lot of talent on our team but that it would be tough to do it over here ifyou go by history," American captain Betsy King said. "I thought we were going to do it, but I didn't want to say that before we did it. So now I'm saying it." 
Through most of the singles matches, it was the Europeans, not the Americans, who looked as if they hadn't been in these sit­uations before. 
Maybe the most symbolic scene for Europe was that of rookie Becky Brewerton stymied by a tree near the 18th green, looking at playing a left-handed shot. 
A veteran more familiar with the rules might have asked for relief, then been able to move the ball and play right-handed, because of the stands that blocked her path to the hole. 
Hoom: Tti!Nied.lfr-~-9:00a.mtoS:OOp.m. 


900S.1\4ictliganf.:l 
Thu.-"!2:00fl0(1\107:00p.m. Sat --9:{J0a.rn.tn 1:00p.rn. 
EWA HAIR STUDIO 
Sok.B.n:l.lN4f1.ll1 
for women and children 25% off for students 


ey11 

Participate in an Experiment at Notre Dame 

For more info please visit http:ffw\ftv.nd.edu/-interact 


Pvr~~l-'., P~y PlA;vy~ 
App0-' t-o-Stt-uiy Abr~iA~VS~ f.Jl~co-; 
2008-9 
PUEBLA, MEXICO 
Fall semester pre-med program Spring semester genera! program INTERNSHIPS 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
Business and Engineering courses available Beginning Spanish courses offered Business and Engineering, INTERNSHIPS 
INFORMATION SESSION 
":;J;' 

Tuesday, September 18, 5:30PM
"!!:' 

202 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15, 2007 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: http://www.nd.edu/rvois 

-
-
------------~-----­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 17, 2007 
MEN'S TENNIS 
All five frosh win in college debuts 

NO looks sharp in its season openers against Miami and Alabama 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Spons Writer 
Notre Dame opened their fall season on the road Thursday at the Olympia FieIds/Ill ini Invitational in Chicago, Ill. 
Five new faces made their

-
freshman debut for the Irish on the first day of the Olympia Fields/Illini Invitational Thursday in Chicago -all of them won. The Irish opened their sea­son winning six of their first seven singles matches against Miami. Freshmen David Anderson, Tyler Davis, Daniel Stahl, Stephen Havens and Matt Johnson each took home a wing against the Hurricanes. Anderson played a tough match that went three sets but earned the win with a score of 6-4, 2-6, 6-0 over Miami's Vivek Surbramanian. Davis earned his first win for the Irish over JC Whitner by a score of 6-4, 6-4, while Stahl wasted little time defeat­ing Barnabas Carrega 6-1, 6· 
2. Havens also won 6-2, 6-2 over Hector Nieto. .Johnson rounded out thf\ five freshmen wins, lopping Wnstin Wendt 6­
3, (J-1. 
Andrew Hoth was forced to retire af'tnr an ankln injury at 5-5 in his singles match. Brett Helgeson defeated David
.. Hosnnfnld h-2. 6-1 . T lw I r is h a I so won s i x oI' tlwir 10 doubles matches in tho opening round. No. 32­rankl~d Sheeva Parbhu and Hoth split their two matches. The duo dropped their first 
match 8-5, then bounced back to finish the day with an 8-6 victory. 
The freshman duo of Stahl 
and Johnson finished the first 
day undefeated, winning 8-4, 
doubles teams split their 
matches Thursday. 
After their great start to the tournament the Irish faced a tough opponent in Alabama Friday. 
Helgeson upset No. 44 Billy Mertz in a three-set match. Helgeson dropped the first set 7-5, but bounced back to fin­ish Mertz off 6-3, 7-5 in his second match of the day. In his first match, Helgeson defeated Javier Bes by a score of 6-3, 7-5. 
Parbhu split his two matches of the day, losing his first match against Mertz 6-1, 6-0. Parbhu rolled over Bes 6-4, 6­3. 
Anderson and Santiago Montoya also split both of their matches. Anderson dropped his first match against Mathieu Thibaudeau 6-4, 6-4. However, he picked up his first win of the day in a three-set victory over Saketh Myeni. 
Montoya defeated Westin Wendt of Miami in a tough match 6-2, 4-6, 6-1. Montoya preceded to drop the first set of his second match against Dan Buikema 6-0, then came back to win the second set 7­5, and the third in a super tie­breaker 10-8. 
The rookies will get their first chance to show off at home when Notre Dame returns this weekend for the Tom Fallon Invitational. The three-day tournament gets started Friday afternoon at the lick Center. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabare@nd.edu 






Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S GOLF 
Split squads both finish well in first weekend 
earned him a tie for 20th.
Irish tie for fourth in 
Freshman Connor Alan-Lee Gopher Invite, take (7 4-70-80) provided a spark for the Irish in his collegiatesecond with B squad debut, and was tied for ninth overall at even par after the first two rounds. Alan-Lee's
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
final round 80 dropped him
Sporrs Writer into a tie for 26th. Junior Josh Sandman (79­Notre Dame began its season 73-80), who averaged a score with two impressive perform­of 73.91 last season for the ances this weekend, finishing Irish, finished last of the Notre in a tie for fourth at the Dame golfers in a tie for 39th. Gopher Invitational and sec­Senior Eddie Peckels (75-80­ond at the Rutgers 76) finished tied for 37th of 60 Invitational. competitors. Notre Dame teed off at Lamar University, No. 16 in Spring Hill Golf Club Saturday the Golf World/Nike Coaches for the first two rounds of the Poll. took first place of the Gopher Invitational, hosted by twelve teams with a total of the University of Minnesota. 868 (+4). Arkansas and The Irish started strong, Wisconsin tied for second with shooting rounds of 294 (+6) scores of 890, and Indiana and and 291 (+3), good enough for Notre Dame tied for fourth third place. The team trailed with marks of 891. The top leader Lamar University by individual players were nine shots entering the final Lamar's Casey Clendenon and round, and was just two Wisconsin's Danny strokes behind second-place Zimmerman, who each shot Wisconsin. one-under totals of 215. The Irish struggled under While half of the Irish team tougher conditions Sunday, competed in Minnesota, the however, shooting a final Notre Dame B Team traveled round 306 ( + 18) to finish tied to New Jersey for .the Rutgers freshmen Jeff Chen and Dustin Ocampo and Kyle Willis shot Classic, hosted at the Warren for fourth. Leading the team Invitational. The team finished Zhang, who each shot six-over totals of 222 and 225, good for Golf Course Sept. 30-0ct. 2. was senior captain Greg second out of eighteen teams totals of 219 to finish in a ties at 18th and 32nd places No members of the team or Rodgers (69-74-76), whose 3-in the event with an eighteen­three-way tie for eighth. respectively. Only six strokes coaching staff were available over par total tied him for sev­over par 870. The University Sophomore Olavo Batista fin­separated the first and last for comment following the enth individually. Second of South Carolina-Upstate ished one shot behind the Irish players in a very strong tournament. among the Irish was sopho­defeated the Irish by 15 shots freshman tandem with a score team performance. more Doug Fortner (76-76-to take first place. of 220, tied for 11th. Next up for Notre Dame is Contact Michael Bryan at 74), whose consistent play The B Team was led by Sophomores Carl Santos-the Fighting Irish Gridiron mbryan@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 1 s Catholic Culture Series 
Shakespeare and Catholicism 
Will the Real Shakespeare Please Stand Up? Evidence for the Bard•s Catholicism 
Joseph Pearce 
Writer in Residence, Ave Maria Uhiversity ­
Tuesday, September 1 8 DeBartolo Hall Room 155 8:0 0 PM 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 11 Cracking the Shakespeare Code 11 
Peter Holland,President of the Shakespeare Society of America and Professor at the University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, October 2, 2007 11 The Audacity of Shakespeare•s Non-Recusant Catholicism 11 
john Finnis, Professor of Law and Legal Philosophy, University of Notre Dame Law School 
Tuesday, October 9, 2007 11 Shakespeare•s Dark Matter 11 
Clare Asquith, Independent Scholar and Author of Shadowplay: The Hidden Beliefs and Coded Politics of William Shakespeare 
All Lectures occur in DeBartolo 155 at 8:00PM 
For more information go to ethicscenter.nd.edu 
Also Coming 



page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 17, 2007 
N D CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish sweep Catholic Championships again 
Men win 19th title and women get 14th in annual home race 
By KATE ARNOLD Sports Wri1er 
The Irish once again earned bragging rights on Friday after­noon at the 28th annual National Catholic: Championship, held at Notre Dame's Burke Golf Course. Both the men's and women's teams eaptured the first place title over the 35 Division I teams competing. 
Notre Dame ha<; a rich history of success at the National Catholic: Championship. The men's team has won 19 raees, 17 of them within the last 20 years, while the women's team has won 14 of the last 16 titles. 
The women's team was espe­cially suceessful, daiming five of the top seven spots. In her first collegiate race, freshman Marissa Treece took the gold with a time of 17:24, 20 seconds ahead of the field 
Tn1ece didn't have to wait long at the l"inish line to celebrate with her teammates. Sophomore Lindsey Ferguson finished next for the Irish in fourth plaee over­a11(17:49). 
Freshman Theresa Cattuna (18:03), senior Ann Mazur, and sophomore Beth Tad were right behind Ferguson finishing fifth, sixth, and seventh. 
The men's team also continued their domination against all other teams, but they do not take their success for granted. 
"It's always a challenge," men's head coach Joe Piane said. "Two years ago we lost to Duquesne." 
All five Notre Dame runners fmished in the top ten spots. 
Finishing first for the Irish was freshman Dan Jackson. 14 seconds Vaselik (25:32). They finished fifth, ninth, and tenth, respective­ly. 

Both teams chose to run in packs this week, a strategy that certainly paid off. 
Jackson and Springer were neck and neck for the entire race, and the other team mem­bers stayed together as a pack for the first three miles. 
"It's the best way to run cross 
country," Piane 
said. "It intimi­
dates the other 

behind the "They're quality, team." first-place quality kids, strong as The Irish will 
runner, have two weeks to
an ox and love to
Jackson took prepare for their second of 242 compete." next competition, runners with the Notre Dame a time of Invitational,
Joe Piane 

24:50. scheduled for
Irish coach
Coming in only three seconds after Jackson, freshman Paul Springer placed third overall. 
Paine was excited about the freshmen joining the team, and looks forward to continued excel­lence. 
"I thought Jackson and Springer would be up there," he said. "They came in as some of the best runners in the country. They're quality, quality kids, strong as an ox and love to com­pete." 
Next followed senior Brett Adams (25:17), senior Mike Popejoy (25:29), and junior Kevin Friday, September 

28 at 4:15. 

The coaches 
look forward to another successful meet, with times comparable to this week­end's. 
"They'll continue to run these times, even though this course was especially fast. The course has the elevation of a pool table,", Plane said. "These next meets will be really demanding. The Notre Dame Invitational will be hard, and the Pre-National meet harder still, and so on through the NCAAs." 
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 



LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2008 & SPRING 2009 w·e(lnesday, September 19, 2007 101 :DeBartolo 6:00 ptn 
SOPHOMORES FROM AI~L COLI~EGES ARE WELCOME! 

-

Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
awful, it was tough to
did not prac­throw-in after And Notre Dame's offensive 
tice all week watch." Princeton was pressure did not stop after the 
because of a unable to clear goal. The Irish forced
SMC GOLF 
hip injury, it. Oklahoma State junior goalie
Randy Waldrum 
scored twice The Irish Erin Stigler to make several 
Irish coach 
and notched an needed 15 shots diving saves as the clock ran 
Napa 
continued from page 28 
Rounding out the lineup will be sophomore Annie Brophy, who tied for No. 27 and third on the squad with 
her six-over par "We have a lot of 222 (75-74-73) 
confidence now. 
at the Cougar 
Everyone played 
Classic. 
Notre Dame is riding a wave of confidence and momentum after last week's win in South Carolina. 
"It's huge to open the season like we did," Holt said. "We have a lot of confidence now. Everyone played well. I'm really excited to tee off and see what kind of success we can have. The team wants to 
assist in the
O'Brien ties record for 
win. 

"One thing with Cinalli is you know you're always going to get a
lowest round with 74 
Senior leads the way as Belles finish 15th at Illinois-Wesleyan 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
Senior captain Katie O'Brien once again led the way for the Belles in a tournament this weekend, but this time she set records. 
The Belles finished 15th in the 21-team field with a two­day score of 688 ( + 112) at the Illinois Wesleyan Fall Classic. 
O'Brien shot an 84 on Saturday and followed it up with a 7 4 on Sunday, giving her a total score of 158 (+14), good enough for 13th among all individuals in the tourna­ment. 
Her 7 4 ties the record set by Stefanie Simmerman for the best round by a golfer in Saint Mary's history. O'Brien's record-tying performance comes on the heels of first­place individual finishes at each of the first two MIAA jamborees. 
The Dearborn, Mich. native was named to the MIAA All­Conference second team after last fall. She finished tied for 24th in the MIAA Tournament. 
O'Brien was 13 strokes off the pace of overall leader Katie Tewell of Franklin in this weekend's contest. 
Southern Indiana finished first with a score of 619 (+43). Three of the top five individ­ual scorers were Salukis. Rounding out the top five on the team leaderboard were SIU Edwardsville, Wisconsin­Stevens Point, St. Ambrose and host Illinois Wesleyan. 
The Belles ended round one in 17th place after shooting a team score of 355. The 22 ­stroke improvement from Saturday to Sunday allowed Saint Mary's to move up two more spots in the team stand­ings. 
The Belles also had good 
from their 
well.·~ 

Susan Holt Irish coach 
go to Louisville and back up 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER
the w.~Y they performed last week. 
" ... As a team, we try to set high goals. This victory allows them to realize that they can 
Irish split at home tourney
achieve what they set their 
minds to." 
able to build up a strong bond Irish senior captain Amanda with each other. In a season, 
Cinalli did not start but, uponthere are highs and lows, and 
entering the game, wasted lit­I know that this bond will get 
tle time in lift­ing her team to Contact Lorenzo Reyes at 
a victory over lreyes@nd.edu 
Princeton. The she hammered the exact spot that Strawser's
"The back line was
midfielder, who a Weisenhoffer first-half goal ended up. 
great effort," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "That's what you want out of your
Michelle Hird had the second team." 
best score for the Belles, a 
Princeton drew first blood in 
29-over-par 173. Her class­
the match, scoring in the 22nd mate Rosie O'Connor fired a minute, but the Irish respond­
176 and Emily Gore shot a ed immediately. Three min­
184 to finish in fifth for Saint 
utes after Tigers freshman Mary's. Junior Meredith forward Alexandra Valerio 
Fantom shot a 183 to come in 
scored off of a corner kick,fourth place for the Belles, 
Cinalli came into the game. It one stroke ahead of Gore. 
took her just 51 seconds to 
MIAA rival Olivet was also 
put the Irish on the score­
in the field. They placed sixth board. 
overall with an 81-over-par 
Cinalli ripped a shot from 
657. After two MIAA jam­the top of the box into the 
borees, Saint Mary's sits sec­right corner, just beyond the ond in the conference stand­
reach of Tigers goalkeeperings, only 14 strokes behind 
Maren Dale. 
Olivet. 
The game remained tied If O'Brien keeps up this 
until early in the second half level of play, the Belles should when Notre Dame sophomore
be able to make a run at 
forward Michele Weissenhofer 
Olivet in the coming weeks. 
headed home a corner kick 
The Belles will be back in from junior forward Kerri 
action in the third MIAA jam­Hanks. 
boree of the season Sept. 25 With just over 30 minutes 
at Alma. 
left in the match, Hanks added a goal of her own on a free Contact Chris Doyen at kick. She knocked the ball into 
cdoyen@nd.edu 
the left side of the net, just out 
Femicide at: Border:
our US 
To Be a Woman 1n Juarez 1s a Deat:h sent:ence 
··~N::;·::· 

"Expanding the Cros!i~ads · 
And though 

Notre Dame loses to Oklahoma St. after beating Princeton Friday
the Irish are 
going about their season in a very busi­

By FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writer ner, Holt said, they are still 
nesslike man­

Notre Dame had to playenjoying them­
from behind in each of its selves. 
games this weekend, and split
"They're hav­

a pair of games in the Inn at ing a lot of fun," 
Saint Mary's Classic. Holt said. "They've been 
Notre Dame 4, Princeton 2 
of Dale's reach. "The back line was awful," 
Princeton, meanwhile, was Waldrum said. "It was tough unable to produce much to take." offense in the second half but The Irish offense responded scored on a free kick from 30 with constant pressure of its yards out with 14:53 remain­own but headed into halftime ing in the game. Tigers junior still trailing. midfielder Jen Om knocked a The Irish began the second looping drive past Irish senior half as they had ended the goalkeeper Lauren Karas, first and finally broke through who stood motionless and did for a goal with just over 22 not appear to see the ball minutes to play. After sopho­clearly. more midfielder Courtney 
But Cinalli eliminated all Rosen was fouled while mak­doubt about the ing a run, Hanks drilled the result of the ensuing free kick into the top match when left corner of the net, almost 
to muster the down in regulation. four goals, a "We clearly dominated," stat with which Waldrum said. "We should 
Waldrum was unsatisfied. have scored five in the second 
"To be honest, the only thing half." I was happy about was that But it was the Cowgirls who we won," Waldrum said. "The struck quickly in overtime, offense played well except for scoring 79 seconds into the finishing." action. 
The Irish were unable to Oklahoma State 2 clear the ball out of their zone Notre Dame 1 when Oklahoma State sopho­
Despite outshooting the No. more midfielder Kasey 
16 Cowgirls 20-6, several sloppy defen­
"We clearly

sive plays cost 
dominated, we should
the Irish dearly in the team's have scored five in second over­
the second half" 
time loss of the year. 
Randy Waldrum 
The Irish 

dominated Irish coach Oklahoma State early, 
keeping the ball in their win of the tournament. 
attacking third of the field for "In that situation, you just 
nearly the entire first half. But have to get the ball out," 
in the 16th minute, Oklahoma Waldrum said. "The smart 
State sophomore midfielder thing to do would have been 
Siera Strawser stole the ball to kick the ball out of bounds. 
from Irish sophomore defend­When you do things like that, 
er Amanda Clark and beat you're going to lose games." ­
freshman goalkeeper Nikki 
Weiss to give the Cowgirls the Contact Fran Tolan at 
lead. ftolan@nd.edu 
L a n g d o n crossed the ball into the goal­mouth. After Weiss knocked the ball down, Cowgirls senior midfielder Sasa Jackson ham­mered it home to give her team the victo­ry and its first 
performances freshman class to boost the 
team's _sc.ore.. Eieshma.u ...1---------------------------------------------------'!'!'!!....... 
... page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 17, 2007 
Broncos 
continued from page 28 
although Stasiuk matehed her season best record with 14 kills and 21 digs, the Irish wnre unablP to hold ofT the 
ol'f'nnsivn  altaeks  of  the  
Gauehos.  
Santa  Barbara's  Lauren  

Md.aughlin and Hebecea Sanu:nno had 21 and 17 kills, rnspnetivnly. Th1~ (;auehos fin­islwd the tournament with wins ovnr both Santa Clara and the Irish. 
ThP Irish fought through l'i vn ganws and eventually lost in a dosn rnateh to No. II California to start the tournanwnt Saturday. Dnspitn dominating the l'irst two games. the Irish fell 3-2 (23­:HJ, 24-:{0, 30-2S, :{0-24, 15­
11) to the Goldnn Bears. Thn Irish oiTensP was led by Phillips and Stasiuk. who each had 13 kills, while jun­ior Justine Stremiek and sophomore Megan Fesl each earrwd 12. 
"This tournament was a good nxpPriPIH:e for us," Brown told und.eom. "We WIH'e puslwd in nvery match that we playPd, and eaeh one made us a IH'ltPr tmun. After starling out 0-2, you nnnd to havn strong l'haractnr and a strong will to 1·ome out and gPL it d01w, and that's what WP WPrP aiJ)p to do." 
Tlw Irish will bngin thnir confnn'IH'.n sPason play with a 4-(, rncord whPn tlwy travel to Pittsburgh nnxt. weekend. Last s1mson the Irish fp)J :{-1 to t.lw l'antlwrs. Tlw Panthnrs hold an overall season reeord of 5-5. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
Vaccaro 
continued from page 28 
utes to give the Belles the deeisive 3-0 lead. Sophomore defender Jessiea Slean assisted Durkin's sec­ond goal. 
The Belles defensive unit once again operated on all cylinders, allowing Mount Mnrey to register only six shots. Senior Amy Mahollf~Y made three savns and was relieved by freshman Kristin IOwa in the S3rd minute. 
Saint Mary's recorded 20 shots, eight ol' which were on goal. The B1~lles also had a 7-2 edge on corner kicks, something with whieh they had strugglnd with last week in a loss to llope College. 
Sunday against North Central, 90 minutns of regu­lation and a 20-minute over­time left the teams scoreless. The Belles had a 13-7 advantage in shots and a 5-2 advantage in corner kieks but eould not take advantage ol' the gap. Mahoney was perfeet yet again, notching her fifth shutout in six starts on the season. 
Bridget Honayne, lledinger, Hart, l'n~shman Lauren Eaton and junior Mandy Thomson made their penalty kicks for Saint Mary's, and goal keeper Amy Mahoney made a save to give the team the win. 
"We don't offieially prac­tice shootouts as a team until wn get elose to thn postseason," Belles coaeh 

Traynor 
continued from page 28 
and he would be out there every day with a bag of balls working on set pieces," Clark said. "Don't be surprised il' lw gets a few more before the end of the season." 
Notre Dame was in control of the mateh for most of the night, out-shooting the Golden Eagles 6-3 in the first half and 14-6 for the game. The Irish also held a 4-3 edge in corner kicks. 
Despite the statistical advan­tage, there were a few tense moments in the second half for Notre Dame. Early in the half, Marquette played a through­ball, and Irish keeper Andrew Quinn came off his line to dear with his feet. The Golden Eagles best ehance came in the 84th minute when Irish mid­fielder Matt Armstrong inad­vertently played the ball back­wards to Marquette's Dan Addis, who shot just wide of Quinn's goal from 18 yards out. 
"There were a couple of times in the second half when 
[Marquette! snmnnd to find a spot through," Clark said. "We controlled the game pretty well, but we always felt a dan­ger there, especially when it was 1-0." 
Quinn, who recorded two saves, pieked up his first win of the season in his second start. The junior goalkeeper got the nod in plaee of senior Chris Cahill who was nursing a quadriceps injury that ham­pered him throughout last weekend's Mike Berticelli Mmnorial Tournament. 
"Chris wasn't able to kick the ball properly, so we decided to give him a rest," Clark said. "Quinn did everything that was asked of him. It's very niee to have backups who can play well." 
The win brings Notre Dame's record to 3-1-1 on the season and 1-0-0 in Big East play in what was the opening eonfor­ence game for both toams. The Irish will travel to Piscataway, N.J., this Friday to take on Hutgers in a game that will b1~ televised on Fox Socc(~r Chanllfd. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

VANESSA GEMPISfThe Obse!Ver 
Junior defender Jack Traynor slide tackles Rhode Island's Steve 
Caryn MacKenzie said. "But we stepped up well, and Amy 
took  care  of one  shooter,  
whieh  was  all  we  asked her  
to do."  

The returning Belles were happy to avenge the 1-0 loss they suffered against North Central in the 2006 tourna­ment. 
"We talked about remem­bering how we felt after that game last year." MacKenzie said. "But we fought to get to PKs and got the win." 
The games were the final non-conference tests for the Belles. The team starts league play Saturday when 

they host M IAA foe Kalamazoo. The week off should allow junior Lauren Hinton, and last season's leading seorer, to get healthy enough to make her return and bring the Belles one step eloser to full strength. 
''I'm pleased with our effort everywhere," MacKenzie said. "Our play­ers who have filled in have done well, and we're confi­dent no matter who is out there on the field." 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
KRISTY KINGfThe Obse!Ver 

Sophomore midfielder Katy Durkin goes after a loose ball during a 2-1 loss to Albion Sept. 6, 2006 at Saint Mary's. 
Mellen during Notre Dame's 3-0 win Sept. 7 at Alumni Field. 
Lessons in percussion, drum set, timpai, and mallets 
For information call 


DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across Do very well (at) 6 Alabama march 
city 11 U.K. channel 14 Pope before 
PauiV,whose papacy lasted less than four weeks 
15 Loud. as a stadium crowd 16 Yahoo! competitor 
17 Result of hitting the pause button on a movie 
1 9 Dundee denial 20 Have concern 21 Authoritative 
order 23 Vegetarian's protein source 26 Volcanic 
emission 28 The "B" in L.B.J. 29 Hall-of-Fame QB 
Johnny 31 Enzyme suffix 33 Low-lying area 
34 Uncovers 35 Chief Pontiac's tribe 37 Coast Guard 
rank: Abbr. 38 Extra 40 Nightwear. 
briefly 43 Buses and trains 45 "Honest to goodness!" 
47 Sit for a picture 
49_compos mentis 50 Try hard 51 Book size 53 NNE's opposite 55 Part of a list 56 Chatty birds 58 ''The Censor" of 
ancient Rome 60 Tire pressure meas. 61 Old-time songwriters' locale 66 "Horrors!" 67 Online birthday greeting, e.g. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

68 Go out 69 Go blonde, say 70 Seized vehicles, 
for short 
71 Channel with cameras in the Capitol 
Down North Pole toymaker 2 Generation (thirty­something) 3 Cedar Rapids college 4 Carry out, as an assignment 5 Multitalented 
Minnelli 6 Bank fixtures 7 Goof up 8 Rich soil 9 "Goldilocks" 
character 1 0 Football bowl site 11 Dairy Queen offering 
12 Overnight accommodations by the shore 
13John who starred in "A Fish Called Wanda" 
18 Times on a timeline 22 Temperamental performer 23 TV, slangily, with "the" 24_empty stomach 25 Attack before 
bemg attacked 27 Millinery accessories 
WILLSHORTZ 


puzzle by Allan E. Parrish 

30 "The Thin Man" 46 Baltimore nine 57 Jacket fastener canine 
47 Like some 59 After-bath 

32 "Immediately," in balloons, powderthe O.R. 
questions and 
35 buco 62 Con's opposite 
corn 36 Departed 

48 Playwright Sean 
63 Nascar unit 39 Having been 

50 Ugly duckling, warned eventually' 64 Longoria of 41 Hepcat's talk 
"Desperate

52 Person in a 
Housewives"

42 Appear to be polling booth 44 Derriere 54 A whole slew 65 Desire 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute: or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

\Vhen talking to the 
Ifyou don't win, you media, don't be bitter 

probably should have, but don't forget to 
and somebody screwed Inention you are a hard-working black man and han· the #I 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. to form four ordinary words. 
BOUMG 
J 
I I [ (] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
PRAAT 
[ J I 
lu

tHORKES 
] [] 
www.jumble.com

tCADETH I 
I J I [ J 



--~ 
'NHA.T 'T1-€ UtiBI<a.LA SALE:SMAN DID DURING TH~ RAIN­STORM. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: HE 

"[I I I I I J" rrI I J. 
(Arswers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: SPURN HIKER KITTEN QUAINT Yesterday's Answer·. 
The first thing a teenager will do-­TURN THIRTEEN 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Madeline Zima, 22; Aleltis Bledel, 26; 
-
Tina Barrett, 31; Jennifer Tilly, 49 
Happy Birthday: Don't let your personal life cause you to make professional or edu­cational mistakes. Base choices and decisions on necessity, not emotions_ Use your bead and your charm to manipulate situations so you get what you want. Your num· bers are 6,10,19,23,42,47 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Money will come from an unusual source_ A creative idea will pay off. Travel may be a must but make your plans carefully_ Aggressive action may lead you in the wrong direction. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Discussions will help clear up pending issues. Money will change hands but watch for signs of someone trying to take advantage of you. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Love will lead you in a new direction. Trying new things or changing your surroundings to accommodate your new set of circumstances will have its benefits and setbacks. Don't overreact. Instead, express love and under· standing_ 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Look for an opening to make a change. Getting to­gether with friends or family will help you see the truth. Reevaluate your motives and determine how you can make amends with someone you have thought wrongly of in the past. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Think twice before you do something that may hurt the ones who love. Protect your home, family and friends from anyone who may try to take advantage of what you have. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Think about what's really important to you -the people, places and things you love the most -and make them the most important part of your day. The conversations you have today will be important in the future. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Money may be on your mind but most important is the realization that you can make changes to help you move into a be·:ter lifestyle, posi lion or mindset. Don't be afraid to take a direction that is a little bit unusual. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Everything is changing but don't worry. The end result is looking good_ A serious approach to something you've wanted to do for a long 
-
time will turn it into a reality. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Not everything will be out ill. the open so, before you say what's on your mind, think again_ Let someone else mak·~ the changes or comments and you will reap the rewards of silence_ 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can start making plans for the upcoming week. Money is in the picture and deals can be put into place. You can <:xpect the changes you've been pushing for to go through, putting you in a very cushy position. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't take life or comments mad<~ by others too seri­ously. For now, look at the positive influences in your life and be grateful for what you've got Think about where you see yourself and in no time you will be there. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Work on something creative or discuss your ideas with someone who can help you legally or financially_ Preparation and well-thought -out plans will drive your ideas to the next level. Take stock of what y011 have to offer. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are powerful, original and quick to react. Y:lu have a strong will and are a participant, unwilling to let life pass you by. You are emotional and sensitive. 
.:: 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 17, 2007 
MEN'5 SOCCER 
Redemption goal 
Traynor's score lifts Irish over Marquette in conference opener 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
Notrn Damn defender Jack Traynor didn't wait long to atone for last week's mistake. 
One week al'ter a red eard forced him to sit out Notre Dame's l-1 tie with Northern Illinois, Traynor was back in the lineup Saturday night, scoring Notre Dame's only goal in a 1-0 vil~tory over Marquette at Valley Fi1dds. 
"It was a little bit of naive­nnss mixed with a littl11 bit of bad luck." Irish coach Bobby Clark said of Traynor's red card against Hhode Island. "Tiw punishnwnt of him sitting out last wt>nk was rnon1 than nnough, and he was ready to go." 
Tlw goal -Traynor's first in an Irish uniform -earnn in llw ninth rninut1~ o!T of a lhw­kil~k. Standing thir·ty-fivn yards !'rom thP Marquettn goal, Traynor struck a hard ball that k n u e kI11 d o v 11 r tlw kn n p n r · s IJI'ad into th11 b;u:k of the net !'or what would bn thn only goal of the match. 
"Jack was hnrn this sumnwr, 
see TRAYNOR/page 26 


page 28 
---====== 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles vvin tourney in Naperville 
Team uses penalty kicks to win trophy 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's continued its successful run-up to the MIAA schedule by winning the Sal Vaccaro tournament at North Central College in Naperville, Ill. 
The Belles, with sophomore forward Mieki Bedinger baek from injury, defeated Mount Mercy 3-0 Saturday. Thn fol­lowing day, Saint Mary's defeated North Cnntral on penalty kicks (0-0, 5-3). The Belles' record now stands at 4-1-2. 
Against Mount Mercy, frnshman forward Corissa Hart got things startPd for thP Belles, seoring in the 20th minute oiT a pass from sophomore Katie Wehrli. 
Sophomore midl'inlder Katy Durkin had a breakout per­formance, scoring the first two goals of her collegiate career in a span of 12 min-
see VACCARO/page 26 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Phillips leads Irish to victory 
Notre Dame upsets
-
No. 22 Santa Clara Oil the road Sunday 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Although the Irish lost more than tlwy won this wPnknnd at the Bronco Invitational in Santa Clara. Calif'.. they still a e co m pIi s h.n d 1111 n o f t lw i r major goals. 
"llopdully wn can pull ofT a r.ouple of UpSI'I.S this Wnt~k­11 n d • " s n n io r c a pt a i n Adrianna Stasiuk said Friday. 
Thn Irish won their first match or thn tournament Sunday. upsetting No. 22 Santa Clara :~-2 (30-1 <J, 15­:w. 2H-:~o. 31-29. 15-111. Thn Irish worn lnd by sophomorn outsidn hitter Snrinity Phillips and freshman middle blocker Kellin Sciacca. Phillips led the team with I 8 kills, while Seiaeca had 16 of her own and a .625 kill percentage. The duo had nine and six 
f 
digs, respeetively. 
The Broncos star play1;r, Krista Kellny, had 25 kills, but tho Irish worked together as a team and played solid defense that allowed them to win the close match. The 
Broncos went 0-3 while host­ing the tournament. 
''We showed a tremendous amount of heart today," Irish coach Debbie Brown told und.com. "It really was a total team effort. We played a lot of different people and went with several different lineups. Everyone was called upon to step their game up, 


and they did so at different points throughout the match." 
The Irish began the week­end Friday afternoon when they battled and lost 3-1 (30­22, 27-30, 30-28, 30-22) to UC Santa Barbara. The team won the first game and 
see BRONCOS/page 25 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Napa Cup starts in Louisville today 
Irish face SEC, C-USA clubs in tournament 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame isn't looking at the Jield. It's looking at itself. 
After beginning their season with a tournament victory, the Irish are looking to make a statement today at the Napa Hiver Grill Cardinal Cup in Louisville, Ky. The tourna­ment, hosted by the Louisville, is a two-day event. The event will feature several teams from the Big East, SEC and Conference USA. 
"Whenever we get ready for a tournament, we know we are going to face some tough competition," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "We're not looking to go out there and beat specific teams. We want to go and beat the golf course and compete to the best of our ability." 
Notre Dame's lineup will feature Sophomore Kristin Wetzel shooting from the No. 
1 spot. Wetzel finished tied for No. 42 at last week's Cougar Classic when she l'ired a 225 (76-75-74). 
The second spot belongs to frnshman Katie Conway. In her first collegiate action, Conway put up a scorn of 231 (78-75-78) plaeing her in a tie for No. 64. 
Fellow fr~~sh man So -II y u n Park will tee off from tlw third spot. The rookie fired a three­under-par 213 (70-69-741 in hnr debut at the Cougar Classic. 
''I'm not surprised at all," llolt said of Park's early sue­cess. " ... She doesn't put any pressure on herself on the course. She just goes out thorn and knows what she has to do, and executes." 
Junior Lisa Maunu fared even better last week. The veteran co-captain, who will shoot fourth for the Irish, set program records for the low­est round of golf with her opening-round six-under-par 66, and the lowest total for a three-round tournament with a six-under 210 (66-74-70). 
see NAPA/page 25 

ER NSIDER 
O
THE 
BSERVER Fall Career Expo 2007 
The Mendoza College of Business and The Career Center Present 
***** 
FALLCAREER 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-
page 2 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, September 17, 2007 

1. Compose a resume that markets your background and skills 
• 
Visit The Career Center in 248 Flanner Hall during walk-in hours from I -4:45pm daily for a 15 min utes resume review 

• 
Stop by "Resume on the Run" every Tuesday in September from I I :30 am -I :30 pm in the Dooley Room, LaFortune 


2. Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 
• 
Detennine your objectives for attending 

• 
Review the list ofcompanies attending the fair on GoiRISH and your "Top I0" list of companies to visit 

• 
Review the position descriptions on Go!RISH 

• 
Visit company websites and review mission state­ments, annual reports, and new products or services 

• 
Develop and refine networking, relationship­building skills 

• 
Develop your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Hello, I'm ..( introduce yow·sell: your year and major, and interest in industry/career field) 

• 
Your company is ..( demonstrate knowledge of company) 

• 
I'm interested because ..( explain your interest in company) 

• 
I can ..( match your skills with their needs) 




3. What to do the day of the fair 
• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies of your resume in a portfolio/folder to Gate 3 of the Joyce Center 

• 
Scan your ID when you enter 

• 
Review the map ofemployer booths and take a bag for "giveaways" 

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experienced representatives 

• 
Demonstrate contidence and enthusiasm in de­livering your "Thirty Second Message" 

• 
Ask the representative how to sign up for an in­terview (i.e. "After reviewing your company in­formation and the position, I am interested in speaking with you or one of your colleagues fur­ther. How can I obtain a slot on your interview schedule at The Career Center?") 

• 
Obtain the representative's business card 


4. Following the fair 
• Within 3 days of the fair, send an email thank­you to the recruiters with companies of interest from which you collected business cards 

Business Formal Attire 
Men: 
• 
Wear a suit-Jacket and trousers are neces­sary. Dark, solid colors are best (black, navy, dark gray). 

• 
Wear a pressed white or blue collared shirt. 

• 
Be sure your shoes are polished. A void wearing gym shoes. 

• 
Choose a tie that compliments your suit. Be fairly conservative with the pattern. 

• 
It is key to have your clothing pressed! 

• 
A void wearing white socks. Choose dark colors to match your suit. 

• 
Have your hair well-groomed, trimmed, and brushed. 

• 
Try to not go too heavy on the cologne. 


Women: 
• 
Wear a suit with a jacket and skirt or pants. Try to wear conservative colors. It is impor­tant to not stand out for the wrong reasons 

(i.e. a skirt too short or an inappropriate color such as fuchsia). 

• 
Choose a collared shirt or top with a modest neckline. A void tank tops or camisoles. 

• 
Be sure your shoes are polished. 

• 
Light perfume is a nice touch (the key word being light). 

• 
Wear a hairstyle that is neat and well­groomed. A void fly a ways or hair blocking your eyes. 


FYI: 
• 
Know the industry your targeting and the expected dress within that industry. Some industries such as banking and finance gen­erally expect business formal. 

• 
Younger students and those targeting other industries may not need to wear a suit, but should be wearing business casual attire. 

• 
What is business casual attire? 

• 
Dress/casual slacks 

• 
Skirts or tailored dresses 

• 
Collared or polo-styled shirts 

• 
Sweaters/sweater sets 

• 
Polished dress shoes (no flip flops or tennis shoes) 




Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER page 3 
If you obtain an interview the day following the fair, are you prepared? Follow these steps and you are well on your wayto landing that job or internship. 
Begin by reviewing your resume 
+ Use the STAR technique +
• Think about the skills you want to highlight and how 
+ to help you answer behavioral questions +
you developed them. Be specific. Explain a prob­
lem you encountered, how the problem was solved •+ SnliATION-Class project, student activity~ volunteer experience, job •+ and describe the results. 
• •+
+ TASK ~ Goal. problem to be solved, improvement to be made 
Research the organization and the position 
• Review the companies & position descriptions on •+ AcTION -Planning & implementing to reach goal, problem solving used •+ GoiRISH 
To view all companies that are attending the fair: • RESlJLT ~The outcome influences chanaes •
.-.
. , "' 

1. 
Login to GoiRISH 

2. 
Click on Events Tab 

3. 
Click on Fall Career Expo Tab to view participat­ing employers and general posting infonnation 


Review potential interview questions and come up To view job postings: with possible answers using examples 
I. Why are you interested in our organization? 
1. Login to GoiRISH 
2. What work experience has been the most valuable to you and why? 
,., Click on GoiRISH Jobs 
3. Give an example of a problem you have solved and the process you used.
In the "Keywords" search, enter FCE07 
4. Describe a situation in which you had a conflict with another individual and how you dealt with it. 
• 
Visit company websites and review mission state­5. What idea have you developed and implemented that was particularly ments, annual repot1s, and new products or services creative or innovative? 

6. How did you choose to attend Notre Dame and how did you select your major(s) in ? 

• 
Utilize online resources available to you via TheCa­


7. How do you think you have changed personally in the past (5) years? reer Center, the Business Information Center, and the 8. Tell me about a team project of which you are particularly proud and University Library your contribution. 
9. What types of situations put you under pressure and how do you deal 
The Vault Online Career Library with the pressure? https://careercenter2.nd.edu/cslibrary.php 
I 0. Describe a leadership role you have held and tell me why you committed your time to it. 
Contains insider company information, advice, and 
11 . What challenges are you looking for in a position?
career management services. Includes an extensive 
12. In thinking about a past position you have held, what did you do to make selection of career, industry, and employer guides 
your duties more effective or more challenging? and articles. 13. What three trends do you see in the future for our industry? 
14. Tell me about yourself. CareerSearch 
15. 
Why do you want to work in (career field)? 

16. 
What is your greatest strength/weakness and how will it affect your per­


https://careercenter2.nd.edu/cslibrary.php 
formance in this program'? 
Provides access to a networking database ofover 2 
17. Describe a team-oriented accomplishment in which you participated as a million companies nationwide. Search for informa­
member of the team. What did you lind to be the most difficult issue or tion on a particular company, industry, or location process in becoming a successthl team? using a variety of search options. 18. Have you ever received a grade lower than you expected? If so, what did you do about it? 
19. Describe one ofthe toughest competitive situations you have taced and 
Factiva -Co. news, financial infonnation, & more 
how you handled it.
http://www.library.nd.edu 
20. 
What are some of the most creative things you have done? Click on F 

21. 
What has been one of your greatest disappointments and how did you Select Factiva respond? 


Once in Factiva, select the Companies/Markets­22. Describe a time when you added value to an existing work process. Company Quick Search tab 23. What '<haracteristics do you think are important for this position? 
24. Describe a situation in which you were criticized and how you responded. 
Click on Company 
25. How has your education at Notre Dame prepared you tor this position? 
Type in the name 
26. What has been the biggest accomplishment in your life? 
27. Why should I hire you? Market Insight-Contains great industry information 
http://www.library.nd.edu Always prepare questions to ask the interviewer Click on M and Select Market Insight 
1. To what extent will! determine my work objectives? Once within Market Insight, select Industry from the 2. Describe the rotational training program associated with this position! top toolbar internship. What career paths have others generally followed after com­
pleting the program? 
From the pull down menu, click appropriate industry 
3. As an intern, what kind of projects will I receive? 
and select Go! 
4. 
What characteristics best describe individuals who are successful in this position? 

5. 
Where could a person advance who is successful in this position? Within what time frame? 

6. 
In what ways has this organization been most successtul in terms ofprod­


How do Notre Dame students 
perform during interviews? 
ucts/services over the past several years? 
7. How is job pertormance evaluated? 
According to a recent employer survey 
8. What has been the professional growth track for other students who have 
conducted, ND students 
been recruited by your company over the past 3-5 years? 
exhibited strengths in interviewing as far as confidence, 
9. How would you describe the culture ofyour organization? 
maturity. academic achievement, and 
I 0. If I work hard and prove my value to the company, where might I tinct 
extracurricular involvement. 
myself in five years? 
11. What is a typical work week for a (position) in your company? 
However, students need to have better 
12. Does your organization encourage its employees to pursue additional 
knowledge oforganizations, industries, and positions 
education?

during their interviews. 
13. 
What are the key business reasons driving the need for this position? 

14. 
Describe the three top challenges that I'll face in this job. 

15. 
What are the key deliverables and outcomes that this position must achieve? 

16. 
Describe the top three initiatives for your company/department and how this position is linked to these initiatives. 


The Career Center 
l'N!VI:'RSITY 0!' NOTRE DAME 
-----------------------------------------~~~--~-~~­
Monday, September 17, 2007 
page 4 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER 
Aon Corporation 

Aon is a global leader in risk management, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital consulting and outsourc­ing with more than 43,000 employees in more than 500 offices in 120 countries world­wide. We integrate customized services, leverage expertise across industries and apply busi­ness knowledge to our clients' strategic goals. Aon helps clients anticipate how change intersects with opportunity. Each of our clients has unique busi­ness needs, so we have devel­oped expertise for a complete range of business processes, products and industries. Aon's account and relationship man-agars form a comprehensive perspective of our clients' organi­zations, matching our expertise to their business strategy. 
Cancer Treatment Centers of America 
The Management Fellows Program at Cancer Treatment Centers of America 

If you're a senior looking for a career in business or healthcare, the Management Fellows 
Program at Cancer Treatment Centers of America (CTCA) might be right for you! CTCA is a private network of innovative cancer treatment hospitals with locations in Chicago, IL; Tulsa, OK; Philadelphia, PA; and soon to be in Phoenix, AZ. The Management Fellows Program is a two-year, full-time experiential development program that accel­erates managerial growth in indi­viduals with high potential and talent. Management Fellows undertake rotational assign­ments immersing themselves in a variety of business challenges and high-level organization dynamics. Rotations include hospital operations, finance, marketing, new business devel­opment, and talent. For more information, visit us at Notre 
Dame's Fall Career Expo on Sept. 19, at www.cancercenter.com (search for Management Fellow), or con­tact a current Management 
Fellow at lindsey.smith@ctca­hope.com. Applications should be submitted online through your career center. 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car 
Enterprise Rent-A-Car is the largest car rental company in North America and arguable the world. We are a $9 billion com­pany with more than 878,000 vehicles in our rental and leasing fleet, more than 61,000 employ­ees and over 6,900 locations in the U.S., Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom and Ireland. 
Ford 

We are looking for self-motivated finance professionals to join our team. Ford Motor Company's dynamic Finance organization is w1dely recogmzed as a corporate 
Labatt Food Service 
Work in Texas! Labatt Food Service is the 1Oth largest broad-line distributor to the food-away-from-home mar­ket, serving restaurants, hotels, schools, military bases, hospitals and independent operators. Labatt is widely recognized in the distribution business as an innovative, customer focused, high-energy industry leader. Labatt is looking for Notre Dame grads interested in Programming, Sales, Marketing, Logistics, Supply, Purchasing, Human Resources, and Business Analysis. Check us out at the Career Fair and at www.labattfood.com. 
McGiadrey & Pullen 
McGiadrey & Pullen LLP (a part­ner-owned CPA firm) delivers audit and attest services. McGiadrey & Pullen serves clients from approximately 100 offices across the United States. McGiadrey & Pullen and RSM McGiadrey have an alternative practice structure. Though sepa­rate and mdependent legal ent1­
NIBCO 

NIBCO is a worldwide provider of plumbing fittings and valves and other flow control products for residential, commercial-industrial, and international applications. Founded in 1904, NIBCO today leads the industry in its use of information technol­ogy with a fully integrated busi­ness system, Internet web site, Intranet site, and an extranet site where our customers place and check on orders. We employ 3000 associates worldwide. Learn more about NIBCO at www.nibco.com. 
Ostrow Reisin Berk & Abrams, Ltd. 
' 
I 
' I ' 
I 
'I 
' 
I 
I I 
'I 
I ' 
' 
' 
I 
I 
. I ' 
I I 
I I 
I 
BOO Seidman, LLP 

BDO Seidman, LLP is a national professional services firm provid­ing assurance, tax, financial advisory and consulting services to a wide range of public and pri­vate companies. We serve clients through 35 offices and more than 300 independent alliance firm locations nation­wide. As a Member Firm of BDO International, BDO Seidman serves multi-national clients by leveraging a global network of resources comprised of 621 Member Firm offices in 1 07 countries. BDO International is a worldwide network of public accounting firms, called BDO Member Firms, serving interna­tional clients. Each BDO Member Firm is an independent legal entity in its own country. At BDO Seidman, our people make the difference. Known for our technical experience, excel­lent staff-to-partner ratio, nation­al presence and access to inter­national resources, BDO Seidman provides an environ­ment dedicated both to quality client service and to the develop­ment and growth of our profes­sionals. 
Credit Suisse 

As one of the world's leading banks, Credit Suisse provides its clients with investment banking, private banking and asset man­agement services worldwide. Credit Suisse offers advisory services, comprehensive solu­tions and innovative products to companies, institutional clients and high-net-worth private clients globally, as well as retail clients in Switzerland. Credit Suisse is active in over 50 coun­tries and employs approximately 40,000 people. Credit Suisse's parent company, Credit Suisse Group, is a leading global finan­cial services company headquar­tared in Zurich. Credit Suisse Group's registered shares 
(CSGN) are listed in Switzerland and, in the form of American Depositary Shares (CS), in New York. Further information about Credit Suisse can be found at www.credit-suisse .com 
model of excellence. Many of today's leading executives devel­oped their business acumen at Ford Finance. Today, top profes­sionals join us to test their skills, develop their talents and discov­er their full potential. 
Grant Thornton 
Grant Thornton LLP is the U.S. member firm of Grant Thornton International, one of the six glob­al accounting, tax and business advisory organizations. Through 
member firms in 112 countries, including 50 offices in the United States, the partners and employ­ees of Grant Thornton member firms provide personalized atten­tion and the highest quality serv­ice to public and private clients around the globe. It is our friendly and supportive culture. that separates us from other firms. We work collabora­tively, in a dynamic environment, consistently exceeding the expectations of our clients. You will be given the opportunity to interact directly with clients and work closely with senior man­agement very early in your career. We are focused on sup­porting your career objectives and professional growth, and at the same time encouraging a balance between professional and personal life. Opportunities for development of new skill sets and career advancement are plentiful, and the workforce is diverse and talented. 
ties they can work together to serve clients' business needs. When considered together, the two companies rank as the fifth largest provider of accounting, t~x and business consulting. 
RSM McGiadrey is a leading provider of financially focused· business services to midsized companies. The RSM McGiadrey group of companies offers accounting, tax services, business consulting, retirement resources, employer services, corporate finance, wealth man­agement and financial process outsourcing. RSM McGiadrey Inc. serves clients' global busi­ness needs through its member­ship in RSM International (an affiliation of separate and inde­pendent accounting and consult­ing firms). 
Morningstar 
Morningstar, Inc. is a leading provider of independent invest­ment research in the United States and in major international markets. The company offers an extensive line of Internet, soft­ware, and print-based products and services for individuals, financial advisors, and institu­tions. Morningstar provides data on more than 250,000 invest­ment offerings, including stocks, mutual funds, and similar vehi­cles. The company has opera­tions in 16 countries and minority ownership positions in compa­nies based in three other coun­tries. We will be recruiting for our Development Program at the Notre Dame Career Fair on September 19 and again for first round interviews on October 9. Hope to see you there! 
Ostrow Raisin Berk & Abrams, Ltd. (ORBA), is a 95-person, progressive and expanding certi­tied public accounting and con-suiting firm dedicated to provid­ing proactive, flexible, high-quali­ty service that meets the needs of our clients. Listed by Crain's Chicago Business as one of Chicago's Top 25 Public Accounting firms, we are conve­niently located in downtown Chicago and have been in busi­ness since 1977. 
P&M Corporate Finance 
P&M Corporate Finance is a boutique investment banking firm providing services on mid­die-market transactions in North America and Europe. Services include sale advisory, acquisition advisory, capital raising, and strategic advisory. Our team of 30 professionals is organized along dedicated industry groups, with specializations in the follow­ing sectors: Building Products, Business Services, Industrials (Automotive, Metals, Plastics & Packaging), and Life Sciences. 
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER page 5 page 6 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, September 17, 2007 



On the surface, accounting firms may look a lot alike. But take a closer look to see why the difference is in the details. 
At BOO Seidman, you won't be just another number-or just another face. You'll have the opportunity to try new things, develop new skills and build meaningful relationships. Smaller client service teams and an excellent partner~to~staff ratio contribute to an environment where our associates' work is noticed. When it comes to your career, we are committed to helping you stand out and achieve your goals. 
Discover the details that make BDO Seidman a distinctly ·different option for your career. 
Don't miss BOO Seidman at the Career Expo on Wednesday, September 19th! We'll also be interviewing summer intern candidates on September 20th and full~time candidates on September 28th. 
Visit www.bdo.com or email 

BDO Seidman, LLP

collegerelations@bdo.com. 
Accountants and Consultants 
SOLUTIONS 
The new standard in hedge fund administration. 
Cit:Jd(d Sduthn:, Ll..C, launched as an independent subsidiary ot Citadel Investment Group lJ...C in 2007, brings together leading ex­pert'> Jt hedge fund operdtions, financial control and technology to offer hedge fund administrative services. 
The CiLldc1 Sr1lution~ team is at the forefront of shaping processes withm the capital markets, taking leadership positions in industry working groups and continuously driving improved work.novv. This passion for process is a cornerstone of our culture and represents the dose partnership between our people, our technology and our clients. As a result, our technology is continuously updated to '~upport best prar.t1cp.:; and we believe in perpetually strengt!'lening our team with the best talent available to deliver the highest levels ot sePw:r.. 
l tns combination of People, Process and Technology has been central to our succ_ess and 1s now available through our administra­tive setv~re offering. By partnenng w1th us, our clients can focus on their core business of tnvesting, while leverag1ng the unique and advantaged position of Citadel Solutions to support their middle and back office service reqwrements across nearly every asset class, market and gt~ogr(1phy. 
!nforrnatnn Se':-;s1on ~)pnr.r tp•J:rie _tn' ,'•: L>l!(-0' mc!!Jr.e: Thursday, October 4
Fall Career Expo 2007
• ()fl:!ration~) t\nalv·-:; hugran; 6:30PM
Wednesday, September 19
• FirkJnce .~ Account~ng Analy::.l Program Flanner Hall, Roorn 114
4:00 PM ·· 8:00 PM
• 
Surnrner Intern. Operations 


Joyce Center Fieldhouse
• 
Summer Intern, hr1ance & Accounting F?esurne Drop DeJdline Monday, October 8 

To lc:-.rn :nore about Citadel Solutions, please visit www.citade!so!utionsJ:om and \NWw.citade!group.corn. 

Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 7 
like you, we have some distincti characteri tics of our own.* 


~~'S~~Ifitl~~.l?rt~i%~ ~\lllielk~ ~~~lfi\l~~i!illijlflje 
l(jfi#~\!J~~rek~~~il!lt%. 

"connactedthinking 



The Strength of a large Firm, Stockman Kost Ryan +Co. 
The Flexibility of o Small Company. Certified Public Acccunkmts cmd Bvsine&s Advi5or& 


r---------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-~~ ~~ ~ ~ -~ 
page 8 
The Observer + CAREER INSIDER 

Aon is a global leader in risk management, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital consulting and outsourcing with more than 43,000 employees in more than 500 offices in 120 countries worldwide. We integrate customized services, leverage expertise across industries and apply business knowledge to our clients' strategic goals. Aon he Ips clients anticipate how change intersects with opportunity. Each of our clients has unique business needs, so we have developed expertise for a complete range of business processes, products and industries. 
For 2008, we have opportunities in our Early Career Direct Development Program for the following tracks: Actuarial, Aon Consulting, Corporate Strategy, Aon Risk Services and Aon Underwriting Managers. 
For  more  information  about  Aon  Corporation,  visit  our  website  at  
www.aon.com.  
Make  sure to drop o  ff your  resume  on  GO  IRISH  by  11 :59p.m.  on  

Wednesday, September 26th. All majors welcome to apply. 
Monday, September 17, 2007 

Supporting Your Future Dreams. 
Fifth Third Bank is pleased to be back for Fall Recruiting at Notre Dame 
Fifth Third Bank will be on campus to find people who are looking toward the future. If you'd like to find out about our comprehensive benefits, specialized training and unlimited opportunity for growth, stop by and see what we're all about. Connect with Fifth Third Bank for an exceptional career. Fifth Third Bank career opportunities are now posted on your Career Services job posting website. 
Fall Career Fair September 19, 2007 4:00pm-8:00pm Joyce Center 
On-Campus Interviewing September 20, 2007 October 9, 2007 Flanner Hall 
Fifth Third Bank Pre-Night Event October 8, 2007 6:00pm-7:30pm LaFortune -Dooley Room 
We are currently hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Finance Leadership Program (Cinti) 

• 
Finance Leadership Program Internship (Cinti) 

• 
Retail Associate Program (Cinti) 

• 
Tax Analyst I (Cinti) 

• 
Tax Internship (Cinti) 

• 
Commercial Associate Program 


Contact your Career Services Office for additional 
information on Fifth Third Bank's on-campus recruiting and 
information sessions dates. 
____......-.Jun},.-------­
FIFTH THIRD BANK 
www.53.com 

Fifth Third Bank is proud to be an affirmative action/equal opportunity employer. M/F/D/V 
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 9 
Great lllrtoomes. OoneW!I!Il

Investment Banking. Equity Research. 
Baird is a leading investment hank creating railored, objecrive solmions f<:,r the middle market. Baird provides new Investment Banking analysts unique opportunities to directly impa.:r the success of projects induding public {·quiry offerings, sdl-side and buy-side lv1&A and in­depth strategic executions. In Equity Research. we involve n~w analysts in a wide range of industry· and company-specific research righr from the start. \X!c arc honored to be recognized as Middle lvlarket Bank of the Year h>r 2006 by fnz•estment Dealer/ Digest. 


Visit Baird at the C..atee:t Fair on September 19 from 4-8 p.m. 

Full-Time Analyst Career Fair Date: Wednesday, September 19, 2007 Time: 4:00 pm -8:00 pm Location: Joyce Center Field House Here's a great opportunity to talk to us about the career oppofiunities at Credit Suisse: you can hear about our business and ask us anything you want to know. If you're interested in global finance, we need to talk. Find out more at www.credit-suisse.com/careers 


Thinking New Perspectives. CREDIT SUISSE~ 
···----·-·-··-------------------------------------­
!nvestmen~ banking senf.ces 1n thr:-United States are provided by Cmr.lit Swsse Sec:;ritie:s {US.'\) U.C, an affilta.tr: of Crndit Su1sse Group. Crt1dit Su::.z1e Secl;ritif:!i (USl\} U.C is nr. Equal Oppcrtur:::y Employer am: doe~ nGt discnmlnJte ir. :::; E":mpby:r.E'":r.t decisions on the bas.i:;; of ra-.e, cotor. rel!g~·.")fl, se-::<. rmt:o::al 0r1;1in, ~g·~. vetera:: or rn:!itmy M.~tu:;, dmabiiity, l')r any otr-:t~r protec:ed cati3gory·. 1WJ.OO'l CREDIT SUISSE GROUP <:r:d/or 1ts arfihatr:s. Aii rights reserved. 

page 10 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, September 17, 2007 

Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 7-January 13 
Applications available at http:fface.nd.edufoutreach. 
'Who's behind some of the best companies in the world? 
r 1~ Af?(? '1vu
J ~ 
When you advance your career at Deloitte & Touche USA LLP and its subsidiaries (the "Deloitte U.S. Firms"), you'll be working with some of the best known companies in the world. We offer opportunities for growth in assurance, financial advisory, tax, and consulting services. So when you're ready to put your education to work, you need to see more. 
To learn more about the Deloitte U.S. Firms and the opportuntties available to you, please visit www.deloitte.com. 
Deloitte 
About Deloitte 

Dr!<Jitl~· n..fet\ t<: nne or mon." of Dek:)(tte-Touche Tohn,dt~u. iJ S~!:IS vr-rem, ~ts fTWrnber hrms. ana 1helr tf1';PE}<."th.-e-s.ub~:dicrk>'S d,nr.f .lff,h,i:t.,..,. A.~ .a ~\JVISS v.-rf:<H"' ~t~ .. ~-f.'K.IatiOO}. f"lf?'lther oe-to~u~ Touch~ lohm.A1S.u nor any of ft!l M~f)!be-f Hn;;:. hilS (ll:ffy lt.abihty for ..-ch otht."1'\ n<.ts or ()r'tll'.t'.i-IOf1') Earh nf th-1" mt!fnbt*r hrm\ i~ a w.t:~maw tmd 1nde-p~ndent if.'q.a! f.<"nt;ty ORe-rntitH:J under v~t> na~ ·-IMIOttte>. · ··Deroom· & ·Iouth<!," ··Derooi!P. ·roucht> Tohl1<11~u. m otht•r t<•lal<'d MmP.~ S..rvoa" M•' prcMd"d by th<' meml:>t'-t f,rrr, or th~~-~.--,ub~id1<,Hu.~ or ~f11hate~ i,tt''ld not by thE: 0(~1osn~ loufhE! TO~lHlflhu \f(~fe:H" 
DeiO<If·' & lovchto U!>A lLP •> th4' U.S. mt'l'nber lorm o! Deloottt> Tot•<ht> Tohm<)t~u "' (ht> Un•t€<.1 Sliitb. ~·v•c!l"; <)te p•ov•<Je<.! by the Wb\•d• '.-;,..; of o..IOlfl<' & TOYchl!! liSA l tP ([),.loon" & TO\Kh<' U.f'. 0<'10olt&. Con~ult•ng u.r. O~io•He Fin.ano••l Advi,OI)' S<'rvot.-~ LLP. Dll'l<>ltt<' T<J• LLP. .ilrld th(••r ~ub<;ld,..rie->1,_ and not by Dcloitte & Tou~he USA UP 
COPyrtght ''; l007 Dc!oott_t Dt>V('iooment LLC. A!II>!;Jhl~ r<'Sl'~'<J­
Hn~iU.1~10s Rif;k Te('h11nlogy ltisk lm<'TIIal Audit 
RISK 
AND WHY PROTIVlTI IS TilE BEST 
PLACE TO EXPLORE 
YOUR POTENTIAL 
A
t Pmtiviti we are focused ou manap;iug risk to achieve potential. This applies to our clients and our employees. We see 1·isk as an opportunity to improve. To work with Global .500 firms arouud the world to grow their bus.incss. To hdp our t•mployee~ grow professionally and personally. So if you <Jre looking to fully explore your potential, we bdieve that the only risk not to consider is working somewhere other tlum Proriviti. 
Check on-line at ,your univer.ri~y career a•met·ji>r available job opportunities at Protivin'. 

Know H.i~k. Know Rt'ward. ·-


Labatt Food Service has jobs for Notre Dame Grads! 
Labatt Food SorvDIIs tho 10th largest dlstributll' In tho nation for till food-away-from-holm market and Is aloador In tho Industry. 
ll'o,.L .  
q, IIJ  ~  
Labatt will be at the  ~e~a $!  

Career & Internship Fair-Sept. 19 
We have positions in... Programming Sales Marketing Logistics Supply Chain Purchasing Human Resources Business Analyst 

More info at our website ... www.labattfood.com 
~ 
()stro\\' 
'lleisin Berli & ;\hratns, 
I.Jd. 

Seeking Entry Level Staff Accountant/C.P.A. and Tax & Accounting Spring Internship (January -April, Full-time), job descriptions are posted on our website at www.orba.com. 
-~·~------------. 
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 11 
© 2007 KPMG LLP, the U.S. member firn1 of KPMG International, a Swiss cooperative. No phone calls or agencies please. KPMG is an Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/DN. KPMG maintains a drug-free workplace. 

skills experience vvealth character communities networks a life 
AUDIT • TAX 


BUT YOU PROVIDED THE FUEL. 
At KPMG, we 
network across the 
globe to help 
businesses respond 
to an always-evolving 
global economy. 
We're focused on 
Global Mobility ­
with international 
internships, training 
and assignments 
that can broaden 
your abilities and 
help us share 
knowledge across 
borders. 
The KPMG International Network of Firms is the second-largest of the Big Four firms offering services outside of the U.S. Continuing success in this arena requires that our people think and act globally. 
• ADVISORY 
Few companies out there are as driven as Enterprise to be the best. We turned this drive into $9 billion in revenues, solid market leadership and a Management Training Program that's earning high praise. In fact, BusinessWeek Magazine recently ranked Enterprise as the Fifth Best Place to Launch a Career. In this program, you'll work hard, learn every day and see first-hand that we're going places. Fast. Are you? 
To learn more about launching a career at Enterprise, go to: enterprise.com/careers. 
Enterprise would like to thank the Midwest ACE Colleges & Universities for voting us #1. 
EOE/MFDV 

Einterprise!
....•............. ····································································-······----············· 

From the moment you start buildinq your career at KPMG in the U.S., you can be exposed to opportunities for international training, experiences andl assignments that enable our people to be the very best at working in the business environment-in the U.S. and abroad. 
Find out more about how you can build your networks, your global experience, and your career at KPMG. 
kpmgcareerS.ClOm 
A great place to build your care·er. 


j 
l 
.I 
page 12 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, September 17, 2007 
Come visit us at the 2007 Notre Dame Career Expo September 19th, 2007 We are looking for full-time and internship candidates in Finance. 
PUT YOUR CAREER IN (Q) 
Come along for the ride. At Ford Motor Company, our professionals are working to design and produce quality automobiles that customers want. Through a renewed commitment to innovation, discover how we are introducing ideas like voice recognition, rollover protection, and hybrid technology to the American automotive industry. 
We have a renewed commitment to our products and customers, but we also know that our employees are the driving force behind our success. We believe that having a balance between work and home life is important. It's something we value, honor and respect. Come discover a Company that is focused on designing better cars, but also cares about you, your family and your community. 
By choice, we are an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to a culturally diverse workforce. 


Ford Motor Company
mycareer.ford.com 

***** 
FALLCAREER 

Where leaders in the financial industry look to you 
When your clients are top investmllnt professionals, including more than 700 of the largest investment firms in tlw world, the relationships you build are critical. Consultants form thisessentiallink between FactSet clients and our software. 
FactSet recruits energetic, driven Consultants tram top-tier technical, finance, business, mathematics, and MIS programs to develop innovative ways to streamline research and analysis through one-on·one contact with leaders in the financial industry. 
If you excel at brainstorming and creating breakthrough solutions in a fast-paced environment, find your career at FactSet, one of' Forbe:t "200 Best Small Companies" forten cons~~utive years. 
Learn more about us at www.factset.com/careers. 
Visit us on campus: Career Fair-Wednesday, September 19 Info Session-Thursday, October 11 Interviews-Friday, October 12 
FAcrSET 
Transforming Information Into I n t elll g en c e 

-------~-----------~--~-~------------------------------. 
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 13 
Find your future at Morningstar. 
We're seeking successful, enthusiastic individuals who want to launch their careers at an innovative company. As aleading provider of independent investment research, our mission is to create great products that help investors reach their financial goals. We provide aunique work environment for our employees through our dynamic culture, competitive salaries, and comprehensive benefits. Morningstar encourages employees to explore, create, and innovate to achieve personal and professional growth. 
We will be conducting interviews on your campus this fall. For more information, please check with your career services office or visit corporate.morningstar.com/careers. 

Morningstar is an equal opportunity employer. 

Spot Trading is a smart, technology-focused option trading firm that believes success is more than looking for opportunities. It's about creating them. We understand option pricing and analytics, but also have the experience and infrastructure to maintain a fundamental understanding of the equity markets. We excel at both the art-the fundamental analysis-and the science-the quantitative analysis-of trading. www.spottradingllc.com 
Spot Trading is recruiting for its Spot Trader Trainee Program, Software Developers and Financial Engineers. To be considered for a position please come by our booth at the Notre Dame 2007 Career Expo on Wednesday September 19th or e-mail a cover letter and resume to spot·recruiting@spottradingllc.com. 
page 14 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER Monday, September 17, 2007 

We are looking for the best and brightest! 
If you have a passion for health and wellness, are a critical thinker with strong analytic skills, and are looking for an opportunity to make a difference-we want you on our team! 
.,,.,
Over the past 25 years, Whole Health* has delivered on-site health care services to nearly 8 million patients at some of the most progressive organizations in our nation. We invite you to visit our website to learn more. www.WholeHealthNet.com 

*Our Founder, President & CEO, Jim Hummer earned a BBA from the University of Notre Dame and an MBA from Harvard Business School. 

@ 2007 Whole Health Management Inc. 
Zimmer is a $3.5 billion publicly traded medical devices firm doing business in over 100 countries around the globe. Through innovation, we have become the worldwide pure-play leader in orthopaedic surgical products. The Zimmer team is more than 7,000 employees strong, and we are dedicated to producing top quality products and services that make a difference worldwide. We are proud that we help people every day to live fuller and healthier lives. Additionally, our employees enjoy the many benefits ofworking for a growing, successful company, including exciting career opportunities and competitive total rewards program. 
Zimmer will be attending and hosting several events on the campus of The University ofNotre Dame. 
Fall Career Expo·  lnfor.nation Session  
September 19, 2007  October 8, 2007  
4pm-8pm  6:30-Spm  
Joyce Center  McKenna Hall, Room 202  
Join us for appetizers and learn more about what Zimmer has to offer!  
(dress is casual)  

All resumes must be received by: October 9, 2007-midnight On-campus Interviews will be held on October 19,2007 
Full Time Positions available include: Summer Internships
• Financial Management Development Program 
Available!
• Auditors 
• Accountants 

*All applicants for any of these open positions should be Accounting and/or Finance majors . 

.._.. ........."''~'-C..... 
Zimmer, Inc. offers competitive payand ben'efit pa,ckages with rewarding and challenging work including the opportu~ity for growth. For more information visit our website at 
·:·s:~·:·:·:·=.=·=· .. 
. 
..

www.z1mmer.com 
Zimmer, Inc. is an EO£ M/FID/V 
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 15 

If you want the same commitment to your career, consider RSM McGiadrey. We're the accounting, tax, and business consulting firm for professionals on the move. Like you. 
The official accounting tax and business 
RSM McGiadrey McGiadrey &Pullen
consulting firm of The PGA of America. 
Certified Public Accountants 
PIPER }AFFRAY  For more iu(ormation.  
JS committtd to guiding our cl itnts ro success.  please cont.7c.t:  
Guides help ensure thr success of remarkable  
ach.iev~mt•nts and tht.• opening of new fron6ers  Cheryl lv.tiller  
and ide,ls. This is our ett!tu.re. We work wirh our  Re1.:ruiring and Tr;:ljning  
mwstment b,mking :malym to help them devt'lop  Piper ]affray  
intn outst:mding guides.  8oo Ni,:nlkt \-t11l  
Minne,lpolis. l'vfN 5_1402  
Please stop by our wble at tht• Fall CJreer Expo  
to dis-:uss oppornmiries in Investment. Banking:  cheryl.k.•niller@pjc.com  
FALL CAREER EXPO  ·www.pirwrjaffray.-:rnn/car<.'<'rpaths  
Wednesday, September 19, 2007  
4:oo-8:oo p.m.  
joyce Center Field House  

GUIDES FOR ' p• J ff 
TIU']OURNEY.• i 1per a ray. 
Piper jaffray & Co. Since 1&95. Member SIPC and FINRA. CM·07·!093 
M:NNEAPO:.f5 CHICAGO Nf.W YOR!f PALO AlJO SAN FRANCISCO t.ONDON SHANGHA~ 
Monday, September 17, 2007 
page 16 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER 
Find Yourself at Rothstein Kass. 

If you are looking f-or a career-not just a job-and a firm where you can get involved in projects that challenge your intellect while making a difference in our clients' businesses, we want to talk to you. 
Rothstein Kass is one of the largest and most respected accounting and consulting firms in the country...and we are growing in size, in scope and in influence. 
Our firm serves a diverse clientele in industries including financial services, real estate, entertainment, non-profit and hospitality, among others. In exchange for your hard work, we offer competitive compensation, room for growth and development and benefits, such as flextime summer hours, tuition reimbursement and matching 401(k). We also have a few other perks that don't hurt-like nice people and an entrepreneurial spirit. 
Whether you're beginning your career or want to put it in motion, please contact us. 
Kari Martin I 973.994.6666 I kmartin@rkco.com Nicole Saulnier I 973.994.6666 1 nsaulnier@rkco.com 
Rothstein l<ass 
www.rkco.com 
Bevf:rly ~1ilts Dallas. Denver. Gr,md Ciyman New York RosE'lcmd San francisco. Wdlnul Creek 
,Please stop by our booth to discuss financial analyst opportunities in our Valuation & Financial Opinions group. Visit www.srr.com for more information about our firm. Also look for our on campus interview schedule on September 28th. The last day to submit your resume on Go IRISH is September 19th! 

STOUT I RISIUS IROSS 
Financial & Operational Advisory Services www.srr.com 
Investment Banking services provided through Stout Risius Ross Advisors, LLC, member FINRA. All other services provided through Stout Risius Ross, Inc. 
···'·w 

ULINE 
CURRENT FULL-TIME OPENINGS: 
• 
Analysts (Business, Credit, Financial, Sales) 

• 
Creative (Assistants & Junior Designers) • Internet (Analysts & Assistants) 

• 
Marketing (Analysts & Associates) • Warehouse (Management Trainees) 


SUMMER 2008 INTERNSHIP OPENINGS: 
• 
Accounting 1Finance • Business Operations • Circulation 

• 
Creative I Design 1 Photo • Distribution I Operations 

• 
Human Resources • Internet I E-Commerce 

• 
Legal • Marketing • Purchasing • Safety 

• 
Sales • Warehouse I Distribution 


Founded in 1980, we have 7 locations and 3 million square feet of warehouse space in North America. During the last 27 years, Uline's mission has been to offer the finest quality and best selection of shipping supplies to our customers. We deliver with a speed and accuracy unparalleled in the industry. 
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER 
EvERy ENGINEERING __ M A J ~-',I-:'::;, I-IN 1ERN s fi'tm: 1 s -"r ,-~ E,,Uj:~-~r:. T-IM"'~: :e 1 s I 1 I 
,' ,"' ' ..,,,t~' ~ :' ""'' .,4:-,' '" '', ,' ' -... ~.,,', \ ..; ;'~"~\' ... , ' " ~',, '' 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Tuesday, September 18 Networking Reception Joyce Center, Monogram Room 4:00-5:00 p.m. 
Tuesday, September 18 Career Fair Joyce Center Concourse 5:00 -8:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, September 19 Interview Day Flanner Hall 8:30a.m.-5:00 p.m. 
Engineering Industry Day Networking Reception Sponsored by 
Ste 
an 

> 
accent re 
JANICKI 
INDUSTRIES 

High performance. Delivered. 

ST~R.UCTUREPOINT 

l'l~­
Customer Success Is Our Mission 


PARTICIPATING COMPANIES 
Accenture Exterran Pitney Bowes, Inc. AECOM (CTE & Austin AECOM) ExxonMobil PPG Industries, Inc. Air Force Flight Test Center F.H. Paschen, SN Nielsen Praxair, Inc. Alberici Constructors, Inc. General Electric Raytheon Alliance for Catholic Education Gilbane Building Company Rolls-Royce Corporation American Electric Power (Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant) Granite Construction Northeast, Inc. R. W. Armstrong American Structurepoint, Inc. Hewlett-Packard SMART Business Advisory and Consulting, LLC Anning-Johnson Co. Hill-Rom SPX Corporation ARCO/Murray National Construction Company, Inc. IBM State of Indiana Personnel Department Bain & Company, Inc. lnfosys Technologies Stepan Company Bastian Material Handling, LLC ITT Corporation Tata Consultancy Services Belcan Advanced Engineering & Technology Janicki Industries Technology Services Group Boeing Company JDSU The Burke Group BP Johnson & Johnson The Walsh Group CapitaiiQ K&M Machine-Fabricating, Inc. Turner Construction Capital One Kiewit Western Co. United States Steel Corporation Carrier Corporation Kimley-Horn and Associates, Inc. US Patent and Trademark Office Central Intelligence Agency Liberty Mutual Group US Air Force CHEP lockheed Martin Valdes Engineering Company Chrysler LLC lutron Electronics Co., Inc. Vedder Price Kaufman & Kammholz, P.C. Citi Manhard Consulting Weaver Boos Consultants Clarity Consulting, Inc. Marine Corps Officer Programs Westinghouse Electric Company Dana Corporation Microsoft Whirlpool Corporation Deloitte U.S. Firms Miller Brewing Company Xerox Corporation 
~ 
Delphi Corporation NIBCO Inc. Dominion Generation Northrop Grumman Corporation 
l 
Duke Realty Corporation Parsons Corporation Companies listed in bold will be 
l 
Epic Systems Corporation Pierce Associates, Inc. interviewing on September 19 
l 
ORGANIZED BY THE JOINT ENGINEERING COUNCIL,THE SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS, THE CAREER CENTER, AND THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 


-

page 18 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER Monday, September 17, 2007 


-----------------------------------------------------------------~----. 
Monday, September 17, 2007 The Observer+ CAREER INSIDER page 19 
'lhe ~;~;~~~s:ent.~r + 2007 Fall Career Expo Employer List Organization  Q) E ~ :l LL  til .8­.s:. til c::... Q)--=  Ill Q)-~ :l "C ~... Cl... Q) "C c:: ::::l ..  I!! ~ Ill ~ :E  <m :E  c::i .s:. 0..  e:>< 0 :g Ole~~ ·= J:;:­ell VI ·­::Ji:: c. e11 E >. -... ...Eo-o  ~; I .!!! Q) c: i:: -OJ!l~ -g -= ~ r::· -V>::JO:s::s .... N -g a. .2 !:: .cEma> uco .... ~ (l)omo  
Kirkland & Ellis  *  .  *  
KPMG LLP  *  *  *  *  *  
Labatt Food Service  *  *  .  *  
LaSalle Bank  * ..  *  *  
Liberty Mutual Insurance Group  *  .  *  
LightPoint Capital Management LLC  *  *  *  
M&l Bank (Marshall & llsey Corporation)  *  *  *  
M& T Bank Corporation  *  *  *  
Maersk  .  *  .  
Marine Corps Officers Program  *  *  *  
Maxim Healthcare Services  *  *  .  
McGiadrey & Pullen  *  *  *  *  *  .  
Menards  *  *  *  .  
Mercer Human Resource Consulting  *  .  *  .  
Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator Inc.  *  *  *  *  .  
Morningstar, Inc.  .  .  .  
Nalco Company  .  . .  *  
National Leadership Roundtable on Church Management  *  .  
Nationwide  .  *  .  .  *  *  
Navigant Consulting, Inc.  .  *  *  
Nestle Waters  *  *  
NIBCO INC.  .  *  .  
Oak lawn  *  *  *  .  
Ocean Torno, LLC  .  *  *  
O'Connor Davies Munns & Dobbins  *  *  .  *  *  .  
Office Depot  *  *  *  
Office Max  *  *  *  *  *  *  
Ostrow Reisin Berk & Abrams  .  *  .  .  *  
P&M Corporate Finance, LLC  *  *  .  
Peace Corps  .  *  *  .  .  
Piper Jaffray  *  .  *  *  
PNC Financial Services Group, Inc  *  *  *  .  
PricewaterhouseCoopers  .  .  *  .  *  .  
Procter & Gamble - .  *  .  *  *  .  
Progressive Insurance  .  .  *  .  
Protiviti  *  .  .  *  .  .  
Quantitative Services Group LLC  .  .  
Raytheon  *  .  *  *  .  
Robert W. Baird & Co.  .  *  *  
Rolls-Royce Corp.  *  .  .  .  .  
Rothstein Kass  . .  .  .  .  .  
Schneider Downs  *  .  .  
Sears ·Holdings  *  .  .  *  .  
Second Wind Communications  .  *  
Shaw Industries  *  *  *  *  
Silver Point Capital  *  *  *  *  *  
SMART Business Advisoryand Consulting  *  *  *  *  *  .  
Spot Trading L.L.C.  .  *  .  
SPX Corporation  *  .  .  .  
Starcom Worldwide  .  .  *  
State Farm Insurance  *  *  .  *  
State of Indiana Personnel Department  .  *  .  .  .  
Steve & Barry's  .  .  .  
Stockman Kast Ryan & Co  *  *  *  *  *  
Stout Risius Ross, Inc.  .  *  .  
Stryker  *  *  *  *  *  *  
Target Corporation  .  . .  *  
Teach For America  *  *  *  *  *  
TEKsystems  .  *  
The Bradford Group  *  .  .  *  *  .  
The Children's Museum of Indianapolis  *  *  *  *  
The HON Company  *  *  *  .  *  
The Kroger Co.  .  .  *  *  .  *  
Thermo Fisher Scientific  *  .  
Travelers  .  *  .  
True Partners Consulting  .  *  . .  *  *  
UHY Advisors  *  .  .  *  .  
Uline  *  *  . .  .  
United Airlines  *  .  .  
United States Steel  *  *  *  *  *  
University of Notre Dame -ECHO  *  *  .  
US Bancorp Fund Services  *  .  *  *  
US Navy Officer Programs  *  . .  
Valassis  *  .  *  *  .  
Vanguard  .  . .  
Virchow Krause & Comp_any  *  •  *  *  .  
Walgreens  *  .  *  .  
Wealth & Tax Advisory Services  *  *  *  *  *  
Wells Capital Management  *  *  .  
Whirlpool Corporation  *  *  *  *  •  
Whitehouse Post Productions  .  *  *  
Whole Health Management  *  *  .  
William Blair & Company, LLC  .  *  *  *  
Xerox  *  .  *  *  *  
Zimmer Inc  .  *  *  *  
Zurich North America  *  *  .  *  
Listing as of 9113107  
EXP007-SEpt. 19. 2007 


~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + CAREER INSIDER 
We're looking for people with a passion for the business of accounting. 
... 
, 

With the Grant Thornton Experience there's a lot to be passionate about. The Experience describes Grant Thornton's commitmcm to both our diems and our 
people. For our employees and partners, it indudt~s offering meaningful and 
challenging work, providing career development to support professional growth, 
recognizing good work, and providing an environment where people feel conne~ted and appreciated. Grant Thormon l.LP is the U.S. member firm of Grant Thormon 
International, one of the six global accounting, tax and business advisory 
organizations. Through member firms in 112 countries, induding 49 offices in the 
United States, the partners and employees of Gr<lnt Thornton member firms provide 
pcrson;tlizcd attention and the highest quality service to public and private dit•nts around the globe. To learn mon• ;tbout Grant Thornton's passion for the business 
of accounting, contact Karen Bulf, Chicago Office Campus Recruiter, at 312.602.811 0. Grant Thornton is looking to hire accounting 
professionals who arc the best in the business. People who love 
what they do! 
Grant Thornton {5 
Apassion for the business of accounting" 
('.rant Thornton LLP is an equal opportunity employer 
Monday, September 17, 2007 


... 
LAZARD 
is accepting resumes for Analyst positions in its Investment Banking Group 
Interested University of Notre Dame Seniors should submit resumes and cover letters through the University's GoiRISH website by September 22nd 
For additional information, please contact: Anna Woodward: (212) 632-6224 





