
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 39 FRIDAY. OCTOBER 19.2007 
Student government briefs trustees 
Brown, Braun, Plamoottil detail response to Common Council's party permit ordinance 
women," one trustee said. Council members wanted to Common Council members 
By KAREN LANGLEY ''I'm glad it wasn't a guy." resolve tensions between who sponsored the ordi­
News Editor 
Student involvement in stu­raucous student residents nance, to discuss alternate dent government and off­and neighbors and to paths to solving problems of Members of the Student campus issues soared during address problems they saw rowdy student gatherings off Affairs Committee of the the discussions about the with underage drinking, she campus. Though she had Board of Trustefls listened ordinance, Brown said. said. conversations with Rouse, Thursday as the student gov­"There were unprecedent­Board members laughed as Kirsits and South Bend p,rnment administration ed levels of student interest Brown described the college Mayor Stephen Luecke, described the controversy in student government and party scene upon which she Brown said, the "party that surrounding the South Bend community relations," she said the U.S. Department of turned the tide" was the Common Council's party per­said. Justice bases the Student weekend of the home football mit ordinance. Brown described the goals Party Riots guide. game against Georgia Tech, 
Board members and staff of Council members who "These are the type of par­when student behavior was applauded after student body supported the ordinance, ties where you literally have at a peak. president Liz Brown which, in its first publicized cars tipped over and set on Faced with a Common explained the role student form, would have required fire," Brown said. "We did Council that wanted to see government played in resolv­many student tenants to file not feel this was a problem real results, "we pushed the ing the tension through dia­a permit with the city 10 we had at Notre Dame." student body to validate our logue with city administra­days before hosting a party Brown described how she claims," Brown said. tors and Council members. where at least 25 guests approached Timothy Rouse 
"Thank God for these would have access to alcohol. and AI "Buddy" Kirsits, the see BOT/page 9 
Business dean Woo shares 'Herstory' 
Hong Kong native overcame challenges to obtain education in America; she credits support system 
Although she personally hasBy EMILY KEEBLER faced substantial challenges,
News Writer 

Woo maintained that everyone has a worthwhile story. 
Dean Carolyn Woo showed "Every story is unique, of 
on Thursday that she has a 
course, but every story is thestory to tell. 
same.... Then~·s a lot of com­Speaking to a diverse audi­mon experience, especially the ence in the Coleman-Morse 
things that arc most pro­
Center Lounge, the Martin J. 
found," Woo said.
Gillen Dean of the Mendoza Woo's presentation was theCollege of Business re11ected second in a noontime lecture on her childhood in Hong Kong series, "Telling HERstory,"and her coming to the United sponsored by the First Year of
States as an undergraduate Studies Program. The new
student. 

monthly series features womenWoo immediately engaged serving in campus leadershipaudience members -faculty, roles.
staff and students of various levels -with wisdom, sinceri­ty and a touch of humor. see WOO/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Purchases of condos continue 
But sales slow amid football team's woes 
By MARY KATE MALONE and 
MADDIE HANNA 
News Writers 
Prompted by rising hotel prices that were costing them $6,000 each year, Notre Dame parents Rick and Terri Martini decided to purchase a condo at New London Lake near Bulla Road two years ago. 
The decision proved to be a profitable one. Rick, who lives in Pittsburgh, bought the property just as the off-campus housing market in South Bend was heat­ing up -and his condo has appreciated by 20 percent in 24 months. 
Condominiums, townhouses 

and hotel-condos have been 
sprouting up around Notre Dame, 
collectively feeding an investment . 
of more than $200 million to the ' 
j 
South Bend community, according to the South Bend Tribune. But a dismal football season and a stag­nant housing market have caused some developers to scale back their plans around Notre Dame. 
I
Waterford Estates Lodge 

1
opened in fall 2005, after the Brenan Hospitality Management Group purchased the Ramada Inn in South Bend. Mike Brenan, Waterford's general manager and developer, converted the hotel to a condo-hotel -meaning he upgraded the hotel rooms, which people now purchase instead of rent. 
In the past two years, Brenan 
see CONDOS/page 4 



Students prepare to embark on fall service trips 
Center for Social Concerns offers diverse opportunities for service 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
After a week of mid-term exams and papers, Saturday's football game might be the only time of respite for hundreds of stu­dents who plan to embark on week-long social concerns seminars during fall break. 
For 25 years, the Center for Social Concerns has been facilitating community­based learning opportunities worldwide, including the popular Appalachia and Urban Plunge seminars. 
Over the past few years, the CSC has boost­ed the number of programs it offers to cater to a more diverse range of student interests. 
"The Center offers unique opportunities for students to serve in a leadership capacity as 
see SERVICE/page 9 

Notre Dame students work at an Appalachia site during the 2005 fall break. Hundreds of students will do service projects next week. 
Saint Mary's group will make pilgrimage to Monterrey, Mexico 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
Six Saint Mary's students will travel to Monterrey, Mexico, during fall break, where they will immerse themselves in some of the most destitute areas of the region for a week. 
Carolyne Call, the director of the Office for Civil and Social Engagement (OCSE), will accompany the students to the Sisters of the Holy Cross Mission in Guadalupe, a suburb of Monterrey. The trip, which is sponsored by the OCSE and Campus Ministry, was offered for the first time at Saint Mary's last year. 
"Students see a different living situation and can experience spiritual growth in a completely new environment," Call said. 
see MEXICO/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, October 19, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Shame of the Yankees 
The news that Joe Torre is leaving the Yankees, although somewhat expeeted, b still painli.tl to those of us who have grown up Yankee fans. Torm was responsible for some of the best memories of our child­hood -four World Snries championships, six American League pennant'> and 10 division titles. 
In a baseball era tainted by cheaters, Torre was a model of how a man, much lm;s a prof(lssional baseball figure, should carry himsnl[ lle never lashed out at his players, never cr.iticiz11d his boss and always gave back to the com­Bill Brink and munity. lin was a 
Chris Hine 
man under eon­slant pressure, 
Sports Writers 
but he never let you know it. 
The win-now mantra prnvalent in sporl'i today finally caught up to Toml. Four chan1pionships in 12 ynars and a playotr appearance every season he domuld the pinstripes should have erased any doubt about 'J(Jml'sjob security. The Yankees' mania­cal owner, Ceorge Steinbrenner, ha.'i breathed down Torre's neck fiw some timn, and finally got his ehanetl to let him go, to rnovn on, to contend again. 
Did hn do it'? Nnpll. 
Hathnr tlum do the honorable thing­thank 'lhrrn fiw his serviens hut tnll him tim tnam ww; moving on -tho Yankens ofkrnd Torn~ a orw-year, $5 million eon­tract-a salarv rut of morn than $2 mil­lion-with inc~·nt.ivns that could havn madP it. worth $X million. Why thn salary rut'? 'lh account fiw rnennt playolrtitilurns, according to Yankees brass. 
Apparently nvnn tlw dw.;sinst some­limns get no class in rnturn. With the way ownership trPatnd 'Ibm\ it would havn henn morn respectful not to oflilr him a rontr-act at all. They made him an ollflr he had to refuse. 
So 'J!Jrrn did what <my su1~enssful, sell~ rnspnr.ting rmmagnr would do-he said no. I In donsn 't need to provo anything; his mmrd spnaks li1r ibd[ Why p<mdnr to tlw pnopln who dismsped your aceom­plishrnnnL'i? 

As groat a ballpark a.'i Yankee Stadium is, it's a shame that Torrn wa.<;n't 1-,>iven the rhanen to manage in tl1e nnw Y<mkee Stadium, which will be ready li>r the 2009 snason. Just one of the m<my things the Yankens didn't takn into consideration. 
Anothnr side nllild they glossed over is the liu:t that Mariano Hivnra, Jorge Posada, Nnx Hodriguez and Andy Pettitte may now leave the tnam bneause Torre is gono. Jftlw owners want to win champi­onships, losing illlpllrUUlt mnmbnrs of the lflanl isn't tlm way to start. 
Tho eon tract olli~rnd to Torrn was a good onn in iL'inlf; it still made Torre the highnst-paid manager in ba.'ieba.ll. But the contract didn't take Torre's pa.'it into acmunt, a nncessary stop when dealing with a figurn ofTorrn's stature in Yanken lorn. 
Poople in the Yankees organization have tried lf1 get him fired for thB past mupln of years. In doing so, they resorted to backstabbing and redueed their dignity in tho procnss. Torre will leave the Yankees with something much morn than f(Jur World SeriflS titles-his pride. Wn wish wn could say the same for othnrs in t.he Yankne organization. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those (!f the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact /Jill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu and Chris 1/ine at chine@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due w a editing error, rhe Lener to the Editor in the Oct. 15 edition ofThe Observer titled "Apologies for BC fans' poor behavior" incorrectly attributed the lener to Chad Johnson. Boston College student Chad Szylvian wrote the letter. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR FALL BREAK? 

Ambour Dawson  Kristen lnfusino  Laura Schaffer  Matt Drummond  Seth Sutton  
freshman McGlinn  senior Lyons  freshman Welsh Fam  freshman Siegfried  sophomore O'Neill  
"Going to Great  "Going home. "  "Going to a  'Tm going on a  "Taking out the  
America's  wedding."  Glee Club tour. "  trash."  





Fright Fest." 


COLEMAN COLLINSffhe Observer 
Notre Dame rugby player Karun Ahuja goes up for a line-out at practice. Notre Dame plays a doubleheader against DePaul and Chicago on Saturday, starting at 
10:30 a.m. on West Quad fields. 
OFFBEAT 

Cornell Greathouse sued the city and four police officers for assault, battery, false arrest, false imprison­ment, excessive force, intentional infliction of emotional distress, inva­sion of privacy and negli­gence. 
A Superior Court jury decided Wednesday the officers weren't culpable, but they ruled Pasadena must pay $78,939.12 for failing to train officers on how to deal with a quad­riplegic. 
Information compiled by the Assodated Press. 
Burglars move into Alabama woman's home 
DECATUH, Ala. -Kim Ledford returned to her home after an extended absenee and found a strange man in her bed and a woman wearing her clothes. Then another man walked up to question why she was in his house. 
Once police sorted things out, two were charged with burglary, Kelly Jo Moore, 45, and Cornelius Goode, 
29. The man in the bed was not immediately identified or charged. 
Decatur police spokesman Lt. Frank DeButy said Moore was wearing Ledford's clothes and said she would leave the home if it was causing a problem. 

DeButy says Goode falsely claimed to be the owner of the residence. It's unclear how long the intruders had been living in the house. 
Police allegedly hang quadriplegic man 
LOS ANGELES -Jurors ruled the city of Pasadena must pay $80,000 to a quadriplegic man who sued because police officers allegedly jerked him out of his wheelehair and hung him upside down to search him. 

IN BRIEF 
The Chief Executive Offieer of OffieeMax, Sam Duncan, will speak today as a part of the Boardroom Insights Lecture Series from 10:40 a.m. to 12:15 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza Collegn of Business. 
The ND Progressive Student Alliance will host an an open dis1~ussion about past and cur­rnnt democracy movements in Burma in light of the recent deadly crackdown on Buddhist monks and othnr demonstrators today from 2-3::~0 p.m. in Hesbm·gh Center Auditorium. , 
The Competitions KickoiT and Elevator Pitch Competition as part of NASDAQ training sessions will occur from 3-5 p.m. today in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza Colfegn of Business. 
A tradition of the football game weekends, thn marching band will march out from the front of the Main Building, heading through campus to its pradiee in the Joyce Center parking lot beginning at 4:30 p.m. today 
Daniel "Rudy" Ruettiger will sign copies of his book "Rudy's Insights for Winning in Life" at the Hammes Bookstore Saturday /'rom 9:30-ll::m a.m. 
Daniel Towle, the 2006 Alumni Association Dooley Awardee, will present the lecture entitled "Dooley Society -HIV/AIDS in Africa: The Touching Tiny Lives Foundation and the Notre Dame Family" Saturday at 11 a.m. in Room 105 in the Jordan Hall of Science. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 57 HIGH 58 LOW 45 LOW 44 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
0::: 
LLI 
::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
cc 
(,) 



0 

.... HIGH 60 HIGH 50 HIGH 69 HIGH 76 LOW 49 LOW 39 LOW 52 LOW 52 
Atlanta 76 /51 Boston 71 I 65 Chicago 61 I 49 Denver 69 I 49 Houston 88 I 57 Los Angeles 80 I 58 Minneapolis 55 I 45 New York 73 I 66 Philadelphia 77 I 61 Phoenix 93 I 65 Seattle 51 I 48 St. Louis 70 I 47 Tampa 88 I 74 Washington 78 /61 
Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Author, politician reflect on Shriver 
Wofford, Stossel introduce documentary on the 'American Idealist' 
optimistic and idealistic per­er-in-law.
By NICHOLAS BOCK 
son I know." Wofford recounted how 
News Writer 
"Shriver may have accom­Shriver convinced Kennedy to plished more than any other call Coretta Scott King after 
Robert "Sargent" Shriver, American," he said. the arrest of her husband, the American activist known Shriver, who in 1994 was Martin Luther King, Jr. It for leading the Peace Corps awarded the Presidential was a dangerous move politi­and for his involvement in Medal of Freedom, the United cally; but, Shriver argued, it numerous States' highest was the moral thing to do. social pro­civilian honor, is Shriver and Wofford helped grams, "Here at Notre Dame known for his determine the "best and the 
including is where I had my first service to the brightest" to make up 
the Special poor and his role Kennedy's cabinet, and
talk with Shriver 

Olympics as an activist for Shriver was commissioned by and Upward about race issues in civil rights, Kennedy to develop the Peace Bound, was Chicago." Stossel said. Corps. Although it was origi­honored Stossel expressed nally considered a lost cause, Thursday frustration that Wofford said, Shriver's ideal­
Harris Wofford 

night with a many Americans ism helped him develop the documentary former U.S. Senator know little about Corps into an institution that presentation Shriver. exceeded anyone's expecta­about his Wofford said he tions. life. first met Shriver at Notre The speakers described 
Former Sen. Harris Dame. Shriver as a Wofford, D-Pa., and Scott "Here at "champion of Stossel, the editor of Atlantic Notre Dame is Catholic Social
"Shriver may have

Monthly magazine and the where I had my Teaching." author of "Sarge: The Life first talk with accomplished more The discus­and Times of Sargent Shriver about than any other sion and docu­Shriver," introduced race issues in mentary were
American."

"American Idealist: The Story Chicago," sponsored by of Sargent Shriver," with Wofford said. the Center for statements about a man they Their conver­Scott Stossel S o c i a I described as "the greatest sation con­Concerns in
Atlantic Monthly editor 

social inventor of our time." vinced Wofford connection 
The film presentation about that Shriver with its 25th Shriver took place in the was a man ded-anniversary Browning Cinema in the icated to "making it fast and theme of solidarity. The doc­DeBartolo Performing Arts doing it big." Their relation­umentary following Shriver's Center. Stossell said he ship continued, and the two life will be shown on PBS believes -after conducting eventually began working on Jan. 28, 2008. research, interviewing politi­John F. Kennedy's 1960 cam­cians and speaking to Shriver paign for president together. Contact Nicholas Bock at -that Shriver is the "most Kennedy was Shriver's broth-nbock@nd.edu 


ND law professor 
looks at Darfur 
says O'Connell. She adds

Special to The Observer 
that while Darfur qualifies 

Mary Ellen O'Connell, as an armed conflict with Robert and Marion Short severe atrocities, it is less Professor of Law in the clear that it is genocide. Notre Dame Law School, "Even if it were, a major believes the "responsibility use of force by outside to protect" (R2P) principle interveners makes little adopted by the United sense because, historically, Nations in 2005 conspicu­outside military interven­ously applicable to the cri­tion has almost never sis in Darfur, Sudan. improved a human rights 
The R2P principle states situation," she says. that sovereign states have a "Quite often, nations responsibility to protect understandably feel com­their own citizens. pelled to attempt to make However, when a state is bad situations better. unwilling or unable to do Sometimes, we need to so, the international com­have the discipline and will munity, through the United not to make bad situations Nations, must pick up that worse." responsibility. The contro­O'Connell proposes alter­versy lies in the extent to natives grounded in inter­which R2P should involve national law. She argues the use of military force. for employing some of the 
In Darfur, more than two world's best negotiators to million people are living in broker a cease-fire and end refugee camps after fleeing. the conflict in a way that more than four years of builds lasting peace. In fighting in the region. the interim, she advises Sudan's government and providing security for the the pro-government Arab millions of refugees living militias are accused of war in camps. crimes against the region's O'Connell will be among black African population. the invited presenters at an 
O'Connell is a supporter international symposium of the R2P principle but called "The 'Responsibility advocates for the most min­to Protect': Progress, imal use of military force. Empty Promise or a License 
"Calling the Darfur crisis for 'Humanitarian' 'genocide' seems to compel Intervention?" Nov. 29 and the use of force there," 30 in Bonn, Germany. 




Echo Night 

Tuesday, Oct. 30th 
1st Floor LaFortune {Dooley Room} 7:00-1 O:OOpm {drop by any time} 

Whether you are a senior exploring your 
post-grad options or an underclassman 
looking ahead, Echo Night will enable 
you to discover the Echo program in its 
various ditnensions: 
*Academic Formation *Spiritual Formation *Communal Formation *Pastoral Formation *Serving the Church *Future Pathways 


<echo.nd.edu> 
Friday, October 19, 2007 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Mexico 
continued from page l 
Judith Fean, the director of 
Campus Ministry, said students 
will end each day with a 
relleetion and will attend daily 
Mass with members of the 
local community. 
"Saint Mary's students will see that dnsire for education 
and praye~. a~e r.om~on .~?eds we share, I· nan said. 1 hey will be introduced to the local chapol as the nudeus of the noighborhood." 
With fivn chapels, the parish in Guadalupe serves almost 7,000 families, the majority of whom are poor, some extreme­ly so. The parish assists the needs of the families through youth groups, a social service program that provides med­ical. psychological aid and a Catholic, action group for chil­dren and adolescents. 
While in Monterrey, the group will serve lunch to the nlderly in a soup kitchen, visit tho siek and participate in the kids club, a program estab­lished by Sister Michelle Toepp, who has worked with the mission for almost 11 years. The program allots chil­dren a certain amount of points for their participation in exercises, physical activity and hygiene lessons. The program rewards the children with school supplies and food for their families. 
Fean said Toepp attempts to instill values in the children and allow women in the area to pursue vocations. 
"Sister Michelle models the 


Condos 
continued from page I 
has sold 120 of the 200 unil<> for 
$100,000 to $140,000 apiece. 
But that pace has slowed. 
"When we beat Penn State lin 
Septmnber of 2006]. the very next 
day wn sold 11 units," Brenan 
said. "The following week in '06 
was the Mkhigan game, we lost it. 
The fiJIIowing Sunday we had 10 
appointments ... and not one of 
thmn showed up. 
"To say that our ownership base 
is fickle would be an understate­
ment." 
While Brenan is honest about his sales rate -"To be candid, we had forecasted we'd sell 40-50 units this football season, and we've lownrnd that to 25-30," he said-he's not worried about the futurn. 
Neither is Fred Cooreman of Cooroman Hnal Estate Group and HE/MAX Irish. Cooreman is the director of sales f(Jr Irish Crossing, a still-under-construction town­housn development east of cam­pus. Irish Crossing is 150 yards li·om campus, Cooreman said, and will haVf1 79 unit<> when it is com­pletn. Seventeen havn been sold so fiLr, and lO ofthosn arc occupied. 
Thn average sale price, he said, 
is $:{40,000. 

Coornman said it's too soon to tell how the football season is affecting interest in Irish Crossing, which. he said, is marketed to parents who have students at Notre Dame and who want a place to stay on football week­ends. 
But hn suspect<; a losing ((Jotball tnam could cause interested buy­ers to think twke. 
"I think it has an indirect r.on­nnction," he said. "I would like it if Notre Dame won for morn than one rna.'lon." 
The Martini's daughter, Jill, does not live at thn London Lake unit, but Martini host<> her friends after football ganws. Martini said he's 
holistic way for children in the 
neighborhood and introduces 
them to responsibility and 
!teaches] that one person can 
make a difference in the com­
munity," Fean said. 
Toepp will accompany the Saint Mary's students on their trip. 
Fean hopes the group will be a voice for the neighborhood upon their return to the College. In February, students will offer presentations about their experienees in conjunc­tion with the Diverse Student Leadership Conference. 

The pilgrimage is supported by donations from the Student Diversity Board and the Board of Governance. One of the pil­grimage participants, junior Erin Newsom, said she believes the trip will increase her cultural awareness and faith through interactions in a typical Mexican setting. 
"I hope to gain a new per­spective and incorporate my spiritual beliefs into my serv­ice work while living in a faith community," she said. 
Newsom also said the group will be donating $500 to the mission since border security prevents the donation of sup­plies. 
Junior Mariam Eskander said she is looking forward to playing with the local children in the "club de amigos." 
"I feel this pilgrimage is going to be a life changing experience ... since I will be immersed in nothing but this wonderful culture for a week," Eskander said. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO I @saintmarys.edu 

even thinking about hosting a 
Thank..'lgiving meal lor her friends 
who ean't go home lilr the holiday. 
Senior Mike Cimino lives at Oak 

I I ill, where his parents purchased 
a condo three years ago. The 
Ciminos, from Omaha, are a Notre 
Dame family: Cimino's lather and 
grandfather graduated from the 
University, along with his two 
older sisters. 
Cimino is the third of five chil­dren, and he has a sister who's a sophomore in Farley Hall. His younger brother is a senior in high school who just applied to Notre Dame. 
Buying the eondo was "a sound investment," Cimino said. 
His two older sisters have both lived in Oak Hill -one for a cou­ple years, the other for a summer. Two years from now, Cimino said, his younger sister will probably live there, too. 
I lis family comes to South Bend "four or five times a year," and while his parents and relatives will get hotel rooms when they visit this fall, "next year ... they'll all just stay in the condo," Cimino said. 
Laurie Fitzgerald, another par­ent, recently bought a townhome in Dublin Village for her daughter, Emily, a junior at Saint Mary's. 
"The market for these places is definitely on the upswing," said Fitzgerald, who is from the Chicago area. "From what we're told, people who have resold units in Dublin Village have already made a profit owning them less than one year. 
"I don't antidpat11 losing money on this." 
Fitzgerald said the property is useful for her daughter, who is doing studnnt teaching off campus and nneds easy aceess to her car. 
"(In the past,] there hasn't been a lot of places worth buying in South Bend," she said, "and now it appears that it's taking off." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone@nd.edu and Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 





Rebuild lives. 
You can help. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast 

Applications due Friday, October 19. 
Applications available at http://ace.nd.edu/outreach. 
IN HONOR OF BLESSED BASIL MOREAU Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross  
The story of Basil Moreau, the recently beatified founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, comes to life in this updated edition of his biography. ISBN: 9781 S947113% I 256 pages with 8-page photo in~rt I $15.9S MacEoin ~'lt,entle and re~pectfitl style brings Fr. Moreau to l(je in a U'ayjew others o.lhis biographers baw. and I hope this tteu' edition recei11es wide reading FATHER JOHN JENKINS, C.S.C. President. the University of ;'llotre Dame MacEoin j· hiograpby ofBasilMoreau is a remi11rler t!{hou• the cross tl'as woven into the whole cloth which was tbefounder:~ life. This story as told by MacEoin is more than history; it is sustenancefor our continuitegjotmzeyfrom.faith to bojJe, well worth reading again. BROTHER RICHARD B. GILMAN, C.S.C. !>resident, Holy Cross College Aprogressit'f! educator u•bo aimed to rel!ilalize religion tbrough wider diffusion ofkuotl'!edge, Moreau was committed to tbe excellent professioJJai preparation ofHoly Clm:~ faculty. That Prayer is tbe key qfbea/Jen. With it, the commitment bas born exceUentfmit. Everyone in Holy Cross justperson opens up all the treasures of miuistry should read tbis book. heaz,en where the soul may draw its ease. CAROL ANN MOONEY, PH.D. -BASIL MOREAU (1799-1873) Presidenl, Saini Mary's College  
To read more about Basil Moreau visit our website at www.avematiapress.com  

A 
Available from your bookstore. Hommes Notre Dome bookstore, or from 
ave maria press I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
www.avemariapress.com I Ph: 800-282-1865 
ave marla press• A Ministry of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross 
Keycode: At>2090705l'L 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 19, 2007 CoMPJLED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Flames resemble Pope John Paul II 
WAHSAW -A photo of a bonfire taken by a Polish construetion worker is ereating .a stir for the resemblance of the flames to a silhouette of the eountry's beloved son, the late Pope John Paul II. 
The pieture of the flames -said to resemble a silhouette of the pope bending in a gesture of blessing -has been fea­tured in newspapers aeross Poland and other countries. including Germany and Italy. 
Grzegorz Lukasik, 26. snapped the photo April 2 at a mountainside ceremony mark­ing the second anniversary of the pope's death. 
Bomb kills 126 in Pakistan 
KAHACIII -A suicide bombing in a crowd welcoming former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto killed at least 126 people Thursday night. shattering her celebrato­ry proeession through Pakistan's biggest city after eight years in exile. 
Two explosions went off near a truck carrying Bhutto, but police and officials of hnr party said she was not injured and was hurried to her house. An Associated Press photo showed a dazed-looking Bhutto being helped away. 
())'f'ieials at six hospitals in Karachi rPportt~d 126 dPad and 248 wounded. It was believnd to be the deadliest bomb attaek in Pakistan's history. 
Bhutto flew home to lnad her Pakistan Pnopln's Party in January parliamentary Plnctions, drawing eheers from supporters massPd in a sea of the party's red, green and blark flags. The police ehief said 
150.000 wPre in the streets, while other onlookPrs nstimated twiet~ that. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Autistic boy found in wilderness 
CIIAHLESTON-An autistic 18-year-old lost in tlw wilderness for four days was found alivn Thursday. weak but apparently fine, and reunited with his family, searchers said. 
"To thn best of our knowledge, he was just hungry and thirsty and fatigued," Jim Heneau, one of the nine searehers who found Jacob Allnn. said at a news conferenee at the command post near Davis, about 90 miles south of Pittsburgh. 
Allen. who wandered away from his par­ents while hiking Sunday, was found lying in a clearing about a mile from where his hat was found Monday. 

High winds harm more than 30 
PAHIS -Storms that raked the Plains and Southeast tossed up a mobile home in Missouri early Thursday, killing both people inside, and spawned a tornado in Florida that sent mall shoppers and children at a day-earn eenter running for eover. 
More than 30 people were injured Wednesday night when high winds blew through an Oktoberfest festival in Tulsa, Okla.. collapsing two tents on the erowd. 
In rural northeastern Missouri, the state Highway Patrol said Kent Ensor and Kristy Secrease had sought refuge in Seerease's mobile home in Monroe County_ as a torna­do approached. Their bodies were found about 400 feet from where the home had been. 
LOCAL NEWS 

EPA objects to Gary steel mill permit 
INDIANAPOLIS -Federal regulators who recently cited numerous shortcomings in blocking a wastewater permit for U.S. Steel's Cary Works steel mill complex have told Indiana officials they now have addi­tional eoneerns about the draft permit. 
The U.S. Environmental Proteetion Ageney's letter detailing its three new objections to the permit was sent to Indiana oiTieials on Wednesday, the same day four members of Congress from Indiana and Illinois urged the ageney to hold a public hearing on the proposed per­mit. 
RUSSIA 


Israel asks for support against Iran 
Prime Minister Olmert pushes Putin to back major sanctions, halt sale of arms to Syria 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert pressed Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday to support new sanetions against Iran over its nuclear activities and urged Russia not to sell arms to Iran or Syria. 
Olmert's brief, abruptly announeed visit eame days after Putin traveled to Iran and met with its president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who has publicly called for Israel's demise. During the trip, Putin vowed to support Iran's pur­suit of nuclear energy and warned "outside forees"-an apparent reference to the 
U.S. -against attacking Tehran. 
In a three-hour meeting with Putin, Olmert "expressed his opinion that effective sanctions by all the interna­tional eommunity would have the potential to stop Iran pur­suing the nuclear path," said Miri Eisin, the Israeli prime minister's spokeswoman. 
Russia ha<> resisted fi.lrther 
U.N. sanctions against Iran over its refusal to halt urani­um enrichment and other activities that Israel and the 
U.S. say are aimed at devel­oping nuelear weapons. Iran insists its nuelear program is for energy produetion alone. 

Eisen said Olmert's visit was scheduled several days Putin, at Olmert's request, fearful of a U.S. attaek. wondering what kind of mes­ago, but it was announeed briefed the Israeli leader on He also has asserted that sage he conveyed in private only after Putin returned "the main results of his reeent pressuring Iran too hard is and how the Iranians from Iran. visit to Tehran." eounterproduetive and responded. 
As he and Olmert sat down Putin sought to assuage stressed that Russia sees no President Bush said for talks, Putin acknowledged both Iran and the West dur­proof Tehran is seeking Wednesday he wanted a the Israeli leader's dismay ing his trip, a delieate balane­nuclear weapons. report direetly from Putin over Iran's nuclear program ing act refleeting his reach for That stance drew anger in about his visit to Iran -and and promised to diseuss his global influenee and desire to Israel. to know whether Putin "eon­meetings in Tehran. preserve warm ties with a "Even ifPutin says he is not tinues to harbor the same 
"We know how concerned Middle Eastern ally without convineed that Iran is devel­coneerns" as Washington you are about the situation angering Washington. oping a nuclear capability for about Iran's nuelear pro­surrounding the Iranian By rejeeting Iranian pres­military purposes, everyone gram. Bush suggested that a (nuclear program)," said sure to set a firm startup date knows what its real intentions nuelear-armed Iran could Putin, the first Kremlin leader for a nuelear power plant are," said Israeli President trigger World War III. to visit Iran sinee 1943. "I am Russia is building in Iran, Shimon Peres. He said intelli­Russia's mantra is that the ready to share the results of Putin signaled that he was genee serviees have "ineon­standoff over Iran's nuclear my visit." using Moseow's levers of trovertible proof that shows program ean only be solved 
Olmert expressed eager­influence to nudge Tehran that Iran is working to devel­through diplomacy. By host­ness "to hear from you about toward eooperation with the op nuelear weapons." ing Olmert days after meeting the results of your trip to Iran international eommunity. The substanee of Putin's with Iranian leaders, Putin and talk about other con­But Putin also warned meetings with Ahmadinejad may have been easting him­cerns." against attaeking Iran, a and Iran's supreme leader, self as an irreplaeeable 
The Kremlin later released boost to a country that has Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was bridge between Iran and its a brief statement saying that felt inereasingly isolated and murky. Putin left the world fiereest erltics. 

Safe injection of drugs considered in city 
Associated Press to reduce the harms and improve the "poor public poliey." 
health of our eommunity," said Grant "The underlying philosophy is, "We 

SAN. FRANCISCO-City health offi­Colfax, direetor of HIV prevention for accept drug addiction, we aecept the cials took steps Thursday toward open­the San Franeisco Department of state of affairs as aeceptable," Madras ing the nation's first legal safe-injeetion Publie Health. said. "This is a form of giving up." room, where addicts eould shoot up Organizers of the daylong forum, Sixty-five similar facilities exist in 27 heroin, cocaine and other drugs under whieh also included a eoalition of non­cities in eight countries, but no other the supervision of nurses. profit health and social-service groups, U.S. eities have eonsidered ereating 
Hoping to reduce San Franeiseo's acknowledge that it eould take years to one, according to Hilary McQuie, high rate of fatal drug overdoses, the get an injection facility up and running. Western director for the Harm publie health department co-sponsored Along with legal hurdles at the state Reduction Coalition, a nonprofit that a symposium on the only such f'aeility and federal level, sueh an effort would promotes alternative drug treatment in North Ameriea, a 4-year-old be almost sure to faee politieal opposi­methods. Vaneouver site where an estimated 700 tion. "If it happens anywhere in the U.S., it intravenous users a day self-administer Bertha Madras, deputy direetor of will most likely start in San Franciseo," nareoties under the supervision of demand reduction for the White House McQuie said. "It really just depends on nurses. Offiee of National Drug Control Policy, if there is a political will here. How 
"Having the eonversation today will ealled San Francisco's eonsideration of long it takes for that political will to help us figure out whether this is a way such a facility "disconcerting" and develop is the main factor." 

page 6 Friday, October 19, 2007
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Woo 
continued from page 1 
Woo's story began with her birth in I long Kong as the fifth of six childrnn. In a dimate of polit­ical displacement, Woo learned to value life's opportunities. 
"! grew up with this sense l that) nothing is to be taken for granted.... Everything could just ehange places overnight," Woo said. 
Adding to the instability was Woo's father, who, though talent­ed and hard -working, abused alcohol, gambled and had a qukk temper. Woo's mother, like othnr women shn knew, lived a lifo of ((\ar and subordination. 
"My wholl\ goal was to never bn like my rnottwr," Woo said. "My goal was to be independ­Pnt." 
IIPiping her down her path wnn~ SPVI~ral important inllu­enn~s -the Catholic school shn attendmf for 12 years and her nanny, Yao. 
"My saving 
grace was that 

"/grew up with this 
I was snnt to dasses as pos­
sense [that} nothing is to sible."
this school run by American be taken for granted ... Woo humor­
nuns, Woo ously recount­
everything couldjust
said. ed her experi­
change places ences with
There, Woo experienced overnight. " classes in the love of Hussian lan­strangers, guage and 
Carolyn Woo 
learned En"glish film, the only 
dean

by immersion, classes she realized the Mendoza College of Business dropped. Woo 
value of 
expressing her 
thoughts and, through reading, 
developed hP-r imagination. 
Furthermore, the nuns "chal­
lengnd us to be our very best but 
never to compete against each 
other." 
At home, Woo grew under the 
care of her family's servant as 
well. 
"My mother by and large was nHtlly quite weak ... but my nanny was the opposite," Woo said. "She had this incredible abilit~ to find her way as a ser­vant. 
Yao brought unique experi­encns to the Woo family when she began working for them as a nanny even bd"ore Woo's birth. 
"She lwlped me undPrstand how servanL'i look at things.... It was r:.eally qu.ite a good expnri­ence, Woo sard. 
As Woo grew up in "chaos countered by family routines and celebrations," she discovered studying as a way to escape life's challenges. ller older brother attondcd a university in the Unitml States, and Woo became deterrnint\d to do the same. 
While her father respected her grades, he could not imaginP. sending his daughter to the United States. Woo said she sus­pects that her parents' visit to San Francisco in the 1960s prompted their view that the country had loose morals. 
Nonetheless, encouraged by hnr nanny, Woo persevnred in her quest to receive a college nducation in the United Statns. 
In an emotional moment, she told her father: "I don't want to be a daughter. .Just treat me as a son. I will accept the responsi­bilities of a son." 
During this time, Woo met a faculty member on leave from Purdue University and decided to apply to Purdue. She was accepted, but without her father's help, saw no way to pay the $1,600 tuition. 

Yao then revealed that she had established savings for the chil­dren. With her older sisters established in jobs and her brothers taken care of, Woo had full access to these funds. This money and the further financial support of Woo's siblings would fund one year in college. 
Woo enrolled as a student at Purdue University and entered the United States with little besides a gold bracelet, which was to be sold for a plane ticket if anything went wrong. 
After she arrived in the United States, Woo was homesick but found support in the Catholic Church and great satisfaction in all that slm was learning. 
"Because I only had one year, I didn't know where it would lead me," Woo reealled. She immersed herself in university life, taking 24 credits each 
semnst1~r. 
"It was an incredible experi­ence btlcause when I went to school, I didn't fear failing ... and because it was my one year, I wanted to take as many 
couldn't learn 
Hussian and 

often fell asleep during silent 
movie screenings. 
Nonetheless, she persisted in 
her other dasses, always asking 
at the end of a long day, "Did I 
learn something'?" 
As sophomore year approached, Woo applied for one of two intornational student scholarships but feared a B­grade in one course would elimi­nate her from the competitive applicant pool. 
She received a three-year scholarship, which she used to finish a bachelor's degree and then a master's degree. She then completml a Ph.D. program, also at Purdue University. 
While Woo acknowledged the role of her own work ethic, she appreciated all who helped her rnach her goals. 
"When you need help. it's amazing how many people will lwlp," Woo said, mentioning her nanny, siblings, tho Purdue com­munity and those who welcomed her into their homes for holiday meals. 
Woo continuns to connect with pnople from her past. This week­end, two of the nuns who taught lwr in llong Kong will visit for the football game. The sisters, ages 85 and 95, continue to challenge her to be a citizen of the world, she said. 
Woo's hour-long presentation ended with open questions from audience members, who inquired about everything from job-searching and child-rearing to her choice of major. 
The next speaker in the Telling IIEHstory Series will be Ann Firth; the associate vice presi­dent for student all'airs, on Nov. 14 at 12:30 p.m. in the Coleman­Morse Center Lounge. 
Contact Emily Keebler at ekeebler@nd.edu 


Ken David Watercolors 
Holiday Special 33°/o Off 
SCENES INCLUDE: THE GOLDEN DOME A DORM THE STADIUM THE GROTTO 
INCLUDING SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

EACH HANDCOLORED PRINT COMES IN AN 11X14 DOUBLE MAT $29.06 $20.00 PLUS SHIPPING 
3680 NE 15TH TERRACE POMPANO BEACH, FL 33064 954.782.3924 
FOR COLOR PICTURES OF ALL SCENES VISIT MY STORE, stores.ebay.com/notredamecollectibles 
Satisfaction Guaranteed or your money back. 
Office of International Studies Program in 


DUBLIN, IRELAND 
A Y 2008-2009 

Trinity College 
INFORMATION MEETING 
Thursday, Nov. 1, 2007 6:30pm 201 De Bartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2007 FOR ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-2009 
APPLICATION AVAILABLE: WWW.ND.EDLJ/-QIS 


----~ -­

Friday, October 19, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,888.96 -3.58
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

1,595 121 1,658 3,239,092,183 
AMEX 2,476.59 +21.26 NASDAQ 2,799.31 +(}.(}4 NYSE 10,174.61 +9.31 S&P 500 1540.0X -1.1() NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17,106.09 0;00 
-(}~L\0

FTSE 100 'London~ 6,609.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.36 -0.56 153.69 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.94 +0.25 26.97 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.23 +0.23 53.7.8 CITIGROUP INC (C) -1.86 -0.83 43.83 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.95 -0.043 4.503 13-WEEK BILL -6.43 -0.250 3.640 30-YEAR BOND -0.62 -0.030 4.779 5-YEAR NOTE -1.38 -0.058 4.153 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.07 89.47 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +6.40 768.70 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.35 82.98 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 115.60 EURO 0.6994 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9738 BRITISH POUND 0.4891 
IN BRIEF 

Google surpasses Cisco Systems 
SAN FRANCISCO --Already the Internet search leader, Google Inc. picked up more bragging rights Thursday when it surpassed Cisco Systems Inc. as Silicon Valley's most valuable company. 
Then Google's third-quarter earnings provid­ed another reminder of why the nine-year-old company is such a hot commodity. 
In the latest on a long list of pleasant sur­prises, Google's profit soared 46 percent to surpass the high expectations that had elevat­ed its stock price by more than $100 in the past month. 
As it has been for years, Google reaped the benefits of running the Internet's most popular advertising network as more marketing dol­lars shift to the Web from television, radio, newspapers and magazines. 

Fruit prices rise as land is developed 
FOHT PIEHCE -There seem to be more trac­tors tearing up St. Lucie County's old citrus groves than tending them these days. 
This county once had more orange and grape­fruit trees than almost any other place in Florida. the nation's largest citrus producer. Now it's one of the fastest-growing counties in onn of America's fastest-growing states, and that land is fast giving way to housing tracts. 
The same is happening in varying degrees across f<'lorida's citrus belt. It has been for years, but the slow slide has suddenly quick­nned. Farmers are replanting fewer trees than any point since the 1970s, and crop land is rap­idly disappearing. Previously high land prices, diseases like citrus canker and greening and even the rising .cost of trees are hurting farmers and driving orange juice prices to reeord levels, up more than a third since 2002. 
"It's a very, very expensive process to get back into the business, even though you have land sit­ting there fallow," said Doug Bournique, head of the Indian River Citrus League. "It's not a dollar a tree like it was 20 years ago, just to pop them into the ground." It can now cost $10 a tree. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------~~---.--------~--~~--... 
THE OBSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 

Coalition sets copyright guidelines 
Several major media companies outline various techniques for Web sites to filter material 
A~sociated Press 

LOS ANGELES -A coali­tion of major media and Internet companies Thursday issued a set of guidelines for handling copyright-protected videos on large user-generated sites such as MySpace. 
Conspicuously absent was Google Inc., whose YouTube Web site this week rolled out its own technology to fil­ter copyrighted videos once they've been posted. 
Media companies Walt Disney Co., Viacom Inc., CBS Corp., NBC Universal and News Corp. joined Internet companies Microsoft Corp., MySpace, Veoh Networks and Dailymotion to issue the guidelines, which would require sites to use filtering technology to block copy­righted clips from being posted without permission. 
The incentive for the coalition's Web sites and others to comply is the media companies' promise not to sue if any copyrighted material sneaks past their best efforts to block it. 
"Today's announcement marks a significant step in transforming the Internet from a Wild West to a popu­lar medium that respects the rule of law," NBC Universal president and chief executive Jeff Zucker said in a statement. "By rec­ognizing the mutual benefits Andrew Bridges of the San any company from seeking YouTube, which is being of a technology-based Francisco firm Winston & legal remedies in a dispute. sued by Viacom for allowing framework to control pira­Strawn. "These principles may be copyrighted videos to be cy, technology and content "In general, it's not a sur­a noteworthy attempt to posted on its site, companies have laid the prise that companies in liti­reach some common announced its long-awaited foundation for the lawful gation can be reluctant to ground that could minimize filtering technology Monday. growth of video on the join something that may be friction and minimizing fric­That technology would Internet." only a partial resolution to tion is good for everybody identify unauthorized con­
Web companies that are an overall dispute," Bridges except the lawyers," tent after it is posted on the being sued by content own­said. Bridges said. site, then take steps to ers might be reluctant to Bridges called Thursday's The guidelines, which do remove it. join such coalitions, espe­guidelines more of a treaty not apply to search engines, In contrast, Thursday's cially when other coalition than a contract, noting that e-mail or browsers, are guidelines require that sites members are seeking com­the coalition members designed for sites that host use technology to block pensation for past viola­specifically stated that the user-generated clips -like offending clips before they tions, said Internet attorney guidelines do not preclude YouTube. are posted online. 


Billion-dollar health care plan vetoed 
Associated Press ened Republican president. who are not poor enough to qualify 
It was Bush's third veto of the year. for Medicaid, but whose families 
WASHINGTON -The Democratic­lie has yet to be overridden, cannot afford private health care. controlled House failed on Thursday although Democrats say they will "You either stand with our chil­to override President Bush's veto of succeed in doing so on a water proj­dren or you stand against them," a politically popular children's ects bill that soon will go to the said Hep. Jim Clyburn of South health bill, and the White House White House. Carolina4 a member of the instantly called for compromise talks "We won this round," said White Democratic leadership. "There is no on a replacement. House press secretary Dana Perino, in between." 
"As long as the bottom line is that despite an aggressive advertising Critics said that the bill was a step 10 million children are covered. campaign on the insurance bill by toward socialized medicine, that too That's non-negotiable," responded Democratic allies that was aimed at many adults benefited and that Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif. She GOP lawmakers. despite an explicit prohibition, it pledged that new legislation would Democrats cited public opinion would allow the children of illegal be ready within two weeks, and polls that showed overwhelming immigrants to gain coverage. within hours, key lawmakers met to support for a health care expansion Democrats do "not want a low consider changes in the vetoed and they predicted some income children's plan," said Rep. measure. Hepublicans would pay a heavy price Dave Camp, R-Mich. 
The maneuvering followed a 273-at the polls for sticking with Bush. "They want what Hillary Clinton 156 vote that left supporters 13 At a cost of $35 billion over five called for in 1994, the first step short of the two-thirds majority years, the vetoed measure would toward government run insurance needed to prevail in a bruising veto have added nearly 4 million unin­for all," he said. As first lady, she struggle between congressional sured children to the insurance pro­unsuccessfully pushed a plan for Democrats and a politically weak-gram. It provides coverage for those universal coverage. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 19, 2007 
~================================================================================= 

Rwandan genocide trials unjust, says Kroc fellow 
After spending 18 rnonths in the country, student presents dissertation examining the legal process for alleged murderers 
By MEG MIRSHAK 
News Writer 

Anu Chakravarty, a visiting l"PIIow at the .Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, prnsnnted her dissPrtation Thursday, the product of IS months spent doing field rnsearch in Hwanda about the genocide trials tlwrl'. 
Chakravarty is <:ompleting her dissnrtalion at Cornell Univl'rsity, where she received a mastPr's degree in 2004. Sill) is working on a comparativP study while at tlw Kroc Institute. 
Slw spokn ab<iut her dissor­tation, "Surrendering Conspnt: Thn Political ConsnqtHmrns of the Gn!locide Trials in Hwanda," to about 50 people in the llesburgh Cnntnr. llnr work focuses on tho gonoridn trial process. Tlw trials ramo several years artnr the I1J1J0-94 civil war bntwnPn thP llutu and the Tutsi othnic groups. The Hwandan Patriotic: Front (HI'F), a group of Tutsi refugens who fled the country in the I<JSOs, invaded Hwanda in I990, Chakravarty said. 
"The HI'F never expected !tho civil war! to end up in genocide," she said. But threatened by Tutsi power, the ll utus rebelled. Nearly 300,000 llutus participated in tho organized killing of HOO,OOO Tutsi people in 1994. 
After the gnnor.ide came the Chakravarty said prisoners trials, which Chakravarty arc coerced to confess by believes wnrn unjust. incentives in the law, such as Approximately 7Ml,OOO pco­bf1ing released without serv­pln have bnen accused of ing prison-time after partici­involvnnwnt in thn genocidn. pating in a trial. "Some of Chakravarty them confess said some pris-having done 
on<)rs are "There is an incredible nothing," reluctant to sense ofguilt. They Chakravarty confess, said.
{Hutus and Tutsisl will 
because no evi­But once denee rrom the do anything to bring they confess, killings is pre­/Rwanda/ back to where they become sen tl~d at a even more
it was."
trial. vulnerable. 
S h e "If the gov­described the Anu Chakravarty ernment does "consent-visiting fellow not follow effect" by through Iwith
Joan B. Kroc Institute 
which the benefits]. Rwandan gov-they are ernment promises political worse off than before," she support and benefits in said. exchange for a confession In her interviews with the from Ilutu perpetrators. prisoners, Chakravarty found According to that both pris­Chakravarty's oners who had 
data, citizens, "There is potential on confessed and 
despite believ­an individual basis for those who had ing that state not confessed
interpersonal reconcili­
rulers lack the were aware of 
moral authori­ation between everyday incentives in ty to govern, Hutu and Tutsi." the law. By concede to the confessing to government participating

Anu Chakravarty
the .:'right to in the geno­

visiting fellow 
rule. cide through 
While in Joan B. Kroc Institute the trial Rwanda, process, Chakravarty Chakravarty interviewed 38 prisoners. said, accused perpetrators Eighteen had confessed to produce political power for participating in the killings, ruling elites and deprive peo­and the other 20 had not. ple of political rights. 

In her interviews, Chakravarty asked the pris­oners if reconciliation between the Hutu and Tutsi people was possible. Fur the most part, they believed it was. 
"There is an incredible sense of guilt," Chakravarty said. "They [Hutus and Tutsis] will do anything to bring IHwanda] back to where it was." 
After watching eight geno­cide trials, Chakravarty said, "there is potential on an indi­vidual basis for interpersonal reconciliation between every­day 11 utu and Tutsi." 
Contact Meg Mirshak at mmirshak@nd.edu 

"These condos :::1re :::1 win-win proposition!" 
-Mike Golic, ESPN Personality and former Notre Dame f(Jotball player, Class of '85. 

Yuu"ll win when yuu stay in your luxurious Waterf(xd L:stutes Lod(-;c Pills, purchase n unit now nnd \X!aterford will donate 2~6 condu unit f(>r Nutre UmtH~ f(x>tlxdl weekends and 111ore-it compares ofthe purchase price to Hmmuh (', Friends-n dmrity 
h >a l:hrcc··star hotd with indoor w td <H rLdm>r pools, fitness F:1cilities, f-(Hmded hy l\1aura and Charlie Wds to help irnprovt~ tJw 

fRIINDS 

n~sburant and nn authentic Irish pt!b. quHlity oflift~ for childr<~n nnd ndults with special needs. 
And. you'll win when you're not usins it-with un option to plucc your Freshmen Parents: Book now For :(()rJ Graduation with only n $25 deposit. Corne ow~r in person to visit Wah~tf-(xd first-hand and we'll
unii· in a pr<Jf·{~ssionally nt;mn,~ed rental progrmn. 
waive the deposit! 

c::;ucst roorns still8vail8blc for most '07 home footb811gmncs. 
Loc::.Jted Ht S2.890 SR 933,just north ofthe Notre Dnme cmnpus and minutes frorn downtown South r)end and the South Bend Regiorwl Airport.


Waterford 
Contact Wutet+(xd Estntes Lodse at (574) 272·-5220 
estates lod9e or online Ht www.wuterfordestateslod8e.com
0 


-~----------~ -----------------------------------------------~---------------------.----..------------~--~~----....~....~ 
Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
"On these immersions, you inar has a historical and pate from different back­Operation Helping Hands has meet so many different peo­informative aspect, which the grounds." shifted its focus to rebuilding
Service 
ple," she said. ·"We encourage task force hopes will still sus­Immersion in the culturally instead," he said. 
BOT 
continued from page 1 
The Council ultimately voted on Sept. 24, passing an ordinance that contains all the language of the party per­mit legislation but refrains from enacting the rules. The ordinance does not specify exactly what would trigger the additional vote needed to 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
.. 

Enjoy Italian classics and contemporary 
',~-'1 

-::-\ creations in a comfortable, casual setting. 
~" ....-r.h. ··.i ~­


}~CATERING 
Catering for every occasion 
www PapaVinosCatering .com 
require the filing of permits. 
One trustee asked Brown, a political science and peace studies major, whether she was able to use any skills learned in the classroom dur­ing the negotiations. 
Brown said she had, adding that she had at one point called the professor of her conflict resolution class to say she was involved in a simula­tion from his class. 
Student body vice president 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka (574) 271-1692 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 
Maris Braun described one proposal student government made that is included in the finalized ordinance. The ordi­nance called for the establish­ment of a Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC). which will include students and administrators from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and Indiana University South Bend, as well as Common Council members, the mayor, land­lords and local residents. It will be responsible for help­ing the Common Council iden­tify neighborhood concerns related to local colleges, and it will propose solutions. 
The CCAC was modeled after a similar group estab­lished by the city of East Lansing, Mich., and Michigan State University, which Braun called a "benchmark of a peer institution that dealt with col­lege-town issues in an extremely proactive manner." 
When a trustee asked how the student government can hope to sustain interest in community relations as the student population changes. Braun responded that the presence of the student body president on the CCAC would help to ease the transition from year to year. 
Chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil told Board members about other student government initiatives in the area of community relations, such as the work of the Senate Community Relations Committee, the bus tour of South Bend held during fresh­man orientation weekend and the Campus Legal Aid Clinic held to instruct students mov­ing off campus on leasing obligations and good neighbor protocol. Student government is also in the process of approaching each academic department to ask them to offer a community-based class through which students would spend time in the com­munity as well as the class­room. 
"The more students are able to get into the community, the more they'll be interested in the community," Plamoottil said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 
a site leader, a seminar coordi­nator or a task force member," said Angela Miller-McGraw, the direetor of Appalachia semi­nars and edueational immer­sions at the esc. 
"Each of these provides stu­dnnts with the opportunity to n~f'ine their communication, rnsearch and leadership skills." 
The bulk of the 357 student participants in the seminars next week will be working in thn Appalachia region, where they will serve at dozens of sites in Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia, West Virginia and Ohio. 
The region remains one of tho poorest in the country, with about :H percent of residents living below the poverty line in many of the mining counties. 
Student participants were givnn the option to select spe­cific sites to volunteer at during the application process, and once selected, were placed with a site team with members from all grade lnvels. 
Junior Kelsey Larson will be returning to the region for the third time this year and is also eo-chairing the program. She said the perspective she gets from traveling to the area is "truly amazing." 
students to go because it tain effective dialogue among broadens their perspective and student partieipants. outlook on life. You see first "I think the role religion hand what is true and what the plays in government is misrep­locals' lives are like." resented sometimes, and we're 
Another portion of the partic­hoping to explore a wider vari­ipants will be heading to ety of issues," said senior Washington for the Washington Michael Redding, a member of 
D.C. seminar or to Chicago for the D.C. task force. the cultural I n diversi.ty Chicago, seminar. 14 stu­
The D.C. dents will
"On these immersions, you
seminar -immerse which con­·meet so many different themselves sists of 12 in the
people. We encourage
students -heart of
students to go because it 
will be some of examining broadens their perspective the city's religion and ethnic
and outlook on life." 
politics. The neighbor­group will hoods. 
Kelsey Larson

visit the U.S. Students Conference Notre Dame junior who were of Catholic interested Bishops and in the will meet Cultural with representatives from the Diversity seminar underwent a Council of American-Islamic rigorous selection process in Relations (CAIR). the order to be admitted into this American-Israel Political smaller group. Action Committee and the "It was a very self-selecting National Association of group," said junior Laura Evangelicals. Meyer, one of the task force 
Although some of the larger members. "We required addi­issues involved in the religion­tional essays to gauge the stu­government mix include topics dents' interest in diversity so like gay marriage and abortion, that we could compile a variety the goal of this year's D.C. sem-of different people to partici­rich areas of an urban city will be an eye-opening experience for people too accustomed to the Notre Dame bubble, Meyer said. 
"By throwing students into it, it's like a crash course, where there's no book reading," she said. "It's just the real world and people you've never met before." 
Helping to rebuild New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina has been a popular mission for many students: The Gulf Coast Task Force will return to the area this break, taking a group of 21 students to work with the Catholic Charities Operation Helping Hands. 
The task force is not an offi­cial CSC Seminar but has some affiliation with the Center in that it receives funds to achieve its objective in post-Katrina efforts. 
This year, the group has stepped up from its traditional method of recruiting volunteers to gut destroyed homes in the Big Easy, said senior Nick Albares, who is leading the trip this fall. 
"There have been a lot of complex reasons for this change, one of which being the lagging federal money and insurance for residents, and 
Since it is expensive to hire reputable contractors to pay for the homes to be rebuilt, Operation Helping Hands asked that the task force recruit stu­dents with higher skill levels to ­help with the rebuilding process. 
"When you gut a house, it doesn't take much as far as skills; you can just rip stuff out," Albares said. "Right now, Operation Helping Hands is looking for people experienced in things like plumbing and 
_ electricity to help out, so they imposed a quota of around 20 vplunteers." Regardless, any hands that can help move projects along will make a difference. Albares, like the other task force lead­ers, is hoping the participants will fall in love with the people and heritage of the sites they visit. 'Tm really looking forward to a great trip," he said. "We have a fantastic group of people ded­icated to the region, and I'm hoping that people can come away with a new sense of what's going on down there and it will awaken them to how social issues are playing out down there." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranan4@nd.edu 
~ustom!~aR~}~tJ~ CO. 
Fabrication & Design Carved and lnlayed Bordered Tapestry Hooked/Prodding 
indianarugco.com 
Carpet Binding Area Rug Repair Floorcloths \Vcarable & Other Fiber Arts 

574.233.7312
]217 N. Jv1errifield Mishawak~ IN 46545 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 19, 2007 Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 11 

BOLIVIA 
Troops, residents fight over airport 
Associated Press 
SANTA CHUZ, Bolivia ­Soldiers fired tear gas at an1,try residents who tried to storm Bolivia's busiest airport Thursday as the facility became a focal point of an autonomy dispute betwP-en the federal gov­ernmp,nt and thfl country's wealthiest province. 
Several hundred residents of the city and province of Santa Cruz attempted to crash through the gates of the Viru Viru airport, which was seized earlier in the day by the military amid a dispute over landing fees. 
Waving green-and-white Santa Cruz flags and setting off fireworks, the protesters were repelled by vollp,ys or tp,ar gas fired by military policfl from behind the airport's gates. Small grass fires burned, apparently set on· by the fireworks or hot tear gas canisters. 
"The airport belongs to Santa Cruz!" some 300 to 400 protest­ers shouted. Some said the gov­ernment rnbull"cd their attempts to open negotiations on return­ing control of the airport to the state, and vowed to maintain a vigil at the gate Thursday night. · 
Motorists were stranded in a traflic jam that extended at least 2 miles (3 kilometers) on the approach to the airport. The gatm; were sealed and guarded by about 150 soldiers. An opera­tor who answered the airport's 1:ustomer Sflrvice line said there had bmm no flight cancellations. 
About 220 air force troops and military police stormed Viru Viru before Thursday after air­port workers detained an American Airlines plane on the runway, demanding the carrier pay them landing fees in cash. The plane was bound for Miami on Tuesday with 140 passengers aboard. 
The workers were demanding the airline pay landing fees of up to $2,000 in cash locally, rather than deposit the fees with the fp,deral airport authority. 
In the military raid, one sol­dier was wounded by gunfire and another was treated for cuts, officials said. There were no immediate rP-ports of more injuries when protesters tried to retake the airport, but an AP reporter saw eight ambulances driving toward the airport. 
The airport conflict took on broader political implications because Santa Cruz, the nation's largest province, has chafed under the government of leftist President Evo Morales as it moves to nationalize industries and redistribute land and wealth to the country's poor majority. 
The airport "has been stolen by the government using army troops," said Omar Mustafa, one of the Santa Cruz protesters. 
Santa Cruz is home to soy plantations and cattle ranches and the provinces relatively wealthy residents feel targeted by government plans to seize land judged idle or fraudulently obtained for redistribution. 
Santa Cruz is also the center of Bolivia's energy industry, and some worry about foreign investment now that Morales has forced international gas companies to increase royalty payments. Its leaders want autonomy and a bigger share of their state's natural gas rev­enues, but Morales needs the cash for desperatP-ly poor high­land states. 
Viru Viru "will remain milita­rized until the government is certain there will be no more disturbances," said Javier Garcia, the head of civil avia­tion. 
On Wednesday, American, a unit of Dallas-based AMR Corp., and Brazil's Go! Linhas Aereas Intcligentes SA temporarily sus­pended service to Bolivia due to the conflict at Vrru Viru. 
Quinn said the government was calling on Viru Viru work­ers, who number about 100, to return to their jobs. But, he said, the airport will be run by the federal government for about 90 days while the local airport agency is audited. 
-~ !Pill® IF®®irml&~R. IF£©m!ri111F 
• 
©JIIH©£®® W@a ©®Irsir$ ifIA\H~®£iffgu irlilHWH£11 
@IA\lt11~ W/£if©mla IA\liDliD lf)mH~m!@ Benefits Dismas House, afaith-based non-profit that provides housing, and services to former offenders to help them become productive citizens 
Fulfill Community Service Hours, Enjoy some Finger~Uckin' Good Food, and Cheer on your Team for Charity 
When: Sunday Oct 28th from 12 noon to 5 pm Where: Double T's BBQ and Rathskeller Pizza @401 and 415 Hickory Call 574-233-8522 for more info 
CHICAGO VS. COLTS DOUBLET'S VS. RATHSKELLER 
Hiker found after 4-day search 
Autistic youth returned to family hungry, fatigued, unharmed 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. -An autistic 18-year-old lost in the wilderness for four days was found alive Thursday, weak but apparently fine, and reunited with his family, searchers said. 
"To the best of our knowl­edge, he was just hungry and thirsty and fatigued," Jim Reneau, one of the nine searchers who found Jacob Allen, said at a news confer­ence at the command post near Davis, about 90 miles south of Pittsburgh. 
Allen, who wandered away from his parents while hiking Sunday, was found lying in a clearing about a mile from where his hat was found Monday. 
Allen, who has the mental capacity of a 3-or 4-year-old, opened his eyes and rolled over to meet his rescuers when Reneau's son, Jeremy 
Reneau, called out his name. 
"He was very quiet, he was 
nonverbal," said Jeremy 
Reneau, 25, the first to spot 
Allen. "But you could tell by 
his body language he was 
hungry." 
Rescuers fed him candy 
bars and peanut butter sand­
wiches and tried to walk him 
out of the wooded Dolly Sods 
Wilderness Area, part of the 
Monongahela National 
Forest. When he became too 
tired, they carried him out on 
a litter, Reneau said. 
"The family is all togeth­
er," "search group spokesman 
Chris Stadelman said. "As 
soon as they heard the report 
he was alive and doing fairly 
well, they gathered in a 
prayer circle." 
The Inter-Mountain news­
paper reported that Allen 
was taken to Davis Memorial 
Hospital, but a spokeswoman ·for the hospital declined to comment. "I think the whole state's 
relieved," said Lara Ramsburg, spokeswoman for Gov. Joe Manchin, who visit­ed the Allen family Wednesday night. "We're all relieved for him and his fami­ly." 
Allen wandered away from his parents Sunday after­noon. Hundreds of volunteers and trained professionals had been combing the woods, calling for him to come to them for candy bars, ice cream and other food. 
Allen had no food or water with him, but Stadelman had said there were natural water sources in the search area, which consists of about 10 square miles of often steep and brush-covered ter­rain. 
Overnight temperatures dropped to as low as 38 degrees on the nights Allen was missing. He was wearing hiking boots, a long-sleeved T-shirt, a wind jacket and wind pants. 

AFTERSCHOOLSNACKS 





GUITAR HERO 
DDR &OTHER VIDEO GAMES 
COFFEEANDHOTCOCOA 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 10PMSATURDAY 
AFTER THE USC GAME 
~--------------------------------------~----·~--~ 
page 12 The Observer + NEWS Friday, October 19, 2007 CHINA 
Dalai Lama receives award from U.S., angers China 
Country says distinction undernlines supportive relations, urges action 

should make. 

China pulled out of' a plamwd strategy session the U.S. had arranged on Iran Wednesday, citing "technieal reasons," but said the countries involved would discuss setting another meeting date. 
Despite the bluster, Beijing is unlikely to take actions that would jeopardize relations with the U.S., its largest trading part­ner, and increasingly a diplomat­ic one, experts said. 
"I think there will be meetings postponed or canceled," said Joseph Fewsmith, a Chinese pol­itics expert and professor at Boston University. But "I don't think that China wants to throw the whole relationship into dilli­culty beeause of this partkular meeting." 
Besides tho aeeess to the valu­able Anwriean market. China is also counting on the Bush administration to rein in Taiwan, whieh Beijing considers a rene­gade provi nco. Taiwan's demo­eratie government has taken steps toward f'ormalizing tho de facto indnpendence it has enjoyed since splitting f'rom China 5R ynars ago -movos that Beijing has said could bring war. 
Associated Press 

BFI.IING -China warnnd the Unitnd StatPS on Thursday that its honoring of' the Dalai Lama "gravnly undnrminnd" relations lw tween tiH~ two eoun tries. dnmanding Washington stop supporting tlw Pxiled Tibetan spiritual lnad1~r and take stnps to rnpair tins. 
Thn Foreign Ministry state­nwnt was tlw most voeif'nr­also summoned U.S. Ambassador Clark Handt to for­mally protest the giving of the award. 
The Dalai l.arna is lauded in much of the world as a ligurn of moral authority. but China reviles him as a Tibetan sepa­ratist. The 72-year-old monk and Nobnl Peace Prize laureate rniteratnd in Washington that he wants "mal autonomy" for Tibet, 
ous yet in 

''The move of the United 
wnnks of' 

States is a blatant
protests against interference with China's Congress' 
internal affairs which has 
dncision to 

severely hurt the feelings of
award tlw Dalai Lama the Chinese people and its higlwst 
grauely undermined the 
eivi I ian honor, 

relations between China and
pnrsonally hnsl.ownd by the United States." P r ~~ s i d n n t Bush in a CPf-
Llu Jianchao 
nmony 

Chinese Foreign Ministry
Wnchwsday. "The lllOVI~ spokesman 
of' l.hn Unitnd States is a bla­tant intnrf'PrencP with China's internal af'f'airs whieh has s1wm·ply hurl tlw f'nnlings of' the Chi1wse J>Popln and gravely undnrminnd tlw relations lwtwnen China and the United St.a l.l~s," Fo rn ign Min is try spoknsm an l.i u .I ianchao told 
n~portnrs. 

In a sign of' Beijing's pique, Foreign Ministnr Yang .lieehi 
not inde­pnndenec. 
T h c strains over the D a I a i L a m a 
come as the U.S. and China try to man­age a host of issues that have tested their abili­ties to cooperate. While the two have worked 

closely on North Korea. their positions are further apart in pressuring Iran over its nudear program and Myanmar for crushing a dfnnocraey move­ment. Friction also persists over trade and Taiwan. 
The decision by Washington to honor the Dalai Lama is a set­back to Beijing's efforts to lond legitimacy to China's often harsh rule over Tibet and undermine support for the spiritual leader, who remains popular among Tibetans despite fleeing into exile 48 years ago after a failed uprising. 
Thousands of Tibetan exiles celebratnd the award Thursday in Dharmsala, the Indian town when~ the Dalai Lama set up his government in exile. Tibetan flags, which are banned in Chinese-controlled Tibet, flew from buildings. Shops and schools were closed. and the exiles had a daylong picnic with dance performances at the Dalai Lama's Tsuglakhang tomple. 
"This a ward doesn't just honor the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan people but all the peace-loving people in the world," said Dawa Tsering, a parliamentarian in the govornment in exile. 
Liu, the Chinese spokesman, said Washington's actions encouraged Tibetan separatists, and demanded it take eorn~ctive aetion. 
"China urges the United States to take effective mnasures immediately to remove the terri­ble impact of its erroneous act, cease supporting and conniving with the separatist activities of th!~ Tihnt independnnee forces ... and take concrete stops to pro­teet China-U.S. relations," Liu said. 
Though Beijing warnnd earlier this week of serious conse­quences, Liu refusnd to say what China would do and did not specify what redress Washington 
Children killed in 
Detroit shooting 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT -Two adults and two ehildmn wnre f'atally shot as t.lwy slept Thursday in a home known li1r drug activity, rnnewing plnas lilf community members to take more responsibility in the light against violence. 
Polke wen~ qunstioning somo­onn linmd with tho adult male vie­tim's vnhide, which they think the shooter took, SJ.,rt. Enm Stnplwns Boll said. Police did not diseuss a possible motivP. 
Ollicnrs li1und no signs of lim~ed nntry aftPr gPtting thn call around 

3:30 a.m., and tlw doors and win­dows of the two-story brick bun­galow w1~re minf'orend with two­by-fours and locks, Police Chief Ella Bully-Cummings said. The bodins of the childnm were linmd in one room. police said, while the bodies of the adults were in anotlwr. 
Police hav!~ rnspondHd to the housn in th1~ past on reports of shots lirnd and nan~otics com­plaints, Bully-Cummings said. A gun was not found at the scene, but casings from a high-powt~red wnapon wnre mmvered, she said. 
"I'm tin~d of snning our children din," the chief said. "We as adult<> havn a responsibility to our chil­drnn to allow them to grow up as adult<> in a safi1 environment, and we're failing tlwm." 
Pandora Eppinger said her nince, 9-year-old Alexus Eppinger, and nephew, 5-year-old Terrence Eppinger Jr., were killed. 

"It's scary out here. You can't go out anywhere and feel safe," Eppingnr said. 
"They were just little, sweet kids," she said. "Why would they do that?" 
The ehildnm 's mother, Lynnette Lawson, 2S, and Jason Davis, 34, also dind, according to the Wayne County medical examiner's ollice and relatives who gathered in the morning rain near the home. The boy died of a gunshot wound to the abdomen, and the others were shot multiple times at close range, according to the medical examiner's ollice. 
Georgia Davis. 53, said her son, Jason, had bnen dating Lawson recently. 
"Why would someone kill those kids?" she said. "They're crazy." 
Bully-Cummings, speaking to rnport!~rs on the street just hours aftnr the shootings, reiterated a plea for Detroiters to take respon­sibility li1r the community, one she has made repnatedly since taking the job in 2003. 
In 2004, she and other oflkials joined a coalition of ministers in prayer as they called on residents to join them in ending a eulture of violence in the city. But the killings have continued. 
The four were killed a day after a man and woman were eonvict­ed of murdering two boys who were shot in a ransacked Detroit apartment in February. Authorities say they planned to kidnap the boys' cousin and rob him of cocaine and cash. 
Storn1s blow through Midvvest 
High winds injure 30, disrupt Oktoberfest celebrations, shopping 
Associated Press 

PAHIS, Mo. -Storms that raked the Plains and Southeast tossed up a mobile home in Missouri early Thursday, killing both people inside, and spawned a tornado in Florida that sent mall shoppers and ehildren at a day-care center running for cover. 
More than 30 people were injured Wednesday night when high winds blew through an Oktoberfest festival in Tulsa, Okla., collapsing two tents on the crowd. 
In rural northeastern from a well-known family, and Secrease, 25, managed Ensor's 11 ,000-hog operation. They had been dating for about a year, neighbors said. 

"Everybody knows everybody here," said Jim Lovelady. "This hurts." 
Joey Crigler's mobile home down the road from the Ensor farm was spared damage. Despite living in a wide-open area prone to severe weather, Crigler said. he and Ensor didn't worry about their safety. 
"It's just one of those things 
you kind of 
laughed 
about and 
Missouri, the ''They heard the then go on," s t a t e he said. 
warnings, grabbed the kids 
Highway Several
and followed the drill. " 
Patrol said twisters hit Kent Ensor . southwestern and Kristy Glenn Austin Missouri, Secrease had where a
Escambia County Sheriff 
sought home was
spokesman
refuge in destroyed but 
Sccrcase 's mobile home in Monroe County as a tornado approached. Their bodies were found about 400 feet from where the home had been. 
The mobile home's frame was found three-quarters of a mile away, with debris as far as two miles away. 
The National Weather Service classified the storm as an F-2 tornado that traveled one mile and had wind speeds up to 135 mph. 
Ensor, 44, was a hog farmer no injurifJS 
were report­
ed. 

A tornado late Thursday morning in Pensacola, Fla., damaged the city's major shop­ping mall as violent thunder­storms swept aeross the west­ern Panhandle. 
Eddie English Jr., a depart­ment store stoek manager, said he heard the wind outside thn store suddenly speed up and get louder. Then mall security guards entered the store and ordered 200 to 300 employees and shoppers into the base­ment. 
Lindsey Lassiter, manager of the mall's Express for Men store, said water poun1d in from her shop's damaged ceiling. In downtown Pensacola, electricity was out and streets were filled with several inches of water from rain that began around dawn. 
Escambia County sheriff's spokesman Glenn Austin said the Greater Little Hoek Baptist Church's roof was damaged, as was it'> day-care center. But the children thorn had been movnd to safety before the tornado struck, he said. 
"They heard the warnings, grabbed the kids and follownd the drill," he said. 
.Jack Cullen, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, confirmed that a torna­do touched down shortly bnf(m~ noon. 
In Tulsa, more than 7,000 people wern at the Oktoberl"est festival whnn the tents collapsod at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday. Five of" those hurt remained hospital­ized Thursday, and three were in serious condition with h!~ad injuries, concussions and lacer­ations, said Tina Wells, spokes­woman l"or the Emnrgeney Medical Sorvices Authority. 
The storm brought wind gusl<> ranging l"rom 65 mph to nearly 90 mph, said Steve Piltz, a Weather Service meteorologist. Tulsa County was under a tor­nado wateh and severe thunder­storm warning when the storm hit the tents, he said. 
Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

City denies man 
died from 9/11 dust 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The city med­ical examiner has ruled that the death of a retired police detec­tive -seen as one of the strongest cases to be linked to post-Sept. 11 illness -was not caused by exposure to toxic dust while working at ground zero. 
that the foreign material in your son's lungs did not get there as the result of inhaling dust at the World Trade Center or else­where," said the letter, dated Tuesday and signed by Chief Medical Examiner Hirsch and Medical Examiner Michele Slone. 
The letter did not elaborate. Hirsch spokeswoman Ellen 
Dr. Charles Hirsch rejected a New Jersey med­ical examiner's rul­ing that 34-year­old James Zadroga's death was "directly relat­ed" to his work cleaning up the World Trade Center site. That ruling found that Zadroga died in January 2006 of sarcoidosis, a lung­scarring disease that deposits dan­gerous growths in the lungs. 
After reviewing 
"It is our unequivocal opinion, with certainty beyond doubt, that the foreign material in your son's lungs did not get there as a result of inhaling dust at the World Trade Center or elsewhere." 
Dr. Charles Hirsch Chief Medical Examiner 
NYC 
Borakove declined to comment on the let­t e r Thursday. 
T h e detective's father, Joseph Zadroga, said he would meet Friday with officials at the medical examiner's office. 
" I t ' s shocking.... How can 

the autopsy report, Zadroga's medical records and slides of the detective's lung tissue, Ilirsch concluded that the detective's death was not caused by expo­sure to dust, according to a letter addressed to Zadroga's family and obtained by The Associated Press. 
"It is our unequivocal opinion, with certainty beyond doubt, they be so callous?" Joseph Zadroga said. He said his son developed a cough in the first weeks after the Sept. 11 attacks while logging hundreds of hours cleaning up the toxic site. 
"He had the acid reflux. He had short-term memory loss.... He was on strong medications for the pain in his lungs," Zadroga said. 
Construction deaths soar in NYC 
87 percent rise not consistent with 3 percent national average 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Sucha Ram was getting ready to tar the roof of a building in the Bronx last year when he fell over the side, plunging 15 feet to his death. He was not wearing any fall­protection gear and had never received formal training in fall hazards, a report said. 
Ram was a 52-year-old immi­
grant from India, the sole breadwinner of the family ­and part of a long line of casualties of New York City's roaring con­struction indus­try in 2006. 
Forty-three people died while working construction in New York in 2006, the dead­liest year in at least a decade 
bureau said. The Miami area had 34 deaths, compared with 26 in the previous year. 
Construction is the most dan­gerous work nationally, accounting for 1,226 fatalities in 2006, or 21 percent of the 5,703 workplace deaths overall, according to the bureau. 
New York construction work­ers and safety experts point to the city's unprecedented build­
"The city government doesn't have a lot of people who can speak the language or that can offer the appropriate training." 
Oscar Paredes executive director Latin American Workers 
Project 
in the city, according to recently released data from the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. The death toll was up 87 percent from 2005, when 23 people died. Nationally, construction deaths in 2006 rose just 3 per­cent. 
The rise in New York vastly exceeds what happened in other big cities. The Los Angeles area recorded 33 deaths in 2006, versus 35 in 2005, the ing boom as a rea­son for the jump . Scaffolds cover the facades of thousands of build­i n g s . M a j or develop­ments are going up in every borough. Apartment buildings and high­
rise condos are being built at a frenetic pace. 
"It spiked because the work spiked," said Dennis Holloway, director of the John B. Scola Training Center in Queens, which trains union bricklayers and other construction workers. 
Compounding the problem: The city has seen a big influx of immigrants at the same time as the construction boom. That means more immigrant con­struction workers who don't speak English and may not comprehend safety warnings. 
Oscar Paredes, executive director of the Latin American Workers Project, said outreach and training by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and city agen­cies are ineffective because of the language barrier. 
'The city government doesn't have a lot of people who speak the language or that can offer the appropriate training," he said. 
Moreover, Paredes said some workers ignore safety precau­tions, sometimes because they are apathetic, sometimes because they are afraid to lose their job if they refuse to per­form a dangerous task, such as scaling heights with no harness­es or guardrails. 
"If you don't go up, you lose the work," he said. 
The government does not break down workplace deaths by immigration status, so it is difficult to know how many involve illegal immigrants. 
But a review of federal data from 1997 to 2006 illustrates some powerful trends In that period, there was a more than 260 percent increase in con­struction deaths in the city involving Hispanics, the largest and one of the fastest-growing immigrant groups in New York. Six Hispanics died in 1997 working construction, 22 in 2006. 
CoNGREGATION oF HoLY CRoss 
Men ofNotre Dame ... Is God calling you? Join us. 


THE OBSERVER 











IEWPOINT
page 14 Friday, October 19, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nmrr Dame, IN 46556 
EDI'IUR IN CIIIH 
Maddit• I Ianna 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER 
Ken Fowler Kyle West 
A\ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 

ASS'I~ MANAGING EI>ITOil: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen l.angley 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 
Chris lline 
ScF.NF. EDITOR: 'E1e Andrew' 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
AllVEIHISING MANM:ER: Jessica Cortez 
An DF$1GN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS AllMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 6j 1-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6.31-6900 oh"·rvad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6J 1-45-12 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 nbsmt•@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 6.~ l-'i313 
NEWS DESK 
('i74) 631-5323 nhsncw;.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
('i74) 631-5303 vit'Wpoint.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4'i43 spons.J@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

,, .-. • , . ('i74) l131,454U,o;<;eJJo.·J,@')nJ.edu I· •.. 
.,. , , SAINT MARY'S DE,&K ,,; ;·• 
snK.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphmo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 6j1-8839 
TilE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Ohserwr is the independem, daily newspaper publislll'd in print .md online by the students of tht· University of Notre Danw du Lie and Saint Mary's Colle!\<'· Fdirorial contcm, indudinf; adverrist•mcnts, is not gowrncd by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer rt'Scrves dw ri~lu to refuse advcnisem~.·nr~ ha.sed on COiltl'llt. 
Tlw news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials reprcsl'!lt the opinion of the majority of tht· Editor in Chid; Managin~ Editor, Assist;tnr Mana~ing Editors and departmem editors. Commenraries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily thos<' ofThe ( )bserver. 
Vit·wpoinr sp<Ke is availabk to all rc-.1ders. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l.t•tters to rht· Editor must be signed and must include coman inlom~<ltion. 
Qtmriow rrgarding Obsaver policirs should be di"cted to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

·n"' lllwrvn (USPS ~ 1)9 l-4lKK)) Lt. ruhlu.hcd Mn,td.ay rhruugh frW.ay e4-cpt <hum.: exam And V'.anuiun I~UI11.ls A11Ub..CriJifiHI1 tn Titc OI'JCrvcr 1~ $100 fur nne ,~uJcmic vcar; $55 lur u114: ~e;matcr 
rhoObk:rvo:r il. publisho.i .U; POSTMASTER 
0.24 South Dtnif18 Hall Stnd o~.dJrm ~·orrcaioru to Nmi'C' flame, IN 46~~6-{)779 The Observer l'eruxlkill pu\IOIMC r~d .u NoU'C D.tmc P.O. Box779 and Wdit im1o1l mailing nffka, (114 Smuh Dining H.aJJ 

Norrt D;amc, IN 46S5fl...tJ77'J 
ll1c-Ol'*=rv.:r ia 11. mc-mbtr ~~ 1hc Auocuml (lro.-.;. All rc-prnc:hu.::rion ntVm 11.r~ 
~-· 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kaitlynn Hiely Chris Iline Liz llarter Bill Brink Madeline Buckely Chris Doyen Graphics Scene .Julie Grisanti Michelle Fordice 
Vit~wpoint 
Kara King 
, 

Studnnt body pn1sident Liz Brown and vice pmsident Maris B.raun said Tuesday they are considering a push for student govnrnmnnt support of the I> BEAM Act, a bill now pending in the Unitnd Statns Senate. 
The DHEAM Act would provide a pathway to legal immigra­tion status for immigrants who entered the U.S. illegally before they were 16 years old, have graduated from high school and commit two years to college education or military service. 
Individual members of student government are right to have interest in issues that extend far bnyond the sternotypi­
cal studnnt concerns of grade point averages, social lives and career trajectorins. And the DHEAM Act is good lngislation. 
But a student government resolution intend­ed -at lnast symbolically -to influence the United Statns Senate is far out of line with the mission of student government and d<)mon­strates why so many students are apathetic toward student govnrnment. 
Even worSl\ Brown's administration has no reported plans to tnst studnnt opinion before stating the support of student gowrnnwnt for this important but controversial national bill. 
"As much as I'm all for nstablishing consfmsus," Braun said. "wn might just have to do thn best thing and the right thing. Ijust worry wn're going to run out of time." 
Such lighthnartnd commitment to measuring and respm:ting student opinion would be an arrogant move. 
Othm· studnnt govprnment lfladnrs present at the Council of' Hepresentativns mnnting Tunsday questioned thn haste and purposn of an ol'licial show of support. 
One nwmbnr warned that thn entertainment of such a measurn could set a precndnnt for studnnt government to spnnd its timn nngaging the limitless issues of national and 
Student government's priorities misplaced 
OBHSEERVER 
fired up about student government and political action until student gov(Jrnnumt took on South
Editorial Bend's proposed party permit ordinanee this 
Observer Poll 
Who should be the starting quarterback? 
Votes  Percentage  
~~  Evan Sharpley  999  76%  
Jimmy Clausen  133  10%  
Jus tin Gillett  117  9%  
Darrin Bragg  64  5%  

international significance. Such a precedent would threaten the quality of services provided by student government, which already operates within the constraints imposed by tlw full-time academic obligations of its mmnbers. 
Perhaps the wisest eomrnent delivernd at tho COH meoting came from chief exeeutivo assistant Sheena Plamoottil, who noted that student government can provide students with resources for learning about and exprnssing support for the bill without committing itself to a total show of support for the legislation. 
Still, student government is elected to provide leadership on 
issues of importancn and relevance to the student 
body. On Thursday, Brown told Board of Trustees 
members that shn had never snen students so 
sumnwr. Them is a reason the student body got 
interested and got involved: Student government was working within its means to address an issue n~levant to its constituents. 
Campus-Plected leaders appearing to worry more about national politics than community concerns is a suwfirc way to return to the days when ri10st studnnts W(Jrn apatlwtie toward a student governmnnt they belinvnd was inel'fer:tual. aloof and unnecessary. 
II' studnnt body leaders feel strongly about the DHI\AM Ad, they should providn rnsourens for students to lnarn mon~ about hot-button political issues and ways to support or fight them. 
But to commandeer student government rosourees in sup­port of a national political issue-without nvnn attmnpting to measure student opinion -is rwithnr "the best thing" nor "the right thing." 
Salutations my superbly sensational sud-sippnrs of South Bend. It's the Kess horn with the 4-1-weezy on the saud­est shnnanigans that are rock in' and sehoekin' thn senne in the greater dome-opolous area. So buckle up your saft~ty bnlts, put your tray tables in the upright and locked position and prepare to fly the friendly skins with your brotha' from anotha motha' Captain Kess 

Kessler
(mile high elub any­
and ...
one?) 

The Kess's titillat­ing, topsy-turvy tale Smooth as Silk for this week follows the wildnst, waekiest night that the Kess has seen in all his years of extensive experience in deal­ing with such nights. For purposes of eonlidentiality and to keep the SEC off of our backs, we'll just call him kHaZyKi1>42069. Krazy's night begins as all nights do with an obligatory hour long symposium of sorts with his dorm­matez. Our hero would then leave the dorm and begin to make his way over to Notre Dame's bastion for underage drinking and irresponsible hookups, El Creek de Tortugas. (As all my little Kesslings out there know by now, when you swim with the Tortugas, sobriety is often left upstream without a paddle.) 
Win One fOr t'he Kessler 
While chillaxing with some of the more aecomplished drinkers of Our Lady's university, Krazy would contin­ue sampling a number of different liba­tions. At this point, already pretty bel­lig, he would find himself in an inti­mate conversation with a ferocious vixen. In an attempt to "seal tlw deal" Krazy must1m1d up the eourage to compliment her on the black top that she was wearing. Unfortunately, the top was navy! Unphased by this ghastly goof, KK hoppml baek aboard tlw tipsy train. Next stop: lnnbriation Station. Krazy would proeeed to take out his Hazr and call one of' his oldest child­hood buddins about the prospects of their home town team. In his present state however, his friend could barely understand him b1lcause his speeeh was so slurred! Af!Prwards, upon real­izing KK was sevnn sheets to the wind (yes, that is possible), his friends would embark on the journey back to campus with our protagonist in tow. Before heading back to their bunks. however, our adventurers would ensure a stop at campus's late night haven for greasy gratification, Sbarro (This will be important later). "Tired" from a long night of drinking, Krazy would eventu­ally wake to the sound of his alarm clock wondering what he did the night prior. 
After examining his surroundings, however, he would realize the awful truth. He had fallen asleep with his head at the wrong end of' the bml and his feet were resting on the pillows! To make matters even worse (if that is still possibln), his eontaets were still in! Krazy would proceed to turn ofT his alarm doek and rush ofT to Friday's hangover rec:ovnry center, DeBartolo IIall for some morn shots ... of mluea­tion! Already battling a vidous stom­achaehe (rmnember the latn night 'za'? ), he 1meountnrnd his worst night­mare ... the most awful thing that could happnn to any eollnge student­nay, any human Iwing ... his most colossal catastrophe of all ....a small to mndium sizn pizza sauce stain on his Chinos! Alas, that eondudes our tall' for this week. If thnre is any lc~sson that can be gleaned from kHaZyKiD42069 it is this: Lay oil' the sauce, or the sauee will lay on you! 
Win one for the Kesslnr! 
Chillaxing, 
Kesslings 

P.S. May your liquor be clear and your nights hazy. 
Kessler and ... is a non-profit pharmaceutical organization in search ofa cure for male pattern baldness. Matt Lisowski, Fritz Shadley, Pat Canna and Rick Loesing contributed to this column. They can be contacted at kesslerand@gmail. com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"How poor are they who have not patience! What wound did ever ·heal but by degrees?" 
William Shakespeare English dramatist 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, October 19, 2007 page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Don't focus on numbers 
This article is in response to graduate stu­focused study on a single subject so specific dent Philip Reed's Letter to the Editor only a handful of people worldwide could ("Ph.D.s promoted for wrong reasons," Oct. teach it to them. Maybe the very things we 17). In his letter, Reed quotes Father John so value in our students cause them, in gen­Jenkins's address to the faculty, where eral, to be turned off by the thought of grad­Father .Jenkins stated that the five percent uate school. I certainly don't want Notre of Notre Dame students who go on to enter Dame to change its admissions policies and Ph.D. programs "must rise." Reed closes by admit different students because they might stating, "Notre Dame should not pursue be more likely to consider graduate school. policies merely in order to make itself look Still, this is not the first time Father better. And we should expect a university Jenkins has put Notre Dame's numbers dedicated to liberal education to understand above the desires of its students. In last that." year's address to the faculty, he stated, "We 
I could not agree more. Sadly, this admin­can succeed in advancing ... the University's istration has too often worried about rank­mission only ifwe have, among our faculty, ings and comparisons to "peer institutions." a critical number of devoted followers of the Policies have been altered and changes have Catholic faith." It seems he believes our fac­been made in the name of improving Notre ulty to be somehow deficient in Catholic Dame when, in fact, the true motive was to nature or disposition. Many people took this improve the ranking of Notre Dame in one statement to be an endorsement ofreal and publication or another. Dare I say, Notre significant efforts to recruit more Catholic Dame has no "peer institutions." No other faculty members. Is this not, yet again, a school in the country has such a delicate symptom of Notre Dame's numbers obses­and wonderful balance of spiritual, academ­sion? Does it truly matter if60 percent, or ic, athletic, and service opportunities avail­55 percent, or even 40 percent of our facul­able to its students. We are NO, and we are ty claim to be devoted Catholics? Surely a unique; I'm sure that's why many of us person's ability to teach, passion for the sub­chose to attend this great university. Yet ject matter, research background, and these "peer institutions" continue to drive morality are more important to the majority decision-making by our administration. of our students than a Catholic label. Great 
The two most recent addresses to the fac­dialogue leads to better understanding, and ulty by Father Jenkins have been discon­the best dialogue is most often between peo­certing, if not infuriating to some students ple with different backgrounds and views. and faculty alike. As a senior chemistry The word "catholic" itself means "univer­major, I have been pushed, prodded, poked, sal." By enhancing Catholic recruiting and pulled toward pursuing a Ph.D. since efforts, Notre Dame is, in fact, becoming less my arrival on campus. I know many of my Catholic. fellow science majors feel the same way, Notre Dame, it is time to stop playing the and it's been truly unnerving. While I appre­numbers game. Increasing the percentage ciate the input from faculty members and of Catholic faculty or students who pursue certainly value their distinguished opinions, Ph.D.s by five percent will not necessarily I think it is ultimately up to me, not my pro­make Notre Dame a better place. Focus not fessor or Father Jenkins, to decide iffive or on the numbers, but on the needs of people six years of graduate school is right for me who call this place home. Keep tuition or not. The thought that graduate school down. Increase staffwages. Do not be less recruiting efforts could possibly increase Catholic, but be more Catholic. Otherwise, among faculty ranks is unbelievable, and Father Jenkins, despite your wishes during Father Jenkins' recent encouragement of your inaugural address, I would have to say these efforts is disheartening. that Notre Dame is dreaming too small. 
Notre Dame is so special because of the type of student we admit-the well-round­Chris Beesley ed, socially-conscious, over-achieving differ­senior ence-maker. Perhaps these students are less Keenan Hall likely to desire six years of intensive, Oct. 17 
Employees still waiting for response 
To update the Notre Dame community in the workplace. To this, I would like to concerning the treatment of Huddle commend the managerial staff for the employees on football Saturdays: improvements that they have made and 
Last May, 41 out of 43 Huddle employ­ask that they continue to show their ees presented a petition requesting that workers the respect they deserve. they receive time-and-a-half pay on At the same time, no one from the football Saturdays. They also requested administration has addressed the issue that the University abide by a strict of compensation for Huddle employees schedule of one 15-minute break every on football Saturdays. It is unacceptable four hours. Huddle employees often for University employees to wait more work 11-to 13-hour days on football than five months for a response from weekends with endless lines all day. their employer. If we are to uphold the These long hours and difficult working mission statement of this University and conditions put employees' health at risk "develop a disciplined sensibility to the and prevent them from being with their poverty, injustice, and oppression that families on the weekend. University burden so many lives," then we must President Father John Jenkins, begin with those in our own community Executive Vice President John Affieck­who feel unjustly treated. Graves and Associate Vice President of To the University officials named Human Resources Robert McQuade here, I hope that a response is forth­received the petition more than five coming. months ago. They still have not To the employees of our University, responded to this request from their the situation has begun to change in the employees. Huddle because a small group of 
Nonetheless, the situation has employees decided to act. If you want improved. Several employees have com­change, you must act as well. mented that the break schedule is now strictly enforced. They also have noted Stuart Mora that their supervisors are treating them senior with more respect and are more atten­offcampus tive to the issues that they face everyday Oct. 18 

Ph.D. increase needed 
The other day Philip Reed wrote in to Reed is trying to keep people out of his comment about how a low percentage field ("too many students already in of Notre Dame undergrads go on to Ph.D. programs") in order to keep his grad school ("Ph.D.s promoted for competition down. Reed seems to forget wrong reasons," Oct. 17). It is unfortu­that there are other programs besides nate that Reed seems to discourage stu­the (excellent) philosophy department at dents from considering graduate school, Notre Dame; his experience definitely is and even more unfortunate that he not typical of all graduate programs. seems to think very little ofthe academ­Many people are astonished to fmd ic talents of the Notre Dame undergrad­out that the tuition for science graduate uates. school is $0 a year -none pay a dime 
The administration noted that our stu­in tuition, and in fact, are usually paid a dents do not go on to advanced studies stipend by their university. Why? Well, at the same rates as schools of compa­partly because the graduate students rable academic stature (that's what are teaching assistants and deserve 'peer institutions' is supposed to mean). compensation ofsorts, but also because Ifyou believe that Notre Dame is pro­there aren't enough graduate students ducing some of the best and brightest in science. Yes, doctoral programs come college graduates in the country, it with their own challenges and pres­should be shocking that fewer Notre sures. Just because it's hard is no rea­Dame students go on to Ph.D.s as com­son to discourage people from even try­pared to other universities. ing, though. 
Does Reed suggest that it is bad for "Six or more years" (average 6.2 students to get their doctorates? I years at Notre Dame, but less depending wouldn't speak for the undergraduate on your field) of school sounds unthink­student body, ofwhich I was never a able to some people, yes. Apparently member, and say they "probably are though at Stanford it's only unthinkable more likely to consider a life devoted to to 85 percent of the students instead of family or social work," but I could see 94 percent here. Should the large pool how that may be true. That doesn't of pre-med students at Notre Dame stop mean that one cannot have scholarship applying to medical school because it's and family or scholarship and social hard and it takes years to be an M.D.? work. I hope people interested in pre­Hardly. Frankly, I prefer graduate venting infectious diseases would be school over a job. I, for one, am glad I better off with a Ph.D. than, well, stay­didn't have a bitter professor tell me as ing at a Holiday Inn last night. an undergrad that I should get a job 
As one ofthe premiere academic insti­instead of graduate school. tutions in the country, the University Perhaps creating intellectual leaders absolutely should promote advanced doesn't require students to get Ph.D.s; it scholarship. As the premiere Catholic certainly helps though. Perhaps a life of academic institution in the country, the the mind doesn't require a Ph.D.. For University absolutely should promote a those capable ofthe challenge, though, life devoted to family and social work. it certainly makes intellectual pursuits These two identities ofNotre Dame are more rewarding. To think that Notre not separate, nor is one alone more Dame only wants students to get Ph.D.s important than the other. Father such that the University looks better in Jenkins recognizes this, and suggested U.S. News-World Report's ranking is more Ph.D.s from our undergraduates is ignorant of the mission statement of the in line with this. I am sorry that there University. are too few jobs for philosophy Ph.D.s. If you really love the topic though, a low Matt Smylie employment rate in your field should graduate student not and would not deter you from off campus advanced studies. It seems almost that Oct.!? 

SMC argument 'caustic' 
Katie O'Connor and Alex Chavez's letter what you did. They just have the decency ("Comics not meant to be personal," Oct. and maturity not to write vicious letters on 18), deserves a response equally mean­the basis of unfounded claims. You argue spirited and bitter. In the name of respect­that there's "a reason why Notre Dame ful disagreement however, I will (try to) girls don't like [Saint Mary's students]." On keep this civil. In short, yesterday's letter the contrary, most Notre Dame girls I was absolutely ridiculous and unneces­know have lots of friends from Saint sary-not to mention hypocritical. You Mary's. You see, while you have been busy defend the comic strips by saying that they making unfair and universalistic claims, are OK since they "aren't meant to be per­some ofus have been taking advantage of sonal," even though your letter itself was a our sister campus as an opportunity to personal attack on Saint Mary's students. I meet great people and build lasting friend­agree that the comics's authors should be ships. I'm truly sorry you've missed out on able to publish whatever they want. They this. poke fun at a broad range oftopics for the Your elitist attitudes regarding your sta­sake of comedy. Unfortunately, your letter tus as "Notre Dame students" are unde­does not share in this mission, although I served, and frankly, I'm ashamed to share did laugh a few times while reading it. that title with you. You imply that the rea­
Was the purpose ofyour letter to show son the Saint Mary's stereotype exists is how much more offensive the comic strips because the students somehow earn it. I could be? Ifso, you've presented a great think you should work on earning your defense for them. I'm assuming, however, titles as Notre Dame students. To quote that this was not the rhetorical tactic you your own letter, maybe you "need a seri­employed. Bashing Saint Mary's students ous wake-up call about how you're por­contributes nothing to the defense of the traying yourselves and the bad impres­comic strips. The Viewpoint section ofThe sions you're giving off to everyone else." Observer should be reserved for intelligent You stay classy, Katie and Alex. debate and thoughtful letters with a pur­pose. Your juvenile diatribe was pointless The writer is a former Assistant News and unnecessarily caustic. You are entitled Editor ofThe Observer. to your own opinion, but to write down a middle school level rant and submit it to Katie Perry the campus newspaper-really? I'm semor embarrassed for you. Pasquerilla West Hall 
It's not that people are "afraid" to say Oct. 18 
------------------------~--~--------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 16 
Friday, October 19, 2007 

insistence, but later rebelled against "Take Five," off of their historie "Time By ANALISE LIPARI the regularity of sueh training by Out" album, is now a standard of Assis1am Scene Ediwr engaging in a more improvisational American jazz. Brubeek himself has 
style. As a young musician, Brubeck won Lifetime Achievement awards 
To be honest, there are only so many joined up with his long-time eollabora-from the Gram my's and the BBC ­ways to describe jazz pianist Dave tor, alto-saxophonist impressive credentials Brubnck without mturning to a single Paul Desmond. Their for a man who was eondusion -quite simply, the man is meeting came al'ter "That was a conscious almost expelled from a legend in his own time. Brubeck Brubeck spent years decision ror me eollege for not being returns to tho Lfdghton Coneert Hall at honing his craft and J' able to read sheet the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center experimenting with in the early days... to do music. Then again, tonight with the Dave Brubeek Quartet musical conventions something that never has Brubeck is hardly a for what will undoubtedly be an and time signatures, been done or at least slave to convention. evening of uniquely beautiful music. two Brubeck trade-"Take Five" is written 
What makes Brubeck's performance marks. change it up a little bit." in 5/4 time, and the at Notre Dame more interesting to stu­"That was a con-album almost went dents than they might realize is the scious decision for me Dave Brubeck unreleased by inclusion of more than 200 of their in the early days," musician Columbia due to its peers in the seeond portion of the Brubeck said in an unconventionality. show. Brubeck will perform with the interview with "First, they thought Quartet during the first half of the Smoothjazznow.com,"... to do some-people couldn't dance to it because of evening and after intermission the thing that never has been done or at the odd time signatures," Brubeck said concert will feature members of eaeh least ehange it up a little bit." in a recent interview with of Notre Dame's choral groups as well The fated Dave Brubeck Quartet was Allaboutjazz.eom., "And it was all orig-as the University's Symphony created in the mid 1950s, featuring ina! compositions on an LP, which was Orchnstra. Desmond, Brubeck, bassist Eugene against their rules as well. I had to 
For students who find thnmselves Wright and drummer .Joe Morello .. 0 .argue with everybody." less familiar with Brubeck's work, While the lineup of the quartet has~·} Brubeck's connection with Notre horn is a Header's Digest version of his evolved over time, and its actual exis-Dame extends past his inclusion of early life and earner. tence has ebbed and flowed, their clas-University students in tonight's per-
Born and bred on the West Coast, sic format has endured. formance. Having converted to Brubnck started playing piano as a The mst, as they say, is history. Catholicism later in life, Brubeck's child at his dassically-trained mother's The Quartet's most famous 1959 hit, renewed interested in spirituality led 
JULIE GRISANTI Observer Graphic 

to his receiving the University's Laetare Medal in 2006. The prize, awarded to American Catholics like labor activist Dorothy Day and Sister Helen Prejean (of "Dead Man Walking" fame), further demonstrates Brubeck's impressive talent and his appeal to students in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. Looking to brush up on your Brubeck before or after tonight's show? Listen to any or all of these albums for a eloser look at one of the foremost jazz pianists around: 
+"Time Out," the Quartet's revolu­tionary recording that gave rise to the classic "Take Five." 
+"The Essential Dave Brubeck," a collection through Columbia Reeords summarizing his prolilie career with a focus on his work in the late 1950s and early 1960s. 
+"Time Signatures: A Career Hetrospective," the 1992 box set that is surely a must-have for any fan of Brubeck's brand of jazz piano. 
Whether you're a jazz aficionado or just a casual listener, check out, the 
·~nave Brubeck Quartnt ~ouight ut1the DPAC. An evening of classic, uncon­ventional jazz begins at 8:30. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

What can be said of this film pack­techniques of the film emphasize the By RYAN RAFFIN age? To focus on just one aspeet of feeling of isolation. This is definitely Scene Wri1er the movie is to do it a gre!J.t injustice, evident when watching the film, as 
because from the seript, to the shoot­the camera reflt~ets how Travis is 
Loneliness is cnrtainly a feeling ing, to the aeting, everything ties "ostracized," in Scorsese's words, most people can connect with. Maybe together seamlessly. from the people around him. The way that's why Martin Seorsese's 1976 Without spoiling the plot, a basic New York City is shown is the way "Taxi Driver" has always been such a summary is as follows: Travis Bickle Travis sees it-filthy and impenetra­popular and powerful film. It's one of is a man in his mid-twenties living in ble. With a different director, he may tlw few movies that hits the viewer in New York City during the 1970s. He have seemed psychotic, but Seorsese the gut. The sad isolation of Travis has troubln connecting with the peo­shows just how human Travis really Bickln, tho titular cabbie, is nearly ple around him and his surroundings is. The filmmaker never passes a palpable throughout the f'ilm. in the eity. To occupy himself at night judgment, he merely depicts events 
So 31 years af'ter its theatrical he finds a job as a taxi driver. from Travis' point of view and lets the release, on the heels of Scorsese's vie­Throughout the f'ilm, Travis slowly viewers draw their own conclusions. tory at the 2007 Academy Awards, unravels, becoming more paranoid As for the re-release, the special "Taxi Driver" has been re-released. and violent as time goes 011. Although features for the film definitely have 
he may not eonnect with merit, unlike the useless featurettes society, the viewer cer­of many modern DVDs. The interview tainly connects with with Martin Scorsese is certainly the
Taxi Driver 
Travis. It is obvious that most intriguing of these, providing a Scorsese and writer Paul great deal of perspective on the Schrader, along with meaning, background and influence 
Director: Martin Scorsese 

Hobert DeNiro, really of the film, although all of the special understood the character features included do this in different
Starring: Robert DeNiro, Cybill Shepard, 
they were trying to por­ways.
Peter Boyle, Jodie Foster, Harvey Keitel 
tray. One of the most valuable insights, 

Their depiction of this however, comes from Paul Schrader, isolated man is a charac­who says that Travis is not by nature ter study. Travis Biekle is a lonely person, but that he makes a real person, however himself lonely. Travis is a victim of disturbed. In the special himself, and the viewer sees those features, Scorsese talks feelings gradually beeome "malignant about how lhe sho.oJ;ing and violent," Sc_hrader says._ Every_on_e__ 
JULIE GRISANTI Observer Graphic 

interviewed about the movie speaks passionately of it, and this shows again how much of an impact "Taxi Driver" has on people. Oliver Stone remarks that it reveals "a truth" about humanity, and that is clearly eorreet. It is a unique film, more com­parable to Albert Camus' novel, "The Stranger," than anything else -as both portray a main character's dis­connect with soeiety. 
Although both Martin Scorsese and Hobert DeNiro would eontinue on to great things after this film, it left a mark on both of them. This film is not only one of the finest by the pair (working together or separately), but also one of the greatest of all time. The rn-release is essential for any person who considnrs thnmselves a fan of cinema, as the special features grant a new perspective on the cre­ation, filming and meaning of the nlm. 
But even without those, it is worth owning. The aeting is stellar, thn film­ing is superb and the writing is untouchable. "Taxi Driver" truly is one of the handful of perfect films to ever be produced. Buy this release, or have a movie collection with a gaping hole in it. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Friday, October 19, 2007 
page 17 
By MICHELLE FORD ICE Assisram Scene Editor 

At Notre Dame, eating some place other than the dining hall is a novel idea. Though students get excited over Chipotle and Wendy's, South Bend's local establishments can offer a real treat. One example is The Vine, loeated at 103 W. Colfax Ave. in down­town South Bend. 
An Italian-American cuisine restau­rant with a touch of eclec­
very special. 

Delicious and light, the Portab Mushroom Sandwich, a portabel mushroom topped with olive oil, onion relish, and asaigio cheese on foccacia bread, is a little messy, but definitely worth it. It is a sandwich found on many menus, but The Vine gives it a special touch. 
The service at the restaurant is ade­quate and generally efficient, but a lit­tle unfriendly. Still, the servers did their job and the food came out 
promptly, so there is little 
tic flair, The Vine is a to complain about. restaurant and bar that Even ifit is The Vine blends modern offers a diverse menu as and rustic elements into a
not quite
well as an extensive wine smooth and bright, if not list. The restaurant serves perfect, The memorable, dining room. lunch and dinner and Vine is a place Wine bottles line the walls. offers salads, sandwiches, The popular restaurant
to return to.
pasta, gourmet pizzas, and gets noisy around peak few meat and fish dishes. hours, but this is under­
In general, the flavors in the dishes standable. The majority of the seating could be stronger and the dishes in the restaurant is standard, but sev­could take more chances, but the eral of the tables are a little different. taste appeals to a wide range of peo­A few back up to large picture win­ple·. Tht> pres<entations of the disties dows, forcing some patrons to take a are simple, with just a touch of clean window seat instead of a chair. While elegance. Portion sizes are excellent, at first glance this is suitable and even with just enough food to satisfy. fun, it is ultimately uncomfortable and Entree prices are between $9 and overly exposed. The air-conditioning $22. Sandwich and salad prices are vents directly above do not help. between $7 and $11. Located next door to the Morris 
The Fra Diablo, penne pasta with Performing Arts Center in downtown cremini mushrooms tossed in a spicy, South Bend, The Vine is close to a lot creamy tomato-vodka sauce, topped of entertainment options, making it a with asiagio and Parmesan cheeses good restaurant for a night out. There and served with garlic bread, was is also a second location in Elkhart. tasty, but would have been better with Even if it is not quite perfect, The morn spice and warmer mushrooms. Vine is a place to return to. While The sauce is very good, and adds some of the dishes could be better, something a little more unique to the they were tasty and well priced. Keep menu. The Vine in mind for the next time 
The Pasta a Ia "Bowtie," is bowtie your parents are in for a football pasta in white wine sauce with sun­game. dried tomatoes. It is served with tomato basil chicken and asiagio. Parmesan cheeses and garlic bread. Contact Michelle Fordice at The dish is well-balanced, but not mfordice@nd.edu 
Men-.oria1Ho»;l11111 
!. Health S)'S~m 

"' f  '~""vPl  
'S  ll!  
wu ..... lll  ®  £ IM!"'IOlt$1  
f '*'  
@) -w-....ns.  - (1  

EL.S.A.. 
'1­
le 
~,

I i 
ljl !I! Q s;c.X•"*' ® 
w~!A 
,. <I> •·--·81 ®I I
Ill 
~ 
fJo-111<4
W-!IMI 

What do you get when you cross a New Orleans-bred saxophonist with a group of versatile Michiana musicians that includes a drummer named "Krojo"? 
Shaken Cajun-style, not stirred, these ingredients get you Half-Pint Jones, a genre-defying, South Bend­based, jazz-reggae-funk-with-a-twist ensemble that arrives today at Legends. 
Half-Pint Jones comes to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities with a somewhat mythic story behind it. 
The band's founding member, Chris Olivier, grew up in New Orleans, La., a proud member of the city's well­known musical culture. Like much of the N'awlins musician community, however, Olivier, a saxophonist, found himself and his family displaced by the effects of Hurricane Katrina. Surprisingly, he wound up in -you probably guessed it -South Bend, Indiana. 
In time, Olivier found other like­minded musicians in the area to jam with, eventually resulting in the eclec­tic group that they are today. Several of the musicians have played with each other previously in different con­texts, but Half-Pint Jones is the final result. 
The band consists of Olivier, Steve Krojniewski (a.k.a. "Krojo") on drums, Jayson Sites on bass, guitarist and vocalist Justin Ross and trumpet player Mark Gamble. The mix of musicians has helped Half-Pint Jones develop its unique music-undefined by any particular genre, the band has created a combination of jazz, funk and other types to create a sound that, to the band, is also reminiscent of their musical heritage. 
-

"We're like a traditional bebop band from the '50s and '60s," Olivier said in a recent interview with Lakeview Magazine. "There are so many New Orleans elements but also a rock ele­ment and East Coast jazz. It's a fusion of all these different styles, and I real­ly feel it's a fresh, new sound." The band released their first album, "Trilogy of Patches and Olaf," this past summer, which exhibits their penchant for mixing up musical con­ventions as well as their varied indi­vidual talents. "From the beginning, my concept was [that] I wanted everybody to play what they're feeling," Olivier told Lakeview Magazine. "If you're playing true to yourself, then people will know that." As effortless as it may seem on "Trilogy of Patches and Olaf' for the band members to play off of each other's strengths, it can't be done without effort and care for the music itself. "It's a musical language, and just like any language, you have to become fluent in it. It takes hours and hours of practice, for days and days and years on end," Olivier said in an interview with IN-Michiana magazine. "It's not only ability, it's a natural drive. That [music] is what you do, and you're not happy without it." Legends will offer a small, more intimate venue for the band. The concert begins at 7 tonight, a tough time slot for a football week­end. But given the skills and strengths of this jazz-rock-funk-with-a-twist group of musicians, Half-Pint Jones should definitely tear down the house anyway. Make sure to check your expecta­tions at the door.  -- 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu  

page I H The Obserz1er + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 19, 2007 
NHL 
Wings win rematch of last season's playoff series 
Detroit scores twice in third period; Sturm's two goals, Thomas' 35 saves send Bruins past Lightning 
Associated Press  games, and Niklas Kronwall also scored.  
SAN .JOSE, Calif. -While the  Osgood, who hasn't lost in  
Hod Wings alroady have made  three games this season, got  
strid11s since last season's play­ the start for Detroit even  
ofTs, tho San .Jose Sharks keep  though Dominik llasek was  
falling into the same ruts that  rested and healthy. Babcock's  
boggnd them down against  hunch paid ofT. and the Hed  
Detroit last spring.  Wings got help from two ailing  
- Matt Ellis put the Hed Wings  stars: Captain Nicklas Lidstrom  
ahead with his first NIIL goal  played despite bruised ribs,  
on a no-look backhand with  and Zetterberg suited up with  
12:26 to play, and Detroit ral­ a hip injury.  
lied for a 4-2 victory Thursday  Mike Grier and Jonathan  
night in a telling postseason  Cheechoo scored and Nabokov  
romatch.  stopped 23 shots for the  
The g<uml nicely encapsulat­ Sharks, who dropped to 3-3-1  
- ed both dubs' fates in that sec­ond-round playoff series, won  early in a season f'illed with high expectations for the play­ 
in six games by Detroit. San  off underachievers. San Jose  
.lose started strung, but could­ coach Hon Wilson already has  
n't maintain its intensity-and  shuffled his opening-night  
when the Sharks slipped, the  lines, but Joe Thornton is his  
steady Hed Wings pounced for  only player with more than five  
two third-pmiod goals.  APpoints through seven games.  
"We fought through a lot, and  Bruins goalie Tim Thomas makes a save during Boston's 4-1 win over Tampa Bay Thursday."You have to be mentally  
once we started skating, we  Thomas made 35 saves for the Bruins, who have won four straight games. ready, and we seem to be con­ 
had fun," coach Mike Babcock  tent reading our press clip­ 
said. "We're relatively short­ pings and seeing whatever our  took some penalties, and some  Lecavalier and St. Louis ... it  ets for the game, though many  
staffed, so guys had to dig in.  predictions are for where  of our guys got out of the flow  doesn't get more difficult than  fans opted to stay away and  
- We're going through a rough time, sure, but that gives a guy  we're going to finish," Wilson said. "It's the same game we  of the game. They got the bounce there in the third, and  that," Thomas said. "We came in after the second period and  watch Game 5 of the AL cham­pionship series. One of the  
like Ellis an opportunity, and  were playing last year in the  kind of took it over from  got a good talking to, and it  biggest cheers of the night was  
he camll up big."  second period. One turnover,  there."  was a feeling of shame on me  when the scoreboard showed  
Ellis, a solid minor league  and we collapse for 10 min­ after how we played."  the Hed Sox taking the lead  
scorer who couldn't f'ind the  utes."  Bruins 4, Lightning 1  The Bruins acquired Manny  over Cleveland; the crowd also  
net in his first 21 NIIL games,  The Red Wings' series victory  The Boston Bruins gave  Fernandez from Minnesota  applauded when it was  
got his first goal without even  over the Sharks sent them to  Claude Julien a victory in his  over the offseason to shore up  announced that Joe Torre  
facing the net. He simply  the Western Conference finals  Boston debut. Maybe they can  the goaltending after Thomas  would not be back to manage  
flipped the puck in Evgeni  and set off a summer of soul­ give him one he'll be proud of  and Hannu Toivonen couldn't  the New York Yankees.  
Nabokov's direction while  searching in San Jose after the  next time.  get the team into the playoffs  An early fight between Milan  
being checked midway up the  best regular season in fran­ "It wasn't a pretty win,"  last season. But Thomas has  Lucie and Nick Tarnasky got  
boards -and it somehow got  ehise history.  Julien said after the Bruins  allowed five goals in four  the crowd going, and the  
past defenseman Marc­ Neither team made huge  beat Tampa Bay in their home  games and could be taking  Bruins took the lead 3:48 into  
Edouard Vlasic and the bewil­ changes to last season's roster,  opener on Thursday night.  control of the No. 1 job.  the game when Andrew  
dered goalie.  though the Hed Wings added  "Certainly not to the expecta­ "He was the difference," St.  Ference kept the puck in the  
"It was nice to see the replay,  defenseman Brian Rafalski,  tions that we want."  Louis said. "Our effort was  Tampa Bay zone and sent a  
so I knew how it got in," said  who had three assists  Marco Sturm scored two  there, but we just couldn't get  slap shot off Schaefer's knee  
Ellis, who hadn't yet checked  Thursday night. Zetterberg,  goals and Tim Thomas made  that second goal."  past 1-Iolmqvist.  
to see whether his wife and  who had a goal and an assist,  35 saves for Boston, which has  Thomas was especially  Shawn Thornton and Andre  
new baby stayed up late to  has scored in each of the Hed  won four of live since opening  strong in the second period,  Hoy mixed it up later in the  
watch the game on TV. "My  Wings' eight games.  the season with a loss. Mark  holding Tampa Bay scoreless  first, then Sturm made it 2-0  
intention was to put the puck  Homesickness also might be  Stuart scored his first career  as it outshot Boston 15-3.  with 10 seconds left in the  
in the paint, and I thought one  a problem for the Sharks, who  goal, and Peter Schaefer also  "We outplayed them in the  period when he sent a  
of the guys driving the net  play just three of their first 12  scored for Boston.  second period, but Thomas  screened shot between team­ 
would throw it in."  games at the Tank. The Sharks  Johan 1-Iolmqvist stopped 19  made a lot of good saves and  mate Patrice Bergeron's legs.  
Pavel Datsyuk scored during  lost their home opener to  shots for Tampa Bay, and Brad  looked sharp," Richards said.  "If the team wins, fans will  
a two-man advantage moments  Boston last weekend -and  Richards scored the Lightning's  It's been a good start for the  come. They also need to be  
after Ellis' strange goal, and  after Saturday's game against  only goal. The line of Martin St.  team that hasn't won a playoff  entertaining, and physical,"  
Chris Osgood made 23 saves as  Nashville, San Jose will be  Louis, Vincent Lecavalier and  series since 1999 and has gone  owner Jeremy Jacobs said  
thn Hed Wings earned their  back on the road for nearly  Vaclav Prospal, which had 17  through five coaches in 4?  before the game. "We have a  
fourth victory in six games.  two more weeks.  points in the last four games,  years, one of them a season  load of talent here -don't  
llenrik ZettPrberg extlmded his  "We got ourselves back on  did not score Thursday night.  lost to the lockout.  miss that. Look at the payroll,  
goal-scoring streak to five  our heels," Grier said. "We  "Hichards, Prospal,  The Bruins sold 16,363 tick- there better be."  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
$60K house 2.5 miles from campus. 3 bedroom, 1.5 bath. bebetsch@ nd.edu. hltp://1821 mar­guette.biOfi!Spot.cornl 

WANTED 
Notre Dame items. Rockne. Leahy, Ara, Holtz. Helmets, Uniforms, Footballs, Old Programs &Tickets. Caii574-257-0039 or 574-2n­
~[l~[l 

FOR SALE 
Moving on with my life Moving in with yours. Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of the dome Sleep in one of three suites Taste the city water. It is sweet New. New Everything You can have it for some bling Not too bad for $345 thousand Call Jan Lazzara on her band 574-233-6141. 
FSB0-6.2 miles to NO-Colonial 2story home 4bdr 2-1/2 baths close to schools county tax many xtrs. 574-291-2899 
Awesome riverfront new construe-lion 12 min. to NO. 4bdr,4bath,mar­ble, ceramics,h/w floors, Jacuzzi,deck, walkout LL. 574-217­1557 Tatiana 
Brick ranch w/walkout LL, gourmet 
kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like 
street. Close to NO. 574-217-1557 
Tatiana 

Your path to paradise. 144 feet riverfront surrounded by nature. Spotless ranch. 574-217-1557 Tatiana. 
3bdrm, 1.5 bath condo. Close to 
NO. Immaculate move-in condition. Prefer to sell totally furnished w/linens, etc. All new &like-new fur­niture. Extremely reasonable, $130,000. Not furnished $115,000. Woodbridge Condos. Call 574-272-0360, cell574-274-8359 for appt. to see. For your convenience. appt. hrs on Fri &Sat 9 a.m.to 8 p.m.; Sun.9-3. 
1990 Volvo Station Wagon. Only 103k. Good shape, Reliable, Cheap. Classic! Asking $1950. Dan Lindley (Fac.) 574-631-3226. 
14548 Harvester Drive in Woodfield Downs 2,325 SqFt $220,000. Wonderful custom built home in Granger. Short drive to Notre Dame and St. Mary s campuses. 3 bed­room 3.5 baths wlfinished base­men!. Kurt Ohlson at 574-360-5962. Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty 
Call me for a list of properties near NO. 574-217-1557Tatiana 
18010 Chipstead Dr. in Arlington Heights 2,056 Sq.Ft. $154,500. Very nice all brick ranch located very close to Notre Dame &St. Marys campuses. 4 bedroom 1.5 baths. Lots of updates. Kurt Ohlson at 574-360-5962 Century 21 Jim Dunfee Real~ 
FoR RENT 
Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to campus, washer/dryer, landlord does the yardwork. $750/month. No pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266. 
2BR/2bath condo for rent at Jamison Residential(lvy Court). Available for jan-may or june-aug or both. Perfect for young couple or visiting prof. contact Mike: 507-326­7044 or mikec@cbatty.com 
Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations completed this year. Great location on E Marion. Large common areas, 5 bathrooms. Also available: 5bdrm 2 bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008­2009. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 
Blue &Gold Homes Now Showing 2nd Semester &08/09. 1-9 Bedrooms. bluegoldrentals.com 


TICKETS 

WANTED-NO FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. www.victorytickets.com 
NO tickets for sale. Best Prices. 574-288-2726. 

Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. 
Need 2 USC tix 
&parking pass. 
57 4-276-8507. 


PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED 
PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. 
For more information, visit our website at: http://osa. nd. edu/ departments/pregnant.shtml 
or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visithttp://osa.nd.edu/ departments/rape.shtml 
IS YOUR DADA 
RADIOLOGIST IN BOSTON? 
Looking for NO student s 
father who is a Radiologist 
in the Boston, MA area. 
This Dr. assisted my client 
with CPR on an airplane 
on 3/15/07 departing Detroit to 
So.Bend. 
Family would like to extend thank you and ask questions, 
Please call Mark Matthes at BOO­261-2305. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? 
You do not have to be alone. 
We want to help. 
Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort 
or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
superproofer.com 






OUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 19, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 19 
Men's Division I Cross Country USTFCCA Poll 
team  points  previous  
1  Oregon  390  1  
2  Northern Arizona  363  15  
3  UTEP  357  T20  
4  lona  346  4  
5  Colorado  342  3  
6  Wisconsin  325  2  
7  North Carolina St.  291  10  
8  Arkansas  284  9  
8  California  284  NR  
10  Michigan  274  18  
11  Virginia  248  29  
12  Alabama  229  8  
13  NOTRE DAME  224  7  
14  Texas  218  11  
15  Stanford  209  5  
16  Georgetown  202  12  
17  Tulsa  174  NR  
18  Oklahoma St.  171  6  
19  Louisville  148  17  
19  UCLA  148  19  
21  Portland  142  13  
22  Minnesota  139  24  
23  Providence  111  14  
24  Iowa State  98  23  
25  Arizona Slate  79  T20  
26  BYU  75  NR  
27  Cal Poly  63  30  
28  William & Mary  46  16  
29  Weber State  18  26  
30  Florida  17  NR  

Women's Division I Cross Country USTFCCA Poll 
team points previous 
1 Stanford 390 1 2 Oregon 368 3 3 Florida State 365 11 -~' tPriocetp.Q . ' ,358 B . 
"' 
5 Arizona State 332 6 
6 Michigan 320 13 
7 Michigan State 317 9 
8 Minnesota 294 4 
9 Washington 280 12 
10 Illinois 264 10 
11 Georgetown 251 22 
12 Colorado State 234 14 
13 Arkansas 231 5 
14 Tecas Tech 221 24 
15 Colorado 214 2 
16 Rice 202 7 
17 BYU 192 15 
18 Iowa 161 23 
19 West Virginia 155 21 
20 Northern Arizona 151 NR 
21 Wisconsin 128 25 
22 Providence 109 18 
23 North Carolina St. 96 26 
24 UC Santa Barbara 92 27 
25 Virginia Tech 86 19 
26 Penn State 64 30 
27 Florida 63 20 
28 Boston College 41 16 
29 Georgia 40 28 
30 Nebraska 14 29 
MIAA Volleyball Standings 
team league oz,erall 
1 Calvin 12-1 21-4 2 Hope 10-2 16·8 3 Adrian 9-4 12-10 4 Tri-State 9-5 12-12 5 Albion 5-7 8-14 6 SAINT MARY'S 5-7 10-14 7 Kalamazoo 4-8 8-15 8 Alma 2-11 6-19 9 Olivet 2·13 4-22 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Louisville at Connecticut 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YOHK-Joe Torre is out as manager of the New York Yankees, reject­ing a substantial pay cut after the team failed to make it past the first round of the playoffs for the third straight year. 
Torre turned down a $5 million, one-year contract Thursday-$2.5 million less than he made last season. 
Hather than put up with the indignity of a salary slap coupled with a per­formance-based contract. the man who led the Yankees to playoff appearances in all 12 years he managed walked. 
"A difficult day," general manager Brian Cashman said. 
Bench coach Don Mattingly is the leading contender to replace Torre, who won four World Series champi­onships with the Yanks but none since 2000. Yankees broadcaster Joe Girardi, the NL Manager of the Year with Florida in 2006, is another top con­tender. Tony La Bussa and Bobby Valentine also could be considered. 
Most Yankees fans could see this day coming. 
After losing the first two playoff games to Cleveland, owner George 
IN BRIEF 

Open-wheelers follow 
Montoya to NASCAR 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Juan Pablo Montoya never meant for his move from Formula One to NASCAH to be the one that made devout open­wheelers accepting of stock cars. But in the 15 months since he made the switch, the list of followers has grown. 
Now Montoya has a warning for those considering NASCAR: It's a lot harder than it looks. 
"This is not easy," Montoya said. "I think the person who thinks that it is easy should look again, because I think this is pretty hard. And now, with the full fields, even getting into the race is very, very hard." 
Montoya has paid attention to the plight of Sam Harnish, who is debat­ing whether or not to leave the IndyCar Series for NASCAR. A three­time series champion and Indianapolis 500 winner, Hornish has accomplished everything he set out to do in open-wheel and is crav­ing a new challenge. 
Steinbrenner said he did­n't think Torre would be asked back if the Yankees didn't advance. 
The 67-year-old Torre, who took over the team to start the 1996 season, made his decision after traveling from New York to the team's spring train­ing complex in Tampa, Fla., and meeting with Steinbrenner, the owner's sons and top executives for about an hour. He was accompanied by Cashman and chief operating officer Lonn Trost. 
New York's offer inelud­ed $3 million in bonuses if the Yankees reached next year's World Series and an $8 million option for 

2009 that would have become guaranteed if New York won the AL pennant. 
Torre just completed a $19.2 million, three-year contract. The Chicago Cubs' Lou Piniella was the second-highest paid man­ager at $3.5 million. 
"Under this offer, he would continue to be the highest-paid manager in major league baseball," team president Randy Levine said. "We thought ­that we need to go to a performance-based model, having nothing to do with Joe Torre's char­acter, integrity or ability. We just think it's impor­tant to motivate people." 
Patriots to be given names 
of StubHub users 
BOSTON -The New England Patriots have won a bid to get the names of all the fans who bought or sold -or tried to buy or sell-tick­ets to home games through online ticket reseller StubHub Inc., a move one technology group sees as an invasion of privacy. 
In a lawsuit against San Francisco­based StubHub, a subsidiary of eBay Inc., claiming that the Web site encourages fans to break state law and violate team policies, The Patriots said they could seek to revoke season tickets of people who use StubHub. 
A lawyer for the Patriots wouldn't say what the team plans to do with the 13,000 names, which StubHub gave it last week after losing its appeal of a Massachusetts state court ruling. 
Team rules bar reselling game tickets for a profit. State law, though rarely enforced, restricts ticket markups to $2 above face value plus some service charges. 
Johnson will start practice
with Cowboys today 
IRVING, Texas -Suspended defensive tackle Tank Johnson will be allowed to practice starting Friday, which will be his first team ­session with the Dallas Cowboys since they signed him last month. 
Johnson still has two gam!:_ls left on his eight-game NFL suspension for violating probation on a gun charge. Unless the suspension is reduced by commissioner Roger Goodell, Johnson will be eligible to play when the Cowboys play at the New York Giants on Nov. 11. 
"It will be good to get him out on the field and get him in the meeting room too," Cowboys coach Wade Phillips said. "Alii know is he's going to practice. I don't know when he's going to be able to play, or when he'll be able to play." 
Johnson, who was released by the Chicago Bears after his suspension, signed with the Cowboys last month. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2007 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

Relievers fit with Rockies 
ATP TouR 

Federer beats Canas after two straight losses 
Straight-set win puts Federer in quarterfinals 
Associated Press 
MADRID, Spain -Hoger Federer finally got a win against Guillermo Canas, beating the 14th-ranked Argentine 6-0, 6-3 Thursday to reach the quarterfinals of the Madrid Masters. 
Canas, who beat Federer in 
consecutive tournaments in 
March, was broken at love in 
the second game. Two more 
breaks of serve gave Federer 
the first set in 21 minutes. 
"I played aggressively, took my chances and felt in con­trol," Federer said. "It was nice to beat him, that's for sure." 
Canas held serve for 1-1 in the second set. But Federer, the defending champion, abandoned the ground­strokes and carne to the net. He scored 14 of his 1 7 over­all winners at the net in the second set. 
Federer, who won 32 of his 41 service points, broke Canas again in the sixth game before holding serve for the rest of the way. lie beat Canas for the first time since 2005, improving to 2-3 against him in his career. 
Second-ranked Rafael Nadal edged Andy Murray 7­6 (5), 6-4 in a match marked by long rallies from the base­line. 
Nadal looked to take con­trol of the first set with a break in the 11th game, but Murray broke back to send it to a tiebreaker where the Spaniard converted his sec­ond set point, spinning a forehand down the line. 
"It was a great game from start to finish and winning that first set was important ... with this surface favoring Andy's game," Nadal said. 
Murray immediately broke to open second set, using a backhand to take the lead after Nadal recovered from 15-40 back to deuce. 
Nadal needed four tries, 
but broke back to even the 
set at 4-4. Looking to repeat 
his 2005 title, Nadal held 
with a light touch at the net 
before clinching it with a 
final break in the 1Oth to 
earn a quarterfinal match 
against David Nalbandian, 
who beat Juan Martin Del 
Potro 6-2, 6-4. 
"It was an unbelievably close match," Murray said. "I probably should have won the second set ... I had a lot of chances and didn't take them. lie's a little bit more experienced than me and he took the points better." 
Federer next will play Feliciano Lopez after the Spanish wild card beat Austrian qualifier Stefan Koubek 7-6 (9), 6-1. 
Canas defeated the top­ranked player in earlier in the year at Indian Wells and Miami but the indoor surface favored Federer. 
"I was especially disap­pointed with the Miami loss, so to beat him later in the year after two tough losses is nice," Federer said. "I think the surface was much slower in Indian Wells and Miami. And I didn't know his game so well then." 
Earlier, fifth-seeded Fernando Gonzalez of Chile defeated Juan Monaeo of Argentina 6-4, 6-2 to set up a quarterfinal match with Nicolas Kiefer of Germany, who beat Ivo Karlovic 7-(> 
(5). 7-6 (3). 
Third-ranked Novak Djokovie beat Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain 6-3, 2-6. 6­4 to advance to the quarter­finals. Djokovic will play Mario Ancic, who beat Paul­Henri Mathieu of France 6-4, 6-3. 
"I haven't played so far on the level that I can, but the most important thing is that I won," Djokovic said. 
Ferrero's last title was the 2003 Madrid Masters, a stretch of 88 tournaments. 


-
Associated Press 
DENVEH -LaTroy Hawkins was snarching for the pflrfeel lit last winter, while Matt Berges was looking for any lit at all. 
Two journeyman relievers, both foraging for new teams ­anyono willing to take a ehanee on thoir right arms. The Hockics took them in, and arc awfully glad thny did. 
Now. thny've helped take Colorado to its first World Series appearance. llerges and llawkins havfl provided a fan­tastic front end to a brilliant bullpnn. combining for 6 2-3 scornlnss innings in the Hockies' unblemishnd postsnason run. 
"This is incredible," llerges said. ''I'm hearing from people I havnn'l heard from in a long time." 
Eight months ago, llerges thought his baseball career might be over. No one was call­ing with offnrs, and he was making plans for another line of work, possibly even in the broadcasting fiold. 
lie sal in front of his locker this week. sif'ting through a goody bag full of trinkets from Nike, the spoils of this surpris­ing success. 
"Thorn's 1,000 shirts in here, and shoes," the 37-year-old relinvnr said. "It's kind of like Christmas." 
llergns has pitched in four of the Hoekies' seven playoff games. giving up just one hit in :{ 2-3 innings. lie earned the win in lhn dinrlwr over Arizona in thn NL championship sories. 
Not bad for someone who had to beg the Hockins for an invita­tion to spring training. He's still puzzled over why no team want­ed to give him a shot. lie was coming off a 2006 campaign with Florida in whieh he was 2­3 with a 4.31 EHA. 
"I had an OK year, not great

-
by any means, but not horrible," llerges said. "I think that should be enough to get a job with somebody and it wasn't." Berges felt like the train with the square wheels on the Island of Misfit Toys in "Hudolph, the Hed-Nosed Heindeer," the long­running Christmas television special. That would make I Iawkins the cowboy riding the ostrich. They were there on the island along with the squirt gun that squirted jelly. thn polka dot elephant and the Charlie-in-the-Box, and nobody likes a Charlie-in-the­box, remember? "That's a good analogy. That's how I felt." Herges said with a laugh. "I felt like I was on that island and didn't know why." 
llerges was especially stumped why a guy like I lawkins was there with him. 
"He's been a premier setup guy his whole career. I'm trying to eke by," Herges said. "He's on the next level in terms of talent. When he was a free agent, there were 15 to 20 teams calling him. When I was a free agent, no one was calling me." 
Hawkins was corning off a 
4.48 EHA in Baltimore, his fourth stop in three seasons. 
He diligently did his home­work before signing with Colorado last December. He wanted to be on an up-and­corning team that played out­standing defensn. 
I le succeeded on both counts. 
In Colorado he pitched in front of a defense like no other he had ever seen -nobody had, in fad. The Hockies had the high­est fielding percentagfl in major lfmgue history this season. 
"A lot of people were like, 'You don't want to sign there. You sure you want to pitch in that thin air and that altitude?'" Ilawkins said. "I told them if I go out there and just be LaTroy Hawkins. it won't be a problem. I'm always up for a challenge." 
So far in the playo!Ts, Hawkins has been terrific, throwing three scoreless innings. 
"Me and Matt-we're alike," said Hawkins, who has 75 
career saves, including 28 in 
2001 with Minnesota. "We've 
been given a second chance." 
The fact Herges had to earn his spot in the Rockies bullpen is nothing new. He has taken the difficult road his entire career. lie spent eight years in the minors before receiving his major league opportunity with the Los Angeles Dodgers in 1999. 
So he didn't mind having to prove himself again with the Rockies, who brought him to spring training as a non-roster invitee. He began the season at Triple-A Colorado Springs and was called up on July 3, then went 5-1 with a 2.96 ERA with the Hackies this season. 
Herges closed out the regular season with nine scoreless innings, spanning five games, cementing his role as the Hockies' top middle reliever. 
"Every year I've had to prove myself so I didn't get released," he said. "That's all I know ­when I get an opportunity I try to impress." 
Pitching coach Bob Apodaca was more impressed with Berges' mental makeup than his physical attributes. Any player who can handle being sent back down to the minors at 37 to prove his worth and responds like Berges did is all right in Apodaca's book. 


Friday, October, 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Red Sox stay alive with 7-1 win over Indians 
-

Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -He blocked out everything: the screaming crowd, Kenny Lofton's chirping, even his ex-girlfriend singing only a few feet away. 
Josh Beckett, standing tall as ever on the mound, rose above it all -October's biggest star. 
Beckett dominat1HI the Cleveland Indians for the sec­ond time and Manny Hamirez drove in the go-ahead run with a 390-foot single as the Boston Hed Sox stayed alive in the AL championship series with a 7-1 win Thursday night in Game 5. 
Back to Fehway Park they go. Just the Hod Sox being the Bed Sox. They have plenty of prac­tice at these postseason come­backs. 
"We weren't trying to win three games in one night," Kevin Youkilis said. "We were just going out there and fight and do whatever we had to do to win." 
Youkilis set the tone with a first-inning homer off C.C. Sabathia as Boston shipped the best-of-seven series back to the heart of Hed Sox Nation to con­tinue a season nearly canned for the cold New England win­ter. 
Clearly, Hamirez & Co. cared. "We made it happen," Ramirez said. 
In 2004, Boston rallied from an 0-3 deficit to win the 2004 ALCS against the New York Yankees and went on to sweep the St. Louis Cardinals in four strai-ght for its first World Series title since 1918. 
The Hed Sox forced Game 6 on Saturday night, and will turn to Curt Schilling, 9-3 in 17 career postseason starts, against Fausto Carmona. 
Boston still trails 3-2, but if not for Beckett, the calm, cool and cocky 20-game winner, their would be no more base­ball until spring. 
"Josh is unbelievable," Youkilis said. "This year has been unbelievable for him and we hope he wins the Cy Young. He's shown here in the playoffs why he should." 
In the late innings, drummer John Adams, whose tom-tom beat has pulsated through a special season at Jacobs Field, slumped against his instrument as the Hed Sox tacked on runs. 
Meanwhile, in the Boston bullpen, two relievers used water bottles to playfully bang on backup catcher Doug Mirabelli's shinguards. 
The 27 -year-old Beckett, who beat Cleveland in the opener, once again came through with the stakes at their highest. 
The right-hander allowed only a run and three hits in the first, and only five total hits in eight innings. He struck out 11, walked one and was around the plate with almost every one of his 109 pitches. 
"He's got something others don't have," third baseman Mike Lowell said. "There is a different feel for us when he takes the mound. Time and time again he comes through." 
Beckett, who with each start 

Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo, sliced lettuce. tomato. & our homemade cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. Italian dressing. 
Fresh sliced turkey breast. bacon. lettuce. tomato. &mayo. (JJ's original turkey &bacon club) 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK tr 
54570 N.IRONWOOD DR.  1290 E. IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAN  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.277.8500  574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!" © 
®1985. 2002. 2003. 2004. 2007 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE.llC All RIGHTS RESERVED. We lesene The Right To Make Any Menu Changes. 
carves his name deeper among the postseason pitching elite, is no stranger to comebacks. 
In 2003, he pitched a two-hit­ter for Florida in Game 5 of the NLCS as the Marlins rallied from a 3-1 deficit to eliminate the Chicago Cubs. Then, pitch­ing on just three days' rest in Game 6 of the World Series at Yankee Stadium, he allowed five hits in a 2-0 win and was picked as MVP. 
If the Red Sox can win two 
-

more, he might have another trophy for his mantle. "We know we have to do now," said Beckett, 3-0 with a 
1.17 ERA this October. "This is not where we want to be, but obviously, we're inching closer to where we want to be." 
The Indians missed a chance to advance to the World Series for the first time since 1997, and will have to find a way to avoid being the latest Cleveland team to come close but not win it all. 
Cleveland, which hasn't won the Series since 1948, had won three straight to seemingly take control. But the Indians, trying to clinch a pennant at home for the first time, could do little against Beckett, who rarely shook off a sign from Varitek and kept hitters guessing with a rocket fastball and knee­buckling curve. 
"He's the best," David Ortiz said. "We were confident with him going out there. He was unbelievable. It was one of the best pitching performances I've seen." 
The Indians fell apart at the seams. 
Even their rock-solid bullpen cracked for the first time. Boston added three runs in the eighth on three walks, a throw­ing error by reliever Hafael Perez, a passed ball and a sac­rifice fly. 
"Beating Boston four in a row is tough to do," Indians manag­er Eric Wedge said. 
With so much on the line, both teams were on edge and tempers flared briefly in the fifth when Beckett and Lofton screamed at each other. 
Cleveland's outfielder had flipped his bat to the ground after what he thought was ball four, and when Beckett retired him on a fly, the pair exchanged words and both benches and bullpens emptied. 
The two got into a similar argument two years ago, when Lofton was with Philadelphia and Beckett with Florida. 
"It goes back a way," Beckett said. "Those things have a way of working themselves out." 
No punches were thrown, and if Lofton was trying to rat­tle Beckett, he didn't. 
"He doesn't like it when I take my bat and flip it," Lofton ­said. "He's the only pitcher who's had a problem with it. He was saying stuff I didn't like, and I said something back." 
Beckett then struck out Franklin Gutierrez looking before Casey Blake singled and went to thirg when Grady ­Sizemore's single. But Beckett fanned Asdrubal Cabrera on three pitches, and the rookie smacked his bat on the plate in disgust. 
For Sabathia, the Indians' ace and leader, it was more disappointment. He allowed four runs and 10 hits in six­plus innings, his third straight sub-par performance this month. 
;.:J~ :...·~-· --. '(11'1-/ fi'UII.JI J lUJtlJ Ulih UliJjl~l 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2007 
NFL 
Bears balance roles given to versatile Hester 
-
Associated Press 
LAKE FOHEST, Ill. -Devin I lester took oil', and in a flash he was in the end zone. 
Anotlwr breathtaking return? Not this time. 
-
Instead. it was a game-tying Sl-yard touchdown reception with less than two minutes left against the Minnesota Vikings last week. just the sort of boost the Chicago Bears envisioned him giving the offense. And it 
was just the sort of spark he rngularly provides on special teams. 
"We're all thinking, 'Oh, let's put him on oiTensn a little morn. Oh, wait a minute, we don't want to lose him on special teams,"' guard Huben Brown said. 
It's easy to see why the Bears are conllictnd. 
llnstnr already has a league­high thren touchdown returns after setting an NFL record with six last season. And against the Vikings, he provided a tantaliz­ing tasto of what could come on oll'onse. 
The Bears were within 31-24 after Muhsin Muhammad caught a :B-yard touchdown pass with 
2:36 rnmaining. The defense lwld after the Vikings recovernd an onside kick, and Chicago took over at the 19 with I :53 t.o go. 
!lester made a nice move to gd by Dwight Smith, caught the hall at the 35 and raend along t.hn right sidnlirw to eompletn the first touchdown rnception of his career. That tied it at :n and elicited a deafening roar from the crowd. 
The good feelings nroded when the Vikings' Hyan Longwell endnd the game with a 55-yard field goal, handing the Bears (2-4) their most disap­pointing regular-season loss in years. On a day when the defnnse surrendered 444 yards and got run over by Adrian Peterson, Chicago still had a chancn to win because of Hester's heroics. 
Besides the tying reception, there was an 89-yard punt return for a touchdown. On that one, Hester made an over-the­shoulder-catch along the side­line, reversed toward the middle to pick up his blockers and then went to work. lie split two deffmders, pulled away from one lunging for his ankle and avoid­ed another on his way to the end zone. 
In other words, it was a typical Hester return. The touchdown reception was a new twist. 
Hester became the third NFL player and second Bear to return a punt 80 or more yards for a touchdown and catch an 80-plus yard scoring pass in the same game, joining Gale Sayers and the St. Louis Hams' Az-Zahir Hakim. 
"Tiw morn opportunities you get, the morn chances you get to make a play," Hester said. "That's the way I look at it." 
lin had a different view as a rookie last year. llestnr had bounced from posi­tion to position at the University 
of Miami and was reluctant to move to oll'ense, even though the Bears drafted him thinking he could contributfl on either side of the ball. He played mostly on special teams, occasionally iri the secondary, but never on the other side. Coach Lovie Smith broached the subject early on, and it became a full-fledged sales pitch after the season. 
Hester finally gave in just before offseason workouts, and the Bears have been slowly working him into the rotation. The transition to offense is not easy because receivers have to run precise routes and can't simply rely on speed, although the Bears have kept it simple for him. 
"In fairness to him, not giving him too much to start with ... worked well," quarterback Brian Griese said. "lie's shown that he can handle a lot of it." 
Hester had been used mainly as a decoy on offense the first live games, with just one 3-yard reception. Even so, defenses had to pay attention. 
"People have to respect his speed and the playmaking abili­ty that he has," Muhammad said. "I don't think people have seen some of the best things he can do, but obviously, when he's on t.h.e .n;;Id, they know where No. 23 rs. 
For the Bears, it's a delicate balance. If they use Hester too much on offense, that could limit his play on special teams. Worse, what if he gets injured? 
The NFC special teams player of the month in September, Hester leads the league with seven punt returns for 20 or more yards. Against the Vikings, he had four for 108 yards and ran back four kickoiTs for 86. ­


Teams are paying a heavy price when they put the ball in his hands and are sacrificing field position when they don't. That's not a bad strategy consid­ering the Bears' o!Tense is 28th in the league at 287.7 yards per game. 
"I kind of figure Devin's good for seven points nvery timn he steps on the f'ield, maybe 14," Brown said. "So you pick your poison: Which way do you want to usn him? Do you want to get your seven or 14 on offense? Do you want to get your seven or 14 on spndal tnams? Or do you split it in hatr?" 
Fall 2007 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging taculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues ofour times. 
~ 9/01-Georgia Tech ''Whv is Goethe's Faust the Greatest Work of German Literature:" Vitt~rio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor of Arts and Letters
"Combating Extremism: 
~ 9/22-Michigan State
Democratic Virtues 
"Health Care Reforms: An Economist's A.ssessmem'' Willian1 Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Economics
and Pluralism in Islam'' 
~ 10/13-Boston College
-
"Global ireland: From Celtic 'l\vilight to Celtic 'T'iger" Luke Gibbons, Donald R. Keough Family Professor of Irish Studies 
~ 10/20-USC "Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam'' Asma A£~aruddin, Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies 
Asma Msaruddin 
~ 11103-Navy "Co~s, Protest, ar:d Rioti~g" , ::,...
Associate Professor ofArabic Dame! Myers, D1recror ot Research and Faculty Development, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Protessor of Sociology
and Islamic Studies 
~ 11/10-Air Force "1heological But Not Religious: 1he Case ofJohn Milton" Stephen Fallon, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
~ 11/17-Duke "Words and Music, Music and Words: The Songs of Franz Schubert'' Susan Youens, J.W Van Gorkom Professor of Music
12:00 Noon 
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium,
-Saturday, October 20, 2007 
Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). 
Annenberg Auditoriutn, For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
Snite Museum ofArt 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Friday, October, 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 

WE'RE CoMIN' Our 



Th;~nkmp f';nher Jr.d !"lJUmh.riun 
·rl 

Ann Thcl't~l: DJrliJ Y.dm<'f. ht!Jto( 
-

ND alumnae and ND ce!ebritieJ thunk Father Tedfor the gift of coeducation and discuJs the impact r~ftheir ND educations. 
Profits benefit The Thanking Father Ted Scholarship Fund 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundation 
For more information, ~;o to www. Tbanking1'athe,·1'ed.com 
Notre Dame "WOmen -Connect 


Friday, October 19, 2007 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Rutgers downs No.2 USF with help of fake FG 
What do the poolhall,-the computer 
-
Monday through Thursday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; and Sunday 12 p.m. to 8 p m. 
fiElUNIVERSlTY OF
fetEx Kinko's.* 

Office and Pnnt Ce~1ter W NOTRE DAME 
~ 2001 FcdEx 29905 

Hay Hice provided a more con­ventional 181 yards on 39 car­ries for Rutgers (5-2, 2-1 Big East) and Mike Tee! threw two touchdown passes to Tiquan Underwood. • 
"We just went out there and played our best football," Hice said. 
South Florida became the 

third No. 2 team to lose in the 
last three weeks. 
"I thought we had a chip on our shoulders tonight," Bulls cornerback Trae Williams said. "That we would prove some­thing to the nation. That we are deserving of the ranking. Obviously, we didn't get it done tonight." 
The Bulls (6-1, 1-1) had their eight-game winning streak come to an end, no doubt to the delight of Boston College, LSU, Oklahoma and the rest of the teams hoping to grab the second spot in the BCS standings USF held this week. 
Matt Grothe threw for 247 yards and a touchdown and ran for 58 yards, but Hutgers' defense swarmed South Florida's multitalented quarter­back in the second half and sacked him seven times in the game. 
A week after No. 2 California lost to Oregon State and two weeks after then-No. 2 Southern California was upset by Stanford, the Bulls became the 11th Top 10 team to fall to an unranked opponent this season. There are five undefeated teams left in major coi!Pge football. 
"PP.rsonally, rankings don't mean that much when you're on the field," Bulls mceiver Mareus Edwards said. "All that stuff goes out the window. It comes down to who scores the most points and they scored more than we did tonight." 
Hutgers, which started the season ranked 16th but fell out after two straight losses last month. might not be unrankP.d much longer. 
Jeremy Ito lined a career-long 51 yard field with 11 :59 left in the fourth quarter to give Hutgnrs a 30-20 !Pad. 
Grothe's gang wasn't done. lie led the Bulls on a 70-yard tow~h­down drive that Mike Ford capped with a 1-yard run with 
9:16 left to make it 30-27. 
When USF linebacker Ben Moffitt recovered Rice's fumble near midfield with 4:11 left, the Bulls were in business at the Hutgers 40. But Brandon Henkart sacked Grothe on the first play, and the Bulls were forced to punt. 
"We had the ball at the 50, down by three and their defense came up to play," USF coach Jim Leavitt said. "Give them credit. Give them a lot of credit. They did it twice." 
Rutgers was unable to kill the dock and the Bulls got one more shot to keep their perfect season alive, starting at the Hutgers 49. 
On the first play, freshman Joe Lefeged came on a safety blitz and sacked Grothe from the blind side. On fourth-and-22, Amarri Jackson caught a pass down thf~ sideline bnyond tlw first down marknr, but the play was wipml out by an of'fnnsivn pass interference call becausp, the receiver pushed ofl'. 
The last gasp came on a fourth-and-37 from tlw Hutgers 
24. (;rothe heaved a desperation pass into tral'f'ic and HutgPrs defensive back Zaire Kitchen interceptPd. 
For thfl second straight sPason HutgPrs came up with a huge victory on a Thursday night at horne. Last yp,ar it was then-No. :{ LouisvillP., at thn timfl the high­nst ranked opponent Hutgers had P.ver beaten. 
Not anymore. This win set ofT another party on the f'ip,Jd, though not quitn as wild as last year's after beating Louisvilln. 
After reaching the rankings for first time in the 11-year history of South Florida football earlier this season. the Bulls shot up the charts bf~hind a quick and hard­hitting defense and Grothe's dynamic playmaking. 
In this topsy-turv~ season, the Bulls' national title hopes can't quite be put to rest. But they took a major hit. 
The Scarlet Knights, last sea­son's surprise tPam from the Big East, gave their sPason a much­neP.ded jolt. 
With Rutgers up 20-17 mid­way through the third quarter, Hutgers defensive back Devin McCourty blocked a field goal to preserve the lead. 
-
Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY. N.J.-South Florida sloggnd ofT the field in the midst of another Hutgers cel­ebration, whitn and grmm dots in a sea of n~d. 
The second-ranked Bulls' uiwxpectml ascent into coiiPge f'ootball's elitP had bmm snarled by a team that's getting good at 
taking out national title con­tenders. 
Third-string quarterback Andrew DePaola threw a 15­yard touchdown pass oil' a fake field goal to give the Scarlet Knights the lead in the third quarter and Hutgers also used a fake punt to set up an early field goal in its 30-27 victory Thursday night. 
Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
Palmer apologizes for temper 
Johnson resents difference in reaction after 'Golden Boy's' outbursts 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Carson Palmer is sorry. 
Sorry that he blew up at receiv­er Chad Johnson for running the wrong route. Sorry that he's lost his cool during thn Cincinnati Bnngals' awful start. Sorry that his easygoing temperament has failed him on the field. 
Not that anyone blames him. 

The Pro Bowl MVP has vented his anger in the last two games, something quite out of character for the laid-back quarterback from California. A 1-4 start will do that. 
"I think everybody's a little bit on edge around here," Palmer said. "We have boards in the ofTensive and defensive rooms, and every time you look up at thnm and see our produetion and our record there, you're just nat­urally on edge because you have such high expectations. 
"I have lost my cool a couple of times, and I apologize for that. I'll try to contain myself and be calm." 
Usually, Palmer is the club's voice of reason during tough times. When things go bad, he acknowledges the problems and accepts a bigger share of the blame than necessary. When tnammates squabble, he tries to restore the peace. 
Two notable exceptions have drawn attention and prompted 
THIS WEEK IN 
. .,.. 

those apologies. surprise. When Johnson vents, it's 
During a 34-13 loss to New something else. England, Jolmson ran the wrong "A<> soon as I do show emotion, route near the goal line late in the everybody's first word is 'selfish,"' first half, when the Bengals had a Johnson said. "You all know Chad chance to keep the game close. better than that. You've been Aftp,r Palmer's throw was inter­around me long enough to know 
cepted  because  that I'm about  
Johnson  wasn't  winning  and  
where he should  that's  it.  One- 
have been, the quarterback berated him on the lield.  "! think everybody's a little bit on edge around here. "  and-four, if that's not enough to be frustrated about, then I don't  
Johnson gave it  know what is."  
back on the side­line, and was still jawing at the  Carson Palmer Bengals quarterback  There's more to it, of course. Johnson draws  

,. . . . ·.... ..: ; -. . . ·.·
W.. o,me:n s ·",··· 
Fri, Oct. 19th @ 7:3.()pm vs. Providence 
Sun, Oct. 21st@ 11:30am vs. Connecticut 
? Early arriving fans will receive a free knit cap Friday! 
quarterback as they left the field for halftime. 
Palmer was visibly angry again Sunday when his last throw was intercepted during a 27-20 loss at Kansas City. Palmer tried to get the ball to Johnson in a crowd, but the receiver slowed at the end of the route, setting up the inter­ception. 
"New England -that was on me," Johnson said this week. "It's all on me. You can't blame him. He's the Golden Boy." 
That's Johnson's nickname for the 2002 Heisman Trophy win­ner, one that's more good-natured than it sounds. What bothers Johnson, though, is that their out­bursts are taken different ways these days. 
When Palmer gets angry, it's a 
s,.... 
attention to him­
self with his 

touchdown cele­brations, his brash statements and his trash talking to opponents on the field. Sometimes, he'll be talking to an opposing player while his teammates are gath­ered on the field during a time­out. 
When coach Marvin Lewis lashed out at his players for being "selfish" following the loss to New England, everyone thought about Johnson even though the coach didn't single anyone out. Johnson thinks there's a double standard among fans and the media because no one has called.Palmer selfish for showing emotion. 
"He's just like me," Johnson said. "What if he throws a bad ball, and I do the same thing? 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Sun1n1itt happy -with Vols tea111 chen1istry ­
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. Tennessee coach Pat Summitt knows talent will only get you so far in college basketball. 
She's had Lady Vols teams loaded with stars that haven't reached the NCAA Final Four. She's had teams with six and 10 losses win national cham­pionships. 
"Two years ago, we didn;t particularly like each other. we didn't play well together. we didn't get to a Final Four," Summitt said Thursday during Tennessee's media day. "Last year, we had great chemistry." 
The Lady Vols are coming off their seventh NCAA title. With Candace Parker and three other starters returning plus a top-notch freshman class, Summitt's team is about as talented as they get. 
That won't necessarily translate into another title. 
"You always worry about what happens after you've won a championship," Summitt said. "I've sat and watched this many times: car­rying the big national champi­onship on your back. Every possession, every game, every venue that we go to, it's going to be a challenge for them. 
"This is one of the hardest things to do in sports ... to repeat the performance of the national championship." 

In the 1998-99 season, 

Tennessee followed up three 
consecutive national titles 
with a disappointing finish, 
losing in the Elite Eight. That 
team boasted the superstar 
trio of Chamique Holdsclaw, 
Tamika Catchings and 
Semeka Handall. but players 
failed to step up in thai 
regional finals game when 
Holdsclaw went 2-of-18 from 
the floor in a loss to Duke. 
Basketball's winningest 

coach thinks this year's team 
is different. 
For one thing, the current 

squad's one national champi­
onship humbles in compari­
son to the three-peat. And 
rookies Kelley Cain, Angie 
Bjorklund, Sydney Smallbone 
and Vicki Baugh will be look­
ing for their own title. 
"What I see right now 

appears to be something 
that's going to be a special 
chemistry," Summitt said. 
"Can they live up to it? In my 
estimation we have the talent 
to do so." 
The first step in fighting any 

potential post-championship 
slump is to train hard in the 
offseason and practice hard in 
the preseason, Summit said. 
She also wants to see a com­
mitment from players to 
improve daily. 
Coach and players all said 

they've been pleased with the 
progress so far. 
"There's been no signs of 

slacking off or not working 
hard," Parker said. "This 
summer we had tremendous 
work ethic." 
Nicky Anosike said it takes 

being on the court in a game 
to really know whether a 
team's got the right chemistry. 
"It's too early to tell," she 

said. "I don't know who rises 
when there's pressure, who 
falls. I don't know anyone's 
tendencies in games, who 
cracks under pressure. We'll 
see." 
Cain said she's already com­

fortable with the veteran play­-ers, who she said took thp, freshmen under their wings. showed thnm the ropes and advisP.d them what to do on 
and off the court. 
Shp, already seems to be 

oozing the tPam spirit that 
Summitt finds handy in a 
player. 
"I don't think one player 

outshinns tlw other. It takes 
the whoiP team, all 11 of us to 
win a game and a national 
championship," she said. "I 
think WP 're a dose-knit team 
already, and we can only get 
closer." 
-
-
Friday, October 19, 2007 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles look to sink Titans 
-
Saint Mary's has chance to continue momentum after blowout win 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's hPads to Illinois Wesll'yan Saturday to tak1~ on tho Titans in a non-conf'nrence match. ThP Titans (7-7-1) may havn t.hn honu• liPid advantage, hut tlw BPI Ins (7 -:~-4 ovnrall) arn 1:oming off an X-2 blowout of Tri-Slall~ TuPsday. 
SophomorP midl'iPidnr Kaly Durkin and junior forward l.aurnn llinton Pach had a hat trick against Tri-Statn. Thn win was Saint Mary's highest scor­ing gamn of' tho season, raising its season goal total to 26. 
Still, Saint Mary's has had 
troubln converting in front or the goal this snason with veter­an players sidelined with injuries. flinton missed the 
bPginning of' tlw B1~lles' confer­eneo sial!~. but her absence gave the team a chance to find out who nlsn could score and o(Tnrnd Saint Mary's an oppor­tunity to movn players around. The injuries also gavn some of the fresh men playing time. 
lmproVf~mnnt in front of' the goal was obvious against Tri­State. The BPIIns an~ starting to show what coach Caryn MacKenzie saw in lwr lPam long bel'ore Tuesday's match. 
"We are capable of more than we rnalize," MacKenzie 

said. "It's a mattnr of' the entire team belinving that, ar1d not just a few of our players. It's coming." 
And for the Belles it has. Besides incn~asing their amount of' goals, Saint Mary's increased its shots on goal. The Belles had 29 shots on goal and had a new player seore ­freshman midfieldnr Lauren Eaton -in Tuesday's game. 
The Hellos will have to watch out for Titan forward Caroline Leighton, who leads Illinois Wesleyan with 12 goals on 40 shots. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO I @saintmarys.edu 
\Vc don't just offer Auto Loans, we offer competitive rates, a variety offinancing ten11s, and easy pa)'lnent options. Plus, you 'II receive the same low fixed rate on a new or used vehicle. 
New Car. Eunily Car. Drea!n Car. No n1attcr what you're looking for, \Ve can help! 
~NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
trli&w 'fflmlbe?tJ 'ffllfi/it:/l, 
574/631-8222. 800/567-6328 
W\'V1V.ndfctI.( >rg 

-
-
NBA 
Bryant's third quarter leads LA over Seattle 
Turiaf and Bynum add double figures 
Associated Press 
BAKEHSFIJ<:LD, Calil'. -Kobo Bryant returrwd to thn lineup and scored 20 points. 16 in tlw third quartnr, to lnad tho Los Angelos Laknrs to a 12(,-I()(, victory over tlw SPaLLin SupPrSonies on Thursday night. 
Bryant sat out tlw sneond and fourth quartnrs. but seorml 12 straight for tlw Lakers in the third. lin snnmnd to play to tho pro-Lakers crowd. hitting a jumper with t'ans chanting "Kobe! Kobn!" 
The Sonies had cul the Lakers' lead to l'ivn before Bryant's run, hut after hn dunked an allny-oop t'rorn Honny Turiaf, Los Angeles was ahead 79-64. 
Turiaf scored all or his 1:3 points in the lirst quarter f'or 
tlw Laknrs, while Andrnw 
Bynum added 19 for tlw 
Lakers, who led h4-47 at tlw 
hall'. 
llookin Knvin Durant linislwd 
with 18 points and Chris Wilcox 
addnd H1. Snattln 1:nnlnr l{olwrt 
Swill wturned lo his honwtown 
and scon~d snvm1 points. 
Bryant appnarnd uplwat when lw spokn to rnportPrs lwlim• tlw ganw. lin had most­ly ignored tho mndia sincP Laknrs owrwr .l!'rry Btiss stal!~d last wePk that. hn "would c:Pr­. tainly listen.. to trade om~rs lilr tlw two-limP ddnnding NBA 
scoring champion. 
Wlwn asknd about his rc~ennt 
silent. trnatmnnt. Bryant said: 
"Why would I nnml to bang my 
head against a wall'?" 
lie missed somn pnu:ti!:e this 
week lmcausn of' a sow knne, 
then said in his l'irst formal 
interview sinee Buss' statnnwnt 
that it caught him oil' guard. 
lie repeated again on 
Thursday his dnsim to not dis­
cuss the matter. 
CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish go to Kentucky for conference llleet 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame will try to ride il<> strong performances this season into this weekend's Big East championships in Louisville, Ky. 
This season, the men have notched three wins and a lifth­place linish, at the dillicult Pre­National meet last weekend. Tl~e fifth-place finish marked the firth consecutive top-five lin­ish at the Pre-Nationals meet l'or the Irish. 
The women's team won the Crusader Invitational and the National Catholic Championships earlier this sea­son but slipped in the Notre Dame Invitational, finishing 12th. 
Junior Patrick Smyth lnd the Irish men at the Prn-Nationals. linishing nrt.h ovnrall in 23:18. Senior Jake Watson finished 17th with a time of 23:43. 
Sophomorn Lindsey Ferguson led the women, linishing 37th overall. 
The Irish men and women fin­ished third in last year's Big East championships in Boston. Smyth fmished in 23:32 t.o take third, and Watson finished ninth with a time of' 23:54. 
Then-junior Sunni Olding fin­ished sixth, crossing in 21:00, and became the third three­time all-Big East runner in Notre Dame history. 
The Bistro features the freshest seafood, steaks and much more •.•. 
Parisi's 2nd location Newest fine dining with a European flair located 1 mile from the stadium 
After dinner relax in our Martini Lounge and enjoy live music 
------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------~ 
Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
SMC SWIMMING 
Season begins with relays 
Belles travel north for first competition against conference foes 
By MARIE BUGNITZ Sports Writer 

With the end of fall break comes the beginning of Saint Mary's season. 
The Belles are set to swim in their first competition in a relay meet in llolland, Mich., against several other teams from the MIAA. 
Coach Ryan Dombkowski said this first meet was really "just for fun" and is thn "first taste of competition for the season" for the Belles. 
Led by senior captains Kelly Tighe and Tracy Kosmala, and junior Melissa Gerberth, Saint Mary's should have a strong season. Dombkowski said. 
"Last year, almost every swimmer on the team swam lifetime bests, and I expect to see that trend continue," Dombkowski said. "Ali-in-all, I will be happy to see us all work hard, be competitive, and have fun." 
That sort of attitude defines Dombkowski's technique of coaching -and the Belles have taken well to that method. 
"[They're] willing to work hard, want to swim fast, and want to have fun," Dombkowski said. 
With 27 swimmers and five divers on the team, Dombkowski believes the 2007­08 Belles squad is as talented a team as Saint Mary's has ever had. 
"We return all of our individ­ual conference scorers," Dombkowski said. "Plus we've added several new faces that have the ability to score at con­ference championships as well. ... As a team, we've never fin­ished higher than fifth in our conference, and I believe this team has the potential to sur­pass that mark." 
Dombkowski said he was happy with the efficiency of practices leading up to the sea­son. 
"Although swimming is often thought of as an individual sport, practices and competi­tion for spots in line-ups and on relays play a huge role into determining the success of a team," Dombkowski said. 

"During our first several weeks, I have seen some great competition day-in and day-out in practice that should propel our team to even more suc­cess." 
Swimmers to watch include Gerberth in the distance freestyle and freshman Casey Niezer in the individual medley and backstroke events. Both show the potential to qualify for the national championships this year, Dombkowski said. He also said there were more swimmers in every class that will "add to the depth" of the team, including junior diver Leah Bocinsky and freshmen Maggie Williams and Lauren Hartman. 
After the relay meet, Saint Mary's will go to Chicago on Nov. 2 to compete against the University of Chicago and the Illinois Institute of Technology. The following day, the Belles will travel to Crawfordsville, Ind., to compete against Illinois Wesleyan and Rose-Hulman. 
Contact Marie Bugnitz at mbugnitz@nd.edu 

A"·>>))))
Plug in to the PrayerCast! M www.ndprayercasLorg 
Free iTunes subscription for rt:flective listening on your iPod. T_vpe "ndprayercast" on the iTunes search engine, or log o11to www.ndprayercast.org 


Hear it here this week: Rev. Richard Warner, c.s.c. 
C-M

psalms • homilies • meditative music 
Campus Ministry 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Four conference gatnes left before tournatnent ­
Squad plays three times in the next week 

By SAMANTHA LEONARD Sports Writer 
As Saint Mary's students relax for fall break, the Belles volleyball team will be hard at work. The Belles begin play Saturday against Kalamazoo and Defiance and will play three more games next week. These final five games will finish up regular­season play for Saint Mary's. 
Kalamazoo is seventh in the 1\:IIAA (8-15, 4-8 MIAA). The Belles squashed the Hornets earlier this season, sweeping them in three games. 
Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek has been very busy preparing for the multi­tude of games over fall break, and it has been a challenge for the coach. 
"This is an interesting time in our season," Schroeder­Biek said. "We have limited practice opportunities in rela­tion to the Kalamazoo, Alma and Calvin matches. Our plan of attack is to bring our best game to the floor. Each one of these conference oppo­nents is very different but still very much a threat to us." 
After Kalamazoo, the Belles will take on the only non-con­ference match left this sea­son, Defiance. 
The Belles will have one day off before they take on eighth-place Alma (6-19, 2­11). The Scots proved no match for the Belles in their first meeting, where the Belles won 3-0. 
The Belles will leave Alma to head to Calvin for another conference meet. Calvin has been a tough competitor for all conference teams this sea­son, with a record of 12-1 in the MIAA and 21-4 overall. In their first meeting, Calvin swept the Belles with ease. 

The Belles will wrap up the conference schedule against fourth-place Tri-State (12-12, 9-5). The Belles were swept by the Thunder in their last meeting earlier in the season. 
With very little time to pre­pare, the Belles are focusing on one of their weaknesses: their emotions. 
"The key will be us playing with the heart and soul of winners ... putting in that extra effort to make that dig, get to that set, close that block, be in position to pass the ball to target, communi­cating on the court to team­mates -just being deter­mined to finish the season strong," Schroeder-Biek said. "Our key is our mind set." 
One of the Belles main goals this season was to be a host for the MIAA conference tour­nament. To be a host the Belles must be in fourth place by the end of the season, but right now Saint Mary's is sixth. 
Schroeder-Biek has not given up on this goal. But the main priority, she said, is to finish the season strong. 
"We still have a chance [to host]," Schroeder-Biek said. "But there are some things that will have to happen that are not in our control -it will help us if certain teams lose and certain teams win." 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

aca~u1D8ead•a 
Beat T.Uaate Spot 

..:. ~O•p•e•n-a•t•8•a•m-t•o~""'kickoff the day! 
• 1803 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 574-247-9293 

-
-

page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2007 
MEN'S GOLF 
Team travels to Vanderbilt 
-
Hock, Sandman ready to lead team after performances at Duke 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Damn will look to continue its recent sueccss this wnnknnd, playing in the Mason Hudolph Invitational at Vanderbilt University. 
The three-round tourna­ment will hngin Sunday and end Tunsday. with one round !wing playnd each day. Complltitors will play all three rounds on the par-72 Vand1~rhilt Legends Club Ironhorse Course. The course, dnsigrwd. by Tom Kite and Bob Cupp, plays at 7,190 yards. 
"H's a very fair course of'f thn ten that will oiTer some hi rd in o p portuni ti1•s," Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. "Tiw I.egPtHls Club is always in gn~at shap1~ and will snrv1~ as a pnrfnrt venue for this wenk's event." 
Last year, OIP Miss won the Invitational with a two-over­par 876. Tlw Hnbels clPfnated Vandnrbilt and North Florida hy night shots, and TennessPP-Chattanooga pl;u:('(J fourth. 
The Irish Pnter tlw tourna­ment frosh off best perform­ance of the young season at the Dukn Golf Classic. Notre Dame placed third of twelve teams in Durham, N.C., vault­ing past a quarter of tho field in the final round. 
"The guys have a great deal of conl"idenee at this point," Kubinski said. "It was nice to get four good seores for tho most part; the goal will be getting live in eontention." 
The Irish had four starters finish in the top 20 at I>uko, with freshman Tyler llock and junior Josh Sandman tying for No. 11 at three­under. Hock, starting for the first time in his career, was seven-under in the final two rounds. 
Snnior captain Greg Hodgnrs also had a solid tournament for the Irish, tying for 15th at two-under par. 
Sophomore Doug Fortrw r continued his exceptional play this season, taking his third top-20 finish in as many events. Fortner tied for 20th at one-over par, despite bogeying five of the last six holes in tlw first round. 
"W1~ canw out very focusnd and got some very solid seores from one through four in the lineup," Kubinski said. "That's the kind of depth we've been looking for during the past year or so, and we'll look to keep building on this the rest of the season." 
Notre Dame opened the tournament with a first­round of one-under, placing the Irish in seventh. After dropping several places mid­way through Sunday's second round, Notre Dame rallied into sixth place with several key birdies -in the last few holes. The Irish passed North Carolina-Wilmington and Eastern Carolina in the last four holes, and their hot play continued in a strong finish. 
There will be one changfl in the starting lineup for the Irish this weekend, with sophomore Kyle Willis enter­ing in place of senior Eddie Peckels. 
"Kyle is a steady player and exceiiBnt puttBr," Kubinski said. "I think he'll give us a couple nice rounds and a good boost." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles head to MIAA meet 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writ~r 
S.aint Mary's coach .Iackie Bauters eould haw lwr pick of classic sports cliclH's to deseri be lwr tl~am 's 01:1. 27 MIAA dmmpionship nwet. Tlw meet, aftnr all, will dncidn this season. If we can do this, I know we will be successful." 
Monwnturn is certainly on the Belles' side. They have finished lirst and third in their last two mBets, respectively. Senior Megan Gray captured tho indi­vidual tith~ in both those meets and linishnd sixth ovBntll at the M I A A Jambornn on 
whether this sea­"I'd really like to "Sp,pt. 22. son will lw the The Belles
approach conference 
Belles best in took fourth at
like all our
school history. the Jamhon~n. 
But rather than other meets." which deter-making t.he nwet mines one semn "do or din," third of the
Jackie Bauters 
as one rlichl1 conferBnce
Belles coach 
goes, Bauters has 
downplayml its 
importann~. 
"I'd really likn to approach conl'nrnnen like all our other moots," Bautnrs said. "I feel like sometinws athletes make the race into morn than it nends to be and arn afraid of how they arB going to perform. My goal for tlw tnarn is to go into thfl meet as mentally prepared and confident as every other meet 
-
-
standings. The 

other two thirds will bn determined at the M IAA championship. If the Belles can finish of fourth or better in that raee, Saint Mary's will Sf~cure at least fourth place overall in the MIAA, surpassing last year's fifth-place finish as the best in program history. 
"The girls are physically pre­pared to raee well, and this last week !of practice] is just main­taining the routine and getting in the last eonlidence booster," Bauters said. "This is going to be a very interesting meet. There are usually mixed emo­tions beeausn this is always an exciting meet but also the last of the season for some girls." 
Perhaps the biggest reason for the Belles' recent success has been the progression of the pack behind Gray. Consistent efforts from freshmen Sam Wieczorek and Catie Salyer, sophomore Megan McClowry and senior Olenka Bilyk have given Saint Mary's a deep team that could perform well at the championships. 
"I feel like the team has really improved across the board, and our four through eight runners have stepped up as a unit," BautBrs said. "Even if we end up at fourth overall in the con­ference, we've improved since last year in leaps and bounds beyond what the ranking can show." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
After break, Irish look for fourth straight vvin 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
After an unprecedented 3-0 start for Notre Dame, a two­week break was a welcome dis­traction for the Irish. 
"I think it was a good way for the girls to get caught up in their school work," Irish coach Susan Holt said. "I think they're relieved and were able to rest up over the break." 
Now, the Irish, ranked No. 12 in the nation by Golfstat.com, look to start the season four­for-four at the thrBe-day Lady 
Paladin  Invitational  at  the  
Furman  Golf  Course  in  
Greenville, S.C.  

ThB field consists of 18 teams, six of which are ranked in the top 50. The Invitational will fea­ture No. 34 Louisville, No. 36 TCU, No. 39 Augusta State, No. 44 Furman and No. 50 Mississippi. 
Junior eo-captain Lisa Maunu will ten-ofT in the No. 1 spot when the tournamBnt bBgins today. Maunu shot a program record six-under-par 66 earli1~r this year and has linishnd all of th season's tournaments in thfl top 10 -inducting her overall victory in th<\ Cougar Classic. 
Teeing off from the No. 2 spot will be freshman So-llyun Park, who has made an instant con­tribution in her first year at Notre Dame. Park leads the team with a 72.00 scoring avBr­agn and thrBe top-five finishes on the year. 
The third spot belongs to freshman Katie Conway, who has averaged a 76.11. It is the highest position at which Conway has started this season. 
Sophomore Annie Brophy will ten off fourth. ller scoring aver­age of 75.89 has her in a tie for third on the team with fellow sophomore Kristin Wetzel, who 

Our Specialties TncluJc Exquisite 
Meat Entrees 6.-Hcohhv Vcgftarian Dishes Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts 
extras: Lentil Soup &:. Garlic Paste Come Dine With Our Fwnilv And Be Our Friend! 
115 Di:x:ie Way North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 
will tee off in the fifth and final spot for Notre Dame. 
Holt said her team has prac­ticed well since its last competi­tive golf. 
"I think the break was a great chance for some of the players to focus on some of their indi­vidual issues," llolt said. "I was encouraged by their response over the break." 
Notre Dame had its practice round Thursday at the Furman Golf Course, where they got used to the course in prepara­tion for the tournamnnt. 
"They played well today," Holt said. "I was.impressed with their ball striking morB than anything." 
After the Lady Paladin Invitational, the Irish will head to Tuscaloosa, Ala., for the Ann Hhoads lntercollngiate from Oct. 26-28. That will bn the last tournament in tlw fall portion of the team's schedule. 
But for now, thn Irish are try­ing to focus on what has given them early sucenss this season. 
"We'v1~ basically bmm keeping IWBrything the simple and the same," llolt said. "I am of tlw philosophy that if' it's not bro­knn, why fix it? So we havn bnen going about business as 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback b~ooks in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
Serving 
Lunch & 
Dinner 
"Jiu·s·Sat 
11-2; 4-91'"' Clo.•etf Su11tlay 
c"'M"""''.l' 

Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
Junior libero Elena Martinez tops the LSU defense with 448
DePaul 
digs. Connecticut (12-8, 3-4 Bigcontinued from page 32 
East) dropped a lopsided 3-0 service aces. Sophomore out­decision to the Irish in 2006. side hitter Serinity Phillips This season, the Huskies are paces the Irish with 235 total led by senior outside hitter kills. S a d e 
Senior setter Chambers, Ashley Tarutis sophomore set-has 670 assists ter Bridget 
and 167 digs, "Every game left in Denson­
while sopho­Dorman and
the Big East is really 
more setter sophomore 

Jamel Nicholas important to us. " libero Jessica has seen key Isaac. minutes of late St. John's
Ashley Tarutis 
-scoring 193 (21-3, 6-1), the
Irish setter
helpers and 71 final opponent digs. of the stretch, 
DePaul (5-15, has been tough 1-6) will be on Big East looking for revenge after los­opponenfs. The Red Storm ing to the Irish 3-0 last sea­crushed the Irish, 3-0, in a son. The Blue Demons are led match last season at the Joyce by freshman middle blocker Center. Jacie Fiedler. This season, She was the senior setter offensive leader Wioleta last weekend Leszczynska has
'Tomorrow is going to
for the Blue a conference-Demons. be a fun game. We best 13.81 Against assists per
have worked hard." 
Marquette, she game, and jun­racked up 14 ior libero Lena 
Ashley Tarutis 
kills with a Yee is fourth in .423 attack Irish setter digs with 4.61 percentage. per contest. "Tomorrow is Sophomore out­
going to be a side hitter fun game," LaToya Blunt is Tarutis said. "We have third in the Big East with a worked hard." .363 hitting percentage. 
LSU (16-4, 8-3 SEC) is com­"Every game left in the Big ing off of a 3-1 victory over East is really important to Ole Miss. The Tigers are led us," Tarutis said. "We need to by 332 kills from junior out­win to get the better seed." side hitter Kyna Washington and 861 assists from sopho­Contact Pat O'Brien at more setter Maggie Lonergan. pobrien2@nd.edu 
NO SWIMMING 
USC collles to tovvn to battle Irish 
Trojans will compete in dual meet for first time at Notre Dame 
off of a winning performance stroke junior Rebecca SoniBy CHRIS DOYEN 
in the 400-yard freestyle and senior Whitney Bentzen 
Sports Writer 
relay two weeks ago at the had the others. 
Dennis Stark Relays. Junior Junior Maggie Behrens, 
Before the football team diver Michael junior Christa faces USC in Notre Dame Bulfin and sen-Riggins and Stadium Saturday, the men's ior diver Sam freshman and women's swimming and Stoner will also Amywren
"We're thrilled USC is
diving teams will take on the try to carry Miller will Trojans at Rolfs Aquatic momentum here, but neither need to turn in Center today. from their the types of
team has made a
The meet will mark the record-setting performances
commitment to the
first time the Irish have faced dives at the that allowed one of the most prestigious Stark Relays. future." them to domi­programs in college swim­Welsh said he nate the ming in a dual meet. sees this meet Relays in
Tim Welsh 
"Several times we've tried to with USC as the order to com­
Irish coach 
match up dates with the foot­first big test of pete with the ball game," Irish men's coach the season. stacked Trojan Tim Welsh said. "But we're The Irish roster. pretty far apart and swim in women will be While the different conferences, so this squaring off meet is coin­is the first time we've been against a Trojan squad that ciding with the ongoing foot­able to get a already has a ball rivalry between the two meet togeth-meet under its schools, Welsh said, there are er.... belt. USC no plans made for future 
"They are a defeated con­meetings.
"They always swim 
very experi­ference foe "We're thrilled USC is here, enced team. at a high level, and I Oregon State but neither team has made a They always last Friday. commitment for the future,"
think both teams will 
swim at a high At that meet, Welsh said. "They're one of
be ready to go. " 
level, and I three Trojan the most storied teams in think both swimmers American swimming, and it's teams will be Tim .Welsh posted times an honor to have them swim­ready to go." good enough ming in our pool."
Irish coach 
Sopho.mores for NCAA con-The meet will begin at 5 John Lytle and sideration. p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Andrew JuniQr Center. Hoffman, jun-Rachael Waller ior Danny Lutkus, and senior posted two of those times, Rob Seery will look to turn in while two-time NCAA cham­Contact Chris Doyen at strong performances coming pion in the 200-yard breast-cdoyen@nd.edu 
FOR RENT -NEW CONSTRUCTION! 
New 3,600 square feet brick home within walking distance to campus with 8 Bedrooms, 4 Dens, 4 lh Bathrooms, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Laundry Center, Steam Room, Mud Room and Back Patio. 
Main FeatureJ 
-Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots and pans, tableware and cooking utensils -Each two students with share a porcelain-tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a shower with seat) and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and microwave) having hardwood flooring -Fire/Security Alarm System 
-Hardwood flooring on entire main floor (except Steam Room and Mudroom) 
-Dining Room with table and 8 chairs 
-Laundry Center with stackable washer and dryer Rental Rate: $425.00 per student plus utilities 
-Wood-burning fireplace in Fam.iW Room 
-Steam Room -Each Bedroom area is approximately 10' x 16' and has the following design features: ° Fully carpeted 
0  Vanity cabinet with  
sink and mirror  
0  Walk-in closet  
0  Desk  
0  Bedroom  
furniture with  
mattresses  

0 Wired for cable television and internet service 

-Gas barbeque grill on Back Patio 
-Wireless internet service ready 
. 
-
ffi 
-

For more information, contact Robert Cimala at legacyhomes@comcast.net or 630-886-7715 

page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 19, 2007 
======~~======~========================================================~ 
ing at it from a team point of view. The whole team attacks
Streak 
and the whole team defends." Notre Dame's defense will
continued from page 32 
need to return to its early-sea­
son form by Sunday, or it could 

"The last live games have all be in for a long day against a bflen against teams ranked in Seton Hall offense that has the top 20, and Indiana is a scored in bunches this season. team that could win the nation­The Pirates have a 2.15 al championship, as is goals-per-game average (as Connndicut," opposed to Notre Clark said. Dame's 1.57), and "Tho key is, Seton Hall has
"Seton Hall is always 
we'vn played scored four or all thnsn teams a good team and more goals in five pretty evenly. they're always games this sea­!In the Indiana son.
well-coached."
game!. we The Pirates' wern as close offense has been to winning the Bobby Clark especially potent game as they Irish coach as of late, averag­were, but ing 3.75 goals per that's the way game in the the ball team's last four swings." games -all wins. 
One area in which the Irish After enduring an early-sea­have struggled during their son tumble in which they lost winless streak has been on six of seven games, the Pirates dnfnnse. In its last throe gamfls, have outscored their opponents Notre Dame has allowed seven 15-3 during the team's current goals-including thrne against four-game winning streak. both Connecticut and Indiana. Those wins have helped the During their nine-game unbeat­Pirates rise from last to fifth en streak. the Irish allowed place in the Big East Blue only three goals total, never Division with a conference surrnndoring more than one in record of 3-3-0 (7 -6-0 overall). a game. "Seton Hall is always a good 
"The last two games, you've team, and they're always well­played against two fairly potent coached," Clark said. "They're attacking teams," Clark said. a heady young team, and that's "Having said that, we're look-starting to come together. They 
Karas 

"We're finally clicking. We continued from page 32 have Ifreshman defender] 
Lauren !Fowlkes! and !junior sive, attacked crossfls and cor­defender Carrie] Dew in the ner kicks and directed the back and that's huge for us.... defense. Karas has done all of We're playing better," Karas that of late, saying her duties said, noting the team's new are "more preventative than sense of consistency and confi­anything else." dence. 
Although shfl The Irish have struggled early scored 3.6 goals to match her per game during
"We're finally 
performance the streak and from last sea-clicking. " led the Big East son she in points, goals, allowed six goals per game,
Lauren Karas
goals in her assists and
Irish goalkeeper 
first five games assists per 
-Karas has not allowed a goal during Notre Dame's six-game win streak. She said she has l"ully regainnd the eonfidence she lost after Notrn Dame's 7-1 loss to Santa Clara on Sept. 7. 
"I mean, I've done it for three years," she said. "It's just kind of getting back into the flow and knowing that I ean do it because I've done it in the past." 
The tnam seems to have fol­lowed suit. During the streak, thn Irish have out-scored their opponents 22-2 and allowed only 11 shots on goal, or 1.8 pnr game. In the eight games bnfore the streak, they allowed 1.9 goals per game 

-
THIS WEEKI 
game. They cur­
rently lead the 
Big East National Division by six points and have clinched a spot in the Big East tournament. 
Their recent scoring frenzy is due in part to the offensive explosion of junior forward Brittany Bock, the national and Big East player of the week for two weeks running. Bock leads the Big East in goals (10, also good for 15th in the nation} and goals per game (0.71). She ranks second in the conference in points and points per game and falls behind her teammate, junior forward Kerri Hanks, in both categories. Bock had four goals and an assist in wins can score goals in bunches, so that speaks for itself." 
If Seton Hall is able to contin­ue their recent scoring binge, Notre Dame can take comfort in the return to form of senior forward Joseph Lapira. Last season's national player of"the year scored only two goals in the team's first 12 games this season, but Lapira has tripled that output by netting two goals against both Connecticut and Indiana. 
"He came in with a calf injury, and then he picked up a hamstring, so he's been a little unfit from the start," Clark said. "A goal scorer needs pre­cision, and now that he's start­ing to get his fitness back, he's starting to score." 
Sunday's game will carry important implications in seed­ing for the Big East tourna­ment. Currently, the Irish con­trol their own destiny. Although they're two points behind Blue Division leader Connecticut, the Irish have four conference games remammg to the Huskies' three. If both teams were to win the remainder of their games, the Notre Dame would have the top seed going into the Big East tournament. 
Sunday's game is scheduled to begin at 1:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

and 3.25 shots on goal per game.

over  Georgetown  and  
Villanova last weekend.  
The  Irish,  who  face  the  

Friars at 7:30 tonight at Alumni field, should handle Providence easily. Providence is 3-10-1 (2-5 Big East). has allowed 28 goals, while scor­ing only five, and is winless on the road. 
Connecticut, however, at 10­2-1 (6-0-1 Big East} is tied with Louisville for the lead in the Big East in goals allowed. Opponents have scored only six goals against them this season. 
Junior keeper Stephanie Labbe ranks second in the Big East in goals against, with 
0.45 per game. The Huskies last lost on Sept. 6 to Penn State and have a 10-game unbeaten streak 
The Irish have some streaks of their own to protect this weekend. They have not lost to a Big East opponent at home since 1995 and have a 31­game overall unbeaten streak against Big East opponents. 
Karas said the Irish were focusing on themselves rather than the competition. 
"It's not really about anyone else. Despite our ranking, we're still one of the top teams in the country," she said. "We just slipped up." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Denver 
continued from page 32 
spent the first period chasing the Pioneers (2-1), but exploded with a dominant second to take the perma­nent lead. · "I've had a few games where I wish there was a tornado," Irish coach Jeff Jackson joked after the 

''I've had a few
game. "I was right person­concerned, we games where I wish nel, but had some tonight's just
there was a 
momentum one night,"
tornado."
going into the Jackson said. 
third period." The Pioneers Irish goalie Jeff Jackson and Irish Jordan Pearce -swapped goals
Irish coach 
stopped 17 Denver shots, and left wing Garrett Regan tallied one goal on a team­high seven shots while adding an assist in the win on the night that Notre Dame's 2007 COlA playoff championship banner was unfurled. 
Irish defenseman Kyle Lawson ripped a shot from the center of the point that squeaked through Denver goalie Peter Mannino's pads 
12:27 into the second period to tie the game at 2-2. The goal was the culmination of 10 minutes in which Notre Dame looked nothing like the team that fell to a 2-1 deficit after the first period. The Irish ham­mered chance 

after chance ':4. year ago at this and we can't at Mannino let up ~.he way
time I was throwing
(14 saves). we d1d. 
until they cap­water bottles. " The Pioneers italized on scored first Lawson's 1:42 into the
Jeff Jackson 
power-play first period
Irish coach 
goal -one of 
three power-
play scores on 
the night. 
"I was sur­
prised that we came out that 
flat [in the first period]. They 
were all over us for awhile," 
Irish right wing Ben Ryan 
said. "I think leadership had 
a lot to do with it. We settled _down." 
Notre Dame left wing Ryan 
Thang sniped a shot over 
Mannino's glove from traffic 
in the slot to put the Irish up 
3-2 with 2:12 left in the sec­
ond. Pearce backed up the 
effort a minute later with a 
breakaway save on Denver 
left wing Jesse Martin. 
"A year ago at this time I 
was throwing water bottles," 
Jackson said about how he 
fires up his team between 
periods. "This right now is a 
matter of me trying to be a 
little more patient because 
we have a lot of young guys." 
The Irish penalty kill suc­
cessfully smothered seven 
man-down situations, includ­ing one that resulted from an interference call on Hyan with just under six minutes left. The Pioneers were pinned to the boards on their advantage chances and couldn't exploit their three 
power  plays in  the  third  
period.  
Jackson  credited  Irish  

associate head coach Paul Pooley for the success. 
"It's a matter of having the 
in the third 
period when 
the pendulum 
swung to a rest between the teams and play evened out. Byan scored the first goal of his career when he stuffed the puck inside the left post 7:23 into the third for a 4-2 lead. Denver answered 32 seconds later when right wing Brock Trotter picked up a rflbound of Pearce and cut Notre Dame's lead to 4-3. The Irish killed off two more power plays before getting the win. 
"We might have just came back out after the first peri­od and just maybe thought it was going to be a lot easier than it was," Trotter said. "They showed that they're a really good hockey team, 
when center 
Kyle Ostrow 
beat Pearce 
glove side on a 
shot from the left circle for the 1-0 lead. After Ostrow's goal, Denver possessed the puck in the Irish zone and neutralized the trap Notre Dame attempted. 
The Irish broke through on a power-play goal by Began with 1:50 left in the first. Lawson let loose a low shot from the point that Began redirected into the net to tie the game at 1-1. The Pioneers scored 55 seconds later when the puck bounced off a Notre Dame player's skate into the net to put the Irish down 2-1 at the end of the first. 
Notre Dame and Denver square off tonight at 7:30 in the Joyce for the final game of the series. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 


Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
BLAcK DoG 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


DEUCES MANOR 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

TASTES LIKE fAILURE 
On Wikipedia ... 
www Wikipedia.org 

;,.,  The 2007 University of  
South California Trojans  
·football te!lm represents  
\\ .'  \the University of Sou them , , • ·  
~:;~~:;b~u~;!~:;~II (  
They play their games 10  
the Los Angeles  

CROSSWORD 
Across 37 Make tracks 1 Visits 
40 Concavo-convex 8 French sentry's lens cry 
44 UV index 15 Enter quickly 
monitor 16 Ethically 
45 If it's regular, indifferent 

each of its 17 "Again ... " 
angles is 144° 18 With intensity 
47 "Notorious" film 

19 Four quarters, in studio 
France 48 Memphis's20 Atlas sect. 
locale 

22 Yugoslavian-born court star 50 Grandparent, frequently
23 Chuck 24 Purely physical 
51 One raised on a farm

26 Show some spunk 52 Some jackets 27 Court 
54 Philip of "Kung 28 Curl tightly Fu" 30 When Holle 
55 Schwarzenegger 8 Tiger's-eye,
freezes over? 
title role essentially 
31 Pro sports team 
9 Short family 
56 Outerwear fabric 

that moved from 
member? 

New Orleans in 58 Ding Dong 
10"_ in the
1979 alternative 
Morning"

33 Shakes 
60 Umm ai-Ouwain. 

11 Helped someone 
35 Fat cat for one 
get a seat 

12 Mayo's place 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

13 1974 Best Actress nominee Perrine 
14Champs_ 21 Approach to arithmetic that emphasizes underlying ideas rather than exact 
calculations 24 Not generic 25 Daughter of 
Ferdinand Ill 28 Greenland's Scoresby Sound is the world's longest 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
Editing-USC Trojans !!r" Ak~A:.:::J; .. v<'?'8.~ 
{ {...,dn'•ttiT•'>j'"""'~USC} • { {~~~ liUSC)} ((:.:ntbb>e<x FOOTBALL ft.iU*~'J'r<,.j"""' 1:>· 1:>~-*xtn.<>rd<n~,...,. 
'l lost a f htwith a 5 earold irl.. 
CJ) 
0 
0 

represents nothing and are a pack ~=====r7=!====~-;===========:;1
I t-

WILLSHORTZ 

61 Pro Football Hall-of-Farner­turned­congressman Steve 
62 Lured 
63 Hides from the enemy, say 
Down Type of massage 2 Not removed 
delicately 3 Porthole view 4 The singing 
voice, informally 5 Old sticker 6 Overseas "-ess" 7 Authenticate, in 
a way 
Puzzle by Barry C. Silk 

29 Classic 38 Model 46 Blarneyed American 
39 Kind of intake 49 When most watchmaker 
41 Got started, with Capricornios are 32 Insurance letters born
"'up" 
34 Abbr. before 

42 Locale of the 51 One beaten by a many state 
Carpathian beatnik names 
Mountains, in 

53 Not split 36 "Go easy, part 
55 No. of People? 
please" 

43 "The New 57 A season abroad
37 Had a problem Colossus" and with one's suits? the like 59 Showing fatigue 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
{Well~s long ,as were on 
C'·
'Wikipedia .._ 
_._....,-w,..P' 
z 0 0 
JUMBLE 
JJ&WIID~IR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RODOB jI [l I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
i~r~ti (J
tGADOIA t 
J I I J 
www.iumble.com 
FISHMA j 


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
JO 
ili 
THE: KIDS TU!<Ne:D THE: ABANOONE:O 
t<e:CL.INE=!< INTO A-­


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, October 19, 2007 
page 32 
-
HocKEY 
Wind at their backs 

leers overcome deficit, delay in 4-3 victory 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame was a whirl­wind on the ice in the second period, bombarding Denver with shots and making the Pioneers dizzy with dazzling puck control in the offensive zone -and then an actual whirlwind intervened. 

The No. 11 Irish (2-1) weathered a 12-minute delay after the second period Thursday when a tornado warning prompt11d an evacua­tion of the Joyce Center. The stadium eventually refilled, and tho Irish held on in the third to defeat No. 5 Denver 4-3. 
The interruption failed to slow down Notre Dame, which 
see DENVER/page 30 


MEN's SoccER 
Irish look to right ship against Pirates 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Wri1n 
In llw midst of suddenly rough walPrs. No. 4 Notre Damn will try to right its ship wlwn tho l'imlPs of Snton llall como to South Bnml Sunday for Notn1 l>anw:s last homn game of tho rPgular season. 
Aftnr its 3-2 loss to No. 12 Indiana WNirwsday. Notre Damn linds itsnlf winless in its last thrnP games -a 1-0 loss to No. 6 Michigan Stalfl, a :{-3 draw with No. 1 Connecticut and tlw loss to the lloosiers. Thosn results havn sunk Notrn Damn's rneord to S-:{-3 (5-0-2 Big East). 
Bnforn Notre Damn's loss to Michigan Slate on Oct. 10, it had bnnn smooth sailing for the Irish. They were riding a nine­ganw unbeaten s lrnak that improved the squad's national ranking to No. 2. Irish coach Bobby Clark. however, doesn't b11liovo his .loam's recent results stem from a drop in level of play. 
see STREAK/page 30 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Tough part of schedule lies ahead 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Wrirer 
-Fresh ofT of eoach Debbie Brown's 400th victory at the helm of Notre Dame, the Irish head into a rough pateh in their schedule. Notrn Dame will battle l>nl'aul at home tonight and then travel to No. 25 Louisiana Statn for a non-eon­f'ernnen rnateh on Oet. 23. A three-match road trip ends with two games in the Mid­Atlantic -at Connectieut and No. 22 St. John's. Notre Damn (S-9. 4-3 Big East) is led by senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk. She tops thr1 team with 234 digs and 19 
see DEPAUL/page 29 


ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Karas, Bock pace squad in Big East 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Writer 
On paper, Lauren Karas has it easy. 
In seven Big East games this year -all Notre Dame wins -the senior goalkeep­er has saved exactly seven shots. She is the proud owner of a 1.000 winning percentage and a 0.00 goals­against average against con­ference opponents. Heading into this weekend's games against Providence and No. 15 Connecticut, the No. 22 Irish are 7-0-0 in conference play and 9-4-1 overall. 

But for Karas, a senior, the stat lines don't reveal what makes her job dil'licult. 
"Its not that I don't see any action," Karas s-aid. "I do a lot of moving around in the box or I'll eo me piek Ithe ball] up in the top of' the box. It's frustrating for me because the shots are not ... all I do; I do a lot of other stuff." 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum said early in thn s1mson that his starting keeper would be the player who was aggres­
see KARAS/ page 30 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 19, 2007 
COMMENTARY 
Sharpley a model of true leadership 
Some people arn good at hid­ing their emotions. Evan Sharpley is great at it. 
Every wnnk sinen the begin­ning of the season, Sharpley has had to eomn out and hidn his dis­appointment with being the baekup mu:h wnnk. lie did it like a pro. Thanks to his calm personality, Sharpley hasn't caused the team any distractions. despite his battle with freshman Jimmy Clausen for the starting position. 
Tuesday, when Sharpley met tho mf~dia artnr coach Charlie Weis said the junior quarter­back would start against USC, his demeanor diiTerod little from the past few weeks. We heard the same message from Sharpley about doing what he can to help the team win. 

Chris Hlne 
Sports Editor 

team for various reasons. Two 
of them, Zach Frazer and 
Demetrius Jones, are quarter­
hacks. But Sharplny is sticking 
around. 
Sharpley could have easily 

said, "Forget this. I'll go quar­
tnrbal:k somewhere else or go 
spend all of my time playing 
baseball." 
But he didn't. lie has 

remained on the team despite 
playing second Iiddle to a 
freshman most of the season, 
•'and in the process he has become an invaluable asset to Notre Dame. 
Sharpley is the perfect role 

model for a team filled with 
young, talented players who 
are anxious to get playing 
time. 
If someone is frustrated with 

his lack of minutes, he should 
look to Sharpley. If someone 
feels the coaches are slighting 
him, he should look to 
Sharpley. And if someone 
thinks about giving up, he 
should look to Sharplny. Not 
once did Sharpley say he was 
getting an unfair shake or that his coaches were 

Th1~ stone­wrong. He
If someone thinks about 
faced Sharpley has been a
giving up, he should 
barely cracked consistent a smile when look to Sharpley. leader. 
talking about 
his first career 
start. 
"I think 1werybody wants to play," Sharpley said. "If you don't want that then you shouldn't be playing." 
Clausen is the future of Notre Dame football, but right now, Sharpley deserves his chanee. The oiTonsc moves tho ball bet­tor with Sharpl11y undor center and has the ability to put points on the board. 
Sharpley throw for two touchdowns in Notre Dame's :B-llJ loss to Purdue on Sept. 21J. lie threw for one touch­down and had another eallnd back in last week's 27-14 loss to Boston College. 
It's hard to put a linger on just what happens to Notre Dame's oiTense when Sharpley is out thero, but something is different. The team perks up and raises its level of play. 
Sharpley, also a member of Notre Dame's basdJall toam, doserves to start not only for his play on the field, but also for his loadership off the field. 
This season, Notre Dame saw four players Ioewe the Sharpley's 
steady 
demeanor is 
just what this 

team needs in a turbulent season marked by multiple transfers and a 1-6 record. The younger players­and the veterans, for that mat­ter -need somnone to look up to. SharpiPy is that guy. 
So, whnn Evan Sharpley takes the first snap for Notre Dame on Saturday, he should have his teammates' full confi­dence that he can get the job done. If the Irish end up losing, no one will take the loss hard­er than Sharpley. Odds are, he'll blame it on himself. 
But if Notre Dame wins Saturday, 80,000 people in the stands and millions more across the country will be smiling. 
Hopefully, Evan Sharpley will let himself smile. lie's earned that much already. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd. edu 

•Persons without authorization are not permitted on the field -No cans or glass bottles are permitted in the stadium ·The usc of intoxicating substances is strictly prohibited ·'lbrowing objects in the stands or onto the field is prohibited -Please, do not bring stadium chairs, scat backs or other oversized or 
noise-producing items into the stadium ·Limited use of cameras, portable/handheld televisions and portable radios is permitted 
•In 
accordance with a St. Joseph County ordinance, there will be no smoking allowed in any part of Notre Dame Stadium 

•All 
persons are subject to search, which includes clothing, jackets, bags and purses (Violators are subject to ejection from the stadium and may have future ticket privileges 


2007 Irish opponents 
Last week W, 17-14, Miami  This week vsArmy  
W, 38-7, Wise.  at Indiana  
W, 48-21, Purdue  at Illinois  
W, 52-27, Indiana  at Ohio State  
L, 21-48, Mich.  vs Iowa  
Idle  vs California  
(5-1) (4-2)  W, 27-14, ND W, 20-13, Arizona W, 48-25, Pitt  Idle at Notre Dame vs Wake Forest  
W, 45-21, CSU L, 43-14,Va. Tech L, 36-38, TCU  vs Wyoming vs Clemson at Arizona  


Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's· live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfu;u Estates Lodge has hate! rooms atreasonable rates furupcomi~ ND fOotball weekends.) 
Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Dynasties on hold 

After their epic battle in 2005, both Notre Dame and USC havefailed to live up to lofty expectations 
and the team ESPN ordained the Heisman winners Bush and "greatest ever" ended its mira­Leinart are the faces of their cle season with a devastating NFL teams. Brady Quinn is now loss. a Cleveland Brown. and all but 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame stu­one member of Notre Dame's dents were ready to anoint starting ofTensive line from that We is. After three 31-poin t game either is in the NFL, was blowout losses to their rival drafted or was signed by a team under Tyrone Willingham, the at least once. students saw Weis make the USC fans believe the Trojans game not only competitive, but are underperforming. Many also historic. want John David Booty, who led 
It wasn't too long until Weis the team to that 11-2 record had a 10-year extension and after it lost two Ileisman win­Notre Dame's recruiting reached ners, benched. its best levels since Bob Davie Notre Dame fans believe the had left. Irish are, in places, inept. Many 
All seemed well at the two want coaching changes and competing centers of the college wholesale personnel alterations. football universe. One team is 5-1 and No. 9 in 
The two schools battled for the coaches poll. The other is 1­recruits the rest of the year, 6 and about to start its third with USC winning a plurality. quarterback of the season. But that was OK for the Irish. By the fans' demeanor, at Instead of fighting Pittsburgh, least, few would know the dif­Purdue and Michigan State for ference. prospects, they were fighting the best team in the nation. Moving on 
But Saturday is crucial for Reality check both teams. It's still a rivalry 
Notre Dame underperformed game of pride and passion. in 2006, losing three blowouts "If you can't get up to play -including one to USC -and USC, then I think you've got a failing to dominate any game problem," Weis said. like it was expected to. In Los For fifth-year senior Ambrose Angeles, the Trojans over-per­Wooden, whose hand came formed by most accounts, going inches from knocking away 11-2 and thrashing Michigan in Leinart's pass to Dwayne Jarrett the Rose Bowl. on fourth down, knows it's his 
place for a 61-yard gain on Thirty million people watched But expectations in Southern last time to try to beat theBy KEN FOWLER fourth down, and five plays later at least part of the game, one California had been raised since Trojans. One twist of fate from
Sports Writer 
a Heisman Trophy running back Charlie Weis has begrudgingly 2002, and hopes in South Bend the game is that Darrin Walls, pushed the spinning, twirling come to admit was one of the were approaching those levels. who made his official visit to Notre Dame would have done quarterback into the end zone best ever. Neither season was good Notre Dame that day in October, it again. for the game-winning score with "If you're waiting for me to enough for the fans, and the has replaced Wooden as the 
The Irish would have stopped three seconds left. say it was a good loss, you won't 2007 editions of the t~ams have team's No.2 cornerback. another winning streak. The "Bush Push" will live for­hear that here," Weis said after horrified the diehard followers Still, Wooden keeps his trade­
They did it to Army in '46, ever. Even USC's official game the game. "Losing is losing; who felt invincible two years mark smile on when talking Georgia Tech in '53, Oklahoma notes call the winning touch­there are no moral victories." ago. about that game -and that in '57, Texas in '71, Southern down by its vernacular title. It Pete Carroll, coming out of the Carroll and Weis have been pass-from two years ago. He Cal in '73, Miami in '88 and might be against the rules, but winning locker room, was a lit­two of the best recruiters in col­insists the infamous play has then to Southern Cal again in everyone involved in the game tle quicker to classify the game. lege football the last two years, made him stronger. 2005. The final score would calls it by a simple phrase: "a "We feel very fortunate to and 21 players from the 2005 "You learn from situations like have been "Notre Dame 31, USC heads-up play." come out of here with a win. Notre Dame-USC game are on that," Wooden said. "But I hon­28." "This was two teams going This is one of those games you NFL rosters today. More than a estly think that I'm a better per­
But it didn't, and it wasn't. right to the end and them mak­will see on one of those Classic half-dozen others are on prac­son because of it." USC's winning streak went from ing a gutsy call at the end that channels somewhere soon," tice squads, and one -Jeff The game, Wooden said, was 27 to 28. ended up paying off," Weis said. Carroll said. "It was a tremen­Samardzija -is playing profes­a "special moment." 
"You've got to give it to them. dous win. I am very happy to sional baseball. "I was part of one of the 'A heck of a game' Got to give it to the coach, got to come out of here with a win Both teams have lost their greatest games in college foot­
Truth is, even if they had, no give it to the quarterback, today. Notre Dame played an leaders. USC offensive guru ball history," he said. one would have heard those because it was ultimately his awesome game and I am very Norm Chow is now with the lines. Notre Dame's play-by-play decision. You've got to give it to happy with the way my guys Tennessee Titans, and, in case Contact Ken Fowler at man at the time, Tony Roberts, the running back for helping aid played today as well." you didn't know, Trojans kfowler 1 @nd.edu said he isn't a guy who likes to them in getting in there, a But they might have fallen. premeditate his calls. His mem­heads-up play. orable call from the 1988 "I can whine all I want, but it Post-game speculation "Catholics versus Convicts" was a heck of a game. I just After the game, fans and radio game would have stayed buried, wish it would have ended the hosts were discussing how long and he would have simply other way." Notre Dame's inevitable post­"painted the scene," he said. The ESPN.com poll question USC winning streak would be. 
In a matter of seconds, the that night was simple: What was How many national titles would scene went from a great awak­the greatest regular-season col­Charlie Weis win in South Bend? ening to an Irish wake. lege football game of the last 25 How long could Notre Dame and 
What happened? A Ileisman years? Southern California be the jug­Trophy quarterback dropped a "USC 34, Notre Dame 31" was gernauts of college football; the deep pass into an impossible the runaway winner. way it was meant to be? 

Players on NF1L Rosters front the 2005 Notre Dante-USC Game 
usc  Notre Dame  
QB Matt Leinart  WR Maurice Stovall  
RB Reggie Bush  OT Ryan Harris  
RB LenDale White  OG Dan Santucci  
WR Dwayen Jarrett  TE Anthony Fasano  
WR Steve Smith  QB Brady Quinn  
OG Taitusi Lutui  DE Victor Abiamiri  
OC Ryan Kalil  DT Derek Landri  
TE Dominique Byrd  LB Corey Mays  
FB David Kirtman  FS Chinedum Ndukwe  
OL LaJuan Ramsey  
OL Frostee Rucker  *ND WR Jeff Samardzija chose  
LB Oscar Lua  to pursue a baseball career  
with the Chicago Cubs.  

The answer: Give or take two and a half months. 
USC fans at the time said they thought the Trojans were des­tined to win the national cham­pionship that year. It was fate. No way could they drive the length of the field in 2:04, con­vert on fourth-and-nine, have Heggie Bush push Matt Leinart over the goal line and win the most dramatic game of football in ages, just to lose later in the year. 
Well, they did. 
The Trojans had two more games that rivaled the intensity and emotions, the thrills and drama of the Notre Dame-USC matchup by the end of the year. They held off Fresno State, 50­42, but not Texas. 
Vince Young and the Longhorns won the Rose Bowl, 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 19, 2007 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEADT
Record: 1-6 
AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Charlie Weis Third season at Notre Dame. career record: 20-12 at Notre Dame: 
20-12 CharlieWeis against head coach USC: 0-2 
Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I  D.). Hurd  WR  6-1  196  JR  
2  Darrin Walls  DB  6-1  180  so  
Gary Gray  DB  5-11  180  FR  
Armando Allt•n  RH  5-10  190  FR  
h  Ray Herring  DB  5-10  197  JR  
7  jimmy Clau>en  QB  6-3  207  FR  
RaL•shlm McNt.•il  DB  6-0  187  so  
9  Tnm Zbikowski  DB  6-0  207  SR  
II  David Criml~S  WR  5-10  177  JR  
12  Darrin Bragg  QB  6-1  188  SR  
13  Evan Sh.uplt•y  QB  6-2  216  )R  
14  Brandon Walkt>r  K  6-3  197  FR  
15  Leo FL•rrine  DB  6-0  189  SR  
Io  justin Gillett  QB  5-11  180  SR  
17  Geoffrey Priet•  p  6-3  208  SR  
IH  Duval Knmar.1  WR  6-5  222  FR  
19  GcorgeWL>st  WR  5-10  197  so  
20  Tl•rrail Ldm~rt  DB  5-11  191  SR  
21  Barry Gallup Jr.  WR  5-11  185  so  
22  AmbroSl' Woodt•n  CB  5-11  196  SR  
2.1  Golden Tatt•  WR  5-11  188  FR  
23  W. David Williams  DB  5-9  173  SR  
24  Leonard Gordon  DB  5-11  194  so  
25  Munir Prince  DB  5-10  184  so  
26  Travis Thomas  RB  6-0  216  SR  
27  David Bruton  DB  6-2  207  JR  
28  Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-1  207  JR  
29  jash,lad Gaines  DB  6-0  203  so  
29  Jakt• Richardvillc  WR  6-1  180  SR  
30  Harrison Smith  DB  6-2  205  FR  
31  Sergio Brown  DB  6-2  196  so  
32  Lukt• Schmidt  RB  6-3  248  so  
33  Robt·rt Hughes  RB  5-11  238  FR  
34  james Aldridge  RB  6-0  222  so  
35  Natt.• Whitakt•r  K  5-9  165  FR  
35  Kt•vin Smith  LB  5-8  200  JR  
30  Dcx Cure  RB  6-1  220  so  
37  junior jabbie  RB  5-11  205  SR  
3H  Wade lams  DB  5-9  183  SR  
39  Ryan l!urkhart  K  5-11  196  so  
39  Kt•vin Bmoks  TE  6-2  241  JR  
40  Maurice Crum, Jr.  LB  6-0  230  SR  
41  Scott Smith  LB  6-4  235  )R  
42  Kevin Washington  LB  6-1  241  JR  
43  Eric Maust  p  5-10  177  so  
43  John lA•oni~  DB  5-9  169  JR  
44  Asaph Schw.1pp  FB  6-0  261  JR  
45  Mike Anello  DB  5-10  180  JR  
45  Kris Patterson  WR  5-11  185  JR  
47  A,uon Na~l'l  LB  6-1  229  FR  
4!1  Steve Qulnn  LB  6-2  231  JR  
49  Toryan Smith  LB  6-1  245  so  
50  Stt'VL' Paskorz  l.B  6-2  235  FR,  
51  D,m Wenger  OL  6-4  287  so  
52  jut• Brockingttm  LB  6-2  240  SR  
53  Morrice Richardson  LB  6-2  244  so  
54  Anthony Vomaglia  LB  6-3  234  SR  
55  Eric Olsen  OL  6-4  303  so  
56  Kerry Nt•al  LB  6-2  245  FR  
57  Dwight St••phonson  Dl.  6-2  272  SR  
5!1  Bridn Smith  l.B  6-3  233  FR  
59  Chris Stew.trt  OL  6-5  339  so  
61  j.J. jansen  LS  6-3  242  SR  
6..1  )l>fflisak  OL  6-5  306  JR  
67  Tom Bl.'mcndl'rfN  OL  6-5  285  JR  
69  Neil Konnt•dy  DL  5-11  266  SR  
70  Matt Romine  OL  6-5  279  FR  
71  Bartley Webb  OL  6-6  305  so  
72  Paul Duncan  OL  6-7  308  JR  
73  Matt Carufel  OL  6-5  295  so  
74  Sam Young  OL  6-8  310  so  
75  Taylor Dever  OL  6-5  289  FR  
76  Andrew Nuss  DL  6-5  292  FR  
77  Mkhc1cl Turkovich  OL  6-6  301  JR  
78  Jnhn Sullivan  OL  6-4  303  SR  
80  Rit-hard Jackson  WR  6-3  204  so  
H2  Robby Parris  WR  6-4  209  so  
83  Mikt• ltlgont•  TE  6-5  230  FR  
84  Will Yt•atm•n  TE  6-h  264  50  
H5  Sam Vos  WR  5-10  199  so  
89  john Carlson  TE  6-6  255  SR  
90  john Ryan  LB  6-5  253  so  
91  Emeka Nwankwo  DL  6-4  283  FR  
92  Dt•rn.•ll Hand  DL  6-3  287  JR  
93  Paddy Mullt•n  DL  6-5  290  so  
94  Justin Bmwn  DL  6-3  261  SR  
95  Ian Wiliams  DL  6-2  300  FR  
96  Pat Kuntz  DL  6-3  285  )R  
97  K.lllt•n Wadt•  DL  6-5  257  so  
98  Trt•vor Laws  DL  6-1  296  SR  

Irish experts 

Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2007 Schedule 
Sept. 1 Sept. 8 Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
LLI 
~ 
c:( 
Q 
LLI 
a:: 
t­
o 
z 


GA.TECH-L at Penn State-L at Michigan-L MICH.ST.-L atPurdue-L atUCLA-W BC-L 
usc 

NAVY AIR FORCE DUKE at Stanford 

Notre Dame is 1-6 this season and, although there has been improvement, the Irish still make too many mistakes. Last week's comeback  Junior Evan Sharpley will start this week over Jimmy Clausen. Sharpley has shown a better ability to avoid the rush and is more willing to  The best thing that can be said for Notre Dame's rushing attack right now is that the Irish are averaging posi­tive yards per game -which wasn't the case  Notre Dame's passing game should be more eflective with Sharpley at the helm because of his stronger arm and greater willingness to throw down­field. Sophomore Hobby  
attempt against Boston College was derailed by costly penalties that need to be corrected. as one of college football's all-time great coaches, but you wouldn't know it by the way the Trqjans are play­ing right now. USC has suf­fered through three straight scares by lesser opponents, including a loss  throw the ball down the field than the freshman, but he is still inconsistent.  earlier in the season. To make matters worse, NO will be without leading rusher James Aldridge.  Parris has shown flashes of brilliance at wide receiver, but needs to be more con­sL<>tent.  
Pete Carroll will go down John David Booty USC has stymied missed the Arizona game opposing rushing games with an injured finger. He to the tune of less than threw on Tuesday and 70 yards per game rush­may start. If he can't go, ing ­and that was with Mark Sanchez will start some injuries in the line­ USC's pass defense has been good statisically this season, but has 1,Tiven up big plays and has folded in key situations, like on fourth-and-goal at the end  
for the Trojans. Sanchez backer corps. However, was 19 for 31 for 130 star sophomore Brian yards against the Cushing should be to Stanford. Wildcats. healthy this week.  of the loss to Stanford. No defensive back has more than one interception this season for the Trojans.  
Notre Dame struggledBoth Carroll and Weis Booty is one of the top quart in the to ru all whenwill in the nati he's AI althy,l'u . schools, heal gh he's thingsbut ugly. The I had prob­whil< lems ed a Still, th found a while NO to lose them.  USC hasn't shown the  

USC has major health issues in the backfield, but the Trojans are deeper than the Marianas lhmch. Notre Dame's rushing defense has been quostionable at best, non-existent at worst. Joe McKnight will run wild on the outside, but the Trojans will have difficulty passing on first and third downs, stalling drives and keeping the score down. This most storied of intersectional rivalries has a game to forget. FINAL SCORE: USC 20 
Notre Dame 16 Chris Khorey 


Sports Editor 
Nothing will change this weok. USC will play completely disinterested and unemotional foot­ball, allowing Notre Dame to stay in the game. For their part, the Irish will make key mistakes to give the game right baek. Evan Sharpley will do his best Jake "The Snake" Plummer impression behind the porous offensive line, whieh will lead to some exciting plays and also to some interceptions. 
ANAL SCORE: USC 28 Notre Dame 17 


Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Trojans
HEAD usc 
Record: 5-1 
AP: 13 Southern California Trojans Coaches: 9 
Pete Carroll Seventh season at
usc 
usc. career record:
2007 Schedule 
70-13 at USC: 70-13
Sept. 1 IDAHO-W 
against Notre 
Dame: 5-1
Sept. 15 at Nebraska-W 
Roster Sept. 29 atW~-W 
No. Name Pos. Ht. Wl YR 1 Patrick Turner WR 6-5 220 jR 2 C.j. Gable RB 6-1 195 so 3 Taylor Mays DB 6-4 225 so 4 joe McKnight RB 6-0 180 FR 
Oct. 6 STANFORD-L 
Oct. 13 ARIWNA-W 
4 Kevin Ellison DB 6-1 225 jR 6 Mark Sanchez QB 6-3 225 so 6 Malcolm Smith LB 6-2 215 FR
Oct. 20 at Notre Dame 
7 Vidal Hazelton WR 6-0 180 so 7 Cary Harris DB 6-0 180 jR
Oct. 27 at Oregon 
8 Ronald johnson WR 6-1 190 FR 9 David Ausberry WR 6-4 225 so 10 john David Booty QB 6-3 210 SR
Nov. 3 OREGON STATE 
10 Brian Cushing LB 6-4 240 so 13 Stafon johnson RB 6-0 210 so 14 Garrett Green WR 6-2 205 so 15 Aaron Corp QB 6-3 185 FR 15 Keviin Thomas DB 6-1 185 jR 
Nov. 10 at California 
Nov. 22 atArizona State 
16 Michael McDonald QB 6-2 815 SR 16 Mitch Mustain QB 6-3 205 so 17 Travon Patterson WR 5-10 175 so 18 David Buehler K 6-2 205 jR 18 David Williams WR 6-1 190 so 21 Allen Br~dford RB 6-0 225 jR 22 Desmond Reed RB 5-9 195 SR 23 Chauncey WashingtonRB 6-1 221> SR 24 Shareece Wright DB 6-0 180 so 25 Daniel Harper DB 5-11 180 FR 25 Billy O'Malley p 6-1 190 so 26 Marc Tyler RB 6-0 215 FR 27 Marshall jones DB 6-0 185 FR 28 Terell Thomas DB 6-1 200 SR 29 Broderick Green RB 6-1 230 FR 30 Chase McWhorter DB 5-8 185 SR 31 Stanley Havili FB 6-1 225 so 
Dec.1 UCLA 
34 Hershel Dennis RB 5-11 200 SR 35 jody Adewale RB 6-0 230 SR 36 josh Pinkard DB 6-1 215 SR 37 Jordan Campbell FB 6-0 225 FR 38 jordan Condgdon K 5-9 180 jR 39 Alfred Rowe FB 6-b 205 so 
TROJANS RUSHING TROJANS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Notre Dame's rushing 

Notre Dame's pass 
The Irish special teams have run hot and cold this season. Last week, Notre Dame blocked a field goal, but missed one of its own and had a bad punt snap to give Boston College good field posi­tion. The kicking game needs to be more consis­tent this week.  
Desmond Reed is back to return kickoffs after injuring his knee at Notre Dame Stadium on a kickoff in 2005. Kicker David Buehler is 8-for-9 on field goals and 24­for-26 on extra points. Joe McKnight is a dan­gerous punt returner.  

40 Rhett Ellison TE 6-5 235 FR
Notre Dame is slowly improving after a bad start to its season. The Irish played a Top-S team tough last week and won the week before. The weather is predicted to be rainy and the home crowd will be on Notre Dame's side.  
USC's last three oppo­nents, Washington, Stanford and Arizona, all have losing records, yet the Trojans struggled against them. USC is playing unemotional football. The Trojans need to wake up soon or they won't get back to the BCS.  

41 Thomas Williams LB 6-3 235 FR
defense was awful to start defense has been its 
42 Omari Crittenden DB 6-0 180 so
z

the season. but now it is strength this season, 
43 Kaluka Maiava LB 6-0 225 JR
0 

44 Christian Tupou DL 6-2 275 FR
merely below average. 
although Matt Ryan man­
..... 

45 Adam Goodman FB 6-2 235 jR
The Irish held UCLA to aged to find his backs ::a 
46 Michael Morgan LB 6-3 220 so
ITI

less than 100 yards rush­
47 Clay Matthews LB 6-4 240 SR 48 Matthew jordan DB 5-8 175 jR 
and tight ends wide open 
ing and, after allowing a a lot last week. Freshmen 
c 

49 Sedrick Ellis DL 6-2 305 SR
)>

60-yard run early, held pass rushers Kerry Neal 
50 Will Collins LS 6-2 230 SRs: 52 Luthur Brown LB 6-3 230 jR 53 jeff Byers OL 6-5 285 SR
Boston College to around 
and Brian Smith will 
ITI

three yards per carry for need to get pressure on 
54 ChrisGalippo LB 6-2 235 FR 55 Keith Rivers LB 6-3 235 SR 56 Alex Parsons DL 6-4 285 so 57 Nick Garratt LB 6-1 230 jR 58 Rey Maualuga LB 6-3 250 jR 59 Dan Deckas LB 5-10 215 so 
the rest of the game. the USC quarterback. 
The Trojans have The Trojans have a 

60 Drew Radovich OL 6-5 305 SR 61 Kristofer O'Dowd OL 6-5 305 FR
more running backs bevy of wide receivers 
62 David Cinco OL 6-5 270 jR
than ·they know what to for whichever quarter­
c: 
63 Christian Putnam LS 5-11 210 jR 66 Chilo Rachal OL 6-4 215 SR 67 Michael Reardon OL 6-5 265 so 
do with, although back starts to throw 
injuries have set them to. Speedy Vidal 
n 
68 Butch Lewis OL 6-5 280 soen 69 Matt Spanos OL 6-5 305 SR 70 Alatini Malu OL 6-4 330 SR 
back in this area. Joe Hazelton and Ronald 
McKnight is a speedster, Johnson are deep 
71 Charles Brown OL 6-6 290 jR
while Chauncey threats while Patrick 
72 Martin Coleman OL 6-5 320 FR 73 Will Mullen OL 6-5 320 FR 74 Zack Heberer OL 6-5 300 so
Washington is more of a Turner provides height 
bruiser up the middle. for fade routes. 
75 Fili Moala DL 6-5 295 SR 76 Nick Howell OL 6-5 275 jR 77 Thomas Herring OL 6-6 300 jR 78 Andrew Weiss OL 6-9 225 SR 79 Sam Baker OL 6-5 305 SR 80 Brandon Carswell WR 6-2 175 FR
SC will either have an 

81 Gerald Washington DE 6·6 260 SR 82 Duron Sylvester WR 6-5 200 so
injured Booty or an 
83 Fred Davis TE 6-4 250 SR
inexperienced Sanchez 
84 Kyle Moore DE 6-6 275 jR 85 Cooper Stephenson FB 6-3 215 so 86 Anthony McCoy TE 6-5 255 so

ing the ball ­
o~ JJ 's,:;pa§P 

87 Caleb Ne1an WR 6-2 200 FR 88 jimmy Miller TE 6-5 250 SR 89 Dale Thompson TE 6-4 255 SR
~~~a ~~fl 

90 Derek Simmons DL 6-4 275 so 
receivers are very good, 
91 Michael Simmons DL 6-5 226 FR 92 Trey Henderson DL 6-3 265 FR
but their quarterbacks 
93 Everson Grifffen DL 6-3 265 SR
have to get them the 
96 Lawrence Jackson DL 6-6 270 SR 97 Alex Morrow DL 6-5 270 SR 98 Dajohn Harris DL 6-4 270 FR 99 Averall Spicer DL 6-2 290 jR 
ball. 





Associate Sports Editor 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 19, 2007 
Crunching the numbers 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
SC points scored 
ND points seored 


SC points allowed 
ND points allowed 
SC rush yards N D rush yards 
SC rushing allowed ND rushing allowed 


SC pass yards N D pass yards 
SC passing allowed N D passing allowed 



Saturday Pick 'ent 
Khore.l': Hine Fowler Fitzeatrick 
Season Record: Michigan State at No. 1 Ohio State No. 17 Auburn at No. 4 LSU No. 5 Oklahoma at Iowa State Vanderbilt at No. 6 South Carolina No. 15 Florida at No.7 Kentucky Mississippi St. at No.9 West Virginia No. 10 Oregon at Washington No. 12 Califomia at UCLA No. 13 Kansas at Colorado No. 24 Texas Tech at No. 16 Missouri 
>; No. 21 Tennessee at Alabama No. 22 Texas at Baylor No. 23 Cincinnati at Pittsburgh No. 25 Michigan at Illinois (94-39) MSU LSU Okla. 
S. Car Fla. 
wvu 
Oreg. Cal Kan. Tech Tenn. Texas Cincy Illinois (104-29) 

osu 
LSU 
Okla. 
S. Car Fla. 
wvu 
Oreg. Cal Colo. Mizzou Tenn. Texas Cincy Illinois (104-29) 
osu 
LSU 
Okla. 
S. Car Fla. 
wvu 
Oreg. Cal 
Kan. Mizzou Tenn. Texas Cincy Michigan (102-31) 
osu 
LSU Okla. 
S. Car Ken. 
wvu 
Oreg. Cal Colo. Mizzou Barna. Texas Cincy Illinois 
*Upset special in bold 


Friday, October 19, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Smith and Neal provide spark for defense 
By CHRIS KHOREY Spons Editor 
Brian Smith and Kerry Neal broke the defensive huddle and headed to the line of scrimmage. 
The two freshmen outside linebackers usually play on opposite sides of the defense, but on this play Saturday, defensive coordinator Corwin Brown had them line up together. Neal got into a three­point stance over Boston College left tackle Gosder Cherilus, while Smith lined up a couple feet inside him. lean­ing forward and threatening to blitz. 
At the snap, Neal blew past the tackle on the outside. Cherilus dropped well off the line to cut him off, and safety Tom Zbikowski blitzed through the newly created gap. 
Smith. however, did not blitz. Using the quickness that earned him his scholarship offer last winter, he backpedaled into pass cover­age. 
Eagles quarterback Matt Ryan saw Zbikowski flying toward him and got rid of the ball, but he never saw Smith, who intercepted it and returned it for a touchdown. 
The play looked beautiful from the stands, but the secret is that Smith wasn't where he was supposed to be -and nei­ther was anyone else. 
"We blew the coverage," fifth-year senior linebacker 
Joe Brockington said. "None of us were in the right spot." 
But whether or not Smith knew what he was supposed to do on that particular play, it still illustrates what he and Neal bring to the Notre Dame defense. That kind of dynamic play has earned the two fresh­men more time on the field in recent games. 
In reeent weeks, Neal earned a starting spot at out­side linebacker, and Smith, who plays on passing downs, beeame the first freshman in 31 years to return an intereep­tion for a touchdown. 
"I can't talk enough about them," head coaeh Charlie Weis said. "I keep on saying how the arrow is pointing up on them." 
Despite weighing 233 and 245 pounds, respeetively, Neal and Smith bring an element of speed to the edge that the Irish haven't had since Justin Tuck was lining up at defen­sive end. 
"They've brought a different dimension that coming into the season we weren't sure they could provide," Brown said. 
But it's not just their speed that has impressed the coach­ing staff. 
"They play this game with passion, and I think that any time you play the game with passion and have some athleti­eism, OK, you have a chanee to be something special, and I think that both those guys have a ehanee to be," Weis 
said. "When it's all said and done, by the time they leave here, they'll be household names." 
So far this season, Neal has appeared in every game, start­ing three of them. He has eight tackles, a sack and a fumble recovery. Smith has played in six games and has had 10 taekles, ineluding two for loss, along with his interception. 
Neal and Smith also provide position versatility. Both have lined up at inside and outside linebacker as well as in a three-point stance along the defensive line. On one play in the Boston College game, Smith even lined up at nose guard. 
Brown said putting Smith on the inside on third-and-long is something the Irish are eon­sidering going forward. 
"If he lined up there, we're thinking about doing it," he said. 
Coming into fall camp, Brown said, the Irish coaching staff wasn't sure whether Neal and Smith would be ready. 
"You'd like to think that they could do some things, but they've done things we weren't expecting," Brown said. 
Brockington said the two freshmen have a bright future. 
"Now, they're pretty good players," Brockington said. "But in the future once they've settled in they're going to be really good." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

-

Irish linebacker Brian Smith returns an interception for a touchdown in Notre Dame's 27-14 loss to Boston College last Saturday. 
Like Irish, USC struggling with QB issues 
mostly regarding mobility. quickly.By JAY FITZPATRICK Sanehez impressed Trojans Sanchez "has more of a variety Associate Sports Editor eoaeh Pete Carroll with his ability of things that he'll ere ate with the 
to make plays happen outside of football in his hands," Carroll 
Notre Dame has had its share the poeket. said. "You know, we have to cor­of quarterback issues this season, "When you're scrambling and ral that. You have to harness that but it won't be the only team you take off and run, it's like so that it doesn't work against Saturday dealing with a quarter­everything that you ever known him and take him out of the nor­baek problem. in any sport comes into play," mal rhythm of plays that eould be 
USC's John David Booty broke a Carroll said in a press eonferenee exeeuted." linger on his throwing hand two Tunsday. "It all eomes to the front Carroll said Booty represents weeks ago during the Trojans' immediately, and you have to more of a traditional pocket pass­24-23 loss to Stanford. reaet and use your vision and er. 
Last week, Trojans baekup your peripheral vision and sense "John was a football player that Mark Sanchez got his first eareer and awareness and your athleti­was a quarterbaek that was a start and was 19-for-31 for 130 cism and your gut and all that." shotgun-in-the-poeket guy," yards, one touchdown and two While Sanehez's ability to Carroll said. "He's more of that interceptions in USC's 20-13 win makes big plays out of seemingly kind of a football player, and he's over Arizona. nothing is a definite positive, really, really good at it." 
Booty and Sanehez are very Carroll said, he needs to harness But regardless of who starl<> for similar quarterbaeks, although that ability so that he does not USC, Notre Dame coaeh Charlie they have slight differences -give up on the designed play too Weis said the Trojans' system 
warrants the most attention. 
"I think that if you Lfocus on the quarterback] you set yourself up for failure because it's not like they're bringing in a speed option quarterback versus a drop baek quarterbaek," he said. "They have their system in plaee, so therefore, you ean get ready for their system instead of getting ready for their quarterback." 
Irish defensive eoordinator 1-Ieisman Trophy winner Matt game, Carroll is eonlident in both Corwin Brown agreed. Leinart's primary baekup. his quarterbacks. Even if 
"You prepare for the system Sanchez has only started one Sanehez plays, Carroll said, he that they run. It's not like one game and threw just seven pass will not have to be spectaeular to runs an option and the other is a attempts last season in late game give the Trojans a chanee at win­drop baek passer," Brown said. situations behind Booty. ning. "It's the USC system that you "I think that Booty's experienee "Mark needs to play a good, have to prepare for, and that's expands the playbook. I think solid football game if he's in enough. So you just prepare for that any time you have a more there, and keep us in the game what they do, no matter who is experieneed guy you ean do more and not make any eritieal errors back there." things," Weis said. "Obviously that eould give the other team a 
Weis did say the most impor­playing Sanehez is not going to chance," Carroll said. "That's all tant difference between the two stop them from running the we need him to do. We don't need quarterbaeks that eould be a rae­offense. They're not going to him to earry us at all." tor on Saturday is Booty's experi­change the offense; I just don't ence. Booty started every game think they'll do as mueh." Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at last season after being former Going into the Notre Dame jfitzpa5@nd.edu 



page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 19, 2007 
Now Open 

-








ON SITE SALES OFFICE OPEN 
574~252~2427 
SAT:1 Oam-12pm SUN:1 Oam-2pm 
NDCONDOS.COM 
By C{e{antf Homes
Move In Now 
-





