
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Moreau celebration continues on campus 
Basilica mass marks beatification of founder of Holy Cross order 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
The beatification of Father Basil Moreau was celebrated Thursday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart with a mass of thanksgiv­ing and the installment of a statue of Moreau in the Basilica's northwest chapel. 
The mass marked the first campus cele­bration of Moreau's beatification since the official ceremony last Saturday in Le Mans, France. 
University President Father John Jenkins presided over the mass. Also in attendance were Cardinal Roger Mahony, the archbish­op of Los Angeles, Bishop Ponen Paul Kubi, the bishop of Mymensingh, Bangladesh, and members of the Holy Cross community. 
see MASS/page 4 

Saint Mary's representatives recall Le Mans, France ceremony 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
Traveling to France for the beatification of Father Basil Moreau was a "once in a life, time experience," said Saint Mary's senior Haley Nickell. 
Nickell was one of several Saint Mary's representatives who traveled to Le Mans, France for the beatification of Father Basil Moreau last Saturday. 
"I learned a great deal .about where the Sisters of the Holy Cross come from and a lot about their history," Nickell said. "I now have a much greater appreciation for them and what they do for us." 
Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney, professor Joanne Snow, Adaline Cashore, 
see MOREAU/page 8 
Students attend class at ND, SMC in exchange program 
By EMILY KEEBLER 
News Writer 
for Saint Mary's senior Kristina Ramos, commuting to her "International Migration and Human Rights" class requires a 20-minute bike ride twice a week. Ramos is one of more than one hundred Saint Mary's students and more than 60 Notre D.ame students who commute across State Road 31 to take classes away from their home campus. 
Ramos said the Notre Dame soCiology course appealed to her, and she enrolled in it because Saint Mary's had no similar course offerings. Ramos also has completed several Center for Social Concerns seminars through the co­exchange program. 
"I like new experiences so I'm glad that I am taking a course over there," Ramos said. 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are able to take class­es at both campuses through a co-exchange program. Lora Spaulding, the assistant regis­trar at Notre Dame, said 63 Notre Dame students and more than 100 Saint Mary's students currently participate in the program. 
"The benefit for the student is to try classes not available on the home campus," Saint Mary's registrar Lorraine Kitchner said. 
Through the exchange pro­gram, Kitchner said, students can also observe how each campus operates. 
Ramos agreed that the cam­pus cultures of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are distinct. "[Notre Dame] is a lot bigger," Ramos said. ''I'd say it's an environment that cultivates more stress ... it's more of a serene feeling at Saint Mary's." 
Notre Dame students who participate in the co-exchange 
see EXCHANGE/page 4 

Yon1 Kippur observed by Jevvish community 
Day of Atonement calls for abstinence from work, 25 hours offasting, continuous prayer 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
At sundown tonight, several Jewish members of the Notre Dame community will cele­brate Yom Kippur, also known as the Day of Atonement ­one of the holiest and most solemn days of the year for followers of the Jewish faith. 
Those who celebrate the annual holiday must abstain from work, fast for 25 hours and pray continually until sun­set the following day. 
Freshman Patrick Abrams is Jewish and a member of the marching band, but he will not be playing at the Michigan State game so that he can observe the Sabbath and attend services. 
"Hank Greenberg, the first basemen for the Detroit Tigers, skipped playing in a World Series game because of Yom Kippur," Abrams said. "It's a Holy Day and an obliga­tion that I feel is right to do, and the University has been 
see KIPPUR/page 8 
Dieter: Death penalty political issue 
Activist cites moral, economic reasons to stop use of corporal punishment 
tern, not of the criminal justice system." 
Recent studies indi­cate that the -success of an appeal of a death sentence depends almost entirely on the political stance of the president that appointed the judge, Dieter said. Appeals that were heard by judges appointed by George H. 
W. Bush were upheld 91 percent of the time, while appeals that were heard by judges appoint­ed by Bill Clinton were overturned 88 percent of the time. 
"Issues do not matter [now], what matters is 
see DIETER/page 9 


By NICK BOCK News Writer 
The fight to end use of the death penalty is an "issue that identifies and epitomizes what Notre Dame stands for," said Richard Dieter, the exec­utive director of the Death Penalty Information Center in Washington, D.C. 
Speaking to an audi­ence of approximately 25 people Thursday evening in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium, Dieter described his assertion that the death penalty has become "a part of the political sys­page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Reinstate Taco Bell on can1pus 
This Sunday, stop by your local Taco Bell and grab some free nachos between the hours of 2 
p.m. and 5 p.m. Why, you ask, is the bennvolent Bell offering frne, delieious nachos? 
Because it's 
Nacho Day. 
"We like to 
call it Na-Cho 
day -as in 'not 
your day,"' 
Taco Bell 
spokesman Will 
Bortz said. 
"The chips are 
down, and wn 
want everyone 

to know we have your back. To the 
students, we're saying, 'lley guys, 
you've been at the top, and while it 
might lw a little bit rough this 
year, you can still havn some free 
food." 

In light of the football tnam's rPcnnt struggles. many have turned tlwir backs on tlw Irish. Wn havn btwn ridiruiPd in tlw media world. dnsnrtnd by fair wnathnr fans and lauglwd at by our nrw­mins. 
llownvt~r. orw bPrwvolent corpo­ration is tlwre for us in our dark­est hour. at a tirnn of gnmtest ntwd. whPn tlw only seeming solu­tion and way out of football mis­forturw is a delirious !wiping of free nachos. That company is Taco Bell. the burrito-making busirwss with a )wart of gold. 
Or pt~rhaps guacamole. And our nwssage to you is this: Hninstatn Taco Bell on campus. 

Where did we go astray, you ask'! Why would we ever let such a nne and distinguished maker of succulent Mnxican food products out of the reach of our Flex Point swipe cards'! In August 2004, the University decided not to renew the athletic department's yearly sponsorship agreement with Taco Bell, citing ethical concerns. 
Why. you ask, should we rein­state the beloved T-Bell on cam­pus'? Because it's American, that's why. 
Putting T-Bell back in LaFortune would create jobs for Americans. It would help to battle the late-night monopoly Sbarro currently enjoys and bn~ak its hegemonic strangle­hold on the 2 a.m. to 5 a.m. con­sumer demographic. It would also foster further free trade and free enterprisn, two economic princi­ples this great nation was built upon. And most important, it would put Taco Bell products in our stomachs and smiles on our faces. 
Enough is enough. In the words of last year's The Shirt-Taco Bell, this is the day and you are the team. Or at least you should be. 
Taco Bell has stood by us when no one else would. It is time we stood by them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contac"t Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @nd. edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The ( )bscrver regards i!Selfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 21, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WILL NOTRE DAME FOf!TBALL CONTINUE ITS LOSING STREAK SATURDAY? 






Huong Ngo  Crystal Truong  Albert Lee  Christina Marzo  Andrew Knutson  Marleina Maafala  
sophomore Pasquerilla East  senior Farley  junior Carroll  senior Walsh  junior Fisher  senior offcampus  
..! hate to say  ..No, ofcourse  ..Yes, because  ../hope not.  ../just want to  "???"  
this, but yes. It  not. We'll win at  we freaking got  Let's have fun  score.  
seems hard to  least one. "  killed by  anyway.  
recover from  Michigan. "  
three straight  
losses. "  

Man pleads guilty to foot harassment 
MARTINSBURG, W. Va. -A man who made more than 600 telephone calls to a shoe store and other businesses to ask women about their shoes and feet must pay a $200 line. 
James Lee Fink, 31, placed 119 calls from his cell phone to the Chambersburg (Pa.) Mall, 513 calls to a Holiday Inn in Havelock, N.C., and 17 calls to a Comfort Inn in Chambersburg between Jan. 1 and May 8, 2006, Pennsylvania State Police Trooper Jeff Bopp said Thursday. 
TODAY 

a:: 

crashed a squad car while showing off for three female college students rid­ing with him. 
Jason Lyons, 38, was charged in Muncie City Court with reckless driving and interference with reporting a crime. A pre­liminary arraignment was pending. 
Lyons, a six-year veteran of the police force, resigned this month after being sus­pended over the Aug. 28 crash along a street outside a Ball State University resi­dence hall complex. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
The caller would ask the women what kind of shoes they were wearing and whether they would show him their feet if he carne into their store. 
The man identified him­self as Brian Thompson, but State Police used phone records to link the tele­phone number to Fink, whose last known address was in Martinsburg. 
Officer crashes squad car In joy ride 
MUNCIE, Ind. Prosecutors have filed two misdemeanor charges against a former police ofli­cer who authorities say 
TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 
LLI :::t: 
~ 
LLI 
== 
....I
c:c 
CJ 



0 
HIGH 88 HIGH 78 HIGH 80
...I LOW 60 LOW 50 LOW 63 

79 57 
IN BRIEF 

Whirlpool's ehief linaneial olli­cer, Ted Dosch will speak today at 10 a.m. in thn Jordan Auditorium as part of the Mendoza College of Business Boardroom Insight leeturn series. 
The Notre Dame Liturgical Choir will give a concert at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart tonight at 7:30p.m. 
The Notre Damn women's S()(~­cer team will takn on DePaul today at 7::~0 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The FTT Talks lecture series will present "Screenwriters Showcase" tonight at 7::m p.m. in the Browning Cinema. Featured speakers are Larry Karazt~wski, Jim Jennewein and, Stephen Susco. 
The comedic improv group Comedy Sportz will perform at Washington Hall at 10 p.m. tonight. 
The Notre Dame marching band will present its Drummer's Circle outside the Main Building tonight at 11:59 p.m. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart will offer a Vigil Mass 30 minutes after the Michigan State game Saturday. 
The Creative Writing Progam has invited Angela Hur, a 2005­2006 Sparks Prize winner, to read from her recently published first work "The Queens of K­Town." 1-1 ur will speak in the Hospitality Room next to Reekers at 7:30 p.m. next Wednesday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


Atlanta 83/66 Boston 70/63 Chicago 8'8 /64 Denver 85/53 Houston 93/67 Los Angeles 68/ 58 Minneapolis 81 /66 New York 81 /67 Philadelphia 85/63 Phoenix 94/74 Seattle 65/51 St. Louis 93 I 67 Tampa 88/75 Washington 82 I 64 
Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Tvvo math scholarships avvarded 
Pair ofSaint Mary's students given $220,000 grants from Luce Program 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
The Clare Boothe Luce Program, which encourages women to pursue higher edu­cation in science, mathematics and engineering, recently awarded two Saint Mary's stu­
dents scholar­ships for their achievements and interest in mathematics. 
The Luce Program, part of the Henry Luce Foundation, bestowed grants totaling $220,000 to juniors Courtney Parry and Theresa Klinkhammer. 
The award will 
cover all tuition and fees for the remaining two years of the students' undergraduate career. 
Parry plans to attend gradu­ate school and teach mathe­matics at the collegiate level. She encouraged other women to consider entering the field of mathematics. 
"Mathematics is a unique, interesting, and multi-faceted field with many different career options," Parry said. 
"Approach the field of mathe­matics as you would approach a problem -be open to trying different strategies, don't be intimidated by the possibilities and always believe in yourself and your mathematical abili­ties. " 
Parry said her professors at Saint Mary's have encouraged 
"Mathematics is a unique, interesting, and multi-faceted field with many different career options." 
Courtney Parry Saint Mary's senior 
her interest in math. 
"The profes­sors enable the student to see the con­nection between the math courses and other fields of study," she said. 
The scholar­ship enabled Parry to per­
form research over the sum­mer, and she will deliver a presentation as part of the Pi Mu Epsilon student lecture series in November. Her focus will involve her general research on how mathematics is present in nature. 
Klinkhammer, a mathemat­ics and philosophy major, said she has studied math because of its ability to challenge her mind. Klinkhammer also stud­ied abroad in Rome. 
The Bistro features the freshest seafood, steaks and much more •••• 
Parisi's 2nd location Newest fine dining with aEuropean pair located 1mile from the stadium 
After dinner relax in ourMartini Lounge and enjoy live music 
Klinkhammer said she appreciates the "unique one­on-one attention with the pro­fessors" at Saint Mary's. 
"Every professor is willing to spend any time with you," she said. 
The Luce Program invites colleges and universities to submit grant proposals to the fellowship program. The schol­arships supported by the grant assist Saint Mary's College chemistry, computational mathematics or mathematics majors. 
With additional funds sup­plied by Saint Mary's, the scholarships will cover tuition and fees, a book allowance and opportunities to engage in summer research projects, professional development activities and community out­reach. 
Luce, the founder of the scholarship program and the first woman elected to Congress from Connecticut, was a long-time friend of Sister Madeleva Wolff, the third president of Saint Mary's College. 
Luce is the late widow of Henry Luce, the co-founder and editor-in-chief of Time, Inc. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

MCAT I OAT 


Gates Foundation 


gives grant to ND 
$20 million to be used for malaria research 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame has received a $20 million grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to support research aimed at eval­uating existing malaria control programs and designing improved methods for malaria control. 
The five-year program will be directed by Frank Collins, George and Winifred Clark Professor of Biological Sciences and director of Notre Dame's Center for Global Health and Infectious Diseases. The research effort will include partners in Indonesia, Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and Zambia, as well as researchers from the Swiss Tropical Institute, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, the London School of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, and Durham University. 
The College of Engineering also will play a significant role in the project. 
"This study represents multi­ple institutions in multiple countries, carrying out multiple 
I OAT PCAT 

Save S200! 
Enroll by September 30, 2007 and save $100 on MCAT, DAT, OAT and PCAT comprehensive courses. Plus, act now and beat the $100 October 1'1 2007 price increase! 
The Next MCAT Class Starts October 6, 2007! 
Kaplan provides the most realistic practice for the computer-based MCAT. 
Enroll today to take advantage ofthis limited-time offer. 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back: 

TEST PREP AND
1·800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com ADMISSIONS 
'Test name~; ar~:~ 1h11:.1 f':'t"JiStered tt&derr'.ar!u;. of the-i~ r~i'.ta awnenl tMurst enroll in an MC:A.T. OAT. OAT. vr J:'lCAT Clasr;rtll.1fr•, Classroom +5. On~e Course. or 15·, 25-, Ot 35-hour PrivatE.' Tulonng program bet\>~ September 1 ar-CI SeD!!!Ifr.bEf 30. 2007. Cannot he c.o:nbine1 with any other otrer, rebate. d:SCOUnt. or pronmtior: tconditions P.nd re~>t-lclio~ app!y. For c.ompiete guar.:mt6e f:f19ib!Hty r~uir~nts. v~st kaptest.~ Tile ~tgher Score Gm~rantee doos; not apply to Kapi~1 OAT o.mn;.es laken cmd o:;rupleted 111 Ca!'JSda. 
field studies, gathering huge amounts of data, developing appropriate data bases, data analysis and management methods, geographical informa­tion systems, maps, data quality assessment, modeling and sim­ulation -all activities that will involve, to a very large extent, contributions from the College of Engineering," Collins said. 
More than one million people die of malaria each year, the vast majority being infants and very young children. 
Collins indicated that the con­sortium will develop and stan­dardize methods for effectively measuring the rates of malaria parasite transmission by mos­quitoes. 
"We'll have a whole series of end points, from direct meas­ures of the mosquito carrying the parasite to indirect meas­ures of the rate at which people become infected," Collins said. "There's a huge amount of standardization to be done." 
A second research effort will focus on evaluating some of the more standard approaches to malaria control in different set­tings where the transmission rates are different. 
"The two most widely used malaria control interventions today are insecticide-impreg­nated bed nets or houses whose walls have been sprayed with insecticides, more commonly referred to as 'indoor residual spray,"' Collins said. "We're going to evaluate these inter­ventions in a number of differ­ent transmission environments, from really low transmission to really high transmission. And, these interventions themselves will be implemented in multiple different ways." 



Ht'x;ffl; '!\,~.J\\IOOiFn -i:H.XJa.m.to~H))p.m 
11lJ.···12:00noon !n7:00p.m.. 
Sat-9::<Kiam.!01.00p.rn. 
-,-(;,;,o 
EWA HAIR STUDIO 
Tee(674)2!l7-oo93 OOfl&t.~;;g..,.,9. 
&:W>Be<<i,W•''l001 
for women and children 25% off for students 


clVjis 
@!'11~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 21, 2007 
requirement were lacking." opposite campus has made tial by the Saint Mary's stu­DuBray enjoys his course their experience better. dents," Spaulding said. "I
Mass Exchange 

and professor DuBray said he think they're more aware of 
continued from page 1 
The campus celnbration gave thosn who could not make the trip across the Atlantic thn opportunity to 

honor  Moreau  and  his  
achievement  for  the  
Congregation  of the  Holy  

Cross. 
A highlight of the mass was the blessing by Cardinal Mahony of a new statue of Moreau. 
The statue, a full body bronze sculpture about six feet tall, was designed and carved by world famous Los Angeles sculptor Hobert Graham. 
Graham, known for his bas­rnlinf piecns, sculpted the Franklin D. Hoosevelt Momorial in Washington, D.C., the Dukn Ellington Monumnnt in Cnntral Park in New York City and the Olympic Gateway at the Los Angoles Memorial Coliseum for the 1984 Olympic Games. 
The statue of Moreau was installed in the northwest apsidal chapel across from the statue of Holy Cross' other beatified member, Blessed Broth{lr Andre Bnssette. 
The installment of the stat­ue in the Basilica was part of the larger beatification cele­bration, which took place mostly in France. 
Thosn who wnnt to Le Mans as part of the University dele­gation returned earlier this week. 
Fathnr Edwin Obermiller spent oight days in France and served as a chaplain and guide for the 55 Notre Dame studnnts who were part of the beatilkation events. 
"The beatification honors our past and allows us to look to the future with grnat excitement and hope," Obermiller said. "It was an amazing experience, and I was thrilled to be with so many of our Notrn Dame stu­dents at the beatification." 
The 55 Notre Dame students were part of more than 4,000 people who attended the nearly two-hour beatification mass, Obermiller said. 
Also at the mass were 30 bishops and archbishops, two cardinals, 260 priests who eo­ceh~brated the mass, and the prime minister of France and his wife. 
"Many of the students expressed that by being at the beatification and meeting so many of the Holy Cross reli­gious from around the world that it allownd them to realize how much bigger Holy Cross is beyond the campus of Notre Dame," Obermiller said. 

Othnr beatification events included a mass at the Church of the Visitation in Le Mans where Moreau was ordained in 1821 and a multilingual praynr vigil at Notre-Dame de Sainte-Croix, the parish where Moreau's tomb is locat­ed. 
Obermiller said the beatifi­cation has allowed the com­munity to pause at the start of the school year and reflect on Moreau's spirit, wisdom and grace as the founder of Holy Cross. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 

often take education and dance classes. Saint Mary's students tend to take engi­neering, foreign language, HOTC and music courses like marching band. 
Notre Dame junior James DuBray is fulfilling his Arts and Letters literature require­ment at Saint Mary's. 
"It seemed like a course that offered a little more sub­stance," DuBray said of the course on 19th-century novels. "I just thought the Notre Dame courses for the literature course for some inappropriate met. The schedule book and reason," he said. "You're tak­registrar's home page at each ing it because you're interest­institution provide information ed in it." and course lists. 
but said that,  enjoys taking a  
as a male Notre Dame student on an all-girls campus, the first class days were difficult. "You're try­ ''I'd say [co-exchange] is being used to the fullest potential by the Saint Mary,s students. ,,  class with his cousin at Saint Mary's. The registra­tion process for co-exchange includes filling  
ing not to stand  out  an  online  
out more than you already do ... you're not  Lora Spaulding Saint Mary's registrar  form and demonstrating that prerequi­ 
taking  the  sites have been  

Both Hamos and DuBray ''I'd say [co-exchange] is said knowing people on the being used to the fullest poten­it." 
Ramos agreed that Saint Mary's students know about it, even though not everyone takes advantage of the pro­gram. 
"The underclassmen are interested in what it is and how it compares to Saint Mary's," Hamos said. "They're very curious because they might want to try it." 
Co-exchange is available in the fall and spring semesters, and grades earned are calcu­lated into GPA. 
Contact Emily Keebler at ekeebler@nd.edu 


YOUil CATEiliNG SOLUTIONJU 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include adelivery charge of SOC per item (•HOc). 
FREEBIES (SUBS & CLUBS ONLY) 
Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts. tomato, mayo. sliced 
cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. 

I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK U 
54570 N.IRONWOOD DR.  1290 E. IRELAND  138 S. MICHIGAN  5343 N. MAIN ST.  
574.277.8500  574.291.1900  574.246.1020  574.968.4600  
SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  SOUTH BEND  MISHAWAKA  

"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOf.IN'S!" © 
-~----------------~ 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 21, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Corp. to shutter prostitution windows 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands -A non-profit corporation has purchased a large number of the buildings where prostitutes pose in win­dows in Amsterdam's Red Light district, the eity said Thursday, in a deal that may lead to a third of the windows being shuttered. 
The move is intended to break a logjam in an multi-year effort by the city to cut back on the windows, which it says are a magnet for <Time and money laundering. 
Mayor Job Cohen said the move was not intended to get rid of prostitution entirely, since it is part of the area's history and a major tourist draw for the city. 
Monks march to protest military rule 
YANGON, Myanmar -Nearly 1,000 Buddhist monks, joined by thousands of their countrymen. marched in Myanmar's largest eity Thursday in the biggest challenge in at least a decade to the iron-fisted junta, a show of strength rare under military rule. 
Authorities normally quick to crack down hard on dissent left the marchers alone, apparently wary of stirring up further prob­lems. The monks said they would march again next week. 
Processions of monks converged from vari­ous monasteries around Yangon in the early afternoon at the golden hilltop Shwedagon pagoda, the country's most revered shrine. They prayed there before embarking on a more than three-hour march through Yangon in steady rain, gathering supporters as they went. 
Monks at the head of the procession carried religious flags and an upside-down alms bowl, a symbol of protest. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Dole lettuce recalled for E. coli 
SALINAS, Calif. -Much of the lettuce in a salad mix Dole Food Co. recalled from stores in Canada and the U.S. this week was grown in the same Central California region that produced the spinach involved in a deadly E. coli outbreak last year. 
Romaine and green leaf lettuce from the fertile Salinas Valley, known as the nation's "Salad Bowl," made up part of Dole's Hearts Delight mix, company officials said Wednesday. The salad bags were recalled in Indiana and eight other states after a sample taken from a store in Canada tested positive for E. coli. 


Bush challenges Dems on insurance 
WASHINGTON -President Bush chal­lenged Democrats on Thursday to quickly renew a popular children's health insurance program and accused them of "putting poor children at risk" for political purposes. 
The State Children's Health Insurance Program is set to expire Sept. 30. Democrats are pushing for a $35 billion spending incre~se. But Bush has threatened to veto it and has proposed a $5 billion increase. 
Some Democrats, he said, believe they can score political points by sending him a bill they know he will veto. 
The president urged lawmakers to send him a simple, temporary extension that would give lawmakers more time to work out their differences over a long-term renewal. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Mental hospital becomes development 
INDIANAPOLIS -Residential and commer­cial development of a 150-acre site once occu­pied by the former Central State Hospital is expected to begin in the spring. 
Developers presented a 34-page plan to city officials Wednesday, calling for about 330 homes, restaurants, shops and offices to be built on the grounds of the former Indianapolis westside mental hospital that closed in 1994. 
"It was a blank sheet. Nobody really knew what to do with it," developer Mike Higbee told members of the Metropolitan Development Commission, which still must approve the plan. 
Colv1PIU:D FROlv1 TilE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Protesters gather to supportJena Six 
College students demonstrate, listen to Sharpton, Jackson speak in Louisiana 
Associated Press 
JENA, La. -Drawn by a case tinged with one of the most hated symbols of Old South racism -a hang­man's noose tied in an oak tree -tens of thousands of protesters rallied Thursday against what they see as double standard of prose­cution for blacks and whites. 
The plight of the so­called Jena Six, a group of black teens initially charged with attempted murder in the beating of a white classmate, became a flashpoint for one the biggest civil-rights demon­strations in years. 
Old-guard lions like the Revs. Jesse Jackson and AI Sharpton joined scores of college students bused in from across the nation who said they wanted to make a stand for racial equality just as their parents did in the 1950s and '60s. 
"It's not just about Jena, but about inequalities and disparities around the country," said Stephanie Brown, 26, national youth director for the NAACP, who estimated about 2,000 college students were among the throngs of most­ly black protesters who overwhelmed this tiny cen­tral Louisiana town. 
But the teens' case galva­nized demonstrators as few legal cases in recent years. 
The cause of Thursday's demonstrations dates to August 2006, when a black Jena High School student asked at a student assem­bly whether blacks could sit under a shade tree that was a frequent gathering place for whites. He was told yes. But· nooses appeared in the tree the next day. Three white stu­dents were suspended but not criminally prosecuted. LaSalle Parish District Attorney Reed Walters said this week he could find no state law covering the act. 
Brown said the Jena case resonates with the col­lege-aged crowd because they aren't much older than the six youths charged. Many of the stu­dent protesters had been sharing information about the case through Facebook, MySpace and other social­networking Web sites. 


Jackson, who led a throng of people three blocks long to the court­house with an American flag resting on his shoul­der, likened the demonstra­tion to the marches on Selma and the Montgomery bus boycott. But even he was not entirely sure why 
Jena  became  the  focal  
point.  
"You  can  never  quite  

tell," he said. "Rosa Parks was not the first to sit in the front of the bus. But the sparks hit a dry field." 
The noose incident was followed by fights between blacks and whites, culmi­nating in December's attack on white student Justin Barker, who was knocked unconscious. According to court testimo­ny, his face was swollen and bloodied, but he was able to attend a school function that same night. 
Six black teens were arrested. Five were origi­nally charged with attempted second-degree murder _ charges that have since been reduced for four of them. The sixth was booked as a juvenile on sealed charges. 
Martin Luther King Ill, son of the slain civil rights leader, said punishment of some sort may be in order for the six defendants, but "the justice system isn't applied the same to all crimes and all people." 
People began massing for the demonstrations before dawn Thursday, jamming the two-lane highway lead­ing into town and parking wherever they could. By midmorning, state police estimated the crowd at 12,000 and growing. Organizers said it eventual­ly swelled to as many as 50,000. 
Demonstrators gathered at the local courthouse, a park, and the yard at Jena High where the tree once stood (it was cut down in July). 
EGYPT 

Bin laden calls Pakistanis to resist Musharraf 
Associated Press 

CAIRO -Al-Qaida chief Osama bin Laden called on Pakistanis to wage a holy war against President Gen. Pervez Musharraf in a new recording released Thursday, saying his mili­tary's siege of a militant mosque stronghold makes him an infidel. 
The storming of the Red Mosque in Islamabad in July "demonstrated Musharraf's insistence on continuing his loyalty, submissiveness and aid to America against the Muslims ... and makes armed rebellion against him and removing him obligatory," bin Laden said in the message. 
"So when the capability is there, it is obligatory to rebel against the apostate ruler, as is the case now," he said. 
Bin Laden's voice was heard over video showing previously released footage of the terror leader. The video was released Thursday on Islamic militant Web sites and first reported by Laura Mansfield, an American ter­rorism expert who monitors militant message traffic. 
The message, titled "Come to Jihad," was the third from bin Laden this month in a flurry of videos and audiotapes marking the sixth anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. 
Maj. Gen. Waheed Arshad, a Pakistani army spokesman, said the army will continue its fight against terrorism, regardless of any threats. 
"We have the aim and objective, as our national duty, to eliminate terror­ists and eradicate extremism. The Pakistan army will continue to carry out its role against terrorists wherev­er they are found, whether in the tribal areas (of northwest Pakistan) or elsewhere." 
"Such threats issued through videos or in any other way cannot deter us from fulfilling our national duty," he said. 
-----~---------------------, 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT. Friday, September 21, 2007 

IF YOU SEE THIS BOY ON CAMPUS, BUY HIMA GERITOL! 



SEAN COUGHLIN. IS 50 YEARS OLD TODAY!! 

THE OBSERVER. 


USINESS

Friday, September 21, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 13,766.70 -48.86
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
970 87 2,301 2,957,862,012 

AMEX !iL.... ~,~~;i.;IIJii~III,IJl;()l NASDAQ 2,654.29 --12.19 NYSE 9,936.47 ·. J34A3 S&P 500 1,518.75 -10.28 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,413.79 0.00 FTSE 100 (London) 6,429.00 -31.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE  $GAIN  PRICE  
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.70  -1.08  152.28  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.28  -0.14  50.03  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.87  -0.25  28.42  
FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF)  -1.22  -0.43  34.72  

Treasuries to-YEAR NOTE +3.27 +0.15 4.672 13-WEEK BILL -3.67 -0.14 3.670 30-YEAR BOND +2.49 +0.12 4.944 5-YEAR NOTE +3.39 +0.14 4.334 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.39 83.32 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +10.40 739.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.48 85.63 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 114.6500 EURO 0.7110 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0015 BRITISH POUND 0.4980 
IN BRIEF 
Wall Street falls after high streak 
NEW YORK -Stocks retreated Thursday as Wall Street took a breather from this week's recent rally, sobered a bit by mixed earnings reports, a tumbling dollar and surging oil prices. 
Wall Street had driven the Dow Jones industri­als up more than 400 points in the two days fol­lowing the Fed's half-point rate reduction, so it was to be expected that investors would eventu­ally stop to cash in gains. 
So when a few major companies, particularly Bear Stearns & Cos. and Circuit City, posted wider-than-expected drops in third-quarter prof­it Thursday, Wall Street's giddiness following the Fed's rate cut waned, and nervousness resur­faced about how long it might take for the econo­my and corporate America to rebound from the recent market turmoil. 
"Historically, after the Fed eases, the market takes about a month to figure out whether the casing was a good thing or a bad thing," said Brian Gendreau, investment strategist for lNG lnvnstment Management. 
Loonie value the same as dollar 
NEW YORK -For the first time since Gerald Ford was president, the loonie can buy as much as the greenback. 
The U.S. dollar's recent decline against the Canadian dollar, the curo, and even the Indian rupee, means Americans will pay more for imports and trips to Paris, Rome, Bangalore and Toronto. It also may drive overseas demand for U.S. goods and help raise profits at U.S. multinational corporations. 
The U.S. dollar reached 1-to-1 parity against the Canadian dollar Thursday for the first time since November 1976. That means one Canadian dollar now buys one U.S. dollar, so a bottle of maple syrup could cost an American as much in Toronto as it does in New York. 
A lower dollar makes U.S. exports more competitive, which is good news for American manufacturers but spells rising prices for imports to the U.S. 


Congress investigates home loans 
Bush calls market 'unsettling,' plans to modify FHA loans to refinance homes 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 
American dream of owning 
a home has turned into a 
nightmare -not only for 
homeowners, but also for 
politicians and regulators 
under pressure to ease the 
credit crunch. 
President Bush, at a news 
conference Thursday, was 
confronted by questions 
about whether the country 
was headed toward reces­
sion. Bush acknowledged 
"some unsettling times" in 
the troubled housing and 
credit markets, but said he 
believed the economy was 
still on solid ground. 
Also on the hot seat, 
Federal Reserve Chairman 
Ben Bernanke was pumped 
for answers at a congres­
sional hearing about what 
regulators could do to help 
struggling homeowners. 
The housing slump, the 
worst in 16 years, is likely 
to drag on well into 2008, 
when the nation will be vot­
ing for a new president and 
Congress. Home foreclo­
sures -now at record 
highs -and delinquencies 
are likely to get worse, 
Bernanke told the House 
Financial Services 
Committee. 
Against this backdrop, the 
Fed and other banking reg­
ulators, the Bush adminis­

tration and Capitol Hill are tling times" in the housing as an important way to shocks from a rising flood of 
scrambling to provide relief. and credit markets. "That's pump cash into the jumbo mortgage foreclosures. 
Proposals in Congress why I look forward to work­loan market, which has Daniel Mudd, head of 
would expand federal back­ing with Congress to mod­been hard hit by the credit Fannie Mae, said his com­
ing of mortgages. The ernize the FHA loans so that crunch. pany continued to support 
House on Tuesday passed people can refinance their Paulson stressed such a an increase in its mortgage 
legislation that would give homes." change could occur only in portfolio of 10 percent, 
more leeway to the Treasury Secretary Henry tandem with tighter over­much bigger than the 2 per­
Depression-era Federal Paulson, who also appeared sight of Fannie Mae and cent bump-up the mortgage 
Housing Administration, at the House hearing, sig­Freddie Mac. A few years giants' regulatory agency 
which insures mortgages naled that the administra­ago, the two mortgage approved Wednesday. 
for low-and middle-income tion would consider letting giants suffered multibillion­"I am confident we could 
borrowers. The Senate has the mortgage giants Fannie dollar accounting scandals. provide more liquidity help 
its own bill. The administra­Mae and Freddie Mac tem­Bernanke also said any lee­to the home finance market 
tion, meanwhile, is working porarily buy, bundle and sell way given to buy jumbo today without taking risks 
with the FHA to help as securities any loans loans should only be provid­we are not capable of man­
squeezed homeowners. exceeding $417,000, known ed on a temporary basis. aging," Mudd said. "We are 
Bush said at a White as "jumbo" loans. The top executives at not the only answer to the 
House news conference The idea, which repre­Freddie Mac and Fannie liquidity crunch, but we can 
Thursday "there is no ques­sents a policy change for the Mae testified that they stood play a part in a measured, 
tion" these are "some unset-administration, is portrayed ready to help cushion the safe and sound way." 

New $5 bill to be unveiled in spring 
be redesigned. But that decision of Engraving and Printing said in an
Associated Press 

was reversed once counterfeiters interview with The Associated 
WASHINGTON -Honest Abe will began bleaching $5 notes and print­Press. "We wanted to eliminate any become Colorful Abe with splashes ing fake $100 bills with the similarity or confusion on the part of purple and gray livening up the bleached paper to take advantage of of the public between the $5 bill $5 bill. the fact that some of the security and the $100 bill." 
The government showed off the features were in the same locations Circulation is planned for the new bill Thursday in an Internet on both notes. spring so operators of millions of news conference -a high-tech To thwart this particular scam, vending machines have plenty of unveiling that officials say is entire­the government is changing the $5 time to make the changes necessary ly appropriate for a 21st century watermark from one of Lincoln to so their devices will accept the new redesign of the bill featuring the two separate watermarks featuring $5 -a denomination used heavily Civil War president, Abraham the numeral 5. The $100 bill has a in the machines. Lincoln. watermark with the image of The bureau will start printing the 
The changes are similar to those Benjamin Franklin. new notes next week at its facility in already made, starting in 2003, to The security thread embedded in Fort Worth, Texas. The goal is to the $10, $20 and $50 bills. In those the $5 bill also has been moved to a have 1.5 billion $5 bills ready to be redesigns, pastel colors were added different location than the one put into circulation, at a date still to as part of an effort to stay ahead of embedded in the $100 bill. be determined. counterfeiters and their ever-more­"We wanted this redesigned bill to The new $5 design also incorpo­sophisticated copying machines. scream, 'I am a five. I am a five,"' rates a number of other state-of­
Originally, the five wasn't going to Larry Felix, director of the Bureau the-art security features. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 21, 2007 
Kippur 
continued from page 1 
very understanding about it. look forward to rerlncting about what's going on in my life and wondering what tlw 
rwxt year is going to he like for me." 
Although tlwrn will lw no formal ~~ e Ie br a t io n of Yom Kippur on campus, Campus Ministry is working to he I p coo rd i­nate nvents in the futun\ said Hahhi Michael 
Signer. a faculty nwmbnr in tlw t.hnolo~-,ry dnpartnwnt. 
"For Yom Kippur. .Jewish students at Notre Damn will attend one of the synagogues in South Bend -either Tern pin Beth El, Sinai Synagogue or Ithn I llnbrnw Orthodox Congregation." he said. "Additionally, t.hn ND people that were there to cele­brate," she said. 
.Judy Fcan, the director of Campus Ministry, didn't attend thn b1~atif1cation but said Saint Mary's honored Moreau in South Bend with a mass last Sunday. 
Fean sits on tlw College's Beatification committee. The committee is made up of' peo­ple from diff'nrent depart­ments of Saint Mary's, all planning various events in honor of the beatification, she said. 
The committee has planned a liturgy for Moreau's feast day on Jan. 20. A n~treat will also be held during tho spring senwster, with the tlwnw of praying with Moreau. There will also bn a lecturn series in October untitled, "For all the Saints: The Journey of Father Moreau," Fean said. 
Sister Betty Smoyer, said she bnlieved that the beatification will lw a gift to the campus. 
"!The beatification isl an opportunity for us to learn anew the great gift of Father Moreau's vision and the great gift of his spirit," she said. 
Smoyer added that the beat­il'ieation could benel'it the campus in a spiritual sense as well. 
"A person being raised to this level calls the whole chureh to a now sense of eom­rnunity," she said. "We have a new intereessor ... we ean pray for him to intercede for us." 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Thanking Father Ted 





$$$$ $$$$$$$$$ 
lfll'brlllll lkmy 1-Wf' VNI'*~NMtr:>lntn.-l:~r!dll 1')1~$<Jfl7 


oney!/ 
THEN 
NOW 

lOfJ7 -l\'1) lrOme11 C:laJ1 undStudelll ( ;ovenulunt O.ffirer.r
rtcruitingposttr 

Participate in an Experiment
.S16.95
$r6.9f 

.Swfrom the sale ofeat"h poster will be donatfd to ND Getzder Relations Center 

at Notre Daine 
In Bookstores Nationwide September 4th From Andrews McMeel Publishing 
Thanking Father··.. 
In Less Than Two Hour~
Ted 

Thrity-Five Yl".m of Notre [},me C.ucdocatiun 
For more info please visit http://"W"\\w.nd.edu/-interact 
Tltilnklng 1'1thrt Tccl hHintl.uwn 
.,.. 

,\un TIH:trH Th11n P~tlmtn, E.!Jt~H 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
ND alumnae and N/J celebrities thank Father Tedfor the g~(t of coeducation and discuss the impact oftheir ND etfucatirm..f. 
Profits benefit The Thanking Father 'Jed Scholar.rhip Fund 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundation 
/•or more infomzution. go to www. TbankingFatberTed.com 
Notre Dame WfJmen ~ Connect 
llolocaust Project, celebrated during tlw spring, coordinates educational events for the entire campus to celebrate .Jewish ideas and history." Abrams, who is a fourth-gen­eration student, said he has felt comfortable being a mem­lwr of the .Jewish faith at 
"Though I'm Jewish. it's such a great atmosphere and f't'e had no problems adjusting to being one of the few Jews on a Catholic campus -I feel welcomed." 
Patrick Abrams freshman 

Moreau 
continued from page 1 
the director of donor rela­tions, Hichard Baxter of spe­cial events, John O'Connor, director of the board of 
trustnes and Debby Kelly, who
Notre 

works in human resources, all
Damn. 

joined Nickell at the beatilica­
"I nlally 

tion ecrnmony.
love this 

Snow shared Nickell's
campus and 

excitement about attending
it's a very 

the ceremony.
spiritual 

"I have come to know the
place to 

lloly Cross tradition through
be," he 

my serviee on the mission
s a. i d . 

couneil, and I knew it would
"Though 

be a great spiritual experi­
I'm Jewish, 

ence," Snow said.
it's such a 

The enremony was held at
g r o a t 

Antares, an arena in the area.
atmosphere 

"The beatif'ieation was
and I've 

mostly a big mass," Nickell
had no 

said. "They did have a formal
problems 

"I knew that this was a huge deal, but I don't think I eould
Own a Piece of ND History 
have known how excited everyone there was going to
Commemorating the 35th 
be," she said. "This is such a
Anniversary of ND Coeducation 
big deal for all of the brothers, sisters and priests of the Holy
At www.thankingfatherted.com 
Cross order and everyone
www.amazon.com and on campus 
assoeiated with it."
at The Notre Dame Bookstore 
Snow said for the Saint 



Mary's eommunity, the beatifi­cation should be a "rennwal of our commitment to the lloly Cross charismas. 
"I think it will miHtn a greater understanding of what it means to be a Holy Cross college," she said. 
It would also add "an aware­ness of the lloly Cross tradi­tion" to the campus, Snow said. 
Snow, Nickell and Cashorn were the representatives of the Saint Mary's eommunity at the ceremony. 
Cashore said the Congregation of the Holy Cross is denply ingrained in hnr life. She has had three gnnnrations of her family, including her­self, attend Saint Mary's and has bl~en working at the College for 18 years. 
"Everything I do personally, professionally and spiritually is tied into Saint Mary's and the Sisters of the Holy Cross," she said. 
The ceremony in France was emotionally moving, Cashore said. 
"At the beatification I was witnessing hundreds of priests and brothers and sisters from all over the world ... truly the family ... I think I really understood who the family of the Holy Cross is," she said. 
But for her, the most signifi­cant part of her trip to Le Mans was the ceremony that took place outside of the town where Moreau was baptized. 
"That was very touehing because it was a more person­al event kind of between the town and this whole group of 

adjusting to being 1mn of the few Jews on a Catholic cam­pus-I fpe( welcomed." 
Abrams said he is happy tho University offers resources surh as an ollidal dub and a .Jewish Studies program. 
Contact Rohan Anand at 
ranand@nd.edu 

rite of beatification in which we learned a little about Father Moreau's life and a for­mal petition, but other than that it was a normal mass. There was also an opening ceremony, a prayer vigil, and a mass of thanksgiving." 
Nickell said she was sur­prised by the excitoment sur­rounding the ceremony. 
Friday, September 21, 2007 
Dieter 
continued from page I 
who appointed the judge," Dieter said. 
Dieter expanded this theory to illustrate what he called tho "strange and absurd" nature of the death penalty. lin provided nconomic and moral arguments to support his assertion. 
California currently has 660 inmates on death row, Dieter said. and the state executes one person every two years. It costs substantially more to hold death row inmates than inmatos with life sentences due to extra court and appeals costs, Dieter said, and that cost is usually paid by the taxpayers. Dieter said this money could be "redis­tributed into law enforcement and other ways to make socie­ty safer." 
An audience member asked what Dieter would say to those who do not believe the death penalty is morally wrong. He responded that the death penalty is economically inefficient and said "the bur­den lies with those who say that the state has a right to take life." 
Dieter said 3,300 people are on death row, yet some of the worst people in American society -Eric Rudolf, Ted Kazynski, and Charles Cullen -received life sentences. lie also gave examples of inno­cent people who were con­demned to death, such as Anthony Porter, whose convic­tion was later overturned. 
Senior Shannon Heabe attended the lecture and said it "stressed the need to look at a more comprehensive pic­ture." 
Notre Dame Against State Killing cosponsored this lec­ture with Campus Ministry. 
Contact Nick Bock at nbock@nd.edu 
Rather sues CBS in name of journalism 
Former news anchor files $70 million suit 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-Dan Hather said Thursday that the undue influ­ence of the govnrnment and large corporations ovnr newsrooms spurred his decision to file a $70 million lawsuit against CBS and its former parent company. 
"Sonwbody. sometime has got to take a stand and say democra­l~Y cannot survive, much less thrive with the level of big corpo­rate and big government interfer­Pnce and intimidation in news." ho said on CNN's "Larry King Live." 
In tlw suit. filed a day earlier in state Supreme Court in Manhattan. Rather claimed CBS and Viacom Inc. used him as a "scapegoat" and intentionally botched the aftermath of a dis­credited story about President Bush's military service to curry favor with the White House. He was removed from his "CBS Evening News" post in March 2005. 
"They sacrificed support for independent journalism for cor­porate financial gain, and in so doing, I think they undermined a lot at CBS News." he told King. 
Hather didn't mention other instances in which he believed news organizations bowed to cor­porate and government pressure. 
CBS spokesman Dana McClintock did not return an after-hours call seeking comment Thursday. lie has called Rather's complaints "old news" and said the lawsuit was "without merit." A spokesman for Viacom declined to comment. 
Journalism ethics scholar Bob StePln said Hatlwr would have a difficult time proving that the White llouse or other political operatives exertnd undue influ­ence on CBS. 
"It would be naive for us to believe that there was no influ­ence from powerful institutions and individuals on journalism," said Steele, a scholar at the Poynter Institute, a journalism foundation in St. Petersburg, Fla. 

Still, he said: "For the most part, the journalists who run news organizations and who report the news fight hard to pro­tect the independenee of the jour­nalism. and most of the time suc­ceed." 
Hather narrated the September 2004 n~port that said Bush dis­obeyed orders and shirked some of his duties during his National Guard service. It also said a com­mander felt pressured to sugar­coat Bush's record. 
The story relied on four docu­ments, supposedly written by Bush's commander in the Texas Air National Guard, the late Lt. Col. Jerry Killian. Critics ques­tioned the documents' authentici­ty and suggested they were forged. 
A panel selected by the net­work to investigate the story determined that it was neither fair nor accurate. CBS fired the story's producer and asked for the resignations of three execu­tives because it could not authen­ticate documents used in the story. Rather was forced out of the anchor chair he had occupied for 24 years. 
On CNN, Rather dismissed the panel's review, claiming it was not impartial. 
"This was in many ways a fraud. It was a setup," he told King. 
Louis D. Boccardi, the retired chief P.J{ecutive of The Associatf~d Press who made up the two-man investigative panel with Hichard Thornburgh, the former U.S. attorney general, defended the panel's work Thursday night. 
"Our report was independent, and it speaks for itself," he said, echoing comments made by Thornburgh on Wednesday. Both declined to eomment further. 
Recycle The 
Observer. 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
New casinos threaten bingo 
Allure of gaming prizes diminishes popularity of classic game 
Associated Press 

WATEHTOWN, Mass. Pauline LaCava can rattle off locations of bingo games that closed in her hometown as fast as she can scan her bingo sheet, dabbing pink ink marks on numbers as they're called at Saint Patrick Church in Watertown. 
"There used to be one every night of the week," said LaCava, 80, seated at the rear of the Catholic church base­ment, where the night's top prize will be $330. "I definitely feel the casinos hurt bingos. Foxwoods has the bingo every day and every night." 
Bingo had been a reliable source of revenue for churches, schools, youth sports leagues and veterans' organizations since the early 1970s. The games have been on the decline for several years, in part because of aging players, smoking bans and the lure of Keno and casinos. 
Now, bingo players and the organizations that benefit from the games in this area worry that proposed casinos would be the final blow. 
Gov. Deval Patrick on Monday announced he wants to license three resort casinos in Massachusetts in a bid to gen­erate $450 million in annual tax revenue. The licenses would be put up for bid in a competitive process open to Indian tribes and casino com­panies. 
"It will close us down," said the He.v. Francis Daley, pastor of Saints Martha and Mary Church in Lakeville, which bor­ders Middleborough. the town in which the Mashpee Wampanoag tribe wants to build a $1 billion casino. "We cannot compete with their prizes." 
The Thursday night game attracts 120 players, raising $40,000 per year for the church, helping pay bills at a time when overall contributions to Catholic churehes are down. 
Bingo revenue in Massachusetts is at a 32-year low, according to the charitable gaming division of the Massachusetts Lottery. Gross revenue last year was $102 million, the lowest since 1974. the third year of legalized bingo in Massachusetts. It was $252 million in 1993, but has slid every year since. 
Organizations get less than 20 percent of the gross revenue after paying out prizes, expens­es, and 5 percent state tax. 
Bingo organizers who see the effects elsewhere say they have reason to worry. 
In Connecticut, Foxwoods Resort Casino opened a bingo hall in 1986, and its full casino in 1992. Mohegan Sun opened four years later. From about that point, charitable bingo revenues have fallen. Gross revenue from charitable bingo fell from $34.6 million in 1995 to $23.7 million last year, according to Connecticut's Division of Special Hevenue. 

In the Catholic Dioceso of Buffalo, N.Y., bingo receipts fell by 36 percent from 2000 to 2006, including a 9.6 percent drop last year, said spokesman Kevin Keenan, who blamed Canadian casinos and a work­place smoking ban. 
In Ohio, the Aquinas Central Catholic School in Steubenville, located near two West Virginia casinos, eliminated bingo two years ago after a drop in atten­dance. 
"Slot machines, craps and blackjack _ on a relative scale _ are very exciting and are going to draw people away from bingo," said Dartmouth College economics professor Bruce Sacerdote, who co-wrote a 2005 report examining the eco­nomic impact of legalized gam­bling in Massachusetts. 
The Massachusetts casino debate reignited this year after the Mashpee Wampanoags won federal recognition as a tribe, bought land in Middleborough and unveiled plans for a resort casino to compete with Foxwoods and Mohegan Sun. The Aquinnah Wampanoag Indians have declared that they'll open a casino if their Mashpee counterparts do the same. 
Several other commercial casino proposals have been floated, but the Legislature still needs to approve expanded gambling before a full-scale casino can be built. 
But even without legislative approval, recognition gives. tribes the right to operate bingo parlors, and the Mashpee Wampanoags have said they'll do that in Middleborough if they can't build a casino. 
The Massachusetts Catholic Conference, which represents the state's four bishops, urged the Legislature to reject the plan. In a statement Monday, it said casinos will create addict­ed gamblers and that "the harm will reach far beyond individual gamblers by affect­ing their spouses, children, dependents, employers and the community in which they live. 

IN HONOR OF BLESSED BASIL MOREAU 
Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross 
The story of Basil Moreau, the recently beatified founder of 
the Congregation of Holy Cross, comes to life in this updated 
edition of his biography. 

ISBN: 9781594711336 I 256 pages with 8-page photo insert I $15.95 
MacEoin sgentle and re~pectjul s~yle brings Fr. Moreau to life in a wayfew others ofhis biographers have, and I hope this new edition receives wide reading. 
FATHER JOHN JENKINS, C.S.C. President, the University of Notre Dame 
MacEoin 's biography ofBasil Moreau is a reminder ofhow the cross was woven into tbe whole cloth wbicb was the founder's life. This story as told by MacEoin is more than history; it is sustenancefor our continuingjourneyfrom faith to hope, well worth reading again. 
BROTHER RICHARD B. GILMAN, C.S.C. President. Holy Cross College 
Aprogressive educator who aimed to ret'ita/ize religion through 
zcider diffusion ofkn01l'ledge. Moreauu•as committed to tbe 
excellent professionalpreparation ofHo~)' Crossfacui~J'. That 
commitment bas born excellentfruit. Everyone in Ho~)' Cross 
ministry should read this book. 
CAROL ANN MOONEY, PH.D. President. Saint Mary's College 


To read more about Basil Moreau visit our website at www.avemariapress.com 
Available from your bookstore, Hammes Notre Dome bookstore, or from 
ave maria press I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
www.avemariapress.com I Ph: 800-282-1865
A ~ 
ave maria press• A Ministry of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross 
Keycode: AD2090705PL 

page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 21, 2007 

Ken David Watercolors 
SCENES INCLUDE: THE GOLDEN DOME A DORM THE STADIUM THEGROTIO AND 43 OTHER SCENES 
INCLUDING SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 


EACH HANDCOLORED PRINT COMES IN AN 11 X14 DOUBLE MAT $29.95 PLUS SHIPPING 
3680 NE 15TH TERRACE POMPANO BEACH, FL 33064 

Please recycle 
Lawsuit against God gets response 
inhabitants." 
Associated Press 
Chambers, a self-prodaimed 

LINCOLN, Neb. -A legisla­agnostic who often criticizns tor who filed a lawsuit against Christians, said his filing was God has gotten something he triggered by a fnderal lawsuit might not have expncted: a he considers frivolous. lie said response. he's trying to makes the point 
One of two court filings from that anybody can sue anybody. "God" cam(~ Wednesday under Not so, says "God." llis otherworldly circumstancns, responsn argues that the according to John Friend, elnrk defendant is immune from of the Douglas County District some earthly laws and the Court in Omaha. court lacks jurisdiction. 
"This onn miraculously It adds that blaming God for appearnd on the counter. It just human oppression and suffer­all of a sudden was here -ing misses an important point. pool'!" Friend said. "I creatnd man and woman 
State Sen. Ernie Chambnrs of with free will and nnxt to the Omaha sued God last week, promisn of immortal lifo, free seeking a permanent injunc­will is my grnatost gif't to you," tion against the Almighty for aceording to the rnsponsn, as making terroristic throats, read by Friend. inspiring fnar and causing Thorn was no eontal:t infor­"widespread death, destruction mation on the filing, although and terrorization of millions St. Miehanl thn Arehangel is upon millions of thn Earth's listed as a witness, Friend said. 
rGo IRISH
~: 

IRDI/lRt ~U~ CO. 
Custo1n Area Rug.s:  
Fabrication & De:·dgn  Carpet Binding  
Carved and lnlayed  Area Rug Repair  
Bordered  Floorcloths  
Tapest1y  Wearable & Other  
lfooked1Prodding  Fiber Arts  

indianarugco.com 

574.233.7312

1217 N. Merrifield l'v1ishawaka, IN 46545 

FOOTBALL HOURS edefvtate ut.itft .Cujetul1! 
FRIDAY Join us after the pep rally for food, Restaurant 11:00 am -Midnigh~ 
drinks, and live music. Return on
Pub: 11:00 am · 2:00 am 

Saturday to cheer on the Irish and
SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00 am · Midnight celebrate with friends and fans! Pub: 8:00 am -2:00 am 
Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
IRAQ 
Cholera outbreak prompts health concerns 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -The World Health Organization con­firmed on Thursday the first cholera case in Baghdad since 2003, raising fears the disease is spreading from the north of the country where it has struck more than 1,000 peo­ple. 
A 25-year-old woman from eastern Baghdad was found to have cholera after she turned up at a hospital with severe diarrhea, said Dr. Naeema al­Gasseer, the WHO's represen­tative in Iraq. 
Cholera is a gastrointestinal disease that is typically spread by drinking contaminated water and can cause severe diarrhea that, in extreme cases, can lead to fatal dehy­dration. 
The disease broke out in Iraq in mid-August, but had been confined to northern 
Iraq, affecting the provinces of Sulaimaniyah, lrbil and Tamim, which is home to the oil-rich city of Kirkuk. At least 10 people have died, accord­ing to WHO. 
Several suspected cholera cases also have been reported in Diyala province, north of Baghdad, but al-Gasseer said none had been confirmed. 
Cholera is endemic to Iraq, with about 30 cases registered each year. But the last time there was an epidemic in the country was in 1999 when 20 cases were discovered in one day, said Adel Muhsin, the Health Ministry's inspector­general. 
Al-Gasseer said health authorities were concerned the disease could spread because of the movement of people within Iraq's borders. Hundreds of thousands of dis­placed people have been forced to flee their homes 
because of violence. symptoms of cholera such as 
A disease that would other­diarrhea and vomiting in the wise be easily treatable has northern provinces. Out of been made all the more dan­those, laboratory tests have gerous because of Iraq's pre-confirmed 1,055 cases of carious cholera. security sit-It said 10 
uation lowing  fol­the  "We need to look at safe  people have died _ nine in  
U.S.-led invasion that toppled Sad dam  water, safe import offood, hygiene, the network of water and the network of  Sulaimaniyah and one in Tamim. Al-Gasseer  
Huss.ein 2003.  in  sewage disposal. "  also said some 100,000  
"We  need  tons of chlo­ 
to  look  at  Naeema ai-Gasseer  rine  were  
safe water,  WHO representative  being held up  
safe import  at Iraq's bor­ 
of  food,  der  with  
hygiene, the  Jordan,  

network of water and the net­apparently because of fears work of sewage disposal," al­the chemical could be used in Gasseer said in a telephone explosives. She urged authori­interview. ties to release it for use in 
The latest WHO report dated decontaminating water sup­Sept. 14 reported a total of plies. 24,532 cases of people with Insurgents in the country 
staged several chlorine truck bombings this year, killing scores of Iraqis. 
Muhsin confirmed such con­cerns were holding up the border shipment but said he was told the problem was solved and that the chlorine would arrive soon. Chlorine will be added in higher doses to Baghdad's water supply as a precaution against cholera, Muhsin said. 
His teams recently tested drinking water across the cap­ital and discovered chlorine levels on 20 locations were inadequate to prevent cholera. Also, several ice factories were closed in Iraq because of cholera concerns, he said. 
The Health Ministry would continue checking drinking water in all Iraqi cities, Muhsin told The Associated Press, and teams would inspect ice factories and ice cream make.rs. 
FRANCE 
Neptunehaswarm South Pole 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Scientists say that Neptune, one of the coldest planets in the solar system, has a surprising warm spot ­relatively speaking. 
An international team of astronomers has found that Neptune's south pole is warmer than other parts of the planet. 
-Temperatures at its south pole are about 18 degrees warmer than elsewhere on the planet -not much for a plan­et with an average tempera­ture colder than 320 degrees below zero. 
The apparent reason is that the south pole has been in the summer sunlight for about 40 years. 
Neptune is nearly 2.8 billion miles away from the sun. A Neptunian year -the time it takes to orbit the sun -is equivalent to about 165 Earth years. 
One result of that has been to expose Neptune's southern pole to the sun for nearly 40 years, warming it up. Because it is so far away, Neptune gets only l/900th of the sunlight that Earth receives, but it still appears to have had a signifi­cant impact. 
An array of scientific organi­zations announced the findings Tuesday, including the govern­ment-funded CNRS research body in France and ESO, the European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere, whose telescope in Chile was used. 
"Neptune's south pole is cur­rently tilted toward the sun, just like the Earth's south pole is tilted toward the sun during summer in the southern hemi­sphere," astronomer Glenn Orton, lead author of the find­ings, said in an ESO news release. 
"On Neptune, the Antarctic summer lasts 40 years instead of a few months, and a lot of solar energy input during that time can make big tempera­ture differences between the regions in continual sunlight and those with day-night vari­ations," he said. 
The heat has, in turn, defrosted methane normally trapped as ice in the planet's atmosphere, releasing it as gas, the CNRS said. It said there is eight times more methane over the south pole than in the rest of the planet's atmosphere. 
The abundance of gaseous methane in Neptune's strato­sphere had gone unexplained until now, it added. 
Episcopal bishops seek to keep Anglican role 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS-Episcopal bishops met privately for seven hours Thursday with the arch­bishop of Canterbury, trying to preserve the church's role in the Anglican family despite Episcopal support for gays. 
The denomination is the Anglican body in the U.S. and has a more liberal view of Scripture than most Anglicans overseas. Tensions over Bible interpretation erupted in 2003, when Episcopalians consecrat­ed the first openly gay bishop, 
V. Gene Robinson of New Hampshire. 
Archbishop Rowan Williams, the Anglican spiritual leader, has been struggling to keep the 77 million-member Anglican Communion from breaking apart _ an effort he has called "exhausting." Unlike a pope, Williams doesn't have direct authority to force a resolution. 
Colorado Bishop Robert O'Neill, who briefed reporters after the meeting, called the conversation "open and forth­right," but provided few specifics. 
But Canon Jim Naughton, a spokesman for the Diocese of Washington, said Williams had suggested that Episcopalians "needed to exercise greater concern" for unity. 
The archbishop also asked Episcopal leaders "how far they were willing to go" to ful­fill demands from Anglican leaders that they roll back their support for gays and les­bians. 
Williams "made it clear that he believed the Episcopal Church had acted preemptively in consecrating Bishop Robinson," Naughton said. 
Wright house adds to 1architectural experience' 
Associated Press  keting at Kentuck Knob. "We sell fantasy here because people  Dean shouts over the roar of the nearby waterfall.  The six-sided shape aligns the overhangs and fills the skylights  1986. Palumbo, a friend of the late Princess Diana and Great  
ACME,  Pa.  Western  come through here and they are  Fallingwater made Wright  as the house stands in grand  Britain's royal family, put a mas­ 
Pennsylvania has long been home to two of renowned archi­ transcended from their everyday life into Frank Lloyd Wright's  popular again, and he went on to design another 200 buildings,  style over the Youghiogheny River gorge.  sive sculpture garden on the property, including two pieces of  
tect Frank Lloyd Wright's best known works. Kentuck Knob and  vision." Fallingwater, designed for the  including Kentuck Knob and Duncan House.  Wright, who was working on 12 other projects at the time,  the Berlin Wall. Just 15 miles from there-but  
Fallingwater. Now, a third Wright creation, the Duncan House, has been moved here from Lisle, Ill., offer­ing visitors a broad architectural experience -tours of two impressive homes and an overnight stay in a 1950s-era house. Each of the homes is a differ­ Kaufmann family of the depart­ment store fortune, is an upscale home that cost $155,000 in 1937, or $2.1 million today. The house's concrete terraces flow over and alongside the Bear Run waterfall, giving the appearance that it is one with nature. Currently maintained and run by the Western Pennsylvania  Located just seven miles from Fallingwater, Ken tuck Knob was built in 1956 for the Hagans, who owned the  "We sell fantasy here because people come through here and they are transcendedfrom their everyday life into Frank Lloyd Wright's vision. "  including the Guggenheim Museum in New York, vis­ited the prop­erty only once for three hours while it was being built. He designed the  about a 30 minute drive along winding mountain roads ­is the Duncan House. A more modest, prefabricated Usonian, it is one of only nine of this type ever built. Carefully reconstructed on the 125-acre Polymath Park Resort, the home opened in June to overnight guests, nearly a year  
ent style, providing an overview or the artist..<;' work in a 30-mile radius, making it one of just about a dozen places nationwide where several Wright buildings are on display in a concise area. Duncan House is one of only six in the United States that are  Conservancy, Fallingwater gets more than 120,000 visitors annually. Last December, actress Angelina Jolie surprised boyfriend Brad Pitt with a visit to the home for his birthday. At a time when Wright had become known as the "old man  largest dairy entire struc­farm west of Patricia Coyle ture by looking t h e Kentuck Knob director of at topographic Alleghenies. maps andmarketingThe home is interviewing considered a the Hagans. higher-end Usonian, a name The home opened to visitors 11 coined by the architect for works years ago, when Lord Peter  after the grueling process of put­ting it back together began. "Every day was problem-solv­ing really ... The challenge was not only rebuilding a house built 50 years earlier, but one that had fallen into disrepair," said Laura Nesmith, the resort's director,  
open to overnight guests. "This is the trinity for us," said Patricia Coyle, director of mar- of modern architecture," Fallingwater broke a 10-year lull in his work, tour guide Louise  aimed at the middle class. The stone house with its cop­per roof has a hexagonal theme.  Palumbo, the current owner, sought a way to maintain the house he bought for $600,000 in  explaining that many parts had to be refurbished as construction was in process.  

page 12 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 21,2007 
------·­
=~--~==-=====================================---===========-==================~= 
PERU 
Meteorite crashes near Lake Titicaca 
Associated Press 
LIMA, Pnru -P!lruvian 

astronomers said Thursday 
that evidence shows a mete­
orite crashed near Lake 
Titieaca over thn weekend, 
lnaving an elliptical crater and 
magnetic rock fragments in an 
impact powerful enough to 
rngister on snismic charts. 
As other astronomers learned more details, thny too said it appears likely that a lngitimatn nwtnoritn hit Earth on Saturday -an rare occurnnce. 
The Earth is constantly bom­barded with objecl<i from outer space, but most burn up in the atmosphere and never reach the planet's surface. Only onn in a thousand rocks that poo­ple elairn arn meteorites turn out to bo rnal, according to Jay Melosh, an export on impact cratc\rs and professor of plane­tary scienc~e at the Univnrsity of Arizona. 
Melosh was skeptical at lirst, initially calling it a "non-metn­oritn" and suggesting that the crater might have possibly como from bPlow as a vokanic eruption. Tlwn seientists loarrwd of morn dntails about tho cratnr, as well as witrwss dnscriptions of a thundorous roar and a rain of smallnr roc~ks corning down. 
"It begins to sound more likely to me that this object could indeed be a meteorito," Melosh said Thursday. 
Such impacts arc rare, and astronomists still want to do other tests to confirm tlw strike. 
Other details don't add up, tlwy said -such as witness aceounts of watnr in the muddy crater boiling for I 0 rninutns from thn heat. Meteorites are actually cold when they hit l~arth, astrono­mists say, since tlwir outer lay­ers burn up and fall away hefom impact. 
l•:xpert.s also puzzlnd over daims that 200 local residents wnrn sicknrwd by fumes from the crater. Doctors who exam­ined them found no evidence of illness relatnd to the mete­orite, and one suggested a psy­chosomatic reaction to the sight and sound of the plung­ing meteor. 
More details emerged when astrophysicist Jose Ishitsuka of Peru's Geophysics Institute reachnd the site about 6 miles from Lake Titicaca. lie con­firmed that a meteorite caused a crater 42 feet wide and 15 feet dcwp. the institute's presi­dent, Honald Woodman. told Tlw Associatnd Prnss on Thursday. 
lshitsuka recovered a 3-inch magnetic fra~-,rment and said it contained iron, a mineral found in all rocks from space. The impact also registnred a magnitude-1.5 tremor on the institute'r; seismic equipment -that's as much as an explo­sion of 4.9 tons of dynamite, Woodman said. 
Local residents described a fiery ball falling from tho sky and smashing into the desolate Andean plain. 
Doetors told an Associated Press Tcdnvision News camera­man at the site that they had found no sign of radioactivn contamination among families living nearby. But they said they had taken samples of blood, urine and hair to ana­lyze. 
Pnasants living near the crater said they had smelled a sulfurous odor for at least an hour after the metnorite struek and that it had provoked upset stomachs and headaches. But lshitsuka said he doubts rnports of a sulfurous smell. 
Metnor expert Ursula Marvin said that if pnople were sick­ennd, "it wouldn't be the mete­oritn itsnlf. but tlw dust it rais-Ps.'' 
A meteorite "wouldn't get much gas out of the narth," said Marvin. who has studied the objects sincn 1961 at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Obsnrvatory in Massachusetts. "It's a very superficial thing." 
Teacher pleads guilty to sex charges 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -A man honored as among the best teachers in Utah pleaded guilty Thursday to felony sex charges involving 11 students at his suburban classroom. 
Frank Laine Hall, 37, who taught l'irst grade in the Salt Lake City suburb of Hiverton until his arrest last March, could get up to 30 years to life in prison, prosecutor Rodwicke Ybarra said. 
Hall pleaded guilty to 10 counts of attempted aggravat­ed sex abuse of a child and 
one count of sex abuse of a child in a plea agreement that dismissed tive other eounts of aggravated sex abuse of a child, Ybarra said. 
The agreement will ensure that he must register as a sex offender for life, Ybarra said. 
In court Thursday, Hall admitted he touched the stu­dents inappropriately, Ybarra said. 
The former teacher didn't respond to an e-mail Thursday sent through his animated class Web site, which is still up but appears dated. His lawyer, David 
Finlayson, refused to take any calls from The Associated Press. 
llall remains free on $500,000 bail until his sen­tencing Nov. 14. 
Hall was aecusod of putting his hand inside the pants of three girls at Hosamond Elementary School in Hiverton. Then eight other students came forward with similar accounts, Ybarra said. 
Authorities were tipped by the parents of one student, and school ofl'icials said they immediately barred Hall from the classroom. 



NowLeasing For2008-2009 
• 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 1,160 square feet 
• 
Large balcony and cathedral ceilings 

• 
Washer/dryer, dishwasher, central air conditioning 

• 
Walking distance to campus 


Write News. Call Karen at 631­5323. 

Live, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
.. 
< . . .

WASHINGT,' N 
R GRAM
',,. ,_ •••.w. ·,_ ' _,,, ..,,, " . _,.. 

INFORMATION SESSION 
Monday, September 24, 2007 231 Hayes-Healy, 4:30 p.m. 
With special guest l)an LeDuc, l)eputy Editor of The Washington Po.rt, and Notre Dan1e \'Vashington Progratn Faculty l'vfetnber 
Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is November 15, 2007. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
Friday, September 21, 2007 ·The Observer + NEWS page 13 
CAMBODIA 
Suspect charged with war crimes 
Detention center will have amenities 
Associated Press 
PHNOM PENH -The top Khmer Rouge suspect awaiting trial before a U.N.-backed geno­cide tribunal will get cable TV and regular visits from doctors while in detention -amenities out of reach for most impover­ished Cambodians. 
Former Khmer Rouge ideolo­gist Nuon Chea -who is 82 and in declining health from a stroke was arrested Wednesday and flown to Phnom Penh, where he was charged with crimes against humanity and war crimes. 
Nuon Chea spent his first night in a detention cell at the tribunal headquarters on the outskirts of the capital, tribunal spokesman Reach Sambath said Thursday. 
We have been informed by medical doctors and detention guards that he is in good spirits. He is in "good health for an eld­erly person," the spokesman said, adding that it was impor­tant to "provide the best servic­es we can" so he stays healthy enough to face trial. 
The tribunal is investigating abuses committed when the communist Khmer Rouge held power from 1975-1979. The Khmer Rouge's radical policies have been blamed for the deaths of 1.7 million of their countrymen from starvation, overwork and execution. 
Nuon Chea has denied any responsibility for the regime's mass brutality, though he has said he was ready to face the tribunal. He made no comments upon his arrest Wednesday, but his son indicated Nuon Chea would cooperate with the panel. 
"My father is happy to shed light on the Khmer Rouge regime for the world and people to understand," Nuon Say said. 
Nuon Chea joined the Khmer Rouge in the 1950s in its forma­tive stages as the country's underground communist party, later becoming its chief political ideologue and right-hand man to Pol f>ot. 
Nuon Chea is the second, and highest-ranking, Khmer Rouge leader detained to appear before the panel. 
Kaing Guek Eav, also known as Ouch, who headed the for­mer Khmer Rouge S-21 torture center, was charged on July 31 with crimes against humanity. Prosecutors have recommended three other suspects for trial, but have not named them pub­licly. 
Ouch has told investigators that Nuon Chea had "direct command" over S-21, where many purged communist cadre were detained, tortured and executed. 
Reach Sambath said both sus­pects' cells were equipped with cable television and a radio. Nuon Chea has previously told journalists he spends most of his time listening to radio news or watching English soccer, including his favorite team liverpool. 
Nuon Chea will be given three high-calorie meals a day to ensure he stays healthy, and four Cambodian doctors, five nurses and an ambulance will be available around-the-clock for both men, the spokesman said. 
"Cambodian people in general do not get the kind of services they are getting," Reach Sambath said. "But we want them to live as long as possible so that they .can defend them­selves and confront the law." 
Chum Mey, 77, one of the few survivors of S-21 prison, recalled his brutal incarcera­tion. 
He was tortured, shackled in a tiny cell with a small ammuni­tion box to use as a toilet and given a twice-daily ration of porridge consisting largely of water and a few grains ofrice, he said. 
"But I do not envy them," he said of the defendants. "If we do not give them good services, they could fall ill. If something worse than that happens to them, it will be very frustrat­ing." 
Tension high after shooting 
Commission investigates why security company opened fire 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush on Thursday refused to criticize a U.S. security company in Iraq accused in a shooting that left 11 civilians dead, saying investigators need to determine if the guards violated rules gov­erning their operations. 
Bush said he expected Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki would raise the shooting by agents of Blackwater USA when they meet next week at the U.N. General Assembly. 
Al-Maliki has urged the U.S. Embassy to find another security firm to protect its diplomats, say­ing he cannot tolerate "the killing of our citizens in cold blood." He called the shootings a "crime" and said they had gener­ated "widespread anger and hatred." 
"Obviously, to the extent inno­cent life was lost, you know, I'm saddened," the president said at a wide-ranging news conference. "Our objective is to protect inno­cent life. And we've got a lot of brave souls in the theater work­ing hard to protect innocent life." 
Officials of Blackwater, the Moyock, N.C.-based company, say its employees acted appro­priately in response to an armed attack Sunday against a State Department convoy. Blackwater is the main provider of body­guards and armed escorts for 
U.S. government civilian employ­ees in Iraq. 
In a telephone conversation on Monday, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice asked al-Maliki to delay any initial action to the shooting and that any permanent measures be held up until all the facts were known, a senior State Department official said, speak­ing on condition of anonymity to provide details of the private dis­cussion. 
Maliki, however, insisted on taking a stronger line and warned that continued use of the contractors would further inflame tensions, the official said. Blackwater's operations in Iraq were suspended, prompting the U.S. embassy in Baghdad to ban all road convoys by diplo­mats and other civilian person­nel outside the heavily fortified Green Zone. 
A U.S.-Iraqi commission is looking into the shooting. 

The shooting is the latest source of tension between Baghdad and Washington as Bush presses ahead with the Iraq war despite strong opposi­tion across the United States and in the Democratic-led Congress. A week ago, Bush announced gradual cutbacks in U.S. forces from the current peak of 168,000 soldiers. Even so, the plan would leave 130,000 U.S. troops or more in Iraq next sum­mer. 
Bush acknowledged Baghdad would not meet the goal he set last January for Iraq to take over security in all of its 18 provinces by November. 
"Achieving those goals have been slower than we thought," Bush said. But he said the goals were still worth pursuing. 
"Part of the reason why there's not this instant democracy in Iraq is because people are still recovering from Saddam Hussein's brutal rule," Bush said. "Sort of an interesting comment, I heard somebody say, 'Where's Mandela?' Well, Mandela's dead because Saddam Hussein killed all the Mandelas." 
It was a reference to the charismatic former leader of South Africa who helped recon­cile his country after decades of racial division. Mandela is still alive. 
On another foreign policy issue, Bush said he took serious­ly threats by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. "This is a person that consistently talks about the use of force on Israel, for example, and Israel is our very firm and strong ally," Bush said. 
He was asked about a recent statement by France's foreign minister that the international community should prepare for the possibility of war in the event Iran obtains atomic weapons ­although the official later stressed the focus remains on diplomatic pressures. 
"I have consistently stated that I am hopeful that we can con­vince the Iranian regime to give up any ambitions it has in devel­oping a weapons program, and do so peacefully," Bush said. "That ought to be the objective of any diplomacy." 
He also defended the decision of New York officials to deny Ahmadinejad permission to lay a wreath next week at ground zero -site of the detroyed World Trade Center. "I can understand why they would not want some­body that's running a country that's a state .sponsor of terror down there at the site," the pres­ident said. 
FRANCE 
French President accuses Iran of nuclear activity 
Associated Press  The United States and other world powers suspect Tehran of  has convinced North Korea and Libya? Through discussion, dia­ Washington Thursda~ expanded on the recommendation by  next few weeks on a resolution for new sanctions.  
PARIS - French President  seeking nuclear weapons, while  logue, sanctions," he said.  Sarkozy for tightening sanctions.  He said the U.S. hopes to pre­ 
Nicolas Sarkozy accused Iran  Tehran insists it only wants  Sarkozy stepped back slightly  "An  Iran  with  a  military  pare the groundwork for the new  
directly  of  seeking  nuclear  nuclear technology to produce  from comments by  nuclear capa­ resolution  at  a  meeting  in  
weapons Thursday and suggest­ electricity. Two rounds of U.N.  Foreign Minister  bility is, for  Washington on Friday of political  
ed tougher sanctions against the Mideast nation. Sarkozy, who has toughened the French position on Iran since  sanctions have failed to end the deadlock. "It's a very difficult matter, but France does not want war,"  Bernard Kouchner on Sunday that the world should "pre­pare for the worst"  "fran is trying to acquire a nuclear bomb. I say to the  us, an unac­ceptable prospect," he said, speaking  directors from six key nations that have been trying to negotiate with Iran -the U.S., Russia, China, France, Britain and  
taking office in May, called the possibility of an Iranian bomb "unacceptable."  Sarkozy said. He said negotia­tions with Iran were still possible. Sarkozy, known for his frank  in Iran, specifically 'war.' Amid criti­cism, Kouchner  French, 'It's unacceptable.,,,  in English. "If sanctions without dia­ Germany -and at a follow-up ministerial meeting in New York next Friday.  
Sarkozy was expected to dis­ manner, dispensed with diplo­ later softened that,  logue  can  "I expect tl1e issue to be trans­ 
cuss sanctions with other world  matic niceties when referring to  insisting he just  Nicolas Sarkozy  only lead to  ferred  to  New York,  to  the  
leaders at the U.N.  General  Iran's nuclear activities.  wanted to under­ French President  confrontation,  Security Council, in the next sev­ 
Assembly next week.  "Iran is trying to acquire a  line the gravity of  dialogue  eral weeks," Khalilzad said in an  
If current sanctions are not suf­ nuclear  bomb.  I say  to  the  the  Iranian  without sanc­ interview with three reporters.  
ficient, Sarkozy said, "I want  French, 'It's unacceptable,"'  nuclear problem.  tions is unfortunately tantamount  "We expect that we would ... get  
stronger sanctions," he said in a  Sarkozy said.  "I would not have used the  to weakness."  an agreement in the next few  
televised interview. But he insist­ "How can we convince (the  word  'war,"'  Sarkozy  said  Meanwhile, U.S. Ambassador  weeks. That's our expectation.  
ed that France does not want to  Iranians) to renounce this project  Thursday.  Zalmay Khalilzad said that the  That's  what  we're  working  
see tensions lead to war.  as the international community  Kouchne~  in  a  speech  in  U.S. expects agreement in the  towards."  

page 14 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 21, 2007 Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Cairo Information Session · Study Arabic, Middle East Politics, Egyptology, Business, Engineering, Science, etc. in the heart of the Arabic world · Academic year and semester options · Study at the American University in Cairo • Make contacts in the modern capital of the Middle East · Experience modern I ife in the desert Tuesday, Sept. 25 Walk, talk, and 5:30PM live like an Egyptian120 DeBartolo Hall APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2007  
"These condos are a win-win proposition!" -Mike Golic, ESPN Personality and tormer Notre Dame tootball player, Class of '85. You'll win when you stay in your luxurious Waterf(>rd Estates Lodge Plus, purchase n unit now and Waterf(),·d will donHte 2% condo unit lor Notre Dame f~)otball weekends and more ­it compares ofthe purchase price to Hannah g.. friends-<.1 charity to a three-star hotel with indoor and outdoor pools. fitness facilities, founded by Maura and Charlie Weis to help improve the HANNA fRifNDS restaunmt and an authentic Irish pub. quality oflife f()r children and adult;; with special needs. And, you'll win when you're not using it-with an option to place your Freshmen Parents: Book now for 2011 Graduation with only a $25 deposit. Corne over in person to visit Waterford first-hand and we'llunit in a professionally managed rental program. waive the deposit! Guest rooms still available for most '07 home football games. Located at 52890 SR 933,just north ofthe Notre Dame campus and minutes from downtown South P>end and the South Bend Regional Airp<)rt. Waterford Contact Waterf<:>rd Estates Lodge at (574) 272-5220 estates lodge or online at www.waterfordestateslodge.com  

HealthDeptrecallslunchboxes 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO -About 
56,000 lunch boxes distributed 
by California in an effort to 
promote healthful eating may 
contain lead, and state offi­
cials Thursday urged con­
sumers not to use them. 
Tests found elevated levels 
of lead in three of the boxes, 
which were made in China 
and given out at health fairs 
and other events, said officials 
of the state Department of 
Public Health. They carried a 
logo saying, "Eat fruits and 
vegetables and be active." 
"Certainly it's unfortunate 
that an item we're using to 
hopefully promote healthy 
behavior is then discovered to 
be a potential health hazard," 
the department's director, 
Mark Horton, told reporters in 
a conference call. 
A test by the Sacramento 
County Health Department in 
July indicated the boxes con­
tained lead, he said. Several 
weeks of more sophisticated 
testing confirmed the presence 
of lead "in multiple parts of the box," including the logo, he said. 
Asked why it took so long to issue a warning to the public, Horton said: "I think we took the appropriate steps based on the information available to us 
was for the linings, which were found to be lead-free, said company vice president Andrew Halim. 
But Horton said the lining of the tested boxes also con­tained some lead. 
An Associated Press investi­
at the time." Lead can "Certainly it,s unfortunate c a u s e 
that an item we,re using to
brain dam­
hopefully promote healthy 
age when ingested behavior is then discovered by young 
to be a potential health 
children. 
hazard.,,

Horton urged par­ents whcrse 
Mark Horton c h i l d r e n California Department of Public may have Health director 
used the boxes to consult 
gation pub­lished in February revealed that government testing has shown high levels of lead in the vinyl lining of many children's lunch boxes. Almost every lunch box found to con­tain lead was made in 

with a physician to see whether they should be tested. 
The green canvas boxes were imported from China by T-A Creations Inc. of Los Angeles. 
The only request for testing 
China, which has been under increasing international pres­sure to improve the quality of its exports after dangerous toxins were found in goods ranging from toys to tooth­l?aste. 
Kennedy photo falsely credited 
pictures, O'Donnell had to go
Associated Press 
to the National Archives in 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -As a 1998 to find some of his pho­government publicity photog­tographs and make prints. It rapher, Joe O'Donnell took is possible he also made prints pictures of U.S. presidents of other photographers' work. from Truman to Johnson, but "I had the sense that his he never got much credit for mind was beginning to go a the work during his lifetime. bit," staff archivist Nick 
After his death at 85 last Natanson recalled. month in Nashville, O'Donnell Since at least 1999, was falsely credited in news­O'Donnell claimed to have paper obituaries with taking taken a version of the salute the famous photo of little John photo. 
F. Kennedy Jr. saluting his The Associated Press, in its father's casket at the 1963 obituary, said that "O'Donnell funeral procession. was one of several photogra­
After that error was discov­phers to capture a picture of ered, it soon became apparent John F. Kennedy Jr. saluting that O'Donnell had been sell­his father's casket," but even ing photographs he never took that claim is now suspect. through a Nashville art There are a number of dif­gallery -a fraud that out­ferent photos of the salute, raged other photographers. although Stearns' is the most 
The source for the obituar­famous. As a photographer ies was a publi-for the U.S. cist for The Arts Information Company, Agency, any which sold "I had the sense that p h 0 t 0 copyrighted O'Donnell may
his mind was 
prints of the have taken
beginning to go a bit. ,,
salute photo as would have well as others been distrib­that O'Donnell Nick Natanson uted outside falsely claimed the United
Staff Archivist 


as his own. 
Gallery owner Anne Brown said she never tried to verify that O'Donnell had taken the photos because she accepted his word. 
But the Kennedy photo was actually taken by United Press International photographer 
Stan Stearns  - the  most  
famous  picture  he  ever  
snapped.  
O'Donnell's  son,  Tyge  

O'Donnell, blamed his father's dementia for the error, sug­gesting he mistakenly claimed to have taken Stearns' photo and several others because he had trouble remembering which pictures were his. 
When Stearns saw his photo on O'Donnell's obituary, he said he was shocked. Stearns and his former UPI colleagues immediately began calling other retired photographers and news organizations to correct the error. 
O'Donnell took publicity photos of presidents and his­torical events for the U.S. Information Agency, which offered the images to foreign media. 
He was never an official White House photographer, a position that did not exist until the Johnson administration. But he did work in the White House, under several adminis­trations, and the National Archives has presidential pho­tos that are listed as being taken by him. 
Heather Graulich, who researched O'Donnell's photo­graphs for an article for the National Press Photographers Association, said there is no evidence that he falsely made any claims about photographs before 1994, about the time his family has said he began having trouble with his mem­ory. 
Because the government owned all the negatives to his States. No evi­
dence has sur­

faced that proves he was not at Kennedy's funeral. 
"The problem with famous events is there may have been any number of photographers clicking away," Natanson said. "And there may be a consid­erable number of images that are very close to each other of virtually the same moment." 
In the case of the salute photo, it is clear that the one distributed with O'Donnell's obituary was actually taken by Stearns, said Ken Johnston, director of histori­cal content for the Corbis photo archive, which includes all the UPI photos. 
But a number of historical photos either lack credits or have incorrect credits, he said. 
Hal Buell, a retired head of photography for The Associated Press, said that in the days before photos regu­larly carried credits, images sometimes got mixed up, and occasionally even the photog­raphers disagreed about who took a particular shot. 
On a big story like the Kennedy funeral "the film would all get dumped into one basket," he said. "The need for speed was critical and people would move very quickly." 
Family and friends have said O'Donnell would want to be remembered as a peace activist who also took noted photos of Hiroshima and Nagasaki as a young Marine photographer at the end of World War II. 
O'Donnell falsely claimed one panoramic photo from Japan as his own, his son said, but the family bas the negatives to the other photos, which appeared in a 2005 book published by Vanderbilt University Press. 
Luxury Town homes near Campus 
Dublin Village and Irish Crossings 
Now taking advance applications for next semester and next year www.CESPM.info 
....... )\llanagement

Buy... Seii. .. Lease Starting at $550 per Student 
CHIPOTLE 
PLUS A LYRIC CONTEST 
TO WIN AN I POD 
10 PM SATURDAY 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
ITIIIIEIIT ACTIIJnEI m.-___ 
liD 
BAD.ND.EDU 



page 16 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Not« Dam<, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Note< Dam<, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken rowlcr Kyle West 
A\ST. MANA<;JNG EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass·l~ MANAGING ElllTOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen L.1ngley 
VJEWI'OINT El>ITOR: Joey King SroRTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENE EDITOR: T.1e Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAJ>IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
AilVI'.RTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(S74) 631-5303 vk'Wpoim.l @nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.cDm 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemcnt:s, is not governed by policies ofche administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters co the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Quction.s rrgarding Oburver policirs Ihould br dim:ud to Editor in ChiefMaddir Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

n,c UhWlMr (USPS 59'J 2-41100) is puhluhrd Mnmlty 1hmugh flri\l;ay a~'cpl during cum anrl Vll\llrionpcriuds A .ul...cnplionto'l1tc O~rvr:r i• $100 fur unc ~carJ.:mic year; $55 l!tr one ~em"'"· 
The Olucrvcr i.t pul'llid'lni u: rOSTMASTcR 1)24 Sourh Dining Hall Sc:nd oll:Mft'.Sll contttior" to; Nnrtc Dame, IN 46'i'J6-0179 ThcOhsc~r Pl:rioJ.ic.al J>OI'~C pa1d .u Not:n: Dame P.O.Bu~tntJ IUld additiuna.l m:uling offica. 021 Souch DinanK H.&IJ 
Nom Dame:, IN 46'iS6.(.1779 
TI1t Ohtc:n;er i1 a mcmbn ,,f rhc ~alcd PrtSS.. All ~pmcfuc1ion uKhn 1rc n:KtYtl1. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Friday, September 21, 2007 

Endowment growth follows Notre Dame's mission 
Notre Dame is $1.4 billion richer than last year-cer­of service, its emphasis on morality. tainly a feat. Couple that with the University's decision Clearly, the University didn't need to invest in the 350 not to invest in 350 companies that bishops say violate banned companies-it's made billions without them. Catholic social teaching, and the accomplishment Still, it's a testament to Notre Dame's values that the man becomes even more impressive. charged with managing its endowment appears exactly in 
In the area of endowment growth, where it's .easy to line with its larger mission. think only of the margins and ratios, That's not to say everything is perfect; it's a Notre Dame imposes its own limits-and select few that know exactly how the University still ranks in the top three in endowment OTHE handles its money. Notre Dame needs to reeval­
BSERVER
growth. uate C4.mstantly the companies in which it Catholic social teaching "is ingrained in invests to further what seems to be a successful everything we do," Chief Investment practice of making economic deeisions with
Editorial 
Officer Scott Malpass said Wednesday. "As social justice in mind. a Catholic university, it's very much con-Closing the gap on the schools with the largest sistent with our mission." endowments is an unrealistic goal. Harvard has $34.9 bil­
Malpass wants Notre Dame's endowment to break into lion; Notre Dame won't be there anytime soon. But the top 10. University President Father John Jenkins Malpass expects the University's endowment to rank 14th wants Notre Dame to rank with the best in both research or 15th this year. and Ph.Ds. Both say they won't compromise what makes By all accounts, his steady hand and Notre Dame's val­Notre Dame different-its Catholic identity, its tradition ues make that a feasible -and ethical -goal. 
Global warming: The upside 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Chris Hine Liz Harter Bill Brink Nikki Taylor Chris Doyen Graphics Jared Jedick 
Julie Grisanti Scene Viewpoint Michelle Fordice Kara King 
They've done it. After years of coming up short, Looten Plunder, Hoggish Grnedly, and Verminous Skumm have done what they set out to do. They've defeated Captain Planet. For years they had one goal and one goal only ... pollution. These eco-villains never had any monetary goal, no method to their madness .... They just wanted to pollute -plain and simple. They poured toxic sludge on baby seals, Smooth as Silk released poisonous gasses into nurs­eries and stuffed landfills full of non­biodegradable materials. Finally, they've achieved their goal: Global warming. And we couldn't be happier. 
Global warming is the hottest (pun intended) thing to land in the U.S.-no, the world, since the old Heartland closed up and gave way to Michiana's number one bar/nightclub. Unfortunately, many are failing to appreciate said hotness. People everywhere are complaining about this "warming trend". Notre Dame has even pledged to fight global warming in its new commercial. Such a commo­tion hasn't been raised over an issue like this since Ricki Lake hung up her mic. But unlike that tragic moment, global warming has tremendous upside. 
The best thing about global warming is that it, like the inability to understand the appeal of Drew Barrymore, is global. 



Global warming doesn't discriminate, it affects everyone. Having something awe­some in common will help unite people of all nations. No longer will Eskimos and Jamaicans clash over climatic differ­ences. Instead they'll come together to construct killer sand igloos and stuff like that. Russians and Americans will be able to look past that "Cold" War non­sense and set aside their differences ... it'd be like the end of Rocky IV except without the crappy sequel(s). But per­haps most important of all, Africans and Asians will fmally have something to talk about at barbeques.(lt's about time!) 
Global warming not only heats up the party, but also it cools down the griev­ances that could potentially stand in the way of a global mega bash (GMB). The kick butt-ness of this party is almost inconceivable to the human mind. Picture the resulting love child of a three­some involving World War II, Woodstock and Mardi Gras, multiply it by infinity and you've got roughly 1/3 of the GMB. 
Not only does global warming facilitate gargantuan galas, it will also help squash the lamest thing on campus outside of Jimmy Clausen's haircut ... the career fair. The career fair sucks. To get any sort of job you've either got to be faker than lieutenant Dan's legs or be a com­plete douche bag. No one likes to stand in line hearing the same joke about how dressed up everyone is, wearing an uncomfortable suit and holding a leather folder that will serve no other purpose in life except to talk to some recruiter who looks like he's trying to sell ice to Eskimos. Those dudes rattle oil' more awful jokes than Carlos Mencia in a three hour special. The days of the career fair making students feel like crap about their preparedness for the future are nearing their end. Global warming will solve this problem by making careers out of what used to be strictly summer jobs. 

Year-round warm weather will create year-round demand for life-guards, ice cream shop cashiers, dog-walkers, land­scapers and countless others. The transi­tion from college employment to perma­nent career would be seamless. Instead of slumping over your cubicle's desk, fill­ing out pointless spread sheets and get­ting Lumberg's coffee, students will be able to lounge in their guard tower, tell little kids what to do and scope out fly honeyz. 
This proves beyond a reasonable doubt that global warming is both a reality and a blessing. Global warming has been sci­entifically verified by the Kessler and research team in Bellevue, Wash. Now people everywhere will be able to save money on firewood, birds will save on their yearly travel bills, bears will be hangin' out all year round and penguins suck anyway. Take that AI Gore! 
Kessler and ... is a non-profit pharmaceutical organization in search of a cure for male pattern baldness. Pat Canna. Rick Loesing, and Fritz Shadley contributed to this column. They can be contacted at kesslerand@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Please recycle 'the Observer. 
Notre Dame Football2007: Great? Greatest? Abstain? 

Gre-at season-14~ 
Gre4test se.:ason -24% 
Nore:sponse-62~ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Live forever or die in the attempt. " 
Joseph Heller 
U.S. novelist 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, September 21, 2007 page 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
CIA, Raytheon's place at ND debated 
Country does not surpass God 
Country, God, Notre Dame. Perhaps tllis should be the new sequence of our University's age-old maxim. Because, as Nic Ponzio wrote in his letter ("Keep the career fair unrestricted," Sept. 19), refusing organizations with policies at odds with our University's mission statement "would infringe upon our duty to pay service to • our country." We must, therefore, place our obligations to the state above any sort of pursuit of justice and the common good. 
Unfortunately for Ponzio's argument, our nlission statement makes no mention of any requirement for our University to lay down its principles at the hands of the state. In fact, it seems to say the opposite. 
It says we, as a University, should try to become more aware of the injustices that are a crushing burden for so many in the world. It does not say to ignore these injus­tices when they are committed by our own government or the corporations which support our military-industrial complex. It does not say to work for justice until such a quest finds you questioning your own government and those connected to it. It does not say that the common good means the good of the state. 
I am also concerned that Ponzio, and perhaps others, do not understand the depth to which both the CIA and Raytheon contradict our University's nlission. Ponzio would have us think that the manufacturing of deadly weapons only constitutes a "small aspect" of Raytheon's work. Unfortunately, this assumption could not be fur­ther from the truth. The Army Times Publishing Company, a leading military and government news publisher, found that 96.1 percent of Raytheon's revenues came from military contracts with the Department of Defense. Last year the company's revenues came to $20.2 billion. Consequently, Raytheon received over $19 billion in one year alone in arms production -hardly a small aspect by any stretch of the imagination. 
The resume of the CIA is scarred with torture, forced disappearance and the oper­ation of secret prisons. Just today, The Economist raised concerns about the "black sites" where detainees are held by the CIA, the existence of which President Bush admitted last year. Oddly enough, Ponzio accepted such evidence as valid yet still believes that our mission to support the government supercedes such scandalous injustice. 
If Ponzio delved deeper into Notre Dame's history, he would find a story of another student protest against the CIA. In 1968, pressure from students forced the University to reevaluate its position on campus recruitment. But while students dur­ing the height of the Vietnam era questioned the morality of involvement with such an organization, Ponzio might refer to such actions as "asinine and ignorant." I would say these actions are worthy of a more serious, mature reflection. 
While Ponzio hopes to keep the Job Fair "unrestricted," regrettably, the only restriction at yesterday's event was imposed against student free speech. A total of six Notre Dame students, including myself, were kicked out of the event by NDSP officers for handing out information on the CIA and Raytheon. As individual stu­dents, we are apparently not allowed to express our concern for issues that form the cornerstone of our University. It seems as though Nic Ponzio is not alone in his view. 
Country, God, Notre Dame indeed. 
Michael Angulo junior Stanford Hall Sept. 20 
Women's Soccer: Thanks for support 
Dear Students, 
On behalf of my staff and the entire women's soccer team, I wanted to thank you for your attendance and support so far this season. We would like to especially thank the "mob" from O'Neill Hall who came out in full force for our game against Princeton Friday night. Know that your support and encouragement does not go unnoticed by our team. 
With that said, we could use even more of you in the stands this weekend. We open up Big East play on Friday at 7:30p.m. against DePaul, and then take on nationally-ranked Penn State on Sunday at 12:30 p.m. The Penn State game, televised live on ESPNU, is a rematch of last year's NCAA quar­terfinals, and we need a huge crowd there to create an imposing atmos­phere for the Nittany Lions. Don't underestimate the impact you can make for us, as we take on a team looking to avenge their loss to us. 
I appreciate your continued support throughout the season and look for­ward to seeing you on Friday and Sunday. Go Irish! 
Randy Waldrum 
women's soccer coach 
Sept. 20 


Organizations not to blame 
The ostensible target of the Sept. 19 article entitled "Recruiters incompatible with Notre Dame mission" is the CIA and Raytheon. However, many of the criticisms go dis­turbingly deeper than just a preemptive attack on these organizations. The over arching criticism is that "these organizations are founded on the propagation of a society that creates and consumes violence." Which of the companies visiting for the Career Expo is not supported by our society? Regardless of our society's alleged addiction to violence, you cannot blame organizations for being supported by that society. 
The specific criticism of Raytheon is that their "profit increases only as American actions take the lives of hundreds of thousands of civilians." This is not an argument against Raytheon as a specific organization, but an argument against capitalism. As long as wars are fought and armies armed, there will be a need for weapons and arma­ments. Let me be the first to be thankful that companies are willing and able to provide our armed forces with the highest technologically advanced weaponry available. 
As for the CIA, they are condemned for "their morally questionable involvement in the War on Terror." Last time I checked, the CIA was not a lone rebel government agency single-handedly fending off those who would slaughter us in the name of Allah. It seems to me that the authors have a broader beef with our foreign policy than the CIA finds itself a part of. 
Basically, the authors of this piece have used the presence of the CIA and Raytheon on campus as a whipping boy for our society, economic system and foreign policy. At the best, this is misleading, and at the worst, it is dishonest. Putting their blatant disdain for our way of life aside, let's take the authors' arguments at face value for a minute. Unfortunately, we will eventually have to venture out beyond Our Lady's University, and when we do, we will not have Father Jenkins to tell us which jobs we should and should not consider. Consider, though, that in his inaugural address Father Jenkins asked, "If we are afraid to be different from the world, how can we make a difference in the world?" If we truly do want to make a difference in this world, wouldn't it make much more sense to send out Notre Dame graduates to every possible place in order to make a positive impact by bringing our unique combination of morals and education to bear in a range of settings and situations? 
Our goal should not be to shelter Domers from the big bad world but rather to send out graduates to these "morally troubling" institutions so that we may make a positive impact in the world against the Trinity Evils: Society, Economy and Foreign Policy. 
Drew Clary junior abroad Sept. 20 

Show school spirit 
Dear fellow students, 
I would like to encourage everyone to be as pumped up for tllis weekend's game as you could ever be. It's been over a year since we've had a truly electric atmosphere on this campus and our team needs us more than ever. So here's how it goes: Go nuts. Be crazy. Pop some blood vessels ifyou have to. Just cheer your butt off, as it's really not too hard. Same goes for you, alums. As important as it is we're all wearing The Shirt today to show solidarity, it's slightly more important we go crazy when the game is actually happening. 
I would also like to encourage the Notre Dame Stadium ushers to stop throwing out innocent, legal students from the stadium, especially when their only infraction is trying to get others excited. I know plucking students out of their seats for public intoxication is akin to shooting fish in a barrel, but I'm sure one of the thousands of older alumni coming in for the senior alumni game could use your assistance in finding their seats. 
Thank you. 
Rob Arseniadis Chris Wilson seniors off campus Sept. 20 

Jones' departure leads to embarrassment 
As everyone knows, Demetrius Jones has departed for Northern Illinois University. Now it is being reported that Notre Dame is refusing to release him from his scholar­ship, which will require that he pay tuition when he enrolls at NIU. Athletic Director Kevin White explains this by saying, "We don't believe his departure was handled appropriately." Granted, Jones may have acted immaturely, as 19-year-olds do some­times. But would it be too unreasonable to expect a Christian university to forgive the rash, emotional actions of a kid who has just suffered serious disappointment? I am not asking the University to sacrifice anything; I am just making the relatively undemanding suggestion that Notre Dame not take actions motivated primarily by spite. The football team's performance on the field has been embarrassing. It might be wise for the athletic department to not embarass the University off the field as well, especially when it would cost them virtually nothing. 
Paul Schofield alumnus Class of 2002 Sept. 20 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 18 
Friday, September 21, 2007 
ND alums return to South Bend for concert 

The Surreal McCoys won the Notre Dame law School talent show while they were studying at Notre Dame. 
By KEN FOWLER and CHRIS MCGRADY Srafl'Writers 
Bryan Bond 
What do Clark K1mt, Pnter Parker and Bryan Bond have in common? Bnsides a strong case of moniker alliteration, tlwy all masqueradn as a normal work­ing stilT during tlw day, only to have a much livelier (and, frankly, much cooler) night job. 
Bond. thn lesser known of our crusadors, is an account manager by day and a rock musi­cian by night. But Bond is quick to notn, that rock music can 
be loosnly ddined. said. "Joy, pain,
Bryan Bond and The Surreal McCoys
"You say rock. and remorse, sorrow ­some pnople think will perform at 8 p.m. tonight at music transcends 
System of a Down," them all. Maybe I'm Bond said in an inter­Simeri's Old Town Tap, being a little dramatic view Wndnesday. ... but at any rate, it 
"That makes me 1505 W. Indiana Ave. in South Bend blows my mind." 
c:ringe. I'd say my music sounds like a Texan doing Brit-rock." 
llownvnr you define rock and roll, Bond is worth a listen. lie is reminis­cent of bands lih Travis,. The Verve and U2 -this rocker's sound is refined, but edgy. In his track "Mutually Exelusive," it's almost impossible to not be rmnindnd of Oasis, with tho samn <tit-rock sound and lyrics. Bonds approach to writing music has served him well. 
"It's rn&lly interesting how this wholn inspiratio)1 things works," Bond said, "It's always important not to force a song. It will come when it's ready. If I don't l'nel tlw emotion, what's the point'?" 
This "wait-and-see" approach has worked won­ders for his music. Unlike so many bands in today's pop-scene, Bond's music sounds inspired. tran­scending the power chord progressions wreaking havoc in modnrn rock. But this talent can't be attributed solely to luck -Bond has spent years gntting it right, and music has long been a part of his lifo. 
lie started out writing songs before he had even picked up an instrument. 
"My morn actually caught me watching the sym­phony when I was three or four years old," Bond said. "She went to the change thn channel, and I startnd crying." 
Not a typil:al response from most toddlers. Th~n again, Bond is anything but typical. His first guitar carne as a gift from his uncle at the agn of s1wtm, and immediately Bond was in love. 
"lie probably just gave it to me to shut me up," Bond recalls. "That's all I would ever talk about as a kid. how I needed a guitar so I could play all of the songs I had rolling around in my head." 
lin playnd his first club-gig at age fourteen, and has nover looked back. 
Now as an adult. Bond keeps his skills sharp with a show at least overy few weeks, while trying to bal­ance the rnst of his interests. Unn of these interests? Notre Dame. 
"I never really paid much attention to Notre Dame until I met two of my best friends in college," Bond said. "They were both die-hard Notre Dame fans. I started following the team a little and eventually made my Jirst trip to campus. I was in awe. I just totally identified with everything about the school. The way they treated their athletes, their standards, their mission, everything." 
But beyond this passion for the university, Bond's love for music is paramount.)le puts his whole heart and soul into his sound, and for good reason. "I don't understand the power of music, but I'm in awe of it, and I'm constantly humbled by it," Bond 
Dramatic? Perhaps. 
But mostly, it's the 
truth, and a musician 
with Bond's dedication 
and scope is a breath of fresh air in today's relatively stale and commer­cialized pop-music scene. As Bond said, "Truly inspired music sounds inspired." Yes, yes it does. 
The Surreal McCoys 
Bond will open for the Surreal McCoys, a high­octane combination of The Clash-meets-Johnny Cash. 
"It's kind of the twang of country music with the thrash and intensity of punk rock," said Shawn Ryan, one of the McCoys. "And it's a whole lot of fun to play." 
The combination is evident in "The Velvet Rope of Your Heart," one of the McCoys' original tunes: "Can't substitute love for addiction I Can't feed you truth when you're starving for fiction I That's just not part of my program anymore." 
The McCoys debuted three new original songs Thursday night in a show in Michigan and will have a slew of new covers in their repertoire for the gig at Simeri's tonight. Still, they're all about the audi­ence involvement. Ryan said he encourages full par­ticipation, even a little stage-hogging from the women in attendance. 
It was back in 1991, while Ryan was a Notre Dame Law School student, that the band first coalesced. The group includes five NDLS alumni -among them, three double domers. 
In 1992, after Ryan's graduation, the band split up. A decade later, with members living near each other again, they revived the group and even made an appearance on National Public Radio in December 2005. 
They attracted a following on the message boards of NDNation.com, where Ryan posts, and where he first listened to Bond's demo tape before asking the musician to open tonight. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu and Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of bryanbondmusic.com Notre Dame alum Bryan Bond will open for the Surreal McCoys. 
Photo courtesy of bryanbondmusic.com courtesy Bryan Bond's refined and edgy music Is reminiscent of bands like Travis, The Verve, and U2. 
r-----------~-------------------------------------------------~ 

Elders­
ing Irish fes­linist Brent tivals and The Elders manage to H o a d , 
pubs around fuse Irish musical style drummer 
the heartland Tommy
with American folk rock. 
of America, Sutherland, but tonight and key­they will boardist bring their innovative sound Joe Miquelon, but are front­to Notre Dame, playing in ed by Irishman Ian Byrne. the Leighton Concert Hall at Their music has become the DeBartolo Performing more and more popular. Arts Center at 8:30 p.m. Their PBS special "Live at 
With the release of their the Gem" has aired on over new CD, "Racing the Tide," 100 stations. "Send a the Elders are blasting into Prayer" is currently working the main stream. Each musi-its way up the radio station circuit. 

Their sound is familiar, yet exciting. Refreshing in a world that has become obsessed with quick punk­pop hits and one-punch indie tunes, the Elders manage to sing about hope and irony in. life, while playing distinctly Irish tunes. They easily dance between Irish folk, modern pop and Americana. 
The result is addicting. It is impossible to listen to their music and not feel just a lit­tle more joyful. They are free spirited and rooted in authenticity. 
"Racing the Tide," their sixth CO-release, is a breath of fresh air for anyone who lives within the confines of generic college-campus music. It opens with "Send a Prayer," the clear hit of the album. 
Folk influences are imme­diately noticeable, and as the song picks up, the lyrics take 
OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Madeline Nies 
hold. The chorus arrives and takes the song to a new pop height that will be stuck in your head for days. 
Songs such as "Bad Irish Boy" are in the vein of true Irish rock. Genuine Irish jigs are also to be found, like "Story of a Fish." 
"Right with the World" is a sentimental song of hope, and "Dear God" sounds like the Irish pop band The Corrs. Funky tunes like "Australia" pop up without warning. The Elders weave back and forth between joy and pain with effortless strength. 
Tickets for the show are available at the DPAC box office. Tickets cost $28 for regular admission, $24 for faculty, staff, and seniors and $15 for students. 
Contact Stephanie Deprez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
-
OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Madeline Nies 

By MICHELLE FORD ICE  
Assistant Scene Editor  
The Department of Film, Television  
and Theatre and the Notre Dame  
iNDustry Alliance continue their  
annual tradition of bringing film  
industry leaders to Notre Dame  
tonight, with a panel of three screen­ 
writers to speak at the DPAC.  
Larry Karaszewski, Jim Jennewein,  
and Stephen Susco will share their  
knowledge of film writing.  
Speakers will present clips they  
chose from their films and speak  
about their experiences with writing  
and developing ideas, but will concen­ - 
trate on interacting with the audience  
and taking questions. FTT faculty  
member Ted Mandell, who helped to  
organize the event, remarked that  
students will "learn a lot."  
The event is aimed at all Notre  
Dame students, not just FTT majors.  
The iNDustry Alliance is made up of  
Notre Dame alumni with careers in  
the film industry, including a wide  
range of majors. With these events  
(last year they brought director Tony  
Bill), they hope to expose Notre Dame  
students to career possibilities.  
Acclaimed screenwriter Larry  
Karaszewski is a South Bend native  
(he graduated from Riley High School)  
who worked as an on-air film critic  
for WNDU and a comedy writer for  
the Peabody Award-winning local tele­ 
vision show "Beyond Our Control."  
Along with his writing partner Scott  
Alexander, he has built a successful  
career in screenwriting. Together they  
have won a Golden Globe and a  
Golden Satellite Award for "The  
People vs. Larry Flynt" as well as a  
special Writers Guild award for their  
work with civil rights and liberties.  
Jim Jennewein, a 1977 Notre Dame  
graduate, has worked as both an  
advertising and film writer. Working  
on movies such as "Richie Rich," "The  
Flinstones" and "Major League II,"  
Jennewein has over 17 years of film  
writing experience. Jennewein. about  
to publish his first book, a comedy  
adventure for young adults, can also offer advice to aspiring authors.  ...  
Stephen Susco, a 1995 Notre Dame  
graduate, launched himself into suc­ 
cess with his first produced script for  
the "The Grudge," which ultimately  
grossed over $300 million worldwide.  
He has also written scripts for "The  
Grudge II," "The Forge of God" and  
"Crawlspace." He is currently produc­ 
ing three films, which he helped to  
write, "The Dibbuk Box," "Zero. Dark.  
Thirty" and "RED."  
The talk at 7:30 p.m. is a _free, but  
ticketed event in the Browning  
Cinema at the DPAC. Tickets can be  
requested from the DPAC ticket office.  

Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
.... 

What do you get when you mix Irish roots, passion for America and expert musi­
. ?
CiallS. 
The Elders, that's what. 
Their sound is infectious. With lilting melodies and a jamming bass, The Elders manage to fuse Irish musical style with American folk­rock. Put simply, these rock­ers kick arse. 
The Elders are most often found play­
groups like Asleep at the Wheel. Tommy Shaw Band and The Rainmakers. 
Formed in Kansas City, Kan., the band has toured all over the U.S., including Denver, Chicago, and New York. They even took their act to Ireland in 2003 and got in touch with their roots. Theband includes five Kansas musicians, guitarist Steve Phillips, bassist Norm 
Dahlor, vio­


The Eld~rs fuse Irish folk music with other influences, ranging from modern pop The Elders are breaking into the music to Amer1cana. scene with their CD "Racing the Tide." 
page 20 The Observer + ClASSIFIEDS Friday, September 21, 2007 
MLB 

Phillies erase four-run deficit to down Nationals 
-
Philadelphia pulls within 1.5 games of New York in National League East as Mets lose in extra innings to Florida 
Associated l'ress  -and the team's 47th come­from-behind victory, the most in  
WASIIIN<;TON Jimmy  the majors.  
Hollins and the Philadelphia  "I just sit there and watch and  
l'hillins put togetlwr yet anothnr  con1~nntrate on pitdwrs getting  
comeback victory in a season  people out," manager Charlie  
full of tlwm. then duekml into a  Manuel said.  
cramp1~d clubhousP Thursday  "It's fun. and it's about time  
night and got to celebrate some­ for everything to even out," he  
l.hing thny found equally excit­ added, referring to how his  
ing.  team ldl just short of qualifying  
A half-hour aftpr rallying from a four-run dnl'irit to btHLt the  for the playoffs in 2005 and 200().  
Washington Nationals 7-6 on  lin had sounded an optimistic  
Hollins' tiPbreaking HBI double,  note before the opener of a  
the Phillies watdwd on TV as  f(nJr-game series at Washington  
the tnam they're chasing in the  that will mark the end of base­ 
NL East -the Nnw York Mets  ball at HFK Stadium. The  
-lost in extra innings.  Nationals. who took two of  
Put the results togeth1~r. and  thre1~ from the Mets this week,  
Philadelphia moved within 1 1/2  move to a new park in 2008.  
ganws of the division lead.  "Wn'rn still looking at the divi­ 
HPnwmlwr: This is a team that  sion. Things can happen. We  
has not spent a day in first place  could win three in a row, they  
all season. and trailed the Mnts  could lose three in a row,"  
by seven games on Sept. 12.  Manuel said before the game.  
When the winning run  "We'rc still in it, and we've still  
crossed in the 1Oth to give the  got a chance."  
Florida Marlins an 8-7 victory  APPhiladelphia looked on its way  
over New York, more than a  Phillies outfielder Jason Werth, right, celebrates with shortstop Jimmy Rollins after hitting ato blowing an opportunity  
dozen Phillies players and  three-run homerun In Philadelphia's 7-6 win over Washington Thursday.against the lowly Nationals,  
eoaches thrust their arms in the  though, thanks in part to a poor  
air -many holding cups of  outing by starter Kyle Lohse.  chanted "Let's go, Marlins!"  Myers worked around a one-out  hander went six innings, and it  
beer alort -and screamed.  When he left after only 37 pitch­ while walking out of the ball­ single in the ninth for his 18th  was when he left that the prob­ 
Very loudly.  es, the Phillies trailed 6-2. His  park.  save.  lems began for Washington.  
They elapped, they hugged,  line: two innings, six runs, six  "Everything he does sets the  "Their bullpen deserves the  Luis Ayala came on to begin  
they high-fivnd.  hits, two walks, no strikeouts,  table for us," Manuel said about  credit," Nationals manager  the seventh and allowed the  
Oh, the race is on.  one hit batter.  Rollins. "He plays shortstop like  Manny Acta said. "They just  only two batters he faced to  
"We're here now. How? I don't  But that big seventh tied it for  Ozzie Smith, so why can't he be  shut us down for seven  reach base. lie was replaced by  
know," said Rollins, who also  Philadelphia. And in the eighth,  the MVP?"  innings."  lefty Arnie Munoz, brought in to  
- scored the tying run in the snv­enth after doubling. "But it's  Jonathan Albaladejo (1-1), Washington's fourth pitcher,  J.C. Romero (1-2) earned the win by escaping a two-on, one­ This game ended as well as it began for the Phillies: Utley's  face lefty pinch-hitter Pete Laforest -but Manuel coun­ 
sweet now, and that's all that  walked Carlos Ruiz, who stole  out jam in the seventh, getting  two-out triple was followed by  tered with another pinch-hitter,  
matters."  second.  pinch-hitter Tony Batista to  Howard's 41st homer to make it  Werth. And he put Munoz's  
The Phillies trailed 6-2 enter­ With two outs, Rollins lined a  ground into a 5-4-3 double play.  2-0 in the first inning. Howard  fourth pitch into the upper deck  
ing the seventh, but Jayson  shot just inside the first-base  Romero hopped ofT the mound,  stopped to admire his shot to  in left.  
Werth delivered a pinch-hit,  bag to drive in the tiebreaking  and fin;t baseman Ryan Howard  right.  It was a reminder that  
three-run homer and Chase  run and draw chants of "M-V­ pumped a fist.  Nationals starter Jason  Philadelphia does, after all, own  
Utlny's grounder tied it.  P!" from a loud group of Phillies  Tom Gordon came in to get  Bergmann settled into a nice  the NL's highest-scoring offense.  
It all added up to the Phillies'  fans in the crowd of 19,966 - two outs with a man on second  groove after that, and didn't  "It's a tremendous lineup,"  
seventh vietory in eight games  probably the same folks who  in the eighth, and closer Brett  allow another run. The right- Acta said.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edir
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Babysitter for 16-mo-old boy.  ND Collectibles Largest one of a  Homes for 08·09. 4·6 bedrooms.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
Weekdays from 4·7 p.m. Call574·  kind selection for sale i.e. Rockne  Walk to ND. 574-876·7341. For  Do r:Jot go it alone.  
NOTICES  229-3020.  photos, Heisman autographs, old  Football weekends, call 574·532­ TICKETS  If you or someone you love needs  
tickets, pins, helmets, jerseys,  1408.  confidential support or assistance,  
Chess Lessons Adult & Child rim  1973/1977 team-signed footballs.  WANTED·  please call  
Online/in-person (Michiana) Dennis  FoR SALE  Visit College Football Hall of Fame  FOOTBALL HOUSE · 3 bedroom  ND FOOTBALL TIX.  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819.  
Monokroussos USCF National  on Friday or Augies Locker Room  home, 5 blocks from campus for  PLEASE HELPI  For more information,  
Master historicchess@comcast.net  4 bdrm,2.5 ba home at 4210 Cross  on Sat & Sun, South Bend Ave.(SR  rent on football weekends, JPW,  57 4·251-1570  visit our website at:  
....,  574·277·8673.  Creek Dr. Great corner lot on a cui­de-sac w/big deck & fenced-in yard.  23), north of Linebacker across from Martins. Call 574·277-NDND  Graduation. Operated as a week· end rental. Great alternative to stu·  FOR SALE:  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg· nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
10 min. to ND. The MLS #is  or 257·0039.  pid hotel prices on those weekends.  ND FOOTBALL TIX.  in THE OBSERVER.  
WANTED  219961 or www.Kristinperk.com. Or  www.notredameliving.com or call  ALL HOME GAMES.  

 call Kristin at 574-274·2104 today.  Awesome riverfront new construe·  Alex 212-418·6937.  57 4·232-0964.  Mark from ABC Cab is Back!l!  
Notre Dame items. Rockne, Leahy,  lion 12 min. to ND. 4 bdr,4bath,mar­ www. victorytickets.com  NOW Driving for  
Ara, Holtz. Helmets, Uniforms,  3 bdrm,2 full BA ranch at 52233  ble,ceramics,h/w floors.  2bdrm house w/basement, wash- American Cab Co On  
Footballs, Old Programs & Tickets.  Ironwood Rd. Many updates. New  Jacuzzi,deck,pier. 57 4-217-1557  er/dryer. Corby at Eddy 574·232­ ND tickets for sale.  Wed,Thurs,Fri,Sat.Nights.  
Call574·257·0039 or  flooring in kitchen & FR & newer  Tatiana  9084.  Best Prices.  Cell 574·360·6480.  
574·277-NDND  cherry cabinets w/granite counter·  57 4·288·2726.  
tops & stainless steel  Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet  3 bdrm house. Walk to ND. Washer  Hey Thomson,  
STUDENT WORK $12.75 base­ appliances,glass-enclosed porch  kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park·like  & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighbor·  Buying BC/USC tix.  happy belated birthday!  
appt. Flexible schedules, no experi·  and 2-car garage. Just min. to ND.  street. Close to ND. 574·217-1557  hood. Landlord does yard work. No  574·277-1659.  Watch out though, here come the  
ence needed, customer sales/serv·  The MLS # to see on line is  Tatiana  Pets. No Section 8. Call574-250­ Philliesl  
ice, conditions apply, all ages 18+, 574-273·3835, www.workforstu­ 218253. For more info. please call Kristin Perkins at 574-274-2104  Call me for a list of properties near  1266.  PERSONAL  Dear Joe O'Brien, Gelch, Tim, Joe  
dents.com  today or visit me at www.kristin·  ND. 574-217·1557 Tatiana  HOUSE FOR RENT CLOSE TO  M., Drew, Thomson, Riley, Mike,  
perk.com  CAMPUS (North Shore Triangle  Spring Break 2008.  I miss you.  
SCHOOL BUS SUBSTITUTE DRI·  Remodeled ranch near ND with all  neighborhood) 3 bedrooms, 1 bath,  Sell Trips,  Love,Hino  
VER NEEDED.  Very nice 3 BR 2 BA ranch at 1213  appliances included! 1446 sq.lt.,3  AJC, dishwasher, washer/dryer, rent  Earn Cash and  
Responsible, dependable, safety  Climbing Rose Ln in Mishawaka,  BR, 1 Bath and x-large 2-car  $750 per month plus utilities.  Go Free.  Let's go Yankees!  
conscious grad student sought to  IN. Easy 12·15 min. drive to ND.  garage. $104,000. 574·340-1651.  Available immediately.  Call for group discounts.  
drive a school bus for a private  Fenced back yard, full basement  
 Call 243-7763.  Best Deals  Let's go Niners!  
south·side SB school. Must be  w/egress window & large eat-in  Email cventer@nd.edu  Guaranteed!  
available when needed (flexible)  kitchen. Home is only 4 yrs. old.  FoR RENT  Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco,  Hey everybody, watch Friday Night  
from 7 a.m. to 8:15a.m.. and 3:15  Call Judy Allie at 574·220·9043 for  B&B·style lodging in a log cabin in  Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida.  Lights, for God's sake. It's the best  
p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Each trip pays  your private showing today. MLS #  LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  the woods 20 min, from campus.  800·648-4849 or  show on television.  
$33.  is 220031.  GAMES  $250 for weekend.  www.ststravel.com  
Need a Commercial Driver License  Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for  269·362·0300.  Maddie is single and looking.(And  
· will train around your schedule  Apt. complex. Ten 1·bdrm furnished  24  If you or someone  she has access to dozens of con·  
and pay for your CDL training,  units. Ready to rent. 4 mi to ND.  Quality Bed and Breakfast  HOUSES FOR RENT FOR 2008­ you care about has been  dams.)  
but must have residency in  Great investment, great tax write off  Accommodations.  09: 3-9 BEDROOM HOMES.  sexually assaulted,  
Indiana.  or convert to condos. Call Larry  Non-smoking,  CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  visit  Hi Matt! Hope school is going well!  
For application/interview call  574·257-0039 or  Private Baths,  Call Bill  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  Take this in and show your friends.  
574·291·4200.  57 4·255-9363.  Full Breakfasts.  57 4-532-1896.  shtml  Love, Chris  



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 21, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 21 
-

NSCAA Men's Soccer National 
Rankings  
team points  previous  
1  Wake Forest 575  1  
2  UConn 549  4  
3 4  Virginia 512 NOTRE DAME 475  6 9  
5  West Virginia 464  13  
6  Northwestern 425  10  
7 8  Creighton 397 Santa Clara 391  16 8  
9  Harvard 345  15  
10  Indiana 320  2  
11  Southern Methodist 287  3  
12  Duke 286  5  
13  UCLA 282  H  
14 15 16 17  Michigan 276 Virginia Tech 248 Maryland 241 South Florida 223  1.8 19 7 24  
18  Saint Louis 211  24  
19  Ohio State 175  12  
20  UC Santa Barbara 172  14  
21  Brown 158  21  
22 23  Washington 115 Furman 89.5  RV 22  
24  California 68.5  11  
25  UC Irvine 54.5  RV  
NSCAA National  

Women's Soccer Rankings 
team points previous 
1 Stanford 822 1 2 Santa Clara 792 3 3 Portland 758 4 4 TexasA&M 692 fi. 5 Texas 651 7 6 UCLA 637 6 7 Virginia 618 10 8 North Carolina 599 2 9 Boston College 546 8 10 South Carolina 510 16 11 Aorida State 448 13 12 Florida 447 9 13 Tennessee 415 . 1$ 14 Rutgers 312 12 15 Purdue 282 22 16 Oklahoma State 271 21 17 Penn State 263 20 18 West Virginia 252 18 19 California 248 14 20 Clemson 180 17 21 NOTRE DAME 179 11 22 Southern Calilornia 175 24 23 UConn 157.5 23 24 Marquette 153.5 25 25 Brigham Young 54 AV 
·::;~?""" 

Men's CrossCountry Rankings 
team  points  
1  Wisconsin  379  
2  Colorado  369  
3  Iona  363  
4  Oregon  362  
5  Arkansas  329  
6  Stanford  320  
7  UTEP  292  
8  Oklahoma State  2n  
9  Texas  258  
10  North Carolina St.  249  
11  Providence  240  
12  William & Mary  231  
13  NOTRE DAME  215  
14  Portland  205  


around the 
MLB 
Brewers at Braves 7:35p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FooTBALL Oklahoma at Tulsa 8 p.m., ESPN2 

prevU>us 
l 
2 4 
5 
3 6 20 12 16 7 
11 
21 14 9 

dial 
NFL 


Associated Press 

BUFFALO, N.Y. -Kevin Everett will be transferred Friday morning to a Houston hospital to begin the next phase of his reha­bilitation, less than two weeks after the Buffalo Bills tight end sustained a 
life-threatening  spinal  
cord injury.  
And  doctors  said  

Thursday they believe he will be walking within weeks perhaps sooner. 
"Soon ... they're going to stand him up," Dr. Barth Green told The Associated Press, shortly after dis­cussing Everett's condition with Bills orthopedic sur­geon Dr. Andrew Cappuccino. "They're very 
very soon  ...  in the next  
days  or  weeks,  not  
months."  

Eric Armstead, a partner of Everett's agent Brian Overstreet, said Everett was going to Houston's Memorial Hermann Hospital and would be traveling by private plane. 
"I talked to him today, and he's very excited," Armstead said. 
The prognosis is remark­able after Everett arrived at Millard Fillmore Gates Hospital paralyzed from the neck down after being hurt while making a tackle in Buffalo's season opener against Denver on Sept. 9. Doctors initially expressed fears Everett would never 
Green is chairman of the neurological surgery department at the University of Miami school of medicine and has received regular updates from Everett's doctors on the player's progress. 
"Now that doesn't mean he'll be walking normally, but standing up and hold­ing his own weight," Green said. "I think the future for him is very bright." 
"He's strong, you all, I'm telling you he's strong," Everett's mother, Patricia Dugas said. "Kevin's going to get up walking and take care of his business like he always has. I don't think life is going to change that much." 
Bills spokesman Scott Berchtold said the team had no update on Everett's status. 
Everett makes his offsea­son home in Houston, where many of his family members and friends live. 
Green suggested Houston would be the best place to move Everett because it's important for the player to have his fam­ily and friends nearby. 
"I love the Buffalo peo­ple, and I'll hate to leave them," Dugas said. "But -­it'll be good that we can be closer to home for all our family to come over and see him because they're worried about him.... He wants to see his family, too." 
IN BRIEF 

Landis found f!Uilty, forfeits Tour title and gelstwo-year ban PARIS-The verdict said "guilty." 
Like so much else in the confusing, contentious Floyd Landis doping case, though, none of the answers are really that simple. 
Landis lost his expensive and explosive case Thursday when two of three arbitrators upheld the results of a test that showed the 2006 Tour de France champion used synthetic testosterone to fuel his spectacular comeback victory. 
The decision means Landis, who repeatedly has denied using per­formance-enhancing drugs, must forfeit his Tour title and is subject to a two-year ban, retroactive to Jan. 30, 2007. 
Not that it changes his opinion of who the rightful winner was. "I am innocent," he said, "and we proved I am innocent." The majority of the panel dis­agreed. 
NFL confiscates and destroys
Patriots videotapes 
NEW YORK -The NFL has received and destroyed all materials it requested from the New England Patriots concerning videotaping of opponents' sidelines. 
A league statement Thursday said the team was in compliance with a request for tapes and other docu­ments. 
"The Patriots have fully cooperat­ed and complied with the require­ments of the commissioner's deci­sion," the statement said. "All tapes, documents and other records relat­ing to this matter were turned over to the league office and destroyed, and the Patriots have certified in writing that no copies or other records exist. 
"League policies on in-game video­taping and audio communication will continue to be closely monitored and strictly enforced with all 32 teams." 
Feds bust house filled with 
steroids in New Jersey 
NEWARK, N.J. -Federal agents on Thursday seized more than 40,000 doses of illegal anabolic steroids from a central New Jersey home they said was being used as a factory. ­
The manufacturing was done in the basement of the Sayreville home of Alfred Scarpa, an electrician who was arrested by the Drug Enforcement Agency, authorities said. 
.....

Scarpa, 34, admitted he was involved with buying, making and selling steroids, according to a crimi­nal complaint filed in federal court. He was ordered held without bail. 
A message seeking comment from Scarpa's lawyer was not immediately returned. 
DEA agents also seized $56,000 and two semiautomatic handguns at the home, where the basement was filled with "tubs, bottles, vials." 
-
Friday, September 21, 2007

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Hurricanes get much-needed win over Aggies 
-
-
.,­


NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
T.-G~tM.iUI Go\o\4:.; Pl.JI\t-,. (".(:.w.Wf~ 11-Hfs 1'u1M' 1" rll40.•~,.l'~~ FMm~b.«.» f~"'"'"u:. 


Available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
"AMM•o 

~A 
NOTRE DAME .J4 
BOOKSIDRE 
IN THE ECIC;. CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndtotolog.tom 
0700LF081307 A 

Wright throws for 275 yards and two TDs, Miami holds A&M to 38 yards in first half 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -For one night, everything worked for the Miami Hurricanes, who finally got that signature win the pro­gram has craved for a couple of years. 
Kyle Wright threw for 275 yards and two touchdowns, Graig Cooper scored twice and the Hurricanes stymied No. 20 Texas A&M's high-powered offense in a 34-17 victory Thursday night. 
The win was only Miami's second in its last nine games against a ranked opponent dating to the end of the 2005 season. 
And it was never in doubt. 
The Hurricanes (3-1) held 
the Aggies (3-1) to 38 yards in the first half yards in taking a 24-0 lead, ensuring their final Thursday night game at the venerable Orange Bowl would be a memorable one. 
"It was a Thursday night game, prime time, so the nation got to 

come out and see what we really have as a University of Miami football team," Hurricanes coach Handy Shannon said. "I'm pleased with the victory, but I just said in the locker room ... we'll come back Sunday and get ready for our next opponent, which is Duke." 
Wright completed 21 of 26 passes, finding Cooper with one scoring throw and Chris ZelJner with another late in the third quarter to push the lead to 31-0. Sam Shields had six Matt Szymanski's 32-yard field goal with 11 :40 left. 
By then, the outcome was decided, and the Miami mood was so joyous that university president Donna Shalala was posing for photos with smiling guests on the sideline as the clock ticked down. 
"We just got beat, got beat by a better team," Texas A&M coach Dennis Franchione said. 
Miami scored 10 points ofT three Texas A&M turnovers in 
·the final 3:40 of' the hall'­more midweek magic for the Hurricanes, who won their final 10 Thursday games in the Orange Bowl. And Wright may have played the best game of' his Miami career, too. On their first possession, Wright and the Hurricanes 

"It was a Thursday quickly set the 
tone. They had

night game, prime 
an 18-play, 80­time, so the nation yard drive, high­
got to come out and lighted by 
Wright going 5­

see what we really 
for-5 on third 

have as a University downs and took ofMiami football a 7-0 lead when 
Cooper took a

team." 
direct snap and rumbled 7 yards Randy Shannon for a score. Hurricanes coach The direct 
snap, a new 
Miami wrinkle for this game, had a big role in the Hurricanes' second score. 
"It's something we've had in our arsenal," Shannon said, noting Miami installed it dur­ing spring practice. 
Miami got inside the Texas A&M 10 on a fortunate bounce; Wright's pass hit off' Darnell Jenkins' hands, car­omed off Aggies' linebacker Mark Dodge, and landed on Jenkins -who was on the ground and made the catch. 
Indeed, it was 
that kind of 
night for 
Miami, which 

catches for 117 finished with a
"We just got beat, 
yards for Miami, 402-240 edge which had three got beat by a in total yards. scoring drives better team. " Wright was take a combined spread right 1 minute, 9 sec­like a wide
Dennis Franchlone 
onds. receiver on Stephen McGee Aggies coach third-and-2 
had a 1-yard touchdown run with 8:03 left for Texas A&M, and backup quarterback Jerrod Johnson threw a 33-yard scor­ing pass to tight end Martellus Bennett with 5 seconds left. 
The Aggies entered averag­ing 46.3 points, scoring at least 38 in every game. Those numbers plummeted against the Hurricanes, who said a spotlight national TV game like this represented the perfect chance to make a statement. 
It came through loud and clear. 
Texas A&M's three leading rushers -McGee, Mike Goodson and Jorvorskie Lane -came into the game averag­ing a combined 235 yards, a big reason why the Aggies' were ranked fifth nationally in rushing offense with nearly 300 yards per outing as a team. 
That trio rushed for 21 first­half yards and 61J for the game. Lane had no carries in the first half, and the Aggies didn't get on the board until 
and fourth­
and-1 plays 
inside the 
Aggies' 5. Javarris James took both snaps, eventually got the first down, then scored from 1 yard out for a 14-0 lead. 
Miami missed a chance later in the half after Colin McCarthy intercepted McGee's pass and returned it to the Aggies 22, coming up empty when Francesco Zampogna missed a 36-yard field goal. 
But Goodson fumbled the ball away on the next posses­sion. Calais Campbell recov­ered for Miami and the Hurricanes needed one play to go up 21-0. Wright hit Coopnr with a screen pass and the freshman did the rest, barrel­ing in from 12 yards out with 33 seconds left in the half. 
It got worse for Texas A&M. After a short kickoff, Cody Wallace -an offensivn line­man -fumbled the ensuing return, the Hurricanes recov­ered again and Zampogna hit a 45-yarder as timn expired in the half. 

... 

Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 

MLB 

Angels poised to take AL West division title 
r--------------------------------­
.. 
page 24 Friday, September 21, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS 
the millennium development initiative presents: 
what is human development? 
adialogue. 
5:oopm 
sunday, september 23 316 coleman·morse center 
-
the fence. 
Campillo already had thrown a pitch high and tight to Jeff Mathis earlier in the inning. In the top half, Angels starter Jered Weaver had hit Kenji Johjima in the back as he twist­ed away from a pitch. 
After Campillo's fastball whizzed pitch Guerrero's head in the sixth, the slugger got up ofT the deck, pointed and started toward the mound before he was restrained. 
i\lthough both benches -and bullpens-emptied and massed around the mound, there appar­ently were no punches thrown. Campillo and Seattle manager John McLaren were ejected. 
Mike Scioscia. who notched his 700th vietory since becom­ing the Angels' manager in 2000, had harsh words for Campillo. 
"I don't know where that guy came ofT throwing at Mathis and Guerrero. If' it came from the bench. it's more disturbing," Scioseia said. "We haven't had any issues with any clubs, and I don't know where that came from. 


Associated Press 
ANAIIEIM. Calif. -After the Los Angelos Angels moved to the brink of their third AL West title in four years, their club­house wasn't exadly giddy. 
Thny wen~ steamed over star Vladimir (;uerrero's having to duck two fastballs thrown near his head by Seattle reliever Jorge Campillo, the second one causing a huge serum at the mound during Thursday night's 9-5 victory over the Seattle Mariners. 
Los Ang~~ltls built its lead over tlw second-place Mariners to 9 1/2 games and dinchnd at least a tie for the division crown. The Angels will try to become the first team this season to lock up a postseason berth when Joe Saunders takes tiHl mound against former Angtll Jarrod Washburn on Friday night in the second of the four-game series. 
Guerrero hit the deck on a Campillo pitch in the fourth inning, then dug in and hit a two-run homer off the right­hander, standing at home plato and watching as the ball cleared 



(I 

Unmistakably Italian \,Unbelievably Good 
Italian classics and contemporary creations in a comfortable, casual setting. 
5110 Edison Lakes ParkwayCATERING Mishawaka Catering jbr et•ery occasion (574) 271-1692 
www. PapaVinosCatering.com 
www. PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 

Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 

o•o
•o•
o•o 
The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institutefor Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"The Market Value of Integrity" 
John Brennan Chairman and CEO The Vanguard Group 
Monday, September 24,2007 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Write Sports. E-mail Chris Hine or Chris Khorey at sports@nd.edu 
MLB 
Towles has career night in Cards win 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -J.R. Towles jus­tified his jump from Class A to the major leagues in one bril­liant game. 
Towles went 4-for-4 with a franchise-record eight RBis and the Houston Astros reached season highs in runs and hits in an 18-1 victory over the St. Louis Cardinals on Thursday night. 
"I can't even describe it," Towles said. "This is the last thing I thought would happen. Coming up to the big leagues was pretty impressive and this is beyond words." 
It also was the most lopsided victory ever for Houston, one more than the previous mark. 
Towles hit a two-run double off Braden Looper (12-11) in the second to open the scor­ing. He added a two-run sin­gle in the fourth, an RBI dou­ble in the sixth and a bases­loaded walk in the eighth before hitting his first career homer in the ninth off Aaron Miles. 
Miles, an infielder, was on the mound because the Cardinals were short on pitch­ers after allowing 10 or more runs for the second time in four games. They also went 10 innings to beat the Phillies 2-1 on Wednesday night. 
"We've been beaten bad before," Miles said. "Every team has. You come in the next day and have a short memory and come in positive and try to win a ballgame." 
Towles, a 23-year-old catch­er, began the year at Single-A Salem and was among the September callups, going 3­for-13 with one RBI in five games before Thursday. Interim manager Cecil Cooper wasn't planning on having Towles in the lineup on Friday, but that's out the win­dow. 
"It takes some guys two weeks to get that," Cooper said. "I was going to sit him tomorrow but I don't think I can do that now." 
His record-setting night came in the opener of a four­game series matching out-of­the-running teams that com­bined for the last three National League pennants and 10 of the last 13 NL Central 
· titles. 
The Astros finished with 23 hits and won for the fifth time in 15 games. They surpassed their previous bests for runs 
(15) and hits (22) established 
Sunday agaif!St the Pirates. 

Interested in Law? 

Attend the 2007 ND Law Fair 
September 25, 2007 McKenna Hall 11:00-3:00 
Representatives from over 70 law schools will be available in an informal setting to answer questions and provide information to students about their law schools. 
-
·­

.. page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 21, 2007 
SMC SoccER 
NFL 

NewSteelers coachkeeps old sche111e
Conference play
.-­
Associated Press 

opens for Belles 
PITTSBURGH -Troy Polamalu 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's lost its leading scorer, junior Lauren Hinton, to a leg injury. But despite the loss, the Belles still claimed the Kalamazoo. 
"We're not converting in front of the goal," Mackenzie said. 'The key is to try to make a statement early. We're doing good things to get in front of the goal, but not following through. We have to get on the believes new coach Mike Tomlin's best move with the Pittsburgh Steelers' defense was doing noth­ing. 

Tomlin, brought up in the 4-3 defense while coaching Tampa Bay's defensive backs and a strong proponent of it while run­ning Minnesota's defense last sea­son, probably wanted to do some 
Sal Vaccaro tournament last weekend. 
"We've been doing a lot of nice things as a team," Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "We've done a bettt~r job of moving 

"We've been doing a lot ofnice things as a team." 
Caryn MacKenzie Belles coach 
board early, find  overhauling when Pittsburgh  
ways to finish the  hired him in January.  
job and put it in  Don't all new coaches want to  
the back of the  make an impact immediately with  
net."  their style and their scheme?  
Getting a  goal  But with the personnel in place  
early  was  what  to  run  the  3-4  defense  the  
helped the Belles  Steelers have played since the  
beat  out  the  early 1980s, and one of the NFCs  
Hornets 2-1 last  best defensive coordinators in  
September. They  Dick LeBeau agreeing to remain  
also had a double  from former coach Bill Cowher's  
overtimB tiB last  staff, Tomlin stayed with the 3-4.  

the ball around quicker, chang­Oetobnr. Saint Mary's ended the 
There are some variations, for 
ing our point of attack, and season in fourth place, while 
sure-at times, the Steelers have 
moving the ball forward." Kalamazoo finished fifth. 
played four big down linemen 
Saint Mary's (4-1-2) will try "We've had significant play­
with only one linebacker and six 
to keep the momentum going ing time for all players in our 
defensive backs, a different look 
(4-1-2) against conference rival non-conference games so far 
than they've shown in the past. 
Kalamazoo (4-2-1) Saturday in this year," MacKenzie said. 
Mostly, it's been what 
the Belles first confer-IHlen mateh. Mae Kenzie said the Belles have been working to imp rovn before fadng the llornnts. 
"Wn've got some things to sort out up front," 

"Hopefully a}Zer a week offthey'll be fired up and ready to be back on the .field. " 
Caryn MacKenzie Belles coach 
"The coaching 

Pittsburgh's defense has been in 
staff feels good 

the past, one designed to stop the 
and confident 

run and perplex the quarterback 
about putting 

with pass rushers coming from 
anyone on the 
varying angles on every play. 
field we need to." 

That's what Polamalu, a safety, 
The Belles 

has liked as the Steelers (2-0) 
strength lies in 

have given up only one touch­
its backfield ­

down in two games against 
led by goalkeep­

Cleveland and Bull'alo, permitting 
er Amy Mahoney. 

the third-fewest yards in the 
Mahoney has 
league. 
made 34 of Saint 

Not only are the Steelers play­
Mary's 39 saves 

ing LeBeau's defense, they're 
MaeKenzie said. "Hopefully af'tnr a wenk on· they'll be fired up and ready to be baek on the field." 
So far this season, Saint Mary's has put up an average of 12 shots on goal per game. But Maekenzie said changes will have to be made if Saint Mary's wants to beat 

-

tive, we're kind of initiating what the offense needs to do, not just reacting to what they do." 
Polamalu wouldn't say so, but the read-between-the-lines analo­gy is that Tomlin is making fewer suggestions and taking less of a role in dictating the game plan than Cowher did. 
Like Tomlin, Cowher also was a defensive coordinator before becoming a head coach. 
"I think he (Tomlin) has so much respect for Coaeh LeBeau, rightly so, that he just said, 'Hey, do what you do best,"' Polamalu said. 
Tomlin confirmed that. 

"We have players here that have been acquired to fit that scheme and what they do, they do well," Tomlin said. "That's coach­ing to me, putting your players in a position to do well. It's no ques­tion that we have people that have continuity with the scheme. ... I have a lot of respect for Coach LeBeau." 
Among LeBeau's other new looks thL'i season is moving defen­sive end Brett Keisel around, giv­ing him more freedom to make plays in a defense in which the outside linebackers get much of the pass rush responsibility. 
The cornerbacks have been more active as pass rushers, too, as evidenced by the fact that the Steelers' 10 sacks are divided among nine players. Last year, the Steelers had only 39 sacks all season. 


this season. 
With a well-rested team, MacKenzie said her squad will be ready for the I Iornets. 
"We are extremely excited to start conference play," she said. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO I @saintmarys.edu 
playing it the way he likes it. 

"I think he has more control (over the defense)," Polamalu said Wednesday. "We are a lot more active -we're not as conserva-
AP 

Steelers coach Mike Tomlin patrols the sideline during Pittsburgh's 26-3 win over Buffalo Sunday. 
..... 

Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2007 Academic Year 2008-2009 Fall 2008 Spring 2009 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-ois/ 
1803 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 574-247-9293 
University of Notre Dame's Study Abroad Program in 
Angers, France 
"Should I stay or should I go?" 
INFORMATION MEETING 
With Angers' Program Coordinator and returnees of the program 
Tuesday, September 25, 2007 5:30PM 125 DeBartolo Classroom Building 

r-------------------------------------­
~ --------~~ 
Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Big East play begins on road 
By PAT O'BRIEN and 
ELLYN MICHALAK 
Spons Writers 
After going 1-2 this past week­end in Santa Clara's Bronco Invitational, the Irish will take the road again -but this time they hope to bring home more than one win. 

The Irish upset No. 22 Santa Clara after losing to California and UC Santa Barbara last weeknnd and are ready to start conference play at Pittsburgh and West Virginia. 
"We were disappointed to come back with only one win, but we felt good about the win against Santa Clara," coach Debbie Brown said. "Coming back and winning a game against a tough team after being down 0-2 for the weekend really showed the team's character. We are looking forward to this weekend because I feel we have prepared well to face our Big East opponents." 
Notre Dame is led by sopho­more outside hitter Megan Fesl and senior captain outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk. Fesl has recorded 141 kills and 103 digs this year, while Stasiuk has notched 129 kills and a team­high 137 digs. 
Sophomore outside hitter Serinity Phillips has also played well -compiling 130 kills and 63 digs of her own. Senior setter Ashley Tarutis has helped with a team-high 407 assists. 

Irish outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk {10), and middle blocker Justine Stremick (14) try to score in Notre Dame's 3-1 win over the College of Charleston Sept. 7. 
Department of Irish Language & Literature 
Professor Gear6id 6 Tuathaigh, FRHistS 
"Language Change, the State and National Identity in Ireland Since the Great Famine" 
21 September 2007 3:00p.m., Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
Admission is free and all are welcome. 
Contact: Tara MacLeod, Department of Irish Language & Literature, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 46556, (574) 631-7615, e-mail: Tara.A.Macleod.15@nd.edq 
Freshman libero Angela Puente has added 125 digs, while classmate Kellie Sciacca has 101 kills. 
Last season the Irish fell 3-1 to the Panthers. The Panthers cur­rently hold a season record of 6­7 and arc coming off a 0-3 loss to No. 5 UCLA and a 3-0 victory over Cal State Northridge. This season the Panthers have dropped 0-3 decisions to both No. 10 Michigan and No. 15 San Diego. 
"Pittsburgh is a very strong team that has always played very well," Brown said. "They have beaten us the past couple of years, but our motivation is strong, and we are hoping to win against them this weekend." 
The Panthers am led by junior outside hitter Kelly Campbell and senior outside hitter Diana Andreyko with 187 and 177 kills, respectively. Sophomore libero Michelle Rossi paces Pitt with 216 digs and freshman set­ter Emily Burke has 512 assists this season. 
The match against West VIrginia leatures a Mountaineer team with an 8-3 reeord that lost to Notre Dame 3-0 last year. They have beaten Buffalo, Canisius and Akron this year, but were on the losing end against Butler, Marshall and Pepperdine. The Mountaineers have not faced a current top-25 team this year. 
"West VIrginia has a team with a few very good seniors, so they have good experience," Brown said. "Playing on the road is always tough, but we are looking to go 2-0 on the weekend." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu and Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
p~;;ible by th~ generosity ofMr. Mitli#¢lMurphy. 
~UN I.VE RS I TY OF
'W NOTRE DAME 
:-~ :=:·::tl1~1=::~;=:: 


NFL 
47-year old kicker 
returns to Falcons 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. ­Morten Andersen has got this down pat. Sit out training camp. Watch the first two games on television while sip­ping on some nice, cold brews. Then report to the Atlanta Faleons armed with plenty of old-man jokes. 
"It's Yogi Berra," Andersen quipped. "It's deja vu all over again." 
For the second year in a row, the Falcons sent out a belated call to Andersen to rescue their sorry kicking game. He was more than happy to help out, because this puts the 4 7 -year­old freak of nature another sea­son closer to his ultimate goal: playing until he's 50 and pass­ing George Blanda as the oldest player in NFL history. 
"This is what I was meant to be doing," Andersen said. "This is my calling." 
He's already the leading scor­er in NFL history, an ambition fulfilled last season after he was called in by the Falcons to replace Michael Koenen, who missed six of eight field goal attempts in the first two games. 
This time, it was another untested kicker who flopped. 
Looking for someone with a stronger leg who might be around a few years, the Falcons decided to go with 23­year-old Matt Prater, even though he had never kicked in the NFL and only joined the team before its final preseason game. 
The lack of experience showed when Prater made one of four attempts in the first two games, his fate sealed when he shanked a 26-yarder against the Jacksonville Jaguars last Sunday. It didn't take long for the Falcons (0-2) to dig up Andersen's number. 
"I was just sitting on the couch with some of my neigh­bors Sunday evening, having a couple of cold ones," he said. "The next thing I know, my phone rang. It was personnel asking, 'Can you come in tomorrow?' I told them, 'Not too early, I hope."' 
Andersen ran through a quick tryout at the Falcons' complex on Monday afternoon and agreed to a contract by that evening. He joins a team rocked by the Michael Vick dogfighting saga and that has scored only 10 points heading into Sunday's home opener against Carolina {1-1). 
"I was excited to hear about Mort," Falcons center Todd McClure said. "We all know what he's done for us in the past with the kieking game. We need to score points when we can get them." 
This is Andersen's third stint with Atlanta. lie is best remem­bered for making the kiek that sent the Falcons to their lone Super Bowl during the 1998 season, but his career appeared over -just 77 points shy of career scoring leader Gary Anderson -when no one called heading into 2005. 
Andersen sat out an entire season but keeping himself in shape, he also kept pestering the Falcons, having settled in Atlanta during his first go­round with the team. 
When Koenen, who still han­dles the Falcons' punting, struggled as a kicker at the start of last season, Mr. Reliable came to the rescue. Andersen made 20 of 23 attempts (one was blocked) and all 27 extra points, replacing his near-namesake at the top of the scoring list with 2,445 points. 
Serving I_undt c_.., 
Dinner 
"litcs-Sa.t 

1 1-2; 4-9pm 
Closed Sunday &Monday 

011r Specialties lncl11de Exquisite ,\feat F.ntrees c_.., Healthy Vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sand\<Viches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: Lentil Soup & Garlic Paste 
Come Dine With Our Familv And Be Our Flicnd! 
115 Dixie Way North. South Bend (574) 277-7239 
Offering a delicious variety of homemade Donuts, Danish, Strudel, Coffee Cakes, Croissants, and Turnovers. Homemade soup daily! 
Located directly across from Arby's Roast Beef on Mckinley in the College Square Plaza with Tradewinds Resrruant. 
Open 7 days per week! Hours: Sun-Wed 6am-2pm Thurs-Sat 6am-4pm 
719 W. Mckinley Mishawaka, IN 574-2156-7299 1574-256-7298 (fax) 
Charles & Felicia Stone, Owners & Operators Over 215 years of making homemade pastries 
"Donuts and pastries made the old-fashioned way." 
Let us cater your football parties and office festivities. Please call 24 hours ahead to ensure availability. 
-

... page 28 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 21, 2007 
Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about. .. 

Chile Spain 

Tuesday,Sept.25,2007 s:oo pm 102 DeBartolo Hall 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS NOVEMBER 15, 2007 
we still love you. 
We would like you to adopt Brigid's, Lismore and all ofthe +acilities ofWatertord Estates Lodge as you await a new perrnanent horne on earnpus in 2009. for University Club members, Waterford features: 
• 
Yi:,ur own restaurant for breakfast • 30% Discount on <~uest rooms -7 days/week • Complimentary van service to/f:Yom the 

• 
Your own restaurant fc~r lunch Circle on campus, Monday through Friday -·-6 days/week (11:30 a.m. -1:30 p.m.) 

• 
Your own restaurant for dinner • tiealth club and pool privile(jes -7 days/vveek • 25% Discount on all-f-(>Od; 10% discount on 

• 
Your own space h.:>r rncetin<~~s or banquets all beverages t(x up to 500 people • Monthly billin,g to your own accotml; 


• Unlimited free parkin,3 We'll even displ~1y your stein collection until you get a new home. /\nd, iF enough locul members respond quickly, we should be able to put some ofyour previous 
staffback to work. 
CHII rne. 

Sincerely, 


&(ike 23'tenan 
(ND '71) 

Waterford Estates Lod<~e 
52B90 SR 93:3 North 
Waterford 
just north ofthe Nntrc D~m1e campus 
estates lodge
South Bend, IN 4GG37 · (574) 272-5220 

Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
MLB 
Mets give up leads, lose in 10 innings 

Associated Press 
MIAMI -The New York Mets twice blew a three-run lead, and they might be about to blow the NL East. 
With closer Billy Wagner out because of back spasms, the Florida Marlins took advantage to rally in the ninth inning, then scored in the 1Oth on Dan Uggla's RBI double to beat New York 8-7 Thursday night. 
The Mets' lead was cut to 1 1/2 games by second-place Philadelphia, which rallied past Washington 7-6. New York led by seven games on Sept. 12 but has lost six of their past seven. 
"Things are not going our way," center fielder Carlos Beltran said. "It seems like every team comes back on us real easy." 
The latest loss was filled with bad vibes for the Mets. 




You've worked hord on your educotion, novv let GE he!p you bui!d your career_ GE has o wodd-renovJned leodership h.:dning program ond was nomed Best Company for Leaders by Chief Executi\le Magazine in 200/. \Ne invite you to invest in yourself with a career in engineerinq, finonce, manufacturing, soles and mmketing, hurncm resources, or information technology. 


Minus Wagner, New York gave up three runs in the ninth that forced extra innings. Starter Tom Glavine, unbeaten since July 2, failed to hold a 3-0 lead. Right fielder Lastings Milledge was ejected after he flied out in the seventh. Reliever Aaron Heilman was hit by a ball thrown from the stands in the eighth. 
"We're in a rut right now," Glavine said. "There are a lot of crazy things happening. We seemed to have a little bit of everything go wrong." 
Even so, the Mets scored four times in the ninth to take a 7-4 lead, keyed by pinch-hitter Marlon Anderson's three-run double. 
"After we scored four in the ninth, I was saying, 'We've got this one,'" Beltran said. "But we didn't." 
Florida outhit the Mets 21-9, 
and five hits and three runs came off Jorge Sosa (9-8), who failed in a bid for his first save of the season. 
Wagner said his upper back bothered him before the game. He received treatment, but when he tried to warm up for the ninth, he was able to throw only one pitch. 
"It locked up again, and I just couldn't do anything,'' Wagner said. "It stinks. It's my job. I should be the one out there either getting it done or not get­ting it done." 
Wagner said his status is day to day. 
Jeremy Hermida led off the bottom of the ninth with a sin­gle and Miguel Cabrera dou­bled. Alfredo Amezaga's grounder scored a run, and another run came home on Mike Jacobs' infield hit. 
Cody Ross' fly ball landed a foot fair for a double, and the tying run scored on Matt Treanor's groundout. 
Hanley Ramirez led off the Florida lOth with an infield sin­gle, his 200th hit of the year. Uggla then doubled off the scoreboard and was mobbed by teammates as the dazed Mets walked off the field. 
Taylor Tankersley (6-1) pitched a scoreless 1Oth for the Marlins, who broke a four-game losing streak. They improved to 1-5 in Miami against the Mets this year. 
"For us to affect their season -­is huge,'' Jacobs said. "The way we won today, and the team we beat, make it doubly special." 
Moises Alou hit a two-run double in the Mets first to extend his hitting streak to 24 games, the longest of his career and the longest in the NL this year. 
But the Mets lost Milledge in the seventh, when the excitable outfielder was ejected by plate umpire Jim Joyce for arguing about balls and strikes after a flyout. Milledge went into the dugout, then came back onto the field to yell at Joyce and had to be restrained by coach Rickey Henderson. 
Milledge declined to talk to reporters after the game. 
The visitors had plenty of sup­port from the crowd of 15,132. Fans chanted "Let's go Mets!" beginning in the first inning, and when David Wright dou­bled home a run in the third, there were chants of "M-V-P! M-V-P!" 
page 30 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 21, 2007 
' 
Ranking 
continued from page 36 
mon~ is how his team plays this weekend against Hutgers and Villanova -two teams that will pose a challenge to Notre Damn's current ranking. 
The Irish begin the weekend in New Jersey tonight against a Hutgers tPam that has stumbled to a 1-3-1 record. Despite their early season strugglns, Clark 
average and a .875 save per­centage in the team's six games. 
Before meeting the Irish on Sunday, Villanova will open its Big East schedule against Marquette Friday evening. 
Notes: 
+Notre Dame has been picked to finish second in the Big East Blue Division by the league's head coaches. The Irish garnered 102 points and four first place votes, second 

expects a tough "/fyou're playing a only to test from the Connecticut,
hard schedule,
Scarlet Knights. which accumu­
[early season
"Early season lated 105 points games mean results/ mean and I 0 first very little," Clark place votes.
very little. " 
said. "If you're playing a hard +The last 
Bobby Clark
schedule, [early time the Irish season resultsl Irish coach were ranked 
mean very little. Once we get into late Octobnr, you'll have a bet­ter idea or where everybody is." 
Of more importance is the fact that Hutgers returns 12 starters and 13 lettnr winnnrs from a tmtm that went 10-6-3 (6-4-1) last season en route to an appnarance in the Big East tournament snmilinals and the NCAA Tournament. 
Clark is also aware of the troubles his teams have had with the Scarlet Knights. In his seven years at Notre Dame, Clark has managed only a 1-3-1 record against Hutgers ­induding a 2-1 overtime loss in last year's Big East tournament. 
Af'tnr Friday's tilt with Hutgnrs, Notn~ Dame will traV£~1 to Philadnlphia to take on No. 23 Villanova. The Wildcats havn won l'ivn consecutive games aftnr a 2-1 loss at Hichmond to opnn tlw snason. 
Two of thosn wins came in the prestigious Duke/Adidas Classic, when• Villanova defeat­ed North Carolina State and then No. 2 Duke -pnrl'ormanc­es that left an impression on Clark. 
"If you go down to that tour­nament and win two games, you're a good team," Clark said. "It's as simple as that." 
A major reason for the Wildcats' impressive start has been their defense, which has­n't allowed a goal in the team's past four games. Senior goal­keeper .Jason Friel -one of the team's 11 returning starters ­has bonn especially impressive, compiling a 0.60 goals-against 
Recycle the Observer. 
third nationally 
was in 2003 arter they captured the Big East title. 
+Friday's game against Rutgers will be nationally tele­vised on Fox Soccer Channel. The game begins at H p.m. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Focus 

continued from page 36 
like diches," Waldrum said. "It's more like just having that focus all the way through." 
Senior midlielder and captain Amanda Cinalli echoed Waldrum's feelings. 
"Collectively, we just need to stay more composed around the goal," she said. "We are creating those opportunities, and we had plenty of them. It's good that we're getting in our offensive end and getting those chances, but we just need to be more composed around the goal and finish those, whether it's with power or finesse." 
The Irish converted plenty of scoring chances in their last two games against the Blue Demons, whom they beat twice, 6-0 and 5­0, in 2005. DePaul is 2-5-1 and tied Northern Illinois 1-1 at horne in their last game. Going into Friday's game, Notre Dame has not lost to a Big Ea'it opponent at horne in 72 games. 
Notre Dame defeated Penn State 4-1 last season in the NCAA quar­terfinals. The Nittany lions are 4­2-1 entering Sunday's game and recently beat Bucknell 5-1 on the road. 
Although he is aware of the weapons both teams possess, Waldrum said he will not create a team-specific game plan. 
"I think right now we've got to get ourselves playing our way first before we can really try to game plan for anybody else," he said. "As a coaching staff we'll have some reminders for how we want to deal with certain players on the team, but right now I think the focus has been on us." 
Waldrum said that fitiluro to pay close attention ha'i eost the team so far. 
"Seeing the ball, you get relaxed, and you think, 'Well this is coming to me,' and for a moment you don't really eoncen­trate on the llight of tlm ball," he said. 
Waldrum also said scoring opportunities were squandered when the offense hurried. 
"We had a couple chances where players in and around the box could have settled and con­trolled the ball and then taken the shot," Waldrum said. "Instead of doing that, they rushed it and tried to hit it frrst time." 
The Irish face the same affiietion on defense. Bad passes in the defensive third and lack of eoncen­tration by the keepers have cost the team goals. Of the 13 goals scored against the Irish, Waldrum said the coaching staff counted eight that could be attributed to a miscue by Notre Dame. Despite the mistakes, Wald&urn said the talent is in plaee to succeed. 
"All the players have the ability to do it," Waldrum said. "It's just being engaged and focused and the little things." 
The Irish are still plagued by inconsistency at keeper. Senior Lauren Kara'i and froshman Nikki Weiss split time against Princeton last Friday, but Weiss played the entire Oklahoma State game Sunday. 
"We've thrown it back up in the air again, and we're going to see at the end of the week," Waldrum said. "That part still unli>rtunately has not got solved fi1r us eornplete­1y." 
Karas has allowed four goals and 2.24 goals per game, while Weiss ha'i let in fiw goals and 1.42 goal<; per gamn. 
Hegardlnss of the team's ques­tion marks, Waldrum remains confident. 
''I'm still convinced we're going to be a good hmrn," he said. "I believninit." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

<t:> 2007 KPMG LLP, the U.S. member firm of KPMG International, a Swiss cooperative. No phone calls or agencies please. KPMG is an Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/DN. KPMG maintains a drug.. free workplace. 

skills experience vvealth character communities netvvorks a life 
At KPMG, we network across the globe to help businesses respond to an always-evolving global economy. We're focused on Global Mobility ­with international internships, training and assignments that can broaden your abilities and help us share knowledge across borders. 
The KPMG 
International Network of Firms is the second-largest of the Big Four firms offering services outside of the U.S. Continuing success in this arena requires that our people think and act globally. 


From the moment you start building your career at KPMG in the U.S., you can be exposed to opportunities for international training, experiences and assignments that enable our people to be the very best at working in the business environment -in the U.S. and abroad. 
Find out more about how you can build your networks, your global experience, and your career at KPMG. 
kpmgcareers.com 
A great place to build your career. 
AUDIT • TAX • ADVISORY 


Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 31 
junior captain Jenny Rolfs was defense in their opening games. have to rekindle some of the sporting a large number of fresh­not satisfied. The deciding factor of the chemistry with junior receiver men, and both will try to over­
Bushelle 
"We need to finish our chances game, however, should be how Lulu Meraz if the Shamrocks come their youth and claim a vic­
continued from page 36 
adjustment. "Obviously what we did worked against Pangborn, but if Lewis gives us something differ­ent, we'll adjust," Bushelle said. "For now, what we're doing seems to be working." 
The Chicks, similarly, wish to go into the game with a positive frame of mind. 
"We have a really positive out­look for this season," Lewis senior captain Alexandra Persley said. "Things didn't go too well for us last year, but we have some key players back from abroad and an impressive freshman class." 
While she refused to comment specifically on their match-up with Welsh Family, Persley remarked on the Chicks' overall preparations. 
"We've brought in some great new coaches and we've been practicing hard for three weeks now," Persley said. 
As both teams prepare for their game on Sunday at Hiehle Field, Bushelle keeps the big picture in mind. 
"The goal is always a champi­onship," she said. 
Farley vs. Cavanaugh 
Farley's Finest square off against Cavanaugh Sunday at 1 
p.m. in a matchup between two teams coming ofT disappointing results last week. Farley was unable to finish the chances that their defense gave them and ended up in a scoreless tie with McGlinn Tuesday. Meanwhile, Walsh beat Cavanaugh 14-13. 
Despite completing all but four of her passes on Tuesday, Farley and create some bigger plays." well the McGlinn team can Rolfs said. respond to their 0-1-1 start, and 
She recognized the importance if they can contain the Wild of her defense, led by senior safe­Women early in the game. ty Anna Pursley, but hopes her In the first two games of offense will help the team win Walsh's season (victories over this week. Farley hopes the inser­Pasquerilla East and Cavanaugh), tion of regular quarterback the offense, lead by their captain, Brittany Baron into the lineup senior quarterback Marie will help cure some of the offen­Brenner, and flashy sophomore sive woes the Finest experienced receivers Sierra Smith and against Meghan Hadley, McGlinn. has struck first 
"We did a with early touch-pretty good job downs. And once on offense for a 'The goal is always the lead has been lot of our girls' secured, the Wild
the championship. " 
first time." Rolfs Women defense said. has been able to 
On the other Kelly Bushelle settle down and side of the ball, Welsh Family captain control the pace of Cavanaugh the game. hopes to come "The defense and back after a offense have been devastating working really well defeat, in which senior quarter­together as a unit. There really back Katie Dunn was unable to aren't any weaknesses on our convert on an extra point that team" Brenner said. "That does­would have tied the score. n't mean that we aren't expecting Despite a defense that held the a tough game this Sunday Walsh offense to only 14 points, though." and picked ofT a pass that gave The Shamrocks' season, how­Cavanaugh one last chance to ever, has not had as great a start. 
. score, the Chaos were unable to Their season opened with a pull it out. heartbreaking come-from-behind The Chaos know they are going loss to Howard, and then a tie to be in for a tough bout this against Farley in a 0-0 defensive week against a quality defense in battle. The McGlinn offense has Farley but they are hopeful that had some trouble coming togeth­they have enough offensive fire­er -they are scoreless in their power to move the ball against last three halves. The Finest. It could be a difficult game for the struggling McGlinn offense, Walsh vs. McGlinn going up against the rough Sunday Walsh takes on McGlinn defense of Walsh, coming off a in a battle of two stout defenses. two game win streak. Junior Both teams have shown strong quarterback Sarah de Groot will 
hope to beat the Wild Women on tory Sunday. The teams field rela­
Sunday at 2 p.m. tively weak defenses as well, 
meaning that the Badin-BP match 
Pangborn vs. Lyons up could be an offensive battle. 
After an impressive 20-6 win Badin struggled against Lyons 
over Badin last Sunday, Lyons potent rushing attack, losing to 
captains Katie Mackin and Judith Lyons 20-6. The highlight of 
Kaczmarek feel confident going Badin's performance was a 
into its game this Sunday against touchdown pass from senior co­
a struggling Pangborn team. captain Katy Rose Hackney to 
"Not only did the first win give freshman Courtney Rains. In 
us a lot of confidence as a team," their second week showdown, 
Mackin said. "But our intense Badin faced Pangborn and played 
practices have also given our the Phoxes to a 6-6 tie. 
team a huge boost." BP is another team plagued by The Lyons cap­inexperience on .tain said their defense. In BP's practices helped first game against
"We need to finish
out the fresh­Pasquerilla West, men. They our chances and the Babes lost 33­learned to work 18. They contin­
create some 
hard and tough­ued to a 0-2 star
bigger plays." 
en up, she said. after losing to Mackin feels the Welsh's power­ladies are play­Jenny Rolfs house offense 26­
ing well as a Farley captain 0 on Thursday, 
team, rather with senior cap-
than having one tain Melissa 
or two girls carry Meagher unable 
all the weight. Lyons is anxious to drive to the endzone. 
and ready to take on a Pangborn The Bullfrogs face the Babes 
team that had some troubles with Sunday. The game will depend 
their first game against a tough most on which offense is more 
team from Welsh. prepared, as both teams will 
In their loss, Pangborn, led by probably look to their captain 
sophomore captain Meghan quarterbacks to win the game for 
Bescher, scored only 12 points. them. Expect an intense, high 
That total could go down against scoring, offensive showdown on 
a stout Lyons defense, which only Sunday, with two defenses strug­
allowed six points in its win over gling to find their feet. 
Badin. 
"We are very confident," Contact Peter Reisenaur tat 
Mackin said. preisena@nd.edu, Patrick Stynes 
at pstynes@nd.edu, Kevin Henry 
Badin vs. Breen-Phillips at khenryl@nd.edu, Eric Prister 
Both Badin and Breen-Phillips at eprister@nd.edu and Anthony 
are relatively young, with both Conklin at aconklin@nd.edu 
Orians leads Purple Weasels to shutout victory 
Badin and Pangborn battle to a draw in defense-dominated game; Gargula and the Whirlwinds shut out Babes 
By ANDY RENNER, ANDY ZICCARELLI and JOHN WHITTY Sports Writers  speaks volumes," PW coach Paul Wallenberg said. "Our girls are in great shape. We can only get better on defense." While the Weasel defense was  The Bullfrog defense was up to the task, intercepting Pangborn freshman quarter­back Gabby Tate twice. Both came at key moments in the  "I think we found the right mix for what we are trying to do on offense," Flannery said. "We moved the ball better today."  but Welsh Family struck first with a long run by junior quar­terback Jenni Gargula, fol­lowed immediately by a touch­down pass to receiver and sen­ 
rolling, the offense was sputter­ game.  Playing  a  big role in the  ior captain Kelly Bushelle.  
Pasquerilla West utilized its  ing. The Weasel offense was  With Pangborn driving early  offense was junior receiver  ''I'm really happy with how  
defense to claim a 12-0 victory  hindered by penalties that kept  in the first half and poised to  Courtney Rains. Down by six,  we played," Gargula said. "On  
against Lewis at Hiehle field  it from building up momentum.  take the lead,  the  Bullfrog  and with the Bullfrog offense  both sides of the ball, everyone  
Thursday night.  A superb run by  defense  stood  facing a fourth down near mid­ played to their potential."  
Once  again,  quarterback  Orians  at  the  tall and got an  field, Hackney found Hains for  After the first touchdown,  
Grace Orians led the Purple Weasels offense. The freshman  opening of the second half was  "When you get a  interception in the end zone,  a 20-yard gain to keep the drive alive. Later that drive, the  both the offense and defense for Welsh Family were t-oo  
completed four of four passing attempts, one for a touchdown, to give the Weasels an early 6-0  negated by a holding penalty. "They didn't  shutout it speaks volumes.''  stealing a potential touch­down. The sec­ two connected again on a fourth and goal to tie the score up at 6-6.  much for the Babes. While Gargula had four touchdown passes and the offense churned  
lead. PW looked as if it was going  keep us out of the end zone; we  Paul Wallenberg  ond interception came with less  Each team had their chances to win in the final two minutes,  out long passes and runs, the Whirlwind's defense was just as  
to cruise to an easy victory when they intercepted Lewis on  kept ourselves out of the end  Pasquerilla West coach  than two min­utes to play in a  but the defenses stood tall. The Phoxes had two interceptions,  good. Welsh  Family  stifled  the  
the ensuing Chick possession.  zone," PW senior  tie game, halt­ both by Bescher, to halt the  Babes. With no first downs and  
However, the Lewis defense  captain  Tina  ing a  potential  Badin offense, while Badin  no drive reaching Welsh Family  
stepped up and held PW score­ Martinek said.  go-ahead drive.  added  one  of  their  own.  territory, BP couldn't get into  
less for the rest of the half.  The Weasels were able to  Though the Badin defense  Eventually time ran out with  an offensive rhythm. Though  
"We had their quarterback in  score one more time, however.  made  some  key plays,  the  Pangborn driving, leaving both  disappointed, the Babes remain  
trouble," Lewis defensive coor­ Once again, Grace Orians was  Pangborn offense was able to  teams still in search of their  optimistic about some areas of  
dinator Michael Scholl said.  able to bounce outside and take  strike first. With the game  first win of the year.  their game.  
"We were able to get to their  the ball to the house, giving PW  scoreless in the second half,  "Our  defense  was  a  lot  
quarterback before she could  a 12-0 lead that would last the  Tate connected with receiver  Welsh Family 26,  stronger tonight than our last  
get to the outside. We have a  rest of the game.  Meghan Bescher for a 30-yard  Breen-Phillips 0  game," said Babes sophomore  
lot of stmior leadership and we  Lewis will try to rebound  gain. The very next play, she  "We ready for BP!"  Emily Styrmoe.  "We  really  
did a great job in coverage."  against  Welsh  Family  on  found Bescher again in the end  That was the rallying cry for  improved there."  
However, the Lewis offense  Sunday, while PW looks to con­ zone, giving the Phoxes a 6-0  Welsh  Family  before  their  Both teams look forward to  
was also held in check by the  tinue their journey towards  lead. Tate ended the day 14-of­ game against Breen-Phillips - their next game in hopes of  
swarming Weasel defense. PW  Notre Dame Stadium against  21 passing.  and the Whirlwinds lived up to  keeping  momentum  and  
forced the Chicks to throw four  Welsh Family next Thursday.  Not to be outdone, Bescher  their promise.  improving.  
interceptions and kept Lewis on  led the Pangborn defense with  The Whirlwinds improved to  "Although we  had minimal  
their own half of the field for  Badin 6, Pangborn 6  three interceptions on the day,  2-0 by beating the Babes 26-0  struggles," said BP freshman  
most of the game.  It was a hard-fought game  including two in the final two  and dropping BP to 0-2 on the  Jasmine Williams, "we'll be  
"When you're behind early,  full of momentum swings, but  minutes, thwarting any Badin  season. Welsh Family dominat­ back on Sunday."  
you have to go deep," Lewis  in the end, neither Badin nor  hopes of a last-minute drive.  ed the Babes with a balanced  For Welsh Family, it's busi­ 
coach Perry Shoemaker said.  Pangborn could capture their  "She is a heck of a player,"  attack on both sides of the ball.  ness as usual.  
"We had lots of spots open, we  first win of the season. Despite  Flannery said. "She made some  "We improved on our flag  "We're really looking forward  
just couldn't hit anyone.  It's  the outcome, Badin coach Tim  nice plays."  pulling, lining up on defense,  to the next game," Bushelle  
easy to play defense with  a  Flannery was still pleased with  Offensively for Badin, junior  and overall better execution,"  said.  
lead."  his team's performance.  quarterback  Katie  Rose  Whirlwind coach Mike Kaiser  
PW utilized their defense  "The defense was a lot better  Hackney  finished  13-of-21  said.  "Anytime you win 26-0, it  Contact Andy Renner at  
effectively and was able to earn  today," Flannery said. "We got  passing on the day, including a  feels good."  arenner@nd.edu, Andy Ziccarelli  
a shutout.  some turnovers, and that was  40-yard strike to sophomore  Both teams could not capital­ at aziccare@nd.edu and John  
"When you get a shutout it  the biggest thing."  receiver Kelley Daniels.  ize on their first possessions,  Whitty at jwhitty2@gmail.com  

page 32 


I.eading the defense is sP.nior 
captain and middle linebacker 
(;e Wang. The defense will try 

continued from page :36 to complement St. Ed's ball 
eontrol and time of possession an~ senior ckfnnsive nmVomm­strategy on offense with it's sivl~ lineman .Jason Nagle, snn­own physieal style of play. ior lirwhacknr/f'ullbaek Jono l'nnn and linebacker/tight Pnd Keough vs. Keenan Nick Fanslau. Sunday morning will be any­
However. tlwy will have to thing hut easy when the rnpla1:n impact players Nick K1wugh Kangaroos face the Chambers, l'at Sullivan and Knnnan Knights at 3 p.m. It's Alex l.nough who led a strong bnen a rough couple of seasons ddensive unit last smtson. for Keough Hall, junior captain 
"Morrissey is the dnl"ending Torn 0' Donnell said. champion. If we want to win "IWe were! awful last season wn have to come to them," and we haven't won a game Shapot said. since I've been here," 
"Thn road to the playoffs O'Donnell said. 
starts Sunday," Shapot said. After assembling a mostly nnw Iirw up, the Kangaroos Sorln vs. St. Edward's antil:ipatn a better rm:ord this Sorin will host St. Ed's season with sornP hnlp from Sunday at 2 p.m. on tlw north tlwir intimidating offensive sidn of Hinhln finlds in an open­linn, which 0' Donnell said is ing bout lwtwnnn two tnams "huge." Another key player, that failml to rnakn thn playoffs snnior .John Kadous, was a for­last year. m n r me rn be r of tlw Notre 
Fans who love hard-nosed l>anw football team and will football will play as a defen­nnjoy this sive nnd and matrhup that tackle. i n clu d ~~ s two '"We've had a couple A different tnams that pridP mindset
good practices. but 
themsnlvns on 1~manatns from r u n n i n g llw we won't be able to Keenan. The football and Knights appear
tell what we have 
playing dPfnnsn. to have more
until we get into 
The Sorin confidence this Ottnrs plan to game situations. " season, harken­improve this ing back to their ynar and put SUCCP.Ssful 2006
Sean Wieland 
last year lwhind campaign in
Zahm captain 
thmn. which they went 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~---­
The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 21, 2007 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

strengths and weaknesses we 
have after the first game." 

Carroll should present a for­midable challenge, particularly for the Zahm defense. Sophomore Jon Sarna will guide an offense that isn't afraid to stray from the inter­hall norm of smash mouth, run-first football. 
"We'll move the ball around, spread out our offense and pass the ball," senior captain wide receiver Kyle Kownacki said. "We aren't afraid to run it, either. We have a very ver­satile offense." 
For the spread offense to be successful, senior offensive linemen James Geyer, Jesse Greenwood and Mike O'Connor will have to protect Serna. Geyer and fellow senior defen­sive linemen Ben Gern and Milo Dodson will look to spend some quality time. in the Zahmbies' backfield blowing up plays. 
While the potential outcome is in doubt, one thing is certain: Carroll has earned the respect of the Zahm captain. 
"Every year I've been here, they have been pretty solid. Traditionally they hadn't been, but this senior class is really good," Wieland said. "It should be a pretty good battle." 
Knott vs. Siegfried 

This week's season opener between Mod Quad rivals Knott and Siegfried has more on the line than a 1-0 start to the sea­son. 
The game, which is usually scheduled as each dorm's opener, is one of the events in the Planner Cup, in which the two dorms compete for the naming rights of the slope behind Grace and Planner halls. Siegfried looks to repeat as winners this year and ensure that the slope retains its title as the "Siegfried Slope." 
Siegfried is very confident heading into the season after a strong performance last ye·ar. In addition to their 16-6 victory over Knott, the Ramblers made the playoffs, but lost in the semifinals. The Hamblers return many starters on offense. They return junior quarterback Max Young, junior running back Marcus Young, and junior wide receiver Gary 
Burke. The majority of the "not really a elose game." 
offensive line returns as well. O'Neill finished 3-1 in the post­
Siegfried captain Tom Martin season and lost to Morrissey in 
also mentioned that hn is excit­the championship game. 
ed about the Ramblers star I I uth says this year's offense 
defensive player. Holdox is very talented and hard work­
McMaster. ing, but their greatest strP.ngth 
"Our star defensive player is is on defense. The leadership of Holdex McMaster," Martin said. the defensive line and experi­"Although lately hn has had ence of the linebackers and some trouble remembering the secondary will be key to defeat­names of our plays and has ing the Mob. O'Nl~ill must also resorted to using nicknames be aware of the pick-six poten­like 'Yellowshirt' and 'Martha' tial of senior Dave Costanzo, instead of the actual play Stanford's star player and for­calls." mer safety for the Notre 
In addition to Siegfried's Dame's football team. many experienced players, Unlike Stanford's individual Martin is very excited about talent, the O'Neill Mob relies on the new players this year, and teamwork. "Both offense and he expects them to contribute defense's success depends on to the team. the cooperation of every single 
After coming off a season in player on the field," senior cap-which they tain Pat Conley missed the play-said. offs by just one The O'Neill point, Knott is "We're just excited to team is slightly looking forward undersized this
get back on the field
to making a year, but their playoff run this and play." strong defensive year. and offensive "It was a lines will he key
Aidan Fitzgerald
tough year last to their success.
Knott captain
year," Knott "We will win sophomore cap-on Sunday if we tain Aidan control the line Fitzgerald said. of scrimmage," "We're just excitP.d to get back Conley said. on the field and play." They plan to strike early and 
Fitzgerald said that he thinks utilize the momentum to set the the Juggerknotts should be tone for the game. strong on offense this year, led Despite losing some of his by Fitzgerald at quarterback team's best players, Conley has and senior wide receiver Nate set the bar high for his team. Prochaska. In addition, he The Mob hopes to repeat last expects big things from the year's success, but this time, Knott Hall freshmen. He they want to return from the specifically mentioned that stadium with the championship freshman running back cup. Cameron Smith should emerge They're not the only ones as one of the team's strongest with a championship appear­offensive players. ance on their mind -Stanford, 
too, seeks redemption from last Stanford vs. O'Neill year's gamP.. 
Stanford hopes to seek "I wouldn't be playing if we revenge Sunday at 2 p.m. on didn't have a chance to win," the Riehle Fields when they lluth said. "I think we can win, meet defending Gold Division we just have to put it all champions, the O'Neill Mob. togethP.r." 
Last season, No. 8 seed Stanford snuck into the playoffs Contact Mike Gotimer at and went on to upset the No. 1 mgotimer@nd.edu, Jared Jedick seed Fisher. Their come-from­at jjedick@nd.edu, Matt Gamber behind playoff run came to a at mgamber@nd.edu, Alex crashing halt in the semifinal Barker at abarkerl@nd.edu, game, however, when the Mob Meghan McMahon at defeated them in what Stanford mmcmaho@nd.edu and Genie captain Hob Huth said was Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 
"We've always been strong on dnfnnse, but now wn'vn got some young fn~shman linemen that will hnlp to turn things around on offense," senior cap­tain Hyan Bove said. 
Making the turnaround on offense will bn more dil'licult -Sorin has two potential starters at quarterback. Sophomore Casey McGushin and junior Connor Douglas are battling to be the signal caller and neither has a clear advantage. 
This uncertainty in Sorin's passing game means a lot of opportunities for sophomore running back Hobert Gallic. 
"We are looking to establish the run more than in years past," Hove said. 
Senior outside linebacker Chris Schwarher and senior safety Mark Dummett lead the tough defense. They hope to help the Otters maintain their proud tradition of strong 
dnfense.  
"I feel confident th at  our  
team  is  better  than  it  has  
been," Bovn said.  

St. Ed's was winless last sea­son and is looking to take somP. steps in the right direction this SllaSOn. 
The oll'ense. and the offensive linn in particular. is a big focus for St. Ed's this year, according to coach Cameron !Iogue. 
"Our offensive line is huge this year. We are going to score a lot of points," Hogue said. 
With inexperienced freshman Matt Abeling at quarterback, St. Ed's intends 4-0 in the regu­
lar season but fell in the first round of the playoll's to Siegfried. 
As for returning players, the Knights have a lot of experi­ence in their secondary and linebacker positions to provide thn team with a "Keenan defense !that] wrecks people," junior captain Pat Burns said. 
However, the class of 2011 puts in their two cents towards the team too. 
"We have good freshmen on our offensive line," Burns said. "They should surprise a lot of people." 
A powerful force, Keenan hopes to use this to their advantage in Sunday's game. Keough, however, feels they should not be underestimated. 
Carroll vs. Zahm 
Sunday's 3 p.m. matchup between Carroll and Zahm pits a pair of teams looking to build on a season that saw both teams make the playoffs ­only to lose in the opening round. 
Zahm is especially anxious to get back on the field after its season ended with an agoniz­ing loss to Morrissey, the even­tual champion. The Zahmbies, said senior captain Sean Wieland, came up six inches short on a two-point conversion attempt that would have won them the gamP.. Instead, they came up empty and fell 7-6. 
Pieking up where they left off 
will be the back­
field tandem of 
Wieland, in his 

to rely on its fourth year at running game. "The road to the quarterback, and 
"We'll proba­playoff..<; starts junior running 
bly be running back Theo Ossei­
Sunday."
a II th~~ ti 111 e . Anto. Junior We intend to Liam Larkin will run right over Bret Shapot anchor both the people," Hogue offensive and
Alumni captain 
said. defensive lines. 
Carrying the "We've had a ball for St. Ed's couple good prac­will be Sean tices, but we Heed. lh~ will he running won't be able to tl\ll what we lwhind a very largP. and signifi­have until we get into game sit~ cantly improved offensive line, uations," Wieland said. "The llogue said. old cliche, 'take onp, game at a 
"Tiwre shouldn't be anyone tinw', is what we're trying to stopping us," Hogue said. do. We'll see what kind of 

Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 33 
REV. EUGENE ANJUS, C.S.C., GRADUATE STUDIES, ~~OREAU SEMINARY. REV. PAULINO ANTONIO, C.S.C., LANGUAGE STUDIES. ~10REA.U SEt1iNARY • REV. AL D'ALONZO, C.S.C., iN RESIDENCE. HOREAU Sn·11NARY • REV. ROB­ERT AUSTGEN, C.S.C., CHAPLAIN. CP..~1PUS ~~INISTRY • REV. NICHOLAS AVO, C.S.C., PROFESSOR U~ERITUS. PROGRM~ OF LIBERAL STUDIES • REV. LEONARD BANAS, C.S.C., ASSISTANT PROFESSOR E~1ERITUS, DEPARH-lENT OF CLASSICS, REV. ERNEST BARTELL, C.S.C., PROFESSOR E~1ERiTUS OF ECO!>JOMICS • REV. THOMAS BLANTZ, C.S.C., PROFESSOR. DEPARTt~ENT OF HISTORY • REV. JAMES BRACKE, C.S.C., CHAPLAiN TO THE SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS, REV. RICHARD BULLENE, C.S.C., ASSISTMH DEAN AND ASSISTANT PROFESSOR. SCHOOL OF ARCHITECHTURE • REV. FRANK CAFARELLI, C.S.C., DIRECTOR OF CA.NDIDATE FORt·1.~TION. HOREAU SE~liNARY REV. JOSEPH CAREY, C.S.C., ASSISTANT DIRECTOR, CA~1PUS t1iNiSTRY. REV. GARY CHAMBERLAND, C.S.C., VISIT!~JG iNSTRUCTOR. DEPARTtviENT OF THEOLOGY • REV. AUSTIN COLLINS, C.S.C., PROFESSOR OF SCULPTURE. DEPARH1E~IT OF ART. ART HISTORY & DESIGN • REV. JOHN CONLEY, C.S.C., RECTOR SiEGFRIED HALL & DIRECTOR OF CONF-IRMATION F'ROGRAMS, Cf..~1PUS r-lli~ISTR\' • REV. MICHAEL CONNORS, C.S.C., DIRECTOR OF THE ~1ASTERS OF DIVINITY PROGRAM. DEPARTHENT OF THEOLOGY. REV. LOUIS DELFRA, C.S.C., CHAPUldN. CAt~ PUS tviiNISTRY • REV. BOB DOWD, C.S.C., ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SC>ENCE • REV. PAUL DOYLE, C.S.C., RECTOF --'l HALL & ASSIT.t ---'TOR, BASILICA. 0 ;ACRED HE.ART •--.. )HN DUNNE , O'BRI---IFESSOR OF C --IC THEOLOGY·~ ~'<'ERT, C.S.C., GRADU.ATE STUDIES. 
UNIVERSITY 01 -,AH.E. REV. NIGAN, c.s.c. -E PROFEssor IT·~1ENT r . t>~D \>RE·v···· JAME~ , c.s.c., r ..~HEALTH SCIENCES, DEPART·
N

t~ENT OF PREf AL STUD RICK GAFF' ..SSOCIATE PF R A~W \d'As GAUG' C., RF 0. FRANK GORCH, C.S.C., DIRECTOR EMf RTUNf .lOt~ \1,. REV. ( GRE' US MINISTRY • MR. JACOB GREINER, C.S.< ', H' rr . SE!'-11~ OR' . H HAAG, C.S.C., RECTOR. ST.
jEDWARD'S 1-1.~1 " IS~ PROFESSiONAL SPECiALIST. DEPARTMENT OF PHYSICAL i RE D. RISTOPHER JULIEN, C.S.C., SEHINARIAN. t , 5 UTI KING, C.S.C., RECTOR. SORi~J COLLEC '... PAL . ., ASSISTANT PROFES­SOR OF THEOL ARI!i-INARY • REV. WILLIAM LIES, C.S.C., E)< . RA, C.~ ~ • REV. EDWARD MAL· LOY1 C.S.C., PR ·.c., PR .S.C.) stj::()Jir' ECTOR OF FRESH~-1AN RETREATS. CAl .REV. JA1 ICE-PRES. RSITY OFNOTRE Dl>HE REV. LEON ME 0, C.S.C., ASS( •. E MEYEr... • AARON M. RY • REV. WILSON MIS­CAMBLE, C.S.C., OR OF HISTOR EV. PATRIC JR. t•10REAU ., ASSOCIATE PROFESSQR. DEPARTMENT RT HISTORY & [ IN OBERMILLER, IRE.. >R: OFFICE OF P • REV. EDWA ONNOR, C.S.C ERITUS OF THEOLOGY • MR. GERRY OLINGER, C.S.C., SEMINARIAN. t~OREAU SEMiNARY • REV. DAN PARRISH, C.S.C., FINAN(iAL CONSULTANT. OFFiCE OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT OF FINANCE • REV. JOHN PEARSON, C.S.C., CAMPUS MINISTRY. SAINT ~1ARY'S COLLEGE. REV. ROBERT PELTON, C.S.C., DIRECTOR Et~ERiTUS. lt,STITUTE FOR PASTORAL A~iD SOCIAL MINISTRY • MR. ELVART PINAICOBO, C.S.C., SEHIN.ARIAN. ~-10REAU SE~1!NARY • BRO. JOHN PLATTE, C.S.C., FACILiTIES MANAGER. COLEt~.AN-"'' ···q. REV. MARK POO". -VICE-PRES!DEI .. 'T l>,FF.AIRS • REV. RANDALL RENTNER, C.S.C., GUEST SCHOLAR INSTITUTE FOR EDUCATiONAL INITI."-TIVES • REV. JOHN RILEY, C.S.C., PASTC" '•RISH, REV. • "W HEART B, STAFF. HORE/>.U SEHINA.RY, REV. GEORGE ROZUM, C.S.C., RECTOR. ALUt•1NII-!.ALL. REV. KEVIN RUS­SEAU, C.S.C., DIR'" •.REV. DAVID SCHLAVER, C.S.C., .ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR HOLY CROSS MISSION CENTER • REV. TIMOTHY SCULLY, C.S.C., PROFES'. DIR' ' W SEBESTA, C.S.C., ASSOCIATE p,~STOR. S/;CRED HEART PARISH • REV. WILLIAM SEETCH, C.S.C., CHt,PLJ\IN . .L\1 HLETIC DEP 1,1t·1ANDEfl (RETIRED;. UNiTED STATES i'iAVY • REV. THOMAS SMITH, C.S.C., Dlr-<ECTOR. HOLY CROSS 1•11SSION CENTER. REI ··. SULLIVAN, C.S.C., ASSOC!ME PROFESSOR & CHf.,IR. DEP,~RTMENT OF THEOLOGY & PHILOSOPHY. HOLY CROSS COLLI TION Sl.AFF. ~10i'E.AU SEMINARY • REV. THOMAS STREIT, C.S.C., I<ESE.ARCH .ASSISTA.NT PROFESSOR. DE­PART~1ENT 0 . THESING, C.S.C., RECTOR. KEEN.AN HALL • REV. MERWYN THOMAS, C.S.C., ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF MATHEHATIC , , r PARISH • F H WALTER, C.S.C., PROFESSOH Et·1ERITUS OF CHE+11STHY • REV. RICHARD WARNER, C.S.C., DIRECTOR. 0-MPUS !-11NI. •C. T • REV. M' RTZ, C.S.C., STAFF. INSTITUTE FOR CHURCH LIFE & FOR~1ATION STt;FF. MOREAU SEMINARY. MR. PAUL YBARRA, C.S.C. fUDIES.' INAR'{ • REV. PAULINO ANTONIO, C.S.C., LANGUAGE SlUDIES. MOREAU SEMINARY. REV. AL D'ALONZO, C.S.C., iN RESIDt. ·r '·'' ~r· •-rr.o:•• OLAS AVO, C.S.C., PROFESSOR E~IERITUS, PROGRAH OF LIBERf.,L STUDiES • REV. LEONARD BANAS, C.S.C., .ASSISfANT PROFt.. TUS OF ECONOMICS • REV. THOMAS BLANTZ, C.S.C., PRO;::ESSOR. DEPARTt>1ENT OF HISTORY. REV. JAMES BRACKE, C.S.C., C . t,N AND ASSiSTANT PROFESSOR. SCHOOL OF ARCHITECHTURE • REV. FRANK CAFARELLI, C. S.C., DIRECTOR OF CANDIDATE FO . MINISTRY • REV. GARY CHAMBERLAND, C.S.C., VISITING INSTfWCTOI'. DEe'.ARlMtlH OF THEOLOGY. REV. AUS· TIN COLLINS, C.S.C., PRO CULPTURE. DEPI\RTt• ... .ART HISTORY. . JOHN CONLEY, C.S.C., RECTOR, SIEGFRiED HALL & DIRECTOR OF CONFIRMATION PROGRM~S. c.~~1PUS HiNISTRY. REV. MICHAEL CONNORS, C.S.C., Dlf<ECTOR OF THE MAS TEllS OF DIVINITY PROGI<At·1. DEPAR11•1tNT OF THEOLOGY. REV. LOUIS DELFRA, C.S.C., CHAPLA.IN. C.~MPUS MiNISTI:N. REV. BOB DOWD, C.S.C., ASSISTANT PROFESSOFI OF POLITICf.,L SCIENCE • REV. PAUL DOYLE, C.S.C., !<ECTOR. DILLO!-J HALL & t.,SSITANT RECTOR. BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEAI<T • REV. JOHN DUNNE, C.S.C., I'EV. JOHN A O'BRinl PPOFESSOR OF CATHOLIC THEOWGY REV. TOM ECK S.C., GllADl' ''.flSITY OF NO ,, .• REV. JAI"r '' C.S.C., AS ·E, PROFESSO !VIE NT Of ,l~.r I "( . AND DESIC >/. JAMES FOSTER, C.S.C., AS· SIST;l.NT DEAN TH SC" -PREPHOF "'FNEY, 1 AND Cf _N· 'Qc;_;y.' • RE. V, 1 v.AUGHAN, C.S.C., RECTOR
J.. STA.I<FDRD HA FRM' '\lGENI L SPE EF 'QF THEOU •. GREGORY GREEN, C.S.C., CHAPLAIN. CA 1ST OD \GROVE, •MINARI,~N. MOR~AU SEMI­NAR'! • REV. R ' .TOP.. ST iS ~:t·11Nt,i • LOUIS HURCIK, C.S.C., AS· SiST,~.NT PROF . DEPAIH INS i(ESIDENT. UNIVERSiTY OF NOTRE DA~1E. JULIEN, C.S .>_S( .IOCESE OF FORT WAYNE· SOUTH BEND • •\_!i.C., RECTOR :<. '\(' .S. HOLY CROSS COLLEGE REV. PAUL KOL '\!ANT PflOF F T' (;l ., R. MICHAEL LEWIS, C.S.C., SEMINARIP.N. r "QEV. WILL • C.S,, NS .. N.J .. . . EDWARD LUTHER, C.S.C., PROCURATOR. .,PWARD .S.C., f' tvtUS. MCCORMICK, C.S.C., REC · TO!<. I<F.OUGH W TS. CAl ·• ,.,.~ .C., f.ISSt, ·PI< ' ' COUNSELOR TO THE' PRES II . LEON I· )f(. I<NOT. HKA, C.S.C., SEMINARIAN. t MBLE, C.S. S.C., RECTC U SEIVI!Nl\RY REV. MARTIN N EPARTMEr NDIA.NA PR C.S.C., PROFESS Rl TUS OF THEOLOGY • RY OLINGER, C.S.C., ::>E.MINARIAN. ~1 ;>RV • REV. DAN PAR .C., FINAN ... F THE VICE-PP.t . , T OF PEARSON, C.S.C., CAMPUS HiNISrRi. SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE. REV. ROBERT PELTON, C.S.C., DIRECTOR Et·1ERITUS. i~<STITUTE FOR PASTORAL NJD SOCiAL !1iNISTRY • MR. ELVART P!NAICOBO, C.S.\ SEMINARY. BRO. JOHN PLATTE, C.S.C., FACILITIES JvL<\N.<IGEI<. COt.EJv1.AN·!-10RSE CENTER • REV. MARK POORMAN, C.S.C., V!CI:A•RESIDf:HI FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS • REV. RANDALL RENTNER, C. S.C., TUTE FOR EDU ~1\L INITIATiVES. REV. JO''" ~ • PASTOR HEART PARiS' PE1 R. F -... ~CRED HEART & ST11FF. ~!OREAL' 
r 

C.S.C., RECTO!· .1 HA.I..I. • REV. KEVIfll 'l':CTOR. '". • REV. DAVID SCHLAVER CROSS t·11:iSIO • REV. TIMOTHY OF 'QREW SEBESTA, C.S.C. PARISH , REV. SEETCH, C.S.C., ., C0~1~1AN0f.R (f THOMAS SMITI JIRECTOR, HOL' AEL SULLIVAN, C. UITARmE~n <.OGY & PHILO' AriON STAFF..~~'­REIT, C.S.C., Rf ASSISTANT Pe THESING, C.S.C WYN THOMAS, _SSOCIATE PRC WALTER, C.S.C REV. RICHARD , C.S.C., DiREC .C., STAFF IN'. STAF~. MOREA ARY. MR. PAUl REV. PAULit HOREAU SEJv11! £V. AL D'ALONz, AVO, C.S.C., i ERAI. STLJD!ES -... ---... OF CLASS OF ECONOMIC SOR DEPART~ E HQL'I CR( ASSiSTANT Pf.. REV. FRANK Ci EV. JOSEPH i • REV. GARY CHAM TRUCTOR. DEPART~1ENT .>ARmENT OF CO~•FIRt1A· T!ON PROGRA~1S. ·-RS, C.S.C., DiRECTOR OF. .STERS OF DIVINITY h. ..PARmE Y • REV. LOUIS DELFRA, C.S.C., Cl AMP ~-liNISTRY • REV. BOB DOWD, C.S.C., ASSISTANT PROFESSOR OF POLITICA.L SCiENCE • REV. PAUL DOYLE, C.S.C., RECTOR. DiLLON HALL & ASSITMiT RECTOR. BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEA.RT • REV. JOHN DUNNE, C.S.C., REV JOHN A. O'BRIEN PROFESSOR OF CATHOLIC THEOLOGY • REV. TOM ECKERT, C.S.C., GRADUATE STUDIES. IJ~jiVERSITY OF NOTRE DA~~f: • REV. JAMES FLANIGAN, C.S.C., ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR. DEPART~1ENT OF ART. ART HISTORY. AND DESIGN, REV. JA,_.. ··•>:NT OF-FESSIONAL S' --cssOR AND CHAiR OF Af"HROPOLOGY REV. THOMAS r: . TO f. '0NAL SPECIALIST. DEP.~RT~1ENT OF l!!EOLOGY. P \ SOR OF THEOLOGY • MR. KEVIN GROVE, C.S.C C.S.C., SE~-liNARIA.N, ~~OREAIJ ~EI-11N,ARY • B . DEPART ·.T NOTRE DA~1E • REV. JOHN JENKINS, C.S.1 JULIEN, I RY & SUPERINTENDE~, T OF CATHOLiC SCH, .S.C.. pr ·, C.S.C., PROFESSOR E~1ERI· TUS OF ~-lATHE . ELEVEILLE, C.S.C., IN RESI­DENCE. CORBY HA AL C C.S.C., GRADUATE STUDIES. t~OREAU SEMINARY. B '!TRE , C.S.C., PROFESSOR E~1ER­ITUS OF MUSiC ~v. PETER M1 ES MCCOY, C.S.C., ~ Y • REV. JAMES MCDONALD, C.S.C., A.SSO\ -nnr• ·-----·;en -·--~-----;SOR ,JEROME MEYER, C.S.C.,REC­
TOR. KNOTT h. £~.\ "" HA.LL • REV. PATRICK NEARY, C.S.C., RECTO 'A CTOR, OFFICE OF VOCATIONS. iNDIANA PROW -RE ., FINANCIAL CONSULTANT. OFFiCE OF THE VICE-PRESIDE! ANCE • REV. JOHN PEARSON, C.S.C., CAMP .NISTRY. SA Y'S COLLEG ·· • ROBERT PELTON, C.S.C.,; ITU . OR t'A.STOR/>.L A.I>JD SOCIAL ~11N!STRY • MR. ELVART PINAICOBO, C.S.C., SE~-11NARIAH t~OREAU SEHINARY • BRO. JOHN PLATTE, C.S.C., FACILITIES MANAGER. COLU~AN-HORSE CENTER • REV. MARK POORMAN, C.S.C., VICE-PRESIDENT FOR STUDENT AFFAIRS • REV. RANDALL RENTNER, C.S.C., GUEST SCHOLAR. lhiSTITIJE FOR EDUCATIONAL iNITiATIVES • REV. JOHN RILEY, C.S.C., PA.STOR SACRED HEART PI\RISI·I • REV. PETER ROCCA, C.S.C., RECTOR. B.~ SILICA OF THE SACRED HEART & STA.FF, HOREAU SEMINARY. REV. GEORGE ROZUM, C.S.C., RECTOR ALU~1NI HALL • REV. KEVIN RUSSEAU, C.S.C., DIRECTOR OLD COLLEGE & ASSISTANT DiRECTQR. OFFICE OF VOC.~T!ONS. ii>JDIANA. PROVI~ICE • REV. DAVID SCHLAVER, C.S.C., ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR. HOLY CROSS MISSION CENTER. REV. TIMOTHY SCULLY, C.S.C., PROFESSOR OF POLITICAL SCIENCE & DIRECTOR, iNSTITUTE FOR EDUCATIONAL INiTIATIVES, REV. ANDREW SEBE­STA, C.S.C., .ASSOCIATE PASTOR. SACRED HEART PARISH. REV. WILLIAM SEETCH, C.S.C., CHAPLAIN, ATHLETiC DEPARH-lENT. REV. BILL SIMMONS, C.S.C., ARCHIVIST, INDIANA PROVINCE. REV. DOUG SMITH, C.S.C., C0~1­t~ANDER (RETI , ViSITING ASSISTANT PROFESSOR, DEPARn-lENT OF HISTORY. REV. MICHAEL SULLIVAN, C.S. 'AN, C.S.C., SEt~iNARIAN, IVIOREAU SE~11NARY • REV. J. STEELE, C.S.C., FORM.A.­TIOI~ STAFF, M• • REV. THOMAS TALLARIDA, C.S.C., IN RESIDE!KE. CORBY HALL • REV. MARK THESING. C.S.C ·BRO. THOMAS TUCKER, C.S.C.,STAFF. SACRED HEART PARISH • REV. JOSEPH
The prieStS, brotherS and SeminarianS Of the COmmunitieS Of 
WALTER, C.S.C IS, C.S.C., A.SSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF MANA.GEMENT , REV. MICHAEL WURTZ, 
c.s.c.• sTAFF.!' Corby Hall and Moreau Seminary rejoice at the beatification ~JARY. REv. EUGENE ANJus. c.s.c.,GRADUATE sTUDIEs. MoREAu sEJvlii-J.I\RY 
REV. PAULINO :v. ROBERT AUSTGEN, C.S.C., CHP..PLAIN. CAi-1PU':) MINISTRY, REV. NICHOLAS 
Avo. c.s.c•• PR of our holy founder, BLESSED BASIL MOREAU. we hope Rn~ENT o~= cLAssics. REv. ERNEsT BARTELL,C.s.c•• PROFEssoR Er·1ER>Tus 
OF ECOt>JOMIC ERS OF THE HOLY CROSS • REV. RICHARD BULLENE, C.S.C., ASSISTANT DEAN 
AND Ass;sT.AN sEMINARY. REv. JosEPH cAREY, c.s.c•• A.SslsTANT DIRECTOR. cN·IPus ~1iN­
you wi II J. oin us, and the thousands of Holy Cross religious
!STRY, REV. Gl SCULPTURE. DEPARTI-lENT OF ART. ART HISTORY & DESIGN • REV. JOHN CON­
LEY, C.S.C., REi WOrldwide, in a j'ubilant prayer Of thanksgiving during thiS :TOR OF THE MASTERS OF DIVINITY PROGRA~1. DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY 
REV. LOUIS DEl -DOYLE, C.S.C., RECTOR. DILLON H.liLL & ·~SSITANT RECTOR. Bf.,SILICA OF THE SACRED HEAR . . A c s u . I 'E STUDIES. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME • REV. JAMES FLANIGAN, c.s.c., AS­SOCI,\TE PROF JOYOUS OCCaSIOn. Ve (UX peS n/Ca. 
:ES. DEPARTHENT OF PREPROFESSIONAL STUDiES. REV. PATRICK GAFFNEY, C.S.C., ASSOCI> ORCH, C.S.C., DIRECTOR EMERilUS. LAFORTUNE SlUDENT CENTER • REV. EU­GENE GORSKI, Y • MR. JACOB GREINER, C.S.C., SEMIN/>.Rif.'.N. WlREAU SEi•11NM<Y • REV. DAN GROODY, C.S.C C 0 N G R E G AT [ 0 N 0 f C., HECTOR. Sr EDWARD'S HALL & DIRECTOR OF HISPANIC MiNISTRY. CM·1PUS
® 
MINISTRY. MR. .iST. DEPARTt·1ENT OF PHYSIUIL EDUCATION. REV. PETER JARRET, c.s.c., su-
HOLV en '0s s 
PERIOR. HOLY 1 ~ .R JULIEN, C.S.C., SEMINARIAN. MOREAU SEIV1iNARY • REV. STEVE KEMPINGER, C.S.C., STEWA~ 1 S.C., RECTOR. SORiN COLLEGE & .ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF RETREATS. CAMPUS MINISTRY • REI EDUCAT I 0 N · PAR IS H · M ISS I 0 N 3TAN T PROFESSOR OF THEOLOGY , MR. VINCENT KUNA, C.S.C., SEMINARIAN. MOREAU SEMH \RY • REV. WILLIAM LIES, C.S.C., EXECUTiVE DiRECTOR. CENTER FOR SOCiAL CONCERNS, Rl v 0 C a t i 0 n · n d · e d U , REV. EDWARD MALLOY, C.S.C., PRESIDENT EMEI<IiUS. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME • REV. P# R OF FRESHMAN PETREATS. CM~PUS MINISTRY. MR. CHARLES MCCOY, C.S.C., SE~IINARIAN. t-10REAIJ SEHINARY • REV. JAMES MCDONALD, C.S.C., ASSOCIATE VICE-PRESIDENT & COUNSELOI< TO 1HE PRESIDE~·.Jl. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE D.AME. REV. LEON MERTENSOTTO, C.S.C., ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF CHRISTIAN ETHICS. BRO. JEROME MEYER, C.S.C., RECTOR. KNOTT Hf.-l.L • MR. AARON MICHKA, C.S.C., SE~1JN;I,RIAN. MOREAU SEt·11NARY • REV. WILSON MISCAMBLE, C.S.C., PROFESSOR OF HISTOR., • REV. ROBERT MOSS, C.S.C., RECTOR FISHER HALL • REV. PATRICK NEARY, C.S.C., RECTOR & SUPERIOR t'>lORE.AU SEMINARY. REV. MARTIN NGUYEN, C.S.C., ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, DEPARTI•1ENT OF MH. APT HISTORY & DESIGN. REV. EDWIN OBERMILLER, C.S.C., DIRECTOR. OFFICE OF VOCATIONS. INDII\N.~, PROVINCE • REV. EDWARD O'CONNOR, C.S.C., PROFESSOR F..MERITUS OF THEOLOGY • MR. GERRY OLINGER, C. S.C., SEI•11NARIAN. MORE:~U SEMINARY. REV. DAN PARRISH, C.S.C., f'INANCI.'\l CONSULT.~NT. OFFICE OF THE VICE-P"ESIDENT OF F!~JA.NCE • REV. JOHN PEARSON, C.S.C., CAMPUS MINISrflY. SA!NT MARY'S COLlH1E • REV. ROBERT PELTON, C.S.C., DII<ECTOI' E~1ERITUS. INSTITUTE FOR PASTORN AND SOCIAl. MINISTRY • MR. ELVART PINAICOBO, C.S.C., SEIV11NM<II\N. t-10REAU SE!11NARY ·BRO. JOHN PLATTE, C.S.C., FACILITIES 111\Nf.\GER COLF..MAN+10RSE CENTER. REV. MARK POORMAN 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 34 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 21, 2007 
Jones 
continued from page 36 
compile a list of prospective sehools that are not on our immediate future football sclu~dules," the statement said. "We will grant him a release to those schools, and we will assist him in settling at anoth­er institution as best we can. It's our hope that Demetrius 

can enroll at an institution at which he might be ablP to receive a schol­arship. possibly be eligible for the 200S football season and, importantly. con­tinue to make progress toward his degree with­out interrup­tion." 
Due to the abrupt nature of his departure, 
"Our hope is that this process assists [Jones/ in finding an institution that will enable him to meet his goals both as a student and as an athlete." 
Kevin White athletic director 
.Jones has not been released from his seholarship by the athletic department. But White's statement said that his department has contacted .Iones and that "the University and he are now working together in our customary fashion. 
"We have initiated our nor­mal protocol by identifying a list of institutions to which he has an interest in transfer­ring," the statement said. "Our hope is that this process assists him in finding an insti­tution that will enable him to meet his goals both as a stu­dent and as an athlete." 
If Jones decides to stay at Northern Illinois, he would not be on a football scholarship during the 2007-08 academic 
Want tO cover Notre Dame sports? Call Chris at 631­
4543. 

year because the Huskies' foot­ball team is already at the 85 seholarship maximum. lie would also have to sit out the remainder of this season, per NCAA rules. but he would eli­gible to play in the fall of 2008. 
Parseghian statue to be dedicated 
A statue of legendary Irish eoach Ara Pars·eghian will be dndieated Saturday morning at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The statue will be located inside Gate D. which is the gate closest to Mendoza College of Business. 
Seating inside the gate is by-invitation­only, but the general public is invited to view to dedica­tion from just outside the sta­dium. 

The ceremony will begin at 9::~o a.m. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd.edu 
Perth, Australia 

Monday, September 24, 2007 
Room 126 DeBartolo Hall 5:30PM 
For ALPP College of Science & College of Engineering Students 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2007 Apply online: www.nd.edu/--ois 
Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLACK DoG 


RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across Oblong dessert 
12 Compositions 
14 Wizards and 
Magic, e.g. 16 "Heat traps" in houses 17 Suitable for hypertension sufferers 18 Liquid used in canning 19 "The the limit!" 
20 Traditional know­how 
21 Skull Island denizen, for short 
22 Mushy_ (British dish) 23 Drab and colorless 
24 Geom. measure 
25 Kind of dish 26 "_ Now" (1968 R & B album) 
27 Old masters reside in them 29 Court staff 32 Bully's target, maybe 
33 Biblical figure who says to God "Make me understand how I have erred" 
36 Takes on 37 Overlook 38 Baker v. 
(landmark Supreme Court voting rights case) 
39 Memo heading 40 Square dance partner 
41 Long known for playing football 42 Doesn't stay on topic 
44 Gelato sans milk 45 Hiding one's true feelings 

~NSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
..,;,.,.-...=+=+''-! 

--~~111111..:::+:~-r,:...._:-:. ..,-t-=-llilioloiiol 

-=t-:'+:+:'':-t-:'+::'~ 
~~~~~~~ 


47 French-born architect who designed Washington, D.C. 
48 1930 novel that takes its title from Shakespeare's "Twelfth Nighf' 
Down Bankrupting 
2 For the 3 Potential heiress 4 Congressional 
output 5 Grab ahold of 
6 It separates the 
Bering Sea from 
the Pacific 7 Spreads out 8 Compartmental­
ized box's contents 9 Two-time football Pro Bowler Leon 
1 0 White sheets 11 Take from a book, say 
12 Female prison official 13 "From Russia With Love" org. 14 Sweet, glazed cake 
15 "G'bye!" 
19 It leaves an 
impression 22 D.C. players 23 Wilbur Post's 
"pal" 
25 'The Odd Couple" director 
261sshown 
WILLSHORTZ 

41 1992 Nicholson 
35Jeremy_,
29 Early "astronaut" title role 

1980s-'90s
30 It reveals who's 43 Highlands on first portrayer of weapon 
Sherlock Holmes 
31 Undependable 44 Soft rock? 37 Gets into a 46 Many a
33 Paleontologist's single lane, say retirement gift discovery, 

maybe 38 Stock holder 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearninQ!xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JJWJMJID)1~
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KROOB 
riJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GILEA 
j 
BLONGO 
I I I 
www.jumble.com 
I SAYQUE±
I I r J I 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


DISCOUNTED HAPPY HOUR DRINKS CAN RESUL-T IN--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
-

Answerhere: "(I I)-( I I I I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: SNORT BRINY YEARLY TOWARD Answer: What happened when the cowboy caused trouble at the saloon -HE WAS "BARRED" 
HOROSCOPE Fridays with Fran Tolan 
-

If you want to find out how your love life will turn out this weekend, take this quiz. ... Tally up the number of answers you have from 1) the first choices and 2) the second choices. After doing so, call (603)988-6026. The number of times you picked each choice will determine your faith ... 
1. 
1) Bric-a-brac or 2) hooey? 

2. 
1) Timmy or 2) Tommy? 

3. 
1) Tommy or 2) John? 

4. 
1) More free or 2) less free? 

5. 
1) Circum or 2) stance? 

6. 
1) Rabid or 2) leprous? 

7. 
1) Lion or 2) tiger................. or bear? 8. 1)13or2)7? 


9. 
1) Prompt or 2) punctual? 

10. 
1) Straight or 2) narrow? 

11. 
1) Blind or 2) deaf? 


12. 
1) Abraham or 2) Jacob? 



-·-' 
-

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, September 21, 2007 
page 36 
FOOTBALL 

University to help Jones with transfer 
Parseghian statue to be dedicated Saturday 

By CHRIS KHOREY-Sports Ediwr 
Thn athletic department is committed to hnlping departnd quartorback Demetrius Jones find a new school, athletic dirnctor Kevin White said in a statnnwnt Thursday. 
"Today, without formal con­firmation of Demetrius' status, we rnached out to him to assist him and his family in ascertaining his athletic and acadmnk futun~ plans," White said in the statmnent. 
Jonns. a sophomore who startl~d Notrn Damn's opening game against Georgia Tech on Sept. 3, abruptly left South Bend S~~pt. 14. just onn day lmforn Notre Dame's 3X-O loss to Michigan. lie has enrolled at Northern Illinois University. 
Whitn's statement implied, however. that Jones may not be at Northern Illinois perma­nently. 
"Wn are helping Demetrius 
see JONES/page 34 


ND WOMEN'S SoccER 
Irish face PSU and DePaul 
Coach says team must sharpen focus 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Based on preseason expecta­tions and its play so far U1is sea­son, Notre Dame has underpnr­fonnnd. 
Heading into Friday's Big East opener at home against DePaul and Sunday's game against No. 17 Penn State, fun Irish are 2-3­1 and have allowed 13 goals. Last season, the team allowed just 11 goal<> in 27 games. 
I lead eoach Randy Waldrum said the team lost focus on both end<> of ilie field. 
"When we go back, and we watch U1e video this week, it's more of the little things that coaches talk about that sound 
see FOCUS/page 30 
MEN'S INTERHALL 

Hunt for title begins with game against Alumni 
squad that will try to avenge their potent offense will be jun­make an immediate impact. Manorites, they were unable to By MIKE GOTIMER, JARED last year's loss to the Manor. ior quarterback Joe McBrayer. Junior Warren Scott and senior right the ship, finished with a JEDICK, MATT GAMBER, "I think it will be a very com­He will depend on junior tight end Bryan Stanistreet will meager 1-3 record and failed ALEX BARKER. MEGHAN petitive game," Morrissey sen­receiver Carl Anderson and help the offense and corner­to make the playoffs. 
MCMAHON and GENIE ior captain Nick Bencomo said. fullback Alvin Reynolds to help backs. Sophomore Ryan Lash "We are a determined groupALFONZO 

"If we foeus on taking care of the Manorites return to the sta­and freshman Ryan McSweeney and we're ready to kick some Sports Writers 
our own business and coming dium. will add some depth on [expletive! and take some together as a team, everything "Even though we had a few defense. Morrissey will rely on names," senior captain Bret 
Wlwn their season begins else will fall in place." key losses from last season, I their speed and quickness for Shapot said. "We will make the Sunday, defending intnrhall Morrissey returns a majority think we will be more than success. playoffs this year." champion Morrissny will have or their starters, but will miss ready to be competitive again As for Alumni, it will have to Key returning players that orw thing on their mind: the pn~sence of playmakers and make another deep run forget the disaster that was last Shapot will look for to carry the Hnpnat. Steve Klein, Tony Cunningham into the playoffs," Bencomo season and focus on improving. team on both sides of the ball 
Thn game will pit the and Joe Gemino. Heturning said. Some new additions to the After last year's second week Manorites against an Alumni onee again to take the reins of team will be counted on to thrashing at the hands of the see DEBUT/page 32 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish ranked No. 3 in nation 
Team travels to face Rutgers and Villanova 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Aftnr a 1-0 win over Marquettn in its Big East open­er, No. 3 Notre Dame has ascended to tie the highest ranking in program history, but that doesn't mean mueh to Irish eoaeh Bobby Clark. 
"The only ranking I have interest in is the final ranking," Clark said. "[The rankingsl are just opinions. At the end of the year, you find out where you really are." 
What interests Clark a lot 
see RANKING/page 30 

-

WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Whirlvvinds take on Lewis after blovvout 
By PETER REISENAUR, 

PATRICK STYNES, KEVIN 
HENRY, ERIC PRISTER 

and ANTHONY CONKLIN 
Sports Writers 

Welsh Family's veteran squad wants continued improvement for their offense, which scored 27 points in the Whirlwinds opening game, as they take on the Chicks from Lewis Hall Sunday. 
"We can always keep improv­ing," senior captain Kelly Bushelle said. "That might not mean we will keep scoring, but we definitely can continue to work." 
The Chicks offense is led by junior quarterback .lenni Gargula. who threw four touch­down passes in their victory over Pangborn last Sunday. 
"I don't want to 
See Also
single out any key "Orians leads players, 
Purple Weasels 
but a solid 
to shutout
quarter­
back is victory."always 
page31
impor­
t a n t • " 
Bushelle said. 
The Whirlwinds, though, won't be afraid to change things up if the situation calls for an 
see BUSHELLE/page 31 



page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 21, 2007 
COMMENTARY 
Now is not the time for quitters 
While making th11 long drive baek from Ann Arbor last week. I was listening to the Boston College-Georgia Tech game on the radio. As the game wound 
down and the Eagles elaimcd vic­tory, the announeer started read­ing through their next 


few games. Chris Khorey
"They've got Army, UMass and Sports Editor Bowling Green. Then they go to Notre Dame. 
"I don't think they'll be chal­lenged in any of those games." Army, UMass, Bowling Green 
-and Notre Dame 
That's what three embar­rassing losses have done to the Irish. Suddenly they are lumped in with the worst of the serviee academy teams, a MAC school, and a team from Division 1-AA. 
The rest of America has given up on this team and this school. ESPN is laughing. Taco Bell feels so bad that they're giving away free nachos to make Irish fans feel better. 
But here at Notre Dame, people don't give up so easily. 
There are nine games left in the season, and some of them may be ugly. 
But this campus cannot quit on this team. 
Pep rallies may have a dif­ferent atmosphere than they have in the past. Instead of bning about getting pumped up for victory, they will be more about getting through adversity together. More like "Notre Dame, Our Mother" than "Notrn Dame Victory March," if you will. 
Hallies cannot beeome morgues. The team will be there regardless, so which will motivate them more -stu­dents cheering their entrance or a bunch of empty seats? 
The same thing needs to happen in the stadium on Saturdays. The Stadium needs to be full and enthusiastic at every positive play. 
At the very least, there's not much else to do on a home game Saturday. But more importantly, the Irish family has to be there for the stu­dents that work every day to represent this University on that field. 
Of course, that brings up the other side of the coin -the team. 
The only reason this campus 


-Persons without authorization are not permitted on the field -No cans br glass bottles arc permitted in the stadium -The use of intoxicating substances is strictly prohibited -Throwing objects in the stands or onto the field is prohibited -Please, do not bring stadium chairs, scat backs or other oversized or 
noise-producing items into the stadium -Limited use of cameras, portable/handheld televisions and portable radios is permitted -In accordance with a St. Joseph County ordinance, there will be no smoking 
allowed in any part of Notre Dame Stadium -All persons are subject to search, which includes clothing, jackets, bags and purses (Violators are subject to ejection from the stadium and may have future ticket privileges revoked) 
would evor quit on this team is 
if the toam quit on tho season. 
Losing can be tolorated if the 
players are giving their all on 
every play of overy game. 
But being resigned to defeat, giving up on a play, or watch­ing the quarterback get saeknd whnn you could have prevented it is not aeeeptablo. Nor is laughing on the side­lines while your team is get­ting killed. 
There were disturbing signs of quitting during the Michigan game. Hopefully, Charlie Weis' "back to training camp" approach will adjust the attitude a little, but really, this team's attitude is its own responsibility. 
There are nine fifth-year seniors and ten true seniors on scholarship on this team. For all but a couple of them, this is their last season of col­lege football -and it might be their last season of football. period. 
They need to step up. In their play on the field, of • course, but much more impor­tantly, in their leadership in the locker room. The young players that make up so much of this team need someone to turn to, and "leading by exam­ple" isn't going to cut it. 
And for the younger players that have been thrust into aetion this season, there's no longer any reason to be nerv­ous. They've already lived through the worst, now they need to make things better. It's time to play like a champion. 
This season may live in infamy in Notre Dame history, but that's no reason to quit. 
It's time to circle the wag­ons. No one cares what ESPN says. No one cares about the ugly slats. Even the win-loss rocord doesn't really mattor anymore. 
The only thing that will make the rest of this season worth playing is for this entire campus to stand up and say, "We won't quit. We're going to get better." 
Because at Notre Dame, peo­ple are loyal "what tho' the odds be great or small." The odds may be great right now, but this team has talent and the coaches have very good track records. Through hard work and perseverance the Irish will be champions again -and soon. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu 
2007 Irish opponents 
Last week Next week L, 10-24, BC at Virginia W, 45-24, Bufalo at Michigan W,38-0, ND vs. Penn State 
W, 17-13, Pitt at Notre Dame 
W, 45-22, CMU at Minnesota L, 6-44, ·utah vs Washington W, 24-10, GT vsArmy 
(2-0) W, 49-31, Neb. vs Wash. State (1-2) L, 31-34, Ball St. vs Duke W, 20-17, TCU atBYU (1-2) W, 20-14,N'Western at Navy W, 37-0, SJSU at Oregon 
' s 
Just s<:!conds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs tocozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WatJ>xrord Estates l..odge has hotel rooms at reasonable ml::t".s fnr upcomingNDfl:xrthall wt".ekends.) 


Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Fixing ~he holes 
Former Irish great Taylor says experience, leadership key to long-term turnaround ofoffensive line 
They got their wish, but theBy KEN FOWLER 
early results have been 
Sports Writer 
unpromising: negative net rush­ing yardage, 23 sacks, a pair of 
Jimmy Clausen took a five­bad snaps, an injury and three step drop and was swarmed by losses. three defensive linemen and an For Notre Dame, even a col­extra blitzer. It was one second­lection of talented, though raw. quarter play on which the Irish linemen hasn't added up to any offensive line collapsed and ease in the transition. Michigan's defense took advan­John Sullivan was a four-star tage, but it was one of many. recruit as Scout.com's No. 9 
Michigan had sent an extra offensive lineman in the country man to rattle the freshman coming out of high school in quarterback, but the added 2003. Of the line's two true jun­pressure was unnecessary. The iors, Paul Duncan was rated Wolverines literally stood 22nd nationally, and Michael Clausen up, about 10 yards Turkovich 35th. behind the line of scrimmage. It In 2006, Sam Young came in was one of eight sacks on the as a five-star recruit and the day, not counting the two bad nation's No. 2 high-school offen­snaps that went over the quar­sive lineman. He was joined by terback's head and counted as four-star linemen Matt Carufel runs, or the few times Clausen (rated No. 10 in the country), threw the ball away to avoid Dan Wenger (No. 20), Chris losing yardage. Stewart (No. 43), Eric Olsen (No. 
Such has been life for Clausen 49) and Bartley Webb (No. 52). in his first two collegiate starts. "I think that right now, it's 
Notre Dame's offensive line, a almost kind of the perfect compilation of highly touted storm. You have essentially one high school stars, is last in the fifth year senior 0-Line guy, nation in quarterback protec­nobody in the true senior class, tion. Its problems have kept and only two in the junior Notre Dame at the bottom of the class," said Mike Frank, who rushing yardage total and are runs IrishEyes, the Notre Dame part of the reason the Irish have recruiting Web site in the not established the kind of Scout.com network. "When you But, Frank said, many of American Aaron Taylor said they would sustain their blocks "niche" on offense Charlie Weis only have three guys in [the Notre Dame's young players on even the most talented players until the whistle -and some­has looked for. upper classes], that's really the the offensive line "probably need guidance and help from times drive guys past the pile," 
"Sometimes you don't really problem." aren't quite ready to play both the veterans when they first see Taylor said. " ... What I watched have an identity," Weis said. Of the group, only Sullivan mentally and physically to play significant playing time. with Notre Dame at times was "And ... the identity that I've and Young are returning at this point." With only three upperclass­hitting the contact and then always dealt with, at least on starters. Duncan began the sea­Among the problems evident men, and only one with signifi­stopping. They weren't bringing the offensive side of the ball, son at left tackle but has since in Notre Dame's 0-3 start have cant playing time entering the their feet, they weren't bringing was multiple formations and switched to right, and Turkovich been defenders simply overpow­season, Taylor said, Notre Dame their knees. They were hitting multiple personnel groups to has held off Olsen for the start­ering Irish offensive linemen, a was in a near-impossible situa­to the defender, they weren't run the same plays. That's my ing spot at left guard. Jack of any sustained push on tion. hitting through the defender." stereotype.... And I think that's Where the Irish will have to running plays, and communica­Frank said Southern But in Taylor's view, that also really what we haven't gotten make a change, though, is at tion failures allowing blitzers to California freshman center Kris means the problems are only to." right guard. Wenger, who has approach the quarterback O'Dowd, who is replacing sec­temporary -if the Irish have 
Somehow, things will eventu­struggled as much as the rest of untouched while linemen look ond-round NFL Draft pick Ryan anything close to the talent the ally turn better for Notre Dame. the line, is likely unavailable for for someone to block. Kalil, has succeeded where recruiting services indicate they But they haven't yet, a quarter several games with an unspeci­The team is also dealing with Notre Dame's new starters have do. of the way through Weis' third fied leg injury. other personnel issues. failed because he is playing with Taylor said the best way for -and most difficult -year in Against Michigan, Weis used Duncan and Young began the fou'r other starters who have all the line to gain the sort of confi­South Bend. his heaviest rotation of linemen season at left and right tackle, seen significant playing time, dence it needs is to stick to sim­
After losing three starters in his three years at Notre respectively, but switched posi­either as starters or as backups ple running plays that minimize from the offensive line -along Dame. tions before the Michigan game. in past years. the players' thinking and maxi­with quarterback Brady Quinn, Olsen, who looked good in After the game, Weis insinuated Taylor -who is now running mize brute, one-on-one physical running back Darius Walker practice last week, saw signifi­that he was trying to shield a the Notre Dame blog matchups. and receivers Jeff Samardzija cant time at left guard, as did weakness. www.LegendsofSouthBend.com, "What I would like to see is and Rhema McKnight -the true freshman Matt Romine at "I think it's kind of a situation which is in the process of estab­weekly improvement. Stripping Irish replaced their big men in left tackle. Scout.com graded where Notre Dame doesn't have lishing a scholarship fund with it all the way down and taking the trenches with players who Romine a four-star, top-15 what you could classify as a the University -played under away wins and losses and hav­came to Notre Dame with confi­guard out of high school, but he true left tackle," Frank said. Lou Holtz from 1990-93 and ing goals about bowl games and dence and hopes of playing has stayed on the outside of the Former Notre Dame offensive said freshmen and sophomores all those things, go out and rep­early. line. lineman and two-time All-gained experience easily during resent our University the way 
those years by gradually that she deserves," Taylor said. increasing their roles next to "Go out and represent the stu­experienced juniors and sen­dent body the way that they iors. deserve. Go out and represent 
But Notre Dame failed to blow the players that came before out enough opponents over the them and the players that will last two years to give its second­come after them the way that string linemen the kind of game that program deserves. That's experience Taylor says sepa­what I would want to see, and rates experience from leader­that's not about scoring eight ship. touchdowns a game.... 
"If there's anything that I wish "That's about playing with I could do, if I could wave a integrity, playing with passion, magic wand, [I would] bring in playing with heart and pride. some seasoned, experienced And that's something I think veterans who have been there has been lacking a little bit, and done that to provide the and a lot of that has to do with sort of leadership they could get youth.... out of the class that just left," "I didn't walk away definitively Taylor said. "When you lose the knowing whether or not it both­types of players that you lost so ered them as much as I remem­rapidly and instantaneously. ber it bothered me when I was especially on offense, the effects there," Taylor continued. "And are devastating." that oftentimes is the case when 
The biggest effect of inade­you don't have the guys that have quate leadership, Taylor said, been there and done that for can be the attitude of the team. them to be able to relate to. 
"A glaring difference I saw, They'll figure it out pretty quick, for example, between and I think Charlie has taken a Michigan's 0-line and our offen­step in the right direction by tak­sive line last week was, I ing it back to fundamentals." 
I watched [Michigan] hit to the whistle. They would fire out, Contact Ken Fowler at they would make contact and kfowler1@nd.edu 

A Michigan defender takes down Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen in Michigan's 38-0 win over Notre Dame last Saturday. Notre Dame's offensive line has allowed 23 sacks this season. 
Friday, September 21, 2007 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEADT~ 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2007 Schedule 

Charlie Wels head coach 
Sept. 1 Sept. 8 Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 

GA.TECH-L at Penn State-L at Michigan-L MICIDGAN ST. at Purdue at UCLA BC 
usc 

NAVY AIR FORCE DUKE at Stanford 

*Depth chart as of Wednesday. 
IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Notre Dame went back to fundamentals this week looking to improve blocking and tackling. Those areas will be better this week, allowing for the first offensive touchdown of the year for the Irish and an improved rush defense. It won't add up to a win, but at this point, any­thing other than a total embarrassment to the school would be a step in the right direction. 
No. I 
2 
4 
5 
h 
7 
H 
9 II 12 13 14 IS 
lh 
17 18 19 20 21 22 2.1 2.1 24 25 26 27 28 29 29 
30 
31 32 3..1 34 35 35 36 37 
.18 
39 39 40 41 42 43 43 43 
44 
45 45 47 48 49 
50 
51 52 53
,. 
55 56 57 59 hi b.l 
h7 
69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 80 82 83 84 H5 8H H9 
9[] 91 92 93 94 Y5 % 97 Y8 
Roster 

Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR lJ.j. Hurd WR 6-1 196 JR Darrin Walls DB 6-1 180 so Gary Grny OB 5-11 180 f'R Armando Allen RB 5-10 190 f'R Ray Herring DB 5-10 197 so Jimmy Claust!n QB 6-3 207 I'R R<u>:thon McNeil DB 6-0 187 FR Tom Zbikowski OB 6-0 207 SR David Crimes WR 5-10 177 JR Darrin BraHg QB 6-1 188 SR Evan Sharpl<·y QB 6-2 216 JR Br.mdon Walker K 6-3 197 FR Lt.'() Ferrin(.• DB 6-0 189 SR justinCil!t•tt QB 5-11 180 SR l;t.•offn•y Price r 6-3 208 SR Duval Kam.ua WR 6-5 222 FR Gt.·orgc Wl.'st WR 5-10 197 so Tl'frail Lambert DB 5-11 191 SR Barry Gallup Jr. WR 5-11 185 so AmhroSl' Wondt.•n CB 5-11 196 SR Colden T~ttt.• WR 5-11 188 FR W, David Williams DB 5-9 173 SR Lc.•onard Cordon DB 5-11 194 . so Munir Prince DB 5-10 184 so Travis Thomas RB 6-0 216 SR David Bruton DB 6-2 207 JR Kyk• McCarthy DB 6-1 207 so j.lshaad Gaines DB 6-0 203 so Jake Richardsvillt.· WR 6-1 180 so IJarrisnn Smith DB 6-2 205 FR Sergio Brown DB 6-2 196 so Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 248 so Robert llught.•s RB 5-11 2.18 FR j.1mcs Aldridgt· Rll 6-0 222 JR Nnte Whitaker K 5-9 165 FR Kt•vin Smith DB 6-0 180 SR DL·xCun..• DB 6-1 220 so Junior Jabbic RB 5-11 205 SR W,tde lams WR 5-9 183 SR Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 196 so Kl'vin Brooks TE 6-2 241 so M,turicl' ('"rum, Jr. I.B 6-0 230 SR Scott Smith I.H 1>-4 235 JR KL•vin W~tshinghm LH 6-1 241 JR MikeAn<•llo [)II 5-10 '170 JR Erk Maust I' 5-10 177 so MikcAnt.•llo DB 5-10 180 so Asaph Schwapp FB 6-0 261 JR John U.'(mi!i DB 5-9 lb9 JR Kris Pc~ttL·r~on WR 5-11 185 JR A.uon Nngt•l LB &-1 229 f'R StL•ve Quinn I.B 6-2 231 JR Ti..lryan Smith l.B 6-1 245 so Stt•ve Pdskorz LB 6-2 235 I'R Dan Wt•nv;<•r OL &-4 287 so JoL' Bn1ckin~ton LB 6-2 240 SR Morrin~ Richardson LB 6-2 244 so Anthony VL•magli,t I.B &-3 2.14 SR EricOist•n Ol. 6-4 303 so KL•rry NL•ttl I.B 6-2 245 I'R Dwight Stl'pht•nson Ill. 6-2 272 SR Chris Stt.•wart OL 6-5 339 so 
j.j. janSl'n LS 6-3 242 SR J<·fflis,Jk OL 6-5 306 JR Tom Bt•mt.•nderfl'r OL 6-5 285 JR Nl'il K<•nn<•dy DL 5-11 266 SR M.tttRnmint• 01. 6-5 279 I'R B.rtl<·y w,·bb OL 6-b 305 so Paul Duncan OL &-7 308 JR MattCarufl'l OL 6-5 295 so Sam Young OL 6-8 310 FSO Taylor Ih..•vL•r OL 6-5 289 I'R Andn.•w Nuss DL 6-5 292 FR Michat'l Turkovich OL 6-6 301 /R john Sullivan OL 1>-4 303 SR Richard J,,ckson WR &-3 204 so Robby Parris WR 6-4 209 so Mikt.· R.tKone TE 6-5 230 f'R WiiiYeatm.m TE &-6 264 so Sam Vos WR 5-10 199 so Konrad Rt.•uland TE 6-6 255 so John Carlson TE 6-h 255 SR John U.y.m I.B 6-5 253 so Emcka Nwankwo OL 6-4 283 FR llt•rrcll lland DL &-3 287 JR l'.llidyMull<•n OL 6-5 290 so Justin Brown DL 6-3 261 SR JanWili,tms Dl. 6-2 300 FR Pat Kuntz DL 6-3 285 JR Kallen Wade DL 6-5 257 so Tn"vur l.•1ws Ill. 6-1 2% SR 
Charlie Weis Third season at Notre Dame career record: 
19-9 

at Notre Dame: 
19-9 
against MSU: 1-1 


COACHING QUARTERBACKS 
LLI 
::!: 
c( 
c 
LLI 
c:: 
t­
o 
z 

Charlie Weis's suc­cess in his first 23 games as Notre Dame head coach suddenly seems like a distant memory. Five straight ugly losses, including three to open this sea­son, raise disturbing questions. Has he lost this team?  Jimmy Clausen has been doing his best in a very bad situation. He's completed over fifty per­cent of his passes when he's not getting sacked -but he's been on his back far too often. He needs to make reads more quickly. and get the ball out of his hands.  Notre Dame's awful rushing stats are mis­leading -the Irish are averaging around 80 postive rushing per game, but their slats have been killed by sacks. Even so, Notre Dame has been unable to achieve a consistent running attack this year.  When Notrn Dame has dropped back to pass this season, something bad has happened morn ofl.en than not. Between mceivers not getting open, an offensive line that can't bloek and a freshman quarterback learning as he goes, the passing game has been ugly.  
Mark Dantonio was barely over .500 at Cincinatti, a tough place to recruit and win. But he has the Spartans playing more diseiplined football  Brian Hoyer has replaced Irish-killer Drew Stanton under center for the Spartans this season. lie's played well so far, completing  The Spartans shut down the rushing attacks of UAB and Bowling Green, but gave up 207 yards on the ground to Pittsburgh,  Michigan State's sec­ondary is giving up about 200 passing yards per game, but what is more relevent is that the Spartans lead  
than they over did under John L. Smith -and he's much less likely to suffer a nervous breakdown.  61 percent of his passes for 634 yards, with three touchdowns and two interceptions.  including a 64-yard run. Michigan State's top two tacklers this year are defensive backs.  the nation in saeks, whiln the Irish have allowed the most in the nation this season.  
More ancJ..GW!d'• Notre Dame '§,vroblems thi¥)ear appear to be based in a l<u;Wo!..ffutd~Ijtentals and el\i)tt~/ l:ht'N't:iklt.>xent back to{basics Ibis week. ,but it rnmhtn~ to be seen if W-and his ~\ing stafl!cani motivate ttftlse pla~rs t<.live up to their potential.  
 
 Notre Dame's offen­sive lin~w·~l prob!!,bly rota),e' heavily a~d. hopefull-r,:'b(\¥fl a'new at~itu~~'bbf it might not h~'i~~~ugb, 'W stop olin pf the bo'st__l1ass rushes in the :tfat't.(Jn. Clauser~) will haV<e*"'o ged#rid of the,all qu#'kly.  




The notion that it's going to get worse before it gets better is ill-founded. It simply can't get any worse. Notre Drune's training wheels start to sta­bilize, but Michigan State is far too much for the
Irish 

Irish to handle. With significant changes to the 
team's attitude, Jimmy Clausen throws his first 
touchdown. But Notre Drune won't get any more
experts 

points than that. 
FINAL SCORE: Michigan State 27 Notre Dame 7 

Chris Khorey FINAL SCORE: Michigan State 28 Sports Editor Notre Dame 14 
Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Michigan State 
Spartans
HEAD 
Record: 3-0 
AP: NR Michigan State Spartans Coaches: NR 
Mark Dantonio First season at
Michigan State 
Michigan State career record:
2007 Schedule 
21-17 
at MSU: 3-0
Sept. 1 UAB-W 
against Notre 
Dame: 0-0
Sept. 8 BGU-W 
Roster Sept. 22 at Notre Dame 
No. Name Pos. Ht. WI. YR 2 Diego Oquend DB 5-9 175 )R 2 Matt Haughey K 5-9 176 JR 3 Nehemiah Warrick DB 6-1 io8 SR 4 CarkGrimes WR 5-9 175 JR 
Sept.29 at Wisconsin 
Oct. 6 N'WESTERN 
4 Ed wagner p 6-5 225 so 5 Devin Thomas WR 6-2 218 )R 6 Mark Dell WR 6-2 185 FR
Oct. 13 INDIANA 
7 Brian Hoyer QB 6-2 212 JR 8 Kirk Cousins QB 6-3 181 FR
Oct. 20 at Ohio State 
9 jeremy Ware DB 5-10 191 so 10 Connor Dixon QB 6-4 199 so 11 Marcus Hyde DB 6-0 200 so
Oct. 27 at Iowa 
12 Clay Charles QB 6-1 202 so 13 Brad Sibbtag WR 5-8 170 FR 14 Cole Malatinsky DB 5-10 185 SR 14 Bret Swenson K 5-8 160 so 15 Todd Boleski K 6-6 212 JR 
Nov. 3 MICHIGAN 
Nov. 10 at Purdue 
16 Chris Rucker WR 5-10 172 FR 17 Nick Fales QB 6-5 235 FR p
18 Aaron Bates 6-0 190 FR 19 David Williams WR 5-9 180 so 20 A.J.Jimmerson RB 5-10 202 so 21 Otis Wiley DB 6-2 214 )R 22 Mike Parrelly RB 5-7 196 so 22 Enrique Shaw DB 6-1 187 so 23 )avon Ringer RB 5-9 200 JR 24 Kevin Hall 6-4 218 so 
Nov. 17 PENN STATE 
p 25 Blair White WR 6-2 198 so 27 Sir Darean Adams LB 6-0 230 SR 28 Mike Bell DB 5-11 175 )R 29 Chris Rucker DB 6-2 185 FR 30 jehuu Caulcrick RB 6-0 255 SR 31 Ashton Henderson DB 6-2 185 FR 32 Mike Cordell DB 5-9 185 JR 
33 Dan Fortener DB 6-1 197 so 34 jelani Nantumbu DB 5-9 189 )R 35, jeff McPherson FB 6-1 245 JR 36 jon Misch LB 6-2 200 so 37 Ross Weaver DB 6-1 202 JR 38 Kendall Davis-Clark DB 5-11 199 JR 
SPARTANS RUSHING SPARTANS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
The Irish rush defense Notre Dame's second­Notre Dame is in com­
Notre Dame special 
39 Devin Pritchett FB 6-2 245 SR 
40 Roderick Jenrette DB 6-1 192 so
looked improved against plete disarray, and Weisary has been one of the 
teams have been a 
41 Kaleb Thornhill LB 6-1 242 SR
z

Penn State but took a major is trying to get the firelone bright spots on the 
mixed bag this year. 
42 Rob Tabtchnick LB 5-11 215 SR
0 

43 Eric Gordon LB 6-0 220 so
step backwards against team, allowing only 114 back with his "trainingZbikowski and Tate are 
-1 

44 josh Rouse LB 6-3 232 so
Michigan, allowing Mike 
camp" mentality.
yards per game through dangerous return men, 
::a 

45 Andrew Hawken FB 6-2 240 so
ITI

llart to run over, around the air -although part and Price, Walker and 
Several Irish players 
47 Adam Setterbo FB 6-3 241 FR 48 Eric Andino IE 6-4 242 SR
and through it. Defensive appeared to mail in theof that success has been 
Whitaker have all 
c 

49 Dwayne Holmes FB 6-0 279 JR
)>

linnmen were blown so far 
Michigan game when
due to the fact that oppo­looked good kicking the 
50 Michael Linger 1.5 6-2 220 FR 
51 Ervin Baldwin DL 6-2 270 SR
oil' the ball that they were they got behind in the 
s:

nents rarely need to pass. 
ball. But the Irish are 
52 Andrew Pendy LB 6-1 227 so
ITI

making tackles nine yards 
second quarter. That
The Irish will need a big 
susceptible to long 
53 Greg jones LB 6-2 220 FR 54 John Masters OL 6-4 288 SR 55 Adam Decker LB 6-2 234 so 56 Alex Shackleton 1.5 6-2 250 so 57 Rocco Cironi OL 6-6 306 so 58 Reggie Graham OL 6-4 215 so 
downfield. 
can't happen again.
play out of this group. 
returns by opponents. 
The Spartans are 3-0Bret Swenson is 3-for-5Jehuu Caulcrick and Hoyer has been solid 
59 Ryan Wheat DL 6-5 308 FR 60 Mike Bacon OL 6-4 298 JR
s

in Dantonio's first sea­on field goals, but one ofJavon Hinger are a 
this season, but he is 
61 Tramonte ointer DL 5-10 292 SR 
son. They are gettingthunder-and-lightning his misses came from
still inexperienced and 
C') 

62 Abre Leggins OL 6-3 301 so 64 Brendan Moss OL 6-6 287 so 64 Chris Smith DL 6-3 288 SR 
:I:

back a lot of the confi­
combination for the within 30 yards. The
has only started one 
-
G')

Spartans have been solid dence they lost duringSpartans. Together they 
road game in his 
65 joel Nitchman OL 6-3 295 OL
)>

last year's late season
on kick and punt returns 
66 Mike Gyetval OL 6-7 310 SR
are averaging over 150 
career. The wide 
z 

67 joel Foreman OL 6-3 295 FR
meltdown -and they
yards per game. 
and on coverage, but
receivers are led by 
68 Brian Jolmson DL 6-1 255 FR 
want to make amends
Caulcrick has scored six Devin Thomas, who has their kickers have landed 
70 Oren Wilson DL 6-3 290 FR; 71 Kenny Shane OL 6-5 325 SR 
en 

two touchbacks on 19 for blowing the 2006
touchdowns already this 
12 catches for 315 
73 Roland Martin OL 6-5 328 JR
edition of this game. 
....

year. 
kickoffs.

yards this season. 
74 jared McGaha OL 6-6 293 FR
ITI 

75 Pete Clifford OL 6-7 312 SR 76 Mike Schmeding OL 6-8 315 so 77 )'Michael Deane OL 6-5 286 so 79 jesse Miller OL 6-6 312 )R .80 Kellen Davis IE 6-6 246 SR 81 David Duran IE 6-5 226 FR
The Spartans, especial­Both groups have their
The Irish 
Notre Dame needs a 
strong points and theirdefense s b
ly Caulc':"JvE, gashed .the 
major ~~:~~~e'a\lj~~­
82 Ryan Allison WR 6-3 210 JR 
83 Charlie Gantt IE 6-5 245 so
Irish line last seasonfand weak points. Since nei­
ment tb.Js. week. and It
.H~i ~-~\ 

R4 DeonCurry WR 6-1 208 JR
ther team has had suc­
wil~ probably Q.o s<h\gain 
Spartans are; 
rerrviinS'~~,b#''s~ if 
85 Garrett! Celek IE 6-5 233 FR 
i':f'it:eaching the end

pnrie~ce ,· 
86 B.). Cunningham WR 6-2 200 JR
W~s· ~,e~ 'approach
S~·.u..rda.y., It !rtJa.y .not be . . 'qk 
87 Kevin Pickelman DL 6-3 250 FR
a ugly·,a!> J.ast)\Veck, but 
will,: ' · Jng it.
'recl.i 
88 john Stipek DL 6-5 270 so
c}ligan· State' ning e has" M~~, ¥i . :ii«the 
89 Colin Neely DL 6-1 244 so 
93 Antonio Jeremiah DL 6-5 322 FR
ganle'is1almos an-Spli\tan:S are (fftllpg
ar~~.t ofi-t:l;f!/'g ·.. 
94 Jonal Saint-Die DE 6-1 255 SR
impact on this game.
tefld t~ be ef~dye 
not be ver-y importanbr hig~ loo\ing for tjl~r 
96 Patrick Rigan DL 6-5 254 so 
97 Justin Kershaw DL 6-5 258 )R
Price's punting will be
aga;lhst the under~ized 
sixth str"'fghtwif! in
;~J;rishJcan't '~OJ! the 
98 Michael Jordon DL 6-5 295 so
I risft fronf"!rnVeif. ·, key for Notre Dame. 
South Bedif. · "i 
99 Ogemdi Nwagbuo DL 6-5 290 SR 




Chris Hine 
Sports Editor 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 21, 2007 
Crunching the numbers 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
ND points scored 
MSU points scored 
ND points allowed 
MSU points allowed 
ND rush yards 
MSU rush yards 
ND rushing allowed MSU rushing allowed 
ND pass yards MSU pass yards 
ND passing allowed MSU passing allowed 





16.0 

Saturday Pick 'ent 
Khore,r Hine Fowler Fitz~atrick 
Season Record: Washington State at No. 1 USC No. 12 South Carolina at No.2 LSU Ole Miss at No. 3 Aorida East Carolina at No.5 West Virginia Arizona at No.6 California Rice at No. 7 Texas Northwestern at No. 8 Ohio State Iowa at No. 9 Wisconsin No. 10 Penn State at Michigan No. 13 Oregon at Stanford Army at No. 14 Boston College No. 15 Clemson at NC State No. 22 Georgia at No. 16 Alabama William and Mary at No. 17 V. Tech Syracuse at No. 18 Louisville Charleston Southern at No. 19 Hawaii No. 21 Kentucky at Arkansas North Carolina at No. 23 South Florida Ball State at No. 24 Nebraska Illinois State at No. 25 Missouri 
. (43-15)  (46-12)  (51-7)  (50-8)  
usc  usc  usc  usc  
LSU  LSU  LSU  LSU  
FL  FL  FL  FL  
wvu  wvu  wvu  wvu  
CA  CA  CA  CA  
TX  TX  TX  TX  
osu  osu  osu  osu  
WI  WI  UI  WI  
PSU  UM  PSU  PSU  
OR  OR  OR  OR  
BC  BC  BC  BC  
cu  cu  cu  cu  
AL  AL  AL  AL  
VT  VT  VT  VT  
UL  UL  UL  UL  
UH  UH  UH  UH  
AR  AR  AR  AR  
UNC  USF  USF  USF  
NU  NU  NU  NU  
UM  UM  UM  UM  
*Upset special in bold  


ON SITE SALES OFFICE OPEN 
574-252-2427 
SAT:10am-12pm SUN:10am-2pm 
NDCONDOS.COM 

Friday, September 21, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Grimes brothers renew family, school rivalry 

By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
In 2003, St. Martin De Porres High School had two standout wide receivers. Both were two­sport athletes. Both caught touchdown passes in the Michigan Division-8 Championship game. 
And both were named Grimes. 
For three seasons, Notre 
Dame wide receiver David Grimes and his older brother -Spartans red-shirt junior wide receiver Carl Grimes ­played together at De Porres. 
"It was pretty cool to look over [to the other side of the field] and your big brother's right there," David Grimes said. "We already spend all hours of our lives together, why not do it on the field?" 
Now in college, the Grimes brothers will stand on opposite sidelines for the third time as their teams face off. 
The Grimes brothers were dominant as wideouts for De Porres. In his senior season,. Carl Grimes was De Porres' top offensive threat, accumulating 1,200 yards of total offense ­including 614 rushing yards on 69 carries-while missing five games with a bruised foot. 
Carl Grimes also amassed 514 receiving yards on only 28 catches in De Porres' 12-2 championship season in 2003. 
His younger brother was no slouch either that season, hauling in an 80-yard touch­down pass in De Porres' 20-9 win over Beal City in the title game. 
David Grimes was named an honorable mention all-confer­ence his junior season, while Carl Grimes was named to the all-state, all-Detroit and the all-Metro teams in his senior season. 
But despite the lengthy list of accolades, David Grimes said his big brother was more important to him as a brother than as a teammate. 
"[Carl helped me growl not just as a wide receiver but as a person," David said. "At a young age, he was the male figure in my life and I give him all the compliments and thanks in the world for that." 
Before signing with Michigan State as a senior, Carl Grimes was listed as a SuperPrep All­American and a top-1 0 recruit by the Lansing Journal (No. 5), Detroit News (No. 6) and Detroit Free Press (No. 9). Carl Grimes redshirted in 2004 with foot problems and has seven catches for 45 in his two full seasons at Michigan State. 
David Grimes said even though his older brother went to Michigan State, he is not a Spartans fan. 
"1 wanted for him to do good, but when I made my decision to come to Notre Dame, I knew that we would be in a rivalry pretty soon so I didn't want them to be that successful," David Grimes said. 
Notre Dame's Grimes came into his own during his senior season as starting wide receiv­er and defensive back for De Porres. He was first team on the Detroit Free Press all-state dream team as a wide receiver in 2004, catching 48 passes for 800 yards and eight touch­downs. He also made 41 tack­les and five interceptions. 
David Grimes led De Porres back to the championship game, but the team fell 14-7 to Unionville-Sebewaing -this time in Division 7. David played well in the title game and returned a fumble 36 yards for De Porres' only score. 
Even though David Grimes has great respect for his broth­er, he knew that after high school he wanted to branch out and make a name for himself. 
"I didn't want to go to Michigan State to be 'Carl's lit­tle brother,"' David Grimes said. "I wanted to develop my own identity." 
And Carl Grimes was willing to help. 
David Grimes said his big brother left the decision entire­ly up to him and did not try to convince him to go to Michigan State. 
The younger Grimes was recruited beginning in 2004 by Notre Dame under then-head coach Tyrone Willingham. After Willingham's firing, Charlie Weis continued the recruiting process. 
David Grimes said Weis was the most important factor in his decision to join the Irish. 
"He called me one day. He gave it to me real," David said. "He said, '[You're] gonna work and I plan on winning. And if you're on board, you're on board.' And that's all I needed to hear.'' 
Despite the rivalry, David Grimes said his family still roots for both brothers to do well. 
"My mother and my family seem not to show any side," he said. "They would prefer it just to be a good game. My mother predicted that the first time we played it would go to overtime and it did." 
With nail-biting finishes in 2005 and 2006, David Grimes said, emotions run even higher knowing that his brother is standing on the other sideline. 
"It was pretty exciting to look over and see your brother," he said. "Obviously the first year, they won and it wasn't too exciting. But the second year it was pretty damn awesome." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edn 
Dantonio prepares to face Irish for first time 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Mark Dantonio may be in his first year as Michigan State's coach, but he is well acquaint­ed with the rivalry between Notre Dame and the Spartans. 
Dantonio spent six years as an assistant for Michigan State from 1995-2000, and knows anything can happen when the two teams battle, regardless of their records entering the game. 
"[Notre Dame has] excellent coaching, they have tradi­tion," Dantonio said. "They're backed into a corner a little bit. They have a rivalry with us, they played us last year here and you guys know the score on that one. And so it's a traditional rival. Any time you have a rival game, we need to be prepared." 
Dantonio. who coached Cincinnati for the past three seasons, replaced John Smith, who led the Spartans during their 44-41 win at Notre Dame in 2005 and their 40-37 loss to Notre Dame in 2006 at Spartan Stadium. 
Last season's loss devastat­
ed the Spartan faithful. 
Michigan State led by 17 at 
halftime but could not hold off 
the surging Irish in a driving 
rainstorm. The loss spelled 
the end for Smith, who was let 
go at the end of the season, 
and left the Michigan State 
program in disarray. 
Dantonio said Saturday is a big step in bringing the pro­gram back to national promi­nence. 
"But a lot of that I think 
rests with, as I said before, we need to continue to win the respect back of our fan base and the people," Dantonio said. "And that is an ongoing thing.... Our reputation is not built as of yet. We need to continue to do that. So we need to constantly remind ourselves of that. Stay grounded and understand what we have to accomplish. It's long term, though.'' 
Last Saturday, the Spartans defeated Pittsburgh 17-13 to improve to 3-0 this season, but, Dantonio said, his team must improve if it wants to stay undefeated. 
"From my perspective, ... we could have played better on Saturday. And we played a pretty good Pitt team. They played very square," Dantonio said. "You have to give Pitt a lot of credit. They had been working on that formation and those play scenarios since last spring from what I under­stand. They had not shown any in the prior two [games]. You know, they played very well defensively. Pitt's a much improved football team. But if you look at the game, we were our worst enemy at times. And my message to our team will always be about us, how we play. So we'll be pre­pared." 
After leaving Michigan State in 2000, Dantonio became the defensive coordinator at Ohio State and won a national title in 2002. Dantonio's defenses at Ohio State performed well -the Buckeyes ranked sec­ond in the nation in scoring defense in 2002 and were tenth overall in 2003. 
In 2004, Dantonio took over Cincinnati's program. He led the Bearcats to a 30-11 upset victory over then-No. 7 Rutgers last season. Cincinnati's defense ranked 27th in the nation in rushing last season, and the Bearcats finished 7-5. 
Dantonio's reputation as a solid defensive coach will be on the line against a sputter­ing Irish offense. The Spartans have allowed 88.7 rushing yards per game and 198 through the air. Notre Dame has averaged negative ­
4.7 yards rushing and 119.7 passing. But unlike Smith, Dantonio is reserved when he talks about Notre Dame. 
He is preparing his team for the Notre Dame of old, even though Notre Dame lost to Georgia Tech 33-3 at home to open the season and has dropped its last five home games against Michigan State. Despite Notre Dame's strug­gles, Dantonio said his team can't underestimate the Irish -especially since the game is at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"I think without question [Notre Dame] plays a home game where they were not successful, go away and play in two difficult environments. Now they get an opportunity ­to come back home," Dantonio said. "And it's always more special when you're playing at home. It's very difficult to win away games.... But I expect Notre Dame to be emotional. I expect them to be ... well prepared and eager to play." 
Contact Chris Hine at 
chine@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 21, 2007 
Fall 2007 Schedule 
Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues of our times. 
~ 9/01-Georgia Tech "Why is Goethe's Faust the Greatest Work of German Literature?" Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor of Arts and Letters 
~ 9/22-Michigan State "Health Care Reforms: "Health Care Reforms: An Economist's Assessment" William Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Economics
AnE 0 'As " 
conomtst s sessment 
~ 10/13-Boston College "Global Ireland: From Celtic Twilight to Celtic Tiger" Luke Gibbons, Donald R. Keough Family Professor oflrish Studies 
~w 1 0/20-USC 
rP. 
"Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam" Asma Afsaruddin, Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies
William Evans 
~ 11/03-Navy "Cops, Protest, and Rioting" ~
Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Economics 
Daniel Myers, Director of Research and Faculty Development, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Professor of Sociology 
~ 11/10-Air Force "Theological But Not Religious: '01e Case of John Milton" Stephen Fallon, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
12:00 Noon ~ 11/17-Duke 
"Words and Music, Music and Words: The Songs of Franz Schubert"Saturday, September 22, 2007 Susan Youens, J. W. Van Gorkom Professor of Music 
Annen berg Auditorium, 3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art (unless otherwise noted). 
Snite Museum ofArt 
For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 






