
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Hesburgh photo accepted into National Gallery 

Trustees welcoine two new Inenlbers 
President Carol Ann Mooney to present her Strategic Plan for College 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Edimr 
Members of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees arrived on campus Tuesday for the first of limr meetings this year. 
This year, the board has two new members -student trustee Cate Setta, a senior, and Sister Michelle Germanson, the presi­dent of Trinity High School in Hiver Forest, Ill. The Trustees will remain on campus until Friday. 
Germanson and Setta, the 33rd and 34th board members, respectively, will participate in all of the group's meetings and activ­ities, which will likely focus on a strategic plan for Saint Mary's. 
While the details of the board's agenda for the meetings remains confidential prior to the hearings, College President Carol Ann Mooney confirmed the approval of the Strategic Plan would be one of the central items. 
"Members of the community have heard about the plan previ­ously and are aware that it will be discussed at the meetings," she said. 
The Strategic Plan is Mooney's vision for the next five years, Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer said, outlining "fundamental, principle goals and recommendations for 
see BOARD/page 4 


SAGA Ineinbers relive coining out experiences 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
On the eve of N a tiona! Coming Out Day this Thursday, Saint Mary's students, alumni and professors relived their personal coming-out-of-the­closet experiences at Dalloway's coffeehouse Tuesday night. 
The panel event, hosted by the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA), discussed ways in which the Saint Mary's com­munity can be more tolerant and understanding of its les­bian, gay, bisexual, transgen­der or questioning (LGBTQ) members. 
SAGA president and senior Sara Nielsen, math professor Mary Porter and 1998 Saint Mary's graduate Jennifer Warner spoke as panelists, 
see OUT/page 8 


Students detnand latin Mass after rescript 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News EditOr 
After Pope Benedict XVI brought attention to the dis­continued tradition of Latin Masses in early July, students began asking Campus Ministry to bring back the "Tridentine Mass" to Notre Dame. Starting Sunday, they will get their wish. 
The students' demand and Benedict XVI's papal rescript 
which states the Tridentine Mass is optional for Catholics -led Campus Ministry to decide to sched­ule the Latin Mass this year. The first of these Masses will be celebrated at 8 a.m. 
Sunday at the St. Charles Borromeo Chapel in Alumni Hall. 
"In this document from Rome, they asked the pastors to make it available if there is a stable group of people who want it and if there are people who are able to do it," said Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry. 
Campus Ministry received more than 100 e-mails from students asking if the University would offer the Tridentine Mass after Benedict XVI released the document in early July, Warner said. 
Brett Perkins, director of 
see LATIN/page 8 

Cab drivers protest parking lavvs 
Taxis ticketed, chased 
away from Main Circle 
spots by NDSP officers 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
Several South Bend taxi compa­nies have complained Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) officers have begun chasing them away from Notre Dame's main circle this semester, hurting their business and affecting their ability to trans­port students. 
A driver from American Cab Co. who repeatedly returned to the Main Circle area was even issued a no trespass notice last week and told by NDSP officers he would be 
see CABS/ page 6 



Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, left looks on as Father John Jenkins speaks at the National Gallery in Washington, D.C. 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 

WASHINGTON -The life, legacy and inspiration of former University president Father Theodore Hesburgh were celebrated Tuesday night as the nation's leaders joined influential members of the Notre Dame community to celebrate the accept­ance of a portrait of Ilesburgh into the Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery. 
As friends of Hesburgh and Notre Dame crowded an atrium in the gallery. U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice, a Notre Dame alumims, spoke of the profound impact Hesburgh has had upon her life -both by influencing her decision to pursue graduate studies at the University and through spiritual guidance since. 
"He's this great figure who will be a great histori­cal figure, but when we all think about him, when we all recollect him and when we all honor him, it is because he touches each and every one of us in a very special and deep and personal way," she said. 
A constant theme of the night was the degree of care and compassion Hesburgh infused in all he did. 
As a student at Notre Dame, Rice recalled Hesburgh often spent time around campus talking with students and guiding them. 
see HESBURGH/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October I0, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Justin: Bring cool back too 
Dear Justin Timberlakfl, 

The world is changed. I filni it in the water. I lilnl it in the earth. I smell it in the air. Much that once was, is lust. fi1r none now live who rnmember it. 
Marcela Berrios 
Okay, maybn I stoln that from 

Associate News somnplaee elsfl, Editor but, Justin. you get the point. Things are bad at this place called Notrn Dame. Very bad. Sexy was lost. It was momentarily found again when your melodious voice saying "take them to the chorus" hit air­waves. But a<; all good things do at Notrn Damn, tim dream quiekly came to an end. It was likP coming back after summer to find tannPd, skinnier, bettnr-drnssed da.ssmatns. Those days of happiness Wllfll qui<:kly replaced with ones filled with the ).,>Tay hoodies and laniards at thn dining hall. Thn eolorful sundrnssns am slowly bning packed away and thfl l'nlshmen arn notienably heavier. Yes, sexy has bnm1 lost ynt again. But then again, aflnr thrnn years at Notrn Dame, I knew it would happnn. But enol'! ThnrP is still hop<l filr cool in this fi~rsaken land. I havn a dream, Justin. I have a drnam that <wen if' studenL<> at Notrn Damn are ugly and don't drnss wnll. thny can still be enol. Wn anl smart. Wn are classy. We havn Jesus on our sidn. Wn havn everything going f'or us, so why is cool an nndag<wPd spPdes on this campus'? Thnn•'s so much potPntial. It.'s so frus­trating. NotrP IlamP kids don't havn to kPPp living in tlw shadow of the comtnmpo­rary savvy by putting the univnrse on pause IWPry Thursday to prPlnnd Grny's Anatomy is cool. Merndith Grny could Pasily make men reconsider women's sull'ragn. So snap out of it, Notre I)amn. Our guys don't have to bn lamn-Os. They could mustnr up the murage to ask a girl out on a datn that can't be paid li1r with Flex poinL'i. Thny could learn how to danee. Actually, that one goes out to the girls too. Headers could bP moler too. MaybP thny could skim the news artides and bncorne inf(mnnd of' the things that go on around campus. Yes, the boring lee­tum artides talk about smart stufl'. I've always li>und it dishnartnning and annoying people complain Notrn Damn isn't mally thp, plaen whern wn can b1l gung-ho about important political issues or about global warming or whatever. Thn truth is, there are lectures ta.king place everyday where scholars and leaders dis1:uss these things. The thrne or f(JUr tree-huggnrs on campus or the ovnr-achinving political science nerd who wanL<> to be a senator some day are thn only ones that attend them, though. And I know I've written about this beli>re. but Ijust can't get over it. What's up with everyone and Soulja Boy? Seriously, Justin, we nend you. We dnarly can't do this alone. You brought sexy back and knoeknd Cnorgn Clooney oil' his post as the ulti­matn guardian of sexy. Who eould pull that oil'! Only you. llelp us, .Justin Timberlake. You're our only hopn. 
The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe 0/Jsertwr. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at a/Jerrim·;0>nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to an editing error, the Oct. 9 article "War Journal: Scene Fights the Good Fight" attributed a paraphrased quotation to the 111m "Happy Gilmore." The quotation was actually said in "Billy Madison." The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE CAB DRIVER? 





Dan Franco Undsay Williams Betsy Grace 
sophomore sophomore sophomore Knott Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla East 
"John Crowder's "NDSP." "Jean momma. Nusesabagina." 

VANESSA GEMPISrThe Observer A group of students gather on Sout!J Quad Tuesday to promote Energy Week. The weeklong environment-friendly campaign has raised awareness about green causes and initiatives with the slogan "Get your green on." 
OFFBEAT 
Woman jailed for 50 days over cat urine 
TAMPA, Fla. -Cynthia Hunter spent almost two months in jail over a vial of cat urine. Hunter, 38, was arrested Aug_ 15 on a charge of petty theft after she was aecused of stealing from a Wal-Mart store. 
Deputies added charges of possession of a eontrolled substance after finding a vial containing a yellow substance in her purse. A drug field test suggested the substance was methamphetamine, The Tampa Tribune reported. 
llllllter had protested, say­ing the substanee was dehy­drated cat urine for her son's science project and that it had been purehased at an animal elinic. She was released Thursday after lab tests found the substance was, in faet, eat urine. 
Mexican politician took short cut in marathon 
MEXICO CITY-After a humiliating defeat in Mexieo's presidential election last year, Roberto Madrazo appeared to be baek on top: He'd won the men's age-55 category in the Sept. 30 Berlin marathon with a sur­prising time of 2:41:12. But Madrazo couldn't leave his reputation for shady dealings in the dust. Raee offieials said Monday they disqualified him for apparently taking a short cut -an electronic traeking ehip indicates he skipped two checkpoints in the race and would have needed superhu­man speed to achieve his win. 
According to the ehip, Madrazo took only 21 min­utes to cover the 15 kilome­ters between the 20-kilome­ter and 35-kilometer marks -faster than any human being ean rllll. "Not even the world record holder ean go that fast," race director Mark Milde said. 
Information compiled /Jy the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 0::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
......
c:c 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 60 HIGH 55 HIGH 62 HIGH 62
..... 
LOW 41 LOW 37 LOW 42 LOW 40 

Angellque Snyder 
sophomore Pasquerilla East 
"The big black guy because he told me he woke up one day and his teeth had turned gold." 
IN BRIEF 

Jerry Castellini, president and founder of CastleArk Management will lead a group of panelists at the Career Center's presp,ntation "Critical Thinking and Success: The Contribution of Arts & Letters Majors to Society, Business and Global Helations" tonight at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune ballroom. 
Tho Notre Damn hockey team will play its Blue-Gold game tonight at 7::~0 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Schola Musicorum will per­form "Abend Musique" tonight at H::~o p.m. in the Hcyes Organ and Choral Hall, DeBartolo Performing A1·ts Center. Tickets are $:~. 
The 5 Browns will perform in eoncert Thursday at 7::10 p.m. in thn Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $15. The five siblings are Juilliard­trained concert pianists who perform individually, together and in different eombinations. 
The Notre Dame women's soccc1· team will play against Georgetown Friday at 7:30 
p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies' con­ference, "Haec and Immigration in the New Ireland," opens with a keynote address by Mary Hobinson, for­mer president of Ireland and 
U.N. High Commissioner for Human Hights, in Washington Hall Sunday at 7:15 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obseruer. e-mail detailed infor­mation a/Jout an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 60 HIGH 62 LOW 41 LOW 43 
Atlanta 39 I 27 Boston 60 I 50 Chicago 55 I 45 Denver 78 I 46 Houston 88 I 77 Los Angeles 76 I 57 Minneapolis 55 140 New York 68 I 58 Philadelphia 77 I 62 Phoenix 95 I 70 Seattle 60 I 50 St. Louis 68 I 53 Tampa 90 I 72 Washington 80 165 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, October 10, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


Sen1inar to be held for off-ca111pus legal issues 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Students considering off-campus residences next year ean look for­ward to a legal seminar that will educate them in signing leases, being a good neighbor and tenant and avoiding eviction, senior Colin Feehan, chair of student govern­ment's Community Relations com­mitten. announced at the meeting of the Council of Representatives (COH) Tuesday. 
The event -hosted by the Community Relations committee and scheduled for Oct. 17 from 7:30-9:30 
p.m. in the Montgomery Room of the LaFortune Student Center -is geared toward students currently living on-campus who are interested in moving oll'-campus next year. The seminar will also have information lor people already living out<>ide the dorms (especially juniors) who will continue to live off-campus next year. 
The seminar will be taught by Professor Bob Jones, Notre Dame's director of legal aid, who will be assisted by some of his law students, F1~ehan said. 
lie also asked COR to help the event's organizers publicize the sem­inar. 
"The posters are completed, and we'll be handing them out in Senate tomorrow," Feehan said. 
Feehan said the PowerPoint pres­entation that will be used in the seminar will later be made available to students through the student gov­ernment Web site. 
Students who attend the seminar will receive complimentary Jimmy John's. 
Academic Forum followup 
Student body president liz Brown urged COR members to help contin­ue the discussion on immigration started at Monday's Notre Dame Forum. 
"I would encourage you to bring continued dialogue from the Forum back to your groups," she said. 
COR members were generally impressed by the Forum's setup and tactful handling of the nationally­debated topic. 
"I liked how it wasn't just one side versus the other," Student Union treasurer Kadeja Gaines said. 
"The Forum committee should be commended," senior class president Bridget Keating said. "The publicity was very good." 
Brown said University President Father John Jenkins hopes the Forum will spark student interest in immigration-related issues in years to come. Brown and student body vice president Maris Braun will meet with Jenkins to discuss ways to con­tinue the momentum and the con­versation that began at the Forum. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
Shakespeare's vvriting held codes 
Author argues Bard inscribed Catholic the1nes in poems, plays 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 

Shakespeare's works contain layers of codes and symbols that give his plays unmistakably Catholic themes, author Clare Asquith argued during a lectureTuesday in DeBartolo Hall. 
Asquith, the author of "Shadowplay: The Hidden Beliefs and Coded Politics of William Shakespeare," said she didn't discover the Catholic undertones in Shakespeare's writings until she observed coded messages in Russian dis­sident plays while her husband, a diplomat, worked in Moscow during the Cold War. 
"I was brought up to believe England accepted the Reformation. It did not," Asquith said. "At the beginning of Elizabeth I's reign, Catholics were not the minority. They were the vast majority. The entire history of the sixteenth century was nothing but a cover­up, written by the winners." 
The conflict between showing allegiance to the Church or the Crown was a serious source of tension for England's Catholics, yet stringent government cen­sorship prevented many ofthem from speaking out, she said. 
"This national conflict is apparently overlooked in Shakespeare's work, but it was so important to his listeners," Asquith said. "It was the prover­bial elephant in the room." 
Shakespeare and other writ­ers turned to symbols and codes embedded in their works to address these issues, she said. 
"Heligion and politics were banned from the stage," Asquith said. "This led to an explosion of wit encrypted with religion and politics. Wit was a way around the censorship -almost like a modem political cartoon." 
Asquith said some of the Catholic symbolism in Shakespeare's writings included papal metaphors in the shape of fair-haired characters, uses of lighting and references to height and highness, since the Catholic Church was called the "High Church." England and the Anglican Church were repre­sented by darkness, dark-haired characters, lowness (since the Anglican Church was called the "Low Church"). 
"Go back and re-read all of Shakespeare's plays with this code in mind, and you will see these highly complicated, sophisticated and accurate alle­gories for what was going on at the time," Asquith said, citing in particular "Much Ado About Nothing" and "The Taming of the Shrew" as clear-cut exam­ples. 
Despite Shakespeare's possi­ble Catholic upbringing and secret Catholic beliefs, Asquith does not believe that his plays' coded themes are extremely favorable to Catholics. Rather, they are representative of the anguish of many of England's citizens, torn between national­ism and faith. 
"If you read Shakespeare's sonnets using this code," Asquith said, "you will find a very conflicted man. In some of his 'Dark Lady' poems, he is addressing his country, while other poems are just love poems." 
Asquith encouraged all listen­ers to search for Shakespeare's eoded messages. 
"His secondary level is as beautiful and sophisticated as his surface level," she said. 
Her claims that Shakespearfl's works carry Catholic under­tones, however, have been received with skepticism by many scholars. 
"I knew I was lobbing a small hand-grenade into the world of Shakespeare scholarship," she said. 
But she welcomed her critics' input. 
"If a hand grenade is met by silence, one begins to worry, one wonders whether one remem­bered to pull the pin," she said, laughing. 
The lecture was the final installment of the four-week fall Catholic culture lecture series sponsored by the Center for Ethics and Culture. The Center will sponsor a spring series themed around "The Art of the Cinema." 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 




A Special Information Session for Arts and Letters Students 
(Others are welcome to attend) 
'The London Summer Proeramme 
May 14th to June 15th 2008 
~All returning ND & St. Mary's undergraduates eligible ~Four and one-half week study in London ~Mid session study/travel to Paris, Normandy, Belfast, or Amsterdam ~ Earn 6 credit hours ~Still have 2 months of surrimer left when you return! 
Information Session for 2008 & 2009 Programmes THURSDAY 11TH OCTOBER 2007 
5:00 pm to 6:00 131 DeBartolo Hall 
Applications are available at 305 Brownson Hall or on-line at www.nd.eduJ,..,sumlon 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 10, 2007 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
She described two lett11rs he had written her -one about the death of her father. with whom llesburgh was close, and llw other about Hice's responsibilities in conducting the nation's diplomacy over­seas, she said. In each letter, llesburgh oll"ered Hiee exactly the spiritual solace she nned­ed, slw said. 
"That kind of spiritual dnpth and dinwnsion is something that makes Father Tml in his role as statesman and educa­tor and citizen of the world very special," Bien said. 
The portrait selected for inclusion in the National Portrait c;allery shows llesburgh in one of his most inf'luential and frequently eitml roi11S -as a leader in the civil rights movement. llesburgh became a charter member of the United States Commission on Civil Hights in 1957 and remained a member until lw was dismissnd in I972 by President Hichard Nixon. who had bnnn subject to llesburgh's criticism about his rncord on human rights. 
Fornwr Pennsylvania Sen. llarris Woll"ard. who snrvnd as a legal assistant to llnsburgh for l.lw Commission on Civil Bights, praisPd tlw decision to indude a portrait of his col­leagun and friPnd in the National Portrait Callery. 
"I think wlwn wn have a national tmasure, it better be seen and 1:eh1bntted." lw said. 
WoiTard. who was tlw CEO of AnwriCorps during the I990s. praised llesburgh's moral ll~ad11rship. 
"llis eyesight may hn failing, but his spiritual and humarw vision is not only strong, but it is that without which people JWrish," lw said. 
Tlu• portrait dopiets llesburgh linking hands with Martin l.utlwr King, Jr. at a rally at Soldier Field in C:hil:ago. Tlw picture, likely taken by a stan· photographer of the Chicago Tribune, was taknn on .I une 21, 1964. 
According to the Tribune report, llesburgh, King and an estimated 57,000 other people were singing th11 Civil Bights anthem "Wn Shall Ovnr1:ome," led by gospel singer Mahalia Jackson. 
University President Father .John .Jenkins spoke of the rel­evance of this image to the rich and varied legaey llesburgh created during his years as a University and national leader. 
"Like many powerful photo­graphs, it depiets not only a single event but expresses what Father Ted's life was really likn," Jenkins said. "lie was always willing to join with otlmrs for what was good and just and right." 
The evening was modnrated by Annn Thompson, chief nnvironnwntal affairs eorrn­spondnnt fi1r NBC Nnws and a 197'J Notre Dame graduatn. 
Thorn pson said lwr deep loyalty to llnshurgh was dun in part to his <Incision to open Not.rn l>anw to womnn in 1972 -lhPreby allowing lwr to attend the University. 

"Tlw dneision hn made to open NotrP Damn to women truly changPd my lifn," shn said. "Thn nducation I got set mn on tlw path I enjoy today and gave me a snnsn of conli­dnnl~e and rnsponsibility about tlw world that dirncted me into journalism." 
Spnaknrs during the dinner included Jenkins. Elizabeth 



Father Theodore Hesburgh, left, and Martin Luther King, Jr. hold hands while singing "We Shall Overcome" at a Civil Rights rally In Chicago in 1964. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLJ.EGE OF ARTS ANO LETTERS 

I~ I..Y ll t•I..llNI~ I~Ctll I~ Ill~ I~ 
INTERESTED IN BEING A PILOT? 
Then do something about it. A U.S MARINE CORPS AVJA TOR will be giving FREE ORIENTATION FLIGHTS Tuesday, Oct. 16, at tht> Corporate Wings Building at the South Bend Airport. 
No obligation incurred. 
Get in the cockpit of the PIPER NAVAJO (TWIN ENGINE TURBO CHARGED, AIRSPEED 205 MPH, ALL WEATHER RADAR EQUIPPED AIRCRAFT) and see if you have the skills required to earn a GUARANTEED AVIATION OPTION as a MARINE CORPS OFFICER 
CALL IST LIEUTENANT ERIC CRECELIUS OR GUNNERY SERGEANT CLAYTON AND RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY. 
Call Toll Frt>t> 1-877-299-9397 
Broun, director of the Smithsonian Ameriean Art Museum, Sister Alice Gallin, trustee emeritus of Notre Dame. Alan Simpson, former 
U.S. senator from Wyoming, Cardinal Theodore MeCarrick, arehbishop emeritus of Washington, D.C., and Hichard Notnbaert. chairman of the Board of Trustees. 
Taped remarks were played from Son. Edward Kennedy of Massachusetts, former U.S. President Jimmy Carter, for­mer U.S. President George 
II.W. Bush and civil rights leader Andrew Young. ThP vidno, which recounted much of llesburgh's long earner in serviee, was narrated by for­mer CBS News anchor Waltnr Cronkit1~. 
llesburgh greetnd the atten­tion with customary humility. 
"When you boil it all down, nad1 of us has to say that God has bnnn awfully good to us," he said. "I thank you for being 
Daniel J. Myers 
Professor of Sociology 
some of the people I've been able to enjoy life with for over 90 years." 
llesburgh was born May 25, 1917 in Syracuse, N.Y. He graduated from Notre Dame in 1939 and was ordained a priest in 1943. After receiving his doctorate from Catholie University of Ameriea in 1945, he returned to Notre Dame to teach. In 1952, at age 35, he was named the 15th president of the University of Notre Dame. 
The National Portrait Gallery began to include living sub­jects among its collection of portraits in 2001. Though the decision to inelude llesburgh's portrait in the gallery has been made, it will be voted oflicially into the colleetion when the Gallery commission meets in Dm~ember, a spokesperson for the Gallery said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle@nd.edu 


Fly these with us on the 16m 
I"' Ltcutcnant Enc Crecelius 

MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION OFFICER 134 Wc,t Stale Street. Suite ""C' West!,nfaycllc, IN 4Ntl6 
(765) 743-8359!8762 
Emuil creceliusep!t~lmfrriucs usmc.mil 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 CoMPILED rRoM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraq security forces kill 2 women 
BAGHDAD -Guards working for an Australian-owned security company fired on a car as it approached their convoy Tuesday, killing two women civilians before speeding away from the latest bloodshed blamed on the deadly mix of heavily armed protection details on Baghdad's crowded streets. 
The deaths of the two Iraqi Christians ­including one who used the white sedan as an unollicial taxi to raise money for her family ­carne a day after the Iraqi government handed 
U.S. officials a report demanding hefty pay­ments and the ouster from Iraq of embattled Blackwater USA for a chaotic shooting last month that left at least 17 civilians dead. 
The deaths Tuosday at a Baghdad intersec­tion may sharpen demands to curb the expand­ing array of socurity firms in Iraq watching over diplomaL<;, aid f:,'Toups and others. 
Korea celebrates nuclear anniversary 
SliOUL. South Korea-North Korea marked the first anniversary of its nuclear test Tuesday with calls on the country's poverty­stricken population to rally around leader Kim Jong Il. praised by state media for pulling off a "truly gn~at miracle." 
Japan's Cabinet. meanwhile, approved plans to extend economic sanctions over the test for another six months. The sanctions-including banning the import of North Korean goods and closing Japanese ports to the communist nation's ships-were to expire in mid­October. 
The Oct. 9, 2006, test sent tensions spiraling in the standoll' over North Korea's nuclear pro­gram. But it also prompted the U.S. to soften its policy toward North Korea, paving the way for steps toward a goal of dismantling the North's nuclear program. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

2 dead, 2 injured in tire shop shooting 
SIMI VALLEY, Calif. -Agunman shot one per­son to death and wounded two others at a tire · shop Tuesday, then apparently killed himself, police said. 
Officers responding to reports of a shooting went to the Tire Pros shop at about 7:30 a.m. and found a "chaotic" scene, Sgt. David Livingstone said. People were found lying in the office and garage, and all the victims were employees or customers, he said. · 
The gunman was found dead at the scene of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound, he said. 
A 20-year-old man was in critical condition and a 37 -year-old man was in fair condition at Simi Valley Hospital, hospital spokesman Jeremy Brewer said. 

Missouri child abductor pleads guilty 
CLAYTON, Mo. -The horror faced by two boys abducted in rural Missouri was revealed Tuesday in court, where their captor pleaded guilty and prosecutors said a video showing him torture one of them underlines why he should die in prison. 
Michael Devlin offered no apologies but shed light on why one of his victims stayed with him more than four years: The terrorized boy cut a deal just as Devlin was beginning to strangle him. 
"This boy made this contract, this deal with the devil, only to survive," Washington County prosecutor John Rupp said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man arrested for murder of women 
HICIIMOND, Ind. -The boyfriend of a 19­year-old woman who was. found dead six days before the death of her younger sister was arrested Tuesday on a preliminary charge of murder. 
James McFarland Jr., 23, was being held without bond at the Wayne County Jail in Hichmond on one count of murder. 
McFarland was the boyfriend of Erin Stanley, 19, who died Sept. 1 at her parents' home in Centerville, just west of Richmond in east-central Indiana. Her sister, Kelly Stanley, 18, was found dead in the home on Sept. 7. 
PAKISTAN 


Toll rises in clashes at Afghan border 
250 dead in conflicts as U.S. increases pressure on Pakistan to inhibit al-Qaeda movement 
Associated Press 
MIRAN SHAH -Pakistani aircraft bombed a village bazaar packed with shoppers near the Afghan border Tuesday, pushing the death toll to 250 in four days of fighting -the deadliest clashes since Pakistan threw its support behind the U.S.­led war on terror in 2001. 
The attack on Epi village in North Waziristan tribal region killed dozens of mili­tants and civilians -deaths that are likely to harden domestic opposition to President Gen. Pervez Musharraf's alliance with Washington. 
The bazaar was crowded with people buying food to break their daylong Ramadan fast when it was rocked by a dozen explosions that destroyed shops and nearby homes, residents said. Abdul Sattar, a grocery shop owner, said he counted more than 60 dead and more than 150 wounded, including many civilians. Many of the victims were mutilated. 
"Some did not have heads, hands or legs. Some people were searching for their chil­dren and women," Sattar told The Associated Press by tele­phone from Epi. 

Army spokesman Maj. Gen. Waheed Arshad said military aircraft targeting militant bombed. . try to reassert state autl10rity Qaeda and provided a rear hideouts struck "one or two The fighting broke out in in a swath of mountainous base for Taliban guerrillas places" near the town of Mir North Waziristan on Saturday territory where warlords sup­fighting NATO troops in Ali -located about 2 miles after a roadside bomb hit a portive of the Taliban and al­Afghanistan. from Epi -and local tribes­truckload of paramilitary Qaeda have seized control. In July, Pakistan's army men reported about 50 mili­troops, sparking bitter clash­Now the army appears to be redeployed troops at key tants were killed. es. The bodies of dozens of resorting to heavy firepower. checkpoints in the region, 
He said the airstrikes might soldiers, many with their Sattar, the shop owner, sparking fresh hostilities. have killed some civilians throats slit, have been recov­accused the army of Security forces have since who were living in the areas ered from deserted areas of "oppressing" the local suffered more than 250 casu­where militant hideouts were the region, fleeing residents Pashtun tribespeople. He said alties, many of them in sui­targeted, but he had no exact said. journalists should visit the cide bombings, and more numbers. The violence comes as area so they could see that than 230 soldiers have been 
"We had confirmed reports Musharraf tries to secure the "miscreants"-a byword kidnapped. about the presence of mili­another term as president, in Pakistan for militants -The escalating clashes have tants, and the air power was vowing to shore up Pakistan's targeted by security forces sparked debate in Pakistan used to target those militant effort against Islamic extrem­were in fact women and chil­on whether military action ­hideouts," he told the AP. ism, particularly in its border dren. widely perceived as done at 
Another resident, Noor regions where Osama bin Pakistan struck a contro­the bidding of the United Hassan, said both militants Laden and his deputy Ayman versial cease-fire deal with States despite Musharraf's and civilians were killed and al-Zawahri are suspected to militants in North Waziristan insistence it is in the national that he was fleeing the area. hide. last year. U.S. officials criti­interest -can curb Islamic He said the nearby village of Pakistani troops have suf­cized the pact, claiming it extremism or only serves to Hader Khel also was fered mounting losses as they gave a safe haven for al-enflame it. 


Minnesota bridge repair debate continues 
Associated Press ects, with money promised by the feder­transportation commissioner, Carol al government still in limbo. Molnau. "That bridge is going to be built. We Molnau has been hauled before law­
MINNEAPOLIS -The crumpled steel were told it's the highest priority," said makers repeatedly to explain past deci­beams and shattered concrete of the Senate Majority Leader Pogemiller, a sions and steps being taken to build the Interstate 35W bridge are gone from Minneapolis Democrat. "It's other parts new bridge. Several legislators, includ­the Mississippi River. These days, it's the of the transportation network that will ing the House speaker, say they've lost process of replacing the span that's in suffer if we somehow don't figure out a confidence in her and are calling for her disarray. way to apply one more Band-Aid." resignation. If she doesn't leave, leaders 
Two months after the bridge fell, the The bridge that collapsed Aug. 1, of the Democrat-controlled Senate say full cost of responding to the catastro­killing 13 people, was one of the state's they will vote to remove her when next phe and rebuilding the bridge has busiest, and officials want it replaced by year's session starts in February. soared to nearly $400 million. And the the end of next year. Work on a new 10-Molnau, who is also Minnesota's lieu­project is at the center of a political lane bridge is .scheduled to start next tenant governor, said she won't go wi11­skirmish as Democrats and Republican week. ingly. Gov. Tim Pawlenty fight over trans­But the political tension that arose "It's gotten very partisan and proba­portation money. after the collapse is sure to spill over bly a bit mean," she said after a testy 
The battle threatens to delay more into next year, including questions hearing last week. "People do what peo­than 60 other road-construction proj-about the competence of the state's ple do, and that's out of my control." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 10, 2007 
rience both l'orms, the ordi­In the Novus Ordo, the con­Mass and have been fully Tuesday. nary and the extraordinary." gregation gathers around the trained. He also said the re-introduc­
Latin 
continued from page 1 
and Catholic Peer Ministry at Campus Ministry, said some students even formed a Facebook group requesting the Tridentine Mass. 
"We knew there was going to be a number of students who wanted this: We knew that sta­ble community would be thern," Pnrkins said. 
Members of' Campus Ministry met ovnr the summer to decide how to respond to students' demand and the "motu pro­prio" (as tlw papal rescript is called, Latin f'or "of his own accord"). 
The Tridentine Mass will be celebrated at 8 a.m. most Sundays of' the year at Alumni llall because its chapel has a door that opens directly to the outside and has a high altar, which is also against the wall, making it possible for the priest to celebrate the Mass in the traditional way, Perkins said. In the Tridentine Mass, the priest !'aces the same direction of the people, toward the altar. The time was chosen so as to not interl'ere with pre­viously scheduled Masses at the Basilica and in the chapels on campus. 
A missalette will be available to students containing Latin and English translations. The rubrics will also be included, so that students can follow the Mass. 
Ilaving two l'orms of' Mass on campus ofl'ers "the fullness of' the Latin lUte -the Homan Catholic Hite," Warner said. "Students will be able to expe-

The papal document described two forms of' the Latin, or Homan, lUte, Warner said. The first, the ordinary l'orm, the Novus Ordo of Pope Paul VI. which came into efl'ect in 1970, is the form of Mass usually celebrated on campus. The second, the extraordinary f'orrn, is the Tridentine Mass, which is based on Pope John XXIII's reform of' the Missal. 
Perkins explained how the two l'orms developed. 
The word "Tridentine" refers to "what came out of the · Council of' Trent," Perkins said. The Council took place between 1545 and 1563 and was a time of' response to the Protestant Heformation. 
"The Church issued at that time what is known as the Tridentine Missal, that went through additions and edits from the 1560s to 1962," Perkins said. 
The Second Ecumenical Council of the Vatican, or Vatican II, called for a "renew­al of liturgy," Perkins said. The result was the 1970 Missal, which became the normative way of celebrating the Mass. 
The main difference between the ordinary and extraordi­nary forms, Perkins said, is the different emphasis each places on certain aspects of the faith. 
"They are both beautiful, holy expressions of the same faith," he said. 
The concept of the priest fac­ing the same direction as the congregations presents the priest as a leader of the peo­ple, who are "all are on this same pilgrim journey towards God," Perkins said. 
table, sharing the Eucharist, Campus Ministry sponsored tion of the Trid.entine Mass as he said, emphasizing the a three-part lecture series an optional form of celebration faith's sense of community. titled "Three Days of reflects continuity with the 
Currently four priests on Reflection on the Eucharist," ordinary form. campus are able to celebrate to prepare the community for "Vatican II was not a rupture the Tridentine Mass, but more the celebration of the of the Iliturgical! tradition, but are in training, Warner said. Tridentine Mass. rather a cc>ntinuation," he Priests must learn both the The first of these lectures, said. language -Latin -of the "The Theology of' the The third lecture, titled "The Mass and the rubrics, which Eucharist," given by theology Liturgical Reforms of' the differ from the ordinary form. professor David Fagerberg, Second Vatican Council," will 
Altar servers typically par­discussed the importance of' take place today at 6 p.m. in ticipate in the Mass responses seeing the two forms of the the Hammes Student Lounge on behalf' of the people, Mass through the lens of' conti­in the Coleman Morse Center. Perkins said. Between 20 and nuity. Basilica rector Father Peter 30 altar servers volunteered to Father Michael Driscoll pre­Hoccawill speak on these participate in the Mass. Only sented the history of the changes. those who know the Mass will extraordinary form in a lec­help in its celebration until ture titled "The Formation of Contact Jenn Metz at others have witnessed the the Tridentine Missal" jmetz@nd.edu 



QE.T YoUR 


NoN 
TODAY IS THE LAST DAY TO TAKE THE ONLINE ENERGY QUIZ ... http://energycenter.nd.edu 
TWELVE QUESTIONS TOTAL GET THEM ALL RIGHT FOR ACHANCE TO WIN CASH! 
Wind energy is generated in what percentage of the U.S.? 
When is it recommended that you should turn off fluorescent lights? 
Which five states have geothermal power plants
Clenergyweek 
Energy Week is sponsored by the Notre Dame In what year was the Nobel Prize in Physics Energy Cente,., the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee, Students for Environmental 
awarded for experiments with solar power and 
Action, the Joint Engineering Council~ and 
Notre Dame Student Government. 
hotovoltaics? 
A bitofIreland in your own backyard. 
, 
s 
Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, heartyfood and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Watermrd Estates Lodge has hotel rooms at reasonable ratesfur u~x:omirl(3 NDfuotball weekends.) 

t)rD!I1JIIo!~l JOHN'!iFRAHI;tt15l UC o\1-l Rl!ii!TIHE'Stll\'f:ll 
Wednesday, October 10, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 14,164.53 +120.80
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,307 102 999 2,932,088,420 

AMEX NASDAQ 2,803.91 +16.54 NYSE 10;28()~31 r +93J8B S&P 500 1,565.15 +12.57 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17;15ft90 ... .. Q;~ FTSE 100 (London) 6,615.40 +74.50 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE SUN MICROSYS INC (JAVA) -1.49 -0.09 5.96 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.94 +1.46 156.48 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.43 +0.23 53.38 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.87 +0.26 30.10 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.28 +0.013 4.651 13-WEEK BILL +0.16 +0.045 3.910 30-YEAR BOND +0.06 +0.003 4.864 5-YEAR NOTE +0.69 +0.030 4.368 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.24 80.26 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.40 743.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.28 86.73 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 117.1900 EURO 0.7090 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9825 BRillSH POUND 0.4908 
IN BRIEF 

Heating bills to be high this winter 
NEW YORK -Almost all Americans will pay a lot more to heat their homes this win­ter, even though temperatures are expected to be warmer than average. 
That's the sobering message from an Energy Department report Tuesday that esti­mates heating oil costs are likely to jump 22 percent and natural gas bills, on average, will rise 10 percent between October and March. 
And while the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration forecast a milder than average winter in most parts of the country, the agency also predicted Tuesday that temperatures will be 1.3 percent colder than last year. 
In Massachusetts, where about 40 percent of homeowners rely on oil for heat, con­sumers are bracing for price spikes, said Michael Ferrante, president of the Massachusetts Oilheat Council, a trade group. "They are buttoning up their houses even more, they are turning down their thermo­stats, they are wearing sweaters," he said. 

Fed meeting pushes market higher 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street advanced sharply Tuesday as investors interpreted minutes from the Federal Reserve's last meeting as indicating the central bank is ready to keep cutting interest rates to boost the economy. The Dow Jones industrial aver­age and Standard & Poor's 500 index reached new record highs. 
The minutes from the Federal Open Market Committee's Sept. 18 meeting, when Fed governors voted unanimously for a half-point cut. also showed that officials were con­cerned that the weakness in the dollar could lead to higher inflation. But the Fed -sig­naling it is more willing to intervene -also said tlw economic outlook was uncertain because of the summer's credit crisis, and that then~ wm-e still risks to growth that jus­til'ind lower rates. 

THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 

Miller, Coors brewing to join forces 
Corporations plan to use combined resources to compete against leading Anheuser-Busch 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE The nation's second and third­largest brewers, Miller and Coors, are planning to blend their U.S. operations to help them compete in a struggling 
U.S. industry and against its leader, Anheuser-Busch . 
The deal, announced Tuesday, will place almost 80 percent of the U.S. beer mar­ket in the hands of just two companies, the new MillerCoors and Anheuser­Busch, making it a likely tar­get for a tough antitrust review. 
Miller Brewing Co., owned by SABMiller PLC, has about 18 percent of the market, as of last year, according to trade publication Beer Marketer's Insights. Molson Coors Brewing Co. has almost 11 percent and Anheuser-Busch Cos. has just under half the market. 
The companies said the combination will have to pass an antitrust review by either the Federal Trade Commission or the Department of Justice. 
Few analysts expect the government to try to block the deal, however, despite dose scrutiny by regulators. 
Supermarkets and restau­rants -two large buyers of beer -will play a large role in the review, said Veronica Kayne, an attorney at Haynes & Boone and former FTC antitrust official. Milwaukee-based Miller the deal were not disclosed. Shares of Molson Coors 
But the emergence of and Denver-based Molson The move positions the two Brewing Co. hit a 52-week many smaller brewers has Coors executives said in a brewers to better com pete high of $57.68 on the news made the industry more conference call approval against market-leader Tuesday. The stock rose competitive than it was a could take six months for the Anheuser-Busch, brewer of $5.32, or 10.5 percent, to decade ago, said William joint venture. A final agree­brands like Budweiser, $56.15. SABMiller shares MacLeod, an attorney at ment is expected by the end Michelob and Bud Light, rose 1.43 percent to close at Kelley Drye Collier Shannon of the year, with the deal executives said. 1,487 pence ($30.33) in and former antitrust official dosing in mid-2008. "It is dear Miller and Coors London. Anheuser-Busch at the Department of Justice. SABMiller, which brews will be a stronger, more com­shares fell 46 cents to That makes the transaction Miller Lite and Miller petitive U.S brewer than $51.57. "much more feasible" now, Genuine Draft, will have a 58 either company can be on its The move could prompt a he said. percent economic interest in own," said Molson Coors long-rumored deal between 
Regulators might even see the venture and Molson Chief Executive Leo Kiely, Anheuser-Busch and InBev the pairing as helping offset Coors, maker of Coors and who will be the new CEO of NV S.A., the world's largest Anheuser-Busch's domi­Coors Light, will own 42 per­MillerCoors. brewer by volume, said Juli nance, Mark Swartzberg, a cent. But they will have equal Anheuser-Busch declined Niemann, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus analyst wrote voting interests. to comment publicly about Smith Moore & Co. in St. in a research note. Precise financial terms of the deal. Louis. 



Hard drive innovators win Nobel 
Associated Press Schewe, a physicist and spokesman for when I go to my grocer and see him the American Institute of Physics. type on a computer, I say, 'Wow, he's "Every one of us probably owns three using something I put together in my 
The effect is called giant magnetore­or four or five devices, probably more, mind.' It's wonderful." sistance, but it enables amazing things that depend on billions of bits of infor­Here's how it works. at the miniature level. mation stored on something the size of As a metal disk spins inside a hard 
Two European scientists won the a dime." drive, an arm with a sensitive electro­2007 Nobel Prize in physics Tuesday Fert, 69, is scientific director of the magnetic head at its tip hovers over for their discoveries of the phenome­Mixed Unit for Physics at CNRS/Thales the disk, somewhat like the needle on non, which spurred some of comput­in Orsay, France, while Gruenberg, 68, a record player (though it doesn't ing's most astonishing developments, is a professor at the Institute of Solid make contact). This head reads bits of from video-playing handheld devices to State Research in Juelich, Germany. data by registering the magnetic bear­PCs whose storage capacity now seems They will share the $1.5 million prize. ing of individual particles; it writes all but limitless. Gruenberg told reporters he was not data by changing that magnetic orien­
France's Albert Fert and Germany's too surprised to win the Nobel. tation. Peter Gruenberg independently "Because I have received a lot of For disk drives to increase in capaci­described giant magnetoresistance in awards, I was often asked, 'When will ty, those magnetic particles must 1988, then saw the electronics indus­the big award come?'" Gruenberg become smaller, so more can be try apply it in disks with incredible said. packed into the same amount of space. amounts of storage. Asked if he'd thought his discovery Rut these ever-tinier materials produce 
"I can hardly think of an application would have such wide application, Fert fainter magnetic signals, which means that has a bigger bang than the mag­told The Associated Press: "You can the read-write head in the disk drive netic hard drive industry," said Phil never predict in physics .... These days has to become more sensitive. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 
student population of Notre Nonetheless, Elliot was not the spot where taxi drivers can out of there, and to put a cab Dame." the only cab driver who said the wait to pick up passengers and stand there would back every­
Cabs 
continued from page 1 
arrnsted and taknn to jail if he eamn hack again. 
And whiln thn taxi companies rncognize thorn have benn "no parking" signs in place for sev­eral ynars, many cab drivers say that it was not until this semns­tcr that security start1~d thrnat­nning thmn. 
"Our drivers want to be abln to sit at Main Circln because that is where so many students gallwr," said Mark Elliot, a driv­er from American Cab Co. "If we can't wait there, then we will not be able to service the 

Board 
continued from page I 
the College." 
"It is quite intnresting," she said. "It sets out hnr goals and visions that shn has bnen work­ing on fhr the last year." 
Tlw goals of tho Stratngic Plan arn outlined in the 26-page pro­posal distributed to membnrs or thn Board, Dampenr said. They indudn: 
+ 
EdtH:ation excellence Hqual to that of the best colleges in the nJUntry. 

+ 
Sharpen the College's Catholic and women-centered identity. 

+ l>ivnrsily th1~ campus. 

+ 
Stabilize and grow enroll­mont. 

+ 
Hncruit and retain the bnst nmployens. 


+ Improve thn physical campus 
Out 
continued from page I 
telling the audinnce about their own exrwrierH~ns corning out to family and friends -and their subsequnnt experinnces at school or in the workplaeo. 
"My fmshman year I canw to 
S~int M~~r(s know~ng..J .~as bisexual. Nu~lsnn said. ISmen I e a nw o u t I I have a I o t o f frinnds on campus, both straight and gay. and most have bnen very <u:cepting. I think the pnople at Saint Mary's arr~ loving, kind, and 
trusting people." 
Warner gave advicn to stu­dents who arn thinking about eoming out. 
"Your coming out is at your own pace and you have to be 
O.K. with it lbefon~ you can actually go through with ill. Until you arn comfortahln with who you arn, you won't bn romfortable in tho world," Warner said. 
All thrn1~ pannlists spokP of how far the College has eome in its acceptancn or homosexu­als on cam pus. 
"Twl'lve years ago, when I camn lwrn I had to stay closet­ed so l didn't losn my job," l'ortPr said. "I think a lot has chang1~d since then." 
Portnr. who eventually carne out artor receiving tenure, said that whilo Saint Mary's has a non-discrimination poliey ­which can apply to sexuality ­she thinks the College could go even further and of'l'nr bmwlits, such as healthcare. l'or the life partnnrs of homosexual mn ployoes. 
Another way to advance the overall inelusion of LGBTQ members in the community, the panelists said, is to discon-
NDSP Director Phil Johnson, however. said the University has always been dear in its policies and taxi companies should not be surprised to see them enfim:ed accordingly. 
"There have always been 'no parking' signs there, so really nothing significant has changed as far as we arc concerned," Johnson said. "I have talked to a lot or people over the years who have received parking tickets for being at Main Cirele, so the law has always been enforced. Furthermore, when you repeat­edly don't comply with the laws, you are ~oin~ to.. be issued a 'no trespass notice. 
and environmental impact. 
+ Increase financial resources. 
"The Board had seen I the pro­posal! in its early stages, but now this is the final version," Dampeer said. "It is a lluid docu­ment and the main agenda item for the meetings." 
The Board members will also propose and vote on individual own goals for the year. 
All resolutions, such as the Strategic Plan, are approved through a majority vote of those in attendance, said Pam Putt, assistant secretary to the board and seerntary to the president. 
Board of Trustees Chair John O'Connor will formally announce any resolutions passed sometime next week. 
The board meets every October, February, April and June. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkholeO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
tinue the dnrogatory usn of the word "gay." 
"We can't go around hurting othnr lpeoplel in our communi­ty with things you say inadver­tnntly. Listen to what you are saying," Nielsen said. 
SA(;A sponsors other events throughout the year ineludiog film scrennings on campus, participation in the National Day of Silence and bringing Parents and Friends of Lesbians and (;ays (PFLA(;) spnakers to campus. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
W ,. ~ ..
A 

enforcement of these laws is new this year. Walter Jones, owner of ABC Cabs, said this is the first year his company has dealt with resistance from NDSP -a development that has already caused his business additional expenses .. 
"We need to go thern for busi­ness sometimes. With this new set-up, our drivers have to keep going back and forth," Jonns said. "It's really hurting the drivers bccause it's costing them a lot of gas money." 
And because Notre Dame doesn't have an official cab­stand, Elliot said, the University should allow Main Cirde to be where students can have quick access to cabs. 
"Either start a line whore a couple of cabs can wait in Main Circle and the rest can sit back at Notre Dame Ave., or find a place where cabs can go to wait for students," he said. 
But allowing taxi drivers to continue to use Main Circle as an unofficial cab central is out or the question. Johnson said. 
'The physicallandseapf~ of the campus prevents us from put­ting in a cabstand there. And Main Circle needs to be used for other things," he said. "There is a lot of traffic, including buses, that is constantly flowing in and thing up." 

The consequences or the cabs' additional gas consumption in the event they have to make repeated trips to and from Main Circle, however, might eventual­ly rest in the students' wallets. 
"Because gas is so high right now, we might have to raise fares for students if we are forced to be constantly driving around," Elliot said. "We are simply trying to provide a serv­ice to students. and right now NDSP is hindering our ability to do so." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


Kellogg Institute Intern·:ltWMa?iiii(i{ltiW'·onal Film Series 
Presents 
From the 



Other Side 

Sometimes poor people, in an attempt to survive, risk their lives and leave everything behind to live elsewhere. But they're not wanted elsewhere. And if they are wanted it's for their labor, to do jobs that no one wants to do. In this film, elsewhere is the US and the poor are mostly Mexicans. Filmmaker Chantal Akerman focuses on the border towns of Agua Prieta, Sonora and Douglas, Arizona, a town ringed by mountains and desert plains--an area where the desperate ones try their luck at crossing the border. 
TONIGHT! at 7pm Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
,.\._ .KELLOGG . ~YF.ARs!JNSTITUTE 
Cosponsored by the Higgins Labor Research Center 


I..ive, learn, and work in the nation's capital during the fall or spring semester with the 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
" 

~s,·"··~H:r·I<··N···:,G·/··:;.T· 
.
; ·· 
.

.....,«' ..,...... ~.--·~ ...... _,.,__ ,: ...... 
N 




INFORMATION SESSION 

Thursday, October 11, 2007 229 Hayes-Healy, 4:00 p.m. 

Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is November 15,2007. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
Wednesday, October 10, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


Whatever your style, College Bowl is the place to put your brains to the in a fast-paced game that'll let you prove your intellectual dominance. 
Tournament  Sign up your team of four at the Lafortune Information Desk  
begins  Now through October 18  
November&  Winner will represent Notre Dame at the ACUI Regional Tournament  
in February 


.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page I 0 Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. 1\ox 779. Notre D.unc, IN 46556 024 Soudt I lining I !all. Notre Dame, IN 465% 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' • Maddie IIanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BIISINESS MANAGER Kl'n Fowler Kyle West 
Ass·l. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily As~T. MANA!;ING EI>ITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Lm~ley 
VIEWPOINT EI>ITOil: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris I line ScENE Elll I'OR: 'l<tl' Andrews 
SAINT MARY's Elli'I'OR: K:uie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: [)uslin Mennella 
GRAI'IIIC~ EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: .Jessica Cortez 
All Dt'-~IGN MANAGER: Kelly (;ronli 
CONTROI.LEil: 'l'im Sobolewski SYSTEMS AllMINISTRAI'OR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(~7ft) 631-7471 
FAX 
(~74) 63!-6')27 
ADVERTISING ('574) 63 I -{\900 obs,·rvad@lnd.cdu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74J 6.\1-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(57'i)(,ji-45!JI obsme@nd.l'du 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4.324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-531.1 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(S74) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@)nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the amhors and not neu·ssarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Yi<..'Wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q=tions regarding Obsrrver policits should be dirmed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The (,)ho,crvrr (USI'!'i ~99 l-4000) ~~ pubhKhcd Munday rhrm~h Prido~y except dunng rx;~m ,_nd v.K&finiiiX"riuds. A JUb..cnptinr11u lht" Ollticrvcr i& $100 ft1r j,)I1C' ou:;~dcrnk year; $~5 fi•rmli;IICII\cstc-r. 
The Ohs.,;rvcr i• puhli~hcd .u: l'OSTM/tiTER ll24 Smuh Di••ing Hilll Send .u:kl~ corrccriot\S to: Nout' l>ilmc, IN 4ti"i'56-0n9 The Oh~c:rvtr l'ctio..li..:.d pust>lgc pi1id .u Nout' Do~rnc P.O. Box 779 .md addirio11111 m.uling oftk"D. 024 So01h Dining IIJ.II 
Nom Dame, IN 46SS6·0779 
The Ol~rvcr i1 Jlllt'lllbcr nt rhc A»oct.ucd Pra;.~. All rcprutitu:dnn rtW'm ate rracmd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Scene  
MarcAla Berrios  James Costa  
Mundi Stirone  Viewpoint  
Dan Jacobs  Bethany  
Graphics  Whitfield  
Madeline Nies  
Sports  
Francis Tolan  
Ellyn Michalak  
Andy Ziccarelli  


OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
If over 21, the fmal showdown: Keystone or Natural Light? "Ifonly we'd stop trying to be f?app1f 

we could have a pretty good tlme. 
Edith Wharton 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
American novelist 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Regaining Congressional authority 
What constitutional and moral issues could arise if !'resident Bush orders an attack on Iran? Gnneral David Petraeus' rnport to Congress eonduded that "Iran plays a harmful role in Iraq ... by provid­ing lethal capabilities to the enemies of the Charles Rice Iraqi statr~." President Bush has 
Right or
increased Amerkan 
Wrong?
naval and air liwces in the region. It would be no surprise if hP orden~d an attack on Iran, not only to prevent Iranian aid to Iraq's insurgents, but also to prPvnnt. Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons in a morn remote futuro. Such an attack would bP primarily a prnsidnntial. rather than a Congressional, initiativn. 
The Constitutional Convontion, on Aug. I7. 1787, gave Congress power to "dndarn" rather than "makn" war and lnft "to tim Executive the powl'r to repel sud­den altar.ks." "The Exeeutivn," said dele­gate Hog<w Sherman, "[should] bn able to rqwl and not to commnncn war." Tho rnsult was what limnnr Suprnme Court Justice Hobert Jackson r.alled a "twilight zone" of concurrent powers of Congress and tho prnsidnnt. 
Evnn in 17'd7, the formal declaration of war was becoming outmoded. Congress has declared war only live times. The prnsidnnt has put J(Jrces into combat more than 200 times, almost always with prior or later Congressional approval. But no president has admitted that he must have such approval. The courts would probably stay out of a controversy bntween the president and Congress on this issue, treating it as a nonjusticiable political question. 
According to the Constitution, therefore, Congress decides whether to go to war. The president, as "Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy of the United States," decides how to fight the war. Congress has no power to tell the president how to fight a war. Congress could, of course, refuse to appropriate funds for the war; a two­thirds vote would be needed in each house to override a presidential veto of such a refusal. Or the House could impeach the prnsident, but a two-thirds votn in the 
Senate would be requin~d to convict and 
mmove him from ollice. 
Congress, in iL<> response to 9/11 and in 2002 on Iraq, surrendered to the presi­dent its power to decide whether to go to war. It gave the president a frne pass to usn military force "as he determinns to bn neenssary and appropriatn." An attack on Iran would be covered by that blank rhnek if the president, in his discrntion. judgns that attack to be neeessary to accomplish the mission in Iraq. Thus, in his Aug. 20 address to the American I .egion, Prnsidnnt Bush said, "I have authorized our ... r.om­manders ... to "confront Tehran's murder­ous activities.... We've conduetud opera­tions against Iranian agents supplying lothal munitions to extrnmist groups." In aecord with that presidential authority, the bills introduced by Congressman Walter Jones (1{-NC), Senator Jamns Webb (D-VA) and others to rnquirn Congressional approval for an attack on Iran properly make exceptions to that requirement liJr an actual or imminent attack by Iran, hot pursuit of combatants into Iran and intelli­gence gathering activities in Iran. 
A dill'erent issue would arise if the attack on Iran were alleged to be neces­sary to forestall Iran's development of nuclear weapons in the comparatively remote future. That would involve "the dreadlul alternative" posed by French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner on Sept. 20, "the Iranian bomb or the bomb­ing of Iran." Such an attack to prevent "the Iranian bomb" could fairly be regard­ed, not as a proximate incident of the war in Iraq, but as a new war. The constitu­tional reservation, in principle, to Congress of the decision whether to go to war could raise not only a constitutional issue, but also a moral one as to whether such an attack on Iran would satisfY two reqllirements of the just-war doctrine­that the war be waged by proper govern­mental authority and that it be "the last recourse," as Pope John Paul II put it, "after having exhausted every other peaceful solution." 
The citizen, lacking the necessary infor­mation, is obliged to give a strong benefit of the doubt to Congrnss and tho nxneu­
tivn, as to whethnr a war is both lawful 
and just. But at some point. if tlw attack 
on Iran wnn~ dnarly a nnw war ratlwr 
than a n1~cnssary incidnnt of thu Iraq war. 
and if that attaek worn dearly a prosidnn­
l.ial rather than a Congrossional initiative, 
a rnasonablP person could rngard that 
attark as unjust bncausn not initiatPd by 
tho proper authority and perhaps also 
bP1:ause not initiated only as a last resort. 
Congrnss in 2002 had the duty to nxam­inu the reasons allngml for t.Jw war on lmq and to makP tlw ducision itself. Instead, it surnmdPrnd to t.he president its most awe­some rnsponsibility: To deeidP whctlwr tlw 
U.S. shall go to war. To bn sun1, Congn\ss has ratilind thn Iraq war by appropria­tions and othnrwisn. But that ratification d()(~S not excusn tlw failure of' Congrnss to dneidn tlw issue of war in l.lw first pia('(~. Nor would it.justily a repeat abdication by the !'.onlin-ral on tho president of a blank elwck for a nnw war on Iran. In any PVPnt. having given tho prPsidPnt a blank check to dPcide on war with Iraq, Cougmss will lind it dillieult. if not impossibl1~. to rnsist the nxpansion of that authorization bPyond Iraq and to rec)aim its rightful power in this ease. 
Tho framers gavn us a. mpublk, not a monarchy. Tlwy did wnll in rnsprving tlw decision on war to the elnd.ml representa­tives of' those who would fight it. Con).,rrnss owes it to the members of tim volunteer armed forces, the best among us, and to the American peopln, to reclaim its role through hearings and other processes by which Congress itsnll' would make the decision as to whether an attack on Iran would be a new war and, if so, whether the U.S. should wage it. A<> Elbridge Gerry said in the Constitutional Convention, he "never expected to hear in a republic a motion to empower the Executive alone to declare war." 
Professor emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. 1/e can be reached at 633-4415 or rice.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Facebook group detracts from_ debate 
As a proud daughter of hard-working immigrants, I was very happy with the civility of the Notre Dame forum on immi­gration. However, hours after the main event's completion while perusing Facebook, my mini-feed informed me of some­thing that bluntly pissed me off. 
Someone had created a group called, "we are gonna shot you between the eyes." For those who were at the forum or were watching it remotely, you may remember that the panel's "antagonist" was Louis J. Barletta, mayor of Hazleton, Penn. In his challenging views on the subject of immigration, he kept alluding to picturesque events that happened in his small town in an effort to show how criminal undocumented immigrants really are. 
This Facebook group was created as a tribute to him, "for those of us who are afraid to get shot between the eyes by minorityes cuz we doesnt knows inglechh," and because, "Louis J. Barletta is a douche." Decorating the group's page is a flattering portrait of Barletta, with a makeshift speech bub­ble next to his face saying, "I am a Douche" and a red dot between his eyes that I don't think is meant to denote his mar­ried status. 
How is this immature behavior, albeit on Facebook, repre­sentative of the civility we want in the effort to create eflicient dialogue on this issue? Regardless of Louis J. Barletta's skewed attacks against immigrants, what do things like these say about Notre Dame students (I won't even bring up the spelling issue) -especially those who come from immigrant families themselves? 
There are people who are always going to be against undoc­umented immigrants, and there are people who are always going to be in solidarity with them. But there are plenty of people who are unsure of where they stand. IIow is seeing something like this (which can be interpreted so much as even a sign of hate and violence), going to help us earn the respect we have been trying to earn for so many years in this country? 
Desiree Zamora senior Walsh Hall Oct. 9 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 10, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
BC team deserves respect 
Charlie Weis, in his initial meeting with the team after he was hired at Notre Dame, told the team, "You are what you are, folks, and right now you're a 6-5 football team." A dose of reality is just as necessary for the football program right now as it was then. And the fact is, what we are right now is a 1-5 football team. 
Bob Griflin's letter, "Don't Storm the Field," (Oct. 9) demonstrates the arrogance and unrealistic nature of a certain sect of the Notre Dame fan base. Griffin writes that storming the field after a highly improba­ble victory against BC would be an "embarrassment." Well. when upsets of great magnitude occur, whieh is what a victory over BC would be, there is no such thing as over-celebration. 
Moreover, it shows a complete disregard for the cur­rent times and an irrevocable inclination to live in the past. While Notre Dame football has been superior to Boston College for most of its history, the tables are turned at the present time. Contrary to Gril'fin's blind belief that "Notre Dame is never an underdog against Boston College-regardless of our record," the reality is that Notre Dame is a 14-point underdog this week­end-for very good reason. Not to mention the fact that Boston College has beaten Noire Dame four times in a row. Indeed, times have changed. 
When fans call opposing teams that are 14 point favorites coming into Notre Dame Stadium names such as "Fredo" and our "little brother," it might make them feel better, but what it signifies is fear and disre­spect. While fear is an understandable reaction for Notre Dame fans given the current makeup of the BC and ND football teams, respect is something that Boston College has certainly earned. 
I traveled to the UCLA game this weekend and saw an inspired team pull out an emotional victory. Anyone 

Suggestions for future ND forums 
I have a bold suggestion for future Notre Dame forums: Make them interesting. Frankly, this year's forum was rather boring. Two of the speakers, Cardinal Mahony and Senator Martinez, con­tributed almost nothing of sub­stance to the discussion. At least the senator was merely uninteresting. 
Unfortunately, Cardinal Mahony's presence at the forum could end up leading to more than just yawns. It may also be a matter of great embarrassment for the University, as the cardinal's horrendous han­dling of the recent molestation scandal comes under ever greater public scrutiny. As for the other two participants, Mayor Barletta was the most entertaining of the bunch but hardly the most articulate advo­cate of a hard-line stance against illegal immigration that the University could have invited. 
There are hundn1ds of intellectu­als, pundits and politicians in this country who could have made arguments more eloquent and pro­found than the mayor's. And Governor Napolitano was smart and well-informed, but unfortu­nately she did not have three equal­ly sharp opponents to spar with. Furthermore, the forum largely consisted of three of the partici­pants arguing against the fourth 
(i.e. the mayor). 
Admittedly, this is an improve­ment on the forum from two years ago, which featured three of the debaters shadowboxing the funda­mentalists of the world. Think of how fun that debate could have been had there actually been a fun­damentalist on stage to argue against them. My prescription for future forums: Invite speakers who will disagree sharply, articulately and interestingly. 
Gregory Barr junior Knott Hall Oct. 8 

who watched the game with their eyes and not their heart, though, also saw an offense that had not improved over its performances in the Michigan State and Purdue games, and a defense that feasted on a quarterback thrust into the game because of an injury who would never see the field for most teams. 
So, if No. 4 Boston College beats 1-5 Notre Dame for the fifth straight time on Saturday, most likely by a considerable margin, don't continue to dwell in the past and call them names, because it just makes you look childish. Fans of 1-5 teams should not be con­cerned with the manner in which their fans celebrate, but rather with finding reasons to celebrate at all. 
Brad DuffY senwr Fisher Hall Oct. 9 

Pay attention and keep to the right 
Before Dan Mcinnis gets vilified for not moving to avoid the inattentive woman on the sidewalk ("Rights of the sidewalk," Oct. 8), let me say that he is sup­ported, at least in principle, by the Indiana Code, 9­21-17-11, which states, "Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of cross­walks." 
It is customary in this country, codified in law, to keep to the right. Come on, people, you are supposed­ly among the brightest of citizens. All I ask is that you try to pay attention to the world around you. 
Mike Swadener staff Oct. 9 



Climate control not best use of funds 
During energy week, climate change experts, activists and researchers will address many aspects of climate change and potential solutions. One aspect though that does not seem to be addressed this week is a comparison of the costs to the benefits of policies designed to avert cli­mate change. This is a shame, because a realistic comparison of these costs would show that in reality climate change is among the least of humanity's problems. 
Among the most politically controversial of the solutions is the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which requires industrialized nations to cut their emissions of carbon dioxide equivalent to 7 percent of 1990 levels by 2012. A cut in emissions of this magnitude would be incredibly expensive. If the agreement's cuts are extended to the year 2100, the total costs of the agreement would average about 150 billion dollars per year according to analysis by the Copenhagen Consensus. This investment would, in a best case scenario, postpone observed warming about six years in 2100, so that the business-as-usual warm­ing that would have been observed in 2100 will not be observed until 2106. 
This certainly would not be bad, but the 150 billion dollars could do much more good for the world. For example, spending 27 billion dollars per year over the next eight years on HIV prevention programs would prevent about 28 million new cases of HIV. Spending 13 billion dollars per year on malaria prevention over a slightly longer time scale would cut incidence of the disease by half, from about one billion global cases to 500 million. By any objec­tive measure, investments in disease pre­vention in the third world would do far more good for the world than climate change investments in Kyoto. 
Another factor that was not considered in the measurements is the uncertainty involved in climate science and projec­tions. The UN's 2001 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimates total warming over the next century between 
1.3 and 5.8 degrees Celsius. This wide range displays that within the climatology community there is great uncertainty as to projections into the future. 
The projections, moreover, are based upon the idea that human production of carbon dioxide equivalent is the primary cause of observed warming, which seems possible, but is not established as absolute fact. If in the future we learn that man's effect on climate is smaller than most cli­matologists currently believe, then the investment in Kyoto would produce even worse returns than the already tiny returns currently expected. 
All told, the interest in averting climate change represents a healthy desire to help humanity. However, ifwe truly desire to help our fellow man to the greatest extent possible, we must recognize that malaria nets will be far more helpful than carbon reductions. 
Matt Gore sophomore Stanford Hall Oct. 8 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 

.-----------------~­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE

page 12 Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 
Q &A -with 
''Savage'' 

actress 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ Scene Writer 
"Savage in Limbo," directed by Siiri Scott, is playing this week at the l>nBartolo 1'1~rforming Arts Cnnter. John Patrick Shanley and then Tony shows up at the bar being stuck living with her The cast is made up of five actors, By MARK WITTE dirp,cted by Siiri Scott, takes and things get tense rather mother, her identity as a virgin 
thn~n girls and two Scene Writer place at a bar in the Hronx in a quickly. and the dnad sameness of her boys. Yesterday, I time pnriod that may be lost on The situation gets out of' hand everyday lifi~. Sullivan does an
"Savage in 
had thn opportunity ''I'm trying to pull on· my laen our generation, yet it feels after Tony tells l.inda about an excellent job as Savage, evoking Limbo" to sit down with and show you my cyns!" somewhat familiar. The play, encounter he had with an ugly both laughs and empathy from one of two fresh­Meet Dnnisn Savage (Carolyn which plays from tonight until woman in which he was the auditmen with her portrayal.
Philbin 
men in the cast: Hosn Sullivan): A woman so Friday at 7:30 p.m. in the enlightcnnd on the topic of the Dirnctor Siiri Scott and stageStudio Margie Janiczek, lonely she g01~s out on Monday Philbin Studio Theatre, begins Soviets. Tony, who was dearly manager Jenna Moran do a who plays April nights looking for a party, a with an alliJc-taken in by the striking job with tho stage. The
Theatre 
Whiln, a woman on woman so bored of the every­tionate experience, con­set is apocalyptic, and the bar
''I'm trying to pull off
Wed.-Thurs. the brink of insani­day samnnnss, she is dying li1r exchange fessns nostalgical­looks as if a bomb may very 7:30pm ty. something new. between my face and show ly, "She told me well have fallen right on top of 
"Savage in Meet the tirnd, indimmmt and Murk and the you my eyes!" everything she it. The plants are even dead,Fri. Limbo" is a very easily angernd bartendp,r Murk drunk, snooz­knew ... and then something both Savage and 4 and 7:30 strange title. What (Bobby Hannum), whose world, ing April. I took her in the Tony lind disturbing, but when
Denise Savage as
does it mean'? that is th~ bar he runs, Savage T h e i r backseat and they point out to Murk that his 
pm 
"Tlw main char­invades. Mont Linda Hotunda serenity does Carolyn Rose Sullivan banged her." plants arn indeed withered, he Tickets: $8 acter is namnd (Megan ()'Donoghue), the des­not last long Tony's epiphany simply states, "Yeah, but they Savage. She's a perate Monday night lling of SPX however, as Savage marches in does not go over well with don't know that." 
for students, 
woman who hasn't maehinn Tony Aronica (Nate demanding to know why the Linda, who geL<> especially mad Overall the production is lively $10 centered on any­Grams) who's having a mid-life place is so dead. llannum, who when Savage starts making a and Pntnrtaining and the char­thing. Slw has fol­Ppiphany. Finally, meet April dons an excellent job delivering move on lwr man. promising aetPr's ambitions, albnit some­
faculty/staff 
lowed no passions White (Margin Janiczek) who short, an noy(1(), apparently him something new. The fight what hopnlnss, an~ rompelling. 
to fruition and has­should be Sister April, but the obvious remarks, responds, "It's eventually draws in both April The play strikes chords with n't tried Pnough to ronrwet with peo­bottle daimed her bnl'orn the a Monday. IIavo a seat." and Murk, who is forced to Arthur Miller's "Death of a piP. Slw doesn't think she has that l.ord did. Soon Linda bursts in tears whip out a colorful costume li1r Salnsman," but aft1~r mneting ability. Slw is in limbo. By tlw nrHI of Tlwsn eharadnrs all share the about her boyfriend Tony April's sake. Dnnisn Savage, you will not the play, tlw otlwr rharactPrs find sanw eomrnon trait. They are Aronica, who has apparently The play contains many grnat leave the theater feeling nearly partrwrs to lwlp tlwm through lifP, going nowhere fast. But they gone crazy, lilr Linda exclaims, lines, both comical and thought­so dnprnssed. but not Savagn." are trying to do something "lie wanLo;; to see ugly women!" provoking, most of which arfl 
Your character, April White, is about it. Savage has a hard time taking spoken by Savage. She attempt<> Contact Mark Witte at quite diff•••·••nt. !low do you think "Savage in Limbo," written by Linda's problem seriously, but to convey her frustrations on mwitte@nd.edu she got to be how she is when wn 
MADELINE NIES I Observer Graphic 
ing ofT. That's the state they're in. 
lor a 17-year-old artist. Along witl1 his part­record store. 
Tho walls are war-torn." 
By CORBIN HICKS ner-in-crime Arab, he produced music and "Souljaboytellem.com" is the debut efl"ort
The cast is very small. What has 
Scene Writer homemade videos from his bedroom with that the masses have been waiting for.
that been like'? 
dreams ofspreading his art to the masses. I lowever, upon first listen, you can tell that"We were able to get a lot of atten­Two words: booty meaL In conjunction with this self-produced you arc in for a huge disappointment. Or a
tion to detail. The director was able 
In an effort to take hip hop music to material, Soulja Boy and Arab also man­confirmation of what you expected, depend­
to finesse every linn. We achieved 
depths that it has never reached before. the aged to create a few dances to go along ing on how you look at it.
great group mind. The director had 
world has been introduced to a new rapper with the songs. Their first attempt at this, The fourteen-track, 50-minute opus
us do a lot of physical cxereises to 
namnd Soulja Boy. Hailing from Mississippi the bluntly titled "Shootout" was a mild suc­begins with a bland intro done by Mr.
bm~ome comfortable with one anoth­
but relocating to Atlanta after he secured a cess at best. Their next attempt would give Collipark and Soulja Boy that tells what you
nr." 
record deal, Soulja Boy is the first musician Soulja Boy the payofl" that his hustle and are about to endurn. This leads into "Crank 
What is it like to be one of two 
to fully take advantage of the nnw musical work ethic deserved. That," the track that prompted most people
freshmen working on the show? 
landscape that is oflilred by Web sites like The song that brought him recognition is to buy the album in the first place. 
''I've learned a lot. It's been a groat MySpacn and YouTube. the aptly titled "Crank That Soulja Boy," Unfortunately, the first five minutes of the
way to get introduced to the program. 
lie never had formal musical training, but which inspired millions of people to franti­album are the peak. The tracks that followIt's good to got involved this narly." 
Soulja Boy has managed to create a niche cally check Youtube to learn the steps to "Crank That" are uninspired reiterations of
It sounds like it's been a great 
where he has full creative control over the this dance. Unless you have been under a "Crank That," in comical effort<; that were
experience. 
rnusie he produces, whieh is no small feat roek for the past three months, you have undoubtedly rushed in order to capitalize
''I've learned a lot about acting and 
heard this song and accompanying on the popularity of the song.
methods of preparing lines. I low~ the 
dance at least fifty-Ieven times, from Tracks include the absurd yelling offacility. Having a dressing room is 
souljaboytellem.com 
dorm parties to bowling allies to "Yahhh," the reinterpretation of Hich Boy'sreally cool. It's neat to see the collab­baby christenings. Especially here hit "Throw Some D's," then "Report Card," 
Soulja Boy 
oration of minds. The director and 
at Notre Dame, where our student and the downright ridiculousness of "Booty
the sot designer and the lighting and 
Released by: Collipark Music 
body is the poster child for "hip Meat." Yes, he has a song titled "Bootycostumos all come together in an 
urban culture." Meat," which illustrates that he has full cre­
amazing way. And I love Jenna 
Recommended Tracks: "Crank That," 
Once you have reached the point ative eontrol ofwhat he produces.
Moran, the stage manager." 
"Bapes" and ''Yahhh" 
where millions of' people know your Let's hope that Soulja Boy is making
"Savage in Limbo" plays through 
material, you have to garner major money oil' ringtoncs and mp3 sales from his
the end of this week. Tickets are 
I~ 
label attention ofsome kind. hit song, because with a rookie effort like
available through the DPAC ticket 
Enter Mr. Collipark, an Atlanta this album, it's not a sure bet he will haveoflke and online. 
producer best known for his work another chance for a second impression. with the Ying Yang 'TWins, and the Contact Stephanie DePrez at 
man who brought Soulja Boy's Contact Corbin Hicks at 
sdeprez@nd.edu 
album from the internet to the chicks2@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, October 10, 2007 
page 13 
When the first Libertines album, "Up the Bracket," came out on 2002 it was heralded as a very good album, but basi­cally just "a British version of the Strokes." Showing just how stupid music critics are, the Libertines have since bocome one Ryan Raffin of the most influen­tial bands in 
Scene Writer 
Britain. You can't swing a guitar in Manchester with­out hitting a bad Libertines rip-off. But this is typical of modern rock and roll bands. Since the beginning of the decade, how many bands have come into exis­tence, gained some degree of popularity, and then broken up? 
With thn dPrnise of radio, 
all it takes is a MySpace With the demise of bunch of mainstream page for a band to become radio. all it takes music industry interest. popular. Album sales may be A'>ide from the loud stuff, 
is a MySpace page 
down, but kids today (those what vaguely rock-and­rotten kids!) are listening to for a band to roll-related music do peo­more music than ever, and become popular. ple listen to? Well, there 

in more gPnrns. Ease of access has both accelerated and expanded consumption. The Internet has beeonw the great equalizer, leveling the playing lield and helping to destroy the rm~jor labol stranglehold. 
A good example of success in today's rock music scene is Underoath's last album, which debuted at No. 2 on the Billboard 200 and went gold, all on an independent label and without any radio support. Despite Underoath's abrasive sound, it still sold half a million records. 
Doomsayers predict the death of music, but people listen to more music now than ever before (thanks Apple), and while they don't buy the COs, they go see the bands live and buy a shirt or two. That's pretty much the way the business will continue to go, until rising gas costs cause the world to explode. Or some­thing. 
Helated to Underoath is the rise of loud and aggressive music in all its myriad forms, with Underoath being arguably the most successful of these bands. Ten years ago, a band like Mastodon would never have received the coverage it does now. But its last album was on non-metal 2006 Best-of lists everywhere, from Pitchfork to Rolling Stone. And they are not alone: Lamb of God, Unearth, Killswitch Engage, Shadows Fall, Norma Jean and Avenged Sevenfold (ew, by the way) all have huge fan bases. 
What caused this increase in attention to bands that 10 years ago would have been called "extreme metal?" Well, there's that Internet again, allowing any­one to hear anything. And it would be wrong to ignore the backlash against nu­metal as a contributing factor. People got sick of the frat-boy posturing of Limp Bizkit and Puddle of Mudd and decided to look for the real deal. All of a sudden, these loud, angry bands are seeing a lot more album sales, people at their con­
certs, more hits on their 
webpage and a whole 
are really only two other 
choices. The poppy, watered-down genre incorrectly referred to as "emo" and the post-punk/new wave revival. Emo is an article unto itself-a very cliched one at that. All that I'll say about it is that slowed down pop-punk with 2.5 ballads per full length is nothing new, with apologies to the Plain White T's. 
The post-punk revival stuff is a lot bet­ter, mostly because they rip off of better bands. It all started in 2001, with The Strokes, who are undoubtedly the most influential band to emerge this decade. While nu-metal was still the dominant force in guitar-based music, the furor around the Strokes heralded a sea change in the industry and in what peo­ple listened to. 
"Is This It" is one of the few albums that actually changed music. It opened the floodgate for Franz Ferdinand, The Killers, Interpol, Arctic Monkeys and the aforementioned Libertines, among count­less others. Credit for this change can also be given to the concurrently emerg­ing White Stripes, but without the success of The Strokes, we would have only aural 

The Libertines, pictu here, have become a very influential rock band. 
trash like Hinder. 
So how much has rock and roll changed since the ever-so-distant year of 1997? It's nearly unrecognizable from what it was 10 years ago. No one listens to the radio, watches MTV or buys CDs. Music that would have been esoteric in past years can now be readily found on the iPod of all but the most radio-obsessed zombies. 
Is music better today? Easily better than what was being produced circa 1997. Better than '87? Possibly, depend­ing on how much you like Guns'n'Roses. '77? Not likely. And '67? Don't even joke. Music in general is changing, as it always does. It's just a little more evident today than it sometimes is. But it won't just roll over and die. Rock 'n roll will continue to exist. How will it look in 10 years? I don't know, but I'm sure looking forward to finding out. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd. edu 
Dance troupe Pilobolus 
•

arrives on ca111pus 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Although the dance company Pilobolus ... takes its name from a fungus, the grace­ful, weight-sharing movements of the company bear little resemblance to the fungus that comes from cow manure. 
Pilobolus traces its roots to a dance class at Dartmouth College in 1971. It has grown into three diflerent branches since then -the touring Pilobolus "Pilobolus Dance Theatre, the 
Dance
educational Pilobolus Institute and the Theatre" administrative 
Decio
Pilobolus Creative Services. The compa­Mainstage ny spends half thn 
Theatre 
year performing and the other half rehearsing and cre­Tonightating new works. 
7:30pm
And tonight it will perform on the Deeio Mainstage Theatre at 
Tickets: $15
7:30 in the DeBartolo Performing Arts for students Center. 
It was the Pilobolus Dance Theatre that was featured at the 2007 Academy Awards, hosted by Ellen DeGeneres. Behind a white screen the company's sil­houettes formed the logos from various movies from the past year, such as a shooting gun for "The Departed," a high-heeled shoe for "The Devil Wears Prada" and a penguin for "Happy Feet." 
Pilobolus can also be seen in a Hyundai commercial advertising the car company's Santa Fe model. As the dancers contort into different shapes using the same screen and silhouette techniques as the Oscars, a voice-over describes the essence of both the new car and Pilobolus: "Flexible, agile and for whatever shape life takes." 
The physically demanding works fea­ture dancers from a variety of back­grounds. Some come from athletic back­grounds while the majority comes from backgrounds in modern dance or ballet. Some didn't begin dancing until college and one even served time in the military. The seven current rn embers of the Pilobolus Dance Theatre come from all over the country and world including New York, Kansas and Japan. The dancers even maintain a MySpace site in which they update friends and fans on performances, auditions, weddings and births. 
Tonight's performance includes sever­al dances created throughout Pilobolus' 36 year history. "Aquatica" (2005) is the story of a girl on a beach who gets sucked underwater into a mystical oceanic world. Pilobolus' website describes "Shizen" (1978) as a dance that "explores coupling as a biomorphic reflection ofthe natural world." 
"Walklyndon" (1971) is one of Pilobolus' first works and it takes inspi­ration from slapstick and vaudeville. The website describes "Megawatt" (2004) as an "electrifying experience." The piece uses the music of Primus, Radiohead and Squarepusher. 
Limited seating is available for the show and tickets can be bought by call­ing 574-631-2800. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
Bands such as the White Stripes helped kick-start the post-punk revival of modern rock music. 
Wednesday, October 10, 2007
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Yankees, Torre wait for The Boss' decision 
Torre loses ALDS; Steinbrenner looks for new manager despite four World Series titles 
Torrn back unlnss New York ral­
Associated Prc.s 
lied to win the first-round 
NI~W YOHK -Tick tork. lick series. The 77-year-old owner 
tm:k. has not spoken publicly sinee 
Tlw wail is on for .Joe TorTe tlw c;;une 4 defeat. and his YankPes players, a II is spokesman, Howard liPrcely loyal bunch. Huhenstnin. released a state­
Nearly evnryorw in Nnw York ment Tuesday that said wanted to know Tuesday StdnbrPnnor was heading back wlwther owner GeorgP homo to Tampa, Fla., and would Sll~inbrnmwr will keep his long­havn no eommnnt "at this time." tim n m a rwgn r or I e t him go "Tiwrn's nothing dneidnd yet," aftm 12 straight playoff app<~ar-said llank Steinbrenner, a son ances. of tlw owrwr and a team senior 
No answers yPt. vire prnsident. "The record 
"llavP sonw patienen. Things SJ>Paks for itself, but nothing t a ke ti m P . T h n n~ w i II be a lasts fowver." pron~ss and w<'ll work through Tlw younger Steinbrenner that. and it will !Pad us wlwrp it praised Torrn for the job he did leads us." gPnnral manager this year, getting the Yankees Brian Cashman said. "My SJWC­into tlw playoff's after a slow ulation is I'm not going to haw start. anything to rPport in the rwxt "I wally do like Joe a lot," he <'oupl<~ of days." said. "I have a lot of admiration 
Few players w1~rn at Yankee for him." Stadium. a day after tlwir sea­Cashman said the club was son-ending 6-4 loss to just beginning its decision-mak­Cleveland. thP third straight ing proenss and he would soon year New York was eliminated ment with ownership. in tlw first round. "Tiwrn's been no heavy lifting 
But folks evnrywlwre chinwd today," he said. in and backed Torn~, from rival Players continued to speak AL nutnag1~rs Terry Fran<'.ona out on Torre's behalf. and Eric W.-dge to pmsidential "Everyonn in this room unani­candidate Hudy Giuliani and mously 1'1~els the same way New York Mayor Michael about Mr. Torre," Phillips said. Bloomberg. "We all love him. We all appre­
Chien-Ming Wang, Doug ciate what he's given us. We MiPntkiewiez, Andy Phillips and appreciate the confidence he's .Jose Molina were among the had in us all year." Yankees who showed up at the Arter Monday night's loss, ballpark and packed their gear Torre's voice trembled a bit for the long winter. Don when he described how proud Mattingly, mentioned as a possi­he was of his players for digging ble replacement along with Joe out of a 21-29 hole to reach the Girardi and Tony La Hussa, said postseason. succeeding Torre would be diffi­"We were dead to the water in cult. a lot of people's eyes," Phillips 
"It's like following John said. "He kept telling us to keep Wooden or just playing something," every day and Mattingly don't look at said. "This "Whatever the hell numbers." guy wins Girardi, a for­
happens from here on
championship mer Yankees
out, I'll look back on
after champi­catcher, spent a onship and these 12 years with season as we're in the Torre's bench
great, great pleasure." 
playoffs in coach before every year. winning 2006 You know, it's Joe Torre NL Manager of really -it's Yankees manager the Year for pretty much a keeping the no-win situa-rookie-laden tion for some-Florida Marlins one coming in here to be able to in contention most of the way. live up to the expectations or Mattingly, a fan favorite and live up to what he did. It's not ex-Yankees captain, was Torre's going to happen. So as far as bench coach this year after pre­someone coming in and taking viously serving as the team's over this job, it's not a good, you hitting instructor. know -it's not necessarily a "There is no fall guy. We win great situation." and lose as an organization," 
Steinbrenner said last week­Cashman said. "There will be end he didn't think he'd bring no scapegoats, there will be no finger pointing. Whatever we did, we did together." 

Torre was not at Yankee Stadium, and the team asked the media to remove photogra­phers outside his house in sub­urban Harrison. Cashman and Mattingly spoke with Torre by telephone. 
"I'd like to see him come back," Yankees pitching coach Ron Guidry said. "He under­stands the game, but he has an innate ability to keep a team together. Because where we were in May, a lot of teams might have quit." 
Guidry could envision working for a replaeement. 
"If someone else comes in here and we're asked to, if I'm asked to stay, yes, I'd love to come back next year," he said. 
Torre led New York to four World Series titles from 1996­2000 in his first five years as manager but none since. The Yankees extended their season by overcoming a three-run deficit Sunday to win Game 3. But they couldn't do it again in Game 4, eliminated despite a $215 million payroll. 
"This has been a great 12 years. Whatever the hell hap­pens from here on out, I'll look back on these 12 years with great, great pleasure," Torre said Monday night. "The 12 years just felt like they were 10 minutes long, to be honest with you." 
With Steinbrenner in atten­dance, a cheering crowd chant­ed "Joe Torre! Joe Torre!" as the manager went to the mound twice in the eighth inning. 
Second to Joe McCarthy on the club's career wins list with a 1,173-767 regular-season record as Yankees manager, Torre was almost always loyal, turning to his most trusted play­ers in crucial situations. 
Those players might have just gotten him fired. 
"I couldn't imagine what he's going through right now, as far as emotions," Andy Pettitte said. 
Earning $7.5 million this year in the final season of his con­tract, the 6 7 -year-old Torre has­n't decided whether he'd want to return. He seemed open to it in recent weeks. Now it looks as if he won't get that chance, even though he is 76-47 in the post­season with New York. 
"I've talked to Joe actually a lot this year, just never on the field because people don't want to see that," said Francona, Boston's manager. "People who know me know the respect I have for Joe." 
The Yankees were the only first-round playoff loser that wasn't swept. Rest assured that's no consolation to Steinbrenner. 
"It's not Joe's fault," Alex Rodriguez said. "We've got the most prepared coaching staff and the best manager in the game. It's on us, the players." 
In his office at Yankee Stadium, Wedge got a congratu­latory phone call from Torre after Monday night's game. 
"He's a class act," Wedge said. "For him to even think about our team and our organization ... it meant the world to me. He's one of the greatest man­agers in the history of the game. What he has accomplished is historic, and beyond that he's a great human being. 
"For him to even throw one thought our way is pretty spe­cial and for him to respect our club means so much," he added. "Joe Torre should man­age as long as he wants to man­age." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NO Grad selling Granger home.  Large house available for 2009­ FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
WANTED  FoR SALE  Open, spacious & newer. 4 br, 4 bth, + finished basement, 3  2010. Full renovations completed this  ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. www. victorytickets.com  Do not go it alone. If you or  
car g. Century 21 Jim Dunfee  year.  someone you love  
Occasional babysiners wanted for  Call me for a list of properties near  Realty.  Great location onE Marion.  NO tickets for sale. Best Prices.  needs confidential  
our 1 0-year-old daughter. Mostly  NO. 574-217-1557 Tatiana  Callnm  Large common areas,  574-288-2726.  support or assistance,  
weekends, maybe some week­ 574-271-3440.  5 bathrooms.  please call  
nights. We live on E. Wayne Street,  Moving on with my life Moving in  Also available:  Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659.  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP,  
about 2 miles south of campus. If  with yours.  Lake St. George is your  5bdrm 2 bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for  
 at  

interested, contact Alice at 574-287· new home With an almost view of FoR RENT 2008-2009. Contact 1-7819. 
7655. Leave message if not home. 
CollegeGear.com social, outgoing, Campus Rep wanted. Promoting www.collegegear.com 2 hrs before each home game. $60 per hour. Go to www.collegegear.com/reps/ 
the dome Sleep in one of three suites Taste the city water. It is sweet New. New Everything You can have it for some bling Not too badfor$345thousand Call Jan Lazzara on her band 574­233-6141 
Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to campus, washer/dryer, landlord does the yardwork. $750/month. No pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266. 
MacSwain@ gmail.com 
TICKETS 
WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELPI574-251-1570 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape. shtml For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 
NCAA Women's Soccer Coaches Poll 
team record previous 
1 Stanford 9-1-1 1 
2 UCLA 7-1-2 2 
3 Texas 9-1-2 3 
4 Virginia 6-1-3 4 
5 Texas A&M 9-2-1 7 
6 Boston College 8-0-3 8 
7 Purdue 11-1-2 9 
8 Penn State 9-2-1 11 
9 Santa Clara 7-2-2 5 
10 Missouri 9-2-0 12 
11 Portland 8-3-0 10 
12 North Carolina 9-3·0 13 
13 usc 8-H 14 
14 California 8-2-0 16 
15 Brigham Young 10-0·2 17 
16 Tennessee 1-2·2 6 
17 Florida State 7-3-2 15 
18 Georgia 10-1-1 21 
19 Connecticut 8·2·1 19 
20 Clemson 8-2-1 18 
21 Wesl Virginia 8-3-1 23 
22 LSU 8-1-4 NR 
23 NOTRE DAME 7-4-1 NR 
24 San Diego 9-1·2 NR 
25 Oklahoma State 8·3·1 22 
NCAA Men's Soccer Coaches Poll 
team record previous 
1 Connecticut 11-1-0 2 2 Wake Forest 7-0-2 1 3 NOTRE DAME 8+2 3 4 Santa Clara 7-1·2 4 5 Virginia 7-1-2 6 6 Northwestern 8-1·1 8 7 SMU 6-2-2 10 8 Creighton 5-1·3 7 9 Duke 7-3-0 5 10 Harvard 8-1-1 13 11 UCSB 6-2-2 16 12 Virginia Tech 6-1-3 15 13 Boston College 7-1-1 20 14 Saint Louis 4-1-3 11 15 Indiana 7-3·1 17 16 USF 7-2-1 
g 17 California 7-2-1 21 18 West Virginia 6·4·0 12 19 Akron 8-2•1 24 20 Brown H-1 14 21 Tulsa 5·2-2 19 22 Michigan 8-2·1 18 23 South Carolina 8~3-0 25t 24 New Mexico 6-3·1 -251 25 Villanova 9-3·0 23 
MIAA Women's Soccer Standings 
team leagU,e overall 
Calvin 3·0·0 8·3·1 Hope 3-1-0 7·6·0 Kalamazoo 3·1·0 8·3·1 SAINT MARY'S 2·1-2 6·2-4 Albion 2-1-1 8·2·2 Adrian 2·3·0 5·8·1 Alma 2·3·0 7-5·1 Olivet 0·3·1 5·6·2 Tri·State 0·4·0 0·10·2 
around the dial 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Navy at Pittsburgh 8 p.m., ESPN 
CoMP!UD FROM TrtE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
MLB 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -The Detroit Tigers decided Ivan Rodriguez was worth another $13 million. 
The Tigers exercised an option Tuesday on the All­Star catcher's contract, retaining him for a fifth season at a hefty price. 
"This was a major deci­sion and yet once the sea­son ended, it became an easy one because we still think he's one of the top catchers overall in the game," Tigers president and general manager Dave Dombrowski said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
The Tigers could have bought Rodriguez out of the last year of his deal for $3 million, but they didn't like the prospect of not having him behind the plate next year. 

"People just throw around other options like you can get anybody to catch, but there are not a lot of future Hall of Famers available," Detroit manag­er Jim Leyland told the AP. "To me, this was a no­brainer and I'm tickled to death to have him back. 
"It eases our mind to know who our catcher is going to be next year. That's one less headache for us right now." 
The Tigers hope to bring back free agent starter Kenny Rogers and closer Todd Jones. They also want to add a shortstop and perhaps a left fielder, preferably a left-handed batter, via free agency or trade. 
"Last week, we met to talk about each of our players. Next week, we'll talk about all the other clubs, free agents and trade possibilities," Dombrowski said. 
Detroit had up to 1 0 days after the World Series to decide whether to retain Rodriguez, or let him go. 
In an interview with the AP last Wednesday, team owner Mike Hitch hinted he was leaning toward bringing Rodriguez back. 
"Pudge did a big thing for us, putting a face on the franchise," Ilitch said. 
IN BRIEF Another man charged in 
Memphis football shooting 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -A fourth man was charged with murder in the shooting of a football player on the University of Memphis campus dur­ing a botched robbery, authorities said. 
Devin Jefferson, a 20-year-old stu­dent at the school, was arrested Monday night on allegations he told three other men the player was car­rying a large amount of cash. 
Authorities said Taylor Brad!"ord, 21, was rumored to have won more than $3,000 at a nearby casino the night before police found him Sept. 30 in his car, which had crashed into a tree a few blocks from his campus apartment. 
Jefferson was charged with first­degree murder in the perpetration of aggravated attempted robbery, Sgt. Vince Higgins said. It was unclear Tuesday if Jefferson had an attorney. 
Leinart out for season,
Warner to start 
PHOENIX -An already difficult second NFL season came to an end for Arizona's Matt Leinart on Tuesday when he was placed on injured reserve with a broken collar­bone. 
Kurt Warner, the 36-year-old quar­terback who had shared duties with Leinart, moves into the starting job. The team signed Tim Rattay on Tuesday to be Warner's backup. 
Leinart, a left-hander, fractured his left collarbone when he was sacked by Will Witherspoon in the second quarter of the Cardinals' 34-31 victo­ry over the Rams in St. Louis on Sunday. He sat on the sideline in the second half with his arm in a sling. 
"We didn't want to rush him back," first-year coach Ken Whisenhunt said. "To hold a roster spot for that long is difficult, with some of the areas we are banged, with the hope he can get back in time." 
page 15 
"He's made a lot of contri­butions." 
When nobody wanted to play for the Tigers -at any price -Rodriguez signed a $40 million, four­year deal with them after they lost an AL-record 119 games in 2003. Rodriguez had helped Florida win the World Series, earning the MVP aw(\rd in the NL championship series. 
In 2006, Rodriguez and the Tigers reached the World Series. This year, they slipped to 88-74. 
Rodriguez has had two strong .years statistically, and a pair of lackluster ones -including 2007, when he batted .281 with 31 doubles, 11 home runs and 63 RBis in 129 games. 
Schilling to start Game 2 for 
Red Sox in ALCS 
BOSTON -Tim Wakefield tested his balky back from the Fenway mound on Tuesday to see ifhe'll be able to start in Game 4 of the AL Championship Series. 
Curt Schilling showed everythlng he needed to show on Sunday. 
Two days after helping the Red Sox finish off the Los Angeles Angels in the first round, Schilling was tabbed to start the second game of the best-of­seven series against Cleveland's Fausto Carmona. 
Josh Beckett will start the opener on Friday night against C.C. Sabathia. Daisuke Matsuzaka, who pitched the second game in the first round, will start Game 3 against Jake Westbrook. 
"We just feel like this is our best way to go forward," Red Sox manager Terry Francona said 
Schilling pitched seven innings of shutout ball on Sunday to lead Boston to a 9-1 victory over Los Angeles. 

Wednesday, October 10, 2007 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Delhomme out for season with injury 
Carolina's quarterback to have surgery on elbow 
Associated Press 
CIIAHLOTTE Jake Delhomme last week ealled surgery on his strained right nlbow "a last resort." 
After cxp1-1rieneing pain try­ing to throw on Monday, the Carolina Panthers quarterback deeided the worst-ease sce­nario couldn't be avoided. 
Delhommc will have season­ending ligament-replacement surgery on his elbow next week, leaving the Panthers without their leader on oll'ense and scrambling to lind another quarterback. 
"Anytime you lose your start­ing quarter­back it's a b I ow, " coach John Fox said. 
"Anytime you lose your 
Originally t h r e e injured two starting quarterback, its a games. His weeks ago, blow.'' passer rat­Delhomme ing of 111.9 didn't show was tied for 
John Fox
a n y third in the improve­head coach NFL after ment when Carolina Panthers Week 3. 
trying to t h r o w Monday. A day narlier he threw 
briefly on the side while sitting out Carolina's win over the Saints. 
"I think (Sunday) he was just trying to see how it felt," Fox said. "Today he really pushed it and experienced some of the same discomfort he had during the Atlanta game." 
Ihdhommn left Bank of America Stadium Monday without speaking to reporters. llis agent, Hick Smith, said the rncovery time is seven to nine months. 
"It certainly gives Jake enough time to rehab it in the offseason and be back for next season," general manager Marty Hurney said. 
Thn Panthers are left in a precarious position, as lhdhomnw's baekup, David Carr, is also bangnd up. 
C a r r , signed in the offsea­
"lie's not only our starting
son after The 32­being a quarterback, but what he year-old fivn-year Delhomme,
brings to our football team 
starter in who made
will be missed. " 
llouston, the Pro sustained a Bowl two back injury John Fox years later, against the started a
head coach 
Saints and team-record
Carolina Panthers
his status for Sunday's game at Arizona is uneertai n. 
"David is definitely sore," Fox said. "lin's still being eval­uated." 
The only other QB on the roster is undrafted rookie Matt Moore, who eompleted a 43­yard pass against the Saints while brie11y subbing for Carr in tho first half. Quinton Porter was sigrwd two weeks ago to the practice squad. 
Hurney said Monday night they wnro still evaluating the available quarterbacks. lie said norw were scheduled to work out on Tuesday. 
60 straight 
g a m e s 
bP.fore miss­
ing two 
games late last season with ligament dam­age in his thumb. 
Now, if healthy, Carr will load Carolina for the rest of tho season. 
Carr has comploted just ovor 50 percent of his passes with two touchdowns and two inter­ceptions. lie's also been sacked live times in two games. 
Tho Panthers beat the Saints on Sunday in spite of their offense. New Orleans out­gained them 341 yards to 243 and dominated time of posses­sion. 
Delhomme sustained what the team called a strained right elbow when he was sacked by John Abraham in Carolina's win over Atlanta on Sept. 23. Delhomme stayed in the game until the next series, when he winced in pain and elutched his elbow after throw­ing a short pass to fullback Brad Hoover. 
Carr replaced him, then started the next two games when Delhomme was listed as the No. 3 quarterback. 
Before the injury, Delhomme was off to a quick start. After struggling last season, he com­pleted 64 percent of his passes with eight touchdowns and one interception in the first 
As early as last w e e k , Delhomme talked of 
being hopeful he could avoid surgery. But the pain he expe­rienced Monday made the deeision for him. 
"Jake is very honest and forthright, a very tough indi­vidual," Fox said. "But when r?u don't.. have your fastball, rt s tough. 
Dnlhomme became Carolina's long-term starter after humble beginnings. He played two seasons in NFL Europe and spent four seasons as a backup in New Orleans where he played in only six games. 
But he was signed by Carolina before the 2003 sea­son, then replaced an ineffec­tive Hodney Peete at halftime of the opener. lie led Carolina to a comeback win, and 
remained the starter through the run to the Super Bowl. 
7PM
Thursday, 
October 
MSPS STUDY BREAK
Notre Dame 
Room (2nd 
Floor LaFun) 
Fea~uring in~erna~iona7 Food F . a 7 7 over sou~h Be~~m res~aurant:s 
COME MEET NEW PEOPLE! . 
Or just come
' eat. 
" Br'?ught to you by Multicultur Expand1ng the Crossroads of Learnl~l SThtudent Programs and Services 
ng rough Innovat·1on and Discovery" 


lJniversity of Notre Datne's Study Abroad Progra1n in 
Angers, France 
''Should I stay or should I go'?" 
IN FORMATlON MEETING 
With Angers' Progran1 Coordinator and returnees of the progratn 
----···-··········---··...--······-··----·.................------·----·-···--·---·.........................l 
Wednesday, October 10, 2007 5:30-6:45 PM 210 DeBartolo Cla~_sroon1 1!~.!.~-~ing---·  I ....._j  
NEXT AND FINAL INFO SESSION: TIHJRSI>AY, NOVEMBER 1. 2007 SA:\U: TIME-118 l)c8ARTOLO CLASSROOM Rl'ILI)I NG  
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2007 For Academic Year 2008-2009 Fall 2008 and Spring 2009 Applications available: www.nd.edu/-ois/  


Wednesday, October 10, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FooTBALL 
University bans t-shirt resembling Vick scandal 
Texas Tech fraternity suspended temporarily for conduct violation 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK-Texas Tech has banned the sale of a T-shirt bearing the likeness of Michael Viek 
hanging the 
"We realize the shirts 
dog mascot of rival Texas 
shouldn't have been A&M. printed."The red and black shirts. 
Geoffrey Candia 
with text that 
says "VICK Texas Tech student 'EM" on the front in an apparent refer-
in Lubbock. 
The back of the shirt shows a football player wearing the No. 7 Vick jersey holding a rope with an image of the mascot Reveille at the end of a noose. Vick, who faces up to five years in prison after pleading guilty to a federal dogfighting charge, is suspended indefi­nitely by the NFL. 
Tech officials late Tuesday announced the fraternity that sold the shirts was suspended temporarily and will face judicial review for allegedly violat­ing the solicita­tion section of the students' code of conduct. 
once to the Aggies' slogan "Gig The school said it wouldn't 'om," was created by a Tech allow the sale on campus of student who was trying to sell items that are "derogatory, them before Saturday's game inflammatory, insensitive, or in such bad taste." 
No more shirts are being produced, the school said in a release. 
A&M officials, in a state­ment, thanked Tech adminis­trators for "their response and action regarding this matter." 
Geoffrey Candia, the creator of the shirts who is with the Theta Chi fraternity, told The Associated Press they were taking full responsibility. "We realize the shirts shouldn't have been printed," he said. 
He told The Battalion, A&M's newspaper, for Tuesday's edi­tions that the university pro­hibited sale of the shirts on campus through his fraternity. He said he originally had wanted to give 50 percent of the proceeds to an animal defense league in Lubbock "because we knew there would be a controversy about the shirts, you know, animal rights, stuff like that." 
Candia told the newspaper 
TODAY 
-
·oo Pm 14:30 pm 
... MBoth sessions loc.ated 
1n ontgom ·. ..
L F ery Auditorium 
a ortune Student Center' (across from Starbucks) 
LAST CI-IANCE! 

about 300 had been sold. He had hoped 500 would be sold before Saturday's game. 
In a posting on his Faeebook site at about 4 a.m. Tuesday, Candia wrote: "a little tshirt get aggies all worked up... its a t-shirt people!" 
The controversy comes about 2? months after Gerald Myers, Tech's athletic direc­said. "He's really doing the Tech community a disservice. There's plenty of other ways to promote a rivalry." 
Hostility between the two schools is nothing new. 
In 1999, after a Tech football victory, Red Raiders fans pelt­ed Aggies players with batter­ies and taunts. Tech fans tore 
down the
"You can't make light of
t o r , goalposts and 
announced a a situation like that. That paraded them campaign to is in poor taste and poor past the 
promote good Aggies' bus.
judgment."
sportsman­In 2001, ship across about 1,000 the campus Chris Cook Tech cele­and at athletic Texas Tech brants tore events. The down the
spokesperson
words used in the effort are honor, respect, pride and tradition. 
Myers did not immediately return a call seeking comment Tuesday. 
"You can't make light of a situation like that," Tech media relations spokesman Chris Cook said. "That is in poor taste and poor judg­ment." 
Robyn Katz, president of Tech's chapter of the Student Animal Legal Defense Fund, said her organization "would­n't take a dime" from Candia."If he really wanted to help promote anti-animal cru­elty then he would donate time" at a no-kill shelter," she 

goalposts, 
marched them 
the length of the field and pushed them into the A&M section of the stadi­um. Aggies threw ice and a skirmish ensued. 
Then there were the tor­tillas. In 1992, Tech fans began tossing them like Frisbees onto the field during games. A year later, hundreds of tortillas -many carrying unprintable messages -were thrown during an A&M game. 
The rivalry is not confined to the gridiron. Controversy fol­lowed two men's basketball games that A&M won in Lubbock. 
In 1994, after a one-point, last-second decision, a jumble of punches and pushes broke out between the exiting Aggies and angry Tech fans. Aggie coach Tony Barone and two of his players ultimately paid $5,000 to settle a lawsuit stemming from the fight. 
In January 2000, referees counted A&M's shot in the final second to give the Aggies an 88-86 win. Then they over­turned it. Then they over­turned it again. giving the vie­tory to A&M. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 
OLYMPICS 
Jones vvill be erased fron1 records books 
Runner loses medals due to steroid scandal 
Associated Press 
LONDON ----:-Evnn though slw's handnd bark hnr Olympic nwdals, l.lw shaming of' Marion Jonns isn't. owr ynt. 
lntnrnational Olympil' and track and liPid ollkials arn prn­parnd to wipn lwr namn offi­cially l'rom tlw rPrord books. strip hnr ol' lwr world champi­onship m<'dals, pursun lwr lew priw monny and appnaranrn li~ns and possibly ban lwr l'rom l'uturn Olympics in any rapaci­ty. 
Tlw IOC, whit'h opnnnd an invnstigation into Jonns al'tnr slw was linknd to tlw BAU:o stnroids scandal in 2004, !:an art now that slw has ronl'ns!'>Pd and surTnrHlPrnd tlw nwdals. 
"Wn now IIPPd to havn tlw ol'lkial pro!'PSS ol' disqualilka­tion and maylw otlwr nwas­urPs likP non-Piigibility l'or l'utLli'P ganH'S and so on," IOC virn prnsidPnt Thomas Bach, a c;nrrnan lawyPr who IPads thn IOC's thrPn-man disciplinary commission on tlw .lonns rasn. told Tlw 1\.ssodatPd Prnss. 
!\.l't1~r long dPnying shn nwr had usml Jll'rl'ormanen-Pnhanr­ing drugs, Jorws admittnd Friday that slw'd takPn tlw dnsigrwr stProid "tlw dnar" f'rom Snptnmlwr 2000 to July 200 I. On Monday, shn roturnnd lw r nVP Syd rwy 0 lym pic nwdals. 
Bach's parwl will makn rnl:­ommnrHlations to thn ruling IOC nxncutivn board. which nnxt mnnts in I>nrnmbnr in Lausanrw, Switznrland. IOC prnsidnnt .Jarquns Hoggn could spnnd up tlw pron~ss by ordnr­ing a dncision by postal votn bPI'orn thnn. 
Bach said thn IOC also will c:onsidnr whnthnr Jones "should bn nligibh• to apply l'or any typn of' ;u:rrnditation l'or Bnijing or bnyond." That could nwa n that s hn would bn banned f'rom attPnding f'uturn Olympies -possibly I(Jr lilil ­as a coarh, nwdia rnprnsPnta­tivn or any otlwr oflieial capac­ity. 
Thn IOC probe also eould sprnad widnr to include other Olympil' athlntns, eoaehns or oiTi!:ials implieatnd in tho B!\.LCO easn. 
"Thn disciplinary eommission is studying tlw wholn BALCO filn," Bach said. "Now we hopn to linally got all tho availabln doeumnn ts, so that we ran see wlwtlwr maylw otlwr people wnrn involvod and wlwthor the Olympic (;amos arn all'nctod." 
Tlw lntPrnational 1\.ssodation of' 1\.th IPti!:s FPdnrations has authority ovnr n~sults at thn Olympics, whiln tho IOC eon­trois t.lw nwdals. 
Jorws won golds in the 100 rni'IPrs. 200 mntnrs and thn 1,hOO rnlay in Sydnny, as wnll as bronzns in thP 400 mlay and long jump. 
Tlw IOC and 1!\.!\.F am in the awkward position or snning dis­grar.t~d Crnnk sprintnr Katnrina Thanou inlwrit Jonns' I 00­nwtnr gold nwdal from Sydrwy. Thanou linislwd sneond in tlw ran•. 
At tlw cnntnr of' a major dop­ing scandal at thn 2004 Athens Olympics. Thanou and ldlow c;rnnk runrwr Kostas Knntnris failed to show up for drug tnsts on tlw nvn of' tho games. dainwd llwy wnrn injumd in a moton:ydP accident and even­tually pulled out. Both later wern suspended li1r two years. 
Under standard procedures, thn medal standings are adjusted so thn silvnr medalist moves up to gold if the winner is disqualified for doping or otlwr reasons. !\II of' thn other finislwrs also would move up a spot. 
"I will not speculate on the outl:omn. but thn general rule is the sneond-plaee finisher moves up," Bach said. 
The IOC would nend evidenee or an admission that Thanou was doping at the time of the Sydrwy Games to keep her from getting the gold. Some havn suggested leaving the gold mmlal position vaeant. 
Gran Folkl6rico de Mexico 
Friday, October 12 •J:JO P.M. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
. ]'. 
. 
~ 
... . 
..• 
Lach region of Mexico 
has its own dance'S. corresponding to their 
phpical climate and 
tcll1itions. but all arc 
d1stinctlv Mexican. :\11 <ln' pert(;rmcd with 
finc~sc and vigor by the ballet (iran l·ulklori('() ck Mexico. dirccrly !'rom Mt•.xico ,;it\. l;ran 
h>lklonm dl' Mc.xico i~ a worldwide traveling company of ~5 singers. dancer~. and musicians. 
NFL 
Vick loses financial battle 
Arbitrator rules for Falcons QB to repay cash from dog fights 
Associated Press 
1\.TIANT!\. -Michael Viek has taken anothnr hit -and this one eould eost him nearly $20 mil­lion. 
Already facing prison time, tlw disgraend quarterback lost the first round in his !inandal battle with thn Atlanta Falcons when an arbitrator ruled Tuesday that Viek should repay much of the bonus money he got while seeretly bankrolling a gruesomn dogfighting ring. 
The ease is far f'rom over. The playnrs' union said it will appeal thn ruling by Stnphnn B. Burbank, a Univnrsity of l'nnnsylvania law profnssor and spndal master who oversaw last wnnk's arbitration IH~aring in Philadnlphia. 
Tlw Falcons argw~d that Yiek. 
who pleaded guilty to federal charges for his role in the long­running operation, knew he was in violation or the contract when he signed a H)-year, $130 million deal in December 2004. 
The team said he used pro­ceeds from the contraet to fund his illicit aetivities and sought the repayment of $19,970,000 in bonuses he was paid over tho last three years. 
Any monny the Faleons mcover from Viek would be ercdited to its l'uturn salary cap, a hugo stnp in reeovering from the loss of tho team's franchise player. Atlanta (1-41 is o/1' to a dismal start with Joey Harrington at quarterback. 
"We are certainly pleased with today's ruling," the Faleons said in a statmnnnt. "It is tho first step in a process that our elub has undertaken in an attempt to rneoup signif'ieapt salary cap space that will allow us to eon­tinue to build our football tnam today and in l'utun~ years." 
In a highly toehnieal. ninn-page ruling, Burbank said the Faleons were on titled to $3.75 million of the $7.5 million bonus that Viek was paid alter signing the deal in 2004, $13.5 million of' the $22.5 million in roster, rnporting and playing bonuses he was paid in 2005 and 2006, and $2.72 mil­lion of' tho $7 million roster, rnporting and playing bonus that he re!:oived this year. 
Burbank took a differnnt taet than his ruling last year in a bonus dispute involving former Denver Broncos receiver Ashley Lelie. 
In that ease, tho arbitrator ordered the Broncos to repay $220.000 to Lnlin, who rnportnd­ly had to give up about. $1 million in linns, lost bonuses and a pro­rated portion of his signing bonus to get out of the final year of his Denver contract after a dispute over playing time. 
"We havn rnvinwed thn deci­sion handed down by Special Master Steplwn Burbank and lwlieve it is ineorrnd," thn NFLI'!\. said in a statmnent. "We will now appnal his ruling." 
'' ••• joy and happiness on stage'' -Rolling Stone 

··>·:... ·.. . : 
.»··:··
.· .. ·.: :::::·.
.

· s··t
I ..•..•. ,.... 
ToM·DeLUCA 
free show wa~hington hall friday at 9:00 pm 
doors open at 8:3(tpm 
STUDENT ACTIVmEB 
SAD 
IAO.ND.EDU 
Wednesday, October 10, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Manuel gets extension from Phils 
Manager took team to first NL East title in more than a decade 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPHIA The Philadelphia Phillies and man­ager Charlie Manuel agreed to a two-year extension with a club option for 2010 on Tuesday night, keeping around the folksy manager who led the franchise to their first NL East title since 1993. 
Manuel was rewarded for ral­lying the Phillies to the division title on the final day of the sea­son. It took a historic collapse by the New York Mets -they became the first team in major league history to blow a seven­game lead with 17 remaining ­for the Phillies to finish one game ahead in the standings. 
"I am very happy to be back for another two years," Manuel said. ''I'm proud of what the team accomplished this year and I'm looking forward to defending our division title and reaching our goal of winning a World Series for Philadelphia." 
The Phillies were swept 3-0 by the Colorado Rockies in Philadelphia's first postseason appearance in 14 years. 
The 63-year-old Manuel led the Phillies to an 89-73 record in his third season with the team. 
Manuel, who previously man­aged the Cleveland Indians, is 262-224 in three years in Philadelphia. Among Phillies managers, Manuel reached 250 wins in the fewest games since Pat Moran managed the club from 1915-18. 
"We love what Charlie brings to the ballpark every day, which is an upbeat, positive attitude that rubs off on the players," general manager Pat Gillick said. "He helped lead our club back to the playoffs and he and his coaching staff did a great job, especially with the injury 

CRITICAL THINKING AND SUCCESS 
The CONTRIBUTIONS 
of 
ARTS & LETTERS 
MAJORS 
to 
SOCIETY, BUSINESS 
& GLOBAL RELATIONS 
Keynote Presenter: Jerry A. Castellini President & Founder CastleArk Management NO '79 Economics 
Wednesday, October 1Oth 6:00 -7:30 p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 
Joined by Alumni Panelists: Kate Lutkus, NO '04 Political Science I Sociology Mallory Brown, N0 '06 Political Science I German 
Bethany Heet, NO '~8 Spanish I Anthropology 
Ca-sponsored by: 
Tile c:areer c:enter The College ofArts and Letters 

issues they faced throughout the scoring team scored only eight season with a number of key runs in three games against players." Colorado and batted just .172 
The Phillies fizzled in the play­(16-for-93) with 26 strikeouts offs and the league's highest-during the series. 
Offense 
continued from page 24 
Irish quarterbacks coach Ron Powlus said freshman quarter­back Jimmy Clausen is ready to take the next step in game plan complexity. 
"I think Jimmy has shown that he's wiUing to do whatev­er is asked of him," Powlus said. "He's very excited to exe­cute the game plan." 
Weis said Clausen will have to be ready, because beating the No. 4 Eagles will take an effective downfield passing game. 
"As he continues his pro­gression, it allows you to do more, but really the style of the defense you play against dictates what you end up doing," he said. 
Clausen threw for over 150 yards in less than three quar­ters of action against Purdue two weeks ago, but passed for only 84 yards against UCLA. 
Powlus said the changes in game plan and offensive suc­cess have not affected Clausen's emotions and confi­dence. 
"The most important thing for his confidence is to try his best to execute the game plan every week," Powlus said. 
Linebacker shake up 
On the weekly depth chart, senior Anthony Vernaglia was moved from starting right out­side linebacker to second­string left outside linebacker. Meanwhile, freshman Kerry Neal was promoted to first­string right outside linebacker. 
Weis said the move reflected Vernaglia's versatility and Neal's improvement. The sen­ior played at both inside and outside linebacker against UCLA. 
"We moved him inside out of need last week," Weis said. "I think this week he's going to practice at both inside and outside. He'll be listed at one [position on the depth chart]." 
Price punting again 
Weis said fifth-year senior Geoff Price recovered well in the UCLA game from his rough outing against Michigan State. Price punted nine times for an average of 40.3 yards per punt. 
"The biggest problem he's had this year is consistency," Weis said. "I think that last week, with the exception of one kick, he had a very, very good day." 
Injuries 
Weis said injured junior wide receiver David Grimes will "probably" suit up Saturday for the Irish. 
"He's practicing today, so he looks like he should be a go, but I'll just have to wait and go by what I see," Weis said. 
Sophomore offensive guard Dan Wenger, who has missed the past three games, is prac­ticing again at full speed this week. Weis said Wenger, who started the first three games of the season, will have an opportunity to win his job back from sophomore Matt Carufel. 
"He's not going to just auto­matically get thrown in there," Weis said. "He'll have to earn his way back out there." 
Weis said freshman wide receiver Golden Tate got "dinged up a little bit" against the Bruins, but he should play against Boston College. 
"Golden will be involved in 
the mix," he said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENTS Wednesday, October 10, 2007 
CLINIQUE FREE 8-PIECE GIFT 
WITH ANY CLINIQUE PURCHASE OF 21.50 OR MORE, ONLY AT MACY'S 
*FREE 8-PIECE GIFT 
Yours with any Clinique purchase of 21.50 or more. A $50 value 
Every 3 seconds, one of these products is sold somewhere in the world. Try them now in your bonus. Your only-at-Macy's free gift includes: ·Take The Day Off Makeup Remover for Lids, Lashes & Lips • Perfectly Real Compact Makeup in your choice of 3 shades 
• Different Lipstick in Tenderheart ·Dramatically Different Moisturizing Lotion, an 11.50 value ·High Definition Lashes Brush Then Comb Mascara in Black ·Cosmetic Bag • Matching Mini-Wristlet Bag ·Travel Bag 

*
*mocys 
macys.com 
MACY'S GIFT CARDS Gift sets. value sets, free gifts and special offers are available while supplies last. One per customer, please. Easy for you. Perfect for everyone. Value prices are based on per-ounce price of item(s) previously offt;red. All returned merchandise must include free gift. For phone orders, please call 1.800.45.MACYS. We are not responsible for typographical errors.
Ask your sales associate or order by phone: 1-800-528-0783 
Fremantle, Australia Information Meeting Thursday, October 11, 2007 5:30PM 141 DeBartolo !students in the College of AL & BA onl~ Application Deadline: November 15, 2007 for Fall 2008 and Spring 2009 Apply Online: www.nd.edu/,_,ois  

Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NHL 
Carolina destroys Leafs 7-1 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO -This win seemed like the ones the Carolina Hurricanes enjoyed during their run to the Stanley Cup title two seasons ago. 
After missing the playoffs the year after winning the Cup, the Hurricanes have their sights set on a more successful season. 
Matt Cullen scored for the first time since returning to the Hurricanes, and six others added goals in Carolina's 7-1 rout of the Toronto Maple Leafs on Tuesday night. 
Cullen, traded back to Carolina during the summer after one season with the New York Hangers, scored a power­play goal that gave the Hurricanes a 3-1 lead in the second period. 
Justin Williams, Cory Stillman, Hay Whitney, Scott Walker, Jell' Hamilton and Eric Staal also scored against goalie Vesa Toskala. Williams, Stillman, Cullen and Rod Brind'Amour each had two assists. 
"When we won, everything was easy, and when we lost it was a battle," Stillman said. "You could see it on our faces when you watch video of last year. 
"Guys were dragging through the season. But now we're excited to be back. We're a stronger team. Everybody is healthy and ready to play." 
Bryan McCabe scored the only Toronto goal with an assist from Mats Sundin·, who earned his 916th point with the Maple Leafs and moved into a tie with Darryl Sittler for the club record. 
That was long forgotten once Carolina scored seven consecu­tive goals. 
"It was a flat effort by the whole group and that's it," Sundin said. "Heally, there's no excuses to have an effort like that. 
Career Opportunities 
What are you going to do with that major? 
6:00 p.m. Thursday October 11, 2007 
Hospitality Room South Dining Hall 
Speaker 
Rose Kopec, Associate Director, Career Center 
Contact information: Office of Undergraduate Studies, 104 O'Shaughnessy, 1-7098. 
"It's not like we're in the mid­dle of a tough schedule. We just weren't good and that's the bot­tom line. It was bad, it was frustrating." 
The Hurricanes played like an angry team following a 2-0 loss at Washington last Saturday. 
"Sometimes you really need a reminder of how hard it is to win in this league," Williams said. 
The thoughts of both teams and the crowd were with Maple Leafs forward Jason Blake, who played his first game since going public with the news Monday that he is battling chronic myelogenous leukemia -a rare form of the disease. 
He is being treated with med­ication and doesn't expect to miss any playing time. Blake, who looked strong when he checked Tim Gleason against the end boards in the opening minute, didn't speak to reporters after the game. 
Goalies 
continued from page 24 
once in awhile you come across a kid that is bound and determined to get a chance to play." 
During the Irish practice Tuesday, all three goal­tenders were dead on their angles and directed rebounds well into the corners. The trio made strong saves in full-strength and special teams scrimmage situations, but O'Brien stood out with 
Jackson said Pearce would start in net Friday against Wisconsin at the Lefty McFadden Invitational in Dayton, Ohio. The netminder for Saturday's game against Ohio State or Mercyhurst, however, has not been decid­ed and may depend on how O'Brien and Phillips play in the Blue-Gold game. 
"The Blue-Gold Game will make a statement to me," he said. 
The Irish will most likely spend all of October and at least much of November, if not longer, evaluating the 
several spectac­"Each [goalie] has three goalies. ular stops, Pearce will
their day, but they've 
including one always get one that drew howls all shown what they game of each from the Irish can do." two-game bench. weekend "Each guy has series, Jackson
Mark Van Guilder
their day, but said, while the 
Irish captain 
they've all second game shown what will fall to they can do," O'Brien or new Notre Dame captain Phillips. Mark Van Guilder said. "So "I've never been a big fan basically you have to see of a two-man system, but if what they do in a game. It's you have two guys that are of different in a game -·see equal caliber then we may how they react. You can't just rotate a couple," Jackson judge it all on practice." said. 
The Irish will host their Blue-Gold scrimmage tonight Note: at 7:30 in the first chance the +Van Guilder was named public has to see the team Notre Dame's captain Oct. 1 play since last year's record by Jackson, where he will fill season when Notre Dame the leadership role that was won its first-held for the ever league previous two regular season seasons by and playoff "It's been afriendly graduated for-championships, ward T.J.
competition. On the
held a No. 1 Jindra. Van
ice we step it up. " 
ranking for Guilder over two emerged last months and year as a force
Jordan Pearce 
lost in the sec­to be reckoned
Irish junior goalie 
ond round of with on the NCAA offense, scoring Tournament to 18 goals and eventual-champion Michigan dishing out 16 assists on his State. way to being named one of 
Jackson said Pearce and the top 40 finalists for the O'Brien will start on opposite Hobey Baker. sides tonight for the first half "Mark is a good represen­of the game, while Phillips tative of our team -his val­will be substituted in for -ues and his work ethic, his Pearce during the second character, all those things," half. Jackson said. "All of our cap­
Last season, Pearce battled tains have those qualities, for the starter's role with but Mark will best represent Brown in October before what our core values are as a Brown took the job. The team, and be able to commu­native of Anchorage, Alaska, nicate those to others." started in only three games, Senior defensemen Brock where he posted a 2.01 Sheahan and Dan VeNard, goals-against average and along with junior right wing made 51 saves. Erik Condra, were named 
Phillips was selected in the alternate captains. Sheahan seventh round of June's NHL and VeNard are the two sen­Draft after he spent the pre­iors returning from last sea­vious two seasons with the son's top defensive unit in 
U.S. National Development the nation. Condra is an Program, an organization offensive p laymaker who that Jackson helped to build. shares the wealth with his 
"It's been a friendly compe­linemates, putting up 34 tition," Pearce said of the assists and 14 goals last year, goalie battle. "On the ice we and is a leading voice in the step it up. It's almost like you Irish locker room. see the guy on the other end giving his all, so it makes you Contact Kyle Cassity at want to try even harder." kcassily@nd.edu 

--------------------------------~~~----------------­
page 22 
--.··~--~­
Spartans 
continued from page 24 
hark lirw sirwn lw rolurrwd to tlw lirwup last wonk. 
Fnllow junior dPfonder Cory Hnllas also had a big wonk last wnek. picking up his first goal in a :~-0 win ovor Michigan and contributing in another shutout win over Wnst Virginia Saturday. Hnllas was nanwd Big East dnl'onsive player of the weok for his play. 
"!Individual awards! really just rnlloel our l1~arn suc:coss, and I think tlw boys know that," Clark said. "I take thorn as a compli­nwnt to tho ontirn squad." 
Senior goalkPPpor Chris Cahill also raekod up another player of tlw week award afkr his third and fin1rth shutouts of the sea­son. Cahill has now been hon­ored throe limes by the Big East this soason -a program re1:ord at any position. His 0.43 goals­against avorage is currently the 
Bulldogs 
continued from page 24 
the fi1~ld. 
Adrian had a chance to score on the Belles' net in the 27th minute of play, hut the Saint Mary's dnfnnse dnared the ball out of tho pnnalty area. 
A minute later. lklles sopho­morn dnfondor Bridget Honayne put ono in oil' a corner kkk for hor second goal of the soason for tlw 2-0 load. 
A goal by Btdlos sophomore forward Samantha Smogor in tho :Hth minute of play gave the home team a commanding 3-0 lmHI. But tho Belles did not have a chance to gPt comfort­abll~ with that margin as Adrian seornd with three and a half minutes n~maining in the half. 
The Belles struek first in the second half with a goal by jun­ior forward Lauren Hinton, her fourth of thf1 season, to go up 4­1. 
"We had more goals in this game than in any of our four other conference games," MacKm1zie said. "It helps with Lauren IIlinton I almost 100 pereent. We missed having her up top -she adds a whole othnr dimension out there and helps the team to relax having her out there. And today it was not only our forwards seoring. " 
Tlw Belles looked strong oll'ensively, but MacKenzie said she was not completely satis­find with the result of the con­test. 
"We have certain tendencies w11' rn still working on. but we're finding a better way to take earn or business in front of our goal. but its coming." MacKenzie said. "I am overall pleased, but still have things to work on to get better. and we shouldn't have given up that many goals." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiOl @saintmarys.edu 

Recycle The 
bserver~ 
·.,··· 
~ ., . 
The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 10, 2007 
-========================-=-=-=~=========-:-=:::--=---=-=::--:-:-:=----============================-__:_:_:_:~=============== 
sixth-best mark in the country and lnss than .02 behind lil'lh­pl<u:e .Josh Ford l'rom Comwctkut. 
On the offensive side of tlw ball, senior captain Hyan Miller has been leading the way for tlw Irish. Miller s1:ored two goals last wnnk against thn Wolverines and added the game winner over West Virginia Saturday. I lis pnrforrnance landed him on the Collnge Soccer News national tnam of the week for the first time in his career. 
Today's game could play a big role in Notre Dame's NCAA Tournament fate. A team's regional victories as well as out­of-conference record are Wf~iglwd heavily when selecting at-large bids for the tourna­mnnt. The Irish are currently atop the Big East standings, but dcl'eating a strong Spartans team eould come in handy in November. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd.edu 


U.S. 
Cellularllll offers you a 30-Day Network Trial that gives you the space and the freedom to 

make sure your phone works where you want to use it and not just where you're forced to use it. 

U.S. 
Cellular is wireless where you matter most!"" 


f<US.Cellular 
getusc.com 1-888-BUY-USCC 
Kyocera Strobe 
30-Day G\al'111111M: Customer is responsible for any ctlarges incurred prior to return. C 2007 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 

Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
modes of transportation and how bad cars are for the em·ironment so I ride my bike arotmd. That and when I tell girls I ride a bike they think I ha,-e a 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

CROSSWORD 
Across 34 Give a keynote Steering wheel 35 Eco-friendly 
option 36 Author Fleming 5 Superior to 
37 Hose woes 1 0 Pacific island 
38 Nymph of Greek nation 
myth 14 Gas leak 
39 breve evidence 
40 Upper-left key 15 20 Mule Team 
41 Prison-related 
compound 42 Prefix with task16 Canadian dollar 43 Scan 
bird 45 Start a new
17 Nativity trio hand
18 Ain't 46 Part of H. A. H.
grammatical? 47 Tubular pasta 
19 Wilson of "Zoolander" 48 Place to dock 
20 Expresses scorn 51 Human hand characteristic
22 Means' partner 57 In good shape 
23 Swiss artist Paul 24 Early TV comic 58 Rhone feeder 
Louis 59 Back muscles, 
for short speech 60 Loafing 
26 Blowhard's 
29 1966 Rolling 61 Word before Stones hit tube or self 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
62 Neutral shade 63 Face, slangily 64 They may be the 
pits 65 Percolate 
Down 1 Barnum midget 2 Actress Lupino 
and others 3 Business card 
graphic 4 Tchotchkes 5 Brought down 6 Held up 
7 Creme-filled snack 8 U-Haul rentals 9 Like some warranties 1 0 Lapel insert 11 Corn Belt state 12 "Friends" spinoff 13 Roadside stops 21 Gen. Robert 25 Nikkei average currency 26 It may stick out 27 Pie part 28 Dressing choice 29 Dickens's 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
WHAT THE: BeN E:XPE:RIE:NC.E:D WHE:N HE: WAS FITTE:O 
FOR A SUIT. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Heep 
For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 30 Boortz of talk credit card, 1-800-814-5554. radio Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
31 _ Lacs, Minn. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
32 Big Three 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).meeting place 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 33 Kind of sketch solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Jayne and Alex Boisvert 
35 What a  42 Prefix with  50 Has a fever, say  
prisoner's tattoo may signify 38 Anxiety may be  physics 44 Rappers' skill 45 Stair parts  52 Plexiglas unit 53 Corn bread  
a symptom of it  47 Stopped  54 Queen Anne's  
39 Quarterbacks'  listening, with  
play changes  "outiJ  55 To be, in France  
41 Rue Morgue's  48 Swab name  56 Encouraging  
creator  49 Pakistani tongue  sign  


A: rI I I JAND r x I xI rxJ 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: FETID LINER INVOKE PLOWED Answer: Why he wasn't afraid to go to the dentist ­HE KNEW THE "DRILL:' 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zachery Ty Bryan, 26; Steve Burn;, 3-1-; Scott Bakula. 53; Sharon Osbourne, 55 
Happy Birthday: Put yomself and your family first. This is the time to put a little extra mto vour surroundings, to make a residential move or to renovate, adding to Y'!lif own tami]y ;omfort. An ori~!nal approach to som~tl~~g you want to expand on \Hll, m tum, brm, m some cash. Your numbers are+. I 9, __ , 34, 40, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You shouldbe checking out opportunities hut don't put money onthe tahle. Worktoward bnngmg money m. not puttmg II out. An emo­tional Issue will get you tbmking about making personal changes. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't get emotional or upset with friends. neighhors ~u· your ~ollea~ues h..)day: Consider how YC?U can contrih~te to something you helieve 
m. Helpmg others, even m a small way. Will make you lee! good. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It may be early in the week but vou should be plan, ning something pleasurahle. Make plans to meet someone for lunch or dinner or invite friends over. Get involved in an activity you find interesting or creative. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Anger will probablv <>et the better of vou today if you don't kee12 busy or take on a physical challenge that will help you blow off steam. You will be emotional, anxious and verbal. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may want to bang out and do things around the house but you aren't likely to a~ree with someone you live with. Insteaa, get out and do somethmg eonstrudtve tnat will also earn you some cash. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your normally rational and practical character is likely to let you down. Love and makin~ a commitment are in the stars. Fast responses will be required for a work or partnersnip situation. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Emotional matters may not be easv to decipher and will therefore be difficult to clear up. Concentrate on what you can fearn and who can offer you backup. Get involved in a worthy cause. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Love. romance and intrigue will all plav a role in your life today. You may be forced to deal with an issue at home that will change your personal direction or cause you to enforce new rules. Money is heading your 
way. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be careful what you say and do. All eyes are on you. A \\TOn~ move could leave you in a very vulnerable position. If you aren't sure, sit still ana wait. Don't promise something you can't deliver. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your efforts into wheeling and dealing or taking care of settlements or legal concerns. Consider doing something nice for the one you love or making plans to contact someone you want to get to know better. 5 stars 
AQUARfiJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things are looking up and opportwtities are appar­ent. Try your hand at something new or otfer a serviCe that you can do for extra cash. You can learn somethin~ new if you research over the Internet, sign up for a course or talk to someone witn experience. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A partnership mav be iffy if you haven'tlaid out vow· full intentions or plans. Changing your mind mid\vay will not sit well. Make sure you get everything 111 wntmg and be bur. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are unusual and unique and enjov puttino extra detail into ev­erything you do. You are fastidious, conscientious and sympatbetic. You are not a pushover. 
Eugenia's Web sites: nstroadvice.com for fim, mgminlast.com for confidential consultations 

JUMBLE 
Jll!JlWLIDI1lE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NILTE 
± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NECEP 
j
rxi I I 
NAVIED 
rJ 
www.jumble.com 
SIFOSY 1 j 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, October I 0, 2007 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 
Conservative no more 
Weis sat;s team will 
open up attack for 
this weekend's game 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
No tn~ lla Ill f' 's of'f'p nSl~ was l'onsPrvativt• against UCLA. 
So t·.onsPrvativP, in f'art. that Irish coarh CharliP Wnis adrnittPd TuPsday that "thPrP wasn't a prnsrribnd intPrnwdi­atP passing ganw" in tlw ganw plan fill' tlw Bruins. 
"Wp Wl'l'l' Pitlwr clinking and dunking or taking play-action shots." WPis said. 
ThP stratPgy paid off' for W o i s . A I t h o u g h t lw I r is h gai1wd only 140 yards of' total ofTnnsn. thPy didn't turn tho ball ovPr and they earned thnir first win of' thP sPason, 20-6. 
But that game plan won't be a rneipn for suecnss this week against high-powered Boston CollegtL Thn Eagles como into Saturday's contest averaging over 35 points per game. 
"You can't stay conserva­tive," We is said. "They know that, too. This isn't like I'm
-
giving away any big secret. It's not like we're going to go in with three tight ends and run the ball inside the whole game. We're going to have to score somn points to win." 
see OFFENSE/page 19 

SMC SOCCER 
Belles beat Adrian4-3 Tuesday 
Squad holds on to win after jumping out to early three-goal lead 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
A goal by BPIIns sophon111rP Katil' Wehrli with IPss than two minutos into tlw ganw sparkPd Saint Mary's to a 4-:~ victory Tw~sday ovPr Adrian. 
Arter quickly gaining control of' the ball following the open­ing kiekoJ'I', Belles freshman .Julia Gragtrnans dribblnd toward thn goal and took a shot that was blocked by the Bulldogs defense. Seconds later, Wehrli camP back with the Belles' second shot on goal, and scon~d her second goal of the soason. 
"Katie's first goal really got us energized," Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "We came out with good energy anyway, but today seemed to raise us to a whole now level." 
Saint Mary's (6-2-4, 2-1-2 MIAA) continued to control the ball for most of the l'irst half. constantly taking shots and keeping play on Adrian's end of 
see BULLDOGS/page 22 
HOCKEY 
O'Brien enters goalie race 
-Three-way battle for starting spot emerges with Pearce, Phillips 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The competition to replacn Dave Brown as the Notre Dame starting goaltender has become a thrfHJ-man race sinco third-string goalie Torn O'Bri1~n has risen from dark horse to neck-and-neck candidate for the former llobey hopeful's spot. 
O'Brien. a sophomorn, has conditioned and played his way into joining junior Jordan Pearce and top­ranknd f'rnshman prospnct Brad Phillips in a battle to baekstop thn No. H Irish that looknd last spring as if it had only two frontrunners. 
"It's probably morn confus­ing now than it was a month ago," Notre Dame coach Jeff .Jackson said Tunsday, a day before the tl~am's Bluo-Gold scrirnmagB and three days befon~ the snason opener against Wisconsin. 
After llobey Baker l'inalist Brown graduated last spring, Jackson told O'Brien 

LAURIE HUNT !The Observer Former Irish goalie Dave Brown defends the net during Notre Dame's 4-2 win Feb. 9 over Nebraska-Omaha. 
that ho had to lower his body fat in order to get quicker and be able to recover from a down-on-the­ice position faster. O'Brien dropped 15 pounds in sum­mer conditioning and has 
played superb in fall prac­tices. 
"lie's worked extremely hard," Jackson said. "That's what it's all about. Every 
see GOALIES/page 21 
MEN's SoccER 
Tea111 looks to vvin in East Lansing once more 
Irish are 3-0-1 in their last 4 games against the Spartans 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
No. 3 Notre Dame hits the road for the first time in two weeks as they travel to East Lansing to take on Michigan State today. 
The Spartans (7-1-2) dropped out of the top 25 after falling 2-0 to Indiana Saturday. The set­back was their first regular sea­son loss since Oct. 11, 2006 ­the last time they faced the Irish. ln that game, senior for­ward Joseph Lapira had a goal and an assist to lead Notre Dame to a 3-0 win. 
Michigan State went on a 12­game unbeaten streak (not counting a loss in the Big Ten playoffs) before losing to the lloosiers. 
"They still haven't been beat at home, so it is a big task, but one we are looking forward to," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "They have a very good team, and we'll have to bo firing on all cylinders." 
Clark has had Michigan State's number since he arrived in South Bend in 2001. Notre Dame is 3-0-1 against its region­al rival during his tenure. But the team's one tie against Michigan State, as well as a close 1-0 win, camo in East Lansing. 
"We haven't done awfully well up there, so tomorrow would be a good time to put together a good game against them," Clark said. 
This year, the Spartans are led on offense by junior Doug DeMartin, who has scored six of the team's 15 goals so far this season, including three game winners. DeMartin is beginning to regain momentum after a slow sophomore season. lie started his career with seven goals as a freshman, making him the second-highest scorer on the team that season. 
DeMartin will have to get through what is most likely the toughest def'onse he has seen all year in the matchup against the Irish. Irish junior defender Michael Thomas has solidified an already stingy Notre Dame 
see SPARTANS/ page 22 




