r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The InJepenJent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 80 THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 8, 2007 
Tickets vie for student body votes 

Presidential candidates campaign in debate 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
The four tickets for Monday's student body presidential elec­tion met at LaFortune Student C1mter for the traditional presi­dential debates Wednesday night. 
Junior Liz Brown and sopho­more Maris Braun, juniors Danny Smith and Ashley Weiss, freshman Cipriano Rivera and sophomore Catherine Kane, and freshmen Garret Coggon and Mike Padberg were given a plat­form to present their respective proposals to improve student life at Notre Dame and sway a few votes before Monday's elec­tion. 
Running mates Mike Padberg, left, and Garret Coggon present see DEBATE/page 8 their platfonn during Wednesday's presidential debates. 
Campus culture can be culprit for disorders 
Weight gain concerns may lead women, men to bulimia, anorexia, excessive exercising 
By AARON STEINER News Writer 
Last year, when an anorexic Brazilian supermodel died weighing 88 pounds and design­ers announced the creation of size 00 clothes for the thinnest customers, body image debates raged through the style capitals of the world. 
Notre Dame may be far removed from runways, but it hasn't escaped the same prob­lems that plague the fashion industry -and that's the reason behind Student Senate's "Eating Disorders and the Campus Culture" conference, which begins today. 
Disorders such as anorexia, bulimia, binge eating disorder and muscular dysmorphia are as prevalent at Notre Dame as at other college campuses -if not more so -due to a variety of factors within the University's environment, say University staff members and the conference's student organizers. 
Perfectionism and competition 
Student body president Lizzi Shappell said students in any top­20 university like Notre Dame are ambitious in the classroom ­and outside of it too. 
"It's a very competitive, perfec­tionist culture," Shappell said. "I think that combined with the pressures that most women and men, even, experience from the media-those two things togeth­er make the college campus a high pressure environment for keeping up that aura of perfec­
.
tion. " 
Notre Dame Food Services nutritionist Jocelyn Antonelli also stressed the dangers of perfec­tionism, which she said creates a proneness to eating disorders. 
"[Students] want perfection in every area -including how they look and how they eat," Antonelli said. 
Such perfectionism can foster eating disorders and body image issues, ranging from compulsive exercising and anorexia to binge­ing and purging meals, Shappell said. 

Snow no match for removal tean1 
Crews work through winter weather to keep ND roads, sidewalks clear 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
While students are often looking for a reason to cut class, snow is not a viable excuse at Notre Dame. Within hours of any snow­fall -heavy or light ­walkways and roads on campus are cleared to make cross-campus travel as safe as possible for stu­dents. 
That snow doesn't clear itself, however. The work is done by Notre Dame's Landscape Services Department, which employs 
see SNOW/page 8 


Lack of realistic goals shocks, dissappoints 
I've come to the conclusion that no one on this campus knows just how impotent stu­dent government is. 
And yes, that's impotent, not impor­tant. 
Amanda Michaels

Perhaps "no one" is an Assistant News overstate­Editor ment. Because I certainly do, and I've heard enough people complaining about it to know that I'm not alone. 
But apparently, the candidates for student body president and vice president are clueless --or at least expect student voters to be. 
see COLUMN/page 8 

"[Notre Dame] is really a pres­sure cooker for these disorders," she said. 
Valerie Staples, a counselor and eating disorders specialist at the University Counseling Center, said typical Notre Dame students "work hard and play hard." 
"Both can be positive. Both can be negative," she said. "Finding a balance is a challenge for many students. Many have excelled [in the past] and find it difficult when they aren't 'number one,' but one of many very successful stu­dents." 
The fear of transitioning from superstar to another face in the 
see CONFERENCE/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
College VP featured in SMCtalk 
Incandela speaks as part ofTheology series 
By ABBY RICHARDSON News Writer 
Recognizing the difference between right and wrong was simply the starting point for Wednesday night's Theology on Fire Discussion. 
S a i n t Mary's Associate V i c e President and Dean of Faculty and College Professor J o e 


I n can de I a lncandela stepped out of his administrative duties 
to share personal stories and advice about moral choices, conscience, con­stituency and conflict. 
He defined conscience as a personal indicator of "what is good, what to avoid [and] what to pursue" --an ingrained sense of purpose and obligation, he said. 
Conscience would not be necessary, however, without free will -choices that "take us closer to destina­tion, or literally we are damned," he said. "Choices [bring] us closer or further away from God. When we go against our conscience, we diminish who we are." 
Incandela said it is impor­tant to realize how our actions are definitive of 
see FIRE/page 9 



Media expert launches College lecture series 
By KATIE KOHLER Assistant News Editor 
Dr. Kathleen Hall Jamieson spoke to a full house in the Little Theater at the Moreau 
Center for the Arts at Saint Mary's Wednesday night. Jamieson, the director of the Annenberg Public Policy 


Center and Jamieson professor of communication at the Annenberg School of 
Communication at the University of Pennsylvania gave a lecture entitled "Deception in Politics," a field in which she is nationally accredited as an expert in political communications. 
Jill Vihtelic, the College's act­ing vice president and dean of faculty, opened the series, wel­coming Jamieson and explain­ing the preface of the first annual Plamondon Endowed Lecture in Communication Studies. The lecture series was named for retiring communica­tions professor Ann Plamondon, who has been at Saint Mary's since 1981. 
see JAMIESON/page 9 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 8, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


A -won1an' s scorn 
Dateline Italy -The land of pizza, Popes and pasta. Enter the latest, hottest political scandal. No, it's not about pregnant chads, a stained dress, or even a major political figure yelling "byaaaa" during a speech. 
John-Paul Witt
It's about honor, loyalty, and respect. I'm talking about, of News Wzre course, the scandal Editor involving the for­mer Prime Minister of Italy, Silvio Berlusconi, 70. It seems that he made a few comments, such as, to Miss Amazonia Aida Yespica, ''I'd go with you anywhere." And about a Member of Parliament of his own party, Mara Carfagna, "Take a look at her! I'd marry her if I weren't married already." 
If I weren't married already. He's married, of course, to the (beautiful, if I say so myselD former model and actress Veronica Berlusconi, 50. His wife of 27 years. 
To us Americans, this may not seem so bad. Admittedly, those old enough to remember the last 10 years have been desensitized to extramarital affairs in government. But it seems that, while that evokes a "boys will be boys" response from the electorate, the delib­erate, public, verbal besmirching of a woman's honor is intolerable. I mean, I didn't see any letters to the New York Times after the events of 1998. 
But Veronica returned fire: "These are affirmations that I see as damaging to my dignity, affirmations that ... can­not be reduced to jokes," she wrote in a letter to the La Repubblica newspaper. I am impressed. I applaud Veronica for having the courage to stand up for this affront to her self-respect. 
On the other hand, in 2002, while he was prime minister, Berlusconi said of the Danish Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen that Rasmussen was "the best-looking prime minister in Europe ... He's so good looking, I'm even think­ing of introducing him to my wife." 
He also said that he charmed the Finnish prime minister, a woman, into allowing the EU to build a facility in Italy by using "all my playboy tactics, even if they have not been used for some time." 
Between you and me, I think Veronica should've seen this coming. If Berlusconi wasn't using his A-game "playboy tactics" at home, he had no business using them abroad. You don't slack off during the year and work hard during summer vacation. 
Now Veronica has a tell-all book deal, for "Veronica's Tendency," and Don Silvio tendered an apology: "I was reluctant in private, because I am play­ful but also proud. Challenged in pub­lic, the temptation to give in [to you] is strong. And I can't resist." 
I think Veronica is great for standing up to this maltreatment. But a book deal? Skip that, and do things the American way: turn the name recogni­tion and publicity into a bid to become Italian's first female prime minister. At least then she could check out the other male prime ministers, instead of her husband. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Feb. 7 edition ofThe Observer, the article "New Engineering building approved," reported that the University did nor disclose the name of the architect charged with the construction project. In fact, the University did announce BSA Design, an Indianapolis­based firm, is already working on the project. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE BEST WAY TO STAY WARM IN THE COLO? 


Joey Statz Christine Kennedy Alex Gorrell 
freshman freshman freshman Alumni McGlinn Alumni 
"Surround "Hot chocolate "A very furry yourselfwith and warm suit.,, big sweaty clothes.,, men. 



Elisha Acosta Britta Zoeller 
senior seniors Badin Badin 
"It's "Under 
,,

impossible. armor. 

OFFBEAT 
Woman fakes heart attack, scares off intruder 
HAMPDEN, Maine-An 80-year-old Hampden woman who was watching the Super Bowl alone faked a heart attack to scare off a man who had broken into her home and was pushing her into the bedroom, police said. 
Daniel Thanem, 45, of Winterport was arrested a short time later and charged with aggravated criminal trespass and assault. Thanem is a convicted sex offender in Alabama, police said. 
The woman was watching Sunday night's Super Bowl when she spotted a man walking through her house, said Hampden police Sgt. Dan Stewart. When she asked the man what he was doing, he grabbed her from behind and began pushing her toward the bedroom. 
Stewart said the woman pretended she was having a heart attack and told the intruder her heart medication was in her car in the garage. After they retrieved the med­ication, the man fled. 
Malaysia weighs college bathroom course 
KUALA LUMPUR -It's never too late for toilet train­ing. Some Malaysian eolleges may soon offer courses on how to keep public restrooms clean, the national news agency reported Thursday. 
The effort is meant to help Malaysia's public lavatories become as hygienic as those in countries such as Britain and Singapore, Deputy Housing and Local Government Minister Robert Lau was quoted as saying by Bemama news agency. 
"Clean toilets cannot mere­ly be judged by the eyes," Lau was quoted as saying. "This matter also involves the use of cleaning equipment, soap, fragrances and proper tis­sues." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
a:: 
IJ.I 
:::c 
~ 
IJ.I 
~ 
...J 
cc 
(,) 
IN BRIEF 

Freelance writer, editor and publisher Anne Elizabeth Moore will teach her tricks of the trade at 3 p.m. today in the Notre Dame Room, LaFortune Center. 
David Lodge from the department of Biological Sciences will give the lecture "The Other Alien Debate: Biology and Policy of Invasive Species" at 4 p.m. today in room 120 of the Law School. 
Efraim lobar, Professor of Political Studies at Bar-Ilan University, will give the lec­ture "Israel's Security Environment"tonight at 8 in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
As part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival, writer, nov­elist, essayist, editor, and founder of the independent book publishing house McSweeney's, Dave Eggers will read from his latest work in Room 101, DeBartolo Hall tonight at 8. 
Join the ND community for "Artists for Africa,"a special evening of celebration for Africa with music, dance, and education at 10 tonight at Legends. 
The Kellogg Institute will be hosting the annual Celebration of Brazilian Carnaval featuring live music by the group "Chicago Samba," Friday from 8 p.m. to midnight in South Dining Hall. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY 

...I 0 HIGH 17 HIGH 12 HIGH 18 HIGH 20 HIGH 17 HIGH 20 LOW 3 LOW -2 LOW 7 LOW 2 LOW 3 LOW 12 
Atlanta 30 I 18 Boston 31 I 16 Chicago 17 I 2 Denver 43 I 25 Houston 71 I 56 Los Angeles 66 I 51 Minneapolis 9 I -11 New York 28 I 17 Philadelphia 30 I 15 Phoenix 77 I 51 Seattle 50 I 42 St. Louis 26 I 13 Tampa 73 I 55 Washington 33 I 16 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Fair Trade products urged 
Amnesty International seeks new campus-wide coffee campaign 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame Amnesty International president Gary Nijak took the podium at the SPnate meeting Wednesday to brief senators about progress made in the Fair Trade coffee campaign. 
On Oct. 4 Senate passed a res­olution calling for Fair Trade cof­fee to be exclusively offered in all non-franchised F.ood Services operations. This exclusivity has not been achieved. 
The campaign needs a new marketing strategy, Nijak said Wednesday. They are aiming for a "new attempt at marketing a social justice program rather than what has been happening on campus," he said. 
Nijak has met with Dean Carolyn Woo of the Mendoza College of Business and other people in the business school to discuss different ways to market. 
Amnesty International also discussed its marketing tech­niques with David Prentkowski, the director of Food Services. They talked about dearer label­ing of the Fair Trade coffee available at the dining halls, posting information at the sites about what Fair Trade means and possibly advertising for related lectures on the LCD screens in the dining halls. 
Nijak wants to branch the ini­tiative beyond just coffee and try to introduce Fair Trade choco­late to campus. 
"This isn't something that is limited to coffee," Nijak said. "This is a much larger idea." 
An Oct. 5 Observer article described Fair Trade pricing as a commitment to pay farmers $1.26 per pound of co{fee beans, which should be enough to sup­port a family. Fair Trade coffee allows farmers to sell beans directly to the roaster rather than go through millers, expqrters and importers. 
Amnesty International and other groups on campus have several events planned for later in the semester regarding the Fair Trade issue, including a showing of the movie "Black Gold" at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center and a lecture. by theology professor Mary D'Angelo on Fair Trade and how it relates to teachings of the Catholic Social Tradition. 
The majority of Wednesday's meeting was spent discussing details regarding oversight in the student government -a topic that has been the subject of much debate in Senate and in the Council of Representatives over the past few weeks. The Senate first passed a resolution that allows the chairperson of the Senate to "waive committee assignment of any resolution, letter or order and hold immedi­ate consideration of it before the Senate in extraordinary circum­stances." 
This resolution allows all non­constitutional amendment<; to be passed through Senate more quickly should the need arise. 
After this resolution was passed, Senate Oversight com­mittee chair Chris Hollon brought up two more oversight issues for discussion. The sena­tors debated transferring the account nwnber for presidential programming from under the Student Union Board (SUB) to student government and also increasing the monetary limit an organization like SUB may spend before it must notice the Financial Management Board. Questions, discussions and debate continued for approxi­mately 30 minutes until Lyons senator Mariana Montes said the senators should delay debating the issue until a resolution has been written. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Faculty senate representa­tive Linda Sharp said the Faculty Senate discussed clarifying the honor code and developing definitive plans for crisis situa­tions in classrooms at Notre Dame at their meeting this week. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Saint Mary's Web site restructured, updated 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Visitors to Saint Mary's homepage might have been surprised at what they saw when they accessed the Web site after Jan. 12. -After nearly six years, the College's homepage unveiled its new look in early January -an initiative freshman Ashley Nealon deemed a "good public relations move." 
Keith Fowlkes, chief infor­mation officer at Saint Mary's, explained from a technological standpoint that a Content Management System (CMS). which allows for easier updating, more interactive features and the ability to share information amongst multiple. sites on campus, now drives the new system. 
"Basically, it's the newest, latest and greatest edition of software allowing us to keep up to date and manage all of the information on the Web site," he said. 
Fowlkes said the OIT sys­tem at Saint Mary's would no longer use an HTML editor for creating web pages. In addition, the internal Web site has new forums and dis­cussion centers which will allow visitors to partake in interactive surveys and polls. 
"The main purpose of our 
new design was to add a lit­tle bit more flexibility for our visitors," said Janet Flahaven, assistant director of web communications at' Saint Mary's. "Our old design, which hadn't been updated since 2001, was a little more static, but these changes will give us more 
freedom  to  move  things  
around  and  feature  new  
things."  

Flahaven also mentioned that feedback from faculty and students has been, on the whole, very positive. 
"People seem to appreciate the fact that the Web site is easier to navigate and oper­ate," she said. 
The tinkering, however, isn't quite yet finished. Employees at Saint Mary's office of information technol­ogy are still working on other projects to increase ease and convenience for students and faculty. 
"We still have some proj­ects with CMS that we'll be working on for the next few months, including chat serv­ices and blogs for admissions and alumni relations," Fowlkes said. "The software gives us so much levity in what we can do, and we're still trying to figure out what's best for the college and its outside constituents." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING WELCOMES EARLY ADMITTED ENGINEERING INTENTS 


Matthew A. Abeling 
J. Augustinsky Brandon Barrett Megan E. Barry · Jonathan M. Barry Charles W. Bernhard Graham P. Boechler Michael J. Bohnert Christopher M. Borchers Nicholas W. Bosler Ryan P. Calkin Arianna S. Cassani John C. Cockerham Thomas A. Connelly Emily M. Cook Matthew D. Drummond Kelsey Dubois Daniel E. Ferrara Megan E. Fitzgerald Paul Fleury Matthew Fordonski Maria Gaither Taylor H. Gilbert Charles A. Gray Thomas Griffith Katherine R. Heinzen Kyle Higdon 

• Michael D. Hill Abigail L. Jackson Steven R. Jaconette
C:CI-1-&Ce CF" 
Alyssa Jank Ryan A. Jansen Joseph Jensen Sam Karch Connor P. Keenan Katrina R. Keller Marie E.N. Kelly Eric leis Kathryn M. Lentini Amy P. libardi Danny C. Lucero-Dixon Danielle J. Mai Michael McArtor Sean P. McMillan Kathleen Mehary Ashley Meklis Meeghan M. Miller Zachary D. Miller Charles W. Mitchell Zane M. Norman Onyebuchi Offodile Robert F. Pacione James M. Pappas Benjamin J. Peters Brian Pownall Kathleen Puttmann Owen Quinlan Blair Rasmus Kurt C. Riester Nicholas N. Ruof Brittani Russell Aaron J. Scheid Michael J. Scheidler Rebecca A. Schultz William F. Sennett Ryan Shay Timothy F. Smith Michael D. Sobolewski Joanna l. Stabile Dorian Starks Benjamin Stoddard Konrad A. Stoick Richard M. Taylor William L. Tintor Joanna Veit Paul Vermilion Joy V.A. Von Holle Conor J. Walsh Eric M. Ward, Jr. George Warner Sarah K. Weiler Abigail J. Wilkins Rachel K. Witty Francisco Zarama 


ENC:iiNEE~INC 
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU IN OUR (LASS OF 2011. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 8, 2007 


Fonner EPA head addresses environmental issues 
Whitman suggests increased federal action to cut back on emissions, served one term as first female governor of N.J. 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
While the environment is in better shape than it was 50· years ago, there is still work to be done, former Environment Protection Agency Administrator and one-time New Jersey Governor Christine Todd Whitman said Wednesday during her "Shaping the Future: America's Environment Today" lecture. 
Whitman, a Hepublican who served for two years in he Bush White House, stressed the importance of market­based solutions to the environ­mental crises of greenhouse gas and fossil fuel emissions. 
"What is good environmental stewardship is also good for business," she said. "We don't have to make a choice between having a healthy environment and a thriving economy." 
Although the modern envi­ronmental movement began in the 1970s with the federal government mandating stricter emission standards against the wishes of business leaders, the roles have changed. 
"Today, the responsible lead­ers of American businesses are objecting that the federal government is not taking mandatory actions," she said. "It's a natural progress in most responsible leaders that they are more concerned with the environment." 
While the Bush administra­tion has enacted voluntary environmental reform pro­grams, Whitman said these initiatives do not go far enough to help cure the chal­lenges the world faces. 
Although she hailed volun­tary governmental programs such as Energy Star and Climate Leaders, Whitman said more federal action is essential. 
"A mandatory carbon cap is necessary and probable within the next five years," she said. 
Whitman advocated a solu­tion to the environmental cri­sis that requires businesses to meet certain standards, but allows them to meet these standards in a way that is profitable to the company. As part of this so-called "cap­and-trade" system -similar to the system employed to reduce acid rain -the gov­ernment would set target to be reached, but companies have to decide how to reach them in accord with their own best interests. 
When companies are unable to reach the mandatory tar­gets, they are able to buy emission capabilities from companies that have not sur­passed the regulations. The cap-and-trade system is most effective because "the govern­mont is not innovativn, but the privatn sector is," Whitman said. 
Whitman said environmental responsibility will not limit oconomie and industrial growth. 
"Businesses ean· protect the environment in a way that enhances their bottom line and doesn't limit their growth," she said. 
"Wn need to makn it. prof'­itabln for businesses to do the right thing for the environ­ment. I don't earn about their motives if' they're doing the right thing," Whitman said. 
Whitman said the White llouse did not manipulate cli­mate ehange seientif'ic evi­dence during hnr two years at the EPA, but she believes that policy dictates the n~sults of scientific investigation at the federal level. 
"When the science goes against what certain people want, it just gets dropped from the report," she said. 
"The policy doesn't always have to be based on just the science, but they need to let the science be the science." 
In her fight for environmen­tal responsibility, Whitman said she does not hold others to a higher standard than she holds herself. The former gov­ernor drives a Toyota Prius, which -according to Car and Driver Magazine-averages 60 miles per gallon in the city. 

"I love my Prius, but we're not going to change what cars people drive right away," she said. 
Whitman served as the fifti­eth and first female governor of New Jersey from 1994 to 2001. She left the governor­ship to become administrator of the EPA during the Bush administration in January of 2001 -a post she held until June of 2003. 
Whitman also serves as the president of The Whitman Strategy Group, a consulting firm specializing in the envi­ronment and governmental bipartisanship. She is also the leader of the It's My Party Too political action committee, which works to elect moderate Hepublican candidates. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernd@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's Wl RE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Lebanese, Israelis exchange fire 
JERUSALEM -Fighting broke out between Israeli and Lebanese soldiers Wednesday night as Israel searched for Hezbollah bombs along the frontier between the two countries, officials from both sides said. 
Lebanese soldiers opened fire and Israeli troops responded with tanks and light weapons, Israeli security officials said on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak to the media. 
Lebanese military officials said their troops opened fire with machine guns on a bulldozer after the vehicle crossed the so­called Blue Line-the U.N.-demarcated boundary -and entered about 20 yards into Lebanon. 
Prehistoric remains found hugging 
HOME -They died young and, by the looks of it, in love. Two 5,000-year-old skeletons found locked in an embrace near the city where Shakespeare set the star­crossed tale "Romeo and Juliet" have sparked theories the remains of a far more ancient love story have been found. 
Archaeologists unearthed the skeletons dating back to the late Neolithic period out­side Mantua, 25 miles south of Verona, the city of Shakespeare's story of doomed love. 
Buried between 5,000 and 6,000 years ago, the prehistoric pair are believed to have been a man and a woman and are thought to have died young, because their teeth were found intact, said Elena Menotti, the archaeologist who led the dig. 
"As far as we know. it's unique," Menotti told The Associated Press by telephone from Milan. "Double burials from the Neolithic are unheard of, and these are even hugging." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Air Force cadets caught cheating 
AIR FORCE ACADEMY-Nineteen fresh­man cadets at the Air Force Academy have admitted cheating on a test of general knowl­edge about their branch of the military, and nine others are under investigation, the school said Wednesday. 
The cadets admitted obtaining answers to a test and forwarding them through an Internet social group and private computer messages. 
Academy spokesman Johnny Whitaker said the test was part of a weekly series of exams that covered everything from quotes by famous military leaders to current events. The tests do not affect cadets' grade-point averages, but they must pass to advance to the second year. 
Of 28 students caught up in the probe, 19 are athletes, but the school declined to identi­fy their teams, citing privacy issues. 
Mistrial declaired for soldier 
FORT LEWIS -A judge declared a mistrial Wednesday in the court-martial of an Army lieutenant who refused to deploy to Iraq, say­ing the soldier did not fully understand a doc­ument he signed admitting to elements of the charges. 
Prosecutors said 1st Lt. Ehren Watada admitted in the document that he had a duty to go to Iraq with his fellow soldiers. Watada, however, said he admitted only that he did not go to Iraq with his unit, not that he had a duty to go. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Homeless men charged with murder 
SOUTH BEND -A second man was arraigned Wednesday on four counts of murder in the deaths of four homeless men over what police describe as a dispute over scrap metal. 
Randy Lee Reeder, 50, requested a public defender during his appearance and was ordered held without bond. He is scheduled to appear before Superior Court Judge John Marnocha on Feb. 20. 
Reeder and another homeless man, Daniel J. Sharp, 56, are accused of killing Michael S. Nolen Jr., Michael W. Lawson, Brian Talboom and Jason Coates between Dec. 18 and 21 and dumping their bodies in manholes. 
Astronaut faces serious charges 
Family friend speaks out about challenges, stress on female astronauts 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Lisa Nowak chose a juggling act of dauntingly high difficulty: to be an astronaut and a mother of three. 
Her background -high school valedictorian. Naval Academy graduate, test pilot -seemed to equip her for the challenge. Yet as she and some of her acquaintances acknowl­edged, the stresses on her and her family were extraordinarily intense. 
On Wednesday, trans­formed from space hero to criminal suspect. Nowak returned to Houston for a medical assessment, a day after she was charged in Florida with attempted murder and attempted kid­napping in what police depicted as a love triangle involving a fellow astro­naut. 
The woman viewed as a role model by the school­children she often addressed was met on the tarmac by police and escorted into a waiting squad car. Her head was covered by a jacket. She was later released on bail, with orders to stay away from the other woman and to wear a monitoring device; she faced a medical exam at Johnson Space Center. 

NASA, at a loss to explain Some part of any break­whelming.... Clearly she ance two careers -to be a what went wrong, said it down may defy rational suffered a lot of mental mom and wife and an would revamp its psycho­explanation, but those who anguish" astronaut. ... You don't logical screening process in know Nowak and NASA "There is a lot of marital come home at night, like light of Nowak's arrest. The could sense the stress she stress in the astronaut most of the male astro­review will look at how was under. corps in general -a huge nauts, and have everything astronauts are screened for Dr. Jon Clark, a former amount," Clark said. "It's ready for you." psychological problems and NASA flight surgeon who not unheard of for things to Clark expressed empathy whether Nowak's dealings lost his wife, astronaut change into relationships with Hichard Nowak, who with co-workers signaled Laurel Clark, in the 2003 that are beyond profession­separated from his wife a complications. Columbia disaster, said al." few weeks ago after 19 
Nowak's children were Nowak provided invaluable Clark also said there can years of marriage. with her husband, Richard, support to his family then, be extra pressure on "He was a real low-key, who works for a NASA con­at the cost of losing time NASA's female astronauts go-with-the flow, unobtru­tractor. She was being with her own family. -and the men, like him­sive person," Clark said. replaced as a ground com­"She was the epitome of self, who marry them. "You almost have to be to municator for the next managing a very hectic "They made more sacri­survive in the realm.... It space shuttle mission in career, making sacrifices to fices than the 'Right Stuff was hard on our marriage March, a job in which she accommodate her family," guys," he said, comparing to have my wife gone all would talk to the astro­Clark said in a telephone women astronauts to the the time, and eventually nauts from Houston during interview. "All those stress­original all-male astronaut have her career surpass their flight. es can conspire to be over-corps. "They have to hal-mine." 

North Korea restarts peace talks 
Associated Press United States' attitude, following an from Pyongyang. apparent greater willingness by all U.S. Assistant Secretary of State 
BEIJING -International talks on 

sides to compromise. Christopher Hill went to Germany
North Korea's nuclear program 

The latest nuclear standoff with last month to meet North Korean 
convene Thursday with a new sense the North started in late 2002 after nuclear envoy Kim Kye Gwan, and of optimism about the possibility or Washington accused Pyongyang of the North later said the sides had 

the first tangible progress on the 

having a secret uranium enrich­reached an unspecified agreement.
communist nation's disarmament 

ment program in violation of a 1994 The specifics of what they discussed since negotiations began more than 
deal between the two countries. haven't been made public.
three years ago. 

North Korea kicked out nuclear Washington has also held sepa­The main U.S. envoy said inspectors and restarted its main rate talks on financial restrictions it Wednesday that the first steps on reactor, moves that culminated in has placed on a Macau-based bank dismantling Pyongyang's nuclear the country's first atomic test deto­where the North held accounts, weapons could be agreed upon at 
nation in October. accusing it of complicity in the this round of meetings in Beijing, Although the U.S. and key North regime's alleged counterfeiting and though he expected "hard bargain­Korean allies China and Russia money laundering. Blacklisting that ing." 
backed U.N. sanctions after the bank has scared off other financial 
Ahead of the six-nation negotia­nuclear test, Washington has since institutions from dealings with the tions, the North has also signaled engaged in a series of diplomatic North for fear of losing access to it's satisfied with changes in the overtures that have drawn praise the U.S. market. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 8, 2007 
she said. they can't do anything else." certainly does not mean there dents working with a physician 
Derengoski said male Notre aren't many of them affected, from Health Services," she said. 
Conference 
continued from page 1 

crowd contributes to the develop­ment of eating disorders, she said. 
Disordered eating and exercising 
Junior Ashley Weiss, chair of the Student Senate Gender Issues committee, and graduate student and co-conference coordinator Ali Wishon said they believe eating disorders are more common across Notre Dame's campus than people realize -or are willing to accept. 
"It's something that you wake up and see everyday," Weiss said. "You see the girls that wake up and go running every morning or the guys that are constantly at the gym -and then at the dining halls, you can see the health food craze," she said. "None of [these things] are bad, but just taken to the extreme." 
Shappell agreed, saying she knew a substantial number of peo­ple in high school and at Notre Dame affiicted with eating disor­ders. 
"I think that body image is something that nearly every young woman has struggled with, at least at some point in time," she said. 
At Notre Dame, Antonelli said she thinks eating disorders often stem from dieting or restrictive eating habits. Whether a student stops snacking, skips meals or eliminates carbohydrates, these habits -often paved with good intentions -can lead to disorders, she said. 
Overall, students seem to put great emphasis on eating and stay­ing healthy, but in some cases stu­dents become so food-conscious they are anxious about eating, she added. 
"Some people are so concerned about the 'freshman 15,"' Antonelli said. "This summer I had several students call before school started, stating they were anxious about [gaining weight]. That's never happened before." 
Antonelli said she regularly sees students for nutritional counseling. lf she believes a student is suffer­ing from an eating disorder, she will refer the student to the Counseling Center, she said. 
In addition to problems with food, obsessive or compulsive exercising may also become an issue for those struggling with body image disorders. 
With a high percentage of for­mer varsity athletes comprising the Notre Dame student body, "our campus is extremely athletic," Shappell said. Such athleticism can place too much attention on staying fit and looking good, she said. 
Notre Dame RecSports co-direc­tor Sally Derengoski said while RecSports provides services to stu­dents that promote healthy exer­cising habits -including the new personal training program -staff members see some students "take it to the extreme." 
"The great majority of students who come to play or work out are doing so within a range that is helpful and healthy," Derengoski said. "Do we see cases that exceed that range? Certainly, and in those cases we work with the Counseling Center and the Office of Student Affairs to best provide for the stu­dent." 
However, a person doesn't have to exercise excessively long or hard to be suffering from an eating disorder, Staples said. 
"Even a reasonable amount of exercise could be questionable when the individual does so for the sole purpose of burning calories or reshaping their body rather than to be healthy or reduce stress," Staples said. 
Staples also mentioned hinging and purging-two behaviors conducted much more secretively, 
Male body image: an overlooked issue 
While research and media cov­erage have highlighted the prob­lems of eating disorders among women, men are not exempt from eating disorders or image issues, WIShon said. 
"That's absolutely not true," she said. "The current statistic is that 10 million women and one million men are suffering in the U.S." 
The conference's keynote speak­er, Dr. Hoberto Olivardia, a Harvard Medical School scholar, will specifically address the male body image issue, she said. 
"There's really no name for it," she said. "Men don't know what to say when they are compulsively exercising, lifting weights so much Dame students who exercise to a certain extent have attracted attention. 
"We have had incidents with both males and females where concern has been expressed, either by a patron or staff," she said. 
Staples said the athletic culture at Notre Dame eould also be a con­tributing factor behind these disor­ders. 
"Certainly athletidsm is a piece of what drives this," she said. "Men tend to increase exercise and working out as a way to reshape their body rather than by dieting a_<; women do." 
While the Counseling Center sees only "a few" men eaeh year with eating disorder issues, that Staples said. 
"Men are not immune to the cul­tural focus on appearance, but often find it more difficult to acknowledge a problem for fear of being seen as having a woman's problem," she said. 
Counseling Center services in place 
While eonl'erence organizers hope the event creates awareness of and dialogue about eating disor­ders, the Counseling Center already has a variety of services to help students struggling with dis­orders, Staples said. Options inc.lude individual or group coun­seling sessions. 
"The approach to treatment is comprehensive and involves stu-
The Counseling Center also con­sults family, friends and faculty members to detect potential vic­tims of food or body image disor­ders, Staples said. 
Students can call to schedule an appointment or contact health services. Wherever they feel most comf()rtable starting, they "will be put in touch with the other aspects of the treatment team," Staples said. 
Staples said that an estimated 13 to 15 percent of the students who come to the Counseling Center each year seek counseling for eat­ing, weight or body image con­cerns. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd.edu 

Looking for a career that gives you h i s. 
Whatever your career goals, you'll find apath that helps you reach them at Ernst &Young. We've created aflexible work environment that provides options for managing personal and professional growth and success. So visit us on campus or at ey.comjus;careers, 
FORTUNE•. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIESg5
TO WORK FOR~ 

© 2007 ERNST & YouNG LLP Quality In Everything We Do 

Thursday, February 8, 2007 


Dow 

12,666.87 +0.56
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,889 168 1,349 2,643,192,110 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.47  -0,14  29.37  
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.93  +0.41  44.46  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.94  +0.20  21.51  
CISCO SYS INC (SUNW)  +0.92  +0.06  6.59  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.42  -0.020  4.745  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.00  5.0 I 0  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.37  -0.0 16  4.852  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.59  -0.028  4.727  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.17  57.71  
GOLD ($frroy oz.)  -1.40  657.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.28  102.70  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  120.8850  
EURO  0.7683  
POUND  0.5075  
CANADIAN$  1.1854  

IN BRIEF 
Apple CEO Jobs hits at RIAA 
LOS ANGELES -Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs challenged major record labels to strip copying restrictions from music sold online, but their trade group fired back Wednesday, suggesting the company should open up its anti-piracy technology to rivals instead. 
Doing so, argued Mitch Bainwol, chair­man and chief executive of the Recording Industry Association of America, would eliminate technology hurdles that prevent music fans from buying songs at Apple's iTunes Music Store and playing them on devices other than the iPod. 
"We have no doubt that a technology company as sophisticated and smart as Apple could work with the music commu­nity to make that happen," Bainwol said in a statement. 
In an essay posted on the Cupertino­based company's Web site Tuesday, Jobs called on record labels to abandon their requirement for online music to be wrapped in Digital Rights Management, or OHM, technology that prevents unautho­rized copying. 
The OHM protections prevent the iPod from playing music bought from many other competing online stores. 
Shareholders approve buyout offer 
CHICAGO -Equity Office Properties Trust shareholders overwhelmingly approved a $23 billion all-cash buyout offer Wednesday from private equity firm Blackstone Group, sealing the deal on an acquisition that ended with a down-to-the­wire bidding war. 
Company officials, who favored Blackstone's $55.50 per share proposal over a rival bid of cash and stock from suitor Vornado Healty Trust, said the acquisition will be completed Friday. 
They said more than 92 percent of bal­lots cast during the vote supported the acquisition. 
The Blackstone deal had the support of Equity Office trustees, even though it was less than the $56 per share in cash and shares offered by Paramus, N.J.-based Vornado. 
THE 0HSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

EU debates emission restrictions 
European Commission sets goal for lowering carbon dioxide output by 2012 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS The 
European Commission pro­
posed binding rules 
Wednesday to force 
automakers to cut carbon 
dioxide emissions from new 
cars sold in the European 
Union by 2012, arguing the 
tough measurP was crucial 
for fighting global warming. 
The plan faces strong 
opposition from the auto 
industry, and EU officials 
acknowledged it would likely 
lead to a rise in the sale 
price of new cars. 
It foresees lower emissions 
limits of nearly 210 grams of 
carbon dioxide per mile for 
new cars sold or imported 
into the EU by 2012. Average 
emissions are now around 
260 grams per mile. 
EU Industry Commissioner 
Guenter Verheugen urged 
governments to offer subsi­
dies and tax rebates to buy­
ers who seek out more envi­
ronment-friendly cars. 
"We have to be clear about 
thls, this is something which 
would considerably increase 
manufacturing costs per 
car," he said, but added that 
extra costs "will be more 
than balanced by the fact 
that cars will have greater 
fue! efficiency." 
The plan also calls for 
increased use of biofuels and 
cleaner fossil fuels, meant to 
reduce car emissions by 25 

percent, even lower than the participate and transport is grams of carbon dioxide per competitiveness in the long 
210-gram objective, EU very important," he said. mile. By 2016, that figure term." 
Environment Commissioner The United States does not would drop to 205 grams Barroso is pushing EU gov­
Stavros Dimas said. It also regulate carbon dioxide per mile, a 30 percent reduc­ernments to shift the 27­
calls for added research to emissions from vehicles, tion over cars made in 2002. nation bloc to a low carbon 
get a 153-gram-per-mile although the government EU officials argued the economy as a way of tack­
level by 2020. and several states are look­new rules, if backed by EU ling global warming and 
"If action is delayed, it will ing into proposals, said John governments, would keep carving out a new industrial 
cost far more," Dimas said. Millett, a spokesman for the Europe's ailing car industry niche for European indus­
He pointed to a U.N. scien­Environmental Protection viable in the long-term, amid tries. 
tist panel report Friday that Agency. growing cheap imports from EU officials have said 
warned that global warming California has adopted a Asia. automakers have failed to 
was so severe that it would plan, which the auto indus­"The EU car industries are meet voluntary caps on car 
continue for centuries. try has challenged in a law­at the core of our emissions set with the com­
"Winning the battle to pre­suit, for incremental economies, said EU mission nine years ago, 
vent dangerous climate decreases in carbon dioxide Commission President Jose when they pledged to reduce 
change ... will require very emissions, beginning with Manuel Barroso. "By posi­average emissions from new 
substantial reductions of cars made in 2009. Cars and tively taking up the climate and imported cars to 225 
greenhouse gases. All sec­light trucks made that year change challenge, they will grams of carbon dioxide per 
tors of the economy should would be limited to 323 preserve and enhance their mile by 2008. 

Lawmakers grab third rail in capital 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Back-channel efforts by the White House and Capitol Hill Democrats to begin trying to negotiate a solution to the fiscal prob­lems of Social Security and other fed­eral benefit programs appeared to collapse Wednesday. 
At issue is a little-publicized attempt by the White House and members of Congress to set up a working group of lawmakers and top administration officials to fortify benefit programs like Social Security and Medicare for the severe future fiscal challenges due to the looming retirement of the Baby Boom generation. Three-fourths of the group, evenly split between Democrats and Republicans, would have had to agree on any solution. 
But Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad, D-N.D., 

accused the White House of acting in bad faith at a panel hearing that turned acrimonious over White House Budget Director Rob Portman's unwillingness to acknowledge that tax increases should be part of any fix for the long-term problems of the huge federal benefit programs. 
"We have an opportunity here to work together, but the only way I know in human relations for there to be resolution between parties who have different views is for both sides to compromise," Conrad said. "Unfortunately I see virtually none on your side. And I regret that more than I can say." 
Conrad then gaveled the hearing to an end and immediately left. 
Portman says the administration is willing to come to the negotiating table with no preconditions -a change from the stance President Bush took two years ago, when he ruled out hikes in Social Security pay­roll taxes. But Portman told reporters, "The first step shouldn't prejudge where we end up." 
The idea of establishing the negoti­ating group had come close to fruition, Conrad said in an interview Saturday, but Vice President Dick Cheney set talks back last month after saying in a Fox News Sunday inter­view that the administration contin­ues to oppose payroll tax hikes as part of a broader Social Security solution. 
The panel was likely to have first focused on Social Security. 
The Senate Budget Committee's top Republican, Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, said House Democrats opposed the idea. 
"People on the other side are more interested in the next election than the next generation," Gregg said. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 8, 2007 
period, the most workers have the walks down to most students are already While several tons of salt 
are employed. bare pavement and dry by on campus. While are still used on average
Snow 
continued from page 1 
30 people who work three different shifts for campus snow removal, said Bill Thistlethwaite, superin­tendent of landscape servic­es. 
Three employees work from 2 a.m. to 10 a.m., using any of the depart­ment's four brooms, three Bobcat machines with buck­ets, three pick-up trucks with plows, four small dump trucks with plows and three big dump trucks with plows, Thistlethwaite said. 
Four employees work from 
3:30 p.m. until 11:30 p.m., and if snowfall isn't too heavy, Thistlethwaite said the department operates on a third shift from 7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. During that 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
The candidates brought differ­ent experiences and perspec­tives to the table, beginning with Brown and Braun's extensive involvement in student govern­ment. Collectively they have served on seven of the nine stu­dent senate committees. 
Fellow contenders Rivera and Kane, members of ROTC, offered their military leadership experi­ence, while Smith and Weiss highlighted their across-the­board participation in student government. 
Coggon and Padberg used comedy to compensate for their lack of involvement in student councils. 
"We're the only men on the ticket and therefore morally superior to others," Coggon quipped in his opening state­ment. 
Smith and Weiss emphasized their "technology initiatives" as the heart of their campaign, pre­senting proposals to make the purchase of football tickers available online and the use of Domer Dollars in the Notre Dame Stadium possible. The pair also proposed an alliance with Ruckus Network, Inc. to "provide a free and safe alterna­tive to downloading music," Smith said. 
Brown, however, had doubts concerning Ruckus' ability to provide a complete music expe­rience. "Unfortunately we came up with some concerns through OIT.... There's too many person­al security issues going on there [and] incompatibility with Macs and iPods," she said. 
Smith contended there was "absolutely no problem concern­ing security," though he admit­ted iPod compatibility "is an issue." 
Brown and Braun shared sev­eral proposals for the enrich­ment of campus life, including a guest meal exchange plan that would "let you take one of your unused meals and turn it into a voucher allowing your guests to save fifteen dollars," Braun said. The all-female ticket also pro­posed a free shuttle to the South Bend Airport, as well as making Martin Luther King Jr. Day a University-recognized holiday. 
For Rivera and Kane, having free tutoring available to all grade levels was a main priority, as well as allowing ID cards from other dorms to work on side doors. He also mentioned discussions with Chipotle about opening a restaurant on cam­pus. Though the Rivera-Kane 

There are always excep­tions, though. Precautions are taken for every scenario as soon as flurries begin. 
When there's more than two inches of snow, Thistlethwaite said, addi­tional people join the sec­ond shift, which then runs an extra four hours to end at 2 p.m. 
The current bitterly cold temperatures only compli­cate the matter. When the thermometer drops below zero and snow falls during the day, the removal process slows down. 
In subzero temperatures, chemicals used to remove the snow and break down ice are less efficient than in warmer weather, Thistlethwaite said. 
"When the temperatures are in the twenties, we can 
ticket has no student govern­ment experience, "we both have experience in leader.ship posi­tions," Kane said, noting that ROTC people can "get things done." 
The most unorthodox ideas came from Coggon and Padberg, who proposed a five-year plan to make two separate campuses for men and women. Under this proposal, "women will not be allowed within five hundred yards of men's dorms [and vice versa]" Coggon said. In addition, Coggon proposed " a wall on South Quad to block the wind," separate lanes on sidewalks for slow walkers, fast walkers and bicycles, and "implementing a squirrel season here so that squirrels may be harvested via slingshot." Padberg had little to say other than the word "havoc," and provided a musical compliment to Coggon's propos­als with makeshift instruments. 
In terms of communication with constituents, each ticket had its own ideas. Rivera and Kane proposed more informa­tion in The Observer, Brown and Braun suggested online student government applications and forums, Smith and Weiss wanted to reach out to off-campus stu­dents and provide a MAC net­work, and Coggon and Padberg said that they would communi­cate via "message in a bottle," allowing for "divine intervention as to which suggestions we are able to get," Coggon said. 
In their closing statements, each ticket reinforced their com­mitment and desire to lead the student body next year. 
"We think we can bring a lot to the table even though we're lacking in student government per se experience," Kane said. 
Weiss quoted a Volkswagen commercial. 
"In life there are passengers and drivers," she said. "Danny and I are drivers and we look forward to driving you into the future of Notre Dame." 
Braun emphasized the passion she and Brown share for student government. 
"Liz and I love this place," Braun said. "We want to make it better, we want to leave it better, and we're doing it for you guys. It's not for us." 
"Drawing on our experience we know what's possible and what's not," Brown added. 
Coggon said that "as candi­dates, we feel that we are those who are most well qualified." Padberg changed his one-word answer of "havoc" to "blarg" for his part in the closing statement. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 
the end of the day," he said. 
When snow falls at a rate of over two inches an hour during the daytime, the removal process becomes more cumbersome. But areas of campus that 
require  snow  removal  are  
prioritized  to  make  the  
process more efficient.  

"The walks and the roads are the top priority," Thistlethwaite said. "But along with that are the parking plaees for faculty, starr and commuting stu­dents." 
Although Thistlethwaite realizes that it may irritate students, student parking lots are the lowest priority for snow removal, he said. 
Thistlethwaite said work­ers plow the student lots last because most of the cars are already thern and 
Landscape Services does the best they can to clear parking lots, they do not intend block people from their cars, he said. 
"Contrary to popular belief, we don't really try to plow people in. That's not our goal," Thistlethwaite said. "Sometimes this is just something that happens when ears are left in lots that need to be plowed." 
Landscape Services is also trying to cut the use of salt by using other compounds, he said. 
"We like to think we're one of the leaders in using the environmentally friend­ly chemjeals," Thistlethwaite said. "These chemicals are byproducts of ethanol that are not corro­sive and do not harm plant life." 
each year, its use has been greatly reduced at Notre Dame. 
"We still use salt because we have to, but over the last six or seven years, we have cut our salt use by about 40 percent and [we] still keep our roads better than everybody else in the area," Thistlethwaite said. 
Since shifts are long and weather conditions harsh, those operating snow removal equipment need to stay focused. 
"It's very mentally tax­ing," Thistlethwaite said. "You have to stay alert all the time. When you work long hours and you can't see because of the snow, things can get hairy." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 
It was at that point that I choked on my Coke Zero. 

Given, he admitted that he wasn't sure how much he could do to affect it, which at least showed he wasn't delu­sional. Smith did guarantee, however, that he would bring it up during the student gov­ernment's seasonal presenta­tion to the Board of Trustees and ask them to work to find a solution. 
Let's all just take a moment and imagine the faces of some of the wealthiest and most influential men and women in the country as they're being asked to let the University take a hit in earn­ings and national competi­tiveness -just as it's gearing up to make its name as a "research university"? 
Yeah, it makes me smile too. 

I'm going to leave the Rivera-Kane and Coggon­Padberg tickets alone. The former is young and, as is obvious from Kane's com­ment to The Observer on Feb. 2 stating that her experience in high school student gov­ernment is sufficient because "school government is the same anywhere," they 
haven't fig­
ured out 



Colu01n 
continued from page 1 
At last night's uninspiring and uninspired debat11, I was struck by how ridieulous many of the tickets' primary platform pieces are. Garrett 
Coggon and Mike Padberg notwithstand­ing-they were ridicu­lous in the best sense of the word -all the tickets were foolishly opti­mistic about what they could accom­plish at the helm of stu­dent govern­ment. 
Maris Braun -vice presi­dential candi­

date to Liz Brown -stood up during her ticket's opening statement and deelared that she and Brown's approach was totally innovative and totally new. She looked into the crowd and said we could raise our expectations and not be disappointed. 
And then she and Brown unveiled their plan for the Guest Meal Exchange Program, which would allow students to convert their unused meals into vouchers to use when friends or family came to visit. 
Sure, it's a great idea. It's incredibly frustrating that the University fleeces students and their families over dining hall food. But Food Sorvices is notoriously reluctant to go along with policies that could lose it money. 
It took two yoars of work by former senator (and presi­dential candidate) .!amos Loito to get laundry eosts dropped by 25 cents for everyone who used Domer Dollars to pay for their wash­ing and drying. Leito's origi­nal intention, of course, was to drop prices for everyone, but who would want that? 
When eurrent student body president Lizzi Shappnll worked to get more food options in Grab 'n Go, we got cups of ramen, popcorn and snack packs. I'm pretty sure you can get all over those for less than 11fty cents at Meijer. 
Food Services won't even release its annual budget ­and I've seen student govern­ment ask for it all four years I've been here. 
Brown said she was already in talks with the head of Food Services, Dave Prentkowski. Talk is good, but it is also cheap for the University. I'd be absolutely shocked if we saw any action on it. I'd also be shocked if we ever saw that budget-which is where 
Talk is good, but it is also cheap for the University. I'd be absolutely shocked if we ever saw that budget -which is where I think any dealings with Food Services should start. 
I think any dealings with Food Services should start. 
To step off Brown-Braun -I'll save my utter skepti­cism about their ability to get the University to make Martin Luther King, Jr. Day a holi­day for anoth­er column­Danny Smith and Ashley Weiss had 
their fair share of castle-in­the-air promises. 
First, let's talk about Huekus Network, the Smith­Weiss solution for legal downloading. If you look back in The Observer archives around spring 
2005, Let's just all take a moment quite how 
you'll and imagine the wealthiest Notre Dame see sev­works yet.
and most influential men and
eral arti­The latter 
cles women in the country as was a sur­
about they're being asked to let the prisingly the funny joke
University take a hit in 
Student ticket-not 
Senate earnings and national quite White­
consid­competitiveness-just as it's Powers, but ering, better than
gearing up to make its name
and ulti­what the 
as a "research university"? 
mately freshmen at 
reject­ing, pro­posals to join with Huckus. The idea was thoroughly explored at the time, and although Ruckus has waived its fee (which doesn't make any sense to me, and Huckus' extraordinarily vague Web site doesn't help clarify), it wasn't a good fit for the University. 
If students want it, they can go to ruekus.eom now and sign up. The only thing they'll miss out on is movies and TV. So why is this Smith­Weiss' primary campaign point? Is there something more to this that I'm missing? 
Near the end of the debate, Smith brought up the prob­lem of escalating tuition at Notre Dame, and how as stu­dent body president, he would work to bring it down. 
Zahm usu­ally turn out. 

With all the student govern­ment experience, however, Brown-Braun and Smith­Weiss shouldn't be let off the hook. Either they have no idea how the organization they've been working for functions, or they're being deceptive in order to win. Because I would bet that the most that will come out of 75 percent of their campaign promises is "dialogue. 
And I don't know about you, but I've had enough "dia­logue" over the past year. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

r---,-----------------------------------------------~---~----~--~~ 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

JaDiieson 
continued from page 1 
Jamieson then took the stage and immediately grabbed the audience's attention by tack­ling her grave subject material with an interactive approach. 
"Why don't we co-create this lecture?" she asked. 
Jamieson referenced Aristotle's theories on enthymemes and public speech, which favor deductive arguments and interaction with the audience, respective­ly. 
"Using enthymeme, we can make active communication, which will make this talk more powerful," she said. 
Jamieson, a renowned expert in political advertising and deception, has appeared on CBS and other television programs as an authority in the field. 
Jamieson traced the duplici­ty of politics to the 1964 presi­dential election, inviting the audience to analyze President Lyndon Johnson's controver­sial anti-nuclear warfare ad campaign. 
She said the 1964 election was "the dirtiest election in politics. It all started here," she said. "This ad served as an iconic reference point for dirty politics." 
Jamieson asked the audi­ence to interpret the ads and explain how they swayed their thoughts on each candidate. 
She proceeded to show another Johnson ad, which never aired due to its sensa­tionalist content. It featured video clips of the Ku Klux Klan and said members supported Republican candidate Senator Barry Goldwater. 
"People are often bothered by the juxtaposition of ads and the placement of people and things," she said. 
Jamieson then fast-forward­ed to the 2004 presidential election and the role of the Internet in political cam­paigns. She said a verbal slip­up from Vice President Dick Cheney led audiences to visit an online blog that endorsed the John Kerry-John Edwards ticket instead of Republican platforms -mistakenly bene­fiting his opponent. 
These blogs and other Web­based news feeds may deter­mine future political outcomes as their popularity among the voters increases, she said. 
"Although [bloggers] are one-sided, they are complete and show the future of cam­paigning and reaching the audience," she said. 
She said political contenders down the road would need to integrate the growing trend to their campaigns' strategies. 
"In politics today, young peo­ple need to find a way to make [the Internet] work for them," she said. "You can fix the sys­tem using technology and find new ways to change the sys­tem." 
Jamieson ended the lecture with questions. 
After Jamieson's farewell, Pauley took the stage again and invited Plamondon to say a few words. Pauley presented her with a collection of letters from the alumnae who endorsed her lecture series. 
Vihtelic recognized Plamondon's accomplishments and her lasting impact on her students in her opening state­ment. 
"We want to note her [Plamondon's] many contribu­tions to Saint Mary's and her impact on countless young women," she said. "Over 1,000, to be exact." 
Students from the graduat­ing classes of 1981-2004 were responsible for the series and provided funding for the endowment. 
Dr. John Pauley, communica­tions professor and chair of the Communication Studies department, was the driving force behind the series to honor his longtime colleague. 
"[Plamondon] stood beside, behind me and with me since I came here in 1991 and this has not changed," he said. 
Plamondon said the expan­sion of the department during her time in the College would have not been possible without the contributions of the entire Saint Mary's community. 
"The department has grown and changed over the years," Plamondon said. And I want to clear up the deception ... everything I have accom­plished has been due to the wonderful support of my stu­dents, colleagues and adminis­tration." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Fire 
continued from page 1 
who we are, and should be done with good intentions. 
"Our actions affect our beliefs," he said, "and our beliefs affect our actions.... The only things we do are those that we see as good." 
To foster good character, Incandela said one must learn and practice morally good skills -traits that define moral character. 
Like a coach guides a team, he said, the plays of your life must be learned from others' guidance. 
"It matters a great deal what community we are part of," Incandela said. "None of us form our con­science on our own." 
Defining your personal community, he said, allows you to see what kind of character you possess. 
Being part of a community calls you to compromise ­"a debate between standing out and fitting in," Incandela said. 
At the lecture's conclu­sion, Incandela asked stu­
Law & .... 

Please join the Law School for its 2006-2007 series of interdisciplinary discussions. All programs begin at 4:00p.m. and will be held in Law School room 120. 
Thursday, September 28, 2006 
Human Rights and Human Atrocities in Uganda 
Presenter: Todd David Whitmore Department of Theology Respondent: Doug Cassel Center for Civil and Human Rights, The Law School 
Thursday, November 9, 2006 
The Biophysics ofLife and Public Policy Disputes: Interfacing with the Scientific Comrnunity on Bioethical Issues 
Presenter: Phillip Sloan Program of Liberal Studies Respondent: Carter Snead The Law School 

Thursday, February 8, 2007 
The Other Alien Debate: Biology and Policy ofInvasive Species 
Presenter: David Lodge Department of Biological Sciences Respondent: Alejandro Camacho The Law School 
Thursday, March I, 2007 
Identifying Tax Effects on Charitable Giving 
Presenter: Daniel Hungerman Department of Economics and Econometrics Respondent: Lloyd Mayer The Law School 
dents to reflect on his words. 
"I thought that tonight was beneficial because Professor Incandela related our conscience and beliefs directly to our actions," junior Kelly Payne said. "Realizing that our actions 
affect  our  beliefs  is  an  
important factor in how  we  
live our daily lives."  

Incandela also said it is important to realize actions and beliefs mutually affect each other. 
"We don't do things that are out of our character," he said. "Our character is the accumulation of moral choices." 
Contact Abby Richardson at arichaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 8, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Read this, or I'll break your knees 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
S!'ORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRA!'HICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERI1SING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent· the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published MoOOay through Fridlly except during ~xam and v;.atinn periods. Asubscript:ion ro The Observer is $100 for one ac:u::lemic ya.r; $55 for one semester. 
The Obstr:ver is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address co~tions co: 
Notre D:un¢. IN 46556--0779 Tlte Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Noue D.une P..O.Boxm 
and addicionaJ mailing offices. 024 SouEh Dining Hall 

Norre Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Obsc:rvcr is .a rntmber ofthe Associated P~ess. All reproduction rights: m ro=v<d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Kelly Meehan Madeline Nies Marcela Berrios Sports Uz Harter Jay Fitzpatrick Mandi Stirone Scene Viewpoint Erin McGinn Alyssa Brauweiler 
It's that time of year again -when the arctic South Bend air will induce frostbite in mere minutes and when you wonder why on earth you endure such excruciating conditions just to get an education. 
And as you wit­ness countless stu­dents wiping out on the ice-coated sidewalks, your thoughts might skate backwards in time to a young woman who was once the epitome of "trouble on ice" -former figure skater Tanya Harding. 
True -Harding was the first woman to nail the triple axle, double toe loop combination, but we all know that her name would've melted into obscurity-that is, if she hadn't been a co-conspirator in the 1994 clubbing of her nemesis, Nancy Kerrigan. 
And yet this skating saga was a measly single axle compared to that spectacle that would spin in the com­ing summer, boosting former football star O.J. Simpson into Gold Medal position on the award stand of infamy. 
True -Simpson was the first NFL running back to rush for over 2,000 yards in a single season. but we all know that his name would bear nowhere near the notoriety that it does today, had he not allegedly slain (oh, wait, he was acquitted in the criminal trial) his ex-wife, Nicole Brown, and her friend, Ron Goldman. 

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey 
Grind 

And yet both the football-player­turned-murderer and the figure­skater-turned-clubbing-conspirator realized eternal renown without dropping thousands of dollars (and adding dozens of layers of clothing) en route to a top-tier education. After all. Simpson was simply enrolled in classes (perhaps a ball­room dance class?) at the University of Southern California, and Harding didn't even graduate from high school (although she later earned her GED). 
Oh, well-at least the pair pos­sessed some degree of athletic apti­tude. 
But what about those with non­educationally or athletically-oriented "talents" who also managed to squeeze their way onto the podium of infamy? 
What about the talent-less former back-up dancer Kevin Federline? As subzero temperatures descended upon South Bend last Sunday, Federlinn starred in a Super Bowl commerdal, our society's sure sign of infinite repute. And how did he attain that sought-after status sym­bol? lin merely married (and then divorced) a trampy pop music icon. 
What about former White llouse intern Monica Lewinsky? She simply "pleased" then-President Bill Clinton, thus securing her own medal of noto­riety. 
What about former Enron CEO (and now deceased) Kenneth Lay? Well, he surely would've netted straight 6.0's in the category of egregious corpo­rate fraud. And after that unfeeling feat, his name was undoubtedly pro­pelled into another esteemed catego­ry -that of the forevermore recog­nizable. 
Likewise, what about Lorena Bobbit? I needn't tell you what she did to earn her place among the notorious; more likely than not, you're already familiar with her butcherous tale. 
And what about Notre Dame alum­nus Steve Bartman? In 2003, he caught the scorn of a city -and thus, eternal infamy. And he did this using only his hand, not his coveted Notre Dame degree. 
So why then do we trek through polar snows and tolerate the "wind tunnel" of South Quad? After all, we can clearly attain everlasting renown without either an education or that highly sought-after piece of paper. 
So what's the moral of this story? 
Perhaps you should ditch your goose-down coat and your Biology textbook. Maybe what you really need is a trampy wife or a black leather glove that you can claim doesn't fit. 
Otherwise you, as just one of the many well-meaning students who slip on the ice in front of DeBartolo, will slip into obscurity like Tonya Harding should have. 
You surely don't want a frostbitten nose. But don't you want to be frozen in time? 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be reached at ecoffey@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What was your favorite Super Bowl commercial? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

~ b •t 1tt 

I:;
~u ·. Dll.·• al;e •. er to theEditor at 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It's kind offun to do the impossible." 
Walt Disney producer 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 8, 2007 
page 11 
Think about what Lent will mean to you 
U-WIRE 


Declare your own personal snow day 

Last Sunday's Super Bowl garnered the second­largest TV audience in the history of our country for a sporting event. My own conviction is that I sometimes prefer the conference playoff games because I find them more exciting than the Super Bowl itself. But a lot of people 
Richard V.
enjoy watching the advertise­

Warner, CSC
ments that sell for millions of dol­lars. One would assume that pay­
FaithPoint 
ing that much money for a 30-sec­ond or 60-second ad would encourage the advertis­ers themselves to put their best foot forward. That certainly did not seem to be the case on Sunday. 
We all know how significant the media is in form­ing our convictions and even determining what val­ues should be the most important ones for us as a people and a culture. If that is the case, the spate of rather violent episodes in the Super Bowl adver­tisements seems to be a cautionary light for us. A number of the advertisements contained violence at some level of one kind or another. In thinking about that, I could not help but reflect on two different matters which I have been thinking about lately. 
We know that in our country a lack of respect for people is something that is all too easily taken for granted. This is not true only with regard to the way we talk about and refer to people who are dif­ferent than we are, but it also spills over into the relationships between men and women, our nation­al conversation with regard to immigrants, the lack of progress in terms of racial equality which we are reminded about every time we celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr. or just give even a passing thought to the situation in our country and a growing intol­erance for some of the institutions which have made our country what it is over the course of the years. 
For over a decade now, young people have been spending hours entertaining themselves with vio­lent video games, the object of which is to kill as many people as possible in the course of the game itself. I wonder if the effects of this kind of expo­sure are not slowly eroding away the idea of respect among us and even our respect for life itself. 
Within fewer than two weeks, we will once again begin our Lenten observance which will prepare us for the great feast of Easter. It is probably not too soon to begin thinking about what we would like this Lent to be for us and what changes we would like to see take place within our own lives. If we begin giving some thought now to how we will live out this holy season of grace, we will not have to scramble at the last minute and perhaps fall back into previous Lenten practices which, although they are very good in and of themselves, may not be what we need at this moment in our lives. 
Increased devotion to the Eucharist should cer­tainly be a part of our Lenten observance. There is no higher degree of human solidarity than when believers gather around the Eucharistic table to lis­ten to the Word of God, to encourage one another in their quest to make Jesus the center of their lives and who share together in receiving the body and blood of Our Lord. 
It may also be a time for us to really examine how we live in solidarity with other people and what role the poor should play as we determine the almsgiving that has to be part of our Lenten resolu­tions as well. 
If we take time now to think about where we would like to be on Easter as a result of our Lenten season of grace, this may be a super Lent for each one of us. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Father Richard Warner, director of Campus Ministry. He can be reached at rwarner@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Let's face it. No matter how much of this white stuff piles up, "Kent State University -Classes Canceled" is not going to fmd its way onto a school closing ticker any time soon. 
So if you're lucky 

Ryan

enough to complete the 

Szymczak
commute here success­fully, avoid pile-ups, Kent State defy zero-visibility and Universityavoid the urge to turn Daily Kent your swerving, salt­Stater spackled vehicle back toward the direction of your bed -which is still warm -then you'll find yourself in park, gazing out with anguish at a snow globe on speed. 
Certainly, you'll shake your head in a "why me?" sort of way before pushing your door open to find your hands have instantly turned a few beaten hues of pink. 
Then, sloshing through ridges of brown slush, you'll track your way through your schedule, making stops at Bowman, Satterfield, and Business Administration to find two of your three classes are can­celed anyway and only you and some coughing/sneezing classmate were brave enough to weather the weather. 
Your professor will walk in, conduct a 
session that runs about half the usual 
time, and say things she's sure to repeat 
next class to get everyone else 
caught up. You'll get up to leave, 
zipping, buttoning, 
latching, wrapping 
and bundling your­
self, while noticing 
the murky pud­
dles beneath the 
desks of you and 
sick boy. Sick 
boy will sneeze 
in your direction 
and smile. He'll 
sniffle and smear 
whatever is drip­
ping out of his 
nose back up there 
with an open palm 
before attempting to 
hand you the pen you 
leant him earlier that class. 
"Keep it," you reply. Isn't winter fun? If you're one of these responsible types 
who feel a severe sense of guilt when your 
name isn't inked on an attendance sheet, 
make note: "Trotting in frigid temperatures is not a significant means to keeping you warm," said Keith C. Heidorn, author of "And Now the Weather" and frequent contributor to National Public Radio. "Movement actually reduces clothing's effectiveness by 20 percent." 
Heidorn sug­gests wearing several layers as opposed to one thick coat to maintain a healthy tempera­

ture. "If you're shiver­ing, that's your body attempting to increase your metabol­ic heat input," he said. Your body temperature is getting lower and your brain is 
slowing down. You're unable to think clearly and move as well as your normally would. This means note taking is going to be physically and mentally trying. Well, more so than usual. 
By the way, Heidorn warns that "when the surface of your skin is exposed to below freezing temperatures for an extended period of time, ice crystals begin to form within the live cells of the skin, killing them in the process." 
Pesky little ice crystals. 
That's OK. The tip of your nose is over­rated anyway. Rest assured that come spring time, stubs are going to be the new must-have. 
In the meantime, you have three options tomorrow morning: 
1. 
Stay indoors and declare your own personal snow day. 

2. 
If you dare, do all of your classmates afavor. All you need is a computer. 7 cents in FlashCash, a call number, a disre­gard for severe repercussions and a strip of Scotch tape. It's that easy. 


Your third choice? Lose your nose. It's up to you. 
This column originally appeared in the Feb. 7 edition ofthe Daily Kent Stater. the daily publication at Kent State University. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Parallels exist between drurUks,awesomeness 
Dear Mark Poyar (Feb. 7 Letter to the Editor, 'Parallels exist between drunks, gov­ernment') -welcome to America! One of your rights as a citizen of this great nation, and part of what makes this country so amazing, is that you are free to spew your Bush-Bashing, tree-hugging, French-loving propaganda in Viewpoint as much as you want. Because of your right to freedom of speech, we won't even begin to touch on the topic of how you believe it's not OK to kill ter­rorist.<>, yet you claim abortion as an "American value." ... Even though neither of us thinks unborn babies are the real enemies of democracy. There is a much more impor­tant issue that needs to be addressed. The one thing that has always been a central part to the soul of America, one thing that we cannot and will not allow you to disrespect, is drinking. Ever since the Puritans embarked on their passage to America with more beer aboard their ships than water, this country has been centered around drinking. In the 17th century, abstainers had to pay ten per­cent more for health insurance because it is almost a scientific fact that those who drink all the time are healthier, stronger and more awesome than those that don't. Ifyou cannot appreciate and respect the importance of alcohol in America, then feel free to move to some place like Canada, or at the very least, switch to a dry dorm like Morrissey. 
Tom Martin Siegfried Hall president Patrick McMaster Siegfried Hall spirit commissioner Feb. 7 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
.---------------------------------------~-----­
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 
CD REVIEWS 

There's no 'Wincing' at The Shins' success 
By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
The Shins have done it again, but not at all in the same way as before. The group's newest effort "Wincing the Night Away" is the type of speaker candy that makes the listener once again have faith in the mod­ern music industry. 
In the world of electronic Paris Hilton songs, covers of covers and "American Idol." "Wincing the Night Away" is more than just a breath of fresh air, it is an oxy­gen tank for the drowning musical afi­cionado. 
The band originally formed in 1997 in Albuquerque, New Mexico and has been making music ever since. Originally start­ed as a passion project of singer/song­writer/guitarist James Mercer, the band dominated the underground indie music scene for several years before reaching a national audience when two of their songs were featured in the 2004 movie "Garden State," starring Zach Braff and Natalie Portman. The soundtrack for the movie airways just beg­

The Shins 
ging for you to 
sing along. The band may
Wincing the Night Away 
have its best song in the song, "Turn 
Sub Pop 
On Me." The track is so enjoyable that audio play­ers' repeat but­tons may quickly become worn out.
····~]

Recommended tracks: 'Sleeping Lessons,"Australia,' 
This track has the 
'Turn on Me' and 'Spilt Needles' 
type of feel-good sound that corn-received widespread praise for its origi­nality and the overall quality of the songs, and The Shins found themselves at center stage as a bulk of the soundtrack's suc­cess was placed squarely on the band's shoulders. With the release of "Wincing the Night Away," the spotlight won't be leaving the group anytime soon. 
The CD is one of those types that finds its way into your CD player and manages to stay there for weeks, even months. The album starts strong and never wavers and becomes one of those rare CDs that can be played from start to finish without the listener ever wishing to skip to the next song. 
The first track, "Sleeping Lessons," opens quietly like a dream. Just when it almost induces you into a trance, the drums come in and bring the song to life. From the start the CD appears to be great. 
The next song, "Australia," is equally appealing. The best part about The Shins' sound is how much fun their music is to listen to. Listeners can't help but smile when the airy, bright songs 
bounce along the pels the listener to sing along. Overall the sound is bright and brilliant, the lyrics witty and addictive and the instrumenta­tion clever and clear. The song is nothing short of wonderful. 


The song "Spilt Needles" follows the precedent of the rest of the album, and is in itself another great track. The Shins arc lyrically on top of their game and pos­sess some of the most unique and enjoy­able sounds to come along in years. This truly is a band that is streaking its way to the top, beyond any indie success they previously had. 
Overall, this album could quickly find itself on the way into the "album of the year" discussion. Several of the songs could be picks for single of the year, and The Shins sound is pleasant, fulfilling and overall impressive. When Natalie Portman references The Shins in "Garden State," she says, "You gotta hear this one song, it'll change your life I promise you." Well, you have to hear this album, it'll change your life -I promise you. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 

Applause worthy for latest 'Clap Hands' album 
By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
Clap Your Hands Say Yeah is one of those bands that defies any definition. Somewhere between pop-rock, folk, elec­tronica and alternative lies the true har­mony that comprises the music produced by these Brooklyn/Philadelphia rockers and the band's most recent effort, "Some Loud Thunder" is evocative of this het­erogeneous mixture of musical sounds. 
Clap Your Hand Say Yeah is a band that is a prototype of the power of the Internet music scene. The band formed in 2004 and self-produced and self-promoted its own music. The band's addictive sound caught onto Internet listeners and the effect snowballed from there, gathering more listeners and fans every day. As the group garnered praise on indie music blogs, its fan base increased. By the time 2005 was over, the group had signed with Wichita Records and was one of the hottest bands in the country. 
Their newest CD, "Some Loud Thunder," is the group's second release 


Dance," a trackClapYour 
which opens with some particularly
Hands Say Yeah odd electronic 
sounds and tran­Some Loud Thunder sitions into 5-rnin­utes of high­
Clap Your Hands Say 
paced musical action. Next is "Goodbye to

(t(t(t(t 
Mother and the Cove," a particu­

Recommended tracks: 'Emma Jean Stock,"Satan 
larly addictive song. The open­

Said Dance,' and 'Goodbye to Mother and the Cove' 
ing guitar pattern and is reminiscent of so many different bands that it is difficult to label just one. The band's five members ~ Alec Dunsworth, Robbie Guertin, Lee Sargent, Tyler Sargent and Sean Greenhalgh ­met at Connecticut College and now con­tribute to one of the most diverse-sound­

. ing rock groups around. 
The CD opens with the title track, "Some Loud Thunder" and starts off on a sub-par note. The song sounds like it is too much for speakers to handle and has a grainy, distorted effect. After trying built-in computer speakers, satellite speakers and headphones, the conclusion is that this is the way the song is meant to sound. However, the overall effect of this is one of annoyance. The vocalists' whiny voices are amplified, and while this style of singing works for most of the band's songs, this particular track is negatively affected. · 
The CD takes a sharp upward turn on the next track, however, with "Emma Jean Stock," a feel-good catchy sound that features sharp guitar-picking and interesting electronic effects. 
Another highlight of the album is the song "Satan Said will have the listener bobbing his or her head to the tune within the first 15 sec­onds of the track. There are no vocals for the first minute of the track and this peri­od serves to display the musical talent that Clap Your Hands Say Yeah really has. 
'The Sword Song" is the bonus track on the disc and is also one of the best songs. The song features a strong drum base, overlaid with melodic guitar riffs. The overall effect is an addictive mix and this very well might be the best track on the entire CD. For once, the bonus track on an album is actually a bonus. 
The interesting thing about the group Clap Your Hands Say Yeah is that vocally, they really aren't very talented. Often at times, the notes they sing sound forced and unharmonious. The thing is, the band just doesn't care. In the style of Bob Dylan, not known for his great voice, CYHSY builds greatness through lyrical genius and musical diversity and talent. The name of the band, in fact, is fitting ~ its music simply makes the listener clap his or her hands and say, "Yeah!" 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 





NSIDER 
O
THE Thursday, February 8, 2007 BSERVER Recruiting Class of 2011 
Cavalry coming 
Notre Dame signs top-10 recruiting class for second straight year, despite late defections 
to a state championship. He By CHRIS KHOREY was undefeated as a starter at Associate Sports Ediror 
Oaks Christian. 
"Obviously he comes in with 

Notre Dame has signed 18 high accolades," Weis said. freshmen for the class of 2011, "The fact that he's 42-0 as a head coach Charlie Weis starter, it doesn't get any bet­announced Wednesday. ter than that." 
"I think we basically attained Clausen enrolled at Notre what we were trying to do at Dame at the beginning of the all positions," Weis said. "I spring semester and will com­have to tell you, I'm very pete for the starting signal­happy with the group of young caller job with rising junior men we're bringing in here." Evan Sharpley and rising 
The Irish expected to sign sophomores Demetrius Jones two more players Wednesday, and Zach Frazer. but wide receiver Greg Little of Durham, N.C., and offensive Running Backs lineman Chris Little of Notre Dame signed two tail­Jeffersonville, Ga., decided at backs with very different the last minute to sign with styles. North Carolina and Georgia, Armando Allen, of Hialeah, respectively. Fla., is a speed back who runs 
Notre Dame signed eight a 4.35-second 40-yard dash. offensive players, seven defen­He also enrolled at the begin­sive players, a kicker and two ning of the semester and will players -Andrew Nuss out of participate in spring practice. Ashburn, Va., and Emeka "This kid can flat out fly," Nwankwo out of Hollywood, Weis said. 
Fla. -who could play on Allen broke his leg during either the offensive or defen­his senior season, but is sive lines, Weis said. expected to be at full strength 
Overall, Notre Dame's class by spring workouts. was rated eighth in the nation Robert Hughes, out of by Rivals.com and eleventh by Hubbard High School in 
Scout. com. Chicago, is a bruising, 228­pound back who rushed for Quarterbacks more than 1,000 yards as a 
On April 22, 2006, the day of senior. He committed to the the Blue-Gold Game, Notre Irish in January after choosing Dame received a verbal com­Notre Dame over Illinois. mitment from the nation's top­Both Allen and Hughes could rated high school passer. push for playing time next sea­Jimmy Clausen of Westlake son in Notre Dame's backfield, Village, Calif. left wide open by the early 
Clausen, the younger brother departure of Darius Walker for of former Tennessee quarter­the NFL. backs Casey and Rick Clausen, passed for 3,428 yards and 49 Receivers 
touchdowns as a senior, lead­To fill the void left by depart­ing Oaks Christian High School ing wide receivers Rhema 

McKnight and Jeff Samardzija, Notre Dame signed two wide­outs and a tight end to the class of 2011. 
"The two guys we have com­ing in are very contrasting in their styles," Weis said. 
Duval Kamara, of Hoboken, N.J., verbally committed to Weis on May 10, 2006. At 6­foot-4, he is similar in style to former Irish receiver Maurice Stovall and is ranked the eighth best receiver nationally by Scout.com. 
Golden Tate, out of John Paul II high school in Hendersonville, Tenn., is a smaller, quicker receiver in the mold of Notre Dame rising junior David Grimes. Tate is listed at 6-foot but runs a 4.4­second 40. 
Mike Ragone, out of Cherry Hill, N.J., was Notre Dame's only tight end signee for 2007. He was ranked second nation­ally at his position by Scout.com. Ragone stands 6­foot-5 and weighs 230 pounds. Six of his nine touchdowns went for 60 yards or longer. 
"You won't find many tight ends that run as fast as him," Weis said. 

Linemen 
Notre Dame signed two true offensive linemen for the class of 2011 -Taylor Dever of Grass Valley, Calif., and Matt Romine of Tulsa, Okla. -and one true defensive lineman ­Ian Williams of Longwood, Fla. 
Dever was credited with 80 pancake blocks during his sen­ior season. 
Romine had to be pried away from his home-state Sooners. 
"He's an Oklahoma kid, but he's a Notre Dame fit," Weis said. "He's a guy we wanted. He fit great with our players." 
Williams stands 6-foot-2 and weighs 295 pounds. His style is similar to that of Notre 

"This guy is a very disrup­tive interior defensive line­man, the type of guy that can make us better in a hurry," Weis said. 
The Irish also signed Nuss and Nwankwo, who could play either side of the ball. 
"As you go through the offensive line/defensive line process, it was important for us to find a couple players that could play either offense or defense because we could­n't really take the risk of dou­bling the numbers up," We is said. "But we had to find a couple guys that were capable of playing our offensive or defensive line." 

Linebackers 
Notre Dame signed four line­backers to strengthen a unit that struggled at times in 2006. 
Kerry Neal was the first Irish commitment for the class of 2011. He gave his verbal to Weis Feb. 24, 2006. Neal, from Bunn, N.C., weighs 230 pounds and will play outside linebacker in new Notre Dame defensive coordinator Corwin Brown's 3-4 personnel pack­age. 
The Irish also picked up commitments before the sea­son from Aaron Nagel of Lemont, Ill., and Steve Paskorz of Allison Park, Pa. Weis said both players will probably end up playing inside in the new defensive align­ment. 
In January, Notre Dame offered a scholarship to out­side linebacker prospect Brian Smith out of Overland Park, Kan. Smith had committed to Iowa, but changed his mind after the Irish offered. Smith's father Chris played at Notre Dame from 1981-85. 
"When our system changed [to a 3-4], he became a perfect fit," Weis said. 
and Chris Donald, strongly considered Notre Dame, but signed with Florida and Tennessee, respectively. 
Defensive Backs 
The Irish picked up five defensive backs last year and limited their offers in the sec­ondary this year, picking up cornerback Gary Gray from Columbia, S.C., and Harrison Smith from Knoxville, Tenn. 
Gray was rated Scout.com's sixth best cornerback. After decomitting from South Carolina this summer, he choose Notre Dame over the Gamecocks and enrolled at Notre Dame along with Allen and Clausen at the beginning of the spring semester. 
Smith, who grew up in the Volunteers' back yard, runs a 
4.45 40-yard dash and had scholarship offers from Tennessee and Auburn in addition to Notre Dame. 
"The thing we're bringing him in as a safety who can cover from sideline to side­line," Weis said. "One of the things we think we need to do is get additional range in the secondary with our safeties." 
Kickers 
Late in the recruiting process, Notre Dame got a commitment from Brandon Walker of Findlay, Ohio. 
Walker had previously com­mitted to Louisville, but he decided to come to Notre Dame after Weis offered. He will push sophomore Ryan Burkhart for the starting kick­ing job next year. 
"I was only interested in bringing in a guy at this posi­tion with another scholarship if it was a guy who had a chance of unseating somebody and being able to get on the field for us as a freshman," Weis said. "We think, looking at this kid, he has the poten­

Photo courtesy of Hialeah-Miami Lakes High School 

Irish signee running back Armando Allen runs through a hole for Dame fifth-year senior Trevor Scout.com's No.1 and No. 2 tial to do that walking in the Hialeah-Miami Lakes High School during his senior season. Laws. linebackers, Lorenzo Edwards door." 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, February 8, 2007 

Cause and effect affects smaller schools most 


UN' FACTS AB'OiJT THE LASS OF 2011 
Auronc::~agel, ~e~ry Neal and Stev~ .Paskot_z orally committed to St~ve Paskor~ _is a former champion of the national Punt, Pass and Notr~·Dame wtthtp 24 hours of recetvmg their, offers. -Kick compettuon. . :: < ,·_ -:.o.: '~ -. .¥ ·, . ~-. ~. -,:_:.ii: ..' !,+-~..:, '~/ ...,., -<i.'' 
Bria~~mith's father and ~ormer I~sh' running back, Chris Smith, is 

on the Monqgtattl, Club board of duectors._ · ·.. HarrisonSmith ~nd, Brian S~ith }oi~ cur~ent~nebatke!s s~~tt s~ and.-/forJ:a~, ¥;ltb~Ps''t~Y~~four Irtsh plqers ;t_hat sHire _th_e ___
__ ·_._m6stEm~ka Nwa~-!tyo_g~ax~~.·for Team USA in t4e 2007 NfL Global com~on;(lasJ[mtrfli!' iq1-th¢c tJ.S. Brown .(~erglO ax:4 Justm) ~·-the 
secohd-mq,st·common surname :yP,ong lnsh pl.~y~.f§l"._ · .>'D:;ti~
Jun~o~ ~-harn_p101\.§~:P ~-l!lj;t. L_au-derd__ ale as part ofSuperBowl XLJ festt_v~tte~:d.~ana(ia, ~~jl.n::0~ <Panama, Fr~g-ce ·and Japan als<? 

parttqpate ,, -"'' J\rm~nd~Allen_post~dt~~eighth~est 110-m~ter high sc.~: tl~l! m t~e Y,,S!' (1,:,~;82};:l~Ji~U§ and the Rest 1n th~ .~~at.,-~,
l~'i\t~~~~·f¥~!~i/eN~;~nto~~·Vo~~~'gl~~~. "!{~~~;,:: G~lden Tate's full.rtam~-is Golden H~ 1:~te UI. Hi~ father Grilden. 
P~rne l~~l3;_;tiL ~no~;y~l~, ·Tenn., after R1ck enter~d · game Jor1 

tn ured. ·_tte .etlk A ' • -. , .. ta;rfif{h'FJW~i ~i~li~~4~FL~~:£r~t5efh~rr_~~r:n~ ~iis_'~~f~ in 
. ' ---· 
Early signing period wouldn't help teams like Ball State 
Justin Trattou is a star defen­sive end out of Don Bosco Prep in Ramsey, N.J. He verbally com­mitted to Notre Dame way back in June, and it made perfect sense. He's a kid from a Catholic high school less than an hour from Franklin Township, where Irish coach Charlie Weis led a team to a state title. He was going to be the next big defensive end for the Irish. 
Until Florida stepped in. 

Gators coach Urban Meyer nabbed Trattou from Notre Dame en route to Florida's con­sensus No. 1 recruiting class. With the loss of Trattou, a schol­arship spot opened for the Irish. 
Brian Smith is a mid-to high­level linebacker from Overland Park, Kan. lie was Iowa's sec­ond-best linebacker recruit when he verbally committed to the Hawkeyes. A kid from a good family with a football back­ground, he looked destined to be a great addition for Iowa. 
Until Notre Dame stepped in. 

The 6-foot-2, 230-pound Smith wasn't a target for Notre Dame early, even though his father is a member of the school's 

Ken Fowler 
Sports Editor 

Weis has a new policy for com­mitments, and it's simple: no soft verbals, no silent commits, no quiet verbals and no visits to or conversations with other schools if you commit to Notre Dame. 
But Ball State can't afford that sort of a policy, which is where Weis' parallel thought-"if you're looking, we're looking" ­only keeps schools like Ball State mired in unwinnable recruiting situations. 
Weis' two-pronged approach certainly isn't hypocritical; it just doesn't solve the problems for the smaller schools. The early signing day and refusal to accept soft verbal commitmenl'i will protect major-eonference pow­ers, but the belief that any player "looking" is fair game leaves the smaller schools vulnerable to poaching by bigger schools. 
So why should the NCAA make it easier for big-time programs to recruit while not doing anything to help the schools with less prestige or tradition? An early signing period would help only some, and those some are the major programs with national reputations that aren't able to convince players to stick with them come February. 
Weis is trying to do what's best for his team and the entire Irish program. But the early signing day, which the NCAA would have to pass, will amount only to elitist protectionism. 
But then again, when was the NCAA charged with anything else? 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
Monogram Club. But then, the 
Irish had an extra spot in the 
recruiting class and new defen­
sive coordinator Corwin Brown 
decided Smith was a perfect fit. 
Smith verbally committed just days after Trattou's spot opened up. 
Bruce Davis is a weak-side linebacker from Cleveland. He wasn't the biggest recruit -in fact, he wasn't even listed as one ofScout.com's 50-best players at his position. But he was a solid land for Ball State. 
Until Iowa stepped in. 
The Hawkeyes only found out about Davis during the winter and offered the 5-foot-11, 230­pound linebacker in January as soon as Smith was destined for Notre Dame. Davis accepted the spot immediately and signed with Iowa Wednesday. 
Thanks to Florida, Notre Dame lost one of its best defensive recruits. Instead, the Irish got a sec­
ond option. Thanks idoa of an early
"On a national
to Notre Dame, signing day Iowa lost one of its basis ... more guys intrigues him, but best defensive switched last year schools like his­
recruits. Instead, which he wishes 
and this year than 
the Hawkeyes went weren't called to their second ever before. " "mid-majors" ­option. Thanks to all don't have the three, Ball State lost financial and
Tom Lemming 
one of its best human resources
recruiting analyst 
defensive recruits. to handle the 
In a year when they went to the South to sign a quarterback prospect out of Georgia, the Cardinals were out of luck for a key defender. 
In today's college football, that's what happens when you're in the Mid-America Conference, and recruits start to treat verbal commitments like statements of emotion. 
"On a national basis ... more guys switched last year and this year than ever before," said Tom Lemming, national recruiting analyst for CSTV. "It's happening more and more nowadays." 
And the complaints poured in across the country Wednnsday. But while the reality hurts Notre Dame and Iowa because they haven't dominated lately like Florida has, it hurts teams like Ball State the most. 
'The simple thing that hap­pened with us was really a reac­tion from when the young man who was committed to Notre Dame committed to Florida," Ball State eoach Brady Hoke said in a telephone interview with The Observer Wednesday. "That chain reaction happens, and that's part of [recruiting)." 
Hoke said his stan· debates how best to keep players committed to Ball State, a program close in geography to Notre Dame but far apart in almost every other way 
that matters in 
recruiting. The 
increased burden 
of hosting official visits nearly every home game, Hoke said. 
What he didn't mention is that most players could hold out hope for getting an offer from a major conference school as the early signing day comes and goes. 
"I think then you've got a real conflict of preparing your team and recruiting," he said. "For the major schools, it's probably not as major a problem, but for schools of our level, I think it would be." 
Hoke's right. For 

the Irish, with an Weis has a new more. But the extensive support Irish didn't 
policy for 
staff and the come calling
commitments, and
resources to oil the during the early wheels every week, it's simple: no soft recruiting sea­in-season visits aren't son, and Walker
verbals, no silent 
a problem. chose to go
commits.
In fact, Weis wants an early signing peri­od with an Aug. 1 national signing day. He says this allows high school players to fm­ish the recruiting cycle before their senior season and gives coaches a chance to look for replacements if a verbal commit­ment has a last-minute change of heart. For Notre Dame, when wide receiver Greg Little of Raleigh, N.C., went to the Tar Heels and offensive lineman Chris Little of Jeffersonville, Ga., faxed his letter of intent to the Bulldogs Wednesday, the Irish had no time to react. Twenty recruits became 18, and the Irish were out two top-150 prospects. 
Lemming said that most coach­es don't like the number of late switches and the custom of reeruiting powerhouses poaching from other schools, but they're not sure what to do about it. He said athletic directors worry about kids signing binding letters of intent before the usual time for a coach to resign or be fired, and an early signing period would cause that situation at 15 or more schools every year. 
This year, the Irish indeed ben­efited by allowing players to reconsider their commitments once a coach leaves. 
In an interview last week with The Observer, kieker/punter signee Brandon Walker's former coach, ClifT Hite, said Walker knew he wanted to go to Notre 
Dame when he 
was a sopho­
Louisville. 
He was happy 

with his deci­sion until Louisville coach Bobby Petrino jettisoned the Cardinals for the Falcons of the NFL. Hite said Walker decided to open up his recruitment again, and Notre Dame's kicking woes in 2006 steered the Irish to the Findlay, Ohio, product. 
A week ago, Walker grabbed the offer from the Irish. He signed his letter of intent Wednesday. 
Notre Dame's main problem is when a recruit says he's coming and the Irish feel confident that he's telling the truth only to have the prospect sign elsewhere. So 
.------------------------------------------------------------, 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Opportunities available for talented newcomers 
Quarterback competition headlines Irish spring agenda; freshmen look to replace holes at receiver and running back 
bruising Robert Hughes of

By KEN FOWLER 
Chicago come to Notre Dame 

Sports Editor 
with high expectations and an 

open running back race fol­llello, position battles. lowing junior Darius Wa.lker's Spring ball and summer entrance into the NFL Draft. 
camp will feature a slew of At the final offensive skill freshmen battling for starting position, the Irish could see jobs, Irish coach Charlie Weis one of two freshmen in the said Wednesday. And the mix for the second receiver's most high-profile position spot. Rising junior receiver battle of all will be the com­David Grimes is the only Irish petition at quarterback. wide out with more than Weis said early-enrolling three career receptions. recruit Jimmy Clausen of Senior Chase Anastasio, who Westlake Village, Calif., will Weis said Wednesday will compete in spring and sum­apply for a fifth year, has mer for the starting job with three catches and rising rising junior Evan Sharpley sophomores George West and 
and  rising  Robby  Parris  
sophomores  have  two  and  
Demetrius  one  catches,  
Jones and Zach  7Tate] is as good an  respectively.  
Frazer.  And  athlete as I saw this  Weis  said  6­ 
none clear  hold a edge  year.  foot-4, pound  205­Duval  
going into prac­ Kamara  from  
tices, Weis said.  Charlie Weis  Hoboken, N.J.,  
Clausen, who will not throw  Irish coach  reminds him of former Irish  
passes until the  wide  out  
end of February  Maurice Stovall,  

in an effort to rest his arm, who now plays for the Tampa enters as the consensus No. 1 Bay Buccaneers. quarterback in the country. "He's athletic, big, fast," Jones and Frazer were both Weis said. "We see him com­in the top 15 at their position ing in here and challenging last year. walking in the door." 
Behind the team's new sig­Meanwhile, Weis called 6­nal-caller could be one of two foot, 195-pound Golden Tate freshmen at any point. Small of Hendersonville, Tenn., a and speedy Armando Allen "perfect compliment" to from the Miami area and the Kamara. 


"This kid is as good an ath­lete as I saw this year," Weis said. 
On special teams, Weis said he would only sign a kicker who could compete immedi­ately for the starting job. In Brandon Walker, Weis thinks he found his guy. Walker made a 50-yard field goal and averaged 7 yards deep on kickoffs from the 40-yard line as a junior. 
At tackle in the team's new 3-4 personnel defensive scheme, Ian Williams, a 6­foot-2, 295-pounder from Florida, is expected to fight for the starting job immedi­ately. Weis said 340-pound current offensive lineman Chris Stewart would get a look there, but Weis wants Williams to play immediately. 
"Ian knows we're counting on him getting involved in the mix walking in the door," Weis said. 
At outside linebacker in the team's new defensive scheme, Weis said freshmen Kerry Neal of Bunn, N.C. and Brian Smith of Overland Park, Kan., fit well and could see playing time. 


What's more, Weis said Willingham. The annual limit early enrollee Gary Gray, a is 25, but three enrolled early cornerback from Columbia, so the Irish could count them S.C., would be in the heart of against the previous year's the defensive back picture as total of 15. With a maximum a "cover corner." of 85 players on scholarship 
at one time, Weis said his The numbers game goal is to sign around 20 
While the Irish may have players yearly, which would struggled in defensive allow five or more seniors recruiting and with extra eli­lost commit-gibility to ments in the apply for a final 24 hours fifth year.
"[Kamara is] athletic, 
before the let­''I'm trying to ters of intent big, fast. We see him compensate a started pouring challenging walking in little bit for the in across the fact that next
the door." 
fax wires, they year's senior at least got one class only has important tan­Charlie Weis seven or eight gible benefit Irish coach guys on schol­out of this arship," We is year's recruit-said. "Between ing class: stabi-the fourth year lizing numbers. guys next year that ask and 
In 2006, Weis signed 28 are granted a fifth year and players to letters of intent our class next year, I think because of a relatively small that will finally put us on base of scholarship players track to have the numbers as on the team at the time, due I perceive they should actual­to the attrition of the already ly be." low number of signees during the three-year reign of Contact Ken Fowler at former coach Tyrone kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
by the numbers 
Notre Dame's class of 2011 team ranking according to Rivals.com and ESPN.com 
8 

3 
Players that originally verballed elsewhere but signed with NO: Gray, Walker, and Brian Smith. The Irish also had three public verbal commit­
ments (Trattou, Chris little, Greg little) sign with other schools. 
True defensive tackle -Ian Williams -to sign with the Irish in the past two classes and the first since Derrel Hand in 2005. 
1 

12 
Different states represented by the 18 players in this class. Fla. (3), Calif. (2), Ill. (2), N.J. (2), Tenn.2), Kan., N.C., Ohio, Okla., Pa., 
S.C. and Va. 

Offensive lineman signed in the past two classes. The Irish signed nine in the four years previous. 
10 
Kidwell's Photography 

Irish signee offensive tackle Matt Romine pass blocks for Union High School in Tulsa, Okla., during his Players in the Top 100 list of either Scout, Rivals or ESPN: Clausen, senior season. Notre Dame will replace three starters on next year's offensive line. Ragone, Allen, Gary, Kamara, Hughes, Tate, Romine, Neal.
7 

Armando Allen 
running back 5-10, 185 Hialeah, Fla. 
State champion 11 0-meter hurdler missed his senior season with a leg injury ... Rivals.com No. 2 all-purp. back 



Gary Gray 
cornerback 5-11' 165 Columbia, S.C. 
ESPN.com No. 2 CB ... 47 tackles and 1 INT as a sen­ior ... standout in U.S. Army game 


Aaron Nagel 
linebacker 6-1,215 Lemont, Ill. Rushed for 902 yards, 13 TDs as running back ... 42 tackles, 5 sacks as a safety in 2006 



Matt Romine 
offensive lineman 6-6, 270 Tulsa, Okla. 
Rivals.com No. 3 tackle .. . started U.S. Army game .. . won two state titles at Union High School 


Courtesy Scout.com 
Courtesy Town and Country Portrait Studio 

Courtesy Scout.com 

Jimmy Clausen 
quarterback 6-3, 195 Westlake Village, Calif. 
Rivals.com No. 1 player overall ... 3,428 yards, 49 TDs, 6 INTs in 2006 ... 43-0 as a starter 
Robert Hughes 
running back 5-11' 228 Chicago, Ill. 
Scout.com No. 7 RB ... 1 ,900 yards, 24 TDs as a senior ... benches 420 lbs, squats 520 lbs 

Steve Paskorz 
linebacker 6-2,220 Allison Park, Pa. 
Surpassed 4,000 career rushing yards at running back ... missed senior year with hamstring injury 
Brian Smith 

linebacker 6-2, 230 Overland Park, Kan. 
ESPN.com No.4 middle linebacker ... 126 tackles, 9 sacks as a senior ... father Chris played at ND 
Brandon Walker 
kicker 6-2, 190 Findlay, Ohio 
Rivals.com No. 16 kicker, Scout. com No. 6 punter ... will compete for both jobs next season 
Courtesy Scout.com 


Taylor Dever 
offensive lineman 6-6, 300 Grass Valley, Calif. 
Scout.com No. 29 offensive tackle ... No. 4 tackle in state ... benches 325 lbs ... 5.2 40-yard dash 
Duval Kamara 
wide receiver 6-1,215 Hoboken, N.J. 
Rivals.com No. 6 receiver ... 
24.2 YPC, 9 TDs as a senior 
... started U.S. Army game for East 
Andrew Nuss 
defensive lineman 6-5, 285 Ashburn, Va. 
Rivals.com No. 9 player in state ... originally recruited as offensive lineman, will begin next fall on defense 
Mike Ragone 
tight end 6-5,230 Cherry Hill, N.J. 
Scout.com No. 2 tight end ... 46 catches, 8 TDs as junior ... injured knee during senior season 
Harrison Smith 
safety 6-2, 205 Knoxville, Tenn. 
Gatorade State Player of the Year ... Scout. com No. 25 safety ... 61 tackles, 2 INTs in 2006 
Ian Williams 
defensive tackle 6-1, 290 Longwood, Fla. 
82 tackles, 23 TFL, 3 sacks in 2005 ... ESPN.com No. 12 defensive tackle ... benches 350 lbs, squats 540 lbs 

.---------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, February 8, 2007 
page 13 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Gender explored in successful 'Transamerica' 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Although it may be a mainstream film that holds both dramatic tension and an accurate portrayal in high regard, "Transamerica" is an effective picture that brings pain and joy to viewers through the eyes or a transsex­ual woman named Bree. 
Bree (a marvelous Felicity Huffman, who was nominated for an Oscar for this role) is about to have sexual reas­signment surgery when she discovers she has a son liv­ing on the streets -trust not only in others but also in one's self. 
Felicity Huffman shines as Bree, Kevin Zegers is outstandingly edgy as Toby and Graham Greene is gentle and kind as the rancher Calvin Many Goats, who falls for Bree and is basically the only character in the fiim who treats Bree as the woman she wants to be. 
Many other minor characters make colorful appearances, such as Bree's parents whom Bree meets in a last ditch effort for help. Neither her moth­er or father can forgive Bree, whom they call their son, and Fionulla Flanagan is won­derfully comic, 


of New York -
camp and tragic as the result of a the parent who one-night stand can't let go of the when she was still past. a man. In order to Aside from the 
acting, the cos­get approval for Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC tumes and cine­

her surgery from When: Saturday at 10 p.m. 
he'r therapist, Bree travels to New York to meet her son Toby (Kevin Zegers). They then begin a cross-country road trip from New York back to Los Angeles where they discover that not all of the precon­ceptions they had about each other were true. 
The script by Duncan Tucker is clever and funny while still able to cap­ture the spirit of Bree. Her character travels through emotions as she travels across the country, and this film is as much about family as it is about trust 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
Pixar has done it again. The digital ani­mation studio that has turned out such hits as "Toy Story" and "Finding Nemo" has once again made a movie that is funny, entertaining, engaging and thought-provoking at the same time with its 2006 hit "Cars." 
The John Lasseter ("Toy Story") directed film was the seventh produced in the part­nership between,Pixar and Disney (and the last before Disney bought Pixar out­right), which dates back to 1995's "Toy Story." "Cars" clocked in as the second­highest grossing domestic film in 2006 (behind "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest") and was recently released on DVD. 
The story centers around a hot-shot, rookie race car named Lightning McQueen (voiced by Owen Wilson) who wants to make it big in the racing world. In his quest to win a racing title, he comes into a tie with the old guard race car, The King (Richard Petty), and his rival, Chick Hicks (Michael Keaton). 
A tie-breaker race is set, but on his way there, McQueen gets lost in Radiator 
matography are 
excellent and the film won the award for Excellence in Costume Design -Contemporary from the Costume Designers Guild. Huffman's costumes are those of a woman worried about appearing femi­nine and Flanagan's are horribly campy while suiting the character per­fectly. The travel across America is also beautifully well shot and the vast­ness of the United States is spectacu­larly viewed in this film. New York, Kentucky and the Southwest are all present in this film as well as the, 

and personality traits that one could expect 

Cars 
from live actors. Everything is in the details, from the
Walt Disney Video 
expressions of the characters' eyes ­placed on cars' wind­shields -to how they use their tires as hands to subtle con­tortions of car struc­denizens -some kind, others not ­who inhabit them. 


Overall, this film is moving not because it tells the pain of someone so the audience can walk out of the the­ater and feel they have done something humanitarian. Of course, some people responded that way. However, if a dif­ferent frame of mind is brought into this film, it can be very rewarding not only as a piece of excellent cinema but as a film that allows us to examine who we are and change -change not only to be more tolerant or accepting but change ourselves into what we really are. 
This film will be showing as part of the film series entitled "Qlassics: Reimagining Sexuality and the Self in Recent American Cinema." It will be screened at 10 p.m. this Saturday in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. This is a free _ event, but tickets must be picked up at the DPAC Box Office. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

Disney's smash-hit 'Cars' races to winning DVD 
Springs, a town set on the historic Route 66 that has been passed by in the era of the interstate highway. McQueen's stay in Radiator Springs lasts longer than expect­ed and through his interactions with the town's few residents, who include the Porsche Carrera Sallie (Bonnie Hunt) and a 1951 Hudson Hornet "Doc" (Paul Newman), he learns that there is more to life than winning races and sponsorship money. 
There is no doubt that "Cars" is differ­ent than any of the Pixar films that pre­ceded it. There are no talking animals here, nor immediately endearing and rec­ognizable characters and many critics cited these among the reasons why the film was not the smash success that the other Pixar films were. Film success must be viewed in relative terms, and while "Cars" was not a grand slam by Pixar's standards, it still hit a home run by con­taining a stronger message than in any other Pixar film, being entertaining and by taking computer animation to a new level. 
Indeed, computer animation has become Pixar's forte, and the work done here does not disappoint. Turning cars into animate, living objects would seem a difficult task, yet every character in this 
ftlm has as many dis­
tinct mannerisms 


tures to indicate both movement and emo­tion. 
These animations are aided by excellent voice performances, especially by Wilson and Newman, with entertaining support­ing roles voiced by celebrities including George Carlin, Larry the Cable Guy and even Bob Costas. 
Aside from the characters, the Southwestern des~rt setting of the ftlm is the most realistic yet for Pixar and the extended driving scenes capture perfectly images familiar to anyone who has taken a road trip. 
Hanging over all of this is the film's mes­sage -that in the frenetic whirlwind that is life, taking time to enjoy the simple things can bring great joy. Lasseter con­stantly weaves this theme in and out of the narrative without it become overly apparent. He also manages to tell a com­pelling story at the same time -a true sign of excellent filmmaking. 
The DVD is light on special features, especially when compared to other Pixar releases. Several deleted scenes and one short featurette are all that give viewers insight into the making of the film, and one must wonder if the DVD was rushed into production without a full slate of extras. 
In spite of this, "Cars" is still a delight­fully entertaining and meaningful film worthy of purchase on DVD. It is clear that Pixar still has the magic when it comes to computer animation. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 8, 2007 
NBA 

Supersonics sneak past Pacers; Spurs upend Wizards 
Associated Press pride in that," he said. "I made end," Washington coach Eddie 
some key baskets. Once you· Jordan said. 
INDIANAPOLIS -Ray Allen is continue to be aggressive, Tony Parker and Tim Duncan making up for his All-Star snub things fall for you." scored 20 points apiece for the by scoring points. Lots of them. The Pacers were without All­Spurs, who shot 62 percent in 
The six-time All-Star had 33 Star Jermaine O'Neal, who did the first half and led by double points and nine assists not play because of swelling digits for all but the first 4:05 of Wednesday night, and rookie from a bruise on his left knee. the game. Duncan, who fre­Andre Brown made the go­"Tough loss," Pacers coach quently had his way against the ahead basket with 23 seconds Rick Carlisle said. "We worked undersized Wizards fronteourt, remaining to give the Seattle sb hard to get the lead, then shot 9-for-16 and had seven SuperSonics a 103-102 victory had a string of missed shots.... rebounds and five assists. Manu over the Indiana Pacers. The The second-chance opportuni­Ginobili added 18 points on 6­
win snapped a 15-game road ties killed us. This is one we for-8 shooting. losing streak for the Sanies. shouldn't have let get away." Before the game, coach Gregg "I hate losing. I hate losing," Tinsley, allegedly involved in a Popovich said the Spurs' eight­said Allen, who has had 29, 29 bar scuffie after Monday night's game road stretch was a "a sea­and 33 points in the three game against Golden State, son-making trip for us -or 
games since the Western would not talk about the fight season~breaking." San Antonio Conference All-Star reserves and received a smattering of had dropped two straight, but were announced last week. boos from the home crowd dur­the win over the Wizards put
"Let me just say, I have a lot ing introductions. He said he the Spurs at 2-2 during their of people that are very support­got the shot he wanted at the annual get-out-of-town that ive, especially of all of my end. coincides with the February
accomplishments in my career," "They challenged the shot, rodeo show back home. he said. ''I'll just have another and I just missed it," he said. "It was one of our better shot next year." Chris Wilcox added 17 points games of the year, very honest­
Allen had 10 points in the for Seattle. Brown finished with ly, at both ends of the court," fourth quarter, including two nine points, one off his career Popovich said. 
straight baskets after the Pacers high. The Spurs, who last played went ahead 99-92 in the final Feb. 1 at Phoenix, have had minutes. Spurs 110, Wizards 83 trouble holding onto big leads, Brown scored on a layup, was The San Antonio Spurs had and it nearly happened againfouled and hit the free throw to five days to prepare, allowing against the Wizards. A 24-point, 
put the Sanies up 101-100 with them to spend some time at second-half lead was down to 54 seconds left. home during their make-or­11 in the final minute of the 
Jamaal Tinsley, who led break rodeo road trip. third quarter, but Fabricio Indiana with 25 points, then The Washington Wizards Oberto kept a possession alive scored on a drive to the basket were missing Antawn Jamison, by punching a missed free for the Pacers' final lead sec­and they've mostly looked like a throw to a teammate. The 
onds later. Brown scored again team playing 4-on-5 since he sequence helped put San but missed a free throw, giving got hurt. Antonio ahead 84-70 enteringthe Pacers one more chance to But those reasons alone can't the fourth, and Ginobili opened take the lead. account for San Antonio's man­the final period with three 3­
Tinsley missed another drive handling of Washington on pointers and .a pair of free to the hoop, and desperation Wednesday night. The bigger throws in a 12-2 run to increase shots off rebounds by Danny picture has emerged over the the lead back to 24. Granger and Tinsley were no last few weeks: The Wizards, "We're getting a little bit old," good as time ran out. even though they're a con­Parker said, "and all those dose 
"Coming off the bench, you tender in the East, can't hang games we used to win, this year have to be ready when your with the top teams in the West. we've got a tendency to lose team calls your number," "That was just a Oat-out, 48-them. But I think we're in the Brown said. minute, thorough beating -right direction. I think we're 
''I'm an aggressive guy. I take right from the beginning to the improving. We definitely still 


AP Cavaliers guard Daniel Gibson tries to pass while falling past Clippers guard Daniel Ewing and another defender during Cleveland's 94-77 win Wednesday. 
have a chance to win (the West). It's going to be down to Game 7 and one possession, like always. It's going to be a big battle." 

Cavaliers 94, Clippers 77 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 16 points with a season-high 16 rebounds, Larry Hughes scored 15 points and the Cleveland Cavaliers hardly needed LeBron James in an easy victory over the Los Angeles Clippers on Tuesday night. 
James scored 11 points ­three above his season low and 15 below his average -and spent the first half of the fourth quarter watching as the scuf­11ing Cavaliers, who came in just 4-8 since Jan. 16, won their fifth straight at home against the Clippers. 
Sasha Pavlovic added 16 points and Drew Gooden 13 for Cleveland, which held the Clippers to 35 percent shooting. Elton Brand led Los Angeles with 21 points and Shaun Livingston added 19 for the Clippers, who have dropped three in a row. · 
In the aftermath of a stinging loss to Detroit on Sunday, both James and Hughes said the Cavaliers should be running more, their argument being the team is better suited for an up­tempo offensive game than the slowdown style preferred by coach Mike Brown, who preach­es defense first. 
The Cavs pushed the action when they could, but there was no drastic change in their offense. What was new was that they made a few more free throws, going 21-of-28 (75 per­cent) from the line. 
Cleveland has been the NBA's worst free-throw shooting team all season and came in making just 68 percent of its attempts. 


James didn't get to the line until the final minute but sank both his tries. 
Leading by 11 at halftime and 13 after three quarters, the Cavaliers pushed their lead to 21 with 5:15 remaining when James drilled a 3-pointer. 
With upcoming games later this week against Miami and the Los Angeles Lakers, _the Cavs, now 7-1 at home against Western Conference teams, needed a relaxing night and the Clippers seemed only too willing to give them one. 
Los Angeles forward Corey Maggette was inactive, one day after he criticized coach Mike Dunleavy following the club's loss in New York. Maggette, sec­ond on the team in seoring and rebounding, was unhappy about playing just 17 minutes against the Knicks, who overcame a 10­point defir~it to win. 
"It's just more of Dunleavy's (stuff) again," said Maggette, who recently had a meeting with owner Donald Sterling, Dunleavy and general manager Elgin Baylor to end trade specu­lation about the seven-year vet­eran. "I don't get it, I really don't. It's crazy. I put in work. I deserve to play. It's totally mind-boggling to me." 
The Cavaliers were just 1-of­13 to open the second quarter before Ilgauskas hit a jumper to snap a 35-all tie. Hughes scored nine straight points and Cleveland closed the period with a 10-2 spurt to open a 54­43 halftime lead. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

BEITER HOMES,  Newly renovated home for rent,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ 
BEITER AREAS,  3 bedrooms,  not go it alone. If you or someone  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to  
FoR RENT  BEITER DEALS.  2 baths,  FoR SALE  you love needs confidential support  be alone. We want to help. Call our  
BlueGoldRentals.com  close to ND/SMC.  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  24 hour confidential holline at 1·  
House available for 2007·2008.  Available now and for 07·08.  2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR·  Dunn, OP, at 1·7819. For more  800-No·ABORT or visit our website  
Very Large, Close to Campus,  2 bdrm condo JPW &  QUIS LS. 4-DOOR.  information, visit our web site at  at www.lifecall.org  
Just Renovated.  Grad wknds.  Inquire @574-289·7791.  EXCELLENT CONDITION.  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ 
Contact MacSwain@gmail.com  1 mitoND.  51,000 MILES. ONE  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  Miami will be epic. E-P·I-C.  
614·985-5003.  Leases available for 2007·08:  OWNER,$6,500.  in The Observer.  
andersonNDrentals.com  3,4,5 bdrm,  CALL 243·5454.  18 year olds are stupid.  
2·6 BDRM HOMES.  3 bath homes,  COMMON SENSE COMPUTER  
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath.  $245/PERSON/MO.  frpls, 2-car garages.  PERSONAL  repair,clean-up,reload, data back· up. Student discount. 1.5 mi. from  Somewhere in Middle America.  
07·08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo.  Call 574-232-4527 or  ND 728 E. Colfax  O·R·I-O·L·E·S MAGIC!  
574·360-2569.  574·329·0308  269-683·5038.  ConcordParty.org · we Listen  574·217·8851  Feel it happen.  

r-----------------------------------------------­




OUND THE NATION 


Thursday, February 8, 2007 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlall~ic Division 
team record last 10 

New Jersey 32-15·6 N•2 Piltsburgh 26·17-9 Ul-2 N.Y.Islanders 25·21-7 4-2::.t N.Y. Rangers 25-24·4 3-7·0 · Philadelphia 13·32·7 2~s~a 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record pts, last ro 
Buffalo 35·15·4 74 4·5·1 
Montreal 29·19·6 64 4•.5-1 Ottawa 30·21·3 63 7,2-1 Toronto 26·21·6 53 7-Ml. Boston 23·24·4 50 3·1.0 · 

Eastern Conference, Southeast>Division 
team record pts. ··· last ro · Atlanta 29-18-8 66 5·5·0 Tampa Bay 29-23·2 60 .8-2•0 Carolina 26·22·7 59 3·4-3 Washington 22·25·7 51 3"7~0 Florida 20·24·10 50 5-4~1 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record pts. last1 o 
Nashville 37-1H 17 7-3~ Detroit 34-14-6 74 7-2-1 St. Louis 21-24-8 50 6·3"1 Columbus 21-27-5 47 5-5-0 Chicago 19-26-7 45 ·· 2-6•2 

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pts. last ro 
Calgary 29·17-6 64 6-H Vancouver 29·20-4 62 5·2~3 Minnesota 29·21-4 62 7-2.'1 Edmonton 26-23-4 56 5·5-0 Colorado 25·23·4 54 4-'5-1 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 

team  record  pts'  last 10  
Anaheim  32-13·8  72  L  4-4·2  
San Jose  34·18·1  69  6-34 >  
Dallas  31·20·2  64  5-4·1  
Phoenix  24-27·2  50  4-fi-0  
los Angeles  18-30·7  43  2·'7~1  

NCAA Basketball . Men's Big East Standings 
Conference Overall team record record 
1 Pittsburgh ~1 20·3 2 Marquette 7~2 20"4 3 Georgetown 7~2 17-5 4 West Virginia 7t3 18~4 5 louisville 6-4 16-8 6 NOTREDAME 6-4 18•5 7 Syracuse s,;s.... 16·8 8 Providence 4·4 14·7 9 Villanova 4-5 15-7 10 Connecticut 4~6 15·8 11 St. John's 4•6 13-10 12 DePaul 4•6 13-11 13 Seton Hall 3·6 
12<10 14 South Florida 3•6 1241 15 Rutgers 2"8 9-14 16 Cincinnati 1·7 10·12 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Notre Dame at DePaul 7 p.m., ESPN Memphis at UAB 9 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Duke at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN2 

CoMPILED FR01vt THE OBSERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
Florida won the recruit­ing crown in nearly as dominating fashion as the national championship. 
The Gators capitalized on last month's national title win over Ohio State and down years from Sunshine State rivals Florida State and Miami to bring in the top recruiting class in the country Wednesday. 
"No one is even that close to them," said recruiting analyst Tom Lemming of CSTV. "They got help everywhere. In the past 10 years, this has to rank right at the top in recruiting classes. 

Every position is absolutely loaded." 
The Gat.ors also were picked as the top class by SuperPrep, Rivals.com and National Blue Chips, beating out Southern California, SEC rivals Tennessee and LSU, and Texas. 
The Trojans closed strong, adding top run­ning backs Joe McKnight from Louisiana and Broderick Green from Arkansas on Wednesday to a class that already included another top back in Marc Tyler; defensive end Everson Griffen, SuperPrep's No. 1 overall player; the nation's No. 1 receiver, Ronald Johnson 
IN BRIEF 
Mike Tyson enters rehab after 
most recent drug arrest 
PHOENIX -Mike Tyson has checked himself into an inpatient treatment program for "various addic­tions" while awaiting trial on drug charges, his lawyer said Wednesday. 
"He needed to get involved in some­thing that would help him with his addiction," attorney David Chesnoff said. Chesnoff wouldn't describe Tyson's addictions, but police said the former heavyweight champion told officers that he used cocaine frequent­ly. 
Chesnoff said Tyson checked himself into an undisclosed facility shortly after appearing in a Phoenix court­room. 
The 40-year-old Tyson pleaded not guilty on Jan. 22 in Maricopa County Superior Court to felony drug posses­sion and paraphernalia possession counts and two misdemeanor counts of driving under the influence of drugs. 
from Michigan; and blue chip linebacker Chris Galippo from Anaheim, Calif. 
"USC continues to be the place that a lot of skill-position players look to first," said analyst Bobby Burton of Rivals.com. "That doesn't mean the guys they get on defense aren't special. It just means they have the pick of the litter when it comes to offensive skill players." 
But the Gators' class was best of all, signing eight of the top 16 play­ers in talent-rich Florida and the No. 1 players from South Carolina, Indiana, Maryland and New England, according to Rivals.com. 
A coaching change at Miami and another down year for Florida State played a key part in the Gators' success. 
"They play an exciting brand of ball on offense and defense and a lot of kids want be in that situ­ation," said Allen Wallace, the national recruiting editor for Scout.com and publisher of SuperPrep magazine. "There's no question they've moved into the catbird seat in Florida. They have taken advan­tage of tough times for both the Hurricanes and Seminoles." 

Dale Earnhardt Inc. signs
Jeffrey Earnhardt 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -As Dale Earnhardt Jr. continued contract extension negotiations with DEI, the company came to terms with anoth­er driver named Earnhardt. 
Jeffrey Earnhardt, the 17-year-old grandson of the late Dale Earnhardt, has signed a "long-term driving serv­ices contract" with Dale Earnhardt Inc. The signing came as Earnhardt Jr. prepared to meet Wednesday with team officials to discuss his future with his father's company. 
Earnhardt Jr.'s contract with DEI is up at the end of the season, and negotiations have been tense since stepmother Teresa Earnhardt seem­ingly questioned his commitment in a December interview with The Wall Street Journal. 
With the season set to begin with the Daytona 500 on Feb. 18, team officials would like to resolve Earnhardt Jr.'s situation. 
Landis could receive 2-year
ban from racing in France 
PARIS -Floyd Landis could be banned from racing in France for the next two years if the country's anti-doping agency issues a maxi­mum penalty Thursday for his pos­itive doping test at last year's Tour de France. 
The American cyclist will not attend the hearing, but will be represented by his lawyers, Landis' spokesman Michael Henson said Wednesday in a con­ference call. 
The lawyers can present argu­ments to the nine-member panel, which includes French magis­trates. The agency's president, Philippe Bordry, said Landis would receive a fair hearing. 
"It's not because someone is pos­itive that he must be automatically suspended," Bordry said. "The rights of the defense are very important." 
' 
~-j 
page 16 
PGA 
The International nixed fron1 PGA schedule 
-

-------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 2007 
OLYMPICS 


Hamm twins prep for '08 

Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACH, Calif. ­The International, known for its unique scoring system on a Castle Pines golf course held in the mile-high air outside Denver, will no longer be on the PGA Tour schedule effec­tive immediately, a tour official said Wednesday. 
The absence of a corporate sponsor was mostly responsi­ble for canceling the 21-year­old tournament, said the offi­cial, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the deci­sion had not formally been announced. 
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem and tournament founder Jack Vickers were expected to make it official Thursday morning. They spent the last two weeks in a final effort to find a sponsor, then agreed to end it now. 
International spokeswoman 

Joanna Busack said Vickers would not comment until Thursday. 
The cancellation leaves a hole in the PGA Tour schedule on July 5-8, but tour officials have been working on a con­tingency plan over the last month and are expected to announce a replacement by April. 
The leading candidate is Washington, the largest U.S. market without a PGA Tour event. The nation's capital had a tour event since 1968, but that presumably ended when title sponsor Booz Allen bailed out last year because it was not part of the FedExCup por­tion of the PGA Tour schedule. 
Other markets under consid­eration are Minneapolis, Philadelphia and Kansas City. 
The tour official said there was sponsorship interest in several major markets, although none of those span­sors was interested in the International. 
The International began in 1986 and used a modified Stableford scoring system, rewarding points for eagles and birdies and deducting points for bogeys or worse. It promoted aggressive play and featured some dramatic finish­es, along with a roll call of champions that included Ernie Els, Vijay Singh and Phil Mickelson. 
Dean Wilson won last year in a playoff over Ryder Cup cap­tain Tom Lehman. 
"It's a good thing I had this format this week," Wilson said. He would have been 9 under par in stroke play, while Lehman would have finished at 13 under. 
Tiger Woods only played twice, the last time in 1999 when it was played a week after the PGA Championship, and that became an issue with Vickers. He often lamented the absence of golf's top draw, and he continued to ask the tour for different dates. It moved from a week after the PGA Championship to two weeks before the final major, then the week before the PGA. 
Gymnastic medalists will rejoin US team after college graduation 
Associated Press 
A few months ago, Paul Hamm was pretty sure he was finished with gymnas­tics. 
The Olympic gold medalist and twin brother Morgan were having too much fun being regular college stu­dents. They actually h-ad free time, and no coach or train­ing schedule to dictate what they should do with it. They could focus on school and were close to finishing their degrees. 
The more they talked, though, the l-Iamms realized they weren't quite ready to walk away. The Beijing Olympics are a year and a half away, and tho brothers want one more chance to show what they can do. 
And, they hope, snag the United States a few more medals in the process. 
"The time off gave us what we needed to really develop the motivation that we have right now," Paul Hamm said Wednesday. "We see a goal in front of us, and we're going for it. Sometimes when you're in the daily grind of gymnastics, you forget it. 
"We know for a fact if we're in good shape, we can help the team." 
Paul and Morgan Hamm's announcement Tuesday that they are returning to compet­itive gymnastics after an 18­month layoff was an immedi­ate boost for the U.S. men, who plummeted from the sil­ver medal in Athens to an unseemly 13th-place finish at last year's world champi­onships. 
The Hamms, now 24, were two of the world's best gym­nasts when they went on hia­tus. They were responsible for half of the U.S. squad's scores in the team final at the Athens Olympics, helping the American men win their first medal in 20 years. Paul 1-Iamm also was the first U.S. man to win the Olympic all­around title. 
Soon after the event, how­ever, the International Gymnastics Federation acknowledged a scoring error had been made on South Korean Yang Tae­young's second-to-last event. Yang wound up with the bronze, and the Koreans protested. When FIG presi­dent Bruno Grandi suggested Hamm share the medal as acknowledgment of a mis­take, Hamm was fo·rced to defend his gold well after the games were over, all the way to the Court of Arbitration for Sport. 

CAS eventually declared Hamm the rightful gold medalist, and Grandi told the AP in October that he consid­"Our No. I 
Suddenly, they didn't. 

"There's no one looking over your shoulder, no coach seeing if you did this before practice, if you went out over the weekend," Paul Hamm said. "It was nice to have that freedom for the first time in our life. Mostly, we devoted ourselves to school." 
The twins got so used to being "regular" college stu­dents, they thought as recently as last summer that their competitive careers were over. 
"We were sure they were done," said their mother, Cecily Hamm. "But when it came down to the point where they needed to decide, they got closer and closer to changing their mind. 
"I told them, if 
they decided, 
they'd have to 
goal is jump in with 

ered the to help the team get both feet. It's all 
American the or nothing. They 
back into medal
true Olympic had to find that champion. But contention." place inside the episode themselves soured the where they feel
Morgan Hamm
1-Iamms on gym­that energy and

American gymnast 
nastics for a the desire." 
while, and they decided in July 2005 that they wanted to focus on their edu­cations at Ohio State. 
Morgan gets his degree in exercise science in March, and already has plans to go to the National University of Health Sciences after Beijing for his doctorate in chiro­practic medicine. Paul will graduate with an accounting degree in June and wants to go to business school. Both have 3.8 grade-point aver­ages. 
"I'll be laughing at him because he'll still have to go to school, and I can concen­trate on gymnastics," Morgan I-Iamm said of graduating three months before his brother. 
The time off also gave them a look at what life was like outside of the gym. Because they've been doing gymnas­tics since grade school, they'd always had to juggle schoolwork and training. 
They did. 
"A love of the 

sport is a big part of it," Morgan Hamm said of what changed their minds. "We love gymnastics. We want to see what we can accomplish, to see if we can make the Olympic team again and win medals in Beijing. 
"Our No. 1 goal is to help the team get back into medal contention." 
The Hamms are training six days a week at Ohio State and said they're surprised at how quickly their skills have returned. Their bodies no longer ache from a decade's worth of pounding, and the shoulder injury that limited Morgan's strength improved so much he's hoping to com­pete in the all-around for the first time since 2000. 
They plan to compete at the 

U.S. championships in August in San Jose and then resume a full competitive schedule in 2008 that will culminate with the Olympics in Beijing. 
Turtle Creek Apart01ent Ho01es 
THE Place to be at ND!! 
Join us at the Clubhouse on February 14th for a 

Valentine's Day Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dip into a BUFFET of 
CHOCOLATE GOODIES TREATS, OHMY! 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Streaking Georgetovvn takes dovvn Louisville 

A Missing Chapter on the Missing Chains: Telling Tales and l'vfaking it up in the Irish Countryside 
Guy Beiner 
Department of History Ben-Gmion Unive~sity of Negev 
Tiutrsday, February 8th 4:00 PI\1 I--Iesburgh C:enrer A.uditoriun1 
FoHmved b,~ the launch ofBeiner's new book 
.I 
Renze11zberi11g the Year ofthe Fre1lt-~h: lri,~h Folk History and Social Me1rwry 
Madison: Univer.sir.y of\x;!sconsin Press, 2007 by James Smyth, Department of History 


Is God Calling You? 
Come Explore the Congregation of Holy Cross 

Priests and Brothers 
With an evening of prayer and conversation with Holy Cross religious and other discerning me 
Blessed Brother Andre, C.S.C. 
Dinners 
5:30-7:30pm 
Begins at Log Chapel, Dinner to Follow 
Friday February 9th 
TFie Venerable 
Fr. Moreau CSC 
Friday February 23rd 
? 
Holy Cross Charism and Mission 
• 
Friday March 2nd 
· Discernmg a Vocation 
(574) 631-6385 
vocation. l@nd.edu 
vocation.nd.edu 


Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -On a night when Louisville honored one of its greats, it was Georgetown that ended up turning back the clock. 
The 22nd-ranked Hoyas con­tinued their rise Wednesday night, easing by Louisville 73-65 for their sixth straight win. 
"We are definitely settling into a groove and a lot of the experi­ences that we went through ear­lier in the year are paying off now," said Georgetown coach John Thompson Ill. 
If the Hoyas (17-5, 7-2 Big East) keep dominant perform­ances from center Roy Hibbert, their early season struggles may finally be behind them. · 
Hibbert controlled things at both ends of the floor, scoring 20 points and grabbing 11 rebounds while making 9-of-1 0 from the field and limiting Louisville cen­ter David Padgett to just one field goal. 
"I just wanted to be dominant as much as I could," Hibbert said. "I was just open on the baseline ... and my teammates got me the ball down there." 
Hibbert scored in a variety of ways, getting dunks, lay-ups and even mixing in a jump shot. He never tired despite playing a sea­son-high 35 minutes and helped the Hoyas keep their composure whenever the Cardinals made a run. 
"I just felt we needed to keep him in there," Thompson said. "His presence at both ends was felt. What I didn't want was David to get into a comfort zone. I felt Roy's size would kind of contain him a little bit." 
Earl Clark tied a career-high with 14 points for Louisville (16­8, 6-4), who had been searching for a signature win to bolster its hopes for an NCAA Tournament bid. But the Cardinals shot just 33 percent from the floor in los­ing their 13th straight game to a ranked opponent, spoiling a night when Louisville named the floor at Freedom Hall in honor of former coach Denny Crum. 
"We could have played them 10 times and they would have won nine," said Louisville coach Rick Pitino. "We would have had to play almost a perfect game to 
win." 
The Cardinals were nearly per­fect in one sense, committing a school-record low one turnover, setting a Big East record in the process. Still, it wasn't nearly enough to stop the lloyas, who rarely let the Cardinals get ofT an uncontested shot and came up with every important rebound and loose ball. 
The Hoyas outrebounded the Cardinals 35-30, outscored them 30-14 in the paint and shot 56 percent from the floor. Forward JefT Green was nearly as hot as Hibbert, making 7 -of-1 0 from the field and adding seven rebounds. 
"We used our height advantage and they couldn't defend us," Green said. "We got stops on defense and ran our ofl'ense." 
The Hoyas did whatever they wanted offensively, getting it inside to Hibbert and Green with ease. Whenever the Cardinals sent extra bodies to double­team, the Hoyas simply kicked it out for open 3-pointers. 
The win was Georgetown's first by single digits this season. And while the Hoyas were never really threatened -Louisville never got closer than five in the second half -Georgetown responded each time the Cardinals made a run. 
"We've been in this environ­ment, in very difficult environ­ments like this all year," Thompson said. "The crowd gets into it, they go on a run and our guys are used to that. We did a good job ofjust settling down." 
Louisville pulled within 58-53 on a free throw by Edgar Sosa with under four minutes to play, but Hibbert dunked on Georgetown's next possession, and DaJuan Summers followed with a 3-pointer to push the lead up to 10. Louisville would get no closer than seven the rest of the way. 
"We stuck together when they made runs," Hibbert said. "We didn't want to go back-and-forth. We wanted to keep it to our tempo." 
As dominant as the lloyas were, Thompson is wary of get­ting ahead of himself. Georgetown started the season ranked in the Top 10. only to fall all the way out of the ran kings in December. They're back in the Top 25 and confident they're not the same unfocused bunch that stumbled out of the blocks three months ago. 
"We're much more of a team," Hibbert said. "We've gotten older and we're smarter." 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 2007 
NASCAR 


Ohio school offers motorsports class 
Students learn race car engine mechanics 
Associated Press 
LIMA, Ohio -Michael Klenke learned in class how to assem­ble a race-car engine and tear apart its transmission. He also learned the best way to handle a problem that crops up when a stock car is flying around a dirt race track at 60 mph. 
"It's more than just step on the gas and turn left," Klenke said of driving for the University of Northwestern Ohio's stock-car team. "It makes you realize you really are going to use what you learn here." 
Klenke's school is one of a handful of places where stu­dents can study how to build a race car from the bottom up. The high-performance motor­sports program readies them for a career in auto racing ­whether it be working in a pit crew or in the shop. 
"A lot of people just see NASCAR on Sundays," said Steve Klausing, an instructor who works with the school's race club. "There's a lot that goes into the six days before the race." 
Auto racing's growing pres­ence on television and its widening appeal to mainstream fans has led to more leagues, teams and job opportunities in a pete for internships in the Champ Car World Series and with the Panther Racing team in the Indy Racing League. 
"We work with teams to eon­figure the classes around what the teams need," said Peter Hylton, director of the IUPUI motorsports program. 
ARCA car owner Wayne Hixson, of Soddy Daisy, Tenn., said there's still a learning curve when students start working with a pro team. 
"We're looking for somebody who can carry tires over the wall and put them on," he said. "I teach them how to carry tires, put them on and put air in them." 
About 1,000 students are enrolled in the motorsports program at the University of Northwestern Ohio, which offers two-and four-year degrees in business and tech­nologies. 
The new $7 million motor­sports complex is where they learn about building transmis­sions, welding frames and shaping fenders. 
Classrooms are attached to the garages where stock cars and dragsters are taken apart and put back together. "There's a lot of big-boy toys here," said Tom Grothaus, a dean in the college of technologies. 
In one of the garages, the metal frame of a stock car sits on a lift, but soon it will be fit­ted with an engine and ready 

sport that for the racing
"/teach them how 

increasingly season in April.
to carry tires, put

needs highly Outside, there's a skilled crew mem­them on and put 500-foot track for bers. drag racing and a
air in them. '' 

"It used to be small oval for that growing up stock cars. 
Wayne Hixson

with your dad in Mounds of rocks the garage was ARCA car owner and dirt are for 
good enough to get you through," said Don Radebaugh, spokesman for the ARCA series. "But it requires more than turning wrenches in a garage. We're seeing more and more drivers and crew mem­bers who are college gradu­ates." 
ARCA has become a stepping stone race league for not only the drivers, but also crew members. 
About 20 students from the Ohio school spent their week­ends last year working with ARCA teams. A group from the school traveled to Florida this week to work at the ARCA 200 on Saturday at Daytona International Speedway. 
They'll work on the engines, clean the cars for the race and watch how the pros adjust the aerodynamics of the cars to make them run faster. 
"It gives any racing program a place to look for help," said Bill Kimmel, crew chief for eight-time ARCA champion Frank Kimmel. "If you take a kid off the street, we have to show them every step of the way." 
He usually pairs a student with an experienced crew member. Kimmel's team, based in New Albany, Ind., hired one of the students who worked for him a year ago to be a mechan­ic. 
Motorsports students at Indiana University-Purdue University in Indianapolis com-the off-road rae­
ers. 
The school also boasts what it calls the world's largest motor­sports classroom -a 114-mile banked dirt track that the uni­versity bought nine years ago. As many as 100 students line up on Friday nights in the spring and summer to work on the pit crews with weekend drivers who come to the Limaland Motorsports Park. 
Anywhere from 2,000 to 5,000 fans show up on race night to watch the sprint cars, stock cars and trucks. 
The university's first stock­car team started competing there last year. This season, it will have two teams racing in cars with "student driver" on the rear bumper. 
"It lets everyone know that they're out there to learn and not to push the other guys into the wall," said university presi­dent Jeffrey Jarvis, who can be found on race nights talking with fans and drivers. 
The motorsports program at the Ohio school started in 1993. Other colleges have since added the training, including Lincoln Tech in Indianapolis and WyoTech at its campus in Fremont, Calif. 
The University of Northwestern Ohio doesn't track how many graduates end up in racing. But former stu­dents now work for teams in NASCAR, the Indy Racing League and minor league cir­cuits. 


FIGURE SKATING 

Shen, Zhao lead pairs competition 
Associated Press 
COLOHADO SPHINGS, Colo. -Shen Xue and Zhao Ilongbo had no problems expressing themselves on the ice in taking the lead of the pairs competi­tion at Four Continents after the short program Wednesday night. 
OfT the ice is a difTerent story. 
"We're retiring," Shen said through an interprllter after their performanee. 
From skating? After Four Continents'? Heally? 
After a quick huddlR with their interpreter -while a buzz went around the room ­they got thR translation straight. 
"We're taking some time off aftp,r the World Championships (in Mareh)," Slwn said with a smile. 
Shen and Zhao lead Chinese counterparts Tong Jian and Pang Qing by :~.49 points head­ing into Thursday's free skate. 
Not bad considering Shen and Zhao almost skipped Four 
L r 
Continents. Coming so close after the Asian Winter Games and given Zhao's superstitions about events at high altitude, the pair almost stayed home. 
"We're very tired," Shen said. 
Considering their recent medical maladies, Tong and Pang are just happy to be skat­ing. 
Tong wears a headband to hide the scar from a Jan. 1 car accident in Beijing -his head crashed through the window ­and Pang can't skate longer than an hour at a time in prac­tice due to a kidney ailment. 
However, they turned in a fairly polished short program. 
"Going to this competition is a high point for us," said Tong, who had 16 stitehes to close the wound to his head. 
Defend·ing Four Continent champions Hena Inoue and John Baldwin landed their sig­nature throw triple axel, but they still were in third place, 
7.56 out of the lead. Brooke Castile and Benjamin Okolski, who won the U.S. 

Championships in January, are in seventh place after each made a mistake on a side-by­side double axel. 
"It's about the skate and not about the title," Castile said. "We look at this as another experience." 
Baldwin was upset with some of the marks after their per­formance. lie thought the pair deserved higher, especially for their spiral sequence. 
"That's one of our best things," Baldwin said. "We kind of got held down on that. I'm not sure why. 
''I'd like to see the judges reward us a little bit more on the second mark instead of holding us back and protecting other teams. We're trying hard things, we're doing things no one else in the world is doing. Give us some eredit for that. ... Be fair to us." 
Language was no problem in the ice dancing, where Benjamin Agosto blurted out a response before a question was asked. 
Cheese & 1 Topping 
Free Delivery On Campus 
Linllted tim!~ offer. Pr:o~s. tax:. ddi-;ery ~:-ea.; & charges may vary by 
location. txdw:ie5 othP.r offers. Gocd st partic.!pating IOG.itiom. only. 
52750 IN 933 
N. of Cleveland Rd. 574· 

2 
SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
~--------~ 
Thursday, February 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

Notre Dame Law School is pleased to announce its Law School Diversity Conference. 
As part of the Law School Admissions Council sponsored National Minority Law School Recruitment Month, the conference is designed to provide guidance to students who are interested in or considering 
attending law school. The conference is free of charge and open to all. 
Friday, February 16, 2007 12 noon to 3 pm 
The program will include a Student Panel (Question and Answer session focusing on law school student life), a pres­entation on Applying to Law School Topics include: Preparing for the LSAT, Personal Statements, and Letter of Recommendation Choices and a presentation on Financing a Legal Education. 
You can register online through our website www.lawadmissions.nd.edu or by calling 
(574) 631-6626 on or before February 9th. Lunch will be served during the conference 
SOCCER 


U.S. tops Mexico in friendly 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. -The sell­out crowd belonged to Mexico. The game went to the United States, as usual. 
Jimmy Conrad scored his first international goal, Landon Donovan converted a late break­away and the Americans defeat­ed Mexico 2-0 in an exhibition Wednesday night, extending the dominance of their regional rival. 
"We've clearly done well. I think mentally we do have an edge," Donovan said. "But we were also a little bit lucky." 
Playing in front of a heavily pro-Mexican sellout crowd of 64,462, the Americans improved to 8-2-1 against Mexico since 2000. The United States is 7-0-1 against Mexico on home soil in that stretch, outscoring its southern neighbor 13-0. 
"Right now, we're on top, and we're going to try to stay there," 
U.S. defender Chris Albright said. 
The victory provided a boost for interim coach Bob Bradley, who is hoping to persuade the 
U.S. Soccer Federation to lift his interim tag. Before the game, USSF president Sunil Gulati told reporters the result "is not going to lead to a direct decision as to who the national team coach will be." 
Bradley is 2-0 since he was hired Dec. 8 to replace Bruce Arena. 
'The work that we put in this month has been very good," Bradley said. "Not only to pre­pare us for these two games but to establish a foundation for every camp." 

The United States started slow but finished in a rush. 
Conrad, playing his 19th inter­national game, headed home a corner kick by Donovan in the 52nd minute, beating goalkeep­er Oswaldo Sanchez inside the left post. It was the 24th career assist for Donovan, the U.S. career leader. 
Donovan added the clincher in the 90th minute off a pass by Ricardo Clark. It was the 27th goal in 86 international appear­ances for Donovan, who scored in his second straight game after going scoreless in 18 con­secutive national team appear­ances over 1 1/2 years. 
"I think we showed what we're made of," said Conrad, who played an outstanding two­way game. 
But Mexico didn't go quietly in the first game under coach Hugo Sanchez. The Mexicans had nine shots, seven in the sec­ond half, and pressured the Americans relentlessly after Conrad's goal. 
"I think the way the team functioned, the way it looked on the field, left us satisfied," Mexican captain Hafael Marquez said through a transla­tor. "All the same, it hurts because of the rivalry between the two teams and the impor­tance of the match. However, we have to take the positive from the match. We created a lot of opportunities but we just could­n't convert. It's just the begin­ning." 
Sanchez had assembled a vet­eran team in a clear attempt to win rather than evaluate players for the upcoming World Cup cycle. "They made it pretty open that they came to win this game and they were bringing every­body, and maybe mentally now [we] have even more of an advantage," Donovan said. 
Tim Howard, bidding to take over from Kasey Keller as the top American goalkeeper, shut out the Mexicans in his first national team appearance since last May. 
Both teams are preparing for the CONCACAF Gold Cup, the championship of North and Central America and the Caribbean, and the start of 2010 World Cup qualifying next year. 
It was the first game for the Americans against the Tricolores since Sept. 3, 2005, when the United States clinched its fifth straight World Cup berth with a 2-0 victory at Columbus, Ohio. 
Emotions flared late, with Marquez and American forward Eddie Johnson exchanging shoves. After the final whistle, the Mexicans strode off the field without shaking the Americans' hands or exchanging jerseys, as is customary. 
"The sportsmanship -it would be nice if you guys [reporters] and the Mexican press talked about it, because it's really poor." Donovan said. "When we lose to them there, we shake their hands and sav. 'Good job.' There's none of tluit reciprocally, and it's kind of dis­appointing." 
NHL 

Cheechoo doubles up in Sharks' win 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif.-Jonathan Cheechoo was worried because his scoring was down this year after he led the league with 56 goals last sea­son. 
He made up some ground on Wednesday night, scoring twice in San Jose's 3-2 victory over Anaheim. Milan Michalek scored on a power play with 
3:46 remaining to give the Sharks the win and a split of their two-night, home-and­home series against the Ducks. 
"I was a little worried because I wasn't getting the chances earlier, so it meant that I was obviously doing something wrong and maybe got into some bad habits," said Cheechoo, who has 20 goals this season. 
"But I've been working hard in practice and trying to do a little extra to get my game back." 
Cheechoo also had two goals in a 7-4 loss to Anaheim the previous night, and usually seems to play well against the Ducks. He had his first career hat trick against them on Dec. 20, 2005. 
"He's been a thorn in our side," Anaheim coach Randy Carlyle said. "He can find those open spaces in the net and he's patient with the puck. He scored two again tonight and we've got to find a way to limit his offensive production." 
Hyane Clowe assisted on all three San Jose goals, and Joe Thornton assisted on both of Cheechoo's scores. 

"Joe's an amazing passer," Cheechoo said. "I got to see it firsthand last year. I've been struggling this year, but he's been kind of finding a way to get me the puck and I'm just letting loose and shooting it." 
The Sharks' victory in the rematch 'moved them back within five points of the Pacific Division-leading Ducks. 
"Our stick-to-itiveness and combativeness were much bet­ter tonight," San Jose coach Ron Wilson said. "It was nice to see some guys who strug­gled get rewarded by getting some big points, like Cheech and Milan. 
"We need those two guys if we're going to do anything as we go through the stretch run here." 
With Anaheim's Joe DiPenta off for hooking and just 3 sec­onds remaining on the ensuing power play, Michalek took a pass from Marc-Edouard Vlasic all alone in the slot and beat Ilya Bryzgalov with a 40­foot slap shot that trickled between the goalie's pads. 
Vesa Toskala made 20 saves for the Sharks, who outshot Anaheim 13-4 in the third period. Bryzgalov stopped 26 shots for Anaheim. 
Teemu Selanne and Shawn 
Thornton  scored  for the  
Ducks.  
Anaheim  captain  Scott  

Niedermayer, in his second game back from a foot injury, blamed himself for the defeat. 
"I can take responsibility for those first two goals. I made bad decisions that allowed them to get those opportuni­ties," the Norris Trophy-win­ning defenseman said. "In close games like that, it comes down to a couple of mistakes or breaks either way." 
Cheechoo pulled the Sharks even at 2 with his second goal of the game, midway through the third period. Thornton, skating down the crease, slid the puck to Cheechoo on the right side. Cheechoo waited for Bryzgalov to commit, then flipped the puck over the goalie's shoulder. 
Shawn Thornton scored 44 seconds into the third period, just his second goal of the sea­son, to give the Ducks a 2-1 lead. 
Selanne had tied it 1-1 at 
14:52 of the second period. The goal was the 36-year-old Selanne's 32nd of the season and 63rd point. 
Following a scoreless first period, Cheechoo put the Sharks ahead at 9:22 of the second. It took more than a minute and a half for the score to go on the board. 
Cheechoo, in the slot on the left, one-timed Thornton's pass from behind the goal line and the puck sailed past Bryzgalov and into the net. But it bounced all the way back out, the red light didn't go on and referee Tim Peel immediately waved it off, even as Cheechoo raised his arms in celebration. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 
Pacers involved in bar fight 
No arrests made after post-game altercation 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers guard Jamaal Tinsley and teammates Marquis Daniels and Keith McLeod were involved in a fight with a bar manager after a home loss to Golden State. police said. 
No one was immediately arrested or charged after the Tuesday fight. Indianapolis police Lt. Doug Scheffel said Wednesday it would take sev­eral days to a week to com­plete the investigation to determine whether charges would be filed. 
The players all denied any involvement. 
The Indianapolis police report said the bar manager of the 8 Seconds Saloon might AP 
Pacers guard Jamaal Tinsley, right, was involved in a bar fight

have a fractured jaw and sev­

with teammates Marquis Daniels and Keith Mcleod Tuesday.

ered earlobe. He told officers that Tinsley had threatened to kill him, the report said. ger." according to the report. Daniels' agent, Glenn Witnesses told officers that Pacers CEO Donnie Walsh Schwartzman, said the players McLeod had shoved people said in a statement Wednesday were at the nightclub for an during the scuffle that hap­that the team was aware of the event celebrating the pened about 2:15 a.m. at the allegations but would have no Indianapolis Colts' Super Bowl elub on the city's west side. further comment until police victory and that Daniels was 
The confrontation followed complete the investigation. not involved in the tight. another fight involving a per­A phone number provided by "It is 100 percent, no doubt son who employees thought the NBA Players Association about it," Schwartzman told was trying to steal coats from for Tinsley's agent, Raymond J. The Associated Press. "lie is a the coat check area. police Brothers, was answered by a good guy who did nothing said. message saying it was no wrong other than be an NBA 
The manager and witnesses longer in service. player and out with thn com­told officers that Tinsley, The three players all said munity after the Colts won the Daniels and a man with them they not taken part in the Super Bowl." punched the manager in the fight. Tinsley was at a strip elub face and head. "I had nothing to do with with then-Pacers teammate 
The manager "stated that he this," Tinsley said in a state­Stephen Jackson in Oetober was unable to defend himself, ment released by the team. when a fight broke out during at which time both witnesses 'Tm extremely upset that my which Jackson fired a gun into ... stated that they felt that the name has been associated with the air several times before he life of the victim was in dan-this." was hit by a car. 


NBA 
----------~~~~~-­
Thursday, February 8, 2007 


SERlE A Top club tea111s could play in empty stadiums 
Associated Press leagues. The stadiums subject to 
the spectator ban will be 
ROME -The Italian Cabinet announced then. approved measures Wednesday Other measures ban clubs that could force many of the from having economic ties with teams in the nation's top soccer fan groups and stiffen prison leagues to play in empty stadi­terms for committing violence ums. against police from five to 15 
Play in Serie A, Italy's top years. league, will resume this week­The measures must be end, according to Barbara approved by parliament within Moschini, spokeswoman for the 60 days to remain in effect. The Federazione Jtaliana Giuoeo Cabinet also approved a propos­Caleio, the country's soccer gov­al for more long-term changes, erning body. Inspections putting club stewards in charge Thursday will determine which of guaranteeing security inside stadiums will be allowed to have stadiums and involving the spectators. clubs in the ownership of the 
The decree approved by the sports arenas, now owned by Cabinet also bans dubs from local authorities. selling bloeks of tickets to visit­Premier Romano Prodi's ing fans and allows authorities Cabinet was reacting to the fatal to bar suspected hooligans from attaek on 38-year-old policeman entering stadiums, even if they Filippo Raeiti last week. haven't been convicted of At least 38 people have been crimes. arrested, ineluding 15 minors, 
"The measures are severe and and at least two more taken in without precedent," Deputy for questioning in Friday's vio­Interior Minister Marco Minniti lence at Catania's stadium, said. "Our objective isn't to play where the local team was play­the games behind dosed doors. ing cross-island rival Palermo. Our objective is to play the The violence led to the post­games in safe stadiums with ponement of Italian league open doors." games Saturday and Sunday. 
The Italian news agency Investigators in Catania were ANSA said that only six soccer examining a film of the fatal stadiums in Italy meet the attack in hopes of identifying required security standards, suspects, police said. ineluding Rome's Stadio Authorities did not say what Olimpico. The San Siro stadium the stadium's closed-circuit -home to AC Milan and Inter cameras contained. Italian news Milan -is among the stadiums reports said the film showed the completing work to meet the fighting outside that began after requirements, ANSA reported. the Catania-Palermo match had 
The Italian soccer league said started Friday night, including its officials will meet Thursday youths with partially covered in Rome with the presidents of faces approaching Raciti and all 42 teams in Serie A and one of them hitting him in the Serie B -Italy's top two abdomen. 

Center John Amaechi comes out as first openly gay player 
Associated Press NFL, NHL) to publicly discuss assumed that all players are his homosexuality. heterosexual. He describes the 
The small, exclusive club of Former NFL running back blatant anti-gay language and openly gay professional male 

David Kopay came out in 1977; attitudes he experienced in NBA athletes has a new member. 

offensive lineman Roy Simmons locker rooms, and writes that 
Former NBA center John 
and defensive lineman Esera while playing in Utah, coach Amaechi, who spent five sea­Tuaolo came out more recently. Jerry Sloan used anti-gay innu­

sons with four teams, on 
Glenn Burke, an outfielder for endo to describe him. 

Wednesday became the first the Los Angeles Dodgers and Sloan said Wednesday that NBA player to publicly come 
the Oakland A's in the 1970s, although his relationship with out. and Billy Bean, a utility player Amaechi was "shaky" bceause 
Amaechi will appear on 
in the 1980s and 1990s, also of the player's attitude, he did­ESPN's Outside the Lines on have come out. n't know Amaechi was gay.

Sunday, and his autobiography Each did so after retiring. Sloan had no comment about "Man in the Middle," will be Burke died of complications Amaeehi's contention that Sloan released Feb. 14. 
due to AIDS in 1995. used anti-gay innuendo when "He is coming out of the closet "What John did is amazing," referring to him. Amaechi said as a gay man," Amaechi's publi­said Tuaolo, who came out in he found out about it in e-mails cist Howard Bragman said. 

2002. "He does not know how from friends in the Jazz front 
Martina Navratilova, perhaps 
many lives he's saved by speak­oflice. 

the most famous openly gay 
ing the truth." When asked if knowing

athlete in the world, praised 
Tuaolo said coming out would Amaeehi was gay would have Amaechi's decision and said it's 

be a relief to Amaechi. mattered, Sloan said: "Oh yeah,imperative for athletes to come "Living with all that stress it would have probably mat­out because of what she called and that depression, all you tered. I don't know exactly, but an epidemic of suicides among deal with as a closeted person, I always have peoples' feelingsyoung lesbians and gays. 

when you come out you really at heart. People do what they"It's hugely important for the truly free yourself," Tuaolo said. want to do. I don't have a prob­kids so they don't feel alone in "When I came out it felt like I lem with that." 

the world. We're role models. 
was getting out of prison." Amaechi, 36, who was raised 

We're adults, and we know 
NBA commissioner David in England, writes in the book we're not alone but kids don't 

Stern said a player's sexuality is that he never touched a basket­know that," she said. "He will not important. ball before the age of 17. A 

definitely help a lot of kids 
"We have a very diverse quick study despite being a growing up to feel better about 

league. The question at the "terrible athlete," he found his center averaged 6.2 points and 1999-01, then played two sea­themselves." 
NBA is always 'have you got confidence in the game and 2.6 rebounds. He began his sons for the Utah Jazz. 
Three years after his playing 

game?' That's it, end of made it his goal to play in the career with the Cleveland The Jazz traded him to career ended, Amaechi become inquiry," he said. NBA. Cavaliers in 1995-96, then Houston, which traded him to the sixth professional male ath­In his book, Amaechi lie competed for Pnnn State, spent a few years playing in the New York Knicks. When the lete from one of the four major describes the challenge of being then played in 301 NBA games Europe. He rejoined the NBA to Knicks waived him in JanuaryAmerican sports (NBA, MLB, gay in a league where it's over five seasons. The 6-foot-10 play for the Orlando Magic from 2004, he retired. 

Thursday, February 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
UNC hands rival Duke third straight loss 
Hansbrough, Wright score in double figures 
Associated Press 
DUHHAM, N.C. -The crowd was rowdy and hostile. Duke, determined to end a nagging losing streak, had built a big lead bnhind a surge of emotion. 
Yet North Carolina's young­sters kept coming. And by the end, those Tar Heels had escaped one of college basket­ball's most intimidating arenas with a confidence-building win Wednesday night. 
Freshman Brandan Wright scored 19 points while Tyler Hansbrough added 16 to lead the fifth-ranked Tar Heels past No. 16 Duke 79-73, earning their second straight win in Cameron Indoor Stadium and handing the Blue Devils their first three-game losing streak in nearly eight years. 
Rookie Ty Lawson added 15 points for the Tar Heels (21-3, 7­2 Atlantic Coast Conference), who trailed by 10 points early in the second half before finally going ahead to stay in the final minutes. 
Last year, Hansbrough led a youth-laden group into Cameron to close the regular season and spoil All-American J.J. Redick's final home game in an 83-76 win. And once again, the Tar Heels rallied from a double-digit deficit and came up with the game's big baskets in the final minutes. 
This time, however, the Tar Heels hung around while con­stantly subbing in an endless stream of fresh bodies while pressuring Duke's ballhandlers the entire way. By the time the game was entering its final min­utes, North Carolina looked fresher and found ways to knock down the critical shots against the fast-starting Blue Devils (18­6, 5-5). 
North Carolina didn't take its first lead until there were about 5 minutes left, but shot 59 per­cent after halftime and hit 7 of 8 free throws in the final 31 sec­onds to seal it. 
"We started to get tougher as the game went on, as it starting winding down," said Hansbrough, who scored 12 points in the second half. "That's maybe what we need to do at the beginning of the game, too." 
It was a strong way to bounce back after an surprising week­end loss to North Carolina State -an 83-79 setback that had an irked coach Roy Williams calling his team "fat and happy" after­ward. 
The always-demanding coach won't be saying that now. At least for a while, anyway. 
"I was extremely impressed with how competitive our team was, especially when you com­pare it to what we did last Saturday," Williams said. "We were down 10 a couple of times and I told our guys that if we keep attacking ... that we would be there at the end, and I really felt that way." 
Freshman Jon Scheyer had a 
Blue Devils, who have lost three 
straight gaines for the first time 
since 1999 -when they lost to 
Connecticut in the NCAA cham­
pionship and opened the 1999­
2000 season with two straight 
losses. 
The Blue Devils had their 
chances despite blowing the 
lead, but went just 3-for-10 at the foul line in the second half Terry's fast-break layup with as the game slipped away. 5:15 left, then pushed the lead 
"I thought we played a terrific to 64-60 when Wright knocked game tonight, but it wasn't in a tough shot over Josh enough to beat a terrific team," McRoberts on the next posses­Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski sion. said. "They're very, very talent­Duke managed to close the ed, and the depth that they have gap to 64-63 shot in the lane means they never tale a break. from Henderson, then looked So when they're playing like poised to go ahead when that, you have to be incredibly DeMarcus Nelson got to the foul resilient." line after a turnover. But Nelson 
North Carolina took its first missed both shots and lead at 62-60 when Gerald Hansbrough knocked down a Henderson was whistled for a straightaway jumper on the next goaltending on Reyshawn play to make it 66-63 with 3:15 

left. overtime loss at Virginia and a 
That started a six-point run 68-67 home loss to Florida from the Tar Heels, who took State. Krzyzewski responded by their largest lead at 70-63 on shaking up his starting lineup Lawson's driving basket while against the Tar Heels, pulling drawing the foul for a three­tri-captains McRoberts and point play with 1:46 left. Scheyer Nelson -who had started everv managed a three-point play to game this season -in favor of make it 70-66 with 1:17 left, but freshmen I Ienderson and Brian Lawson followed with a driving Zoubek. basket against three defenders Scheyer got the Blue Devils ofT that allowed the Tar Heels to and running, scoring 14 first­seal it at the line. half points -including a stick­
It was another late-game fade back of a Henderson miss that for the Blue Devils, who failed to gave Duke its largest lead at 35­score on the final play of a 68-66 25 at the 4-minute mark. 
Built-in MP3 player 
with FM transmitter Sprint Music Store>M enabled Sprint rvsM enabled Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Bluetooth® technology microSD external memory card 






$49.99 
Save $250 instantly 
Reg. $299.99 each. 

Sprint Music Store 
Wirelessly download digital tracks to your phone. Choose from hundreds ofthousands of full-length songs from virtually every genre and listen to them wherever you go. 

THE POWER TO 






PRESS PLAY 

MOTORAZR™ VJm 
by Motorola 

Sprint Music Store'M enabled Bluetooth® technology Built-in 1.3MP camera and camcorder Sprint TV'M enabled GPS enabled 

$29.99 
Save $220 instantly 
Reg. $249.99. 


Offers require in·store purchase and activation of anew line of service with a two-year subscriber agreement and Vision. 

Sprint> POWER UP~ 

career-high 26 points for the 

Beyonce  Chingy •  Hinder  
SPRINT STORES·  
SOUTH BEND Martin's Plaza 2035 South Bend Ave. 574-277-7727 Se habla Espaiiol  MISHAWAKA Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge South of the Mall across from McDonald's 574-243-2100  STORE HOURS Sun............... 12pm-5pm Mon.-Fri. ......... 10am·8pm Sat............... 9am-7pm  

PRErERREO RfTAilERS 
NllES,MI Bas.k:Communiarlions 

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
2010 S.llth St.

52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall 
269·357·0000 

574-243-8900 6501 Grape Rd. 574-277-4360 

Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Network reaches over 250 million peo­ple. Offers not available in all markets or retail locations. Add'l terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Up to $36 activation & $200 early termination fees apply per line. Deposit may be required. Instant Savings: Offer ends 2/17/07 or while supplies last. No cash back. Taxes exclud­ed. Activation at time of purchase required. ©2007 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint, the "Going Forwardn logo, the NEXTEL name & logo. & other trademarks are trademarks of Sprint Nextel. 
I 
' 
: 
l 
I I I 
I 
_j 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 2007 
Kurz 
continued from page 24 
out with a lot of energy and focus," Hillesland said. 
The Blue Demons (13-11, 4­6 Big East) are led by sopho­more forward Wilson Chandler, who averages 14.4 points and 6. 7 rebounds per game, and senior guard Sammy Mejia, who puts up 
13.5 points and 6.6 rebounds. 
"We're playing a really tal­ented team in DePaul," Brey said. "They hav0 arguably the best talent in the league." 
The Irish are ranked No. 21 in the Coaches poll, but they dropped out of the AP poll after Saturday's loss. Brey said his team isn't paying attention to the ranking. 
"It's a non-factor," he said. "We're thinking bigger things now and we're trying to get some consistency." 
After DePaul, Notre Dame returns home for a game against Providence and then travels to Cincinnati. After that, the Blue Demons come to the Joyce Center for a rematch before the Irish host Marquette in their final home game. Notre Dame finishes its season against Rutgers on the road. 
The Irish are currently sixth 

Defense 
continued from page 24 
beyond the arc. McCoughtry took over the game in the first half, scoring 19 points, including 11 straight for the Cardinals. 
Notre Dame switched to a box­and-one defense at the break and quelled Louisville's offense. 
"I was absolutely thrilled with the defense in the second half," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "I thought Brenna [Gray] really shut [McCoughtry] down in the second half when we went to the box-and-one. I thought that was a big key to the win." 
Louisville coach Tom Collen felt poor play, rather than the defensive adjustment, caused his team's second-half melt­down. 
"Obviously it was a tale of two halves," he said. "In the second half they went to a junk defense, they played the box-and-one, and put a . chaser on [McCoughtry]. It didn't really bother us, to be honest with you. We were still scoring on it." 
The Irish trailed by as many as 12 points with 2:25 to go in the first half, but battled back before halftime. Freshman Ashley Barlow hit a 3-pointer with two seconds remaining in the half to pull the Irish within seven. 
"Barlow really made a differ­ence in the game and that's why we started her in the second half," McGraw said. 
Barlow finished with 15 points -her second consecutive dou­ble-figure performance -and six rebounds. 
Notre Dame used second-half scoring runs of 11 and 16 points to seal the game. The first began with 14:13 left and put the Irish 



Gray 
continued from page 24 

whieh the Irish overcame a 12­point hole, Gray hit a long-range shot that helped curb a Cardinal run and allowed the Irish to cut the growing deficit back into single figures. With 2:05 Inn: in the first half, Gray's shooting nndcd a 10-1 Louisvilln run and helped Notre Dame reduce a 29-17 Louisville lead to nine points. Early in the second half, Gray, who finished with 12 points, shrank the lead l'rom 11 to night and helped kick-start a 12-2 Notre Dame run that gave the Irish their first lead since a 12-11 adwmtage with 10:23 to go in tim opening hall'. 
At times, Gray was loft alone on the pnrimeter and praetically begging l'or the ball and the opportunity to add another bucket to her 4-for-9 total. 
"I was feeling it today, so I took what I had," Gray said. Still, she should have gotten more looks. Beyond bringing the Irish closer to the lead, Gray's timnly in the Big East, half a game to ilw guys about was that. in 
bueknts also helped awaknn a behind Louisville for fifth and the criteria for tlu~ NCAA 
.Joyee Center crowd that the one game behind West Virginia Tournament, tlwy look at your 
Cardinals had kept quint. Irish for the fourth and final bye in last tei1 games." 
eoach Mullet McGraw said the the conference tournament. 
gamn reminded her of thn 67­"We've got six games left," Contact Chris Khorey at 
58 Dne. 6 win over Purdue in Brey said. "One thing I talked ckhorey@nd.edu 
tim Joyee Cent~w -whnn Gray had a season-best 22 points. "I think it had that atrnos­
phern," McGraw said. "I think the erowd felt it and that nmlly spurrnd us on." 
Even when not scoring, Gray 

ahead by one. The second run clinched the win for the Irish, who scored every point over an eight-minute span. 
"We had that run up against us against West Virginia, and we didn't like it much so we thought we'd try it ourselves," McGraw said jokingly. 
Guard Charel Allen scored five of her 21 points during the sec­ond run. McGraw credited part of Allen's shooting to her team­mates' screens, particularly those by forward Crystal Erwin and center Erica Williamson. 
"My teammates were setting screens for me, and I'm going to take the shot when I'm open," she said. "It just felt good, and most of the time it left my hand, so I continued to shoot." 
The second scoring run ener­gized the Joyce Center crowd. 


MIAA 
continued from page 24 

will be a lot different and we will be ready to compete at our best level," Gerbeth said. "Coach Ryan [Dombkowski] and Alicia [Dombkowski] as well as all the team will be strong factors in pumping everyone up and giving them the confidence to swim at their was more often than not the most important Irish player on the court. After the Irish moved out of the zone near the end of the first half, Gray fulfilled her more traditional role of No. 1 defensive stopper, as she was assigned to stopping Louisville forward Angel McCoughtry. 
In the seeond half, Gray held McCoughtry, who had 19 of her 29 poinl'i in the first half ofT of a perfect 5-f(>r-5 shoQting from 3­point range, to just two field goals. And one of those was a putbaek with 53 seconds left in the game. McCoughtry, who McGraw ealled "the best player in the conference" was 0-2 from long-range after halftime. 
"We really wanted to limit her touches, and that's where I think Brn]ona Gray] is just out­standing," McGraw said. "I think she's the best defender in the conference and she went out and didn't let [McCoughtryl get the ball." 
Still, it was Gray's opportune shooting that stood out most Wedm~sday night. 
By thn time the Irish embarked on a 16-0 run that gave them the lead for good, Gray had finished scoring from the field, but her importance to tile ell'ort newr waven~d. 
"Bre did it with her defense, and she added some niec offense," MeGraw said. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd. edu 
best." 
Saint Mary's is looking to use its months of training and are regarding the championships as an excellent opportunity to build a continued confidence. 
"[The MIAAs] will help build energy into next year so we can continue to become more competitive within our confer­ence," Niemann said. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
RAINING THREES 
"I think the crowd felt it, and when we got close the crowd really helped us," she said. "That really spurred us on." 
The Irish, who have struggled on the boards, out-rebounded Louisville 34-29 and held the Cardinals to 19 rebounds under their season average. 
McGraw attributed the vast improvement in the second half not only to the defensive change but to individual performances as well. 
"Charel, as always, kept us in the game with her offense. Bre did it with her defense," McGraw said. "We had our points, we rebounded well, we did everything we needed to do defensively doWil the stretch." 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
Contact Bill Brink at 

Irish guard Colin Falls attempts a jump shot during Notre Dame's 
wbrink@nd.edu 

82-58 win over South Rorida Jan. 21 at the Joyce Center. 


Thursday, February 8, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
AL!i:l~\-{\, '"T\o\E.N f\S S.e-TT\..E..o . I "3"\..I.S.I \-\oP~ "TH\C:. ~ ~E."T'TE.4?-~"-tJ JC!ctlf !, IU..-f"PrTE.o " AooP'T A. 

NANP«Et:.'' P~o<::rR.AM. ~-----~~ 
HE.'fl HOW wAS SUPPOS€.0 To KNOW "'Ti.fe.'-1 CANT-s uR.v1ve. 1r-1 s-r. -;JosEJ'\..1!> LA"-.E.? GoET of"r: M'j BI!'\OC... 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 



LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 


WILLSHORTZ 
56 Last: Abbr. 57 Greek porches 59 Intermediary 60 Bottom line 61 Some guitar 
playing, slangily 62 German dessert 63 Adelaide-to­
Melbourne dir. 64 Upper sky 
DOWN 1 Learning device 2 Earliest person 
to see a sunrise, typically 3 Cockpit readings 
4 Stand-up comic famous for carrying a rolled­up newspaper onstage 
5 Months of the year, e.g. 6 Lead-in to fare 7 Monopoly purchase 
31 McSorley's 43 "You 51 Vegas request aStopping place offering bother'' 
52 Pioneeringin a Carlo Levi 33 Tiny bit 44 Fly musician in title stereo _ Light34 "Evil Woman" 46 Isolate 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DARTY 
j

rJ r I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reseoved. 
PIRRO 
± 
tMURBEN IJ I 
www.jumble.com 

MOLDEY ± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 


2·8 
WHAT THE: TAIL-ORS FINAL-L-Y DID WHE:N THE:Y BOTH NE:!:t/!:0 TO Pr<E:SS PANTS. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 


"l I I I I I J" IT l I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  VALVE OZONE FACIAL GLANCE What the shepherd got when he took his herd to  
market -A "FLEECING"  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tina Majorino, 21; Ashton Kutcher, 28; Chris Rock, 41; Garth Brooks, 44 
Happy Birthday: You will overcome some very unusual circumstances this year. Set your mind on what you want to see happen this year and you can make it happen. You must not show anger but instead be disciplined, focused and determined to get what you want in a diplomatic and ingenious way. Your numbers are 16. 22, 27, 
31,38, 42 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can surprise someone who is interested in what you have to say and do. A chance to make money or come into a gift is apparent. Be careful not to take what's not yours. Ifyou are uncertain as to what belongs to whom, ask. **** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Don't get angry about the way things arc being done and the lack of reforms being made. Instead, do something about it. Speak up for what you believe in and for those unable to fend for themselves. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have an opportunity you must take advantage of today. By concentrating on one thing, you can make the greatest change. No~ is not the time to spread your talent around. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): A change in your personal life will be exhilarating. Do something a little different with your spare time but don't overspend. Your heart will be in the right place but that doesn't mean you should bail someone you love out of a financial mess. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be honest with yourself about a partnership you are in and you will make the right decision. An opportunity to give back to your community will make you feel good. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't get angry about work or with the people you have to deal with today or little will be accomplished. Take the time to do your job right and disregard what others do or say. You will be the one who gets ahead if you are diligent. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel, entertainment and pursuing a creative dream should all be a part of your day. Plan your next vacation or start off on a trip. An opportunity to turn one of your hobbies into a lucrative pastime looks promising. 
***** 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Tempers may be mounting, especially with people with whom you deal regularly. Don't let these people get to you. Your feelings regarding a certain someone appear to be changing. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21) You will want to be in the center of whatever is going on today. You will have lots of wonderful suggestions but someone may take what you are trying to do the wrong way. Diplomacy will be important.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make some very worthwhile changes to the way you earn your living. Think about the things you enjoy doing most and you will discover the direction that best suits you. It's time to incorporate your talents into your daily schedule. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is a perfect time to do some fixing up to make your home more comfortable. Inviting someone to stay with you or opening your doors to a group you belong to will help put you in a superior position. Romance should be on your mind. ••* • * PISCES (Feb. 19-Marcb 20): Your changing moods may confuse some of the people in your life. It is probably due to a secret you've been keeping. Money matters can be cleared up but only if you stop being a spendthrift. •• 
Birthday Baby: You are a free thinker and a natural born inventor. You are very changeable and adaptable. You are adventurous, inquisitive and always searching for answers. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Extensive spread 6 Start of a quote on obstinacy by James Russell Lowell 9 "Nothing in Common" star, 1986 14 Steven Bochco series 15 Gearwheel tooth cutter 16 Nicholas Gage 
book 

17 "Far_ eye ... " 
18 Tribe 
encountered early in the Lewis and Clark expedition 

19 Central point 20 Kind of camera 21 Fam. member 22 Place for fishing 23 Ruffled, with 
"up" 24 Quote, part 2 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
27 Upstate N.Y. college 28 Having a surly demeanor 
30 1967 hit with the repeated lyric "Yes I am I And I can't help I But love you so" 
32 Quote, part 3 36 Orchestra section 37 Zulfikar Bhutto, 1970's 
Pakistani leader 38 "Phooey!" 39 Vets, e.g.: Abbr. 40 Home 42 Hook shape 43 When said three 
times, comment of annoyance 45 Bit of neckwear 48 Quote, part 4 53 End of the quote 
55 1977 biographical Broadway play 



9 Cohort 10 Bygone spray 11 Opposite of 
eternally 12 Quaint school togs 13 Hair quality promised by some shampoos 25 "_ gods ... !": Brutus, in "Julius Caesar'' 26 Imogene's comic partner 29 Abbr. in a Bible's name 
grp., 1975 47 Outfielder's cry 53 How food may be ordered at a
35 Good 48 Sabre or restaurantSamaritan's Senator 
49 Get up 40 Golden 55 Rod
50 A little better 41 Flair than average 58 Old geog. inits. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.comlcrosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.comlpuzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 

--~ --~-------------------­
THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Thursday, February 8, 2007 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Clipping the Cardinals' wings 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
A defensive shift at halftime allowed Notre Dame to shut down No. 17 Louisville's offense and erase a seven-point half­time deficit on its way to a 64­55 win at the Joyce Center Wednesday. 
The win was the second time this season the Irish defeated a ranked opponent, the first com­ing against then-No. 10 Purdue Dec. 6 at the Joyce Center. 
Louisville shot over the Irish zone early in the game, helping them grab the early lead. Forward Angel McCoughtry led the Cardinals' 3-point offense, sinking all five of her shots from 
see DEFENSE/page 22 


SMC SWIMMING 
Saint Mary's closes out season vvith MIAAs 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
With only one meet remain­ing, the Belles feel they can fin­ish their season on a high note beginning today at the MIAA championships in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
Saint Mary's finished the reg­ular season 2-7, but the team remains optimistic about its ability to succeed in several events this weekend. The Belles are focused on performing well not only in individual events, but in the relays as well. 
"Personally, I will concentrate on having a strong 200 [yardl back and 500 [yard] free so hopefully I can advance to the finals," freshman Sara Niemann said. "However, I think relays are going to be the key part to our team's success." 
Sophomore Melissa Gerbeth is also confident in her team's ability to perform well at the conference championships. 
"We have a chance to score more points at the meet than we have in a few years, so every placing in the top-12 will be important as far as scoring points is concerned," she said. "It is going to be important for every swimmer to give their maximum effort in order to place well." 
Because the MIAA champi­onship is a three-day meet, the Belles will need to conserve their energy and remain focused for the duration. One way Saint Mary's has tried to stay fresh for this weekend has been a lighter practice sched­ule this week. 
"This last week we started 

and allowed our muscles to relax," freshman Lindsey Nelis said. "Tapering is very impor­tant in order to allow your body to heal as well as gave us a chance to visualize and think about our races." 
Even though the Belles have rested for a week, they are con­fident that once the racing begins they will be able to per­form well. 
"Once we get in the atmos­phere of the championship meet everyone's mental state 
tapering, which gave us rest see MIAA/page 22 
Gray's defense, 3-point shooting lead Notre Dame past Louisville 
Hours before Notre Dame's 64­55 win over No. 17 Louisville, senior guard Breona Gray play­fully took shots from the top of the stairs in The Pit, a good 30 feet from the basket. 
And they were going in. 

By the time the game began, the Irish co-captain was still hot from long-distance. Gray, normal­ly a defensive standout, shot 50 percent from beyond the arc and made three of Notre Dame's five 3-point baskets. 
"One of the things we work on is if you're open, shoot it," Gray said. 
Wednesday night, the senior guard, whose .333 shooting per­centage is lower than all but freshman Melissa Lechlitner's .299 in the eight-man rotation, proved why she has started every game for Notre Dame this sea­son. 
Gray, whose 12-point total was only the fourth highest on the night for Notre Dame, hit the biggest shots at the biggest times to help the Irish come from behind and pull out a double-digit win. 
Twice during the game, in which the Irish overcame a 12­point hole, Gray hit a long-range shot that helped curb a Cardinal run and allowed the Irish to cut the growing deficit back into sin­gle figures. With 2:05 left in the frrst half, Gray's shooting ended a 10-1 Louisville run and helped Notre Dame reduce a 29-17 Louisville lead to nine points. 
see GRAY/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame travels to DePaul with healthy Kurz 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Good news and bad news await No. 21 Notre Dame for its game against DePaul in Rosemont, Ill., tonight. 
The bad news is that the Irish are on the road, where the team is just 3-5 this season and where they are coming off a loss to Big East bottom-feed­er South Florida. 
The good news is Notre Dame's leading rebounder, junior forward Rob Kurz, is expected to play his usual 28 minutes against the Blue Demons. Kurz saw limited action in Notre Dame's 69-63 loss to South Florida Saturday because of an ankle injury. 
"[My ankle is] feeling a lot better," Kurz said. "I think it's going to be 100 percent Thursday." 
Kurz, who averages 8.5 rebounds per game, gathered in just one in 19 minutes in the loss to the Bulls. 
"We need him healthy to be at our best," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "He's gotten better each day since Saturday." 
The Irish (18-5, 6-4 Big East) beat Syracuse at the Carrier Dome 103-91 Jan. 30, ending a three-game road losing streak. They fell back to their old road woes with the loss Saturday. 
"We just didn't play tough," Notre Dame point guard Tory Jackson said of the South Florida game. "Things could have gone better, but they got the momentum and we waited too long to fight baek." 
Irish forward Zach Hillesland said Notre Dame ean re-create its effort against the Orange versus DePaul tonight. 
"It's just a matter of coming 
see KURZ/page 22 



NCAA BASKETBAll 
NBA 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NBANCAA fOOTBALLPGA 

I.LI (,) UNC 79 

Florida grabs 10 five-
Former center John The International at 

Sonics 103 z Duke 73 
Georgetown 73 

star high school playersAmaechi becomes the Castle Pines is no longer 
Pacers 102


Louisville 65 

to take the No. 1 recruit-on the Tour due to afirst NBA player to be 
Seattle guard Ray
Tyler Hansbrough's 
The Hoyas win their
:3 
ing class of 2007.

lack of a corporate
openly gay. 

Allen scores 33 points= c:z: Tar Heels past No. 16 16 points lead the No. 5 
sixth straight behind a 
sponsor. 

and dishes out nine Duke. 
double-double from 
assists in the Sanies'
center Roy Hibbert. 
win.
tc 
page 21 

en 
page 17 

page 16 
page 14


page 20 

page 15 





