
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 103 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21,2007 
Mendoza ranked by BusinessWeek 
Undergraduate business school listed seventh among top programs, drops four spots 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
A new BusinessWeek rank­ing puts Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business seventh among top under­graduate business schools ­a drop from last year's No. 3 ranking, but still ahead of 86 other programs. 
Dean of the Mendoza College of Business Carolyn Woo emphasized that the ranking of 93 schools ­included in Monday's edition of BusinessWeek but released to the University March 8 ­wasn't the program's most important accomplishment. 
"It's great to have national 
recognition, but it is more important to focus on doing the best job we can to pre­pare our students," Woo said. 
Woo said she believes the best preparation for business students "includes profession­al excellence, integrity and care for the common good." 
Notre Dame's seventh-place ranking put it just behind Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Business. Notre Dame was the highest ranked Catholic insti­tution with Georgetown and Villanova in the 11th and 12th spots, respectively. 
Last year, BusinessWeek's first-ever list of 62 under-
see RANKINGS/page 4 
TOP10UNDERGRADUATE



BUSINESS PROGRAMS 
1 U~iversity of Pennsyl\fcmia (Wharton) 2 University of Virginia (Mcintire) 
H.'H,'N.~"~·.•N,'-"•Wn,'n','f,'h",W0°~'.~-·.w.~·~ ,'r-'<W•Wh".'>'o'M'~''A'M,o',O~''"'''"~''""""''''•''"'~V~"'•"-''<''N-'~c•c.ON)nC',-,~.·>,-,V,>'•'N.'"<'"<"'"""""'''"'"'"''n)nV ...W)->' 0 
3 UC Berkeley (Haas) 

··• >:'-'•"•.:>'·-:-.·'•"X·A·-'•>·,o•'•,c•·)'"·•··'·''"·''•·:"·""·.•{<>,_.,,.•,,,)o>,,~·,_,•.,,>.<':·;>'."'"·'"~~~><"!<o.~~7~~~-,;0'<,""""'*'',.,.,_"<'~•"-•>'?"""•W."'.<'"'>·""·''''"'""""'·•··>'••'· 
4 Emory l,lniv(:lr; 

.,...~,."~'>A'N,"N,"'-"''-"'•'-"'•'n'""'-"~"'•"''-""'"'"'•'"'""""""~::';:":':"~""'''r.j.!"Z'' 
M'§'"''''"~!!,iY~~~.. 
6 Massachu ,pJQgv (Sloan) 
,•,•,,•mw••·.-.,--.w.:<'<'><""""""""_"_,.,....,.,..~ :!;.~,;~""'~'"<·"'"·..._'~--.~__.-,..,..,,_..,, 
7 NOTRE DAME (M . . . · ! 
."•'','•'-'•'•'•W~''""""~'-'0..-AVA'-• ''."•'''•."A~h'."o',',>'•'"'•'k;;.;;~A....,_'''-'A','' ~~>;~--"­
...... 

8 Brigham Young Univ~rsiw~r~~1~rr~?ti) · 9 New York University (Stern) 
Y.•··.v.--,-· . ...-.w...-.-..-.-·---~ -• •,'r,·•',••'•'."~·-,..·,-,.c-",''~-""'"~-->·-0_,_,.,....,_"""• 

Marine discusses opposition to war 
ate, or the one that can be made for us," Madden said. 
He is currently on a speaking tour, promoting awareness about the war and urging college stu­dents to reject complacency in this "time of moral crisis." 
Madden opened his talk with a question -what does it take to burn down a forest? After some­one in tim audience responded, "a spark," Madden said he spent the last few months questioning, "how do you burn down a war?" 
Madden said imagination and leadership are important if Americans hope to effect change. As co-founder of the Appeal for Redress movement -a move­ment of active duty, active reserve and Guard soldiers filing private grievances with their elected offi­cials against the war -Madden 
see WAR/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Ruling affectsND endovvrnent 
IRS expands University investment options 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Ediror 
A Dec. 21 federal ruling authorized Notre Dame -as the trustee of numerous char­itable trusts -to invest the donors' contributions in the University's endowment, an investment option that will rival the Goliaths of national mutual funds with its diversi­fied portfolio and 14.6 per­cent rate of return, Assistant Vice President of Development Jean Gorman said Tuesday. 
"Not all institutions can out­perform mutual funds offered by firms like Fidelity or Vanguard, and we feel that we can," Gorman said. 
Notre Dame had been limit­ed in the past in the invest­ment vehicles available for these trusts-but an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) ruling opened up the possibility of growing the donors' capital, or trust corpus, on the University's own endowment. 
"We are very excited about this opportunity for Notre Dame," Gorman said, cele­brating the opportunity to expand both the charitable remainder trusts' corpora and the University endowment at the same time. 
A charitable remainder trust, she said, is an income­producing gift that provides an annual payout to one or more income beneficiaries, or charitable organizations, dur­
see TRUSTS/page 4 



Forum hosts three-day series on global health 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
After last fall's Notre Dame Forum on the global health crisis generated significant campus interest, the University decided to continue the initiative by hosting a three-day series of meetings for the Notre Dame community to further discuss its role in addressing these issues. 
"I think when the global health forum happened on Sept. 14, it catalyzed a lot of conversations on campus about what we are as a University are doing to impact global health," Vice President and Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs said. "No one on this campus knew all that was going on. There were a lot of initiatives happening on one side of the University that the other side did­n't know about." 
The meetings started Tuesday, focusing on the University's large project initiatives such as the Center for Global Health and Infectious Diseases, the Haiti Project and the Millennium Village Project. Today's meeting will address research initiatives on global health issues and Thursday's discussion will focus on service learning projects and outreach in developing countries. 
The idea for a broader campus discourse on global health began 
see FORUM/page 3 


Lecture examines public schools 
By BRIGID FENLON 
News Writer 
Cecilia Rouse, economist and pro­fessor at Princeton University, deliv­ered the Provost Distinguished Women's Lecture last night. Her speech "Making Schools Accountable: Effects on Students and Schools," dis­cussed the two dominant methods for improving public school systems in a monetarily efficient manner. 
These "two basic flavors of school 
accountability," Rouse said, refer to 
test-based and market-based systems. 
These models intend to provide fami­
lies with the appropriate information 
in order to make informed decisions 
about the best schooling for their chil­
dren. 
The test-based method, "holds the 
institution accountable and heavily 
considers test scores as a means of 
see PUBLIC/page 6 



By MEG HAN WONS News Writer 

The war in Iraq has been a con­troversial issue for both American citizens and soldiers on active duty since it began four years ago. Liam Madden, a former Marine sergeant, spoke last night in DeBartolo Jlall at a public lecture sponsored by the Progressive Student Alliance, Notre Dame Peace Fellowship, Center for Social Concerns and the Joan B. Kroc Institute entitled, "The Ground Truth in Iraq: A Marine's View." 
Madden, honorably discharged in January, spoke about his expe­riences in Iraq and what made him begin to disagree with U.S. participation in the war. 
"There are two futures colliding -there is the future we can ere­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Pick fantasy baseball 
As I go to outline what I'm going to write for this column on a piece of scrap paper, I see last year's statistics for pitchers Jeremy Sowers and Doug Davis on the other side. It makes me wonder, am I 
Chris Massad 
obsessed with fantasy baseball? For me, fantasy 
Photographer
baseball is a good way to stay in touch with old friends and win . respect from new ones. I remember my roommate always on the phone consulting with his dad or brother about his family's league during our first days on campus. · 
A number of Web sites, like Yahoo, offer free fantasy sport leagues. For all you amateurs, fantasy sports include football, baseball, basketball and hockey. In most fantasy leagues, the game play is either "head-to­head," with pairs of managers com­peting in various statistical cate­gories, or "rotisserie," where all the managers compete for rankings in the various statistical categories. At the start of the season there is a draft, and throughout the season there are trades, free agency pick­ups, and chatting on message boards." 
Coming from Connecticut, the boundary line between Red Sox nation and Yankee country runs right through my home state. This gave rise to heated online debates last year, particularly over the destination of Roger Clemens. With one of the other managers destined for the University of Michigan next year, I'm sure collegiate football will be thrown into the mix. We're already debating this weekend's hockey tour­nament. 
The popularity of fantasy sports is apparent. Currently ESPN is advertis­ing their free online fantasy baseball game with the slogan "It's free. And it rocks." 
In the past, fantasy football has been marketed with reigning NFL MVP LaDainian Tomlinson. Another commercial featured a group of guys around the TV upset by a play while one ambivalent person exclaimed, "That guy's on my fantasy team!" 
At times in past seasons, what's best for my fantasy team has been at odds with what's best for my favorite baseball club. This conflict of desires sometimes makes baseball less enjoy­able for me ... but I came up with a reasonable solution. So far this year, I have no fewer than eight fantasy teams divided amongst Yahoo, ESPN and MLB.com. Between all those teams, I probably have most of the top 150 fantasy players on some team or another. 
Am I obsessed with fantasy base­ball? Well, if you are positioned in a baseball organization as a player or an executive in five, 10, 15 years or so, I would love it if you contacted me with any inside information. My mes­sage for you is this -cast aside your now defunct March Madness brack­ets (courtesy of Winthrop) and redeem yourself in a fantasy baseball league today. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Massad at cmassad@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publi­cation and strives for the highest standards ofjour­nalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU THINK HIGH SCHOOLS SHOULD BE ABLE TO USE THE LEPRECHAUN LOGO? 



Sara Devore  Adam Mathews  Dan Dirscherl  
freshman Welsh Family  freshman Siegfried  freshman Sarin  
"I think they should be allowed because everyone still recognizes it's the Notre Dame  "I think so, because no one's going to confuse those high schools for the real Notre Dame. "  "No, because they're always after me lucky charms."  
leprechaun. "  




Adam McGinn  Joey Curcio  
freshman  sophomore  
O'Neill  Knott  
"I don't have a  "I don't even  
problem with  understand the  
using the name,  question. "  
but the logo is  
totally  
different."  


OFFBEAT 

Teen stranded on ice chunk in Mississippi River 
ANOKA, Minn. -A teenager got an unexpected, terrifying ride down the Mississippi River on a giant slab of ice that broke off as he stood along the shoreline. 
Amos Benjamin Cohen, 19, stood frozen with fear as the six foot by 15 foot ice chunk swirled in the water, floating toward shore then drifting back to the middle of the river, witnesses and rescuers said. 
"He stood there so still," like the Statue of Liberty, said Sue Hillberg who spot­ted him from her mother's kitchen window. 
Ellie Ghostley said she 
yelled to the boy that she was calling 911, then hopped in her car to see if he would get out all right. 
A rescue team from the Anoka-Champlin Fire Department sent three fire­tighters in survival suits into the water. As Cohen approached, one of the tire­lighters managnd to hop up onto the ice with him. The other two pulled them to safety, Fire Chief Charlie Thompson said. 
Nun seeks borough council seat 
FOREST HILLS, Pa. ­After attending borough council meetings for months, a nun has decided to try to become one of the town's decision-makers. "I need to be on the other side of the table. I need to listen and I need to be a voice for the people," said Sister Matthias Wemm, one of four Democrats seeking three open council seats in the May primary. 

Wemm, 66, a Sister of Mercy, said she sought per­mission from her order and from the Almighty to run for the office. 
"He says, 'This is your decision. I'm with you and holding you in the palm of my hand,"' Wemm said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
lei: 
1.&.1 


J)
3: 
...I 
ct 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 56 HIGH 46
...I LOW 55 LOW 45 


62 46 
IN BRIEF 
Registration for Summer Session at Notre Dame begins today. Students interested in tak­ing classes during the summer can register through insideND. 
A screening of the film "Sometimes in April" will be held in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium tonight at 7 p.m. The screening is sponsored by BERWA, an organization made up of survivors of the 1994 Rwandan genocide and The Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 

The Notre Dame Chamber Players will perform with guest violinist Nokuthuia Ngwenyama at 8 p.m tonight in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets _are $10; $8 for faculty and stall'; $6 for seniors and $3 for stu­
dents. 
The Ballroom Dance Club invites dancers of all skill levels to join them in 205 Rockne Memorial for a night of mambo and foxtrot tonight from 8 p.m. to 
10. The cost for a night of dancing is $4. 
Dennis Jacobs, vice president and associate provost, and William Ramsey. associate pro­fessor of philosophy, will speak at Theology on Tap tonight at 9 
p.m. The subject of the Legend's event will be "To Cheat or Not to Cheat? The Academic Honor Code." 
Men's baseball will play South Florida Friday at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. For tickets, call the Athletic Department's ticket office at 631-7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

68 45 

65 42 

... 
·' 
Wednesday, March 21, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

RA selection begins at SMC 
By BRIGID FENLON 
News Wricer 
With the room selection process only days away, Saint Mary's students are choosing their future roommates, dorms and lottery numbers. Many other students, howev­er, have filled out out applica­tions and interviewed to become a part of the Residence Life staff, which was chosen just days before spring break. 
The Saint Mary's resident assistant selection involves a three-part evaluation, which includes a written applica­tion, a group process inter­view and an individual inter­view. Saint Mary's expected to hire 42 RAs just before break, but the number could still change, depending on whether or not all floors of residence halls will be needed for the upcoming year. 
"The RA job allows a stu­dent to work with their peers in a way most campus jobs don't. The RA not only plans section events, but acts as an adviser for a student with a simple problem or serious crisis situations," Director of Residence Life Michelle Russell said. "The RAs receive valuable training in conflict resolution and inter­vention. They are great resources and role models." 
RAs are not only expected to be present for the students in their section but also to devote many additional hours to working with the hall staff on administrative tasks, 
Russell said. not guaranteed. For Taylor, 
"It can be stressful if the RA McCandless was her third doesn't manage her time choice. well," she said. "I am grateful for being 
Junior Brittany Taylor, who placed in McCandless, even is currently an RA in though it was not my first 
McCandless Hall, has both enjoyed and learned from her experience. 
"Being an RA at Saint Mary's has been one of the best growing experiences for me. I have been able to work with some great women here at SMC," she said. 
Taylor, whose hall is mainly composed of freshmen, said she understands 
"Being an RA at Saint Mary,s has been one ofthe best growing experiences for me. I have been able to work with some great women here at SMC. ,, 
Brittany Taylor resident assistant McCandless Hall 
the importance of RAs in sup­porting first-year students. 
"There is an excitement and energy among the first years that makes my job enjoy­able," she said. "They are always willing to step up and partake in section events, and hall programming." 
The Residence Life staff attempts to place RAs in the dorm most suitable for them after they are selected, Russell said. 
"The pro-staff knew that my personality would work well within the dynamics of the McCandless hall and staff," Taylor said. "They knew what was best." 
Applicants are asked to rank their dorm choices, although their first choice is 
or not," 
choice," she said. 
While the evalu­
ation and appli­
cation process is 
difficult, it has 
not changed 
much over the 
years, Russell 
said. 
Students, too, 
recognize the 
need for a rigid 
selection process. 
"The RA process is tough, and I think it weeds out people who don't care either way if they would be an RA said sophomore 

Andrea Krebs, a current RA in McCandless. 
The majority of RAs said the biggest benefits of the job are the people they meet. 
"The other RAs are amazing -not just on Holy Cross' staff, but in the other resi­dence halls as well," said Kathleen Dudek, a sophomore RA in Holy Cross Hall. "The biggest benefit has to be the people you meet. The girls and hall staff that I have become close with have made this year phenomenal. 
"At times it is stressful and tiring," she said, "but in the end it is all worth it." 
Contact Brigid Fenlon at bfenlon@nd.edu 
Foruin 
continued from page 1 
in the fall with the hope of car­rying the discussion into the spring semester, Jacobs said. 
"I think what happened short­ly after the forum -a few weeks after -was that stu­dents, faculty and staff said, 'This is a big issue, what can I do?' What we didn't have to offer at that time was a vision of what the campus was doing," Jacobs said. "There were a number of individuals that wanted to participate, but there was no forum to allow them to do so." 
Jacobs said the meetings are one way the University hopes to facilitate individual participation in dealing with the global health crisis. 
"This week will create a mechanism for a set of opportu­nities, which is likely to draw more participation -the inter­est level is already there," he said. 
Stephen Silliman, a civil engi­neering and geological sciences professor who is in charge of the committee responsible for this week's events, said the structure will be similar for all three meetings. Each meeting will include introductions of the overall projects, small group discussions and an examination of campus activities currently in place. 
Silliman said the meetings would attempt to determine whether there are any "road­blocks" to pursuing solutions on issues of global health, and Jacobs said the conversations will focus on "how do we as a community respond." 
"[These events are] much more in the mode of action ­they're about what can we do and what are we doing," Jacobs said. " ... What I particularly like about this set of 'town hall meetings' is that they are really at the grassroots level -it is completely organized by individ­uals who are passionate about this cause." 

Although next year's forum will focus on immigration, Jacobs said the University will continue its efforts to improve global health. 
"In no way do we want to imply that we've solved the problem or that after one year there's no concern for global health now that we've moved onto immigration," Jacobs said. "I would hope that we don't just deal with an issue on an intel­lectual level but that we put into action what we value and believe -those kinds of initia­tives always live on more than a one-year cycle." 
The planning committee, which was formed in October, includes students, faculty and staff members of the University who were interested in the issues raised by the Forum, Silliman said. 
Undergraduate students were instrumental in advertising the week's events, Silliman said, and several faculty members have contributed to the develop­ment of questions that will be addressed at the meetings. 
"By putting our ideas together we can find more effective solu­tions [to the global health crisis] and create a great model for the University on how to solve prob­lems, and this requires expert­ise from the entire University," Jacobs said. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu 
T a k A b o u t N o r e D a m e a n d G e t p a d



omcEor 
NS 
p 

a n s t 0 H r e 

Applications 004\. ~ _f~.w UJ· u-. tk Admissions Reception Area 220 ®lLun ffiuJ~ @nJ ®lLMx £.~ fRd:.u,uwa to tK~ ~lW-~ \9Jtt« 
~-Spm on April 5 












-------------------------~-------------­
'·  
page 4  The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS  Wednesday March 21, 2007  
Rankings  survey of 77,000 graduating seniors from the 123 institu­tions eligible for ranking ~  gram. "I think it's been a good experience compared to what  high schore. Sophomore accountancy major David Hillegass plans to  already employed by gradua­tion, while 26 percent planned on immediately mov­ 
continued from page 1  including students from the only institution that declined  I have heard from friends at other schools," said Ken  intern with Comcast this sum­mer.  ing onto graduate school. "I would definitely say that  
graduate business schools  to participate, University of  Walsh, a senior finance major.  "[Mendoza]  has  really  having [attended] Notre Dame  
ranked Mendoza third behind  Pennsylvania's  Wharton  Walsh plans to  attend law  helped  me  forward my busi­ and Mendoza will be benefi­ 
University of Pennsylvania's  School ~  as well as a survey  school in the fall.  ness  career  by giving  me  cial in getting a  job in the  
Wharton  School  and  of corporate recruiters.  Sophomore  accountancy  opportunities to get intern­ future," Walsh said.  
University  of  Virginia's  In addition to the surveys,  major Alex Ericksen said he  ships and future job opportu­ Ericksen expressed disap­ 
Mcintire School of Commerce.  BusinessWeek looked at fac­ was "pleased" with Mendoza.  nities," Hillegass said.  pointment with the college's  
Both of these schools held on  tors such as the median start­ "I think it definitely belongs  Mendoza graduates have  recent drop to seventh place,  
to their top spots in this year's  ing salary for graduates and  in the top ten," Ericksen said.  reason  to  be  optimistic.  but said other circumstances  
list.  the  amount  of  graduates  Ericksen plans to intern this  Placement surveys from 2005  played into the shift.  
A "critical factor" in the  attending Top-35 MBA pro­ summer with William Blair &  show the average salary for a  "I don't think [Mendoza] got  
ranking drop  was  due to  a  grams. An academic quality  Company in London,  a job he  graduate of the undergradu­ worse.  It's just that other  
change in the rules regarding  gauge included four  meas­ landed thanks to his experi­ ate  program  is  $48,500,  schools have gotten better,"  
faculty ratio, Woo said. For  ures: ratio of full-time faculty  ences at Mendoza.  according to  the  Mendoza  he said. "There's increased  
2007, only faculty members  to  students, average class  Although it is often difficult  Web site. Some of the firms  competition."  
who taught in the undergrad­ size, percentage of business  for sophomores to find  sum­ that hired the most graduates  Walsh said Mendoza's rank­ 
uate program in the last aca­ majors with internships and  mer internships in business,  in the past academic year  ing was "still respectable."  
demic year could be counted.  the amount of hours students  Mendoza  students  like  include Deloitte & Touche,  "Third would be better, but  
Mendoza received an A-plus  spend every week on  school­ Ericksen have been  success­ Ernst &  Young and Goldman  seventh is nothing to look  
in the areas of teaching quali­ work.  ful.  Internship placement is  Sachs.  down on," he said.  
ty, facilities, services and job  Many Mendoza students said  an  important  criterion  in  The BusinessWeek ranking  
placement.  they were satisfied with Notre  BusinessWeek rankings and  said 71 percent of Mendoza  Contact Eva Binda at  
The rankings relied on  a  Dame's undergraduate pro- contributed to Notre Dame's  students  surveyed  were  jbinda@nd.edu  

Trusts 
continued from page 1 

trusts," Gorman said. "If the trust corpus grows, the University will benefit and so can the income beneficiary." 
The Notre Dame endowment consists of an assortment of financial assets, which includes traditional stocks and 
financial planning perspec­tive," Jenkins said in the press release. 
Planned Giving contracts between the donors and their appointed trustees are regu­lated by the United States Congress and the IRS, the 

given recently to Stanford University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Gorman said. 
"This is a groundbreaking development that has the potential to make an enor­mous impact on the 
University's ambitious goals for students, faculty and pro­grams throughout the cam­pus," Jenkins said in the release. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
ing the donor's remaining lifespan or any contracted term. 
When the contract expires or the donor dies, Gorman said, the University must use the remaining trust corpus for a purpose designated by the donor, or at its own discretion if the donor did not specify how Notre Dame should have disposed the remainder funds. 
The growth the initial dona­tion will experience through the duration of the trust ~ and consequently the pro­ceeds for the beneficiaries ~ 
will depend largely on  the  
investment  vehicles  the  
trustee utilizes, she said.  

"Our endowment has tradi­tionally oufperformed the other investment vehicles that we have utilized for these 
bonds in domestic and inter­national markets, ownership equities, real estate and other types of securities rarely available to smaller investors, a press release from the Office of News and Information said. 
As a result, University President Father John Jenkins echoed Gorman's enthusiasm about the ruling, saying the option to invest the trust's corpus in the Notre Dame endowment could serve as an incentive to increase Planned Giving programs, which are popular in universities, hospi­tals and museums across the nation. 
"This option may be attrac­tive to our benefactors from a National Committee on Planned Giving Web site said. 
Gorman said another benefit that may stem from the new financial practice is the poten­tial increase in the portion of the trusts' capital that may be presented to Notre Dame at the end of the trusts' lifespan. 
"If the corpora of the trusts grow, then a larger remainder amount will be available for Notre Dame," she said. 
Following in the footsteps of Harvard University three years ago, Notre Dame sub­mitted an application to the IRS to get the green light to invest, as a trustee, the trust's corpus in the University's own endowment -a privilege also 


The Development Phone Center would like to recognize the following "Businesses of the Month" for their support in our semi-annual
Notre Dame incentive auction: 
ANNUAL FUND  
Between the Buns South Bend Silverhawks Bonnie Doon Ice Cream  Le Peep Ten Thousand Villages Patricia Ann Flower Shop  
Carriage House  Papa John's  
Chik-fil-a  Perkins  
CJ's Pub College Football Hall of Fame Cosimo and Susie•s 11 A Bit of Itali•  Rocco's Restaurant Quality Dining/Papa Vino' s/Chili' s Quality Dining/Burger King  
Culver's Restaurant  Siam Thai Restaurant  
East Bank Emporium Francesco's Italian and American Restaurant  Blackthorn Golf Club Nuevo Tijuana Mexican Restaurant  
Fun Tan  The Field Museum  
Hi-Speed Auto Wash  The Funny Bone  
Honkers Restaurant  Tippecanoe Place  
KFC  Zolman Tire  
Lasalle Grill  

We would like to thank them for making our auction a continued success. 


Asian Summer Language Grant Program 
Deadline is lVIarch 30, 2007. 
The Center for Asian Studies is sponsoring a competition for undergraduates and graduate students who wish to study an Asian language not currently offered at Notre Dame. The program selected can be either in the U.S. or a foreign country. 
It is expected that such study will contribute to the student's further education at Notre Dame. In most cases, language classes will be counted for academic credit at Notre Dame. The competition is not open to seniors or graduate students completing their degrees. 
Applications at www.nd.edu/-cas 

Essay Prize in Asian Studies 
Deadline is A_pril 9, 2007. 
Two prizes of $100 each will be awarded for the Best Undergraduate and Best Graduate Essay. Essays should focus on Asia or Asian American topics. 
Undergraduate submissions should be no longer than 20 pages. Graduate submissions should be no longer than 30 pages_ 
Submit three copies (two without author information) to: 
Center for Asian Studies 210 O'Shaughnessy Hall 1-0487 
www.nd.edu/-cas 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 21, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russian nursing home fire kills 62 
KAMYSHEVATSKAYA, Russia -Flames engulfed a nursing home in this village with­out a fire station Tuesday, killing 62 frail and elderly residents after the night watchman ignored two alarms and emergency teams took nearly an hour to arrive. At least 30 peo­ple were injured. 
Coming a day after a gas explosion that killed more than 100 coal miners in Siberia, the fire could undermine Kremlin contentions that conditions are improving in newly pros­perous Russia. 
Angry residents hurled accusations of negli­gence at the regional envoy of President Vladimir Putin, who announced that Wednesday would be a national day of mourn­ing for those killed in the fire and mine catas­trophe as well as a plane crash Saturday that killed six. 
Authorities blamed the nursing home disas­ter on safety violations at the home, toxic building materials used in a renovation, negli­gence by the staff and the nearest firehouse bning about 30 miles from Kamyshevatskaya, a town on the Azov Sea in southern Russia. 
Referendum creates controversy 
CAIHO -The Egyptian president on Tuesday scheduled a referendum next week on constitu­tional amendments that would limit the coun­try's largest opposition movement, drawing accusations that the government was speeding up the process to avoid debate. 
The government says the changes will help increase democracy in a country where President Hosni Mubarak has ruled unchal­lenged for a quarter-century. But opponents say the amendments are part of a plan to ensure the 78-year-old president's son succeeds him in a future election. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Purdue officials to investigate death 
WEST LAFAYETTE -The discovery of the body of a missing Purdue University student in a dormitory's high-voltage utility room has school officials and his family wondering how a door to such a dangerous area was left unlocked. 
School officials Tuesday said they would investigate why a door that opens to the out­doors was unlocked and why numerous searches for Wade Steffey, 19, since he went missing Jan. 13 did not include a full inspec­tion of the room. 
'The search for Wade Steffey is over, but the search for answers continues," Purdue spokes­woman Jeanne Norberg said. 
Prosecutor firings fuel party debate 
WASHINGTON-The White House pushed back Tuesday against Democrats demand­ing answers on the firings of federal prose­cutors, refusing to allow President Bush's top aides to testify publicly and under oath about their roles in the dismissals. 
Democrats rejected the offer just as firm­ly. Said Patrick Leahy, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee: "Testimony should be on the record and under oath. That's the formula for true accountability." 
LOCAL NEWS 
High school coach accused of abuse 
MISHAWAKA -The parents of a Mishawaka High School basketball player have gone to court with their claims that the school's coach verbally and psychologically abused him over the past two years. The lawsuit filed by Don and Shirley Ross states that their son, 6-foot-9 senior Jim Ross, was mistreated by coach Robb Berger. The suit claims that Berger asked the younger Ross why someone so tall couldn't make a layup and told him "You can't run, you can't jump, you can't play." 
In a filing with St. Joseph Circuit Court, Berger denied the lawsuit's allegations. 
The lawsuit claims that Jim Ross suffered emotional distress and withdrew because of Berger's treatment. 
IRAQ 

Saddam's former deputy hanged 
Taha Yassin Ramadan buried in regime graveyard, executed for role in killings 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Hundreds of chanting mourners buried Saddam Hussein's former vice president near the oust­ed dictator, his sons and two other executed deputies Tuesday in a spot that has become the graveyard of the ousted regime. 
Taha Yassin Ramadan's body, which was covered with the Iraqi flag, was interred in a building court­yard in the Tigris River vil­lage of Ouja hours after he was hanged for his part in the killings of 148 Shiite Muslims following a 1982 assassination attempt on Sad dam. 
Police, meanwhile, found the bullet-riddled bodies of 32 men scattered across Baghdad. The corpses showed signs of torture and were the apparent victims of sectarian death squads, most of which are believed to be operated by Shiite militias. 
That number was below the average of 50 bodies that were turning up daily on the capital's streets before the U.S.-Iraqi securi­ty operation started Feb. 14. Militia fighters have been lying low to avoid a con­frontation with American troops. 
The number of execution­style deaths was notable, however, because the toll had fallen as low as seven a day, prompting American and Iraqi officials to express cautious optimism that sec­tarian violence was ebbing. Three bodies were found in the northern city of Mosul as well. 
At least 18 other people were killed Tuesday by bomb and mortar attacks in Baghdad on the fourth anniversary of the start of the Iraq war, including two 
U.S. soldiers hit by a road­side bomb. 
Ramadan, Sad dam's vice president at the start of the war, was hanged before dawn in what was once Iraq's military intelligence headquarters in Baghdad. 


Police in Tikrit, Saddam's hometown, said the body was flown to the area by the 
U.S. military, then driven to Ouja to be buried near the flower-covered graves of co­defendants Barzan Ibrahim and Awad Hamed al­Bandar, who were executed in January. 
Saddam's sons Odai and Qusai and grandson Mustafa also are buried in the courtyard, and the for­mer dictator's grave is inside the building. 
Yahya Ibrahim, a Sunni Arab cleric and member of the Association of Muslim Scholars, said Ramadan had asked in his will to be buried at the site, which has become a focal point for loy­alists of the former regime. 
Ouja, just outside Tikrit and about a 90-minute drive north of Baghdad, is near where Saddam was captured by American sol­diers in December 2003. 

Reaction to Ramadan's execution was muted com­pared with Sunni outrage that erupted after a clan­destine video showed Saddam being taunted on the gallows before he was hanged Dec. 30 for his role in the killings and when Ibrahim was inadvertently decapitated at his later exe­cution. 
Bassam al-Husseini, a close aide to Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki, said three U.S. forensics experts were called in two weeks before Ramadan's hanging to help prevent a repeat of the gruesome scene at Ibrahim's execu­tion. 
"We ran test runs using a dummy and they were suc­cessful," he told The Associated Press. "We marked the rope at several points to show the maximum weight allowed. Iraqis have been trained by the experts. All this was done at the request of the prime minister." 
Ramadan, who was near­ly 70, was weighed before the hanging and the rope was chosen accordingly, al­Husseini said. 
The execution closed the legal books on the 1982 killings of 148 adults and children from Dujail, a town 50 miles north of Baghdad. Besides the four men exe­cuted, three other defen­dants were sentenced to 15 years in jail. One was acquitted. 

10 million flu vaccines to expire 
Associated Press 
Millions of doses of flu vaccine will expire at midnight June 30, unsold during this year's mild flu season and written off as trash. Still perfectly good, and possibly useful for a few more years, the vaccine will wind up being destroyed. 
This annual ritual is supposed to ensure that Americans get the most up-to-date vaccine, but the left­overs -more than 10 million of a record 110 million doses produced -will be destroyed before a new supply is guaranteed. 
An Associated Press examination of this long-standing practice raises questions about its consequences. For years, policymakers have talked about letting doctors keep unused vaccine until new doses are in hand, donating leftover supplies to poor countries, or pushing back the expiration date. Wasted vaccine means lost money for drug compa­nies and one stopped making flu shots because of it -setting the stage for a flu shot shortage in 2004. 
Having no vaccine in the summer deprives travelers of the chance to get a shot before they visit places where flu is in season. It also pre­vents summer vaccinations for chil­dren, who need two doses the first time around. 

All of those issues have come up in the past," but there is a strong reluctance to change policy, said Dr. William Schaffner of Vanderbilt University, a government vaccine adviser. "These ideas clearly have merit and at the very least ought to be discussed." 
The June 30 expiration date is set by the federal Food and Drug Administration and has less to do with the vaccine's shelf life than with the desire to tweak the recipe each year to include the three strains causing the most cases. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
War 
continued from page 1 
knows that "people gravitate toward leadership." 
What started out as a two-per­son movement now has 1,700 signed members. 
"You never know what fires your sparks will create," Madden said. 
Madden drew several parallels between the current situation in Iraq and the Vietnam War. 
"I don't want to wake up in 2015 to a war in Iraq like [the Americans] did in 1971, question­ing if they could have done more in '64 or '65 to stop the war in Vietnam," he said. ''I'm not pre­tending to be great, but I felt there was a great need to be filled." 
This need, he said, is to open the eyes of the American public to the fact that the war he believes America never should have gotten involved in will not go away with­out a struggle. 
He spoke about the importance of understanding the history of social change ifour generation of college students hopes to effect change today. 
"Research shows that no social change has occurred because Congress granted it," Madden said. "It was because people wanted it ... they had to struggle for it. People didn't ask politely for these things, they struggled for them. 
"We need to shift from a 'me' oriented society to an 'us' oriented society. While we are thinking about the 'me' decisions, the 'us' decisions are being made for us." 
Madden acknowledged the con­flict many Americans feel between being patriotic and voicing dis.<;ent. Dissent and patriotism are not necessarily in opposition, however, he said. 
"We need to di'>tance ourselves fi·om people who say that support­ing our troops i'l the only thing we can do that is patriotic," Madden said. "If I feel anything about patriotism, it's that questioning ... i'l the foundation of patriotism." 
Madden said he has done a lot of questioning since the war oogan, and that hi<; "main qualm about the war" i'> that he bPliPves the United States should not be in Iraq at all. 
"I don't think people should clie for lies, I don't think people should die !or oil, and I don't think peopl<~ should die tiJr empire," he said. 
He said that other things are "subordinate" to the "main crime that we are in Iraq in the tirst place." 
Examples of those "subordinate crimes," he said, are the use of depleted uranium in weapons-a toxic substance that quickly infil­trates areas. 
'The cancer rate has gone up over 1,000 percent in Iraq since we began using depleted urani­um," he said. 
This substance am~cts American soldiers who return home, too, he said. The toxicity in their bodies potentially contributes to birth defects in their children or creates future illnesses for those exposed to the uranium. 
Another problem with the war i<; that it is not and has never been a part of the Congressional budg­et, Madden said. 
"We are not paying for the war now," he said, "So our children and our grandchildren will be paying for it." 
Madden concluded his presen­tation with a call to action. 
"I want to end by submitting my sincere plea -that we all consid­er doing more, that we all consid­er being leaders ... so we don't wake up in eight years to a war in Iraq," he said. 
Madden's speech was followed by a question and answer period, when members of the audience raised issues such as the implica­tions of cutting back on the defense budget and the role that rhetoric has played in the war. 
Madden's lecture was part of the Progressive Student Alliance's "Week of Action." 
Michael Angula, vice president of the PSA, and Professor David Cortright, a research fellow at the Kroc Institute, both re11eeted briefly on the war and th11 impor­tance of voicing dissent. 
Cortright beeame a member of the GI peace movement after he experienced a "crisis of eon­science" when he was drafted for the Vietnam War alter his gradua­tion from Notre Dame in 1968, he said. 
Cortright met Madden in Norfolk, Virginia, after an active duty sailor contacted Cortright to speak to a group of sailors who had read his book, "Soldiers in Hevolt: GI Hesistance During the Vietnam War," and wanted to know what it meant !iJr them as active duty soldiers during the Iraq war. 
Ultimately, Madden said Cortright startr1d a discussion that sparked the creation of tlm Appeal for Redress. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 


Public 
continued from page 1 
measuring a schools' success and merit," Rouse said. 
The market-based method, con­versely, "allows the marketplace to decide which school<; are most suc­cessful, largely based on popular demand." 
Despite the diflhrent premisn Ji·om which each method stems, tlw two have many similarities, including standardized testing, tho publie rnleasn of school-love] lost scores, rewards for high­performing/improving schools and sanctions for low-performing schools, House said. 
Houso addressed somo of the hypothesized nlliH~ts of tost-basod school accountability systoms. 
"EITidency of all schools will incrnaso, and, in turn, tim outmmns and dogreo of achievomont will improve for all student<;," slw said. "Market-basnd accountability sys­tems, on tho other hand, involve greater parental choice through school vouchers or public school choice." 
House emphasized that this "increaso in parnntal dwieo within the system improves ollieinncy of the school because the schools are afraid of losing students." 

In order to make higher-quality schools available to all students of varying economic backgrounds, vouchers often serve as an effective and appealing option, Rouse said. Rouse illustrated their direct and indirect eflocts. Vouchers enable stu­dent<; to attend better, safer schools and allow lor higher family sati<;fac­tion with their educational choices. 
"Vouehors directly improve the outeomns fiw a student's education and indirnctly improve the outcomes of non-voucher student<; by increas­ing the eHicioncy of public sehool<;," she said. 
With more e!lieient schools, comes an inemaso in tho desiro to attend these schools. The goal of this healthy competition, House said, is to stimulate the improvemnnt of all sehools, providing a variety of sought-aftor options !iJr children. This competition, howevnr, is depondent on panmtal decisions. 
"Jf paront<; chosn a school for their childnm basnd on location or eon­venionen, rather than aeademie stron~-,rth. wo will not soe any signifi­cant irnprovnmont in the school sys­torn at-largo," shn said. 
House also rol(wred to the Bush administration and it'> ernphasi<; on educational opportunitios nation­wide. The No Child Lelt Behind Act, which reflects the test-based method, was implemented to improve schools and close the achievement gap between minori­ties and others. 
"Bush claims that the No Child Left Behind Act has resulted in improvements in all students, partic­ularly those of minority races," she said. 
The results of the act, Rouse said, are based in the National Association of Educational Progress INAEPl. which takes into account the test scores of college-bound stu­dents, but fails to measure the achievement levels of those students who are not planning on higher edu­cation. 
"Everyone in the country was sub­ject to thi<; law, so we lack a counter­factual so we can not know ifit was due to 'The No Child Left Behind Act,' or other strict rules that were put into place" Rouse said. 
While both the test-based and rnarket-ba<;ed methods should work in theory, tl1ey each have pitfalls and "mixed empirical support," she said. TherefiJre, it is exceptionally impor­tant to hold schools accountable for their success by in1plementing stan­dards, incentives and sanctions. 
"At the heart of the matter i'i the need for good teachers," she said. 
Contact Brigid Fenlon at bfenlon@nd.edu 

574-272-8114 FAX www.cppj.com 
o~~ey;zfng GReat: Rent Specials! 
Indoor/Outdoor Tennis and Basketball () Free Tanning 

Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


12,288.10 +61.93

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,452 I 28 812 3,020,304,212 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) +0.55 +0.77 140.97 NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) +0.72 +0.31 43.58 HEWLETT PACK CO (HPQ) -1.49 +-0.60 39.61 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.04 +0.01 27.84  
Treasuries I0-YEAR NOTE -0.53 -0.024 4.547 13-WEEK BILL +0.31 +0.0 I 0 4.910 30-YEAR BOND -0.21 -0.0 I 0 4.707 5-YEARNOTE -0.62 -0.028 4.470 Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.14 56.73 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) +4.70 659.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.35 I 03.55 Excha Rates YEN 117.2850 EURO 0.7506 POUND 0.5098 CANADIAN$ 1.1605  

IN BRIEF 
Cocoa futures reach four-year high 
NEW YORK-U.S. cocoa futures broke out to nearly four-year highs Tuesday on the New York Board of Trade, led by speculative buying and bolstered by a sharply lower U.S. dollar against the British pound. 
Most-active May cocoa rose $86 to settle at $1,864 a metric ton. 
Once May cleared the $1,815 contract high, then scaled the March 2005 high of $1,850, a wave of stops was tripped and the contract ulti­mately rose to an $1,870 high _ the strongest price cocoa has seen since it reached $2,078 a ton in May 2003, according to a monthly contin­uation chart. 
"We just saw some speculative and fund buy­ing after taking out contract highs, and the strength in the British pound pushed the market higher here today," said Boyd Cruel, senior softs analyst at Alaron Trading. 
Fundamental factors -increased chocolate consumption, demand for dark chocolate and somewhat lower world production -are also supportive for prices, Cruel said, though the market has already factored in a smaller Ivory Coast crop. 
Arabica coffee futures blunted a speculative­led slide to five-month lows. The May contract closed down 0.95 cent at $1.0930 a pound, with July off 1.00 cent at $1.1215. 

Fed expected to leave rates on hold 
NEW YORK -Wall Street advanced for a second straight session Tuesday as investors placed bets that the Federal Reserve won't indicate that it's leaning toward an interest rate hike. 
Market watchers are anticipating that the Fed on Wednesday will leave rates on hold and say that economic growth is cooling while inflation remains a concern. The central bank has maintained this general stance for several months now, suggesting that rates are staying put. 
Investors would ideally prefer a shift in pos­ture toward cutting rates; such a move could boost consumer spending and make mort­gages cheaper. But they appeared to be con­tent to hear the status quo for now, and are tentatively optimistic that a rate hike isn't in the offing given that recent economic data has shown slowing growth and that inflation, though high, hasn't been running rampant. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


THE OBSERVER 
4 




USINESS 
page 7 

Housing rebounds, faces trouble 
Construction recovers in February; building permit decline indicates future setbacks 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Construction of new homes rebounded in February after a big decline in the previous month, but build­ing permits slid further, indicating more problems down the road for the trou­bled housing industry. 
The Commerce Department reported that construction of new homes and apartments rose by 9 percent in February to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.525 million units. That represented a better­than-expected rebound after construction activity had plunged by 14.3 per­cent in January to the slowest pace in more than nine years. 
But builders' applications for new permits, consid­ered a more reliable gauge of future activity, continued falling in February, drop­ping by 2.5 percent to an annual rate of 1.532 mil­lion units. That marked the 12th decline in the past 13 months in building permits and underscored the con­struction industry's steep slump. 
The 9 percent rebound in housing in February had been expected given that construction had fallen so much in January, a month when a return to more nor­mal winter weather had pushed construction activi­ty lower after an unusually warm December. 
After enjoying five boom years of record sales of new and existing homes, the housing industry has been mired for the past year in a steep slump as demand has fallen sharply and home prices, which had been surging, have stagnated. 
The housing slump has already dragged down overall economic growth. Financial markets have been thrown into a frenzy in the past several weeks over worries that rising mortgage defaults could threaten the financial health of lenders, especial­ly those who had a major presence in the subprime market, which offered loans to people with weak credit histories. 


Normally, the Federal Reserve could be expected to cushion the credit crunch by cutting interest rates. However, the central bank is widely expected to keep rates unchanged at this week's meeting out of concern that the slower economy has not sufficient­ly dampened inflation pres­sures. 
By region of the country, the gain in construction last month included an 18 percent jump in activity in the South, the biggest per­centage gain in that region in nearly two years. Construction was also up strongly in the West, rising by 26.4 percent, the best about the consequences of showing since January tightening mortgage lend­1997. ing standards for their 

Construction fell by 29.7 home sales down the line percent in the Northeast, and some are already see­the biggest one-month ing effects of the subprime plunge in that region shakeout on current sales since December 1990. activity," said David Construction also fell in the Seiders, chief economist for Midwest, dropping by 14.4 the home builders. percent after an even big­The concern is that with ger 16.4 percent drop in banks and other lenders January. tightening up on loan 
The National Association requirements because of of Home Builders reported rising defaults, it will make Monday that its survey of it even harder for potential builder sentiment fell in home buyers to qualify for early March, reflecting mortgages, reducing the worries about the financing demand for homes even troubles in the subprime more. mortgage market. The In addition, the higher builder confidence index level of borrowers default­dropped to 36, down from ing on their mortgages a February reading of 39. means even more supply 
"Builders are uncertain dumped on the market. 
State considers 'raw milk' demand 
Associated Press 
WESTMINSTER, Md. -It may look just like milk at the grocery store, but dairy farmer Donald Dell says his prod­uct is superior. 
It hasn't been pasteurized. 
As a growing number of people seek so-called "raw milk," Maryland legisla­tors are considering a law allowing the state's embattled dairy farmers to sell milk straight from the cow to niche customers. 
"The milk you buy at the store is hardly milk," said Dell's grandson, Gary Dell, who oversees operations at the family's 470-acre Cranberry Meadows dairy farm just outside Westminster. "It's been beat up, burned up, torn up and mixed back up again." 
Gary Dell told The (Baltimore) Sun he'd be happy to sell raw milk, even though pasteurization can prevent some bacteria from reaching con­sumers. 
The change is needed, Gary Dell said, for a dairy industry in sharp decline. 
The industry "can't get any worse than it already is today," he told the newspaper. 
Not everyone thinks that allowing raw milk sales is a great idea. Earlier this month two people in Pennsylvania were sickened from drinking raw milk, leading to a warning from that state's health department. 

Twenty-eight states allow raw milk sales, The Sun reported. Some others, including Virginia, allow multiple own­ers to buy a cow and share its milk. 
Despite an apparent market for old­time milk, the Maryland Farm Bureau and the state Health Department opposes the legalization of raw milk sales. 
"We don't need to open up or expose people to a risk we know is dangerous, for whatever benefits," said Ted Elkin, head of the state's division of milk con­trol. "When you have an outbreak, children are often affected. Their immune systems are not completely intact." 


page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
.. 

Red Cross committee reveals CIA prison torture 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Terror 
detainees once held in the CIA's 
secret prisons were kept and 
qm~stioned under highly abu­
sive conditions, the 
International Committee of the 
Hed Cross says in a confidential 
report based on interviews with 
high-value terror suspects. 
The Hed Cross said the tech­niques reported by the 14 pris­oners, including sleep depriva­tion and the use of forced standing and other so-called "stress positions," were particu­larly harsh when used together. The prisoners were transferred from CIA custody to a military prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, in September. 
The CIA's detention methods were designed to soften detainees and make them more likely to talk during interroga­tion. Human rights organiza­tions say the CIA's extreme con­ditions of detention and the coercive questioning techniques constitute torture. 
The report is the first inde­pendent accounting of the detainees' allegations against the CIA since its detention and interrogation program began in 2002. 
U.S. officials familiar with the report, who spoke only on con­dition of anonymity because the highly sensitive document has not been released, said it is based entirely on accounts from interviews with detainees and has not been verified. One offi­cial cautioned that the claims were made by terror suspects who could be charged in the deaths of innocent civilians. 
Hed Cross spokesman Simon Schorno said that the commit­tee's visits with the 14 detainees served two purposes: to assess their current conditions in detention and to give them an opportunity to talk about past detentions. 
"We do not comment on our findings publicly. The report is a confidential document," Schorno said Monday. 
CIA spokesman Mark Mansfield declined to comment on any ICHC reports, citing the organization's practice of keep­ing its fmdings confidential. 
Speaking generally of CIA interrogation program, Mansfield said the United States does not practice or condone torture. "CIA's terrorist interro­gation program has been con­ducted lawfully, with great care and close review, producing vital information that has helped disrupt plots and save lives," he added. 
House Intelligence Chairman Silvestre Reyes, D-Texas, said he has gotten a general briefmg on the ICRC report but has not read it. "There are allegations that are made by these 14, and they are vehemently denied by General Hayden and the intelli­gence folks," he said, referring to CIA Director Michael Hayden. 
Not long after the March 2002 capture of top al-Qaida opera­tive Abu Zubaydah, the CIA began formalizing its detention and interrogation program. The CIA decided it would need to hold high-value terrorists such as Zubaydah for extended peri­ods in an effort to extract infor­mation. 
They began using some "enhanced interrogation tech­niques" -or "EITs" in CIA­speak -with success. 
Those widely reported prac­tices include openhanded slap­ping, induced hypothermia, sleep deprivation and -per-Chairman Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Sen. Lindsey Graham, H­
S.C. -confirmed the tribunal was presented with a written statement from Mohammed alleging mistreatment before his arrival at Guantanamo, which was made part of the classified record. The senators said the military panel will sub­mit the allegations to the appro­priatn authorities. 
"Allegations of prisoner mis­treatmont must be taken seri­ously and properly investigat­ed," Lnvin and Graham said in their statoment. "To do other­wise would relleet poorly on our nation." 

A U.S. official said the allega­tions raised by Mohammed were forwarded to the CIA's inspector general, which has been monitoring the agency's interrogation program for years. 
In an interview Tuesday, Levin said he'll also be investi­gating Mohammed's claims of abuse, starting with his classi­fied statement. Asked if the review by tho CIA's top watch­dog would be enough, Levin said he wasn't sure it would be sufficient. "They have a respon­sibility to look at it. That doesn't mean that no one else does," he said. 
I '
fl
~ 

Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure they are right for you. 
haps most controversially ­waterboarding. In that tech­nique, a detainee is made to believe he is drowning. 
Buttressed by at least one classified legal opinion from the Justice Department, the CIA believed it was operating law­fully in detaining and interro­gating roughly 100 suspected terrorists at locations from Southeast Asia to Europe. 
"The (interrogation) proce­dures were tough, and they were safe, and lawful, and nec­essary," President Bush said in September when he announced that all the CIA's remaining detainees had been moved to military custody at Guantanamo Bay. 
Asked last month if the pris­ons were still empty, a CIA olli­cial declined to comment. 
The military held a hearing this month to review the deten­tion status of onn of tho 14 pris­oners: the CIA's most prized capture. alleged 9/11 master­
mind  Khalid  Sheikh  
Mohammed.  He  confnssnd  
involvement in 31  plots since  

tho 1993 World Trade Center bombing. lfe also said he was tortured. 
Two senators present for Mohammed's March 10 hearing -Senate Armed Sorvices 
Here's the plan that gets me 
everything I need: 
• 1000 Anytime Minutes for $49.99 
• 
Unlimited CALL ME Minutes' 

• 
Unlimited Night &Weekend Minutes starting at 7 p.m. 

• 
FREE Incoming Text Messages 

• 
FREE Incoming Picture Messages 



~US. Cellular 
We connect with you~ 


Check out the All NEW getusc.com 
Devin 

Oklahoma 1-888-buy-uscc 
Motorola Sliver RAZR 
Mobile AJM• application is a separate service requiring separate set·up. 

!.J!fer vtlfiC wjt!l h~\J ·f'&':Y ro''J103 atJ!o:.Yr:e-r:t on wi:je ama plans o; ii49.99 l'Xl t·!1Qf"~-3r. A:! SEYVt-:0 ::tiJroomc-r:ts slt;\£~)t ~J 1 &.'lrtv twnH :31ion te-3. Crocn nppn..-:vn: required. $30 aclM.Jti(YI too ~:15 ::r~ulf,f(!l;f.it ct~1nge too. Fi<;.:Jm:l ~~ crvJges. loos. S:.t"C'l8fQeS. G'J~:s~;le ct:argoc. i)(Kj bxef app!¥ $0.95 Rt\IU~ituy Lin: Httt:tw.~·y P"* ·':il.lf.~ifJ::~. lt:L~ i~; n~il rJ tax m ~'lt'Nt~'inr:lflr:t r~.i.1Uirm.: ci1:::.:ge:. I.<JtJJ1 OOW.-t.llk r.rrv'f:ir::if:JP anti reli.:lt":<lity ma-y vmy l.Jcx:Jff, munt:feti up in ttB rf.OO ~J~ min.J1t~ l.lsa oi t;;el\.~rF. ux:~ti\Uti.-!!;: .:ICOJf.llfft(.B ol o:t terms (ni r;r.~:rJ:1K~l::: Otlitlr n:n!tk:rkfl<; aw~. Unlimited CAll ME Mlnutes111 ~·G not j:~11.K:1r:O f:'cm par~· age 1rnnutcs iliXl an': ::.r.rJHabi-3 nnly •N!'~:,.n rceoi'.Jir:g r:a.!~; 1n vour lt'kii.li a:::ll!r:~l J!'OO. i 1:(a! <'Jii~VJ •.11~:-.A drfk~ ·: f~om r.atle(:al ciii~IQ arc;.. Unlimited Nights & Weekends •t'Hli:j 1->.-\.l)l~day til!To.;fl frj:iJ-1 i' p m. 1o 6.~'9 J m and ru: <iav &llt}'Wy :.r:-d Ej_.sx:t~\' N~gnt ard ~·~:,r:r; !n:f:!j'ftj are ::M1~&iie ::I if)l,<"11 ca~·OJ woo rJ.:!y Picture Messaging rl:l();lrff.) l.J sCal!u:;~» nw.r~\100 rJ:rn:: .;lli,',l :.1~',;';\Jf.i LtiWL p;ct;;re ~...B'0r:lq~r:f! f'fli~1 :-tiFr.~~~t.fflnn i;;'i"~~'fdi.\Je~.~ ~/}v'ef'age fi!'ffii Yo:s IT:Itj 00 f)~;"'~ljfj lGi n~-~.He IT.ffi~(~ff.> sent frrY.!: 'f.i:;'; plu:e. i::'!\'8!': t ro r.lit~~af :o tl'.!..." n~~ ~..r;:p':cr:: il.JB to ~'f!Jf:'fn o: c:rr~".r.llf.iljl:iy !.&ltt.l!.S [).;:l~Jia!t~ is n1'1t r~r1-;bie 10! c-c~·:1l:f~ of !.PG!l.ff'$ Text Messaging \}i~J: J',tl:'t:e tr:d W'il'...~ req:j:lt=(J usecs n:uct 00 i: ~'lair djgft:4 !ocal at~i:rKJ aroo fO" aerw.:e to Wf.lf'~< h.Y;!'..:tfJ!ti:'!V rr,Jy OO!.,.".Cl>j :A, o-t:er CJj':ie\ f:fJ~hf:tki JPO Ji'ftffl. ;JS, (~:kJ¥~ de~ liJl ~1-~1ran1r.e ~~11:: (ie:r..-e)' CJ' lfnel:::ess. ~tlO-crltlracte! l:fl~t r~~r rr~ !fJ !e\: ~~ng. U.;) (hlkl~~ 00~ r~t:st.le !(1 !XY.!lent of m~):!S Ac.t:t1g~ Gf $0. ~h rx.r ~f.J{f.:Ot1~1 rnro-;.iJ6 ?4-'f:iOO i~ (() :J:€~~!llj f..:&'i'a/:. s seie.~J e< e.vf:J~ ;_a.jt',a;;';€ ~,!.· ~ ;;,~ t«{J..f.X~;;j F'l !o;u:-e~ ua:uYis.:~:y:, !ll~~l(K:, r;:-Y.:tent P.cJtllk:Y y:).;t r.Vu':i.~ 1'!\:r:t"::;r rmy tJf; lf:!ftrf..'(Jtr:,.·j L"'; tr~o;t1 lf.!~lit~:. fl.~ :~iiY Ui). (hiu~&4!··~~ ·1~ M~~~~x.~ 'YQU iiiJI~~ t:.~ tt:: t;o.;~l(j by <JJ: 1t~T'!'!.'l ar:d rxJrri11.l!~ <.it ~\WW u:~J..ll~t!W.w~v\.ff.$.:.Jgi~:g!U'm!,;.} (¢.) ;_\¥;? PJ.:'L ~LC N ~j:ls fby:-~:d J'.f':t. I>J~-..~ -3:1.1 P.t.:ckt{ l_G are rr.~1(;tered t';"':li1i::m?f.'\."<3 ri f.(r:_. U f: Sc~ slcrr-:. f:Y C:Gtni:S. : IO'~!ed t~mo nffor. ~~20fJ7 ll & [{~lui:.Y:r-

Wednesday, March 21, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Boy Scout rescued in North Carolina wilderness 
12-year-old Michael Auberry wanders away from troop, found after intensive four-day search in wooded mountains 
Associated Press 
McGRADY, N.C. -A 12-year­old Boy Scout whose favorite book was about a youngster lost in the wilderness now has his own har­rowing survival tale to tell after rescuers found him Tuesday,' dehydrated and disoriented from four days in the wooded moun­tains of North Carolina. 
A rescue dog picked up Michael Auberry's scent less than a mile from the campsite where he had wandered away from his troop Saturday. The boy's father specu­lated that he was simply home­sick and wanted to hitchhike home. The disappearance touched off an intensive search involving bloodhounds, heat-seek­ing helicopters and dozens of vol­unteers on foot. 
"He saw the helicopters and heard people calling him, but he yelled back and they didn't hear him," said his father, Kent Auberry. "He's very tired. He's very dehydrated. But he came through this in unbelievable fash­ion." 
With tears in his eyes, Auberry added: "To have our son back is a tremendous blessing." 
It was not immediately clear exactly how the boy was able to survive or whether he put any of his Scout wilderness training to use. A few hours after an emo­tional reunion, Kent Auberry said he still didn't know much about his son's ordeal, mostly because decided not to ask too many ques­tions. 
"What he tells us is he was on the move," Auberry said. "lie slept in tree branches. He curled up under rocks." 
Michael had worn two jackets, one of them fleece, and was believed to have a mess kit and potato chips with him when he disappeared. He told the rescue team he had been drinking water from streams, and lost his hat and glasses in the woods. 
Searchers spotted Michael walking along a stream before he saw them. 
"They called his name. He did­n't respond ... Once they said 'We're here to rescue you,' the first thing he said is he wanted a helicopter ride out of there," said Blue Ridge Parkway ranger David Bauer. 
Aside from a few cuts and scratches, Michael was in good health and could walk and talk. Because he had been without food and water, he was carried on a stretcher to a nearby road and then taken to see his parents. "A lot of tears, a lot of hugs," said Tina White, spokeswoman for the National Park Service. 
Later, Michael went by ambu­lance to a medical center. Along the way, he received IV fluids to help him rehydrate and told his father he wanted to sleep, said ambulance driver Bud Lane. 
Hours earlier, the boy's father had talked about one of Michael's favorite books when he was younger, a story titled "Hatchet" about a boy whose plane crashes in the Alaskan wilderness, and how the boy survives on his own. 

"I think he's got some of that book in his mind," said Kent Auberry, whose son had camped overnight several times. "They do a great job in the Scouts of edu­cating the kids of what to beware of and tips. I'm hopeful that Michael has taken those to heart." 
Bauer said as many as 100 peo­ple searched for Auberry on Tuesday, including Misha Marshall, whose dog Gandalf picked up the boy's scent. 
The black 2-year-old Shiloh Shepherd "popped his head three times" -and there was Michael, she said. 
"He was a little dazed," Marshall said. "You are totally overwhelmed. You at first don't believe he's the person you're looking for." 
Searchers gave the boy granola bars, crackers and water. At a nearby hospital after his rescue, he ate chicken fingers and asked for cookies. 
"The whole family has got to get some sleep," Kent Auberry said. "Tomorrow will take care of itself." 
Authorities had said Michael probably wandered into the woods to explore, but Kent Auberry said he was homesick because some of his friends didn't come on the camping trip. 
"He was homPsick," Kent Auberry said. "He started walk­ing. He thought he'd walk to the road and hitchhike home." 
Searchers found his mess kit within a mile of the camp site a few hours after he disappeared. 
"Michael wasn't real sure he was being rescued," Bauer said. "He was very tired, very hungry. ... He wasn't necessarily looking to be rescued, he was looking for his Boy Scout troop." 
DNA test ordered on daughter of Anna Nicole Smith 
Associated Press order the test on 6-month-old the proceedings. the cause. The girl, Dannielynn Hope 
Dannielynn, pumped his fists Authorities left the building Stern has been caring for Marshall Stern, could inherit 
NASSAU, Bahamas -A in the air and jumped up and after the hearing and could the girl in the gated, water­millions from the estate of Bahamian judge ordered a down as he emerged from the not immediately be reached front home where he lived Smith's late husband, Texas oil DNA test Tuesday on Anna private court hearing. for comment. with Smith in the months tycoon J. Howard Marshall II. Nicole Smith's infant daughter "It's been a good day in Smith's most recent compan­before she died. The Smith had been fighting his to identify the girl's father, an court for me," he told ion Howard K. Stern, who is Bahamian courts have family over his estimated $500 attorney for the baby's grand­reporters. Asked if he thought listed as the father on the ordered Stern not to leave the million fortune since his death mother said, in what could sig­he would be see the girl soon, girl's birth certificate, left the country with the girl before a in 1995. nal an end to a bitter custody he only smiled and winked. courthouse in a black sport custody ruling. Frederic von Anhalt, the feud sparked by the death of Deborah Rose, an attorney utility vehicle as Birkhead Arthur wants to take husband of Zsa Zsa Gabor, the former reality TV star last for Smith's mother Virgie greeted a crowd of cheering Dannielynn from Stern, argu­also says he may be month. Arthur, confirmed that the tourists. ing she could provide a more Dannielynn's father. Last 
Larry Birkhead, an ex­judge ordered the test but she Smith, 39, died Feb. 8 after stable home. She did not speak month, he too filed legal doc­boyfriend of the Playboy play­and others who attended the collapsing in a Florida hotel. as she exited the courthouse uments seeking a DNA test to mate who asked the judge to hearing declined to describe Authorities have not disclosed and left in a white limousine. determine if he is the father. 

The Core Council is seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http :1/corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, March 23, 2007, and can be submitted to the Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 


THE CUSHWA CENTERn_FOR THE STUDY OF F AMERICAN CATHOLICISM -,) presents Anrerican Catholic Studies Senrinar ••Las Guadalupanas de Queretaro: Embodied Devotional Performances and the Political Economy of Sacred Space Production.. Elaine A-Peiia University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Thursday, March 22, 2007 4:15 p.m. 1140 Flanner Hall  
ATRIA SALON2 Specializing in color 271.8804 The Original "Specializing in Color" Salon, where we make blondes "BLONDE"! HIGHLIGHTS & CUTS: $79.00 STARTING MARCH 215 r-APRIL 10m 2007 NO ORDINARY SALON, NO ORDINARY BLONDES. "CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY. Atria Salon 2039 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 t: 574.271.8804 -MUST PRESENT THIS AD­ 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT

page 10 Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

1 Generation Me' 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR; Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR; Tae Andrews SAINT M"-RY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR; Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial co11tent, i11duding advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe admi11istration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lerters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

~ Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monda-y through Friday <:xccpt during n:am and 'r.lCltion periods. A mbscriprion ro Tht:-Oll5Crvcr is $100 for one academic year; $55 fur UIU' semcs~er. 
The Observer~ publisb«i at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrccdon.s co: 
Noue Dame. lN 46:5-56.0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Nom: Dame P.O. Box779 
and additiond mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
No<r< o,,, lN 46556·0n9 

The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Press. All rcproduaion rights are rcscw.:d, 
Remember back in grade school, during city-league soccer, how every team would get a trophy and a pizza party at the end of the season? Whether your team went undefeated or only scored two goals the entire sea­son, each player went home with some hardware and a pat on the back from either your dad or your best friend's dad, cleverly dis­guised as the team's head coach. Or what about on elementary school exams? Remember how everyone received a sticker at the top of their paper, either for earning an A-plus or for a "good effort" when half the page was filled with red check marks? I don't know about you, but I have boxes full of tro­phies stacked in my basement from my grade school days, and I wasn't exactly the athletic type. But I was proud of those trophies, and my parents were proud of me for always "trying my best" and often told me I was the best player on the team. But back then, who wasn't? 
Unfortunately, a recent study now shows that all those trophies and inflated accolades are hurting my gen­eration and causing our society to suf­fer. The study states that because we were surrounded by such exaggerated support and confidence during our adolescence, my generation now suf­fers from an extreme case of narcis­sism. The study projects this narcissis­tic generation-or "Generation Me" ­will result in a society full of self-cen-

Katie Palmitier 
A Word to the Wlse 
tered, temperamental individuals who are unable to build or keep strong relationships with others. 
Being a part of the newly dubbed "Generation Me," I cannot help but find truth in this new study. Throughout the country, high school and college stu­dents are constantly trying to build their resumes and make connections so that they may one day have the most lucrative jobs and luxurious lifestyles. Students are volunteering now more than ever and participating in commu­nity service activities on a regular basis. One cannot help but ask him or herself if the surge in volunteerism is a rnsult of compassion or of competition. 
As college students, we all know what it takes to get in to prestigious schools and how to secure those com­petitive internships. We understand that it takes hard work and more than just straight As to make it in today's world. Ilowever, far too many of us have focused too much on "making it" and measuring success based on finan­cial wealth and status instead of what we have contributed to the world. 
While there are many students on this campus -as well as others throughout the country-that are genuinely concerned about the well­being of others and hope to one day use their talents and education for the betterment of society, the majority of my generation is focused on looking good on paper so that it may one day achieve personal success. Because my generation has been brought up with inflated positive self-esteem and a "you are the best" mentality, the focus of "Generation Me" lives has been skewed. Instead of cherishing relation­ships, caring about society, and enlightening and educating ourselves about the world and its inhabitants like previous generations, many members of my generation have devoted their lives to gaining financial success and an impressive job title, leaving their relationships with family and friends by the wayside. 

But is never too late to change. One does not need to give up his or her goals or self-confidence to shed the "Generation Me" title, as long as we realize we are not always going to be the best. We can, and should, still strive to become successful in our careers, and it is not wrong to want a luxurious lifestyle. We just cannot ignore the people we meet along the way. The relationships we make on our journey to success should not be taken for granted. While members of "Generation Me" have been accused of taking advantage of people and using community service not as a means of serving the community but rather as a as a way to climb up the ladder of suc­cess, the rest of us must realize that we need to serve out of the goodness of our hearts and cherish the relation­ships we have with others and our community-for that is the true meas­urement of success. 
While it is said that it can be lonely at the top, it doesn't have to be. For many vietims of "Generation Me," that saying will prove to be true. For the rest of us, however, let's prove these studies wrong and have a party at the top once we get there. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER PoLL QUOTE OF THE DAY

Katie Kohler Chris Hine Jennifer Metz Greg Arbogast 
How far will Notre Dame go in

Emma Driscoll Gene Noone 
Submit aLetter
Viewpoint Scene the NCAA hockey tournament? 

'The amount ofnoise which anyone can 
Kara King Tae Andrews 

bear undisturbed stands in inverse proportion to his mental capacity." 
Graphics Marty Schroeder 
to the Editor at
Jeff Albert 

Arthur Schopenhauer 
German philosopher
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
·:i 
'~--~~~~~m~••RJ 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT

Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
page 11 
A burning issue 
"I think we should burn the chair." 

This comment, made by a colleague many years ago, is not the sort of thing that usually comes from the mouth of a professor of philosophy. We're more inclined to pursue 
Thomas

what are (to normal 
Flint

people) curious inquiries into, .say, 
Guest

the relationship 
Columnist 

between the chair and the hunk of wood of which it's made. Mundane practical activities, such as burning chairs, we leave to others. 
What occasioned this remarkable outburst by my colleague? We had just concluded listening to testimony in an honesty committee hearing. fhe stu­dent under suspicion of violating our honor code had been caught red-hand­ed submitting a paper that had been cobbled together from a number of internet sources. Rather than confess, this fine young man insisted that he should be commended for having found all these Web sites and for hav­ing put the material together so effec­tively. Duplicity and arrogance streamed from his every pore and sat-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
urated the chair on which he sat. Hence, upon his departure, my col­league's incendiary suggestion. 
Despite the black humor evidenced by this suggestion, honesty hearings are rarely much fun. I've attended more than a hundred hearings, and they're generally remarkably depress­ing affairs. Sometimes one leaves with little more than a reminder of humani­ty's fallen nature. Even when students admit to their mistakes, an empty sense of mere justice -of confession without remorse or absolution, so to speak-can fill the room. Occasionally one feels that some significant moral progress has occurred -for example, that a student has come to regret his cheating, not just because he got caught, but because the act itself was so ugly. I'd like to report that such con­versions of heart are the norm, but as a fine moral philosopher once noted, you can't always get what you want. 
All of us, though, should want some­thing better than we currently have at Notre Dame with respect to our honor code. Two years ago, a survey of stu­dent and faculty attitudes and behavior related to academic integrity revealed that we have thousands of violations of the honor code annually at Notre Dame, that our faculty report viola­tions they're aware of only five to 10 percent of the time, and (ready for the good news?) that the average American university has an even big­ger problem than we do. Our problem is big enough, though, and each of us should feel a degree of shame about it, especially at this time of year. Lent is a season when the Church encourages us to recognize where we're falling short of our ideals, and to think about what we can do to attain them. Homilists rarely talk about cheating on tests, or plagiarizing papers, or copy­ing homework, but there are few top­ics more worthy of our Lenten reflec­tion. 
One concrete step to further such reflection might be to attend the upcoming _Theology on Tap session on academic integrity. From 9 p.m. to 10 today at Legends, three local luminar­ies will be speaking before opening the floor to questions and discussion. Dennis Jacobs, a celebrated teacher of chemistry and the associate provo~t who co-chairs the University Code of Honor Committee, will share the administration's concerns about the issue. My colleague Bill Ramsey, a leg­endary lecturer and the former chair of philosophy's honesty committee, will address (surprise) the philosophical and moral dimensions of the topic. And senior Sarah Glatt will offer a student's perspective. It promises to be a leg­endary session. 

Whether or not you attend the Theology on Tap meeting, I hope you'll spend some time this Lent reminding yourself of the ideal of academic integrity that Notre Dame tries to pro­'mote by having an honor code, and of how you as an individual and we as a community might do a better job of liv­ing up to that ideal. As my colleague of years ago might say, it's a burning issue. 
Thomas P. Flint, philosophy professor, also serves as the Faculty Honor Code Officer, the principal liai­son between the University Code of Honor Committee and the faculty. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

UWIRE 

No consensus exists 
Last month, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change provided a report to the United Nations that explains the answer to all of our problems. Why did we have several huge snowstorms this past winter? Global warming. Nick Why is it Hemenway Tuesday? Global 
warming. Why Colorado State was Dale Layer Rocky fired? Global 
Mountain warming. It's Collegian about time we have an answer to all the questions that life gives us. In the now famous IPCC report on glob­al warming, a summary was given of the findings of about 1,500 scientists. In this summary, it was proclaimed that man is responsible for global warming and dras­tic measures must be taken to counteract man's damage to the global climate. Although this summary was entirely expected, the astute student of science and politics noticed some red flags regarding this earth-shattering news. The report to the United Nations was not a full report but rather a summary of a future full report. None of the research or data was provided, only a brief 18-page sum­mary. Why would they release the sum­mary but not the research? If they can convince people global warming is man­made with their summary, by the time the full report comes out, it will be old news and there will be little incentive to dig deep into the research and data. The second thing to notice about the report is, although 1,500 scientists con­tributed to the report, they didn't all agree on each other's work. In fact, one of the lead authors of the report, Dr. Christopher Landsea from the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Adnllnistration, withdrew his name from the report when the other authors would not accept his contributions. The panel decided they would take the stance that global warming causes increasingly severe hurricanes and storms. Dr. Landsea, however, maintained that his research showed no such correlation. Regardless, the panel had its agenda, and that was that. This doesn't sound like a "consensus" on global warming like Al Gore and friends have been telling us, does it? Throughout the debate over global 

warming, data has been grossly manipu­lated. In a report from NASA in 2004, the variance in temperature for the arctic region was plotted from 1880-2004. It showed a clear warming trend w1til 1938, when all of a sudden the tempera­tures cooled off at a rapid rate until the 1970s. 
OnApril28, 1974, Newsweek printed an article in which scientists warned us about the dangers of the impending glob­al cooling. Some of these scientists went as far as to recommend we intentionally "melt the arctic ice caps with black soot or divert arctic rivers." 
While we could sit here and go back and forth with arguments for or against man-made global warming, only one thing can be concluded -there is no consensus on the issue of global warming. This being said, why should we be forced to change our way of life for something that may or may not be true? Why should we condemn the businesses that keep this country running when we don't truly know they are causing any harm in the first place? Remember, it was the honor­able Bill Clinton and a unanimous U.S. Senate vote that shot down the Kyoto Protocol, not George Bush and the evil Republicans. They did so because eVfm they knew that signing the Kyoto Protocol would lead to economic disaster. 
Until people recognize the global wann­ing movement as the hoax it is, the envi­ronmentalist left will continue to hold it over our heads in a ploy for more power, money and expanded governmental con­trol. Don't trust me; just ask the world­renowned Dr. William Gray, Professor Emeritus of Atmospheric Science from THE Colorado State University. In a September 2005 interview with Capitalism Magazine, Dr. Gray said, "Most meteorological research is funded by the federal government. And boy, if you want to get federal funding, you better not come out and say human-induced global warming is a hoax because you stand the chance of not getting funded." 
Don't be fooled, the sky is not falling. 
This column first appeared in the March 20th edition ofThe Rocky Mountain Collegian, •the daily paper of Colorado State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
. . \
, . ..
' 
\ 
'·:..,., . 
~~ ' 

STORIES BY T A E ANt)REWS AND R~ ; 
Tae: At its heart, "300" is a comic-book fan's movie: a bunch of nearly naked men running around in capes and poking at monsters with their spears. Aiming, maiming and inflicting pain, King Leonidas and his merry men vanquish enemies and spill blood by the bucket­load, all the while screaming for guts and glory at the top of their lungs. For all the squishing and squelching sounds of blood being shed in battle, more testos­terone than plasma gets sprayed around in this he-man epic. 
Unfortunately, while "300" is huge on razzle-dazzle, flash and flare, it falls short on substance. Unlike the beefcake Spartans, there's not a whole lot of meat on these cinematic bones. Visually, "300" is a spectacle, although the film lacks emotional resonanee. As the body count nears the triple century mark, the audi­ence is more likely to be dropping jaws at the stylized gore than shedding tears for the fallen heroes. 
Even so, "300" delivers on what it does best -action, action and more action. The film's combat scenes are 

way cool -"300" is filled Unfortunately, while strutting around in little with tons of sweet slow­'':Joo" is huge on more than a shield, spear motion shots, in addition to a and leather Spcedo for the
razzle-dazzle. flash

stop-and-go pacing technique whole film. which showcasns evnry hack, and flare, it falls If the f'ilm feels like it's thrust and parry in exquisite short on substance. straight out. of a comic versus an army of Persians numbering in the bajillions. It's an easy tale of good versus evil -the good guys are buff dudes with spears, and the bad guys are ninjas, monsters, elephants, rhinos and magicians wielding grenades (oh my!) 
To their credit, the ensemble cast of "300" is seriously jacked. In the words of pop star Fergie, you could probably cateh the Spartans "up in the gym, just working on their fitness" in their free time, although with all the rippling abs on display, apparently the Spartans spend as much time on Pilates as they do on the bench press. Much like our own armed forces, the Spartan military must have a "don't ask, don't tell" policy, as a sense of vague homoeroticism pervades the entire film. 
It should be mentioned that amid all the silliness, actor Gerard Butler man­ages to distinguish himself from a mostly mediocre cast. Butler cuts an imposing figure as King Leonidas and brings regal gravitas to the role. Perhaps more impressively, he manages to not look 
completely absurd despite 
detail. Tho f1lm's cinematog­raphy is more than enough to let the audience appnwiatn all of its batilnliold butchery as Leonidas and Co. try to stonewall the Persian advan<:e in the bot­tleneck of tlw I lot Gates. 
More than "[{udy," more than "Little Giants," "300" is tlw ultimate underdog tale -a paltry three hundred soldiers 
300 
Director: Zack Snyder 
···~ 
Writers: Zack Snyder (screenplay) and Frank Miller (graphic novel) Starring: Gerard Butler, Rodrigo Santoro, Lena Headey and David Wenham 

book, that's because it is. Much lik<~ director Hobert Hodriguez did on "Sin ·city" {anoth1~r film based off of a Frank Miller book} ":~00" writcr/dircetor Zack Snyder does an exc1~1lent job of translating the panels of the graphic novel to the framns of tiH~ l'ilm, to the point where some of Miller's visuals liter­ally leap to life on the silver scn~nn. Unfortunately, Snyder strays from the original material with an unnncessary and extraneous subplot that detracts from the eoneisn nature of the original story. In doing so, Snyder puts a modern twist on "300," likening it to the current war on terror in the Middl(l East. At one point, King Leonidas' wife Queen Gorgo (Lena Headey) even drops the horren­dous line, "Freedom isn't free," which makes the whole affair come aeross as a parable for the war on terror. Thi! makes the film feel like a parody of itsel and sh'reds any of its remaining credibili 
ty. 
However, even though it has a run ti of more than two hours, the film doesn' feel bogged down -an impressive fe considering that the graphic novel it' based on is only 88 pages long. i 
Despite its silliness, simplicity an other shortcomings, "300" can an should still be appreciated for what it ' -bloody good fun. · 
Rama: The first thing we noti~e abo 1 the world of "300" is how golden it look Apart from an occasional dip into t inky blacks of nightfall, this story is to under the hot auburn skies of Spart which begs the following question: w Ancient Greece ever this vibrant, th perfect? 
The answer, of course, is no. Still, it hard to fault director Zack Snyder a his cadre of digital effects wizards f wanting to pretty up the landscape their <~pic fable. It's just one stylist choice among many in a gorgeous crafted film that astounds the senses, not the brain. 
"300" is not a thinking man's mol· and never pretends to be. It's a simp tale, one that never strays far from i three central themes -duty, honor a vengeance. We've seen these them splashod in red across the battlelields "Gladiator," "Kingdom of Heaven" an "Troy" -but never quite like this. 
Narrated by Dilios (David Wenham), Spartan soldier with the all-too-rare gil of oration, tlw story begins with the origin of !"300" is] King Leonidas (GPrard that nevr:: Butler). As a boy, young 
its three 1
Lconidas, whose training ineludcs being literally duty, hom thrown to the wolves, is bloodied, bruised and beaten. It's a tri< by lire that takes away fear and wea1 ness, replacing it with a focused ragE Bloodshed is a Spartan's birthright, an his life's purpose. 
So when foreign emissaries corrie t 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Persian King Xerxes (Rodrigo Santqro) howls in anguish as his massive army is repelled by the smaller Spartan force. 


--------------------------'-------------------·----------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
page 13 
MA GOTTUMUKKALA 
-

Sparta's gates demanding submission to Leonidas gone, he holds all the political the Persian king Xerxes (Rodrigo power. But he's undone because he car­Santoro), Butler's Leonidas is predictably ries around a bag of gold coins, (in)con­enraged. In one of the movie's many veniently stamped with the seal of memorable one-liners, he enunciates his Xerxes. Fortunately, we aren't left much next words with a menacing, time to puzzle over this guttural snarl. "This. Is. Inspired by Frank inane plot point. Snyder Spar. Ta!" he bellows before quickly shuffles us back to
Miller's r 998 graphic

slaughtering the Persian Leonidas and his soldiers, messengers. Wasting no novel, ']oo "follows and their Qloodletting con­time, he then rallies 300 of in the pulpy footsteps tinues. his fiercest soldiers for war. Watching "300," I was
of "Sin City," another 

Inspired by Frank Miller's reminded of "Gladiator." 1998 graphic novel, "300" Miller creation. Early in that film, Russell 
follows in the pulpy foot­steps of "Sin City," another Miller cre­ation. Spearheaded by Robert Rodriguez, the 2005 picture set the new standard for movies adapted from comic books. Each of Miller's comic book panels-was painstakingly transmuted into ceaseless­ly stylish cinema. 
Much of the "Sin City" charm came from its rich cast of characters and their dark, gruff sense of humor. "300" is a different beast entirely. Even if Snyder had stripped away all the angry speeches and blood-curdling war cries, not much would change. We'd still marvel at the movie's boundless energy and its striking visuals, which rivals most impressionistic paintings. 
Awash with bold colors, "300" is a movie made to be absorbed, not ques­tioned -and Snyder keeps us nicely occupiPd with his visual panache. One battle sp,quence in particular is stunning­ly eraftPd. Snyder tracks the camera and follows Leonidas as he cuts a swath through a gang of Persian soldiers. In a masterful, balletic 
simple tale, one sequence, the aetion fluidly ramps from
strays far from 
normal speed to

tral themes ­
slow-motion, zoom­and vengeance. ing in to reveal each one of the Spartan 
king's precise killing strokes. 
Is style enough to make a movie? Not necessarily. "300" suffers from quite a few patches of sloppy storytelling. Consider, for example, the scene where a Spartan traitor is exposed. With King 
Crowe drops his head and kneels in front of a Roman executor, pre­pared for his death. It's all a clever ploy, and it works because of his sly sincerity. 
"At least give me a clean death," Crowe's Maximus asks. 
"A soldier's death." 
After spending two hours with them, we get the feeling that Sparta's proud 300 are all chasing a morbid dream. 
Dilios lets us in on their secret. 
"We Spartans are descended from Hercules himself," he says proudly of his countrymen. "Taught that death on the battlefield is the greatest glory he could achieve in his life." 
From the very beginning, Snyder seems to have realized a crucial fact. Like Maximus, these 300 men See Also would never be 
"Miller'~ style catapults"
content to qui­
and "Snyder finds success"
etly die on their knees. page 14 A clean death would only sully their proud lineage. Instead, Snyder gives them what they want, and he doesn't worry about much else, including the film's simple plot. Snyder meticulously lines up hordes of Persian enemies for the better part of two hours, leaving Leonidas and his men to merrily stab, dismember and slash away in their bloody sandbox -all the way to their gloriously messy deaths. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu and Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Spartan warrior Stelios (Michael Fassbender) shields himself from a high-octane Persian attack in this epic film. 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 14 
Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
WRITER FEATURE 

Miller's style catapults from panels to frames 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 

Frank Miller is a man of few words. lie's written thousands of them. but Miller uses words like a sniper uses bul­lets: with deadly precision and without wasting ammo. Ilis succinct writing style wastes no time and gets straight to the point. 
However. Miller is an artist as adept with the drawing pencil as he is with a pen. going heavy on contrast and light on color. There's a jarring, arresting visual nature to his artwork, which cre­
-ates his inimitably distinctive style. The old saying is that a picture's worth a thousand words -at least Miller's are. This may not be entirely true {the actual count may be just a few hundred) but the point remains: Miller is an artist who puts much stock in gritty yet equally stunning visuals and is stingy with his words. Known for his down-and-dirty film-noir style and dark themes, Miller puts the H-rating in graphic novel. Only when taken altogether can fans appreci­ate Miller for what he is: a revolutionary artist and a man who continues to rede­fine a genre. Miller has applied his trademark gritty style to several different comic book franchises over the years, rebooting fabled franchises and spawning new ones of his own. Most notably, he created . the character Elektra while working on a series of "Daredevil" comics in the early 1980s. Toward the end of the decade, Miller turned his talents towards Batman, writing the critically acclaimed 

"Batman: The Dark Knight Hetutns" and "Batman: Year One," which loosely formed the basis for "Batman Begins." Actor Christian Bale and Batman fans everywhere can thank Miller for laying the foundations for that film, which pumped some badly needed life into the fading franchise that had spiraled into the cinematic equivalent of the circus freak. 
Unfortunately, after the cinematic fias­co that was "Elektra" flopped at the box office (with Miller having ZPro creative control ov.er the projeet). Miller renounced the world of IIollywood, dis­gusted that his artwork had been cor­rupted into a nauseating farce. llowcwer, when film director Robert Hodriguez approached Miller with a short f'ilm based off his "Sin City" graphic novels, the deal was simple: if Miller didn't like what he saw, then the lilm would end up as scrap rnel on the cutting room floor never to be seen again. 
lie did like it, however, and "Sin City" made its nationwidtl debut on April 1, 2005. II' Miller's gritty and graphic tales of a dark urban dystopia feel like they spring straight from a comic book, it's because they do. Hodriguez literally used the panels of the graphic~ novels as story­boards for the feature film. It also helped that Hodriguez insistnd on listing Miller as a eo-dirnetor for the film -a move which foreed Hodriguoz to resign from the Director's Guild ol' Amnrica. As a result, Miller's vision literally !naps from the page to the screen and sti II stands as Miller's best graphic novel­turnnd-!ilm pursuit to date. 

After the smash success of "Sin City," Miller agreed to let director Zack Snyder go ahead with a movie version of his graphic novel "300," which chronicles the epic Battle of Thermopylae, and two more "Sin City" films are in the works. 
However, Miller apparently enjoyed his hands-on collaboration so mueh that he has signed on with Rodriguez again to co-direct and write two sequel films to "Sin City." After sufl'ering through years of watching his artwork and word work redueed to travesty on the big screen, Frank Miller has finally found the col­leagues and fan base he truly deserves. It seems Miller can find solace in the old chestnut: "If you want something done right, do it yourself." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 
DIRECTOR FEATURE 
Snyder finds success, promise with visceral'300' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Senior Staff Writer 

By 2005, the state of the film project "Watchmen" -based on Alan Moore's mammoth 400-page graphic novel -was in disarray. Once sought by former Monty Pythonite and "Brazil" director Terry Gilliam. the project had gone through a series of directors, studios and screenplay incarnations. Though it was most recently attached to Darren Aronofsky, the "Requiem for a Dream" director decided to bow out due to scheduling conflicts. It seemed as though "Watchmen" was doomed to development hell. and a screen version of Moore's masterpiece would never see the light of day. 
Then, in 2006, a young and relatively unknown filmmaker named Zack Snyder became attached to "Watchmen." when Warner Bros. confirmed that he would be, at last, the man who would bring the project to cinematic life. This caused more than a little bit of consternation. especially among fans -Moore's work, unlike Frank Miller's (the graphic novelist behind "Sin City" and "300") has been notoriously difficult to translate to the screen, as evidenced by a mediocre pro­duction of "From Hell" and an abysmal remake of "The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen." So it was perplexing that Warner entrusted one of its most valuable properties to a young, obscure filmmaker whose only directorial credit was 2004's. "Dawn of the Dead." 
Then "300" was released and fans breathed a collective sigh of relief. A vio­lent, stirring and impressive adaptation of Miller's graphic novel of the same name,
'. "300" was clearly the work of a director
' 
with style and panache, whose energeti­cally faithful take on Miller's work used state-of-the-art speeial ell'ects and amaz­ing camerawork to tell its story. "Watchmen" appears to be in good hands. 
Snyder himself seems to be an overnight success, having become an A­list director in only three films. Tho 41­year-old director, who hails from Green Bay, Wise., attended Art Center College of Design at Pasadena, Calif., before going on to study visual art at lleatherlies School in London. 
llis first work was the straight-to-video short "Playground" in 1990, which fea­tures Michael Jordan in a fantasy about a high school student who gnts some tips and encouragement from the NBA star. l-Ie also directed thn music video "Tomorrow" for former Thn Smiths singer Morrissey. 
Yet it was 2004's "Dawn of tho Dead," his directorial debut, that really launched Snyder's career. A remake of George A. Homero's 1978 classic of the same name, the film was released to eritieal and com­mercial acclaim. Snyder was quickly established on the Hollywood block, opening the way for him to direct "300," which was put into production in the wake of other graphie novel successes like "Sin City" and "V for Vendetta." Like Robert Rodriguez on "Sin City," Snyder sought to make a very faithful adaptation, though he lleshes out characterization and plot, which stretches a relatively brief narrative into a full-length motion pic­ture. 
"300" has proven to be an evolutionary film, with eye-popping visual effects-and a mastery of cinematic technique. Such mastery will be necessary for the sprawl­ing, complex "Watchmen" and fans are cautiously enthused. The opening week­end gross of "300," which toppnd 70 mil­lion. no doubt secured Snyder's next pro.i: eet -at least !inaneially. 
Snyder's approaeh to source matnrial is to try to remain as faithful as possible, though he citns different influences than might bn expeeted. For instance, he said of "Watchmen," ''I'm looking to make a movin that looks morn like "Taxi Driver" than "Diek Tracy." lie also pays homage to other lilms in other places (particularly a Vietnam scene that features "Hide of the Valkyries," not unlike "Apocalypse Now"). Such keen awareness is much of what makes Snyder so appealing as a director, since his aesthetic Pvokes cine­ma history. 


In any case, Snyder has quickly become one of Hollywood's darlings, though the success lor failure) of "Watchmen" will do much to determine the future of the director's career. Yet it is clear from "300" that he is a talented filmmaker with a clear vision -two ingredients that hint at great potential. "300" may have prepared Snyder for glory, but the future will decide if he reaches the next level. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Wednesday, March 21, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
FRI. MAR. 30 AT 7 PM 
PHILBIN STUDIO THEATRE fiATUft!D sunn 
NAOMI AYALA, POET RICHARD BLANCO, POET DONALD W. SAVOIE, MUSICIAN 

BROWNING 
CINEMA 
Volver (2006) 
Directed by Pedro Almodovar R, 121 minutes Spanish language with English sub­titles 35mm Print Sat, Mar 24 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Battle of Algiers (1966) 
Nanovic Film Series Directed by Gillo Pontecorvo NR, 117 minutes French and Arabic Language with English subtitles 35mm print Thu, Mar 22 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Black Gold (2006) 
Directed by Mark and Nick Francis NR, 78 minutes English, Italian, and Amharic languages with English subtitles Fri, Mar 23 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
The Barber of Seville 
The Metropolitan Opera Goes to the Movies Directed by Bartlett Sher Sung in Italian with MET titles in Eng­lish Sat, Mar 24 at 1 :30 pm 
Midnight Cowboy (1969) 
PAC Classic 1 00 Directed by John Schlesinger R, 113 minutes 35mm print Sun, Mar 25 at 3 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
Watch The Final Cut 
An original movie review show, Wednesday nights at 11 pm on N Dtv Channel 53 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
CLUB SPORTS 
Water Polo beats Macalester 
Ultimate teams have busy spring break against top competition 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame's women's water polo club traveled to Southern California this spring break to take on some tough competition. The Irish kicked oft' the weekend with an 11-3 win over Macalester at Cal State San Bernardino's Coyote Classic Tournament. Bridget O'Neill led the scoring with five goals; Kristin Schmitt and Cristina Romano added two each, and MC Cimino and Kelly Horner each tallied one of their own. Goalie Maggie llyde protect­ed the cage with six saves. 
In the second game of the tour­nament, the Irish lost 11-4 to Colorado State. O'Neill again led scoring with two goals. Goalie Betsy O'Neill had nine saves. 
On Tuesday, Notre Dame took on Cal State San Bernardino, end­ing up on the wrong side of a close 11-9 battle. Goalie O'Neill had 13 saves, while Bridget O'Neill and Schmitt had three goals each. 
On Thursday the team played at No. 4 Cal Poly University. Up at halftime, the Irish could not hold on and lost 6-5. Romano and Schmitt had two goals apiece, and O'Neill had one. Goalie Betsy O'Neill recorded nine saves. The Irish will face Cal Poly again in two weeks at Miami of Ohio and are looking forward to the rematch. 
Men's Rowing 
For the second consecutive year, the men's crew team held its spring training camp in Miami, Fla. Notre Dame practiced three times a day out of the Miami Rowing Club boathouse, located on Key Biscayne. 
After a week of training in the cove, the Irish traveled north to the small town of Fellsmere, Fla. to compete in the Governor's Cup Regatta. The Irish competed against national rowing powers Florida Tech, Columbia and Marietta College. 
The second varsity eight fin­ished behind Columbia and defeated Florida Tech in their first race. The first and second novice eights repeated their per­formances from the morning, fin­ishing behind Columbia light­weights and Florida and Colwnbia heavyweights, respec­tively. The second varsity eight finished third in the grand finals behind two Columbia boats. Finally, the first varsity rowed in the last race of the day with a new boat, which necessitated a lineup adjustment. In a respectable performance, they finished behind Columbia's No. 17 varsity eight. 
Ultimate 
Notre Dame's ultimate club traveled to Georgia to participate in two annual tournaments over break -the Terminus 2007, and Southerns 2007. In Terminus, the Irish men's squad opened with George Washington losing 13-6, but then defeated Wheaton 13-11. 
The squad showed good poten­tial against Indiana, but it was clear the Irish had the less experi­enced squad and lost 11-9. In its next matchup against Michigan, Notre Dame fell behind early and lost .13-10, before succwnbing to William and Mary 13-4 Sunday. The next game was against Swarthmore, and the Irish closed the tournament with a 13-6 vieto­
ry. 
The Iri.c;;h were seeded No. 19 in a field of 32 at the Southerns. The first game on Saturday was against No. 3 Georgia Tech. Notre Dame came out fired up and scored the first two points against a lethargic Georgia Tech team. The game continued with each team trading points until sudden death at 14-14. Notre Dame made the most of its opportunity with Nick "Craig" Chambers grabbing the game winner. 
Maryland was next, and the Irish dug themselves a hole early and trailed 8-4 at halftime. Solid popping from Ryan "Door" Gorman and strong defense from Andrew "Boot" Schroeder pulled the club back into the game, but the squad's luck ran out and lost 15-14. The Irish then faced Columbia and cruised to a 15-2 
win. 
Notre Dame then faced Duke, and, again, the Irish fell behind early, and trailed 8-6 at half, but fought back to win 13-11. 
In Sunday's championship bracket, the squad faced No. 3 Tufts. The Irish came out inspired but again were down 8-6 at half­time. Great defense allowed the club to stay close but Tufts held on for a 12-11 win. 
Solid offensive play by Mike "Double B" Banning then led the Irish to a 15-11 triumph over Luther College. 
The ultimate club's women's team participated in two tourna­ments in Atlanta as well. Terminus, a well-renowned tour­-nament that draws collegiate teams from across the country, provided fierce competition dur­ing Notre Dame's pool play as two tournament teams were ranked in the top ten in the eountry. 
Notre Dame's dropped its first match against Georgia 13-3. 
The seeond game was against Michigan. Up 7-6 at halftime, the Wolwirines pulled away in the second hair and beat the Irish 13­8. 
The third and fimrth games of tho day were dU"Jieult for Notre Dame. They lost a rrustrating game to Swarthmore 13-6, despite tho exceptional defensive efli1rts of freshman Erin Maxwnll. The last game of Saturday's pool play was against Emory, and the Irish dropped thoir fourth in a row 12-5. 
The second day of Terminus turned out better fi1r Notre Dame. In the first match of the day, the Irish raced tournament host G1~orgia Tech, winning 13-6. Next the Irish raced Auburn, a strong team with a similar playing style as Notre Dame. The Irish fought hard, maintaining a strong oflfm­sive presence with both long and short throws, but the Irish bowed out with a 12-9loss. 
The next weekend, Notrn Dame participated in Southerns, a tour­nament hosted by Georgia Southern University in Statesboro, Ga. The Irish fared much better in Saturday pool play, going 3-1 within their brack­et. This ineluded a defeat of Chicago, another regional rival. Their only loss of the day was against top-seeded Yale. Tight defense kept the game close, but the Irish fell 8-6. After finishing second in their pool, Notre Dame played a cross-over game against Swarthmore to make it into the championship bracket. The Irish defeated the War Mothers sound­ly 13-6 to take a No. 15 seed into the championship bracket. 
Sunday's championship bracket pitted the Irish against the No. 2 Florida, a highly skilled team with a deep tradition. Notre Dame played well against a strong zone defense, using the popping skills of Adsit, Bilek and senior Jeannie Joeckel, but still lost 13-5. Notre Dame then dropped into the ninth-place bracket, where they defeated VIrginia 13-6 in a strong game to end the long trip. 
Notre Dame will host the White Smoke Invitational this weekend at Riehle fields, weather and field conditions permitting. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Health forces IU coach to take leave of absence 

Hoosiers' Hoeppner will leave team for third time in 15 months 
Associated Press 

BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -Bill Lynch tried to do everything Terry Hoeppner would have at the Indiana Hoosiers first spring prac­tice Tuesday. 
lie met with reporters, dis­cussed position moves and talked about turning around a program that has not beon to a bowl game since 1993. 
Yet all the hope that usually springs up at the first sign of warm weather was tempered by what was missing -their coach. School of'f'icials announced Sunday that Hoeppner would skip the spring workouts for health reasons, marking the third time in 15 months that the 59-year-old coach has temporarily left the team. 
"It's not like the first time, that was quite a shock," said Lynch, the associate head coach who is filling in for Hoeppner. "But know­ing that he's not taken any time off from coaching filotball through the season, and the recruiting season is quite a grind, he needed a break." 
Hoeppner has undergone brain surgery twice -in December 2005 and again last September. He had a twnor removed during the first procedure, limiting his recruiting activities and ability to lead offseason workouts. 
Hoeppner also missed two games last season when doctors conducted a followup procedure for what was described as a possi­ble recurrent tumor. Test results, Hoeppner said later, showed the best possible results, implying that doctors removed scar tissue. 
There was speculation late last season that Hoeppner may step down because of his health, but he instead signed a two-year con­tract extension. 
University officials have declined to give details about Hoeppner's health, citing privacy concerns, except to say he has not had any additional surgery since last year. 
On Sunday night, when players returned from spring break, Hoeppner met with his players to tell them he would use his time off to regain his strength and energy before coaching again this fall. 
But putting their helmets on for the first time in four months seemed to help, and some players remained hopeful that Hoeppner might return before the Hoosiers' annual spring game April14. 
"There's no telling with coach Hep," receiver James Hardy said. "He's not going to sit still unless he has to. You know last year he was supposed to be out a month and he was back in 10 days. Hopefully, we'll see him soon." 
Tight end Blake Powers, a con­verted quarterback, said Hoeppner looked fine at Sunday's team meeting but acknowledged that it was difficult not having him on the field Tuesday. 
"It's hard because you're con­cerned about him," Powers said. "All you can do is pray for him and hope everything turns out OK." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: 
Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with physical disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation. Nurses. Therapists. Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic. responsible, and love children. June 10 through August 5. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. Call or write for applica­tion and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big Bay, Ml49808, (906)345-9314, e­mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us at www.baycliff.org 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50 base-appt. flexible schedules. no exp.needed, customer sales/serv­ice. conditions apply, all ages 17+, positions in all of Indiana & Michigan, 273-3835. www.work­
forstudents.com 
NEED A SUMMER JOB? Camp Tannadoonah is hiring 2007 camp staff. Have the best summer of your life! Visit www.tannadoonah.org 
FoR SALE 
Oakhill condo-3-4 bdm,3 full baths,2 levels, large deck. 
312-933-7234 or email mstacey1 @nd.edu. 
$210,000 obo. 
*ND CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos Minutes from campus Starting in $130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcondos.com Reserve Yours Today! 
FoR RENT 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
Now leasing for 2007/8. Great houses close to campus. Anlanproperties@comcast.net 
--------------------:3­
bdrm 1-bath house. Walk to ND. 1219 N. Twyckenham. 
Call574-231-0967. 
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. 6­bdrms,2 full baths,2 full kitchens,big savings for 2 & 3 yr. lease. Visit our website Bumbacahouses.com or call Cosimo at 277-1875. 
OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. 6­bdrms,2 full baths,2 full kitchens, big savings for 2 & 3 yr. lease. Visit our 
website Sumbacahouses.com or call Cosimo at 277-1875. 
3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for 07/08 school year. On line see rent­nd.com or mmmrentals.com. Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­spot.net or phone 574-277-4759. 
Large 2-bdrm condos. 18027 & 18041 Bulla Rd. Call574-233-4590. RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5 bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm. Call 312-545-5123 or email mitchell.58@nd.edu 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn. OP, at 1-7819. For more information. visit our web site at http://osa. nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in The Observer. 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No-ABORT or visit our website at www.lifecall.org 
Dear Helena, have decided 2 b yr knight instead of Hermias. Lv,Lysander Looking for a JOB or INTERN­SHIP? Make your resume available to THOUSANDS of employers! Sign up for your FREE account on MON­STERTRAK, the #1 student job search engine! Register now to be eligible for a $2,500 giveaway! xxx.monsterTRAK.com/2500. 
Adopt: A young loving couple long to share their Hearts and home with a newborn & will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen & 
Ed at 1-800-718-6577 
Vive Las Superestrellas 
Pat Nolan loves Joe Morgan 
Who's Chris Gill? 
Rob Wilson: -is obsessed with Gray's Anatomy -likes eating salad save yourself before it's to late Rob 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, March 21, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs page 17 
NHL 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
toam record OT points 
New Jersey 43·21 8 94 Pittsburgh 41-22 10 92 NY Rangers 36·28 9 81 NY Islanders 34·27 10 78 Philadelphia 20·41 11 51 
Eastern Conference, Northeast Division 
team record OT points 
Buffalo 46·19 7 99 Ottawa 42-23 8 92 Montreal 36-31 6 78 Toronto 34-28 10 78 Boston 34-32 5 73 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record OT points 
Atlanta 39·25 10 88 Tampa Bay 39·30 4 82 Carolina 36·29 8 80 Florida 30·29 13 73 Washington 26·34 13 65 
Western Conference, Central Division 
team record OT points 
Nashville 47·20 6 100 Detroit 45·18 9 99 St. Louis 30·29 12 72 Columbus 28·37 7 63 Chicago 27·35 9 63 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record OT points 
Vancouver 44·23 6 94 Minnesota 42·24 7 91 Calgary 37·25 10 84 Colorado 37·29 6 80 Edmonton 30·36 7 67 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record OT points 
Anaheim 43·18 12 98 San Jose 44·25 4 92 Dallas 43·24 5 91 Los Angeles 25·34 14 64 Phoenix · 28·40 4 60 
NCAA Div. I Men's Tennis Fila/ITA Rankings 
team avg. prev. 

1 Georgia 92 1 2 UVA 91.96 3 3 Ohio State 88.43 2 4 usc 77.2 11 5 Baylor 75.79 4 6 Illinois 75 7 7 NOTRE DAME 74.82 8 8 UCLA 67.78 5 9 Wake Forest 62.91 18 10 Mississippi 60.88 6 11 North Carolina 58.8 17 12 Texas 57.1 16 13 LSU 56.15 20 14 Alabama 54.58 26 15 Oklahoma State 54.51 9 
around the dial 
NBA Dallas at Cleveland 8 p.m., ESPN 

MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Syracuse at Clemson 7 p.m., ESPN2 
DePaul at Air Force 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. ­
LSU center Glen "Big 
Baby" Davis is moving on 
to the next stage of his 
basketball life. 
The 6-foot-9, 290-pound junior said Tuesday he will skip his senior year to enter the NBA draft. 
"After my toughest year, 
I now feel I am physically 
and mentally ready for 
the NBA," Davis said at a 
news conference. "In my 
mind and in my heart, I 
felt that it was time for 
me to move on." 
He has signed with 
agent John Hamilton of 
Performance Sports 
Management but will 
remain enrolled at LSU until the end of the semes­ter. The NBA's predraft camp is May 28-June 5 in Orlando, Fla., and Davis expects to be there. 
Davis averaged 17.7 points and 10.4 rebounds this season, missing sev­eral games late in the year because of a strained quadriceps. He is the only LSU player other than Shaquille O'Neal with career totals surpassing 1,500 points, 900 rebounds and 100 blocks. Davis was an AP second team All-America selec­tion during the 2005-06 season, when LSU went to the Final Four. 
"Last year, the team had 
IN BRIEF 
UNC football coach Davis to 
undergo chemotherapy 
CHAPEL HILL -North Carolina foot­ball coach Butch Davis is undergoing chemotherapy after a dentist removed a cancerous growth from his mouth. 
"I know people are going to be con­cerned and everything, but it's going to be OK," Davis said Tuesday. "We're going to get through this and we're going to have a great season next fall." 
The 55-year-old coach said he wasn't even aware he had a growth when he saw his dentist late last month in Cleveland for a routine cleaning. After the growth was removed, a biopsy diagnosed it as non-Hodgkins lym­phoma. 
Subsequent exams found no evidence that the cancer has spread, but Davis said he is undergoing chemotherapy as a precaution. He had his first two-hour session last week, and will have between three and six more UNC Hospitals at Chapel Hill, at two-week intervals. 

great success. I was part of only four (LSU) teams to make it to the Final Four," Davis said. "I decided to stay and hoped to build on that this year. Unfortunately that didn't happen." 
Coach John Brady said he advised Davis to turn pro unless he was fully committed to returning to LSU for his senior year. The coach told Davis not to base his decision purely on projections about how high he will go in the draft. 
"I told him two weeks ago that he needs to go where his heart moves him to go, not where someone tells him he'll go (in the draft)," Brady said. "He had three outstanding years at LSU. I watched him grow.... He'll do well." 
Davis said he's been told he could be selected any­where from the middle of the first round to early in the second. First-round picks get guaranteed three-year contracts. Second-rounders do not, and many get cut in train­ing camp. In rare cases, however, being picked in the second round can be a financial boon to players who perform well since they can enter the league under shorter contracts and become free agents sooner. 
Sutton swims to 28th place in 
IOK at world championships 
MELBOURNE -Chloe Sutton emerged from the water a trembling, teary mess, wondering what happened to her goggles. Angela Maurer buried her head in a coach's chest, knowing what it must have felt like to go 12 rounds with Mike Tyson in his prime. And everyone was covered in ugly, red welts, the work of jellyfish lurking off St. Kilda Beach. 
Oh well, just another day of open water swimming. 
Russia's Larisa Ilchenko claimed her second gold medal of the world champi­onships Tuesday, winning a sprint to the finish with British up-and-comer Cassandra Patten in the 10-kilometer race. 
Then again, no one really looked like a winner when it was over. They staggered onto dry land, just glad to have survived 
6.2 miles of cool waters, rough tactics and all those nasty creatures lurking beneath the surface of Port Phillip Bay. 

Uecker stalker asked to leave 
spring training game 
MILWAUKEE -A woman once charged with stalking announcer Bob Uecker was asked to leave a Milwaukee Brewers spring training game. 
The baseball team notified the Phoenix police that Ann E. Ladd was at Monday's game, Police Sgt. Joel Tranter said Tuesday. A restraining order issued in September bars Ladd from games Uecker is announcing and requires her to stay at least 500 feet away from him. 
Uecker was not announcing the Brewers' game against the Cubs. The Brewers would not say whether he was at the ballpark in Phoenix. 
Ladd voluntarily left the game when asked, Tranter said. 
"She was peaceful and had a tick­et to the game," he said. "We were asked to escort her away. She's no longer welcome back." 



page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Law restores order for title-contending A&M 

Texas A&M guard Acie Law celebrates in the second half of the Aggies 72-69 win over Louisville Sunday. Law scored 26 points to help Texas A&M advance to the Sweet 16. 
The Notre Dame Law School 
Natural Law Institute presents 
The 2007 Natural Law Lecture 
Guard leads Aggies from cellar to Sweet 16 
Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION-Moments 
after Texas A&M defeated 
Louisville to reach the regional 
semifinals, Acie Law was crying 
with joy. Aggies coach Billy 
Gillispie walked up to his star 
point guard and said, "Didn't you 
believe me?" 
When Gillispie took over at 
A&M three years ago, he told Law 
the Aggies were going to win 
sooner than anyone expected. 
A victory over Memphis (32-3) in San Antonio on Thursday will send the Aggies (27-6) to their first regional final, a step no one saw corning after A&M went 0-16 in the Big 12 in 2003-04. Least of all Law, a freshman that season. 
He was skeptical of Gillispie's vision and considered leaving when the new coach implement­ed workouts that resembled boot camp. But Law stuck it out, and ultimately realized his demanding coach was right. 
"This season is something he promised me," the 6-foot-3 senior said. 
Along the way, Law understood that Gillispie had a plan for him, too -to make him the corner­stone of a resurgent team. 
Law is a fmalist for the Wooden and Naismith awards, given to college basketball's best player. He led the Aggies in scoring, assists and steals this season, but he gets no special favors from Gillispie. 
"I like the fact that he treats me like one of the guys and he does­n't make it easy for me," Law said. "He believes that even though I'm getting all this atten­tion, that I can go further. You feel good inside when you play for a person who believes in you and continues to push you to get bet­ter." 
Law has taken Gillispie's tough love and produced all year, espe­cially late in close games. A play­er from Penn, the team A&M ousted in the first round, called him "Captain Clutch." 
Law averaged 6.9 points in the last four minutes of Big 12 games. He sank a 3-pointer and two free throws in the last 24 seconds of A&M's 69-66 win at Kansas on Feb. 3. Three weeks later, Law hit a 3-pointer to force overtime and another to force double overtime in a 98-96 loss at Texas. 
"He's developed a great talent," Gillispie said. "People ask how guys perform like that in the clutch. First of all, you have to be a really good player to do it time and time again. A bad or mediocre player might do it once, luck into it or whatever. 
"A guy like Acie, you have to be very talented and you have to have great confidence. He has both of those things." 
Melvin Watkins, Gillispie's pred­ecessor at A&M, said that when Law played for Kimball High School in Dallas, he already had a natural feel for the game. 
"He had a calming presence whenever he had the ball," said Watkins, who resigned after the Aggies went 7-21 in 2003-04. "But you also had the feeling that when he had the ball, something special might be about to happen. 
"He could make plays you can't teach," said Watkins, now a Missouri assistant. "If you could, you'd teach all your kids to make them." 
Gillispie immediately saw Law's talent, but he wanted him to be more vocal. Now, Law's voice is often the loudest in huddles. 
Against Penn, Law told his team he was about to take over the game. lie scored 11 points in the last eight minutes to lead A&M to a 68-52 victory. 
Late in the Louisville game, Law urged his teammates to remember last season's one-point tournament loss to LSU. The Aggies responded with a defen­sive stand. 
''I'm the leader of this team," Law said. "I can't get rattled or show that I'm kind of scared or panicking because everybody looks up to me. If I show that leadership, if I show that I'm not afraid, then the team will be at ease and we should be line." 
The Aggies have been following his lead well before he started drawing national recognition. 
"We see it every day in prac­tice," junior forward Joseph Jones said. "Hight now, everything is just clicking for him and he's going great. And because of that, everything's going great for us." 


Why I Am (Almost) a Natural Lawyer 
John Gardner 
& i 
Th. 

Pro~is14r of Jurisprudence 
.;!11+ f tr

l:.Jr#versi!=y-of Oxford 
;,;;.;.:.· ti~:. '· 
l' 

ThursdaY! March 22, 2007 
,,.,:::··.·:·::::.:.·:J}Wh.=.=.=·=· 

~"··'"""""" 4 p.m. 

Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
. 'I 

Wednesday, March 21, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Tough test awaits Tigers in Sweet 16 matchup 

Soft schedule boosted Memphis to win streak 
Associated Press 
MEMPHIS -A 24-game win­ning streak hasn't convinced everyone that Memphis is a legitimate national champi­onship contender. 
After all, the second-seeded Tigers didn't get much of chal­lenge from their Conference USA rivals, none of which made the NCAA tournament. Counting North Texas and Nevada, the two teams Memphis beat to get to the South Regional semifinals, the Tigers have defeated five teams that made the NCAA's field of 65. 
It's safe to say that Thursday's game in San Antonio against Texas A&M will be the Tigers' toughest test in months. 
And Memphis could be with­



OPEN TO ALL 
NOTRE DAME, SAINT MARY'S AND HOLY CROSS STUDENTS! MANY AREA JOB AND INTERNSHIPS! 
CHECK OUT THE 142 EMPLOYERS AND JOBS POSTED AT: WWW.INCCONSORTIUM.ORG 
Wednesday, March 21 



-Academic Honor Code-


Dennis Jacobs  Also featuring student Sarah Glatt  
Vice President and  
Associate Provost  Get tapped in at Legends  

Doors Open at 8:30pm, Speaker starts-9:00pm Free soft-drinks and food, cash bar Can't make it? More to come on 4/18 


out leading scorer Chris Douglas-Roberts, who is nurs­ing a sprained left ankle. Coach John Calipari said he wasn't positive Douglas-Roberts would play. 
"But I think he will," Calipari said after his weekly radio show Monday before a packed house of Tiger fans at a Memphis restaurant. 
Decked out in Tiger blue T­shirts and caps, the fans treated Calipari to a standing ovation as he arrived for the show held in a strip of taverns and restau­rants just off the university campus. 
Douglas-Roberts missed the last eight minutes of Sunday's game, but the Tigers dominated down the stretch without him, shutting out Nevada for more than six minutes. 
"Let's hope that Chris is healthy. If he's not, we'll figure it out and we'll play without him," Calipari said. "Let's go in with one thing in mind. We're going after people." 
Memphis (32-3) is powered by its pressure defense and transi­tion offense. Depth is also a strength. The Tigers have nine players who average at least 10 minutes per game and seven who are over 20. Douglas­Roberts averages 15.4 points per game, but Jeremy Hunt (13.6), Hobert Dozier (9.8), Joey Dorsey (8.7) and Antonio Anderson (8.0) can all con­tribute offensively. 
The Tigers ran roughshod over C-USA teams such as East Carolina, Marshall and Rice, on their way to regular season and conference tournament champi­onships. 
"They did what they were supposed to do, as far as play­ing against mediocre talent." said Memphis fan David Harp, one of the faithful out to salute Cali pari. "They won big." 
This is the second season since Conference USA bid farewell to powerful teams such as Louisville, Cincinnati and Marquette, all of which were scooped up by the Big East. 
But Calipari said the league is getting better. 
"Our league is stronger. Maybe we're just better. Anybody think of that?" he said. "Maybe we're better than we were a year ago. I don't know." 
The Tigers' other big wins were against Kentucky and Gonzaga, neither of which sur­vived the first weekend of the tournament. 
Meanwhile, the AggiPs (27-6) went 13-3 in the much tougher Big 12 conference, with signa­ture wins over Kansas and Texas. They're the No. 3 seed, but the odds makers have made them a three-point favorite. 
Calipari said such talk doesn't interest him, either. 
"Any game we lose from here on out will be because of our league. That's what everybody will say, so it doesn't matter," Calipari said. 
A year ago, Memphis had a No. 1 seed but lost to UCLA 50­45 in the regional finals. The Tigers haven't been to the Final Four since 1985, back when the school was still known as Memphis State. 
But Memphis fans are ready for a return, hoping the Tigers can stretch their winning streak out four more games. 
"We're in the Sweet 16. That ought to tell you something. We're ready," longtime fan Carolyn Bridges said. 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 21, 2007 



THE NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES 
JOHN BRUTON 
European Union Ambassador to the United States 
"The Future of Economic and Political Relations Between the European Union and the United States" 
March 22, Thursday 4:30-6:00 pm Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza College of Business 
Free and open to the public, reception immediately following 
Sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and the Mendoza College of Business 
www.nd.edu/.....nanovic 
~----------==================================~ 
COME SEE WHAT'S NEW AT TURTLE CREEK!! 
We're Renovating AGAIN! 
New POOL-HEATED!! 
New LANDSCAPING 
New BASKETBALL COURT 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
574-272-8124 
Office Hours: 
M-F9AM-7 PM 
SAT 10AM-4PM 
@ 
EQUAl HOUSING 
OPPORTUNtTY 
ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Irish midfielder Alicia Billings rushes upfield during Notre Dame's 18-10 loss to Northwestern March 1. 

osu 
continued from page 24 
Syracuse received huge offen­sive contributions from senior Ashley Pike (five goals) and junior Bridget Looney (four goals.) The Orange outshot the Irish 37-24 for the game. 
"After that loss, we're really trying to control the tempo and get out to a faster start against Ohio State" Coyne said. 
The Buckeyes enter the game after a strong defensive performance Sunday against Davidson. Ohio State defeated the Wildcats 8-4 and was in control the entire game. 
The Irish will look to slow down Buckeye junior Kristin Slahor, a midfielder who leads the team in assists. Junior attack Jessica Patane leads Ohio State in points and will likely draw the focus of the Notre Dame defense most of the game. 
"It's a rivalry that goes back a long way, and it's always an important game to us," Coyne said. "They started their pro­gram a year before us, and we've played them every year. And I can't remember a game that hasn't been competitive." 
The Irish will face off against the Buckeyes in the Loftus Center at 7:45p.m. today. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Win 
continued from page 24 
Swezey also played a key role by notching a career-best four points with one goal and three assists. 
Yeatman leads Notre Dame in points (23) and assists {11) this season. 
"Today was a good game," Notre Dame junior goaltender Joey Kemp said. "We made it a point to win every ground ball. We did not do this in the previ­ous games that we lost." 
Irish senior midfielder Lucius Polk added another two goals, while junior midfielder Michael Podgajny and senior midfielder Bill Liva each scored one goal for the Irish. Sophomore attack Peter Christman, senior attack John Greaney and freshman mid­fielder Brett Vecchio all aided the effort with an assist each. 

"Last week was hard with the travel," Kemp said. "It was nice to play in front of a home crowd." 
Kemp picked up the victory by allowing only two goals and making nine saves in over 50 minutes of play. Sophomore Scott Rodgers then took over for Kemp with over nine min­utes left to play. Rodgers gave up one score while making three saves of his own. 
The Irish held a dominant edge on shots against Bellarmine. The final tally of attempts on goal was 37-22 in Notre Dame's favor. 
Bellarmine scorers included Adam Gardner, John Kirk and Mike Rosenbergh, who all net­ted one goal each. Jamie Floris and Andrew Wolford both added an assist. 
Notre Dame takes a week and a half off after the match against Bellarmine. The next game is scheduled for March 31 at noon, when the Irish travel to No. 18 Brown. 
"We plan on practicing out­side, and we need to get used to different types of turf," Kemp said about the upcoming break in the schedule. "We have to prepare for the next game." 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 21, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Ho01e 
continued from page 24 
those frames but allowed the Vikings to stay in the game. In the third, the Irish had the bases loaded with one out, having already plated one. But junior designated hitter Ross Brezovsky, who had already knocked in a run, rapped into a 4-6-3 double play to end the threat. 
The Irish also wasted chances to put the game out of reach in the fourth and fifth, failing to score after putting the leadoff man on base in each inning. 
But the Irish pitching staff held on to the early lead, scat­tering eight hits and getting out of the few jams they encoun­tered. Junior Joey Williamson struck out three and surren­dered one run in two innings after coming on to relieve Maust. 
Senior Jess Stewart and soph­omore Kyle Weiland also worked an inning in relief. Weiland, who closed out 16 games last season, recorded his first save of this campaign. 
"Our pitching's going to win a lot of games for us, especially our bullpen," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "You saw a little of that today." 
Schrage, who was coaching in his first home game at Notre Dame, said he hopes his team feels more relaxed after getting its first win at Eck Stadium this 


Kelly McDavitt and Tara O'Brien each had three vic­
Belles 
continued from page 24 
would like to see some of the first year players raise the level of competition on the team." 
The Olivet Comets have strong senior leadership with doubles 

tories. Playing as a substi­tute in a game, senior Grace Gordon was able to provide the Belles with a win also. 
In doubles play, the duo of McDavitt and Gebert dis­played excellent chemistry, racking up five wins against the competition. The other 
teams of 

partners and Campbell and singles stand­"I would like to see Rubino as well 
outs, Mallory some ofthe first as O'Brien and 
Bailey and Gordon claimed
year players raise 
Rachel Vilums. three victories 
The Comets the level ofcompe­in the Sunshine 
also have an up tition on the team." State. and coming Stevenson said freshman in McDavitt's work
Dee Stevenson 
Celeste Gruber ethic and lead­that has been Saint Mary's coach ership embodies able to con­the team. tribute early on. "Kelly is one of Olivet is currently 1-1 in the hardest working players MIAA play and 4-2 overall. that I have coached. She will In singles play last week, set the tone each match for Belles freshman Camille the rest of the team," Gebert led Saint Mary's with Stevenson said. "She will 
five singles victories. also be looked upon to pro­Sophomore Mary E. vide leadership both on and Campbell, freshman Lisa off the court." 
Rubino and junior Cassie Quaglia all had four wins Contact Lorenzo Reyes at during the week. Seniors lreyes@nd.edu 
season. "You feel more energy when you're playing at home," he said. 
The Irish continue their home­stand today when they take on Western Michigan at 5:05 p. m. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
HIGHER COSTS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION! 
!'mre Dame Federal Credit Union offers many options to assist ycru with tht:: finandng ofyt)ur t:~dutationa! goals. 
\·Ve offer Federal Stafford Loans, Federal PLUS Loans, and Federal Consolidation Loans. Plus, we offer discounts for au tornuric payment, as \Vfdl as for good paytnt:•nt hhnoty on aH of our student loan products! 

r4NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 574/631 ·fl222 • fMJ0/522··f'itH l 
WWl\'.ndku.arg • :!'tudendnans.@ndfcu.()fg 
THLETICS 
a 's 1 
WEDS., MARCH 21@ 4:00PM 

~ 
CHAi\1BER SINGERS Nancy Menk, Conductor 
Favorite Opera Choruses Presented with Scenic Video 
with special guests. the LaPorte High School Mixed Chorale Thomas Coe, Director 
Sunday, March 25, 2007 
O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Moreau Center for the Arts Saint Mary's College 7:30P.M. 
For group discount infom~ation, or to purchase ticket~. call the Saint Mary's College box ollke at 
(574) 284-4626. 
MoreauCenter.com 

IfIot~~~~ 
• • • '<tilq(j 
~(I 
):Testing 

chl 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 ~{f)~ 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 www.womenscarecenter.org 

vs. OHIO STATE Weds. March 21@ 5:05pm oFTus SPORTS CoMPLEX Eck Stadium 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
"I always feel confident in my tion," Irish coach Muffet times in the first half, mostly Even though Notre Dame's team," Allen said. "I knew even McGraw said. ''I'm really proud behind their inside play. season is now over, McGraw is
NCAA 

though we were down, I knew of the effort and the focus, the Notre Dame was mostly able content with her team's per­
continued from page 24 

playing with enough energy." 
Tar Heels center LaToya Pringle felt the comeback had a lot to do with her coach. 
"The time out that [Coach Hatchell] called really made a difference. She said we wasn't playing hard," Pringle said. "We buckled down and did what we had to do on the offensive end." 
On that run, North Carolina forced the Irish post players into foul trouble, as center Melissa D'Amico committed her fourth personal foul with cen­ter Erica Williamson already sitting on three. 
Notre Dame's centers weren't the only Irish players in foul trouble down the stretch. Although both teams were whistled for eight fouls apiece in the first half, the Irish were called for 11 infractions to the Tar Heels' five in the second. Three Irish players finished with four fouls (0'Amico, Williamson and Gaines) while guard Melissa Lechlitner fin­ished with three. 
The Tar Heels used the foul discrepancy to their advantage in the second half, capitalizing on the bonus free throws to extend the final lead. 
Notre Dame seemed poised for another run after Allen used a high screen on the left wing to sink a 3-pointer with 
1:17 to play that cut the lead to three. But a Gaines foul on Tar Heels point guard Ivory Latta stopped the Irish momentum and extended the lead back to two possessions at 54-49. 
'------------------­
we'd come back and make a run. Unfortunately we didn't come out on top." 
All night long Notre Dame's defense focused on shutting down Latta. 
"Our only problem [with the box-and-one] was the fouls," McGraw said. "Three-point game with just over a minute, and we gave [Latta] two free throws, and she's a great free throw shooter." 
The Irish were then forced to foul as the game slowly ended, sending North Carolina back to the line six more times ­where they failed to miss -in the final 30 seconds. 
Allen was the lone bright spot for Notre Dame against the Tar Heels. The junior finished with 21 points on 7-of-16 shooting with four rebounds. Allen was the only Irish player in double figures despite being guarded by the Tar Heel's best defender -forward Camille Parker ­all night. 
"!Allen is] an incredible play­er," Hatchell said. "She's just a really, really tough player ­very intelligent, got great skills, makes great reads." 
Although it fell short in the end, Notre Dame started out the second half with a 10-2 run in the opening 6:45 minutes to gain a 38-31 lead. Post play proved important for the Irish as D'Amico and forward Crystal Erwin led the charge. Williamson added to the effort by grabbing offensive rebounds and forcing the Tar Heels to foul her inside. 
"I thought we executed our game plan almost to perfec­
intensity." 
The Irish ran effectively with the Tar Heels for the first half and went into the locker rooms down only one point. The Irish fell behind by four early in the game -the largest lead for either team -but Breona Gray rejuvenated the Irish offense with a three from the corner to bring the score to 6-5. 
The teams traded leads eight to keep the game close against North Carolina with its defense. 

The Irish not only did a good job preventing North Carolina from taking good shots -the Heels only shot 40 percent from the floor in the first half -they also grabbed key defen­sive rebounds to prevent the Tar Heels from going on sus­tained runs to extend their lead. 
formance this year. 
"We had a great year. We overachieved, and we're disap­pointed that we weren't able to finish this game," she said. "When we look back on this year, we will be really pleased and proud of what this team has accomplished." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 


Interested in a career in the beer industry? Still do not have a job lined up for after graduation? 
Chicago Beverage is looking for enthusiastic summer interns who are interested in learning the dynamics of the beer businesE 
Chicago Beverage is the largest beer wholesaler in the dty of Olicago and distributes some of the biggest brands in the business such as Miller Lite, Corona, Heineken, Guinness. and Samuel Adams. 
Throughout the internship experience, interns will get a chance to work with these brands and their suppliers on key sales and marketing initiatives. 
For more information and to submit your resume. please checkout the Go Irish! website. Must be 21 to apply 


THE AFRICA WORKING GROlJP PRESENTS A SPECIAL SCREENING OF 
TONIGHT!-FREE and Open to the Public  
Hesburgh Center for International Studies 6:00 pm. Reception. Great Hall  ldris Elba and Debra Winger star in this gripping drama about the 100 days of the  
6:30 pm, Rwandan dance performed by children of BERWA  Rwandan genocide in 1994.  

7:00pm, Film Screening, Auditorium ,.SPONSORED BY BERWA (BE PROUD) AN ORGANIZATION OF RWANDA GENOCIDE SURVIVORS
w 

AND THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES' AFRICA WORKING GROUP 
LL 
THURSDAY, MARCH 22 VS. IUPUI 5:00PM • IVY FIELD 

Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
WH,O.IS UP !)EAR 'DoNOR, 
--r~s rotl... 
Il-l!:. MONE..'j. I OWE 'fOU ONE... 

BLACK DoG 
ON ~ANUAR.Y :Z.'-1~, THE 
SvS'TAIN.ASt..E ENDclwMENT~ !r;STITVTI< rti:.i.JO,A~E.J) ITS' (...oi..Leli-C S:v.S:TAINABII..ITY 1Z£PtlllT CAIU> IN WHIC.H li 6-Jt.A-I>ED (),o..JI~E-14 ~ IilEs;' etJ\1\ItO>JJ'IENTAL.. J>!U£,TIGE'S. NOT~ '[))IME RE'-f/V£1:> A I>­
ovEitAU.. ANI> wAS SAVEr> 
,::)toM AN FAvEM~E Di'\LY 
13'1' ITS C 1111 i>JVES'TME.N T 
!'RI OlliT II'S. 

Foi:I.TUNATH'f, Ovlt. Abi'II>JI$TRATION IS AL.R.E,AII'( iAI{INir STEPS To REM'E:DY THE P'Ro8L£/'\. 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  39 Bottom line  68 Bow over?  
1 Pentathlon need  41 Small songbird  69 Come clean,  
5 Seasonal air  42 Viewpoint  with "up"  
10 New England  44 Biblical fall site  
team, to fans  45 Workers' ID's  DOWN  
14 Mystery author Paretsky 15 Amtrak  46 Timbuktu's river 47 New Ager John  1 Suffix with Kafka 2 One row on a  
speedster  49 See 62-Across  chessboard  
16 Speckled steed 17 Top line 19 Eclectic mix  53 It may start as a grain of sand 57 "Steady_ goes"  3 How we stand 4 Like harp seals 5 Low islands  
20 Sam and Tom,  58 "Oklahoma!"  6 Prefix with  
e.g.  vehicle  pressure  
21 Yield to gravity 23 Fruity-smelling compound  59 Artist Mir6 62 With 49-Across, where 17-, 24­ 7 Actress Tara and others 8 Psalm starter  
24 Center line  and 39-Across  9 _luxury  
28 Planter's place 30 Follows closely  are seen 64 It flows through Florence  10 Isaiah or Elijah 11 Popular I.S.P.  
31 Cacophonies  65 Dean Martin  12 Mai  
34 Operatic slave  song subject  13  -Globe  
37 Addled  66 Manicurist's tool  18 Actress Polo  
38 Genetic letters  67 Small songbird  22 Old Irish alphabet  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  24 Mad Hatter's  
guest  
..,;,.+=+:±,;.i 25 Isn't serious 


26 Last name in -=+-+::+.-:-! fashion ..::..j..:,:+,:,.j.,~ 27 Exams for aspiring DA's 
-=+d=+::+:,;.i 29 Far from firm ..;,;+.;+:~:-~ 31 Guzzled 
32 Belly button type 
33 Shrewish 
-=+=+=+=+=~~
-=+;:;.+.=+:::-1 35 Netflix mailing
8 
~~.,..+.;..+.~ 36 Is an accomplice to 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
\'tv\ A \ \-loPE.. -r\-1. 6 C:tu.'l ISr-.IT \31 (:J INTO 11 RE.TUfi:.N oN. IN\JES,.-ME.NT." 
-IE,.L.L. HIM '1OU ONc.E. MAt>E OUT 'WI-n-\ Sol"\€.. 
LAt)'j IN -r~E. MORR.\S 
INN C.O,._,.-RooM. Hell. e,t:. IMP~E..S'::>€.'>. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

LIAMMORAN 


WILLSHORTZ 

39 W.W. II Japanese fighter planes 
40 New Orleans-to-Detroit di r. 
43 Locale for Hezbollah 
45 Nottingham villain 
48 Urge (on) 
50 "I'm gonna make you_" 51 It's hard to do with "orange" 52 Redcap's workplace 54 An ex of Ava 55 Line holders 56 Ancient strings 
58 'Pea 
59 Shoot the breeze 
60 Bruins legend 
61 Hydrocarbon suffix 
63" tu che macchiavi quell'anima" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
... 
.' 
JUMBLE 

JJWJMEIDr1rE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
NIXEV 

I I I (j 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
l GEMID I I I I []
tUNCIDE I

J [J I I 
www.jumble.com
tBALIVE 

IJ I I I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Thisplace l BAR ·1 
looks seedy ( • 

C?~Cft l8?~ =---~~~ 
'\'\''~~\ 
'" ~ ---~ 
WHITHE:R ON BOARD OR ON SHORE:, A SUBMA­RINE: CRE:W CAN BE:--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print answer here: rnA " rI I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IAJumbles: QUEUE BATON SCENIC FORAGE nswer: What a sculptor does to create a statue froni a stone slab -"FIGURES" IT OUT 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christy Carlson Romano. 23: Chester Bennington. 31; Holly Hunter, 49; Spike Lee, 50 
Happy Birthday: Don't spread yourself so thin that you can'l put in your best effort. You may be sensitive to the needs of others hut don't he a martyr and put everyone before yourself. You have the energy and the imagination to carry through with your ideas and plans. so do just that this year. Your numbers are 8. 17. 19, 28. 31, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your emotions may take over today. Try to keep things in perspective and don't take what people say to you the wrong way. Focus on travel plans or learning somelhing new and you will avoid some pilfalls. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't feel had if you or someone else has a change of heart. It's time to sort through your personal feelings. A little pampering will help you feel good about yourself and your chosen direction. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Invest, take on a second job or collect old debls. You will make a good impression if you go for an interview or get involved in a new project. Don't make a donation or loan today. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 2.2): Don't get too far ahead of yourself. You have to plan everything out properly if you want things to turn out. You may be able 10 get the people who know you well to join in. Preparation will lead to success. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take a closer look at the people who can influence your future. It's what you do today that will bring you the rewards you are looking for later on. Don'l overspend or you will appear frivolous. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone is likely to charm you today. Don't be too willing to give a donation or lend money. This is a good day to renovate, redecorate or just rearrange your place so it's more functional. 3 stars 
LillRA (Sept. 23-0ct, 22): Plan to have a little fun today. A new look will make you feel good and result in compliments from someone you are interested in. Fanning a partnership will help you get a project off the ground. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't be afraid to make some changes at home. If something isn't working for you, do something about it. Not everyone will agree with your decisions but you have to do what works for you. You will be able to secure your position. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may not please everyone today but, if you follow your dream, you should be able to get things happening. A short trip will bring results but be sure to abide by the rules. Home improvement projects will bring you greater comfort. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let your emotions or personal worries interfere with business. You have to do what you must. regardless of whether or not family or close friends think you should. Money can be made if you are unique in your approach. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Ask for help and you will receive it. Volunteer your time or services and you will raise your popularity. Now is the time to make a move that will enable you to up your earning potential and secure your future. 4 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your unpredictable nature will work in your favor. Be careful with whom you share your ideas. An old business contact may not be as reliable as you think. If something doesn't appear to be right, take a pass. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You adjust well to whatever is going on around you and are always ready to take on a challenge. You are a wheeler-dealer and the one to call the shots. You rule the roost. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

.> 
-
-
THE ()BSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday, March 21, 2007 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Carolina blues 

15-0 run sparks Tar Heels to close victory 
ByJAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
PITTSBURGH-Leading 41­33 i.n the second half, Notre Dame seemed in control of its 
(. second-round game over North Carolina -but the Tar Heels had other ideas. North Carolina refused to go down quffitly, going on a 15-0 run to give it a 48-41 lead with 6:30 to play. By the time Irish guard Tulyah Gaines stopped the bleeding with a driving layup, the game was out of reach for Notre Dame, which eventually fell 60-51 in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. North Carolina coach Sylvia Hatchell credited the explosive run to a defensive change when she placed guard Alex Miller in charge of defending the Irish point guards. "I just kept telling my players to keep encouraging one another. We just seemed flat," Hatchell said. "We were not 
see NCAA/page 22 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

ND coines hoine to face OSU 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
After four straight road games full of adversity, No. 6 Notre Dame will finally return home to the Loftus Center to face Ohio State. 
The Irish (5-2) will face the rival Buckeyes (3-1) after play­ing four matches away from home, with three coming in the snowy northeast. 
"We're so glad to be coming back home .after all the prob­lems we had on the road," Notre Dame coach Tracy Coyne said. 

On more than one occasion the Irish had games resched­uled due to inclement weather and had travel issues that forced the team to arrive just before game time. Before the team's last game at Syracuse, goalie Erin Goodman's equip­ment was misplaced, and the sophomore was forced to play the game with borrowed gear. 
Over the break the Irish went 2-1, taking crucial games over Canisius and Yale before dropping their Big East opener Sundayto Syracuse. 
After falling behind early 4-0 to the Orange, the Irish rallied to cut the halftime deficit to 7­

6. Notre Dame tied the game at 13 with just over 10 min­utes remaining, but failed to score while yielding three goals in the last stretch of the match. 
Irish junior attack Caitlin McKinney tallied four goals and two assists in the loss, and sophomore attack Jillian Byers contributed three goals. Senior attack Megan Murphy also had her strongest offensive per­formance of the season with three goals. 

Irish center Melissa D'Amico, right, tries to steal the ball from North Carolina forward Rashanda McCants during Notre Dame's 60-511oss Tuesday in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
BASEBALL 
Irish take Frank Eck opener over Cleveland State 
By FRAN TOI.AN Sports Writer 
The Irish used a three-run second inning to defeat·
-Cleveland State 5-3 in their home opener Tuesday afternoon at Frank Eck Stadium. The success brought Notre Dame's record to an even 9-9. Freshman right-hander Eric Maust worked five innings to get 
the win, allowing just one earned run on six hits. 
"It feels really good to get your first win at home out of the way," said Maust, who was the first Irish freshman to start a home opener for the team since 2003. "I lopefully, we can start a winning streak." 
Despite squandering several opportunities to break the game open early, the continued hot hitting of senior center fielder Danny Dressman and a break­out game by freshman right fielder Brayden Ashdown gave Notre Dame enough offense to earn the win. 
Dressman, who was named to the Big East Weekly llonor Holl last week, went 2-for-4 with an HBI, giving him 13 hits in his last 24 at bats. 
"Ilitting's contagious," Dressman said. "If we can do it early and sustain it, we're goi.ng 
to win a lot of ballgames." 

Ashdown, meanwhile, had just one hit in his first 15 at-bats of the season before going 2-for-4 with a double and two HBis Tw1sday. 
The Irish were given a slew of chances early on as Cleveland State made three errors in the first three innings. Notre Dame scored a total of four runs in 
see HOME/page 21 see OSU/page 20 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Team crushes Bellarmine 11-3 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame spoiled Bellarmine's first-ever confer­ence match in the Great Western Lacrosse League with an 11-3 win Tuesday afternoon at Moose Krause Stadium. 
-
The Irish (4-3, 1-0 GWLL) now hold a nine-game home win streak and an all-time record of 2-0 against Bellarmine (1-5, 0-1 GWLL). 
Notre Dame freshman attaek Will Yeatman and sophomore attack Ryan Hoff both recorded hat tricks in the victory, while Hoff added an assist. Irish sophomore attack Duncan 
see WIN/page 20 

SMC TENNIS 

Belles to face Olivet in first MIAA Inatch 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will face Olivet today at home in their l"irst MIAA match of the sea­son at 3 p.m., when the Bolles will try to gain an early lead in the league standings. 
Last week, the Belles trav­eled down to Orlando, Fla., for their spring trip to open the season. On the trip, they went .500, going 4-4 in all matehes, while facing quality eompetition. 
Saint Mary's earned victo­ries over Haverford, 
Hamilton, Bentlev and Drew, while it fell to riranklin and Marshall, Wisconsin­LaCrosse, University of Puerto Hico and Skidmore. 
Saint Mary's will look to build on last season's 10-10 overall reeord, with an MIAA tally of 5-3 that earned them a fourth-place finish in the league's regular season. The Belles then took a fifth place finish in the MIAA tourna­ment. 
"We will rely on the returning players a great deal," Belles coach Dee Stevenson said. "However, I 
see BELLES/page 21 





