
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 92 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26,2007 

'Vagina Monologues' tnove off to church 
Controversial play's organizers fail to find on-campus sponsor, continue event in local venue 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 
After a period of uncer­tainty and numerous discus­sions about sponsorship, organizers of this year's "Vagina Monologues" have decided to hold the show off­campus at the First Unitarian Church -a place organizers call the "perfect solution to an imperfect situ­ation." 
"Basically we're just really focusing on the production this year, which is complete­ly unaffiliated with the University," said "Monologues" organizer Michelle Lewis. 
Organizers chose the venue -which is on North Shore Drive and within walking distance of the University ­less than a weeK ago after narrowing the choice down a couple of options. 
"It's not a huge space but it's really close to campus," Lewis said of the Christian Church. "It's a room ... where they have services. 
People will be sitting in some pews, some in pulled out chairs." 
This year's performance comes nearly one year after the sexually explicit play caused a storm of controver­sy and weeks of academic freedom debate on campus -and after University President Father John Jenkins questioned the con­sistency of the play's mes­sage with the Catholic char­acter of Notre Dame. 
Though the play has been performed on campus for six 
consecutive years as part of the anti-violence against women V-Day campaign, this year's organizers were unable to solidify an aca­demic sponsor and therefore took the performance off­campus. 
The reasons behind that lack of sponsorship aren't clear. 
La-st year, Jenkins said events sponsored by the University or one of its units 
including academic 
see PLAY/page 8 


CLAP will deliver report to admins 
Efforts to secure living wage renewed by Notre Dame's Campus Labor Action Project 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
News Editor 
Members of Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) will spend this morning delivering copies of their new "Living Wage Report 2007" to admin­istrators -including Univer­sity President Father John Jenkins -and different cam­pus work supervisors, organ­izers said. 
"It is for the entire commu­nity," CLAP member Nick Krafft said of the report, which he said is intended to help members of the Notre Dame community "develop a sensitivity to the experiences of lowest paid staff here at Notre Dame and to work with us toward a better reality." 
Krafft said the report ­which was compiled primarily by Krafft and junior Katie McHugh -will also be deliv­ered to Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers, Associate Vice President of Human Resources Bob McQuade and Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves. 
The living wage issue is one the report calls "urgent" ­and one that Krafft said revolves around the workers. 
"Our primary point is that workers here need to feel that they are actually part of the Notre Dame family," Krafft said. "You can throw around a lot of rhetoric about how they are [part of the family] but we want to actu­ally see that in practice." 
Krafft said he and other CLAP members have been 
see CLAPIpage 6 

CSC, ICL to receive new building 
Construction expected to begin spring 2008 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
Construction is set to begin on a new building for the Institute of Church Life (ICL) and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) in the spring of 2008, University officials announced Friday. The move will create new space that ICL director John Cavadini said is "very badly needed." 
The planned $14 million building -to be called Geddes Hall -will be located in the same area as the current esc building, according to Friday's press release. 
In addition to uniting· the ICL and the esc, which is part of 
see BUILDING/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Co111111ittee rejects fraud allegations 
'Abstain' posters may violate election ethics 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
Associate News Editor 
The Executive Committee of the Judicial Council decided last week that two different instances of alleged election violations were not actual violations, Judicial Council vice president of elections Anthony Dayrit said Sunday. 
Student body vice president Bill Andrichik filed a complaint last week that said illegal posters campaigning for the abstain ticket were found in the Student Government office on the second floor of LaFortune and also on the doors of the Hesburgh Library. Andrichik said he is not opposed to students voting in favor of abstention, but said he brought the issue to the attention of the Judicial Council because the per­son who was responsible was in the student government. 
"Had this been someone uncon­nected with the Student Union, I would have considered not even making a formal complaint," he said. "But since I knew the indi­vidual holds an enumerated posi­tion, I felt it ,was necessary to bring it to Judicial Council's atten­tion." 
The Executive Committee voted unanimously that this was not an election violation because it did not have a deciding impact on the outcome of the student body elec­tion results, Dayrit said. 
A separate allegation said one 
see ELECTION/page 4 

Seniors take eighth in College Bowl tourney 
By EMILY KEEBLER 
News Writer 
Team Hot Hand was quick to the buzzer this weekend, as the group of four Notre Dame sen­iors successfully competed in the College Bowl Regional Championship Tournament held on campus. 
The team Tommy Clarkson, Tim Dougherty, Tony Hardie and Dan McLaughlin ­finished eighth out of 15 Illinois and Indiana teams participat­ing in the "varsity sport of the mind." 
Dougherty is an Observer sports writer. 
"It was a fun day and a half and a good test of knowledge," Clarkson said. "Some of the teams we ran up against were pretty solid competition." 

The College Bowl and the Association of College Unions International (ACUI) adminis­tered the tournament, working closely with the Student Activities Office to arrange facilities, accommodations, entertainment and meals for participating students.. 
The College Bowl tournament pits four-member teams against each other, as they earn points by quickly and cor­rectly answering trivia ques­tions. Questions span a range of disciplines including history, literature, geography and sports. 
"The questions are pretty varied.... You can't rely on one person," Clarkson said. "You 
see BOWL/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Oscar's thanks 
As the most glamorous night in Hollywood, the Oscars have become something of a pop culture Super Bowl. 
For People Magazine junkies, watch­ing the red carpet is like being a kid Sonia Rao at Disneyworld with all of your 
News Wzre
favorite charac­
Editor
ters. Every person­
ality that has 
graced the pages of those glossy maga­zines is there, parading around for fans, taking pictures and signing auto­
graphs. 
For the fashionistas, Joan and Melissa Rivers are there to revere and rip on the elegant (and not so elegant) ensembles. 
For the musically inclined, there are performances of movie songs nominat­ed for awards, not to mention the orchestra that gracefully ushers long­winded winners off of the stage. 
It's those acceptance speeches, though, long or short, that are the real trick of the night. In 60 seconds,_ including the time it takes to reach the stage, a winner has to think of some­thing to say that manages to thank everyone they know, is somewhat entertaining and maximizes the moment, all while trying to think straight after having won the top honor in film. In a sense, it is its own art form. 
Some speeches have been unforget­table, and others we want to forget. When James Cameron won an Oscar for Best Director of Titanic, he asked that the audience observe a moment of silence in remembrance of those who died on the actual ship. 
lt could have ended there, but unfor­tunately Cameron ruined the reverence of the moment by screaming, ''I'm king of the world!" 
At times, such exuberance is accept­ed, as Sally Field's shrill "You like me! Right now, you like me!" has demon­strated. 
Others tend to go for a drier feel, like Louise Fletcher's witty speech in 1976 in which she thanked Jack Nicholson for making "being in a mental institu­tion like being in a mental institution." And, as Jack Nicholson said when accepting his Academy Award, "I guess this proves there are as many nuts in the Academy as anywhere else." 
Ben Affieck remained frank when he said, "Losing would suck and winning would be really scary. And it's really, really scary." 
And there are the more eloquent speakers -some so eloquent that they become incoherent. When Lawrence Oliver accepted his Honorary Oscar, he spewed out nearly every world in the thesaurus when he said, "In the great wealth, the great firmament of your nation's generosities this particular choice may perhaps be found by the future generations as a trifle eccentric, but the mere fact of it ... the prodigal, pure, human kindness of it ... must be seen as a beautiful star in that firma­ment which shines upon me at this moment, dazzling me a little, but filling me with warmth of the extraordinary elation, the e'uphoria that happens to so many of us at the first breath of the majestic glow of a new tomorrow." 
When it doubt, sometimes it's best to stick to a simple "thank you." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a proressional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 26, 2007 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE EXERCISE ACTIVITY? 





IN BRIEF 
Architect Scott Johnson will present a lecture enti­tled "The Big Idea: Critically and Practice in Contemporary. Urban Architecture" today at 4:30 
p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. Johnson is the creative force behind such buildings as the Sun America Building and the Fox Tower -nicknamed the "Die liard Building" after its starring role in the film. 
The Bengal Bouts quarter­finals are tonight at 6:30 in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Contact the Joyce Center ticket office at 574-631-7356 for tickets. Proceeds go to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre presents Agatha Christie's "The Mousetrap" on the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The show opens Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., and continues until March 4. Evening performances are at 
7:30 
and the Sunday matinee is at 2:30 Ticket prices are $12 for the general public, $10 for senior citizens, ND faculty and staff and $8 for students. 

There will be a panel pres­entation on "Sex and the City of God" Wednesday at 

7:30 
p.m. in 101 DeBartolo Hall. It will examine the interplay between Catholicism and contempo­rary culture 


To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Courtney Haven  Mark Bond  Mike Bogdan  Bill Bullock  Dana Gates  PJ Matusiak  
sophomore Farley  sophomore Stanford  senior Stanford  senior offcampus  sophomore P.E.  junior I~ E.  
"Anything that violates duLac. ,  'Toga, because it keeps me in equilibrium. ,  "Dancing, because it makes me  "Exercise is for fat people. ''  "Rowing, because Iget to eat a lot.,  "Napping!"  

happy., 


• CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA/The Observer 

The Leprechaun Legion -and the Leprechaun himself -cheer during Saturday's men's basketball game versus Marquette, an 85-73 Irish victory. 
OFFBEAT 
N.J. town to set time limit on barking 
CLIFTON, N.J. -The city of Clifton is not going to the dogs. At least not if the City Council has any­thing to do about it. Later this month, the council is expected to introduce an ordinance setting a limit on how long dogs can bark. 
Noisy canines will be defined as those that bark for more than 30 minutes on two consecutive days. 
The city already has nui­sance and "noise laws that can be used to address annoying and disturbing noises such as constant barking." But officials said those laws are sometimes 
TODAY 
a:: 
difficult to enforce. 
Police have to investigate c£_>mplaints, and the city Health Department sent 11 letters last year warning that a summons could be issued if the barking con­tinued, health officer John Biegel said. Clifton has issued 3,756 dog licenses this year. 
Thrift store book holds $1,300 In cash 
MCDONOUGll, Ga. -Hhiannon Barnes may be the luckiest 15-month-old ever. Or maybe her baby sitter is the fortunate one. 
While playing with a thrift store book bought earlier in the day for 25 cents, Rhiannon uncovered $1,300 in cash stuck between the pages. ller baby sitter Sheila Laughridge said she only bought the book at Hhiannon 's insistence and was surprised when the toddler found a brown paper bag full of $100s, $50s, $20s and $10s. 
Laughridge took the money, which dated as far back as the 1960s, to a local bank, where she received only $300 in exchange because most of the bills were in pieces. The rest of the tattered money was sent to the U.S. treasury department. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


,.. ,,.,... ,
LLI 
::z: 
~ 
;:LLI 
I 
~

...I <[ (.) 


...I 0 HIGH 33 HIGH 28 HIGH 33 HIGH 35 LOW 26 LOW 26 LOW 24 LOW 32 
Atlanta 61 I 39 Bost?n 38 I ~8 Chicago 34 I ~7 Denver 42 I 30 Houston 76 I 52 Los Angeles 64147 Minneapolis 301 19 New York 35 I 32 Philadelphia 36 I 30 Phoemx 7 4 I 48 Seattle 45 I 34 St. Louis 4 7 1 29 Tampa 75 1 62 Washington 41 1 33 
Monday, February 26, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Student book review-s to be published in tnajor journals 
By EMMA DRISCOLL 
News Writer 
When political science profes­sor Luc Reydams collected book reviews and essays from his class of international law stu­dents last semester, he got more than your average end-of-term paper. 
"When I was reading them at the end of the semester, I was struck by the quality and the insight of some of these essays," Reydams said. "And I thought they deserve a wider audience. They deserve publication." 
Reydams contacted many jour~ nals, including the International Organization's Law Review and The International Community Law Review, and seven of the pieces were chosen for publica­tion. 
Junior Arnaud Druelle's review essay has already been accepted for publication in the Criminal Law Review. Essays by juniors Catherine Kent and Paul Mower and seniors Tim Tryniecki, Caitlin May and Will McAuliffe have been accepted for publica­tion in other journals on the con­dition that they revise some sec­tions. 
Editors at The Journal of Conflict and Security Law are currently considering senior Tommy Kemp's review. 
Reydams said Kemp had suc­cessfully completed the first steps to publication by attracting editors and discussing possible revisions with them. 
"First of all, if a book review editor is interested enough, you send him the text, he has a look Professor Reydams told me that at it, and then he will decide my review was publishable," he whether to submit it to some out­said. "This was an unexpected side reviewers," he said. "The opportunity." best thing that can happen is an The process of tailoring his acceptance with quite some criti­work for publication purposes cism, which really then chal­has shown Druelle how to lenges the students to do better." improve his writing -but it also 
Druelle, a French exchange taught him classroom assign­student from the Institut ments have the potential to d'Etudes Politiques, wrote an impact more than the student's essay on international law draw­grade. ing from his readings and per­"I had the satisfaction to dis­sonal observations. He also cover that we don't only work to worked with the Criminal Law get some credits, but that what 
Forum on a ver­ we  write  can  
sion that will be  actually interest  
published in an upcoming edi­tion. Although the assignment was challenging, Druelle found the experience  "! had the satisfaction to discover that we don't only work to get some credits, but that what we write can actually interest other  other people, which is really motivating," he said. Although Reydams has been teaching the internation­ 
rewarding. "[The  book  people."  al law class since 2002, the  
review] was not an easy job, but  Arnaud Druelle  book review assignment was  
the main point is  junior exchange student  new  to  the  
that I enjoyed a  course last fall,  
lot  of  liberty  an addition he  

when I wrote the original paper," made because it draws high­he said. "I really had an oppor-quality work from students, he 
. tunity to express my point of said. view, my perception of interna­"My experience with the book tional law and international rela­review assignment is that it tions today .... I think this kind of brings out the best in students," opportunity to have 'free hands' Reydams said. is not so frequent in universities, The assignment, he said, was especially in France, so I really to select a book from an took pleasure in writing this approved list and write a book review." review or review essay on that 
Druelle did not expect to be book. All the recommended published when he wrote his readings "dealt with internation­review lastsemester. al law and relations," Reydams 
"I was very surprised when said. 
The essay process began only a few weeks into the semester and lasted until the end of the term, giving students the oppor­tunity to explore their ideas in depth -a factor that may have been directly related to the high quality of the student pieces. 
The Journal of International Law and International Relations 
. accepted Junior Catherine Kent's book review for publication on the condition she revises some sections. Kent said since she was not familiar with international law before taking the course, it was somewhat difficult to form opinions on the author's theory. 
"Just being able to correctly summarize [the author's] theory was kind of hard," she said. 
Kent, who wants to attend law school and focus on international law, said she found the project educational and rewarding. 

"I think it's exciting because undergraduates don't really get published in political science journals unless they are coau­thoring with a professor, so I did­n't really know that that was an option," she said. 
Kent is now on her own, as Reydams steps out of the publi­cation process once the students complete most of their revisions and have final drafts of their essays. 
"When I think they're done, then I step out and they work on their own with the book review editor," Reydams said. "They deal directly with the journal after implementation of revisions and when I think they're done." 
Contact Emma Driscoll at edriscol@nd.edu 

Attention Seniors! 
Notre Datne' s Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Adtnissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an i1nportant contribution to the recruitment and selection of the first-year class by managing relations vvith the prospective applicants, their parents, high school personnel and almnni in an assigned geographic area. 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel and communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus 
Among our candidates, we \Vill seek a Latino Recruitment Coordinator. (Fluency in Spanish will be strongly preferred.) 
We will also seek an Asian Recruitment Coordinator. 
Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of studentlife at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong cotnmunication and organizational skills, enthusiasn1, diplomacy and the ''rillingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Please Note: Interviews will not be held until late March. Preferred start date is July 1, 2007. 
Please complete the on-line application at http://jobs.nd.edu to be considered. Requisition # 020070065 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 26, 2007 
Building 
continued from page 1 
the ICL, under one roof, Cavadini said the move will greatly expand the space available to both organizations. 
The Institute is currently locat­ed on the 12th floor of the Hesburgh Library, and with the small amount of space available there, many staff members do not have offices, Cavadini said. Cavadini himself does not have room for an office in the Institute. 
CSC Executive Director Father Bill Lies said in an e-mail the esc has faced similar space con­straints. 
"We have doubled and tripled up offices, we're using an old storage closet as a two-person office and we even have one staff member using as her office an old six by eight foot projection room," he said. "It will be great to have these space constraints resolved." 
Cavadini and Lies worked with Mike Daly, senior project manag­er in the Office of the University Architect, to design the new 64,000 square foot building. The blueprints include room for more offices, classrooms and meeting spaces, Cavadini said. 
He said the .new building will offer "basically, more room to run the programs that we now run more effectively." 
The building -funded with donations primarily from Michael and Sheila Geddes and Thomas and Mary Cabot -will include a chapel named after the Cabot family, a coffee house and an auditorium for classes and other events, Lies said. 
This new building will also be made Environmentally sound in order to embody the Catholic social tradition that encourages responsibility for creation, he said. 
"As concern and conversation about the sustainability of our world intensify, it is our hope that this new building will make use of the latest technologies in sustainable, green building prac­tices," Lies said. 
Besides giving the ICL and the esc more room to work, the new building should provide better resources to strengthen the pro­grams they offer, Cavadini said. 
Lies said the popularity of some of the CSC's programs forces them to turn away as many as five people for each stu­
dent that applies for seminars or 
courses. The increased space 
capacity means the Center can 
expand some of its initiatives 
and introduce new ones, he said. 
Future plans for the CSC 
include increasing the capacity 
of the Catholic Social Tradition 
minor, possibly starting a new 
minor in Poverty Studies and 
establishing learning and 
research opportunities for stu­
dents studying abroad. 
Maintaining and expanding 
these programs is vital to the 
University's mission, Lies said. 
"Reaching out to people on the 
margins. immersing ourselves in 
the study of Catholic social tradi­
tion, understanding the issues 
and contemplating justice are 
more than just nice things to 
do," Lies said. "They're really 
what we have to do if we want to 
be true to our Un~versity mis­
sion." 

In the press release, University -President Father John Jenkins 
said the CSC and the ICL are 
important for furthering Notre 
Dame's mission. 
"The Institute for Church Life 
and the Center for Social 
Concerns are important compo­
nents in Notre Dame's Catholic 
mission to better serve students, 
society and the Church," he said. 
Construction of the new build­
ing is expected to be completed 
by the fall of 2009. Lies said he 
thought the esc might be trans­
ferred to the former security 
building behind the Rockne 
Memorial while the building is 
under construction. But Lies also 
said he has not been part of any 
formal discussions about 'these 
details yet. 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh established the ICL in 1976. It was originally called the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, but the name was changed in 1992, said the press release. 
The CSC was founded in 1983. 
The Cabot family, whose 
youngest son graduated from 
Notre Dame in 1990, is the pri­
mary sponsor of the CSC's 
International Summer Service 
initiative on the .ICL Advisory 
Council. · 
Michael Geddes graduated from Notre Dame and is a mem­ber of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees. He serves as a Trustee liaison on the ICL Advisory Council. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Election 
continued from page 1 
ticket running for Sophomore Class Council stole ideas for poli­cies published on campaigning materials from a ticket that decided to no longer run. The Executive Committee voted 4-2 that this was also not an election violation, Dayrit said. 
Morrissey Hall 'Senator Greg Dworjan said Sunday that he placed the abstain posters around campus to encourage people to vote abstain to show they were not satisfied with either the Danny Smith-Ashley Weiss or the Liz Brown-Maris Braun tickets. 
"After talking with a lot of peo­ple in my dorm, especially the seniors ... a lot of them were say­ing the choices between the two candidates don't seem to be vary­ing enough, or something inspir­ing or something you can directly connect with that would make you want to vote for that person," he said. 
Dworjan said he put at least two posters up in each residence hall on the Tuesday after the pri­mary election. The posters informed students that seniors could vote and urged all students to vote to abstain. They read: 
"I!' you believe no candidate is a worthy choice for Student Body President, vote to abstain on Thursday, February 15, !wiping to ensure that no candidate 'Wins." 
The campaign was meant to show that the student body want­ed better choices, Dworjan said. 
"I wanted to show tlmt people do care, but they just don't neces­sarily agree with the platforms put forth," he said. 
In the primary election, 137 people voted to abstain, out of a total of 3,492 votes. In the rw1-ofT election, 201 people voted to abstain out of 3,352 people. Neither the Brown-Braun nor Smith-Weiss tickets received the necessary 50 percent plus one votes needed to win the run-off subject of debate at the Student election, so the issue proceed to Senate meeting last week. the Student Senate, where Lyons Hall Senator Mariana Brown-Braun won by a vote of Montes introduced an amend­15-13. ment that called for changing fue 

The abstain vote helped to push abstain vote to a symbolic choice the issue to the Senate, Dwmjan but not including it in the total said. tally of votes. 
"Obviously, six percent is Montes said Sunday she does enough that it can furow off an see the value in having the option election," he said. "It also shows a to abstain since by choosing to flaw in fue system, too." abstain, the student is making an 
But Andrichik said he doubted etl'ort to be part of the election 
the posters per- process, "but on  
suaded anyone to change fueir vote to  "/ wanted to show  the other side, part of it might be  
abstain. Dworjan's cam­paign will be the subject of a Student  that people do care, but they just don't necessarily agree  apathetic, saying let others decide forme." Smith, who is  
Union Ethics Board meeting Tuesday. Dworjan said he  with the platforms put forth."  also Alumni Hall's senator, said future candidates  
was contacted by  need to re-ener­ 
Judicial  Council  Greg Dworjan  gize the voters  
president  Liz  Morrissey senator  and  get  them  

Kozlow to attend the hearing. 

Andrichik said the Board will review the matter and decide whether to recommend the Senate enforce sanctions on the senator. 
All election posters must be approved by the Judicial Council and by the Student Activities Oflice, and Dworjan did not get approval for his posters, Dayrit said. He also left posters near the copy machine in the Student Government office, which is a vio­lation of the Student Union Constitution, since campaigning cannot take place in that office. 
Dworjan said he used the .copy machine to make approximately 30 copies of the posters. 
But he said he was not aware of the section in the Constitution which forbids campaigning to take place in the office. 
Dworjan said he does not regret putting up the posters. The overall goal of his "Campaign to Abstain" succeeded, he said. 
"That was basically the mes­sage-if you don't like the choic­es, just say so," he said. 
The abstain vote option was a 
informed by 
meeting as many people as possible. People who abstain may do so because they don't know enough about the candidates, he said. 
For future elections, Dworjan said he would like to see the elec­tion system changed and a run­off election won by a plurality, rather than a 50 percllllt plus one majority. But the abstain vote should still be available, he said. 
"I think it should remain an option," Dworjan said. "But I think also it shouldn't count to the point that it does." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


Got a little 

For all of your skin care & hair removal 
needs come to our South Bend location 
just a couple miles from campus on North 
Michigan street Peggy is a Licensed 
Aesthetkian and specializes in Bikini, 
Brazilian, and full leg wax. From lip to leg, 
Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth 
and soft so you are ready to hit the BEACH! 
Peggy is available 
.. Monday -FridayPeggy Dibble 9am ~ Spm 
Aesthetician 
• Saturday 8:30am -12:30pm 

Call Peggy TODAY! MICHIANA EYE CENTER 
574.282.2020 


~····::1 
...and don't forget to mention this ad!! 

& FACIAL PLASTIC SURGERY 
401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 
left over from Valentine's Day? 
Share it with University benefactors at... 
"THANKSGIVING IN FEBRUARY" 
Wednesday, February 28th 12pm-7pm Sorin Room, Lafortune 
*Pizza, Cookies, and Pop will be served* 
Sponsored by the Senior Class Gift COmmittee and the Annual Fund 
Notre Dame 
ANNUAL fUND 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 26, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Shiite college bombed, 41 killed 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -A suicide bomber triggered a ball bearing-packed charge Sunday, killing at least 41 people at a mostly Shiite college whose main gate was left littered with blood-soaked stu­dent notebooks and papers amid the bodies. 
Witnesses said a woman carried out the attack at the business school annex to Mustansiriyah University, but Interior Ministry officials said it was investigating the reports. The school's main campus was hit by a string of bombings last month that killed 70 people. 
The attack came as a powerful Shiite militia leader bitterly complained that "car bombs con­tinue to explode" despite an ongoing security crackdown in Baghdad and suggested he was rethinking his cooperation. 
The statement issued in the name of the radical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr put increased strains on the U.S.-Iraqi security sweeps-aimed at restor­ing order in the capital. The cleric said any crackdown that includes American soldiers was doomed to failure. 
Chad calls for UN peacekeeping force 
BAI-IAI, Chad -Tribal leaders are desperate for the deployment of a U.N. peacekeeping force along Chad's border with Sudan to protect refugees and stop increasing spillover from the violence in Darfur. 
The U.N. Security Council is considering a mis­sion, with up to 10,000 troops, largely because Sudan's government has resisted efforts to send 
U.N. peacekeepers to Darfur itself. 
But Chad's president is worried about inflam­ing tensions with Sudan, while U.N.. Secretary­General Ban Ki-moon has warned the Security Council that peacekeepers would face "serious risks" of rebel attacks. 
The two countries have strained relations because Chad supports the Darfur rebellion against the Sudanese government. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Levin: Senate must 'balance' President 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice urged the Democratic-con­trolled Congress not to interfere in the conduct of the Iraq war and suggested President Bush would defy troop withdrawal legislation. 
But Sen. Carl Levin, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said lawmakers would step up efforts to force Bush to change course. "The president needs a check and a bal­ance," said Levin, D-Mich. 
Rice said proposals being drafted by Senate Democrats to limit the war amounted to "the worst ofmicromanagement of military affairs." 
"The president is going to, as commander in chief, need to do what the country needs done," she said. 
Sharpton kin owned by Thurmonds 
NEW YORK -Genealogists have found that civil rights activist Rev. AI Sharpton is a descendent of a slave owned by relatives of the late Sen. Strom Thurmond, a newspaper reported Sunday. 
The Daily News said professional genealo­gists, working at the newspaper's behest, recently uncovered the ancestral ties between one of the nation's best known black leaders and a man who was once a prominent defend­er of segregation. 
"I have always wondered what was the back­ground of my family," the newspaper quoted Sharpton as saying. "But nothing -nothing ­could prepare me for this." 
LOCAL NEWS· 
Man charged with 1990 murder 
CROWN POINT, Ind. -A man's admis­sion to his daughter that he had killed her mother more than 16 years ago led authorities to charge him with the 1990 murder. 
Prosecutors on Friday charged Rodney Boesel, 51, of Gary, with murder in the December 1990 death of his former wife Donna Boesel, said Lake County Sheriff Rogelio "Roy" Dominguez. 
Investigators credited their 19-year-old daughter with keeping the case alive. Rodney Boesel found his daughter look­ing at a machete in his home Wednesday. 

fRANCE 
Abbas finds no relief from sanctions 
Palestinian President's European tour ends without economic agreement 
Associated Press 
PARIS -Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas ended his European tour Saturday without persuad­ing any country to end crip­pling economic sanctions based on his power-sharing deal with the rival Islamic militant Hamas. 
The bright spot in his trip was a promise Saturday from French Foreign Minister Philippe Douste­Blazy to work with a gov­ernment that includes Hamas and Abbas' more moderate Fatah party. His comments were more posi­tive than those of other European Leaders during Abbas' four-country tour. But Douste-Blazy made no commitments on resuming aid frozen since Hamas won parliamentary elec­tions a year ago. 
Europe's governments remained firm: Any new Palestinian government must recognize Israel's right to exist before direct international aid can resume. 
"I encouraged Mr. Abbas to persevere in his efforts to quickly form a national unity government," Douste­Blazy told reporters. 
If the government is formed according to the power-sharing deal worked out in the Islamic holy city Authority's budget came that have left more than ment would be formed by of Mecca last month, from foreign assistance 130 dead since May. the first week of March. "France will be ready to until much of it was frozen But EU foreign policy Israel has ruled out talks cooperate with it," Douste­last year over Hamas' chief Javier Solana told on a final peace deal with Blazy said. "And our coun­refusal to recognize Israel, Abbas in Brussels that the Abbas if he goes ahead with try will plead on its behalf renounce violence and EU would not make a deci­the coalition government. within the European Union accept existing peace sion on aid until a new But Abbas insisted he still and with other partners in agreements with Israel. Palestinian government has had hope in the peace the international communi­The power-sharing deal taken office. process despite an incon­ty." skirts those demands. In Gaza, four Palestinians clusive meeting with Israeli 
Abbas, who also traveled "We hope that the embar­were killed and 37 were Prime Minister Ehud to Britain, Germany and go will be lifted," Abbas injured in a family feud late Olmert and Secretary of Belgium, welcomed the said after meeting French Friday and early Saturday, State Condoleezza Rice ear­pledge from France. But it President Jacques Chirac threatening the calm that lier this week. was unclear how far on Saturday. "If not ... the has accompanied the "We cannot say that there France could go in support­Palestinian people would Mecca deal. Gaza remains is something hopeless. It is ing the Palestinians without continue to suffer and the volatile because families of indispensable that we the backing of the rest of sanctions would continue to some of those killed in reach agreement with the the EU or other members of cause damage." months of clashes still seek Israelis," he told reporters the Quartet of Middle East European leaders cau­revenge. in Paris. peace negotiators: the tiously welcomed the Palestinian parliament Abbas said he would push United States, Russia and power-sharing deal, an speaker Ahmed Baber, of for the release of Israeli sol­the U.N. effort to end clashes Hamas, said in Gaza on dier Gilad Shalit before the 
Half of the Palestinian between Hamas and Fatah Saturday that the govern-new government is formed. 
Rice: Iran must suspend enrichment 
his nation's nuclear drive to a train then we can come to the table and we
Associated Press 
without a reverse gear or brakes. "We can talk about how to move forward." 
WASHINGTON -Secretary of State dismantled the rear gear and brakes She contended Ahmadinejad's stands Condoleezza Rice said the U.S. would of the train and threw them away are isolating his country. hold direct talks with Iran if Tehran sometime ago," he was quoted on the "I have no doubt that the Iranian suspended its nuclear program. Iran's radio as telling Islamic clerics. people want to be like other people, president, however, pledged to move Iran says its energy program is capable of carrying out their freedom ahead with enrichment activity that peaceful. of having greater pluralism in their Washington contends masks weapons Vice President Dick Cheney said last politics. All of that is important." development. week on his trip to Australia that the President Bush, she said, "has made 
"I am prepared to meet my counter­United States believes "it would be a very clear that around the world part or an Iranian representative at serious mistake if a nation such as we're going to continue to advocate any time if Iran will suspend its Iran became a nuclear power." He for democracy. We are. However, with enrichment and reprocessing activi­reaffirmed the Bush administration's Iran, in a situation in which they are ties. That should be a clear signal," policy that "all options are on the in defiance of the international com­Rice said in Washington. table" to deter Tehran. munity and they need to change that 
Earlier Sunday, Iranian President Rice said the Iranians "don't need a behavior, then we can talk about Mahmoud Ahmadinejad comparing reverse gear. They need to stop and everything. 
.---------------------­page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 26, 2007 
and allow teams to work together within a time limit. Two eight-minute halves com­prise each round. 
Team llot Hand opened 
strong, answer­

time," said Clarkson, who credited risk-taking and relaxed attitudes for the team's s'uccess at the campus level. 
College Bowl rounds begin with toss-up 
Bowl 
continued from page 1 
have to work as a team." 
That teamwork began when the four students united last fall for the College Bowl Campus Program. 
"I saw the poster in !O'Shaughnessy Hall] and thought it'd be a fun thing to do," said Hardie, the team's captain. 
In the campus competition, Team Hot Hand !inished first of the more than 30 teams competing at Legends, making it eligible for the regional tour­nament. 
"We're just having a good 

questions worth 10 points. Students may not confer for these questions and race to buzz in  "It's good to pick up girls when you tell them you're a quiz bowl champion.,  ing the !irst toss­up of round one and ultimately defeating the University of Wisconsin­ 
before  oppo­ Platteville squad  
nents. "It's intuition. You have to go  Tommy Clarkson senior  220-110. The foursome next won a deci­ 
with your first  sive  115-point  
g  u  e  s  s  ,.  "  victory  over  

McLaughlin said about this Wabash College and won in round. overtime over the University of Bonus questions are Illinois-Chicago. assigned various point values "It was definitely a positive 
experience. The competition is always fun," Hardie said. "I think the questions were a lot. more varied than you'd see on Jeopardy ... a lot more pop culture and an emphasis on answering quickly." 
Notre Dame fell to the University of Illinois-Urbana, which wei-It on to win the tour­nament, as well as to Valparaiso University and Southern Illinois University­Edwardsville for a final record of 3-3. 
"It's good to pick up girls when you tell them you're a quiz bowl champion," Clarkson said. 
Contact Emily Keebler at ekeebler@nd.edu 

Take the road to succ ss. 
Join the team that's #25 on FORTUNE® magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For"! 
Here's aworkplace where you can really go places! 
Ernst &Young jumped up to #25 on FORTUNE® 
magazine's "100 Best Companies to Work For" 
from #671ast year-ranked higher than any other 
professional services firm. At Ernst &Young, 
our people are our edge, so we create an 
environment that promotes your growth and 
success. See for yourself why we've made the list 
for the 9th year in a row. This way to agreat career! 
Visit us at ey.comjusjcareers for more information or visit the EV page on facebook.com. 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES§
TO WORK FOR C'J 
© 2007 ERNST & YOUNG llP 
QualityIn Everything We Do 
CLAP 
continued from page 1 

disappointed to find that many workers don't feel a part of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
The workers have thus been the guiding force behind the report and Krafft said he 
hopes it reflects such a  mes­ 
sage.  
Some  demands  in  the  

report include a meeting between CLAP representa­tives, workers, students, fac­ulty and administrators to discuss wage issues. The report also asks for the establishment of a joint task force and a public statement by Jenkins "affirming 115 years of Catholic social teaching on the right of all workers to a Jiving wage this semester." Most significant for CLAP, perhaps, is the implementation of a $12.50 per hour wage with a yearly Cost of Living Adjustment based on the Consumer Price Index to cover all Notre Dame employees. 
The report also outlines the "economic facts and Catholic 
·tradition supporting years· of 
study on the living wage" ­
the most tangible of which, 
Krafft .said, is increasing 
wages. 
"We tried to focus on the wage issue," Krafft said. "It's easier to point to a number and then point to what the number should be and say that ,!here's a diserepancy here. 
A living wage is defined in the report as the· hourly rate of income that "a worker in a specific area must make in a 40-hour workweek to support a family of four." In calculat­ing living wage for staff members living in South Bend, seven factors were considered: housing, trans­portation, taxes, food, health­care, basic necessities and miscellaneous expenses. 
"It does not include ameni­ties such as new school clothes, birthday parties, family trips, a home library, and e n t e r t a i n m e n.t , " t h e report said. 
For the report, members of CLAP did not talk to any workers directly, Krafft said, because, over the past few years, so many relationships have been formed that the group is "kind of organically able to..get that stuff into the report. 
As for how the report will be received, Krafft said he thinks it's easy for the admin­istration to just wave this away and say that the group is coming from an idealistic perspective. 
"But [the report] reminds them that we're really seri­ous about doing something ... not just going to come at them with rhetorie," Krafft said. "We hope that this helps further our working relation­ship with them though, we really do." 
Because of their limited budget, Krafft said he hopes that students will look at the Web site -www.campuslab­oractionproject.org-to read an online copy. 
"Honestly we would love people on campus to have this report because everyone who's part of the Notre Dame family should know what's going on in other areas of the family," Krafft said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Monday, February 26, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks . 
Dow 
12,647.48 -38.54
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,577 135 1,682 2,585,326,010 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.35 -0.16 45.26 S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -0.39 -0.57 145.30 
SUN MICRO INC (SUNW) 0.00 0.00 6.27 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.67 -0.49 28.90 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.10 0.052 4.678 
13-WEEK BILL -0.1 0 -0.005 5.040 30-YEAR BOND -0.99 -0.048 4.782 5-YEARNOTE -1.40 -0.066 4.660 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.19 61.14 GOLD ($fli"Oy oz.) +3.70 686.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.43 104.58 
Excha Rates 

YEN 121.1000 EURO 0.7594 POUND 0.5096 CANADIAN$ 1.1602 
IN BRIEF 
TXU to be sold without coal plants 
DALLAS -Private-equity firms trying to buy TXU Corp. have agreed to drop plans for most of the utility's proposed new coal-fired power plants in Texas if the deal goes through, accord­ing to people familiar with the situation. 
The new buyers would also support a manda­tory national program to cap emissions of green­house gases and pledge not to build coal-fired plants outside Texas, the people said. They spoke anonymously because the sale was not final. 
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Texas Pacific Group were in advanced talks Sunday to buy TXU for abQut $32 billion, or about $70 per share, plus the assumption of TXU debt. It would be the largest private-equity acquisition ever. 
Wall Street expects TXU, the largest producer of electricity in Texas, to report this week that it earned more than $2.5 billion last year. 
An obstacle to a TXU sale has been the compa­ny's controversial proposal to build 11 new coal­fired power plants in Texas. Environmentalists and civic leaders, including the mayor of Dallas, are fighting the company's plans. 
TXU has acknowledged that the new plants wol,lld produce 78 million tons of carbon dioxide each year, more than doubling the 55 million tons the company releases now. 
Trade Center community revitalizing 
NEW YORK -Rents are up and vacancies are down to pre-Sept. 11 levels in lower Manhattan's commercial real estate market. 
The World Financial Center, just across the street from the World Trade Center site, is nearly full. And six years before its planned opening, pri­vate investors want to buy the Freedom Tower, the replacement skyscraper often derided as a new terrorist target. 
"Six months ago, people would say that would be absolutely inconceivable," deputy mayor Dan Doctoroff said of the long-delayed replacement for the destroyed twin towers. "It's not just one, but several parties that are interested in it." 
More than five years after the terrorist attacks created a gaping hole in the Manhattan commer­cial real estate market, doubts are slowly fading about the return of the financial district. 
"We're in a very good situation in lower Manhattan. We really didn't expect to be there," said Kathryn Wylde, president of the Partnershlp for New York City, a business leaders' group. 
JetBlue releases 1 Bill of Rights' 
Refunds promised ifflights cancelled except in cases of'controllable irregularity' 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -'lwo poten­tially loaded words may tell the tale about whether JetB!ue's new "Customer Bill of Bights" truly helps to restore its reputation after an operational meltdown. 
Littered throughout that proclamation arc the words "controllable irregularity." That's corporate legalese at its best, giving the New York­based airline wiggle room in deciding whether it owes compensation to travelers caught in service snafus. 
If JetBlue really wants this to be a reputation-saving exercise, it will have to be · careful about blaming events beyond its control for refus­ing to make cash payments or ofl'er free tickets to irked customers who will be expecting them. 
JetBlue's competitors must have been smirking as the oftmHouted airline faltored over the last week. Since it was founded seven years ago, JetBlue Airways Corp. has attained a celebrated status in the battered airline industry by building percep­tion that it was different from others especially in terms of cost and service. 
Over the last year, some of its high-gloss image started to fade as its rapid expansion and higher fuel costs swung profits to losses. To combat that decline, it launched a Day holiday weekend. toll, however, might not be as "We are sorry and embar­"Heturn to Profitability" plan "This was a major league steep as the long-term dam­rassed," the full-page ad that involved raising fares, · breakdown," said Darryl age to its reputation. began. "But most of all, we cutting back on its growth Jenkins, an independent air­Passengers might avoid fly­are deeply sorry." and pushing into smaller, line consultant in suburban ing the carrier after such a JetBlue's new "Customer less competitive markets. Washington. "This was a paralyzing mess. Bill of Bights" is intended to 
Despite those troubles, self-inflicted mess ... It David Neeleman, JetBlue's calm passengers' jitters. Now JetBlue's solid reputation showed that they are mortals founder and CEO, has spent if JetBlue cancels a flight largely stayed intact -until like everyone else in the recent days trying to curb within 12 hours of its depar­
· Valentine's Day. That's when business." potential defections. Unlike ture because of problems a severe ice storm struck the The company estimates many airline CEOs who within its control, customers Northeast, freezing planes to that the disruptions, which faced similar crises, he can ask for a full refund, a the ground and causing pas­stranded thousands of pas­quickly and publicly credit or a voucher. If the sengers to be stuck inside sengers in cities across the acknowledged the mistakes airline delays a flight in a sit­aircraft for as long as 10 country far away from the the airline made. The airline uation within its control, pas­hours. Then the airline failed site of the storm, will hit took out full-page advertise­sengers would receive to recover quickly from the first-quarter earnings by ments in several East Coast vouchers ranging from $25 storm, leading to more than about $30 million, leading to newspapers on Wednesday to the full amount of a 1,000 flight cancelations an operating loss. to apologize for the travel round-trip ticket, depending over the busy President's The immediate financial headaches. on the length of the delay. 

Dow dips to lowest point since August 
sought quality amid concerns that sub­index added 0.75 percent. 
Associated Press prime lenders would be forced to book The dollar was mixed against other NEW YORK -Stocks ended a lack­big write-downs for consumers who major currencies Friday, while gold luster week with a moderate decline were unable to keep up with mortgage prices rose. Friday as higher oil prices weighed on payments. The yield on the benchmark light, sweet crude settled up 19 cents investors' already rickety sentiment and 10-year Treasury note fell to 4.67 per­at $61.14 on the New York Mercantile Treasurys rallied amid concerns about a cent from 4.73 percent late Thursday. Exchange. meltdown in the subprime mortgage "The defaults that you're seeing in the Investors looking for directit:m in the market among companies that offer subprime market are a bit of a wake-up final session of a holiday-shortened loans to those with spotty credit. call for investors. I think you're going to week ultimately showed little reaction to It was the worst week for the Dow see a continued flight to safety," said comments from Federal Heserve offi­Jones industrials since mid-August. The James Sonneborn, wealth manager at cials. Dallas Fed President Hichard broader market indexes were mixed for RegentAtlanti.c Capital LLC. Fisher said weakness in housing might the week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell be keeping inflation in check arid that The pullback followed several mixed 38.54, or 0.30 percent, to 12,647.48. inflation might be showing signs of eas­sessions in which the tech-dominated Broader stock indicators also fell. The ing. His comments appeared in line with Nasdaq compositn index showed gains Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 5.19, those made by Fed Chairman Ben but blue chip stocks pulled back in part or 0.36 percent. to 1,451.19, and the Bernanke last week. amid inflation concerns. Oil settled at its Nasdaq slipped 9.84, or 0.39 percent, to In addition, San Francisco Fed highest level of the year Friday, eclips­2,515.10. President Janet Yellen reiterated her ing a year high set Thursday. For the week, the Dow industrials lost contention that the Fed should remain Bond prices rose Friday, rebounding 0.94 percent, the S&P 500 was off 0.35 vigilant about inflation and raise inter­from a sell-ofl' a day earlier, as investors percent and the Nasdaq composite est rates ifnecessary. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, February 26, 2007 
Play 
continued from page 1 
departments -that are deemed to conflict or appear to conflict with Catholic val­ues "should not be allowed at Notre Dame." But ultimately, Jenkins said though the "Monologues" would not be prohibited on campus, they should be subjected to an approval process every year, just like any other campus event. 
This was a process that Lewis and the other organiz­ers could not successfully complete in time. Lewis said the organizers focused on contacting the two depart­ments that sponsored the "Monologues" last year ­Sociology and English -and contacted some other "small­er departments." 
Linnie Caye, the Gender Studies department's admin­istrative assistant, who said she could not speak for the department or for chair Eileen Hunt-Botting, said Gender Studies not sponsor­ing "Vagina Monologues" 
wasn't a matter of the depart­ment not supporting the show. 
Instead, she said, "we had to make a choice as far as money was concerned." 
"We're only a program, we're not a department," Caye said. "We don't have the 
funds  that  departments  
have."  
Caye  said  at  the  time  

Gender Studies was asked to sponsor "Loyal Daughters," organizers didn't even know if students would produce "Vagina Monologues." 
Organizers decided which departments to contact large­ly based on past experience, Lewis said. 
"There were a lot of depart­ments that said 'no' to us last year," Lewis said. "We really are confident we'll be back on campus next [year], but we'll deal on a year to year basis." 
Though conversations were started between the organiz­ers and academic depart­ments, Lewis said they didn't want to "sit around waiting if the reception wasn't going to be there." 
Peter Holland, chair of 
Though organiznrs met with Myers last week, he said sponsorship wasn't really dis­cussed at their Monday meet­ing. 
"We didn't really talk about that, as mueh as we talked about other nvents that could oeeur this spring and what the 
Film, Television and Theatre, said his department was not contacted over the question of sponsorship for Vagina Monologues this year. 
Though Lewis said previ­ously that an agrnement was reached to have tho Soeiology department sponsor the 
"Monologues," department  "We're not trying to  place of 'Loyal Daughters'  
chair Daniel Myers said IH> such arrange­ pressure people and be in their face. "  would be in the mix of things," he said. "When  
ment was voted  we  sponsor  
on  by  his  Michelle Lewis  something,  we  
department. The Observer was unable to  organizer "Vagina Monologues"  vote on it. In terms of the general purpose  
r  e  a  c  h  and conduct or  
Katherine  whatever,  the  
O'Brien  prod uetion  of  

()'Keeffe, chair of the English 'Loyal Daughters,' it's cer­Department. tainly sociologically rele-
Lewis said she felt the cam­vant." pus didn't "want a ton of Without orficial sponsor­debate," and organizers ship, organizers were not wanted to go ahead with allowed to advertise on-cam­rehearsals and planning ofT­pus. campus instead of causing a "For on-campus students, dispute of the magnitude of our best form of advertising last year's. has turned out to be 
·"We're not trying to pres­Facebook. It's turned out to sure people and be in their be a really great tool for us," face," she said. Lewis said, adding that signs will be posted at the YWCA and other popular locations like Panera Bread Co. and Lula's Cafe. 

One of the pluses of the location -which holds about 110 people -is that it was donated, meaning that the only costs will be for pro­grams and "whatever prop or setting we decide to ·have per monologue," Lewis said. 
Lewis was quick to say, however, that the group ­which will be charging $5 for tickets -will donate the pro­ceeds to the YWCA, which she said helps the group better fulfill the mission of the V­Day campaign than it did when the show was on cam­pus and funds could not be raised. 
"Now we're able to take it out into the community and will be donating 90 percent of the profits to the YWCA," Lewis said, adding that the remaining 10 percent will be given to the V-Day project. 
Performances will be held Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of this week at 7 p.m. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Scorsese finally takes ho111e Oscar 
Mirren, Whitaker, Hudson, Arkin also honored by Academy Sunday 
budget film that came out of er was here to see me now. She
Associated Press 
the independent world to was my biggest inspiration." 
LOS ANGELES -Martin become a commercial hit and "Little Miss Sunshine" also Scorsese's mob epic "The major awards player. won the original sereenplay Departed" won best picture at "More than anything, I'm Oscar for first-time screen­the Academy Awards on deeply moved by the open­writer Michael Arndt. Sunday and earned the film­hearted appreciation our small The tilm follows a ghastly but maker the directing prize that film has received, which in hilarious road trip by an emo­had eluded him throughout his these fragmented times speak!' tionally messed-up family rush­illustrious career. so openly of the possibility of ing to get their darling girl ( 10­
"Could you double-check the innocence, growth and connec­year-old supporting-actress envelope?" said Scorsese, who tion," said Arkin. nominee Abigail Breslin) to her arguably had been the greatest Hudson won an Oscar for her beauty pageant. living American filmmaker first movie, playing a power­"When I was a kid, my family· without an Oscar. house vocalist who falls on drove 600 miles in a VW bus 
He received his Oscar from hard times after she is booted with a broken eluteh," Arndt three contemporaries and from a 1960s girl group. The said, deseribing a road trip that friends, Steven Spielberg, role came barely two years mirrored the one in tho lilm. "It Francis Ford Coppola-and after she shot to celebrity as an ended up being one of the George Lucas. "So many people "American Idol" finalist. fun nest things we did together." over the years have been wish­"Oh my God, I have to just The nonfiction hit "An ing this for me." take this moment in. I cannot Inconvenient Truth," a chroni­
In an evening when no one believe this. Look what God can cle of AI Gore's eampaign to film dominated as the Oscars do. I didn't think I was going to warn the world about global shared the love among a wide win," Hudson said through warming, was pieked as best range of movies, three of the tears of joy. "If my grandmoth-documentary. 

Sample fares From South Bend to:  Sample fares From Chicago to:  
Chicago  $131  London  $273  
Houston  $182  Rome  $289  


four acting front-runners won: best actress Helen Mirren as British monarch Elizabeth II in "The Queen"; best actor Forest Whitaker as Ugandan dictator Idi Amin in "The Last King of Scotland"; and supporting actress Jennifer Hudson as a soul singer in "Dreamgirls." 
The other front-runner, Eddie Murphy of "Dreamgirls," lost to Alan Arkin for "Little Miss Sunshine." 
"For 50 years and more, Elizabeth Windsor has main­tained her dignity, her sense of duty and her hairstyle," said Mirren, who has been on a remarkable roll since last fall as she won all major film and television prizes for playing both of Britain's Queen Elizabeths. 
"She's had her feet planted firmly on the ground, her hat on her head, her handbag on her arm .and she's weathered many many storms.... If it was­n't for her, I most certainly wouldn't be be here. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the queen," Min·en said, holding her Oscar aloft. 
Arkin played a foul-mouthed grandpa with a taste for heroin "Little Miss Sunshine," a low­

hat's the Future of this 

I tions 1• 


ltVhat's nextfor our relations/rip after graduation? lVhat are the challenges invol-ved in loHg distance dati1rg? ~'\!hat's itrvolz1ed in nuzking healthy decisions about a re lationslt.-ip? 
Please join us for an opportunity of refletion and discussion designed for senior-year datin_g...£9.npJgs. who an~ dis<~crning the next stage of a relationship conunitment. 

We will meet with couples on an individual or group basis as demand dictates. 

For Information: John and Sylvia Dillon 

Campus Ministry 
Directors of Marriage Preparation Dillon.l5@nd.edu; 631-7163 


Monday, February 26, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Oscar fashion shines Sunday 
Associated Press 
The common complaint about Oscar fashion choices of the past few years is that stars played it too safe. Not so this year. 
Jennifer Hudson arrived on the red carpet at the Kodak Theatre in Los Angeles on Sunday in a brown ruched gown with a metallic python bolero by Oscar de Ia Renta, and Cate Blanchett wore a stunning one-shoulder Swarovski crystal mesh gown by Giorgio Armani Prive. Helen Mirren didn't shy away from her sexy side in a champagne­colored Christian Lacroix gown with gold-leaf embroidery on the skirt and a plunging V­neck. 
Calling it her "dream dress," Mirren told The Associated Press, "It chose me. It makes me feel comfortable. I don't feel like I'm trying to be something I'm not." 
Gwyneth Paltrow made a strong fashion statement in Zac Posen's apricot spider-web tulle-and-chiffon gown, and Nicole Kidman made a bold color choice with her bright red Balenciaga halter gown with an oversized bow at the neck. Heese Witherspoon's strapless Nina Ricci with a tiered bottom was a deep purple, and Naomi Watts' Escada gown was yellow with a sapphire blue sash. 
Jada Pinkett Smith wore a corset-style strapless gown in gold lame by Carolina Herrera, and Jessica Biel's hot pink hal­ter was selected straight from Oscar de Ia Renta's fashion show earlier this month in New York. Kelly Preston's animal print gown was by Dolce & Gabbana. 
Penelope Cruz's strapless Versace was a blush color with an intricately swirled tight green belt. She further acces­bodice that exploded into an sorized with colorful bead exaggerated skirt. necklaces. 
"This is the year of extrava­Hudson wore a 1960s dia­gant designs -fancy fabrics, mond necklace with a 32-carat feathers as trim, unexpected yellow diamond pendant by stones and metallics," observed Fred Leighton, and 10-year-old Tom Julian, fashion commenta­Abigail Breslin's pink sundress tor for the Web site Oscar.com. was adorned with flowers. 
Jennifer Lopez's lilac Cameron Diaz jazzed up her Mar·chesa gown had an antique white off-the-shoulder gown jeweled neckline that created a with silver shoes. chain-link effect. Asked why Many actresses seemed to she chose the gown, Lopez's add personal touches to their 
husband, Marc  outfits instead of  
Anthony, spoke up: "I chose it." Lopez added: "It makes me  'This is the year of extravagant designs -fancy fabrics,  making the red carpet a sea of strapless satin dresses and tight  
feel very glam­orous, chic and sexy." Meanwhile,  feathers as trim, unexpected stones and metallics."  bun hairdos. Collier Strong, consulting makeup artist  
Rachel  Weisz  for L'Oreal Paris  
said her strap­less art deco­style platinum Vera Wang  Tom Julian fashion commentator Oscar.com  who worked with Diane Keaton, said part of the diver- 

gown with jew­els sewn onto the hem and bust, including a small glisten­ing bow, was "very romantic." 
Beyonce's Armani gown also had an interesting neckline. It was basically a light green strapless dress with a sweet­heart neckline, but there was a strand of stones over one shoulder. 
Giorgio Armani attended the ceremony, presumably in his own design. "It's very impor­tant to be elegant and simple rather than be flashy," he said. 
Many top actors chose classic tuxedos by Armani, including Leonardo DiCaprio, Mark Wahlberg, Clint Eastwood and Martin Scorsese. 
Meryl Streep, in a nod to the film that brought her to the Oscars, wore a Prada black silk radzmire coat over a black satin skirt and an emerald 
sity in looks might come from the broad field of nominated stars, span­ning all ages. 
Speaking of mature women, Strong said, "I think they add something vitally needed _ con­fidence and a sense of them­selves. They don't need to pose a certain way, they don't need to make sure a picture is from the right angle." 
Emily Blunt shimmered in a sequined blue gown by Francisco Costa by Calvin Klein. There were many others in blue, too, including Portia de Bossi in a halter gown by Zac Posen, Jodie Foster in a Vera Wang crinkled silk chiffon gown, Maggie Gyllenhaal in a one-shoulder Proenza Schouler dress with Venetian glass embroidery and a feathered hemline, and Melissa Etheridge in a navy tuxedo. 
Nation of Islainleader calls for unity of faiths 
Associated Press 
DETROIT -Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan stressed religious unity Sunday in what was expected to be his last major speech, saying the world is at war because Christians, Muslims and people of other faiths are_ divided. 
The 73-year-old Farrakhan told the tens of thousands at Detroit's Ford Field that Jesus Christ and the Prophet Muhammad would embrace each other with love if they were on the stage behind him. 
"Our lips are full of praise, but our hearts are far removed from the prophets we all claim," he said. "That's why the world is in the shape that it's in." 
The fiery orator spoke for the first time since ceding leadership of the movement last year because of illness. The speech at the home of the National Football League's Detroit Lions capped the Nation's three-day convention in the city where it was found­ed in 1930. 
"My time is up," Farrakhan said in describing his exit from the leadership stage. 
The leader of 1995's Million Man March said he is leaving at a time of great conflict in the world, citing the war in Iraq specifically, and that he believes God is angry with leaders who are putting poli­tics and greed above serving their fellow man. 
He said President Bush should be impeached or at least censured for his "wicked policies," and urged young those on the stage behind him were U.S. Rep. John Conyers, D-Mich.; Russell Simmons, hip-hop pioneer and entrepre­neur; and Joe Shirley Jr., Navajo Nation president. 

Nation founder Wallace D. Fard attracted black Detroiters on the margins of society with a message of self­improvement and separation from whites, who he said were inherently evil because of their enslavement of blacks. 
The Nation of Islam, which promotes black empowerment and nationalism, was rebuilt by Farrakhan in the late 1970s after W.D. Mohammed, the son of longtime leader Elijah Mohammed, moved his followers toward mainstream Islam. 
Farrakhan became notorious for calling Judaism a "gutter religion" and suggesting crack cocaine might have been a CIA plot to enslave blacks. He met with foreign leaders at odds with the United States -Moammar Gadhafi, Fidel Castro and Saddam Hussein ­prompting the State Department in 1996 to accuse him of "cavorting with dicta­tors." 
Farrakhan, who embraced 
W.D. Mohammed on stage in 2000 after years of discord, has credited his steps toward reconciliation to what he called a "near death" experi­ence related to prostate can­cer, which he began battling in 1991. 
Detroiter Che-Lin Aldridge, who described herself as spiri­tual but not a member of the Nation, welcomed Farrakhan and what he had to say. 
Together, we can make Notre Dame a better place to work. _ 

people to avoid joining a mili­"This message is something tary that will have them "leave everybody needs to hear -a one way and come back message that's universal," another." Aldridge said. "... What he 
The downtown venue was said was critical for our lives not filled to capacity, but seats today." on the field and in the lower Farrakhan recalled the story levels were packed. There of the final message delivered were empty seats in the upper by the Prophet Muhammad, levels of the stadium. who was dying at the time. 
Anita Baker performed two "Within 80 days he songs before Farrakhan took expired," Farrakhan said. the stage and speakers from "I don't see expiration for various religious and ethnic me," he said, "but I do see groups welcomed him. Among exaltation." 
LABOR 

Il ww 


Come find out what we are about: Wednesday, Feb. 28th at Spm Center for Social Concerns 
NDlabor@gmaiLcom" 574.210.7020 
• www.cam puslaborcation project.org 

l'v1uslim Prayer \Alednesday, Febntary 28th 7:00-7:45pm. 330 Colen1an-lVIorse 
E-<perience an evening ofMuslim prayer and meditation as !he fourth in a seTies exploring the beliefs and practices ofthe world's great faith traditions: 
"An Evening ofPrayer from Around the World" 
Sponsored bT ND Muslim Student Association. Campuli Ministry, FOG Gi<l.duare Residences, GSU, ISSA, Umversity Village 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, February 26, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Now is the time to make real
The lndepentlnt~ Daily New$J1apn-&rving Notn Dame attd Sa;,, Mdry$ 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF 

the promises of diversity
Mike Gilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumuld,ala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Grifl.ln 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631~4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsnicobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrent, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of tbe administration ofeither insritution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Quertiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Till.' Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlislu:d M11nday through Friday cxcc:pr during ex;;~m and vacnion periodl>. A subsaiprion ro The Observer i1. $I (J(J For oue .u:ndt.'l'ltk yc;.~r; $55 fnr on~ sl'mester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send .tddrc:ss corrC"~:dollS ro: 
Notre Dame. JN 46556..0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notr<-D~m~ P.O. Boll: 779 
and additiun;U maiHng tlffices. 024 Sourh Dining Hall 
Nom: Dame, IN 46156·0779 
The Observer ts a member ofthe Associated Pri!:sli. All rt:productian rights arc rc;avro. 

Sitting in the auditorium of llesburgh Ubrary, enjoying the p~wformancos on stage, a black student turnod to me and said something to tl1e effeet of, "You know, it's not really like this. It's not like this every weekend. They just do t.his to try to get pPople to eome here." I smiled and nodded, a bit confused. but also with a lew of my suspieions confirmed. You see, I was at one of the series of events put together for Spring Visitation Weekend (Spring Vis) which brings in minority students for a visit to Notrn Dame and showca.<;es the diversity whieh is sup­posedly presnnt at Notre Dame. I was thorn to watch several of my frinnds perfimn in their groups: First Class Steppers and Voices of Faith. While I was amaznd all over again at how exenllent botl1 of thnsn groups are, this Iellow student's comment brought questions back regarding divnrsity at Notre Dame and how we go about multi­cultural rocruiting and, even morn so, the integration of various ethnic groups here on eampus. 
These prospective students were sur­rounded by minorities in the auditorium; in fact I was a minority in a soda! setting li1r the first time at Notre Dame. I Iowever, once the doors opened, the reality of ND set baek in. Despite the genuine efforl'i of the administration, this University is not diverse. Additionally, I have found that much of the "diversity" among underhrrad­uates is literally at face value. Sure, we have students who look different, but does this really contribute to the goals of an aca­demic environment? The number of stu­dents, and I certainly know several of them, who bring a diverse perspective to this campus is the benchmark we should 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Will 
McAuliffe 
Strategery Analyst 
bo soarching fi1r. Simply using the ethnie baekground bubble of an application to imply a diverso pool of applicants is not onough. Shouldn't we be looking for diverse religions as well as eultural and economic backgrounds fiJr the discussion of issues in dassns and around tim campus to be well infimnod and have these view­poinb rnprnsnntnd'! Isn't it a bit presump­tuous and onerous to presont minority prospectivo studenl'i with only the activities that am entirnly composed of people that look like thmn'! Doesn't that then imply that onee they arn studenl'i, they must rep­resnnt this dnmographie'! Isn't it a bit dated to think thai. studenl'i who come from a dif­ferent etlmic backgr:ound automatically come fhun a dillilrent cultural back­hrround? 
Putting thesn qunstions aside fur diseus­siorr in a largnr vnnue, I'd like to diseuss integration, a topic that I consider to be similar to but wholly indnpondent of diver­sity. Our campus is not integrated. Walk through tim dining halls and look at who is sitting with whom. Go to a fi1lk ehoir or glen dub eoncnrt, then go to a Voiees of Faith mm:nrt. Bnfi1ro anyone gets on the dnfensivn, I'm not accusing any groups of activ1~ dis1:rimination. A'> a mnmber of the east of Hagtime as wnll as the other PEMCO muskals for the past three years, I know that this year was the Jirst year that more than one or two blaek people even tried out fhr the show. llowever, due to proactive prodding, and perhaps a bit of eoerdon as the show's opening approadwd, the east bneame more inte­grated than any other perlurmanee group on campus. Proli1ssors and administrators alike eomrnentnd on how this was one of the most intogratod activities that they had ever snen horn at Notm Dame. 
It took work. It took work from the white majority and the minority hrroups alike. Them wern pnopln upset at the show's con­tent. There were those in the blaek eom­munity that challenged the 'blackness' of those who participated in Hagtime. I Iowcver, these issues were brought up and discussed, both·among students and at the panel discussion that was held regard­ing these issues. Was everyone happy with the outcome'! No, of course not. But the faet remains that this east will hopefully prove to be a major milo marker in the eampus' growth toward better int11gration. 

A word of caution: there's no proof tlmt elli.1ctive integration will be inevitable or swill.. History has proven this to bP true. Anyone who has had a TV on post-Katrina has seen this to be the ease. I !ere in our lit­tle microeosm of Notre Dame, though, we as studenl'i, faeulty and administrators, ean make diversity and intngration work. We shouldn't three intnhrration of aetivities or suggest that just because any group is m;~jority blaek or majority white that they aren't trying hard enough. We simply need to ensure that we are actively creating an environment where black students don't have to delimd their actions when they participate in a mostly white group and vico versa. We must not pretend that the status quo is acceptable or justilia bln. 
For those who need a bit of inspiration, I suggest walking through the west end of LaFortune and glaneing at the picture that spnaks volumns more than the 8(J0 words of this artide: Father llosburgh holding hands with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in delianco of persecution and ignorance. In order to aflilet positive soda! ehange, we must each day live this image. 
In observance ofBlack I listory Month, the author urges you to, at the very least, read (and reread) the text ofMLK's "!Have A Dream Speech"from which this article's title was composed. Will McAuliffe is a senior political science major who welcomes all comments and criticisms at mcauliffe.4@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Amanda Michaels  Kate Gales  
John-Paul Witt  Fran Tolan  
Viewpoint  Michael Bryan  Which event interests you more:  
Alyssa  Scene  Bengal Bouts or Tom Zbikowski's  
Brauweiler Graphics  Marty Schroeder  upcoming charity fight?  
Madeline Nies  
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m.  
at www.ndsmcobserver.com  

Submit aLetter I to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You are wise to climb Mt. Fuji, but a fool to do it twice. " 
Japanese proverb 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, February 26, 2007 
page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Restricting meat has a purpose 
Daniel Trumble makes several errors in his Letter to the Editor ("True meaning of sacrifice lost," Feb. 23). First, he is upset because lack of meat in the dining halls makes his Lenten sacrifice "entirely unremarkable." With a penance "entirely between God and myself," why should the dining hall interfere? They make it easy on me. To show I'm truly sorry, I need this to be a decision I make myself, in spite of· the world, not with the world. That will make my penance more real, more gen­uine. 
In this point Trumble fails to entertain the idea that fasting can be a communal act which includes not just himself and even the other students, but the dining hall staff and servers, who are a part of the Notre Dame community themselves. Fasting together as students and being supported by the surrounding community, even the non-Catholic students and workers, strengthens the focus and intentions of the fast, making it not only a personal challenge but a communal focus. Personally, I would feel a little strange if one of my friends, knowing I was Catholic, asked me to go to a steakhouse with her on Friday. Maybe the dining halls are doing us the same favor. 
Trumble and others often fail to notice a more practical dimension of the absence of meat in the dining halls on Friday. There is absolutely ?o way for those doing food preparation to predict how much meat will be consumed those days. The Catholic population, last I heard, constituted 85 percent of students. The variance in the number of people that would choose to eat or not to eat meat on Fridays, were it there, is enormous. If there isn't any meat, we can be absolutely sure no one will eat it. If there is, those w4o aren't Catholic will most likely eat it. But maybe some who are Catholic will do so too-either because they forget, or don't care. Or maybe every single Catholic here would follow the rules. Or maybe none would. Who's to know? You could end up with a lot of wasted meat. That costs money and wastes good food. And neither of those things are the point of fasting, either. 
And let's be honest, people -when all else fails, those Bosco Stix are pretty darn good. 
Barbie Sloan 
senior 
Lyons Hall Feb. 23 

What's .Ifunny' during Lent? 
Cartoon crossed the line 
I consider myself to have a pretty good sense of humor. And normally I love the cartoons in The Observer. (They're usually one of the first things I check for.) More than one has made it to the wall of fame in my dorm room. 
CroissantWorld is definitely my favorite (reminds me of the Peanuts cartoons from when I was a kid) but I'm often pretty amused by Black Dog as well. I've found some of their Biblical parodies pretty funny (and posted at least one in my room), and usually not disrespectful. 
I was very disappointed when I read the cartoon for Friday, Feb. 23, however. It is bad enough that so many others in this world mock the Eucharist, but Black Dog ... not you, too! There are some things that are too sacred to ever be mocked, and I feel that Black Dog crossed that line. I don't think it's appropiate to say that Peter would say the word "gross" in reference to the Eucharist, especially in light of the fact that Peter was the one who stood by Christ when He first talked about the Eucharist in the Gospel of John. 
When everyone left because of Christ's mention of "eating His Body" and "drinking His Blood," Peter stood by Him, and said, "Lord, where else can we go? You alone have the words of-everlasting life!" 
I'm disappointed in Black Dog for crossing this line. Some things just aren't funny. Making fun of the Institution of the Eucharist, especial­ly in this season of Lent, just isn't funny. 
Michele E. Sagala sophomore Lewis Hall Feb. 23 
Eucharist comic was blasphemous 
I hope that I am not the only student at this fine institution who took offense at the blasphemous cartoon published in this paper on Friday, Feb. 23 ridiculing the institu­tion of the Eucharist. As this is a Catholic institution, all of its organs should point to the truth, and this paper should be no different. Whilst debate about the real presence is an acceptable item of debate, it is not an acceptable item of ridicule. The author of this cartoon should know if he is not Catholic that his ridicule is not appreciated nor is it furthering a respectful dialogue. If the author is Catholic, he should pay heed to the Catechism: "2148 Blasphemy is directly opposed to the second commandment. It con­sists in uttering against God -inwardly or outwardly -words of hatred, reproach, or defiance; in speaking ill of God; in failing in respect toward him in one's speech; in misusing God's name." St. James condemns those "who blaspheme that honorable name [of Jesus] by which you are called." 78: "The prohibition of blasphemy extends to language against Christ's Church, the saints and sacred things." I hope that this paper will respect He whose mother is our Mother and Notre Dame. 
Erik Bootsma graduate student off campus Feb.24 

U-WIRE 
Get drunk for a week 
In my home state of Louisiana, the Saint-cheering masses spent the last week in the throes of the greatest of all festivals, Mardi. Gras, which, for the uncultured, loosely translates from French as "Fat Tuesday." 
Fortunately, Louisianans are 
Jonas Hogg
far manlier than the French (where the snooty French drink 
Kansas State 
mostly sissifed red wines, any University proper Louisiana native prefers Kansas State a nice manly blush, fresh from Collegianthe box). Though the Cajuns borrowed the French language, they added their own dialect. As such, the Cajun translation of Mardi Gras is roughly, "the week everyone stays home, tourists get schlizted, 40 people are mur­dered and the 'Girls Gone Wild' crew shows up." 
A long time ago, the delta country down south was where everyone went if they were quite sure they didn't want to be found. Runaway slaves, out­law American Indians, pirates and so forth. 
Well, then more and more of the French came in, preachin' and hollerin' and bashing people over the head with the cross, and the locals figured if they were going to be a city of hookers, cutthroats and thieves they might as well get them some Jesus if the church was going to dole it out for free any­way. 
The French, being good Catholics, started hand­ing out holidays until the next thing you know, every day was the Feast of Saint So-and-so, or the Mass of Saint Done-forgot. Everything rolled along fine until up popped Lent, during which everyone fasts and abstains and generally goes about mak­ing everyone else miserable for 40 days. 
Despite trying to weasel their way around it, the Catholics told all the southern locals they was hell­bound if they didn't go along with the whole misery and penance thing. Figuring there's not much booze in hell and not too many brothels either, the locals decided to tag along with the whole plan. But, if there was going to be 40 days of praying and purifying they were going to make sure they earned every last second. So before Lent began on Ash Wednesday, the residents of New Orleans (and most of the Caribbean for more or less the same reasons) decided they were going to spend a few days getting liquored up until the bishop came dovv'n and told them all to knock it off and get themselves to church. Fat Tuesday, they decided to call it. 
The locals celebrated a little old-timey godless­ness, which is at least somehow more respectable than modern-day folk singing praise day in and out before they slink off for more cheating andlying. At least New Orleans never pretended to be anything but a den of infidels. 
Since then, the whole affair devolved a bit. Even that hotbed of wild culture, Bangor, Maine, has cut itself a little slice of the Mardi Gras pie. 
So if New Orleans has taught us anything (other than don't build below sea level) it's that everybody needs a good heathening every now and again. 
If nothing else, Mardi Gras is a good reminder to relax once in a while, because tomorrow you could be hungry, sober and miserable. 
This column originally appeared in the Feb. 23 edition ofthe Kansas State Collegian, the daily publication at Kansas State University. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
M~l\ltUlTU'A~I ~M I~ ~l~ ~ Al~ Ol~,~~NT A~9 cgt~~ l~lli~G 
oll~~ ~&~l~ ·~AlL Ol~f~~r ColGM A~D C~~D~ r~ ®Mt ~~~ 9ACK T~ 
~W~~;~~~~ CAM~~~ .. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 12 
Monday, February 26, 2007 


'THE MOUSETRAP' REVIEW 
On a freezing, blustery winter day, newlyweds and hotel owners Mollie and Giles Ralston (played by Kathleen Hession and Nathaniel Grams) receive a phone call from the police informing them that a detective is arriving to carry out a murder investigation. As Mrs. Ralston herself puts it, "all of our guests should be peculiar or odd," and one of the many eccentric residfmts of the Monkswell Manor guosthouso is a killer. 
After incl'ement weather snows everyone in, hunter and hunted alike find themselves trapped under one roof as the tension ratchets up before "The Mousetrap" springs its shocking con­clusion on the characters and audience alike. 
What makes "The Mousetrap" such bloody good fun as a play is its ener-· getic and creative cast, which uses proper British accents and just the right amount of dry humor 1o present this murder mystery in such a way that presents it in a fresh light while keep­ing it true to classic form. In other words, this is a high-class whodunit murder mystery with more plot twists and turns than you can shake a teacup at. 
Though the script is riddled with cryptic and fleeting clues as to who the killer is, unlike the board game "Clue," it's not as easy ta figure out as simply deducing that the murderer was Colonel Mustard in the Billiards Hoom with the rope or Professor Plum in Conservatory with the candlestick. The play weaves in and out as it goes along, casting the spyglass of suspicion on dif­ferent characters. such as the eccentric Mr. Paravieini (Noah Stanzione). As "The Mousetrap" progresses through its webs of deception, audience mem­bers attempt to figure out who the killer is before it's too late. 
The play was originally penned by British mystery author Agatha Christie, and the tale of murder she wrote has been running in London theaters since 
STORIES 
1952, ineluding 21,000 different per­formances. According to us.agath­aehristie.com, the authoritative Web site on all things Christie, the 'Queen of Crime' is the Guinness World Record holder for best-selling lietion author of all time, with an estimated two billion of her books having been sold in multi­ple languages. Take that, J.K. Howling. 
In putting on such a world-famous and renowned production, the chal­lenge for the Notre Dame production team of 'The Mousetrap" was to find a way to put a new spin on the show while keeping it true to its classic ori­gins. 
"We are trying to look at this classic British whodunit through a contempo­rary lens," said Film, Television and Theatre Professor and "Mousetrap" Director Jay Skelton by e-mail. "Dame Christie wrote The Mousetrap' imme­diatp,Jy following World War II, and the play touches upon issues of post-war suspicion and paranoia that still ring true in our post-9/11 present. I hope that the audience will lind that we've presented a ripping good murder mys­tery that also contains some interesting food for thought." 
With such a talented cast and crew, perhaps the most important aspect of "The Mousetrap" from a production standpoint was carefully constructing the stage for the actors to perform on. Enter Marcus Stephens, a visiting pro­fessor and freelancer from Chicago who is the production's set designer and the man responsible for setting the scene -literally. 
Made out of a material called lauan -a type of plywood usually made from Philippine mahogany "The Mousetrap" box set is complete with overpainting and staining to resemble wooden paneling. In addition, the box set empiuys a 'raked stage,' which is angled downward and gives the audi­ence a different perspective on the play than a normal fiat stage would. This allows the audience to clearly see the 
By T A E AND 

entire set, including the actors' feet. The picture frame quality to the set and the forced perspective emphasizes the feeling of enclosure, which was a goal of "The Mousetrap" designers and crew. 
"The set accelerates the feeling of compaction,'' Stephens said. "It just sucks you right into tho room. It also includes everyone in on all of the action." 
The picture-frame quality to the play's set also stresses and enhances the· contrast between the cold and snow outside and the intense, fast-paced action inside. . 
As the saying goes, Rome wasn't built in a day and neither are theatrical sets. According to Hyan Hetartha, "The Mousetrap's" technical director, con­struction started on the set sometime in mid-December. In his role, Retartha oversaw the development and comple­tion of all the technical aspects of the production, including the construction of the set and everything from painting to props. 
Perhaps Retartha and Co. deserve some "props" of their own for hard work put in on this challenging produc­tion. 
"This is the most ambitious project FTT has ever done from a production standpoint, and I couldn't have asked for a more hardworking and focused shop staff and crew," Retartha said. "We've all put a lot of hours into this show, and we are all very proud of the outcome." 
The show opens this Tuesday and runs through March 4 in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Each night it opens at 7:30pm except for the Sunday matinee, which begins at 2:30. Admission is $8 for students, $12 for adults and $10 for faculty, staff and senior citizens. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 

ANDREW STEVESfThe Observer Nathaniel Grams, left, plays Giles Ralston, the owner of the Monkwell Manor guesthouse along with his wife, Mollie Ralston, played by Kathleen Hession. 
Detective Sergeant Trotter {John Maltese taken place at the hotel owned by Mollie I 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Monday, February 26, 2007 
page 13 

E W S & S E AN SWEANY 

while also off-putting, not willing to dis­cuss his past with anyone. Since his build, outfit and mindset match those of the murderer, Haley admits there is a good possibility Wren is the criminal. 
Eccentric, flamboyant and youthful only begin to describe the many layers that Wren possesses, which make him the perfect type of character for a mur­der mystery -likable, yet threatening enough to warrant suspicion. 
"Mrs. Boyle" -Molly Kealy 
A critical spinster of a woman, Kealy says her character is "an ex-magistrate who's cold both physically and literally, all the time." Indeed, Mrs. Boyle is a character whose staid, archaic personal­ity is manifest in her every action, con­tinually criticizing the less-than-perfect appearance of Monkswell Manor. 
Like all the characters, Boyle has a vulnerable side that connects her with the central actions of the play. Kealy demonstrably shows this other facet of Mrs. Boyle while remaining cold and aloof from the murderous proceedings in the guesthouse. 
"Major Metcalf" -Devin Preston 
This military man serves as a stabiliz­ing presence throughout the play and acts as an alger figure of authority for the rest of the young characters. Reserved, but also blustery, the chrome­dome Major (Preston, an Observer Sports writer, shaved the top of his head for the role) seems to be above suspicion and able to fade into the background at will, but is later found to have the mental attributes of the murderer, and his actions and absences do not help absolve his guilt. 
"Miss Casewell" -Emily Pickerill 
The eye-patch wearing, slightly mascu­line character of Miss Casewell provides a perfect foil for the stodgy Mrs. Boyle. Pickerill plays Casewell with an even amount of sardonic wit and lonely yearn­ing, the combination of which make her a prime target for suspicion. 
Pickerill describes her character as confident, and attitude which earns her animosity and suspicion, especially since her complaints of an unhappy childhood liken her exactly to the description of the murderer. 
"Mr. Paravicini" -Noah Stanzione 
Easily the funniest character in the play, Paravicini arrives unannounced in the snowstorm to request a room at Monkswell Manor. Stanzione throws plenty of quirky traits and mannerisms into his character, and is often able to lend comic relief to the heavy, emotional moments of the play. 
The other guests soon realize that for all his unctuous actions, Paravicini could very well be the unknown murderer, given his approximate age as the father of the dead children and his cool demeanor in the face of death. 
"Detective Sergeant Trotter" ­John Maltese 
Maltese plays Trotter, a police detective who arrives at the Manor and through his investigation drives the events of the play to their dramatic conclusion. Maltese describes his job as to "uncover the layers to every character, what they're hiding." All of the characters interact with and react to Trotter's unique style of police work, and it is through this that the audience comes to learn the true nature of the people stuck at Monkswell Manor. 
The beauty of "The Mousetrap" is that its setting within a compelling murder mystery is a societal study of how human beings forget past emotional scars, cope with paranoia and develop relationships with each other under forced circum­stances. Due to these issues, audience satisfaction is much greater than simply saying, "Miss Scarlet in the ballroom, with the candlestick." 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 


ANDREW STEVESffhe Observer 

Nathaniel Grams, center, Kathleen Hession, left, and John Maltese perform a scene from Agatha Christie's "The Mousetrap" on a traditional raked stage. 
Monday, February 26, 2007 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
.... 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Little things help Irish beat Eagles 

It's easy to look at a stat sheet and say why the Irish defeated Marquette Saturday at the Joyce Center. Yes, for­ward Luke Harangody and guard Tory Jackson teamed up for 43 points for the Irish, and yes, the Irish held Marquette to just 36 per­cent shoot­ing, but these numbers don't tell the whole story. 
The impressive performances of the freshmen and the multiple on­court confrontations may have distracted viewers from some key components in Notre Dame's victory. 
Marquette's post defense 
Notre Dame was able to elaim 23 second-chance points and Marquette b.arely contest­ed entry post passes to Harangody. This allowed him to establish position close to the basket. The Golden Eagles' lack of post defense allowed Irish coach Mike Brey to keep Harangody in the game, but sit out forward Rob Kurz in favor of the Harangody


Notre Dame was able to
quicker Zach could not con­Hillesland. claim 23 second-chance vert from the 
Hillesland points and Marquette line, Marquette 
provided a could have sent
barely contested entry 
more-favor­in the bench­
able passes to Harangody. warmers to play matchup for This allowed him to a game of Hack­
Marquette's a-Harangody in 
establish position on the
short, but the second half, 
athletic line­block close to the basket. despite·their 
up. The Irish were able to keep a quick lineup in the game without having to sacri­fice their advantage in the paint. 
. Jackson and Carter's defense 
In the first half, Jackson clamped down on Marquette's leading scorer, guard Dominic James, who was averaging · 
15.2 points per game. Jackson was able to contain James's quickness and contest most of his shots in the lane without fouling. James ended up shoot­ing 2-of-11 in the first half. 
After the teams came out of the loc.ker room, James was determined not to let Jackson stop him. James was able to drive past Jackson and scored eight points in the first four minutes of the half. Then, Brey 
CLASSIFIEDS 
decided to change things up a little bit. 
He put guard Russell Carter on James and the senior responded with his best defen­sive effort of the season. James only put up five shots the rest of the way and hit just one of them. 
Carter played aggressive man-to-man defense, denying James the ball everywhere on the floor -not just when James was close to the basket. Because Carter was playing so close to James on defense at all times, he took a risk that he would be able to fight through any off-the ball screens Marquette set for James. Carter did just that. He kept James in front of him and made sure he contested any shot James took. By minimizing the threat James posed to the Irish defense, Carter and Jackson allowed Notre Dame to focus on keeping Marquette's other scorers (guards Jarel McNeal and Wesley Matthews) from hurting the Irish too much. 
Free throw shooting 
Part of Harangody's effective­ness in the game came from his ability to sink free throws. The big man converted on 8-of-9 
free throw 
attempts. If 
foul trouble. 
Most of Jackson's free throws came toward the end -a good sign for the Irish considering Jackson played all 40 minutes. Late in the game, he showed no signs of tiring, shooting 8-of-11 for the game from the line. 
Carter, when he took the ball to the hoop, was also able to draw contact and hit 7 -of-8 from the line. 
If Notre Dame can keep doing these little things right in the coming weeks, a deep run in the Tournament is not out of the question. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu 
BASEBALL 

Irish win one of three at the Beach 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
. Notre Dame beat No. 12 TCU 4-1 Saturday as the Irish won one of three games for the sec­ond consecutive weekend. In the Baseball at the Beach Tournament in Myrtle Beach, S.C., the Irish also suffeied losses at the hands of UNC­Wilmington and host Coastal Carolina. 
Despite the losing record for the weekend, which dropped the team to 2-4 overall, Irish coach Dave Schrage said he was pleased with several aspects of his team's play against warm-weather oppo­nents with more game experi­ence this year. 
Although Notre Dame fell 9­4 to UNC-Wilmington Friday and 4-0 to Coastal Carolina Sunday, Schrage was impressed by his team's per­formance at the plate. 
"It may not show in the results, but we hit the ball really well," Schrage said. 
The Irish produced 11 hits against UNC-Wilmington but were done in by three sixth­inning errors in that allowed the Seahawks to score six runs. The Irish took a 3-0 lead in the third inning after senior designated hitter Mike Dury recorded his second of three RBis for the game on a two­out triple that plated senior centerfielder Danny Dressman. Starting pitcher Wade Korpi allowed one run in the fourth before his defense allowed UNC-Wilmington to plate six runs in the decisive sixth inning. 

"We just had one really, real­ly bad inning," Schrage said. 
Korpi took the loss, giving up five r.uns, only one of them earned. The junior left-bander (1-1) also walked five and struck out one in 5 2-3 innings of work. 
The Irish shook off the loss and defeated TCU 4-1 Saturday behind a strong start by sophomore right-hander David Phelps and three dou­bles by senior catcher Matt Weglarz. Phelps went six innings while giving up just one unearned run on five hits to notch his first win of the season. Despite leaving 10 men on base, the Irish offense provided· more than enough support for Phelps and junior Joey Williamson, who worked the final three innings for the first save of his career. Junior second baseman Russ Brezovsky hit a two-run triple in the first and freshman Michael Wright's groundball scored Weglarz three innings later to give the Irish a 3-0 lead. Weglarz smacked an RBI double in the fifth to finish the Irish scoring. 
Schrage said the game was more lopsided than the final score indicated. 
"It could have been 10-1 if we had gotten some more hits with runners in scoring posi­tion," he said. 
Notre Dame left 10 men on base against TCU. 
The Irish were again unable to come up with a big hit in important situations against Coastal Carolina Sunday as they were blanked 4-0. In both the fourth and sixth innings, the Notre Dame was unable to score despite producing multi­ple hits. Coastal Carolina's John Mariotti, who recorded the complete game victory, was able to induce a double play in the fourth and two key strikeouts in the sixth. 
"We didn't get the clutch hit to get us back in the game," Schrage said. 
Sophomore righty Brett Graffy took the loss in his first career start with the Irish, sur­rendering three runs on six hits and two walks in three innings.· Seniors Mike Dury, Dan Kapala and Jess Stewart combined to finish the game for the Irish. The trio allowed just one run in five combined innings. 
"The bullpen really shut them down and gave us an opportunity," Schrage said. 
He also praised his club's pitching for the entire tourna­ment. 
Schrage said he was impressed by his team's ability to limit opponents' running games this weekend. After allowing 12 stolen bases ,in three games last weekend, the Irish surrendered just one in Myrtle Beach. 
"That was one of our ·goals going in so that was a real positive that I saw," he said. 
Schrage also said that he would have liked to have Won at least one more game this weekend, but believes that clutch hitting will come as the Irish play more ga{lles. 
"All it takes is somebody to get really hot and carry you for a few games," he said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME  Dear Hermia,  
FoR SALE  FoR RENT  AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com  PERSONAL  ONE WHO IS?  why do all the boys love you?  
Must be those blessed and attrac­ 
2001 MERCURY  House available for 2007-2008.  Room for rent in huge home 1 block  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  You do not have to be alone.  live eyes!  
GRAND MARQUIS LS.  Very Large, Close to Campus, Just  east of campus.  
Renovated. Contact  Very clean, safe & private.  Do not go it alone. If you or some- We want to help.  Yrs-., Helen  
4-DOOR.  MacSwain@ gmail.com  Great student price.  one you love needs confidential  
EXCELLENT CONDITION.  239-707-2025.  support or assistance, please call  Call our 24 hour confidential hotline  Q. Why did the picture go to jail?  
andersonNDrentals.com  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819.  
51,000 MILES.  Now leasing for 2007/8.  at 1-800-No-ABORT  A. Because it was framed.  
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4  For more information, visit our web  
ONE OWNER,$6,500.  bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09.  Great houses close to campus.  site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ or visit our website at  ...You're just holding the legsl!l  
$600/Bed/mo.  ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi- 
CALL 243-5454.  574-360-2569.  Anlanproperties@ comcast.net  weekly ad in The Observer.  www.lifElcall.org  TATOES! Have a nice day.  



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 26, 2007 CoMrlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  pet.  GB  
Toronto  31-25  .554  
New Jersey  27-30  .474  4.5  
New York  25-32  .439  6.5  
Philadelphia  18-33  .321  13  
Boston  13~42  .236  17.5  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 36·19 .655 Cleveland 32-24 .571 4.5 Chicago 32-26 .552 5.5 Indiana 29-25 .537 6.5 Milwaukee 20-37 .351 17 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team  record  pet.  GB  
Washington  31·23  .574  
Miami  27-28  .491  4.5  
Orlando  27-30  .474  5.5  
CharloHe  22·34  .393  10  
Atlanta  22-34  .393  10  

Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record _pet. GB Utah 37-18 .673 Denver 26-28 .481 10.5 Minnesota 26-30 .464 11.5 Portland 24-33 .421 14 Seattle 21-34 .382 16 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB Phoenix 43·13 .768 LAlakers 32·25 .561 11.5 LA Clippers 26·29 .473 16.5 Golden State 26-31 .456 17.5 Sacramento 23·31 .426 19 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team reeord Dallas 46-9 San Antonio 3848 Houston 35~20 NO/Okla. City 27~29 Memphis 15-42 
Men's Basketball Big East Standings 
Big East 

team  record  
1  Georgetown  12~2  
2  Pittsburgh  11-3  
3  Louisville  11-4  
4  NOTRE DAME  10·5  
5  Syracuse  9-5  
6  MarqueHe  9·6  
7  West Virginia  8-6  
8  DePaul  8·7  
9  Villanova  7-7  
10  Providence  7·7  
11  Connecticut  6-8  
12  St. John's  6-9  
13  Seton Hall  4·10  
14  South Florida  3·11  
15  Rutgers  3·12  
16  Cincinnati  1-13  


overall 
record> 
22,5 24·5 21·8 22·6 20·8 22·8 20·7 17·12 19·9 17·10 17·11 15·14 13·14 12-16 10-18 10-18 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Georgetown at Syracuse 7 p.m., ESPN 
Kansas at Oklahoma 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Orlando at Chicago 
8:30 p.m., Comcast 

NFL 

Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Damien Nash had just come home from a charity basketball game he'd organized in his brother's honor when he collapsed in front of his wife and 7 -month-old girl. 
The Denver Broncos' running back died Saturday and the cause remained unclear Sunday, but his grieving mother knows what she must do. 
After one son's death and a heart ailment that caused another son to require a transplant last year, Kim Nash is taking her daugh­ter to a cardiologist next week. 
"My son," she told The Associated Press amid sobs, "is giving me the strength right now to talk." 
Damien Nash collapsed in his suburban St. Louis home after returning by limousine with his wife, Judy Nash, and their daughter from a game at his high school to benefit The Darris Nash Find a Heart Foundation. The organization raises money for heart transplant research. 
The 24-year-old player was taken by ambulance to Christian Hospital Northeast, where he was pronounced dead. The hos­pital's nursing supervisor, Maria St. George, told the AP the hospital dispatched an ambulance as soon as it received the call. 

The St. Louis County medical examiner's office said results of Sunday's autopsy may not be known for days, even weeks .. 
"I didn't see anything to point to a cause of death," Dr. Kamal Sabharwal, the medical examiner, said late Sunday. 
He said he was waiting on lab results to check for drugs or alcohol, and a look at tissue sections. He's also asked a forensic pathologist who specializes in hearts to look at Nash's heart. 
Dr. Gregory Ewald, a car­diologist, treated 25-year­old Darris Nash and said he had a weakened heart muscle condition known as dilated cardiomyopathy. The ailment can be caused by a viral infection, inflam­mation or other causes. Darris Nash became so ill he needed a mechanical device to support his circu­lation until he could get a transplant. 
Ewald said some car­diomyopathy conditions run in families. He said he never met Damien Nash, but "the fact that Damien was doing high-level athlet­ics may indicate that was not the problem." 
The death comes less than two months after the still unsolved slaying of Broncos teammate Darrent Williams. 
IN BRIEF 
Stenson wins Accenture 
Match Play Championship 
MARANA, Ariz. Hentik Stenson, the Swede who delivered the winning point for Europe in the Ryder Cup, won a big match for himself Sunday by surviving a roller-coaster round against Geoff Ogilvy to capture the Accenture Match Play Championship. 
In a 36-hole final that featured five lead changes, Stenson closed out the defending champion with back-to-back birdies for a 2-and-1 victory that moved him among the elite in golf at No. 5 in the world ranking. 
Ogilvy's 11-match winning streak was still alive after making two clutch pars to stay only one hole down. Stenson seized control for good with an 8-iron into 2 feet for birdie on the par-3 16th. Needing only two putts from 60 feet on the par-5 17th, Stenson's putt trickled within a few inches of the cup. 
Feeley re-siWIS with Eagles to 
back up McNabb 
PHILADELPHIA-A.J. Feeley's desire to stay in Philadelphia out­weighed his hope to be a starting quarterback. 
Feeley and the Eagles agreed on a three-year contract extension Sunday, nearly eliminating the chance that Jeff Garcia will return next season. 
"I love Philadelphia. I love the city. I love the organization," Feeley said. "It's where I want to be. It was a no­brainer for me in that regard. There's something to be said for being with a team you love everything about it." 
Feeley's new deal runs through 2010. Garcia, who helped the Eagles win the NFC East title and a playoff game after Donovan McNabb was injured, will become a free agent on friday. 
"A.J. Feeley has been very produc­tive as a quarterback in Philadelphia," general manager Tom Heckert said. 

Heat star Wade wants second 
opinion on shoulder 
MIAMI -Heat guard Dwyane Wade will seek a second opinion early this week before deciding whether to rehabilitate his dislo­cated left shoulder or have season­ending surgery to repair the joint. 
"The sooner the better," Miami coach and president Pat Riley said Sunday before the Heat beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 86-81, only their second win in nine games without Wade this season. 
If Wade chooses the rehab option, he could return to Miami's lineup in about six weeks, or with around 10 regular-season games remaining. He was presented with his recovery options Thursday, one day after suffering the injury in a collision with Houston's Shane Battier, but has not announced a decision. 
Riley said the team "encouraged" Wade to collect more information. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 26, 20_07 
NO SOFTBALL 

Irish defeat UNLV, Ole Miss to bounce back 

Team rebounds after opening with loss to undefeated Oklahoma 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
The Irish salvaged a respectable weekend perform­ance at the Palm Springs Tournament in California after a tough opening day. 
Notre Dame (4-6), began the tournament Friday with a 7-3 loss to No. 9 Oklahoma (16-0). After the Irish got off to a 2-0 start in the first inning, the Sooners responded in the bot­tom of the first with three runs of their own. The Irish tied the game at 3 in the fourth on a Carissa Jaquish sacrifice fly. Unfortunately, that would end the Irish's offensive production, as Oklahoma scored two in the bottom of the fourth to take a 5-3 lead. The Sooners added two more insurance runs in the sixth to preserve the victo­ry. 

Irish sophomore Brittney Bargar was saddled with the loss after giving up seven runs in six innings of work. Oklahoma junior Laura Eckermann continued her incredible season, getting her eight win of the season after giving up two runs and strik­ing out seven. 
The Irish then faced No. 17 California in their second game of the day, dropping the team's fourth straight in a 7-5 
FENCING 

Notre Dan1e falls to Northwestern 14-13 
Women finish 5-2 in penultimate contest of regular season 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
The Wildcats got their revenge, but Notre Dame solidified its status as an elite squad at the Northwestern 
Duals  in  Evanston,  Ill.  
Saturday.  
A  month  after  beating  

Northwestern 14-13 at the NYU Duals, the No. 4 Irish women fell by the same score to the No. 6 Wildcats in their next-to-last regular season competition. 
The Notre Dame women went 5-2 on the weekend, but both loses were 

by a single bout "IfI would choose the there was no and came to person, one name, I tragedy. It 
top-10 teams. wasn't easy · 
would say that Ashley 
The Irish also for Penn lost 14-13 to Serrette is the fencer State." 
No. 1 Penn of the competition for Notre Dame 
State. lost just five of
us. That is how she 
"I think that its 81 individ­
performed. ,,

the whole tour­ual bouts in nament shows its three other us one positive team mat­
Janusz Bednarski 

thing -that we chups.
Irish coach 
are not the strongest team in the nation, but we are not far away, Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
Freshman epeeist Kelley Hurley, senior sabreist Valerie Providenza, sophomore sabreist Ashley Serrette and sophomore foilist Adrienne Nott were the stars of the competition for Notre Dame. 

The freshman Hurley went 12-1 Saturday to improve her record to 51-4, while the vet­eran Providenza went to 51-7 on the season with a 16-1 weekend. Both only lost a bout to Northwestern. 
Nott was 17-2, and Serrette finished 18-2. Both Nott and Serrette only had losses in the matches against Penn State and Northwestern. 
Bednarski said Serrette's 

performance was the highlight of the week for Notre Dame. 
"If I would choose the pflr­son, one name, I would say that Ashley Serrette is the fencer of the competition for us," he said. "That is how she performed." 
Bednarski said Serrotte's marked improvement this year has been a positive even he couldn't expect. 
On the men's side, the Irish went 3-1. 
The No. 6 Notre Dame men fell 16-11 to No. 1 Penn State in the squad's only true test of the weekend. 
"I think that the men's side told us that Penn State University is one of the best universities in the nation ­probably the best," Bednarski said. "Our kids were fencing 
strong too. 
The match 
was lost, but 
The men 
posted a 
shutout over Lawrence, with senior epeeist Aaron Adjemian, senior sabreist Patrick Ghattas, sen­ior foilist Frank Bontempo and sophomore foilists Alex Grigorenko and Mark Kubik posting 3-0 records in the team bout. 
Against Penn State, Kubik, senior epeeist Karol Kostka and sophomore sabreist Bill Thanhouser were the only Notre Dame fencers to finish with winning records, all going 2-1. 
Kostka finished the weekend 10-1, while Bontempo and Ghattas each went 1 0-2. 
In the men's final team bout, the Irish routed Detroit, 25-2. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
loss. The Golden Bears ( 1 0-6) took an early 4-0 lead with a grand slam by Alex Sutton in the first inning. Gessica Hufnagle responded for the Irish with a two-run homer in the fourth, her first of the sea­son. 
Cal padded away at its lead, taking a 7-2 lead into tho sev­enth inning. Notre Dame was able to chip away to 7-5, but Heather Johnson was tagged out at the plate to end the game. 
Notre Dame recovered Saturday, defeating UNLV (12­
6) 4-3 in extra innings. Junior Katie Laing singled home the winning run in tho come-from­behind win, the third time this season the Irish have won in their final at-bat. Sophomore Linda Kohan, who had three HBls on the day, singled home two runs in the bottom of tho seventh to tie the game at three and force extra innings. 

In their second game Saturday, the Irish suffered a tough loss to Cal State Fullerton 2-0. Notre Dame senior Kenya Fuemmeler and Titan Candice Baker did not allow any runs for four innings in an intense pitcher's duel. Titan Courtney Martinez's fourth home run of the year drove the lone two runs of tho game. 
Fuemmeler took the loss despite allowing only four hits over seven innings. The Irish managed only three hits off Baker in tho shutout. 
The Irish concluded the tournament Sunday morning on a strong note with a 3-1 
win over Ole Miss (4-11 }. Bargar rebounded nicely from her loss against Oklahoma earlier in the tournament, allowing just one run on eight hits while pitching all eight innings for the Irish. Kohan again led the Irish offensively, driving home the two winning runs in the fifth inning. 
Up next for the Irish will be a trip to Florida to play in the Jacksonville Tournament. Notre Dame will face off against Virginia, and then play double-headers with both Jacksonville and Michigan. No members of the team were available for comment follow­ing the weekend's games due to travel. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Podgajny stars in Irish victory 

JENNIFER KANG/ The Observer Irish freshman midfielder Grant Krebs tries to shed a defender in Notre Dame's 9-7 victory over Loyola at the Loftus Center Feb. 17. The Irish defeated Penn State 11-8 Sunday. 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Junior midfieldor Michael Podgajny netted a career-high four goals and added two assists in No. 11 Notre Dame's 11-8 win over Penn State Sunday. 
Freshman attacker · Will Yeatman added two goals and an assist. Senior attacker Brian I lubsehmann tacked on two goals. 
The Irish found themselves down 2-0 early, but responded with live straight goals to make the contest 5-2 in the seeond quarter. Notre Dame never gave up the lead at this point to the Nittany Lions. 
Sophomore attackers Ryan I loll' and Alex Wharton each had a goal and an assist, and senior midlielder Lucius Polk also scored one goal. 
"It was good to win the game," Polk said in a phorw interview. "It's really nice to start out tlw season 2-0. Penn State is a good team. 

"There are high expectations for seniors on this team. We are all glad to lead the upperclass­men." 
Notre Dame (2-0) entered half­time with a 6-3 lead. The Irish started the third quarter by seor­ing four straight goals en route to a 10-3 score. However, the Nittany Lions did not lie down. They netted tho next five goals of the game to eut the deficit down to two goals at 10-S with over six minutes to play. With the game still in the balance, Podgajny seeurod the Irish victory late in the fourU1 quarter by scoring his J(JUrth goal. 
Pat lloim had thn1e goals for Penn State (0-2) while Gil Pearsall netted two of his own. Chris Hogan, Hob Forster and Matt Loy all scored oncn for tho Nittany Lions. Adam Kenney and Max VanArsdale addnd an assist each. 
Notro Damn continues its live stint away from home by playing No. 7 Cornell March 3 in Hewlett, 
N.Y. Notre Dame fell to Cornell last year by a tally of 9-6. The Big Hed are 1-0 this season after an impressive 19-4 win over Binghamton this weekend. The game will be played this Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Notes: 
+Junior goaltender .Joey Kemp played most of the game for the Irish, saving 11 shot<; while letting in seven goals. He was credited with the win. Sophomore Scott Rodgers saw his first aetion of the year, making one save and gave up one goal for the Irish in over two minutes of play. 
+Notre Dame led in shots this game by a tally of 37-35. 
+Sophomore midfielder Taylor Clagett won 14-of-21 face-oils in the victorious effort. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 

Monday, February 26, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

,-------------------------------------------------------------~--~---~~-­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 26, 2007 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish record two more wins 



Thl~ i:; <l pliK<:'holder for !F.9«1e~t'~. Th1~ I$. a pi.'lr;ehoki(~r tor lefJiJh:•se. 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, comtnitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates tnay be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http:IIosa.nd.edu 
Nominations are due by Friday, March 2, 2007. 
Team beats Michigan, Northwestern at Eck Tennis Pavilion 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame remained unde­feated on its home courts this weekend, cruising past No. 22 Michigan on Friday and sweeping Northwestern 7-0 Sunday. 
Michigan jumped out to an early 1-0 lead after taking the doubles point. Michigan's Mike Sroczynski and George Navas defeated Notre Dame's Stephen Bass and Andrew Roth 8-4 at No. 3 doubles. Michigan's No. 3 Matko Maravic and Brian Hung dom­inated at No. 1 doubles, where they defeated Notre Dame's No. 9 Ryan Keckley and Sheeva Parbhu 8-3 to clinch the doubles point for the Wolverines. 
The Irish rallied to post stronger performances in sin­gles play and garner straight-· set wins at five positions. 
National No. 11 Bass cap­tured the first singles point at No. 1 singles, defeating No. 34 Maravic 6-0, 6-1. The win was Bass' tenth victory of the sea­son over a nationally ranked opponent. Keckley gave the Irish the go-ahead point at No. 4 singles, defeating Ryan Heller 6-1, 6-2, and the team never looked back. Roth extended the lead to 3-1 with his 7-6 (1), 6-1 victory over Sroczynski at No. 6 singles. 

Brett Helgeson clinched the win for the Irish when he upended Andrew Maziln 6-4, 6-4 at No. 4 singles. 
The Irish continued their successful weekend when they beat No. 45 Northwestern. 
Notre Dame took an early lead with a 3-0 sweep of dou­bles play. Bass and Roth took the first doubles point at No. 3 doubles with a swift 8-1 win over Northwestern's Christian Tempke and Juan Gomez. No. 1 singles presented the Irish with the chance to take the doubles point. No. 9 Keckley and Parbhu took the match 8­3 over Northwestern's Willy Lock and Matt Christian to give the Irish the lead for good. 
Singles play was just as rewarding for Notre Dame. Barry King took the first match for the Irish at No. 5 singles in straight sets defeat­ing Gomez 6-3, 6-2. Helgeson won his second match for the weekend and gave the Irish the 3-0 lead with a 6-1, 6-3 routing of Christian at No. 4. Parbhu sealed the win for Notre Dame with a 6-1, 6-4 win over Lock at No. 1. It marked the first time since Feb. 4 that Parbhu played at the No. 1 singles spot. Notre Dame clinched the win with victories by Bass at No. 2, Roth at No. 6, and Keckley at No.6. 
With its win over Northwestern, Notre Dame improved to 6-0 at home and 10-2 for the season. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

Monday, February 26, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
No.5 Irish defeat Stanford in double OT thriller 
1-3. Both the Irish and Cardinal Coyne said. "We have a confi­
McKinney, Byers lead 
Notre Dame trailed 11-9 with exploded offensively in the first dence in our preparation, men­less than eight minutes left in half, carrying an 8-8 tie into tal toughness and fitness that
team to road victory 
regulation when McKinney intermission. when it conies to the end of 
scored to pull the team within Stanford was led offensively these games we can dominate." By MICHAEL BRYAN one. Senior Lena Zentgraf then by juniors Daphne Patterson The win for the Irish extended Sporrs Wri[er scored off an assist by McKinney and Megan McClain, who scored the team's home winning streak 
with 4:02 remain-three and two to 10 games. Notre Dame has It was deja vu all over again ing to send the "We have a confidence goals respective­not lost a home game since the for the No. 5 Irish at the Loftus game to extra ly. final game of the 2005 season,
in our preparation,
Center Saturday as Notre Dame minutes. Notre Dame against Ohio State. beat Stanford 12-11 in double "Caitlin has real­mental toughness and out-shot the In both Irish games this sea­overtime for the second year in ly worked hard on fitness that when it Cardinal 40-23. son the team has won in over­a row. her game, and Irish goalie Erin time. Notre Dame defeated
comes to the end of
Irish junior Caitlin McKinney now that effort is Goodman collect­James Madison 10-9 in sudden­scored the game-winning goal being rewarded," these games we ed six saves, and death overtime in the team's with seven seconds left in dou­Irish coach Tracy can dominate." Stanford goal­first regular season game. ble overtime. It was McKinney's Coyne said. tender Laura The Irish will look to continue sixth goal of the game. Both teams went Shane had 17 their hot start Thursday against 
Tracy Coyne 
Sophomore Jillian Byers added scoreless in the stops. Northwestern, winner of the last three goals in the effort as the first three-minute Irish coach Coyne said she two national championships. Irish improved to 2-0. overtime period, was impressed The t>Jo. 1 Wildcats are 1-1 after 
Notre Dame defeated the with the defenses holding by the team's effort through a tough 9-8 overtime loss to Cardinal by the same score, in strong. It appeared the game penalties and a lack of flow in North Carolina and a strong vic­double overtime, on Feb. 26; would advance into sudden­the game. tory over Vanderbilt. 2006 in Palo Alto, Calif. death overtime until McKinney "I think that our confidence, 
The loss dropped Stanford, netted the unassisted goal for even through adverse circum­Contact Michael Bryan at No. 18 in the preseason poll, to the victory. stances, is what sets us apart," mbryan@nd.edu 
Attention First-Year MBA's 
Would you like to earn an $18,000 f-ellowship for your second year? 
The William G. McGowan Charitable Fund has just awarded the MBA Program a grant that covers $18,000 for the second year for an MBA student! 
Applicants must comply with the following criteria: 
-Must currently be enrolled full-time in the first year of the MBA Program -Must currently have at least a 3.0 GPA -Must submit a 500-1000 word essay on the contributions of William G. McGowan, founder and Chairman ofMCI, to today's business world in general or to the telecommunications field in particular -Must submit one letter of recommendation from a faculty member -Must exhibit attributes such as scholarship, talent, leadership qualities, character and community involvement 
All First-Year MBA's are eligible, excluding those that are already receiving a full tuition 
scholarship.  
Deadline: Applications are due to Rachel Gerkey in the MBA Office by  
Friday, March 23, 2007.  
The winner will be announced in early May Contact information: Gerkey.2@nd.edu  ~IJ N tVERS !TY.Of WNOTREDAME  
Mendon College of Bu>ine»  

Turtle Creek Apartinent Hoines 
Hey, Hey What's NEW? 
New Management Company! New Staff To Serve You Better! New Easier & Faster Leasing Process! New Look (Especially our NEW OUTDOOR POOL!) New Flexible Leasing Programs! New Saturday & Sunday Hours! 
Now leasing for 2007-08! Don't Delay, Stop In & See Us! 

1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 
!QUAl HOUSING OPPORTUNITY 
Ph 574-272-8124 


Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
open looks. Rutgers' tough defense forced Notre Dame to commit 16 turnovers ­leading to 21 points ­including bac-k-to-hack. possessions where an Ajavon steal led to an easy layup. 
"I think they're the best defensive team we've seen. 
' 

They're active, they're • athletic, we couldn't get by •• 
l

anybody," Irish coach I Muffet McGraw said. "We •I didn't shoot the ball well, I I and I think 95 percent of 1 that was because they ·l were really on us." l 
The Irish were also hin­l I dered by their inability to 
I 
' 

defend the 3-point line, something McGraw said has been a consistent problem this season. The Scarlet Knights shot 54 percent from 3-point range, and used the long­range shots to quell hope for an Irish comeback. 
"We got beat just one­on-one in the zone; it was­
l 
l 
.Il 
l I 
l 
I I 

n't really the zone that beat us," McGraw said. "That's the best team of three-point shooters they've had in a long time." 
Irish guard Charel Allen tried to will her team back in the second half, finish­ing with a team-high 20 points, but too many missed shots (7 -of-18 from the floor) gave the ball back to Rutgers too often. 
"We'd get a steal or a miss or get a stop and we'd come down and weren't able to convert. That kind of took the wind out of our sails," McGraw said 
As a whole, the team shot only 43 percent from the floor, including 4-of-14 from three-point range. 
Notre Dame held close in the first half, but Rutgers pulled away quickly in the second stanza, using missed Irish shots and threes of their own to pull ahead, leading by eight 
5:34 into the second. 
The Irish finish off the regular season at DePaul tonight at 8 in Notre Dame's only repeat matchup this season. The Irish won the previous game 78-70 in the Joyce Center behind Allen's 25 points and 13 rebounds. 
With a win over the Blue Demons, Notre Dame would effectively clinch a first-round bye in the Big East tournament -a goal for the Irish ever since preseason predictions had them finishing 11th. 
Since the last game, DePaul has stayed in the bottom half of the Big East, but at lOth remains solidly locked into the tournament this weekend. DePaul has won two of its last three, falling only to Pittsburgh on the road 8 7­80 Saturday. · 
"We've got a tough job to go to DePaul on Monday because we had a good game with them here so we've got to focus on that and get ready for the Big East tournament and see if some other teams can help us out by beating some teams they weren't sup­posed to," McGraw said. 
Open Monday thru Friday 9-7 Saturday 10-4 Sunday 12-4 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
,­
•
f 
page 20 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 26, 2007 

A CONVERSATION ABOUT: 

Sex, Catholicism, and Contemporary Culture Wednesday, February 28, 2007 7:30-10:00 PM 101 DeBartolo Hall 

Monday, February 26, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Split 
continued from page 24 
we would be on the cusp on being a top four team in the conference," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
The team had one more sur­prise in store after the game Saturday night as the first ever conference championship ban­ner was hung in the Joyce Center. Team captain T.J. Jindra flipped the switch that dropped the banner while celebrating with the rest of his teammates at center ice. 
The team's 27 wins ties the 1987-88 Irish club for the most in program history. Senior Dave Brown also added another Notre Dame record to his resume on the night as he collected his fifth shutout this season. 
Brown bounced back from a shaky performance in a 5-2 loss Friday to make 15 saves en route to blanking the Bulldogs. 
"I felt real bad about what happened [Friday]," Brown said. 
But Friday night was less than thrilling for the Irish. The Bulldogs snapped Notre Dame's nine-game unbeaten streak with five unanswered goals at the Joyce Center in a 5-2 win. 
"I thought it was a hard fought game for both teams and our pucks were just fmding their way into the goal," Ferris State coach Bob Daniels said. 
The Irish struck first at 7:17 in the first period when the fresh­man duo of Ryan Thang and Kevin Deeth hooked up for Deeth's 16th goal of the season. Thang passed from behind the net and Deeth beat Ferris State goalie Mitch O'Keefe high to the blocker side. 
Van Guilder built the lead to 2-0 when he buried a rebound in the second period while on the power play. 
The Bulldogs kept Notre Dame away from the net for the rest of the game by playing strong defense in the second half and taking advantage of opportuni­ties. 
Ferris State's first goal came when Irish defenseman Brock Shehan tipped a pass in front of the net, which trickled by Brown at 14:26 in the second period. 

The goal was credited to sen­ior Mark Bomersback, who also scored later in the night to put the game out of reach. 
Sopho.more Corey Couturier then tied the game by streaking up the right side of the ice and beating Brown with an awk­ward shot from the outside. 
Eight minutes later the Bulldogs took the lead when Matt Case scored through traffic on a shot from the point. 
Notre Dame created some chances late in the game by pulling Brown for an extra skater a few times in the firial six minutes, but could not bury any of their shots. 
''I'm not going to sit back and let us lose, and the only thing I can do is try to get things going," Jackson said. 
Ferris State added an empty net goal with just over a minute remaining to ice the win. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
"I wanted to play real well for the guys." 
Ferris State goaltender Derek Macintyre also had a solid night between the pipes, stopping 33 of Notre Dame's 35 shots ­including the first 19 he faced. 
Senior center Jason Paige was finally able to break the scoring drought with a power play goal halfway through 
the second peri­the net. Hanson,
'Tm not going to sit
od. Jindra, Pearson Macintyre back and let us lose, and Ferris State made the initial forward Matt
and the only thing I 
save but was Verdone were all 
can do is try to get 
unable to control sent to the box. a bouncing puck things going." "I didn't see that Paige what happened slapped out of the with the fight but I 
Jeff Jackson 
air and into the was glad to see
Irish coach 
net. them show that physical first period. The two teams collected a combined 30 penalty minutes in the first peri­od, including a 10 minute mis­conduct that Jindra picked up following a fight after the whis­tle. 
Jindra tackled Bulldogs right wing Zac Pearson after he took a shot at sophomore Christian 
Hanson behind 

"It was a big serum, and a really ugly goal, but we'll take them anyway we can get them," Paige said. 
Paige's goal ended a frustrat­ing run for the Irish who were dominant in every phase of the game, but could not sneak any­thing past Macintyre. Notre Dame played an aggressive and 

.Shutout 
continued from page 24 
games. Louderback spent most of this week working with his doubles teams after its disappointing performanGe last weekend against No. 5 North Carolina. The Irish lost the doubles point for only the second time all season against the Tar Heels. 
"We concentrated a little more this week. The doubles was so good before that we worked on mostly singles, but last week we worked on them a little more," Louderback 
said.  "I  think  the  work  
showed i n how  we played  
today."  

Buck gave the Irish their first singles point with a quick 6-2, 6-1 victory over Hawkeye freshman Kelcy Klockenga, improving her dual match record to 6-1. 
Then the Hawkeyes made thing interesting. 
Ciobanu trailed 3-1 and 40­0 in her match against Iowa sophomore Mere! Beelen, and freshman Colleen Rielley dropped the first set against Iowa senior Hillary Mintz. But Ciobanu battled back from there and did not drop anoth­er game on here way to a 6-3, 6-0 defeat of Beelen. Rielley then cruised in her second set, winning it 6-0 and win­ning the tie-breaker 1-0 (10­
7) to claim the match. 
"The kids did a good job of starting a little slow but hang­ing in there," Louderback said. 
Ciobanu's win pushed her dual match mark to 11-0 and 21-4 overall. Rielley improved to 16-9 overall and 5-6 in dwil play. 
Tefft also fought through a difficult first set to claim a 6­4, 6-1, win in her match against Iowa junior Kayla Berry. Catrina Thompson rounded out the scoring with a 6-1, 6-4, defeat of Hawkeye junior Jaqueline Lee. 
"Catrina played OK today. The first set she won pretty easily. Second set she had trouble with (Lee's) serve," Louderback said. "She strug­gled returning that serve for a little bit. But in the end, when it was 4-4, she played two really good games to finish." 
The Irish have four more days off before they take on No. 27 Texas A&M Friday and No. 21 Texas Saturday. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
kind  of  moxy,"  
Jackson said.  
Junior  winger  Mark  Van  

Guilder added a security goal just over a minute into the final period. Van Guilder received a pass from Jindra at the blue line and let it rip for his second goal in the series and 17th of the season. 
HOCKEY COMMENTARY 

Banner means so much more 
Irish captain T.J. Jindra leaned over the blue-draped table set up at center ice Saturday night and flipped the switch that unfurled Notre Dame hockey's first cham­
pionship ban­ 
ner. The Irish,  
clad in their  
green jerseys  
with the old­ 
school front  
sweater laces,  
flanked  
Jindra on all  
sides and  ·  
watched as  Kyle Cassily  
the blue and  
gold CCHA  Sports Writer  
regular sea­ 

son champion banner fell from the rafters high above the band on Senior Night. 
The unveiling came only moments after the Irish honored their eight seniors with their par­ents and were awarded the CCI-lA regular season trophy by Commissione·r Tom Anastos fol­lowing a 2-0 win over Ferris State in the regular-season fmale: 
Mter a year in which Notre Dame has done everything and anything that it wasn't supposed to do, the presentation may ulti­mately be the foreword to bigger things. But it is important not to lose an appreciation of what this year's senior class has done for the hockey program in the shuf­fle of playoff games, packed are­nas and NCAA Tournament berths to come. 
It's hard to think back to two Senior Nights ago, when the Irish sent their graduating class off in an empty arena at the end of a five-win season. One banner hung above the glass then, pro­claiming the NCAA berth that the team had earned the season before. Of the few diehards who were there that night, none would have pointed to the sopho­mores watching the ceremony and said, ''I'll throw down five bucks that those guys will be No. 1 in a few years." 
Fast forward two years and that is the exact scenario, those sophomores now the leaders on not only the most surprising team this year in college hockey, but in all of college sports. 
Goalie Dave Brown is a leading candidate for the Hobey Baker, while defensemen Wes O'Neill, Noah Babin and Tom Sawatske 
LAURIE HUNTIThe Observer Senior right wing Michael Bartlett waits for a pass Saturday at the Joyce Center in a 2-0 win over Ferris State. 
have anchored the country's top defense all year. The forward line of Jindra, Jason Paige and Michael Bartlett have matched up with and shut down the oppo­sition's top line all season. And forward Josh Sciba continued to score goals at a pace just below his breakout junior season prior to an injury in January. 
The underclassmen, including the strike line of Erik Condra, Ryan Thang and Kevin Deeth, have assumed the main offensive role for the Irish, but the seniors' impact extends beyond the boards. Irish coach Jeff Jackson always deflects any praise for the program's quick turnaround from himself to that group of eight. Every time the topic is brought up, Jackson says that nothing in this season would have happened if not for their off-ice work ethic and leader­ship. 
If Saturday's banner is the last to be hung this season, it will not be the last long-term addition that the seniors have created for Notre Dame hockey. The record number of wins in a season, the defense that Rick Minter wished he had and the No. 1 ranking all pale in comparison to the name that they have made for Notre Dame in just one year. 

And their greatest impact has yet to be seen and won't be seen until someone donates a $7.5 million lead gift for the construc­tion of a new arena. The dona­tion will come eventually and it will be only because the class of 2007 was able to put an ugly season behind them, adjust to a new coach in their junior season and get the rest of the team to buy into the discipline necessary for success -all in a little over a year. 
Five or 10 years from now, these eight may return to Notre Dame after making a name for themselves in the NHL, in law offices or in business. But no matter where they come from or the amount of success they've achieved after graduation, they will step into that new arena, see that first banner hanging from a different set of rafters and know that it all started with them. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd:edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 26, 2007 
Gift 
continued from page 24 
clawing." 
The win gave the Irish (22-6, 10-5 Big East) sole possession of fourth place in the conference and an inside traek for a bye in the conferenee tournament. It also gave Notre Dame an 18-0 record at the Joyce Center this season. 
"I told the seniors that they can hand the [home winning] streak off to the younger guys and they can work on it next year," Brey said. 
Irish senior guards Colin Falls and Russell Carter played their final home game for Notre Dame, scoring 14 and 13 points, respectively. Falls hit four 3­pointers to break the Big East record for career 3-pointers. held by former Syracuse guard Gerry McNamara. 
But it was two Irish freshmen who stole the show. 
Forward Luke Ilarangody led all scorers with 22 points. He also grabbed 13 rebounds, nine of them offensive. 
"I threw in a couple lucky ones, but they gave me a lot of confi­dence, so that was nice," Harangody said after the game. 
The freshman also said he was able to easily read the way Marquette forward Ousmane Barra was guarding him, which allowed him to make his post moves effectively. 
"I felt where he was on my shoulder and I used that to figure out what move to use," Harangody said. 
Freshman point guard Tory Jackson also had a huge game­finishing with 21 points and 

seven assists. Jackson shot 6-of­12 from the field and nailed 8-of­11 free throw attempts. 
"l felt me and the younger guys had to pick it up because the seniors were so emotional," Jackson said. "We wanted to send them out with a bang. This is a gift from us to them." 
The game was physical, with 49 total fouls. Golden Eagles guards Jerel McNeal and Wesley Matthews both found themselves with three fouls by the end or the first half and Matthews later fouled out. 
On the Irish side, Harangody fouled out and Carter finished the game with four personals. 
"It changed the game a little," Falls said. "A lot of guys wnre in foul trouble." 
There were also several altnr­cations. 
First was a ruckus near the Marquette bench with 12 min­utes left in the first half whnn Carter shoved Marquette guard Jerel McNeal. Marquette coaeh Tom Crean lost his cool and had to be restrained; but no tochnical fouls were issued. 
With 3:35 left in the game. another broke out in front of the Notre Dame student section when llarangody collided with McNeal trying to stop a fast break. Trailing the play, Nqtrn Dame forward Zach !Iillesland and Marquette guard Dominie James started shoving each other. A scuffle broke out and both James and Hillesland were issued technicals. 
Finally, with 22 seconds left in the game, Ilarangody was called for a personal fotil and was shoved to the floor by Marquette forward Dan Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald earned a technical I(Jr the play. 
"This is Big l~ast play," llarangody said. "I wasn't too surprised with it boing a physical game, especially beeause it was Marquette." 
The Golden Eagles startnd red hot. sprinting to an oarly 8-0 lead that included two l'ast brnak dunks. They eventually strntched the lead to 2:~-1 () midway through the first hall'. 
The Irish rnspondml with a 16­6 run over the next livn minutns to pull within thren at 29-26. 
The teams traded baskets for the next two minutos, but an 11­0 Irish run to end tho half. keyed by six points from Jackson, gave Notre Dame a 42-36 halftime lead. 
The Golden Eagles dosed to within two thanks to eight quiek points from guard Dominic Janws at 50-48 with 15 minutos remaining, but a 9-2 Irish run put them back down by nine and Marquette never threatonod to pull even again. 
Notes: 
+ Notre Damn honornd sen­iors Russell Cartnr. Colin Falls and Kieran Pillor bdorn their final home contnst. 
Piller, a walk on. nntnrnd the ganw with two snconds lnrt for his 13th career appnaranen. 
Carter and Falls addrnssnd the snllout crowd aft<w tho gamn. 
"We weren't surn what we wore going to say," Falls said. "I looked at him and hn looked at me and we kind of wingnd it." 
+ The Irish ean dineh a byn in the Big East tournament with a win over Hutgers Saturday or a loss by Syracusn to Georgetown Monday or to Villanova Saturday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 



The Dockweiler Award f()r Excellence in Undert,rraduate Advising 
Student, faculty and staff nominations are sought to identify faculty or professional staff members whose involvement with undergraduates inspires students to reach their academic and career goals. Nominees may be members of the academic advising and career counseling staffs or members of the faculty who: 
• 
Facilitate learning outside the classroom 

• 
Serve as mentors or role models 

• 
Encourage student participation in fellowships, internships, undergraduate research and post-graduate opportunities 

• 
Demonstrate a sustained commitment to the intellectual development and scholarly engagement of undergraduates 


Nominations are due Monday, March 5. Three faculty or staff will be chosen. 
Submit online nominations atprovostawards.nd.edu. 
The Award f()r E.xcellence in lJndergraduate Teaching 
Student and faculty nominations are sought to identify faculty who: 
• 
Create environments that stimulate significant student learning 

• 
Elevate students to a new level of intellectual engagement 

• 
Foster students' ability to express themselves effectively within the discipline 


Nominations due by Thursday, March 1. Nineteen recipients will be selected. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
'WNOTREDAME 
OHice of the Provost 

Monday, February 26, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD
ADAM FAIRHOLM JUMBLE

CROISSANTWORLD 
MIKE ARGIRION 


LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE MCDANIELS EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Justin Jcffre. 34; Scan Astin, 36; Karen Grassle. 65; Tom Courtenay, 70 
Happy Birthday: This year is about you --doing the best you can without comparing yourself with others. Put more energy into what you are actually trying to accomplish. The less you worry about what everyone around you is doing. the better things will turn out for you. Your numbers are 8. 21, 28, 29, 36, 42 
ARiES (March 21-Aprill9): The more mysterious you are, the better. A chance meeting with someone !rom your past will get you thinking about days gone by. It's never too late to reconnect with sonieone you miss. Love and romance are in the stars and travel will lead to a new adventure. 4 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have plenty to offer today and. once you realize what you can do, you will be off to the races .. Don't sit around waiting for others. Push forward and try your hand at whatever comes your way if you want to be successful today. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Make some creative changes at home. Someone may be a burden but this person can also offer you inspirational ideas that will help you. Change is good but make sure that it is well thought out before you proceed. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be fooled by someone who is being overly nice or accommodating. You may be taken advantage of if you are too eager to offer your services. Be the one to set the standard of honesty. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Hold on to your beliefs and don't let anyone convince you that his or her way of life is better. An opportunity will develop if you stick to what you know and do best. Romance is in the stars. 4 stars
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't feel pressured or guilty if you want to do something that will be beneficial to you and you alone. Sometimes you have to say no or rid yourself of people who are trying to take advantage of you. 2 stars 
ACROSS 37 Locale of more 58 Illegally 

LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get angry .... get moving. It's up to you to make the 
than 50 59 Time in Times
1 Suit protector? 
difference or to start something new. If you take control, you will get the results you arevolcanoes Square looking for. Love is on the rise. 5 stars ·
16 2003 Pancho 38 Classic piano
Villa portrayer SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You may be misinterpreted if you aren't precise. Someone 
tune first 

DOWN will take advantage of you by using emotional blackmail. Prepare to disassociate yourself 
17 Some European 
recorded in from anyone who is not being fair. 3 stars 
1 Exhausts, saypolitical leaders 
1921 

2 "__ hand ... " SAGITTARIUS (Nov.22-Dec. 21): You'll be drawn to someone who may be trying to18 Book of the 39 The "gods" in take advantage of you. Be careful not to make promises based on ulterior motives. A face­Book of Mormon "Chariots of the to-face conversation is the best way to handle a delicate situation. A new partnership may 
3 Blake on "M*A*S*H," e.g. not be as it appears. 3 stars 
19 Powers that be Gods?," in brief 4 Two, in Brazil
40 Lover of Orion -CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stick to basics. Find out first hand what is likely to occur
20 Spread stick 
5 Bambi's aunt before you promise to do something for others. A partnership may disappoint you if you 
41 Places where 

are expecting equality in the relationship. 3 stars 
21 French shaker 6 Nonexistentorgans may becontents 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can get ahead or make changes that will improve your health and well-being. You have a better grasp of what is possible and what isn't. Someone 
seen: Abbr. 7 Conductors' 
22 Large number places
42 Radio station you used to know might stir up memories that are best left alone. Put the past behind you. 24 Exerciser's expense 8 Evening, in 
5 stars · 
target Emden

43 Charge of PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20YKeep your secrets to yourself. Do not give in to anyone who 26 Word repeated Moses 9 Natural butters is promising you too much. Chances are good that this person is trying to take advantage of you. Less will be more in the long run. 2 stars 
in ''The 45 Letter getters: 1o"Is that ?" Whiffenpoof Abbr. 11 Agcy. founded Birthday Bahy: You express yourself creatively. You have a sense of style and a desire Song" 
to live life to the fullest. You are quick-witted, agile and you keep your promises. 
48 Goldfish in to help fight 27 Something that "Pinocchio" ·malaria Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations might roll over, 12 Lengthy meals?,
51 Claret briefly alternative, 13 Orsk is on it 28 J.F.K.'s U.N. briefly 14 Poet who wrote ambassador 52 It's drawn for the novel "The 
31 Statement the dirty Fathers" subsequently 53 Isn't pleasant to 15 Brand with a 32 Hopped off 42 Really fimcy 50 St. Louis bridge belied remember tiger mascot 
33 Team with a 43 Is in harmony designer 22 Like some 
bridge in its 44 Pass 51 Paula of CNN ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE onions logo 
45 Kind of salad 52 Company

23 Ones associated 34 Its flag has a 
46 Lustrous fur 54 Long intra?

with wheels and big white circle deals in the middle 47 Dig discovery: 55 Symphony Var. score abbr.
24 Where you may 35 Novelist Packer see a bust 48 Lead 56 Beyond medical
36 Kentucky _, help, for short
25 Crybabies annual 49 River through 26 Spell Louisville race Yakutsk 57 Beer holder 27 Start of a 20 Questions 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aquestion 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 28 1948 Chemistry Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
-::+~::+::rlllc+;:-t:;-1 Nobelist Tiselius 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
-:-+-::+..,.;,. 

29 Swirl Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) .
....,....':":'i--::+=+::-~ 30 Deflation 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for youngindicator solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
...;....L..;;;..L..;;;;...r..;.;;.L...;...J 

31 Deceptive play 

I THIN"' I'VE. <:o-r S.A.t>.­
~ 'SEI!\~NAI.. 
Af"FEcn'IE.: 
DI"SOR.I:>E.~ "­
F"f'DM ,A.LI.. ll•t\ s qP.E. ~ 
.AND NO 
5uN~Ir.IE. 

BLACK DoG 
WHA-r~ Trt,...TS 
THAT $CftAMBLe{) \1\'>:)flt) GAME
cAA""Z..'f '· rrs Au... 
Uf HVH1 Ar;.ll(t (lr.j W<~~ A~ir«<Hi IN '(oi..AR HEAD­
Jllm~JJJ~1~ 
OPE-N 'fO..IR E.~ Un:.v.:ri'&fr,tio ihc~ i.v Jumblllii. AND you'1..1.-SE(. u.m..J kl!Xct 4:1 QM:i! $1"~.5:!rt\ lc lnrrn tlur an:Wna•y wwt•rtl..
A WONOE.~• .'FI..lL 
woRLD l!..lul-11 
IN f"IZ.ON"ioF 
)'01..\! COM(.ON! 
I'L.I.. SHOW 'fOU! 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

I I 
VENN~T 
Now wrart{.IC' the urr.:loct iellcm &;; kVff~ lti(: $iJ!j)!'i:11(1 $C~i :U, !SI)~fed 't:P! !tie~ t-1!1oon. 
!;\•I'I$11H}f!:; i<:mf.:>f;tJII!j 


FLMH% CH.fEK _t~,(UJAfl &:.uSOt Tht &w:f£ rEA ra::\C~<i' t;!!oo !:U~WiOO J ~-HALF-t!NiiKED 



THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Monday, February 26, 2007 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Parting gift 
Irish freshmen lead team over Eagles in seniors' home finale 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
It looked bleak for Notre Dame. 

No. 16 Marquette made its first six field goals and jumped out to a 23-10 lead Saturday, but the No. 23 Irish fought See Also 
back to· take a six-point half­"little things time lead and help Irish beat 
pull out an 85­Eagles"

73 victory at the Joyce page 14 Center. 
''We never backed down," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. "This was a Big East street fight. Our guys 

kept swinging and digging and CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer Forward Zach Hillesland drives to the basket against Marquette during No. 23 Notre see GIFT/page 22 Dame's 85-73 victory over No. 16 Marquette at the Joyce Center Saturday. 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL FOOTBALL 


Round 2 for Zibbyin
.. 

South Bend 
Observer Staff Report The player is giving back to the coach. Notre Dame safety Tom Zbikowski will fight in a heavy­weight exhibition bout at South 
Bend's Century Center March 6 to raise money for Hannah and Friends, Irish coach Charlie Weis' charity. 
Zbikowski will fight Kevin Murphy, and 


proceeds will Zbikowski also benefit the Make-A-Wish and Cystic Fibrosis foundations. 
Doors open at 7:30p.m., and the Chicago Sun-Times reported indi­vidual tickets will range from $25 to $100. 
ND can't sustain rally attempt, falls 76-60 toRutgers 
took over.· "There were several pat­shooting, inc! uding 4-of-5 game-high 10 rebounds forBy JAY FITZPATRICK Ajavon scored six straight terns that we called that iso­from beyond the arc. She was the game's only double-dou­
Sports Writer 

points to extend the lead to 12 lated her or she knew that she also one of four Rutgers ble. points, and eventually scored knew she should be isolated starters to end the game in In Ajavons' second half 
After the Irish cut Rutgers' 15 straight points for the because she saw the advan­double figures, joined by for­stretch, the Irish were con­lead to 52~46 with eight min­Scarlet Knights, putting the tage," Rutgers coach C. Vivian ward Essence Carson (17 founded by offensive stagna­utes remaining at the Joyce game well out of reach for Stringer said. points), guard Epiphanny tion as they struggled to find Center Saturday, Scarlet Notre Dame as the Irish fell Ajavon finished the game Prince (10) and center Kia Knights guard Matee Ajavon 76-60. with 26 points on 8-of-13 Vaughn (13), who added a see RUTGERS/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 2 Irish blank Iowa despite sluggish start 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

No. 2 Notre Dame showed no signs of rust after a week off as it defeated No. 59 Iowa 7-0 Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
"We got into a couple tight first sets in the singles and it looked like it could end up a tight match," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "But our kids came through. 
Senior Christian Thompson defeated Iowa junior Milica Veselinovic 6-4, 6-1 to give Notre Dame its fourth point and the victory. 
"Christian played really well. She lost to (Veselinovic) in the fall. For her this was great to get the win," Louderback said. "She's been playing really well -smart and aggressive." 
The Irish jumped out to a 1­0 lead by sweeping the dou­bles matches. Combined, the three pairings (Thompson and senior Catrina Thompson, freshmen Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik, and junior Brook Buck and sophomore Kelcy Tefft) dropped only five 
see SHUTOUT/page 21 
HocKEY 

leers split with Ferris State 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Saturday night's 2-0 victory over Ferris State capped ofT a shocking 27-6-3 regular season for No. 1 Notre Dame after a disappointing loss Friday. The Irish were not on the nation-See Also 
a! radar at the "Banner means 
start of the year, but have so much more" · since earned 
page 21
the spotlight as perhaps the biggest surprise in the country. 
"I knew we were going to be better this year, but I thought 
see SPLIT/page 21 


LAURIE HUNTfThe Observer 

Irish right wing T.J. Jindra fights for the puck with Ferris State forward Corey Couturier during Notre Dame's 2-0 win Saturday. 

.....  WOMEN~S lACROSSE  MEN'S TENNIS  FENCING  SOFT~ AU.  MEN'S lACROSSE  BASEBAll  
Co):z::5c:s  Notre Dame 12 Stanford 11 For the second  Notre Dame 5 Michigan 2 The Irish handily top  Irish combine for 8-3 record Both the men's and  Palm SprinfsTournamen The team highlights  Notre Dame 11 Penn State 8 Michael Podgajny has  Irish finish 1-2 in Southeast Notre Dame wins one  
c:c  straight year, the Irish beat the Cardinal 12-11  Big 10 rival Michigan at the Eck Tennis Pavilion.  women's sides face tough teams at the  the trip with wins over Ole Miss and UNLV.  six points as the Irish win on the road.  of its three games at the weekend tournament in  
~  in double overtime.  Northwestern Duals.  Myrtle Beach, S.C.  
page 19  page 18  page 18  page 16  page 16  page 14  




