
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 114 THURSDAY. APRILS. 2007 

Fellowship rallies in honor of MLK, Jr. 
Demonstration also focuses on effects of Iraq war with speeches, Scripture 


By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Snow flurries did not deter the more than 40 students in the Notre Dame Peace Fellowship from rallying at the Oarke Memorial Fountain Wednesday to commemorate the 39th anniversary of the death of civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. 
The rally featured speeches on King's teachings and the war in Iraq, a recitation of facts -including the number of civilian deaths sustained in the conflict -and a Scripture reading and prayer service. 

Speakers also commemo­rated King's April 4, 1967 speech, "Beyond Vietnam: A Time to Break Silence." Organizers played a song composed of quotes from King's speeches and related them to the current conflict in Iraq. 
Sophomore Michael Angulo, an NDPF member, coordinat­ed the event. 
Calling King a "modem-day prophet," Angulo exhorted lis­teners to follow King's "legacy of faith, justice, service and 
see PROTEST/page 3 

Committee chairs approved for 07-08 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Liz Brown and vice president Maris Braun called their first Student Senate meeting to order Wednesday and encour­aged the new senators and committee chairs to actively engage in their administration. 
"I encourage you to always voice your point of view, no matter what. The point of Senate is to create conversa­tion and debate," Braun said. "Senate has the capability to get a lot done, and Liz and I would really like to see that happen this year." 
Before the meeting began, the new Senate Oversight com­mittee chair, Ian Secviar, led the senators through the 
process of introducing, dis­cussing and passing a mock resolution. 
The new senators then intro­duced themselves to each other, and Brown and Braun were sworn into office. 
As their first acts ·in office, the senators passed several items of new business, includ­ing the Student Senate bylaws for the 2007-08 term, a list of rules regarding policies and procedures in the Senate. 
The senators also unani­mously approved Brown's rec­ommendations for committee chairs. 
Carol Hendrickson, a junior in Breen-Phillips, will serve as Academic Affairs committee chair. 
Hendrickson told senators to 
see SENATE/page 4 

ND offers dining, religious options for Easter break 
Students remain on campus to avoid hassle 
By KATIE PERALTA News Writer 
With the extended Easter weekend a day away, stu­dents and faculty members are preparing for the holiday break. 
Students traveling home for the weekend will be flocking to the South Bend Regional Airport, busing to Chicago airports and loading up the trunks of their cars for the trip home. And for those who are staying on campus, the University provides a number of ways to celebrate Easter. 
Some students are glad to be heading home for the holi­day weekend -including freshman Mary Kusek, who will be traveling to Fond du Lac, Wis., to spend the Easter weekend with her family. 
''I'm excited to be going home because Easter is the one holiday where my whole extended family gets togeth­er." Kusek said. 
But with only two days off from school, traveling home is often time-consuming or expensive for students. Angela Amido, a freshman from Memphis, said she is staying on campus to avoid the hassle of making the trip home. 
"I think that Easter at [Notre Dame] would be a 
see EASTER/ page 4 
CHRIS MASSAD/The Observer Morrissey senator Greg Dworjan, left, listens during last week's Senate meeting. Next year's committee leaders were chosen Wednesday night. ' 

By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Not all students will be celebrating Holy Week by going to the Basilica Sunday for Easter Mass, but many who stay on campus will be taking advantage of the spiritual opportunities Notre Dame offers for the holiday. 
Catholics have a "duty" to attend Mass on Easter, said theology professor Father Paul Kollman. If possible, he said, Communion should also 

ERICSALES!TheObserver be received during the 
Students carry a cross Tuesday during a Easter season -the obli­
campus-wide Stations of the Cross. gation to receive 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
South Bend job m_arket in decline 
University takes spot as top area employer 
By EVA BINDA 
News Writer 
Indiana's continued loss of jobs in the first months of 2007 increases Notre Dame's role as a major employer in the South Bend area, a finance professor said. 
According to figures released March 30 by the 
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, Indiana lost 7,400 jobs in February 2007 after being one of only three states in 2006 to report a net loss in jobs -approximately 12,700. 
Ohio was the only state to report a larger job loss in February, with a decline of 9,700. 
Finance professor Jeffrey Bergstrand said the loss of jobs is "part of the overall trend" ~n many Midwest states because of the decline in the American manufactur­ing industry. Most of the jobs lost in Indiana came from the state's manufacturing and construction sectors, which have been struggling. 
Bergstrand said what is happening in Indiana "reflects a global trend" as workers move from produc­tion-related occupations to service-related jobs. 
This trend is affecting not only Indiana as a whole but also the immediate South Bend economy, he said. 
"Thirty years ago, manu­
see ECONOMY/page 4 

Basilica celebrates Holy Week traditions 
Communion once a year is known as the "Easter duty." 
Catholics are also encouraged to receive the sacrament of reconcilia­tion before Easter, although this is not required "unless one is in a state of mortal sin," Kollman said. 
Kollman cautioned, however, against viewing the Easter season in "legjllistic terms." 
"The liturgies of Holy Week are beautiful, and help prepare us for cele­brating the fullness of the risen Christ on Saturday 
see FAITH/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, April 5, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

No frills, no thrills 
Ever heard of the phrase "you get what you pay for?" It's a statement applicable to anything and everything, especially nowadays in the context of air travel. 
Recall the in­

Rohan Anand 
flight experience of yesteryear, 

News Wire 
when those who 

Editor 
could afford flying 
received luxurious 

service in return. You've seen the well­
groomed travelers spread out in reclin­
ing seats on TV Land, waited on by 
beautiful stewardesses. In those days of 
black-and-white television, flying was so 
classy that piano bars were on longer 
flights. 

But here we are in the post 9/11 era, where you're lucky enough to even receive a complimentary refreshment on board. With carriers burning through cash at a frightening rate, for them, the easiest way out of bankruptcy court is to slash ticket prices to get more people in the seats. Though appealing to the cost­conscious consumer, this means that quality service plunges with the airfares. 
Remember the ghastly bistro bag? It's history. Need a cocktail? Don't expect free booze, even on international flights. Pillows? Sorry, cleaning costs got them scrapped from domestic flights. 
And about those fares -you probably jumped at the offer of a $139 one way bid from L.A. to New York. Great, just get ready to be squeezed in a middle seat for a six-hour red-eye flight. Want the afternoon flight instead, or a win­dow/aisle seat? That's cool -just be prepared to cough up an additional $50 to $500. 
The nightmare continues, even with your feet still on the ground. Companies like Spirit Airlines now charge passen­gers $10 for each checked bag (up to two bags) and $100 for a third. Tardiness is 
• also a problem. A USA Today study con­cluded that the overall performance of 
U.S. airlines declined for the third con­secutive year in 2006. One in every three flights was delayed. 
In earnest, the airlines really can't afford to be trucking your butt cross country for less than $200 a seat. It's called "the stretching effect": Low markups cause financial woes and wage reductions, which spill over to poison labor relations. Poor morale among employees causes luggage mishandling, cancelled flights and bumped passen­gers. Ultimately, the customers find themselves on the receiving end, won­dering ifpaying discounted fares was worth the suffering. 
But any savvy passenger can still work the system. You can arrive early at the airport to change your seat assignment at no extra cost. Travel light to spare your personal items -and your wallet -from check-in fees. If your bag is lost or damaged, demand compensation to buy new items or have the airline replace your bag. 
Lastly, ifyour flight is overbooked and you can surrender your seat for a travel vouchers, do it! A standby passenger once coveted my seat so badly he pro­posed $1000 in cash ifI relinquished it to him. Unfortunately, my mom declined the offer for me, convinced that it was drug money. Drug money or not, that's ample cash to purchase an upgrade. 
Another note to self: Want flagship service? Travel separately from Mom. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due ro a reponing error, in the article "Irish srop slide with 7-3 vicrory" in the April4 edition ofThe Observer, Notre Dame catcher Ryan Smith was incorrectly called Matt Smith. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE EASTER TREAT? 



Mark Sullivan  Maureen Clark  Matthew Zell  
sophomore O'Neill  sophomore WelshFam  sophomore Dillon  
"Easter bunnies; because they lay Easter eggs."  "Solid milk chocolate Easter bunnies."  "Chocolate eggs, because they lay chocolate bunnies."  


Chris Esber  Allison Hickey  Brian Mahon  
sophomore Knott  sophomore WelshFam  sophomore Siegfried  
"/ like Peeps,  "Anything but  "Hollow  


because you only live once." 


ing," says her lawyer, David 
M. Baum. 

In the suit, Hindman claims that during a party at a Chicago bar and restau­rant in April 2006, David Prange grabbed her by the forearms and tossed her in the air, and then she erashed to the wood floor. 
Hindman said in the suit, filed in Cook County Circuit Court, that she suffered a fractured skull and brain injuries. She is seeking dam­ages for medieal bills and lost wages for time missed from work. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Couple fights to name baby 'Metallica' 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­Metallica may be a cool name for a heavy metal band, but a Swedish couple is struggling to convince offi­cials it is also suitable for a baby girl. 
Michael and Karolina Tomaro are locked in a court battle with Swedish authorities, whieh rejected their application to name their six-month-old child after the legendary rock band. 
"It suits her," Karolina Tomaro, 27, said Tuesday of the name. "She's decisive and she knows what she wants." 
Although little Metallica has already been baptized, the Swedish National Tax Board refused to register the name, saying it was associ­ated with both the rock group and the word "metal." 
Tomaro said the official handling the case also called the name "ugly." 
Chicago suit charges 'negligent dancing' 
CIIICAGO-A woman is suing her dance partner, claiming he dropped her on her head after flipping her into the air at an office party. 
Laeey Hindman, 22, was a victim of "negligent dane-
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...J 
ct 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 38
...I LOW 25 

28 25 


35 20 

36 17 


Peeps." chocolate 
Easter bunnies -but they have to be hollow." 
IN BRIEF 
The Lord's Supper Mass will be held today at 5 p.m. in the Basiliea of the Sacred Heart. 
Tenebrae service will be held tonight at 11 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will play against Duke University today at 4 p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium. 
Classes will not be held Friday through Monday in observance of the Easter holi­day. Classes will resume Tuesday. 
The Celebration of the Lord's Passion will be held at 3 p.m. Friday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Ben Hur will be shown as a silent fllm with piano accom­paniment by Dave Drazin on Friday at 7 p.m. in DPAC's Browning Cinema. The cost is $3 for students. 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team will play against the University of California Saturday at 1 p.m. in Moose Krause Stadium. 
The Paschal Vigil Mass to celebrate the Lord's passion will be held at 9 p.m. Saturday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Easter Mass will be held at 8 a.m., 10 a.m. and noon Sunday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
To submit information to be included ·in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


39 25 

48 
30 

Thursday, April 5, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
peace." 
"A<> he said in his speech against the Vietnam War, 'There comes a time when silence is betrayal,"' Angulo said of King. 
NDPF member Casey Stanton, a senior. addressed the obligations of Christians concerned about the war. 
"We call ourselves followers of Christ, but our actions in the world show we are more like a Judas," she said. "We should be more con­cerned about our brothers and sis­ters -innocent Iraqis ... and American soldiers." 
Angulo said Peace Fellowship members were "inspired" to hold the rally by the Catholic Worker demonstration in front of the Main Building March 26, during which several members of the Catholic Worker movement received arrest tickets by the Notre Dame Security/Police. 
"They came to campus to raise awareness about peace, but [peace activists are] already on campus," Angulo said. "We felt that we needed to do more to edu­cate people at Notre Dame." 
The decision to stage an event -which came after the Progressive Student Alliance's "Week of Action" in March -was also motivated by the strong turnout at the March 19 lecture by two Marine veterans on the Iraq war. 
"After 170 people came to see the veterans, we realized there was a desire on campus to have more dialog about what's going on in our country and in Iraq," Angulo said. 
Following Wednesday's rally, Angulo said the Peace Fellowship plans to continue its anti-war activism through inspiring "profes­sors to speak out against the war and have more dialogue" with the Reserve Officers' Training Corps. 
The Peace Fellowship has held several forums with ROTC leaders in the past. 
The rally was disturbed at one point by hecklers who called the participants "hippies" and told them to "go get high," but the shouts did not halt the proceed­ings. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
News correspondent to speak at lecture 
the Hesburgh Library at the
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame. 
Noted broadcast news corre-Woodruff, senior correspon­spondent and dent on "The Newsiiour with anchor Judy Jim Lehrer" on PBS, will Woodruff will examine the changing role of deliver the reporters in a talk titled "Are 2007 Red Journalists Obsolete?" The Smith Lecture event is free and open to the in Journalism public. at 7:30 p.m. Earlier this year, Woodruff April 12 in the returned to "The NewsHour," C a r e y L.._-~-'---_j where she reports from across Auditorium of Woodruff the United States, conducts 
studio interviews and serves 
THE POWER TO 
STOP 
G 

NO WAITING FOR MAIL-IN REBATES. AT SPRINT, ALL PHONE SAVINGS ARE INSTANT. 
Ultra-thin 
KATANA'M 
bySanyo® 
Built-in camera Available in 3 colors 
Bluetooth® technology GPS enabled 
$19.99 
Reg. $279.99 each 
Save $260 instantly 

MOTO OTM 
by Motorola ­
Thinnest QWERTY 
device available Windows Mobile Bluetooth® technology 
1.3MP Camera and Camcorder 
$99.99 
Reg. $449.99
Sprinf )k, POWER UP~ 
Save $350 instantly 
Offers require activation of a new line of service with a two-year subscriber agreement. 
SPRINT SlORES PREFERRED RETAILERS 
NILES,MI Basic Communications 

SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKASOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA STORE HOURS 
Martin's Plaza Grape Rd. at Indian Ridge Sun................ 12pm-5pm 
Sprint Store Express Sprint Store Express 
2010 S. 11th St. 

52991 SR993 Ste. B University Park Mall
203S South Bend Ave. South ofthe Mall Mon.-Fri. ........... 10am-8pm 
269·3S7·0000 

6501 Grape Rd.
574-243-8900

S74-277· 7727 across from McDonald's sat................. 9am-7pm 
574-277-4360
574-243-2100 Se habla Espaiiol 

''Rates exclude taxes & Sprint Fees (including USF charge of up to 2.26% that varies quarterly, cost recovery fees up to $2.83 per line, & state/local fees that vary by area). Sprint Fees are not taxes or government-required charges. Coverage not available everywhere. Available features & services will vary by phone/network. Nationwide Sprint PCS Networks reaches over 250 million people. Offers not avail­able in all markets. Additional terms & restrictions apply. Subject to credit. See store for details. Power Pack Plan: Offer ends 4/30/07. Includes 450 Anytime Min./month. Add'l Anytime Min.: $0.45/min. Nights: Mon-Thurs. 7pm -7am; Wknds: Fri. 7pm ·Mon. 7am. Partial min. charged as full min. A majority of minutes may not be used while roaming. Mobile-to-Mobile: Applies to calls placed between Sprint PCS & Nextel phones (not through voicemail, direct. assis., other indirect methods, or while roaming). Instant Savings: Taxes Excluded. Requires in-store purchase at a participating store and activation by 4/30/07. Savings cannot exceed total purchase price of phone(s). Business accounts exclud­ed. Phones Subject to availability. Service Plans: $200 early termination fee and up to a $36 activation fee apply to each line. A deposit may be required. Partial minutes are charged as full minutes. ©2007 Sprint Nextel. All rights reserved. Sprint logo is a trademark of Sprint Nextel. All other trademarks and imagery are property of their respective owners. 
as substitute anchor. From 1993 until 2005 she anchored the daily program "Inside Politics" on CNN. Prior to join­ing CNN, Woodruff was White House correspondent for NBC News and served as chief Washington correspondent for "The MacNeil/Lehrer Newsllour" on PBS. 
Woodruff has served as a visiting fellow at Duke University, of which she is a graduate, and Harvard University. Her interest in the political views of young people resulted in the recent PBS doc­umentary "Generation Next: Speak Up. Be Heard." She is currently working on a second "Generation Next" documen­tary, which will be broadcast later this year. 
Woodruff is the recipient of many journalism honors, including the 2002 Edward H. Murrow Award for continuing coverage of the Sept. 11 ter­rorist attacks and the 1997 News and Documentary Emmy Award for outstanding instant coverage of the Centennial Olympic Park bombing in Atlanta. In 1995 she won the CableACE award for Best Newscaster and in 1994 she was named the inaugural recipient of the National Women's Hall of Fame President's 21st Century Award. 
The Hed Smith Lecture in Journalism was established in 1983 to honor the sportswriter and 1927 Notre Dame gradu­ate Walter W. "Red" Smith, who won the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished criticism in 1976. At the time of his death in 1982, Smith was a colum­nist for The New York Times. 
The Smith Lectureship seeks to foster good writing and to recognize high journalistic standards. It is administered by Notre Dame's John W. 
Gallivan  Program  in  
Journalism,  Ethics  and  
Democracy.  Previous  Red  

Smith Lecturers include James Reston, James J. Kilpatrick, Art Buchwald, Charles Kuralt, Georgie Anne Geyer, Ted Koppel, Jim Lehrer and Frank McCourt. 
The series is made possible by a gift from John and Susan McMeel and Universal Press Syndicate. A South Bend native and 1957 Notre Dame graduate, John McMeel is chairman of Andrews McMeel Universal, the parent company of Universal Press Syndicate. He is a member of the adviso­ry council for Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters and a member of the advisory com­mittee of the Gallivan Program. 
Universal Press Syndicate, which is based in Kansas City, will publish Woodruffs lecture and distribute it to several thousand journalists and edu­cators. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 5, 2007 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
expect a resolution from her committee on new locations for the College Readership Program, and said she wants to explore ideas about releas­ing the results of Teacher Course Evaluations (TCEs) to students so they can see how professors have been rated. 
Colin Feehan, a junior cur­rently studying abroad in London, will serve as the Community Relations chair when he returns in the fall. 
Braun will chair this commit­tee in the interim. 
Karen Koski, a sophomore in Walsh, will serve as the Social Concerns committee chair. Koski took over the position from Sheena Plamoottil, who is now the chief executive assistant. 
Koski said she wants her committee to take a "multi­faceted approach" to make students aware of social con­cerns issues and give them the chance to give back to the community. 
Patrick Tighe, a freshman in Keough, and Brenna Doyle, a junior in Welsh Hall, will 
serve as the co-chairs for the Gender Issues committee. Doyle is currently studying abroad in London. 
Mariana Montes, a junior in Lyons, will chair the Residence Life committee. Montes has served on the Residence Life and the Multicultural Affairs commit­tees for the past two years. 
Callie Pogge, a junior from Badin, will serve as University Affairs committee chair. Pogge said her commit­tee will "discuss issues that apply directly to the mission of the University." 
Secviar, a freshman in 
Knott, will chair the Oversight committee. Former Oversight chair Chris Hollon told the new senators that while this committee might sound "really dry," it was probably "the committee with the most excitement last year." 
Lai-Nin Wan, a junior in McGlinn, will serve as the Multicultural Affairs commit­tee chair. Her committee will work on cultural competency issues and the recruitment and retention of minority fac­ulty members over the com­ing year. 
Senators submitted their 
committee preference to Plamoottil, and they will be placed on committees at the next Senate meeting. 
In other Senate news: 
+ The Senate unanimously passed three resolutions hon­oring Lizzi Shappell, Bill Andrichik and Brown by giv­ing them emeritus status for their positions last year as student body president, vice president and chief executive assistant, respectively. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Faith 
continued from page 1 
when we receive new mem­bers into the Church through Baptism during the Easter Vigil," he said. 
Brett Perkins, Campus Ministry director of Protestant student resources, said Protestants are extend­ed a "special invitation to join the Notre Dame commu­nity" to celebrate Easter, but the efforts to include these students are not extraordi­nary. 
"Campus Ministry doesn't focus on being interdenomi­national this week because it's so special for the Catholic faith," Perkins said. 
Perkins said many 

Protestant students attend services during the Triduum -Holy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter Sunday ­days when the Church reflects on the Last Supper, and the Crucifixion and Resurrection of Christ. 
"Protestant students will attend Mass, but are more likely to attend non­Eucharistic services like Stations of the Cross on Good Friday or the office of Tenebrae, night prayer cele­brated at 11 p.m. on Holy Thursday," Perkins said. 
No dorm liturgies will be offered during Holy Week, in part to foster community among all students, Perkins said. 
Protestant and Orthodox students who wish to attend a local Protestant church for 
Easter can find a ride said. through Campus Ministry on Many students are cele­an individual basis, Perkins brating Easter on campus, said. such as junior Katie Ottolini, 
All students who plans to who do not go attend servic­home for es in the Easter are Basilica on 
encouraged to "/ don't mind having to Good Friday 
attend servic­go to the Basilica -I and Easter. es on campus ''I'd go on
enjoy being part ofthe 
to further H o I y
greater ND community. " 
enhance the Thursday, but "community I have to take celebration" a practice
Katie Ottollni 
of the holiday, MCAT," she
junior
Perkins said. said. "I don't 
I r o n mind having Sharpens to go to the Iron, the Basilica -I interdenominational fellow­enjoy being part of the ship group, will not meet at greater ND community." its normal time today "out of Some students prefer to respect for the Triduum and celebrate Easter at home, by campus rule," Perkins such as sophomore Jonathan 
Poelhuis, an evangelical non­denominationa! Protestant. 
"''ll go home to Paradise, Ind., and attend services on Friday and Sunday with my congregation," Poelhuis said. 
Poelhuis said the Catholic focus of Notre Dame has not deterred his personal cele­bration of Holy Week, espe­cially because Catholicism exposed him to previously unknown traditions. 
"Last year I participated in campus-wide Stations of the Cross. It was neat because it's something [Protestants] don't have," he said. "I like Notre Dame because I can do and learn about spiritual things that I'm not exposed to at home." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 

Easter 
continued from page 1 
really nice experience," Amido said. 
For those who are staying, North and South Dining Halls will remain open for the dura­tion of the break, though with a modified schedule. As they have been doing for all Fridays in Lent, both will serve a non­meat menu on Good Friday, while South Dining Hall will offer a special Easter buffet Sunday from noon until 4 p.m., complete with a traditional roasted lamb, hors d'oeuvres and a variety of desserts. 
The restaurants in LaFortune will remain open for a small portion of the break. Burger King and Sbarro will be closed on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and Starbucks will be closed on Saturday and Sunday. The Huddle Mart and Subway will be closed only on Sunday. 
The Hesburgh Library will stay open for those students looking to get some work done over the holiday weekend. It will keep its traditional hours on Friday and Saturday, but will be closed entirely on Sunday. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart offers several Masses to celebrate Holy Week. A cele­bration of the Last Supper will take place in the Basilica tonight at 5. On Good Friday there will be a celebration of the Lord's Passion in the Basilica at 3 p.m., followed later by the Stations of the Cross at the Basilica at 7:15. On Holy Saturday, the Great Paschal Vigil will be held at 9 
p.m.. and the week culminates with Easter Sunday Masses at 8 a.m., 10 a.m., noon and 9 p.m. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
before. 
Locally, St. Joseph County ranked No. 47 out of 92 in a list of unemployment by county, reporting a 5.6 per­cent jobless rate. 
The national unemploy­ment rate for 2006 was 4.6 percent, according to U.S. Department of Labor Statistics. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 

Economy 
continued from page 1 
facturing was dominant [in the South Bend economy]. A minority was employed in service related industries," Bergstrand said. "There has been a lot of growth in terms of financial services as well as growth of jobs in health care." 
Today, the majority of jobs in the area are service-relat­ed, and South Bend has become a regional center for health services, he said. 
Although Notre Dame has long been pivotal to the South Bend economy, Bergstrand said, the University now bears an even larger burden as the largest employer in the area. Add to that the jobs at hotels, restaurants and 
other businesses brought by Notre Dame, and the University's economic impact only grows. 
There was some good news, however, from employment data released Monday by the Indiana Department of Workplace Development. The state's seasonally adjusted unem­ployment rate was 5.3 per­cent in February 2007, down from 5.8 percent the month 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, April 5, 2007 CoMPILED FROiv~ THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pelosi meets with Syrian leader 
DAMASCUS -House Speaker Nancy Pelosi challenged the White House on Middle East policy Wednesday, meeting with Syria's leader and insisting "the road to Damascus is a road to peace." 
That brought a sharp attack from the Bush administration, which has rejected direct talks with Damascus until its changes its ways. 
Washington accuses Syria of backing Hamas and Hezbollah, two groups it deems terrorist organizations. It also says Syria is fueling Iraq's violence by allowing Sunni insurgents to operate from its territory and is destabilizing Lebanon's government. Syrian government officials have been implicated in the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese premier Rafik Hariri in Beirut. 
Ukrainian politics erupts in protests 
KIEV -Thousands of supporters of Ukraine's Russian-leaning prime minister marched Wednesday to the office of the pro­Western president, protesting a presidential order to hold early elections. 
President Viktor Yushchenko on Monday night ordered parliament dissolved, and he called new elections for May 27, plunging Ukraine into its most serious political crisis since the 2004 Orange Revolution. 
Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych has called Yushchenko's decision illegal and appealed to the 18-judge Constitutional Court. 
Yanukovych's supporters have taken over the main Independence Square in downtown Kiev. Elderly people wearing red scarves in support of Yanukovych's coalition partner, the Communists, danced, while younger sup­porters sat on the edge of fountains and lounged on nearby grass. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Officers seize, give away tickets 
ST. LOUIS -Fifteen members of the St. Louis police department were disciplined Wednesday, after officers seized World Series tickets from scalpers and gave them to friends and family. 
St. Louis Police Chief Joe Mokwa suspend­ed eight officers without pay for two weeks for giving away the Cardinals tickets, which should have been stored as evidence. He recommended their rank be reduced for at least a year. They could lose up to $20,000 each in pay. 
A lieutenant and three sergeants also await punishment for failure to supervise. Another three officers will be disciplined for violating an internal procedure. 
U.S. terrorist seeks lighter sentence 
SAN FRANCISCO -The lawyer and par­ents of American-born Taliban soldier John Walker Lindh asked President Bush on Wednesday to commute his 20-year prison term, citing the case of an Australian man who was sentenced to less than a year for aiding terrorism. 
Lindh, 26, was captured in Afghanistan in November 2001 by American forces sent to topple the Taliban after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. He was charged with conspiring to kill Americans and support terrorists but pleaded guilty to lesser offenses, including carrying weapons against U.S. forces. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Same-sex marriage ban shut down 
INDIANAPOLIS -The defeat of a proposed constitutional ban on gay marriage was a cal­culated political move by top House Democrats, some Republicans said Wednesday as they suggested the issue could hurt Democrats in the next election. 
House Minority Leader Brian Bosma, R­Indianapolis, said House Speaker Patrick Bauer orchestrated the proposal's demise in the House Rules Committee, which on Tuesday voted 5-5 on a resolution supporting a consti­tutional amendment to ban gay marriage. 
Bauer said he did let the process move for­ward. 
IRAN 

British detainees set to be released 
Sailors, marznes pardoned as Easter gift, says President Ahmadinejad 
Associated Press 

TEHRAN -President  
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  
defused a growing con­ 
frontation with Britain,  
announcing the surprise  
release of 15 captive  
British sailors Wednesday  
and then gleefully accept­ 
ing the crew's thanks and  
handshakes in what he  
called an Easter gift.  
British Prime Minister  
Tony Blair expressed "pro­ 
found relief" over the  
peaceful end to the 13-day  
crisis. "Throughout we  
have taken a measured  
approach -firm but  
calm, not negotiating, but  
not confronting either,"  
Blair said in London,  
adding a message to the  
Iranian people that "we  
bear you no ill will."  
The announcement in  
Tehran was a break­ 
through in a crisis that  
had escalated over nearly  
two weeks, raising oil  
prices and fears of mili­ 
tary conflict in the volatile  
region. The move to  
release the sailors sug­ 
gested that Iran's hard­ 
line leadership decided it  
had shown its strength but  
did not want to push the AP  
standoff too far. The 15 released British sailors wave to the media in Tehran, Iran Wednesday. Their  
Iran did not get the main release was dubbed an Easter gift by Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 
thing it sought -a public  
apology for entering  Damascus, trying to show  firmed they were in good  tured.  
Iranian waters. Britain,  that a U.S. dialogue with  health, Britain's Foreign  Ahmadinejad then  
which said its crew was in  Syria -rejected by the  Office said.  declared that even though  
Iraqi waters when seized,  Bush administration - Ahmadinejad timed the  Iran had the right to put  
insists it never offered a  could bring benefits for  announcement so as to  the Britons on trial, he  
quid pro quo, either,  the Middle East. The  · make a dramatic splash,  had "pardoned" them to  
instead relying on quiet  British sailors were not  springing it halfway  mark the March 30 birth­ 
diplomacy.  part of their talks, and it  through a two-hour news  day of the Prophet  
Syria, Iran's close ally,  was not clear if the  conference.  Muhammad and the com­ 
said it played a role in  release was timed to coin­ The president first gave  ing Easter holiday.  
winning the release.  cide with her visit.  a medal of honor to the  "This pardon is a gift to  
"Syria exercised a sort of  Iran's official news  commander of the Iranian  the British people," he  
quiet diplomacy to solve  agency said the British  coast guards who cap­ said.  
this problem and encour­ crew was to leave Iran by  tured the Britons, and  After the news confer­ 
age dialogue between the  plane on Thursday at 8  admonished London for  ence, Iranian television  
two parties," Syrian  a.m. By Wednesday  sending a mother, Leading  showed a beaming  
Foreign Minister Walid al­ evening they had still not  Seaman Faye Turney, on  Ahmadinejad on the steps  
Moallem said in  been handed over to the  such a dangerous mission  of the presidential palace  
Damascus.  British Embassy in Tehran  in the Persian Gulf.  shaking hands with the  
The announcement of  and the embassy said it  He said the British gov­ Britons -some towering  
the release came hours  was not clear where they  ernment was "not brave  over him. The men were  
after U.S. House Speaker  would spend the night.  enough" to admit the crew  decked out in business  
Nancy Pelosi met with  Britain's ambassador met  had been in Iranian  suits and Turney wore an  
President Bashar Assad in  with the sailors and con- waters when it was cap- Islamic head scarf.  

Archives intern convicted of stealing 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA -A 40-year-old intern with the National Archives pleaded guilty Wednesday to stealing 164 Civil War documents, including an official announcement of President Lincoln's death, and put­ting most of them up for sale on eBay. 
Prosecutors said Denning McTague, who has master's degrees in history and library science, put about 150 of the documents online and had shipped about half of them. 
All but three of the items, worth an estimated $30,000 in all, have since been recovered. 
McTague told investigators that he used a yellow legal pad to sneak the documents out while working at the National Archives and Records Administration last summer. As an unpaid intern, lie had been responsi­ble for arranging and organizing doc­uments in preparation for the upcoming 150th anniversary of the Civil War. 
A Gettysburg company that pub­lishes books on the Civil War spotted some of the items on eBay and alert­ed authorities last fall, officials said. 
The stolen Civil War-era documents included telegrams concerning the troops' weaponry, the War Department's announcement of Lincoln's death sent to soldiers, and a letter from famed cavalryman James 
Ewell Brown Stuart, prosecutors said. 
McTague pleaded guilty to one fed­eral count of stealing government property. He could receive up to 10 years in prison and a $250,000 fine when he is sentenced July 12, but federal sentencing guidelines call for much less. 
Paul Brachfeld, inspector general for the National Archives, said the documents are invaluable and getting them back was not easy, especially since some had been sold overseas. 
The buyers, mostly history buffs, surrendered the documents after learning they were stolen. Prosecutors said they could get some reimbursement from McTague. 
I 
•
t 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 

BIBLIOPHILES REJOICE: BARGAIN BOOKS GALORE! 
Monday through Saturday, 
April9-14 
8am-9pm 

Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
All bargain book & bargain audio book titles are 
UNDER$10! 

HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 
BOOKSTORE 

IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcalalog.com 

------l
.. 
Thursday, April 5, 2007 
BELGIUM 

World leaders discuss global clitnate change 
Associated Press 

BHUSSELS -Scientists and diplomats from more than 120 countries debated the urgency of changes in the Earth's eli­mate Wednesday as they tried to finaliz<·\ a report on global .warming that will guide policy­makers for decades to come. 
In dosed-door meetings, the delegates argued over revisions in the 21-pagn drall text, in one ease making changes to high­light how global warming will reduee stapl0 erops in countries such as China and India. where millions of pnopln could go hun­gry. 
The eonfnrence is due to release the report by Friday. The text is a synopsis of a more than 1 ,400-page assnssment by the lntnrgovernmental Panel on Climate Change, with contribu­tions by more than 1,000 cli­mate expnrts, on the impact of global warming and the vulner­abilitins of eeonomies, ecosys­tems and human health. 
It will be presentnd at a Group of Eight leaders summit in June in Germany, during which the European Union will press President Bush to sign on to international talks to cut emis­sions. 
The report also will be the basis for a conference in December in Indonesia to set an international framework for controlling the emissions of ear­bon dioxide after 2012, the expiry date of the Kyoto Protocol, which mandates emis­sion curbs for industrial coun­tries. 
The United States, which has refused to coordinate action to curb greenhouse gas emissions with other countries, was play­ing a low-key role in Brussels so far, said delegates on condition of anonymity bneause they were not authorized to speak to the media. 
Delegates said the talks were going slowly. with disputes over the level of confidence attached to the statement. Some coun­tries wanted the wording either toned down or the lnvel of cer­tainty reduced. delegates said. The issue was handed to a smaller "contact group" to resolve. 
"We have madP too little progress so far." said Hans Verolme of the World Wildlife Fund for Nature. who is attend­ing the sessions. "We want to make sure that what comes out in the end is crisp, well struc­tured and understandable to the layman." 
h.T.M. Sutamihardja, a dele­gate from Indonesia. said one difficulty was juggling the inter­ests of each country in weighing the impact of climate change. 
"If we want to include every­thing, we would need a bigger map," he told The Associated Press outside the conference room. 
The report stresses that cli­mate changes will have a more devastating impact on poor countries -and poorer citizens within rich eountries -because they are less capable of adapt­ing to shifts in weather patterns. 
Many of the regions expected to be most affected already suf­fer severe water shortages and hunger, which will only get worse, the final report is to say, while some parts of North America and Europe will benefit in the short-term from milder winters and longer growing sea­sons. 
The text is the second of four reports by the climate change panel. The first. issued in February, updated the science of climate change, concluding with near certainty that global warming is caused by human behavior. 

Glocksen latest to kiss 'Idol' stage goodbye 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Gina Glocksen, who had her share of good and bad "American Idol" moments, kissed the show goodbye Wednesday, becoming the latest casualty in viewer voting. 
The exit of Glocksen, 22, of Naperville, Ill., trimmed the number of finalists to eight. The winner will be chosen in May. 
Judge Randy Jackson had said on Tuesday's program that Glocksen -the show's resident rocker girl, with her red high­lights and all-black outfits­gave a "nice, controlled per­formance" of the classic song "Smile." 
His colleague Simon Cowell, who has griped that Glocksen was not in the same league as other finalists, sported a frown. 
Glocksen let out a sob when she heard the result but man­aged to sing through her tears while performing on "Idol" for the last time. 
Haley Scarnato and Phil Stacey had the next-lowest vote tallies in the phone balloting, which drew about 33 million calls and text messages. 
Scarnato, 24, of San Antonio, is not opposed to showing a lit­tle skin on "Idol." Though Cowell derided her take on "Ain't Misbehavin"' as a bit "pageant-y," he applauded her "nice legs." 
Cowell said Stacey's perform­ance of "Night and Day" was too dark and dreary, while Tony Bennett -this week's venera­ble guest coach -heaped praise on the 29-year-old Floridian, calling him one of the best singers he's heard. 
Wednesday's program also featured a performance by Michael Buble, who sang "Call Me Irresponsible." 
Among this week's survivors were favorites Melinda Doolittle, LaKisha Jones and Jordin Sparks. Sanjaya Malakar -the stringbean teen who's anything but a judges' favorite but still manages to rack up viewer votes -also made it through. 
In its sixth season, "American Idol" continues to rule the rat­ings. It has attracted 26 million to 37 million viewers per tele­cast this season. 

THE 0HSERVER 
USINESS
Thursday, April 5, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,530.05 +19.75
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,758 163 1,463 2,645,323,674 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
FIRST DATA CP (FDC)  -0.15  -0.05  32.28  
NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ)  +0.41  +0.18  44.34  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  +1.21  +0.07  5.86  
S&P RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.11  +0.16  143.85  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.26  -0.012  4.652  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.905  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.02  -0.00 I  4.845  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.44  -0.020  4.542  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.26  64.38  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +7.70  677.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.45  99.83  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.6050  
EURO  0. 7476  
POUND  0.5060  
CANADIAN$  1.1594  

IN BRIEF 
NM residents vote on space attraction 
UPHAM, N.M. -Billionaire Richard Branson looks at a bleak and featureless expanse of the New Mexico desert and sees the perfect spot on which to build the future -a $198 million launch complex that would · blast paying tourists into space. 
Whether enough folks around here share his vision remains to be seen. 
Spaceport America, as sketched out by Branson, would be funded by $198 million in state, local and federal money. The first rocket flights would be in 2009 and would initially be suborbital trips that would offer five minutes of weightlessness at about $200,000 per per­son. Eventually, the spaceport could offer trips into orbit and beyond. 
But in poor southern New Mexico's ranching country, some say they have no intention of paying for some rich people's thrills. 
Branson has said he chose the southern New Mexico desert as a launch site because of the weather, the large expanse of open desert and the support of the state. 
Airline business to pick up profits 
SINGAPORE -After six years of losing money, the global airline business is expected to be profitable in 2007, a top aviation official said Wednesday, and Asia will spearhead the industry's future growth. 
By 2010, Asia will become the world's largest aviation market, accounting for one-third of the world's air traffic, said Giovanni Bisignani, the International Air Transport Association's director general and chief executive. 
"Aviation is the world's most exciting indus­try and Asia is the region that is going to drive it forward," Bisignani said in a lecture. "Asia's growing importance is clearly defming a new leadership role in all aspects of the industry." 
Bisignani said the Geneva-based lATA, the governing body that regulates international air transport, expects the global airline industry to make a combined net profit of $3.8 billion this year. 
The industry had suffered six years of losses, amounting to more than $40 billion over that time, as airlines were hit a lull in travel after the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, high jet fuel prices and health scares like SARS. 
Companies pursue new approach 
EMC's 'Mod Squad' seeks to inform struggling borrowers, not foreclose on homes 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -As home foreclosures mount. mort­gage companies are knocking on doors, send­ing letters and making phone ealls with a simple message for struggling homeowners: They'd rather modify your loan than foreclose. 
EMC Mortgage Corp., which has a $78 billion loan portfolio that includes subprime loans made to homeowners with weak credit, this week launched a 50-person team it calls "the Mod Squad." Members will spend an unlimited time on the phone with troubled bor­rowers, sifting through their bills to compute a workable monthly pay­ment. In an industry that often rewards workers for getting off the phone quickly, the team is preparing to speak to just three people a day. 
"You can't just run this like a call center; it needs to be run like a counseling center," said John Vella, president and CEO of EMC. Right now, $2.14 billion in mortgages, 2.7 4 percent of EMC's portfolio, is in default, up from 1.93 per­cent a year ago. 
Lenders have long modi­fied loans for homeowners loans hitting lenders' Vienna, Va. the people in foreclosure
facing job loss, illness, 
books -is an open ques­Loose lending standards never talk to their bankerdivorce or a death in the tion. followed by lax modifica­before losing their house,family. But with many bor­
Regulators will be tions can merely delay a and many could rework 
rowers across the eountry watching to see how many problem, Lawler said. He their loans if they only got struggling to keep up with are suceessful, said Susan pointed to the raft of modi­help.
mortgage payments, mort­Wachter, a professor of fications done in the man­"It's tragic," said Colleen 
gage companies inereas­real estate and finance at ufactured housing busi­Hernandez, president of
ingly are prodding anyone 
the University of ness in the mid 1990's, the nonprofit Home
who's having trouble mak­
Pennsylvania's Wharton when easy credit led to a Ownership Preservation
ing payments for any rea­School of Business. wave of defaults and Foundation. "We have the son to give them a call. 
The scant public infor­reposessions. capacity to help a wholeCritics say lenders made 
mation on modifications "If people had known lot more people."
loans to borrowers who 
makes evaluation tricky, what the servieers were Calls to her group have
weren't creditworthy with 
said Thomas Lawler. The doing, red flags would picked up markedly. Its
terms that would be 
former chief economist at have been raised; but by 24-hour hotline, (888)
impossible for them to 
Fannie Mae now runs his the time people knew what 995-4673, is getting 300meet. Whether the current own consulting business, was going on, It was too calls a day, from 7 5 daily
wave of workouts will 
Lawler Economic & late," he said. in the first quarter ofmerely postpone foreclo­
Housing Consulting, in Advocates say that half 2006. 
sures -and delay bad 

Bridgestone awaits USW ratification 
Associated Press approved, they will expire on July 18, with USW, Bridgestone went back to 
2009. negotiating with the union in January, 
NASHVILLE The United The plants include Akron, Ohio; according to Bridgestone spokesman Steelworkers union said Wednesday Noblesville, Ind.; Des Moines, Iowa; Dan MacDonald. that it has reached a tentative con­Russellville, Ark.; La Vergne, Tenn., Goodyear is third among the world's tract agreement with tiremaker and Oklahoma City. biggest tiremakers after Japan's Bridgestone Firestone North Workers at the Warren County, Bridgestone Corp. and France's Group American Tire covering workers at six Tenn., and Bloomington, Ill., plants Michelin. 
U.S. plants, including one in Indiana. are considering individual contract Bridgestone Firestone North 
The union said it wanted to brief its offers that eover workers there. American Tire, a subsidiary of members on the agreement reaehed Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. work­Bridgestone Corp., is based in Tuesday night and did not disclose ers at 12 plants in 10 states ended a Nashville, Tenn. terms of the deal in a news release. three-month strike in December by The company said in a released 
"The tentative agreement and con­approving a three-year agreement statement that "it's been our goal tract proposals follow the pattern covering 14,000 employees. The deal throughout this process to achieve established in the BF Goodrieh and included plans to close a Texas tire contracts that are in the best interests Goodyear contracts," said USW factory and creates a $1 billion health of both parties and allow our eompa­Executive Vice President Ron Hoover care fund for retirees. nies to participate successfully in a of the union's Rubber and Plastic Goodyear said the pact will help fiercely competitive market." Industry Conference. reduce its costs by $610 million over "We now look forward to the union 
The union said that workers at the three years and $300 million a year membership's ratification vote, a six plants will vote on the contracts on thereafter. process which will likely take several April 25. If the contracts are After Goodyear settled its contract days," the statement said. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 5, 2007 
ZIMBABWE 

Nationalllledia prints threat on Briton's life 

AP A normally busy road in Harare is quiet on the second day of a national strike Wednesday in Zimbabwe's capital. 
Associated Press 

HARARE-Zimbabwe's state­run newspaper appeared to threaten a British diplomat it accused of supporting govern­ment opponents on Tuesday, sug­gesting on its front page that she could be welcomed home "in a body bag" if she persisted. 
Britain immediately summoned the Zimbabwean ambassador in London to explain the article in th.e Herald, calling the threats "shocking and absolutely unac­ceptable." 
Tensions in Zimbabwe have been high since police violently broke up a prayer meeting last month, detaining and severely beating the country's most promi­nent opposition leader and other members of the Movement for Democratic Change. President Robert Mugabe has warned opponents they will be "bashed" again ifthey incite unrest and has threatened to expel Western diplomats if they meddle in local politics. 
Trucks of riot police drove through Zimbabwe's capital and military helicopters flew over­head Tuesday on the first day of a national strike to protest deepen­ing economic hardships blamed on Mugabe's government. 
On Tuesday, the Herald news­paper made what seemed like a death threat against British Embassy political officer Gillian Dare, calling her the "the purse holder and financier" of an alleged terror campaign by the Movement for Democratic Change. 
"It will be a pity for her family to welcome her home at Heathrow Airport in a body bag just like some of her colleagues from Iraq and Afghanistan," said an article on the newspaper's front page. 
Dare, "labeled in some sections of the media as a British spy, could one day be caught in the crossfire as she plays night nurse to arrested MDC hooligans," the newspaper said. 
A British Foreign Office spokes­woman called the threats "shock­ing and absolutely unacceptable" and said Zimbabwe's ambassa­dor was called to a meeting in London with Permanent Undersecretary Peter Ricketts, who "emphasized that we expect Zimbabwe to offer protection to our diplomats." 
Dare remained at the embassy working as normal, she said, speaking on the government's customary condition of anonymi­ty. 
During Tuesday's strike, sol­diers armed with automatic rifles stood at intersections in Harare's main industrial district where some factory gates were closed, along with several banks, shops and fast food stands. Most down­town shops were open, and com­muter buses were full of passen­gers. 
Zimbabwe's main trade unions called the two-day strike to protest an economic crisis that has brought 80 percent unem­ployment, the world's highest inflation rate -1, 700 percent ­and acute shortages of food, hard currency and gasoline. 
Labor unions planned no street demonstrations for fear of pro­voking police action. 
Mugabe's crackdown dissent has brought international con­demnation, though he received a boost last week when southern African leaders publicly backed him at a summit. 
He has blamed the economic crisis on sanctions imposed by Britain, the United States and other Western countries. Western governments say the sanctions, including asset freezes and a travel ban on Mugabe and 100 of his top associates don't hurt most Zimbabweans. 
The Congress of Trade Unions blames the meltdown Zimbabwe's worst since inde­pendence in 1980 -on govern­ment corruption and mismanage­ment. Mugabe's government dis­rupted the agriculture-based economy in 2000 with violent seizures of white-owned com­mercial farms, part of a program to redistribute land to poor blacks. 
Military helicopters swooped over downtown Harare in a show of force and later flew over the nearby Epworth township. Water canon and trucks of riot police drove through the city center. Four trucks carrying soldiers were seen headed to the south­ern town of Chitungwiza. 
Executives at one Harare engi­neering plant said its workers planned to ignore the strike because the lunch provided in the canteen was the only daily meal they could rely on. Other Workers feared their pay would be with­held. 
An electrical store kept one of its main entrances shut, a prac­tice seen in previous strikes enabling businesses to close hur­riedly in case of unrest. 
"It's patchy, but it looks like a military occupation down here," said a factory owner in eastern Harare who asked not to be iden­tified. "We've left it to our people to decide what to do. A few haven't arrived." 
Police ordered township shops and bars to close early Monday evening as paramilitary police were deployed and water can­nons patrolled. 
THIS GRADUATION DAY GIVE A GIFT OF A LIFETII\iJE OF l'v'lEI'v'lORIES 
SCEI\JES lf\JCLUDE: THE GOLDEN DOME ADORM THE STADIUM THE GROTTO AND 43 OTH EPt 
SCE~,JES 
lf\JCLUDif,JG SAI~,JT MARY'S COLLEGE 

EACH HANDCOLOR ED PRINT COMES IN AN 11 X14 DOUBLE MAT $37.50 PLUS SHIPPING 
KEf'-J DAVID WATERCOLORS 3680 I'~E 15TH TERRACE POMPAf'JO BEACH, FL 33064 954.782.3924 
FOR COLOR PICTURES OF ALL SCEf'-JES VISIT MY STORE, GOOGLE, e-Bay stores notred anecollecitbles: Category 1 a1d clink on link · Satisfaction GJ aanteed or your money back. 



UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
COLLEG.E OF ARTS AND LETTERS 
Invites Nominations for the 
bee y ward 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Stuart Greene Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 104 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, April 9, 2007 

Thursday, April 5, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 

IT's NEVER Too EARLY ... oR Too LATE. 
' ', z • 
' ' ~ ,, ' 
Investing for your future is more important than ever. 
Our Investment Services Center will help you make the investments that are right for you. 
Contact us today for your FREE Investment Consultation! 
lnl'estment Services Center located at: 
lll West Edison Road 

1!4. NOTRE DAME 
Mishawaka, IN 46545 

~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/254-4416 • '"'ww.ndfcu.org 
CORE COUNCIL 
FOR GAY &lESBIAN
STUDENTS 
University Resources for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students 
The Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students 
(Information, education, and resources) Contact: Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, 1-5550, or Andy Magee, amagee@.nd.edu 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; discussion and support) Contact: Fr. Joe Carey, CSC, at 1-7800 
University Counseling Center 

(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu 
Visit our web site at 
http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ 


SOLOMON ISLANDS 

Diseases break out in refugee camps 
Associated Press 

MUNDA -Diarrhea has broken out among children huddled in camps of tsunami survivors in the Solomon Islands, a Red Cross official said Wednesday -the first worrying sign that thou­sands of people who lost their homes in the waves may be at risk of disease. 
International aid was slow to trickle in to survivors, particularly in the hardest­hit town of Gizo in the west­ern Solomons. At least 2,000 people spent a third unshel­tered night on a hillside near Gizo following Monday's earthquake and ocean surge. 
A New Zealand military transport plane unloaded an aid package of tarps, water and food rations in the town of Munda late Tuesday, fol­lowing a shipment of similar supplies delivered earlier by a police patrol boat. Six doctors and 15 nurs­es reached 
"What we are
Gizo on ditions at Wednesday. experiencing right now Gizo are 
A n in some ofthe campsites such that 
Australian these are 
air force is children starting to 
likely things transport experience diarrhea. " to happenplane left unless S y d n e y action is
Nancy Jolo
before dawn taken quick­
Red Cross
Thursday 

loaded with humanitarian relief sup­plies bound for the Solomons, a Defense Department official said. 
On Wednesday, a supply boat left the capital of Honiara for the 10-hour journey to Gizo, but two oth­ers were delayed because provisions could not be found in the capital to fill them, chief government spokesman Alfred Maesulia said. 
Frustrations were starting to show among survivors, many of whom fled the tsunami with whatever sup­plies they could carry. 
"There's no water to wash, no water to drink," said Esther Zekele, who fled the tsunami waves with her hus­band and five children. The single sack of rice they brought to higher ground was half-empty, and no aid officials had come to their makeshift camp. 
"We are just waiting, won­dering why they haven't come," she said. 
Getting aid to destroyed villages further afield could take at least two more days because of damaged roads, airstrips and wharves. 
"We have not reached peo­ple as soon as we could ... because of the widespread nature of this particular dis­aster," said Fred Fakarii, chairman of the National Disaster Management Council. 
Making things worse, many canoes and other boats were washed away or destroyed, and fuel was con­taminated with sea water, Western Province Premier Alex Lokopio said. 
At least 28 people were killed when waves up to 16 feet high smashed into the western Solomons following a magnitude-8.1 undersea quake. No significant tsuna­mi waves were reported anywhere outside the impov­erished islands, located northeast of Australia in the South Pacific. 
Red Cross official Nancy Jolo said the risk of disease was rising in the largest refugee camp located near Gizo. 
"What we are experiencing right now in some of the campsites is children start­ing to experience diarrhea," Jolo told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio. 
Fakarii said medical staff in Gizo had been over­whelmed by injuries and feared diseases such as diar­rhea, cholera and malaria could break out because of the unhygienic conditions 
and lack of 
clean water 
and fresh 
food. 
"The con­
ly," Fakarii 
told The 
Associated 
Press. 

Survivors terrified by the more than 50 jolts that have struck the region since Monday's quake -including several regis­tering magnitude 6 or stronger -were afraid to come down from the hills where they had taken refuge, said deputy police commissioner Peter Marshall. 
At one camp near Munda town, people perched on a hilltop peered out to sea with binoculars keeping watch for another deadly wave. 
''I'm too scared to go home," said Winnie Tava, 32, whose house was nearly destroyed by the tremor. She and her husband grabbed their three small children and a few belongings and headed for higher ground, where they were joined by about 40 other families. 
The family sleeps on a plastic sheet under a tarpau­lin stretched between two wooden poles. They have a single aluminum pot for cooking rice, and a kerosene lantern. 
"When there's no more kerosene, no more light," she said. 
Authorities said they were somewhat relieved that aeri­al surveillance flights over the stricken coast had revealed "no evidence of mass deaths." 
The quake had set off tsunami alerts from Japan to Hawaii amid fears of a repeat of the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami that left 230,000 dead or missing. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, April 5, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
An American specimen
TIH ln.dependen; Da.ily Newspaper Serv;ng Nom Dame arul Saint MJtry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORIS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine ScENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574} 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBsERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insriturion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, lerters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlish«< MundO!}' rhruugb Frid:.y except during exam and v:tation periods. A suOO!ption to The Observer is $100 for one ac:Wcmic yetr; $55 fnr (.Ill(' scme:stcr. 
The Observer is published Ott:: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections w: 
Nom: Dnme. IN 46556-0779 The Observer 

fleriodic:Jl postage paid at Notte: Dame W.il<>•779 J.nd additional mailing offices. 024 Sourb Dining Hall 
Notrt Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is a member ofthe!' Assodat«<. Press. All ttproduaion rights Me 
.~. 

Throughout the natural world, few creatures in the existing biological king­doms create such a lasting impression as the varieties of human beings, and none more so than the modern American. Upon venturing out of its natural habitat and confronting a wide variety of new and foreign life, the speci­men will regress to instinctive traits soci­ologically endowed in it. In such an acutely excited state, factors leading to the American Condition can be isolated, iden­titied and examined. 
Americans make up such a large and diverse family that only one who has spent much time cam­fully studying them can distinguish between the dill"erent types, !rom the brash Yankee to the unassuming Plainsman. Yet such regional flavors only serve to highlight common traits shared throughout the family, whether they appear in greater or lesser intensity ­and with such widespread traits this study concerns itself. For example, an averagn American, displaced from his home and suddenly surrounded by his more distant brethren, often adopts a swaggering gazn. Careful background study reveals that the subject is nurtured from a young age on a steady diet of nationalistic jeremiads. The American seldom fails to develop in his mind an idea that adherence to a vague unspoken covenant is not only laudable, but also obligatory. The creature will fondly abbreviate Lincoln's "almost cho­sen people" to the fmal two words. This leads to the subject holding itself poised in a proud, even arrogant, manner. 
This divine-right mindset is hardly sur­prising, considering the American's spiri­tual nature. It seems to be endowed with an inclination to belief in God or some indistinct transcendent power, although it lacks a clear understanding of what or 

James Dechant 
Foregone Conclusion 

why. An apparent need of public approval engenders frequent (and confused) pro­fessions of this faith, but in private life, the subject rarely lets himself be shackled by the complicatnd moral codes accompa­nying such a declaration of belief. The belief itself-and I call it that for lack of a better word; perhaps "leaning" or "hunch" more closely hits the mark­stems from a mysterious source. It would appear to be culturally or socially incul­cated, yet it occurs in such an inconsis­tently weak fashion as to seem a result of heredity-perhaps the product of reces­sive genes. 
Despite a natural reeognition of some­thing greater and grander, the American specimen finds the boundaries of rever­ence only in its self-image. A fierce sense of pride is predominant. The American has long ago lost the awe of Fitzgerald's pilgrims, who facnd something commen­surate to their capadty for wonder. Today, awe is sought in every way but reflection or intercommunication. 
Further close nxamination of the subject reveals a tendency to reject precedent ideas, teachings and ideologies, based solely on the taet that they are old. When at certain times a truly necessary rebel­lion does occur, the replacement philoso­phy or ideology will be reduced to its basest terms so as not to prompt confu­sion among the masses. This sense of unquestioned revolution for the sake of change crops up trequently enough to make the concept of rebellion seem itself an established institution. Does the American realize the irony in the situa­tion, when rebellion has become conform­ity? 
Perhaps this transformation of an ancestral cultural trait into something so conventional marks the American's diminishing ability to appreciate fmer details. The specimen displays difficulty in distinguishing between the reality of the world and the virtual reality of the televi­sion, the tabloid, the computer or movie screen. To compensate, the specimen may resort to the all-too common practice of making frequent over-generalizations, even in its self-diagnoses. (I pray the reader will excuse such sordid behavior, wherever encountered.) The American can take comfort in knowing that in this deplorable trait he is not unique among peoples of the world. Such comfort will be short-lived, however, because inlmediate­ly the responsibility to change, to become more aware, must follow. It is not lack of faets but a personal choice that prevents the creature from grasping subtleties. Knowledge without action is sloth. No longer is the American one of Twain's innocents abroad; today, he is willfully ignorant. 
H.ecognizing any or all of these attrib­utes without understanding their specific cultural histories can lead an oul<>ider to view Americans as impudent, rude, illogi­cal and corrupt. Yet most any specimen will disprove this expectation, given time. Focusing on individual attributes cannot yield a true understanding of what exactly distinguishes this creature. It is the meet­ing of all these cultures, not their particu­lar backgrounds, that forms the true sub­stance of an American. Their interweav­ing makes the definition of such a species possible. 
That the American has any sense of national identity at all, given the mixed and mottled stock that produced him, is truly a wonder. Strangely enough, these wide-ranging origins support the American specimen in times of need and yield some sort of common purpose. As he makes his own history, he should be mindful of maturing in the same way he was born -through the meeting of dif­ferent paths. Producing a unity through the coalescence of different elements is perhaps his greatest achievement. 
James Dechant is a junior studying abroad in Rome this semester. Questions, complaints and rude remarks can be sent to jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Amanda Michaels Chris Khorey Liz Harter Fran Tolan 
~ Submit at·•elter
.. . .· .<: .. ··'' .-:·. ,... ·' .,. .. ' . . ,........ .. .. ·.;. ·.~ . .. ,.,
Mandi Stirone Lorenzo Reyes Do you feel the Notre Dame Law 
Viewpoint Scene School is well respected? 
Alyssa Erin McGinn 
1 

n.·.'. t·.·-h·-····-"···· E•,-· d,:'.J··-t·,·o·.·..·.r····· ··. ·;·.t·
t.U .·....\ ... , ... ·.../. U ..•..
Brauweiler Ram a 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Graphics Gottumukkala Jarred Wafer at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.nds.mcobsefver.co.m 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ am ready to meet my Maker. Whether my Maker is prepared for the great ordeal of meeting me is another matter. ' 
Sir Winston Churchill former British Prime Minister 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 5, 2007 page 11 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Rapes not 'inevitable' 
I was dismayed to read the comments made by Sister Denise Lyon in Tuesday's story about an ongoing rape investigation at Notre Dame ("Assault investigation continues as 'rape' case," April 3), particularly her claim that rapes at Notre Dame are "inevitable." To describe rape as "inevitable" is to suggest that it is unavoidable, unstoppable and inescapable; to describe rape as "inevitable" is to suggest that there is nothing that can be done to end rape and sexual assault. The truth could not be further from this view. There is nothing at all "inevitable" about rape -rape is an act of violence and requires the willful decision of one human being to sexually assault another. Given that rapes are committed almost exclusively by men-according to national crime statistics, 99.8 percent ofthe people in prison convicted of rape are men -I would hope that male readers of The Observer would also be alarmed to see rape described as "inevitable." It is not "inevitable" that men rape women; men are not inherently rapists. Men can choose to work to end rape and sexual assault, and I, for one, am encouraged by the growing number of men around the world who are actively involved in the movement to end sexual violence. I only wish Lyon would join us in this move­ment, and then maybe she would realize that rape is a preventable act of vio­lence, not an "inevitable" part of female experience or male biology. 
Dr. Astrid Henry professor Women's Studies and English Saint Mary's April3 
Fair Trade coffee does not help 
Although Matt Palkert titled his April 3 guest column "The economics of Fair Trade: Responding to a complex problem," I didn't notice where he actually responded to the com­plex problems. It surprises me that despite the fact that eminent economists have voiced very legitimate objections to Fair Trade, advocates of Fair Trade seem to have complete disregard for those arguments. I have yet to read a propo­nent of Fair Trade who actually addresses those objections directly instead of using lofty or what I call "let's hold hands and sing John Lennon songs" arguments. I, for one, am a skeptic of Fair Trade. I believe Fair Trade acts as a sub­sidy to farmers and governments, thereby tak­ing away incentives to move away from an agrarian economy. Third World countries are poor for the very reason that their economies are too dependent on agriculture. The only way Third World countries are ever going to achieve higher levels of economic growth and thereby eliminate poverty on the large scale is by becoming industrialized. If you keep subsidizing farmers and holding their hands, surely it will take away incentives from their governments to transition from an agrarian economy to one that's based on manufacturing. Presumably the reason Mr. Arias, the Ugandan coffee farmer, was so exuberant at the prospect of his sons 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
How safe is student travel? 
According to your March 6 article, "Student Travel Safety Tops University Priorities," Anthony Travel only hires bus companies that meet federal standards, which is merely a minimum needed to operate in interstate travel. All bus lines which travel out of their home state, including the one hired by Bluffton University, must meet the federal standards. The standards adhered to by Executive Coach Luxury Travel, Inc. are exactly the standards specified by Mr. Walsh of Anthony Travel. Clearly, however, safety can be a matter of more than meeting minimum standards. Federal standards do not mandate even the avail­ability of seat belts on touring buses. It is believed that seat belt usage could have saved all the students in the Bluffton University crash and prevented many injuries. It is also quite possible that at least one fatality and a number of injuries in the University of Notre Dame swim team incident in 1992 may have been pre­vented with the use of seat belts. What Walsh did not address is whether the University of Notre Dame and Anthony Travel go beyond merely the minimum ­and weak-federal standards. There is one very simple question which he did not address: When hiring buses, does the University of Notre Dame mandate the availability of seat belts for travel at highway speeds? If after 15 years, Notre Dame is doing nothing more than adhering to the minimum federal standards required by law, then Notre Dame did not learn anything from the swim team accident and does not consider student safety to be the highest priority. 
Sue Ramseyer Bloomington, Ind. April4 

going to secondary school is in the hope that his sons will be able to get better, higher-paying jobs and improve the family's standard of liv­ing. However, if Uganda fails to industrialize and remains a commodity exporter, how will his sons be able to get better jobs and move away from farming? Uganda and other Third World countries need to industrialize, improve infra­structure, bring in investment, etc. All this is only possible if the government and the people decide to move away from an economy that always falls victim to the declining terms of trade and keeps them in perpetual dependency. If the objective is to help farmers in third-world countries, there are many other sensible and effective ways to achieve this. Fair Trade needs 
to be examined in light of a broader, long-term perspective. While Fair Trade coffee certainly adds a jolt of self-righteousness along with its jolt of caffeine in the morning, I believe the long term effects may not be as rosy as people make it out to be. Finally, let me point out to Palkert that I am no economist-just an average Joe (no pun intended). 
Atul Adhikary business graduate student Fischer Graduate Housing April3 

U.S. econollliC• sitution not so bad 
Katie Palmitier's personal financial story in her Apr. 4 Viewpoint column "No money, 'mo problems" hardly seems to be one of financial crisis -far from it -but she did raise a point that often is not fully discussed in the public square: Why do we have a national debt, and why does it seem to be so high? It's true, our national debt is at $8.8 trillion, and does not appear to be shrinking. And obviously, to you and me, $8.8 trillion is a staggering amount, an impossible number for us to really grasp. 
But here is a more staggering number-$13.03 trillion, which is about 1.5 times as large as our national debt. What is that number? It is the U.S. gross domestic product (GOP) -the amount of money that Americans made as a whole during 2006. Using this number, the comparison of our GOP and our national debt shows that our current state is at about the average ratio between the two figures since the 1940s. Indeed, for half of the Clinton administration, the ratio was smaller, meaning the national debt was closer to the U.S. GOP. 
What's more is another huge number-$2.7 trillion, which is our national budget for fiscal year 2007. The budg­et is about 30 percent of our national debt. Now, to the average American, it might seem like we are spending too much considering our national debt. But consider this: Many Americans take out loans to buy houses and cars, which add up to more than their annual income, many times more than three times their income. Are they wrong in doing this? Should they save up until they can actually pay for their home or car? I think most Americans would say no. It seems logical, then, that the United States would take a similar approach. 
Further, to say that "an increase in taxes could be the answer to the country's financial problem" is a shortsighted look at how taxes affect our economy, and makes our econ­omy out to be a zero-sum game. Indeed, the reality is much more complex, and our economy's strength shows that. The Dow Jones is doing remarkably well, nearing its all-time high, and unemployment is low, despite low taxes. Since the tax cuts took place, income from tax revenue has increased, particularly from the wealthy, who received the greatest tax cuts. 
So, before you make a judgment about our nation's eco­nomic situation, make sure you have all the figures first. If Palmitier had all the figures, and perhaps some real-life financial experience, she wouldn't have so easily painted such a bleak, and sarcastic, picture of our president and our nation's spending priorities. Indeed, a complete look at our budget problems paints quite a different picture and, dare I say it, an optimistic forecast for our nation's econo­my. 
Christian Hoeffel 
sentor 
Saint Edward's Hall April4 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, April 5, 2007 

ACUT ABOVE 


Sanjuro (Toshiro Mifune), right, pensively scratches his beard and hatches a plan to set two equally wicked gangs against each other in "Yojimbo." 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Senior Staff Critic 
Yojimbo 

Howling winds roar with gusto in Akira Kurosawa's 1961 film "Yojimbo." Like the torrential rains that soak the battlefields of "Seven Samurai," the elements are never mere backdrops in Kurosawa's cre­ations. They loom over the proceedings like a secondary character. 
Out of this maelstrom of swirling sands and dust comes one of the most iconic stars in the entire samurai canon -Toshiro Mifune's Sanjuro. Arms tucked into his scruffy kimono, he walks pur­posefully on long, powerful strides. It's a worthy arrival for a swordsman who would become Kurosawa's most revered mythic hero, as timeless today as it was 45 years ago. And before this tale is done, he· would leave a deep and indelible cut on world cinema, inspiring the work of countless admirers like George Lucas, Francis Ford Coppola and Sergio Leone. . A masterless samurai in 19th-century feudal Japan, Sanjuro is a wanderer in search of a purpose -or, at the very least, amusement. His travels take him to a town so wicked it makes Sodom and Gomorrah look tame. Teeming with vile gangsters and dishonorable samurai, the redeemable characters can be counted on one hand. 
Using his camera to sweep across the landscape, Kurosawa lets us in on this open secret in the first 10 minutes. The streets are deserted but strewn with limbs and corpses, bloody reminders of how high the body count goes. 
Momentarily startled by all this car­nage, the wily Sanjuro wastes little time before going to work. He sells his services to both of the town's rival crime lords, pit­ting them against each other. All the while, he uses his peerless swordplay to steadily thin the town's herd of miscre­ants, one handful after another. 
"Yojimbo" marked the 13th collabora­tion between Kurosawa and Mifune. Their mutual admiration ran deep. In his autobiography, Kurosawa wrote of Mifune, "The ordinary Japanese actor might need ten feet of film to get across an impression; Mifune needed only three feet." 
Already highly regarded for his work on 1950's "Rashomon" and 1954's "Seven Samurai" -both Kurosawa masterpieces -Mifune delivers a spellbinding turn as the arcane yet altruistic Sanjuro. The role made him the international face of Japanese cinema, and it's not hard to see why. 
Mifune's impish performance is superbly understated, one of the all-time greats. He reveals as much with a scratch of his beard or wiggle of his shoulders as a lesser actor would with a minute-long monologue. 
Eminently cool, he's Clint Eastwood before there was a Man with No Name, which is unsurprising. It's no secret that Mifune's Sanjuro inspired Eastwood's tac­iturn hero, and Leone's "A Fistful of Dollars" was an unapologetic remake of "Yojimbo." 
Kurosawa christened Sanjuro -his most famous hero -a "samurai of the imagination." He's a force of nature dreamed up for a single purpose: ridding this small destitute town of its affiiction. Once he does, Mifune disappears back into the swirling winds that delivered him. 
Kurosawa loved bookends, and Sanjuro's mythic exit, like his arrival, cemented his place among the cinema's ageless warriors. 
Sanjuro 

In describing what would become the most famous scene in "Sanjuro," Akira Kurosawa and co-writer Ryuzo Kikushima left much to the imagination. 
"The duel cannot be described in words. After a long, frightening pause, the outcome is decided with a single flash of a sword," the screenplay read. 
Tantalizingly vague, the description baf­fled even longtime Kurosawa collabora­tors. Just a year earlier, Kurosawa had delivered an instant masterpiece with "Yojimbo," as epic, haunting and beauti­ful a samurai film as had ever been done. What could the master unveil this time, the film's cast and crew wondered? Like the rest of the film world, they were hop­ing for a spectacle and a worthy sequel. Which is exactly what they got. 
At its heart, "Sanjuro" is about a lone wolf who herds a flock of dim-witted but well-intentioned warriors in their quest to rescue an honorable kidnapped chamber­lain from his corrupt rival. 
The incomparable Toshiro Mifune once again plays Sanjuro, the lone wolf in this tale. He is the commanding presence that anchors the movie. Hidden beneath Sanjuro's disheveled veneer lies the same proud, noble and shrewd swordsman that we remember. He's a crafty warrior who fells injustice with his keen mind as well as his sharp sword. And although it would have been tempting to do so, Kurosawa and Mifune never retread any steps from the vaunted "Yojimbo." 
The most pronounced difference between the two movies is in their tone. 
Samurai Epics Rece~ive Worthy tJpd,ate 
Even though the titular character has changed little from the last time we saw him, the atmosphere in "Sanjuro" is lighter and more warm-hearted, far removed from the morbid town that Mifune haunted in "Yojimbo." Kurosawa lets the film breathe by allowing the actors, especially Mifune, have some fun along the way. 
As the narrative progresses, Sanjuro grows quite fond of his brood of brave but foolish young wards. As the samurai stalk through the forests in search of leads, they follow in single file behind Sanjuro, who stops to scold them -as he fre­quently docs -for their incompetence. 
"We can't move like this, like a cen­tipede," he hisses while impatiently scratching his knee. Mifune's facial expressions in these comic exchanges are priceless. They are the work of an accom­plished actor who has sunk so far into the role that every action comes across with a relaxed, commanding ease. 
These scenes of gentle comedy add a great deal of depth to "Sanjuro," but Kurosawa never forgets to give us what we came to see: unparalleled swordplay. Needless to say, the final warrior's duel between Sanjuro and his nemesis lived up to its billing. It astounded all who saw it when the film debuted in 1962 and has lost none of its edge to this day. The slow­burning buildup seems to last forever before the conclusive burst of violence. 
This powerful technique would later inspire the iconic graveyard gunfight that ends Sergio Leone's "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly." For his own iconic, ten­sion-grinding conclusion, Leone studied Kurosawa's methods and paid homage to the master, like so many devotees to come. 
Criterion Collection DVD 
For a pair of films that left behind such a rich legacy, the 1999 DVD releases of "Yojimbo" and "Sanjuro" were shamefully ordinary. They were two of the earliest DVD releases for the Criterion Collection. As such, they lacked the depth and polish of later releases as DVD technology aged. The only special features included were the two original trailers. 
Fortunately, Criterion -a company unparalleled in its restorations and releases of classic films on DVD -has rewarded "Yojimbo," along with its equal­ly notable sequel "Sanjuro," with a sec­ond life on DVD. Using archived film prints, Criterion created entirely new dig­ital transfers while sweeping away all the dirt, scratches and imperfections that pile on when a film nears its 50s. The new transfers look gorgeous, and the sound has been similarly cleaned up. The films never show their true age, a testament to Criterion's painstaking restoration. 

For bonus features, each DVD includes a 20-page commemorative booklet with scholarly essays, a 40-minute Japanese documentary on each film's production, trailers and behind-the-scenes images. The most notable addition, though, are a pair of commentaries by Stephen Prince, one of the world's foremost authorities on Kurosawa's oeuvre. 
The topics of his commentary are deep, varied and vast, including the John Ford westerns that inspired Kurosawa, the his­torically accurate swordplay and the masterful usage of the widescreen frame. These are two of the finest commentaries Criterion has ever recorded. Listening to Prince here feels like spending a week with a Kurosawa guru at a top film school. 
Thanks to Criterion's diligent archival efforts, "Yojimbo" and "Sanjuro" have been given a worthy resting place on his­tory's shelf. In the "Yojimbo" commen­tary, Prince acknowledges Kurosawa's place among the inner circle of cinema's sages, calling him "one of the world's great epic poets of screen violence." 
Time and again, Kurosawa proved capable of composing some of the most lyrical and balletic swordplay feats ever filmed. But as the quiet moments in these two samurai epics attest, it is great humanity, not violence, which lies at the core of his pictures. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy of mathieu.perrin.free.fr Corrupt samurai watch as Sanjuro (Toshlro Mifune) strides toward battle. Director Akira Kurosawa was a master at maximizing the widescreen frame. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, April 5, 2007 
page 13 

and what is portrayed in reality. But By MARTY SCHROEDER with Disney's presentation of "High 
Assistant Scene Editor 
School Musical" on television, those lines are being blurred. During the When does a seemingly innocent commercial breaks, but before the musical about love and learning turn advertisements begin, the actors often into something that is dangerous on appear, out of character, and teach multiple levels? the viewers the dance moves. They 
Not to sound like a reactionary, but are very encouraging and claim even when discussing Disney's smash tele­you -yes, you -can be just like us. vision movie, "High School Musical," But the target audience is far I'd like to lay out a few younger than the reservations that I think in "High School actors, and I would be need to be addressed willing to bet most
Musical," they say, viewers are not
concerning this program and all of the spin-offs it "Oh, I have a problem." trained dancers has sired. -and/or actors. The 30
sing a song and the 
What could be better seconds allotted for 
problem is solved. 
for adolescent kids than these "dance lessons" a story about people could be a very frus­fighting the typical high school clique trating experience for anyone who stereotypes, coming together in the aspires to be like the characters 
end and realizing we can all be our­depicted. With most television shows selves? It doesn't matter if you're the and video games that people claim brain, the basketball player or the are influencing children poorly, the drama star-you can be friends with line between the living room and the anyone and we can all get along in the television is easily found and defined. 
end. Sounds good, right? It does -"High School Musical," on the other aside from the completely unreal hand, takes that line away, which is depiction of what high school is actu­the primary reason why this program 
ally like. is such an important piece in under­
A film like "The Breakfast Club" or standing what television programmers a television show like the now-defunct are doing. They are creating a phe­"Freaks and Geeks" is a far more nomenon with astronomical record accurate depiction of what individuals sales of the soundtrack, a traveling go through in the cutthroat world of theatrical show and a planned "High growing up. In "High School Musical," School Musical: The Ice Tour," which 
the problems are too easily solved, will bring the show to your local con­
and none of the kids have those vention center. The level of media sat­finicky real problems like financial uration is unlike any program 1 can disparity between different schools, think of. the backstabbing that's true to life The final song in "High School and personal issues about fitting in. Musical" claims "We're all in this 
In one sequence, all of the charac­together I Once we know that we are I ters sing about making sure you stay We're all stars and we see that." The in your own group and don't break problem is, if you dance through the the mold -or else you'll upset the halls of a high school with the moves 
balance of the perfect high school that you learn from the stars of "High the characters go to. Later, this mind­School Musical," I doubt you'll have set is what the two main characters many people dancing along with you. "rebel" against. I put that word in To the producers of "High School quotation marks because there is no Musical" -a little dose of cynicism real change that takes place. In "High never hurt anyone. School Musical," they say, "Oh, I have a problem," sing a song, and the The views expressed in this column problem is solved. are those of the author and not neces­
I understand that some people will sarily those of the Observer. be able to tell the difference between Contact Marty Schroeder at what is portrayed on the television mschroe 1 @nd. edu there is still a lot that can be gained from By ANALISE LIPARI and ERIN McGINN watching it. There's no sex, violence or 
Assistant Scene Editors 
substance abuse -which is a big plus for a kid's movie, seeing as how we live 
Some might argue that the shiny world in a world where fifth graders are now of Disney's modern musical classic, having sex in classrooms with posted "High School Musical," is a bastion of lookouts. destructive fantasy th&t bears no sem­Some may argue that the idea of blance of a realistic high school experi­cliques dissolving and everyone becom­ence. Cynics of the world seem to unite ing friends doesn't happen in the real against what is commonly known to fans world. But why doesn't it? It's not that as "HSM," finding joy in criticizing the such a scenario can't occur, but that peo­overly happy bubblegum pop as uncom­ple choose not to act that way. While fortably disconnected with the real "HSM" is certainly idealistic, it is by no world. means unreachable. 
Frankly, those cynics are just plain "High School Musical" also promotes a wrong. surprising amount of more modern 

Yes, it's true that not all high school social values. Most visibly, the film works students will move to a new school, audi­to break any and all racial stereotypes tion for the lead of a play and fall in love that it could possibly encounter in form­with a hottie like Zac Efron -and all ing its cast. Gabriella Montez, played by within two hours, no less. It's also true Vanessa Anne Hudgens, and Efron's Troy that we can't all be like the dynamic Bolton fall in love across the racial divide 
team of Ryan and Sharpay Evans, since  We all need to be  in an epic and endearing romance. Plus, the villain  
olir wardrobes aren't stylishly decked out with sequins at a moment's notice. But  reminded from time to time "that all our dreams have no limitations,  of the story, Sharpay, is as white as they come. Awkward? Perhaps, but we can appreciate the decision  
while the "HSM"  that's what it's all  not to call attention to  
cynic might see this as an attachment to  about."  issues of race, at least on the surface. After all, it is a  
fantasy that could  Disney Channel movie ­ 

disillusion the innocent youth of true fans know what to expect. America, HSM fans know that a little In the end, "High School Musical" is fantasy is good for the soul. Plus, imagin­nothing more than what it claims to be: a ing yourself singing and dancing with a feel-good movie that everyone from star­teen idol never really hurt anyone. ry-eyed adolescents to young-at-heart 
The very heart and soul of Disney is college students can enjoy. Sure, its founded on the idea of escapist fantasy. underlying messages are couched in Walt Disney created his theme parks as a catchy songs and cute clothes, but what way for people, ifeven just for a day, to harm does that do? We all need to be leave their lives and enter the world of reminded from time to time "that all our fantasy. dreams have no limitations, that's what 
We know when we walk into the Magic it's all about." Kingdom that it's actually steel and So to the "HSM" cynic, we say that cement and there. is a person inside of "High School Musical" serves to inspire that Mickey Mouse costume, but that all of us to "bop to the top" -and make doesn't make it any less magical. The some friends along the way. same can be said for the Disney To Wildcats everywhere, we say stand Channel's "HSM." We know that's not up and be proud -because we certainly how high school actually is, but that are all in this together. doesn't mean we can't still gain enjoy­ment from it-much like how we don't The views expressed in this column are watch "Rudy" thinking that we're going those ofthe author and not necessarily to be able to walk on to the football those ofthe Observer. team. Contact Analise Lipari at 
And even though the plot of "HSM" alipari@nd.edu and Erin McGinn at resides firmly in the world of fiction, emcginn@nd. edu 

Photo courtesy of rottentomatoes.com Troy Bolton (Zac Efron), center, leads his basketball team in a song and dance number, one of many unrealistic scenarios that occur in "High School Musical." 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, April 5, 2007 
MLB 
Tigers stave off 7-run Blue Jays rally, win 10-9 
Johnson popped out. 
Nationals, Indians, 
"We're not going to be able to Rangers all earn beat everyone up," Granderson said. "We're going to have to beafternoon victories able to hold off some late-inning 
comebacks like today." 
Associated Press 
Nationals 7, Marlins 6 
DETROIT -The Detroit Robert Fick sprinted across Tigers goi their AL champi­the diamond to wrap his arms onship rings, then treated thou­around Dmitri Young. Then sands of hardy fans to the same Young sought out Manny Acta roller-coaster experience of last for a hearty embrace. Most of October. the Washington Nationals gath­
Curtis Granderson hit his first ered near the mound to hug, career grand slam as Detroit high-five and hop in unison. built a nine-run lead Then they raced to the club­Wednesday, and the Tigers held house, where the music blared on for a 10-9 victory over the· and the champagne flowed. Toronto Blue Jays. Won the pennant? Not quite. 
"This lets us know that we The cause for celebration can go ahead and hold teams Wednesday? Washington's off, and that's one of the things ninth-inning rally to beat the we're goi-ng to have to do over Florida Marlins the 162 games," Granderson said. Nationals' first victory of the 
Coming off their first pennant season and Acta's first win as a since 1984, the Tigers lost major league manager. There Monday's opener 5-3 in 10 also was Young's first key hit of innings. Detroit chased A.J. his second chance, and Fick's Burnett (0-1) early in this one, first truly happy moment lately. and Granderson connected off "It was kind of fun to see the Shaun Marcum for his first players go out there. You know, homer of the season, capping we just snapped a two-game an eight-run third with a drive losing streak, and they're cele­that landed on top of the wall in brating like we clinched the right-center, hitting the yellow [NL] East. That tells me a lot home-run line, and bounced about their character," said back onto the field. Acta, who received bottles of 
Granderson also had an RBI bubbly from the Nationals and triple in the seventh off Victor from his former employer, New Zambrano and tied his career York Mets general manager high with five RBis. Omar Minaya. 
"We just wanted to try and Washington lost the season's continue and add runs on first two games to Florida by a knowing the game's not over," combined score of 18-5, and he said. "The game's not over then Wednesday trailed 5-0 and until we come off that field." 6-1. It was 6-4 heading to the 
Toronto closed with seven bottom of the ninth, but Young's runs in the eighth off relievers bases-loaded single with one Jason Grilli and Fernando out off closer Jorge Julio (0-1) Rodney but the potential tying completed the comeback. Young "I thought he was going to about Michaels' catch than his Sciascia said. "We still have run was stranded at third when hit an arching ball toward the punch me in the face. He was homer. some things we're trying to Magglio Ordonez, who lost two left-field corner, and outfielder telling me it was a great catch," "My heart was stopped for clean up, but all in all, we've fly balls in the swirling wind Josh Willingham let it drop, Michaels said. about two seconds. I saw the had a lot of good things happen­earlier in the inning, made a hoping it would land foul. On a day of subfreezing tern­ball go in there and I just start­ing." running catch of Troy Glaus' "I knew it was going to be peratures with snow flurries ed screaming at him," Sizemore The Angels outscored the AL drive to right-center. close," Willingham said. "That and a biting wind, Michael's said. "The wind was going all West-rival Rangers 17-7 and 
"That was the play of the was the only play I had." catch of Joe Crede's long fly to sorts of directions. It was left Texas rookie manager Ron game," Tigers manager Jim His manager, Fredi Gonzalez, left with two runners on in the swirling out there which made Washington still looking for his Leyland said. "It was so tough agreed. ninth wasn't a sure thing. the ball tough to read. The first victory. out there. A lot of guys could "I thought it was going to be a snow and the wind didn't help The Angels had last opened have given up after having a lit­Indians 10, White Sox 9 routine pop fly. It just kept too much." with a three-game sweep in tle bit of tough inning. "Those Grady Sizemore gave the going and it had a lot of air 2004 at Seattle. conditions out there were just Indians the lead with one time," Michaels said. "Grady's Angels 5, Rangers 3 Last year, the Angels strug­brutal." swing. And then in conditions pretty aggressive out there. I A slow start last season cost gled to a 17-28 start and didn't 
The wind became a factor in better suited for football, fellow wanted to make sure we the Los Angeles Angels at the sweep a three-game series until the late innings, holding up sev­outfielder Jason Michaels ran weren't going to hit each other." end. This time, they're at least July 3-5 at Seattle. Their 54-29 eral pop flies and carrying a hard and made a tumbling Sizemore, who led off out of the gate fast. record from July on was the handful of seemingly easy outs catch on the warning track to Monday's opener with a homer Ervin Santana held Texas to best in the major leagues, but out of the reach of Ordonez. save the victory. as the Indians routed the White four hits in seven innings, Gary they still missed out on the The forecast for Thursday's Sizemore, whose two-run Sox 12-5, connected Wednesday Matthews Jr. made another postseason. after winning con­series finale calls for similar homer in the seventh put the on the lirst pitch from reliever leaping catch and Los Angeles secutive division titles. conditions. Indians ahead, raced over to Matt Thornton (0-1) to over­beat the Texas Hangers Vladimir Guerrero, a scourge 
Todd Jones worked the ninth congratulate the fallen Michaels come a 7-6 deficit. The two-run Wednesday for only the fourth of Rangers' pitchers, singled in for his first save. After Toronto after his catch Wednesday homer followed Andy Marte's 3-0 start in franchise history. another run in the series finale. put two on with one out, Jason ended a bone-numbing win walk against Mike MacDougal. "We're playing good base­He went 6-for-11 (.545) in the Smith flied out and Reed over the Chicago White Sox. Sizemore was more excited ball," Angels manager Mike three games. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 Somh Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for conteiu without issuing refunds.  
BEITER HOMES,BETIER  Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9.  New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to  Cute House $59K·near ND,3BR,wd  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ 
WANTED  AREAS,BETIER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com  Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896.  campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC, 2 car gar. No pets. $1650/mo plus  flrs,2BA,garage,zen Garden by architect,deck,alarmsys,fireplace,re  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our  
util. 914-232-3328.  nted@$650. 614-353-5889  24 hour confidential hotline at 1·  
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50  andersonNDrentals.com  Very large home for rent for next  BOO-No-ABORT or visit our website  
base-appt. flexible schedules, no exp.needed, customer sales/serv:  3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for  school year. 1 block east of cam· pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4  For rent: Nicest house in area. 4 bedrooms,A/C, security. 5 blocks  TICKETS  · at www.lifecall.org  
ice, conditions apply, all ages 17+,  07/08 school year. On line see rent·  huge bedrms/3 full baths/large  from campus. 289-4071.  Bottom: 0 how I love/dote on thee.  
positions in all of Indiana &  nd.com or mmmrentals.com.  kitchen-lam rm & laundry rrn.. 3  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Ty.  
Michigan, 273-3835. www.work· forstudents.com  Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb· spot. net or phone 574-277·4759.  decks overlook huge fenced yard. Very private & safe! Must see! 239­ FoR SALE  Do not go it alone.  Adopt: A young loving couple long  
707-2025.  to share their Hearts and home with  
FoR RENT  RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5 bdrms avail for 07-08. $250/bdrm.  3BR House-near  *NDCONDOS*  tf you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance,  a newborn & will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen &  
Call312-545-5123 or email  ND/food/bus,2BA,garage,zen gar- NEW 213 BR,2 bath condos  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP.  Ed at 1·800-718-6577  
Condo for rent·walk to ND/SM. Grt  mitchell.58@ nd.edu  den,deck,alarmsys 614·353-5889  at 1-7819.  
loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli.  $675  Minutes from campus Starting in  If you or someone you care about  
A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port  1 bdrrn apts available summer & fall  $130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcon·  For more information, visit our web  has been sexually assaulted, visit  
$925 + util.  07. 1 mi to ND in quiet historic neigh·  2 bdrm home close to ND. Avail  dos.com  site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart·  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape  
borhood. $575/mo. Laundry/Security.  Now. $650/mo + utilities. Call  ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi- to learn about resources at ND and  
630-417-8763/MCL214@ aol.com  Call574-532-8718.  Peggy 269-687-3096.  Reserve Yours Today!  weekly ad in The Observer.  in South Bend.  



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, April 5, 2007 CoMPlLED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
AP Former Grambling State coach Eddie Robinson waves goodbye after coaching his last home game at Eddie Robinson Stadium in 1997. He transformed the school into a powerhouse for future NFL players. 
Legendary coach Robinson dies at 88 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB New York 1-0 1.000 1-0 Toronto 1-1 .500 1-1 .5 Boston 0-1 .000 0-1 1 Tampa Bay 0-1 .000 0-1 1 Baltimore 0·2 .000 0-2 1.5 
American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
American League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB los Angeles 3-0 1.000 3-0 Seattle 2·0 1.000 2-0 .5 Oakland 0·2 .000 0-2 2.5 Texas 0·3 .000 0·3 a 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB Atlanta 2-0 1.000 2-0 New York 2-0 1.000 2-0 Florida 2-1 .667 2-1 .5 Washington 1-2 .333 1-2 1.5 Philadelphia 0·2 .000 0-2 2 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 
PiHsburgh 2·0 1.000 2~0 Milwaukee 2·0 1.000 2·0 Cincinnati 1-1 .500 14 Chicago 1-1 .500 H St. Louis 0·2 .000 0~2 Houston 0·2 .000 0-2 
National League West 

team record perc. last10i''' San Diego 1-0 1.000 1-0 Colorado 2·1 .667 2-1 Arizona 1·2 .333 1-2 1 San Francisco 0·1 .ooo D-1 ,1 Los Angeles 0-2 .000 D-2 1.5 
College Baseball Baseball America Poll 
overall 

team preu.
record 

1 Vanderbilt 26-4 3 
2 Florida State 29·2 2 
3 Virginia 27-5 5 
4 North Carolina 25·5 6 
5 South Carolina 23-6 1 
6 Arkansas 22-3 7 
7 Texas 25·9 9 
8 Rice 22-10 3 
9 Oregon State 23-6 4 
10 Wichita State 24·6 10 
11 Pepperdine 23-8 12 
12 CS Fullerton 18·10 13 
13 Oklahoma State 22·6 14 
14 Coastal Carolina 27-3 15 
15 Arizona State 23-10 16 
around the dial 
NBA 
Heat vs. Cavaliers 7 p.m., TNT 
Suns vs. Spurs 
9:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 
Cubs vs. Reds 
12:30 p.m., Comcast 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Associated Press 

To his very last day, 
Eddie Robinson was 
always battling something . 
There was the institu­
tional racism that sur­
rounded him, the piddling 
football budget he and his 
coaching staff subsisted on 
at predominantly black 
Grambling State and, ulti­
mately, the Alzheimer's 
disease that took his life at 
age 88. 

"He'd been fighting that 
battle for a long time," 
said former Grambling 
quarterback and Super 
Bowl MVP Doug Williams. 
"It was one of the many he 
fought in his lifetime." 
Robinson died Tuesday 
IN BRIEF 

Fenway Park adds seats to right field 
BOSTON -A doughnut shop advertisement behind the outfield bleachers proclaims "Welcome to Fenway" in Japanese, anticipating new Red Sox pitcher Daisuke Matsuzaka and the fans and media expected to arrive with him. 
But they won't be the only newcom­ers in the Boston ballpark this sea­son. 
The Red Sox have added a new bleacher section on the roof deck in right field with 200 seats that will be sold for $25 apiece. They're calling it "Conigliaro's Corner" to honor Tony Conigliaro, a promising outfielder whose career was derailed after he was hit in the face by a pitch in 196 7. 
The new seats, marketed specifical­ly for families, are part of an annual offseason renovation that in previous years included the addition of seats above the Green Monster and a bat­ting cage off the Red Sox dugout. 
night, not long after being admitted to Lincoln General Hospital in Ruston, La., Williams said. 
He was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease shortly after he retired in 1997 and had been in and out of a nursing home during the past year. 
And so ended the life of a beloved football coach who put a small school in remote northern Louisiana on the map and turned it into a virtual farm team for the NFL during a career that spanned 57 years. 
Robinson built a football powerhouse with a world­wide reputation, all the while struggling to get past 
MLB siS(ns multi_:Year ....~700 million oeal with Direc1 v 
NEW YORK -Baseball struck a deal to keep its "Extra Innings" pack­age of out-of-market games on cable television, an agreement that likely will allow the sport's new TV network to be available in at least 40 million homes when it launches in 2009. 
Baseball announced an exclusive $700 million, seven-year agreement with DirecTV on March 8, but during a hearing last week in Washington, Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., pressed baseball to resume talks with iN Demand, which is owned by affiliates of Time Warner, Comcast and Cox. While baseball had set a March 31 deadline, the sides kept negotiating and announced an agreement Wednesday night. 
"Our chief goal throughout the process was to ensure that fans would have access to as many baseball games and as much baseball coverage as possible." 
years of segregation and discrimination against blacks. 
His success at Grambling no doubt made him the first easily recognizable black coach in any sport. 
"Today we mourn the loss of a great Louisianan and a true American hero," Louisiana Gov. Kathleen Blanco said. "Coach Eddie Robinson became the most success­ful college coach of all time and one of the great­est civil rights pioneers in our history. . . . Coach Robinson elevated a small town program to national prominence and tore down barriers to achieve an equal playing field for ath-
Drunk driver kills Gainesville policeman after parade 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -A police officer who was struck by a car after the Florida Gators' champi­onship died Wednesday, authorities said. 
Lt. Corey Dahlem, a 22-year vet­eran, was struck by a black Toyota as police were clearing the streets at the University of Florida early Tuesday after the Gators' win against Ohio State, authorities said. 
Dahlem died Wednesday just before 3 p.m., hospital officials said. 
The Florida Highway Patrol said the driver, Austin John Wright, 21, of Atlantic Beach, had a blood­alcohol level almost three times the legal limit. He is accused of run­ning two motorcycle officers off the 
road.  The officers  were  not  
injured.  
Wright  remained  in  jail  

Wednesday on $500,000 bail. 
letes of all races." 
Robinson won 408 games, the most ever for any coach at the time of his retirement in 1997. He sent hundreds of players to the NFL and other leagues, and the majority of them were clutching college degrees when they left. 
"We will be forever grateful for the more than 200 young men he devel­oped at Grambling who starred in the NFL and those who later coached the next generation of NFL players," NFL commission­er Roger Goodell said. "He always focused on coach­ing his players to be better men as well as better foot­ball players." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 5, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Falcons coach flies to rescue in Boulder 
Associated Press 

BOULDER, Colo. -A fading, mostly empty arena. The likes of Bob Knight and Bill Self to compete against on the hard­wood and along the recruiting trail. A program with no real history of success or much sup­port. 
Bring it all on, declared Jeff Bzdelik. 
He left Air Force to take over as basketball coach at the University of Colorado on Wednesday, the latest in a series of career challenges he's undertaken up and down the Rocky Mountain front range. 
"I get excited by great, great challenges," said Bzdelik, who was 50-16 at Air Force after a 2 1/2-year stint as coach of the Denver Nuggets, whom he led to the playoffs for the first time in a decade in 2004. 
"When somebody said to me, 'You're never going to win there,' I'm kind of a sicko with that," Bzdelik said. "It's kind of like with the Nuggets: 'You're never going to make the play­offs.' Hey, we did it in one year." 
Similarly, he was admonished not to schedule heavyweights at Air Force, warnings that only drove him to do exactly that, and the Falcons flourished. 
Now, his biggest challenge yet. 
"Maybe we can't" turn it around, Bzdelik said. "Maybe I don't [succeed]. Maybe I fail. But I want to try." 
The 54-year-old Bzdelik replaces Ricardo Patton, who went 7-20 in his 11th and final season in Boulder. 
In his first season at Air Force, Bzdelik led the Falcons to the best record (24-7) in the program's 50-year history and an NCAA tournament bid. This year, they won a school-record 26 games and reached the NIT semifinals. 
"And now here's an opportu­nity in my own backyard, and it's the ultimate opportunity," Bzdelik said. "The Big 12 is intimidating and the inconsis­tency of the tradition here, well, it is what it is. Now, with renewed commitment to facili­ties and excitement and dynam­ic leadership, can we now move it up the ladder? That excites me." 
Bzdelik signed a five-year deal worth $750,000 annually plus incentives. Bzdelik said he agonized over leaving the acad­emy, where he met with the players late Tuesday and told them he was waffiing about his future. He later called his cap­tains to tell them he was leav­ing. 
"I struggled with this, I did," Bzdelik said. 
Air Force athletic director Hans Meuh said the players were angry about Bzdelik's departure, but junior Tim Anderson said the players might be disappointed but understood why he left. 
"I don't think any of us were angry," Anderson said. ''I'm not angry with him. I believe him when he said it was a hard decision and he couldn't really decide either way.... He said it was the toughest decision he's ever made, and so I believe him." 
NFL 

Police will investigate further inVegas shooting 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Las Vegas prosecutors asked police to do more investigating before charges are filed against Tennessee Titans cornerback Adam "Pacman" Jones in a strip club fight that led to a triple shooting. 
"It isn't that we're missing things, they just wanted more detailed information," said Lt. George Castro, leader of the Las Vegas Police Department's vio­lent crimes unit. "They said there might be more to this than what was recommended." 
Since being drafted by the Titans in April 2005, Jones has been arrested five times and questioned by police in 10 episodes. 
He met Tuesday in New York with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell to discuss those cases. Goodell has said he will announce his decision on sus­pensions or other disciplinary action within the next 10 days. 
Jones told the NFL Network, in an interview that will be broadcast Thursday and Friday, that football means the world to him and also addressed why trouble seems to follow him. 
"Like I said man, it was the people I was hanging around," said Jones, according to an NFL Network transcript. "I made some bad decisions. I am not living a lie. I promise you that I am on the right track, but I have made horrible decisions about who I am with or who I am going places with." 
These are Jones' first public comments since the Las Vegas incident. 
"I just explained myself and told him nothing but the truth you know," Jones said of the meeting with Goodell. "He asked me like, 'How can we help you?' You know? How can he help me? What can I do to change my image? So it's on me." 
Las Vegas police have recom­mended a felony charge of coer­cion and misdemeanor charges of threat and battery against Jones in the Feb. 19 altercation at Minxx, a club several blocks west of the Las Vegas Strip. 
The shooting left one man paralyzed. Authorities haven't identified the gunman, but Castro has said the 23-year-old Jones was the "inciter" of a fight that started inside in the club. 
Run to Rebuild 
A Benefit for "Rebuilding Together" Join RecSports & Food Services in the annual Spring Run 

'IS610IRUMt 
PLUS 

2 ILl ••L. 
Saturday, April 14, 2007 ( 
11:00 A.M. Race will begin at Legends 
Opens at 10:00 A.M. 

Refreshments & T-Shirts to all Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $10.00 In Advance or $15.00 Day of Race Advance Registration Begins 3/26, Ends@ 5:00p.m. 4/13 Student and Staff Divisions 

,.:l'" .#.,..· 
and the Deus Ctf~-sf Student Comm·. einvite you 
:~ Atf 
son Pope Benedict ncyclical Deus Cari ·-sEst. 
Intent to present p ers must be communicated by Aprill6, 2 07. Please email godislove@nd.edu with confirmation of the topic of your paper. Students can then present their papers at the Deus Caritas Est conference (April 27-28), make any final revisions based on discussions during the conference, and then submit final documents by May 4, 2007. 
Prizes will be awarded in the following categories: 
Freshman/sophomore: $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up 
Junior/senior: $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up 
Graduate students: $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up 
For additional information regarding the conference and call for papers please visit: www.nd.edu/encyclical. For questions email: godislove@nd.edu or call631-6526. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 
Thursday, April 5, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
MLB 
Yankees-Rays rained out 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Andy Pettitte's return to the Yankees was pushed back a day because of rain, while Johnny Damon's injured calf left him unsure when he'll play again. 
The scheduled game between New York and the Tampa Bay Devil Rays on Wednesday afternoon was postponed, washing out what would have been Pettitte's first start in pinstripes since the 2003 World Series. 
"It's definitely disappointing because you're ready. You want to get this day over with because you're so excited for it to get here," Pettitte said. ''I'm obviously anxious to get out there." 
No makeup date was announced. After the series finale Thursday night, Tampa Bay isn't slated to visit Yankee Stadium again until July 20. 
Both scheduled starters were bumped back one day, so Pettitte will pitch against Jae Seo on Thursday night. Temperatures in the low 30s are expected, with gusting winds. 
"Bundle up," Pettitte said. 
It sounds as though Damon won't be behind him in center field. New York's speedy lead­off hitter has a sore right calf and wasn't in the posted lineup Wednesday. 
"I could barely walk," Damon said. "It felt like cramps the other day, but it's definitely much worse than that." 
Damon left Monday's opening victory over Tampa Bay with cramps in both calves, but said Wednesday only the right one was still bothering him. In the clubhouse, he had his right calf wrapped. 
"We're probably dealing with a strain, but to what degree we don't know yet," general man­ager Brian Cashman said. "No bruising. It's not swollen. But it's sore." 
Melky Cabrera was slated to start in center field Wednesday, and second base­man Robinson Cano was in the leadoff spot. 
Cabrera will fill in for Damon until he returns. If Damon has to go on the disabled list, the Yankees would probably call up an outfielder from the minors. But after talking with team physician Dr. Stuart Hershon, Cashman said a stint _ on the DL was "not something that's being recommended right now." 
No tests on Damon were planned yet. First, Hershon wants to see how Damon feels Thursday, Cashman said. 
The GM was asked if an injury to Damon might open up a spot for former outfielder Bernie Williams on the major league roster. Cashman had a one-word answer: "No." 
Williams, a longtime stalwart and fan favorite, declined New York's offer of a minor league contract in the offseason and never came to spring training. 

• 
Chicken Club 

• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt



$ 99 
Free Delivery On Campus
ONLY 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
02007 Mdrco·s 

lanned 
gnancy? 
eone you love needs help on, please call. 
Campus Mini:;:try, 1-7163 Campus Ministry, 1-7163 Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 
,.,,unn• " Care Center, 2 34-0363 "'""'at;nonc Charities, 234-3111 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Michigan signs Beilein to school-record deal 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. Michigan desperately wanted to hire John Beilein and was will­ing to make him the highest­paid basketball coach in school history. 
Beilein clearly coveted the job because he's going to pay his previous employer to leave ­and he accepted an offer without visiting the Ann Arbor campus. 
His contract with West Virginia had a $2.5 million buy­
Michigan fired Tommy Amaker, who was making nearly $1 million a season, last month after his sixth season without an NCAA appearance. The Wolverines last made the tour­nament in 1998. 
The school's pool of candidates began with 40 names. Once it was trimmed to about a dozen, Martin said he read everything he could about each coach before the list was cut to six or seven. Several coaches were interviewed, but Martin would only 
out clause talk about his 2­
'The buyout issue 
$500,000 for each hour session
is sensitive, but I 
year remaining on Friday with Beilein his deal -and he wanted to be the in Atlanta. said his lawyers Former
coach of 
are taking care of Michigan and NBA
Michigan. " 
that. player Tim 
"The buyout McCormick, who issue is sensitive, Jim Beilein was on Martin's but I wanted to be search committee,
Michigan coach 
the coach of Michigan," Beilein said Wednesday after being introduced at a news confer­ence. "Obviously, the buyout was something I had to consider." 
Michigan will pay Beilein $1.3 million a season, plus bonuses, as part of a six-year contract. 
Athletic director Bill Martin, who said football coach Lloyd Carr is making $1.6 million a year, hopes Beilein's contract demonstrates a commitment to basketball at a school where that has been questioned. 
"It does to me," Martin said. 

Martin said negotiations on economics with Beilein took 10 seconds, adding he didn't need to address the buyout issue. 
"It never came up because there was no way Michigan was going to pay it," Martin said. "To John Beilein's credit, he said, 'The buyout is my responsibili­ty."' 
Both Beilein and West Virginia hope to keep the resolution pri­vate. 
"The agreement on the buyout is between coach Beilein and West Virginia University," the school said in a statement from its general counsel's office. "Any details will be worked out between the two parties." 
raved about 
Beilein. 

"Michigan has had good recruiters and good coaches, but Beilein is the best basketball coach Michigan has ever had," McCormick said. "His offense is creative and exciting, he mixes zone and man-to-man defenses, and he's won wherever he's been." 
The 54-year-old Beilein is 551­318 with 26 winning seasons during a 29-season career in college that started at Erie (N.Y.) Community College and contin­ued at Nazareth, LeMoyne, Canisius, Richmond and West Virginia. 
Previous moves were made with his wife in a moving truck and kids in car seats. His latest was in a private jet Wednesday morning with Michigan officials, his wife and two of their sons. 
"I grew up on the shores of Lake Ontario," said Beilein, whose hometown is Burt, N.Y. "We've made almost a complete circle back to the Great Lakes." 
Amaker took over a mess at Michigan, stemming from NCAA violations, and cleaned up the program on and off the court. But he didn't lead the Wolverines back to the NCAA tournament. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 5, 2007 
NBA 
Bosh's clutch free throws sink host Orlando 
Wizards fall to lowly Bobcats as Arenas sprains his left knee 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla.-Chris Bosh scored 28 points, including live free throws down thfl stretch, to lift the Toronto Raptors to a 111-108 win over the Orlando Magic on Wednesday night. 
lledo Turkoglu shook off a recent shooting slump to score a carPer-high 37 points, but missed a potential game-tying 3-pojnter from the wing. Turkoglu had gone a combined 6-for-25 the previous two games. 
Anthony Parker added 20 points for the Haptors, Joey Graham scored 19 and T.J. Ford had 16 points and eight assists. 
Turkoglu tied the game at 106 on a 3-pointer with 3:18 left, but the Magic didn't score for the next two minutes. Bosh hit three free throws, but was called for goaltending on Turkoglu's layup with 47 sec­onds left. · 
Trailing 109-108, Turkoglu missed a jumper. Dwight Howard got the rebound, but Bosh drew an ofl'ensive foul on Grant Hill. 
With 9.4 seconds let, Bosh drained two foul shots to seal the win. 
It was the Magic's second loss in a row, cutting their small cushion on the last two remain­iog Eastern Conference playoff sppts. Toronto has already clinched a place in the postsea­son. , 
BotH\Howard and Bosh scored career h~ghs (32 and 41 points, respectively) when these teams met in February, and both were on track for even better nights after 11-point,first quarters. 
But Howard didn't score in the second or 'third quarters, finishing with 18 ·points and 15 rebounds, and Bosh slowed down in the third. 
The Magic didn't miss much in the first quarter, getting sea­son bests in points (37) and field goal percentage (83 percent). From that point until the fourth, they couldn't do much right. 
Orlando, which had a 15­point lead in the first quarter, trailed by eight points in the third and nine in the fourth. 
Toronto outscored Orlando 8­2 in the last minute of the first half, drawing to 57-52 at the break. Graham scored five of them, including a 3-pointer with 1.5 seconds left. 
Bobcats 108, Wizards 100 
Down went Gilbert Arenas. And with him, in all likelihood, went the Washington Wizards' hopes of achieving much of any­thing in the playoffs this season. 
Arenas sprained his left knee in a collision with Gerald Wallace in the first quarter of Wednesday night's loss to the Charlotte Bobcats. The three­time All-Star will have an MRI on Thursday to determine the full extent of the damage, but the recovery time from such injuries is usually measured in weeks, not days, and the Wizards have only eight games left in the regular season. 
He was just standing there, settling into rebounding posi­tion as Wallace drove baseline. When Wallace threw up one of those incredible, off-balance reverse layups, he crashed inadvertently into the left leg of the Washington Wizards' guard. 
The Wizards earlier this week lost All-Star forward Caron Butler to a broken his hand ear­lier this week, and they are 2-9 this season wlwn he doesn't play. Butler is expected to miss at least six weeks, meaning hP will play again only if Washington advancns d1~ep into the playoffs. 
Wallace, who survived sevnral collisions in what b1~came a very physical gamn, l'inished with 27 points, 12 rebounds and Pight assists to load tho Bobcats. He had also stymied the Wizards the previous night, getting 34 points and 14 n1bounds in a 122-102 win at Charlotte on TuRsday. 
Haymond Felton added 19 points and seven assists, Emeka Okafor had 17 points and 10 rebounds, and Walter IIermann had 20 points and nine rebounds for the Bobcats, who have won six of nine. 
Antawn Jamison had 25 points and 11 rebounds to lead the Wizards, who fell one full game behind the idle Miami Heat in the Southeast Division. 
Arenas was injured late in the first quarter. but he had been in the game less than two minutes. He did not start for the l'irst time this season because he was late for the team's shootaround. 
The Wizards put up a spirited effort without him, appearing to take out their frustration on the lottery-bound Bobcats in the second meeting between the teams in two nights. Antonio Daniels got his first start of the season, giving Washington a point guard who actually played point guard. Daniels finished with 18 points and a career­high 17 assists. 
Etan Thomas was dominant at times in the paint, scoring a season-high 19 points and grab­bing 10 rebounds in his third start since he replaced strug­gling center Brendan Haywood in the starting lineup. All five Wizards starters scored in dou­ble figures. 
Bulls 106, Pistons 88 
Kirk HinriCh scored 29 points, Luol Deng added 22 and the Ben Wallace-less Chicago Bulls beat the listless Detroit Pistons on Wednesday night. 
Wallace missed the game against his former team after going to the hospital with sinus inflammation, and his absence seemed to deflate a crowd fired up to jeer him again. 
It also may have led to the Pistons underestimating the Bulls, whose offensive produc­tion made up for the lack Wallace's defense. 
Chicago took control of the game with a 16-4 run -with Hinrich scoring half of its points -to end the third quarter for a 84-69 lead. Until that burst, it was a tightly contested game with 15 lead changes and eight ties. 
The game almost took an ugly turn with 8:12 left. 
Detroit's Richard Hamilton and Chicago's Tyrus Thomas were ejected with two technical fouls while play was stopped after exchanging heated words and being separated by team­mates. 
While walking off the court toward their locker rooms, both players had to be separated again. 
Hamilton -and many of his teammates -had a frustrating 

AP Raptors forward Chris Bosh goes to the basket during the second quarter of Toronto's 111-108 win over Orlando Wednesday. Bosh finished with 28 points in the contest. 
night. 
The 20-point scorer had more fouls (five) and turnovnrs (four) than points (three). 

Chauncey Billups scored 17, Hasheed Wallace had 16 points and Chris Webber added 10 points and eight rnbounds for the Pistons, who had won live of six. 
Detroit's magic number is four to clinch home-court advantage in the Eastern Conference playoffs over Cleveland, which plays at Detroit on Sunday, with seven games left for both teams. 
Chicago, which has clinched a spot in the playoffs, has won six of its last seven games. 

Thabo Sefolosha, who entered the starting lineup with Wallace out, had 11 points and 10 rebounds. Chicago's P.J. Brown, who moved to center in Wallace's place, scored 11 points and grabbed seven rebounds. Thomas added 13 points and eight rebounds in just 10 minutes. 
76ers 92, Knicks 90 

Andre Iguodala scored 18 points and blocked Stephon Marbury's potential winning 3­point try, giving the Philadelphia 76ers a victory over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night. 
Kyle Korver added 17 points for the 76ers, who overcame Marbury's big second half. Andre Miller scored 14, includ­ing a tough jumper with 7.4 seconds to go. 
Marbury scored 28 of his 30 points after halftime, helping New York tur.n a double-digit deficit into a nine-point lead. But the Knicks couldn't hold it and lost their third straight, falling to 2-9 since coach lsiah Thomas was given a contract extension when New York was in eighth place in the Eastern Conference. 
Both teams entered with slim playofl' hopes. The Knieks were 1Oth in the East, 2 1/2 games behind Orlando for the final playoff spot. Philadelphia climbed within a game of New York with its victory. 
The Knieks had a final chance after Korv1~r. who came in lead­ing the NBA in free throw shoot­ing at 92 percent, missed a pair from the line with 2.1 seconds left. But lguodala got a piece of Marbury's hurried shot behind the arc and time expired. 

Term£ 1.11 r;.,., are based on roundtrip rra.el<llld mtlu<lea Studen!Unwefl< >ervlc. r..of$5. Dom!!lidare!mdudea75%US.trao;portaMn ta•. Other ta.-.,~nd fffi'"'1· d<>pondlng on il>l i1in.,ary and~,. notjndu<fed. Fare• ~rewbja:t t<)il'/~labrrrzy and <h~ng• without notiw. ~fllght; mustbe purdla5€d 8d.l¥5 in advantel!lld requilea l dHf min >lily indudlngaSatnlqlrt reqwrtd max stay os lOdays. Fa..,valid Mon·Thu undl Jul31.1nrema· nooal flight< volid Moo·WOO must be jl<lfcha500 Tdays in i!dv-;nd requlrra 4 day min stay indudlng • S..t nightwllll• mmtay ofl65 day>. f.,..ll> Europe ar< valid for deP<JrtUfiS from Apr 1through May 17. Asill fares a<evalidfu< d"P<Jrtur"' tbrO!IgliApr 28. Australia lares are valid fur d'll<Jrtur., lllrough Apr11. B~oUI dot.,'""other..,rrknons may app~. 
Is-it you? One person 
makes a difference when the mission of Christ meets the world. 
Be that person. Join us. 
For more information about becoming a Maryknoll Priest or Brother, contact: 
Greg Darr, Director 5128 S. Hyde Park Blvd. Chicago, IL 60615-4217 

e-mail: gdarr@maryknoll.org phone: (773) 493-3367 Ext. 262 
-.--------. Thursday, April 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
CREW 
Rowers face tough test in Indy regatta 
By DANIELLE KELLER Sporrs Writer 
After winning the Lubbers Cup Title last weekend, the Irish will travel to Indianapolis this Saturday to compete in the Indiana Invitational. 
In the 11rst match of the day, the No. 13 Irish will race No. 15 Wisconsin. Later in the day, formed well in last weekend's regatta, winning the varsity­four, second varsitv-four and second varsity-eight races. 
The varsity-eight, novice­eight and second varsity-eight boats all finished second. 
Saturday's competition marks the second race of the season for Wisconsin. In their first competition, the Badgers' varsity and second varsity crews went undefeated 
Notre Dame wi"tl takn on Indiana and Purdue.  "I think that all three crews we  against Indiana. Stone said that  
Although only one of the oppo­nents is ranked,  face will present challenges."  Wisconsin was an especially swift team,  
Irish coach Martin Stone views each  Martin Stone  having 11nished in the top 20  
team  as  tough  Irish coach  last season.  

competition. 
"I think that all three crews that we face will present challenges," Stone said. 
After a shift from their usual lineups during last Saturday's regatta, the Irish plan to return to the original crews used earlier in the season. The reason for the changes, Stone said, was to allow younger players to gain more racing experience. 
Even though the lineups were different, the team per-
Last week­

end, Indiana competed in Cincinnati. The Hoosiers swept away the com­petition, winning races against Dayton, Eastern Michigan and the Bearcats. 
The Indiana Invitational is the fourth outing of the spring season for the Irish. They will compete in the Windemere Real Estate Regatta April 14­15 in Redwood Shores, Calif. 
Contact Danielle Keller at dkeller@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish look to regain for111 in Dallas 
By JAY WADE Sports Writer 
No. 5 Notre Dame will try to reclaim the consistency that brought it an 11-match winning streak earlier this season against Southern Methodist· University (SMU) Saturday in Dallas. 
The Irish, 18-3 overall, have been inconsistent lately, getting shut out by No. 2 Ohio State March 31 and then turning around and beating No. 8 Illinois 5-2 two days later. 
"After the win against Illinois, especially after the Ohio State loss, hopefully it will help us focus and end the season as strong as possible," Irish junior Sheeva Parbhu said. 
While the Mustangs (12-8, 0­1 Conference USA) are not ranked, they are riding a five­game winning streak and are coming off a 5-2 victory against No. 45 Wisconsin. Notre Dame and SMU have traded blows over the past few seasons, with the Irish claiming a 5-2 victory last year and the Mustangs winning two years ago in Dallas by the same score. 
"When you go on tho road, you cannot take anything for granted," Parbhu said. "We only have a few matches left, so we have to make them all count." 
Parbhu has his own reasons to be focused for the SMU match -his overall record of 90-25 (55-12 in dual matches) puts him one win away from tying Luis Haddock for No. 10 all time on the Irish wins list. 

Similarly, No. 9 Stephen Bass has his own record to break on Saturday. His 101 career wins have him one victory away from 11fth on the Irish wins list. 
Recent weather in South Bend, however, might be a problem as the Irish travel to a hot Texas for outdoor play. 
But Parbhu was not con­cerned about the climate change, since the Irish are leaving today for Dallas and will have plenty of time to get acclimated to the heat. Also, a little heat could go a long way for the Irish. he said, as it should prepare them for their upcoming matches in places such as Tampa, Fla., for the Big East tournament, and Athens, Ga., for the NCAA Tournament. 
With only a handful of match­es before these two big tourna­ments, the Irish will look to come out sharp against SMU. The first serve is scheduled for 1 p.m. Central Time. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Irish head to Indiana Invitational 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look for a positive performance Monday in the Indiana Invitational as it prepares for the Big East Championships later this month. 
The tournament, held in Indianapolis and hosted by Crooked Stick, will end the fol­lowing day. 
The Irish lineup will feature senior co-captain Noriko Nakazaki from the No. 1 spot, where she has led the team in scoring in seven out of eight tournaments this year. Nakazaki topped the Irish squad when she finished in a tie for sixth at the Betsy Rawls 
Longhorn Invitational March 18. 
Freshman Annie Brophy will tee off from the second spot thanks to her consistent contri­bution throughout the season. Her best round came at the UNLV Invitational, where she ended up with a one-over par 73. 
Julie Kim, a fellow freshman, will shoot from the No. 3 spot. Due to an injury early in the season, Kim will golf in only her fourth collegiate event. Since recovering from the injury, however, she has impressed coach Susan Hunt enough to become a consistent name on the Irish scorecard. 
Kristin Wetzel, another fresh­man, and sophomore Lisa Maunu round out the lineup at fourth and fifth spots. 
"Over the three-week layoff we have been playing as much as possible to stay competitive between each other," Maunu said. "We have all been work­ing on our swing and putting to fine tune them." 
The sophomore also com­mented on what the invitational means in terms of preparation for the Big East championships. 
"This tournament is very important for Big East and for momentum into Regionals," she said. "We have to have a strong tournament in both this tourna­ment and Big East so we can hopefully pull up our regional ranking." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

THURSDAl\ l 5TH 
~ou~s 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, April 5, 2007 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles travel to Madison 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will travel to Madison, Wis., this week­end to compete in the Midwest Invitational, a selective tournament fea­turing some of the top squads in Division III. 
"This tournament is a really big deal." senior cap­tain Kelly McDavitt said. "You have to be invited to it. We haven't been invited to this tournament in three years, so we're really excit­ed." 
The Belles will first face Wisconsin-La Crosse Friday, a team that they fell to in the second match of their season. The Eagles are two-time defending champions of the Wisconsin Intercollegiate Athletic Conference. 
Saint Mary's and Wisconsin-La Crosse faced each other March 12, with the Eagles dominating in a 7-2 victory and dropping the Belles' season record at the time to 0-2. 
Now better prepared and with an overall record of 7­6 -and a perfect confer­ence record of 3-0 -the Belles will attempt to avenge that loss and 
advance. 
"They are a tough team, but I think we have a chance at beating them," Saint Mary's coach Dee Stevenson said. 
McDavitt agreed. 
"We played them on our second day of spring break and were still adjusting to our playing potential," McDavitt said. "We feel a lot more comfortable now, and I'm pretty sure we can beat them this singles spot, defeating Eagles senior Erin Fekete, but Belles senior Tara O'Brien lost to Eagles freshman Carlie Bohrman in straight sets. 
In the final singles spot, Saint Mary's junior Cassie Quaglia lost in straight sets 
to  Wisconsin-La  Crosse  
freshman  Sarah  
Schoenwaelder.  

The Belles' luck did not seem to change during the dou­bles matches. 

time." 'This tournament is a Though the 
In the previ­powerhouse
really big deal. " 
ous matchup duo of Gebert between the and McDavitt two teams, Kelly McDavitt battled hard Saint Mary's Belles captain and lost in a 
did not play up to its poten­t i a l Wisconsin-La Crosse senior Angie Riedel defeated McDavitt in straight sets. Freshman Camille Gebert had better luck in the No. 2 singles spot, beating Eagles fresh­man Hache! Benn, but Belles sophomore Mary E. Campbell could not pull of the win in the No. 3 singles spot against Wisconsin-La Crosse senior Julie Tellefsen. 
Saint Mary's freshman Lisa Rubino won the fourth close match, 
the two eventu­
ally fell to 

Riedel and Tellefsen 9-7. Likewise, Campbell and Hubino fell 8­4 in a heated match against Benn and Fekete in the No. 2 doubles spot. In the final match of the day, the duo of Belles senior Grace Gordon and O'Brien lost to Schoenwaelder and senior Courtney Tornow 8-5. 
The winner will continue play on Saturday. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 

Weather could -wreak havoc at Boilern1aker 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 

The toughest opponent Notre Dame will face this weekend at the Boilermaker Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind., might not even swing a club. 
While Big Ten schools ­including Ohio St., Wisconsin, Illinois, Michigan St. and host Purdue -will make up part of the field, the Irish might have to devote just as much atten­tion to the inclement weather. 
"It's not going to be focused as much on pure golf and scoring really low," senior co­captain Cole Isban said. "It's going to be more of almost a survival test with how bad the weather is supposed to be. Being a northern team, I think we might have an advantage there." 
With flurries possible on Saturday and high tempera­tures not expected to break 44 degrees, the Irish will have the opportunity to put their well­developed cold weather games to the test. 
Notre Dame has another reason to head into the week­end with some confidence. The team is very familiar with the Kampen Course at the Birck Boilermaker Complex, the site of the tournament. 
"We've played there a num­ber of times," Is ban said. "We've had a couple of tourna­ments there, and we even had NCAA Regionals there three years ago. We've been there a lot." 
The rest of the field, while solid, is not quite as strong as it was last weekend at the AdminiStaff Augusta State Invitational in Evans, Ga. 
"You always like to win," Isban said. "But it's a good field, even though it might not be as strong as Augusta State's." 
In order for the Irish to have a good showing, Isban, an All­America candidate, will have to use his experience to lead the way through the harsh conditions. Fellow co-captain Adam Gifford will try to use momentum from his one­under-par 71 in Georgia to carry him to another low score in West Lafayette. 
After the Boilermaker Invitational, the Big East tour­
nament  is  only two  weeks  
away,  April  22-24  in  
Louisville.  

Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

TRACK AND FIELD 
More athletes look to qualify for NCAAs at Indiana meet 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
After qualifying 14 ath­letes over the past two weekends for the NCAA Mideast Regional, Notre Dame will travel to Bloomington to compete in the Indiana Relays Friday and Saturday. 
But those plans could be halted by weather. Due to weekend forecasts, there is a possibility that Notre 
Dame  could  scratch  the  
meet,  senior Ryan  Postel  
said.  

"[Notre Dame sprinting] coach [John] Millar is dis­cussing not running anyone at all and scratching the meet," Postel said. "It is supposed to be in the 30s this weekend there. Not e?'actly ideal for racing." 
The first day of competi­tion of the 2006 Indiana Relays was cancelled due to inclement weather. 
If the Irish do compete, Postel will run the 400­meter dash, an event in which he has already quali­fied for the Regionals. Postel placed first at Arizona State's Clif Bar invitational in the event with a time of 4 7. 20 sec­onds. 
The Notre Dame men will not participate in the 4x100 meter relay due to a shortage of sprinters, Postel said. 
"As it stands right now, we might not even run that event at all this season because we are lacking some short sprinters due to various reasons," he said. 
The Irish performed well at last year's Indiana Invitational. Sophomore Patrick Smyth won the 5,000 meters with a time of 14:12.61. 
Senior Todd Ptacek, A.J. Andrassy, who graduated in 2006, and junior Jake Watson finished 3-4-5 in the 3,000 meter steeple­chase, with Ptacek's time of 
8:58.05 leading the way. 
On the women's side, sen­ior Molly Huddle finished fourth in the 5,000 meters, crossing the line in 15:54.41. 
If the meet is scratched, the Irish compete next at the Mount SAC Relays in Walnut, Calif. Notre Dame likely will send only sprint­ers and field athletes to the event -Postel said that the distance runners will not be competing. 
Ca~tl~ PointAP§lrtmenta 18011 Cleveland Road Soutta Bend, I ndia.na 
,,..,.,,.........,.,.,.,. ··.·.·.·:·::·::·:··· .. .. ::.:·:·:: 
O~~euing Gueq~ 
lndoor/Outdoortf!!es..·· Free Tanning~· Heated Pool Relaxing Jacuzzi Gated Community 
That would leave the Irish with eight events to earn or improve their qual­ifying spots before the Big East championships, which begins May 4 in Storrs, Conn. 
After that, Notre Dame then has the Georgia Tech Invitational, held on May 11-12, to prepare itself for the Mideast Regional, which begins May 25. 
Irish athletes who qualify 
go on to race in the NCAA Championships in Sacramento, Calif. June 6­9, and from there to the USA Track and Field Outdoor Championship June 21-24 in Indianapolis. 
Currently, the Irish have 37 athletes qualified for the Big East Championships. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

574,r272-a.110 574-272-8114 FAX www.cppj.com 
'l: Specials! 
Basketball 
Thursday, April 5, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
De01ons 
continued from page 24 
East player of the week Monday with a .722 batting average (13-for-18), two doubles, a triple, four RBis and five runs scored. 
Brown was also named Louisville Slugger/NFCA player of the week Wednesday. Brown is cur­rently atop the Big East standings for batting aver­age (.477) and on-base per­centage (.531). Her fre­quent trips around the bases have given the power hitters in the lineup a chance to gain RBis; Brown leads the Big East in runs scored with 24. 
With her strong pitching during the streak, sopho­more Brittney Bargar earned an honorable men­tion in the Big East Wednesday after going 3-0 with two complete games, a shutout and 21 strikeouts in 20 innings pitched. 
Irish senior Kenya Fuemmeler will also take the mound, riding a series of strong performances herself. 
She has a 7-5 record with a 2.60 ERA, seven complete games and 57 strikeouts this season. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 

Duke 
continued from page 21 
Irish defense with one of the best offenses in the nation, averaging almost 16 goals per game. 
Junior attacker Carolina Cryer leads the Duke offense with 35 goals and 9 assists. Senior attacker Kristen Waagbo, recently named ACC player of the week, has also had a strong season with 24 goals and 21 assists. 
But the Irish have two players of the week of their own. After wins over Connecticut and Duquesne, sophomores Jillian Byers and Alicia Billings were named offensive and defensive Big East players of the week, respectively. 
Byers tallied four goals and an assist in both games last weekend for a total of 10 points on the week. Billings scored three goals in the two games, and she also grabbed six ground balls and forced three turnovers. 
The Irish have found suc­cess lately with impressive defensive play and bal­anced offensive produc­tion. Over the four-game winning streak, the Notre Dame defense has allowed an average of just seven goals per game. 

In addition, several Notre Dame players have assisted leading scorers Caitlin McKinney (3 2 goals this season) and Byers in the offensive scoring. Senior Meghan Murphy and soph­omore Jane Stoeckert have recorded points in every game of the winning streak, and seniors Kaki Orr and Lena Zentgraf have been equally impres­sive. 
Notre Dame vs. California 
The Irish will be tested by a solid California team Saturday at 1 p.m. The hard-luck Golden Bears enter the Loftus Center with a 5-3 record, with two of those losses against ranked opponents in over­time. 
California is looking to rebound from a heart­breaking 9-8 overtime loss at Ohio State and pick up its first road win of the season. Struggling to score on the road, the Golden Bears also lost to Vanderbilt 9-6 in Nashville. 
Defense has fueled Cal's success, with the Golden Bears giving up an average of just 8.25 goals per game on the season. Senior Laura Cavallo leads the team offensively with 19 goals and nine assists. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
good," Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said. "They all play about the same and they use the lob a lot. It looks like we're going to be indoors and their doubles would probably be better outside just because they use the lob and don't really hit the big ground strokes." 
Indiana easily defeated Big Ten rival Ohio State 6-1 Wednesday, capping its streak of consecutive Big Ten triumphs. 
After the Irish battle the Hoosiers, they will travel to Columbus, Ohio, for a match with the Buckeyes that begins at 2:30p.m. Monday. 
Coming off a tough loss against the Hoosiers Wednesday, Ohio State will be looking to get back on the winning track they had been on before Indiana match. The Buckeyes defeated Syracuse and Michigan State the previous week. 
The Irish have won 14 straight matches and have not been chal­lenged much during the streak. 
In addition to the recent suc­cess, the Irish welcomed back freshman Colleen Rielley Tuesday, and they are hoping to be back at full strength by the end of next week. 
"It's going to be another week before (junior] Brook Buck is back. We've been very careful just taking it slow, but she'll be back," Louderback said. "But other than that, we should be at full strength this weekend." 
After taking a day off from practice Wednesday, the Irish will be back at practice Thursday. Louderback feels that at this point in the season, the most important thing is staying fresh. 
'This time of year the kids are in a pretty good groove of play­ing and it's mainly now just hit­ting enough to stay good and confident," Louderback said. "We'll probably play a little more doubles these next few days just because one team has only played once together and we should get them a little more experience playing together." 
After Notre Dame's two match­es this weekend, the Irish will have three days to practice and rest up for three matches the fol­lowing weekend against Northwestern, DePaul and Marquette. 
Contact Dan Maloof at dmaloof@nd.edu 

SMC GOLF 
Tri-State Invitational cancelled 
"Next week was to be our "All the teams that we're 
By BILL BRINK 

MIAA tournament -our going to be playing against
Sports Wrirer 

NCAA qualifying tourna­as far as we're concerned ment," Belles coach Mark for the NCAA aren't going The Belles have another Hamilton said. to be playing week to fine-tune their "We'll have either," game after cold weather teams from Hamilton said. and wind forced the Tri­around the "We'll all be on
"We'll all be on equal
State Invitational, sched­region in our equal ground." uled for this weekend, to [league] tour­ground." Because of be cancelled Wednesday. nament, so it the weather, 
Tri-State, located in will be a tour­the Belles have
Mark Hamilton 
Angola, Ind., is experienc­nament within been indoors
Belles coach 
ing much the same weather a tournament." working on that South Bend started to Hamilton said chipping and see Wednesday morning. the week off putting. 
The tournament, which won't benefit Hamilton said was to feature teams from the Belles, but the wide­he will encourage his team around the region and is spread nature of the to practice as often as pos­hosted by Tri-State every weather conditions ensures sible over Easter break. year, will be combined with that Saint Mary's oppo­the NCAA qualifying tour­nents will not be getting a Contact Bill Brink at nament April 12. leg up. wbrink@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Hope game postponed by snow 
Contest with Flying "If anything, this will after sweeping Manchester give us more time to pre­last weekend. 
Dutch may be played pare. I think we're ready The Belles are next for them," she said. scheduled to play TuesdayApril 26 instead "Whatever the in Grand schedule, Rapids, By REBECCA SLINGER we'll still be M i c h ,
"If anything, this will 
Sporrs Wrirer ready." against The game give us more time to Calvin. Saint 
Saint Mary's will have to has not offi­prepare . ... Whatever the Mary's will wait to face MIAA second cially been follow that
schedule, we'll be ready."
place Hope College -rescheduled, contest with thanks to the weather. but coach a trip to Tri­
Officials cancelled Erin Sullivan Mo Healy State April Wednesday's game said the team Belles second baseman 14 and a between the teams is looking to g a m e Wednesday morning reschedule against because of the threat of the game for April 26 in cross-town rival Bethel snow. place of its scheduled April 16 at Ivy Field on 
Freshman second base­game in Pittsburgh against Notre Dame's campus. man Mo Healy said the Robert Morris. cancellation won't affect Saint Mary's is riding a Contact Rebecca Slinger at the team. two-game winning streak rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, April 5, 2007 
sophomores Robby Parris, Barry play, you know, it's a good thing Gallup, and Richard Jackson for for the receivers. 
Che01istry 
that No. 2 slot. "We feel as a receiving corps continued from page 24 Overall, West said he does not we have something to go out see the competition this spring there and prove because every­Weis let this rule slide as counter-productive. body doubts us this year. We're 
Saturday when he fingered ris­"We have completely great taking that to heart right now." 
ing sophomore George West as chemistry and we're all young Fullback Luke Schmidt added 
his current No. 2 receiver guys and we know we're all out that competition is beneficial to 
behind rising junior David there to compete," West said the team overall, but he hopes 
Grimes. West is competing with Monday. "We're all friends team members will not take it 
rising senior Darrin Bragg, ris­about it and we encourage each personally if they are not picked 
ing junior D.J. Hord, and rising other. Somebody makes a good as starters. Schmidt is battling for time on the field with return­ing starter Asaph Schwapp. "Hopefully, everyone on the team will be able to take that positively and try and make themselves better and hopefully battle for it again next year," Schmidt said Monday. "Hopefully, they won't take it in a negative way, go hide them­selves in a hole, just not care about the team anymore and care only about themselves. Ilopefully, that'll bP a positive effeet on the team." And then there's the quarter­backs. Weis said lw currently nmploys a system where each of the !"our candidates for starting quarterback-rising junior Evan Sl)arpley, rising sopho­mores Demetrius Jones and Zach Frazer, and incoming freshman Jimmy Clausen ­each spend time in the No. 1 position in practiee. 
"I think you cannot makn a tho consequenens. not foresee any problems with subjective analysis when you'rn "Well, that's tlw one we'ro team chemistry. doing something that is this crit­talking about right now. I think "No matter what you do, ical because we've all been in it's important to analyze the there's going to be people who tho comfort zone of having quarterbacks and just tell them, say, 'Well, it should be so and Brady Quinn here since the day 'That's the way it is.' That's so, should be so and so, should I walked in hore. WPI!, Brady's what I will do." be so and so,"' Weis said. "I just not here anymore," Weis said When practice and training got to worry about what's in the Monday. "I think going under camp is over and the depth best interest of the team." my three premises of coaching, charts are set for Notre Dame's premise No. 2 is always tell the season opener against Georgia Contact Chris Hine at players the truth regardless of Toch Sept. 1 , Weis said he does chine@nd.edu 
it." seven games !total)." Looking at the big picture, One of the reasons the Irish
Cincy 
Schrage said the Irish can have struggled is their inabili­only afford to lose a few more ty to drive in baso runners.
continued from page 24 
contests for the rest of the Notre Dame has averaged 9.6 
league, a long way down for a conference slate. Notre Dame runners left on base over its 
squad that won the confer­has 19 Big East games last eight games. 
ence a season ago and had its remaining. But moving runners up has­
eyes set on another title. "We need to play with a n't been the problem while "We're the defending Big sense of urgency from here on trying to push across a run. 
East champions," sophomore out," he said. "If we're going Against Oakland Tuesday, the 
pitcher Kyle Weiland said. to win the league, we can't Irish converted 5-of-5 sacri­
"We need to start playing like afford to lose more than six or fice bunt opportunities. Schrage said tlw issue isn't in moving runners from first base into scoring position ­it's driving them in once they get there. 
"We've been playing for a run an inning with this team," he said. "We're doing a good job of bunting people over, but I'd like to see us get that one more hit to break things open." 
Cincinnati comes into the weekend series half a game ahead of Notre Dame in the league standings at 2-4 and 15-13 overall. The Bearcats have won a game in each of their two Big East series, which were against Georgetown and Pittsburgh. The series with the Irish will be their first at home this sea­son. 
The Bearcats are led offen­sively by outfielder Tony Campana, third baseman Josh Harrison and first baseman Neall French -each of whom is batting over .300. 
The weather in Cincinnati is innings," he said. "We just named a starter for expected to be cold and need to make sure we stay Saturday's contest, instead windy, which is not conducive warm and loose -but there planning to use regular to high-quality baseball. isn't a whole lot you can do in starter Wade Korpi out of the 
Weiland said players, espe­30-degree weather." bullpen in the first two games. cially relief pitchers, need to Irish senior Dan Kapala will If all three games are take special precautions to start Thursday's game, and played, Schrage said he will stay loose while on the bench sophomore David Phelps will make a decision Friday as to in cold weather. begin Friday's contest on the who will start Saturday. 
"We need to keep our jack­hill. ets and make sure we run to Because of the possibility of Contact Chris Khorey at the foul pole between cancellations, Schrage has not ckhorey@nd.edu 





I 

l 
l l 
Thursday, April 5, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
CROISSANTWORLD 
1-\E'{, WHA.\ AI'.E. 'fOU 'C>oiNC:J FoP. E:.t-.S\cR 1 
BLACK DoG 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
WE..LL,FI,.r_c;.T ,1'1"\ ~OINl:r To SMEA.~ M'{ NA\C.l:-t> Bot>'f W•TH PE.ANU\ eMTTt:fl.. 
AND ~uN 0\..I."TS\t>E.. ANt> t..A.'j 'tX>Wt-1 ON •Ti·H~-QUAt:> AIJD \....E:..\ "'Tk& ~Uif'.tr,:£\..S OVE~e.. ME IN "'­PEA.NU\ -INt>Uc..Eti FF,E.N'Z..'f OF De.\.\ RIO US EC..'ii:>T A.o;.'f. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


LIAMMORAN
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Characters in a 59 Running 1 Secretarial frat house? rampant jottings: Abbr. 35 Author who 60 Kind of nut inspired a
6 Lee with an 61 Cause of a food
Baltimore team's

Oscar safety warning 
nickname

9 It's held in a 62 Park
36 Stuns

hold 
63 George Strait's
37 Setting of many

14 "The Rain in "All My_Live
a Stephen King

Spain" in Texas"
novel

composer 
64 Packed
39 Bathe

15 Pal of Eeyore 
40 Results of

16 the hole 
oogenesis DOWN 
17 Stage part 
41 Freeman's 1 1960 John 18 Cooperation opposite Wayne saga,roadblock 
42 Having a bottom with "The" 19 Provocative 
43 Reactions to 2 Make a brief call military move, 
poetry? 

3 By itself
briefly 
47 Check-box 

4 Stories often 
20 Quest for a option 
have them
stereotypical 
48 "Huh ... ?!" 

5 Promgoers 
Jewish mother? 
52 Like 20·, 25· 23 A tiny bit 
6 Some rings
and 43-Across? 24 Prefix with -cide 
7 Scrubbed 
56 Stock at 

25 What the dry hardware stores 8 Anachronism, cleaner might and garden e.g. say after losing shops 9 Losers to the a garment? 57 Spigot holder Rangers for the 
31 Recesses 58 Stack, in a way 1994 Stanley Cup ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Sound stage shout 11 Draw (in) 12 Heart 13 Home of Bruce Peninsula Natl. Park 21 Suffix with Capri 22 Spirit 26 Spruce (up) ~~:+.:+=+=-l 27 Org. with many captains -=+~+:-l 28 Word with black or fire 29 Knitted 30 Lack 
WILLSHORTZ 

31 Sea of 41 Apparently does 50 They can be between Russia spiked
42 Not goingand Ukraine 

51 Like some 32 Tar, maybe coincidences
anywhere 
44 Sign

33 Duke it out 52 Solution 45 Wealthy TV
37 1980's attorney 53 "Thirtysorne­
family

general thing" actor 38 It might mean "I 46 Chinese tea 54 Call the shots have to go out!" 55 Heart
49 Wear for a 39 Was shamed moment 56 "Pow!" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JmJMIDibrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAUDT 

I ( J [] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WERFE jI I r [] 
CHOTLE 
THEY LAUDE:O 
1 
rJ 
THE: ASTI<ONAUT 
www.jumble.com 
BE:CAUSE: He: WAS---.
t
VEENAU j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

J I r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Ans: rI I I ] TO "(IIIIJ' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: CREEK QUILT POETRY CAMPUS Answer: When the locksmith got the high-rise job, the builder became his -"KEY" CUSTOMER 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jamie Lynn Spears. 16; Heath Ledger. 28; CraiE -'""'> 
T. Nelson. 63; Maya Angelou, 79 

Happy Birthday: Be ready to take advantage of any opportunity that comes your way. If you are bogged down with other people's problems. you will not be able to advance this year. Reevaluate your situation and start to focus on your own goals. Your high expectatiom can be reached. Your numbers are 3. 14. 22. 27, 35,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may question your beliefs, your partnerships and your direction. Honesty will help you find the answers. Keeping an open mind and heart will givt you the discernment required to make the right choices. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April20-May 20): This is not the day to hold back. If something is on your mind 
speak up and you will find it much easier to move along. Help others or volunteer in som·e 
fashion. Be careful if someone from your past asks for your assistance. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If someone asks to borrow. the answer should be a simple 
"no." Do whatever is necessary to secure your personal life. your home and residence. An 
older relative may be a burden but, with give and take. the relationship can be good. 3 stan 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Stop being negative. If you play your cards right you can 
advance, find love and make new liiends. Networking will lead to a good time and some 
interesting information. 5 stars 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Getting out and having some fun may be an outlet for you but it won't please everyone in your life. You will probably run into someone you never quite forgot. That may be exciting, but it will cause problems with your current relationships. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus on love. communication and maybe even going on an 
adventure. Travel will take you away from home and all the worries that you face each day 
You need a little time and space to figure out what you really want. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): What you want to do may be stilled by responsibilities. Be 
creative in finding solutions and you will have the freedom to do the things that you enjoy 
doing most. A sudden change in the way someone treats you will perplex you. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You can get a lot out of the way today. Let your creative energy lead the way and you will develop something very interesting. A chance to make some money is apparent by picking up additional work or offering a service. Love is in th< stars. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone will come to your rescue-if you ask for 
help, you will get it. Changes to your residence will help you enjoy the comforts of home 
a lot more. Don't make a hasty decision regarding a friend. relative or neighbor. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make money today by doing things a little 
differently. The time to put your plans into play is now. You can mix and mingle with peopl< 
who will understand what it is you are trying to do. Don't be fooled by empty promises. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If your actions might hurt someone's feelings, rethink yom options. Be careful not to upset anyone you care about or the damage may be reversible. Emotional confusion is apparent, so don't make snap decisions. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can turn something you are thinking about doing into a 
moneymaker. Invest in yourself and your ideas, not someone else's. A love connection can 
be made but make sure your motives are honorable. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are dedicated, loyal and forceful in the way you approach people. Yot 
are willing to do what is necessary to fulfill your needs. You are sensitive. intuitive and innovative. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenia/as/. com for confidential consu/tatiom 

> 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thusday, April 5, 2007 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 
Weis: Spring position battles won't hurt team chemistry 
like-it-is New Jersey personality. "So really, it doesn't divide the reiterated that depth charts are menton who stands where. 
By CHRIS HINE "When the [teaml realizes that team. [The] question implies, not set in stone. And that's by design, Weis 
Sports Editor the head correctly so. that you can have "It isn't like depth charts said. 
coach is real­
division on the team. never change," Weis said. "Just imagine if I came in and 
As the Notre Dame coaching ly making the "I think that when they realize "Depth charts change eventual­told you everything that hap­staff sifts through position bat­decision that I'm the one making the ly, and injuries occur on top of pened in practice today and did tles on both sides of the ball this that's in the decisions based on objectivity, it. That's part of being a starter that on a daily basis. I mean, spring, there are bound to be best interest · usually you don't have those and part of being a backup." God, people all across the coun­players disappointed with their of the team problems." In his press conferences, Weis try will be drooling over that," spot on the depth charts. because he Weis said he hopes to have has been tight-lipped when Weis said. "You just can't do it 
But Irish coach Charlie Weis doesn't have depth charts set by the end of reporters ask him about position that way. It's part of my job to said Monday he is making sure any favorites. spring practice and then revise battles. He will often say that he protect [players] so we don't this disappointment does not u s u a I I y Weis them again when the 15 is encouraged by certain posi­create a situation like that." turn into disruption -and to they're com-remaining incoming freshmen tions or how a given player is that extent, he uses his tell-it-fortable with that," Weis said. enter during the summer. He doing -but he will not com-· see CHEMISTRYIpage 22 
BASEBALL 
Early pressure 
Irish try to climb out of conference cellar in series at Cincinnati 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame has won each of its last two non-conference games, but the Irish have to look all the way back to March 23 to find their last Big East victory. 
Sitting at 1-4 in conference and 13-14 overall. the Irish travel to Marge Schott Stadium in Cincinnati for a three-game series with the Bearcats today, Friday and Saturday that coach Dave Schrage called a "must-win." 
"The next couple of week­ends, we have to make hay in the league," Schrage said. 
Notre Dame finds itself in 11th place in the 12-team 
see CINCY/page 22 

ND SOFTBALL 
ND heads to Chicago for DePaul showdown 
Wednesday's contest with Valpo rained out 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Due to frigid temperatures and icy rain, Wednesday's game against Valparaiso was postponed to April 12 at 5 p.m. 
If weather permits, the Irish will face No. 23 DePaul today in Chicago for two Big East conference games at 3 p.m. and 5. 
These two contests repre­sent important games for Notre Dame because the Irish and Blue Demons are locked in a tie for first place at 8-0 in conference play. 
Overall, DePaul boasts a 24-7 record, while the Irish are currently 19-12. 
Notre Dame will have to post one of its best offensive performances of the season to get the win, as it faces DePaul senior pitcher Tracie Adix, who this past week won her third Big East pitcher of the week honor of the season. 
The Blue Demons are led offensively by junior Sandy Vojik, who has a team-high 17 RBis on the season. Right behind her is fellow junior Marcy Wilus, who has batted in 16 runners this year. 
Sophomore Amber Patton has scored many of those runs. boasting a .354 aver­age from the leadoff spot. 
The Irish are on a 10­game winning streak and have earned some Big East recognition themselves. 
Senior Stephanie Brown earned her first ever Big 
see DEMONS/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish take onIndiana, Ohio State 
By DAN MALOOF Sports Writer 

The No. 2 Irish will look to extend their winning streak to 16 as they take on No. 34 Indiana and No. 48 Ohio State this weekend. 
Notre Dame, coming otr a 6-1 rout of Purdue at the Courtney Tennis Center Tuesday, will be looking to improve its impres­sive 19-1 overall record as it travels to Bloomington to take on the Hoosiers at 10 a.m. Saturday. 
Indiana began the season with a 5-0 record in the Big Ten for the first time since 1995 and has won six straight matches over­all. 
"Indiana is always really 
see STREAK/ page 21 


No. 4 Duke invades Loftus 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is 1-8 all time against Duke, but it has a chance to change that today. 
The No. 4 Blue Devils will invade the Loftus Center today at 4 p.m. for a showdown with No. 11 Notre Dame. 
The Irish (9-2) bring a four-game winning streak into the game -their eighth of the year against a ranked team. 
Duke (9-1) visits South Bend on a five-game win­ning streak of its own, highlighted by last Saturday's thrilling 19-18 sudden-death overtime win over No. 5 Virginia. 
The Blue Devils won a thriller last year in Durham, 11-10. 

Duke will challenge the 
see DUKE/page 21 




