
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 55 TUESDAY. NOYEMBER27. 2007 

Students abroad aid Mexico floods 
International study program in Puebla reaches out to those affected in nation's center 

By MADDIE HANNA and 
KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writers 
PALO ALTO, Calif.-It was an anticlimactic end to one of Notre Dame football's worst seasons, but thousands of Irish fans ­many from the Bay Area ­showed up Saturday to watch their team manage a win over Stanford. 
Outside Stanford Stadium, it seemed like every other person was a Notre Dame fan. Notre Dame tailgates blared the Victory March through the eucalyptus groves, and the Notre Dame Alumni Band repeated it inside the stadium after each Irish touchdown. With their trombones, saxophones, trumpets -and members ranging from 13 to 87 years old -the band sat high above one end zone. 
ACE teacher emphasizes faith 
ND grad focuses seroice experience into two years educating in Denver 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
When Elias Moo. a 2007 Notro Dame graduate, applied to become a teacher as part of Alliance for Catholic Education, he saw the program as a way to con­tinue to live Notre Dame's message of service. lie was eager for the chance to help others after graduation. 
"My whole career at Notre Dame was very service­based." Moo said. "ACE seemed like a great fit for what I wanted to do post­Notre Dame." 
However, like all ACE par­ticipants, Moo had no idea where he would be placed. 

He had talked to some of his friends that were participat­ing in the program. After hearing about their experi­ences, Moo decided to apply for a teacher position. 
Eventually. he was assigned to teach for the next two years at an elementary school in Denver, Colo. The urban west side of Denver has seen a rise in percentage of low-income families living in the community over the past several years. At St. Hose of Lima, the school Moo works in, 80 percent of the students are on free lunch and receive scholarship money. 
As their teacher, Moo is with the children everyday from 8:30 a.m. until 3 p.m. In addition to giving them a well-rounded academic edu­cation, Moo also stresses the religious component of his job. lie said that one of the most important aspects of his job is to help these children grow spiritually as well as intellectually. 
"Even though these kids come from low-income fami­lies, we get them to try to have a sense of service for each other and other in the community," he said. 
For the past 15 years, ACE has placed college graduates like Elias Moo into teaching positions in Catholic schools in low-income communities around the country. The pro-
see ACE/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

SMCholds language weekrecital 

Music supplements foreign culture lessons 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 

To bridge the gap between cul­tures and facilitate language study, the modern language and music department at Saint Mary's will host a multicultural vocal recital tonight as part of Modern Language Week. 
The recital, which will include music in French, German, Italian and Spanish will be performed by seniors Crystal Buck, Megan Bolander and McKayela Collins. The show will be at 7 p.m. in the Little Theater. 
Marianna Hahn, coordinator of many of this week's events and German professor at the College, said this as an important way of linking cultures. 
"Culture is a major component in my teaching of foreign lan­guages," she said. "And teaching German, one cannot ignore the major contributions of Germany and Austria to music." 
This is the sixth year Hahn col­laborated with the music depart­ment to incorporate music into cross-cultural teaching. In prior years, Hahn encouraged her stu­dents to perform for the rest of the class. 
"In the beginning of each aca­demic year, I like to know of the talents of my students and give then the opportunity to share them in class," she said. "I had students who played piano, vio­lin, cello, flute and gave a pres­entation on the history of the piece they played as well as the 
see RECITAL/page 4 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Although much of the flooding that had submerged nearly HO pPrcent of the Mexican statP of Tabasco and parts of adjacent Chiapas earlier this month has subsided, the Notre Dame stu­dents studying abroad in Puebla are working to reach out to the hundreds of thousands of dis­placed civilians that remain homeless. 
"We were told that nearly 800,000 people have been dis­placed in Tabasco and 20.000 in Chiapas," said junior James Welle, who is in Puebla. "Although the death toll of 50 people has been relatively low for such a major disaster, a lot of people did not receive much warning about the floods and have lost everything." 

Although Puebla is located in central Mexico, several hundred miles away from the flooded areas, the aftermath of the dis­aster hit close to home for many of the students staying with host families. Many of them were shocked to see that relatives of their home stay families had lost everything in the flooding. 
"My host family first told me of the situation and were especially concerned because my [host family] dad's brother and his family were trapped," said jun­ior Jason Rodulfa, from Puebla. "They lived on top of a hill in Villa Hermosa, the capital of 
see FLOOD/page 4 




Football fans travel for season finale 
There were hundreds of empty seats at Stanford Stadium, which was renovated before the 2006 season and now seats only 50,000 people. Throughout the game, the motley Stanford band -attired in vests or jackets with phrases taped on the backs -played to a student section of far fewer than a thousand students. 
Dancers clad in red sundresses stood by late in the game as the Stanford cheerleaders donned their wind jackets. 
Irish fans at the game said Saturday was a welcome opportu­nity to watch Notre Dame football, regardless of the team's then 2-9 record. 
"This is our one chance in the Bay Area to see the Irish," said Anne Stricherz, a 1996 alumna who now teaches near San Francisco. 
see GAME/page 4 

Journal for undergrad poli sci research begins 
By BRIAN McKENZIE NewsWrirer 
Beyond Politics, a new under­graduate research journal targeted at a broad audience of politically­interested readers, has begun accepting submissions. 
John Lentz and Greg Wagman, the editors-in-chief, said the journal will broaden the appeal for under­graduate research and make it easier for students to get published. Wagman stressed that anyone could submit to the journal, regard­less of major, and that the research did not necessarily have to be pure political science. 
"We aim to publish outstanding undergraduate relevant to politics, which could include sociology and other disciplines," he said. 
The journal will accept submis­sions between 10 and 25 pages. Lentz said that shorter pieces could appeal to a wider audience. 
"As it is, people aren't reading undergraduate research," Wagman said. "Getting people to read this is the critical angle for us." 
Lentz said their objective was to create something more than "a typ­ical research journal." Beyond Politics will feature a political car­toon contest, campus polls on the 2008 presidential campaign and attractive cover art, he said. 
"I think that a lot of non-political science majors will be interested," he said. 
Professor Dan Lindley, the jour­
see JOURNAL/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A fevv chill weeks 
There's little about Notre Dame I oqjoy morn than the rnturn !'rom Thanksgiving break. Aller an extended wnnkond fillnd with good friends, good lhod and normal sleep cydes, what ean beat tho disjoint­
Karen Langleyml trip back to 
South Bond, 
whern the com­
News Editor 
ing weeks prom­
ise exams, 
essays and tho 
constant daliy d1~adline, all under the 
cold and hopeless Novemb11r grey. 
OK, so the inter-holiday fortnight can 
be a little rough. 
And despite any lingering Irish 
Catholic. rntir.ence, ti.~w studenl<> are 
afraid to share their feelings about it. 
Studenl<> at Notre Dame tend to bn 
fairly diserete about thnir competition 
with each othnr-until the semester is 
about to nnd. Then bngins a vidous 
game ol' one-upsmanship, not over 
gradns or scores but the amount of 
work and lew! of stress eaeh coura­
gnous studnnt must end urn. 
Surn. those thrno 1 0-page papers 
and two exams might seem bad, but did 
you know I have thos1~ and a thesis to 
pull together? My bad, don't know how 
I lilrgot your 13 final nxams-I've bnnn 
!waring about them all week. 
Lnt's ignon• that most of us chose the 
<~lasses and eommitmenl<> that now bind 
us. Thn justkn ol' our seemingly unton­
abln situation <L<;ide. the next li~w wenks 
will just p<L<;S morn n<L<;ily if the better 
part ol' our collective eonversation is not 
<llwotnd to tolling our lfi1mds, siblings. 
HAs and thn dining hallladins about 
how many presentations on Proust and 
artides on t\ristoth1 we 'rn just about to 
produce. 
I bet you can handle it. 
In the meantime, let's not make the 
final wnnks of this sernestnr worse by 
dulling down the discourse vve now 
savn lilr study brnaks. When someone 
<L<>ks you how you're doing, resist the 
temptation to shriek and tear your hair 
-and don't even think about listing 
<L<>signrnnnl<>. 
Tell them you're almost caught up 
with Grey:-; Anatomy, but you're really 
looking to get to the extra material for 
h"ntourage. 'loll them that with Spring 
Bmak only 94 days away, you've been 
logging some solid hours at Hc>lfs. And 
since everyone else seems so bogged 
down with term papers -whatever 
those am-you'm mally interested in 
lending some llonor Code-friendly 
a<;sistannJ, so long a<; it can earn you 
some extra ca<;h for the tanning salon. 
t\t thn very lnast. tell them you're going 
to avoid the real stress of the season by 
hitting thn mall prP-Christma<; crowds. 
Your lili~ during the next two weeks 
might seem a<; bleak a<; a northern 
Indiana sky, but it's tmnporary. Denial 
could bP the first step to a brighter out­
look. 
So order that extra-large eollee. Pull 
those all-nighters. Ilowever, you do it, 
gnt it done. But when you escape the 
library lilr a live-minutn brnathnr. leave 
your deadlines, your h1mdlines and 
your liJrtnight-from-hell at thn door. It 
will bn good for all of us. 
A'i lilr me. I'll be working my way 
down thn t\FI's top-1 00 list. practicing 
my miln repeal<; and planning thn next 
road trip. Things am looking pretty 
busy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Karen l.angley at klangle 1 @nd. edu 
CoRRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please conract us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT TYPE OF MUSIC DO YOU LISTEN TO WHEN YOU STUDY? 



Andrea Mayus senior Welsh Family  Jackie Anthony junior McGlinn  Kelsey Young junior Badin  Patrick Tighe sophomore Keough  Andy Hermansen sophomore Keough  
"Rock & Roll, because its what all the geologists listen to. "  "Christmas music-it reminds me of happier times."  "/ like to keep it on random to spice things up.  "'All by myself' by Celine Dian, because I'm all by myself"  "Beethoven -it makes you smarter."  
•  




Cyclist nabbed for motel hallway ride 
ROCHESTER, Minn. -A man clad in swim trunks was arrested al\er riding a bicycle through a motel's hallways and hitting two men. A woman showering after using the swimming pool at Best Western Soldiers Field Tower and Suites told police she heard a door open and saw a naked man at about 3:10 
p.m. Sunday. 
The man ran out of the room, pulled on swim trunks, hopped on a bike and road through the hall­ways, police said. 
Police Lt. John Edwards said the man, 38, hit anoth­er man, 76, and his son, she said. "And I knew it was time." 


Before she could get to Natchez Regional Hospital from her Woodville home, however, Mykayla Jalyin Gaines arrived in the back seat of her stepfather's truck. 
Mykayla's grandmother, Lucy Brister, handled the delivery. 
"That baby could not wait," the eldest Brister said in an article at http://www.natchezdemoc­rat.com. 
"I pulled her jeans off and said, 'God give me strength."' 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

both ol' whom suffered minor injuries. 
The son chased the bicy­clist, tackled him and wait­ed for police to arrive, Edwards said. 
Charges against the man were pending Monday, police said. 
Woman has baby in truck on Thanksgiving 
NATCHEZ, Miss. -An impatient baby ruined Thanksgiving dinner for a family which then welcomed its newest member on the road to the hospital. Minyon Brister said her contractions started Thursday as she bent down to put the turkey in the oven. 
"The pain just started," 
IN BRIEF 

Mario Richard Eden, assistant professor of chemical engineer­ing at Auburn University, will deliver a lecture titled: "Property Based Techniques for Integrated Process and Molecular Design." The lecture is sponsored by the Department of Chemical and Biomoleeular Engineering and will take plaen today at 3:30 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. 
Larry Diamond, a Stanford University professor of political science and sociology will give a lecture titled: "Can Iraq Be Stabilized"?" The event will take place today at 6:00 p.m. in C-100 Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
Notre Dame men's soccer team will play Oakland Wednesday at 7::~0 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Mass will be celebrated in the Alumni Hall Chapel at 5 p.m. Friday !'or the Feast of St. Andrew. The Gregorian Schola will sing Gregorian chant. 
Notre Dame hockey will play Nebraska-Omaha Friday at 7:35 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. 

The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra will present Handel's Messiah Friday at 8 
p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets can be ordered by calling ticket oflice at (574) 631-2800. 
The Voices of Faith Gospel Choir will preform their fall con­cert, "Come Back to Your First Love" Saturday at 7:00 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY a: 
LLI 
::::t: 
y~1Jb~ 
LLI 
3: 
••• 4
_, 
cs: 
0 
.9 HIGH 40 HIGH 33 HIGH 43 HIGH 32 LOW 34 LOW 28 LOW 27 LOW 26 
Atlanta 62 I 42 Boston 56 I 47 Chicago 39 I 29 Denver 54 I 21 Houston 67 I 40 Los Angeles 72 I 49 Minneapolis 33 I 17 New York 56 I 54 Philadelphia 55 I 50 Phoenix 73 I 51 Seattle 451 35 St. Louis 49 I 30 Tampa 77 I 66 Washington 57 I 48 
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Floods 
continued from page 1 
"They lived on top of a hill in Villa Hermosa, the capital of Tabasco. The house was com­pletely flooded." 
The family lost all their pos­sessions and are in serious dan­ger because of water-borne dis­eases and insufficient food and shelter, he said. 
To aid the Red Cross and the Catholic Relief Services with relief efforts, the students abroad, with the aid of the Center for Social Concerns and Pasquerilla West and Breen-Phillips 

halls, are selling '7 was appalled at tory," said jun­rosaries and collect­the lack ofpublicity ior Kim ing donations this Churbock, a
that these floods 
week on campus. Puebla partici­
"Both of these have had in the pant. organizations are u.s.,, The destruc­well established in tion is wide­Mexico," Welle said. spread. The
Katie McAnany 
"The work of the Red Cross CRS in Mexico has website has

NO student in Puebla 
the rosaries themselves will be supporting the hard working people in our Mexican commu­nity," he said. "The sale of rosaries is going to be limited to the Notre Dame community because of basic logistical prob­lems, but the fundraising will not be." 
A number of Notre Dame stu­dents said they were motivated to help in part because the images of thousands of civilians trapped on their rooftops reminded them of Hurricane Katrina just two years ago. 
"The disaster has been aptly called, 'the Katrina of Mexico' because it is the worst disaster to hit Mexico in recent his­
primarily been with migrants and farm­ers and is focusing on providing basic needs such as food, water, blankets and other emergency supplies." 
The Red Cross also helps to provide basic needs but is working to prevent potential epidemics that could stem from the lack of clean water and growing mosquito populations, he said, 
Welle contacted vendors in the neighboring town of Choluca who make and sell rosaries for a living. 
"So not only will the profits be supporting the flood victims in Tabasco, but the purchase of 

claimed more than 1 million people are affected. 
"The loss of agriculture, infrastructure, homes, etc. makes the situation all the more complicated," Churbock said. "Also, the possibility of disease spreading from lack of clean water sources is a very real threat." 
Students also said they felt the need to act in return for the large amount of aid Mexico provided the U.S. following Katrina. According to the American Red Cross website, on Sept. 1, 2005, two days after the hurricane struck, Mexico sent 250 tons of food, bottled water, canned food, disposable diapers and medical supplies to New Orleans to aid relief efforts. 
"As neighbors, it seems right that we should return the favor," Churbock said. "It's interesting that there have been recent proposals to spend a significant amount of capital building a border fence. It's almost worth researching how much the government is willing to pay to help those in need versus for a border fence." 
Katie McAnany, a student in Puebla, said she was particu­larly motivated to help after seeing the United States strug­gle with disaster relief, while equipped with far greater resources than Mexico. 
"I was appalled at the lack of publicity that these floods have had in the U.S.," she said. "We know they helped us during Katrina, we ought to return the favor." 
The Puebla students hope to begin selling the 200 rosaries they have purchased during the week following Thanksgiving break. Although he is uncertain to what capacity the proceeds will go toward, Welle hopes that it will be for infectious dis­ease prevention and medicine, relief efforts to remove people from the affected areas or recu­peration for the victims. 
"The response that we've received thus far has been heartwarming," he said. "Everyone has been so recep­tive and positive. I am so happy to be able to actively experi­ence the loving nature of the human spirit." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 

This month's Food for Thought meeting will be held Wednesday in the West Wing during dinner hours, Student Body President Kim Hodges said Monday at the Board of Governance meeting. The forum is open to the campus and this month's topic will be about the Board of Governance and other boards on campus. 
The goal of Food for Thought is "for people to get to know BOG and the functions of BOG and other boards on campus," Hodges said. 
The Board has discussed in past meetings plans to increase stu­dent government transparency to the student body. 
Election Commissionor, Maggie Siefert, said that campaigning will take place for the new Student Body President and the Student Activities Board and Student Diversity Board after students return from Christmas break. Informational sessions will be held during next week. 
Hodges also announced the Bookstore will hold a Christmas contest. It is. a competition to · paint the panes of the bookstore in the Student Center. A drawing will be held on Thursday to choose the students who will 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 





Group discusses Food for Thought 
paint the windows. The windows will then be judged and gift cards will be given to the winners. If you are interested, you can sign up in the bookstore before Thursday. 
There will be a bus trip to Chicago this weekend, Hodges said. The bus leaves at 9 a.m. at the Le Mans bus stop. Students can sign up in the Student Center through Friday. 
This week is Disabilities Week, said Student Diversity Board President Abby Hinchy. There are drop boxes in all of the residence halls for used eyeglasses which will be cleaned and donated to the needy. 
Colleen Kielty, president of the Class of 2008, announced the Saint Mary's cookbooks will go on sale at the end of the week. The books are being sold for $10 each. The profits will be donated to Twelve Days of Christmas fami­lies. Kielty did mention that she received over 300 recipes from Saint Mary's students and alumni. 
Kielty also said that there will be Bingo with the Sisters of the Holy Cross tomorrow night in the Lily O'Grady Room of the convent. 
"The sisters really enjoy them­selves," Kielty said. Prizes will be given to the winners. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

SHH ... Secret Sale Starts WEDNESDAY November 28 • Noon 
at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


( 
HAMMES ~A 
NOTRE DAME·~ 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcotalog.com 
or $11.95 each. Limit 10 per customer wbile supplies last. 
No other discounts apply. May not be combined with any other offer. Valid 1n·store and on select items only. Umrt 10 per customer while supplies lasL See store for details.

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 27, 2007 

GaDle 
continued from page 1 
Stridwrz said the atmosplwrn at Stanford didn't compare to that of football Saturdays in South Bend. 
"In the Bay Area, we're not apathetic. but it's not like some sports towns," slw said. "We're kind of laid back. It's like Club Mml hem." 
She called Saturday's game "really mnotional" and said the Irish played like "tlwy're willing to prov1~ sonwthing next ymtr." 
"I don't know what to expect,'' Stridwrz said. "This year. people knew we wernn 't going to be that strong. I'm hoping we mature and get stronger and better. I don't feel lik1~ everyone's giving u p o n No t n~ Dam n • an d t h e y shouldn't. 
"I joke it's like wPdding vows ­

Journal 
continued from page 1 
nal's f'aculty advisor, said the stu­dent-run journal would "work to select art.ides that should rnpresent the best of urulerhrraduate rnseareh." 
Though the Journal of Undergraduate Hesearch already a<:cepts rnsearch submissions in political science, it publishes only one. Lindloy said. 
"Politiml Science hw.; 600 lunder­hrraduat.nlrn<~jors," lw said. "[think we dnsnrvn and can sustain our own journal," lw said. 
Lindley said he hw.; bnnn looking into having a politkal sdnncn under­graduate rnsearch journal through­out tlw night years lw ha'i spent at Notrn Damn. 
filr better or worse." 
That's how Cindy Aselage and her husband Steve see it. This ynar. the couple, who live in Pleasanton. Calif., went to four Notre Dame games: Georgia Tnch. UClA, USC and Stanford. 
But that wasn't enough. The Asolages recently purchased a house in South Bend, where Cindy Aselage said they hope to sp1md future football seasons. 
Steve Asolage graduated from Notre Dame in 1973, his wife said, and started going to Irish football games with his father ­also a Notm Dame alumnus ­nearly 50 years ago. After col­lege, Cindy lived in Ohio, and Steve in Iowa. The two met in South Bend to watch Notre Dame games, Cindy Aselage said. 
"It's nice to see the spirit of Notre Damn," she said. "You watch the players and you see the different coaches through the 
Professor Seba'itian Hosato, anoth­nr faculty advisor to the journal, said "the founders recognized that the probability of getting published in tlw Journal of Undergraduate Hnsnarch i'i very low. This provides more opportunities for publication," he said. 
Publication was important bemuse it "gives studenl'i a taste of academic lili.l," he said. 
By providing undergraduatns with another outlet for publication, the journal could encourage students to make morn submissions, he said. 
"It rai'ies the profile of political sci­once a'i a subjeet instead of a gate­way to law school or business school," hn said. 
If' the journal reaches a high enough quality. it could also inform the campus about current evenl'i, he said. 
years.... The fans don't give up. I just feel bad for the team. You feel bad for the fifth-year seniors. You have your ups and downs." 
While many Notre Dame fans at Stanford went out of loyalty to the team, Dave lleine wanted to sup­port Irish tight end, and fellow Minnesotan, John Carlson. 
"We all rally around John," lleine said. 
Heine was disappointed in Notre Dame's season, but enjoyed Carlson's performance. 
"John had a great game," he said. "He had three catches today. . . . It's great to be around his par­ents and his family and watch everyone rally around him." 
Mary Kate Malone contributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu and Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 

The journal is fundfld by the College of Arl'> & Letters. the dnpart­ment of political science and Professor James McAdams. Lentz said McAdams "has been a strong advocate for undergraduate research." 
The journal will accept submis­sions until Feb. 10. It will be pub­lishnd later in the semester. 
Wagman said Beyond Politics' pner-review procnss is blind, mean­ing that the editors would not know who submitted each manuscript. That helps ensure that each submis­sion i'i fairly evaluated based on con­tent, style and the quality of research, he said. 
'11Ie website for Beyond Polities is beyondpolitics.nd.edu 
Contact Brian McKenzie at @nd.edu/saintmarys.edu 

Recital 
continued from page 1 
life of the composer." 

The success of the recitals. most specifically this ynar, was contingent on the students in llahn's classes, she said. This is the second year the formal recital has taken place. 
Hahn's formal involvement with Modern Language Wonk started last year when she had three vocal performance majors in her French class. she said. 
"The idea of' singing for the students in the elass expandnd to a recital for all Saint Mary's students and faculty," she said. 
The goal of this year's recital, which will be present­ed to a much larger audience, is twofold. 
"The goal was not only to entertain, but also to combine their music major with tho foreign language they study and to show how the two arn interrelated," Hahn said. "This is an interdisciplinary engage­ment that exposes all students who study a f()reign language to the language outside thn textbook and classroom." 
Hahn and her students are eager to continue this tradi­tion in the coming years, she said. 
The recital will feature the four fim~ign languages taught at Saint Mary's and will be mostly arias from operas, Lieder and Spanish zarzuelas. 
Buck sees thP recital as a way to showcase both tho study of' modern languages and musk. 
"The program ofl'nrs inter­departmental bonds and encourages studnnl'i, especial­ly those in music, to pursue the st~.dy of .modern lan­guages, she smd. 
The music for the recital was chosen to represent the languages offered at Saint Mary's and to show the lan­guage through song. Buck said. 
She said she hopes for con­tinued suecess of the recital. 
"Thn overall mnssagn is that musie is an important part of the culture of modern lan­guages," she said. "And for songs having text., language is exceedingly important in music." 
Other events for Modern Languagn Week include a German-themed dinner tonight at the Noble Family Dining I I all, a Freneh mass at LeMans Chapel at 9 p.m. on Wednesday, various film screenings and a poetry read­ing by Yanira Paz at 4 p.m. on Friday in Dalloway's. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO I @saintmarys.edu 



--------------------------------------------------~-----------~-------------~ 




ORLD & NATION 

Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Fighting in Chad kills hundreds 
N'DJAMENA, Chad -Chad's army and a rebel group both claimed to have killed hun­dreds of fighters on the opposing side in fight­ing Monday in the country's east, an area in turmoil from domestic unrest as well as spillover conflict from the neighboring Darfur region in Sudan. 
The violence at Abougouleigne, about 60 miles east of the town of Abeche, left "several hundred (rebels) dead, several injured and sev­eral prisoners of war" in military custody, according to a statement from Chad's general staff. 
"The fighting lasted four hours and ended in the total and definite annihilation of this col­umn" of rebels, said the statement read on state radio and television by an unidentified oflicer. 
Bush steps into Mideast peacemaking 
WASHINGTON -President Bush stepped cautiously into the most direct Mideast peace­making of his administration on Monday, meet­ing separately with the leaders of Israel and the Palestinian Authority to explore whether peace is possible. "Difficult compromises" will be required but the Israeli and Palestinian leaders are committed to making them, he said. 
A day ahead of a major Mideast peace con­ference in Annapolis, Md., Bush said he was optimistic. The gathering is to launch the first direct peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians of Bush's nearly seven years in office, and has attracted Arab and other out­side backing. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Senator Lott announces resignation 
PASCAGOULA, Miss. -Mississippi Sen. Trent Lott announced Monday he will leave a 35-year career in Congress in which he epitomized the Republicans' political takeover of the South after the civil rights struggles of the 1960s. 
Lott said he wanted to leave on a "positive note" after winning re-election last year to a leadership post and fostering legislation for rebuilding the Gulf Coast after Hurricane Katrina. lie was first elected to Congress on the coattails of Hichard Nixon's re-election landslide in 1972 -with 78 percent of the vote in Mississippi. He won election to the Senate in 1988, succeeding retiring veteran Democrat John Stennis. 


Gore, Bush meet again in Oval Office 
WASHINGTON -Talk about an inconven­ient truth. 
AI Gore finally won his place in the Oval Office on Monday -right next to George W. Bush. 
Forever linked by the closest and craziest presidential race in history, the two men were reunited by, of all things, White House tradition. Gore was among the 2007 Nobel Prize winners who were invited in for a photo and some chatter with the president; Gore got the recognition for his work on global warming. 
The two men stood next to other, sharing uncomfortable grins for photographers and reporters, who were quickly ushered in and out. 
"Familiar faces," the former vice president said of the media. Bush, still smiling, added nothing. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Gary ex-cop faces federal indictment 
!lAMMOND, Ind.-A former Gary police officer has been indicted on federal civil rights charges after he was accused of assaulting a suspect. 
The indictment was filed Monday in U.S. District Court in Hammond. It alleges that 35-year-old Hobert Irving a<>saulted an arrestee at Northlake Methodist llospital and again in the police depart­ment's booking area on September 11, 2005. The 
U.S. Department of Justice didn't identifY the sus­pect, who it says was injured in the alleged assaults. 
There was only one number under Hobert Irving's name in published listings for Gary and a recording said the phone was disconnected. He could not be reached for comment. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WlRI SERVJCES page 5 
IRAQ 


Bush, al-Maliki reaffirm alliance 
Deal sets foundation for "enduring" military and economic relationship between U.S., Iraq 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush on Monday signed a deal set­ting the foundation for a potential long-term U.S. troop presence in Iraq, with details to be negoti­ated over matters that have defined the war debate at home -how many U.S. forces will stay in the country, and for how long. 
The agreement between Bush and Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki confirms that the United States and Iraq will hash out an "enduring" rela­tionship in military, eco­nomic and political terms. Details of that relation­ship will be negotiated in 2008, with a completion goal of July, when the U.S. intends to finish with­drawing the five combat brigades sent in 2007 as part of the troop buildup that has helped curb sec­tarian violence. 
"What U.S. troops are doing, how many troops are required to do that, are bases required, which partners will join them ­all these things are on the negotiating table," said Lt. Gen. Douglas Lute, President Bush's adviser on the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The proposal underlines how the United States and Iraq are exploring what their relationship might look like once the U.S. sig­nificantly draws down its troop presence. It comes as a Democratic Congress -unsuccessfully, so far -prods Bush to with­draw troops faster than he wants. 
Bush and al-Maliki signed the new U.S.-Iraq "declaration of principles" during a secure video con­ference Monday morning. 
Al-Maliki, in a televised address, said his govern­ment would ask the United Nations to renew the mandate for the multi­national force for one final time with its authori­zation to end in 2008. 


The U.S.-Iraq agreement will replace the present 
U.N. mandate regulating the presence of the U.S.­led forces in Iraq. Al­Maliki said the agreement provides for U.S. support for the "democratic regime in Iraq against domestic and external dangers." 
It also would help the Iraqi government thwart any attempt to suspend or repeal a constitution drafted with U.S. help and adopted in a nationwide vote in 2005. That appeared to be a refer­ence to any attempt to remove the government by violence or in a coup. 
Al-Maliki said the renewal of the multina­tional forces' mandate was conditional on the 
repeal of what he called restrictions on Iraqi sov­ereignty introduced in 1990 by the U.N. Security Council to punish Iraq for invading neighboring Kuwait. 
The new agreement would not signal an end to the U.S. mission here. But it could change the rules under which U.S. soldiers operate and give the Iraqis a greater role in determining their mission. 
Two Republican sena­tors said that unless Baghdad makes more political progress by January, the U.S. should consider withdrawing financial aid or political support from al-Maliki. 
The warnings, coming from Sens. Lindsey Graham and Saxby 
Chambliss, were an indi­cation that while GOP patience on the war has increased this fall because of security gains made by the military, it isn't bot­tomless. 
"I do expect them to deliver," Graham, R-S.C., said in a phone interview. "What would happen for me if there's no progress on reconciliation after the first of the year, I would be looking at ways to invest our money into groups that can deliver." 
Likewise, Chambliss, R­Ga., suggested lawmakers might even call for al­Maliki's ouster if Baghdad didn't reach agreements on at least some of the major issues seen as key to tamping down sectari­an violence. 
Heart trouble sends Cheney to hospital 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Vice President Dick Cheney, who has a history of heart problems, experienced an irreg­ular heartbeat Monday and was taken to George Washington University Hospital for evaluation. 
The condition was detected when Cheney was seen by doctors around 7 
a.m. at the White House for a linger­ing cough from a cold. He remained at work throughout the day, joining President Bush in meetings with Mideast leaders. 
"During examination he was inci­dentally found to have an irregular heartbeat, which on further testing was determined to be atrial fibrilla­tion, an abnormal rhythm involving the upper chambers of the heart," said spokeswoman Megan Mitchell. 

She said Cheney went to the hospi­tal around 5 p.m. She said that if nec­essary, he would be receive cardiover­sion, a procedure that involves the delivery of an electric impulse to the heart. 
About 2.8 million Americans have atrial fibrillation, the most common type of irregular heartbeat, and cases are increasing as the population ages. 
The condition occurs when the heart's top chambers, called the atria, get out of sync with the bottom cham­bers' pumping action. It is not imme­diately life-threatening, and the heart sometimes gets back into rhythm on its own. Many times, patients aren't aware of an episode of atrial fibrilla­tion. 
But if the irregular heartbeat con­tinues, it eventually can cause a life­threatening complication -the for­mation of blood clots that can shoot to the brain and cause a stroke. 
The main treatment is to try an electrical shock to restore normal heartbeat. If that doesn't work, patients may need to take the blood thinner warfarin to reduce stroke risk. 
Other options include anti-arrhyth­mic drugs or, for severe a-fib, surgical · procedures to interrupt the faulty 
heartbeat. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
ACE 
continued from page 1 

gram is a two-year commit­ment, and in return for their service, all ACE participants receive a tuition-free Masters degree in education from Notre Damn. The coursework for the degree is taken during the two summers of the pro­gram. 
ACE was originally founded as an option for students who wanted to obtain a degree in education, said ACE assistant director Liz Stowe. 
"ACE is a Notre Dame pro­gram founded in 1994 as a response because many stu­dnnts wanted to become teachers," Stowe said. "So ACE matched that need as wnll as the need of Catholic schools." 
For many, however, the Masters is just a bonus. The opportunity to shape young minds and help troubled chil­dren is a reward in itself for ACE participants like Moo. lie said that hn tries to instill in his students the "three pillars" that came to define his Notre Dame career. 
"It is about spirituality, com­

munity and education," he said. 
After a Notre Dame career marked by a service record, Moo believes his participation in the ACE program is an extension of his work at the University. 
"I believe that the ACE pro­gram is an extension of Notre Dame and the Notre Dame mission," he said. 
Although teaching in a low­income community can often be a trying task, both Stowe and Moo agree the results are well worth the effort. 
"We are answering the financial need of Catholic school and the spiritual need," Stowe said. "These young energetic adults are able to bring life and faith to these communities." 
In fact, Moo has found the program so rewarding that he is reeonsidering his previous plans to continue on to gradu­ate or law school. 
"Now that I'm actually here, I'm a little more confused than I was before," he said. "I really enjoy teaching, and I ean definitely see myself in education." 
Contact Joe McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
NO professor w-ins international aw-ard 
Special to The Observer 
Kathryn Kerby-Fulton, pro­fessor of English at the University of Notre Dame, recently was awarded the John Ben Snow Prize from the North American Conferenee on British Studies for "Books Under Suspicion: Censorship and Tolerance of Hevelatory Writing in Late Medieval England." 
Published last year by Notre Dame Press, "Books Under Suspicion" offers a sharply revisionist account of intel­lectual freedom in the 14th and 15th centuries and exam­ines the censorship issues that propelled the major writ­ers of the period toward their massive use of visionary gen­res. 
The award citation states: "Through its superb scholar­ship, 'Books Under Suspicion' recasts our understanding of religious heterodoxy in late medieval England. Kathryn Kerby-Fulton challenges tra­ditional historiography that privileges the radicalism of John WyclifTe and his follow­ers. Instead, through close examination of visionary gen­res and texts, she establishes a significant, alternative intellectual history, one that 
shows a surprising degree of pluralism and tolerance for unorthodox thought. Kerby­Fulton's scholarship is remarkable, her methodology often ingenious, particularly her use of reception history and codicology. This book rests on rich sources, both literary and theological, ver­nacular and Latin. It inte­grates Europe and England in new ways and shows a plu­ralist culture under constant negotiation and evolution." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2005, Kerby-Fulton was awarded a 2007-08 fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, for which she is working on a project titled "Medieval Reading Circles and the Hise of English Literature in England and Anglo-Ireland." 
Specializing in Middle English literature and related areas of medieval studies, Kerby-Fulton also is the author of "Heformist Apocalypticism and Piers Plowman" (which won the John Nicholas Brown Prize from the Medieval Academy of America in 1994), co­author of "Iconography and the Professional Reader," and co-editor of three collections. 
,, 'tJ II 



'r.\

As •ou Wish _.. ~,
I mports,.,' 
SfERLINO. SILVER!!! 
TAPESTRY WALL HANtiNtS! V.N.H!lV.LH.A PB!J.~..W..HKY.J P.I!O~t"..~.~-~IV~.~-~--~lf.t IJ~~J 

Lafortut1e ­Sorlt1 Roo~tt ( 1 st FIJ 
Nov. 26 -Vee. 1 !Sat) 
11-5 PIM 
Mon. -Fri. eves 
7:30-1 Op~tt 


[~ ~ ~ -~~ PeN]--------­
1M c r e dibIe pr•. c e s I Pn•:ee<l• from the sales of jewelry guarunlee the 
fl 1 hands ofGuatarnalan families J time~ their overage 
U"Ique ChristtMas &ifts! ..,ory.a• well .. fund• for their education. 
Sponson:d by Stu<lenl Activies Office 



Mother admits killing child 
Associated Press 

GALVESTON, Texas -A woman believed to be the mother of a 2-year-old whose body was found in Galveston Bay told police she and the girl's stepfather beat and tor­tured the child to death, court documents show. 
The details, in a statement Kimberly Dawn Trenor gave to police, paint a chilling pic­ture of the last days of the girl investigators called "Baby Grace" as they worked for weeks to learn her identi­ty. 
Investigators are awaiting DNA test results but said Monday they are "fairly con­fident" that the body a fisher­man found in a plastic box Oct. 29 is that of Hiley Ann Sawyers. Trenor, 19, and her husband, Royce Clyde Zeigler II, were in custody on charges of hurting the girl. 
"It was a few weeks ago I held up this little shoe and asked, 'Who is Baby Grace? Who does this belong to?"' sheriff's Maj. Ray Tuttoilmondo said at a news conference. "We're now fairly confident we know the answer to that." 
An autopsy revealed three skull fractures, but the cause of death has not been deter­mined. 
Tuttoilmondo said he could not discuss details of the little girl's death, but Trenor said in her police statement, first reported by Houston televi­sion station KTHK, that she and Zeigler, 24, killed her July 24. 
The girl was beaten with leather belts, had her head held underwater in a bathtub and then was thrown across a room, her head slamming into a tile 11oor, Trenor said in the document. She said they kept the body in a stor­age shed for one to two months before they put it in a plastic bin and dumped it into Galveston Bay. 
Trenor's attorney, Tom Stickler, said she has cooper­ated with authorities. He declined to comment about her statement to investiga­tors. 
"But from what she said, there is no doubt that the girl found is Hiley Sawyers," Stickler said. 
Trenor and Zeigler were arrested early Saturday and charged with injury to a child and tampering with evidence, Tuttoilmondo said. Bail was set at $350,000 each. The couple's next court appear­ance was expected to be scheduled on Tuesday. 
Wendell Odom, Zeigler's attorney, declined to com­ment on the case except to say Zeigler grew up in Spring, about 75 miles north of Galveston, and works as an instrument technician in the oil industry. 
Trenor and Zeigler met a couple of years ago playing an online game, World of Warcraft, and she rrioved with her daughter from sub­urban Cleveland to Spring in June, Stickler said. 
Hiley's paternal grandmoth­er, Sheryl Sawyers, hadn't seen her granddaughter in months when she saw a police sketch of "Baby Grace." Thinking it might be Riley, she called authorities in Texas. 
In Mentor, Ohio, on Monday, Sawyers wiped away tears at a news conference and held up the Elmo doll she had already bought Riley for 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Interested in IRELAND? Want to study in IRELAND? Want to work in IRELAND? 
lnf01mation meeting 
GREAT HALL, O'SHAG Tuesday, 27 Nov., 2007 8:00-9:00 pm 
Christmas. 
"It's hard to think that I'll 
never see her again," she 
said. 
The Sawyers family's attor­ney, Laura Del'ledge, said they take comfort in knowing that the girl is "resting pea_cefully and !.s no longer subject to abuse. 
DePledge said Trenor and Sawyers' son, Hobert Sawyers, also of Mentor, had been high school sweet­hearts. Sheryl Sawyers said she has not seen Riley since the girl and Trenor moved to Texas. 
Hobert Sawyers, who works in an auto-parts store, was never married to Trenor but lived with her and their daughter in his parents' home for about two years. He and Trenor split up after March 31, when he was charged with domestic vio­lence against her. 
DePledge said there was insufficient evidence to sup­port the charge, which was reduced to disorderly con­duct. Robert Sawyers is now married and has a 3-month­old son. 
Hiley "had a very big imagi­nation for such a little girl," he said of his daughter. "She could play with anything and have fun with it." 
Tuttoilmondo said Trenor had told relatives that some­one claiming to be a social worker from Ohio took the girl in July. 
Tuttoilmondo said investi­gators became emotionally involved in determining the little girl's identity. 
"Any way you look at it, we carry a piece of her with us and will always carry a little piece of her with us," he said. "She's still our little girl." 
Free Pizza 

Faculty will be available to answer your questions about courses in Irish Language and Literature and Irish Studies and about the MINOR IN IRISH LANGUAGE AND LITERA Tl!RE and the MINOR IN IRIS/I STlJDIES. 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Sponsored by the Departmmt oflri-;h La11guage and Literature and the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies 
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 12,743.44 -237.44
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,478 99 1,793 4,171,045,935 
AMEX 2,331.43 -52.79 NASDAQ 2,641.59 -55.61 NYSE 9,389.50 ..193,'"48 S&P 500 1,407.22 -33.48 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 14,874.26 -260.95 
FTSE 100 'London~ 6,180.50 -81.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -2.21 -3.18 140.95 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.73 -0.86 48.98 CITIGROUP INC (C) -3.15 -1.00 30.70 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) -3.35 -0.98 28.29 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -4.11 -0.165 3.847 13-WEEK BILL -2.71 -0.085 3.055 30-YEAR BOND -3.56 -0.158 4.280 5-YEAR NOTE -4.81 -0.164 3.245 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.48 97.70 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 1.80 826.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.53 91.98 

Exchange Rates 

YEN 107.5800 EURO 0.6725 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9883 BRmSH POUND 0.4828 
IN BRIEF 

Oil prices rise to nearly $99 a barrel 
Oil prices rosn to near $99 a barrel Monday with temperatures falling in the United States and Europe and continued weakness for the U.S. dol­lar. 
The Thanksgiving holiday on Thursday marked the unofficial start of winter in the United States. Among other areas, southeastern New Mexico got up to 9 inches of snow and experienced colder than normal temperatures over the holiday week­end. Snow also 1!111 in Germany over the weekend. 
"The onset of cold U.S. weather is going to boost runt demand," said Victor Shum, an ener!,ry ana­lyst with Purvin & Gertz in Singapore. 
Light, sweet crude for January delivery added 75 ennts to $98.93 a barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, midday in Europn. 
On Friday, the contract rose 89 cents to settle at $98.18 a barrel, besting the previous settlement meord by 15 cenL'i. 
January Brent crude added 68 cents to $96.44 a barn~! on the ICE Futures exchange. 
Meanwhile, the dollar hit a new low against the euro Friday as speculation continued that the American credit crisis will lead to another cut in 
U.S. interest rates. 
'The weakened U.S. dollar remains at record low lfwels and so we've got pricing trying to test $100 again," Shum said. 
Oil futures offer a hedge against a weak dollar, and oil futures bought and sold in dollars are more attractive to foreign investors when the U.S. currency is falling. 
Nymex crude prices reached a trading record of $99.29 a barrel on Wednesday, and are within the range of inflation-adjusted highs set in early 1980. Depending on how the adjustment is calculated, $38 a barn~t then would be worth $96 to $103 or morn today. 
"Almost anything could push prices higher from here and we have to expect to see a move to" $100 per barrel this week, said Peter Beutel, pres­ident of U.S. energy risk management firm Cameron llanover, in a research note, listing a 
U.S. 
Fnderal Hnsnrve interest rate cut, a weaker 

U.S. 
dollar, colder weather forecasts or "any pntro-political problem" among the factors which could push oil prices to three digits. 





THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Credit concerns hit stocks again 
Despite strong retail sales, Dow falls another 240 points, 10 percent off mid-October peak 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Wall Street sold off sharply Monday as concerns about a weakening credit market wiped out investors' enthusiasm about strong retails sales over the holiday weekend. The Dow Jones industrial average fell nearly 240 points. 
The Dow's decline from its mid-October closing high is now 10.03 per­cent, putting the blue chip index past the 10 percent threshold that signifies a correction. 
The swoon comes as investors were unnerved by another series of announcements that pointed to continuing problems in the credit markets. the result of home loan debt going bad under the weight of a fal­tering housing market. 
Two banks had bad news: Citigroup Inc. warned it is looking to cut costs -raising the possi­bility of further job cuts­and HSBC Holdings PLC said it plans to bail out two funds it manages. To do so, Europe's largest bank plans to move about $45 billion of the fund's assets onto its balance sheet. 
Comments from Sen. 

Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., a key member of Senate finance and banking com­mittees, about the expo­sure that the Atlanta­based Federal Home Loan Bank might have to Countrywide Financial Corp.'s debt stirred con­cerns about further weak­ening in the banking sec­tor. 
Meanwhile, The New York Federal Reserve, acknowledging "height­ened pressures" in money markets that are expected to last through the rest of 
the year, said it plans to conduct a series of repur­chase agreements aimed at boosting liquidity in the credit markets. The announcement from the New York Fed, which car­ries out monetary policy set by the U.S. Federal Reserve, essentially puts in writing many of the steps the Fed often takes at this time of year. 
The Fed said it would inject $8 billion into the banking system on Wednesday. The amount of money is somewhat larger than in past years at this time. 
A better-than-expected report on retail sales was­n't able to hold the mar­ket's early gains. Retail sales on Friday and Saturday combined rose 
7.2 percent to $16.4 bil­lion from the same two­day period a year ago, according to ShopperTrak. which tracks total sales at more than 50,000 U.S. retail outlets. That's helped ease investor concerns about consumer spending, which accounts for two­thirds of all economic activity. 
"The early focus was on the consumer and the weekend sales but of course subprime always seems to pop its head up," said Peter Cardillo, chief market economist at New York-based brokerage house Avalon Partners Inc., referring to loans made to borrowers with poor credit. Some of these loans are now souring. forcing banks to write off huge sums. 

''We'' to ''me'' shift hard for some vets 
and enlisted soldiers are leaving the unable to effectively translate their
Associated Press 
military as multiple deployments to military skills in civilian terms and 72 

FORT RILEY, Kan. -Brian Brooks war takes its toll on them and their percent felt unprepared to negotiate a sat against the wall listening intently families. Despite increased incentives, salary. The survey heard from 287 to instructions for his next mission. including huge bonuses from the recruiters and hiring managers from After 20 years of working for team Army, many are opting to test the firms across the country, as well Army, the next task was all his. civilian job market, even if they aren't responses from 4,442 veterans. 
Brooks is trading his uniform and sure how. Responses were gathered through procurement job for civilian clothes For the Department of Defense, telephone interviews and online ques­and work schedules. Since 1987, he having thousands of unemployed vet­tioning. has reported each day for duty, know­erans is costly. In 2006, the agency "Because their resumes and experi­ing there was a job waiting for him. paid $518 million in unemployment ences differ from traditional candi­Now, there's no guarantee. benefits, and $365 million through the dates, it can be challenging for hiring 
"For some of us, it's a different first three quarters of 2007. managers to immediately appreciate world. It will make you a little nerv­Veterans say it's difficult to go from the value they bring," Aiello said. ous," said Brooks, 38, who's retiring a culture where the emphasis is on Brooks was responsible for getting after 20 years. "we," as in the squad or platoon, to resources to train teams sent to Iraq 
The disconnect between life in the "me," as in a qualified applicant. and Afghanistan to work as advisers. active duty military and the civilian "It's lost in the translation, this It meant working with approved sup­job market is not unusual. For the inability of the veteran to communi­pliers and contractors for clothing, nearly 250,000 who leave the military cate all of their skills to an employer weapons, food and anything else sol­annually, selling themselves to in a way that is meaningful," said Tom diers or trainers needed to complete employers isn't something they have Aiello, vice president of military.com, the mission. In the civilian market, had to worry about for years -if a division of Monster Worldwide. Brooks could expect to do similar ever. A recent survey by military.com tasks in factories, warehouses or 
More and more mid-grade officers found that 76 percent of veterans felt retail stores. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Honesty needed in foreign policy 
1~0. Box n9, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIE!' Maddit· Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~s·1~ MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWs EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: ( :hris Khorcy Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: 'lae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dusrin Mennella 
GRAI'tiiCS EDITOR: Madeline Nics 
AllVlmTISING MANAGER: Jessica Conez 
All DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROI.LER: 'l'im Sobok'Wski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(S74) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscrvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4141 obsrne@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-'i323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-'i303 vicwpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 6.31-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 ohsphow@1nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-!!839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
'l'ht• ( lbst•rver is the indqx·ndenr, daily newspaper published in prim .md online by th<· students of th<· University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colkg,·. Editorial contem, including advertisements, is not gowrrwd by polides of 1he adminimarion ofeither imtitution. The Observer reserves the right 10 rd1tse adwrtisem,·nts based on content. 
The nt·ws is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos.o;ibk. Unsigned editorials represen! rhc opinion of the majority of the Editor in ( :hict; Managing Editor, A'5istant Mana(!.ing Editors and department editors. Commcntari<'S, letters .md columns prt•seru the views of rhe authors and nor nt'Ccssarily those ofThe ( )bservn. 
Vitwpoint space is available to all readers. The free exprcs.o;ion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. I.t'trcrs 10 the Ediwr musr be signed and must include conracr inti•rmarion. 
Questiow rrgarding Obsm;a policits should be direct~d to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
n., llh<onvc-r (lJSI'S 'JIJCJ 2-4000} i~ J>uhh.J"'d Mun&ay r!.wuKh Frid~y "'-'efl' dunng nam Jml Vdl:.uum ~ICIItKI, A llllh.... npuun to The Obsen-cr "$)0() ror nne .u.....lcmi~ ycar:$'i,lurnllc;llt'llltll4CI 
Ihc: Oh.trv.:r lk puhhah~l ": PmlMA.\'TER 11l4 'iotulh l>uuug ll.all ScnJ olddrt» ..:orrc..:ttmu to Nncrt Il.aruc, IN 4f.~'Wt-{ln 1J ThcObo;cM"r l'c:nvJi.,.,al pmt,tl(t" po1id ,u Nunc D.1.mc ro. Bux 779 
•ndailditwl\.tlru.. ilm~tntTILc ..... 024. Smnh Dining HJIJ Nom Do~rne.IN 4M'%-U77CJ 
Tlu~ I llWiC'M'r ,, "mmt~t ut ~~ AMuuJtcll PrtT>. All rcpwclw.:riun nglm ,uc ra.crv.:,J, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Karen Langlf~y Dan Murphy Maun~en Mullen Greg Arbogast Brian MeKcnzic Jared Jediek Graphics Scene 
Matt Hudson Analise Lipari Viewpoint Miehnlle Johnson 
The dcbadc in Pakistan this month has brought to light the utter hypocrisy of 
U.S. foreign policy. Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf has suspended the eonstitution, declared a stato of emer­gency, blacked out 
Zach
independont television 
Einterz
networks, arrested thousands of dissi­Bulletproof
denl<> and threatened 
Ideas 
to postpone elections. 
Despito these reeent developments, the 
United States has stayed committed to 
Musharraf as an "indispensable" ally in 
the War on Terror. 

The Bush Administration has done little more than pay lip serviee to the situation in Pakistan, all the while insisting that Musharraf is dodicatl~d to bringing about demoeratie reform. Secretary of State Condoleezza Hiee called Musharraf"s actions "a bad decision." She added, "I don't have any doubt that [Musharrall is somebody who tries to have the best interests of his country at heart." 
Bush Administration oflicials have pointed out democratic advancements attai1wd under Musharraf, such as gains in gender equality, freedom of the press, civil rights and the economy. According to President Bush, "Pakistan has been on the path to democracy." 
Then~ are many n~asons to doubt the Bush Administration's insistence that Pakistan is a pro-democracy ally. Musharraf eame to power by a coup d'e­tat in 1999, and he has been accused of tampering with elections several times since. 
Pakistan's position as an "indispcnsa-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"A person is never happy except at 
the price ofsome ignorance." 
Anatole France French author 
ble" ally in the War on Terror must also be called into question. Pakistan has been incompetent, if not unwilling, in the War on Terror. It's estimated that more Al-Qaeda members find shelter in Pakistan than any other eountry, and it is widely bolieved that Osama Bin Laden is living in Pakistan. In addition, U.S. intelli­gence reports note that Pakistan has been actively trading nuclear technology with Libya and North Korea. 
Our alliance with Pakistan has turned into an exercise in stubbornness and stu­pidity. All the reasons given for an alliance with Pakistan have failed. Pakistan is neither an "indispensable" ally in the War on Terror nor is it a state "on the path to democracy." 
Once all the rhetoric has been removed. we are left with this solemn fact: Since Sept. 2001, the United States has sent $10 billion to a military dictator­ship that oppresses its people, has nuclear weapons and docs little to fight terrorism. 
Our counterintuitive policy toward Pakistan is not unique. We give monetary and military support to repressive regimes throughout the world, and we've been doing it for a long time. 
Consider the ease of Saudi Arabia. Ovor 75 percent of the Sept. 11 hijackers were Saudis and it's estimated that as much as 50 pcreent of the suieide bombers in Iraq are Saudis. Saudi Arabia's pitiful human rights meord has made it comparable to more notorious countries such as Myanmar and North Korea. 
Saudi Arabia, like Pakistan, is not a demoeraey. Yet Saudi Arabia is one of our 
Submita wetter 
\i#> ii'' :Jic 


to the Editor at 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
elosest allies in the Middle East and this 
summer we brokered a deal to sell them 
$20 billion dollars worth of arms. Selling 
$20 billion in weapons to a eountry that 
produees hijackers and suicide bombers 
en masse may seem illogical, but J)pfense 
Seeretary Hobert Gates astutely 
explai1wd that the arms package is nec­
essary to rnassure the Saudis that "our 
commitment in the region remains firm." 
The United States prides itself' on being "the brightest beacon for freedom" and promoter of dcmocraey throughout the world. llowever, it's dear that these phrases have turned into meaningless political rhetoric. 
The inconsistency between our rhetorie and our actions needs correction. Sinee our forei!-.'11 policy is unlikely to change anytime SCJIIIl, we must change our rheto­ric. The next time the U.S. makes an asi­nine deal with another country, Americans deserve to hoar the truth. 
The State Department should admit that we'rn doing it to ensurn the free flow of oil or to appease political factions. Americans don't want to hear that send­ing billions of dollars to a puppet regime in the Middle East is nnenssary li>r democracy, because we know that's not true. 

Zach /:,"interz is a senior majoring in economics and environmental sciences. 1/e turned to politics after an unsuccess­ful sports career. Contact Zach at zein­terz@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
TUR~N£S~t> GAS~D 


VYNA.MOS 
HOTAIR 



CONVER\ GAS 

COlLECTION 
~D HOTAIR 


DUCTS 
INTO El.ECTR\Cil'l 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Procrastinatipn is the art ofkeeping
up wllh yesterday. 
Don Marquis humorist 


----------, 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 page 9 
Reassess use of Tasers 
The old adage that "guns don't kill people, people kill people" is often tout­ed by NRA gun rights fanatics who can recite the Second Amendment by heart and proudly sport "Charlton Heston is 
my presid~nt" bumper  James  
stn;ker~. Its a way of de!enchng the pres­ Dechant  
ence of guns and pointing elsewhere for  Foregone Conclusion  
the cause of violent  

crimes, and it's sadly true at some level about the human pathology of violence. 
Unfortunately, we no longer have only guns to fear. These days, we have to worry about being killed by a weapon designed, ironically, to help police stop criminals without resorting to lethal force: The Taser. 
The United Nations' Committee Against Torture declared on Nov. 23 that Tasers-the electronic "stun gun" weapons used by nearly half of all United States police departments-are a form of torture. They cite the multi­tude of questionable deaths related to Taser use and say that the weapons vio­late the U.N. Convention Against Torture. 
The U.N. aimed its statement particu­larly at Portuguese police forces that recently purchased new Taser X26 models, but the pronouncement strikes a chord here in the U.S., where recent Taser-related deaths have sparked an outcry against the use of the weapon. The last week and a half has seen four such deaths in this country: two in Florida, one in Maryland, and one in 
New Mexico. Canada saw two fatalities last week involving the weapon, and last month in British Columbia, a Polish man's death following two shots with the taser was caught on video at the Vancouver Airport. 
Taser International, the manufacturer of the item, refuses to even call the stun gun a weapon. They advertise it as a "personal protection system," but make no mistake: The company is a weapons manufacturer. They claim no deaths have ever been proven conclusively to be a direct result of the "low energy electrical discharge" of the weapon. The low energy in question is 50,000 volts. 
One of the biggest groups speaking out against the (mis}use of the weapon is Amnesty International. Amnesty has been calling for a suspension of the weapon since at least March of 2006, when they issued a statement against police use of the Taser. Their report cites several areas of concern, including the rise of Taser-related deaths (over 150 then, now over 250), the severe limitations of independent Taser research (that is, research not affiliated with the producer of the weapon and not benefiting from its sale), and the use of the weapon on vulnerable groups like children, pregnant women, drug users, mentally impaired victims, criminals in jail or prisoners in U.S. foreign detain­ment camps (already in trouble for tor­turing prisoners). 
If you think these claims are exagger­ated, read the Amnesty report online. It documents gross misuses of the Taser in just one state (Florida), including the use of the weapon on a 12-year-old boy, a 14-year-old girl and a 15-year-old autistic boy. 
Clearly, the weapon has a documented history of violent effects. The U.N. accu­sation of torture shows how far afield the weapon has come from its original intention of incapacitating without vio­lence. 
Proponents of the Taser claim that in any event, the weapon's use is prefer­able to guns and their unavoidably lethal consequences. But as the Amnesty report points out, the Taser's classification as a non-lethal weapon and its underestimation as "low force" only authorizes its frequent, indiscrimi­nate employment. Police departments, instead of using the Taser as an alterna­tive to the gun, brandish it like a night­stick. Some departments place the weapon low enough on their use-of­force scales to justify its use where the only provocation is failure to comply with an officer's requests. 
The recent and now infamous "Don't Tase me, bro" incident (again in Florida) sickeningly shows how security forces use the weapon without hesita­tion as a first option instead of a last, regardless of the student's intentions. 
There are no easy solutions here: Some situations require force, but the most humane tool we can create ends up killing people as a gun would do 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Help town honor Victory March 
My wife and I have had the pleas­urn of visiting our daughter at Notre Dame over the past three years. Each visit reinforces for us that Notre Dame is a special place. This is not just because of the physical attributes, but more due to the intangibles derived from faith, loyal­ty, respect and enthusiasm. This contributes to a school spirit that is dillicult to define, but you know it when you feel it. 
During our visit this year, we took particular note of one contributing element to the Notre Dame Spirit: The Notre Dame Victory March. As members of the Shea Tribute CommittPe from westp,rn Massachusetts, the home of the composers Michael and John Shea, our Pars and eyes were tuned to the role this song plays in fostering this sense of spirit. We noted that the Shea brothers' motivating words jumped from walls of numerous buildings throughout the campus and the echoes of their song emanated from the quads, the Eck Center, the JACC and the stadium over the weekend. 

The Victory March brings forth the Notre Dame spirit. The most power­ful example of this for us came from the words of Coach Weis. During his pep rally speech. he spoke of the marching band coming to the foot­ball team's practice following their tough loss to Navy the weekend prior. During their surprise visit, he stated the band played eighteen ren­ditions of the Victory March, high­lighting the song's impact. Clearly, his men felt the spirit and the result­ant practices were increasingly pro­ductive. 
Michael and John Shea composed the Notre Dame Victory March and first played it in their home city of Holyoke, Mass., in 1908. Holyoke is also the home of the second-largest St. Patrick's Day Parade in the nation. What a fitting tribute to the contribution these men have made to Notre Dame it would be to have the Band of the Fighting Irish play their song down the parade route in their home city on its 100th anniver­sary. While Dr. Kenneth Dye feels that such a grandiose plan would not be possible, I invite the creative and cognitively-gifted Notre Dame ommunity to assist in developing a fitting tribute during the 2008 parade. The Holyoke St. Patrick's Day Parade Committee has embraced our committee's efforts to pay tribute to the Shea brothers and may be considering a Notre Dame graduate for their prestigious John 
F. Kennedy National Award. This will synergize our efforts to honor the Shea Brothers and Notre Dame. 
So "rally sons (and daughters) of Notre Dame, sing her glory and sound her fame" by helping us pay a fitting tribute to these men in their home city, the birthplace of the Notre Dame Victory March. Go Irish! 
Dave Shea Shea Tribure Commirtee chair Easthampton, Mass. Nov.ll 
anyway. 
Tasers should be safer and not kill ­yet they do, and misconceptions about their "safety" prompts their use all the time. Giving police high-powered Nerf guns might seem appealing, but I sus­pect more real criminals (not autistic children from Florida) would escape that way. 
Hopefully the U.N. statement will prompt a reevaluation of the weapon's use by domestic security forces. The United Nations has only made one error in its illustrious history: Its inexcusable failure to create a Committee for the Veneration and Admiration of John Bolton's Mustache. Its assessment of the weapon as a device of torture avoids any similar errors, and all kidding aside, the time has come for the weapon to come under serious inspec­tion. 
The increasing sentiment of negative public opinion, the growing collective of human rights groups speaking out against the weapon and, most of all, the mounting number of Taser-related deaths all point to the need for a sus­pension of the weapon until further study takes place. 
James Dechant is a senior English and Theology major. Questions, com­ments and rude remarks can be direct­ed to him at jdechant@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Change the consequences 
The tradition of throwing marshmallows at the last home football game is a tradition which appeared after I was a senior, but then, there have been several new chapters written in most history books since I was a student at Notre Dame. That said, I do have to weigh-in on the side of the seniors who were removed from the game. Ejection seems like an overly-harsh punishment for what is otherwise, at most, an annoy­ing "tradition," especially when it appears to have been applied randomly. Such random enforcement of the rules may, in fact, be actionable by those who were deprived of a valuable asset without due process, that asset being the right to watch the remainder of the last home football game for which the seniors or their parents had paid. 
If cleanup is truly an issue, perhaps following Joe Paterno's lead would make more sense than throwing the rascals out: Make the seniors clean up the stadi­um Sunday at 7 a.m. 
Russ Stone Class of'72 Amherst, Ohio Nov. 20 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 
You 
Strike Doncin 

let this keep you 
laughing while 
"The Office" is still 

out of production. 
Even his Elaine impression is good. Skills. 

Uncanny? 
Creepy? 
Awesome? 

You decide. 
J!.JS, -='~ -=,~-~ 
~ ¢:.t -t .JNJ... :z~r-:0~~$~-;:?-y;w.;tfp,N;;;x.f1!>f>­



And you thought your ham on rye was special. 
MATI HUDSON I Obse!Ver Graphic 

contributed voeals that in pownrful ways. In "Hich often bordered on screams Perhaps most Woman," the record's and created a blasting interesting and opening track, Plant and sound often imitated, but Krauss sing together in a
appealing about this 
rarely equaled in the world soft and optimistic tone, of rock and roll. record is the courage while just beneath their Krauss, on the other end words a river of music
both Plant and 
of the musical spectrum, is crafts an ominous under­
Krauss had in delving
considered the quintessen­tone. tial female bluegrass vocal­into new and Perhaps most interesting ist. She's prone to whisper untried disciplines. and appealing about this her way through hypnotic record is the courage both songs of love and loss in a Plant and Krauss had in way more eerie and transcendent than delving into new and untried disciplines. most any other performer today. Plant convincingly plays the bonkeytonker 
The two seasoned artists, in a <lisplay of and gospel singer, while Krauss supports mutual admiration, find in "Raising Sand" him as a bona fide blues singer. While a means of creating a unique musieal col­removing themselves from their eomfort laboration that is as haunting as it is bril­zones to create a new sound together, they liant. Indeed, this could not have happened both use their cia'isic strengths to make the except for now, as both artists ease toward album truly exceptional. the twilights of their respective careers. Krauss in particular uses her famously Each song carries a seasoned and aged ethereal voice to lend a lingering and perspective that feels believable because of poignant effect to nearly each song on the its honesty. record. 
All of the songs on the record are The album ha<; an almost back-porch-like remakes of lesser-known tracks from the appeal that carries it admirably through its catalogs of blues, county, folk, gospel and heaviest and lightest moment<;. The sound L<; R&B artists like Tom Waits, Townes Van so earnest and natural that you can imagine 
stumbling into an old farm­
house in some sleepy Southern town and finding

Raising Sand 
Plant and Krauss, just sitting 
Robert Plant and Alison Krauss 
back on two old rocking chairs and harmonizing. 
Label: Rounder 
Old songs can be made new again by old souls bent on forging new ground 
Recommended Tracks: "Rich Woman" and 
"Sister Rosetta Goes Before Us" 


together. Thank goodness Plant and Krauss had courage enough to raise the sand one more time. 
Contact James Costa at 
jcostal @nd.edu 


By JAMES COSTA Scene Writer 
There are eertain musical pairings that immPdiately make sense. Take Simon and Garfunkel or Celine Dion and Andrea Bocceill. 
But Robert Plant and Alison Krauss? 
It's like setting Bambi and King Kong up for the senior prom and expecting some sparks to fly by the last slow song. Yet somehow, it works. It works beautifully. 
Plant is most famous for his role as lead singer of the ieonie rock band Led Zeppelin. At the band's heyday, Plant 
Zandt, Milt Campbdl. the Everly Brothers, Sam Phillips, and A.D. and Hosa Lee Watson. The record's producer, T. Bone Burnett, deserves rncognition as tho third piece of the puzzle, choosing most of the songs and compiling the backing band that adds a mystic quality to mu:h tra!:k. 
Using guitarist-; Mare Hibot and Norman Blake, bassist Sam Phillips and A.D. and Rosa Lee Watson, Burnett fashions a mel­low and concise sound that augment-; Plant and Krauss without overpowering thmn. 
Some of the songs on the record arn left alone, sounding like the obseure original versions. Yet Burnett chooses more often to 
change the arrangements 


---------------------------, 




NSIDER 
OTHE 

Tuesday, November 27, 2007 BSERVER Notre Dame 21, Stanford 14 
Through the grit and Gritne(s) 
Robert Hughes rushes for game-winning TD and 136 yards in third win ofseason 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
PALO ALTO, Calif. -It's over. 
A season that saw the Irish lose more games than ever in their 119-year history ended with what was seen rarely in coach Charlie Weis' third season on the Notre Dame sideline -a win. The Irish (3-9) defeated Stanford 21-14 on Saturday to end the year with two straight wins, fielding a young team that had true freshmen lead the game in passing, rushing and receiving yards. 
"All along we knew we were playing with talented young guys and that there was going to be a growing process," Weis said. "There's some growing pains that take place when you're doing it. They're going to be a lot more ready to play next year by how they finished this year." 
Notre Dame freshman running back Robert Hughes juked his way into the end zone for the 6­yard, go-ahead touchdown run with 6:06 left in the fourth quar­ter. The Cardinal (2-9) offense then drove 46 yards to the Irish 6­yard line with under a minute left to play, but two dropped passes to Stanford receivers in the back of the end zone turned the ball, and the game, over to Notre Dame. 
Hughes ran for a game-high 136 yards, including a 44-yard run around the left end into open Irish receiver David Grimes holds up the ball after making an apparent catch in the third quarter of Notre Dame's 21-14 win space in the fourth quarter that Saturday at Stanford. The catch was called a touchdown, but replay officials overturned the decision after review. set up his game-winning touch­down. The play was initially ruled a and ran a two-yard quarterback game at 14-14 with 48 seconds sive end Trevor Laws. 
"lllughes] played awesome. He touchdown, but upon replay it keeper into the end zone on the left in the first half on a run up "[It was] 14-14, and we had a run's hard. he's huge," Irish wide was reversed and a 44-yard field ensuing play for the touchdown. the gut into the Cardinal end chance to get ahead, and then the receiver David Grimes said. "I goal attempt by Brandon Walker "It wasn't the prettiest [game]." zone. penalty by one of your best wouldn't want to tackle him." on the next play missed wide Weis said. "Obviously we turned The Thomas run was set up by friends," Zbikowski joked about 
Freshman quarterback Jimmy right to keep the game tied at 14-the ball over in the first quarter a 44-yard swing pass to senior Laws. "We do it in practice, we Clausen threw for 196 yards with 14. three times." Junior Jabbie, who bust into open mess around, start pitching it 19 completions on 32 attempts, "David [Grimes] said he had the Cardinal running back Anthony space after right guard Eric Olsen around. It worked pretty well outgunning his Stanford counter­ball underneath his hands," Weis Kimble fought through an Irish created a lane by steamrolling a today." parts Tavita Pritchard and T.C. said. "!The players] usually tell goal line stand on his second Cardinal defender into Stanford As the sun set on the redwoods Ostrander by 44 yards. Clausen me what they perceive to be the attempt from the 1-yard line to tie Stadium's new hybrid Bermuda ringing the stadium in northern connected with freshman wide truth. And when he reached out the game at 7-7 with 1:36 left in grass. California, the Irish stayed in the receiver Duval Kamara six times he had the ball in his hands, and the first quarter. The Grimes touchdown catch locker room a little bit longer to for a team-high 93 yards. he said the ball didn't bounce off Kimble's short rush was set up wasn't the only touchdown Notre celebrate the win. They per­
"Those freshman and sopho­the ground because he had his by a 42 yard pass from Pritchard Dame saw reversed in the game. formed around five renditions of mores and juniors, they played hand underneath the ball. He said to wide receiver Mark Bradford, On Stanford's last drive of the the fight song, led by Weis, really well," Grimes said. "Some there was no way it was an who caught the ball 20 yards first half, Pritchard threw a deep Zbikowski, Laws and center John of those catches Golden Tate and incompletion. I trust David." from the line of scrimmage and interception to Irish safety David Sullivan, and were slow to board Kamara made were awesome." It took three failed drives, two then made several cuts up the Bruton on the Notre Dame 3-yard the buses that were the first leg of 
There were four calls by Big of which ended with fumbles, and middle to avoid tackles and line, starting a three-lateral the final trip back to South Bend. East referees on the field over­a fortunate interception before stretched it out for another five return into the end zone that was "For all the guys walking out ruled by a Pac-1 0 replay judge in Notre Dame scored the first yards with a stiff arm. eventually brought back on a the door, there's a lot of scrutiny the booth, including what would points of the game to go up 7-0 at With 2:54 remaining in the sec­penalty. as the year goes on that everyone have been a 29-yard touchdown 4:57 of the first quarter. Cardinal ond quarter, Kimble zigzagged Irish safety Tom Zbikowski got says, 'this team's going to throw reception to put the Irish up 21-quarterback Pritchard threw a through the Irish defense for an the first lateral from Bruton, took in the towel'," Weis said. "It says 14 by Irish wide receiver David quick pass to wide receiver 11-yard touchdown, breaking it 27 yards before he tossed it 10 a lot for the characters of those Grimes midway through the third Richard Sherman that popped out four tackles to put the Cardinal up yards to his left to cornerback guys that in the last two years quarter. Grimes laid out in a of his hands, and Irish safety Tom 14-7. Darrin Walls, then got it back and when everyone said they're going Superman dive with his back to Zbikowski grabbed it out of the With a familiar stat line, Irish outran Pritchard into the end to throw in the towel, that's the the ball in the end zone, caught air and fell on the Stanford 14-senior running back Travis zone. The multi-lateral play, last thing they're thinking." the ball while in mid-air and cra­yard line. Thomas carried the ball one time which Weis said they played dled it in both hands as he hit the Clausen then hit Kamara with a for one yard and a touchdown in around with in practice, was nul­Contact Kyle Cassity at ground. 12-yard pass to the 2-yard line his final game when he tied the lified by a personal foul to defen-kcassily@nd.edu 

player of the game 

Robert Hughes 

Hughes was a presence in the Irish offense early and often. The fresh­man had two runs ofover 40 yards en route to his second consecutive game with over 100 yards rushing. 
stat of the game 
7.6 

Yards per carry for Irish running back Robert Hughes, who finished with 136 yards on 18 carries and one touchdown. 
play of the game 
Hughes' 44yard run on second and 7 
Hughes carried the ball four straight times on Notre Dame's go­ahead drive, but this play put the Irish in the red zone and set up the winning touchdown. 
quote of the game 

"David Grimes said he had the ball underneath his hands . ... He said there was no way it was an incompletion. I trust David. Charlie Weis Irish coach. 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 27, 2007 

report card 

8-
quarterbacks: Clausen made some good throws. but was inconsistent in the win. Mfmtal mistakes from the fresh­
man wst tlw Irish a lot of linld posi­
tion. including one interception. 

8+ 
running backs: llughes had a great game running the ball. and Thomas got the one yard he was asked to. but Schwapp 
and Allen had a tough time getting any 
positiw momentum. 

8+ 
receivers: This game limturnd fewer drops than pnwious efliJrl<>. induding a big day li1r Kamara. The unit had no 
scores. although Grimes had a touch­
down eateh rev1~rsed by the booth. 

8-
offensive line: The line opened up a lot of big holes for llughes to run through. The passing protection was 
qunstionable, as they gave up livn 
s;u~ks and I:~ taeklns for loss. 

A-
defensive line: Trevor Laws and Ian Williams each had great games in tlw trnndws with eight and six tack­
les, rPspeetivnly. Laws added a sack 
and .Justin Brown on another. 


linebackers: The backers w«mJ able to gnt soml' pmssure on the Cardinal quarter­barks, but liLilnd to stop St..:Ulli1rd from gaining consistnnt yardage oil' sweep plays in tl1n running game. 
B 
defensive backs: Tim seeondary played tight dnfensn on most of the Cardinal roceiwrs. Bruton and Zbikowski each 
picked oil' Pritchard; Zbikowski's set up NotrP Dame's first score. 

c 
special teams: Walker missed another two kicks, while the kickoll'team gave up 27.5 yards p11r return. The punt 
team and punt return teams each 
played well, however. 

8-
coaching: Notrn Dame made a lot of costly mental mistakes, but showed a lot of determination to win in a 
ganw that had very little rnal significance. 
overall: The Irish and 
Cardinal played a sloppy 
game. but Notre Dame did a

2.89 
little more to pull out its sec­ond straight win. 
adding up the numbers 

Offsetting personal foul penalties in the 
2 

second hall. Both times Irish players retal-Iated upon Cardinal provocation. 
5 
Missed field goals Irish kicker Brandon Walker and Cardinal kicker Derek Belch combined for. 
Belch missed four, including a 30-yard try. 

Ranking for Notre Dame's rush offense out of 
6 

119 teams at 75.25 yards per game this year. 
11

The Irish were in last for most of the season. 
3 
Laterals made in Notre Dame's interception return just before halftime. The touchdown was 
called back because of a personal foul on Laws. 

Tackle short of the record for tackles in a 
1 

season by an Irish defensive lineman Trevor Laws ended the season at. 
101Pass attempts between interceptions for Clausen. He threw a pick to Cardinal defensive end Emmanuel Awofadeju in the fourth quarter. 
Fumbles lost for Notre Dame this season. The Irish are tied for No. 115 in Div. I with Fresno 
16

State, USF and TCU. 
Game-winning streak Notre Dame currently has.2 The last lime Notre Dame won its last two games in a season was the 1992 season when it beat USC and then Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl. 

PALO AI:I"O, Calif. -Somehow, this ending was fitting. 
With Notre Dame's 21-14 win over Stanford, a frustrating, bizarre and poorly officiated game concluded the season -for 
the Irish anyway -in this, the Year of the Wacky. 
For a moment, at least. let's ponder what clear judgments we can deduce 


by reviewing this Ken Fowler insane season's final game. S TAl • 
The Pacilie 10 ports rr rzter Conference replay officials inexplicably overturned a remark­able touchdown catch by David Grimes; Trevor Laws shoved an offensive lineman's head into the ground, negating what would have been one of the most exciting scores in Notre Dame history; and Terrail Lambert knocked Tavita Pritchard out of the game, for a time, with a hit to the head. Laws' penalty was at least under­standable, as was the non-call when Terrail Lambert hit Pritchard in the head as the quarterback attempted a clumsy diving slide. But there is no legitimate explanation for the reversal of Grimes' touchdown catch. llad Evan Moore or Hichard Sherman hauled in one of T.C. Ostrander's two final passes-both easily catchable -Stanford proba­bly would have gone for a two-point conversion and quite possibly could have won the game. The Cardinal didn't, but the Pac 1O's inane replay nearly cost the Irish the game. There's one thing to remember about wackiness, though. Out of oddity often flows dear thinking: It's time to review the review system. Let's start from the top: Replay should stay. There are two common strands of arguments against replay in gener­al. One is that the replay system attempts to get rid of the human clement of the game and refereeing. The problem with this line is that 
the argument is only half true. 
Heplay attempts to eliminate human 
error, not human element. Shouldn't 
one goal be to make sure otncials 
don't make errors that change what 
would be the just outcome of the 
game'? 

The example of Grimes' catch is one of a play where replay turned a good call wrong, but it is the excep­tion rather than the rule. Heplay otncials have overturned far more bad calls than they have reversed correct calls. Take, for instance, Pritchard's fumble, Clausen's incom­pletion and Anthony Kimble's touch­down-just to name those from a single game. 
The other argument against replay is that it slows down the pace of the game too much -momentum is killed, and play slows to a crawl. This comes down to a value judg­ment, however. Which do you value more: greatly increasing the chance of getting a call on the field correct, or the pace of the game? This writer stands steadfast with the former. 
So then the question becomes: Does the present system need changing'? 
Currently, the away team supplies the field officials (Notre Dame sends Big East referees), and the home team provides its conference-affili­ated replay officials. After the game, Irish coach Charlie Wcis proposed having a single conference crew in eharge of both the field work and the replay booth. 
But the main advantage of the split crews is balanee. Every confer­ence benefits when its teams win: more bowl eligible teams, more tele­vision revenue and more prestige. Obviously, the conferences don't want clearly biased officiating to become a significant problem, but the split-roles at least minimize the negative affects a poor officiating crew can have; bad calls can be overturned. 
However, there are some undeni­able problems with replay in gener­al. Referees are using the possibility of review as an excuse to delay blowing plays dead. That can lead to non-reviewable plays, like Connecticut's punt return against Louisville; absurd late hit flags thrown for collisions before a whis­tie is blown. like the one against 
Notre Dame had against Duke; and, 
sometime soon. serious injuries. 
So what's the answer? 

First, the NCM should take over the officiating responsibilities from the conferences for all Division I gam1~s. The major problem with this plan is that confenmce-basnd otnei­ating crews offer the benefit of lim­iting the referees' travel; in-confer­ence games arc almost always geo­graphically dose, and most teams play only four out-of-conference games for which mferees would have to travel far distances. 
Thus, the NCM should absorb all current referees working and divide them into non-conference, regional zones. Thus. the ACC and SEC would have many of the same refer­ees working their games. In this setup, referees would earn their paychecks from the NCAA and have a limited possibility of confenmce bias. Abandoning the split-crew setup for the replay booth also would indicate a strong movement towards neutrality. (Until there's one governing body, however, this is a bad idea.) 
There are a few other things that need to happen. 
First, the NCM should alter the replay rules to allow for a change of possession when a referee incor­rectly blows a whistln when a player fumbles before hitting the ground. Second. and connected, the NCAA should stress to ol'licials the impor­tance of blowing their whistles at the correct times -and not penaliz­ing players who tackle an opponent before a whistle has blown. Finally, the NCAA ought to hold sessions with referees to reinforce the importance of the doctrine of "indis­putable" or "conclusive" evidence on instant replay. 
Instant replay has a place in eol­lcge football. but it needs to change. 
Notre Dame can just be thankful the darker side of the replay booth didn't cost the Irish thnir season­ending win. 
The uiews expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at k.fowlerl@nd.edu. 
~-----~-------------------------------. 
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Hughes' big game propels offense 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
PALO ALTO, Calif. -Notre Dame's offense was struggling. 
Deadlocked at 14 with Stanford. the Irish had just four first downs since halftime. And with under eight min­utes left to play, time was running out. 
Enter Hobert Hughes. 
The freshman running back took a hand-off from quarterback Jimmy Clausen and barreled into the line ­but there was nowhere to run. 
Undeterred by the mass of bodies at the line of scrimmage, Hughes bounced backwards, then cut to his left and found nothing but grass in front of him. By the time he was caught from behind, Hughes had gained 44 yards and given his team a first and goal at the Stanford eight yard line. 
Two plays later, Hughes got the ball again. He took it right, cut up field, bounced off two defenders and dove into the end zone to give the Irish the lead and their third win of the season. 
The touchdown capped off a day in which Hughes gained 136 yards on 18 carries, including Notre Dame's two longest runs of the season -the 44­yarder in the fourth quarter and a 45­yarder to open the game. 
But life wasn't always this good for Hughes. 
On Oct. 29, five days before Notre Dame was scheduled to take on Navy, Hughes' brother, Earl "Tony" Hughes, was killed. And on the field, life was­n't much better. The Irish were 1-7 and Robert was struggling to get play­ing time. 
But on the following Friday, the day before the game against the Midshipmen. over 50 of Robert's teammates joined him at Tony's funer­al. The next day, Hughes scored his first collegiate touchdown. 
After that score, Hughes was mobbed by his teammates. Center Dan Wenger said Hobert's affable person­ality was part of the reason the Irish rallied around him so well. 
"lie's awesome to be around off the field," Wenger said. 
And since then, with Tony watching from on high and his teammates rally­ing around him, Hughes has burst onto the scene for the Irish. The freshman had his first collegiate hun­dred yard rushing game with 110 yards in a 28-7 win over Duke Nov. 

17, then followed that up with his per­formance against the Cardinal in his first career start. 
Hughes' patience and hard work in practice paid off. Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
"When you're trying to work your way up the depth chart, then you start getting more reps, and then guys get banged up and all of a sudden, they're calling your number," he said. 
All in all, Hughes rushed for 298 yards in 2007, with 246 of them com­ing in the last two games of the sea­son. Ilis sudden success has also buoyed his team -the Irish won those two games after starting 1-9, and the team's rushing offense, which was averaging a nation's-worst 56.1 yards per game, averaged 168.5 yards against the Cardinal and Blue Devils. 
Hughes' running style resembles bumper bowling. While he isn't the fastest of the Irish backs, at 5-foot-11 and 238 pounds he has a low center 
of gravity and always seems to bounce off tacklers -and when he hits some­one head on, they usually fall back­wards, like bowling pins. 
"When he gets going north, he's a load to bring down," Weis said. 
Notre Dame center Dan Wenger said Hughes is a joy to block for because he's so hard to bring down and never gives up on play. 
"He runs really hard and never stops his feet," Wenger said. "It's always fun to block for him because big plays happen." 
Hughes' ability to make something out of nothing means offensive line­men have to keep their heads on a swivel because the play is rarely over on the first hit and they might sud­denly find Robert headed back towards them. 
"We always have to play to the whis­tle," Wenger said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Laws, Zibby climb all-time tackle lists 
NO beats Stanford for sixth straight time 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
PALO ALTO, Calif. -With 
eight tackles Saturday against 
Stanford, Notre Dame filth-year 
senior defensive end Trevor 
Laws came up just one short of 
the all-time Notre Dame record 
for tackles in a season by a 
defensive lineman. 
The record is held by Steve 
Niehaus, who made 113 tackles 
in 1975. 
Laws, Notre Dame's leading 
tackler this season. missed sev­
eral plays at the end of the 
game Saturday after spraining 
his foot. 
"Everyone knows I would 
have had ]the record] if I didn't 
get hurt," he said. 
Laws' eight stops also moved 
him up four spots on Notre 
Dame's all-time tackles list. He 
pa_<;sed Courtney Watson, Greg Collins and Brandon Hoyte. 
Laws also blocked a field goal Saturday. It was his third blocked kick of the season and the sixth of his career. 
"It tipped my left hand," Laws said of the block. "I didn't know if I got enough, but when I turned around and saw that it was short I was like 'yes!"' 
Irish safety Tom Zbikowski also finished his career among the all-time Irish greats. The fifth-year senior ended his col­lege career with 299 tackles ­most all-time for a Notre Dame defensive back and eighth on the career list at any position. 
Dominating the Cardinal 
Notre Dame's win Saturday was its sixth straight against the Cardinal, who have not won in the series since 2001. The Irish were awarded the Legends Trophy after the game, which the two schools compete for. 
The trophy is a large glass bowl with emblems of the two teams on either side. Several Notre Dame players carried it around during the post game celebration, occasionally shout­ing, "We won the bowl." 

Missed field goals 
The Irish and Cardinal were a combined 0-for-5 on field goals Saturday, with four misses by Stanford kicker Derek Belch and one by Notre Dame kicker Brandon Walker. 
Thomas touchdowns 
Fifth-year senior halfback Travis Thomas only got one carry Saturday, but he made it count with a 1-yard plunge in the second quarter. The touch­down was Thomas' fifth of the year in just 27 carries. 
Interception streak broken 
After not throwing an inter­ception in his previous 101 pass attempts, freshman quarter­back Jimmy Clausen found himself under pressure and threw the ball to Stanford defensive lineman Emmanuel Awofadeju in the fourth quarter. 
"That was the one play [by Clausen] where I said 'what were you doing?"' Irish coach Charlie Weis said of the play. 
Empty seats 

The announced attendance at Saturday's game was 48,953 in 50,000 seat Stanford Stadium, although there were plenty of empty seats. The game was the second that Notre Dame has played in this season that was not officially sold out. The other was UCLA. 
Irish fans dominated one of the end zones, and there were other smatterings of green around the stadium. 
Alumni band 

While the Band of the Fighting Irish did not make the trip, a brass band of about 25 Notre Dame alumni was in attendance and played various school songs throughout the game. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
page 3 
•

scoring suiDmary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
Air Force  7  7  0  7  21  
Notre Dame  7  7  0  0  14  

First quarter Notre Dame 7, Stanford 0 
Jimmy Clausen 2-yard run with 4:57 remaining (Brandon Walker kick). Drive: 2plays, 14 yards, 00:12 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 7, Stanford 7 Anthony Kimble 1-yard run with 1:36 remaining (Derek Belch kick). Drive: 8 plays, 69 yards, 3:14 elapsed. 
Second quarter Stanford 14, Notre Dame 7 Anthony Kimble 11-yard run with 2:54 remain­ing (Belch kick). Drive: 7 plays, 49 yards, 3:12 elapsed. Notre Dame 14, Stanford 14 Travis Thomas 1-yard run with 00:48 (Walker kick). Drive: 7 plays, 75 yards, 2:01 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Stanford 14 Robert Hughes 6-yard run with 6:06 remaining (Walker kick). Drive: 6plays, 68 yards, 1:55 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

passing yards 

rushing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

passing 
rushing 

Hughes  18-136-1  Kimble  20-82-2  
Allen  6-4-0  Stewart  13-54-0  
Schwapp  4-3-0  Pritchard  9-55-0  
Thomas  1-1-1  Gatewood  1-9-0  
Clausen  8--22-1  Ostrander  1--3-0  

receiving 

Kamara  6-93-0  Bradford  7-111-0  
Jabbie  3-35-0  Moore  1-8-0  
Carlson  3-29-0  Gunder  1-7-0  
Grimes  2-10-0  Marecic  1-7-0  
Hughes West  2-4-0 1-11-0  Ladner Gatewood  1-5-0 1-5-0  
Allen  1-9-0  Sherman  1-5-0  
Tate  1-5-0  Kimble  1-3-0  
tackling  

Bruton  9  McNally  8  
Zbikowski  9  Sanchez  6  
Brockington  9  Evans  6  
Laws  8  Snyder  5  
Williams  6  Amajoyi  4  
Stephenson  6  Lorig  4  


page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 27, 2007 


Ugly finish to an ugly year 
After beating Duke last weekend to win its first-and only­
horne game of the season, the Irish traveled to Palo Alto, Calif., to try and finish the year off with two straight wins. Notre Dame start­ed playing sloppy, fumbling the ball away on two consecutive offen­sive plays in the first half, but then was able to get baek on traek Ialor in the half. Going into the locker room, Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen and running back Travis Thomas each had touch­down runs, but Cardinal tailback Anthony Kimble had a pair of seores of his own to keep the score at 14-14. The second half was sloppy again, with both teams committing unnecessary personal foul penalties. The Irish held the Cardinal scoreless in the half, in part thanks to four missed field goals, and a late Robert Hughes touehdown put them up for good. Stanford had a late drive, but failed to eompletc two passes in the end zone on third and fourth downs to seal the Irish win. 


KELLY HIGGINS!The Observer 
Top left, Irish cornerback Tenall Lanbert knocks cardinal quarterback Tavita Pritchard out of the game; top right, Irish defensive end Trevor Laws sacks Pritchard; middle, Irish ruming back Junior Jabbie runs uplleld; bottom right, cardinal receiver Richard Shennan drops a pass in the end zone in the fourth quarter; bottom left, Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen scrambles. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
page 11 

Save the dolphins. Save the world. 
WPII, that's what "Heroes" star Hayden Panettiere might as well have said to the Japanese fishing authorities when they issued a warrant for her arrPst. 
The 18-year-old Analise Lipari 
actress and her fel­low surfers were Scene & Heard 
protesting a cen­turies-old tradition of bottle-nosed dolphin hunting when they were stopped by a fishing boat. After heading straight for a coastal air­port, Panettiere and her cohorts swiftly flew home to avoid any prosecution. 
"But in the end," she said in an inter­view with Fox News, "all we really wor­ried about was the dolphins ... We were so close to them and they were sky hop­ping, jumping out of the water to see us." 
I'll admit that when I first read this story, I was kind of annoyed with Hayden and her surfer pals. If I'm look­ing for political activists after whom I'll model my actions, I'm not going to turn to TV dramedies, and I don't need the stars of said dramedies pushing their beliefs on me. Though if John Krasinski from "The Office" told me to write my congressman for organic napkins in the NBC studio cafeteria, I'd totally'do it. But I digress. 
It's true that Panettiere and Co. have brought further media attention to what PETA and similar groups can justifiably argue is a cruel practice. But I was struck by her attitude in response to the arrest; in her mind, Japanese tradition was much less important than the well­being of the pod of dolphins. 
"We can no longer hide [behind] out­dated. senseloss cultural traditions," sho said in a recent statement to the media. "and lazy, bad habits that are resulting in the annihilation of our planet's resources and the extinction of our species." 
Oh, you celebrities. 
Hollywood stars and political causes are an interesting mix that just keeps coming. Every four years the celebs trot out their presidential plugs for the media and the American people to take notice -and unless you're Chuck 

Norris, Arnold Schwarzenegger or the 
members of ZZ Top, that candidate's a 
Democrat -and 2008 should prove to 
be no exception. Celebs right and left 
are going green for climate change, and Al Gore just won the Nobel Peace Prize for the Oscar-winning film "An Inconvenient Truth." 
Later in her statement, Panettiere jus­tified her actions as protecting an inno­cent group of dolphins from what she believed to be cruelty. 
"Because I am in the public eye, I feel the need to be a voice of worthy and important causes whose efforts impact the lives of every person on Earth," she said. "These animals are being brutally and unnecessarily slaughtered -and who are we to say to they have less of a right to exist than we do." 
I'm sure that if you saw this news story on MSN or Google, you probably laughed to yourself and forgot about it, unless you were either passionate about the well-being of bottle-nosed dolphins or, like some guys I know, just passion­ate about Hayden Panettiere. But it's interesting to think about what she's saying, both in her statement and in her actions in Japan. 
She disregarded Japanese law and culture, but for a cause that's respectable. Does that make it okay? Does the law even matter if Johnny McCelebrity thinks his political beliefs are justified? And is it easier for the "pretty people" to do this than it is for Annie McAverage-American? 
Sure, Panettiere can laugh off a Japanese arrest, but if the same thing happened to you, it'd probably be more serious. 
In-the end, what matters most isn't the celebrity who attaches himself or herself to any particular issue (though if Lindsey Lohan starts promoting 

Photo courtesy of greenepeace.org 

"Heroes" star Hayden Panettiere, center, marches with pro­testers against whale and dolphin hunting. 
Photo courtesy of hollywoodbackwash.com 
Actress Kate Hudson gives the press a peace sign at a recent award show. 
human rights, I'm pawning my TV and donating the money to her miracle­working rehab center), but the issue itself. 
Maybe I still get annoyed with that smug self-righteousness that comes with feeling right-like an 18 year-old actress taking on a millennium of Japanese culture-but if it saves Flipper from uncertain doom, I'm cool. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
"MADtv" alumnus Frank Caliendo now has his own show on TBS. 
Caliendo n1akes an 1n1press1on 
By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
· Frank Caliendo is a man of many faces. And voices. 
The former MADtv star known for his impersonations now has his own show, Frank TV, which airs Tuesdays on TBS. Frank TV pre­miered last Tuesday to mixed results. 
"Frank 1V" 

While the 
Tuesdays at

network's slo­
gan reads IIp.m. on TBS "very funny," Frank TV doesn't quite live up to the billing. The show isn't quite the comedic tour de force the many commer­cials hyping it up have advertised it to be. 
Instead, the sketch comedy show feels much like a drawn-out version of its commercials, with Caliendo working the microphone for a few minutes before cutting away to a skit featuring Frank performing a cameo as one celebrity or another. 
However, Frank Caliendo himself 
delivers every bit with his impres­
sions. Among others, Caliendo's 
spot-on renditions include John 
Madden, Jack Nicholson, Robert 
DeNiro and AI Pacino. Caliendo's 
impersonation of George Bush is so 
good it's eerie -he has the man 
down to his facial expressions. 
Caliendo's versions of the artist for­
merly known as the Round Mound 
of Rebound, Charles Barkley and 
the cartoonish Robin Williams are 
also hilarious. 
During one skit on last week's 
show, Caliendo impersonated the 
entire cast of Seinfeld, including 
Jerry himself, George Costanza, 
Elaine and, of course, Cosmo 
Kramer, to hilarious effect. (You can 
check out the footage for yourself 
on YouTube). 
Unfortunately, Frank TV's writers 
(are they on strike?) don't hold up 
to their end of the bargain, and 
many of the sketches simply fall flat 
on their own humorous two feet. 
Even so, Caliendo's on-the-money 
impersonations make the show 
worth a watch, if only to see him 
contorting his fleshy face into any 
one of his many hilarious personas. 
Contact Tae Andrews at 
tandrew1 @nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
NHL 

Bruins retaliate against Flyers with 6-3 win 
Meeting between two teams was first since Philadelphia's Randy Jones put Boston's Patrice Bergeron on IR with concussion 
wnren 't coming here to deal 
Associated Press 
with that (.Jones) situation. 
PIIILAI>ELI'IIIA The Obviously we're trying to create Boston Bruins chose the high some more offense for this road and it paid oil' with a vie­hockey club and slowly but tory over the Philadelphia surely getting there. Flyers. "llopPfully we can combine a 
(;Jen Murray scored two goals good defensive effort with some and Marc Savard added a goal goal scoring as well." and thn~e assists to help the There were no incidents Bruins heat the Flyers f>-3 on involving Jones, but Monday night. Philadelphia's Seott Hartnell 
The ganw was thn first was given a 5-minute boarding lwtween tlw two teams since penalty and a game misconduct Philadelphia's Handy .Jones was for hitting defenseman Andrew suspended for two games al'ter Alberts at 14:22 of the second dwcking tlw Bruins' Patrice period. Andrews left the game Bergeron hard into the hoards with an unspedfied head injury during the Flyers' 2-1 win at and will be evaluated on Boston on Oct. 27. Bergeron Tuesday. remains on injured reserve Boston's Zdeno Chara said with a severe concussion. that his team decided not to 
Murray said that the Bruins retaliate after Alberts was had no intention of retaliating. injured. 

"It's unfortunate it happened "It's something we talked and obviously we don't have about," Chara said. "We proba­Bergy back," Murray said. "But bly ended up with some bruis­we were focused on making es, but we have two points and sure wt~ came back al'ter our that's the most important thing loss on the Island and getting right now. It's up to the league two points because there's a lot to address things like that." · of teams winning and we don't Hartnell said that the hit on want to get behind the eight Alberts was not deliberate. ball and we want to keep climb­"I did not try to hurt him," ing in the standings." Hartnell explained. "There was the past, and the Pacific over the New York Rangers bounces now are going his 
Glen Metropolit, Peter no intent at all. I am not that Division-leading Stars (13-7-4) when they were decidedly out­team's way. Schaefer. and Chuck Kobasew type of player. If you look at all are showing signs of being the played and outshot. "We had two or three games also scorml for the Bruins, who the games this year and past good team they were expected "When you get on the road before (the streak) we deserved built leads of 4-0 and 5-2. years, I finish my checks every to be. it's a little harder to dominate," to win; we did everything but Boston bounced back from a 2-time I have an opportunity." Modano scored his second said Turco, who watched Smith win," Ruff said. "We out-played, 1 loss at the New York goal of the game 35 seconds make 39 saves Sunday. "We we outshot and we got nothing Islanders last Saturday to win Stars 3, Islanders 2 into overtime, Turco made 23 would like to have better starts. for it. (But) we got a couple of for the fifth time in seven The first goal Marty Turco saves, and Dallas beat the New It was better than yesterday, bounees to start the streak and games. gave up was as ugly as they York Islanders Monday night but we'd like to play a full 60 ever since then, guys have kind 
"We said right from the get­come. Mike Modano's second for the Stars' sixth straight win. minutes and see what happens of lightened up and played even go that we w1~re coming here to looked picture perfect for the Modano knocked in a if we come out flying and play better." win the hockey game," Bruins surging Dallas Stars. rebound from the slot of our game on the road." Hecht scored Bufl'alo's first two eoaeh Claude .Julien said. "We Dallas' slow start is a thing of' Stephane Robidas' shot to give Modano, who has eight goals goals, with the second snapping 
the Stars' their first win over this season and 515 in 18 NHL a 1-1 tie in the second period. lie the Islanders since March 23, seasons, got Dallas into a 1-1 then assisted on .Jason 2001 (1-5-0-1). tie in the second period after a Pominville's insurance goal later 
"We couldn't have drawn up big gaffe by Turco put the Stars in the period at the end of a 2­the game-winner any better," behind. Halpern made it 2-1 on-1 broakaway. Modano said. "That's the best when he took a pass from A fortunate bounce gave IIecht overtime we've played in a long def'enseman Sergei Zubov to the his first goal. IIe fired a crossing time." right of the Islanders net and pass across the crowded crease, 
Jeff' Halpern had given Dallas slid a shot under the glove of and it hit a leg or a foot and a 2-1 lead in the third period, goalie Rick DiPietro at (>:07 of bounced in. but that was erased with 2:38 the third for his 1OOth in the A bad Washington pass landed lel't in regulation when Miroslav NIIL. near llecht to start the bn~ak­Satan tied it for New York with "I didn't know until after the away that gave thfl Sabms their a power-play goal. game that I got that," llalpern third goal, another fortunate 
Turco made just his second said. break. start in six games as Mike "Finally things seem to go our Smith has staked his claim to Sabres 3, Capitals 1 way," Hecht said. "Before we Dallas' No. 1 goalie spot. Tureo The Buffalo Sabres are now were trying to make those pn~tty earned his second straight vic­getting the bounces that didn't plays, through the legs, through tory following an 0-1-2 stretch go their way earlier this season. the skates, and it just didn't work in whieh he allowed 14 goals. Jochen Hecht had two goals for us. It seems like those are the 
The Stars have outseored and an assist to lead the Buffalo goals that are more common in opponents 20-7 during their Sabres to their season-high firth the league ... odd bounces." winning streak and have straight victory, over the Washington had won consncu­earned points in eight straight Washington Capitals on Monday tive games sinee Bruee Boudn~au games (6-0-2). Dallas has taken night. took over as interim coach last the first two of a six-game road Buffalo struggled in the first Thursday. The Capitals beat 
AP trip, already improving after part of the season despite often Philadelphia and Carolina after Bruins teammates Glen Murray, left, Marc Savard, and Zdeno Chara escaping Madison Square playing well, and coach Lindy Boudreau replaeed the fired celebrate a goal during Boston's 6-3 win Monday over Philadelphia Garden with a 3-2 win Sunday Ruff said the breaks and Glen llanlon. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

NOTICES FoR SALE FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Adopt: a young loving couple long 
sale. $200 PIS just off campus ONE WHO IS? You do not have to to share their hearts and home with 
"alumni owned". be alone. We want to help. a newborn. Will provide endless 
Bluegoldrentals.com love. Expenses paid. Call Eileen 
Call our 24 hour confidential hotline and Ed 1-800-718-6577. 2-6 BDRM HOMES. 3 bdrm/2 bath home for sale Blue & Gold Homes now showing at 1·800-No Abort or visit our web 08·09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com site at www.lifecall.org UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone
PERSONAL

$295.PERSON/MO. $95,000/for rent $900. 1027 Good, 4 bed,1 bath, near NO & Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn you love needs confidential support Riverside Trail (3 min. drive, under 2 Cash and Go Free. Call for group or assistance, please call Sr. Sue miles), garage, full basement, If you or someone you care about discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more 
GILLISRENTALS.COM. 706 N. st. Louis. $1100/mo. has been sexually assaulted, visit Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, information, visit our website at: Bahamas. S.Padre, Florida. http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­503-757-8125. Domerhornes.wet-http:l/osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. nant.shtrnl or see our bi-weekly ad 272-6306 Contact Brad 574-220-8666. paint.corn shtml 800·648-4849 or www.ststravel.com in THE OBSERVER. 

OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
USCHO.com/CSTV Men's Hockey Poll 
team record preuiou,s 

1 Miami 13-1-0 1 2 Michigan 13-1-0 2 3 Denver 9-3-0 3 4 Colorado College 8-4·0 4 5 Michigan State 8-3·2 6 6 New Hampshire 1-2·1 8 7 NOTRE DAME 12·4·0 9 8 North Dakota 6·4·1 6 9 Clarkson 10-4-0 7 10 St. Cloud State 7-3·2 10·1ie 11 MassachuseHs 6-3-4 10-ne 12 Minnesota-Duluth 6·4-2 16 13 Wisconsin 6·6·1 12 14 Minnesota 7·6·1 13 15 Harvard 6·2·0 18 16 Northeastern 6·4·1 20 17 Niagra 8·3·0 17 18 Rensselaer 6·4·3 16 19 Boston College 3·4-6 14 20 Michigan Tech 6·6·1 19 
NCAA Women's Basketball AP Top 25 
team record previous 

1 Tennessee 4·0 1 2 Connecticut 5·0 2 3 Maryland 8·0 3 4 North Carolina 7·0 6 5 Rutgers 3·1 7 6 Stanford 5·1 4 7 Georgia 6·0 8 8 LSU 4-2 6 g Oklahoma 2·2 10 10 Baylor 5·0 13 11 Duke 5·1 9 12 California 4·1 12 13 TexasA&M 4·1 11 14 Arizona State 3·2 14 15 West Virginia 5·1 16 16 George Washington 5·1 11 17 DePaul 4·0 18 18 Auburn 6·0 24 19 Ohio State 5·1 1 20 Michigan State 4·1 19 21 Florida State 5·1 20 22 NOTRE DAME 4·1 23 23 Vanderbilt 5·1 25 24 Texas 4·2 21 25 Wyoming 4-0 29 
NCAA Men's Basketball Coaches' Poll 
team record previous 

1 UCLA 6·0 1 
2 North Carolina 5-0 1 
3 Memphis 5·0 3 
4 Kansas 5·0 4 
5 Georgetown 3·0 5 
6 Washington State 6-0 9 
7 Duke 6·0 10 
8 Texas 5·0 16 
9 TexasA&M 6·0 15 
10 Louisville 4-1 6 
11 Pittsburgh 5·0 17 
12 TeMessee 5·1 7 
13 Michigan Slate 4·1 11 
14 Marquette 4·1 13 
15 Indiana 4·1 8 
16 Butler 6·0 23 
17 Oregon 5·1 11 
18 Clemson 5·0 22 
19 Gonzaga 5-1 14 
20 Wisconsin 5·0 26 
21 Villanova 4·1 19 
22 Southern Illinois 3·1 18 
23 Brigham Young 5·1 31 
24 Southern California 5·1 41 
25 Xavier 4-1 39 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Wisconsin at Duke 9 p.m., ESPN 

CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVER·s WIRE SERVICES 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Chan Gailey never had a losing season in six years at Georgia Tech. 
Then again, he never pro­duced the sort of team that really got the fans excited. 
Citing business considera­tions as much as wins and losses, athletic director Dan Radakovich fired Gailey on Monday, two days after his sixth straight loss to rival Georgia ended a season that failed to meet expecta­tions. 
The 55-year-old Gailey had lost support among the fan base, which made fundraising more difficult, and he wasn't the sort of dynamic personality who could help the Yellow Jackets make a name in the crowded Atlanta sports scene. 

"Obviously, he didn't agree with the decision, but he understood there's a business aspect to this," Radakovich said. "As far as Xs and Os, Chan is a very good coach. But there's more to it now. College foot­ball is more than just Xs and Os, especially in the competitive market where we are." 
Radakovich finalized his decision Sunday and broke the news to Gailey on Monday morning. Defensive coordinator Jon Tenuta took over as interim coach for an expected trip to the Emerald or Humanitarian Bowl, and he will be a can­didate to keep the job per­manently. 
The move was widely expected after Georgia Tech (7-5) came up far short of 
IN BRIEF Duke fires football coach 
Roof after 1-11 season 
DURHAM -Duke fired Ted Roof on Monday, two days after the Blue Devils concluded a 1-11 sea­son with their ninth straight loss. 
A news conference was sched­uled for Monday afternoon to dis­cuss the program. A person close to the Duke program, speaking on condition of anonymity because an announcement had not been made, said athletic director Joe Alleva would announce Roof's dis­missal. 
The coach's career record dipped to 6-45 after a 20-14 over­time loss to North Carolina, the Blue Devils' fourth straight to their main rival. Duke has lost at least 10 games in three straight seasons, including a winless 2006. 
After snapping a 22-game losing streak with a victory at Northwestern, the Blue Devils lost nine straight to end this season. 
another run at the Atlantic Coast Conference champi­onship one year after win­ning its division. Also, Gailey never beat the school's biggest rival, drop­ping to 0-6 with a 31-17 loss to the Bulldogs on Saturday. 
"Nobody likes to get fired," said Gailey, a former head coach with the NFL's Dallas Cowboys. "But all they can take is your job. They can't take your faith. They can't take your family. They can't take your integrity." 
Gailey's overall record was 44-32 in six seasons, and he never lost less than five games in a year. Radakovich said the latest loss to Georgia did not influ­ence his decision; he already had decided to make a change. 
Raines and Justice hiS!hlight 
new candidates for MLB HOF 
NEW YORK -Tim Raines and David Justice head 11 first-time candi­dates on the baseball writers' 2008 Hall of Fame ballot, joining Mark McGwire, Rich Gossage, Jim Rice and 11 other holdovers. 
McGwire, his candidacy hurt by sus­picions of steroids use, was selected on just 23.5 percent of ballots when he was eligible for the first time in 2007. 
When Cal Ripken Jr. and Tony Gwynn were elected in January, Gossage fell 21 votes shy of the neces­sary 75 percent and Rice was 63 votes short. 
Rice is on the ballot for the 14th time and Gossage for the ninth. Players can be on the Baseball Writers' Association of America ballot for up to 15 years. 
Gossage's percentage increased from 64.6 in 2006 to 71.2 in 2007, while Rice's declined from 64.6 to 63.5. 
page 13 
"We've been very consis­tent with wins and losses," said Radakovich, who's in his second year as AD and inherited Gailey from the previous regime. "I want to be able to ratchet that up, take the next step." 
Navy coach Paul Johnson. a former coach at Georgia Southern, will likely be mentioned as a possible successor. Florida State offensive coordinator Jimbo Fisher figures to be tossed out as a candidate for sev­eral coaching jobs that have opened. 
Fisher previously worked at LSU, as did Radakovich. 
When asked about the speculation, Florida State coach Bobby Bowden said, "You can't do anything about it. What does it mean? Most of the time, nothing." 

Stadium collapse in Brazil 
kills seven, injures at least 40 
RIO DE JANEIRO, Brazil -A sta­dium collapse that killed seven peo­ple highlighted the crumbling state of Brazil's soccer arenas less than a month after the country was chosen to host the 2014 World Cup, archi­tects said Monday. 
The victims fell 49 feet through a 10-foot wide hole that opened in the concrete stands of the Fonte Nova stadium in Salvador, a coastal city of Bahia state. At least 40 people were injured in the accident Sunday night. 
"Unhappily, a lot of stadiums have problems, some are in better condi­tions than others, but I think we could see another collapse like this if something isn't done," said Eduardo de Castro Mello, an archi­tect who helped conduct a survey of soccer stadiums for the national association of engineering and architecture companies. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
NFL 
Hope abounds that Patriots are mortal 
Associated Press 

FOXBOHOUGII, Mass. -Maybo thn Patriots aron't so pnrfnd. 
Eight blowout wins in their lirst night games almost made it seem that way. But tlwy rwvor bolioved tlw hypn and rwithnr did the Philadelphia liaglns. 
Now. with two elos1~ calls in tho last three ganws, Nnw England has givnn opporwnts more reason to hopn that they (~otrld bn the one to knock ofT tlw juggornaut trying to fashion the N Fl.'s lirst unboaton season in :J5 ynars. 
Baltimore gets the next chance when it hosts the Patriots next Monday night amid all the chatter about prospects for a perfect record. 
"I don't care what everybody else thinks," coach Bill Bnlichick said Monday. "I can toll you what this Loam thinks. Hight now we're thinking about getting ready for Baltimore." 
Thn Patriots did improvn to 11-0 and dinehnd the AFC East titln nvnn before their 31-28 win ovnr the Eagles on Sunday night. But they wero tnstnd by a .500 team with backup A.J. Fenley at quartnrback that was within range of a tying field goal bnforn lw threw an inter­C(~ption with 3:52 left. 
Thn final margin was the smallest in a s1mson when tho Patriots have averaged 40.2 points and outscored opponents by 23.4 pnr game. It was even tightnr than thnir 24-20 win at Indianapolis on Nov. 4, whnn they didn't get the go-ahead touchdown until 3:21 rernainnd. 
Lirwbacker Adalius Thomas nxpnets morn dosn gamns down the stretch. 
"You guys nxp1~ct that if it's not a blowout or anything like that thorn's something wrong," Thomas told reporters. "You have good teams in this leagun. Philadelphia's a good team. And so thorn's going to bn more ganws lik•~ that." 
It wasn't just tlw doseness of tho game that gave Patriots fans cause f'or concorn whnthor tlwir toam could be the first to go unbnatm1 in the regular sea­son and playoll"s since the 1972 
Miami Dolphins.  
Then~  also was this to  mull  
over  on  both  offense  and  
dnl"ense:  

-Tom Brady threw for just onn touchdown, the lirst timn this snason he didn't have at least three, and was sacked three times, matching his sea­son high. On Monday, he talked at his locker with Belichick for about 10 minutes, then left with his left elbow wrapped in ice but without speaking with rnporters. 
-The Patriots had just one planned running play in the 
first half and rushed just 16 
times for 48 yards. 
-The defense allowed Feeley, 
a soven-year veteran but a 
backup for all but one season, 
to throw for a career-high :~45 
yards with three touchdown 
passes. 
-The 28 points allowed tied 
the Patriots' season high, and 
the 391 yards Philadelphia 
gained were the most they've 
given up in any of their 11 
games. 
"We're not expecting to go out there and have a blowout every week," defensive end Ty Warren said. "We know that this is the National Football League and it's a copycat lnague and a lot of things that Philly did good this past week, a lot of teams will dissect that and try to come up with their own scheme. 
"We've just got to make sure that we're not making the same mistakes we made in previous games because they can show up again." 
The Havens' chances of win­
ning next Monday night don't 
seem great considering they've 
lost their last five games. But 
they have the fourth-stingiest 
dnl'ensn in the NFL, stingier 
than the Eagles, who pressured 
Brady and controlled wide 
receiver Randy Moss. 
Still Baltimore (4-7) has as many losses in its last l'ive games as New England has in 2006 and 2007 combined. And the Patriots have beaten oppo­nents by a total of 257 points. Only eight other teams have scored that many. 
"Hecords don't mean any­thing," Belichick said. "The only thing that matters on Monday night is how well they play and how well we play." 
lie backed up his point with tlw Patriots' previous gamn against Feeley, then with Miami, on Dec. 20, 2004. Feeley led two touchdown drives in the last 2:07 for a comeback 29-28 win. 
"You want to go back to the Miami game from '04? We're 12-1, they're 2-11," Belichick said. "The records don't mean anything. The only thing that matters is how you play. And coach." 
Opponents have been much more competitive lately. The Patriots won their first eight games by at least 17 points each and crushed BufTalo 56-10 in their 1Oth game. But the Colts and Eagles nearly ended all talk of an unbeaten season. 
"You're not going to always have a blowout," Thomas said. "We were able to come up with a win, which was good. We achieved one of our goals yes­terday with the championship of the division, but we have more things that we have to do." 


Shooting leaves Taylor hospitalized 
where he was an All-Anwriean 
in 2003. Despite his injury. he is 
tied for the NFC lead with live 
interceptions. 
Hedskins owrwr Dan Snyder arrivnd in Miami on his private plane with running back Clinton Portis, vkn president of football opnrations Vinny Cerrato and trainer Bubba Tyer. 
Taylor callnd coach Jot~ Gibbs on Nov. 19 to let him know he'd miss that morning's regular team meeting bocause he was in Florida dealing with the first break-in on Nov. 17. 
"J said, 'I understand that.' I said, 'Take (:am of your house and everything you have to there,"' Gibbs roealled. 
Taylor was at team head­quarters Saturday to treat his knee, Gibbs said, adding he wasn't aware the player then returned to Florida. 
A group of Taylor's fans planned a two-hour vigil Monday evening outside Hedskins Park in Ashburn, Va. 
"This is not just a member of the Washington Hedskins," fel­low safety Pierson Priolnau said. "But we're talking about a dad, a brother, a friend of ours, and that's whore we're at with this right now." 
Gibbs was joinBd by the team chaplain at the Hedskins' usual Monday mP.eting. A small group of players held a separate prayer gathering. 
The Hedskins (5-6) lost 19-13 at Tampa Bay on Sunday. Taylor did not travel with the team to the game because of his injury. lie sprained a liga­ment in his right knee in the second half of the Nov. 11 loss to Philadelphia and was expect­ed to miss at least two games. 
Redskins star safety in critical condition after robbery attempt 
Associated Press 
PALMETTO BAY, Fla. ­Washington Redskins star safe­ty Sean Taylor was in critical condition Monday after he was shot during what police are investigating as a possible armed robbery at his home. 
The 24-year-old player was in the intensive eare unit follow­ing several hours of surgery at Jackson Memorial Hospital, said today's incident," Miami-Dade Police Detective Mario Hachid said, "to see if there's any cor­relation." 

Ollicers were sent to Taylor's home at about 1:45 a.m. Monday after his girlfriend called 911 and said he was shot in his lower body, Miami-Dade Police Lt. Nancy Perez said. Taylor had missed the last two games because or a knee injury and was at home recupnrating. lie was airlifted to the hospital. 
Investigators were still inter­viewing the girlfriend and otlwr relatives in the home. Perez said. No arrests had been 
family friend 

"It was clearly a
Hichard 

burglary. an armed
Sharpstein, his former lawyer. burglary." Taylor remained unconscious 
Richard Sharpstein
early Monday 

Taylor Family friend 
evening. 
Taylor lost a "significant" amount or blood because the bullet damaged his femoral artery, and doctors are worried about blood flow to the brain, added Sharpstein, who was at the hospital with the player's family and friends. 
Taylor has had problems on and ofl' the field, and two years ago was accused of brandishing a gun. The shooting came eight days after another invasion was reported at his home. According to police records, someone pried open a front window, rifled through drawers and left a kitchen knife on a bed. 
"They're really sifting through that incident and 

made. 
"It could have been a possible burglary; it could have been a possible rob­bery," Perez said. "It has not been confirmed as yet." 
Sharpstein 
said Taylor's 
girlfriend told 
him the couple was awakened by loud noises, and Taylor grabbed a machete he keeps in the bedroom for protection. Someone then broke through the bedroom door and fired two shots, one missing and one hitting Taylor, the lawyer said. 
"It was dearly a burglary, an armed burglary," Sharpstein said, adding nothing appeared to have been stolen. 
The shooting happened at the pale yellow house Taylor bought two years ago in the Miami suburb of Palmetto Bay. Taylor is in his fourth season with the Redskins after playing at the University of Miami, 

Tuesday, November 27, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's drops 2 of 3 duringbreak 
Inability to preserve halftime leads costs Belles in tournament 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 
Despite holding halftime leads in all three of its games in the past week of action, Saint Mary's managed only one win and saw its record fall to 2-3 in non-conference action. 
After a 54-44 loss at Anderson University on Nov. 20, the Belles traveled to Trinity, Texas, for the Trinity University Thanksgiving Classic, where they opened with a 92-44 rout of Notre Dame (Maryland) on Saturday. The following game, Saint Mary's suffered a 69-58 loss to the nation's No. 22 team, George Fox University. 
Saint Mary's entered half­time of each game with the lead but quickly saw three­point advantages vanish against both Anderson and George Fox. The Belles have led at the half in all five of their games but have strug­gled to maintain those leads in all but their two blowout victories, which have come by a combined 84 points. 
Against Anderson, the Belles started slowly but found their stride, going on a 21-3 run after failing to score a point in the first five min­utes. They led 24-21 entering the break, but the host Ravens scored the second half's first 10 points and kept the Belles from finding the bottom of the net until only 
13:13 remained in the game. 
Senior Alison Kessler scored 11 points in the loss, while junior Erin Newsom and sophomore Anna Kammrath each grabbed 12 rebounds. 
The Belles never trailed in their dismantling of Notre Dame, and five players scored in double figures: jun­ior Katie Rashid (17 points), Kessler (16), Kammrath (15), Newsom (10) and freshman Becky Newsom (10), who is Erin's sister. Each Newsom sister totaled nine boards, and junior Meghan Conaty dished out nine assists. 
As a team, St. Mary's shot 
52.3 percent from the field in the victory and dominated the interior, out-rebounding the Gators 57-25 and outscoring them 48-28 in the paint. 
A four-minute scoring drought near the end of the second half against George Fox killed the Belles' chances, as they failed to convert a field-goal attempt from 5:46 until 1:08 remained. The back-and­forth battle included four ties and nine lead changes, and after squandering a 30-27 halftime lead, the Belles pulled within seven points in the final 30 seconds, but it was simply too little, too late. 
Kessler, who was named to the all-tournament team, racked up 19 points in the loss. Erin Newsom dropped 17 points and had 9 rebounds, and Kammrath put home 12 points. 
The Belles have a week off before playing their MIAA opener on Dec. 5, when they host Calvin at 7:30p.m. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgarnber@nd.edu 


The 35th Annual Saffit Mary's College 
:ff&drigal 
~bnas 7!linners 
Fri. and Sat, Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 at 7 P.M. Sat and Sun., Dec. 1 and Dec. 2 at 2 P.M. in Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from Saint Mary's College, along with period instrwnents, jugglers, jesters and a Master of the House entertain royally during a feast fit for a king or queen! 
Adult tickets are $30 and $35, and $12 for children l2 and under. 
-f!i­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
For tickets call (574) 284-4626. 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
W:m nets 21st vvinning seasoninrovv 
by converting 18 kills and
By PAT O'BRIEN and ELLYN seven blocks.
MICHALAK "I think the biggest strength
Sports Writers 
that stood out was our serve­receive, senior captain 
Notre Dame capped off its Adrianna Stasiuk said. "They season with a 3-1 victory over were out of Tennessee in Knoxville on system quite a 
Friday, securing their 21st con­bit, which "Everyone played N C A A secutive winning season. made it easier really well in our Tournament. "Everyone played really well for us. I think This marks the
match against 
in our match against we really per­first time since Tennessee, and we had control fected a lot of Tennessee, and we 1991 that the the whole time. Everyone was really impor­had control the whole Irish won't have playing their best in the last tant skills. a shot at the
time."
match of the Blocking, pass­national title. season, and that is what we ing, attacking "Although we have been working for," sopho­and we Megan Fesl all really wanted more outside hitter Megan Fest became really Irish hitter to make it to the man outside hitter Nikki Fowler. Stoyanova had 20 kills and six digs, while Fowler notched 16 to go along with 11 assists and seven digs. 
Despite the win, Notre Dame dido 't earn a berth in the 

said. 
Notre Dame (15-13) con­trolled the match, dominating in three of the four games (30­21, 30-20, 23-30, 30-19). The Irish jumped out to an early 3­0 lead in both of the first two games. The Irish never looked back from their quick starts, leading by as many as eight or 
close on the court and off. We had outstanding team chemistry that is hard to find. We also learned about some lesser-known volleyball skills, such as the all-important back­wards bump surprise." 
Notre Dame finished the match with a .316 hitting per-
nine points in 
each  of  the  
matches.  
After  the  

break, Tennessee turned the tables. The Vols took an early three point lead and stretched the margin to 10 late in the stan­za. The third game would be 
centage. Junior middle blocker "We also learned Justine Stremick and
about some lesser­
Stasiuk paced
known volleyball 
the Irish attack skills, such as the all­with 16 kills e a c h
important backwards 
Sophomore
bump surprise." 
outside hitter Megan Fest Adrianna Stasiuk also finished strong with 14
Irish captain 
total kills, while sophomore out­
the only strong point for Tennessee, however. 
Coming off the defeat, the Irish regained the prowess that they had in games one and two. They were up by 10 late in game four and held on to win side hitter Serinity Phillips had 
10. Senior setter Ashley Tarutis led the team in both assists 
(56) and digs (13). 
The Volunteers (11-18) were led by senior outside hitter Yuliya Stoyanova and fresh-
N C A A 
Tournament, it is really good that we made the most of our situation and fin­ished our season strongly," Fest said. ''I'm certain that it is everyone's goal for next season to not let this happen again. We need to be sure that next year our team is in a position for winning a Big East champi­
onship  and  success  in the  
NCAA  Tournament."  
Notes:  

+The Irish ended their regu­lar season on a five-game win­ning streak. 
+The team leaders for the season are as follows: kills -Stasiuk (361), hitting percent­age-freshman middle block­er Kellie Sciacca (.343), assists -Tarutis (1178), service aces -Stasiuk (33), digs -Stasiuk 
(377) and blocks -Stremick (162). 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu and Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 


Larr_y Poi~~.8 ~~. Hoover Institution, Stanford 
University, and senior advisor on governance to the Coalition Provisional Authority in Baghdad (2004) 
6 pm -Tuesda_y) November 27 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 


Diamond is also presenting the lecture "The Globalization of Democracy" as part 

KELLOGG INSTITUTE 
of the Kellogg Lecture Series at 12:30 pm in the Hesburgh Center, room C-103. 
Cosponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
Co01eback 

continued from page 20 
dnfnnse. Sophomore left wing Knvin D1~etl1 started the scoring on a power play goal. Junior Erik Condra connected with l>neth streaking through the slot and he n~directnd the pass 
through goalie Jason Alford's live hole. 
It took the Irish just over a minute to strike again. 
This time center Justin White gut the goal, burying a shot in the top left corner of the net. The play started when senior 
"[Condra/ has been their break 
a big part ofthe Tuesday night. Sophomore
rejuvenation ofour 
Kyle Lawson
progra1n. VVhoever 
scored the Erik plays with, he eventual game­winner two
1nakes the1n better. " 
minutes into the second Jeff Jackson period. Irish coach Pearce shut 

Evan Hankin and sophomore Christiaan Minella caused a turnover on the forecheck. The loose puck found its way to the front of' thn nnt where White finishml the play. 
Notre Dame tied the game six minutes into thn third period on an unassisted goal from dPf'ensmnan Dan VeNard. set­ting up Hyan Thang for the game-winner. 
The sophomorn right wing got a drop pass from dof'ense­man Kyle Lawson and fin'ld it past Alford with a little morn than thnw minutes remaining on the clock. Condra also pi1~ked up an assist on the play. giving him I00 carenr points for the Irish. 
"lie's not only a productive playnr but he brings all differ­ent 1llnments to our team that go unnoticed," .laekson said about Condra. "lie has been a big part of' the rejuvenation of' our program. Whoever Erik plays with. he makes them bet­tor." 
The junior playmaker led the tnarn in points his first two sea­sons and is at tlw top of' the list again his year with 1R so far. Eight of' those points have come on the pownr play. 
Hensselaer also used the power play ell'ectively Saturday night, scoring two early goals with the man advantage to build their 3-0 lead. 
The Engineers jumped out to a quick lead on their home ice when cenl!H Chase Polacek del'lected a shot past Irish goalie Jordan Pearce 5:34 after the opening face ofT. The goal, Polacek's third of the year, carne at the tail end of an HPJ power play. 
They picked up their third goal of the night on a 5-on-3 situation when sophomore .Jonathon Ornelas stuffed a rebound past Pearce giving HPI a :{-0 lead early in the second stanza. 
Notrn Dame nmched the final after beating Alabarna­llunstville 4-1 the night before. The last time thn Chargers and the Irish faeed ofT was in the lirst round of last ynar's NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame won that game 3-2 in a double overtime thriller. 
"I don't think [Alabama­llunstvillel was as dnep. They had a freshman goaltender who stood on his head for thnm,'' Jackson said. "Until wn n~~:n tually.. scored he was the dII Iewnee. 
Chargers goalie Cameron Talbot stopped Notre Dame's lirst 25 shots before freshman Ian Cole finally broke the drought late in thn second period. Deeth, Thang and freshman Ben Hyan added goals in the third to secure a victory. 
Thn Irish got off 41 shots compared to Alabama­llunstville's 14. Pearee made 13 saves with Joe Federoff scoring the lone goal for the Chargers. By that time Notre Dame had opened up a com­fortable three-goal lead and coasted into the championship game with Hensselaer. 
Notre Dame also defeated 
CCIIA foe 
Bowling Green 
2-1 to start 
down the 
Falcons for the final two periods, picking up 27 saves in the win. 
"Jordan was the difference in the game in my opinion. I don't think we were as sharp as we nneded to be in that game," Jackson said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Aptll•fJileiJts 


Blowout 
continued from page 20 
success from outside may not have been possible without the play of forwards Rob Kurz and Luke 1-Iarangody, who drew defenders to the low post to facilitate Notre Dame's shooting. 
"From the start of the game we really wanted to establish the low post, and we wanted to get some looks for Kyle and the other guys," Kurz said. "We kept rolling, and I think we were really efficient offen­sively. That's why we were able to score so many points. 
Kurz keyed the Irish inside with another quiet, but solid performance of 20 points and 10 rebounds. 
"That's just a typical Rob Kurz game," junior forward Luke Harangody said. "He goes out, brings his lunch pail every game and he gets a double-double." 
1-Iarangody ended his three­game streak of 20-point per­formances, finishing with 11 points and seven rebounds. 
The Irish went on a 7-0 run between the first two media 

HinT_ cppj _COli't 
timeouts to take a 16-6 lead thanks to an offense that fea­tured a little bit of everything -a kick-out three by Zeller from Kurz, a transition lay-up by Kurz on a timely pass from 
junior for­ward Zach Ilillesland and an inside bucket from a penetrating McAlarney. 
Colgate was able to exploit holes both in Notre Dame's man­to-man and 2-3 zone defense to shoot 46 per­cent in the 

"That's just a typical Rob Kurz ga1ne. He goes out, brings his lunch pail every ga1ne and he gets a double-double." 
Luke Harangody Irish forward 
first half, but shot only 36 percent in the second half against Notre Dame's tight­ened defense. 
Forward Kyle Roemer led Colgate with 13 points. Sophomore guard Tory Jackson added seven assists for Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 87, Youngstown State 75 
Notre Dame led the entire game in its two games before Saturday, but lost both in the final two minutes. Against Youngstown State, however, the story was different. The Irish built a 79-53 lead with 
7:06 to play and held off a 
late run from the Penguins to snap their two-game los­ing streak. 
llarangody netted 25 points and McAlarney scored 23 points to give the Irish their first win in three contests Saturday n i g h t . McAlarney 
shot 5-for-1 0 from beyond the arc. 
Youngstown State had four players finish in double fig­ures, but struggled to stop Notre Dame. Youngstown State closed Notre Dame's lead to 83-71 with 1:46 left but missed shots down the stretch that could have made the gamP. closer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


~~~AN K.IT~C·H~,E~N~~--~ 
Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 

Stz~lc'ne (Sizzlelini®)­
Every Tuesday enjoy our Sizzlelini® Specialty (enough for two) for just $10.95 Asizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B~-F~ne (Bellini) ­Afrosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini• Bellini Tuesdays! 
Dept of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga 7 Litriocht na Gaeilge 
(Literature Courses) IRLL 20109: Celtic Heroic Literature (Prof. Fogarty) IRLL 20203: Advanced Readings in Irish Culture (Prof. McQuillan) IRLL 30110: The Hidden Ulster (Prof. 6 Doibhlin) IRLL 30306: Saints and Kings in Early Ireland (Prof. Fogarty) IRLL 30309: Great Irish Writers (Prof. McQuillan) IRLL 40109: The West of Ireland (Prof. Nie Dhiarmada) IRLL 40309: Gender and Identity in Irish (Prof. Nie Dhiarmada) 
*Explore Irish Heritage 
*Learn about Ireland, its Languages and Culture *Satisfy the Irish Studies Minor 
*Salis/)' the Irish Language and Literature Minor *Study abroad in Ireland! 
Tuesday, November 27, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

position to steal the ball and score.
Balance Breakout 
"The defender was trying to continued from page 20 
continued from page 20 block me off from the goalie get­ting it," Weissenhofer said scoring in double figures. 
over North Carolina Saturday. Tuesday. "I pressured the goalie Guards Lindsay Schrader and 
Weissenhofer had 53 points and I kind of got around her. Ashley Barlow lead the Irish 
last season -18 goals, 17 The goalie didn't think I was with 12.8 points per game 
assists -which were second on going to get there. The ball hit each, while guard Charel 
the team to forward Kerri the goalie's shoulder, and I just Allen has 12.2 points per 
Hanks, who had 66 points. game along the side of her, took game. 
Heading into the Illinois game, it off my chest, and shot it." But even that isn't good 
she had scored only four. An Weissenhofer, like her team­enough for McGraw, who feels 
ankle injury hampered her this mates, was surprised at the that her team is capable of a 
season. turn of events. lot more offensively. McGraw 
"As you've probably seen this "We were just like so excited, said she expects to have at 
season I haven't been much of a like, 'that really just hap­least five players scoring 
goal scorer, so I was very excit­pened,"' she said. "Everything between 1 0 and 14 points per 
ed to get a goal," she said after happened so quick, it was game this season. 
the Illinois game. "It was great crazy." "Everybody's contributing 
to get the goal and get the win." Weissenhofer gives Notre and different people are con­worked on playing more man­Griffins could waste their best 
Waldrum felt that the goal Dame an added weapon most tributing on different nights. to-man in practice, but that it defender on a player who 
may have ignited her to her pre­teams don't possess. From the It's really been kind of a full used a lot of zone against the doesn't have the ball a lot of 
vious form. sidelines in the attacking third, team effort," she said. Eagles. the time. 
"Maybe the goal against Weissenhofer's acrobatic somer­Notre Dame has also The Irish will have to con­"We're turning the ball over 
Illinois in the second round was sault throw-in can reach the stepped up defensively in its tinue defending the line effec­less because so many people 
a big thing for her, to finally center of the penalty kick box. last two games. After giving tively against Canisius. The can bring it up. And when you 
score a goal," Waldrum said She did just that early in the up 12-of-20 shooting from 3-Golden Griffins shoot .333 don't rely on that one person, 
Tuesday. North Carolina game, and for­point distance against from distance but are not it's harder for the defense to 
Waldrum said that having ward Brittany Bock redirected Maryland, the Irish allowed afraid to shoot the ball. Guard take you away." 
Weissenhofer fully healthy and the throw for the first goal of the Chippewas and Eagles to Amanda Cavo is 12-of-33 and The game against Canisius 
back on her game "made all the the game. shoot only a combined .095 guard Britanne Russell is 7-will be at the Joyce Center 
difference in the world." "I just kind of really try and from beyond the arch. of-24 on 3-pointers. For the tonight at 7 p.m. 
"She looked to me like the get it in the PK spot, six-yard McGraw attributed this 3-Irish, Brittany Mallory has put 
Weissenhofer we had last year," box, so someone can hit it," point defense -one of her up the most 3-point attempts Note: 
he said. "She actually looked Weissenhofer said. team's goals this season -in for the Irish, but is only 6-of-+ Center Melissa D'Amico 
faster than some of North The atmosphere of Saturday's part to Boston College and 23 -in one more game than started for the Irish on 
Carolina, she was strong and game gave Weissenhofer and Central Michigan's poor Canisius. Saturday against Boston 
confident." the Irish an idea of what the shooting but also to her The Golden Griffins also College, and McGraw said she 
Weissenhofer is a physical national championship might be team's defensive intensity. present a challenge to the will be the starter for the 
presence in the attacking third like, she said. "I think we're getting better Irish defensively in the form remainder of the season. 
and asserts herself well against "We got a taste of what it at man-to-man, and I think of Russell's 23 steals -more McGraw said she made the 
defenders. Her quickness would feel like to win the we're focusing on the three­than any two Irish players decision because sophomore 
enables her to reach through­national championship -just a point line," McGraw said. "I combined. McGraw said Erica Williamson is more 
balls others may not. Against small taste," she said. think we were all disappoint­Russell will try to shut down comfortable off the bench and 
North Carolina, for instance, Taste or not, Weissenhofer ed with the Maryland game's Irish point guard Tulyah D'Amico is playing better on 
she outran a defender while believed in her team and its defense, and I think there's Gaines, but that the Irish both ends of the court. 
chasing a ball that had been chances in the coming weeks. been a real concerted effort to have enough top quality 
passed to the Tar Heels keeper. fix that." guards who can bring the ball Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
The keeper misplayed the ball, Contact Bill Brink at McGraw said the team has up the court that the Golden jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
and Weissenhofer put herself in wbrink@nd.edu 
After Thanksgiving Special! 
Choose from Our Fabulous Selection of Irish Studies Courses Spring 2008 
IRST 10101:01 MWF 9:35-10:25 Hugh Fogarty Beginning Irish I 
IRST 10101:02 MWF 10:40-11:30 Peadar 6 Muircheartaigh Beginning Irish I 
IRST 10101:03 MWF 12:50-1:40 Tomas 6 Murchu Beginning Irish I 
IRST 10101:04 
MWF 1:55-2:45 Ciara Conneely Beginning Irish I 
IRST 10102:01 MWF 9:35-10:25 Tara MacLeod Beginning Irish II 
IRST 10102:02 MWF 10:40-11:30 Tara MacLeod Beginning Irish II 
IRST 20103:01 MWF 9:35-10:25 Sarah McKibben Intermediate Irish IRST 20103:02 MWF 10:40-11:30 Sarah McKibben Intermediate Irish 
IRST 20109:01 MWF 11:45-12:35 Hugh Fogarty Celtic Heroic Literature 
IRST 20203:01 TR 9:30-10:45 Peter McQuillan Advanced Readings in Irish Culture 
IRST 20520:01 TR 9:30-10:45 Sian White Modern British and Irish Literature 
IRST 21601:01 MW 4:30-5:45 James McKenna Irish and American Tap Dance 
IRST 30110:01 TR 2:00-3:15 Diarmaid 6 Doibhlin The Hidden Ulster IRST 30214:01 MW 3:00-4:15 Julieann Ulin Exile in the Irish Literary Tradition 
IRST 30216:01 TR 9:30-10:45 Sean O'Brien Victorian Irish Literature 
IRST 30219:01 TR 2:00-3:15 Abigail Palko Reading the Unwritten Story: Mother-Daughter Relationships in 20th c. Irish Fiction 
lRST 30306:01 MWF 2:00-2:50 Hugh Fogarty Saints/Kings in Early Ireland 
IRST 30309:01 TR 12:30-1:45 Peter McQuillan Great Irish Writers 
IRST 30371:01 MWF 10:40-11:30 Christopher Fox Introduction to Irish Writers IRST 30433:01 MWF 10:40-11:30 James Smyth Irish History Since 1800 

IRST 30434:01 TR 2:00-3:15 Rory Rapple Late Medieval/Early Modern Ireland 
IRST 30439:01 TR 5:00-6:15 Rory Rapple Debating Irish History 
IRST 40110:01 TR 3:30-4:45 Briona Nic Dhiarmada The West of Ireland 
IRST 40302:01 TR 11:00-12:15 David Lloyd Beckett, Theater and Visual Art 
IRST 40320:01 TR 12:30-1 :45 Briona Nic Dhiarmada Gender and Identity in Irish 
IRST 40605:01 TR 11:00-12:15 Luke Gibbons Film, Literature and Irish Culture 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 27, 2007 
The Irish jumped ahead in the Just 14 seconds later, a miscue the 61st minute when she chased the middle of the field, but Karas 13th minute when they had a by North Carolina keeper A<>hlyn a pass from Rosen down the left charged and bloeked the shot
Karas 

throw-in chance in their attack­Harris allowed Weissenhofer to side of the field. Ashlyn Harris with her hands. 
continued from page 20 
but I needed to reconcile what happened last year," Karas said, who made five saves in the game. "It was nice to not lose to Carolina twice in my career." 
Irish coaeh Handy Waldrum said the team eame a long way since last year's championship loss. 
"We wern so dillernnt this time than we were in the champi­onship last year," Waldrum said. "Last year, I thought we under­aehievBd, I thought we were intimidated, I thought we didn't play up to the way I knew we could play." 
Before Saturday's game, no team had scored three goals against North Carolina (19-4-1) in s1wcn years. The Irish {18-4-2) also joined Santa Clara as the only two teams ever to defeat North Carolina more than twice. 
ing third. Weissenhofer's flip­throw carried the ball to the cen­ter of the penalty box, where Bock headed the ball in the far side of the net for her 15th goal of the season. 
Bock, a junior, and Weissenhofer, a sophomore, arc both from Naperville, Ill., and played together at Neuqua Valley IIigh School. Bock said that play­ing with Weissenhofer for so long gave her a good idea of where the throw-in would land. 
Weissenhofer, in turn, said she aimed for the middle of the penalty box as well as for Bock in particular. 
"I try and look for Bock to see where she is," Weissenhofer said. 
Bock said she came free and had a clear path to the ball. 
"I kind of just drifted away, no one was really man-marking me," Bock said. 
score and give the Irish a quick 2-0 lead. Harris misplayed a pass back from left back Ariel Harris, allowing Weissenhofer to control the ball and take the shot. 
"It was kind of like, 'Are you serious, right now?"' Weissenhofer said of the back-to­hack goals. 
Bock was also taken aback by the second goal. 
"I was so tired just from cele­brating," Bock said. "I think half the people at the stadium didn't even know what happened." 

One minute into the second half, North Carolina midfielder Yael Averbuch's shot deflected off Irish midfielder Courtney Rosen's hand. Since the infraction oceurred in the penalty box, the Tar Heels received a penalty kick and midfielder Allie Long placed her shot to the left of Karas to make the score 2-1. 
Weissenhofer struck again in came out to challenge her, but Weissenhofer took a shot across the goal into the right side net­ting to make the score 3-1. 

"That probably to me was a turning point, once they got the goal, to see us respond to that and get the next goal and go back up by two," Waldrum said. "I think that was even bigger than going up by two initially." 
The Tar Heels kept the pres­sure on when they made the score 3-2 in the 71st minute. Defender Jessica Maxwell sent a free kick into the box, and mid­fielder Nikki Washington headed the ball over Karas' head. 
Karas' play kept the Tar Heel offense in check. She saved two shots from Washington in the second half and had to dive to her right and knock one of them away from the post. In the final minute of play, forward Casey Nogueira drove the ball down 
"Every time they eame down, it seemed like I had to do some­thing," Karas said. "It was kind of nice to finish a game where I actually did some things." 
The Irish face Duke at home Friday in the round of eight. Weissenhofer was confident that Notre Dame could advance. 
"I think if we play how we played on Saturday, I don't think any team will be able to beat us," Weissenhofer said. 
Note: 

+ Defender Elise Weber left the game shortly before the end of the first half when she rolled her ankle. Waldrum said she had a high-ankle sprain and that X­rays were negative. He said he will hold her out of practice for a few days. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
add'l Ml SPRING COURSES: 
The Devil in Literature Apocalyptic Literature Arthurian Literature Reading & Writing Latin Prose Celtic Heroic Literature Introduction to Medieval Art lntro to Early Chistian/Bvzc.IDt'iiOO Late Antiquity Medieval Spain Late Medieval/Early Mod Medieval Middle East The Catholic Reformation Ancient & Medieval Philosophy Christianity in the Middle East Reading the Qur'an Survey of Spanish Literature I Survey of French Lit. & Culture I Latin History-Writing Saints & Kings in Early Ireland Northern Renaissance Art Kingdom, Empire & Devotion: Art Introduction to Meister Eckhart History of the English Language The Canterbury Tales Medieval Drama Medieval & Renaissance Platonism From Roland to the Holy Grail Renaissance Woman Dante II Amor lnfelici Medieval Latin Survey Seminar: The Pearl Poet Seminar: Aquinas on Creation Seminar: Early Christian/Byzantine Vocal Sacred Music 

SPRING 2008 COURSE: Ml 20001 M W I :55-2:45 F var. 
rib of tbe flltbble r-r_9et1 
with Prof. Thomas F. X. Noble 
FULFILLS HISTORY UNIVERSITY OR MAJOR REQUIREMENT 
OR 
FULFILLS LITERATURE UNIVERSITY REQUIREMENT 
OR 
FULFILLS MEDIEVAL PROGRAM REQUIREMENT 
~1MEDIEVAL
Ill INSTITlJTE 
University of Notre Dame 

Tuesday, November 27, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 


WILLSHORTZ 
66 Baylor's city 
67 Sp. girl 68 Rodeo animal 
69 From the top 70 Ticks off 
71 TV shout-out from the team bench 
72 It's sold in skeins 
73 "Great" kid-lit detective 
Down 
Hard to please 2 Bring together 
3 Greedy monarch 
4 "Nevertheless 
5 On the payroll 
6 Lighted sign in a theater 7 Hand-waver's cry Puzzle by Michael Kaplan

8 They may be bright 33 Ingrid's role in 45 Schedule B or 58 Terrible twos, 9 One in the infield "Casablanca" C. e.g. e.g. 
1 0 Follow direction? 34 Showed up 47 Ancient Greek 59 Bad-mouth colonnade
11 Show sadness 

35 "Time to rise, 60 Sparkling wine 
50 La preceder12 Political caucus 
sleepyhead!" city state 52 Chooses to 37 Within earshot 62 _ deficit (lost 
participate money)13 Like a yenta 
21 "That's mine!" 40 Zwei follower 54 "Impossible!" 63 Pastry prettifier 
22 Deplete, as 42 Lose the spare 56 firma energy tire 57 Largish combo 65 Vintage auto 26 Cold one 
28 FEMA For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a recommendation 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. , briefly 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 29 Play by a crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. different 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 rules 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). 31 Upper hand 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 32 Like batik fabrics solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion

JJ1JJMJID)1JJ:.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
WAHSS 

1 rJ [j 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i!fi 

WHAT THE: SC.IE=N­TIS TS OE:e.IOE:O TO 00 WHE=N THE:Y 
VETOMI 

CIJ [j 
STUOIE:O THE: 

www.jumble.com 
ICE:BE:RGS.

tREFLOG I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

IIJ I I •
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A=rn rI I I JTHE"[ I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: FRUIT IMPEL TIMING AGENCY Answer: When the scouts had a knot-making contest, it turned into a -''TIE" GAME 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Garcelle Beauvais-Nilon, 41; Tina Turner, 68; Rich Little, 69; Robert Goulet, 74 
Happy Birthday: This year, love, advancement and financial gain surround you but uncertainty will he your downfall if you procrastinate. Travel may lead to a desire for a different geographical location. You are likely to become confused regarding lifestyles or beliefs. Follow what comes to mind f'trst. Your numbers are 3, 8, 14, 24, 27,34 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can't take what's said too seriously today. Someone you are close to will probably he insensitive to your situation. Problems with someone you work with may lead to a change in your position. 2 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Share your thoughts with people you trust but don't reveal how you feel about someone you work with. Gossip may lead to set­backs. Get involved in something that will benefit others or help the environment. 4 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Use your head and you will win but don't let some­one anger you and get in the way of your productivity. Accept the opportunity to join forces with someone who will help you better see what you want in the future. Consider an updated look or image. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll he emotional, feisty and ready to pick a f'tght. Stick to your own devices and get things out of the way and you will be avoid trouble. A new activity will inspire you but don't get taken in by a different lifestyle, cult or group. 3 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't get involved in gossip. Stick to the things you enjoy doing and the people you like to spend time with. A change in the way you earn your living or with an investment you have will help you out financially. 3 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't jeopardize a chance to get ahead because someone you are emotionally attached to doesn't want you to make a change. Consider your own needs, not someone else's. A problem with overspending could arise if you don't stick to a budget. 2 stars LIBRA (Sept-23-0ct. 22): You can get what you want, have your way and make changes that will guide you toward a better emotional situation. Don't let an older relative or friend discourage you from following your dream. Love is on the rise. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): High energy, drive and determination should help you get to the bottom of things. You can finish off projects or promote, present or push others to support, invest or purchase what you have to offer. A little charm and mystery will help you attract the right people. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Reserve judgment and you will avoid having to apologize. Emotional matters will crop up and someone may try to corner you into discussing matters better avoided. The chance to meet someone new through work or a colleague is looking good. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If you are feeling confused, insecure or just uncertain about a partnership, observe the dynamics of this union and how the person reacts to different situations. Money can be made but it is apparent some­one may try to borrow from you as well. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can learn a great deal by talking to people with experience or who have something to offer you. Open your heart and your suggestions to a group that can use your expertise. This is a perfect day for give­and-take. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Stick to basics and you will surpass your expecta­tions. A little will go a long way financially, physically and emotionally. You can make some positive life changes. An opportunity to meet potential partners will arise if you network. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, loving and astute. You are a good storyteller, have a vivid imagination and are outgoing and open. 

-,. 
CROSSWORD 
Across Show anger 5 Round before the final 
9 Washroom tub 14 Ph.D. awarder 15 Gave the boot 16 Blessing-
inducing sound 17 Flank 18 Gimlet garnish 19 Crackpot 
concoctions 20 Relax during a 
drill 23 Temp's work unit 24 Polite affirmation 25 Brazilian dance 
27 Big Apple awards 30 Like hair, usually, after combing 
33 Post-O.R. stop 36 Craps natural 38 Impoverished 
39 Sgt. Friday's org. 41 Calendar units hidden in 20­and 61-Across and 11-and 35­Down 43 Worker's pay 44 Like a brainiac 46 Fire remnants 48 The "R" in Roy 
G. Biv 49 Trojan War hero 51 Popular snack 
chip 53 Surveyor Jeremiah, for whom a famous line is partly named 55 Beatie. endearingly 
59 Meadow sound 
61 Sunshine State 
school 64 Minute Maid Park player 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

Tuesday, November 27, 2007 page 20 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Sm.oking Tobacco Road 
NO downs Tar Heels, Blue Devils up next 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
It took just over a year. but Notre Damn got its revenge against North Carolina. 
Irish forward Mielwlo WnisstHlhofer seornd two goals and assisted forward Brittany Bock on a third. and Notre Damn beat tlw No. I Tar lloels :~-2 Saturday at Fetzer Finld in Chapel llill. N.C., in the NCAA Tournanwnt round of I(,. 
The game was a rmnateh of last year's NCAA championship gamn, which the Tar lleels won, 2-1. The tnams later play11d to a 2-2 draw in an exhibition game btd'ore this season. 
The win felt good for Irish sen­ior keeper Lauren Karas, who said she had some unfinished business with the Tar lleels. 
"I don't want to say revenge, 
see KARAS/ page 18 


Weissenhofer breaks out of slump in big way in NCAA win 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
To deseribn forward Michele Weissenhofer's postseason sue­cess, Irish eoaeh Handy Waldrum had to turn to base­ball. 
"With forwards, it's probably like a home-run hitter or a slug­ger," Waldrum said. "If' you get in a little bit of' a slump, it starts to weigh on you and as a for­ward, I think she was getting really down on herself' because you're not scoring a lot of' goals on a regular basis." 
Weissenhofer picked a great time to break out of' her slump. 
The sophomore scored a goal during Notre Dame's 2-0 win over Illinois in the second round of the NCAA tournament and had two more in the 3-2 win 
see BREAKOUT/page 17 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
McAlarney drops 25 as Notre Dame blows out Colgate 
ished with a game-high 25 McAlarney came out of the on defense, allowing just two Dame's 13-for-28 performaneeBy CHRIS HINE points, drained four straight 3-locker room and picked up Haiders field goals over the beyond the arc. Junior forward 
Sports Ediwr 
pointers of his own to lift Notre where he left off in the first next 10:40. During that Luke Zeller also played a 
Dame to a 46-33 halftime lead half, hitting his first two 3's streteh, Notre Dame outscored prominent role in Notre 
Colgate hit four straight 3-on its way to a 94-63 win over during a 13-5 Notre Dame run Colgate 29-11 and put the Dame's 3-point fest. Zeller pointPrs to keep the score Colgate. to start the seeond half that game out of reach. knoeknd down four of his 11vn elosn at 29-23 with 5:1 <J to "It's almost like I know the put the Irish up 59-40 with "I liked our offensive eff'i­3-point attempts and f'inishml play in the opening frame shot's going in before I get the 15:53 to play. eieney, and I liked that it came the night with 14 points. Monday night, but then Kyle ball," MeAlarney said. "There "It's the best feeling in the from some different areas Even though Notre Dame's MeAlarney caught fire and were a eouple where I was just world, especially on your home tonight," Irish coach Mike Brey perimeter shooting lifted the hurnnd any chanen of' a itehing to get the ball beeause eourt, when things are really said. Irish to a blowout victory, its Colgatn upset. I knew as soon as I got it, it elieking," MeAiarney said. McAlarney's 7 -f'or-1 0 night 
Thn junior guard, who fin-was going in." Then the Irish clamped down from 3-point land led Notre see BLOWOUT/page 16 
HOCKEY 
Irish capture RPI tourney 
By DAN MURPHY A\Sociarc Spons Editor 
No. 1) Notrn Dame reeled off' four unanswernd goals to defnat No. 16 Hensselaer 4-3 Saturday night and win their first Hnnssdaer lloliday Tournament in Troy, N.Y. The Irish finished fourth in the tournanwnt in IIJXX and 2000 -thn only othnr times they participated. 
"Wn startml off slow again, which is a bit of a eoneern, but for the first time with this group. they showed some rnsilieney," Irish eoach .Jeff .laekson said. "To nw that is a sign of' a tmLm that is foeused and strong of' charaeter." 
Notre Dame was down :~-0 halfway through the game before they wen~ able to spring a leak in the Engineers 
see COMEBACK/page 16 


ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team takes on Canisius after consecutive routs 
McGraw says squad found strong balance 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Spans Editor 
Notre Dame hasn't had any problems winning this season. It's only a matter of if the game will be close. 
In its first five games, thn Irish have gone 4-1 with a 75­59 loss against No. 3 Maryland at College Park the only slip up. But other than that game, the Irish have seored 89.5 points per game, while not sur­rendering 60 points or more to any opponent this season. 
This trend held true during Notre Dame's 94-41 win over Central Michigan on Nov. 20 and 88-58 win over Boston College on Saturday. This weekend marked the first time since the first two rounds of the NCM Tournament in 2001 that Notre Dame had back-to­baek 30-point victories. 
Irish coaeh MulTet MeGraw said the two wins were impor­tant to getting the team back on traek after the loss to the Terrapins. 
"We're pretty conlidnnt right now. I think we feel good about a lot of things because it's sueh a balance." she said. "I don't think we're relying on any orw person, which I think makes everyone a little mon~ comfort­able." 
The Irish have been able to spread the ball around oiTen­sively early in tho season and eurrently have three players 
see BALANCE/ page 17 




