
-~---------------~----­

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 29 FRIDAY, OCTOBERS, 2007 
College launches identity campaign 

'She's Saint Mary's' new tagline for publications in attempt to make College more well known 
By KATIE KOHLER and LIZ 
HARTER 
News Writers 
On the heels of two national rankings -by US News & World Report and the Princeton Review -Saint Mary's is taking steps to break into national collegiate surveys by launching the "She's Saint Mary's" campaign, a continua­tion of last year's identity ini­tiative, College officials said. 
The identity initiative is an ongoing process to better understand the image the College must present to gain 
Juniors ship i tem_s abroad 
Class council sponsors event, pays for postage 
By AMANDA GONZALES 
News Writer 
Junior students studying abroad may experience home­sickness, whether they remain in North America at a location like Mexico or travel to distant lands like Shanghai. 
To give them some contact from home, the Junior Class Council paid for shipping so students on campus could send care packages to their overseas friends from Monday to Wednesday. 
Junior Kat Kennifer was enthusiastic about the pro­gram. 
"I think it's great that the school is sponsoring packages for us to send for free," Kennifer said. "It encourages us to keep in touch with our friends studying abroad." 
The second annual event was held this week in the LaFortune elevator lobby. Students could send anything they chose in a gallon-size plastic bag. 
Junior class president Rob Reish said many students got a bag, went to the lluddleMart and purchased food to send. .Junior Lauren Behr said she intendNI to send a variety of candy, cards and some Ameriean magazines in her care pac~kagcs. 
Any student on campus c·OLJ!d snnd packages abroad, regardless or their class year, as long as they provided the location of tlw prospective stu­dent and thnir full name. The 
see CARE/ page 8 the attention of prospective students and parents. The ini­tiative was part of College President Carol Ann Mooney's inaugural platform to make Saint Mary's a nationally known institution. 
"What this [campaign] goes back to is the grand idea of the identity initiative and under­standing what our key audi­ence knows about the College and their perceptions of it," said Karen McDonald, the act­ing vice president of integrated marketing communications. 
"The identity initiative was 
see COUNCIL/page 6 


Right to Life displays m_em_orial 
By JOSEPB MCMAHON News Writer 
Notre Dame's Right to Life club erected 600 white crosses and 3,600 pink and blue flags on South Quad in memory of aborted fetuses Thursday, an annual tradi­tion as part of the club's Respect Life Week. 
"Through this memorial we can help remember those children who never even had a chance to be named," said junior Emily Toates, a vice president of the group. 
The 600 crosses has been an annual tradition, and the group added 3,600 pink and blue flags this year to rep­resent the estimated num­ber of abortions performed in the United States each 
see MEMORIAL/page 8 



Seventeen SYRs planned for weekend 
Slew of horne football games in October, November causes pile up of fall season dances 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
Seventeen residence halls will hold dances this weekend in advance of a series of home football games . 
With fall break. Thanksgiving break and five home football games in between. the next time a dorm could host a dance would bP the weekend of Dec. 1 -nearly two months from now, an official in the Studnnt Activities Oflice (SAO) said. 
"In th1~ rail semester. it's com­mon to see many dances occur­ring on the weekends of away f'ootba II games." said Peggy 
~~!:;14){[fffS 

.fADifltMOM"AW'SI!i'fAlJU£AJION~i'-~{~~~ ~t:'-4~t~Fr.!-""<Gt
•u&liTlMl. IIILHJ: i.£IACiHlA •l'YMJIHOHA WAUl:: ~m ~/~ m .... f\l!'..o-tHefitl'~4 
aa.ASI!iOOf ~DAD'S MYC*CAMPUS 
DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer 

Saint Mary's new Web site design shows the new "She's Saint Mary's" identity campaign slogan. 
Hnatusko, the director of pro­gramming for student activities. 
The lack of available venues and campus resources prevents dorms rrom holding dances on home football weekends, she said. 
Many dorms hold their dances on away football week­ends, but this weekend has live times more dancns -common­ly known as SYRs -than any other weekend so far this semester, according to the SAO's 2007-08 Hesidence Hall danePs schedulP. 
There is no limit to how many dorms can hold SYRs in a given 
see SYR/ page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NDFonun elicits interest 
But students not active in immigration debate 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Four high-profile leaders will speak Monday at the Notre Dame Forum on immigration, but while students say they are interested in the topic, few have demonstrated a desire to get involved. 
More than two thirds of 150 students interviewed for this story said they were either "very interested" or "interest­ed" in the immigration debate. Political psychology professor Darren Davis said Notre Dame students are influenced by a strong sense of social concern. 
Of the interested students, nearly half said that they planned to attend the Forum, and only one in six said they did not. But less than a third had been to an immigration event in the past year. 
Stanford Hall assistant rector John Fahy called interest on the immigration issue "dor­mant." 
"If we want students to engage this issue, we need a spark," he said. "It's harder to get people aware than I think it should be." 
Junior Michael Angulo, a leader of the Progressive Student Alliance, has been engaged in immigration activism since 60 Notre Dame students marched in support of nationwide protests two years ago. He said he was pleased with the level of student involvement then but said that 
see FORUM/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, October 5, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

'Dear 
}i111sie... ' 
I'm sum there arn many students out there who an~ seeking advke from dassie outside soun~es such as Dear Abby and Dear Amy either daily or whenever tlwy piek up The Chicago 
Triburw, or whatnvnr othnr  Liz Harter  
newspapnrs are ddivered  
through the Headership  News Production Editor  
programs on both campus­ 

es. Or maybe I'm just the only one. 
lrthern arl' others out tlwre, I pro­pose that those of you who road the insipidly bland adviee mlumns in national papNs seek out one of your own. 
"Dilar Jimsin" is a saladous advi1:e column writtPn by a Notre Dame stu­dent. mainly li1r his friends and ar.quaintances on Facebook. 
"I>nar Jimsip" is primarily driven by Faeehook and tPxt nwssagns, which began doling out adviee in early Septnmh1w in responsP to a text rnns­sage prank making fun of his niek­name. After that text mnssagn, Jimsin lwcame so much morn than a nirk­nanw. it bm~anw an adviee column for the history books. mueh likP Abby is just a narnn. but "f>par Abby" ~~onjures up imagns of a frail, old lady who answers letters in thn ilk of "yes Virginia. tlwrP really is a Sailta Claus." 
Those who know about "Dear Jimsill," who arP also ,limsin's Fa1~ebook friends or know his cnll phonn number. have easy 1u:cess to Jimsie's nxcnllent adviell. 
Whieh is also part of the shtiek. Only those who am friends with Jimsin can ll'ave him wall post<; and while every­one nisi' who is friends with Jimsin on Facebook can see that post, they ean­not always sne his response. Dun to tlw privaey measurns of Face book, it is impossible to see a speeilic person's wall if he is not your friend. This makes "Dear Jimsie" that much more exciting bneause he always keeps you wondering what advice he has given other people. 
In the short history of' the "Dear Jimsie" eolumn, he has given advice on relationships, soda! drinking, manag­ing time eonlliet<>, sleep deprivatio, Aleoholies Anonymous and msolving eonfliets. 
lie provides blunt, straightl'orward mtorts to questions that could poten­tially become heated arguments bdween friends and quiek responses problems that eould prove detrimental to the asker's health were he to have to live with them for long periods of time. 
"Dear .Jimsie" may seem to be a erass, ollentimes inappropriate sala­cious eolumn, but in reality there is no better advice you could get. "Dear Abby's" advice is too fluffy, and "Dear Amy's" advice is too non-conl'ronta­tional. At least Jimsie tells it like it is, and isn't shy about making enemies just to avoid telling the truth. What better advice eould you get then the truth? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer: 
Contact Liz Harter at ehartef) I @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due 10 a photographers error, a picrure on the last page ofthe Oct. 4 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly identi­fitxl the Notre Dame soccer player as Ryan Miller. The player is acruallyJusrin Morrow. Due 10 a reponing error, rhe Faculry Senate artide in the Oct 4. edition of The Observer quoted professor Judy Fox as saying "there is serious disfunction in the law school administration." What she said was "there was serious disfunction in the law school." The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE THEME FOR AN SYR? 






IN BRIEF 

The men's and women's swim teams will take part in the Dennis Stark Helays at Holt's Aquatic Center at 5 p.m. today. Admission is l'ren and opnn to tim publie. 
Filmmaker Leandro Fi1·mino da !lora will presnnt a serNming of the film "City of Men" at 10 p.m. today at tho DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets am$:{. 
An inf()J'mal lunchtime concert li~aturing advaneed studnnts from the Department of Music and pianist<; Katie Palumbo and Mark Cernnzia in Penotc Perfornwrs' Hall, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 12:10 p.m. The audience is wekome to bring their luneh to the pnrf(wmanee. 
"No End in Sight," the first film of it'i kind to ehronide the rea'>ons bnhind Iraq's descent into guerilla war, warlord rule, eriminality and anarchy will be screened Saturday at 7 p.m. in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets arP $:{. 
Army HOTC will host its annual Finn Fit Challenge Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The triathlon will kick off outside Lyons Hall. Proceeds will benefit the Wounded Warriors Project. 
The men's soccer team will play West VIrginia Saturday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Bhu~k Cultural Arts Council is holding auditions for its annual talent show, Black Images 2007. The auditions are Monday and Thesday from 8 p.m. to 10 in the LaFortune Gold Room. All talents are welcome to audition. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

82 63 

HIGH LOW 

Caitlin Sajbel junior Badin  Megan Krizmanich sophomore PW  Kelly Waclawik freshman Badin  Courtney Sullivan junior Badin  Amy Holt sophomore Badin  Liz Morgan freshman Badin  
"Disney Princesses, because everone loves  ':4 soda pop theme, because I love drinking delicious 12-oz.  "The Roarin, 1 920s, because it's a fun period with really cool  ':4formal, because girls love to dress up, and we get to  ':4 sports theme -but the girls can't be cheerleaders. "  "Halloween costume party, because I love dressing up. ..  

,

wearing pretty cans of cola. clothes.,, see guys dresses -boys dressed nicely 
,

included." for once. 

Long time Notre Dame fan Keith Penrod, left, motivates quarterbacks Evan Sharpley, bottom and Jimmy Clausen, right, during football practice Thursday afternoon. 
OFFBEAT 

Confused moose thinks he's a cow 
CANNONBALL, N.D. ­When Beverly and Ernie Fischer gathered up their cattle this fall in Morton County, they rounded up a little more than they expected. We were mov­ing some cattle, and we got a moose," Ernie Fischer said. "He thinks he is a cow," said his wife. 
Ernie Fischer said it was difficult to get the young bull moose away from the cattle, and work­ers put it in a separate corral until it could be released. The moose also broke fences on the ranch 
20 miles south of Mandan. 
It's not the only such incident in south central North Dakota this year. Emmons County rancher Sam Gross recently reported a lone bull moose in his cattle herd, and a moose also was spotted in a cattle herd in Mcintosh County. 
Smugglers try to use bugs as drug mules 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands -As drug mules, bugs don't carry much. And they didn't get by customs in the Netherlands. A customs 
officer who took a close look at a consignment of more than 100 large, dead bugs sent from Peru to the Netherlands discov­ered cocaine had been stashed in their backs. 
"We see a lot of things, but this was a first for us," customs spokesman Kees Nanninga said Thursday. 
"It looked like they were cut open, the drugs hid­den in their backs and then they were glued back together again," he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

..... 
ct 
(,) 



0 

..... HIGH 87 HIGH 87 
LOW 70 LOW 67 

77 60 


HIGH LOW 

Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Ticket sales strong despite 0-5 record 
By KRISTEN EDELEN 
News Wrirer 

Notre Dame's 0-5 n1cord in football will not endanger the team's sellout streak or 194 games or atrect pricing, Assistant Athletic Director Josh Berlo said Thursday. 
Notre Dame has sold all its tickets for the team's five remaining the tickets, he said, and they will continue being sold at their face value of $64. 
But the support from some stu­dents of the team does seem to be waning. Junior Kristen Brickley said she thought the student section has become apa­thetic. 
"[ know a lot of people who 
home games "We are sold out for all of this season. our remaining home 
though re­
games and still receive 
sales do occur through the calls daily from those 
Ticket Office looking for tickets. " 
when cus­tomers return 
Josh Berlo 
tiekets they have pur­assistant athletic director 
chased. 
Tickets are still selling and Berlo, who runs thn office, is busy taking calls from fans inquiring about fi10tball ticknts, he said. 
"We arn sold out for all of our remaining honw games and still rnenivn calls daily from those looking for tickPts," Berlo said. 
The Notre Damn namn and brand has not summld from this ynar's losing season. Bnrlo said. TkkPt sales and dPmand for tick­nts havn remailwd consistent. No plans Pxist to rPduce pridng on 
have been leaving the home games early," she said. 
Brickley said she has strong nos­talgia for touchdown pushups from her freshman and sopho­more years. 
"I have not gone up for pushups once this year," 

she said. "I miss the excitement." 
Berlo said the Ticket Office continues to have people signing up for the Season Ticket Lottery and hn does not anticipate any decline in intnrest in the coming years. 
"We sincerely appreciate the ardent support of the Notre Dame fans," 131-rlo said. 
Contact Kristen Edelen at kedeleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMChosts 1st'Light the Night' vvalk 
By NIKKI TAYLOR and 
KATLYN SMITH 
News Writers 

Saint Mary's hosted the South Bend "Light the Night" walk Thursday -a 2.3-mile walk to raise money for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, with all funds raised going toward research to cure blood cancer. 
Saint Mary's freshman Kathy Chlebda, who was diagnosed with lymphoma in 2006 and finished treatment 
in April, e­mailed Saint Mary's over the summer to see if the "Light the Night" walk took place in South Bend. 
The walk has happened in so·uth Bend before, but this was the first year the event was held at Saint Mary's. 

"It was very moving, which I wasn't expecting. Meeting people face to face is the really powerful stuff" 
Carrie Call director Office of Civic and Social Engagement 
Until Chlebda's e-mail, "I had never heard of the walk before," said Carrie Call, the director of the Office for Social and Civil Engagement at Saint Mary's. "It's beauti­ful." 
Call, along with head soft­ball coach Erin Sullivan. helped organize the twent at Saint Mary's. 
The walk took place at 
dusk, and each participant carried a red balloon with a light inside. Blood cancer sur­vivors carried a white bal­loon. 
"It was very moving, which I wasn't expecting," Call said. "Meeting people face to face is the really powerful stuff." 
"Light the Night" had 330 people registered this morn­ing, but at walk time approxi­mately 450 people showed up, said Crystal Jones, Indiana's "Light the Night" director. 
The youngest survivor pres­
ent was an eight and a half month-old girl. She was diagnosed at four and half months. The oldest survivor was a man in his seventies, Call said. 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students par­ticipated in the walk. Participants 
enter individually or as part of a team. 
"Team Kathy," named for Chlebda, raised the most money, Call said. 
Other student groups walk­ing included athletic teams and the Saint Mary's Board of Governance. 
Saint Mary's senior Maggie Jespersen walked with a team of other elmnentary education majors called "Team EI-Ed." 
"IThe walk] is really cool," Jespersen said. "It's a really good turnout. It's really won­derful seeing all the T-shirts for the different teams." 
Notre Dame sophomore Bryan Hoffman also did the walk. 
"My brother's girlfriend is a survivor, and we did the walk in high school," he said. "It was fun community building before the walk." 
Prior to the walk, survivors of blood cancers shared their stories. Each year's event honors a person who is or has battled a blood cancer. This year~ South Bend Honored Hero was Paige Robinson. 
Diagnosed with leukemia at the age of five, Robinson has been in remission for five years and will attend seventh grade at Trinity Lutheran School in Elkhart. Ind. 
She encouraged students to raise money for research of the disease. 
Founded in 1959, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society has raised more than $550.8 million for research targeting blood cancers.. 
Jones summed up the evening's events as a success. 
"This turnout and this com­munity r<'ally came our and wrapped tlwir arms around us," Jones said. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Katlyn Smith at ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

NEW STUDY Al)ROAD OPPORTUNITY at Chinese Universit_y of 
Hon  Kon  
Arts  Medicine  
l)usiness  Science  
Engineering  Social Science  

Learn about the possibilities on Monda_y, October 8 or Tuesda_y, October 9 at 5:)0 PM . 
117 DE5ARTOLO 
No Chinese language re9uired 
.--------------------------------------------------------­page 4 Friday, October 5, 2007
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 



Seniors host dads for SMC weekend 
By MOLLY LAMPING 
News Writer 
Saint Mary' seniors will hos( t.lwir fathnrs this wnnkend dur­ing thn annual Senior Dads' Wnnknnd. an 1wnnt Moniea Mastraeeo said she has b1~en waiting for -and so has hnr littlwr. 
"My dad is really nxdted," Mw;traeco said. "lfp's been talk­ing about it probably as dad-like things," Megan Welsch said. "It's great that we ean do things likH this together now." 
Most of all. students seem to bn looking forward to spending some alone time with thHir fathers. 
''I'm the only girl, so we don't wally gpt to spend a whole lot or time one-on-one," Jespersen said. 
Other than the ollicial events lilr the wnnkend. many studenl'> 
are planning 
othnr activities 

rnueh as ."I'm excited to spend with their haVI~." litthers.
time with my dad not
Throughout "Instead of
doing typical dad-like 
tlw w1wkend, going to the I lall seniors will par­things." of Fame for the lidpate in snv­game watch, my eral aetivitins dad and I are
Megan Welsch
with tlwir dads. just going to Tonight, thorn wateh it with
SMC senior 
will hn a beer garden on Library (;rnen for seniors and their dads. along with a silent auction to bnnnlit thn Class of 200H. On Saturday, activities indude rounds of golf in the morning, as well as tailgating and a game watch at tl11~ College Football llall of Fame. Thl-l weekend's festivities wrap up Sunday morning with Mass at the Church of Loretto. 
Seniors said they are looking li1rward to the variety of adivi­tins planned li1r the weekend. 
"I think I'm most exeited about the golf," Maggie .l!~SJHlrslm said. "I don't really like to golf. hut my dad is pmtty good, so I think it will be a good learning experi1mee and a lot of run." 
''I'm excited to spend time with my dad not doing typical 
some or my friHnds and th1~ir dads," Jespnrsen said. 
"IMy roommatHs and II are all having a niee steak dinner in Opus I fall bHfore the beer gar­den," Wnlsch said. ''I'm hoping this weekend will be a throw­baek for my dad to college because we will be going out and doing iliings togeilier that I typieally do on the wHekends anyway." 
Students are excited about sharing their experiences at the College with their fathers and giving them a glimpse into their lives while they're here. 
"This event is very unique to Saint Mary's," Mastraeeo said. "Not a lot of schools have some­thing like this." 
Contact Molly Lamping at mlampiO l @saintmarys.edu 
Professor recounts past racial tension 
By NICK BOCK News Writer 
In the early 19th century in the upper Midwest, people were either white or American Indian. 
"There was no in between," said Michigan State history professor and author Susan Sleeper-Smith in a leeture Thursday at the Eck Center Auditorium. 
Sleeper-Smith quoted a famous nursery rhyme by songwriter Septimus Winner to describe the state of racial eon11ict in the Midwest in the early 1 HOOs. "Ten Little Indians" traces the demise of a group of "lnjuns," with the last remaining Indian's removal an important view­point. 
"One little Injun living all alone, he got married and then th(~re were none," the rhyme says. 
Sleeper-Smith said the line reflected the views of white Americans in the Northeast that intermarriage with the American Indians would even­tually destroy Indian culture -something that was seen as a positive at the time. 
In Wisconsin, however, the optntons were different. There, settlers viewed inter­marriage as a threat to the white race. 
An influx of white fur traders in the Fox Hiver valley, whose business hinged on healthy social relationships with the local Indians, "points to an increase in mixed-ances­try births" from the 1600s to the mid-1800s, Sleeper-Smith said. 
Using court records and cap­tivity narratives, Sleeper-
Smith described the extreme with whiteness in the area. reactions of the white settlers Sleeper-Smith also described to interracial children. the reaction of the judicial 
The early 19th century atti­system to the "paranoia" of tude about mixed racial her­Indian "tainting." A Michigan itage transformed from "cru­Supreme Court judge, she elty to racism," Sleeper-Smith said, charged many fur­said, adding that "domesticity traders with "lewd bf~havior" and issues of cleanliness and because of their sexual rela­whiteness defeated the allure tionships with American of sexuality lfor American Indian women. Indian women]." "A perpetual fnar that white 
Two years people after the dis­would appearance of become a white child Indians cre­n a m e d atPd this
"A perpetualfear that
Casper, local rhetorical white settlers white people would paranoia, claimed a Sleeper­
become Indians created 
mixed-race Smith said.
this rhetorical 
Indian youth S a r a h was the miss­paranoia. Jenkins, a ing boy, who sPnior probably had American
Susan Sleeper-Smith
drowned in a studies
history professor
local river. major, Originally, the Michigan State attendnd the 
mother and father denied that the new boy was their son, but the mother later claimed that the boy's sup­posed mother had abused Casper and tainted his skin and physical characteristics to the point he was no longer easily recognizable. 
A physician testified at the trial that skin color could be changed. One doctor said "the application of nitrate and sil­ver can make white men almost as dark as a Negro," Sleeper-Smith quoted eourt records as saying. 
White mothers believed that bathing children daily would keep them white and pure by keeping these stains from their skin -and thus frequent bathing became associated 
event for her 
"Woman and 
Work in 

E a r I y America" elass. After study­ing how daily bathing prac­tices had only begun in the 18th century, she said, the idea of bathing white children was "more radical than it may seem." 
She said she enjoyed the presentation and found it "fas­cinating to see primary docu­ments." 
Sleeper-Smith used pietures, testimonies and case studies as visual aids. The Department of American Studies hosted the event and a reception following the speech. 
Contact Nick Bock at nbock@nd.edu 
Dengue fever breaks outinCaribbean region 
looked upon as a stellar example of how to prevent, or control, dengue infections. Oddly enough, Cuba has one of the best dengue prevention programs and it specifically targets Aedes aegypti control. I was there in August and some of their people are being tapped as advisers for Singapore." 
The Aedes aegypti mosquito spreads an estimated 100 mil­lion eases of dengue fever eaeh year. Dengue fever usu­ally starts with a high fever and ehills and may include headaehes, backache and musrle and joint pain. Dengue lwnwrrhagie fever is a poten­tially deadly disease ehanu~­ll~rizPd by a high fevnr and may lw accornpaniPd by loss of appnt.itn, nausna, vomiting, abdominal pain and nos!' or gum blePding. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
2s,ooo Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large imd small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Special to The Observer 
One of the worst dengue fever outbreaks in decades is spreading across Latin America and the Caribbean, and a University of Notre Dame biologist who was instrumentul in mapping the genome of the Aedes angypti mosquito that transmits the dengue parasite to humans bnlieves thn outbreak is part or a largm· trend. 
"There is dnarly an upswing in easns in the Caribbean region. partly du1~ to rncent hurriearw activity, but ease numbers and fatalities won~ already going up tlwre and across tl11• glolw," biologist 
I> avid Sevl' rson said. "TherP has IHwn a lot of discussion on rPrPrrl outbrPaks in SingaporP, for PxampiP. SingaporP was prPviously 

,=;· 

Please -recycle The ®bserver. 
-~ 
··__ ~!


-------··-~r' 
~ 

THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 


r.~ ©©[}u®~~u©[}u0r01W
UJ~ When it's the LP prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an excltlng1·yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 2, 2007. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May, 2008) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? For more infonnation, contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 5, 2007 CoMPILED FROM TtiE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVKES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iraqi official killed in bombings 
BAGIIDAD -lloadside bombs killed the top Shiite orticial in a volatile area south of Baghdad and an anti-al-Qaida Sunni sheik to the north Thursday as internal power strug­gles within both Islamic sects threaten to complkate U.S. efforts to stabilize the colin­try. 
Car bombs. mPanwhile, struck Iraqi civil­ians in Baghdad and the northnrn city of Tal Afar. with at ]past 31 people killed or found dead nationwide. an~ording to police reports. 
Abbas Hassan llamza, a politi(~al moderate and tlw top orlicial in tlw lskandariyah dis­trict. was killed by a bomb that struck his ronvoy whil!' lw was going to work. a police oiTicPr said. Four of his bodyguards also were killed and onn was wounded, the ofli­(~Pr said. speaking on condition of anonymity lwcaus!' hP feared retribution. 
Stolen da Vinci painting recovered 
LONDON -Dnt(~ctives on Thursday rncovPrnd a LPOIHtrdo da Vin(~i painting that was stolen from a Scottish castle in a daring daylight raid four years ago. 
OITirl'rs raided an address in Glasgow and seized "Madonna with thn Yarnwindnr." s(~otland 's Dumfries and (;alloway police said. Thr!'e men from J:ngland and onP man from Scotland were arrested. 
The painting appeared on the FBI's 10 most-wantnd list of stolen art and on the Art Loss H1~gister's list of stolen master­pieces, whPre it was valtwd at $65 million. 
Poli(:O said art experts had confirmed the rPcoven~d painting was the Leonardo masterpiece, stolen from Drumlanrig Castle in southern Scotland in August 2003. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Prosecutors prepare O.J.'s case 
lAS VEGAS-A judge Thursday scheduled a hflaring next month for prosecutors to pres­ent evidence against O.J. Simpson and five other men accused of kidnapping and rob­bing two sports memorabilia dealers at gun­point. 
.Justice of the Peace Joe Bonaventure Jr. ordered the defendants and their lawyers to attend the hParing on Nov. 8 and possibly the next day. 
Hejecting a request from one of the defen­dant's lawyers for a later date, Bonaventure said, "I have to consider the state, co-defen­dants. witnesses [and] the general public." 
Clark County District Attorney David Roger did not oppose the date. He could present evidence behind closed doors to a grand jury before Nov. 8 instead of making it public. 


Safety questioned after factory fire 
GEORGETOWN, Colo.-Federal investi­gators focused Thursday on working con­ditions and safety procedures inside the hydroelectric plant tunnel where five workers died after a fire erupted on the equipment they were using. 
Autopsies were pending, but authorities believe smoke and fumes from Tuesday's fire killed the workers as they sat trapped deep underground. Communication from the crew ended about an hour after the fire broke out. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana to cut mercury emissions 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana will eut mercu­ry emissions from eoal-lirPd power plants by two-thirds owr tlw next two dncadPs under a fndPral ruiP approved by a statP panel that tunwd aside ralls for even dm~pnr cuts. 
Thn Indiana Air Pollution Control Board votPd 11-1 Wedrwsday to adopt tlw mini­mum I"Pdnral CIPan Air Mnrrury Huln. 
FnvironmPntal: I!-. have said tlw n'duction goal falls short bneausn mPrrury is a potent rwurotoxin that Pnds up in I.IJ!' food chain and ran loW('!' tlw intPllignnrn of l'hildrnn wlwsP motlwrs nat taintPll fish during preg­nancy. 
SOUTH KOREA 

North Korea ready to disarm weapons 
DPRK pledges at Pyongyang summit to shut down major nuclear facilities by end ofyear 
Associated Press 

SEOUL -North Korea pledged Wednesday to detail its nuclear programs and disable all activities at its main reactor complex by the end of thn year, its lirmPst commitment to disarm after decades sp,eking to dPvelop tho world's dnadliest weapons. 
The agreement at talks in China came on the same day North Korean leader Kim Jong ll held talks in the com­munist nation's capital of Pyongyang with South Korean President Hoh Moo-. hyun at the first summit between the two countries in seven years. 
In Washington. President Bush hailed the nuclear deal and said it reflected the "common commitment" of the talks to shut down North Korea's atomic weapons program. 
Under an agreement reached in February, Pyongyang was required to shut down and seal its sole operating reactor at its main nuelear complex, which it did in July after the U.S. reversed its hard-line policy against the regime. The sec­ond phase required it to dis­able the reactor and provide a full description of all its nuclear programs. Wednesday's agreement ness to remove North Korea million tons of fuel oil. On cient extent can be used to calls for that to happen by from a list of countries that Friday, in anticipation of the make bombs. the end of the year. sponsor terrorism, a key new agreement, the United The North then quickly 
The North said it would demand of Pyongyang. States also announced it restarted production of allow the U.S. to lead a No timetable was set for would spend up to $25 mil­weapons-grade plutonium at group of experts to this action, but a joint state­lion to pay for 50,000 tons of its main nuclear complex, Pyongyang within two weeks ment said it will happen "in heavy fuel oil for North leading to its first-ever test "to prepare for disablement" parallel with" the North Korea. nuclear explosion in October of its nuclear facilities, Korean government follow­This is not the first nuclear 2006. Experts say the North Chinese Vice Foreign ing through on its commit­deal Washington has struck may have produced more Minister Wu Dawei said in ment. with the reclusive, commu­than a dozen nuclear Beijing. The U.S. wants the "The two sides will nist regime. In a previous bombs. dismantling process to be so increase bilateral exchanges U.S. attempt to halt the Wednesday's agreement thorough that a nuclear and enhance mutual trust," North's nuclear weapons commits the North to make facility could not be made the statement says. development, Pyongyang a "complete and correct dec­operational for at least 12 Besides the U.S. and simply froze its arms pro­laration of all its nuclear months. China, three other countries grams under a 1994 deal. programs"-which the U.S. 
The United States was -Russia, South Korea and The latest nuclear standoff has said would include the secretive about what it Japan -participated in the began in 2002, after uranium issue. promised in return. talks with the North. Washington accused the There was no immediate 
The U.S. has agreed to The five countries reiterat­North of a secret uranium comment on the nuclear lead disablement activities ed a commitment to deliver enrichment program -in deal from Pyongyang, where and provide the initial fund­aid under the February dis­addition to its known pluto­leaders of the two Koreas ing for them. Washington armament deal granting the nium-based facilities. Either met for fimr hours to further also reiterated its willing-North the equivalent of 1 material enriched to a suffi-reconciliation efforts. 


Dozens arrested on child porn charges 
Associated Press Superintendent Rick Fuentes said. arrested was a referee for girls high "This operation places a roadblock in school volleyball, state police said. TRENTON -More than three their path." No one has been charged with cre­
• doznn people in New Jersey have The investigation, dubbed ating the images and videos, though been charged with sending child Operation Silent Shield, encom­state Attorney General Anne Milgram rape photos and videos over the passed 15 of New Jersey's 21 coun­said the investigation is continuing. Internet. officials said Thursday. ties and numerous law enforcement She said officials will scour thou­The arrests cap a two-month inves­agnncies. The arrPsts began 10 days sands of DVDs and more than 80 tigation in which a state poliee tech­ago and continued through videotapes confiscated during the nology investigations unit eombed Thursday, statn polien said. arrests. the Internet for New Jnrseyans who The 41 peopiP, who rangP in age Milgram said the videos last up to distributed such imagns. Forty-om~ from 14 to 71, wf'rn charged with 15 minutes and f(~aturp rhiJdrPn esti­peopiP wPre arrnsted. child pornography possnssion and mated to range in age from 4 to 9 Oflieials said the photos and videos distribution and facP 18 months to years. havP bonn madP available world­10 :vears in jail. They haw jobs rang­ShP said ofl'ieials havn id!'nti!'il'd wid(•. ing from elevator r!'pairman to rar some ehildnm involvPd. Shn dPclinnd 
"Many who havP sPxually assaultPd sa)Psman to snrurity guard til land­to discuss any dPtails about thn chil­rhildren started down that road "'ith seapPr to deli ownm to auto mechan­dren. but sa.id tlw imagns art> dis­child porn, StatP PolicP ic. A Wood bridg(' man who was turbing. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 5, 2007 
in thn broadest aspect of Saint before." new image." that can work best for stu­Mary's constituents," The main issue was commu­One of the most accessible dents," McDonald said. 
Belles 


Hodriguez said. "Everybody continued from page 24 saw a way to conneet." The brand features the per­thn first phasn and 'She's Saint sonal stories of students and Mary's' is a way to present what their time at Saint Mary's ourselves to our external audi­means to them. ence.... It is how we will eor­"[The alumnae] love the sto­rnctly communicate our ries and they love the faet that strnngths and weaknesses." we' n~ tnlli n g stories abou t The new taglirw, "She's Saint what students experience Mary's," is now prnsent on all here," Hodriguez said. "We're Collegn public~ations, ads, ban­focusing on the rigorous aca­rwrs and Web pages. demic experiencn and the rela­T lu~ ca rn p a i gn was co­tionships students have with chairml by Vicn President for nach other and with faculty. College Hnlations Shari Thosn are things that they felt llodriguez and Vin~ President really strongly about as they for Enrollment Managnnwnt look back on their experience." Dan Meyer. Thn implemnntation of the "Wn rnally wen~ looking at campaign was a continuous 
our mes-improve­sages and ment, they were all "We won't see ',S'he 's .S'aint McDonald authentic, said, sparked
Mary's· everywhere. but it 
but they by the desire
will be the common thread.
were all so to eater to different," We are looking for the nends of llodriguez the student
consistency and constancy
said. "It body.
ofour messaging."
wasn't tlw "The cata­lmst practice lyst was the for an insti­Karen McDonald research," tution likl' shn said.
acting vice president 
Saint Mary's "Through a
Integrated Marketing
and we series of sur­
Communications

bncame con­veys and vinced that a evaluations unilind nws-last year, we sage would help students wen~ able to pinpoint our understand all that is Saint strengths and weaknesses. Mary's." "Our strengths, we found, 
Throughout the search for a wnre acadnmies. Our faculty is nnw brand. the College used strong, we have small classes, market studies and surveys of strong career prep and some alumnae, faculty and students pretty amazing alumni. We to find out what Saint Mary's found out that these were the nwans to them -the result things that are important to was tlw two-word slogan. our prosp1~ets and we wnren't 
"It really seenwd to resonate effnctively communicating it 
nicating the benefits of the changes, McDonald said, is the College in an effective manner, redesigning of the Web site, MeDonald said. which officially re-launched 
"We didn't have an issue Monday. with the benefits," she said. "The site is more than just "Those have not changed. We the look," she said. "There are just didn't communicate them also content changes that correctly. This is a campaign to reflect the research we did to bring these characteristics and refine our image and meet the quality to the forefront." needs of the students." 
The timing of the campaign Director of Web and is meant to attract the Interactive Communications prospective applicant pool for Dan Miller said there an~ some the Class of 2012. pages still linked to old eon­
"This is a time when many tent. young women are exploring Many of tlw pages that colleges," haven't !wen McDonald said. updated are "The Web can be "Our biggest next the depart-used as a key step is further ment home resource for high pages, whieh
re.finement ofthe Web

school students are regulated
site that can work

who haven't had by each a ehance to visit best for students." d e p a r t m ~~ n t. our campus yet." Miller said Brochures to departmental
Karen McDonald 

reeruit high feedback has 
acting vice president 

school seniors been positive, were the first Integrated Marketing and he materials carry­Communications believes most ing the slogan, administrators MeDon aid said. want to move The brochures, known as their sites into the "new look." "viewbooks," were first distrib­The new pages are being uted in July. designed using the Drupal Web 
"They were important engine, a content management beeause they included infor­system. mation the prospects wanted "The [Drupal [ system allows to hear and know about the update of content from a Web College," McDonald said. browser rather than propri­
The new slogan and the etary software," Miller said, designs have a "more contem­adding that the system broad­porary and cleaner look," ens the speetrum of who can McDonald said. update pages and from where. 
"We have already started The campaign is far from using our new ads in the Notre over, although the next steps Dame football programs and are slightly ambiguous. the South Bend Tribune," she "Our biggest next step is fur­said. "They already reflect our ther refinement of the Web site 
While the new tagline will be the prominent theme, it will not be absolute, McDonald said. 
"We won't see 'She's Saint Mary's' everywhere, but it will be the common thread. We arc looking for consistency and constancy of our messaging," she said. "Ovnr time, things may changn slightly, but we are trying to make sum we're consistent." 
"We have some very engaged alumni and prospects that have noticed the changns and have had a positive responsn," she said. "Internally, faculty and students are nager to snn thn future improvnments." 
Although the campaign was just recently launched. incrnasnd efforts to inereasn enrollment and national status began narly last year. This year marks the larg1~st class at Saint Mary's in 17 years at 481. 
To further promote the nnw eampaign, this week was dubbed "She's Saint Mary's" week with several activities aimed at familiarizing the stu­dents with the tagline. T-shirts. banner unveilings and a cam­pus-wide "She's Saint Mary's" shirt day are among the series of events. 
"We are trying to create some excitement on campus this week to give everyone a chance to be part of the cam­paign," MeDonald said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Liz Harter at eharteOI@ saintmarys.edu 


Care 
continued from page 1 
lln ivnrsity hand I I'd nvoryth ing 
nlse,  including  shipping  
chargns.  
Tlw  ~~vent  was a  groat way  

to support tlw full junior c.lass. Bnish said. hncausn most stu­dents studying overseas are part of the Class of 2009. The elass council hopl's to have the packagns dnlivnred before Thanksgiving, which would be nnough timn to sort out all the paekagns and get them to thnir spncifie dnstinations, Hnish said. 

"It's a great way to let peo­pln who are studying abroad know their friends are think­ing of thnm and sending them a little part of home," Behr said. 
KPnnifer said she sent six separate care packages. 
"I deeided not to tell my frinnds about sending those packages because I think it would be more fun for them to get a surprise," she said. 
Thn opportunity to send eare packages will also be available during tho spring semester, Bnish said. 
Contact Amanda Gonzales at agonza18@nd.edu 
SYR 
continued from page I 
wneknnd. llnatusko said. But a largn nurnlwr n~quirns a gmat dna! or work from campus rnsourct~s usnd for danees. 
Campus snrvicns, likn Catnring by l>nsign, haw bPnn pn~paring J(w thn busy wnnkPml. 
"CatPring is altPmpting to work with studnnts as lkxibly as possi­bln to accomrnodatP the rwPds thny havP during tlwsn WPPk­PIHls," said Lisa Wnnznl, Catnring by DPsign's assistant dirnctor for spndal Pvnnts. 
Catc'ring by llPsign tric~s to plan ahnad and to bn proactiw wlwn n'sidPncn halls bPgin to c~oordi­natn a dane:!', slw said. 
Although dnmands on c.ampus sc'rvicPs will hP high. Wnnznl said. till' cai.Pring snrvicn has enough stall'ers ready to work the nvenl<;. 

While campus services may not have a dillkult time adjusting to busy SYH weekends, students, like sophomore Hyan Lavorgna. often find it dirticult especially whnn it eonws to finding a date. 
"It's hard to lind someone to go to an SYH with when it seems likn nvery dorm is having their own SYH." Lavorgna said. 
ThrPP of thP danens will bn I wid on· earn pus, II natusko said. 
Some of the themns of this wm~knnd's SYHs indude "Catholie School Girl" for Walsh llall, "Hock star" for O'Nnill, "Disco" for Knenan and "Party Like a Hoc.k Star" f(>r tlw danm eo-host­nd by thP four dorms on Mod Quad. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 


Wri· 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Friday, October 5, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow Jones  13,974.31  +6.26  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,976  114  1,234  2,690,420,626  
AMEX  2.396;76  +13.36  

NASDAQ 2,733.57 +4.14 NYSE 10,142,93 +41.90 S&P 500 1,542.84 +3.25 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17,092.49· 0.00 FTSE 100 'London~ (),547.90 +12.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.16 +0.24 153.02 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.23 +0.12 51.77 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.81 -0.21 25.60 MICRON TECHNOLOGY (MU) -1.21 -0.13 10.61 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.44 -0.02 4.523 13-WEEK BILL -0.13 -0.005 3.835 30-YEAR BOND -0.42 -0.02 4.767 5-YEAR NOTE -0.38 -0.016 4.208 

Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.50 81.44 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +8.01 743.80 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.58 87.33 


Exchange Rates 
YEN 116.45 EURO 0.7073 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9967 BRITISH POUND 0.4904 

IN BRIEF 

Chinese roducts with lead recalled 
WASHINGTON -More than a half-million Chinese-made products were recalled Thursday, including "Pirates of the Caribbean" and Baby Einstein toys, because they contain dangerous lev­els of lead. 
Coin-shaped "Pirates of the Caribbean" flash­lights and soft, textured Baby Einstein blocks were among the 555,200 products recalled, the Consumer Product Safety Commission announced. The recall also indudes Totally Me! Funky Room lkeor Set decorating kits imported and sold by Toys "J{'' Us Inc. and a variety of wooden toys imported and sold by KB Toys Inc. Aluminum water bottles, imported and sold by The Sports Authority Inc., were also recalled. 
The flashlight's leather strap, the back of' the dneorating kit's mirror, the blue Baby Einstein block, the water bottles and the wooden toys have surface paint that contains high levels of lead, which is toxic if ingestf~d by young children. Under currnnt regulations. children's products found to have more than 0.06 percent lead accessible to usnrs arc subject to a recall. 
U.S. embassy plans delayed in Iraq 
WAS! IINGTON -The opening of a mammoth, $600 million U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, which had been planned for last month, has now been delayed well into next year. U.S. officials said Thursday. 
Thn Vatican-sized compound, which will be the world's largest diplomatic mission, has been beset by eonstruetion and lowstical problems. 
"Thny are substantially bnhind at this point," and it would be surprising if any offices or living quarters could bn occupind before the end or the ynar. onn ollirial told Tlw A'isoriatf'd Press. 
l'robh~ms identilind so far are relatPd to thn complnx's physkal plant. inr.luding electrical sys­tnms, and do not posn a sncurity risk, said the olli­!'ial. who WIL'> not authoriznd to speak publicly. 
Tlw ollidal also said tlw delays would havn no dirPrt cost to taxpaynrs bnrause contrartor First Kuwaiti c;m1eral Trading & Contraeting Co. had agrPPd to ddivnr f(Jr a Sf't $51J2 million pricn. 

Woman found guilty of file sharing 
Six record companies win $222,000 lawsuit against online illegal music downloading 
Associated Press 

DULUTH -The recording industry won a key fight Thursday against illegal music downloading when a federal jury found a Minnesota woman shared copyrighted music online and levied $222,000 in damages against her. 
The jury ordered Jammie Thomas, 30, to pay the six record companies that sued her $9,250 for each of 24 songs they tiJcused on in the case. They had alleged she shared 1,702 songs online in violation of their copyrights. 
Thomas and her attorney, Brian Toder, declined com­ment as they left the court­house. Jurors also left with­out commenting. 
"This does send a message, I hope, that downloading and distributing our recordings is not OK," said Hi chard Gabriel, the lead attorney for the music companies. 
In the first such lawsuit to 
go to trial, the record compa­
nies accused Thomas of 
downloading the songs with­
out permission and offering 
them online through a Kazaa 
file-sharing account. Thomas 
denied wrongdoing and testi­
fied that she didn't have a 
Kazaa account. 
Record companies have filed some 26,000 lawsuits since 2003 over file-sharing, which has hurt sales because it allows people to get music for free instead of paying for the record companies pre­"We don't know what hap­"willful." Jurors ruled that recordings in stores. Many sented evidence they said pened," Toder told jurors. Thomas's infringement was other defendants have set­showed the copyrighted "All we know is that Janunie willful but awarded damages tled by paying the companies songs were offered by a Thomas didn't do this." of $9,250 per song; Gabriel a few thousand dollars. Kazaa user under the name Gabriel called that defense said they did not explain to 
The RIM says the lawsuits "tereastarr." Their witnesses, "misdirection, red herrings, attorneys afterward how have mitigated illegal shar­including officials from an smoke and mirrors." they reached that amount. ing, even though music file­Internet provider and a secu­He told jurors a verdict Thomas, of Brainerd, sharing is rising overall. The rity firm, testified that the against Thomas would send works for the Mille Lacs group says the number of Internet address used by a message to other illegal Band ofQjibwe's Department households that have used "tereastarr" belonged to downloaders. of Natural Resources. file-sharing programs to Thomas. "I only ask that you consid­Before lthe verdict, an offi­download music has risen Toder said in his closing er that the need for deter­cial with an industry trade from 6. 9 million monthly in that the companies never rence here is great," he said. group said he was surprised April 2003, before the law­proved "Jammie Thomas, a Copyright law sets a dam­it had taken so long for one suits began, to 7.8 million in human being, got on her age range of$750 to $30,000 of the industry's lawsuits March 2007. keyboard and sent out these per infringement, or up to against individual download­
During the three-day trial, things." $150,000 if the violation was ers to come to trial. 


U.S. dollar falls after factory slump 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Gold and oil prices rebounded from three days of declines Thursday as the dollar resumed its slide against the euro and other major world currencies. 
Industrial metals fell, while agricul­ture futures ended mixed. 
After the U.S. government reported an uptick in jobless claims arid the biggest drop in factory orders in seven months, the dollar fell against the euro. At the same time, the euro got a slight boost when the European Central Bank agreed to keep interest rates steady at 4 percent. The was widely expected, but some political and business leaders had called for a rate cut -whkh would have made the euro loss attractive to invest in. 
Commodities, which arn bought and sold in dollars, are cheaper to foreign buynrs when the U.S. rurrnn­cy weakens. 
Gold and silver prices rose. December gold added $8.10 to finish at $743.80 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, reversing direction after three days of declines. Gold has added about $100 an ounce since mid-August. 
"People are looking for a major correction, but we're still seeing strong investor demand," particularly froni Asian and European buyers, said MF Global gold trader Kevin Grady. 
December silver rose 30 cents to $13.50 an ounce on the Nymex. 
Trading was choppy throughout the day, hownver, as investors positioned themselves ahead of the Labor Department's report Friday on September payrolls. Good news in the job market could bolster the U.S. dol­lar and therefore pressure commodi­ties prices, while weak data could undermine the dollar by lifting expectations for futher interest rate cuts. 
The August employment report, which came out Sept. 7, shocked the markets with the first net decline in jobs in four years. The data pushed the Dow Jones industrial average down nearly 250 points, the dollar even lower against its rivals, and gold sharply higher. 
·"All it takes is one more bit of evi­dence of economir anemia to have some funds f'lock to the refuge of' gold," said Jon Nadler, senior analyst with Kitco Bullion Dealers. 
Oil prices also rebounded after three days of' losses, as the dollar fnll and as traders bet that energy sup­plies might gP.t tightnr when the hnat­ing season begins. On Wednesday, the 
U.S. Energy DPpartment said crude oil inventories rosn last wenk but gasoline inventorins shrank. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 5, 2007 
Foru01 
continued from page I 
studonts are ''not critically engaged" outside of classes and library-based mading. 
lin unfavorably contrasted this yoar's immigration forum with past forums on global health and religion. This forum has done "a poor job" of generating student intlwnst, he said. lie had been excited to learn that im rn igration 
had been "It wasn't until 
Project Rachael and the
the lecture. 

selected as the 
Women's Care Center -both
[Tuesday} that I saw Political sci­

topic this 
groups that help women deal
ence professor
forum posters. And

summer, but 
with emotional and physical
Tara Lavallee 

said that pub­I'm really involved 
problems that may arise from
said she was 

having an abortion.
licity had been with this issue. " encouraged the 
"poorly 
Roses were collected in
University was 

planned." 
memory of the women who
taking more

Michael Angulo
"It wasn't 

have suffered and died
steps to interest 


u n t i I Progressive Student 
because of abortion or devel­
students in the 

!Tuesday! that Alliance immigration 
oped post-
I saw forum posters," he said. "And I'm really involved with this issue. 
The Center for Soeial Concerns "knows how to do something like this," he said. "The administration knows how to put together a good football weeknnd." 
Angulo said the forum's Web site "looks awesome" but lacknd a book list. The forum had suggested articles, he acknowledged, but he said that reading articles was "like class." 
Fahy said the forum's pub­licity left room for "deeent cri­tique." But he eontrasted that with tlw University's "notable nll'ort" in printing posters for each of' about 15 dorm-spon­sornd immigration discus­sions. Thes1~ events arn most­ly unstructured, hour-long conversations with University­provided facilitators. 
The event drnw roughly 15 students at Stanford llall, 
awareness of this important Lauren Weber. "They say X Catholic issue as well as amount of women 'tragically' express our sorrow for those get abortions every year and who have passed." portray women who have Toates agreed. abortions in a negative light. "One of the important things It's a tough choice that some about it is it makes people women make, and they should-think," she n't be villainized said. "And for making the whether. their deeision that's
''The large crosses
reaction is best for them."
and the roses were
negative or This year, the positive, it still dedicated to those Hight to Life club stops people received help
women who have 
from being from the
suffered."
passive." University to plan 
Student its observance reaction was Mary Walter week. mixed. Some "In the past the

president
interviewed University was

Right to Life club 
thought the not very proae­display raised tive," Walter said. awareness and "Now, Campus was tasteful. Ministry is co-sponsoring Hight 
"I really like the fact that it is to Life week with us. ln addi­a memorial, not a protest," tion to giving us their full sup­said freshman Sandra port, they will be distributing Nazareth. "It speaks for itself prayer cards and encouraging 
and really priests to say pro-li!'e homilies 
grabs your on Sunday." 
which Fahy considered a "great number for an unstructured, straight aea­demk evnnt." 
''I'm much more interested now, and I got that impression from a lot of people there," Fahy said. 
However, that interest isn't always evident. At a Sept. 25 sereening of a film on Jamaican immigration, an award-winning documentary filmmaker had an audience of only two people -both Obsnrver staffers with assign­ments to cover or photograph 



Me01orial 
continued from page 1 
season. 
"Two displays was a pro­found way of reeognizing how large the numbers truly are," said senior Adam Hoock, the dub's other vice president. 
Around the crosses and flags stood signs with statistics about abortion. One read: "In the time it takes to play one Notre Dame football game, 600 children are aborted." 
The signs also advertised 

abortion syn­
issue. She 

drome, a psy­"I think the pro-life attention The Hight to Life club will
thought that it 

ehological dis­as you continue its efforts to encour­
was partieularly important for 

supporters have a right to
order. walk past." age diseussion on all anti­
students to understand how 

"The large express their views with Others abortion issues. Hight to Life
the scope of immigration 

crosses and the crosses and flags, but I thought Week's keynote speaker is
would affect America's for­

the roses were changes Dawn Parkot, a double Domer
eign poliey and eeonomy. 

have a problem with the 
dedicated to could be with multiple disabilities. 
Tlw U.S., she said, has a 

those women language on some of the made to "We are trying to examine all
"real opportunity to increase 

who have suf­posters." the memo­different types of pro-life
its pluralistic charaeter by 

fered," said rial. issues, and although abortion
enfranchising immigrants, 

Mary Walter, "I think is the one we focus most on,
within the framework of the 

Lauren Weber
president of it's a good we do branch out," Walter
Amerkan political system." 

the Right to freshman show, but said. "But all we are trying to
Archbishop of Los Angeles 
Cardinal Hoger Mahony, Arizona Gov. Janet Napolitano, Sen. Melquiades Haf'ael "Mel" Martinez (H­Fia.). and Louis Barletta, mayor of llazleton, Penn., will spnak at Monday's forum at 3 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. Hay Suarez, Jr., senior correspondent for The Newsllour with Jim Lehrer, will moderate the panel. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzie@nd.edu 




Engineering prof wins new medal 
AlzsmzKnreeJn receives award for his research 
Special lo The Observer 
The International Association for Wind l·:n!{irwerin!{ has nanwd Ahsan Kar1wm, Hobort M. Moran Professor of' Civil Engirwering and C:nologieal Sdnnens at Not r o I> am n , tlw i n au!{ u r a I r e rip iIHl t of t h P AIan G. Davenport Medal. 
Karnn m, who also sn rvos as d i roc tor of tlw Nat II a z Modeling Laboratory at Notn~ l>anw. was citnd for "funda­nwntal contributions to quan­ti l"ic a tion, mod PIing, s i mula­lion and analysis of wind load eiTects for structural dosign." liP rel~PivPd tlw award during tlw I'PI'PIIl 12th lntnrnational ConfPI'PJH'P on Wind l·:nginPl'l'ing in Cairns, Australia. 
An internationally rncog­nizPd srholar. KarPelll Slwcial­iws in probabilistic structural dynamics, l"luid-structurP intPrartions. structural safl'ty and mitigation of' natural haz­ards. Using romputPr models and laboratory and full-scalP expPrimPnts, lw studins the Pnvironnwntal loads of wind. waves and ~~arthquakns on strudtJJ'es in order to undPr-
I I 
I 
I I I 
stand and predict thn impaet of natural hazards on the eon­structed environment. 
Karenm, who joinnd the Notre Dame faculty in 1990, has servnd in thn administra­tion, nwnagnmnnt and organi­zation of numerous profes­sional societies including the American StH:iety of Civil Enginnors (ASCE), as wnll as committees of the National Hnsoarrh Couneil. National Acadomies of Enginenring and Sri1H1ees and the American AsslH~ialion for Wind Enginnering. lie also has snrvnd as a senior consultant to major oil and insurance nnn pan ies. Pnginnering eom­panins and the Unitnd Nations. 
In addition to this most rPcnnt honor, Karnnm was appointnd advisory professor to Ton!{ji Univorsity; Shanghai. China, in 2006. lin received tlw Holwrt II. Scanlan MNial for outstanding original eon­t I' i b u t. i0 11 s t 0 tlw s t. u d y 0 f wind-load PITeets on structur­al dPsign in.. 2005 and the Jack 1~. CPrmak MPdal in l'lH:ogni­tion or his contributions to thn study or wind pffeets on struc­turl'S in 2002. Both the Scanlan and Cermak awards an~ sponsornd by tho ASCE. flis rPl'.Pipt or aiJ throe medals is an unmatchnd recognition in this linld. 

Life Club. "To be pro-life is to not only care about the unborn, but to care about any loss of life, across the entire spectrum. And that includes the women who have suf­fered." 
The club's primary goal with the display was to raise aware­ness of abortion-related issues. 
"Although we know there will be some negative feed­back, we are not trying to start a controversy," Walter said. "We are just trying to raise 
you need 

to display more information," said senior Brian Bak. "They had some signs up, but they needed more in order to really inform peo­ple about the issue." 
Other students simply dis­agreed with the premise of the memorial. 
"l think the pro-life support­ers have a right to express their views with the crosses and flags, bull have a problem with the language on some of the posters," said freshman 
accomplish right now in the short term is reaching out within the Notre Dame com­munity and helping people learn about this important issue. 
"Notre Dame students arc proven leaders, and we know if we ean raise their awareness now then, in the long term, they ean help .us expand our work far beyond our eommuni­ty," she said. 
Contact Joe McMahon at 
jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Development institute founder describes work• 
Father Bill Christensen discusses how poverty he encountered in Bangladesh moved him to start organization 
By ASHLEY CHARNlEY 
News Writer 
The problem of poverty is "immense," Father Bill Christensen, who founded the Institute of Integrated Rural Development (IIRD), said at Saint Mary's Wednesday. 
Strengthening and aiding the people of Bangladesh was the topic of Christensen's lecture Wednesday evening, titled 
"Working  for  Change:  
Empowering  the  Poor  of  
Bangladesh."  

Christensen, who is also the consultant to and treasurer of the Institute, has been work­ing in Bangladesh since 1986. On a global scale, 18,000 chil­dren and 12,000 adults die every day as a result of pover­ty and malnutrition. 
"I knew as an individual, I could not do much," Christensen said, "so I was most interested to start an organization that would be committed to the poor." 
The IIRD works in 1,250 vil­lages with 75,000 families. 
"We help the poorest fami­lies to get housing," he said. "The simplest housing for them costs $60 per family." 

The Institute has 300 young Bangladesh volunteers between the ages of 15 and 18 who work directly with the families. 
"They have all the connec­tion with the poor people," Christensen said. One hundred professionals, who are experts in agriculture, finance, engi­neering and many other fields, help organize and run the Institute. 
The services provided to each family are dependent on their income and the number of meals the working members can provide per day. The IIRD has set up a model. 
"We have the bottom poor, called one-meal-a-day fami­lies," Christensen said. "The next level is two meals a day. The next level is three meals for nine months and two meals during the difficult season. Then the fourth level of poor are the less poor who have three meals a day but who are on the borderline." 
The number of meals in the model refers to the number the family can provide for itself. Other organizations that use this model include the United Nations World Food Program and government directors from Bangladesh. 
The IIRD also provides one­room schools that hold 30 chil­dren. 
"The children are from the poorest families," Christensen said. "In order to make them enjoy school, we do poetry exercises. We teach them Bangia, our language, and mathematics in the (irst year. We then add English and envi­ronmental science." 
The schools taught more than 13,000 children in 2005. -However, that number is down to 4,000 students this year because of recent donor shifts. 
Parents provide the bamboo and grasses necessary to build the schoolroom as part of their monetary contribution. The IIRD then pays for the labor to build the school, which comes to $7 for the whole project. 
"The biggest industry presently is the silk industry," Christensen said. The IIRD also provides jobs for the woman in Bangladesh. The men and women make equal amounts and this allows some families to increase their income by almost 150 percent. The jobs consist of embroidery and tailoring. 
The Institute's newest proj-

ect is the creation of a worker­owned factory. 
"[IIRD] has linked with a group of professionals in Bangladesh, and we call our­selves the Institute of Economics and Social Justice," Christensen said. "This group has taken up what they con­sider the main economic prob­lem in Bangladesh, which is the garment industry." 
Contact Ashley Charnley at achainO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Dems demand to see memos 
Secret papers allegedly authorize torture techniques for terror suspects 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Senate and House Democrats demanded Thursday to see two secret memos that reportedly author­ize painful interrogation tactics against terror suspects ­despite the Bush administra­tion's insistence that it has not violated U.S. anti-torture laws. 
White House and Justice Department press officers said legal opinions written in 2005 did not reverse an administra­tion policy issued in 2004 that publicly renounced torture as "abhorrent." 
Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Jay Rockefeller sent a letter to the acting attorney general saying the administration's credibility is at risk if the documents are not turned over to Congress. 
The memos are "critical to an appropriate assessment" of interrogation tactics approved by the White House and the Justice Department, Rockefeller wrote to Acting Attorney General Peter D. Keisler. "Why should the public have confidence that the pro­gram is either legal or in the best interests of the United States?" the West Virginia Democrat asked. 
House Judiciary Chairman John Conyers and Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., promised a con­gressional inquiry into the two Justice Department legal opin­ions that reportedly explicitly authorized the use of painful and psychological tactics on terrorism suspects. 
"Both the alleged content of these opinions and the fact that they have been kept secret from Congress are extremely troubling, especially in light of the department's 2004 with­drawal of an earlier opinion similarly approving such meth­ods," Conyers, D-Mich., and fellow House Judiciary mem­ber Nadler wrote in a letter Thursday. Their letter to Keisler requested copies of the memos. 

The two Democrats also asked that Steven Bradbury, the Justice Department's acting chief of legal counsel, "be made available for prompt committee hearings." 
The memos were disclosed in Thursday's editions of The New York Times, which report­ed that the first 2005 legal opinion authorized the use of head slaps, freezing tempera­tures and simulated drown­ings, known as waterboarding, while interrogating terror sus­pects, and was issued shortly after then-Attorney General Alberto Gonzales took over the Justice Department. 
That secret opinion, which explicitly allowed using the painful methods in combina­tion, came months after a December 2004 opinion in which the Justice Department publicly declared torture "abhorrent" and the adminis­tration seemed to back away from claiming authority for such practices. 
A second Justice opinion was issued later in 2005, just as Congress was working on an anti-torture bill. That opinion declared that none of the CIA's interrogation practices would violate the rules in the legisla­tion banning "cruel, inhuman and degrading" treatment of detainees, The Times said, cit­ing interviews with unnamed current and former officials. 
Justice Department spokesman Brian Roehrkasse said neither of those memos overruled the December 2004 legal opinion that he said remains in effect. 
"Neither Attorney General Gonzales nor anyone else with­in the department modified or withdrew that opm10n," Roehrkasse said in a state­ment. "Accordingly, any advice that the department would have provided in this area would rely upon, and be fully consistent with, the legal stan­dards articulated in the December 2004 memoran­dum." 
"This country does not tor­ture," White House spokes­woman Dana Perino told reporters. "It is a policy of the United States that we do not torture, and we do not." 
Perino would not comment on whether the 2005 opinions authorized specific interroga­tion practices, such as head­slapping and simulated drown­ing. She initially said the first classified opinion was dated Feb. 5, 2005, but White House spokesman Tony Fratto cor­rected Perino's statement later Thursday to say the memo was dated months after February 2005. Another administration official later said it was dated May 2005. 
The dispute may come down to how the Bush administration defines torture, or whether it allowed U.S. interrogators to interpret anti-torture laws beyond legal limits. CIA spokesman George Little said the agency sought guidance from the Bush administration and Congress to make sure its program to detain and interro­gate terror suspects followed 
U.S. law. 
"The program, which has taken account of changes in 
U.S. law and policy, has pro­duced vital information that has helped our country disrupt terrorist plots and save inno­cent lives," Little said in a statement. 
Charges for Haditha Marines n1ay lessen 
Soldier faces murder chargefor Iraq assault 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -An investi­gating officer has recom­mended that a Marine who led his squad in an assault that killed 24 Iraqi men, women and children should not be tried for murder, a defense attorney said Thursday. 
If that recommendation and an earlier one made by the same officer is accepted by the general overseeing the case, which is likely based on past practice, no one will face murder charges in the biggest case involving civilian deaths in Iraq. 
Lt. Col. Paul Ware recom­mended that Staff Sgt. Frank Wuterich, charged with the unpremeditated murder of 17 Iraqis, should be tried instead for negligent homi­cide in the deaths of five chil­dren and two women in the Iraqi town of Haditha, Wuterich's attorney Neal Puckett said. 
Wuterich, 27, of Meriden, Conn., has said he regrets the deaths but had operated within combat rules and "made the best decisions I could have at the time." 
"We're both very pleased and also not surprised, given how the other cases have gone," Puckett said. "There has never been any inkling that any of these Marines lost control or went on a ram­page." 
A Marine Corps spokesman, Lt. Col. Sean Gibson, declined to comment. 
If convicted of murder, Wuterich would face a maxi­mum sentence of life in prison. A count of negligent homicide carries a maximum sentence of three years, Puckett said. 
"This is a major blow to the prosecution," said Tom Umberg, a retired Army colonel and former military prosecutor. "Negligent homi­cide is at the lowest end of the spectrum," he added, not­ing that Ware could have rec­ommended manslaughter charges. 
The killings occurred Nov. 19, 2005, after a roadside bomb hit a Marine convoy, killing the driver of a Humvee and wounding two other Marines. Wuterich and Sgt. Sanick Dela Cruz allegedly shot five men by a car at the scene, then Wuterich ordered his men into several houses, where they cleared rooms with grenades and gunfire, killing unarmed civilians. 
Ware reviewed evidence against Wuterich in a prelim­inary hearing known as an Article 32. His recommenda­tion is nonbinding, and the final decision about whether Wuterich should stand trial rests with Lt. Gen. James Mattis, the commanding gen­eral overseeing the case at Camp Pendleton. 
Puckett said Ware also rec­ommended dropping charges against Wuterich of making a false official statement and telling a squadmate to do the same. 
Of four enlisted Marines initially accused in the case, charges have been dropped against Dela Cruz and Lance Cpl. Justin Sharratt. Ware has recommended that all charges, including murder, be dismissed against Lance Cpl. Stephen Tatum, but Mattis has yet to act on that recommendation. 


r----------­
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. !lox 779, Nl>lre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining H•ll, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Iianna 
MANAGING El>nOR BUSINESS MANAt;ER Kt:n Fowler Kyle West 

Ass·1; MANAGIN<; ElliTOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maty Kate Malone 
NlWS EDITOR: Kart·n Langley 
VU:WI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hinc ScENF EDITOR: Tae Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
I'IIOHl EDITOil: Dustin Mennella 
GllAI'IIICS EDITOR: Maddine Nies 

ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
AD DE.~IGN MANAGFR: Kelly Gronli 

CONTROI.I.FR: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AIIMINISTilATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(S74) 631-7471 fAX (574) 6.31-(,927 
ADVERTISING 
('i74) (d l-6'JOO ol"ervad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) (1.~ 1-4'i42 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('i7tl) 631-4'i41 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(S74) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574l 6J 1-53 H 
NEWS DESK 
{574) 631-'i.n3 obsncws.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(571) 631-'ij03 viewpoinr.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 'lmrts.l @nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
('i74) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
TilE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Obst·rvcr is the independent, daily newspaper publi.,lml in prim and online by rhe srudenrs of rhe University ofNotre Dame du l.1c and Saim Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of rhe administration ofeirher institution. Tlw Obserwr reserves the right w refuse advertisements b;tsed on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. l Jnsit(ned t'ditorials rqlfesent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in C:hiet: Managing Editor, A~~ist:ull Managing Editors and department t•ditors. Connnentaries, lt·ttcrs and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe t )hst•rvcr. 
Viewpoint .,pact· is .tvail.tbk to all readers. The lrec expression of.til opinion' through letters is encouraged. l.ert<'rs to tlw Editor llltL" lw signed and must include t:ont:tct int()rrnatinn. 
Questions rtgarding ()/Jsm'rr policies should bt• dirtmd to Fditor in Chi~(Maddie HtiWltl. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

llw { )b\t'tv"r (I !~I'' O:,•J•J .!·<!Utkllt• puhl,,l,a:l Muud.IV rhrnu~h l·ud.ty CXn"l'' l!.uin1: I'.UJl) • .uul ~.Jo.II!IIIJ Jlrllwh \ ,u!J... iij>f..,JI Ul "J1Jr OhYTIIl"f ll> $,JUO Jnr li/U" ollJIJ,·nm ycc.u, $0,.0, litrum "'111••1•·• 
Iht· (ll.t\Crvcr j, puhh•lu:11 ~~ I'O~tl MA"i l"f:R fll•t Snmh [lumJ~ ll.tll o:tcud ..d.!ro.\Cntrnllttll• tu: Nwh· ll"mr. IN .;t,'i~ll-11~'' "llu:tll~tvcr 
l't•ru>ciiL.tl[~'~''',.ltt'l'•''''"'' Nutn:l);um· .m,\.r.l.\t!ir•n-llllwlm~o:"fh,l"" Ul-4Sutuh Dininttlf.tll Sntn:-I ).uur, IN 46S"i(,..ll779 
!"he Ob!!er..cr" 01 mcmhcr ut rhc J\ol.k~;,.t.ucd l'ru.~. All rcpmch,u.:tihrl ti~ht) .u~· rct~~;rved. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT 
Friday, October 5, 2007 

Jenkins can take a stand 
Fifty years ago, a young priest at the helm of a growing University took a stand. 
Notre Dame President Emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh elaimed his seat on the inaugural United States Commission on Civil Hights. He would serve on the Commission for 15 yflars, acting as a public face for both the Univt~rsity and the fight for civil equality for all Americans. 
llnsburgh's action, though political, was an essentially moral stand. On an issue that was sadly all too controver­sial, he stood by the courage of his convic­tions-and made his views known. 
Jlall' a century later, another young priest is mitment to immigration reform means. Social attitudes on this campus are subject to the dual inlluencfl of Catholic social teaching and a vocal conservative population. 
Tho topic of' immigration ref'orm is sure to generate strong and opposing n~sponses f'rom nwmbers of' tho University community -like it has in the nation as a whole. Though the Univt~rsity may not want to take a controversial stand becauso of' marketing concerns, it must ultimately take such stances to legitimize its claim as a loader on issues both 
moral and intolledual. 
Students and f'aculty who want the Uniw~rsity to 
continue to improve must support tho idea of 
at the helm of Notre Dame -now a national­having a president willing to take a stand on
OBSERVER 

ly ranked school that seeks to be the greatest moral issues, regardloss of what those positions Catholic university in the world. During his are.
Editorial
first year as president, University President Father John Jenkins prompted extensive debates about the balance of academic free­dom and Catholic identity at the University. lie has proved willing and able to support serious consideration of dil'licult issues that are crueial to this University's future. 
But great leaders arP more than mere modnrators; they tlwmselves must take stands. 
.lt>nkins' position is precarious. His job will become much morn dil'fkult if he alienates any members of the University community, and hn often treads lightly on controversial issues. 
On Monday, Notre Damn will welcome !'our of this coun­try's most visible loaders on the issue of immigration. The group represents very difTenmt sides of tho debate. Notre Damn's current television ad claims the University is "fight­ing lin· immigration reform." But it is unclear what this com-
That doesn't mean disagreements should bn 
swept under the rug; it moans tho community 
should truly support freedom of' opinion and respect a loader who puts his name on the line for contro­versial. but important, issues. 
To become a great leader -and t:nment Notre J>anw's position as a truly elite university-Jenkins must push him­sol!' to the forefront of publk consciousness on tho moral issues ol' our day, even in tho f'aet~ of' opposition from within and outsidn tlw University community. 
In tho hot raeial tensions of tho 1950s, llosburgh forged for himself' a name as one of thn great 20th century Amnrieans. No one is asking Jenkins to be llesburgh -a nt~arly impossible task -but tho Univnrsity's best intnrost is to have a nationally known and well-respected president with a history of displaying his strong moral fortitudo. Jenkins can be that president 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF News Sports 
Observer Poll 

Kaitlynn Hiely Chris Hine 
How many Heisman Trophies will Golden Tate win? 
Liz Harter Bill Brink 

Madeline Buckley Chris Doyen 

Votes Percentage Graphics John Whitty 
475 62% 
Julie Grisanti Scene 
Viewpoint Michelle Fordice 

Kara King 3 46 6% 
4 187 24% 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are more pleasant things to do 
than beat up people .. " 
Muhammad Ali 
U.S. boxer 
------------------.. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, October 5, 2007 page 11 
The Cubbie bandwagon 
ThP Cubs are in the playoffs and, as usual, Notre Dame has become a breed­ing ground for Cubbies bandwagon hop­pers. With brand new Cubs hats and jerseys invading campus like the plague, one can't help but recall the last time the Cub bandwagon achieved this level of popularity: 1993, in the movie "Hookie of the Year." While no one can deny that this movie is thoroughly entertaining, the plot has more holes Smooth as Silk than our offensive line (too soon?). It's important to address these issues, not only to enrich our loyal readers, but also because we need to write this arti­cle before 6 p.m. on Thursday and it is currently 6:30 p.m. on Thursday. 
As the movie begins, Henry attends a game at Wrigley field with the stands less than half full. However, as many of you know, the Cubs sell out no matter how bad they are. Henry is out of school, so the game must be in mid­June, and with the stands that empty the team must have been at least 20 games under .500, with next to no chance of making the postseason. Yet somehow a pitcher, not to mention a closer, is single handedly able to bring them back into the pennant race. Something that spectacular would be tantamount to a 12 year old walk on with a mysterious calf injury banging out 70 yard field goals and taking us to a national championship at 7-5. 

In the movie, Henry's special "talent" is discovered whim he uncorks a 450­foot frozen rope from the center field bleachers to home plate after the opposing team's batter hits a home run and the surrounding fans urge him to throw the ball back (a Wrigley Field custom). The catcher then proceeds to attempt to tag out the batter who has not yet finished rounding the bases but nevertheless has the wherewithal to slide under the tag prompting the umpire io issue an enthusiastic safe call. Apparently, all three parties involved did not understand the stan­dard ruling for when a ball goes over the fence and how fans in attendance do not serve as 40,000 additional field­ers. 
Next, we come to Daniel Stern's char­acter: the eccentric pitching coach who always seems to be getting himself trapped in odd places. Not only is there no way that a person in real life could get stuck between the doors of adjoin­ing hotel rooms, how does the team not realize their pitching coach isn't there? 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Drinking debate continues 
Someone quips at a hall council meeting, "We can't do that activity on Saturday morning because people we be hung-over. I'm sorry, but it's just a fact." A student is taken to the hospital with a blood-alcohol content two or three times the legal limit and leaves the next morning as if nothing hap­pened. The data presented in the article "NO Drinking Habits under Scrutiny" (Sept. 7) and subsequent articles in The Observer should have made students more aware of the seriousness of the current situation concerning the use, and ol'ten abuse. of alcohol. Unfortunately, according to these observations, nothing has changed. Nothing will change, however, unless the abuse of alco­hol ceases to be an acceptable form of socialization among students. 
DeMarzo-Sanchez's Letter to the Editor ("Reasonable regulation is the key," Sept. 25 ) demonstrated the extent to which this common mentality of the normalcy of the consumption of alcohol by minors is ingrained within college society, and it even went as far as stating that the behavior is "inevitable." This implies that abusing alcohol (I would characterize using alcohol as a minor as a form of abusp,) is not a choice, thereby removing any and all responsibility from the individual under the "involuntary grip" of this "nor­mal" social activity. 
Obviously. thn gross error of these ideas demands a complete change in the mentality associated with this issue. Across the nation, one program that many institutions have been implementing in an effort to change the way stu­dents view the use of alcohol is "Alcoho!Edu." One million college students have already participated in this online alcohol prevention program that strives to educate beyond impersonal statistics. 
Although this is one example of an excellent program, very little that is done through external programs or organizations in the effort to change the current "acceptability" of alcohol abuse will result in a complete change in the mentality. Ultimately, the responsibility through the implementation of one's maturity lies within each and every student no matter what age. I agree with the view that it seems absurd for individuals to be able to smoke, vote, and be involved in the military but not to be able to drink. However, it is upsetting that while the_ages set for activities, such as voting, assume that most individuals involved have adequate maturity, students of college age across the country have repeatedly shown that they lack the intellectual capa­bilities for consuming alcohol responsibly at that same time. Again, this demonstrates that it is one's mentality toward a specific activity that is impor­tant. 
As I stated before, as a result of the present situation, a change in the cur­rent mentality associated with alcohol is essential. All it takes are a few voic­es to have the courage and the maturity to speak out against the status quo. To change the behavior, we must change the mentality. After all, we had so many speak out against the South Bend ordinance that threatened the "well­being" of our individual freedoms, so why do we not speak out about our physical, emotional, and social well-being being that is being threatened by alcohol abuse? 
Megan Rybarczyk junior Lyons Hall Oct.4 

What happens when a call is made to the bullpen or a pitching change needs to be made? This, however, never seems to be a concern for this team of destiny. 
Moving on, let us not forget how much of a dweeb this kid is. He is equivalent to your little brother's friend who always tries to talk to you about how many babes he gets in junior high and how drunk he gets all the time. It is completely unbelievable to portray a team of thirty year old men liking this kid. From the d-bag in "American Pie" to the d-bag in "Kid in King Arthur's court," Thomas Ian Nicholas (Henry) has been almost unbearable to watch. On the other end of the spectrum, how­ever, we have Gary Busey. Never before has a movie had such a dichotomy in terms of coolness between the two main characters, with the possible exception of Motocross Kids ... also starring Gary Busey. 
We end with the final game where John Candy, the radio announcer, declares: "This game is for all the mar­bles! The Division Championship! The winner goes home and the loser goes on to the World Series!" So apparently, what we have here is a one game play­off to win the division and go to the World Series. During this game, we find Henry in his usual spot trying to close out the game for the Cubbies. When walking back to the mound, however, Henry slips on the ball and lands on his arm, causing him to lose his special power. Still, the coaches leave him in despite the fact that his velocity had dropped from 1 03 miles per hour to about 40. This leads one to question: How bad must the Cubs' bullpen have been? Who else did they have avail­able? Terri Schiavo? So there is Henry, one out to go, and who comes to the plate to the gasps of the crowd? The best hitter in the league-Hedo! Apparently nobody realized who was up next in the order -as if nobody in the stadium including the pitching staff, radio broadcaster, and Henry himself looked at the Mets' on-deck circle. In a fairy-tale ending, Henry realizes he was using his mom's softball glove all along and strikes Hedo out throwing an underhand lob (which would be a balk). In conclusion, it is a great movie but flawed, Busey is cool, Henry is a weiner. 
Go Diamondbacks. 
Kessler and ... is a non-profit pharmaceutical organization in search ofa cure for male pattern baldness. Fritz Shadley, David Ferron, Matt Lisowski and Pat Canna contributed to this column. They can be contacted at kesslerand@gmail. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
First-hand facts about the Irish langauge 
Brendan Behan is probably performing triple salchows in his grave hearing an Irishman say this-but the Irish language is as dead as Pope John Paul II, the only dif­ference being there are very few Paddies that are consequentially in mourning. 
Irish, for the duration of my years of education here in its homeland, was a chore-a poorly taught, ludicrously complex language that was rammed down our throats by dis­interested teachers and in contexts that nobody could relate to. (Have you a personal connection to a centuries-old poem about a guy who's lost his donkey? I'm not judging.) 
Furthermore, from college age onwards, you have absolutely no more use for the lan­guage, unless you elect to continue on with it in undergrad study, or if you live in a Gaeltacht. And what peeves me personally is that my years spent laboriously gaining some form of proficiency in oral Irish could have been spent aequiring a mastery of a far more useful international language. Yes, the option to study European languages becomes available in secondary school, but this must be done concurrently with continu­ing obligatory Irish study and at an age that is vastly beyond the golden years of language acquisition. 
Now I cannot dispute that Gaelscoileanna are in such demand that, in many cases, they have waiting lists. However, this has absolutely nothing to do with an overwhelming pub­lic interest in Irish. There are two significant reasons: First, Gaelscoileanna are plumped with staggering amounts of government funding, which allows them offer teaching stan­dards and resources comparable to private schools. Second, safety-conscious parents in disadvantaged areas (where many of the Gaelscoileanna are located) will often send their children to a Gaelscoil, since the overwhelming majority of troublemakers in the area will go to the local English medium schools. Their popularity, therefore, is not contingent on widespread interest in Irish, but parents' desire for optimal education, from both an eco­nomic and social standpoint. 
I offer that anyone whose knowledge of Irish life or culture is completely biased through some romantic personal affinity with the "Emerald Isle" should actually spend some time in Ireland. Take a bus into town from Tallaght, Finglas, Clondalkin or some other working-class satellite suburb of Dublin and see how much Irish you hear. Dodge the scores of junkies on O'Connell Street, in fact, tell them you have no spare change, in Irish, and see how far that gets you. Why not grab a talllatte in Starbucks and wander down Grafton Street, counting how many anorexic teenagers are discussing the latest episode of Laguna Beach, in Irish? Or listen to our state radio stations and observe how often you hear our most popular sport (English soccer) being discussed, in Irish? Then, cap your day off with a stay in one of our Hiltons before taking a taxi ride to the airport in a Dodge Nitro SUV. While you're at it, tell your driver how much you enjoyed your stay­in Irish. 
Even without going near the subject of its erosion through Anglicization, it is clear as day that the language is wholly and unequivocally dead -TG4 opting to dub Irish voices over South Park, or the occasional Bebo entry including a "Canas ata ru" not withstand­
. . 
mg. 
P.S. -Inis Oirr, for anyone who is interested, is one of three small, sparsely populated islands in Galway Bay, which, admittedly, has a thriving Gaeltacht community. But citing it as proof of Irish being anything more than a cumbersome relic, would be akin to prof­fering the entire population of the U.S. is of casino-owning Native-American extraction, following a trip to Foxwoods. 
Neil Dundon Dublin, Ireland Oct. 4 

..-----------------~ ~ 
page 12 

By TAE ANDREWS Scene Editor 
lie's had appearances on The Toni!{ht Show with Jay Leno, The Late Late Show with Craig Kilborn and performed on Comedy Central's Premium Blend. Now, in­demand comedian Ben Bailny takes the st<t!{e at Le!{ends toni!{ht. 
That's a whole lot of comedy to !{o around. Bailey is a 6-f'oot-6 boast or a man with short-cropped hair and an intnnsn demeanor. !lis material ranges from the profane and the inane to the just plain awkward, and all of it is funny. But don't take one critic's word for it -cheek out the tube (YouTube, that is) to watch somn clips of Bailny's rill"s. 
Bailey's humorous takes make keen and candid observations about everyday life, with a healthy sprinkling of salty language into the mix. Durin!{ onn of his funnier bits. Bail1~y talks about the awk­wardness of prematurnly endin!{ a conversation on the street and tlwn find in!{ onnself' still headed in the same direction as the person with whom he just finished speak­in!{. Commenting on day-to-day absurdities likn this one is the heart of Bailey's humor. 
Bailey also has a comedy show on tlw Discovery Channel entitled "Cash Cab," on which he drives pnople around New York city whiln asking tlwrn trivia quns­tions. People who answ1~red cor­rectly won prizes of $25, $50 and $100, although those who answerml incorrectly found them­selvns summarily dumped out onto thn street, regardless of weathnr or location. 
On his web sitn, Bailey has a eol­lnetion of artidns written about him, indudin!{ a ga!{ Time maga­zirw eovnr which lwars his stern countenance in an old-fashioned photo and tlw words: Ben Bailny: Conwdian of thn CPntury. lie tells Web surfers. however, "Don't worry. the rest are rnaI." 
Stand-up comedy is a tall ordnr for any aspiring eonwdian, but Bailey has enjoynd a metnoric rise to stardom. liP has also mlnased a compact disc, entitlnd "Bnn Bailey Blvd." on whirh lw desrribes awk­ward process of applyin!{ for jobs and tlw n IJO tc hi n!{ tlw appI i ea­!.ions, sendin!{ thn wholn alTair horribly astray, to hilarious ell"net. 
If you do nnd up checkin!{ out the show. just makn sure you laugh han! and kenp any nn!{ative comments to a minimum -the brawlin!{ Bailny has been known to go aftnr lwckl1~rs and tracll~ punch linns for actual fisticufl"s. 
Wlwtlwr or not Bnn Bailey actu­ally socks you in the gut at his show toni!{ht. you may still !{et a bellyadw from laughing until your stomach hurts. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewI @nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE 
might add) takes the skill of a trapeze artist. Lose your focus for just one second, and you might find yourself sprawled out on the grass as amused on-lookers pass you by and try not to laugh. Not to mention the fact that you have to worry about someone breaking your lock and stealing your precious Schwinn. 
Of course, bikers are not the only ones who cause or face danger when they set oil' on their ways across campus. Pedestrians, like myself, are forced to remain alert to the perils of straying across a biker's path, the consequences of which may include the fol­lowing: getting run over, being splattered with mud/puddle water, chance it to be a rainy day, and sull'ering verbal abuse (least vulgar example: "Wateh out!"). Though most risk is experienced during the hectic hours of the morning and afternoon, a pedestrian must be on guard even at the most unexpected times. I recfmtly was told about an incident in which two ingen-
Friday, October 5, 2007 
ious gentlemen tied a skate­board to the back of a bike and rode around campus, one on the bike and one on the skate­board. Though hilarious, one must bn shocked at the danger occurrences like this posn to the pndestrian community. And it undoubtedly begs the question: Will we ever be com­pletely safe on our own Notre Dame sidewalks? 
To be sure, I am not at all suggesting that bikes are "bad." Perhaps I am simply jealous of the people who breeze by me at 10:40 on a Monday morning. But onn thing this week of observing the relationship between bik­ers and non-bikers has taught me is this: Be alert at all times, else you can end up with a sharp pain in your leg and what was to bn a blissful sip of eofTee all over your shirt. 
The views expressed in this rolumn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 
Contact Kaillin Spillane at kspillan@nd. edu 


By KAITLIN SPILLANE 
Scene Writer 
It's 10:40 on Monday morn­ing. As soon as my painfully long calculus class ends, I race toward the exit of Hayes-Healy Hall, eager to avoid the rush of people. or course, this is a futile quest. for as soon as I get out I am pushed and jostled every which way by fellow stu­dents determinedly heading for his or her own destination. Finally, I make it out to South Quad, where it seems as if the tra!lic flow is a little dearer. Turning in the direction of the Loftus Fitness Center, I pause to take a sip of cofl'ee when ... bam! -a less-than-observant eyclist plows into me. 
"Sorry!" the culprit casually yells over his shoulder as he p1~dals merrily away, leaving rnn with a bruising leg and mueh more than a sip of collee all over the front of my shirt. Sullicc it to say, the rest of my morning was spent simmering in anger. And for the rest of the week, I inadvertently 
Birycles 
began to notice the disturbing amount of near collisions 
between bikers and innocent pedestrians, bikers and fellow bikers, and bikers and inani­mate objects (read: trees and squirrels). 
I used to envy students with bikes for the ease at which they could travel around cam­pus. Now, I am starting to fear them. 
For all intents and purposes, bicycles are an excellent mode of transportation at Notre Dame. Having a bike means you can sleep that extra 10 minutes or talk a little longer with your friends between classes, instead of rushing ofl'. You can laugh at those lowly walkers trudging their way from DeBartolo to Hockne while you speed by. 
Still, the owner of a bike faces many perils. Balancing on two wheels with a thirty­pound book bag upon your back, Starbucks in one hand, and your cell phone in the other all while navigating through the throngs of stu­dents (without a helmet, I 

By JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Wri[er 
Two things I can't complain about from this pa<>t month: the beautiful, if freakish, weather and the underwhelming amount of work of an undncided fresh­man. And, yes, you should be vnry jmtlous all you pre-engi­nnering and pre-med m<\jors. In fhct. my slight excess of free time allows me to rncap some pnrsonal and gerwral highlighL<> of' Notrn Dame lif(1 this month. Apologies to those who don't find these highli!{hL<> enlightening, but they seem enthralling a<> a 1:ampus newcomer. 
NBC 
Who else thought nationally tnlevisnd home games would be a personal shout out to everyone back home? Alas, the sea of ).,Tfelm is causing serious psycho­logical issues f£1r me. It wa<> a sad revelation when 1described myself as "the one in the green shirt," at my first home game. But really, why can't my mom just lie to me? She should at lnast disguise the f~tilum of her hours spent scrutinizing the NBC broadeast-and could easily save me the identity crisis. Yet it is good to know someone's exploiting the vast market that is empty-nesters. 
duLac 

What's so great about a place that sells smoothies and sand­wiches, while repeating the same mix of 'HOs. '90s, and today? The answer beeomes dear in du Lac. Nothing else so dramatically dictates Notre Dame social life, except for maybe MTV and f(JOtball. Props to a book that has successfully linked the jingle of keys to the absence of the opposite sex. The slightest lanyard rattle. and I ean no longer legitimately explain the presence of males. 
Flip flops 

Since arriving, this word has gained meaning outside ofsum­mer and John Kerry criticism. The influx of flip flops since my arrival to ND is incomprehensi­ble. l'vo nevor had to sot limits for where I can wear a specific set of sandals. But I learned the lesson of"shoe boundaries" after accidentally wr~aring show­er flops to the dining hall. Word of advice: This is a "no-no" whnn considering sanitation and the funetionailty of shoes designnd lor shower-going. 
Gold 
No I'm not talking about our freshman footballer, Golden TatP; think color. Not since the 1970s diseo scene has the metallic hue so often been adorned by the male masses. A little feminine sparkle is usually explainable, but the same cannot often be said for guys. Maybe the trend start11d with our football players, who dawn their spandex take on the color. Snaps to the fashion risk of an entire roster adorned in skin tight, stretehy golden pants! Yet the color's persistence extends pass the stadium here at ND. Take a look around, you'll notice the sweatpants, shorts, and, yes, more spandex in the same hue. Who knew something so shiny eould be so appealing to male class-goers, game-goers, and players alike. 
Only at ND. 
The awkward introduction 

The winnnr of "best month ever" dearly isn't Notre Dame Football. Thanks to the weleom­ing of thn Class of' 2011, the awkward introduction wins out. Somehow I thought that its prevalence would subside with the end of' orientation. Good one awkward introduction, you got mn! Dnspite my illusions, thn uneomfortable (and rndundant) introduction lm<> not met il<> end. I still use the words, "Jess, DC. Farley, Undm~ided," far too often. This month ha<> provnn that per­sonal identity can be rnduend to limr words. oreoursn, we can all remembnr onn (or half a million) introduction (or rnintroduction) that entailnd an exc<~ss of "ummms" and interrogatives. It is a rmninder of Frosh-0 on thl) whole. Con).,rraL<>, awkward intro­duction, you'rn havin!{ the best month ev1~r! Ch11ers to a year that ean only keep improving! 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at 
jshafle 1 @nd. edu 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Friday, October 5, 2007 
page 13 
Interpol performs in New York City, where its members first formed their band while students at New York University. 
By RYAN RAFFIN Scene Writer 
Interpol has a lot to live up to. 
Widely acclaimed from the major music publications to the online tastemakers, its first record, "Turn on 
the Bright Lights," was heralded for its gloomy yet danceable songs and its tight rhythm section, but mostly just because it sounded like Joy Division. Their sophomore record, "Antics," continued in this vein, but was slightly pop­pier, so sales increased. Interpol then signed a major label, so the trifecta was complete. Critical acclaim? Check. Potential hitmakers? Check. Major label debut forthcoming? Check. All these loaded the dice against Interpol, but luckily for the band and the listeners, they've decid(ld to .stick to what made thflm (semi) famous. 
Throughout "Our Love to Admire," the listener hears much of the same sounds of the first two albums. Only occasionally does the band step outside what it knows, making sure that, when it does, its experiments actually work for the band. Interpol knows that a radical changB in style will alienate fans and an unchanging sound will cause them to 
McGlinn hosts Meal of Nations Sunday 
Only occasionally does the band step outside what it knows, making sure that, when it does, its experiments actually work for the band. Interpol knows that a radical change in style will alienate fans and an unchanging sound will cause them to lose interest. 
Photo courtesy of wendylynchphotography.com American rock band Interpol has attained both commercial and critical success with its past three albums. 
Observer Staff Report 
McGlinn Hall hosts its annual Meal of Nations in LaFortune from 6 p.m. to 9 
p.m. Sunday. 
The Meal of Nations is a food tasting of different inter­national cuisines. This year's event will also feature per­formances by on-campus stu­dent groups VSAND (Vietnamese Student Association of Notre Dame) and FASO (Filipino-American Student Organization). All lose interest. Instead, it adds keyboards in small doses, varies its tempos from song to song, and sticks to what it knows works. Lead singer Paul Banks' tenor is unchanged, guitarist Daniel Kessler brings the jagged sounding guitar-work, and drummer Sam Fogarino and bassist Carlos D. are as tight and efficient as 
most notably on "Mammoth," once again showing off the band's arena-sized ambi­tions. Such has always been Interpol's dichotomy -the atmospheric gloom contrasting with slightly danceable pop. And similar to their prior work, it is pres­ent here in spades. 
Another constant carried over from previous albums is obscure lyrics. Interpol has never been easy to interpret; ever. 
The album opens to a slow burn of guitar and keyboard on "Pioneer to the Falls" which sets the listener up for nearly six­minutes of Doors-influ­enced bliss. Easily the album's best song, it stands among the finest the band has ever written. Don't get the idea that this is an album with only one good song though. The first single, "The Heinrich Maneuver," brings the dance-y up­tempo pop the band has always had, a Ia older songs "Obstacle 1" and "Evil." This continues 
its songs have always seemed to be about some combination of liquor, women and New York City. This time around it looks like the excesses of a rock 'n' roll lifestyle can be added to the mix, if song titles like "No I in Threesome" and "Rest My Chemistry" are any indication. Don't worry though, Interpol have not become Motley Criie, and the lyrics about such decadence are far and 
COUrtesy !IUlJfl!Ufl.CUIII 

Interpol's third album stays true to its sound without becoming tired. 
few between (and likely tongue in cheek anyways). 
By the time the final two songs roll around, the tempo has slowed to a crawl and it's time for the atmospherics. Preceded by the peppy "Who Do You Think?" the band ends the album in typi­cally gloomy fashion. "Wrecking Ball" notably uses backing vocals and key­boards to create a huge sound, taking the group's epic aspirations in a slightly different direction. "The Lighthouse" closes out the album on the opposite extreme, starting with only swelling gui­tar and Banks' vocals, finishing five min­utes later in an instrumental crescendo that leaves you ready to hear the album all over again. 
Is the album perfect? Not quite, but close enough to be called great. The album lags in its second half, but picks up nicely for the final three songs. Minor filler issues aside, this is definitely one of the best albums of the year. Interpol should be proud to add such a fme piece of work to its already stellar discography. 
Contact Ryan Raffin at rraffin@nd.edu 

proceeds from the event go to benefit the Our Lady of Fatima Parish in Hondo Valle, in the Dominican Hepublic. 
McGlinn Hall Multicultural Commissioner Lai-Nin Wan urged students to attend. 
"The best part [is] the per­formances we're going to have, and the most challeng­ing part is getting the word out-it's hard encouraging people to come on a Sunday, but it's going to be for a good cause," she said in an e-mail Thursday. 

By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Editor 
Whether it is through a New York Times article on the shrinking amount of arctic ice, the constant questioning of presidential candidates on their policies or the upcoming meeting of 70 govern­ment heads to consider a replacement for the Kyoto accords, issues concerning the energy crisis hold a strong sway over world interest. Beginning this Sunday, Notre Dame is offering its own forum for discussion of energy related issues with the Notre Dame Energy Week. 
To open the events, the Notre Dame Energy Center, the Energy and Environmental Issues Committee, Joint Engineering Council, Students for Environmental Action and Notre Dame Student Government will present a showing of "A Crude Awakening: The Oil Crash." Th'e film offers a perspective on one of the most contentious facets of the energy debate. 
Produced and direeted by European journalists and filmmakers Basil Gelpke and Ray McCormack, "A Crude Awakening" is a 90-minute documen­tary that uses archival footage, recent mm from around the world and a wide range of interviews to argue that society is addicted to oil, a resource that is about to peak, if it has not already, and begin running out. Advocating an over­haul of industrial society, the film attempts to illustrate the possibly dire economic and political effects of ignoring this issue for too long. Students for Environmental Action co-president Thomas Furlong says that the film "shows a different perspective; instead of focusing on the issue of global climate change it narrows the focus to an issue that no one can deny. Oil is running out and steps must be taken to prepare for decreased supply." 
The film includes interviews with Colin Campbell, a petroleum geologist who predicts that oil production will peak this year; Matt Simmons, the chairman and CEO of Simmons & Company International: Roscoe Bartlett, a Maryland congressmen who supports renewable energy legislation; Fadhil Chalabi the former Iraqi Oil Minister, former Secretary-General of OPEC and current direetor of the Centre for Global Energy Studies; and Terry Lynn Karl, a Stanford University political scientist who wrote "The Paradox of Plenty: Oil Booms and Petro-Sates." 
Winning prizes at seven film festivals, "A Crude Awakening'' is being hailed as the next "Inconvenient Truth." Whatever one's opinions on the world's energy sit­uation, films like this these bring aware­ness and sponsor the debates that lead to innovations and solutions, so don't miss this Sunday's screening. 
"A Crude Awakening" is a free event that will show at 8 p.m. in DeBartolo 
101. lt will be followed by "Kilowatt Hours," which reviews America's ener­gy-related problems. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at 
mfordice@nd.edu 
-

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 5, 2007 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

BP erases 18-point deficit to tie Pangborn at 24 
Babes convert two 3-point conversions in second-half comeback; PW blanks Badin; Lyons and Lewis play to a draw 
stepped up in the pocket and 
By MATT GAMBER, hit freshman Jasmine Williams 
EUGENIA ALFONZO, and in stride for a 60-yard touch­
SAM WERNER down pass. Forced to go for a 
Spons Writers three-point conversion from 
the 15-yard line, Meagher 
It was a tale of two sidelines threw it up to freshman after the final snap of (;abrinla Moriel, who made a Thursday's tie bntwenn lnaping catch in traffic to cut Pangborn and Breen-Phillips. the lead to 24-15. 
While the Phoxes (2-1-21. "We almost rely on long who are all but ensured a plays as an offense because playoff spot. trudged to the that's where we feel we have sidelines as if tlwir snason had an advantage," said Meagher, ended, the Babns (1-4-1) cele­who completed 16-of-38 pass­brated as if they had won th~~ ns for 201 yards. "The offen­title after miraeulously erasing sive line and wide receivers an 1 H-point defidt in tlu~ final played flawlessly, which gave minutes. me a lot of time to make good 
For much of thn game, it decisions." looked like the Meghan The BP defense forced a Beseher show, as Pangborn's quick three-and-out, and sophomorn captain scored four Williams returned the ensuing touchdowns to put the Phoxes punt 15 yards to the Pangborn in control and up 24-6. 26. Meagher's next three pass Beseher scored attempts fell on a pair of 45-incomplete, and yard punt "We work on our it looked as if returns, a one­the Babes'
hurry-up offense in
yard run and a comeback three-yard pass practice all the time. would fall short from freshman and today we finally until Meagher, quartnrback again on fourth
got the hang ofit. " 
Gabby Tate (IJ­down, found of-16, S2 yards). Moriel, who got 
"Our offense Melissa Meagher all the way to was really strug­Breen-Phllllps the two. gling early on. On the next
quarterback
and we could play, Meagher barely scroungn scrambled to out a first down her left and until the Sflcond half," said went untouched for a two-yard Bescher, who l'inished with touchdown run. The Babes four catches for 44 yards. "At again went for three to make the time, those punt returns it 24-24, and Meagher again were pretty big for us." got the ball to Moriel, who fin­
It looked as if Pangborn ished with nine catches for 93 would ~~ruise to an easy win, yards -not including the two since the Babes hadn't so 15-yard three-point conver­much as threatened since jun­sions. ior quartnrbaek Melissa "We work on our hurry-up Meagher hit freshman Amber offense in practice all the time, Hosenberg for a 13-yard and today we finally got the touchdown pass late in the hang of it," Meagher said. first half'. "We've gotten down almost 
The Babes, howevnr, had 1wnry game, but we always other ideas . .Junior Christy sHem to get back in it. Usually Golubski and f'n~shman Katin time runs out on us, but we McNelis had interenptions that got lucky that tonight we had kept tlw Balws in the game just nnough time." until tlw ol'f'nnse could lind its By the time Pangborn got the stride. ball back. Tate only had time 
On a f'ourth-and-19 from the for a desperation heave, which Babes' 21 following Beseher's fell incomplete -much like fourth touchdown, Meagher tlw team's second-half effort, 
Beseher said. 

"We cheeked out at the end . of the game, and they didn't," Bescher said. "Give them cred­it. They stuck to their game plan, and they deserve the tie." 

Pasquerilla West 16, Badin 0 
Pasquerilla West provnd 
Thursday it's not giving up its 
playoff spot to anyone. An 
early interception by senior 
Anne Fournie set the tone in 
the first half, and the Purple 
Weasels defeated Badin 16-0. 

"We're obviously glad to get 
a win; we came into this pretty 
pissed off [because] we've had 
suci:J close losses," senior cap­
tain Tina Martinek said after 
the game. 

Pasquerilla West went to 
score again in the second half, 
running in another touchdown 
and widening its lead over 
Badin. However, Badin didn't 
let PW get its win that easily. 

The Bullfrogs stopped the 
Weasels twice in the red zone 
in the second half. Freshman 
Anne Spont blocked multiple 
passes, and sophomore 
Melissa Yisak made an inter­
ception to halt a Purple 
Weasel drive. 

On the offensive side, Badin 
senior quarterback Katie Rose 
Hackney connected a few 
times with junior Courtney 
Rains, but Badin couldn't keep 
its flags from Pasquerilla 
West. 

"J Pasquerilla West) has a very strong defensH, and although our defense did real­ly well tonight, [our] offense just couldn't get stuff going," Hackney said. 
Hackney looks forward to 
the team's future since Badin 
is a long shot to make the 
playoffs. 

"1 think that since our team 
this season was young, we dnf­
initely have had to make a lot 
of progress," Hackney said. 
"Hopefully we'll bn able to 
learn an.? win more gamHs 
next year . 

Pasquerilla West, on the other hand, is planning to stick to what it's been doing. 
"We're not going to change anything. We put in some new offensive plays for this game, and just stick to getting the fundamentals," Martinek said. "We're already looking for­ward to our game on Sunday." 

Lewis 6, Lyons 6 

Lewis and Lyons fought to a 6-6 tie under the lights Thursday in a game dominat­ed by defense. 
Both teams struggled to get started offensively, exchanging punts until late in the tirst half when Lewis returned a Lyons punt to the opposition's 35­yard line. Sophomore quarter­back Catherine Guarnieri scrambled 20 yards to move the Chicks into yard line. 
The Lewis defense held with a sack by freshman quarter­back Sarah Ceponis and a tipped fourth-down pass by senior Danielle Spellman, who also tallied an interception in the game. 
But Lewis failed to capitalize on the shift in m omentum, unable to move the ball past midfield. Lyons had the ball with 12 seconds left, but Chicks junior Sarah Trent intercepted Connell. Trent streaked down the sideline before finally being tackled near the Lyons 20-yard line, bringing the game to a close. Lnwis hnad 

scoring range. coach Pnrry
"You play to
After a false Shoemaker was start and two win the game." proud of his short pass team's effort, p I a y s , calling it the
Matt Gelchion
Guarnieri, with best game

Lyons offensive coach 
lots of time to they've played throw, found all season. freshman "Lyons is a receiver Chrissy really good Nypaver wide open in the cor­team and we played them ner of the end zone for a Lewis wire-to-wire," Shoemaker touchdown. After a failed con­said. "Everyone did their job." version, the Chicks held a 6-0 The Chicks need two more lead with only 55 seconds left wins this weekend -one in a in the half. suspnndnd game against Badin 
After halftime, Lyons man­and another in a playoff posi­aged to put together a scoring tion game Sunday -to secure drive of its own. Following themselves a playoff berth. two incomplete passes to "We're in this thing," freshman running back Neva Shoemaker said. "We've just Lundy, sophomore quarter­got to execute and keep doing back Claire Connell finally what we've been doing." connected on a 20-yard pass On the other side·1of"'the ball, to put the Lions on the Chicks' Gelchion was not as pleased 35-yard line. Three plays later, with the result. Connell found Lundy in traffic "Wn'rn really not satistiHd," over the middle. Gelchion said. "You play to win 
Lundy avoided three Lewis the game." defenders and ran into the end This weekend, Lyons must zone to even up the score. defeat dnfending champion 
"Neva is really very athlet­Pasquerilla West in order to ic," Lyons offensive coach Matt clinch a playoff spot. Gelehion said. "In open space, "We've got to come out and she can really do some dam­play with energy," Gelehion age." said. "This game is our sea­
With an opportunity to take son." the lead on the conversion. Lundy mishandled an option Contact Matt Gamber pitch from Connell and the at mgamber@nd.edu, score rnmained tied at six. Eugenia Alfonzo at 
Later in the half, Lyons ealfonzo@nd.edu, and threatened again, moving the Sam Werner at ball all the way to the Lewis 3-swerner@nd.edu 


CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED FoR SALE 
ND Grad selling Granger home. Football tickets. Post-surgery facul-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Open, spacious & newer. 4 br, 4 ty member cannot use tickets. Two Do not go it alone. bth, + finished basement, 3 car g. (2) available for all remaining home If you or someone you love needs

TICKETS 

Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. Call games. Phone 574-232-0743. confidential support or assistance, STUDENT WORK $12.75 base-Moving on with my life Trm 574-271-3440. WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP. at 1­appt. Moving in with yours. PLEASE HELP! 7819. 
Lake St. George is your new home Call me for a list of properties near 574-251-1570 For more information,

PERSONAL 
Flexible schedules, With an almost view of the dome ND. 574-217-1557 Tatiana visit our website at: Sleep in one of three suites FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Spring Break 2008. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­no experience needed, Taste the city water. ALL HOME GAMES. Sell Trips, nant.shtml or see It is sweet FoR RENT 574-232-0964. Eam Cash and Go Free. Call for our bi-weekly ad in customer sales/service. conditions New. www. victorytickets.com group discounts. THE OBSERVER. New Everything Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to Best Deals Guaranteed! Jamaica, apply, all ages 18+. You can have it for some bling campus, washer/dryer, landlord ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas. If you or someone you care about 
Not too bad for $345 thousand does the yardwork. $750/month. No 574-288·2726. S.Padre, Florida. has been sexually assau~ed, visit 574-273-3835. www.workforstu-Call Jan Lazzara on her band pets. No section 8. 800-648-4849 or http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. dents.com 574-233-6141. 574-250-1266. Buying BC/USC tix. 574-2n-1659. www.ststravel.com shtml 
-~------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­




OUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 5, 2007 
College Football Polls AP USA Today 
team team 

usc (45) 1
1 LSU (33) 
LSU (14) 2
2 usc (32) 
California 3
3 California 
Ohio State (1) 4
4 Ohio State 
Wisconsin 5
5 Wisconsin 
Boston College 6
6 South Florida 
Florida 7
7 Boston College 
Kentucky 8
8 Kentucky 
South Florida 9
9 Florida 
Oklahoma 10
10 Oklahoma 
Georgia 11
11 South Carolina 
West Virginia 12
12 Georgia 
Oregon 13
13 West Virginia 
Virginia Tech 14
14 Oregon 
Hawaii 15
15 Virginia Tech 
Texas 16
16 Hawaii 
Missouri 17
17 Missouri 
South Carolina 18
18 Arizona State 
Arizona State 19
19 Texas 
Purdue 20
20 Cincinnati 
Rutgers 21
21 Rutgers 
Clemson 22
22 Clemson 
Nebraska 23
23 Purdue 
Cincinnati 24
24 Kansas State 
UCLA 25
25 Nebraska 
NCAA Women's Soccer Top25 
team record previous 

1 Stanford 9-1-0 3 2 UCLA 5-1-2 8 3 Texas 8-1-1 61 4 Virginia 7-1-2 61 5 Santa Clara . 7-1-1 1 6 Tennessee 7-1-1 11t 7 Texas A&M 7-2-1 4 8 Boston College 7-0-2 9 
·g ' -· Pnrdue .. -_, 10·1-1 111 
10 Portland 7-3-0 2 
11 Penn State 7-2-1 13 
12 Missouri 8-2-0 16 
13 North Carolina 7-3-0 7 
14 usc 8-1-1 19 
15 Florida State 6-3-1 141 
16 California 8-2·0 22 
17 Brigham Young 8·0-2 141 
18 Clemson 8-1-1 23 
19 Connecticut 7-2-0 25 
20 South Carolina 8-3-0 10 
21 Georgia 9-1-0 NR 
22 Oklahoma State 7-2·1 17 
23 West Virginia 6·3-1 20 
24 Marquette 9-1-1 21 
25 Florida 4·4-2 18 
MIAA Women's Soccer Standings 

team league overall 
Calvin 3-0-0 7-3-1 Albion 2-0-1 8-1-2 Hope 2-1-0 6-6-0 Kalamazoo 2-1-0 7-3-1 SAINT MARY'S 1-0-2 5-1-4 Adrian 1-2-0 4-7-1 Alma 1-2-0 6-4-1 Olivet 0-2-1 5-5-2 Tri-State 0-3-0 0-9-2 
around the dial 
MLB 
Yankees at Indians 5 p.m., TBS 
Angels at Red Sox 8:30p.m., TBS 
NCAA 
Utah vs. Louisville 8 p.m., ESP1\l 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES 
TRACK AND fiELD 
Associated Press 

Marion Jones admitted using steroids before the 2000 Olympics in a recent letter to close family and friends, The Washington Post reported Thursday. 
Jones, a triple gold medalist in Sydney, said she took "the clear" for two years, beginning in 1999, and that she got it from for­mer coach Trevor Graham, the newspaper reported. Graham told her it was naxseed oil. 
"The clear" is a perform­ance-enhancing drug linked to BALCO, the lab at the center of the steroids scandal in professional sports. 
Until now, Jones had steadfastly denied she ever took any kind of perform­ance-enhancing drugs. 
Jones is scheduled to appear in U.S. Southern District Court on Friday to plead guilty to charges in connection with her steroid use, a federal law enforce­ment source told The Associated Press. The offi­cial spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing, and would not provide spe­cific details about the plea. 
"I want to apologize for all of this." the Post report­ed, quoting a person who received a copy of Jones' letter and read it to the paper. "I am sorry for dis­appointing you all in so many ways." 

In her letter, Jones said she'd used performance­enhancing drugs until she stopped training with Graham at the end of 2002. She said she lied when fed­eral agents questioned her in 2003, panicking when they presented her with a sample of "the clear," which she recognized as the substance Graham had given her. 
"Red flags should have been raised when he told me not to tell anyone," the Post reported, quoting the letter. 
No one answered the door at Jones' Austin home Thursday evening, and a message left by the AP for a phone number registered to her husband, Obadele page 15 

,. 
Thompson, was not imme­diately returned. 

. "It's funky, because you wanted to believe she was clean," said Jon Drummond, a gold medalist in the 400 relay in Sydney. "It's like that old saying, 'Cheaters never win.' So no matter how glorious or glamorous things look, you'll get caught and pay a price for it. 
"It caught me by total surprise," he added. "It's a shock. I thought it was a closed case. It doesn't help track and field at all, except maybe by letting the world know, p•~ople always get to the bottom of things. We shouldn't be afraid of the truth, but it's sad it came to this." 
IN BRIEF 

Daniel will captain U.S. 
women's golf team 
DANVILLE, Calif. -llall of Pamer Beth Daniel will captain the U.S. Solheim Cup team for the 2009 matches at Rich Harvest Farms in Illinois. 
Daniel, a three-time LPGA player of the year and 33-time winner on the tour, assisted Nancy Lopez and Betsy King in the last two matches against Europe. 
"I am honored," Daniel said Wednesday. "The Solheim Cup holds a very special place in my heart. And, as I said after we won in Halmstad, there are a lot of very deserving players in position to cap­tain the U.S. team." 
The United States will be seeking its third straight victory in 2009. In 2005, Lopez captained the winning side at Crooked Stick in Indianapolis. Last month, King directed the U.S. team at Halmstad in Sweden. 
Diener's family a source of 
help, competition 
INDIANAPOLIS -If Indiana Pacers guard Travis Diener needs advice on basketball, he doesn't have to look far for answers. 
Diener, who signed as a free agent with the Pacers on July 23 after spending the past two years with Orlando, can pick any number of relatives if he wants to talk bas­ketbalL 
His sister Rachel, 23, played col­lege basketball at St. Louis and his other sister, Brittney, 22, played at Lewis University in Chicago. 
Diener also had three cousins play Division 1 college basketball, and he was coached by his uncle, Dick Diener, at Goodrich High School in Fond du Lac, Wis. 
"Ever since I was a little kid, I've been playing," Diener said this week at Pacers training camp, which began Tuesday and runs through next week. 
Rockies to compensate
minor league widow 
PHILADELPHIA -The Colorado Rockies voted a full playoff share for th1~ widow of minor league coach and former Indianapolis Indians player Mike Coolbaugh, who was killed by a line drive this sea­son while coaching first base. 
Coolbaugh played with the Indians in 2001. 
Some of the veteran Colorado players decided to award a full share to Amanda Coolbaugh. Their two sons, 5-year-old Joseph and 3­year-old Jacob, will throw out the first pitch in Game 3 at Colorado. 
Coolbaugh was a first base coach for the Rockies' Double-A affiliate, the Tulsa Drillers. The former major leaguer was killed July 22, when a line drive struck him in the head. 
Shortstop Troy Tulowitzki said awarding the family a share was the right thing to do. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 5, 2007 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

Matsui's grand slatn lifts Rockies over Phils 
Associated Press 

PIIIIADELPIIIA-Done chas­ing that wild-card spot, Kaz Matsui and the relentless Colorado Rockies are playing liko champs. 
Matsui hit his first career grand slam and drove in five runs, leading the Hockies over the Philadelphia Phillies 10-5 Thursday for a 2-0 lead in their Nl. playotr series. 
A day after taking a pitehers' duel, Colorado outslugged the Phils and got a big efl'ort from its bullptm. With 16 victories in 17 gamns, the Ror:kies are winning every which way. 
"We believe we're going to win every game," manager Clint llurdle said. "We've been play­ing in the loser's braeket for a month." 
Matsui connected off Kyle Lohse, rushed in to relieve struggling rookie Kyle Kendrick in the fourth inning. 
Lohse was the Phillies' sched­uled Game 4 starter. At this rate, the bost-of-five series may not get that far. 
Bookie Ubaldo Jimenez will try to piteh Colorado to a sweep Saturday night at Coors Field against veteran Jamie Moyer. 
Making just the second post­season appearance in the fran­chise's 15-year history, Colorado is on the verge of going to its l'irst NL championship series. The Hoekies posted their oighth straight road victory. 
Matsui fell a single short of the eycle, and Troy Tulowitzki and Matt Holliday homered on con­secutive pitches in the first inning otT Kendrick, who got a ·quick hook from manager Charlie ManueL 
Booed out of New York after 2 1/2 seasons with the Mets, Matsui is a perfect tit in calmer Colorado. 
"I couldn't make good results in New York," Matsui said through a translator. ''I'm glad I have a good environment and a good team in Colorado." 
The Phillies had a chance to make it interesting in the eighth, loading the bases with two outs. But closer Manny Corpas came in and retired Carlos Ruiz. Corpas worked around a pair of two-out singles in a scoreless ninth for his second save in as many days. 
Before the game, Corpas came under serutiny because he was caught by TBS cameras on Wednesday pouring a liquid on the front of his jersey and pat­ting his chest and rubbing his fingers before throwing a pitch. lie didn't appear to do anything shady in this appearance. 
Jimmy Hollins homered and drove in four runs and Ryan Howard also went deep for Philadelphia, which ended a 14­year playofT drought by captur­ing the NL East title on the final day of the season. 

2008 SUBARU 

TRIBECA 
5-PASSENGER
$319 PER MONTH LEASE! 
36 MONTHS 
$2,593.64 Down Payment $0 Security Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $319 First Month's Lease Payment 
$2,913 Total Due at Lease Signing (Modei81A) 
NO SWIMMING 

Irish start season with Relays 
Men and women defend last season's victory over Ball State 
relay and placed second in
By CHRIS DOYEN 

the synchronized diving
Sports Writer 

competition in last year's 
Helays, will also compete 
Notre Dame gets its season this weekend. started today at 5 p.m. with The 2006-07 women's the 43rd team won its annual record-setting Dennis Stark 11th Big East relays at the "This is an title -by 228 Holt's Aquatic outstanding points, over Center. nearest com­
freshman class."
At last sea­petitor Hutgers. son's edition The men, who of the event, Tim Welsh set five Stark both the men Irish coach Helay records 
and the w o m e n claimed vic­tory over second-place Ball State. The men won the title for the 1Oth time in 11 years, and the women swept all 11 swimming events while claiming one of the two diving events. 
Both the men and women have the personnel to defend their titles. 
All-Big East swimmer Katie Carroll has graduated, but the Irish women return four swimmers who compet­ed in the NCAA Championships last season -junior Christa Higgins, sophomore Megan Farrell, junior Claire Hutchinson and senior Caroline Johnson. The sophomore diving duo of Tiffany Bobak and Natalie Stitt, who won the diving 
•IIHS 
Top Safety Pick' 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 


• 
Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC) with Traction Control 


• 256-hp 3.6-liter Subaru Boxer engine 

'--~----··-···--······-··-·· ......·-·-··--······------------···-···--···-····-·····-·····-····-········--·----·--······-··-·--··--·---·-' 
'Top Safety Pick includes the 2008 Tribeca. 'Government frontal and side crash tests are part of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) New Car Assessment Program. See safercar.gov for more 
detail. Subaru Tribeca and Outback are registered trademarks. Leases based on 10,000 miles per year plus tax, title, license and doc. Rebates to dealer. With qualified credit. Offers expire October 31st. 2007. 

120 w. McKinlev Ave. MISHAWAKA 
514-256-5427 
GurlevleepSubaru.com 

while winning 11 of the 13 events last year, 
have plenty of talent return­
more Andrew lloffman, jun­ior Sam Pendergast, senior Jay Vanden Berg and senior Hob Seery. 
The Irish men's diving team also returns all-confer­ence performers -junior Miehael Bulfin and senior Sam Stoner, who swept the diving events at the Belays last year. 
In addition to the returning talent, the men's team has a large freshman elass. 
"We're looking for all of them to contribute," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "This is an outstanding freshman class." 
Welsh said 
the Helays will 

ing  from  a  "After all the  provide a good  
2006-07 squad that fell only 4 1/2 points shy  training we,ve done, we want to see where  barometer for measuring where the  
of  a  third  we are.  Irish  men  cur­ 
straight  Big  rently stand.  
East champi­onship. At the 2007  Tim Welsh Irish coach  "We have a lot of looking to do," Welsh  

conference champi­onships, sophomore John Lytle set school records in the 800-yard freestyle relay, 200 freestyle, 100 freestyle and 400 freestyle relay. Junior Daniel Have set a school record in the 200 breaststroke. Other return­ing all-conference swimmers are junior Jeff Wood, sopho-


• 
IIHS Highest possible crash test ratings 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
173-hp Subaru Boxer engine 

• 
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 


$248 PER MONTH LEASE/ 36 MONTHS 
$0 Down P~yment $0 Security Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $248 Fir<t Month"s Lease Payment 
$248 Total Due at Lease Signing 
(Modei8JB) 
OUTBACK 


• 
5-Star highest government crash test rating' 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
6 standard airbags 

• 
4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 



$248 PER MONTH LEASE/ 42 MONTHS 
$1,751.24 Down Payment $0 Security Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $248 First Month's Lease Payment 
$1,999 Total Due at Lease Signing 
(Mode! 8DB) 
said. "After all 
of the training we've done, we want to see where we are.... 
"We're going to focus on going faster and getting each man to improve his lifetime best time. We're just excited to get the season started." 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
~~ueAFiu.
&i'/'1. .. ... ill 
...,, ,:·~;:;:;.;:::•.· 

Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Burns 
continued from page 24 
and getting our offense some momentum this weekend." 
Burns expects continued con­tributions from Keenan's strong offensive line as the offense looks to improve. 
Alumni had a bye last week­end, and it is 0-1 heading into this weekend's game after an opening weekend loss to Morrissey. 
"To beat Morrissey, Keenan stopped the pass, which is something we could not do and is the reason why we lost on three long bombs," Alumni sen­ior captain Bret Shapot said. 
"We expect to play a tough game on defense and put together several solid offensive drives," he continued. "Beating Morrissey does not give Keenan an easy game against Alumni." 
Shapot said senior linebacker Nick Fanslau and senior defen­sive end Dan Ott will be solid contributors on defense. 
On offense, quarterback Pat Rushford should keep the Keenan defense on their toes. The freshman has emerged as a strong dual threat signal caller. 
Keough vs. Dillon 
Entering this weekend's game against Dillon, Keough finds itself in a slightly unfamiliar position. 
Keough is coming off its first win in years, after the Kangaroos beat 
record current­ly has them in the top four in the Men's Gold League, which would be good enough to send the Kangaroos to the playoffs if they can maintain their suc­cess. 
Other teams aren't selling the Kangaroos short. 
"From what I've seen, this Keough team is very good," Dillon junior captain Alex Duffy said. 
Keough plans to send Dillon horne in the same way that it sent O'Neill horne last weekend. To do so, it will have to see con­tinw~d good play from quarter­back Matt Briggeman. 
Dillon looks to earn its first victory of the season against Keough al'ter it lost its opener to Stanford 6-0 last week. 
"We played well on both sides of the ball," Duffy said. "but we kept shooting ourselves in the foot when we had chances to take over the game." 
Duffy. who serves as the Dillon running back, said Dillon has a very talented defense that played very well against Stanford. The offensive line is also very strong and athletic and opened up holp,s for Duffy to run through last week, and should give quarterbaek Joe (;arigliano lots of time to throw as well. 
Although Duffy gives Keough credit for its strong perform­ancn last week. he is still confi­dent in his tnam. · 
"This is a must-win game for us. so we're not taking any chanc~ns." lw said. "They are very big, but we will be ready for them." 
Keough and Dillon play at 2 
p.m. Sunday at Hiehln Field. 
Knott vs. St. Edward's Knott I 1-1) takes on St Ed's (2-0) this weekend in an effort to ruin the Gentlemen's perfect season at 3 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Coming off a bittersweet vic­tory over Zahm in which their quarterback, Aidan Fitzgerald, tore his MCL, the Juggerknotts hope to build on the positive aspects of their game against the Zahmbies. 
"We need to sustain our offense throughout the entire game," said Fitzgerald, who is the Knott captain. "We need to make sure that our offense runs correctly the entire game." 
Due to Fitzgerald's injury, the Juggerknotts will rely heavily on new quarterback freshman 
J.T Redshaw. However, he will inherit an offense that seems to 
have worked out kinks they had at the start of the season. 
"Our passing game really stepped up last w e e k . " Fitzgerald said. "Tlie backs, receivers, and linemen got their game plan in sync and started to click more as a unit." 
whatever 

"We need to make
West Quad On the other rivals O'Neill 9-sure that our offense side of the ball, 6 last Sunday St. Ed's is confi­
runs correctly the 
on the heels of dent with its 2-0
entire game. " 
their first field start and thinks it goal attempt of has a strong team the season. Aidan Fitzgerald despite barely Their 1-1 squeaking out a
Knott captain 

''This is a must-win hoping to get game for us, so back to its win­
ning ways and

we're not taking 
gain momentum 

any chances." as it heads into the final stretch of the regular
Alex Duffy 
season.

Dillon captain 
"We need to 

Fitzgerald preached the phys­ical style of defense that he said Knott needs to play. 
"We need to come out and hit someone in the mouth. Try to get them as frustrated as Zahm was last week." Fitzgerald said. 
"We just need to go out and play football." 
win last week. 
While St. Ed's 

was led by its offense last week, it will need freshman quarterback Matt Abeling to rebound from the two-interception effort he had against Carroll. 
Both teams are trying to get their offense on track and say this will be the week they final­ly break out. The game may come down to whose freshman quarterback is able to break through first. 
Zahm vs. Siegfried 
The Zahmbies and Ramblers are no strangers to shutouts eoming into Sunday's matchup. 
The two teams have not yet played a game that did not end in a shutout ­with sophomore Jared Carter contributing to the effort. 
Zahm's offense, highlighted by junior running back Theo Ossei-Anto, hopes to forget the loss and bring back the magic of the first game of the season. 
The two teams will meet Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Morrissey vs. O'Neill 
The last time Morrissey and O'Neill shared the field, both were at the pinnacle of their seasons after making it all the way to the Stadium. 
This time, however, neither team is satisfied with the situa­tion it faces. 
Coming off a shocking 9-6 loss to Keenan in which it was denied at the goal line with only seconds remaining, Morrissey is 
bounce back 

from last week's game and get focused on Sunday's game because we cannot afford another loss," senior captain Nick Bencomo said. "We have to win out from here in order to make the play­offs." 
As for O'Neill, this season has been everything but successful. Starting out 0-2 was unexpect­ed just one season removed after reaching the finals. 
"Our team is coming off of a devastating three-point loss. We have to win to keep our playoff hopes alive. Last week against Keough, we did not bring our best game," senior captain Patrick Conley said. "Hopefully this week will be dif­ferent." 
Morrissey's strength this year has been its defense, which has allowing just three points total to opposing offenses this year. Its weakness, which was exposed last week, is its special teams play and its offensive execution. 
Just as Morrissey's defense was putting together an inspir­ing performance, holding Keenan to minimal yardage last week, its lack of special teams practice allowed a huge punt return for a touchdown, which put the Manorites down by six. 
"We were right there, but we just couldn't come away with the victory." Bencomo said. 
O'Neill has 
put itself in dire 
straits with its 

Zahm on both "Our pass defense 0-2 start and its sides. The inability to
must improve in
Zahmbies have come through in
order for us to win
beaten Carroll the clutch with 12-0, but lost 6-0 on Sunday." a vital score. to Knott on The Mob was Sunday. Siegfried not far from
Patrick Conley 
blanked Knott winning either 
O'Neill captain
21-0 on Sept. 23. of its first two 
Ramblers sen­ior captain Tom Martin hopes to continue his team's dominance when they play Zahm. 
"Zahm 's a very strong team," Martin said. "We're preparing very hard in practice." 
While the dnfense has obvi­ously been strong, Martin points to the offense as a major contributor to the team's suc­cess. 
"Our offense is very bal­anced," Martin said. "We are able to use the run and pass equally well, whieh makes it difficult for teams to defend against us." 
Zahm's defense has shown promise in its first two games, 
games, which were each decided by only one possession. 
However, with a struggling offense, Conley said it will be imperative for the defense to step up and make some plays. 
"Morrissey is a great passing team. They have showed that in all of their games this year," Conley said. "Our pass defense must improve in order for us to win on Sunday." 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu, Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu, Peter Reisenaur at preisena@nd.edu, Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu and Alex Barker at abarker1@nd.edu 
MLB PLAYOFFS 
Indians take 1-0 lead after 12-3 beatdo-wn 
Four home runs lift Tribe over Yankees 
Associated Press . · 
CLEVELAND -At times, it looked like 1995 again. Or 1997. Or 1954. Or 1948. 
Back in the playoffs after a six-year absence, the Cleveland Indians came out swinging like Octobers past. 
C.C. Sabathia recovered after giving up a homer on his fifth pitch, Kenny Lofton drove in four runs and Cleveland home­red four times to stun the New York Yankees 12-3 in their AL playoff opener Thursday night. 
On an unusually warm night that felt more Indian summer than fall, the AL Central cham­pions looked as though they just might be the team to beat as they chase their first World Series title in 59 years. 
"They just were hitting every­thing," Yankees slugger Alex Rodriguez said. "Even their outs were hard." 
A-Rod will have to wait at least another day to repair his tarnished postseason image. Sabathia and three Cleveland relievers silenced his powerful bat. 
On Friday, the Yankees turn to Andy Pettitte, who is 14-9 in postseason play. Fausto Carmona, Cleveland's other 19­game winner, will oppose him. 
"Let's just get over it and lick our wounds and then we'll fig­ure it out," New York manager Joe Torre said. 
The Indians' playoff inexperi­ence was never a factor. Cleveland's kids were all right. 
"They just went out there and played the game," said Lofton, a postseason veteran. "You don't have to have a whole lot of experience to understand that the game hasn't changed. That's what I've been talking to the guys about: Go out there and play baseball." 
Playoff neweomer Victor Martinez hit a two-run homer and rookie Asdrubal Cabrera had a solo shot off ineffective starter Chien-Ming Wang. Travis Hafner and Hyan Garko homered later, and the Indians knocked the Bronx Bombers flat. 
The 40-year-old Lofton raced around the bases they way he did in two previous stints with Cleveland. Casey Blake added two RBis for the Indians, ener­gized by a towel-waving crowd eager for more. 
A few Cleveland fans even turned on Cavaliers superstar LeBron James, a devoted New York fan who boldly came to Jacobs Field wearing a Yankees cap. Early on. fans sit­ting near James behind home plate ehanted "Take off the cap," and by the sixth inning, he did. 
When Hafner's homer off Ross Ohlendorf gave the Indians a 10-3 lead. James turned to his entourage and ordered an exit. 
The Yankees, 6-0 against the Indians during the regular sea­son, went nearly as fast. Down 4-3 in the lifth, they managed only a meaningless, two-out single in the ninth after Cleveland broke away. 
lt was the first time New York lost by more than eight runs in the postseason since an 11-1 first-round drubbing by Oakland in 2000. 
"We needed to stop them," said Johnny Damon, who hit a disputed homer leading off the game. "We couldn't stop their offense. Everything they were hitting went out of the park. You definitely don't want to see that happen in the first game." 
Indians manager Eric Wedge, another playoff frrst-timer, was prepared to ride Sabathia as long as needed. If that meant 120 or 130 pitches, Wedge was willing to let his left-bander push his limit. 
Wedge never could have imagined that would come after five innings. 
Not only did Sabathia, who entered 1-7 with a 7.13 ERA in his career against New York, have to deal with New York's awesome lineup, but plate umpire Bruce Froemming's strike zone was paper thin for the left-bander, who battled through 114 pitches, allowing three runs and four hits in five innings. 
"He had to work about as hard as he's ever had to work," Wedge said. 
Sabathia walked six (his total for September), allowed two homers -both to lefties -and had one of his worst outings all season. 
"He bent but he didn't break," Torre said. 
The Yankees were facing Sabathia for the first time in three years, and unless they get their offense untracked in the next few days, it might be many more months before they see him again. 
New York has lost four straight playolf games and 11 of 14 overall dating to their 2004 AL championship series collapse against Boston, a skid rarely seen for a deeorated franchise that hasn't added to its collection of 26 World Series titles since 2000. 
Rodriguez's hopes of follow­ing up a certain MVP season with a glittering postseason is ­on hold. He went 0-for-2 and walked twice, once intentional­ly in the fifth when Sabathia wriggled out of a serious jam. 
A-Rod dropped to 4-for-43 (.093) with no HBis in his last 13 postseason games. 
The Yankees' best chance was in the fifth. Trailing 4-3, they put runners at second and third with one out against Sabathia. With first base open, he intentionally walked Rodriguez to face Jorge Posada. 
Posada got ahead 3-0 in the count, then fouled on· a pitch. Sabathia fought back for a strikeout. 
Then. he got behind 2-0 to Hideki Matsui before getting the Yankees' Dll to pop to shortstop, ending New York's last rally. 
"Posada help!)d me out a lit­tle bit," Sabathia said. "and I ­was able to get out of it. Thnsn guys swung the bats and picked me up huge." 
The Indians put it away v !1 five runs in their half of the fifth, the big blows coming on Martinez's two-run homer off Wang. a 19-game winner dur­ing the regular season, and Blake's two-run double, a shot that sent the crowd or 44,608 into a frenzy. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 5, 2007 
SMC GOLF 

1st place not focus at conference meet 
By JARED ]EDICK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's travnls to Bodford Valley CoIf Club in Battin Cronk. Mich .. today to begin tlw two-day M fAA Championship. Tho team tens oil' in tlw first round today at I 
p.m. and tlw sncond round at I) 
a.m. Saturday. 
Saint Mary's is in second plaen in lfw MIAA standings after tllf• threp conferonen .fambon~ns with 1.021) total strokns -41 strokns lwhind first placP Olivnt with 98S strokns. 
Making up tlw dnlieit will bP a tall ordPr for ttw Bnllns. and coach Mark llamilton wants tlw tnam not to l'ocus on trying to catch up with OliVI~L 
"Our goal is to win tlw two­day tournanwnt. that is it," llarnilton said. "Wn would likn 
t.o maintain our sncond-place position in thn ronfnn~nrn. bnrauso t.lwn WI' will be abln to host a qualil'ying tournanwnt rwxt year." 
Tlw tnam is coming ofT a lack­Ius tor showing at thn third .lambonw of tlw year at Buck Hun <;oil' Course. in which it watrlwd its then-14 stroke dnfki t strn tch a Imost out 0 r roach. 
"It was a littln disappointing. We startml oil' well. but Wfl dnli­nitnly ended badly. We had a couple big scores that cost us," llamilton said. 

Senior Katie O'Brien hopes to continue her strong play up to this point in the snason and load hor teammates to a win this wnekond. She owns two of tlw bnst rounds in MIAA play this ynar with a 76 and a 7S. Shn finished sixth at Buk Hun with an S4. 
Also providing vetnran lf1ad­nrship will be junior Mnredith l'ant.om. who had the sncond­bnst round l'or tho Bolles at Buck Hun with an 85. 
Tlw tPam's biggest surprosn has bonn the substantial c:ontri­IJUtion !wing made l'or this team by lh1shnwn Emily Corn, Megan Lnhr. Hosin O'Connor. MiehPIIP llinl and Amanda Mainstone. 
Saint Mary's ranks lirst in llw Division Ill NCAA/NAIA/JC Wonw n's Fresh man Class Impact Hankings. with an aver­ago freshman scorn 88.15. Thn Bnll<1S have four freshmen in their top live playms. 
llamilton would liko this wnnknml to be the tournament whnro his playnrs eome of age and excel. 
"Wn would like to play well. to play to our potential. I think the girls arn anxious to show their potnntial," Hamilton said. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
PGA TouR 

Parnevik fires career round in Texas Open 
Associated Press 

-
SAN ANTONIO -Jespnr Parnevik spent two months this ynar trying to play with an 
injured ton. lin broke it while seampnring around on his boat and jamming his fimt into a ease of boor. 
No. Parnnvik wwm't drinking. "That was tho problem," he said. "Tht~ C:<L'il' was full." Now Parnnvik ran down a cnh~­

.. 
hratory mug. lin shot a earoer­h<~st 9-undl'r 61 on Thursday to takn a filur-strokl~ lead after tlw first round of thn Texas Open. over!".oming an oponing bogny to birdie night of the rwxt 11 holes. 
Tho 42-ynar-old Swndn, winless sinen taking tlw last of his live PCA Tour titles in 2001. also birdied his final two holes -Nos. H and 9 -allnr starting on tlw back nine on tho LaCantera Golf Club Hnsort Coursn. The 61 toppod his provious PGA Tour host of (,2, sN last ytHU" in a snc­ond-phu~e finish in tho Bob llopo Chrysler Classic. 

-
It's llw lowest scorn at thn 
Texas OpPn since Bart Bryant shot a hO in thP third round wlwn lw won in 2004. On tlw PGA Tour this year. Zach .Johnson shot a (,() in tho third round of thn Tour <:hampi<mship. 
A low srorP wasn't on l'arrwvik's mind afl.nr tho bogey start. I lis blast out of a grnonsidl' bunkPr ldl him 24 li~nt short. and lw missed tlw par putt on his first holn. 

-
"Normally, that's where the panie sets in. That it's going to be a rnally sorry day," Parnevik said. "But I came into this week feeling thn game was there." 
Major champions Justin l.nonard -the 2000 and 2001 Texas Opnn winner -and Bob Tway were at 65 along with 2005 champion Hobert Gamez, MathicL'i Gronberg. Matt Hendrix, Neal Lancaster. Shigeki Maruyama. I>aninl Chopra, Hiehard S. .Johnson and Dan Forsman. 
Tway birdied his final four holes. 
"It wa.'i an average round. then I make four in a row and all of a suddnn it became a good round." Tway said. "It was kind of strange." 
Chad Campbell, the Viking Classic winner Sunday in Mississippi. shot a 66 to top a group that ineludnd 1995 U.S. Opnn winner Corey Pavin. l>nfonding champion Erie Axley had a 67. holing a bunker shot from :~4 yards for birdie on No. IS. 
Tlwre Wflro 30 players within six shoL'i of Parnnvik. Overall. 66 playnrs broke par on day with light wind and tmnperatures in l.lw uppnr 80s. 
;\ flurry of putter changns tlw past wonk hnlpnd Parnevik rnlurn to t.lw l'orm lw shownd when he was winning rngularly. flo tried a lll'lly putter last wnekoml beforn ' sl'ttling on a more traditional hrand of puttPr Wednesday he's llPVOr SOPn. 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles hope to dow-n Dutch111en 
Saint Mary's seeks revenge after losing to Hope 1-0 last season 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will take the field against Hope Saturday at noon. looking to avenge its 1-0 loss to the flying Duteh last snason. 
This will be the Bnlles' third eonferenee game of the season. The Bnlles ( 5-1-4. 1-0-2 MIAA) tied their last two games in double overtinw against con­ference foes Albion and Olivet. Hope (6-6-0. 2-1-01 lost its game against Calvin 3-0 last Saturday, but def1~atnd Tri­State University fl-1 Tuesday, putting itself in third place in thn MIAA. 
"I expnd a well eoaehed tnam with a lot of discipline," Saint Mary's head coaeh Caryn MacKenzie said. "I expect them to bring nothing lpss than their bost." 
Two of tho !kilns' key players have bne n ha n1 pen~d with injuries the past few games ­sophomore forward Mieki lledinger and junior forward Lauren llinton. who did make an appearance in last Saturday's gamo against Olivet. 
Hinton managed to take four shots on goal. ineluding a shot that was tipped ofT the cross­bar and headed in by freshman .Julia Gragtmans. but was saved by Olivet goalkeeper Sarah Weston in the 87th minute of play. Hinton will bn back in again for a portion of Saturday's game. 
Last Saturday. the Belles were also missing senior defender Justine Higgins, who was sidelined aftnr receiving a red card in Saint Mary's game 

Continenta( Cuisine with an Italian TWist Check out the Hottest New Restaurant in Town 
Lunch Hours: Monday-Friday ll :00 a.m.-2:30 p.m. llinner Hours: Sunday-Thursday 5:00-JO:OO p.m. and Friday & Saturday 5:00 -II :00 p.m. Lounge Hours Daily: 4pm -always open late 
smwo; 211 W. Washington Street • South Bend, Indiana 46601 • 574-323·2120 

against Albion St~pt. 25. 
Saint Mary's has struggled to eonvnrt in front of the goal. but it has managed to post 121 shots with 13 goals by nine dif­ferent players, with llinton leading the way. The Belles have shown their strtmgth, defeating Kalamazoo (7-3-1. 2­1-0) in their eonferenee opnn­er. 
"We're still trying to sort out our lineup up top still," MacKenzie said. "We're doing a lot of good things. and play­ing wnll right now. 
"We're expecting a good game from a very good team who we won't bnat unless we bring our best. After ending tlwir last two games in a tin, the Belles are lirnd up to seore. and ready after a week's rest to show !lope the Bolles are a firP that keeps burning." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC CROSS-COUNTRY 
Belles ready for 
first 6K of season 
with Gray, freshmen Catie 
By MATT GAMBER 
Salyer and Sam Wieczorek, Sports Writer 
sophomore Megan McClowry 
and senior Olenka Bilyk have 
Though today's scored in all four of the Benedictine Invitational in Belles' meets. Lisle. Ill., won't directly Junior Caitlin Stevenson affect Saint Mary's MIAA had a "breakthrough per­standing, the formance" last six-kilometer weekend, meet will be Bauters said, 
and is hoping

one of the "This meet is 
Belles' most to continue 
valuable train­important because her improve­
ing experi­it's the first 6K that ment. The ences leading runner
we will have run this 
up to the six­Bauters is kilometer con­season. really keeping ference cham-her eye on, however, is
pionship on Jackie Bauters 
Oct. 27. freshman
Belles coach 


"This meet is important because it's the l'irst 6K that we will have run this season, which is a jump for freshmen who were running 4Ks just this past year," coach Jackie Bauters said. "Because it's the only 6K we run before championships, we need to use it as a learn­ing tool and hopefully come away with some success to feel better going into cham­pionships." 
A fourth-place finish in last year's meet propelled the Belles to firth place in the MIAA standings, the best result in school history. 
As she has in virtually every meet of her Saint Mary's career, senior stand­out Megan Gray probably will lead the pack. Along Anne Maguire. 
"I really 
believe Anne 

is ready to have a great race," Bauters said. "I think the longer course will be of benefit to her." 
Ideally, it will prove to be a benefit to the whole team. 
"It's important to find out how ready we are to tackle the slightly longer race, if it really impacts us at all," Bauters said. "If we're not there yet, we have three more weeks to get ready for the big show. 
"Hopefully we'll discover what our weaknesses are and how to improve upon them during the next few weeks." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Serving Lunch & Dinner 
Tites-.Sllt 
11-2; 4-9pm 
Closed Sunday 
& Mond<~Y 
Our Specialties Include Exquisite 
Meal Entrt'es {.-,.· Healthy Vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: Lentil Soup & Garlic Paste 
Come Dine With Our Fami(y And Be Our hiend! 
115 DLx:ic Way North, South Bend (574) 277-7239 
Tickets Available at the Morris Box Office by phone: 574-235-9190 or: 1-800-537-6415 or online at: 
l'l'RFORMING ARTS CENTER *SOUTH BEND, IN www.MorrisCente~ 


MEN'S TENNIS 
Parbhu drops first-round 111atch 
Senior captain falls in prestigious Intercollegiate Championships 
By KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Wrirer 
Notre Dame senior captain Sheeva Parbhu fell in his open­ing round match Thursday 6-3, 6-0 to Bojan Szumanski of 
Texas  Tech  in  the  
Intercollegiate  Tennis  
Championships.  

Parbhu is the lone Irish repre­sentative in the double-elimina­tion Tulsa, Okla., tournament. He is guaranteed at least one more match. 
"I am looking to continue to play at a high level," Parbhu said before the tournament. "I want to keep the good season going, and get some experience against some of the best players in the country." 
Due to the NCAA's 25-tourna­ment limit, Parbhu did not par­ticipate in last weekend's Tom Fallon Invitational so he could take part in the Intercollegiate Championships. The Irish domi­nated singles play without Parbhu, capturing a 26-14 vic­tory. 
"The athletes are only allowed to play 25 matches, and he would have had to miss some duel matches because of 
• 
this rule and that he is going to Oklahoma this weekend," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said earlier this week. "[The Fallon Invitational] gave us a chance to see some of the younger players. We also got to see [jun­ior Brett] Helgeson play and he came up big." 
Parbhu and Helgeson are co­number ones in the Irish lineup, Bayliss said. 
The Irish will resume tourna­ment play on Oct. 18 in the ITA Midwest Championships. 
Contact Katelvn Grabarek at kgrabaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Cali not so sunny for Buck 
Senior loses singles match and doubles match with teammate Tefft 
By KATE ARNOLD Sporrs Wrirer 
Although Notre Dame cap­tured multiple individual titles at last week's Michigan Invitational, the Irish had no such luck this week at the Riviera/ITA Women's All­American Championships. 
Senior captain Brook Buck and junior Kelcy Tefft traveled west to participate in the tour­nament, held at the Riviera Tennis Club in Pacific Palisades, Calif. 
No. 91 Buck started play on Tuesday, participating in the qualifying singles bracket against USC's Amanda Fink. It was a hard fought match. but No. 53 Fink proved too great a challenge for Buck, downing her in three sets. 
Buck struggled to perform in her first set and eventually lost 6-0. ller second round showed improvement, and she managed a 6-3 win. However, Fink got tl}e best of her, claim­ing the third set, 6-3. 
In the consolation draw against Auburn's Alex Hariey, Buck was once again unable to best her opponent. While she ended her first set victori­ous with a score of 6-2, she could not continue this per­formance, dropping the last two sets 6-2 and 6-4. 
Although Buck was unable to win her matches, she can still be proud of her perform­ance and set wins, Irish head coach Jay Louderback said. 
"All of the top kids in the country are there," LDuderback said. "This is the best tournament of the fall, ranked just a little under the NCAA Tournament." 
On Thursday, Buck joined Tefft to compete in the dou­bles portion of the tourna­ment. 
Hanked No. 9, the duo faced Clemson's No. 2 seed Ani Mijacika and Federica van Adrichem. Although this was the first time Tefft and Buck played together this year ­and although the two lost to Mijacika and Adrichem in the opening round of last year's NCAA doubles tournament -Louderback was not worried. Tefft and Buck had played together extensively last year. 
They were excited for a rematch. but unfortunately for Buck and Tefft, this year's tournament had a similar result. They lost in the first round 8-4, coming home empty handed, but still opti­mistic for future matches. 
The Irish will next compete Oct. 18 at the ITA Midwest Hegional Qualil'ier hnld in Ann Arbor, Mieh. 
-
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 5, 2007 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Flying Dutchmen clobber Belles 3-0 

By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Spons Wrill'r 
Tlw Flying Dutdmwn of llopP kiiiPd any hopP Saint Mary's had Thursday of' winning. domi­nating llw BPIIPs :{-0. 
Oncn llopP -which enternd thn matl'h third in the MIAA­gairwd a IPad in a gamn, it rwvnr n~linquislwd it. The 3-0 swnep madP it tlw sPvtmth eon­sncutive matd1 Saint Mary's, which nntPrPd the match firth in thn confernnen, has lost to llopn. 
llopn was unstoppable, send­ing kill af'tnr kill to thn feet of the Bnllns. Lnading attackers f'or llopn wnre junior outside hillnr Nora Sltmk with 17 kills and sophomore middle blocker Ternsa Borst with 15. Ilope had a eombinnd 60 kills in the match. 
Saint Mary's trind to ward oil' tlw Flying Dutehmnn with a tnam-high 46 digs and 12 blocks. Sophomorn libero Laura Morris led tlw del'nnsivn effort with I I digs. Team offlHJsivn lnadnrs wen~ sophomorn out­sidn hitlPr Lorna Slupczynski with 12 kills and junior middle hlocknr Kania llellman with 11. Thn Bnllns combinnd for 3H kills on tlw night. 

Besidns thn deadly attacks by llopn. the Bnlles also f'aced some intnrnal struggles. . "It was the mental part of the game, lack of trust, and laek of unity on the eourt. whieh was our greatest weakness." head eoaeh Julin Sehroeder-Biek said. 
In ordnr to fix these internal strugglns, Schroeder-Biek said, thn Belles are going to need to make some changes within tlwir team. 
"WP nem:f more desire to play to our ability," she said. "We nend to bring our game." 
The Bellns head to Olivet College on Tuesday. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleona1@saintmarys.edu 
WOMEN'S CREW 

Rowers begin season at Head of the Rock 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame will opnn its season Sunday in Hockford. Ill. with l h n II e ad of l h n Ito c k Hngalta. whil'h traditionally opPns tlw Irish sl'lwdulo. 
Mon• than I, 700 rowors of all agt•s will rompetn in onn or Ildll'l' of 42 PVPnts on a 2.7!i­

-
.. ilt• t·oursP on tlw Hol'k Hi\l'r. 
Thr•'l' Irish boats will rom­.vith Marquf'lll'. North ·. (:loud ~latP. St. I .ou is t·onsin in :'lin'·;, P t:ight. r.ron· boat.·· \_,,] corn­
Opt•n l:i. · ..•tin 
~>taraii'StPr. 1\larqu1~tto. 
NorthwPslPrn. l'urdul', lovva, St. Thomas and \\'isl'onsin. l.ast. snason, Lht• IIPad of th«' Hol'k was t·ani·I'IJI'd bPI'illiSP of 

inclement wnathor. In 2005, tho Irish took third in the open competition and sixth in the novien rngatta. 
The Irish finished ninth last snason in thn NCAA <:hampionships. 
~ftnr this weekend, Notre llanw takns rwarly a month off lwf'orP rPrwwing thPir qunst to gl'l bark to tlw NCAAs. On Nov. 4. tlw Irish trawl to Blue Island. Ill.. for thl' Cal Sag HPgatta. and a wnl'k latl'r llwy host Northwostnrn in a dual nlt'Pt on tho Saint. .Joseph l'iwr. 
,\ftpr tl11• spring thaw. Notre llamt• will rar.P sovPral morl' limPs. inl'luding at llw NCA.'\s 
hut thosP l'l'gatlas do not havl' a sdwdull'd dati' sPt. 
MEN'S GOLF 

Struggling Irish head to Duke 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will look to 
rnbound from a disappointing 
eighth-place performance at 
lhfl Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf 
Classit~ last wneknnd when it 
eompntns in the Coca-Cola Duke 
Golf Classic Sunday in Durham, 
N.C. 

Tlw Irish wi II lw part of a strong 15-tnam l'ield that includes host No. 1:~ Dukl' and No. 19 Wakn Forest. Otlwr top lt•ams in lhn linld include Ohio Statt~. Virginia Teeh and Maryland. 
Irish eoar.h .lim Kubinski said llw team Pnjoys playing rhal­lt~ngin).{ l'ields that include rankPd teams. 
"ThP guys get excited about it." Kubinski said. "That's why they com!' to Notre Damn. to play against the top national competition." 
The 54-holl' twnnt begins at the Dukn Golf Club with two rounds Sunday on the par-72 course. Tlw tournanwnt will Pnd Monday with the final 1H holes of the 7.I 05-yard coursn. 
Last year's Duke Golf Classie e.hampion, Co!istal Carolina, will not return to defnnd its titln. 
This is Notre Dame's first limn playing in the Duke Golf Classic, but Kubinski has high nxpm:tations for thn team's per­formanct1. 
"Our No. "I goal would bn to have all five players in con­tention for a eounting score," Kubinski said. "A top-five seore would be good as f'ar as NCAA standings." 
Notre Dame enters thP tour­nament eoming ofT a sPtbaek this week at the Gridiron Golf Classie. The Irish struggled at 

IAN GAVLICK!The Observer 

Irish senior Greg Rodgers watches a putt in the Fighting Irish 
Gridiron Classic last weekend. 
the WarrPn Colt' Coursn af'tnr a strong opening round, falling f'rom third Sunday to an ewntu­al lie for nighth Tuesday. Mic:higan State won by 14 shots in tlw only honw tournanwnt for tlw Irish this ynar. 
Kubinski said the Irish will look to sharpen some arnas of their game at the Duke Classic that the team struggl11d with this week. 
"I think the main things wt~ want to improve are our putting and iron play," Kubinski said. 
The highlight of thn tourna­ment for Notre Dame was tlw play of sophomore Doug Fortnm. who tied for seeond. Fortner's finish was the b11st of his Notre Dame eareer, and his 54-hole total of 210 tied for third lowest in Irish history. 
Another bright spot f'or tho Irish was the pp,rformanees of SPVPral undt•n·.lassnwn parliri­pating in tlw tournanwnt as individuals. Sophomore Kyll' Willis and freshman Tyler llol'k f'inislwd in tlw top 20 for tlw Irish in the tournanwnl. 
"Tyler's bnen playing very wPII." Kubinski said. "lin's going to IJI' playing in his first travel event this wnek and I think he'll do very wnll." 
Kubinski also said lw nxpncl­ed junior .Josh Sandman and senior Gn~g Hodg11rs to continu11 their good play. 
Many young Irish golfers will play this fall as Notre Damn looks to find its top perfimners. 
"With so many players with so little nxperienec~. a lot of guys will get a chance to contribute," Kubinski said. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


Package, including chair, un1brella, cooler, seat cushion, and football. 
Plus, we'll enteryour nan1e in a drawing for of four portable, football f,rrills. 
And if that's not enough, you'll also receive: 
• FREE Checks 
• One FREE NSF H~e 

• FREEOnline Bill Pm1ncnt
.. 
......... 

r4. NOTRE DAME 
-~ FE~!!~L~!!~!~~~ON 
57-4·/61l-k222. 800/522-h6ll 1\'\\W.ndfc-t!.<m; 


l 
I_.. 
NCUA 

-,. i,·,,' ''·' l 
Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Chicks 
continued from page 24 
get a win Sunday, the playoffs may be a possibility. 
This year, Lewis has been led by sophomore quarter­back Catherine Guarnieri, who threw a game-winning touchdown against the Babes. 
Pangborn's stellar group of underclassmen, led by sopho­more receiver and captain Meghan Bescher, will also carry the brunt of the load. 
Pasquerilla West vs. Lyons 
Sunday's matchup between Lyons and Pasqucrilla West features two teams fighting for their lives. Both are on the cusp of the play­
oiTs and a loss "We've worked on all feels very con­could mean fident about
aspects of the team, 
somebqdy is Sunday's game
not anything in
going home. and the play­
Pasquerilla particular. " offs. Wt~st continund "We've been its momentum doing the same
Kelly Bushelle

from last season things in prac­
Welsh Family captain 
and defeated tice that we 
Breen-Phi IIi ps and Lewis in its first two games. However, it has since been slowed by back-to-hack losses to Welsh Family and Pangborn. 
The defending champions are led on offense by fresh-
interceptions safety. 
Lyons is in a tion as the Weasels after also losing to Welsh Family and Pangborn. Sophomore quarterback Claire Connell and freshman receiver Neva Lundy lead the Lions on offense. 
That offense is complement­ed by staunch for comment Thursday. 
This contest is crucial for both teams' playoff aspira­tions and should be well fought. Pasquerilla West and Lyons face off Sunday at 6 
p.m. on Riehle Field. 
Welsh Family vs. Badin 
Welsh Family will go up against Badin this Sunday at 4 p.m. at Riehle Field in a contest with playoff-seeding implications on the line for one team and a possible play­off berth for another. 
Undefeated Welsh Family could be playing for the No. 1 seed in the Gold League play­offs -which it currently has -while Badin could be play­ing for its" playoff life. 
Welsh Family 
senior captain 
Kelly Bushelle 
have done all 

year and are well prepared to play," Bushelle said. "We've worked on all aspects of the team, not anything in particular." 
Bushelle also mentioned her junior quarterback, .lenni 
man quarter­back Grace Orians, who has has accounted for all of the Weasels' touch­downs this year, both through the air and on the ground. 
Pasquerilla West's superb defense has also created 
"We've been doing the same things in practice that we have done all year and are well prepared to play. " 
Kelly Bushelle Welsh Family captain 
Gargula, who has led the offense and the team to five wins this year. 
Badin's junior captain Katie Rose Hackney said there is still hope for her team to make the play­offs. 
"We know that everything has to go our 

offense, recording numerous way the next two games, but 
as well as a we are going to play hard anyway and go out with confi­similar situa­dence," Hackney said. "That's 
"We know that everything has to go our way the next two games, but we are going to play hard anyway and go out with confidence.,, 
Katie Rose Hackney Badin captain 
defense. Senior captain Judith Kaczmarek and senior safety Joanna Collins will look to force turnovers out of the Wnasels and hopefully convert interceptions into touch­downs. 
Lyons senior captain Katie Mackin could not be reached all we can do." 
Hackney said the Bullfrogs hope to be the first to take down almighty Welsh Family. To do that, they knew they had to work hard in practice this week to finish plays in the end zone and capi­talize on chances to 
score. 

A Badin victory Sunday over undefeated Welsh Family would be quite the upset. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu, Andy Renner at arenner@nd.edu and Kevin Henry at khenryl@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Gamecocks down Kentucky 
Norwood sets NCAA record with two touchdown returns; Wildcats's perfect season comes to end in 38-23 loss to SC 

AP South Carolina's Patrick DiMarco, left, celebrates with Mike Davis, center, and Jamon Meredith after scoring a touchdown during the Gamecocks' 38-23 win over Kentucky Thursday. 
Associated Press 
COLUMBIA-South Carolina coach Steve Spurrier spoiled Kentucky's perfect start and found himself right where he loves to be -in the thick of the Southeastern Conference race. 
"Our guys are starting to believe the ball can keep bouncing our way," Spurrier said. 
It certainly did Thursday night in the 11th-ranked Gamecocks' 38-23 win over previously undefeated No. 8 Kentucky. 
Defensive end Eric Norwood tied an NCAA record with two touchdown returns and Spurrier stayed unbeaten against the Wildcats (5-l, 1-1 SEC). 
While Spurrier was excited with South Carolina's eighth­straight victory over Kentucky, he brushed aside talk of what could be ahead in the SEC race during the season's second half. 
"It's way too early for that," Spurrier cautioned. 
Not true, coach, not with the Gamecocks (5-1, 3-1) poised for the top 10 and the lead in the SEC Eastern Division. 
This was supposed to be the Wildcats' chance to prove themselves worthy league con­tenders and finally give the sharp-tongued Spurrier some long overdue payback. 
While at Florida. Spurrier 
beat Kentucky 73-7 in 1994, then 65-0 two years later. Even this summer, Spurrier rankled Kentucky fans with his words: "We thought we did something big beating Clemson, then Kentucky beat them, also." The Wildcats beat Clemson 28­20 in the Music City Bowl last December. 
With both teams ranked for the first time when facing each other, Spurrier got the best of Kentucky for the 15th time. 
"It's extremely disappointing to be in a position to go two and oh in the league and now we're way back in the pack," Brooks said. 
It was the poorest perform­ance of the season for Kentucky (5-l, 1-1), which was held to half its SEC-leading average of 46.6 points a game. 
Andre Woodson, the hero of the Wildcats' surprising start, was pressured into several errors. 
He fumbled after Jonathan Williams' sack on Kentucky's first series, and Norwood picked it up for a 2-yard TD return that put the Gamecocks ahead 7-0. Then with the teams tied at 10 in the second quarter, Woodson drove Kentucky to the 9, but threw his second interception of the season to end the threat. 
The mistakes continued after halftime. Woodson's lateral attempt to fullback John Conner was muffed, and this time Norwood grabbed it and ran 53 yards for his second score and a 24-10 lead. 
Norwood's touchdown returns matched an NCAA record accomplished three times before, the last by Southern Methodist's Alvin Nnabuife against Nevada in 2004. 
Norwood had a blocked punt that changed the momentum in South Carolina's 38-21 win over Mississippi State last Saturday. His play is even more critical since the Gamecocks have lost defensive starters in linebacker Jasper Brinkley and lineman Nathan Pepper since Sept. 15. 
"I knew it was time to step up," Norwood said. "When they went down, I think it was pretty evident that I had to do it along with the other guys on defense." 
Woodson finished 23 of 40 for 227 yards, but was sacked three times. Rafael Little had his fifth 1 00-'yard game of the year with 135 yards rushing. 
None of it was enough. 

The Wildcats closed to 31-23 on Woodson's 6-yard touch­down pass to Steve Johnson with 6:59 left, but Cory Boyd's 27-yard TD catch on South Carolina's next drive secured the Gamecocks' eighth straight win in the series. 
"We definitely made a lot of mistake, especially me person­ally," Woodson said. "It's some­thing we haven't been doing all year." 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 5, 2007 
~~========~~~========~~~----­

Big East 
continued from page 24 
a targl't on us," Millnr said. 'Tiwy haVP a Jot of prnSSUrt~ Oil tfiP!II bt•causl' tlwy can't rl'ally alliwd to bn losing ganws at this point. 
"Tiw Big East sPason is mming to a point whnn' you rnally IH'I'd to lw gripping a position, and wP·n· standing in tlwir way." 
Wnst Virginia's df'fnnsl' has bPI'II nothing short of a brick wall this sPason. In tlwir nirw ganws, 

t.lw Mountairwt'rs ''The !Jig Hast season plagtwd hy nag­havP cont"P<IPd ging injurins, will
is coming to a point
only I h n·n goals, nntnr Saturday's
trlwre you really 
a"d tIll' i r o. :c~ ganw as lwa I thy goals-against need to he gripping a as tlwy havn bl'l'll avPragl' is tlu• all Sl'ason.
position. and we're 
lwsl in lhl' Big Sophomon~ mid­
standing in their
I•:ast. Tlwir tough fioldnr Michatd
.. 

di'I'PnSI' will tnst way. Thomas and for­tlw Notrt' Danw ward Tamba oiTnnsn. whirh Samba both
Ryan Miller
has bnl'n shut out rnturned to thn
Irish defenseman 
only orw tinw in iLo.; last 2:~ ganws. 
Irish mach Bobby Clark atlrib­utnd WPsl Virginia's dnfnnsivt~ proWI'SS to a rombination of tac­tit:s and talent. 
"Tlwy·n~ fairly cautious, and thny knnp their back four ]dnfnndnrs] at hornn plus tlwir dnfnnsivn t:Pntral midf'iPidnr," Clark said. "Plus. they'rn good playnrs, and thn bulk of thnir players arn bark fi·om last ynar." 
Wnst Virginia rnturns night startPrs from last yoar's tnam that finished 15-:{-:{, but orw playPr that graduatnd is Zarh .Johnson, who led Wnst Virginia last season in goals (14) and poinL'i (32). 

Tlw Mountaineers miss .Johnson's offensive prowoss. Wnst Virginia has not seorPd morn than one goal a ganw this snason, and each of iL'i ganms has finislwd in Pither a 1-0 win or 1-0 loss. 
"Whnw ]West Virginia] nends to makn up ground is thnir for­wards," Millnr said. "Tiwy'rp rl'lurning a rnally strong squad otlwr than ]Johnson], so they'n• going to bl' rnally tough." 
Thn Irish, who 
havP lwPn 
linnup 
Wednnsday against Michigan, and they will lw available to play again Saturday. 
Senior forward Kurt Martin. who I nil Notre Dame's 1-1 over­limn tie with Cincinnati Sept. 28 bneause of an ankle injury, is like­ly to return Saturday. Junior defender Jack Traynor, who did not play in the second half of W!~dnesday's game bocauso of a musde strain, is also likely to be baek on the lield Saturday. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 


Write Spoils: Call Chris at 
-
631-4543 

.319 attack pereentagn. Senior setter Ashlny Taru tis
Louisville 

rccorded the bnst oiTnnsivn continued from page 24 
numbers with 25 assists and 
the highest kill pnrcnntage, records of 4-0 and both successfully hitting six of Villanova and Pittsburgh arc seven balls. 3-1. Senior captain Adrianna 
Last weekend, Notre Dame Stasiuk posted nine kills, and split its home series, freshman with its first 3-0 outside hit­sweep of the season ter Knllie
"The team is
against Seton Hall Sciacca Saturday, followed continuing to postnd by a tough loss to SIWen.
learn a lot. " 
Villanova Sunday. Though 
"I think there Notre Dame were some really Debbie Brown continued bright spots ]this Irish coach its success­weekend] and there ful ofTen­were also some sive output results that were with a .294 less than what we expected," attack percentage against coach Debbie Brown said. Villanova, the Irish fell back to 
In Saturday's match against .500. Sophomore outside and the Pirates, the Irish played opposite hitter Serenity their most effective offensive Phillips recorded a career­game of the season with a high 26 kills while sophomore 
outside and oppositP hittnr Megan Fosl had 15 and Stasiuk had 14. 
"Tlw tnam is conti nu ing to learn a lot. Tlwrn is no quos­lion that wn l'nol likn WI' shot oursnlves in t.lw foot with Villanova," Brown said. "Things were undPr control and then we lnt tho match slip away. Wo arP looking to regroup and learn from our mistakes." 
Saturday's contest will bn the third eonJ'PrtHlCt~ homn gamn of tho snason for Notre Dame. 
Last season, the Irish swept Rutgers 3-0. The Scarlet Knights are 1-3 in tho Big East with an overall reeord of 3-10. They have suffernd two losses to No. 19 OrPgon and, most recently, lost their home open­er 3-0 to South Florida. 
Contact Ellyn MichaJak at emichaJa@nd.edu 


Sophomore forward Michelle Weissenhofer plays a ball in front of Cincinnati's net in Notre Dame's 6-1 victory over the Bearcats on Sept. 30. Weissenhofer had two goals in the game. 
Red StoriD 
continued from page 24 
Brittany Bock said. 

"We're just more focusing on how we're playing," Bock said. "The past couple games have been more of our mistakes than anything. We're really focusing on what we have to do and that will take care of the games." 
It's a bit ironic that the team would work on lixing mistakns after its last game. a 6-1 win over Cincinnati Sunday. 
The Irish are 3-l in their last four games and have a 12-3 scoring edge over their oppo­nents in that stwtch. Bock said that even monwntary lapsns of concentration ean affect a game, whit:h is why tlw team is t'oeusing on fundanwntals. 
"They'rn just littll' PITors, lit­1In nw n t a I m is takes," Bock said. "We'vf) bPen playing wnll as a tnam, but it's just cme lit­tin mental brnakdown on any part of the liPid that just lmtds to a whole sPquenen and thnn a goal. It's just staying sharp the whole gamn, working hard at any rnomPnt. and not letting down for one second. 
The Jrish faen a Syraeusc~ team Friday that is 4-4-3 and 
recently tied No. 22 West Virginia in overtime. The Orange goalkeeper, sopho­more Eliza Bennett-llattan. has allowed only 11 goals dur­ing the season and has made 63 saves. Senior rnidfielder Jen Taormina leads Syracuse in scoring with four goals. 
The Red Storm aro 7-2-1 and are fresh off a 4-1 victory over Pittsburgh. Senior for­ward Krystle .Jalalian leads St. John's with five goals. The HPd Storm has rotated two knnp­ers, junior Hnbncea Capinnra and senior .Jaime Bnran. Neither one prnsnnts it wnak­ness -bntwenn tlw two of them, they'vn given up seven total goals and just 0.(17 pPr game. 
Thn Irish lwad into this weekend with a 27 -ganw unbPatPn strPak against Big East opporll'nts. Tlwy are 26­0-1 sine<' a loss to Marqunttl' in 2005. In light of tlw· tnam's early lossPs, Bork said, till' streak rnmains important ­not only to thn !Pam hut a I so to the NCAA ToLII'IHlllWnt. 
"Especially with thP four lossns we've had, it's morn crucial than any time to knPp all thosn wins in tlw Big East just to help our rankings for the NCAA's," slw said. "That's always on the bark of our mind, rankings for the NCAA's. And obviously wn want to go undefeated in the Big East and win the Big 1\ast conference." 
Boek said the team dynamic felt more like that of her first two seasons with the Irish. 
Early in the year, thn offnnse struggled to convert st:oring chances whiln the defense lacked thn full abilities of jun­ior center back Carrie Dew, who was rneovering from an ACL injury she suffered at the end of last season. Now, although sophomorn centnr baek llalny Ford n~mains side­lined with a hamstring injury, the dnfnnsn is strong. 
Frnshman Laurnn FowlkPs switc:lwd from midficdder to centPr back and has handiPd tlw transition wtdl. Sophomore forward Miclrnln Wc•issl'nholi•r, 
rtH~ <' n t Iy o u t bn ca u s I' o f a n ankle~ injury, saw tirrll' against Cinrirr nali and scorPd twic·p in tlw final 14 minutPs. 
The tt~am is in good form. Bock said. 
"We'rp nxcitnd about this wePkl'nd, and Pach wt•Pknnd on forward, just lw1:ausl' WP'rn playing wnll, wp'n~ on lop of things, and things art' just starting to rnally rlick." shn said. " ... WP'rp looking for­ward to this J."riday, and artPr that. to take earn of busirwss the rest of tlw way." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 


MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Lawyers with many assts.

"It's all here" sloganeer. once 34 I.T. firm founded by Ross Perot
4 Frisky one 35 Wine used to
8 Marie Osmond make zabaglione or Loretta Young 36 Soviet 
14 "Elijah" or "The 37 Member of anCreation" 
extended familia 16 Key on a cash 
38 Country that wonregister 

the most medals 17 Drop a few at the 1980 positions. maybe Winter Olympics 
18 Overprotect 40 Reluctantly accepting
19 Maker of Kiwi Teawi 42 First name in cosmonautics
20 Mystery author Dexter 43 Major U.S. Spanish­21 The Pacific language daily Ocean's only 44 Rarely written­island kingdom out Latin phrase22 It was good for 48 "Wozzeck" Sartre 
composer_23 One and only 
Berg 26 They're staffed 50 What stare with doctors decisis upholds 30 Bad time for a the validity of tropical vacation 52 Red line? 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
of the drawers? 
54 Set of guidelines 
55 Mrs. Tony Blair 
56 Put forward 
57 Has trouble 
sleeping, maybe 58_Ramsay ('The Black Stallion" hero) 59 Sorry 
Down Continue effortlessly 
2 Dog in Disney's "Cinderella" 3 "Paradise Lost" character 4 Ultraloyal employees 5 Passed on by taletellers 6 Not full-bodied 7 Wingtip tip 8 Feeling no better 
9 "Man is a using animal": Thomas Carlyle 
1 0 Pass under the basket, maybe 
11 Is clueless 
12 Stout alternative 
13 Drift boat attachment 15 Highest-grossing film of 1986 20 Bridesmaid's accessory 22 Very disagreeable 
24 Hear 
25 Analytic work 
27 Soul singer who 
is also a coronated king of Ghana 
28 New rendering 
WILLSHORTZ 

"=-4----1...._4----+--1---1 
Puzzle by Patrick Berry 

30 Take one more  45 1981 Literature  50 "Fantastic!"  
shot at 31 It may be bid  Nobelist Canetti 46 Stocking stutter  51 Ne plus ultra  
32 One of the "10 Attic orators"  47 Fabric with the  52 Work within a company, say  
39Tate (London art gallery)  same name as a Scottish river 49 French district  53 Density symbol, in physics  
41 Team that won  that lent its  54 Material at the  
the first A.F.L.  name to a  basis of  
championship  foodstuff  "Jurassic Park"  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

JJr!JJWl1Ji1J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LEVED 
j

ri I I
1 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
i;~~rl]
tREATEA t
IJ J
I 
www.jumble.com
tVAQUER I

IJ [J
I 

Ans: rI I I I J"r I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: JUROR MUSTY HICCUP FLATLY Answer: What the knife thrower wore on stage ­A "SHARP" OUTFIT 
HOROSCOPE Fridays with Fran Tolan 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Gimme an I. Gimme an R. Gimme an I. Gimme an S. What's that spell? Oh, crap. (1 star) 
Libra (Sept. 23-0ct.22) 
Every time you eat an egg, you eat a chicken's baby. So every time you eat an egg, think about eaLing a baby. (0 stars. Sorry, you killed a baby) 
Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) 
Embrace the rat-tail. (3 stars) 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) 
Be careful who you choo-choo-choose. (2 stars) 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) Be careful around Romulus and don't trust Remus. (4 stars) 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) If it's black, send it back. If it's brown, drink it down. (5 stars) 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) 
Pop a wheelie, man. (6 stars) 
Aries (March 21-Apr. 19) 
Tap Z twice to do a barrel roll. (2 stars) 
Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20) 
While you're up, grab me one. (5 stars) 
Gemini (May 21-June 20) Get your ear pierced. Oh, wait, you're a boy? Then never mind. (6 stars if you're a guy, 1 if you're a girl.) 
Cancer (June 21-July 22) .. If you are a boy who watched Grey's Anatomy last night, go get your ear pierced. (1 star) 
Leo (July 23-Aug.22) 

Did you know the lyrics to "(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman" were written by a guy? Now you do. (5 stars). 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Now turn the lens until the image is sharp 
WHEN THE NOVICE WAS TAUGHT HOW TO FOCUS, THE INSTRUC.TIONS WERE--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
..... 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, October 5, 2007 
page 24 
MEN's SOCCER 

Scaling the Mountaineers 
Irish host No. 21 WVA in Blue Div. matchup 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 
After dispatching of rival Miehigan 3-0 Wednesday, No. 3 Notre Dame will try to maintain its undefeatml record in confer­ence play and eight-game overall unbeaten streak wh1m No. 21 West Virginia eomes to town. 
The Irish (7-1-2, 4-0-1 Big East) currnntly occupy first place in the Big East Blue Division -a half-game ahead of No. 2 Connecticut -whiln the Mountaineers (6-3-0, 2-2-0) enter Saturday's game No. 4 in the Blue Division. Given the rank­ings, Notre Dame senior Hyan Miller nxpnelo; an inspired West Virginia team to show up. 
"We're No. :~ in the countrv and No. 1 in the Big East. so that puts 
see BIG EAST/page 22 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Rutgers in town to face Irish 
Jump in Big East standings possible 
By ELLYN MICHALAK 
Sports Writer 
Tied for sixth place in the Big East, Notre Dame can move up in the standings with a win Saturday at 2 
p.m. at homl~ against Hutgers. 
The Irish are 6-8 overall with a conference record ol' 2-2. With the .500 leagufl record, the Irish are tied with Connecticut for No. 6 in the Big East, while St. John's, Cincinnati and Louisville have perfect 
see LOUISVILLE/page 22 

MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Battle for the Crooked Stick resumes Sunday 
but looks to improve its offense "We won the game by two said. "If we capitalize on our at the end of the game. By ERIC PRISTER, MIKE against Fisher's stifling defense. touchdowns, so I'd say we opportunities and make huge Their early season perform­GOTIMER, PETER "We're just going to stiek to played pretty well," senior cap­plays on D, then we should be ance has the Knights tied with REISENAUR, LAURA MYERS our game plan and try to move tain Bill Whitaker said. pretty well off eo me Sunday." rival dorm Stanford for first in and ALEX BARKER the ball effeetively," Vermin The Green Wave has lofty the men's gold league. Spons Writers snnior captain Kyle Kownacki goals this season, but Whitaker Keenan vs. Alumni Despite sueh a hot start, 
said. "We have a lot of potential tries to remain focused on this Keenan looks to eontinue its Keenan sophomore captain Pat 
Fisher and Carroll will onee to have a strong offense; we week's rivalry game. winning ways while Alumni Burns thinks the Knights can do again battle for thn coveted just haven't found our rhythm "We prepare for every game looks to earn its first victory of' better. Crooked Stick when the two yet." like it's the ehampionship and the season this Sunday at 1 "We have lived up to our teams meet Sunday at 2 p.m. Kownaeki also considers the we've succeeded so far, but p.m. on Hiehle Field. expectations so far this year but on Biehle Finld. rivalry a positive factor. we'll be even more ready this Keenan enters the game with we still havn room to improve," 
The traveling trophy eurrent­"It elevates the intensity of Sunday," he said. a 2-0 record. After beating Burns said. "We want to make ly resid1~s in Fisher, after the the game beeause more is at No matter the opponent, Keough thoroughly in its first a big statement this weekend Creen Wave defeated the stake," he said. though, Fisher sticks to the game of the season, Keenan that we are the best team in Vermin in last year's final regu­Meanwhile, Fisher eomes into same game plan. topped defending champion this league by going out there lar season game. this Sunday 1-0 after defeating "We just have to play Fisher Morrissey 9-6 in its last game and putting up some points, 
This year, Carroll comes into the Sorin Otters 12-0 last week­football. The only thing that can on the legs of a 40-yard field the game with an 0-2 record, end. stop us is ourselves," Whitaker goal and a key goal line stand see BURNS/page 17 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
,. Pangborn strives for 
playoffs, Levvis a vvin 
Pasquerilla West, Lyons fight for playoff berth 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI, 
ANDY RENNER AND KEVIN 
HENRY 
Sports Writers 
Hiding a four-game unbeat­en stn~ak and looking for con­tinued outstanding perform­ance from undnrclassmen, Pangborn hopt~s to clinch a playoff' spot as it takes on I.Pwis Sunday at 5 p.m. on B inh In Fitdd. 
Arter an opnning-ganw loss to Wtdsh Family. tlw l'hoxns have bounc·pd hack. tying Badin and tlwn boating Lyons and l'asquPrilla WPsl in con­seeu Live games. The team added to its unbeaten streak Thursday by tying Breen­Phillips 24-24. 

Though they expressed some disappointment after giving up an 18-point lead late in the game, the Phoxes are all but guarantm~d a play­ofT spot now. 
Lewis comes into the game at 1-2. its lirst win coming in last wePkend's 6-0 victory over Breen-Phillips. llowRVer, tho Chicks' game against Badin was postponed earlier in the season. so if they ean 
see CHICKS/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Team's focus lies in details 
Irish look to keep Big East 27-game undefeated streak 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Whattwer the cause of Notre Dame's recent suc­eess, the Irish don't feel they arc done improving as they head into this weekend's games at Syracuse and St. John's. 
Bather than foeusing on speeifie game plans for the Orange or Hed Storm, the Irish worked on their own game. junior midl'ielder 
see RED STORM/page 22 



page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 5, 2007 
COMMENTARY 

Aggression can be a team strength 
Nobody wants to soe a tnam of thugs. 
Avoiding l'ights is a good thing, but rod-blooded Arnoricans are morn than will­
ing to support a toarn that shows somo aggression and its fair sharo of con­fidonen. 
And for good rna­

son. Ken Fowler 
That's the kind of por­s on a 1i ties, .')ports Writer 
by and 
largo, wn 
have. 
Tlw balanee bntwenn confi­dence and coekinnss -and bntwoen aggn~ssion and stupidi­ty -however, is tough to meas­urn. 
Against l'urduo, frnshman Brian Smith was llaggml for a Jato hit on Boilermakers quar­ll~rback Curtis Painter. Painter, I 0 yards away from the first­down marknr on third-and-long, was angling himself toward th!~ boundary. Smith expoditnd his visit to tlw sidelines with some­thing nwn~ than a push but less than a walloping, and the refnr­(Ws called a personal foul, extending Purdue's drivo, whieh ended with a Curtis Summers l'ield goal to put tho Boilermakers up 26-6. 
Even though Smith hit Painter inbounds -and the call was, well, bogus -tho play was stu­pid. There are certainly times to make that hit, even if you're going to got a penalty, but not whon you'rn down 20 and about to fon~o a rnueh-nnndnd punt. 
But thorn's sonwthing rnfresh­ing about Smith's play. lie was showing a little passion, a little omotion. It was an unusual sight out of the Notre Dame dnfenso, which hadn't soon that typo of play sinen the rain was coming down in East Lansing, Mich. 
It was something of a good sight, but Brian Smith's aggres­sion needs to bo harnessnd. 
Certainly, seeing a freshman make an impact on defense with a high-energy playing style is a positive. But that needs to be corralled into a positive, not a rwgative. 

So there's room for hope. 

A bigger reason for hope is what happened in practice Tuesday. 
Charlie Weis explained the sit­
uation this way: 
"We had one of our defensive players stone one of our oll'en­sive players right at the line of scrimmage, or even for a minus-one. And everyone walked back to the huddle. I stopped practice at that time and say, 'I don't get it.' I go, 'This guy just ... stoned a guy at the line of scrimmage, pancakes him to the ground. You would think as a guy on that group, you'd be oxeitnd ....' 
"I think that sometimes you just have to make them aware. of the perception that they're worrying more." 
I laving a lwad eoaeh instill in the tnarn a desire for emotion is somnthing Notre Dame hasn't seen since Lou I loltz was grab­bing facemasks and worrying about the University of Navy. 
And it's even more important for Weis beeausn he's been adamant about his skepticism for emotion-toying gimmicks beforn games. Weis still believes that uniform changes and pre­game ploys last at most a quar­ter, but that doesn't mean he isn't a fan of emotion. 
"It doesn't matter what level it's on -pro, college, it doesn't make a difference. What hap­pens is, that stuff lasts for the start of thn game," Weis said. "Then, early in the game, whether it's pro or college, if you withstand the flurry that happens at the start of the game, then it's just a game." 
And, as Weis knows, if you don't play with emotion, it does­n't matter -college or pro. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those o.f The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at k.fowler 1 @nd. edu 
2007 Irish opponents 
Last week W, 13-3, Clemson  This week at Maryland  
L, 20-27, Illinois  vs Iowa  
W, 28-16, NW  vs E. Michigan  
L, 34-37, Wise.  vs N'Western  
W, 33-19, ND  vs Ohio State  
W, 40-14, Oreg. St.  vs Notre Dame  
W, 24-14, UMass W, 27-24, Wash.  vs Bowl. Green vs Stanford  
W, 31-20, AFA  at Pittsburgh  
L, 20-31, Navy  vs UNLV  
L, 14-24, Miami L, 3-41, ASU  vs Wake Forest at USC  

' s 


Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, heartyfood and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates l.Ddge has hotel rooms at reasonable ratesfur upcomirJR ND fOotball weekends.) 
VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer 
Irish running back James Aldridge runs upfield against Purdue during Notre Dame's 33-19 loss to the Boilermakers Saturday. 



Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The consummate teammate 
Irish quarterback Evan Sharpley remains team-focused while vying for top job 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Edtor 

Reporters crowded around junior quarterback Evan Sharpley as he entered the Guglielmino Athletic Complex auditorium Tuesday. Despite Sharpley's 208-yard, two­touchdown performance in the sPeond half of Notre Dame's 33-19 loss to Purdue, coach Charlie Weis said if freshman .Jimmy Clausen is healthy, Clausen will get the start. 
Quarterbacks coach Hon Powlus said Tuesday -and Weis reiterated Wednesday ­Clausen looked fine in practice and probably will start Saturday against UCLA, rele­gating Sharpley to play backup for at least another week. 
Sharpley was already the backup for two years behind Brady Quinn. Now he is the backup to a freshman. But even though Clausen started the last four games, Sharpley didn't criticize his coaches. He didn't complain. He said all the things a true team player would say. 
"I think there's always going to be disappointment when you're not named the starter, but at the same time I realize what our goal is," Sharpley said Tuesday. "If the coaches think those guys are giving us the best chance to win then that's what I have to respect and do the best that I can to help the team anyway." 
Before Clausen's first start against Penn State, Weis said Clausen was the No. 1 quarter­back coming out of the four­mao competition that dominat­ed spring practice. 
"I think what we felt, at the end of spring, we took every throw by every player, and running the operation and everything we do, as we evalu­ated as a staff, the nudge would have gone to [Clausen] at that time," Weis said. 
Heporters asked Sharpley if he was upset because he feels he should be the starter. After all. half of the quarterback candidates from spring prac­tice are gone -Zach Frazer transferred to Connecticut over the summer, and Demetrius Jones transferred to Cincinnati this fall in part because of Weis' comments before the Penn State game. 
But Sharpley still said all the right things. 
"I respect their decision and the way they feel and whatever decision they make is the one we have to go with," he said. ''I'm not going to complain, I'm just going to keep working hard." 
Hulkow's disappointment 
Rich Hulkow, Sharpley's coach at Marshall High School in Marshall, Mich., said he isn't surprised his former player is handling himself well. 
"Well that's it, he's got great character. He is a great kid, works hard, is responsible, very coachable, does what the coaches ask of him," Hulkow said. "If [their decisionl isn't something he likes, he's going to do what's best for the team." 
Sharpley threw for 1,389 yards and 16 touchdowns in his senior season at Marshall. He also had four interceptions while playing free safety. The Detroit Free-Press named him Division IV all-state quarter­back for his senior campaign, in which he led Marshall to the state playoffs. 
Sharpley was also named to the Michigan High School Baseball Coaches "Dream Team" twice and earned three varsity letters in basketball. Sharpley continued his base­ball career at Notre Dame, along with his brother Ryan. In 

"It was just an opportunity to come in and help our team win," Sharpley said. "And unfortunately that didn't hap­pen and I take a lot of the blame for that, that we didn't come back. We were pretty close, had an opportunity and let it get away." 
Hulkow thought Sharpley played well in the loss. 
"He looked poised. I thought the team responded really well also. They had a bit of a spark out there," Hulkow said. " ... He's got a great arm. He's had one since high school and the days he was a baseball pitcher, so it didn't surprise me. He's got a great arm and that's why he's at Notre Dame." 
Sharpley said he and Hulkow developed a good relationship while Sharpley was at Marshall. 
But while Sharpley is reluc­tant to voice disappointment with the quarterback situation, his old coach is not. 
"From what I understand is, I don't know how well it was handled in terms of Jones being a starter and then hear­ing there wasn't any competi­tion at all," Hulk ow said. 
Before the season began, Weis did not publicly announce who the starting quarterback would be, but Hulkow said he would have handled things dif­ferently. 
"Well you know it's disap­pointing that people aren't up front with their athletes. You know, I wouldn't do that with my high school kids and try to play mind games with them," Hulkow said. "I think every­body operates better from a point of honesty and say, 'You know when Jimmy Clausen comes back, he's going to be the guy,' and let people work from there instead of building false hope." 
Hulkow said he is proud of how Sharpley is accepting his role. 
"I think he's handled it with class a lot more so than the way it's been handled," Jlulkow said. "It'd be easy for a 20-year-old to pull a Demetrius Jones and say, 'You know more character than the situa­tion that's been around him." 
Backing up 
Sharpley said he is disap­pointed he is not the starter, but that does not change the way he gets himself ready each week. While Sharpley does not take the same amount of snaps in practice that Clausen does, he still has to concentrate on taking "mental reps" and fol­lowing along in practice, even if he is not in the play. 
"It's basically the same as being on the field except you're visualizing it," Sharpley said. "You say the play to your­self and you go through your read or if it's a run play, whether or not you need to motion someone to block.... There's a lot of things that go into it just mentally to keep yourself sharp." 
Against Purdue, Sharpley threw the deep ball to fresh­man wide out Golden Tate and found other receivers open underneath. Despite the limit­ed amount of reps he gets in practice, he said, he has a good rapport with his receivers. 
"I have a good relationship with a lot of the receivers and we're here through the sum­mer throwing a lot, and I stay after and throw with several of them each day to kind of build the timing and just get a few extra throws from myself," Sharpley said. 
Sharpley said he is always ready to take over the reins at quarterback and that the most important thing is not how much time he gets, but rather winning a game. It may be hard to accept the backup role now that Quinn is gone, but if that's what he has to do, he will do it. 
"I think it is d i ffi e uIt," Sharpley said. "But at the same time, we're here to win football games and I'm not going to take frustration out on anybody. I want to win just as much as the next guy dons, and that's really what we're here for." 

was a Sunday for him. And that's playing in the middle of basketball season. He's a con­summate three-sport athlete." 
Sharpley came to Notre Dame after Weis was hired in December 2004 and threw two passes in relief of Quinn last season. Sharpley saw time in Notre Dame's season opener 
2007, Sharpley "/ think [Sharpley] against Georgia saw action in 14 Tech and com­
has more character 
games for the pleted 10-of-13
than the situation 
Irish base ball passes for 92 team. that,s been yards in the 33­
Hulkow said around him. ,, 3 loss. Three Sharpley's work weeks later, in ethic allows him Notre Dame's 
Rich Hulkow 
to succeed at 31-14 loss to whatever sport Marshall High School Michigan State, he plays. football coach he completed 4­
"You know he used to always work in the middle of basket­ball season," Hulkow said. "He led our team in three-point shots and then every Sunday we'd go in the gym and he'd throw with six or seven receivers and from there he'd go with his dad to the batting cages and get his swings. That 
of-7 for 33 

yards. He had his breakout game against the Boilermakers last Saturday after replacing an injured Clausen. 
Still, for Sharpley, the game was "bittersweet." He threw his first career touchdown pass but said he would be happier if Notre Dame won the game. 

Irish quarterback Evan Sharpley, center, throws during Notre Dame's 31-14 loss to Michigan what, I'm going to pack my Contact Chris Hine at State on Sept. 22. Sharpley was 16-of-26 in Purdue's 33-19 win over Notre Dame last week. tent and leave.' I think he has chine@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 5, 2007 
HEADT 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2007 Schedule 
' 


Notre Dame Fighting Irish Record: 0-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

r' 
·-· ,., 
Charlie Wels head coach 

Charlie Weis Third season at Notre Dame career record: 
19~11 

at Notre Dame: 19~ 11 against UCLA: 1~0 
Sept. 1 Sept. 8 Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov. 25 

GA.TECH-L at Penn State-L at Michigan-L MICH.ST.-L atPurdue-L at UCLA BC 
usc 

NAVY AIR FORCE DUKE at Stanford 
No. 
I 2 4 5 6 7 
8 
9 11 12 
13 
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 
35 36 
37 
38 
39 39 40 41 42 43 43 43 44 45 45 47 
48 
49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 59 61 63 67 69 70 71 72 
73 
74 75 76 77 78 80 82 
H3 
84 
85 89 
90 
91 
92 
93 94 95 % 97 98 
Roster 
Name 
D.j.llurd 
Darrin Walls 
Gary Gray 
Arrnandu All.-n 
Ray ll~rring 
jimmy Clausen 
Rat.-shc.m Mt"Neil 
Tom Zbikowski 
LJavid Crimes 
Darrin Brcl&g 
Evan Sharpley 
Brandon Walker 
lt.'O Fc.•rrinc 
justin Gillett 
Geoffrey Price 
Duval K.tmara 
George West 
Tcrrail Ltmbcrt 
Barry Gallup Jr. 
Ambrose Wc.xxlt•n 
Golden Tate 
W. David Williams 
Leonard c;ordon 
Munir Prince 
Travis Thomas 
David Bruton 
Kyle McCarthy 
Jashaad Gaines 
jake Richardsville 
Harrison Smith Sergio Brown 
Luke Schmidt 
Robt>rt II ughes 
jam•·• Aldridge 
Nate Whitaker 
Kevin Smith 
DexCure 
Junior jabbie 
Wadt•lams 
Ryan Burkhart 
Kevin Brc.Klks 
Maurice Crum, Jr. 
Scott Smith 
Kevin Washington 
Mik••Andlo 
Eric Maust 
Mik••Anl'ilo 
Asaph Schwapp 
John Lconis 
Kris Patterson 
Aaron Nagel 
Steve Quinn 
Toryan Smith 
Stevt• Paskorz 
Dan Wcngt.•r 
Joe Bnx:kington 
Morrice Richardson 
Anthony Vemaglia Eric Olsen Kerry N<•al 
Dwight Stt•phenson Chris Stt.•wart 
j.J. jansl'n jeff 1is.1k 
Tom Heml•ndt•rft.·r 
Neil Kt•nm•dy 
Matt Romine 
llartl<•y Wt•bb 
Paul Duncan 
Matt Carufel Sam Young Taylor Dt•ver 
Andn•w NuS> 
Mich.1cl Turkovich 
john Sullivan 
Richdrd jackson 
Robby Parris 
Mik(' Rllgone 
Will Yt.•atman S,lm Vns John Carlson 
john Ry.1n 
Eml•ka Nwankwn 
Dcm•lllland 
Paddy Mullen 
Justin Brown Ian Wiliams Pat Kuntz 
Kalll'n Wade 
Trevor Laws 
Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 
WR 6-1 196 JR 
DB 6-1 180 so 
DB 5-11 180 FR 
RB 5-10 190 FR 
DB 5-10 197 so 
QB 6-3 207 FR 
DB 6-0 187 FR 
DB 6-0 207 SR 
WR 5-10 177 JR 
QB 6-1 188 SR 
QB 6-2 216 JR 
K 6-3 197 FR 
DB 6-0 189 SR 
QB 5-11 180 SR 
r 6-3 208 SR 
WR 6-5 222 FR 
WR 5-10 197 so 
DB 5-11 191 SR 
WR 5-11 185 so 
CB 5-11 196 SR 
WR 5-11 188 FR 
DB 5-9 173 SR 
DB 5-11 194 so 
DB 5-10 184 so 
RB 6-0 216 SR 
DB 6-2 207 JR 
DB 6-1 207 so 
DB 6-0 203 so 
WR 6-1 180 so 
DB 6-2 205 FR 
DB 6-2 196 so 
RB 6-3 248 so 
RB 5-11 238 FR 
RB 6-0 222 JR 
K 5-9 165 FR 
DB 6-0 180 SR 
DB 6-1 220 so 
RB 5-11 205 SR 
WR 5-9 183 SR 
K 5-11 196 so 
TE 6-2 241 so 
LB 6-0 230 SR 
LB 6-4 235 JR 
LB 6-1 241 JR 
DB 5-10 170 JR r 5-10 177 so DB 5-10 180 so FB 6-0 261 JR DB 5-9 169 JR WR 5-11 185 JR LB 6-1 229 FR LB 6-2 231 JR LB 6-1 245 so LB 6-2 235 FR OL 6-4 287 so LB 6-2 240 SR 1.8 6-2 244 so LB 6-3 234 SR OL 6-4 303 so LB 6-2 245 FR DL 6-2 272 SR OL 6-5 339 so L'i 6-3 242 SR OL 6-5 306 JR OL 6-5 285 JR Dl. 5-11 266 SR 01. 6-5 279 FR OL 6-6 305 so 01. 6-7 308 JR OL 6-5 295 so OL 6-8 310 FSO OL 6-5 2R9 FR DL 6-5 292 FR OL 6-6 301 JR OL 6-4 303 SR WR 6-3 204 so WR 6-4 209 so TE 6-5 2..'l0 FR TE 6-6 264 so WR 5-10 199 so TE 6-6 255 SR I.B 6-5 253 so DL 6-4 283 FR DL 6-3 287 JR DL 6-5 290 so DL 6-3 261 SR DL 6-2 300 FR DL 6-3 285 JR DL 6-5 257 so Dl. 6-1 296 SR 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
LLI 
:E 
oct 
Q 
LLI 
a::: 
..... 
0 
z 

Charlie Weis was 19-4 in his first 23 games in South Bend, but he's lost his last seven -and many of them haven't been close. His attempt to rely on  If Jimmy Clausen is healthy enough, he will start. If he's not, Evan Sharpley will. Both quarterbacks struggled early this season, but both  After a strong showing against Michigan State, the Irish went right baek to the anemic ground game they had had in previous weeks. The only positive was that  Notre Dame's passing game looked much better against Purdue, with Clausen and Sharpley combining for more than 370 yards through the air. Golden Tate gives the Irish  
outscheming opponents early in this season has set his young team back in its development.  looked much better against Purdue, throwing for a com­bined 377 yards. much of last season, will be under center for the Bruins rather than Patrick Cowan, the expe­rienced backup that start­ for just the second time this season, Notre Dame posted positive net rush­ing yardage. game on the ground and less than two yards per although it has mostly faced wide open passing  a legitimate deep threat, which may help Notre Dame's other receivers get open more often.  
Karl Dorrell's teams have run hot and cold throughout his tenure. They upset USC at the end of last season, but were blown out in the Emerald  Ben Olson, who started UCLA is giving up less than 100 yards per rushing attempt,  UCLA is 100th in the nation in pass defense, giving up over 270 yards per game through the air, including 391 yards to BYU. Cornerback Trey  
Bowl. They've looked good this season -with the exception of a shock­ing 44-6 loss to Utah.  cent of his passes in 2007. backs.  Brown does have three interceptions, however, and will look to prey on an inexperienced Irish Q13.  
When the Irish and ~r;pin§_,met ~~~J. year, Wei§ stJ:Uggl~ tp call <fffectivl plays against  ed against the Irish last year. Olson has completed slight more than 50 per­ offenses. It's top two tacklers are defensive Notre Dame needs to find the running game it  If Notre Dame's pass­ing game looks like it did in the second half against Purdue, the lrish will go  
UCLA defensive coot;~~ i­nator DeWayn\3 Walker­Bl.!ct Dor~@.~'S;,.fOJ,;!serva­tivP approach gave Notre,:•  h~4. against Mi$:Chj.ganSlat• to /tav9J ariY,#l<>peagainst· the Bruinj. tfC~A has,.plafef,l wJll against the run and will sW'tlt6i.v·· ut> ·--t1t~M~s h  qp and down the field on t~c J3 rutns.il .twe:r; if f~ l::;r·v t:~~t  
Dame a shot to win a~ !_~ end.,,,:= ..eBt'I·~Y ~nn took advantage of.  ground attack il:hless) Notre Da1ne iw.pro.­Qjjd:&ti~!tfl·y·~ '" . ' ~flhp; .  how many yards UCLA gave up in previous weeks.  




Chris Khorey 
Sports Editor 
All good things must come to an end. So must This is the week Notre Dame's offense puts it the bad. UClA isn't as good as it looked last week, all together-at least to the point of being bal­and Notre Dame isn't as bad as it looked in the anced and competent at moving the ball. For first four weeks of the season. Golden Tate will the sixth straight game, the undersized Irish
Irish 

take the free safety deep on almost every pass defensive line will give up big yardage on the play, freeing up DuvaJ Kamara underneath. The ground. Notre Dame will lose its eighth game Irish defense won't be great, but it will do in a row, but this one will be close, which is an
experts 

enough, and Notre Dame gets rid of the boola improvement over the blowouts, at least. hoop in the win column. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27 FINAL SCORE: UCLA 30 UCLA 24 Notre Dame 27 


Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 .­

Bruins

HEAD UCLA 
Record: 4-1 

UCLA Bruins 

UCLA 2007 Schedule 
~ 

26Cowan 
TE 
86 P.-ot.eu 18 Snead 
~~ 
t&~" 

191ohn801l 
J . 

'" 

DE 

116~ 
S6Blal<e 

BRUINS RUSHING BRUINS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 
Sept. 1  at Stanford-W  
Sept. 8  BYU-W  
Sept. 15  atUtah-L  
Sept.22  WASH.-W  

Sept. 29 at Oreg. St-W Oct. 6 NOTRE DAME Oct. 20 CALIFORNIA Oct. 27 at Wash. State Nov. 3 at Arizona Nov. 10 ARIZONA ST. Nov.17 OREGON Dec.1 at USC 
INTANGIBLES 
It doesn't matter if Purdue's Curtis Painter opponents run the was the first quarterback spread or the 1­to complete over 50 per­Formation and it cent of his passes against  The last two weeks, Notre Dame special teams have been embar­rassing. Blocking on returns was abysmal and the Irish botched two extra points and a  Notre Dame's fourth quarter comeback attempt against Purdue is the closest thing the Irish have had to momentum this season. If the Irish continue to play like that,  
all year. last week. this year have been Joe Cowan, each of  field goal. Eric Maust has taken over for Geoff Price as Notre Dame's punter.  the losing streak will end soon. But seven straight losses still weigh on this team's psyche.  
doesn't matter if the running backs are big or small, the under­sized Notre Dame front has given up tons of rushing yards Chris Markey and Kahlil Bell combine for over 180 yards on the ground per game, and  the Irish this season, but Notre Dame did intercept him twice. The Irish must improve their disci­pline -penalties in the secondary killed them Olson's favorite targets Brandon Breazell and  The Bruins have been solid in the kicking game this year. Field goal kicker Kai Forbath is 10 of 13 on field goals and perfect on extra points.  The Bruins are at home and coming off two wins that saw them score over 40 points. They also have revenge on their side after losing a heartbreak­ 
each is averaging more than five yards per carry. The Bruins rushed for over 330 yards against Washington two weeks ago.  whom is averaging more than 18 yards per catch. The Bruins scored on passes of 69 and 30 yards last week against Oregon State.  One negative is that kickoff specialist Jimmy Rotstein has yet to regis­ter a touchback.  er in South Bend last sea­son. UCLA has never beaten Notre Dame in three previous meetings.  
For the sixth straight week...t.h.~ Ir.is~, f~1£e a stell:~r forps offun­uing backs. Notr,.e Dame's rush defenle has been awful all y&ar, it:nd agttmst' Bell , and Markey, that does~; not seem likely ·.it'J"· .~ha~,····· ··  Olson is experienced ~~ri~~;y:ft!1d_~~·~ run the spread wh\fh Purdue ran effeifth~Jy last wee}(, but ttwystr~ulil ·getple!ii'y afy~d$ through tbe,.air, esp(lc~ · 1y iL~Jrish ar.e· , ~optherun.  . Notre Dame has been -~~ful _,_~p spec_· tjf:i~fcte t . full;speed..m, fulL JJis wffek to~tty to. . tb~ prob.lem~' but;J:;.ejng unable to convert.. extra points af!d l!1f >~~::~; hurt the Iris~. s  
 

z 
0 
-1
::a 
ITI 
c 
>
s: 
ITI 
c:: 
(") 
~ 


AP: NR Coaches: 25 
Karl Dorrell Fifth season at UCLA career record: 
29-21 
at UCLA: 
29-21 


against Notre Karl Dorrell Dame: 0-1 head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Hl  Wt.  YR  
1  Alterraun Vernor  DB  5-11  178  so  
1  Brandon Breazell  WR  6-0  162  SR  
2  Ryan Graves  WR  6-1  166  SR  
3  Rodney Van  DB  5-10  164  SR  
4  Terrance Austin  WR  6-1  199  so  
6  JamilTumer  WR  6-1  199  jR  
7  Courtney Vmey  DB  5-8  153  FR  
7  Ben Olson  QB  6-4  227  SR  
8  Chris Forcier  QB  6-3  185  FR  
8  Shawn Oatis  LB  6-0  218  jR  
9  Marcus Everett  WR  6-1  204  SR  
10  Gavin Ketchum  WR  6-5  202  jR  
11  Dennis Keyes  DB  6-2  199  SR  
11  Osaar Rasshan  WR  6-4  216  jR  
12  Patrick Cowan  QB  6-2  220  SR  
12  john Hale  LB  6-4  226  jR  
14  Chris Horton  DB  6-1  216  SR  
15  Ryan Moya  TE  6-4  229  jR  
15  KaiForbath  K  6-0  185  so  
17  Aaron Perez  p  6-4  223  SR  
18  Matt Slater  DB  6-0  198  SR  
19  Dominique johnson  WR  6-3  209  so  
20  Raymond Carter  RB  5-11  197  FR  
21  Ben Bruneau  WR  6-0  207  FR  
22  Michael Norris  DB  5-9  180  SR  
23  justin Fareed  RB  5-10  198  so  
23  Trey Brown  DB  5-9  189  SR  
24  RyenCarew  RB  5-10  205  jR  
25  Bret Lockett  DB  6-2  209  jR  
26  joe Cowan  WR  6-4  219  SR  
27  Aaron Ware  DB  6-0  193  jR  
28  Chris Markey  RB  5-10  210  SR  
29  Terry O'Neal  DB  6-0  191  FR  
30  Chris Meadows  DB  5-11  180  SR  
31  Garrett Rubio  DB  5-9  188  so  
32  Michael Pitre  FB  5-11  226  SR  
33  Christian Taylor  LB  6-1  220  SR  
35  Matt Culver  DB  6-2  200  SR  
36  Kahlil Bell  RB  6-0  211  JR  
37  Luc Barbosa  LB  6-1  236  FR  
39  Danny Rees  p  6-3  178  so  
40  AkeemAyers  LB  6-2  224  FR  
41  Dylan Rush  FB  6-4  247  so  
42  Chane Moline  RB  6-1  225  so  
43  Steve Sloan  LB  6-3  230  FR  
44  Bruce Davis  DE  6-3  234  SR  
45  Tobi Umodu  LB  6-0  231  so  
46  Chad Moline  FB  6-0  228  SR  
47  Chinonso Ayanwu  DE  6-5  219  jR  
48  Mike Schmitt  LB  6-0  222  so  
49  Fred Holmes  LB  6-2  231  SR  
50  Chase moline  DL  6-2  268  jR  
50  Aaron Meyer  OL  6-1  283  SR  
51  Nate Skaggs  OL  6-4  299  SR  
52  Christian Yount  LS  6-1  240  FR  
52  jess Ward  DL  6-4  287  jR  
53  joshua Edwards  LB  6-1  223  SR  
54  Kyle Bosworth  LB  6-1  222  jR  
55  Korey Bosworth  DL  6-1  233  jR  
56  Tom Blake  DL  6-4  263  SR  
57  jake Dean  OL  6-4  284  so  
58  Micah Reed  OL  6-4  207  SR  
59  Michael Lulu  LB  6-1  220  so  
60  Chris joseph,  OL  6-5  287  SR  
61  Andy Keane  OL  6-2  269  so  
62  P.j. Tobyansen  LS  5-11  211  so  
64  Brian Rubinstein  LS  6-0  259  SR  
66  Mike Harris  OL  6-5  306  FR  
67  P.j.lrvin  OL  6-5  308  SR  
68  Brian Abraham  OL  6-6  298  SR  
69  Brandon Bennett  OL  6-4  318  so  
70  Tony Lee  OL  6-4  270  SR  
71  Shannon Tcvaga  OL  6-3  316  SR  
72  Sean Sheller  OL  6-5  271  so  
73  MicahKia  OL  6-6  303  so  
74  Noah Sutherland  OL  6-4  295  SR  
75  Kevin Brown  DL  6-3  294  SR  
78  Aleksesy Lanis  OL  6-5  319  jR  
81  Glenn Rauscher  TE  6-3  224  FR  
83  Adam Heater  TE  6-5  250  jR  
85  David Carter  DL  6-5  259  so  
86  Logan Paulsen  TE  6-6  252  jR  
87  Tyler Holland  TE  6-4  240  jR  
89  Nate Chandler  TE  6-3  261  FR  
90  Jerzy Siewierski  DL  6-2  290  so  
91  Reginald Stokes  DL  6-3  251  so  
92  Brian Price  DL  6-1  295  FR  
92  Travis Martin  TE  6-3  243  SR  
93  Brigham Harwell  DL  6-2  299  SR  
96  Nikola Dragovic  DL  6-4  263  SR  
97  Darius Savage  DL  6-4  325  so  
98  jeff Miller  DL  6-5  249  so  
99  Scott Glicksberg  TE  6-4  257  SR  
99  justin Edison  DL  6-3  241  FR  


Chris Hine 

Sports Editor 
-
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 5, 2007 
Crunching the 

Saturday Pick 'ein 
Khore;r Hine Fowler Fitz(!atrick
numbers 
Season Record: (73-27) (78-22) (82-18) (80-20) No. 9 Florida at No. 1 LSU LSU LSU UF LSU 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
Stanford at No. 2 USC usc usc usc usc 
No. 4 Ohio State at No. 23 Purdue Purd. osu osu Purd. 
UCLA points scored 
ND points scored 

No.5 Wisconsin at Illinois Wise. Illinois Illinois Wise.
-
No. 6 South Florida at Fl01ida Atlantic USF USF USF USF 
UClA points allowed 

Bowling Green at No. 7 Boston College BC BC BC BC
ND points allowed 

No. 10 Oklahoma at No. 19 Texas Okla. Okla. Okla. Texas UCLA rush yards 
No. 12 Georgia at Tennessee UGA Tenn. UGA UGA
NO rush yards No. 13 West Virginia at Syracuse wvu wvu wvu wvu UCLA rushing allowed 
No. 15 Virginia Tech at No. 22 Clem'lon Va Tech Clem. Clem. Clem. ND rushing allowed .· Utah State at No. 16 Hawaii Hawaii Hawaii Hawaii Hawaii 
UCLA pass yards 

No. 25 Nebraska at No. 17 Missouri Neb. Missou Missou Missou ND pass yards 
No. 18 Arizona State at Washington State ASU ASU ASU ASU 
No. 20 Cincinnati at No. 21 Rutgers Rut. Rut. Rut. Cinci.
UCLA passing allowed ND passing allowed 

Kansas at No. 24 Kansas State KSU KSU KSU KSU 
*Upset special in bold 


Friday, October 5, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Big catches make Tate instant fan favorite 

VANESSA GEMPISfThe Observer Irish receiver Golden Tate catches a pass against Boilermakers cornerback Royce Adams during Notre Dame's 33-191oss to Purdue. 
"Golden Gos." 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
There is a group on 
Sports Editor 
Facebook.com selling T-shirts 
that read "Golden is thy Tate" 
Golden Tate has been on and feature an Xs and Os dia­Notre Dame's campus for a gram with a straight line point­month -which is about the ing up field labeled "23" for same amount of time he's been Tate's jersey number. playing wide receiver. But on the practice field, Irish 
He only has coaches are three collegiate still working to
"I remember
catches, and, so get the fresh­
far, he's only watching [Tate's] man, who was come off the highlight tape with mainly a run­bench to run go­ning back in
my wife at my house. 
routes. high school,
I said, 'Can we get
But in those used to playing three catches, that guy?"' receiver in a Tate has become collegiate a hot name in the offense.
Roblanello
dining hall. "When you're
Irish receivers coach 
"People can see a young guy, he's got some the first thing speed, people can see he's got you're trying to do is get lined some explosion, and people can up and learn the offense," see he's got some ball skills," Ianello said. "He played multi­Irish wide receivers coach Rob ple positions in high school, so Ianello said. settling in to one position, he's 
Tate hauled three of the four growing with it." passes thrown his way in a 33-Head coach Charlie Weis said 19 loss to Purdue Saturday, the Irish are trying to "fast leaping and diving for the ball track" Tate's development so and blowing by defenders who they can expand his role as probably knew by the third or quickly as possible. fourth time they guarded him "We all found out the other exactly what he was going to day that he can run go-routes do. and catch the ball in traffic," 
In all, Tate amassed 104 Weis said. "Now we have to yards receiving -and became make sure he can run a handful a fan favorite in the process. of other routes and run them 
I lis circus catches are one the with some type of' precision, so few bright spots in an otherwise you're not guessing where he's dismal 0-5 start for Notre going to be on different routes. Dame. Students are already That's what we're going to work thinking up nicknames for his on this week." patented fly routes, including Ianello said the staff will include Tate in more plays, but he declined to comment on specifics. 
"If I told you that, you could e-mail it to [UCLA defensive coordinator] DeWayne Walker," he said. 
Despite Tate's inexperience at receiver, Weis said, the fresh­man worked his way onto the field by his hard work on the show team, imitating oppo­nent's plays for the starters. 
"For the last two or three weeks he's easily been the best player on the field going against our defense," Weis said. "And when you watch the tape, and you see him make these plays, then you want to get him on the field on offense." 
Weis said he used Tate "as an example to the entire team as what you can do by running full speed on the show team." 
"We had this conversation on Sunday with the team," Weis said. "Sometimes when people are running the 'look squad' to simulate the opponent's offense or defense, they look at that like it's a penalty." 
While at John Paul II High School in Hendersonville, Tenn., Tate was named Mr. Football for the state of Tennessee. During his junior year, he had more than 1,100 yards rushing and added 800 receiving. 
"I remember watching his highlight tape with my wife at my house," Ianello said. "I said, 'Can we get that guy?"' 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Bragg returns to ND, becomes third-string QB 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
Five months ago, Darrin Bragg wasn't on Notre Dame's football team. Now he's the third -string quarterback. 
Over the summer, the senior Film, Television and Theater major was an intern at 20th Century Fox under Executive Vice President of Production Jim Sharp. Bragg said he was on the set when Notre Dame Director of Football Operations Chad Klunder called him in July and asked him if he would return to the Irish. 
"I was in the middle of work and they said, 'We need you to come back and play quarter­back,'" Bragg said. "And I'm like 'OK, sure. Why not? What am I going to say, no'?"' 
Former head coach Tyrone Willingham recruited Bragg as a quarterback out of Bellarmine Prep in San Jose, Calif. But when Willingham was fired after the 2004 sea­son, new head coach Charlie Weis moved Bragg to wide receiver. 
"I always wanted the ball every time the quarterback dropped back. I always thought, 'I'm open,' even if I was covered," Bragg said. "(Being a quarterback] helped out playing receiver because you knew if there was a hot [read] or something you knew what to do." 
Bragg did not see any time as a wide receiver in his two seasons at that position and decided in May that he would leave the team. Bragg thought he was treated somewhat unfairly as a receiver before he left the team. 
After the semester ended, Bragg went to Los Angeles to begin his internship with Fox, thinking that -even though he was still coming back to Notre Dame -he was done with football. 
"When I left school in May I thought I was probably going to be done next year," he said. "But then I got the call, and it was exciting -and I thought, 'Sure, why not?"' 
Bragg said he was unsure if the call was true since he had only quit the team two months before he was asked to come back. 
"I called them back and I was shocked," he said. "I called [quarterbacks] coach [Ron] Powlus and a couple of other coaches to make sure they weren't pulling my chain," Bragg said. "I was like, 'Really? Are you sure?"' 
Bragg said he did not know why the coaching staff decided to bring him back or if it was before or after sophomore quarterback Zack Frazer transferred to Connecticut. Either way, he appreciates head coach Charlie Weis for giving him a second chance to play Division I football. 
After the call, Bragg began to train to return to quarter­back -what he calls his more natural position. 
"I started training, I started running and throwing and stuff like that because I hadn't thrown a ball in like two or three years," he said. 
Bragg has made his mark on the scout team and has moved up to third on the depth chart after Demetrius Jones left the University earlier this season. 
"Darrin's doing a fine job for us," Powlus said. "It's good to see him running around, par­ticipating. It helps us out on scout team, it helps us out wherever we need him, when­ever we need him." 
Even though Bragg is happy to have returned to quarter­back, he is even more excited to play at UCLA, where he knows a lot of the players. His brother Craig played wide receiver for the Bruins from 2001-04. 
"[Craig] said they're going to smash us and that if he was playing they'd have 400 yards receiving," Bragg said. "But it's going to be fun playing them." 
Bragg also said that his emotions haven't changed much since he returned to the team, but that things will probably change by the Duke game Nov. 17-his final home game as a Notre Dame stu­dent. 
"I think it will be much more important for the last home game, suiting up instead of being in the stands watching it, so I'm really glad I came back just for that last game," Bragg said. 
"I could never imagine going from playing quarterback to a new coach ... and moving to receiver and then moving to quarterback," he said. "In four years, that's not how you real­ly plan out to be. It's been fun. It's been a great ride so far." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 5, 2007 
t 
~ 
I I I '"' I 

JOIN THE CONVERSATION 
Monday, r 8, 2007 
JOYCE CENTER, 3:00 to 5:00p.m. 
Free admission. No classes will be held during this period. 
For those unable to attend, a live video stream of the Forum will be available at forum.nd.edu. Moderator I Distinguished Panelists 








For more information go to forum.nd.edu. 

NOTRE DAME FORUM 




