
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's
. 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 100 THURSDAY, MARCH 8, 2007 
NDSP director Rakow dies at 55 
Security head served ND for three decades 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Editor 
Eighteen months and one day after doctors told Rex Rakow he had 12 to 18 months to live, the Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) director died at his home in Granger, Ind. He was 55. 
"That was the type of fighter he was," Rakow's wife linda wrote in a note that Coordinator of Event Security Cappy Gagnon shared with The Observer. 
Hakow, a Mishawaka native and NDSP's leader for over 30 years, was diagnosed with cancer in September 2005. 
"I think of Rex and I think of St. Francis who said something about 
preaching the Gospel and using words when neces­sary, said Associate Director of NDSP Phillip Johnson. "Rex lived his life as 

a Catholic, as Rakow a model for all of us. We're lucky to have had Rex cross our paths in life." 
Johnson, who graduated from Notre Dame in 1981, first met Rakow while a student at the University. 
"I had parked my car in B2late one night. I was a photographer so I had gone to the back of the car to grab the camera from the trunk," Johnson said. "Rex was on patrol and he asked me if I wanted a ride back to my dorm, and we devel­oped a friendship that lasted many, many years." 
Such friendships blossomed between Rakow and countless other people, many cultivated while he served as director of cam­pus safety office at Albion College, as adjunct instructor of criminal justice at Indiana University in South Bend, as a member of the Indiana Law Training Board and as a leader at NDSP for over three decades. 
Johnson said he spent Wednesday reviewing e-mails from colleagues from "New England to California, Colorado to Washington" all speaking about the great respect they had for Rakow -a man Johnson said lived for his "faith, family and friends." 
"He truly made not only Notre Dame, but our profession, a better place. I have so many messages that have crossed my desk today," Johnson said, neting one from a classmate of Johnson's who spoke about the accomplishments of 
see NDSP/page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 
Clause approved; Dworjan dodges removal 
Anti-discriminatory language supported 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The Senate meeting Wednesday was a victory for the Social Concerns commit­tee, which successfully passed a resolution requesting the University add sexual orienta­tion to its anti-discriminatory clause. 
The Social Concerns resolu­tion, presented by chair Sheena Plamoottil and com­mittee member Mary Popit, passed 25-1-1. The resolution addressed Notre Dame's cur-
see SENATE/page:} 

CHRIS MASSAD!The Observer 
Morrissey Hall Senator Greg Dworjan votes a~inst his removal from Student Senate during Wednesday's meetmg. 

Week w-arns, prolllotes alcoholllloderation 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Assistant News Writer 
With the slogan "BAC to the Beach: Here for the singe, not the binge," the organizers of Safe Spring Break/Alcohol Awareness Week 2007 warned students to exercise moderation in their vacation alcohol intake during an information fair in LaFortune Student Center Wednesday. 
Student government, the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education (ODAE). Peers Inspiring Listening, Learning And Responsible Socializing (PILLARS) and the Coca-Cola Company put together a series of activi­ties and giveaways through­
out this week to educate students about the dangers of drug and alcohol abuse during the vacation. 
"We always run Alcohol Awareness Week before spring break because people go to places where it's legal to drink before they're 21 years old," junior Meagan McGinley, a member of the PILLARS team, said. "Many students may consciously or unintentionally abuse that privilege, and it's important to educate them about the risks implied." 
McGinley said students should be aware of the blood-alcohol content (BAC) their bodies can tolerate before their decision-mak­
see WEEK/ page 6 

Group vote fails to meet needed majority 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Morrissey Hall residents, who attended the removal hearing of impeached Morrissey senator Greg Dworjan, stood and applauded Wednesday when the Senate failed to reach the two-thirds majority required to remove Dworjan from office. 
With several Manorites sit­ting on the edges of the room in their black and gold dorm shirts, senators spent over an hour questioning Dworjan 
see VOTE/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Jenkins to honorCSC overseas 
Trip to Puerto Rico celebrates anniversary 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
Just two months after his trip to Uganda as part of the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative, University President Father John Jenkins 
celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Pwerto Rico Center for Social Concerns (PRCSC) today by 


making a Jenkins special visit to Puerto Rico to commemo­rate the event. 
"I think it means quite a bit to [the Center] to have Father Jenkins there to celebrate the anniversary," said Liz Mackenzie, director of Senior Transition Programs at Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns. "The PRCSC is closely tied to Notre Da:me. It is mostly Notre Dame grads who work there and a lot of work is done with the alumni club [in Puerto Rico)." 
According to Frances Shavers, executive assistant to the President, Jenkins will arrive in P)Jerto Rico today and will meet with alumni and friends of the University. He 
see TRIP/page 4 

Election breaks gender barrier 
Brown, Braun first all­female ticket in ND history 
By AARON STIENER News Writer 
After weeks of campaigning, a 
tense and lengthy election process 
and an eventual triumph, only now 
are Notre Dame student body presi­

dent-elect Liz Brown and vice presi-· 
dent-elect Maris Braun beginning to 
grasp the reality of their win -one 
that breaks a 35-year barrier since 
women have been admitted to Notre 
Dame. 
With their victory, Brown and 
Braun became the first all-female 
ticket to be elected in Notre Dame 
history. 
While both state that they are 
proud to be a part of'that history, 
breaking that barrier was never their 
see WOMEN/page 6 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

StopbySMC graduation 
I'd like to thank my fellow reporters, the lovely Amanda MichaeL<>, Kelly Meehan and Kate Antonacci for inform­ing me about what I'm writing about today. 
When I read John-Paul Witt Kate's article on Feb. 16 about WlreNews General Electric Editor CEO Jeffery Immelt coming to Notre Dame to speak at graduation, I felt a little miffed. 
"Surely," I thought, "the speech will be relevant to the theme of 'Go forth and do good,' that all graduation speeches are geared towards, but what about for stu­dents outside of Mendoza?" 
Honestly, we're Notre Dame. The Fighting Irish. The preeminent Catholic university in the world. We have pull .. 
Then I read Amanda's column of Feb. 19, a list of 65 people who would be bet­ter graduation speakers than lmmelt. 
No offense, but I can add a few hun­dred names to her list. 
One of them is Samuel Alita, the speak­er SMC secured for their graduation cer­emony. 
I read Kelly's article of March 5, and I was shocked. I wasn't surprised that SMC could pull a graduation speaker of that caliber, a Justice of the Supreme Court, but that ND couldn't, or chose not to. 
Let's delve a little deeper. 
According to Fr. Jenkins, Immelt's "a business executive worth emulating." He's famous for his environmentally­friendly policies. GE is apparently the "Most Admired Company in the World" according to Fortune magazine. 
That all sounds great, but last year's speaker was the President of Ireland. In that capacity, Mary McAleese had experi­ences that student<> from almost all disci­plines can relate to, unlike Immelt. 
Even ifhe is an exceptionally skilled business executive, he's that, a business executive. 
The generic, motivational-esque speech I feel we can expect from him is a shadow of what Alito, someone who con­fronts national issues of ethics and morality and renders decisions that effect all Americans, will say. 
Don't get me wrong. I love business­people and business students. O'Shag isn't that far from Mendoza. 
But a large number of ND students are going on to careers in politics, academia or a professional discipline. Don't they deserve someone who can speak to their interests, concerns and dreams? 
Granted, no speaker is perfect. An engineer might not get as much out of a given speaker as an Archie, as an English major, etc. 
But shouldn't the first criteria for a speaker be someone who can appeal a) to the Spirit of Notre Dame and b) to most, ifnot all, of the graduating class? 
So, I say, spend a few hours at the SMC graduation. You might just hear some­thing that'll change your life. 
I'd also like to encourage any of you who are interested to attend "Seeking the Heart's Desire," a conference in honor of Fr. John Dunne, CSC, a great man, teacher, and mentor. It's from March 30 to April 1 in McKenna Hall. 
Finally, I'd like to give props to the finches on a statue outside the Riley Hall ofArt and Design. Good job chirping despite the snow, wind and cold. Keep it up. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, March 8, 2007 
QUESTION_ OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF THE 0WORJAN ETHICS HEARING? 
"'t is truly a 'Tm going to "Impeach him." "I abstain. '' "I think freedom "It's an 








sad day for Our abstain from Lady ofthe that one." 
Lake." 


OFFBEAT 
Groom hits his bride with car 
SALT LAKE CITY -It wasn't the most romantic of honeymoons. Police said a groom is in jail, accused of trying to run over his new wife after a weekend wedding in Las Vegas. 
"We have a wedding cer­tificate for [Marchl 4th. They were still honeymoon­ing when he ran her over," said Lt. Paul Jaroscak, a spokesman for the Salt Lake County sheriffs office. 
Police received an emer­gency call Monday from someone reporting a cou­ple fighting in a car as they traveled on Highland Drive, about 10 miles southeast of Salt Lake City. Katie 
TODAY 
IX 

Martindale, 29, apparently got out of the car and start­ed to walk away when James Olwine, 33, drove on· the road and hit her with the car, pushing her into a snowbank, Jaroscak said. 
Martindale was not seri­ously injured but might have a broken leg, Jaroscak said. 
Unzipped fly leads officers to pot stash 

EAU CLAIHE, Wis. ­Attempts to do a movie stunt landed one man in the hospital with burned genitals and another facing criminal charges. The men were trying to do a stunt from one of the· "Jackass" movies, in which a charac-
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LIJ :::z:: 
!ci: 
LIJ 
3: 
i)
.....
c:c 
0 


0 

HIGH 37 HIGH 30 HIGH 45 HIGH 45
..J 

LOW 28 LOW 28 LOW 35 LOW 28 
ofspeech abomination." 
should predominate, and he should get to stay in 
ter lights his genitals on fire. 
Jared W. Anderson, 20, suffered serious burns to his hands and genitals, according to the criminal co.mplaint. Randell D. Peterson, 43, who sprayed lighter l'luid on Anderson and lit him on fire, was charged with felony bat­tery and first-degree reck­less endangerment Tuesday in Eau Claire County Court. 
Witnesses told police that Anderson, who was drunk, volunteered to do the stunt Sunday after watching the movie, the complaint said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

office." 
IN BRIEF 
There will be a panel entitled "Gathering Ground: 10 Years of Cave Canem" today from 2 to 3:15 p.m. in McKenna 100­
104. The panel will feature 

.poets including Toi Derricotte and Cornelius Eady, co­founders of Cave Canem. 
Thomas-Glick, from Boston University's department of his­tory, will give a lecture on "Darwinism and the Vatican, 1877-1902: Did the Church Have a Policy?" today at 4:15 
p.m. in the Special Collections Reading Room of the Hesburgh Library. 
Dancer and fiddler Natalie MacMaster will perform in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 tonight Tickets are available at the box office. 
The Angelus Film Series will begin at 7 tonight in Browning Cinema. Films to be shown include: The Trojan Cow, Kilroy Was Here, The Queen of Cactus Cove and Silences. The series is spon­sored by the Center for Ethics and Culture. 
The film "Pan's Labyrinth" will be shown tonight at 1 0 in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The second round CCHA Hockey Playoffs will be held in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse Friday at 7:35 p.m. Notre Dame will Alaska. Tickets are available from the athletic department ticket office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, · e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 43 HIGH 47 LOW 33 LOW 35 
Atlanta 68 I 45 Boston 23 I 15 Chicago 38 I 17 Denver 60 I 32 Houston 72 I 50 Los Angeles 73 I 53 Minneapolis 34 I 12 New York 30 I 17 Philadelphia 35 I 17 Phoenix 83 I 57 Seattle 50 I 41 St. Louis 53 I 32 Tampa 77 I 57 Washington 44 125 

Thursday, March 8, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
said. Rakow worked hard to improve the visit Rakow at his home in mid­"I used to kid him [that] he owned Many fond memories of Rakow safety of the University he so deeply February, where he thanked him 50 sets of golf clubs," Gagnon said. 
NDSP 
Thursday, March 8, 2007, 7:00PM Browning Cinema, DeBar1olo Performing Arts Center 
Ascreening of four short, award-winning films produced, written, and directed by students. Following the screening, the directors will be present -to answer questions. This is a FREE but ticketed event. Call the DPAC Ticket Office at 57 4.631 .2800 to reserve tickets. 
Family Theater Productions, of Hollywood, California, created the Angelus Awards in 1996 to showcase and award emerging filmmakers and encourage them to continue creating visionary projects that honor the fundamental dignity of the human person. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
rent anti-discriminatory clause, which states that the University "does not discrimi­nate on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic origin, sex, disability, veteran status or age," Popit said. 
The Social Concerns commit­tee wanted to recommend that the University's Academic Council add sexual orientation into the clause. 
Popit said she has been working on this resolution most of the year and has researched other top tier and Catholic institutions -specifi­cally schools run by the Congregation of the Holy Cross -to see whether their anti­discriminatory Clauses include sexual orientation. 
"It is very interesting to see how many_ of these schools do have it in their anti-discrimi­natory clauses, including two of'the Congregation of the Holy Cross schools [Holy Cross College in Indiana and King's College in Pennsylvania]," Popit said. 
"This has set a precedent, and it's up to Notre Dame if they want to follow it or not." 
Popit said this is at least the second time in Notre Dame history this issue has been brought to the University administration. The Student Senate and the Faculty Senate both passed similar resolutions in 1998, she said. 
Plamoottil said although attempts in the past have failed, it is important that the Student Senate keep urging the administration to insert sexual orientation into the clause, even if their actions are just "one more drop in the bucket." 

"If we let this go under the table and pretend this doe~n't exist ... then the administra­tion will continually pretend that this isn't a problem," PlamoottH said. 
Fisher Hall senator Drew Clary questioned the appropri­ateness of the resolutions' ref­erences to the Catholic cate­chism or the comparisons it draws to other colleges, but several other senators praised Popit and Plamoottil for their work on the resolution. 
"This resolution is a great 
way for the Senate to stand up against discr~mination without going outside any of the boundaries of the Catholic Church and make that state­ment to the administration," off call)pus senator Mark Healy said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Andrichik said Dillon Hall senator Matthew Lodwich will be referred to the Student Union Ethics Committee for his excessive absences. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 
NDSP under Rakow that he saw firsthand as a NDSP employee in his undergraduate years. 
Rakow was known for his "great sense of humor" and his quiet lead­ership style, Johnson said. 
"He was a terrific professional who had that rare ability to make people like him so he could be effec­tive in a job where you have to say no to a lot of people," Gagnon said. "He was such a good professional with such a good demeanor." 
Gagnon and Rakow were friends before Rakow became Gagnon's boss, bonded by a similar sense of humor -a bond that lasted them through the years. 
Gagnon said he and Rakow would talk throughout the week about two shows they always watched -"NYPD Blue" and "Monk." 
"A fond memory is just sitting in his office and laughing," Gagnon also have to do with his dedication to service, Johnson said. 
"He was a true servant leader," Johnson said. "Rex really was a great teacher, a great mentor to many people." 
After being diagnosed with can­cer, Rakow was named co-chair­man of Notre Dame's American Cancer Society Relay for Life, an event he had been active in prior tO his illness. 
"He was active in many philan­thropic activities. Rex was a person 
. who just thought that the way to make the community a better place was by being active," Johnson said. "Rex thought he was just doing what all of us should be doing in serving not only Notre Dame but our community and serving others." 
Rakow worked until early January, when he took a leave of absence from his position. 
"He basically worked every day until it was too debilitating for him to come in," Gagnon said. 
Since 1979, when he first joined NDSP as an assistant director, loved. 
"When he came here, he was a young man in hi'i profession and we were just a security department," Gagnon said. "Throughout his career here, he oversaw the depart­ment as it went from a security department to a police depart­ment." 
Harold Burke-Sivers, director of public safety at Portland University and president of the Western Association of Campus Law Enforcement Administrators, remembers Rakow from his time as a full time-officer and student at Notre Dame from 1985-89. 
"My decision to pursue a career in public safety and dedicate my life to serving university students is a direct result of Rex's leadership and mentoring," Burke-Sivers said in an e-mail to Johnson shared with The Observer. "Rex was a truly consum­mate professional, a good friend and a loving husband and father. He made a difference in my life and in the lives ofso many others." 
Burke-Sivers said he was able to 

for his "guidance, encouragement 
and support over the last 22 years." 
"We often don't have the opportu­
nity to tell people how much they 
mean to us, so this was a real bless­
ing," he wrote. 
Last year, the Alumni Association 
also told Rakow how much he 
meant to the community by award­
ing him the 2007 James F. 
Armstrong Award for service by an 
employee to the University. He also 
received an award by the student 
government for his outstanding · service to the campus community. 
"He is not someone who liked or 
needed the limelight," Gagnon said. 
"He didn't need awards to make 
himself feel good. But I'm sure the 
recognition received helped him 
recognized how much he was 
appreciated." 
In 2006, Rakow was also made 
an honorary member of the Notre 
Dame Monogram club -a fitting 
award for a man who intensely fol­
lowed Notre Dame men's and 
women's basketball and had a pas­
sion for golf. 
An alUIIlilus of Oay High School in South Bend, Rakow graduated from Indiana University in Bloomington and received graduate degrees from Southern Illinois University in Carbondale and Notre Dame. He also completed the FBI National Academy's 13-week man­agement training program in 1983. 
Rakow is survived by wife Linda, children Derek and Stacy, their spouses, four grandchildren, a brother and sister, and his mother. · VIsitation will be held at the Halm Funeral Home in Mishawaka from noon to 8 p.m. Friday. A funeral Mass will be celebrated at 9:30 a.m. Saturday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Memorial contributions can be made to the Center for Hospice and Palliative Care or The Cross in the Woods in Indian River, Mich. 
Ken Fowler contributed to this report. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
KILROY WAS HERE Separately, they fought for different causes in the same war. Now together, they will forge aconnection that transcends language and their cause will become one. 
SILENCES A 20 minute documentary that follows the filmmaker's journey to understand his mother's refusal to discuss the circumstances of his birth. With a silent mother, Octavio travels to San Francisco to find the one person who can complete his search for answers: his biological father .. , 
/j /....,

j~i{}f(<)•tNt:4( (tf tle /'v;J.-ire Drtme Ce;zier luv-Etit'c.f l(A' clL&LtrC 
1 

/ '-' For more informat!E/.~lease visit ethicscenter.nd.edu 
THE QUEEN OF CACTUS COVE Teenage chess champ Billie faces the prospect of defeat for the first time when she competes against her best friend at the biggest chess tournament of her career. 
. /.., 
THE TROJAN COW In 1973, two teenagers are illegally transported across the East German border inside a hollow cow. An unexpected love story,blossoms in the midst of a dangerous situation. ·· Inspired by true events. 
/"' /" 1 
page 4· The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 8, 2007 
in front of the Senate body believed Dwot·jan's initial poverty, the non-profit organi­
education and addressing 

that hn gave her a different actions were wrong. he didn't
Trip 
Vote 

reason for his aetions when think they warranted removal continued from page 1 many of whom are Notre 
zation facilitates volunteers ­she spoke with him informally from office. But he said he

continued from page 1 

before his impeaehment. was "bothered" by Dworjan's efforts to improve the quality 
Dame graduates-to assist in 

"You approached me and statement that he would do will also meet with a reporter for life in Puerto Hican com-
about his motives for running told mn that you did put up the same thing again. from El Nuevo Dia -the munities. . 
a "Campaign to Abstain" in these posters ... and I asked "The thing that really both­largest newspaper on the "They work with people who 
the rei:nnt. student body presi­you why you did it, and you ers me is you don't see a island. are in the community, such as 
dential election and debated said, 'Because I can,"' said problem with using student "The PRCSC has served as a the Salesian Sisters who run 
whether his actions warrant­Plamoottil, who was recently government resources to do wonderful reflection of and the Alepsi Center -one of the 
ed a removal from office. seleeted by nnwly-elected" stu­any campaigning," Corrigan vehicle for the dedication and education centers there," 
Dworjan was impeached last dent body presidm1t Liz Brown said. involvement of members of Mackenzie said. "They also 
Wednesday by a majority vote and vice prnsident Maris Dworjan told the senators the Notre Dame family in San work with the homeless, and 
of the Senate, but last night's Braun as their Chief Executive he used the copy machine in Juan and the surrounding they are always in the com­
vote of 15-11 failed to remove Assistant. "I have to wonder the student government ofiice communities," Shavers said. munity seeing what the com­
him from ol"fke. what your trun motives are because he had exhausted his "Father Jenkins is grateful for munity needs and responding 
Dworjan posted flyers telling and wnrn and whnthnr the print quota. the vision of the PRCSC's to that." 
students to vote abstain in the publicity of this hearing is Zahm Hall senator Luke founders and the efforts of its Each year, the PHCSC takes 
days leading up to the Fob. 15 coming into your actions at Derheimer said Dworjan's many staff, volunteers and four to six recent Notre Dame 
run-ofT election for student all." attitude regarding his illegal partners. This is a wonderful graduates to volunteer in vari­
body prosident and vice presi­Dworjan wrote a Letter to actions showed "blatant disre­way to recognize their work ous regions in Puerto Rico. 
dent. Dworjan violated a pro­the Editor that appeared in spect" for the oath he took as and celebrate the Notre Dame "It is somewhat competitive, 
vision in the Student Union Wednesday's edition of The Morrissey Hall senator. spirit." but it's not as competitive as 
Constitution against cam­Observer and also created a "The fact that he would do it The Center will celebrate its ACE or Teach for America," 
paigning in the stud1mt gov­Facebook group that encour­again tells me he hasn't two decades of dedication to Mackenzie said. "It is one of 
ernment ofliee, located on the aged people to support him at learned anything from this, Puerto Rican communities the few international pro­
second floor of LaFortune, the mooting. and he doesn't have the with a banquet at the Nautical grams and is only for one 
because he used the copy Dworjan elarified his state­respect for the oath he took," Club in San Juan today, which year." 
machine to print his posters. ment to Plamoottil by saying Derheimer said. will host current volunteers, The PHCSC also has a com­
lie also violated the that freedom of speech gave Dworjan said hn believed 14 former volunteers and mitment to the La Perla com­
Constitution by posting flyers him the right to run the cam­the rules he broke in the Notre Dame alumni. The munity located in Old San 
around campus without the paign. Constitution violatnd his right Center's founders -Jose Juan. Through the Bogar 
required approval of both the Senatn Community Helations to free speech. Enrique, Mary Jane Padre Vernard, volunteers like 
Judicial Council and the chair Josh Pasquesi told sena­"I do believe in the rules ... Fernandez and Gilberto and Guzman assist the homeless in 
Student Activitins Ortice. tors to put Dworjan's "grand­but I don't believe in rules Martita Marxuach -will also the area by running a shower 
Dworjan took the podium standing" asidn and question that go against your con­attend the event along with facility. 
for the sncond time in two his true motives. science," Dworjan said. lie ND Club of Puerto Rico presi­Guzman is also working with. 
weeks and attempted to per­Dworjan said at last week's said his "highest nthie" was dent Ricardo Alvarez. Asociaei6n Pro Juventud 
suade snnators not to vote for Senate meeting that he did not his conscience, not. the law or According to Pat Guzman, where she helped establish a 
his removal. lie said his know the Constitution prohib­what the Constitution said. who has worked at the PRCSC photojournalism club for high 
motive was to educate stu­ited using the student govern­-Siegfried senator Jim for two years since she gradu­school students, who have 
dents that they had an option ment office to campaign or Lockwood said he agreed with ated from Notre Dame in recently created their own 
outside or the two tickets i'n hanging posters without Dworjan's ideas about the 2005, the communities of newspaper. 
tlw run-off. lie asked the sen­approval. S1mators questioned importance of free speech, but Puerto Hico will show their Although graduates accept­
ators not to remove him from whether Dworjan would said "there are processes and appreciation to the former ed to the program are usually 
office for what he said was an repeat his actions now that he guidelines that you have to and current volunteers by placed at one of these sites, 
exereise of his "highest ethic." knew he violated election follow to exercise that free­hosting a brunch Friday Mackenzie said the PRCSC 
"Am I going to be removed bylaws with what hn did. dom of speech." morning. "can sometimes be creative 
because I partieipated in the "I would have done it the Off-campus senator Mark The anniversary celebra­and mold placement sites" 
democratic process and urged exact same way," he said. Healy asked the senators to tions mark the first time that according to volunteers' inter­
others to do the same?" Several senators said they vote with their constituencies Jenkins has visited Puerto ests. 
Uworjan asked. "Is this Senate felt Dworjan's lack of remorse in mind and consider whether Rico and the PRCSC since According to Mackenzie, 
going to become the body that for his actions could be removing Dworjan from office becoming president of the applicants to the program do 
removes its own members for grounds for his removal, even was important "in the grand University. not necessarily need to know 
participating in this democrat­if they agreed with his right to scheme of things." "Many of these people began how to speak Spanish fluently 
ic process?" run a campaign to abstain. their work long before Father because part of the experience 
Pangborn senator Sheena Keough llall senator Brian Contact Kaitlynn Riely at Jenkins traveled to these is gaining a better proficiency 
Plamoottil reminded Dworjim Corrigan said although he kriely@nd.edu areas, and he encourages in the language. However, the members of our campus com­Center for Social Concerns at munity to continue partnering Notre Dame tries to select at with communities worldwide," least two applicants who are Shavers said. "Such experi­fluent in Spanish. ences, he believes, are an "It is a beautiful program ... opportunity to collaborate, and the Puerto Rican people learn and share." are so welcoming," Guzman 
Founded in 1988, the PHCSC said. "I encourage any senior seeks to respond to the needs to come out and do the pro, of Puerto Hican communities gram." that are plagued by socio-eco­nomic challenges. Through Contact Becky Hogan at programs aimed at improving rhogan2@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 8, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THf OBSERVER's WIRE sERVJCEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Indonesian plane crash kills 21 
YOGYAKARTA-Survivors of the fiery crash­landing of a Boeing 737-400 Wednesday said the plane appeared to be going too fast and shook violently before it touched down, lurched off the runway and exploded in flames, killing at least 21 people. 
About 115 dazed and bloodied survivors stag­gered from the Indonesian jetliner after it broke through a fence and came to rest in a rice paddy. Most escaped without major injuries, although several suffered burns and broken bones. 
Those killed were trapped in the wreckage of the Garuda Airlines plane after it suddenly caught fire, sending billowing clouds of black smoke and flames high into the air. The plane had been carrying 140 passengers and crew, officials said. Two people were missing. 
It was the third plane crash in as many months in Indonesia, and raised questions about the safety of the country's booming airline sector. 
French law forbids online violence 
PARIS -A new law in France makes it a crime for anyone who is not a professional jour­nalist to film real-world violence and distribute the images on the Internet. 
Critics call it a clumsy effort by authorities to battle "happy slapping," the youth fad of filming violent acts -which most often they have pro­voked -and spreading the images on the Web or between mobile phones. 
The measure, tucked deep into a vast anti­crime law that took effect Wednesday, has alarmed media advocates who say it tramples on freedom of expression. 
ligue Odebi, an association that seeks to pro­tect freedom of expression on the Internet, said the measure will also hinder citizens' abilities to expose police brutality. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Borat called 'victim of suppression' 
WASHINGTON -Borat, that crass chroni­cler of the American condition, has been sin­gled out by the State Department as a victim of suppression in his own homeland. 
The department's annual human rights report criticizes Kazakhstan for taking action against the satirical Web site of Sacha Baron Cohen, creator of the fictional Kazakh jour­nalist in the film "Borat: Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan." Baron Cohen also starred in the movie. 
Specifically, the government took control of the registration of .kz Internet domains in 2005 and revoked Baron Cohen's domain because it deemed his site offensive, the report said. 
Man arrested for boy's kidnapping 
BRADENTON -A Mexican national sur­rendered at the U.S. border Wednesday on allegations of abducting a 13-year-old from a Florida bus stop last month and leaving him tied up in the woods before the boy escaped, officials said. 
Vicente Ignacio Beltran-Moreno, 22, agreed to voluntarily return from Mexico after sever­al days of negotiations with the FBI, Maq.atee County Sheriff Charlie Wells said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Factory raid catches illegal immigrants 
MISHAWAKA -An immigration raid at a fCJ,ctory that makes Fiberglass-reinforced plastic products led to the arrests of 36 workers suspected of being undocumented aliens. 
More than 50 agents from the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement raid­ed Janco Composites on Tuesday with a war­rant that allowed them. to interview workers and check their records. 
ICE spokeswoman Gail Montenegro said 36 workers-35 of them Mexican nationals, and one from El Salvador -were arrested. They were taken away in large bus to a Broadview, Ill., center where customs agents interviewed and fingerprinted them. 
BRITAIN 

Commons backs historic change 
Legislators begin motion to remove non-elected members of House of Lords 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Legislators took an unprecedented step Wednesday toward ending an age-old tradition of allowing Britain's non-elect­ed elite to hold political power, backing proposals for an entirely elected House of Lords. 
House of Commons law­makers voted 337-224 in favor of developing laws to elect all members of Parliament's upper chamber -potentially one of the most significant constitu­tional changes in British his­tory. 
The move, which requires new legislation, would bring the previously unelected upper house in line with similar institutions, such as the U.S. Senate. 
Jack Straw, leader of the Commons, said the vote was a historic step forward and would meet with others to discuss how to proceed. 
Lawmakers in both the Commons and Lords will hold future votes on the plan when the laws are pro­posed, which cannot happen before the next parliamen­tary session beginning in October. 
Prime Minister Tony Blair voted in favor of a 50 per­cent split between elected and appointed Lords, but he did not take part in the other votes, his Downing Street office said. 
Campaigners lobbying for an entirely elected second parliamentary chamber claim only Lesotho -a poor African kingdom -has a system similar to Britain's, allowing a mix of unelected and hereditary appointees to influence laws. 
The process of appointing peers has been clouded by a police inquiry into allega­tions that Blair's govern­ment, and the opposition Conservative Party, appoint­ed Lords in exchange for financial support. 
Blair succeeded in ejecting 600 hereditary members in 1999 -with the remaining 92 due to be removed once reforms are agreed -but he has been unable to muster broad support behind any new formula for selection. In 2003, lawmak­ers voted down five options for further change. 


Measures voted on Wednesday could be pre­sented to Parliament as a bill before the end of the year but must be debated in both the Commons and the Lords, and -following any amendments -put to a final Commons vote. 
Some legislators fear an entirely elected Lords would present a rival to the supremacy of the House of Commons. 
The House of Lords, which emerged around 700 years ago, does not make laws but has the power to amend leg­islation, subject to the con­sent of the House of Commons, or to delay the passage of legislation for a limited period. 
A bitter clash between peers and Prime Minister David Uoyd George over his 1911 budget·_ which the Lords had threatened to veto -led to a limiting of their powers and brought the first modern call for reform. 
Of 65 nations with a two­chamber parliament, 46 elect most or all representa­tives, according to James Graham, who campaigned for members to be elected. Of the 19 that appoint most or all second chamber law­makers -including Britain and Canada -only five are established democracies, he said. 
Britain, unlike most other democracies, appoints peers for life terms, rather than fixed periods of office. 
Straw, the House of Commons Leader, proposed a 540-seat house -a reduc­tion of around 200. Under his plans, all remaining 92 hereditary peers -mem­bers who inherit their right to be in the chamber -will be removed. 

Some Church of England bishops -known as the Lords Spiritual -will remain, selected by an inde­pendent body reporting to Parliament. 
For most of the chamber's history, all those with inher­ited titles -created by the monarch -could take a place in the Lords, provided they were male, over 21 and citizens of Britain, the Commonwealth or Ireland. Since 1958, women and so­called life peers -mainly drawn from the ranks of retired politicians or those nominated by political par­ties -have also been appointed. 
Law aims to hinder online predators 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD -Connecticut law­makers unveiled legislation Wednesday that would require MySpace.com and other social-net­working sites to verify users' ages and obtain parental consent before minors can post profiles. 
The bill comes a day after a man was sentenced to 14 years in prison for using MySpace.com to set up a sexual encounter with an 11-year­old Connecticut girl. It was one of the first federal sex cases involving the popular site. 
Attorney General Richard 

Blumenthal, who met with other attorneys general on Tuesday, said 10 to 20 other states are considering similar legislation. 
"The technology is available. The solution is financially feasible, prac­tically doable," he said. "If we can put a man on the moon, we can check ages of people on these Web sites." 
Under the proposal, any network­ing site that fails to verify ages and obtain parental permission of users under 18 would face civil fines up to $5,000 per violation. Sites would have to check information about par­ents to make sure it is legitimate. Parents would be contacted directly when necessary. 
Blumenthal said Connecticut has jurisdiction because the advertise­ments posted on the Web sites are seen in the state. 
In a statement Wednesday, MySpace Chief Security Officer 1-Iemanshu Nigam said the company is committed to protecting teens online but does not believe the pro­posed bill is the best way to do that. 
"We have and will continue to focus considerable resources on developing effective ways to make our site safer. Attorney General Blumenthal's proposal, while well intentioned, is not the answer," he said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 8, 2007 
LARS and ODAE representa­fellow PILLAHS member, tives at the information fair echoed MeGinley's warnings
Week 
handed out more free mer­and stressed the importance chandise and brochures of educating students about
continued from page 1 
informing students about responsible drinking. 
the alcohol equivalencies of "Alcohol Awareness Week ing skills are impaired and different beverages and the is necessary at Notre Dame before their health is put on different effects they may and every college campus the line. have on a pers,on's sobriety. because the things students 
Organizers handed out "Not all 'drinks are creat­learn in college are usually free Safe Spring Break mer­ed equal," McGinley said. the things that stay with chandise in the dining halls "If students don't know how them throughout their Monday to kick off Alcohol much alcohol is poured into adulthood," he said. "And Awareness Week, followed each drink they have, you want people who can by Tuesday's free T-shirt they're at a higher risk of discern between the right give-away at the Fieldhouse compromising their deci­amount of social drinks and Mall. sion-making skills and put­excessive drunkenness." 
Senior Patrick Knapp, ting themselves in circum­The University llealth chair of the Student stances where they're not in Services and Notre Dame Senate's Residence Life full control of their Security Police were also committee, said the T-shirt actions." present at the information giveaway was an over­An ODAE handout said 12 fair with supplementary whelming success. ounces of beer contained health advice and free Safe 
"We ran out of free Safe the same amount of alcohol Spring Break merchandise, Spring Break T-shirts in a as 1.25 ounces of liquor or respeetively. record 1.25 hours despite 4.5 ounces of wine. Aleohol Awareness Week freezing temperatures on Consequently, when stu­will eonclude on Friday the Fieldhouse Mall," Knapp dents drink from a 1 (J­with a Coca-Cola giveaway said. "Last year it took ounce cup; the contents of at the Fieldhouse Mall. more than two hours." the cup-and not the num­Nowak said Coca-Cola has 
BAC cards were also gone ber of cups -should deter­co-sponsored Notre Dame's in approximately one hour mine the amount of drinks Alcohol Awareness Week in during the BAC card give­the student gulps. recent years as part of the aways at the dining halls "Even experienced corporation's commitment Tuesday, said Christine drinkers may not be aware to the prevention. of drug Nowak, director of ODAE. that when they have only and alcohol abuse among 
She said the cards gave two Long Island ice teas, teenagers and underage students an estimate of the they're not really having college students. rates at which each gen­just two drinks because Knapp said Coca-cola par­der's bodies absorb alcohol, each Long Island ice tea in ticipated by donating free depending on weight. reality contains as much Coke products. 
In Wednesday's efforts to alcohol as five beers," promote responsible drink­McGinley said. Contact Marcela Berrios at ing during the break, PIL-Sophomore Michael Call, a mberrios@nd.edu 

make history in that way," females here, saying 'I could Brown said. never believe that the student Still, gender was at first an body would elect two females,'" 
issue in selecting their CEA. Brown added. 
"To be hon.est, the gender While they feel experience ­issue did come up in that con­both at home and in Notre versation, not in direet relation Dame student government ­to individuals, but initially, has pn~pared them to assume Maris and I were thinking, 'We such difficult roles, neither see have to find a guy, we have to themselves going much further find a gender balanee because in politics, according to Braun. we're already pushing it with "The reason why we ran was­two women,"' Brown said. "But n't some desire to be involved as we thought about it, we in politics, but really because [thought], 'Why not just pick we wanted to give back to the best candidate?' And it Notre Dame -we saw aspects ended up being female." that we thought could be 
Braun said they felt the con­improved upon. and we wanted stituency wouldn't be con­to capitalize on those," Braun cerned about another female in said. a top leadership position. Already, they hope to "give 
"We recognized that we were back to Notre Dame," through elected beeause Notre Dame this year's election and the considered us tho best candi­precedent it sets for future dates, and we felt we needed to elections, she said. honor that and ehoose the best "I think that !gender) doesn't candidate, regardless of gen­have to be such a huge consid­der," Braun said. "I think we eration as it has been in the would have b1~en doing an past," Brown said. "In past injustice if had pieked the ean­elections I've been involved in didate purely based on the fact -before I asked Maris to run that we thought a guy would with me -we always said, look the bnst." 'You have to have a male and a 
While they admit that femal0, however you do it, you Plamoottil's Slllection and their ean't have two females,' and I election has broken bound­was derinitely of that thought aries, they don't consider them­as well. But I think now [this selves to be progressive. Braun election] shows that that's not said she even thinks people as big an issue as everyone may eonsider her more tradi­thought." tional. Braun added that this elec­
"I think Liz and I are both tion really says that it's not at really ambitious and roally go­. all about gender. Rather, it getters, we're rnally dedicatnd, shows that "your ticket should and are willing to tah risks, be comprised of tlw people who but I don't think that wn'rn you think are best to do the rnally tnmdsPttnrs," shn said. job." 
Hegardlnss of how gender And she feels that's precisely neutral thny have tried to knnp the r<lason they were elect0d. the election, all three women "Yes, we broke a standard acknowl1ldgn that a new prnee­and broke some boundaries, dent has bonn sot at a sehoul but I hope that people still traditionally led by mfm. remember why we were elect­
''I'm only starting to grasp ed," she said. the reality of tlw significance of the whole thing," Plamoottil Contact Aaron Steiner at said. asteiner@nd.edu 
Join us this VVednesday for the next
A_·>))))))) ) 

bn:--adcast for the 'T'hird Sunday of
C-M 
Can-.pus Minist:t-y

t~ www.ndprayercast.c>rg Lent, '-Vith Fr. l:::>an J>a1-rish, c.s.c. 

Wo01en 
continued from page 1 
intention. 
"When I was considering run­ning and ... thinking about choosing Maris las a running mate], it was in the back of my mind that it was going to be an even bigger challenge since we're both female, but that wasn't why I picked her," Brown said. "I didn't pick her to go up against that !barrier!. and we didn't even bring it up in the campaign." 
Braun agreed that "making history" was never an objective of theirs. 
"Liz and I, from the start, acknowledged that we were the first all-female ticket running, but our gender never really crossed our minds," Braun said. 
While it certainly wasn't their goal, Brown did concede that they are "certainly proud" and that "it's definitely a cool bene­fit." 
And when they announced the appointment of current Pangborn senator Sheena Plamoottil to the position of Chief Executive Assistant (CEA). they added another female to the head of the stu­dent government hierarchy. Both Brown and Braun said again, however, it was "never an effort" to have an all-female leadership, nor to "continue to "Just last week, I was at the 
library, and one of my friends 
eame up, and she was like, 'You 
know, in my theology class on 
gender, our professor has been 
talking about you guys, and 
how amazing it is that the stu­
dent body has elected three 
women to the top tier of stu­
dent government to represent 
them,' and it truly struck me 
that this is something that will 
go down in history," Plamoottil 
said. 
And while they don't expect 
their gender to be an issue dur­
ing their administration, Brown 
and Braun say they are pre­
pared for criticism. 
"We know we are going to eatch heat, we're going to be criticized or we're going to do stuff that not everyone's going to like, but I think we fully accept that -it's part of the job, it comes with the territo­ry," Braun said. "But I don't foresee issues resulting from an issue that we can't control, like 

-our gender." 
As of yet, Brown said they have had no negative feedback. The positive response, on the other hand, has been over­whelming, they said. 
"I think we were both kind of 
surprised at the amount of pos­
itive feedback we got from 
alumni and University adminis­
tration over the fact that we 
were the first all-female ticket," 
Braun said. 
"It's really cool to get letters from alumni, from women who were in the first class of 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Thursday, March 8, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,162.45 -15.14

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume I ,65 3 I 29 1,603 3,184,895,878 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.40  -0.17  42.66  
!SHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  -0.13  -0.10  76.97  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.26  -0.28  19.12  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.10  -0.14  139.56  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.68  -0.031  4.497  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.40  -0.020  4.955  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.41  -0.0 19  4.636  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.78  -0.035  4.443  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.13  61.82  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +6.70  652.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.93  I 03.65  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  116.2000  
EURO  0.7591  
POUND  0.5179  
CANADIAN$  1.1779  

IN BRIEF 
FBI finds mortgage fraud on the rise 
WASHINGTON -The number of mortgage fraud cases investigated by the FBI almost doubled the past three years, reflecting a problem that is "pervasive and growing," the bureau said Wednesday in its annual report on financial crimes. 
The bureau said its mortgage fraud cases increased from 436 in 2003 to 818 in 2006, and acknowledged that its case load likely represents a small piece of the problem. 
The FBI said mortgage fraud is difficult to track for a variety of reasons. For starters, the industry is not required to report fraud. Moreover, the sale of mortgage loans on sec­ondary markets can "conceal or distort the fraud," thereby reducing the number of cases reported. 
"The true level of mortgage fraud is largely unknown," the agency's report said. 
The bureau said fighting mortgage fraud is a priority due to the impact of mortgage lending and housing on the broader economy. 
Stocks stabilize in a calmer market 
NEW YORK -Stocks fell slightly but showed more signs of stability Wednesday as investors sifted through new economic data and found little reason to resume last week's heavy sell­ing pace. 
The stock indexes wavered in a narrow range, reacting little to comments from Chicago Fed President Michael Moskow that inflation remains stubborn and that interest rate increases might be needed to contain costs. The stock market was similarly unim­pressed by data showing a weaker jobs picture and sluggishness in some areas of the country. 
Investors in the past week have harbored concerns about a global economic slowdown and have been looking at data to try to deter­mine whether the U.S. economy is still capable of pulling off a soft landing. 
In late trading, stocks turned lower after drifting higher for most of the afternoon, unable to build on the rally of a day earlier. Tuesday's advance was strong -the Dow Jones industrials made up about 26 percent of the losses they suffered in the previous week -but it left investors wondering whether renewed volatility would subside long enough to allow Wall Street to build some consensus about where stocks were headed. 
Gas prices skyrocket in California 
High costs are expected to spread to the rest of country by this summer 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Gasoline prices have jumped above $3 a gallon in some parts of California and Hawaii, and may hit that level other parts of the country when the busy summer driving season approaches. 
"It kills me," said Gloria Nunez, 53, as she filled her Ford Explorer SUV at a San Jose gas station. Nunez, a clerk for a com­munications company, has started working a couple hours of overtime each week to help soften the blow. 
"All of a sudden you kind of have to watch your pen­nies," she said. 
Analysts say drivers should brace for more increases in the coming weeks. Crude oil, which makes up about half the price of gasoline, is trading above $60 a barrel. Higher demand, refinery mainte­nance and fears about springtime shortages are also driving up prices, par­ticularly on the West Coast. 
"The West Coast will cer­tainly be the wild, wild West this year," said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst for the Oil Price Information Service. Extensive mainte­nance work at West Coast refineries has curtailed supplies and exacerbated 

the typical "preseason currently has the highest ~·I take the bus," said . Part of the reason is ris­rally" spurred by jitters average price for a gallon Hector Esqueda, an 18-ing demand. The U.S. about tight supplies. · of regular unleaded at year-old justice adminis­Energy Information 
"In the rest of the coun­about $3.20. tration student from Los Administration said try it's just petro-noia. On the mainland, the Angeles who has stopped Wednesday that gasoline They're worried that they title goes to San Francisco, driving his gas-guzzling, demand has averaged won't have enough gaso­where a gallon averages older-model Lincoln more than 9.1 million bar­line," Kloza said. "But on $3.10, a jump of about 34 Continental to save money. rels per day over the past the West Coast the concern cents from a month ago "Other people are doing month, a 3.3 percent jump might be W!J.rranted." but still off the high of the same thing. The bus is over the same period last 
However, analysts said $3.36 set in May 2006, packed." year. it's unlikely other parts of according to the AAA Daily Nationwide, the average Oil prices jumped by the country would see $3 Fuel Gauge Report for price for a gallon of regu­more ·than $1 per barrel gasoline before summer Wednesday. lar unleaded is up about on Wednesday, settling at without a major disruption The California cities of 32 cents from a month $61.82, after the agency in supply. Santa Barbara, San Luis ago, to $2.50, according to also reported an unexpect­
Average fuel prices are Obispo and Oakland are the AAA report. That's ed drop in crude oil inven­still below their historical also all above $3 a gallon. more than 55 cents shy of tories as import levels highs -most of which Most other areas of the the all-time high recorded reached their lowest point were set in 2006 -but are state are just a few cents in September 2005, after since 2005. inching higher weeks ear­away from cracking that hurricanes Katrina and Across the country, driv­lier than usual. milestone, and motorists Rita damaged the Gulf of ers are grappling with how 
Wailuku, on the say they're cutting back to Mexico refinery infrastruc­to manage the sudden Hawaiian island of Maui, save money. ture. spike. 

Walgreen Co. sued for discrimination 
Associated Press officials in St. Louis said they have found assigns black managers, management 
evidence of the same trend around the trainees and pharmacists to low-per­
ST. LOUIS -The federal government country. forming stores and to stores in black 
Wednesday sued Walgreen Co., alleging Walgreen released a statement saying communities, and denies them promo­
widespread racial bias against thousands it is committed to "fairness, diversity and tions, based on race. 
of black workers throughout the nation's opportunity" and that it was "saddened "Black managers are assigned to 
largest drugstore chain. and disappointed" by the EEOC action. stores in black neighborhoods more often 
The U.S. Equal Employment "Our commitment is to providing than one would expect, and black 
Opportunity Commission alleged in a opportunity to all employees -not only employees are not being promoted to 
class-action lawsuit that Walgreen, based because it is the right thing to do but management and within management as 
in Deerfield, Ill., makes decisions about because our business was built on this often as similar white employees," said 
employee assignment and promotion principle," the statement said. EEOC regional attorney Robert Johnson 
based on race. Walgreen said it is the "nation's best in St. Louis. 
Most of the complaints that led to the represented retailer in urban areas," and Walgreen is the nation's _largest drug­
lawsuit, filed in U.S. District Court in East that "managers of all backgrounds are store chain by sales. It has more than 
St. Louis, Ill., came from employees and promoted to senior levels from those 5,638 stores in 48 states and Puerto Rico. , 
former employees in St. Louis, Kansas locations." It had sales of $47.4 billion in the 2006 
City, Detroit and Tampa, Fla. But EEOC The lawsuit alleges that Walgreen fiscal year. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, March 8, 2007 
THE OBSERVER Spare underwear to spring break
The lnbpfffldem, Daily Newtpapn-Serving Nom Dame and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USlNJ)SS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihar~ 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DEsiGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas . SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnewd@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Qz=tiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
~ Observer-(OSPS 599 24000) is puhlishc.d Mor~day through Fridaiy ac.cpt during exam :tnd vacation periods. A subscription ro The Ob.scrvcr is $100 for om: ;~.cademic year; $55 for one scmcsrer. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 Suuth Dining Hall Sc:nd addtess corr«tions w: 
Notre Dame. IN 46"556-0779 The Observer 
P-eriodical postage paid at NouJ:: Dame ?.0. Bo. 779 
and additional mailing offkcs. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nom Om1e, 1N 46556-0n9 
The Ob~m::r ts a member ofthe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

Amanda Michaels Jay Fitzpatrick Kelly Meehan Tim Dougherty Mandi Stirone Fran Tolan Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Erin McGinn Brauweiler Graphics Madeline Nies 
In kindergarten, you brought your teacher a plastic baggie containing an extra pair of underwear, you know, just in case you had an "accident." 
Back then, you could "read" "Where the Wild Things Are" by Maurice Sendak before you could actu­ally read, because your mom had road it to you as so many times as a bedtime story that you memo­rized every word. You even knew exactly when to turn the pages. 
You also knew exactly what to call your stu lied aninmls. Your incalculable creativity inspirnd you to name them in accordance. with their ani­mal nomendatum-"Bear," "Pup" and "Puppy" worn amongst your special friends. 
But even "Puppy" couldn't console you when you rnalized that Santa Claus did not, in faet, lug your K'nex set down the chim­ney and that Hudolph was not the one who nibbled on the carrot<; in the kitehen; your dad was. 
A f(~w years later, you voraciously mad the Boxcar Children books, aml allorwards, you no longer wanted your eomf(Jrtable rod brick house on Maple Strent; after all, you'd rather have been best friends witl1 Benny Alden in an abandoned train car any day. 
In those days, you ate your ham and cheese sandwieh out of your Power Rangers lunchbox while you sat. at your school desk tl1at you covered with a check­ered rod oil cloth. And your mom wore the lunch-mom badge every other Thursday. You blamed the public school religious edu­cation kids who used your classroom on Saturday mornings every time a Jlello Kitty pencil went mi'ising from the inside of your desk. 
In D.AH.E. (Drug Abuse Resistance Education, of course) class, you learned to "just say no" to drugs. And in social studies class, you memorized the 50 states in alphabetical order, with the aid of one of those ever-annoying, eouldn 't-get-it-out-of-

Liz Coffey 
The Coffey · Grind 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

your-head-il~you-beat-yourself-with-a-bat 
songs. 

You also loved the song "MMMBop" when it first hit the airwaves, but once you discovnred that the llansons were in faet tlrree boys, you pretended to detest it; after all, hating the song had bm~ome the cool thing to do. You eould never admit that whenever "rnm bop, ba duba dop I ba du bop, bad u dop" radiated from the radio on your way to school in your mom's minivan, you fancind singing right along with Isaac, Taylor and Zae. 
One time al't.er your mom dropped you oil', you realized that you l(lrgot to ask her to sign the permission slip for the elass field trip to Washington, D.C. You then forced your trembling hand to f(Jrge h1~r signature. 
A lew years later, your hand trmnbled again, this time as you spun one of your paront'i' old bottles of eabernet on your basement lloor-your first game of Spin the Bottle. Your lirst kiss J(Jllownd. 
So did your first hnartbrnak. Your heart sank through that same basement floor not long aftnr, when the object of your alliJetion droppnd the one line that ha..'i been known to turn perl(Jd.ly sane pnople into potential bridgn-jumpnrs-"I just want to bn friends." 
A eouplfl years down the road, you bocamo the envy of your friends when you acquirod your ever-coveted driwlr's license; you eartod around more kids than you had 
· seatbe!L'i. And you owed it all to the man who eonducted your road test-thank goodness he didn't ask you to parallnl park; then you never would've pa..'ised. '1\vo years later, you still couldn't parallel park, but you eould buy cigarettes. You bought some at the local Shell gas station on your 18th birthday, even though you didn't smoke (dearly, D.A.R.E. taught you well). You oozed with eoolness when the sign that said, "You can't purchase tobaeco product<; unless you were born on or before (insert date)" read your birthday. You bought your first issue of Playboy on that excursion too. You hid it under your mattress, but your mom f<lund it anyway. Suffice to say, she was not pleased. Not long after, you left your red brick house on Maple Street and moved in to a dingy dorm with non-modular furniture. 


\i·~ ~6f My rAVJ...I I rt.llf\1~ CUR.~ ~\/t;;~'f~,.. tl\Dn'\. WE 01\11..-t WA1"cl-{ NG~5 orv .cP.. ~~--~ 'f" ~ o -rrte;; ONl-Y -rrl"INf:t I ~N\~>N p..~o\J1 WAL;, ANN A f\l\Cot-~ $('(\(-(tl . 
\ 


.Submit aLetter 
to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The French courage proceeds from vanity, the_ German from phlegm, the Turkish from fanaticism and opium, the Spanish from pride, the English from cool­ness, the Dutch from obstinacy, the Russian from insensibility, but the Italian from anger." 
George Gordon Byron poet 
You began to live on your own much like the Boxcar children did before they were rescued by their rumored-to-be-evil, but 
actually-not-that-bad grandfather. And your parents couldn't confiscate your porn. 
My point'? You've come a long way since your kindergarten days of hanging your Starter jacket in acubby hole and sitting Indian-style on the "magic carpet" during storytime. 
Well, not exactly. Over Spring Break, you might find yourself on a beaeh in the Bahamas, and after you've had a little too much Sex on the Beaeh (the cocktail, of course), you might feel that warm sensa­tion otherwise known as an "accident" dribbling down your leg. Whoops. 
But rogardless, you're older now. "Accidents''-although they have been known to afllict college-age folks-are no longer acceptable. And your Migration, Edueation and Assimilation: Three Forces that Built America professor surely didn't list a spare pair of underwear as a require­ment in the syllabus. 
But she does want you to finish the semestflr-i.e. make it baek to South Bend alive. 
While Cable news feasted on the story of Natalee Holloway when she disappeared in Aruba in 2005, those who knew her were deva..'itated. After all, perhaps she had once been an uber-lova.ble Santa Claus-believ­ing, Boxcar Children enthusiast too. 
You work hard, calculating derivatives and filling up blue books. You undoUbtedly deserve a break. But don't forget that you've lived through a lot. And that you haVI~ a lot left to live tlrrough-more books to read and more heartbreaks to endure. And maybe one of these days you'll even learn how to parallel park. · 
So be safe next week-in whatever cesspool of sin you happen to be swim­ming. 
Liz Coffey is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics and Democracy minor. Her column appears epery other Thursday. She can be reached at eco.ffey@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
caglecartoons.com 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing for spring break? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
TH_E OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 8, 2007 page 9 
Be mindful of those in need, wherever they're from 
During the Lenten season, the Church asks us to pay special attention to three areas of our lives, namely prayer, fasting and almsgiving. Our Lenten resolutions traditionally include one practice from each of these three areas. By paying special attention to these dimen­sions of our spiritual life, we enable Richard v "the image of Jesus Christ to be Warner cs"c brought to perfection within us" and ' prepare to celebrate with greater joy FaithPoint than ever Easter and the promises it holds out to faithful believers. 
An issue which contains many dimensions for us and which appears frequently in the news has to do with our policies and practices with regard to immigration. The political forces in our country seem to be divided between attempting to develop a compromise which would be fair and just in our treatment of these people and provide a legal solution to the very large numbers of illegal immigrants and growing raids to capture and deport illegal immigrants while stepping up efforts to make our southern border more impenetrable·. 
I believe that when we think about almsgiving, our concern for the poor expresses itself not only in addi­tional acts of service and sharing our financial resources with our brothers and sisters, but also enables us to give people who are poor a special place in our lives during the Lenten season. 
On Sunday, the New York Times published an article titled "Inmates Will Replace Migrants in Colorado Fields." The story expressed the growing concern that farmers in the southeastern portion of Colorado have with regard to how their crops will be harvested this year because of restrictions on immigration ami policies which are new and tough. The farmers are concerned that migrant workers will avoid Colorado and leave their fields of sweet corn, peppers and melons unhar­vested. A solution through a pilot program of the Corrections Department of the State of Colorado will provide supervised low-risk prisoners to harvest these crops. In return, the farmers will pay the state a fixed fee and offer the prisoners 60 cents a day! 
Among the many arguments that are made when the issue of how to deal with illegal immigrants is discussed is the concern that these men and women are taking jobs away from American citizens. While many of these low-risk prisoners surely fall into that category, this solution does not seem at all to address concerns with regard to living wages for field workers. 
Our readings for the Lenten Monday Mass included the codification of the ways in which the Israelites treat-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Sacrifice is worth it 

What is the difference between making a person into a slave and requiring someone to make a sacrifice for the good of another? That is, when does jus­tice require us to make sacrifices? The question is difficult -and probably impossible -to answer to everyone's satisfaction, of course, but perhaps we can make some progress by considering cases where the harm suffered in the sacrifice greatly outweighs the benefit thereby achieved, or vice versa. The former cases, where trivial goods are achieved through great sacrifice, seem clearly to be in conflict with justice. Just as clearly, on the other hand, justice seems to require minor sacrifices for the sake of very dear goods. We can apply these observations to the question of universal health care. 
First we have the sacrifice, in the form of a more-or-less progressive tax scheme. That is, universal health care requires someone to sacrifice some material wealth, of course, and the burden could be laid more heavily on the shoulders of the more wealthy by requiring them to pay relatively more. Next we have the good, the health and well-being of the poorest members of our society. Lest we think this is a trivial good, I would draw your attention to the fact that, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, over 15 percent of the population had no health insurance in 2002, and it's expected that the num­ber has increased over the past four years. Universal coverage would not prevent all health problems, of course, but it would mean the difference between life and death from preventable and easily treatable diseases for many of the poorest members of our society. 
Now, our observations lead us to these questions: Can we claim, seriously, that the material wealth of the richest members of our society is more important than the health and well-being-indeed, the very lives-of the poorest members? In taxing the wealthy for the sake of the poor, do we forcibly remove men and women from their comfortable and secure lives, strip them of all dignity as free human beings, put whips to their backs and force them to obey the capricious whims of cruel masters? Or is that a more accurate description of the life of poverty? Which is the more egregious vio­lation of justice: requiring a wealthy lawyer to pay taxes or requiring a 10­year-old boy to die from an untreated infection because his mother can't afford for both him and his brother to go to the dentist this year? 
Dan Hicks graduate student philosophy March 7 


ed other people including strangers among them and the scene on the last day when people will be separated according to the way they treated strangers, as well as those who are sick, in prison, naked, thirsty and hungry. The point of the Gospel story is that how we focus our attention on the concerns that together contain the essence of the Beatitudes is critically important for us because when we deal with these brothers and sisters of ours we are truly dealing with Jesus Christ himself. 
While political options in dealing with the issues of illegal immigration will continue to divide our country more and more deeply until some significant and long­standing solution is reached, Lent may be the perfect time for us to remember these people in our prayers and to give serious thought as Christians as we each face the necessity of determining where we stand per­sonally on such a critical issue, one which affects many people who are not only poor, but fellow Christian believers as well. 
This week's FaithPoint is written by Father Richard Warner, director ofCampus Ministry. He can be reached at rwarner@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Eradicate pornography 
In the Tuesday, March 6 edition of The Observer I read an article regarding pornog­raphy in male dorms ("Group discusses pornography in male dorms"). As the Gender Relations Commissioner for Carroll Hall, I felt that I should speak up on the issue. The arti­cle mentioned that students (males and females alike) feel uncomfortable around pornography; this is due to the action of their consciences and is a sign that pornography is not "good" from a moral standpoint. I am extremely embarrassed to say that images of scantily clad women abound in rooms in my hall and all around campus. Alumni Hall senator Danny Smith raised the question (and I paraphrase): "Is Sports illustrated's Swimsuit edition pornography?" My answer is a clear and resounding "Yes!" 
Pornographic images are those which cause males to lust over the female body. When this happens, women are not viewed as people but instead as objects, and the casual and everyday acceptance of pornog­raphy leads to the cultural acceptance of objectification of women. I am not saying that it is wrong to appreciate the female form, as God made us complementary to one another, in body and mind. However, I (and the Catholic Church) feel that a male should appreciate a woman's mind along with her body to support a loving and fulfilling rela­tionship. I hope that some time in the future pornographic (including non-nude but lust­inducing) images will be removed from the dorms to allow students to mature morally as well as academically over their time here, as well as decrease the lack of respect young males seem to have for women in this day and age. 
In the meantime, I look forward to working with the Gender Relations Center and Father Jim Lewis, rector of Carroll Hall, to create programs addressing dorm pornography which will raise awareness of its detriment to moral and academic development and eradi­cate its presence in the dorm completely. 
Ryan Slaney freshman Carroll Hall March 7 

FSD empowers students 
Apathy toward global issues 'critically affects college campuses across the nation. Students attempt to expand their under­standing of the world by studying abroad in other developed countries, but frequently end up spending social time amongst fellow Americans. This all-too-common experience fails to deliver an understanding of the fac­tors that result in poverty for almost half of the world's population in ways that outreach programs such as the Foundation for Sustainable Development (FSD) can. Without students seeing the reality of the developing world, is there truly any wonder why they suffer from apathy? 
Fortunately, an increasing number of uni­versities are working to tackle global poverty by sending their students abroad to intern and volunteer with underserved communi­ties. The recently-opened Blum Center for Developing Economies at the University of California at Berkeley is one example of a prominent school using faculty, students and immense resources to implement projects in developing cotintries. It joins a growing list of schools like Stanford, Northwestern, Princeton, Notre Dame and many others that are shifting their students away from tradi­tional study abroad programs and toward active engagement in the developing world. 
"Colleges are slowly responding to a grow­ing number of students who want the resume builders and skills needed to enter a very competitive job market. Ifone expects to work in a global profession like interna­tional development, he must have active experience abroad. Study abroad doesn't deliver enough experience," says Alex Michel, Outreach Director ofFSD. FSD pro­vides students with hands-on training and project implementation with almost 200 grassroots development organizations in Latin America, East Africa and India. 
Participants in their programs often gain college credit for their internships, but most importantly, they gain experience and the relationships thatallow for entry into a chal­lenging career field. Their internship pro­gram involves students and professionals being trained and given the opportunity to collaboratively design and implement proj­ects that are funded directly by FSD. 
Fundamental to FSD's development philos­ophy is intense cultural immersion and ensuring that all funded projects respond to community needs and avoid imposing west­em ideals on developing communities. To find out more, please visit www.fsdintema­tional.org 
Josh Schellenberg public relations coordinator, FSD San Francisco, Calif. March 7 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Thursday, March 8, 2007 
FIGHT FEATURE 

Tommy Z hooks, blocks and jabs for charity 
•By BRIAN DOXTADER and ERIN McGINN Scene Writers 
The last strains of "Sweet Home Alabama" faded, giving way to a barely­audible bagpipe rendition of the Notre Dame Victory March. The standing-room­only crowd jumped to its feet, while those who had chairs climbed up to get a better look as Notre Dame's strong safety confi­dently paraded toward the ring. 
Tom Zbikowski (or Tommy Z as he's known in boxing circles) climbed into the ring wearing Fighting Irish green trim on his shorts and extended an arm into the air, as Three 6 Mafia's "It's a 'Fight" blared from the speakers. It was a three-ring cir­cus, and the man everyone had come to see was finally taking 
In many ways, the event resembled noth­ing less than a cireus -a raucous and chaotic atmosphere in which there was always something happening. There were "round-card" girls (students from the Chicago-area Harper College) that appeared during eaeh eontest. In one of the more spirited moments, the "round card girls" also threw miniature boxing gloves inio the crowd, which clearly excit­ed the fans. 
There were nearly a dozen lights preced­ing Zibby's, but it was obvious why every­one was there. Though the early bouts were entertaining -including a match that featured Eva Jones-Young, a South Bend native and the three-time female world champion, and a flght that ended in an unquestionable knockout -the audi­ence's impatient buzz became more pro­
nounced as the night wore 
on. By the time Zbikowski 


center stage in the 
The audience chanted 
Century Center's floated and jabbed through grand spectacle. throughout the match, his three rounds, the entire 
With the aid of his and both boxers put on a event had drawn out to over family, Tom Zbikowski three hours. 
good show, with St. 
held a charity boxing Thankfully though, match to raise money Germain gamely heading Tommy Z didn't dispatch his for coach Charlie Weis' back into the ring after opponent, Ryan St. Germain Hannah and Friends, (from Elkhart, Ind.), with the 
being bloodied early in 
the Cystic Fibrosis same brevity that he did Foundation and the the first round. Robert Bell last summer. In 
Make-A-Wish Foundation. There were numerous silent auction items available at the entrance of the Center, including large photographs of various Notre Dame football players (such as Zbikowski, Jeff Samardzija and Brady Quinn) as well as signed items, like foot­balls signed by Charlie Weis and a photo­graph signed by former Irish head coach Lou Holtz. 
fact, this fight lasted over ten times as long, though the crowd was obvi­ously itching to see another vicious knock­out. The audience chanted throughout the match, and both boxers put on a good show, with St. Germain gamely heading back into the ring after being bloodied early in the first round. 
No. 9 clearly dictated the pace and flow of the fight, but seemed to ease up in the second round before coming out strong in the third. In fact, St. Germain was probably one of the only guys in the entire Center who wasn't rooting for a speedy knockout. 

Among the familiar Irish faces excited to see Zibby fight were players like John Sullivan, Ryan Harris and Trevor Laws, as well as coaches Charlie Weis and new defensive coordinator Corwin Brown. 
Zbikowski was initially scheduled to go against another fighter, Kevin Murphy from Chicago. Murphy had to drop out, and St. Germain was scheduled in at the last minute after Murphy's boxing license was suspended for testing positive for steroids. 
After the fight, Nagle continued the silent auction and Zbikowski signed autographs for waiting fans. It is estimated that, after expenses, the event raised around $40,000. 
It was an enjoyable evening for all in attendance and a great way to raise money for some worthy causes. And admittedly, it is a guilty pleasure for any opportunity to see Tommy Z in the ring. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu and Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
DVD REVIEW 

'Samurai' re-issue enhances timeless masterpiece 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
1954's "Seven Samurai" is widely regard­ed as Akira Kurosawa's finest effort, which in turn makes it one of the finest films of all time. A sprawling, 200-plus minute epic, "Seven Samurai" was groundbreaking for its breadth, depth and well-choreographed action sequences. 
The film's plot is relatively simple-seven samurai band together to ward off thieves who are terrorizing a small village in Japan. Among the protectors are master samurai Kambei (Takashi Shimura), his protege Katsushiro (lsao Kimura), the headstrong Kikuchiyo (Toshiro Mifune) and the master swordsman Kyuzo (Seiji Miyaguchi). A series of strikes and counter-strikes lead up to a climactic battle that tests the physical and mental will of each of the samurai. 

"Seven Samurai" is a deep and powerful film, with many profound scenes, and its sure-footed narrative keeps the film from flagging, though it certainly requires cine­matic patience. The gorgeous black-and­white cinematography {a trademark of Kurosawa) emphasizes the differences between the samurai, the bandits and the villagers. The appearance of guns highlights the sweeping away of the old way, with Kambei standing as a symbol -the most honorable and pure character in the film, he represents one of the last vestiges of tra­dition and honor. The same theme would appear in films for years to eome (especially in the Western), including Sam Pnckinpah's "The Wild Bunch" and Clint Eastwood's "Unforgiven." 
Criterion, one of the bondunarks of DVD quality, already released "Seven Samurai" once before in 1998. It was one of the com­pany's earliest DVDs, but Criterion has recently reissued the lilm in a deluxe three­disc special edition. Unlike the original release, whieh was a single disc, the spoeial edition of "Seven Samurai" spreads the !lim itself over two discs, which was a great deci­sion, since it optimizes picture and audio quality -the two elements that should really be the bottom line for any DVD releaSe. · 
The film looks beautiful, having received an "all-new, high definition digital transfer." The image quality is much-improved over the original release, witl1 deeper contrasts and many of the specks and image imper­fections removed. 
The audio comes in the original Japanese mono track, with re-done subtitles, though it's easy to suspect that some of the flavor of 
Kurosawa's script has been 


lost in translation. There are also two audio commen­taries -one by film scholars David Desscr, Joan Mellen, Stephen Prince, Tony Hayns, and Donald Richie -the other by Japanese-film expert Michael Jeck. Jeck's deep, insightful commentary, in particular, lives up to the scholar's reputation as one of .Japanese cinema's foremost minds. 


The bulk of the special features come in the form of three documentaries -a 50­minute "making of," a two-hour video con­versation between Kurosawa and Nagisa Oshima -called "My Life in Cinema" and "Seven Samurai: Origins and Influences," which puts the film in a historical eontext. The best of these is "My Life in Cinema" because it really allows the viewer to get an intimate, poignant glimpse into the heart and soul of Kurosawa. 
Criterion's packaging is also quite nice, as the DVDs come housed in an attractive cardboard case that includes a bookfe't sup­ported by several essays and pictures. 
"Seven Samurai" is one of those films, like "Lawrence of Arabia" and "Schindler's Ji<;t," that everyone should feel obligated to see at least once. Its epic sweep and passionate sense of purpose make it Kurosawa's most ambitious film -no small feat from the director of "Han" and "Rashomon." The filmmaker may have made several other films as accomplished as "Seven Samurai," but the 1954 masterpiece has that rare cin­ematic magic, in whieh everything about the film works -it is, of course, both timely and timeless. 
While realistically it would seem that no release could do "Seven Samurai" justice, Criterion's re-release outdoes its already­high benchmarks, giving one of cinema's greatest gems the lavish treatment it so richly deserves. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, March 8, 2007 
page 11 


sc E &i~~ D Creative concoctions combat culinary conventions 
While some may argue that E-Z-Mac and Hamen noodles are the staples in a college kid's diet, it's inevitable that when it comes to campus food, dining halls are at the top of the list of easy and affordable (heck, to us it feels free) options. Notre Dame is no different, with South and North Dining Hall providing a plethora of delica­cies. 
Well, for the first month of school, any­way. 
After a good five or six weeks, it's almost impossible not to · experience what I like to call "DH Overload" -that sinking feeling you have when, having just entered either South or North, you can only smell the far-too-familiar odor of cod nuggets and fajita pizza. You walk through each line in a state of malaise, and you're just plain tired of what they've got to offer your now-unsatisfied palate. To you, disheartened diner, life seems a little bit dimmer as you resign yourself to sticky rice and Vegetarian Vegetable soup. 
However, there is another solution to DH Overload-pursuing the challeng­ing (but oh-so-gratifying) art of the con­coction. 
"Say what?" you ask, confused and possibly a bit disturbed. But to those of us initiated in the concoction club, the dining hall is a wonderful world of ever­renewing possibilities. You may have seen one of us strolling casually between the food lines before -we are such stuff as homemade pizzas, restau­rant-looking wraps and never-before­seen pasta blends are made on. If you'd Uke to join, the Church of the Concoction is always accepting new converts, and you and your taste buds will definitely be the better for it. For those of you who may be newbies to this art of what is essentially cooking with pre-cooked food, let me enlighten you with a few of my favorites. 

The fact that SDH supplies me with the means to feed my broccoli addiction daily is nothing short of a gift from the dining hall gods. While I too was first trapped in the rut of slapping a hunk of broccoli onto my plate each day, I soon began to expand those food horizons. Currently, my favorite use for broccoli is as a substitute for rice or pasta. Top your broccoli with your favorite sauces, Asian dishes and even the occasional taco salad. Adding extra color and vita­mins to your diet never hurt anyone, and it also tastes pretty ridiculously excellent. . 
For future reference, though, I would­n't recommend adding broccoli to a sandwich. Too wet, too messy and too difficult to eat without looking like a 4-. year-old who can't handle holding a wrap together. 
Salads are another opportunity to go, as Strong Bad would say, "crazy-go­nuts" with variety and concoction happi­ness. Sunflower seeds? Mandarin oranges? Tortellini stir-fry? Nothing is off limits if you pair it with the right greens and a complimentary dressing. 


No longer will you be trapped in the days of wilted -iceberg-and -overripe­tomato salads, my friends. Baby spinach leaves, feta cheese, peppers and bal­samic vinaigrette create what is nothing short of a heavenly blend of loveliness. 
Lastly, never underestimate the power of the panini presses and that Quiznos-· style grilling thingy in aiding your new creations. Toasted wraps are always better than untoasted, and with the sandwich presses even you can achieve cross-hatching grill marks and pretend you're Bobby Flay on "Boy Meets Grill." 
If you're feeling particularly ambitious, you can even use flatbread or pitas to create your own grilled pizzas. 
So what's the bottom line, kids? Getting trapped in a state of DH over­load can happen to anyone, but the ingredients are there to find your free­dom. You just have to get cooking. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe.Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
CD REVIEW 
'Wellies' play perfect Storm for St. Patty's Day 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Assistant Scene Editor 
With St. Patrick's Day and the Wearin' of the green just around the corner, Irish cul­ture is in full bloom in expectation of the hol­iday. As would-be revelers prepare for parades, parties and green beer, the distinct sound of traditional Irish music can be heard not far behind. For those looking to add some last minute Irish music to their repertoire before the 17th, they need turn no further than "Bring Yer Wellies," the newest album from the acclaimed Irish band Gaelic Storm. 
A California-based traditional lrish group, Gaelic Storm got its start touring Irish pubs near Santa Monica. In 1997, the band starred· as the steerage band in the film "Titanic" and the popularity gained from their appearance vaulted them into the international spotlight as one of the world's top Irish bands. 
Gaelic Storm's self-titled first album reaf­firmed to listeners that the band could pro­duce an Irish sound while incorporating ele-
Gaelic Storm 
BringYer Wellies 
ments of rock and other musical instru­ments not usually associated with Irish music. While not a Flogging Molly or Dropkick Murphys, Gaelic Storm spanned the gap between these groups and more tra­ditional ones such as The Chieftains, creat­ing a niche for itself and finding an appre­ciative audience. 
One decade and five albums later, Gaelic Storm shows that it still has the same inge­nuity and energy with its sixth album, "Bring Yer Wellies" ("wellies" is slang Wellingtons, rubber rain boots in Europe). 
Nearly every song in "Bring Yer Wellies" has a fun, carefree tone that one might hear from a band in a reallrish pub. An intricate 
' combination of fiddles, whistles, bagpipes, drums and an accordion allows Gaelic Storm to create full melodies catchy enough to make feet involuntarily tap along in time. The album starts on an upbeat note with the fast-paced song "Scalliwag," where a "raggle taggle gypsy" narrator bids the lis­tener to escape with him over the waters. After this, the album settles into a pattern of alternating between barroom ballads and quicker songs like the first one. One of the notable ·barroom ballads is "Hello Monday," which laments the arrival of the work week after a week­end spent enjoying the previous week's paycheck. Most of these "pub songs" are funny and light­

Recommended tracks: 'Scalliwag,' 'Bare in the Basin,''Hello hearted in nature, 
lending an enjoyable

Monday ' and 'The Salt Lick' 
air to the album. 


Interspersed throughout are several instrumental numbers that make strong use of the electronic bagpipes for which Gaelic Storm is famous. These include fast paced jigs and reels, each containing three parts that flow into each other to create songs worthy of being replayed again and again. 
The best of the instrumentals is "The Salt Lick," which begins slowly and escalates to a rushing tempo dominated by the bagpipes. Here and elsewhere on the album, the bag­pipes have a clear, undisturbed sound that is unlike the sometimes harsh tone real bag­pipes create. 
Each song on "Bring Yer Wellies" gives the impression· of being a live recording while maintaining a clear and rich sound -a dif­ficult feat to accomplish. What makes this even more impressive is that fact that the band recorded the 14-track set in only one month, a testament to their hard work and commitment to their music. 
By the fmal song of the album, entitled "Kiss Me I'm Irish," listeners will feel com­pelled to take to the streets and proclaim this Irish saying to anyone who will listen. In "Bring Yer Wellies," Gaelic Storm delivers a festive collection of genuine Irish sounds, despite technically being an American band. The ·album is the perfect way for anyone ready for St. Patty's Day to get a head start on the merriment. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 8, 2007 
NBA 
O'Neal drops 24, Heat scorch Bulls in Miami 
rebounds.

Center adds nine 
The Heat started with seven 

boards, eight assists unanswered points, their best 
game-opening run of the sea­

in VVednesday win son, and led 28-9 after Jason 
Williams' layup with 2:02 left in Associated Press the first quarter. 
MIAMI -Shaquille O'Neal Raptors 94, Grizzlies 87 had 24 points, nine rebounds Chris Bosh had 19 points and and a season-high eight assists, nine rebounds, and the Toronto Eddie Jones added 23 points, Raptors ended a three-game and the Miami Heat put togeth­losing streak 'with a victory over er a huge second-half run to the NBA-worst Memphis beat the Chicago Bulls 103-70 Grizzlies on Wednesday night. on Wednesday night. Andrea Bargnani, the No. 1 
The Heat, who never trailed, pick in the draft, added 18 led by 19 points in the opening . points for the Raptors, who led quarter and, after the Bulls got by as many as 25 points. within three midway through Toronto ended an eight-game the third, outscored Chicago 38-skid to Memphis and moved 4 9 over a 15-minute stretch 112 games ahead of idle New before Pat Riley emptied the Jersey for first place in the bench. . Atlantic Division. 
Antoine Walker had 14 points, Bosh bounced back after 10 rebounds and five assists, grabbing just one rebound in a while Udonis Haslem added 12 loss to Washington on Tuesday points for the Heat -who've night. won 10 straight at home, moved The Raptors have not dropped within three games of four straight since Dec. 6-11. At Washington in the Southeast that time, they were in fourth Division and got a measure of place in the Atlantic and 13th in revenge for the 42-point beat­the East, but they've gone 26-15 ing Chicago inflicted in Miami since. on opening night, when the Mike Miller scored 19 points Heat raised their championship for the Grizzlies, who have lost banner. five straight overall and eight of 
Ben Gordon, who was coming their last nine road games, off a 48-point effort against falling to 4-27 away from home. Milwaukee, had 14 points on 6-Miller had six points as for-18 shooting for Chicago. Memphis began the game on Chris Duhon added 12 and Kirk 10-0 run, but Toronto ended the Hinrich had 11 for the Bulls, first quarter leading 25-20 and who had a three-game winning never trailed again. Juan Dixon streak snapped and failed in had eight of his 17 points in the their quest for their first four­period. game winning streak since mid-Dixon, who scored a season­ended a two-game skid and on d. Hunter had 13 points. December. · high 24 points against won for just the second time 76ers 92, Sonics 89 Ray Allen led Seattle with 29 
Miami also improved to 5-2 Cleveland last Friday, started in six games. Shane Battier Andre Iguodala had his third points. The SuperSonics had si,.nce Dwyane Wade dislocated his second straight game in had 15 points, and Chuck triple-double and Joe Smith their three-game winning his left shoulder. Wade, the place of Anthony Parker Hayes tied a career high with swished the winning jumper streak snapped a night after an reigning NBA finals MVP, (sprained right ankle). Toronto 14 points and added 11 with 14.4 seconds left to lead emotional 100-99 win at New watched the game from the . acquired Dixon from Portland rebounds. the Philadelphia 76ers to the York. bench with his teammates for just before last month's trade Yao Ming, playing for the sec­firth straight win, over the The Sonics have suddenly got­the first time since he was deadline. ond time since missing 32 Seattle SuperSonics on ten used to these late-game injured last month. Bargnani hasn't shown any games with a fracture in his Wednesday night. heroics, only this time they 
Jones, who scored 14 points signs of fatigue in his rookie right leg, had 11 points and five Iguodala finished with 25 were on the losing end. They in the fourth, established a sea­season. He showed a nice touch rebounds for Houston. points, 11 rebounds and 10 even missed the final-minute son high in scoring for the sec­from outside and inside. AI Jefferson, last week's assists, and Andre Miller had 17 free throw, too. ond straight game, and also set Bargnani had 12 points as Eastern Conference player of points. Allen was fouled by Kyle season-bests in 3-pointers (six), Toronto led 49-38 at halftime. the week, led Boston with 20 Once a leading candidate to Korver on a driving layup that assists (six) and field goals points and 13 rebounds. Paul earn the most pingpong balls in tied the score at 89-all with 36 (eight). Rockets 111, Celtics 80 Pierce also scorPd 20 for the the draft lottery, the Sixers seconds left. Allen, a 90 percent 
Playing without Jason Memphis scored the last 18 Celtics. instead are talking about the free-throw shooter who had Kapono, the NBA's leading 3-points of the game to make the The Hockets led 30-22 after playoffs. The postseason is still made his first six, missed this point shooter who sprained his game seem closer than it was. the first quarter, then started a long shot, for sure, but think­one. ankle Monday and will miss at Tracy McGrady had 25 points the second on an 11-2 run to ing about it beats another drea­Then Smith, considered a least 10 days, the Heat hit 10 of and nine assists, and the blow it open early. ry end to the season -only throw-in player in the Allen 23 from behind the arc, and Houston Rockets beat Boston Luther Head. Hafer Alston don't tell that to Sixers fans who Iverson trade with Denver, held Chicago to 35 percent Wednesday night to snap the and McGrady hit 3-pointers on want their team to lose and get showed again that he's more shooting. Celtics' four-game winning consecutive possessions, and that No. 1 pick. valuable to the Sixers than as 
James Posey started in streak. Juwan Howard's layup capped Samuel Dalembert grabbed a just an expiring contract. He Kapono's place, and finished Six players scored in double the run and put the Rockets up season-high 20 rebounds, 12 made the 18-footer for the win­with seven points and six figures for the Rockets, who 41-24 with 8:50 left in the sec-on the defensive end. Steven ning basket. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Not<e Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. $15.50 Looking for a JOB or INTERN­base-appt. flexible schedules, no SHIP?WANTED exp.needed, customer sales/serv­FoR RENT FoR SALE PERSONAL Make your resume available to 
ice, conditions apply, all ages 17+, THOUSANDS of employers! SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: positions in all of Indiana & andersonNDrentals.com Oakhill condo-3·4 bdm,3 full UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Sign up for your FREE account on Make a difference in the life of a Michigan, 273-3835. www.work­baths,2 levels,large deck. not go it alone. If you or someone MONSTERTRAK, child! Summer therapy camp for forstudents.com BETTER HOMES,BETTER you love needs confidential support the #1 student job search engine! children with physical disabilities. AREAS,BETTER DEALS. 312-933-7234 or or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Located on shore of Lake Superior BlueGoldRentals.com Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more Register now to be eligible for a in Big Bay, MI. Positions available NOTICES email mstacey1 @nd.edu. information, visit our web site at for Counselors, Waterfront, Now leasing for 2007/8. Great http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­$2,500 giveaway! Instructors for Nature/Arts & Winter/Spring Positions Available! houses close to campus. $210,000 abo. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Anlanproperties@comcast.net in The Observer. xxx.monsterTRAK.com/2500. Therapists, Food Service, and Earn up to $150 per day! 'NDCONDOS' Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING. NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­Quince: responsible, and love children. June Exp not Required. ONE WHO IS? Let me play Pyramus, 1 0 through August 5. Salary, room 6-bdrms,2 full baths,2 full Minutes from campus Thisby, & board, and experience of lifetime Undercover shoppers needed kitchens,big savings for 2 & 3 yr. You do not have to be alone. and the lion 2. provided. Call or write for applica­lease. · Starting in $130,000s We want to help. Bottom. tion and information. Bay Cliff To Judge Retail Call our 24 hour confidential hotline Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big Visit our website 574-252-2427 at 1-800-No-ABORT If you would like to have Pigtostal Bay, Ml 49808, (906)345-9314, e­and Dining Establishments or visit our website at this year, please e-mail me at mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us Bumbacahouses.com or call ndcondos.com moconno4@nd.edu or at www.baycliff.org Call800-901-9370 Cosima at 277-1875. Reserve Yours Today! www.lifecall.org mcirenza@nd.edu. Thanks:) 
< 

OUND THE NATION 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team  record  pet.  GB  
Toronto  33·29  .532  
New Jersey  28·33  .459  4.5  
New York  28·34  .452  5  
Philadelphia  23·38  377  9.5  
Boston  17-43  .283  15  

Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 37-22 .627 
Cleveland 36·25 .590 2 
Chicago 35·28 .556 4 
Indiana 29·30 .492 8 
Milwaukee 23·39 .371 15.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB 
Washington 34·26 .567 
Miami 31·29 .517 3 
Orlando 29·33 .468 6 
Atlanta 23·39 .371 12 
Charlotte 22·39 .361 12.5 
Western Conference, Northwest Divisi?n 
team record pet. GB 
Utah 41·19 .683 
Denver 29·29 .500 11 
Minnesota 27·33 .450 14 
Portland 25·36 .410 16.5 
Seattle 25-36 .41 o 16.5 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 

team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 46·14 .767 
LA lakers 33·29 .532 14 
LA Clippers 29·31 .483 17 
Sacramento 28·32 .467 18 
Golden State 27·35 .435 20 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record peL GB 
Dallas 51·9 .850 
San Antonio 43·18 .705 8.5 
Houston 37·24. .607 14.5 
NO/Okla. City 28·33 .459 23.5 
Memphis 15·47 .242 37 
IWLCA Division I Poll 
team pointS' "'pre1Jiou8 · 

200.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. 1 1 Northwestern 2 Duke 283 3 3 Georgetown 242 4 4 North Carolina 241 5 5 NOTREDAME 224 7 6 Princeton 14 6 Dartmouth 214 : ' J!•!!W'rt. 8 8 Maryland 6 9 Virginia 194 2 10 Johns Hopilns 159 12 11 Cornell 143 10 12 James Madison 122 13 13 Richmond 111 11 14 Penn State 101 19
87 ... 18

15 Syracuse 
16 Hofstra 74 11 
17 Boston University 73 9 
18 Stanford 51 16 
19 Vaanderbllt 39 NR 
20 Penn 27 20 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
North Carolina State vs Duke 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Baylor vs Missouri 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 


Associated Press 
Daniel Graham is the lat­est addition to the Denver Broncos, one of the most active teams so far this off­season. 
The Broncos agreed Wednesday with the former New England tight end on a five-year, $30 million deal that includes $15 million in guaranteed money. 
A team spokesman said he could not comment. The deal was disclosed by a per· son familiar with the deal who requested anonymity because it had not yet been signed. 
Meanwhile, the Atlanta Falcons were talking to 35­year-old wide receiver Joe Horn, who was cut last week by their NFC South rivals in New Orleans. 

ESPN .com quoted unnamed team sources as saying the Falcons reached agreement with the outspo­ken receiver, but the Falcons denied it. 
It's not done yet," Falcons spokesman Reggie Roberts said Wednesday night. "We haven't signed a contract, so he's not an Atlanta Falcon. We haven't reached an agreement, so he's not an Atlanta Falcon." 
Graham had been with New England since the Patriots drafted him with the 21st overall pick in 2002. He caught 120 passes for 1,393 yards and 17 
IN BRIEF 
Pistons Hunter suspended
after positive drug test 
NEW YORK -Detroit Pistons guard Lindsey Hunter was suspend· ed 10 games without pay by the NBA on Wednesday after testing positive for phentermine, a banned substance primarily used for weight loss. 
''I'm as shocked as anyone," Hunter said after arriving at the Palace on Wednesday. "It was a diet pill -we've all taken stuff and nothing ever happens." 
Hunter said the pill was pre­scribed for his wife Ivy. 
"We do that at our house -if I've got a head cold, I might grab one of her pills," he said. "It was just a bonehead mistake on my part." 
Phentermine is listed as a steroid or performance-enhancing drug under the league's Anti-Drug pro­gram and brings an automatic 10­game penalty for a first positive test. 
touchdowns in his time with the Patriots, but is now pri­marily a blocker. 
The 6-foot-3, 257 -pound Graham grew up in Denver and attended the University of Colorado. His father, Tom Graham, p1ayed linebacker for the Broncos from 1972 to 1974. 
He joins newly signed running back Travis Henry plus two players the Broncos obtained in trades: cornerback Dre' Bly and defensive tackle Dan Wilkinson. 
In Davie, Fla., Joey Porter passed his physical and signed a five-year, $32 mil· lion contract with the Miami Dolphins. Porter, a three­time Pro Bowler, spent his first eight seasons with the Pittsburgh Steelers, who released him last week in a salary-cap move. He ranks fourth in Steelers history with 60 sacks, including seven last year. 

Porter joins a defense that ranked fourth in the NFL in yards allowed and included defensive player of the year Jason Taylor. 
"It's great that we were able to acquire a player of Joey's caliber," Taylor said. "He has been an impact player in this league for many years, and when you add someone who has the ability to make plays like he does, it will help not just the defense, but the entire team." 
Hunter, who is 36 and in his 13th NBA season, averaged 4.6 points, 
1.4 assists and 14 minutes in 39 games as a key reserve for the Eastern Conference-leading Pistons. 
LSU women's basketball 
coach announces resignation 
LSU women's basketball coach Pokey Chatman, who twice took the Lady Tigers to the Final Four after taking over as head coach in 2004, unexpectedly announced her resig· nation Wednesday. 
"I have notified the university today that I will step down as head coach of the women's basketball program in order to allow me to pursue other career opportunities," Chatman said in a prepared state· ment that did not give details about those other opportunities. 
The 35-year-old Chatman said she would stay with the team through the upcoming l':'JCAA tournament and will be under contract until April 30. 
"To eliminate any further distrac· tion from our preparation for and participation in the NCAA tourna· ment, I will have no further com­ment and answer no questions on this subject," she added. 
Ducks defenseman Pronger 
out with broken toe 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Anaheim Ducks All-Star defenseman Chris Pronger will be out about two weeks because of a broken bone in his toe. 
He was injured during a post· game workout Sunday night, the team said Wednesday. 
Pronger had an X-ray Tuesday night, which revealed the break. He was at the Ducks' arena Wednesday to receive treatment. 
Pronger has endured various mishaps in his first season with the Ducks since being traded from Edmonton. 
He broke his left foot when he 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 8, 2007 
PGA TouR 

Woods announces plan to host PGA event 
Golfer also says it's undetermined where event will take place 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Tiger Woods joined elite company Wednesday as one of only three players to host a PGA Tour event during their careers. 
But this wasn't about taking his place with Jack Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer. Woods was more interested in the dozen children seated to the side of a packed lounge in the National Press Club, where Woods and PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem announced plans for the AT&T National that marks the return of golf to the nation's capital. 
Still to be determined is where the tournament will be played and the size of the field. 
Woods made clear, however, that the tournament would pay tribute to the military over the Fourth of July, and pay for a new Tiger Woods Learning Center in the Washington area as he expands his foundation's goal to help children. 
"The last year or so, we've been looking up and down the Eastern seaboard for a new learning center," Woods said. "And then this opportunity fell into our laps. It makes sense to build it here, we just haven't had time to find a site yet." 
The first step is to build a tournament. 
The AT&T National replaces the International outside Denver, which shut down last month when tournament founder Jack Vickers couldn't find a sponsor, which he blamed in part on Woods not playing the event. 
It will be played July 5-8, and Woods isn't sure if he will be able to play this year because his wife is expecting their first child. But while Palmer bought the Bay Hill Club and Nicklaus built his own course in his hometown outside Columbus, Ohio, Woods is establishing his tournament roots in Washington. 
"That's our intent, to stay here and have this be our home event, hopefully for perpetuity," he said. 
The Tiger Woods Foundation will run the tournament, with charitable money going to the foundation toward building a learning center. Woods' first learning center, which cost $25 million, opened a year ago in Anaheim, Calif. 
Woods becomes tho youngest player to host a tournament. Bobby Jones was 32 when the Augusta National Invitation ­which later became the Masters -was held in 1934. Nicklaus was 36 when the Memorial was played for the first time. Palmer was 44 when he took over at Bay Hill, and Byron Nelson had been long retired when he gave his name to a tournament in Dallas. 
"Not too many people are for­tunate to have an opportunity like this," Woods said. "What Bobby Jones did for golf and starting the Masters, that won't be touched. As far as what Jack has done at the Memorial, or Arnold at Bay Hill or Mr. Nelson in Dallas, those have been true legends of the game. They made a tremendous impact on our sport. 
"I want to build something along that level," he said. 



"Obviously, with my compotitive nature, I want it to bA bottor." First thfl tour has to soeuro a golf course. 
All signs point toward Congressional Country Club for 2007 and 200R. Thcr club is to vote on the tour's request over the next fow weeks, and Woods and Finchem openly lobbied members to approve it. 
"Right now, the energy at Congressional is very, very posi­tive and very supportive," Finchem said. "And we hope that carries over to the response from tho overall mem­bnrship." 

Finehem said the purse would bn at least $6 million, but he hasn't decided the size of the liold. 
lie said it likely would be comparable to other invitation­als -Memorial, Bay Hill, Colonial -which have fewer than 156-man fields typical of summer events. 
Woods always dreamed of being host of a regular PGA Tour event-he just didn't expect it this soon. 
He started the Target World Challenge, an unofficial event held in California in December, in 1999 and spoke to his father about finding a way to earning full tour status. 
"The way the tour is struc­tured, it didn't look like we would have an opportunity until 2010, '11 or '12," Woods said. "But we were lucky enough that this one came up." 
It eame at the expense of the International, played at Castle Pines outside Denver. Woods only played there twice, the last time in 1999, and didn't return because he didn't care for the golf course. 
AT&T now is title sponsor of five tournaments. The company sponsors PGA Tour events at Pebble Beach and in Atlanta, along with two tournaments on the Champions Tour. Finchem said the deal in Washington would be for at least five years, with an option to sponsor the event through the end of the TV contract in 2012. 
Why couldn't AT&T work in Denver? 
"For whatever reason, we couldn't find any magic for sponsors as it relates to Denver," Finchem said. "We had been trying two years. The sec­ond this is, the International is run by the club and its member. This concept was one where it would be run by the founda­tion." 
Woods already has put his mark on his new tournament. 
CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 
The Core Council is seeking new undergraduate student members, regardless of sexual orientation. 
Applications are available in the Office of Student Affairs (316 Main Building) or on the Core Council web site http://corecouncil.nd.edu/ Applications are due by 5:00p.m. on Tuesday, March 23, 2007. and can be submitted to the · Office of Student Affairs. 
Please visit our web site for more information. 



Sample fares From South Bend to:  Sample fares From Chicago to:  
Chicago  $131  London  $273  
Houston  $182  Amsterdam  $298  
New York  $182  Rome  $304  



Thursday, March 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Kobe suspended one game for hit 

AP Lakers guard Kobe Bryant shoots during the second quarter of a 102-94 Los Angeles win Feb. 26 over Utah. 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Kobe Bryant was suspended one game by the NBA on Wednesday for striking a player in the face, his second penalty for that action in a little more than a month. 
And if he does it again, he could be looking at a more severe punishment. 
"We considered suspending him for multiple games," NBA executive vice president Stu Jackson said on a conference call. "Certainly if this occurs again, most likely there would be multiple games." 
The most recent incident came with 58 seconds remain­ing in the fourth quarter of the Lakers' 117-107 double-over­time loss to Minnesota on Tuesday night, when Bryant struck Timberwolves guard Marko Jaric after taking a shot. 
The play was similar to one that drew Bryant a suspension late in January, when he hit San Antonio's Manu Ginobili in the face after taking a shot. Jackson determined that play to have been an unnatural basket­ball action and suspended Bryant from a game at New York. 
There was no foul called on the first play, but Bryant was called for a foul Tuesday. 
Lakers coach Phil Jackson was restrained in disagreeing with the suspension, but could­n't help letting some sarcasm drip through. 
"In this league, everybody's got a pretty face, and we're going to try to keep it that way," Jackson said before the Lakers' game at Milwaukee. 
Jackson acknowledged that the two plays Bryant was sus­pended for are similar, but made it clear that he didn't agree with the punishment. 
"If they're going to make a call. even if they're wrong, they'll still be consistent," Jackson said. 
Bryant, second in the NBA with 29.2 points per game, missed Wednesday night's game and forfeited about $161,000 in salary. 
Jackson said Bryant was sim~ ply using his normal follow­through in an attempt to draw a foul. 
"I think I'm going to have to put about 50 clips of Kobe shooting his shot and his arms going out like that so the judger of this deed of Kobe's sees that he does this a lot," Jackson said. 
"It's not an unnatural basket­ball motion." 
And Jackson said Bryant is hardly the only player who uses his arms to create space for shots or draw fouls, pointing to the Lakers' Dec. 17 overtime loss to Washington in which Gilbert Arenas shot 27 free throws. 
Bucks coach Terry Stotts said he sees Bryant and other star players use their hands aggres­sively all the time. 
"As far as extreme flailing into a face, I don't see that very often," Stotts said. 
"But I think star players throughout the years have fou~d ways to get off them, too. 
Stu Jackson acknowledged being surprised by having this incident come up from Bryant again, but did not want to com­ment on Bryant's intent. 
Castle Point Apartments 18011 Cleveland Road South Bendt Indiana 
o.,:.,:euing 

lndoor/Outdoortrao Free Tanning Heated Pool Relaxing Jacuzzi Gated Community 
MAN AMONG DEMONS 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer Irish guard Colin Falls goes to the basket during Notre Dame's 67-66 loss to DePaul at Allstate Arena in Chicago Feb. 8. Falls scored a team-high 20 points in the contest. 
.;i ..~/'" 

The Office of the Preside and the Deus Cafitas stStudent Committee invite you to submit papers on Pope Benedict's Encyclical Deus Caritas Est. 
Papers must be submi~~~d to· godislove@nd.edu by Aprill6, 2007. Students can then present their papers at the Deus Caritas Est conference (April 27-28), make any final revisions based on discussions during the conference,· and then submit final documents by May 4, 2007. 
Prizes will be awarded in the following categories: 
Freshman/sophomore:  $1,000 winner and $500 runner-up  
Junior/senior:  $1 ,000 winner and $500 runner-up  
Graduate students:  $1 ,000 winner and $500 runner-up  

For additional information regarding the conference and call for papers please visit: www.nd.edu/encyclical. For questions or to indicate intent to submit apaper, email: godislove@nd.edu or call631-6526. 
f:Ii1UNIVERSITY 0. P 
~NOTRE DAME 
574-272-8110 574-272-8114 FAX 
www.cppj~com 
Specials! 
Basketball 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 8, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Syracuse beats UConn, advances to play ND 
Villanova, West Virginia also defeat Big East fqes in first round at Madison Square Garden in New York City 
Associated Press the end of regulation and over­felt the Orange needed a victory 
time to help the Orange upset in the tournament to secure an 

NEW YORK-Unlike last sea­top-seeded Connecticut on the NCAA bid. son, Syracuse didn't need any way to the title. "We just had to get this win," last-second magic to knock It was the first time a team he said. "This kind of gets a lot Connecticut out of the Big East took the title by winning four off our shoulders as far as the tournament. games, and it was Syracuse's NCAA tournament goes, but we 
Demetris Nichols scored 28 fifth Big East championship. still have a lot to do hero." points, hitting seven 3-pointers, The Orange have won eight While Syraeuse appears head­and Eric Devendorf added 19 straight tournament games -ed to the NCAA tournament, points to help fifth-seeded one short of Connecticut's Connecticut will miss it for the Syracuse beat the Huskies 78-record of nine set from 199R-lirst time since 2001. 65 on Wednesday in the open­2000. Connecticut (17-14) entered ing round at Madison Square On Wednesday, the Orange the Big East tournament as the Garden. (22-9) used a 25-R run to start No. 12 seed -its lowest ever. 
"We didn't need a miracle at the second half and turn a two­The inexperienced Huskies the end of it this time," point deficit into a 61-46 lead were the No. 11 seed in 1997 Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim with 11:14 left. Nichols scored and were trying to salvage a said. "We played well for the 11 points, including three 3-tough season that started with a last 15 minutes." pointers during the spurt. Top 25 ranking. 
Boeheim 's team made history "The second half we got bet­The frustration of a diiTicult in the 2006 tournament when ter shots, tightened up on season was evident. Huskies the Orange won it all as the defense and did a better job on coach Jim Calhoun recnived a ninth seed behind a remarkable the boards," Boeheim said. technical foul after arguing a week for senior guard Gerry Despite finishing in lifth-place traveling violation midway McNamara. He hit 3-pointers at in the conference, Devendorf through the second half. Visibly 
Cheese & 1 Topping 
Free Delivery On Campus 
Umited time otter. Prkes, tax, delivery areas & <.harges m...lty vary by location. Excludes cthE.H offers. Good at partidp.<!ting lot:atiQns only. 
52750 IN 933 

•
N. of Cleveland Rd. 574.. 

SERVING NOTRE DAME & ST. MARY'S 
Pizza 

' ,' 
IT's NEvER Too EARLY.•.oR Too EATE. 
~ ...{); ,'' < ;:..<>'~~' ,'"' " .<,.<'.. ;,; t-'' ' ... ':o./-~~~:,t' ' ,,' ,t;; ~( ,' )~'.<,:~, <l' ~,i~:,, j,,~ '; 
Investing for your future is more important than ever. 
Our Investment Services Center will help you make the investments that are right for you. 
Contact us today for your FREE Investment Consultation! 
Investment 8eruices Center located at: 
Ill West Edison Road 
•ll• NOTRE DAME
Mishawaka, IN 46545 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/254-4416 • www.ndfcu.org 


annoyed, Calhoun kicked the 
Big East sign in front of the scorer's table. 
"When bad things happen to . you by incompetent people, and they do happen to you at times, and as that built we became a little more frustrated," Calhoun said. 
The Huskies could get no clos­er than 1 0 the rest of the way. 
Boeheim and Calhoun, two llall of Fame coaches, have a combined for 1 ,497 wins. 
"When you think about the history and tradition of the league and see Syracuse and Connecticut and the league's two Ilall of Fame coaches going at it on the lirst day, it's pretty staggering," said Notre Dame eoach Mike Brey, who will face Syracuse in the quarterfinal on Thursday. 
Jerome Dyson scored 21 points to lead Connecticut. A.J Price added 11 for the Huskies. 
"In the second half we just couldn't get it going," Dyson said. "We missed shots we needed to make." 
Villanova 75, DePaul 67 
Scottie Reynolds hit free throw after free throw down the stretch. showing the poise of a postseason-tested veteran. 
The freshman guard stepped up as Villanova's big playmaker, scoring 29 points and making eight free throws in the last 4 minutes to lead the ninth-seed­ed Wildcats to a victory over No. 8 seed DePaul in the open­ing round of the Big East tour­nament Wednesday. 
"I was just trying to be aggressive," Heynolds said. "A switch kind of turned on in me where I wanted to be more aggressive on the ball. It ended up where I was going to the line, and, you know, it worked out." 
Curtis Sumpter added 25 points and the Wildcats (22-9) won their fourth straight, advancing to play top-seeded Georgetown (23-6) in the sec­ond round Thursday. The Hoyas, who received a first­round bye, and the Wildcats split their two regular-season meetings. 
"We've just had two great games," Villanova coach Jay Wright said. "This is going to be a battle, man. That's what it's all about when you get here." 
Sammy Mejia scored 20 points, and Wilson Chandler and Draelon Burns eaeh had 18 for DePaul (lS-13), whieh was playing in its first Big East tour­nament after joining the confer­ence last season. 
"You've got to make open shots, and we didn't make them," DePaul coach Jerry Wainwright said. "It's nut a magic game. They were more efficient than we were. They took advantage." 
Heynolds was outstanding with sonior guard Mike Nardi sidelined for most of the game with a lel't ankle injury. Nardi was injured in tho first half of the Wildcats' victory over Syrac:uso on Saturday, and only played 5 minutes in this one. 
But Heynolds made sure Nardi wasn't completely missed. lie shot 6-of-19 from thc~ lield, ineluding 4-of-11 from 3-point range, and was B-of-16 from the foul line to tie a Villanova record for points in the Big East tournament. Kerry Kittles also scored 29 against Providence on March 11, 1995. 
"Scottie knows what he's doing and he can run the show," Wright said. 
Villanova led 28-26 at half­time, but came out shooting to start the second half. The Wildcats took a 39-28 lead on an 11-2 run that included two 3-pointers by Sumpter and another by Reggie Redding. 
The Blue Demons kept chip­ping away, getting within three points three times, but just 
.eouldn't make any big stops on the Wildcats. 
"Somehow we have to figure out a way to come up aggres­sive and match the other team's intensity because I think that was the difference in the game," Mejia said. "We made a lot of runs when they were up double digits or when they were up and we got close." 
After Mejia got DePaul within live at 57-52 with a layup with 
4:48 left, Heynolds made two free throws and then missed a 3 before Chandler hit one of his own to cut the Blue Demons' deficit to 59-55 with 2:57 left. Redding's jumper made it 61­55, but Mejia hit two free throws with 2:07 remaining to make it a four-point game. 
It was a foul shooting clinic from there, with Villanova going 14-of-18 from the line, includ­ing Reynolds' 6-of-8, as the Wildcats sealed the victory. It was a good thing Villanova was so good from the foul line -33­of-38 compared to DePaul's 16­of-19 -because it shot just 17­of-4 7 (36.2 percent) from the field. 
"If it does get into a free­throw shooting contest, usually we're pretty good," Wright said. "That gave me confidence. We talked about finishing games. If we can get into a position where we've got the lead, we're usually pretty good because our guys shoot well." 
West Virginia 92, Providence 79 
If West Virginia keeps hitting shots from all over the Madison Square Garden court, it might have a long stay in the Big East tournament. 
West Virginia made a Big East tournament record 17 3-point­ers and the seventh-seeded Mountaineers beat Providence in the opening round Wednesday night. 
"When we shoot like that we're a tough out," coach John Beilein said. "We've had moments where we're extreme­ly efficient. We really did a great job tonight." 
The win kept alive West Virginia's chances of an atclarge bid to the NCAA tournament should it not win the conference title. 
"I think the best idea for everyone in the eountry is just to keep winning," Beilein said. "I know the NCAA selection committee does a terrific job, but we just need to keep win­ning and not worry about any of that." 
Frank Young and Alex Ruoff each scored 21 points for the Mountaineers, who moved into the quarterfinals against sec­ond-seeded Louisville on Thursday night. 
"Twenty hours and we're back playing again," Beilein said. 


Thursday, March 8, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

. 
·· 1--·····l_]~i~~PlJid,HQT~JmQa· --~~}~~trt~lvt~~ -~==1 ::·-:·
I / />Vii<? ~~;"PC l '<'! r I I .I I I t~t\ . .. 1 ' I y~ { I 1
r 

'(iJo~i~'<viio · enti'>t e lttr:A~---"tid~i linar OiScussioM" 
;b"f"···ttl§udijri~~~tt ,~~d:~~~~;~rested in internationir"fr~--~ 
··i··-t-' ,.,~ . , -· I' 6 ·-~~--·­1(2F --j----;-.J ':1--Q'-· r­

':.-··------.~\' · (. .aj:b. .es$arct' efforts Wedriesda1:l! 'March121 st--;-'t· t-~·--I----t---.--· 
.·~--~--~·:=~t~ili~if£-!~;I~e-~~iOO~ Thur~d~'-C~~c~i2hi~(~~~-=UJ~~:··-­

. : ! \ 1 ! 'j' ··. 1. 1 ~ T I FOOWARpe1tZe( wil -· -~-·, . l _, , ..,_ -~ . t p« e "' .,
. ' ,~ • • ~ } ~ ~ J.~ , , . / ....~" I ~ .... I .
---~ ----r---i ----i .-(-----:----------\ /---~. / · ------_----.------t f--l"'--·-T
-----·-­
-:·rrsWI e clff~pen; l0i"ma 
lc~}!~,t'OPk ~ot)W~_rd4o seting yoJ there! ... ·._ ; 

Orange 
continued from page 20 
injured forward Rob Kurz, the Irish (23-6, 11-5) still had five players finish in double figures and shot 48 percent from the field. 
Syracuse forward Demetris Nichols led all scorers with 29 points while for­
ward Terrence be the key to
"They will sit in 

Roberts added 20 cracking
{the.zone} and

in the teams' first Syracuse's zone meeting. make us play defense because of "The last time the success he has
against that for 

we beat Syracuse had this season
40 minutes." 

... I'm not saying against the zone. that they're the In Notre Dame's same team, but Mike Brey 81-78 win against the psychological Providence Feb.
Irish coach 

advantage is on 15, Hillesland lin­our side being that gered near the we are 1-0 against them this foul line and disrupted season," Irish guard Russell Providence's 2-3 zone defense, Carter said. collecting 14 points on 7 -of-11 
Syracuse applied backcourt shooting. The extra attention defensive pressure late in its Providence gave Hillesland first game against opened up oppor­the Irish and cut a tunities inside for 28-point Notre "They're another Kurz, who finished 
Dame lead to 10 team that's playing that game with 15 with 2:42 remain­points.
really well how." 

ing, but the Irish Syracuse gained held off the entry into the Orange in the final Zach Hillesland quarterfinals of minutes. Brey is Irish forward the conference 
not concerned about the press this time around. Instead, Syracuse's zone remains the focus. 
"I would not be worried about their press, but they did­n't play us any zone up there," Brey said. "(Orange coach Jim Boeheiml did not start zone against us." 
Since its loss to Notre Dame, Syracuse has won seven of its last nine contests, including a. 72-58 upset of No: 9 Georgetown Feb. 26. 
"They're probably going to try and get a little revenge. We went in there and established the rhythm and tempo we wanted at their place," Irish forward Zach Hillesland said "They're another_ team that's playing really well now." 
Hillesland could 
tournament with a 
78-65 victory over Connecticut Wednesday. The No. 16/20 Irish earned a bye in the first round after finishing fourth in the regular season standings. The winner will face either Georgetown -or Villanova in the semifinals Friday. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Irish guard Tory Jackson drives to the basket in Notre Dame's 78-54 win Feb. 20 over DePaul at the Joyce Center. 
Brey 
continued from page 20 
loss of starting point guard Kyle McAlamey to suspension, the Irish went 23-6 overall and 11-5 in the Big East during the regular season. Almost every statistical category improved tremendously. Russell Carter became one the confer­ence's premier scorers. Tory Jackson and Luke Harangody made the Big East All-rookie team. Colin Falls a..c;sumed leadership of the team and guided the locker room through thick and thin. 
All in all, it was Mike Brey's sea­son of redemption. He silenced the critics, fixed his earlier mistakes and put a surefire NCAA Tournament team on the floor. 

But Brey and his team can't be finic;hed yet. They still have some demons to exorcise, beginning today in the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament in Madison Square Garden against Syracuse. 
Brey (and the Notre Dame pro­gram for that matter) has seen nothing but frustration in the Garden in the past. The coach is just 2-6 in the Big East tourna­ment, while the Irish overall-have gone just 3-11 since joining the conference before the 1995 season. 
The Orange (22-9, 10-6) come into tomorrow's game red hot and with a chip on their shoulder. Since losing to the Irish 103-91 Jan. 30, Syracuse has won seven of nine, blistering past Connecticut Tuesday, 78-65 in the first round. 
So with all that working against them, why should Notre Dame expect to win today? 
Because this team refused to stop believing in itself. Not when it was picked the finish 11th in the Big East. Not when it lost to Butler Nov. 13, 71-69 on a missed last second shot by Carter that was eerily reminiscent of 2005-06's close losses. Not even when McAlamey wa..c; suspended for a semester and Jackson was thrown into the fire a..c; the starting point guard. 
Mike Brey needs this win and maybe a couple more for good measure while his team is in New York Even his three NCAA Tournament teams faltered in the Big East tournament. l-Ie's fixed many of the problems with his pre­vious teams this year (inside play, defense, winning games), but all that redemption won't matter if the Irish bomb out of yet another con­ference tourney. 
Fortunately for Brey, this is the team to do it. This is the team that can win a game or two -or maybe even three -in the Garden, see their NCAA Tournament seed rise the week before Selection Sunday (instead of fall) and get rid of' the one blemish their coach's critics can still point to on his record. 
They don't need to win the tour­nament or -even make it to the championship. They just have to come out poised and make a good showing to tell the selection com­mittee and the nation that this is a new era in Notre Dame basketball and the days of meekly bowing out of the conference tournament are over. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 8, 2007 
NFL 
Lewis signs one-year deal vvith Cleveland 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -The Browns finally tackled Jamal Lewis. 
Unable to reach a deal to remain in Baltimore, the free agent running back signed a one-year deal on Wednesday with Cleveland, the team he blistered for an NFL single­game record 295 yards in 2003. 
Lewis was released last week in a salary-cap move by the Ravens, who elected not to pay their career rushing leader a $5 million roster bonus. He'll now join the Browns, Baltimore's AFC North rival, who were last in the league in rushing in 2006. 
"We are pleased to add Jamal Lewis to our team," Browns general manager Phil Savage said in a statement. "He is a proven NFL back who brings a toughness and demeanor to the game that his teammates and our fans will appreciate." 
Lewis, 27, visited the Browns on· Wednesday and decided to sign with the team before leaving town or talking 
to another team. Financial terms were not immediately available. 
Lewis' agent, Mitch Frankel, did not return several mes­sages seeking comment. 
With the Ravens reportedly interested in acquiring Buffalo running back Willis McGahee, Lewis decided to look else­where and found a fit with the Browns -one of the teams he has torched while rushing for 7,801 yards and 45 TDs in seven seasons. 
Lewis spent the afternoon at the Browns' facilities in sub­urban Berea, meeting with Savage and coach Homeo Crennel. Savage was with tho Ravens in 2000 when the club drafted Lewis in the first round out of Tennessee. 
Lewis, the NFL's Offensive Player of the Year in 2003, is an upgrade at running baek for the Browns, who now have to figure out what to do with feature back Reuben Droughns. They owe Droughns a $1.75 million ros­ter bonus later this month, but may choose to cut him instead. 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
er. 
"You have to play every game as a must win from here on out," Irish junior goalkeeper Jony Kemp said. 
The Irish need to got back on track from tlwir lirst two 
· games. A major l'aetor in thnir two victories was Notre Dame's advantagP over their opponents in shots on goaL In tho loss to Cornell, though, the Irish wore outshot by 14 attempts. The defense neods to limit their opposition's attempts-Kemp is good enough to make a sufficient number of saves for the Irish to win if tho team shot totals stay eloso. Notre Dame also needs to have good midfield play to lu~lp its ol'f!mse. In the Penn State victory, junior midfield­

er Michael Podgajny nettnd four goals and had two assists for a season-high six points. 
The upperclassmen arn a very important part of lead­ing this team as preseason­Ali-Amnriean S!mior attacker Brian llubschmann stands atop tlw team with seven goals. llowever, a good barometer or suecess is how well the underclassmen are doing. Freshman attacker Will Yeatman needs to eon­tinue his scoring sueenss. Along with Podgajny, hn leads the team with nine points. Sophomore attacker Hyan lloiT also has helped out with four goals and two assists of his own. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pal R. O'Brien at pobrien2@nd. edu 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
freshman. Calli Davidson also earned honorable mention honors last year. 
Seniors Miesle and Laura I leline hope to return to the MIAA championship this year after win­ning the title in 2004 during Sullivan's senior season a..s a play­or. 
"Two of them have \\on the con­ference tournament before so they know what it takes to get there," Sullivan said. "They want to go out with some kind of record." 
After their demanding Fort Myers schedule, the Belles will hit the beaeh before returning to school and starting their home season March 25 against Hose­llulman. 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at Irs lingO 1 @nd.edu 
......... 
RoNWHITE 
You CAN'T Fix STuPID 
MAY 3rd, 8:00 p.111. 
Tickets are available at the
~JJ/I ~p[Ol/t:i_f  Morris Box Office, Supersounds Catalog Center inside TG Music,  
l'ERfORMlNG ARTS CENTER *SOUTH REND.lN  Goshen IN, charge by phone  
at (800) 537-6415  
or (574) 235-9190,  
or online at morriscenter.org.  


SAT, MAR. 10TH @ 8AM 
NCAA MIDWEST REGIONAL 
Thursday, March 8, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 

BLACK DoG 
I C:zo Now -rc H'i 
-suot"llf'.N12.NT. I MA'~
UP F'o~ WHAI 
\ BE-LIEVE'. IN. Be IMPE:AC-1-!E.t:>, &.tf 
\ U.S£0 "TI-I.P..T 
""Gl,E F 1(-ti-\T Fot:a. 
CoPIE-R.. ( <:At-J'r 
-..:DsiiC..E'. Al-lf:> ""'·JH!l\T 
CHAN<.:tE: -<HAl. 
'fOV. CAN USE: -n-iE. 
CC>P !E-1<. Fo~t 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 43 Change, chemically

1 Weight 44 Alternative to
5 All in favor 
Meth. or Luth.

9 Where some bolts fit 46 Newspaper feature
14 Like some locks 47 Critical stage in
15 Torn 
a space16 Abhorrence shuttle's flight 17 50% likelihood 
50 "_the long , 20 Born, in roll of the ages Bordeaux end" (start of an .old Irish song)
21 "Not very likely!" 51 Chinese
22 With sound thought
enhanced 55 Openly sworn

23 Saint Clare of 
60 German honey 25 Functioned as 62 Letter from the 27 Of no value Corinthians 
34 of color 63 Bill Moyers speech on
37 Himalayan hoax 
income 38 Restraints 
inequality in 39 Jingle creator America, with "The"
41 Codgers' queries 66 Measure out 
42 Hint 67 As required 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
68 Mah-jongg draw 69 Artful Dodger 70 God with a 
chariot drawn by fire-breathing stallions 
71 As recently as 
DOWN 1 Howler 2 They have a 
roof above them 3 Runs off 4X 5 Uprightness 6 Artist Magritte 7 Start of a march 
chant ... or a hint to 17-, 27-, 47-and 53-Across 
aMajor mess 
9 Head 
10 Leading man? 
11 Pint-size 
12 Go against 
13 Hook hand 
18 Soy-based soup 
19 Amount to 
24 All together 
26 Up 
28 Niobe, e.g. 
29 Best seller 
30 Steep-sidedgulch 
31 Wet bar? 



35 Fantasy 36 "Rubaiyat" poet 

LIAMMORAN 
on, son, this ain't gonna be no dog gone girl's dorm. This ain't no limp-wristed, Lifetime watchin, fro-yo eatin' nancy dorm. This is Ray f*""in' Duncan's dorm. I eat red meat. I shower in grain al­cohol. Sh**, sometimes I get a few drinks in me and see how fast my '69 Z28 can go. I'm a 
. Now build me a man's dorm. 

WILLSHORTZ 
40 Degree in math?  53 Find at the beach  59 Feminine name ending  
45 Title locale in a classic Bing Crosby film  54 Take a stroll 55 Miles away  61 Imperative  
48 Make over  56 Nasty  
49 One of the Castros 52 Monte of  57 Eyeball 58 Microscopic Dr. Seuss  64 Org. that gives approvals  
Cooperstown  characters  65 Skater Midori  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
­
You have the snob 
to form four ordinary words. 
appeal we need 
TIXSY 

©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
ZARUE 
J 
I I r ()

tVIEWEL THE: SHARP 
Dr<E=SSE:R GOT THE 

JOB AT THE: ME:N'S www.jumble.com 5TORE: BE:CAUSE: HE: 
IJ I ±. 
WAS--­
YIELDE 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: r1 I I J-.. rI I 1 I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: DECAY ASSAY RAMROD FALTER 
Yesterday's Answer: 

When the astronomy students finished studying, they were-"STARRY" EYED 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Paul Cattermole, 30; John Heard, 62; Daniel J. Travanti, 67; Willard Scott, 73 
Happy Birthday: A problem with feeling uncomfortable or insecure in your current situation is likely to occur if you have been heading down the wrong path. You will have lots of opportunities, but choosing the ones best suited to you will be a problem. Go with what takes the least effort but will bring the best results. Your numbers are 7, 18, 20, 31, 44, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may feel pulled in too many directions today. Decide what you really want to do and follow through. Although you could probably ·manage everything, why stress yourself out unnecessarily? Leave time for pleasure. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have to strive for more. Just doing the bare bones will not cut it today. Someone is likely to complain or criticize you for not giving your all. A little creative input on your part will tum the tables. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Avoid making impulsive moves. Stick to what you are familiar with, even if it doesn't excite you. For the moment, finish what you start and focus on doing the best you can. A love interest will have his or her effects on you. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't put too much pressure on yourself regarding your personal life. You should be intent on getting ahead professionally and making whatever changes you can that will help you financially. Empty promises are apparent. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You don't have to spend money or travel too far to find success today. Bank on your good looks, charm and ability to persuade others to see things your way. A love connection can be made or a partnership formed. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may be tempted to put a price on things that cannot be bought or sold. Someone will surprise you with his or her reaction to something you want to do. Put your efforts into professional goals, education or taking care of your health and well-being. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your timing is good for networking with the right people and convincing everyone that you have a great idea. You will discover that your love life is also picking up. Leave a little time for love. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your creative juices are flowing so launch one of your brilliant plans or at least talk to people who can help you get·to the next level. Don't rely on those closest to you for support. It will bring hostile reactions. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Don't worry so much about what everyone else is doing. Getting involved in volunteer work or networking with an organization that has a serious purpose will bring you in contact with someone who can help you boost your financial situation. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let personal issues stand in your way. Avoid anyone who is trying to push his or her beliefs on you. An opportunity to make some changes to your vocation look promising; phone and e-mail will be an acceptable way to communicate. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Winnings, rebates and settlements are in the stars. Collect old debts. Someone you respect will give you wise advice. A relationship you are involved in will experience further developments. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your choices and decisions may not be as favorably viewed as you think. The people who have always supported you may be questioning your motives. It might be a good idea to rethink some of your own strategies. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are impulsive, imaginative and innovative. You are captivating, intense and worldly. Adventure and excitement entice you. You are a lover and a leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidemial collSultations 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, March 8, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Midto-wn ntadness 
Irish hope to duplicate winning ways against Syracuse in Big East 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

NEW YORK -The last time Notre Dame played Syracuse, the Irish utilized an up-tempo transition offense to set their season high point total in a 103­91 win over the Orange Jan. 30 in the Carrier Dome. 
But Notre Dame coach Mike Brey expetts the teams' second meeting to be different. The Irish face the Orange at 2 p.m. today in an ESPN televised quarterfinal of the Big East tournament at Madison Square Garden in New York City . 

-"I would think if we play Syracuse they will play zone for 40 minutes," Brey said. "They will sit in it arid make us play against that for 40 minutes. I was surprised that we didn't see it at all [last time]." The Orange (22-9, 10-6 Big East) broke away from their traditional 2-3 zone in the teams' first matchup and played man-to-man defense -but to little use. Playing without 
see ORANGE/page 17 


New York offers Brey chance to cap surprise season, improve seed 
NEW YORK-The last three seasons had been rough for Notre Dame men's basketball. And no one had taken more heat than coach Mike Brey. 
After two years of being on the wrong side of the bubble and last year's dis­astrous 1-8 start in the Big East, expecta­tions were very low fbr the 2006-07 Irish. 
There were numerous questions. Where would the lrL'ih inside-game come from? Would the young point guards be able to run the team? Would Notre Dame be able to do anything offensively aside ti·om shooting threes? Would Brey keep his job if his team missed out on another NCAA Tournament bid? 
Six months later, those questions are a distant memory. Despite the 
see BREY/page 17 

Chris Khorey 
Associate Sports Editor 

MEN'S lACROSSE-ANALYSIS 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles head south for 
Loss should re-focus team 
Talented Irish squad must prepare for hard schedule ahead ofthem 
Irish fans should not worry after last weekend's loss to Cornell (3-0). The Big Red are ranked No. 3 in the nation and may be the hottest team 
in the coun­ 
try. Through  .  Pat O'Brien  
their first  
three victo- Sports Writer  
ries, the Red  

have outscored their oppo­nents 48-18. During that span, Cornell goaltender Matt McMonagle has been stellar, saving more than 60 percent of shots on goal. 
No. 14 Notre Dame (2-1) beat Loyola (Md.) in their first contest of the year in a 9-7 battle. Loyola is currently ranked No. 16. Then the Irish conquered pre-season No. 16 . Penn State in Happy Valley. 
After the 13-8 loss at Cornell, Notre Dame travels to No. 15 North. Carolina, who has had a hot 3-1 start this season. The Irish also visit Drexel, a team with a land­mark 11-10 victory over then­No. 1 Virginia, the defending national champion. The road trip ends with a weekend visit to Ivy League team Dartmouth. 
Notre Dame needs to get 

10 games in Florida 
for the Belles, whose practice time has been limited due to recent weather. 

"We want to find the team ori the field that will be most com­petitive," Sullivan said. "It's tough because we haven't been outside ... but the adjustment's not that difficult." 
After spring break, the Belles will try to improve upon their 2006 conference record (11-5) and qualify for the conference and regional tournaments. 
In addition to the team's larger ambitions, each team member has set individual goal<;, 

"We're a different team," Sullivan said. "Our goal isn't to necessarily be better than we were last year, but we do want to achieve some personal goals to have a better season." 
The experienced team of nine upperclassmen will add three freshmen to the team and one sophomore, volleyball standout Cathy Kurczak, who did not play last sea<;on. 
Three returning Belles ­Kristen Amram, Sarah Miesle and Ashley Fusaro -earned first or second-team MIM acco­lades in 2006. Pitcher Amram became the Belles' first MIAA MVP, after she went 6-1 with a 
0.97 EHA in league play as a 
see BELLES/page 18 By REBECCA SLINGER Sports Writer 

Coming off last year's 28-13 mark, Saint Mary's travels to Florida next week with high expeetations as they begin their sea<;on with a 10-game stretch in the Sunshine State. 
Lnd by sec­ond-year coach Erin Sullivan, the Br.lles head to Ft. Myers, Fla., where they will play 10 gamr.s from March 11-17. Sullivan led the team to unpreeedentnd heights last sea­son, reaching the conference tournament li1r the first time and earning a school-record 28 wins. 
The Belles hope to rekindle thnir winning ways in Florida, where they face off against Montclair State, Mount Ida, Curry, Nichols, New England, 
past this five game road trip squad is league rival, No. 18 

Ohio Wesleyan, Illinois College in its brutal early schedule. Denver, who the Irish play at 
(2-1 ), Blackburn (2-2), North After these games, five of Moose Krause Field. This 
Park and Transylvania (3-1 ). Notre Dame's remaining eight does not mean that Notre 
Only three of the week's oppo­matches are here in South Dame should take any game 
nents have games under their Bend, and only one is against lightly, but the schedule does 
belts this season. Sullivan said a team that is currently 
her lineups wiU be fluid through­ranked in the top 20. That see LACROSSE/page 18 
out the week to see what works 









