
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 63 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2007 

Donn asked to change holiday sign 
Pangborn rector told to reconstruct 'Xmas' decoration to spell out Christmas 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Editor 
This holiday season, Pangborn Hall put the Christ back in Christmas. 
But the 19-foot-wide white and purple sign on the front of the dorm proclaiming "Have a Phoxy Christmas" didn't always read as such. Until last week, when a University administrator asked Pangborn rector Kuukua Yomekpe to change it, the sign bore a more economical spelling: "Have a Phoxy Xmas." 
The events leading to this change began two weeks ago, when Yomekpe submitted a work order form to have work­ers from the Maintenance Department hang the sign on the hont of Pangborn. Construction of the sign had concluded just a day earlier after months of work by hall president Allie Carrick and a friend from Dillon. 
With Thanksgiving just days away, no progress on hanging the sign was made until Nov. 28, when Yomekpe was able to speak with a staff member from Maintenance, she said. They agreed the sign would be hung in front of the dorm. 
Hours later, Yomekpe said, she received a call from Associate Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk. 
see SIGN/page 8 


Bookstore to add retail, seating space 
Construction to change book, cafe areas; completion date scheduled for April 2008 
have the best bookstore possible," Kirkpatrick said. "We saw that the areas that could use the most improve­ment from a quantity and presentation side were the general books and cafe areas." 
The construction for the project should be completed by April 2008. The cosmetic details, like new carpeting and painting, are expected to be finished by fall 2008. 
The new plans include several major changes to the store's floor plan, the 
see BOOKSTORE/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Club raises 111oney for East Africa 
Baraka Bouts hope to send $10,000 to schools 
By JOSEPH McMAHON News Writer 
This year, the Women's Boxing Club of Notre Dame hopes its Baraka Bouts event will bring in at least $10,000 for Holy Cross schools in East Africa, more than double last year's fundraising total. 
The club, which raised $4,000 last year, believes that it is currently on track to meet its goal through dona­tions from both students and alumni. 
"Hopefully, through our ticket sales, our merchandise sales and donations from alums who have boxed, we will make $10,000," said club co-president and senior Whitney Endsley. Endsley, who joined the club in her sophomore year, has seen Baraka Bouts transform into one of Notre Dame's premier fundraising events. 
This year, the club set a record when 120 girls signed up. On Thursday, 44 women boxed in the exhibition, which lasted from 6 p.m. until 11 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The women participating are part of one of the fastest growing clubs at Notre Dame. 
"When I first joined the club it was still forming and get­ting its roots set somewhere," 
see BARAKA/page 4 


By GENE NOONE News Writer 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore began renova­tions earlier this week to add nearly 2,500 square feet of additional retail and seating space to the build­ing. 
The most noticeable changes will be made to the general books and cafe areas, said Keith Kirkpatrick, director of retail management for the Bookstore. 
"The University wants to 
Papers give alternative news sources 

Rover, Common Sense take different approach to journalism 
By BRIAN McKENZIE News Writer 
Common Sense and The Irish Rover provide students articles on different topics and with dif­ferent styles than The Observer, said staffers at the two publica­tions. 
"Common Sense is a place where you can publish research­bascd articles that are either too long to print in something like The Observer or too liberal for a publication like The Rover," said senior Jacqueline Collins, a mcmbor of Common Sense's edi­torial board. 
The founder of Common Sense, political science professor Petor Walsh. said The Observer reporl'i on a wide range of cur­rent issues. 
"But Common Sense has always been more focused on methods of justice, social justice and the common good," he said. "We have a narrower focus, but one that's very important for the campus." 
Senior Molly Hayes, Common Sense's editor-in-chief, said the publication has a circulation of 3,000 copies and published around once a month. Common Sense's objective, she said, was to "provide a more humanitari­an perspective on the news." 
"At NO, sometimes we forget that Catholicism and conser­vatism aren't synonymous," she said. 
Common Sense's articles draw on each of the seven elements of Catholic social teaching, she said, but submissions are not exclusively religious. 
She said Common Sense is Notre Dame's "only publication to include work from faculty, alumni, graduate and under­graduate students." 
The theme of the November issue of Common Sense was immigration. 
"Given the immigration forum, we felt that it would be appropri­ate to have an immigration­themed issue," she said. 
In addition to papers, Common Sense includes art, reflections and poetry, she said. 
Junior Michael Angulo, a con­tributor to Common Sense, said it "provides a forum for progres­sive, liberal students engaged in global issues, whether their papers are rather formal and academic or more editorially 
see RELIGION/page 4 

SMC seniors collect funds for class gift 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Senior Gift Campaign provides an opportu­nity for students to leave a lega­cy at Saint Mary's, honor their experience at the College and give back to a community that has given much to them, said Heather Frey, assistant director of Saint Mary's Annual Fund. 
"Giving back to Saint Mary's is embraced from the beginning of a student's time on campus," Frey said. "The Senior Gift Campaign is just a culmination of their four years of fundrais­ing." 
Saint Mary's Annual Fund, 
which provides scholarships and financial aid for current students, runs the Senior Gift Campaign. The gift, which may be a physical present or a dona­tion to a student scholarship fund, is presented to the College during the annual Alumnae Luncheon in May. 
Past gifts have included clocks, trees and benches. Many of the statues found around campus came from seniors who were students in the 1950s and 60s. 
"The Class of 2007 gave money to support student schol­arships and dedicated a room in Spes Unica [the new academic 
see GIFT/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Getting into the spirit 
Ah. the holiday season. With the fresh layer of snow on the ground and the knowledge that break is just around the eornnr, my festive mood kenps rising and is on the vergn of going otr the charts. 
Nikki Taylor
For some 
unexplainable 
News W'ire Editor
rnason, I have more Christmas spirit this year than I have had in a long time. I was pondering this thought over some dassie Christmas music the othnr day when my roommate pointed out to mn that all the Christmas carols senm to bn much morn poignant to her this year now that she is away from home. 
It was a light bulb moment. l realized that slw is entirely right. A<> a fresh­man. this is my first ynar away from my family during the holiday season. I rmvnr bnfbre ti~lt a deep connection with Perry Como as lw was singing, 'There's No Place Like Home for the llolidays" but now I rnalizn how right he is. 
And hnaring Frank Sinatra's version of ".Jingh~ Bnlls" takes mn right to my grandma's living room on Christmas morning. 
I know it senms bizarrn. but l think that being away from my family during tho beginning of thn holiday stmson is making nw mow festivn. Maybe it is an uneonsdous Pflilrt on my part to eom­pensatP li1r what I am missing at honw. My roommates and I have dneo­ratnd our dorm room and we have bem1 playing Christmas musk sin1:e boli1rn Thanksgiving (an act that I am usually staunehly against). 
Thn Christmas tree in the lobby of lloly Cross llall fills me with a warm and fuzzy fi1eling evnry time I walk in the front door. 
Maybn it has something to do with the traditions of Christmas, and know­ing that no matter whnre you are, they won't change. Every family has iL<> own holiday traditions. Some play football in the snow, or watch the TBS "A Christmas Story" marathon, or have a white elephant gift exchange. 
I'm two hours from home, but I know that when l return. everything will dee­oratt~d just as it has bmm in years befon~. l know that Christmas Eve means our family's wassail party, and Christmas morning will be spent at my grandma's with a bufl'et bruneh. 
I feel like a little kid again with all the Christmas anticipation. It's only the beginning of December, and I get more anxious every day. Only Christmas changes as you get older. It is no longer all about getting presenl<> from Santa. It now is filled with an air of family and togetherness. The Christmas season at school makes your roommates and friends your family as you decorate together, and it makes you appreciate your mal family and the time spent with them on the holiday more. 
Christmas truly is a magical time, and I wish all the joys and simple pleasure on the Christmas season to all in the Notre Dame eomrnunity. Let your Christma..'i spirit carry you through finals! 
The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not rw(:essarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
Contact Nikki Taylor at n tayloO I (Q1sain !marys. edu. 
CLARIFICATION 
Frin Brady. the subject or from-page article "SMC senior holds person.tlprotcst" in the Dec. 6 edirion ofThe ( lbservcr. said Thursday while sht· supports the l'tn·dom of Choice ;tct. slw held her protest pri­marily "f{n women's reproduclivc.· frt·t:dom." lll'r ftlCltS, .,he ·'•tid, wa' flO[ to advocatt• a reversal or the han on partial birth abortions, as stated in dw art ide\ whlwad. 
Friday, December 7, 2007 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 QuESOON OF THE DAY: WHATS YOUR FAVORITE FAST FOOD RESTAURANT? 






Robbie Bernardin  Katie Smith  Amanda Dosch  Jackie Dineen  Brittany Pangburn  
junior Siegfried  senior Lyons  junior Pangborn  junior Pangborn  senior McCandless  
"Dog 'nMug­their root beer is creamy ,goodness.  "Pan era because Nicholas and I go on a date  "Dairy Queen, because I am the Dairy ,Queen.  "Chipotle, because they put the burrito in gourmet. "  "Wendy's, because you can buy stufffor $1."  

there." 

ANNIE HARTON!The Observer 

Members of the nondenominational worship and praise group Iron Sharpens Iron sing Christmas songs and light candles Thursday at a Christmas celeratlon in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
OFFBEAT 
The First Noel, the police did arrest 
ANDERSON, Ind. -A Salvation Army bell ringer sang "The First Noel" while shoplifting Christmas orna­ments on his break, poliee said. Sean M. Sayers, 33, Anderson, was arrested Wednesday on a misde­meanor charge of eonver­sion. 
Sayers was being held in Madison County Jail with­out bond for allegedly vio­lating terms of probation on a previous ease. 
According to a probable cause affidavit filed by police, Sayers was on his break as a bell ringer at a Wal-Mart in the city north­east of Indianapolis when he went inside the store and slipped about $20 worth of Christmas orna­ments inside his jacket and a fast food bag. Police said he was singing the Christmas earol as he shoplifted the goods about 6 
p.m. Wednesday. 
Store ad: Hams 'delicious for Chanukah' 
NEW YORK -This was REALLY not kosher. A gro­eery store in Manhattan made a food faux pas, adver­tising hams a.<> "Delicious for Chanukah." 
Chanukah, an alternate spelling for Hanukkah, is the eight-day Jewish holiday that began Tuesday evening, and hams as well as pork and other products from pigs ean't be eaten under Jewish dietary laws. 
A woman who saw the mistake over the weekend at the Balducci's store on 14th Street took pietures of the signs and posted them on her blog. 
Jennifer Barton, direetor of marketing, told The Associated Press on Thursday that the signs were changed as soon as the error was noted. 
She issued an apology on the company Web site, say­ing the company would be reviewing its employee train­ing. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

...... 
<
(,) 





0 
HIGH 32 HIGH
..J 
LOW 25 LOW 
31 27 

HIGH 22 LOW 15 
IN BRIEF 
The Hosary will be said at at the Grotto at 6:45 p.m. today. The Hosary is said daily. 
To celebrate the feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, Campus Ministry is hosting prayer services to obtain special graces in St. Edward's Hall Chapel at 9 
p.m. each night through Sunday. Thn celebration is co-sponsored by the Institutn for Latino Studies, J.a Alianza and OLA. 
1' he ann u a I l'o o t b a 11 banquet will be held tonight at 5:45 p.m. in the Joyce Center Monogram Boom. The featured speaker will be 1993 graduate Aaron Taylor, a two-year All­American Offensive Tackle and Lombardi Award winner. Tickets can be purchased through the Notre Dame Ticket Office at 574-631­7356. 
The Glee Club will hold its annual Christmas Concert Saturday at 8:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The eoncert will benefit the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
"HA-nukkah Ill: Pirates!," an improvisational and sketeh comedy show will be presented by The Humor Artists on Tuesday, Dec. 11 at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Admission is $2. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


HIGH 32 HIGH LOW 28 LOW 
35 26 


Atlanta 60 I 49 Boston 41 I 34 Chicago 34 I 21 Denver 40 I 23 Houston 82 I 68 Los Angeles 58 I 4 7 Minneapolis 16 I 1 New York 39 I 36 Philadelphia 41 I 36 Phoenix 66 I 51 Seattle 40 I 29 St. Louis 45 I 35 Tampa 80 I 62 Washington 43 I 40 
Friday, December 7, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND seniors debate possible gifts 
Legacy gift could be study abroad scholarship, environmental fund 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Senior Class Gift committee is cur­rently deeiding how money raised by the Class of 2008 will help the University in the future. 
Each year, the committee, which consists of 10 seniors and one junior. raises money by asking for donations from the graduat­ing elass and 
for the senior class to leave a legacy," said Moira Madden, the assistant director of Notre Dame's Annual Fund, which coordi­nates the committee. 
This year, the committee is considering several causes to benefit with the money it rais­es. 
"The committee gets togeth­er and talks about what their class is interested in," Madden said. "We talk about a number of things -a lot of times classes talk about financial aid and how important that is to students and how they want other people to have the same experiences they've had." 
Among the  causes  being  
considered  is  the  
Environmental  and  

Conservation Operations Fund, which would be used to help Notre Dame improve its environmental record. The fund would be overseen and utilized by the Energy and Environmental Issues commit-
its parents to 
"It's important to be

help benefit 
causes such· involved and to support 
as financial any way that they can. aid and study 
It's about participation, 
abroad pro­
not a dollar amount." 

grams. "The Senior Class Gift is a 
Moira Madden 

fundraising 
assistant director

opportunity 
Annual Fund 

tee, the Students for Environmental Action and the Energy Center Student Advisory Board. 
"A number of years ago, Notre Dame received a D­minus score for environ­mental issues on campus," 
Madden said. "[Our environ­mental grade has] changed since then, but this fund would go to help all their initiatives and help with different proj­ects. It is a fund that would be endowed so it's something that would be around forever, and they would be able to use the interest from it to continue on in its mission." 
The committee is also con­sidering using the money it raises to provide financial aid to future students, possibly to those hoping to study abroad. 
"[Money raised might be] going to be financial aid, we just haven't figured out any restrictions," Madden said. "It's possible that it would be for the abroad program, but right now it's mostly a finan­cial aid package." 
The committee has also spo­ken to the Career Center about the possibility of creating an internship fund. However, the project is still in such a nas­cent stage that the specifics have yet to really be dis­cussed, Madden said. 
The committee hopes this year's Senior Class Gift is as successful as last year's, when 30 percent of the graduating class participated and approx­imately $90,000 was raised. 
Madden said participating by donating to the committee -even if the donation is small -is important to the University and its mission. 
"We want students to get involved," she said. "It's important to be involved and to support any way that they can. It's about participation, not a dollar amount." 
The committee hopes to have decided upon a cause before winter break. It will send out letters around March inviting seniors to donate to the fund. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
English professor wins book award 
Special to The Observer 
Kathryn Kerby-Fulton, Notre Dame english professor, recent­ly was awarded the John Ben Snow Prize from the North American Conference on British Studies for "Books Under Suspicion: Censorship and Tolerance of Revelatory Writing in Late Medieval England." 
Published last year by Notre Dame Press, "Books Under Suspicion" offers a sharply revi­sionist account of intellectual freedom in the 14th and 15th centuries and examines the cen­sorship issues that propelled the major writers of the period toward their massive use of visionary genres. 
The award citation states: "Through its superb scholar­ship, 'Books Under Suspicion' recasts our understanding of religious heterodoxy in late medieval England. Kathryn Kerby-Fulton challenges tradi­tional historiography that privi­leges the radicalism of John Wycliffe and his followers. Instead, through close examina­tion of visionary genres and texts, she establishes a signifi­cant, alternative intellectual his­tory, one that shows a surpris­ing degree of pluralism and tol­erance for unorthodox thought...Kerby-Fulton's schol­arship is remarkable, her methodology often ingenious, particularly her use of reception history and codicology. This book rests on rich sources, both literary and theological, vernac­ular and Latin. It integrates Europe and England in new ways and shows a pluralist cul­ture under constant negotiation and evolution." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2005, Kerby­Fulton was awarded a 2007-08 fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, for which she is working on a project titled "Medieval Reading Circles and the Rise of English Literature in England and Anglo-Ireland." 
Specializing in Middle English literature and related areas of medieval studies, Kerby-Fulton also is the author of "Reformist Apocalypticism and Piers Plowman" (which won the John Nicholas Brown Prize from the Medieval Academy of America in 1994), co-author of "Iconography and the Professional Reader," and co­editor of three collections. 
Kerby-Fulton has served as a visiting scholar at Princeton, Yale and Harvard Universities. Her research awards include 13 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC) research grants, one SSHRC leave, and fellowships at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University and the Centre for Studies in Religion and Society at the University of Victoria, where she previously served as a faculty member. 

-~---~-~----.... 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, December 7, 2007 

Baraka 
continued from page 1 
Endsley said. "We've taken strides in terms of being organized and having really committed people behind us." 
The elub's other co-presi­dent, senior Colleen McCormick, also believes it is likely the club will send a chock for at least $10,000 to the Holy Cross Mission in East Africa. 
"Our main fundraiser is 
the event some day has the prominence of the Bengal Bouts, the men's boxing com­petition -also for charity ­that takes place each spring. 
"A lot of the paperwork the guys have to do we started doing last year so that we could be at the same level as them," sophomore captain Kristin Burke said. 
Along with junior captain Nicole Koors, Burke intro­duces novices to the sport and trains the veterans. 
':4 lot ofthe paperwork 
called the 'Power !lour,' the guys have to do we 
whflre we do started doing last year 
as many jump­
so that we could be at
ing jacks, pull­
ups and sit-ups the same level as 
as possible," them" 
she said. "Each member raises 
Kristin Burke

$100 and some even raised Baraka Bouts 
over $700." sophomore captain 
Fifty partici­pants raised at I Bast $100 during tho "Power Hour," McCormick said. 
Additional funds will come from the main event, in the form of ticket sales for $3 and programs for $2, as well as some money that was left over from last year's Baraka Bouts, she said. 
The word "baraka" means blessing or prosperity in Swahili. It was picked as the event's name in 2004. 
"We wanted to pick a word that encompassed who we are as a club, and because we work with East Africa, Swahili was a good language to pull from," McCormick said. 
With the help of lh~cSports, the women of Baraka Bouts are beginning to raise the awareness of their light night. McCormick said. She hopes 

Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
most complicated of which involves pushing the south wall out to the edge of the current outdoor arcade. 
Kirkpatrick said the arcade was originally intended as a space for customer lines. However, because the build­ing's internal space provided enough room for longer lines, the arcade was not being used. The bookstore is now in the process of con­verting that space to retail. 
The expansion of the south wall will add 1,000 square ftHlt to the general books section and an additional 60 percent of the seetion's eur­rent stoek to the shelves. The expansion will allow more room for seating areas with eomfortable sofa chairs. 
The renovations also include expanding the cur­rent eafe toward the ceiling­high bay windows that over­look campus, Kirkpatrick said. 
He said the northeast cor­ner of the bookstore will be expanded to include more eomfortable seating, flat sereen TVs, a larger maga­zine and periodieals seetion and wireless Internet. 
Other changes include adding a book information center to the front of the store, installing Internet kiosks throughout the store where eustomers can seareh for books and opening the double doors at the store's northeast corner to students, 
Koors sees Baraka Bouts as an opportu­nity to do something she loves while still benefiting a good cause. 
"Yesterday at Mass, Father [Brian) Daley, our fac­ulty advisor, said that we all love box­ing, and we're doing this for 
the sake of boxing, and the charity side of it just makes it that much better," she said. 
Considering the club's growth in recent years, Endsley and other members of the Women's Boxing Club hope enough girls will join so that they can have a Bengal Bouts-style tournament, as opposed to just one fight night with one-on-one pair­ings. 
However, just as Holy Cross men are barred from joining Bengal Bouts due to liability issues, Saint Mary's women are not allowed to participate in Baraka Bouts. Endsley and McCormick were forced to turn away several girls who were interested in competing. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
faculty and staff. 
The second floor will also undergo changes, inducting a reorganization of the student textbook section that will increase the space by 1,500 square feet and make it easi­er for students to find their books, Kirkpatriek said. 
Even with such drastic ren­ovations, Kirkpatrick said students and customers won't be distracted by the construction when they visit the store. 
"We wanted to make sure there would be as little interference as possible through the renovations," he said. "We'll be putting up drywall and bloeking off the eonstruction areas so that they don't bother our cus­tomers." 
The future renovations were the result of recom­mendations made by staff, students and shoppers, Kirkpatrick said. 
The renovations are being fully funded by the follett Higher Education Group, which has managed the bookstore facility since it first opened in 1999 in its eurrent location. The con­struction will be done in partnership with Notre Dame's architecture office and the contractor of the University. 
The store will be displaying several artist renderings of the completed projeet so cus­tomers can see what the changes will look like when finished. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
Gift 
continued from page 1 
building set to open for the 2008-09 school year) in honor of their dass," Frey said. 
While this year's gift is still undetermined, 2008 Senior Gift chair Beth McKevitt said the dass will follow traditions set by previous classes, but no decision will be made until spring. 
"As of right now, I can prom­ise that a sizable amount will be donated in the form of stu­dent scholarships, as is tradi­tion," McKevitt said. 
The goal for the Senior Gift Campaign is 100 percent stu­dent participation. 
"Our campaign is more focused on participation rates rather than the actual dollar amount raised at the end of the year," McKevitt said. "In suc­ceeding in reaching our goal of 


Papers 
continued from page 1 
focused." 
Following a trip to El Salvador, Angulo is writing a paper on water privatization there. 
"I think it's a pretty important way of looking at globalization but not a lot of people know about it," he said. "Common Sense seemed like the best way to get published." 
He considered the Journal of Undergraduate Research (JUR). 
But, he said, "my paper wasn't intensively researched, at least not in the same way as the JUR would want." 
"It was more like what you'd expect from an academic aetivist," he said. 
He said he conducted some of his research by surveying 60 high sehoul students. That pro­vided "a more interesting out­100 percent partieipation among the senior elass, we help improve the College's sta­tus in national rankings in pub­lications like US News & World Report and enhanee our national reputation." 
Students begin raising money as freshmen through each class's Quarters campaign, a smaller version of the Senior Gift Campaign. The eampaigns are "basically the same thing," Frey said, but the name changes for senior year. 
Each class has its own cam­paign and account, Frey said. This ensures that the gift a stu­dent makes during any year at Saint Mary's goes into her class's own account and will be there as her senior dass makes its gift decision. 
'That is the biggest misun­derstanding," Frey said. "When you donate, you're giving to your own class's eampaign." 
Both the Senior Gift and Quarters campaigns provide 
look on the situation," he said. 
"They aren't as jaded, and they don't have much of a view of international political econo­my," he said. "There's still a sense that things can change." 
Hayes said Angulo's article was "ideal for Common Sense." 

"It brought a topic to light that hasn't been well addressed by the media, and did so in an insightful and personal way," she said. 
Senior Matt Smith, the editor­in-chief of The Rover, said The Rover's niche is to cover Catholic issues on campus. 
"There's a misconception that The Rover and The Observer are these bitter enemies and we're not," be said. "Any two organi­zations will have members that disagree, sometimes pa"sionate­Iy, and that doesn't mean the organizations are at odds. 
''The Hover complements ­not necessarily compntes with ­The Observer," Smith said. "We 

..····,w·".r~<tt!f"~­
many opportunities to donatn throughout the year, at such aetivities as "Karaoke Idol," held in November. 
"The end goal is the same, so the campaigns compromise 
and w.?rk tog~th,;;r t~ plan events, Frey satd. Idol was a joint efl"ort because the amount of money raised is based on who gives. We reach out to all students and the money they give goes baek to their own gift campaign." 
Currently, both campaigns are stationed outside the Noble Family Dining Hall every night before dinner inviting students to contribute to the College before the holiday season, McKevitt said. Students that donate to their own campaign will be entered into a raffle, with the winner announced at the annual Late Night Breakfast next Thursday. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
respect the service The Observer provides. We aren't a daily paper and we don't aspire to be one." 
He said the paper is concerned about the University's focus on academic rankings. 
"The motif I've observed is that we've tried year after year to improve our reputation and doing so requires conforming to certain standards like ideas of academic freedom and intellec­tual diversity that are defined by our peer institutions or 'aspira­tional peers,"' Smith said. "That's pernicious because as the premier Catholic university in the world, we are precisely that diverse elemnnt that thesn peers claim to desire, and yet it's precisely that which the conven­tional wisdom would have us downplay to move up in the rankings." 
Contact Brian McKenzie at bmckenzi@nd.edu 
~--=·· 
• 

~----------------------------------------------·------------------------------------------------­






ORLD & NATION 
Friday, December 7, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Cons.!olese women allegedly raped 
JOflANNESBURG, South Africa -Angolan soldiers routinely and repeatedly rape Congolese women who have crossed the bor­der illegally in search of work in the diamond fields, an international aid organization said Wednesday. 
Doctors Without Borders said that over two weeks in October one of their teams saw 200 rape victims at their clinic in Western Kasai ­a Congolese province bordering Angola. 
Officials at the Angolan Defense Ministry were not immediately available for comment. Other Angolan government officials contacted by The Associated Press said they weren't aware of the allegations and could not com­ment until they had seen a detailed report. Congolese officials were not immediately available for comment. 
NATO sides with Rice against Iran 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice won support from European allies Thursday for new U.N. sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program. 
NATO foreign ministers agreed to stay the course in seeking fresh measures at the United Nations to persuade Iran to stop uranium enrichment and reprocessing despite a new 
U.S. intelligence report that concluded the country halted it nuclear weapons ambitions in 2003. 
At a working dinner in Brussels, the alliance's headquarters, the ministers accepted the Bush administration argument that Iran remains a threat and needs to be treated as such, Belgian Foreign Minister Karel De Gucht told reporters. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Parking garages collapse in N.C., Aa. 
CIIARLOTTE. N.C. -A portion of parking deck at a busy shopping mall collapsed Thursday, and a motorist who may have triggered the accident by crashing into the structure died. police said. 
The motorist wa'> pronounced dead at the scene, said Mecklenburg EMS Agency spokesman Eric Morri'ion. 
Mnanwhile. a parking garage under construction in Jacksonville, Fla., partially collapsed Thursday, injuring about two dozen people, officials said. 
One person wa<> missing, but police did not know whether the worker was trapped or had escaped. Crews with dogs wem looking through the rubble. 
At lmt.<;t 21 people were taken to hospitals, which reported three in fair condition, two in good condi­tion and the rest stable or relew;ed. 

Ex-fundraiser arrested for child porn 
DANBURY, Conn. -A former top fundraiser for the U.S. Olympic Committee faces child pornogra­phy charges in Connecticut. 
.John F. Krimsky Jr., 68, pleaded not guilty in state court Monday to four counts, including pro~ moting a minor in an obscene performance, crim­inal attempt at possession of child pornography and third-degree possession of child pornography. 
The arrest resulted from a 2005 tip from the New York Internet Crimes Against Children Task Foree, which prompted an investigation that found Krimsky had traded child pornography images with another person. state police said. 
Investigators seized his home computers and found 329 images that appeared to be child pornography. Some were of children who appeared to be between ages 5 to 15 posing or involved in sexual acts, according to a warrant for his arrest. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Woman leaves newborn in toilet 
NOBLESVILLE, Ind.-A Carmel woman who gave birth at home and left her newborn daughter in a toih~t will be sentenced next month on a charge of m~glect. 
Under a proposed plea agreement, Kyle C. Peterson, 21, would serve no more than tour years in prison. She initially wa'i charged with attempted murder and neglect of a dependent but pleaded guilty Thursday to a lesser neglect charge as part of the agreement. 
Scntendng is set for Jan. 30 in a Hamilton County court. 
County Prosecutor Sonia Leerkamp said Peterson, who wa'i 18 at the time, gave birth Feb. 14, 2005, and left the newborn in a toilet, where she was found by Peterson's mother. 
Cn~v1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INDONESIA 



U.S. refuses greenhouse gas cuts 
Senate panel endorses reductions, but American climate negotiators resist limits 
Associated Press 
BALI -American climate negotiators refused to back down in their opposition to mandatory cuts in green­house gas emissions Thursday, even as a U.S. Senate panel endorsed sharp reductions in pollution blamed for global warming. 
The United States, the world's largest producer of such gases, has resisted calls for strict limits on emissions at the U.N. climate confer­ence, which is aimed at launching negotiations for an agreement to follow the . Kyoto Protocol when it expires in 2012. 
That stance suffered a blow when the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee passed a bill Wednesday to cut U.S. emissions by 70 percent by 2050 from electric power plants, manufacturing and transportation. The bill now goes to the full Senate. 
U.S. climate negotiator Harlan Watson, however, said that would not impact Washington's position at the international gathering in Bali. 
"In our process, a vote for movement of a bill out of committee does not ensure its ultimate passage," he told reporters. "I don't know the details. but we will not alter our posture here." 
It was the frrst bill calling for mandatory U.S. limit on greenhouse gases to be taken up in Congress since global warming emerged as an environmental issue more than two decades ago. 
Republican critics of the bill argued that limiting the emissions could become a hardship because of higher energy costs. 
The two-week conference, which opened Monday, is already in a tense standoff between two camps, with the majority supporting mandatory emissions cuts on one side, and opponents such as the United States on the other, delegates said. 
Scientists say the world must act quickly to slash greenhouse gas emissions and limit the rise in global temperatures or risk trigger­ing devastating droughts and flooding, strangling world food production and killing off animal species. 


Washington's isolation in Bali has increased following Australia's announcement Monday that it has reversed its opposition to the Kyoto pact and started the ratifica­tion process -winning applause at the conference's opening session. That left the U.S. as the only industri­alized nation to oppose the agreement. 
The U.S. Senate action cheered environmentalists and others in Bali clamoring for dramatic action to stop global warming. U.N. eli­mate chief Yvo de Boer led off his daily briefing Thursday by hailing the "encouraging sign" from the United States. 
"This is a very welcome development," Alden Meyer of the Union of Concerned Scientists said of the Senate measure. "It shows the increasing isolation of the Bush administration in terms of U.S. policy on this issue." 
David Waskow, of the Oxfam humanitarian agency, said the Senate legislation was a positive signal to developing nations and oth­ers in Bali that America may be ready to assume a more active role in battling climate change. 
"It's one of the things that point the way to having the United States re-engage in the negotiations, and really I think in many ways demon­strates the U.S. leadership on these issues," Waskow said. 
Further momentum for serious greenhouse gas cuts, came from a petition released Thursday by a group of at least 215 climate scientists who urged the world to reduce emissions by halfby 2050. 
"We have to start reducing greenhouse gas emissions as soon as we possibly can," said Australian climatologist Matthew England, a group spokesman. "It needs action. We're talking about now." 
The United States and ally Japan are proposing that the post-Kyoto agreement favor voluntary emission targets, arguing that mandatory cuts would threaten economic growth which generates money needed to fund tech­nology to effectively fight global warming. 
Episcopal diocese m_ay split from_ church 
Associated Press 

FRESNO, Calif. -Headed into a criti­cal vote, an Episcopal diocese in central California is poised to split with the national denomination over what its bishop sees as the threat of moral decay in the church. 
The Episcopal Diocese of San .Joaquin is expected to vote by Saturday to secede from the U.S. church, becoming the first full diocese to do so because of a conservative-liberal rift that began decades ago and is now focused on whether the Bible condemns gay rela­tionships. 
An affirmative vote would place San Joaquin under the leadership of a like-minded, conservative Anglican diocese in Argentina. It is almost certain to spark a court fight over control of the diocese's multimillion-dollar real estate holdings and other assets. 
In a letter to parishioners, Bishop John-David Schofield said "those who claim they want to remain Episcopalians but reject the biblical standards of morality ... will -in the end -be left solely with a name and a bureaucratic structure." 
The head of the U.S. denomination has warned Schofield against secession. 
"I do not need to remind you as well of the potential consequences of the direction in which you appear to be leading the Diocese of San Joaquin," Presiding Bishop Katharine Jefferts Schori, head of the U.S. denomination, wrote in a letter Monday to him. "I do not intend to threaten you, only to urge you to reconsider and draw back from this trajectory." 
Schofield responded that the diocese would go forward with the vote during its annual convention, which starts Friday. He all but predicted that dele­gates would choose to break with the Episcopal Church, the U.S. member of the global Anglican Communion. 
"It is The Episcopal Church that has isolated itself from the overwhelming majority of Christendom and more specifically from the Anglican Communion by denying Biblical truth and walking apart from the historic Faith and Order," Schofield wrote. 
Huron Consulting Group is an equal age, race, color, gender, marital status, or mental disability, creed, citizen statu$ 
© 2007 Huron Consulting Group Inc. All rights rese"'ted. 
Friday, December 7, 2007
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
£1ntoinette Bro11e.rJsy Julie ;-,·a7nf>bell 
r;:;-i[' (-:arJ· 

i\Jo/fp I~yetll!tlfl (~'eOIJ!,P r-:;1.r!Jer (;arret 11/ynn Theodore L...Ltn;/e_•·,~­_fo.rep!J i\Jcf(enna E:.';;;i(v ;\Jqynihan I1artiell\-Iurp&y /)aniel ()It (='ocfy l)erdue 
I'lw!l!tJS 1-Zo,fenbet~ger 
./111!.)' ,S't!.-'Y:er i\-Itutree;z S~jton 
At Huron, We invest in you. 
To find out more about employment opportunities, visit our website at www.huronconsultinggroup.com/careers 
:: 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------·· ------­

Friday, December 7, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 



Dow 13,619.89 +174.93
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,620 169 686 3,575,785,523 
AMEX 2.4o7:4tr~Jtl1~;~~~ili NASDAQ 2,709.03 +42.67 NYSE 10,030.15 +142i~5~ S&P 500 1,507.34 +22.. B NIKKEI (Tokyo) 16,041.46.; :tl.'Zflli FTSE 100 {London) 6,485.60 -8.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.43 +2.13 150.94 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.45 +0.75 52.32 COMCAST CPA (CMCSA) +0.66 +0.12 18.30 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +3.23 +0.99 31.62 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE +2.22 +0.087 3.998 13-WEEK BILL -0.67 -0.020 2.960 30-YEAR BOND +2.00 +0.088 4.479 5-YEAR NOTE +2.66 +0.087 3.363 

Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.74 90.23 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.40 807.10 PORK BELLJES (cents/lb.) +0.08 90.25 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 111.39 EURO 0.6832 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0095 BRITISH POUND 0.4931 

IN BRIEF Congress agrees on $693 billion bill 
WA';HINGTON-House and Senate lawmakers on Thursday agreed on a Pentagon policy bill that would authorize $693 billion in defense spending, including $189 billion for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The defense bill, which covers the budget year that began Oct. 1, also would authorize the Defense Department's myriad high-ticket weapons programs. 
The measure does not send money to Pentagon. But it is considered a critical bill because it often guides companion spending legislation and sets policy guidance for the acquisition and manage­ment of all military programs. 
The I louse passed its version in May; senators did so in October. The final compromise is expect­ed to pa..<>s next week, or before lawmakers leave for their holiday break. 
Included is a provision that would establish a system to oversee the billions of dollars being spent to rPbuild Afghanistan. The effort would be modeled after the special watchdog for Iraq reconstruction. This office has unearthed numer­ous cases of waste, fraud and abuse that ham­pered the rebuilding effort. 

Bush pitches mortgage crisis plan 
WA.."I IINGTON -Distraught homeowners fac­ing the grim prospect their monthly mortgage payments soon will surge found hope Thursday they can hold onto their houses by qualifYing for a five-year freeze in loan rates. 
The plan is the Bush administration's biggest move yet to show it is dealing aggressively with the mortgage crisis. The escalating problem is becoming a political issue and threatening to push the country into a recession. 
"The holidays are fast approaching and this will be a time of anxiety for Americans worried about their mortgages and their homes," Bush said. The administration's efforts, he said, are "a sensible response to a serious challenge." 
The initiative would hold down rates for certain subprimc mortgages. which are loans offered to borrowers with spotty credit histories. These loans otTer initial "teaser" rates for the first two to three years before rates climb sharply, potentially increasing monthly payments by as much as 30 percent. 



THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 
GAZA STRIP 

Fuel sanctions cripple country 
Israeli reductions leave thousands without gas and fresh water, challenge Hamas 
Associated Press 

WADI GAZA-Service sta­tions across the Gaza Strip shut off their fuel nozzles. Tens of thousands of people have no fresh water because pumps can't run. Hospitals parked ambulances, and bicycles are the new favored form of transportation. 
A month-old Israeli reduc­tion in fuel shipments to Gaza is hitting the seaside territory hard. And things could get worse -seeking to punish Gaza's Hamas rulers further, Israel is waiting for court approval to reduce the elec­tricity supply as well. 
The measures are the lat­est in a series of sanctions that Israel has imposed since the Islamic militant group violently seized control of Gaza in June and allowed near daily rocket attacks on Israelis. Israel, which consid­ers Hamas a terrorist group, has declared Gaza a "hostile entity" and closed the bor­ders, halting almost all trade. 
Gaza's woes pose a major challenge to Hamas as it clings to power amid renewed peacemaking between Israel and the mod­erate Palestinian administra­tion based in the West Bank. While firmly in control of Gaza, Hamas is casting a long shadow over next week's serving the public, saying change their minds. area accustomed to violence scheduled launch of formal they were caught in the mid­The hardships aren't just and an overtaxed infrastruc­peace talks following seven dle. for drivers. ture, Gazans are used totem­years of violence. Gas pumps were covered in "We have lost everything porary disruptions, and many 
Gaza relies on Israeli sup­blankets, plastic bags or signs we gained," said Hassan Abu homes have generators and pliers for all its fuel and 60 declaring: "No fuel. No Eissa of Wadi Gaza, a village battery-operated equipment. percent of its electricity. diesel." of 6,000 in the central Gaza But rarely have shortages 
The gasoline and diesel "We are the ones who are Strip where a water pump been so widespread or lasted reductions, from 15 percent suffering the beating and the sits idle for lack of fuel. so long. to 75 percent of normal sup­losses," said Mahmoud al­Sabha al-Sawarka, 64, said Five water wells that rely plies, have hit Gaza's water Shawa, a member of Gaza's she sends her grandsons to on diesel-operated genera­system as pumps run out of association of station owners. fill containers with water tors have stopped running, fuel. The shortages have been Late Thursday, the station from a nearby agricultural cutting off water for more compounded by Gaza's 30 owners decided they would well. "It is a bit salty, but than 77,000 people, accord­private fuel companies, which reopen after accepting some what can we do?" she said. ing to Gaza's water utility. halted deliveries this week to supplies from Israel, said "One time there is no electric­Three others that serve protest the Israeli cutback. Mahmoud Khazoundar, ity. Then no water, or no crowded Gaza City neighbor­
Fed up with the finger chairman of the owners wheat. It can't get more hoods regularly shut down pointing, Gaza's gas station union. It was not immediately unjust." for lack of fuel and spare owners this week stopped clear what led them to living in an impoverished parts. 

DowJones CEO leaves, Murdoch enters 
that represents Journal reporters, but he 27, Dow Jones said it was considering sell­
Associated Press 

convinced enough members of the ing the remaining papers in the group, 
Bancroft family to commit to supporting consisting of eight dailies and 15 weeklies. 
NEW YORK -Richard Zannino will the deal to assure its passage. Zannino said in an interview that Dow depart as chief executive of Dow Jones & The $60 per-share price that Murdoch Jones would be able to take far more risks Co., publisher of The Wall Street Journal, is paying represented a massive premium going forward as part of a large company, after the company completes its sale to of 65 percent over where Dow Jones' without having its every move scrutinized Murdoch's News Corp. next week, Dow stock had been trading before his offer by the media and Wall Street. Jones announced Thursday. became public. He cited as an example a widely dis­
News Corp. plans to announce Friday At a time of general contraction in the cussed move to open up The Wall Street that Zannino will be succeeded by Les newspaper industry, Murdoch has also Journal's Web site to non-paying sub­Hinton, a longtime newspaper publishing said he would invest additional resources scribers: "That would be a risk that executive at News Corp., while Robert in the Journal, expanding its overseas Rupert could readily take, but which Thomson, editor of the Murdoch-owned presence, online operations and coverage would be harder for us to take on our Trrnes of London, will become publisher of of Washington. own." The Wall Street Journal, the Journal Zannino became CEO of Dow Jones in In addition to the Journal, Dow Jones reported on its Web site. early 2006, and was the first non-journal­also owns Barron's, Dow Jones 
A News Corp. spokeswoman declined to ist to lead the company in recent memory. Newswires, half of the magazine comment. Under his tenure, Dow Jones reorganized SmartMoney, Factiva, a news database 
Murdoch's deal to acquire Dow Jones its business units, launched a narrower business and a group of stock market indi­for $5.6 billion is expected to close shortly and redesigned version of the Journal, cators including the Dow Jones industrial after Dow Jones shareholders vote on it and bought the other half of Factiva that it average.Bond prices fell. The yield on the Dec.13. didn't already own. benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which 
Murdoch had faced opposition from sev­In the process, Dow Jones also sold six moves opposite its price, rose to 3.95 per­eral members of the family that controls community newspapers from its Ottaway cent from 3.90 percent late Tuesday. The Dow Jones' shareholder vote and a union group to finance the Factiva deal. On Nov. dollar rose, and gold prices fell. 
-------·--~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
page 8 
Sign 
continued from page 1 
Kirk told her the sign could not be hung as it was, so as not to "takfl Christ out of Christmas," she said. 
Kirk confirmed that he had asked Yomekpe to have the sign changed for that reason. 
Carrick had worked on the sign since March. and so she and Yomekpe agreed it would be unreasonable for hall resi­dents to make the changes themselves. 
"We were sort of blindsided." Carrick said. "We didn't expect tlwre to be a problem." 
She expressed frustration beeause the "X" had been used in place of "Christ" to allow the sign to balance eorroetly and eons1~rvo materials, thus cut­ting down on cost. Aftor spend­ing morn than 40 hours con­structing thn sign, she had wanted it to be on display for the longest possible time beforn winter brnak. 
Kirk said he never believed any disrespect was intended by Pangborn n~sidents or staff and apprndated their desire to dis­play their decorations but stood by his decision to request a change in the sign's spelling. 
"When you think about the rectors and students who live in dorms, it's their home," he said. "But when you put public decorations outside, it's open to the broader University community and visitors." 
The next morning, the sign was taken to the campus car­pentry shop, where it under­went the removal of one letter and the addition of five more. Though Pangborn had funded the sign, the cost of the changes was taken on by Maintenance, Yomekpe said. 
The sign was displayed in front of Pangborn on Monday evening. 
Though the saying "keep Christ in Christmas" has been in use in mainstream Christian cirelns, the sign's original spelling may not be without historical and theological precedent. 
Father Gary Chamberland, priest in residence at Pangborn llall, said the use of the letter X as a shorthand !'or Christ dates back at least one thou­sand years. 
"As somebody who is fairly 
Archdiocese warns kidsofsexpredators 
Associated Pn:ss 
NEW YOHK The Arehdioccsn of Now York is handing out coloring and eomie books that warn chil­drnn about snx predators, the first such effort by a Homan Catholic diocese in the United States. 
In tho coloring book, a perky guardian angel tells ehildron not to keep secrets from their parents, not to meet anyone from an Internet chat room and to allow only "certain people" like a doctor or parent to see "where your bathing suit would be." 
director of the Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests, said he, too, was unaware of any such effort. 
Clohessy said that while he welcomes any attempt to teach children how to stay safe, he believes the coloring book should state more clear­ly that the predator is more likely to be a trusted adult than a stranger. 
"There continues to be a bit of an overemphasis on stranger danger," Clohessy said. "I think it would be most effective if it would say, 'Not only strangers molest kids. Even adults you 
In a comic like and your
"/ think it would be more
book version parents 
for children effective to say, 'Not respect over 10, a only strangers molest teachers, doc­
teenager tors, priests
kids. Even adults you 
turns to St. -can hurt 
Michael the like and your parents kids."' 
Arehangel for respect -teachers, doc­But Zwilling strength to said the vast
tors, priests -can hurt 
report that majority of
kids."
two school­priests are mates are "good and being sexually David Clohessy holy men," abused. and he said it
Survivors Network of those
J o s e p h would have
Abused by Priests 
Zwilling, a been inappro­spokesman national director priate for the 
for the arch­diocese, said the have been distributed to about 300 schools and 400 religious education programs to use as a resource. They are also free online. 
"It's to help young people to know situations they should not gr~t into," he said. "How to be safe -but to try to do it in an age-appropriate and sensitivn way." 
Some critics, while applauding the intent. say the books should say explicitly that trusted adults -induct­ing priests -may be the abusers. 
Zwilling said that as far as lw knows, the coloring book is thn first of its kind to bo producnd by ehureh ofTieials. David Clohessy, national 
coloring book 

to single out priests as potential abusers. "You don't want to frighten children," he said. "You also don't want to stigmatize any group." 
The closest the coloring book comes to directly addressing the 2002 church abuse scandal is a picture of a second angel -not the guardian angel -grinning at a priest and an altar boy through a wide open door. 
"For safety's sake, a child and an adult shouldn't be alone in a closed room together," the text reads. "If a child and an adult happen to be alone, someone should know where they are and the door should be open or have a big window in it." 
The Observer + NEWS Friday, December 7, 2007 
learned in aspects of was change Christmas to Christianity, including some of Christmas," Chamberland said. these nuances, l honestly don't ln the 1920s, a fundamental­understand why the change ist preacher began a movement had to be made," Chamberland that writing Christmas with the said. shorthand X was an attempt to 
The letter X is also the writ­take Christ out of Christmas, ten form of the Greek letter he said. called chi. This letter is an But Kirk, who cited Bill "ancient O'Reilly as one shorthand example of a for Christ," figure who has he said. publicly pro­
"/ would argue from a
The com­claimed the plete short­pretty solid perspective need to "keep h a n d Christ in
that all he did was 
includes the Christmas,"
change 'Christmas' to 
rho and chi, remained the first two 'Christmas'." unconvinccd. letters in the "I undnrstand G r e e k the whole Greek
Father Gary Chamberland 
spelling of letter thing,"
priest in residence 
Christ, Kirk said. "But superim­Pangborn Hall a lot of people posed over would see it and one another, say, 'At Notre he said. Dame, can't we 
This shorthand eame into have Christ at Christmas'?"' play when early Christians Despite the anxiety of the copied many manuscripts, past week, Carriek said the Chamberland said. The important thing is that the sign spelling "Xmas" is still pro­is finally up for the Pangborn nounced as "Christmas," he residents to enjoy. said. But for Yomekpe, the situa­
"I would argue from a pretty tion has raised certain qualms solid perspective that all he did about the relationship bntween hall rectors and the University administration in governing hall activity. 
"The change is not that important," she said. "It's the principle ... to be told no and not have a part in that conver­sation." 
Yomokpe questioned why she was informed of the decision at what she considered to be the end of the process. 
"What else do we not have control over'?" she said. "I think the biggest conversation within the rector community is !whether] you're in eharge of your donn. This kind of set mn back a little bit in terms of maybe I'm not in charge of my dorm." 
Kirk said a "team effort" is nended to ensure the opera­tions of residence life on cam­pus. Heetors are employees of Student Affairs who answer to the vice president for student affairs, but the system is "not hierarchieal," he said. 
"I don't order anyone around," Kirk said. "It's just not the way we work. It's a very collngial relationship." 
Contact Karen Langley at klangleI@nd.edu 

Police increase protection of fanilly 
Woman receives death threats after alleged participation in MySpace hoax 
Associated Press 

DARDENNE PRAIRIE, Mo. ­Waterford Crystal Drive is one of those suburban streets that seem so new as to have no history at all. But the suicide of a teenage girl -and allegations she had been tormented by a neighbor over the Internet -have brought a reaction that is old, almost trib­al, in its nature. 
Rnsidents of the middle-class subdivision have turned against the neighbor, Lori Drew, and her family, demanding the Drews move out. In interviews, they have warned darkly that someone might be tempted to "take mat­ters into their own hands." 
"It's like they used to do in the 1700s and 1800s. If you wronged a community, you were basically shunned. That's basically what happened to her," said Trever Buckles, a 40-year-old who lives next door to the Drews. 
Drew beeame an outcast after she participated in a hoax in which a fictional teenager by the name of "Josh Evans" exchanged online messages with 13-year-old Megan Meier. Megan received cruel messages from Josh that apparently drove her to hang her­selfin her closet in 2006. 
Through her lawyer, Drew, a mother of two in her 40s, has denied saying hurtful things to the girl over the Internet, and prose­cutors have said they found no grounds for charges against the woman. Nevertheless, the com­munity reaction has been venge­ful and the pressure on the Drews intense. 
More than 100 residents gath­ered in front of their home on a recent evening, holding candles and reciting stories about Megan. 
Last December, after neighbors learned of the Internet hoax, someonn threw a brick through a window in the Drew home. A few weeks ago, someone made a prank call to police reporting that there had been a shooting inside the Drnws' house, prompting squad cars to arrive with sirens flashing. 
Someone reeently obtained the password to ehange the Drews' outgoing cell phone recording, and replaeed it with a disturbing message. Police would not detail the content. 
Clients have fled from Urew's homo-based advnrtising business, so she had to close it. Neighbors have not seen Urew outside her home in weeks. 
Death threat<> and ugly insult<; have been hurled at Drew over the Internet, where she has been portrayed as a monster who should go to prison, lose custody of her children, or worse. Her name and address have been posted online, and a Web site with satellite images of the home said the Drews should "rot in hell." 
Some of the threats "really freak me out," Buckles said while standing on his front porch after dark Tuesday night. As he spoke, a car slowed and stopped in front of Drew's home. It sat there idling for a few long minutes, then sped away. Buckles said it is a common occurrence. 
"I just really hope that no one comes out here and does some­thing insane," Buckles said. "If they do, I hope they get the right house." 
Sheriff's Lt. David Tiefenbrunn said patrols have been stepped up around Drew's house. "There could be individuals out there with a vigilante-type attitude that might want to take revenge," he said. 
The Drews -Lori, husband Curt and two children -live in a one-story ranch. An older man at the house who described himself only as a relative said Lori Drew would not comment. He would not say if the family planned to move. 
Ron and Tina Meier's home is four houses away from the Drews. The sidewalk is curved, so the neighbors can't see each other from their front doors. The breach between the once-friendly families seems beyond repair. 
"I think that what they have done is so despieable, that I think it absolutely disgusts people," Tina Meier said. "l ean't take one ounce of energy worrying about who does not like Lori Drew or who hates Lori Drew. I could not eare less." 
Just a year ago, Waterford Crystal Drive was the kind of quiet suburb;m street where jog­gers waved hello while kids played in their front yards. Lately the road has been ehoked with TV news trucks, and neighbors hustle inside to avoid questions. 
Tho row of briek-laeade homes, with basketball nets and American flags out front, was cm-ved out of the woods and pas­tures in the rnid-1990s. Bntween rooftops, residents can sec the neon signs of the strip mall restaurant<> near a highway that carries commuters some 35 miles to jobs in downtown St. LouL'>. 
The subdivision and those sur­rounding it have street names evoking the good life, from Quaint Cottage Drive to Country Squire Circle. 
The Drews used to lit in just fine, said John Mcintyre, who described Lori Drew as an intensely social woman who never hnsitatnd to stop and talk. She and Curt came over to Mcintyre's home to look at his glassed-in porch because they were thinking of adding their own, he said. 
Mcintyre fondly remembered another guest-Megan. She carne aeross the street to baby-sit Mcintyre's 4-year-old daughter Genna and arrived with a clip­board and notes, determined to do the job right. He said the aetivi­ty was good for Megan, who suf­fered from depression for years. 
"She was a good kid," Mcintyre said. 
Megan became friends with thn Drews' young daughter and the girls remained close for years, according to a report provided by prosecutors. But the girls had a falling-out in 2006. 
A teenage employee of Drew's named Ashley said she created the "Josh" account on MySpaee after a brainstorming session witl1 Urew and her daughter, accord­ing to a prosecutor's report. Drew said thn girls approached her with tho idea. and she told thnm only to send polite messages to Megan. 
A<ihlny sent Mngan many of the messages from "Josh," and Lori Drew was awarn of them, prose­cutors said. 
--------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------~------­
Friday, December 7, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Atlantis shuttle launch postponed 
Two faulty engine sensors end NASA streak of on-time launches 
Associated Press  an open circuit rather than the gauges themselves -perhaps  engine compartment remained sealed and no repairs were  
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.  a spliced line or bad connector  planned, at least for now.  
NASA called off Thursday's  -which would be easier to fix.  Thursday's postponement  
launch of space shuttle Atlantis  Two of the four engine-cutoff  was a keen disappointment for  
after a pair of fuel gauges in its  sensors failed a standard pre­ the European Space Agency.  
big external tank failed to work  flight test Thursday morning as  The $2 billion lab has been in  
properly, a recurring problem  Atlantis was being fueled with  the works for nearly a quarter­ 
ever since the Columbia disas­ liquid hydrogen; three are  century, and was held up for  
ter.  required to provide accurate  years by NASA's repeated space  
Shuttle managers said the  readings in order to proceed  station design problems and,  
next launch attempt would be  with a launch. NASA is consid­ more recently, the 2003  
no earlier than Saturday.  ering the possibility of flying  Columbia tragedy.  
Atlantis is loaded with a  with fewer sensors working.  "Of course, we would love to  
European space station lab,  The sensors are part of a crit­ fly on time, but we want to fly  
Columbus, that has been wait­ ical backup system to ensure  when it's safe," said Alan  
ing for years to fly to the inter­ that the shuttle's three main  Thirkettle, the European space  
national space station.  engines don't shut down too  station program manager.  
After meeting well into the  soon or too late during liftoff, a  The postponement ended  
evening, shuttle managers  potentially disastrous problem.  NASA's streak of on-time shut­ 
decided to forgo a Friday  Trouble with the sensors have  tle launches for the year. Each  
launch attempt to give engi­ delayed shuttle launches  of the year's previous three  
neers more time to figure out  before, most recently in  countdowns ended in on-the­ 
what was wrong and, quite  September 2006. To NASA's  dot departures. Because of  
possibly, work around the prob­ puzzlement, the trouble began  poor sun angles and computer  
lem.  cropping up following the  concerns, NASA would have to  
"We want to sleep on it," said  Columbia disaster. This time,  wait until the beginning of  
LeRoy Cain, chairman of the  two sensors went out instead of  January to launch Atlantis if it  
mission management team.  one.  isn't flying by next Thursday or  
"We want to encourage the  "We really are scratching our  Friday.  
engineers and the rest of the  heads," said launch director  When the fuel sensors failed,  
team to sleep on it and think  Doug Lyons.  the launch was still more than  
about what we might not be  Because the problem is  eight hours away, and shuttle  
thinking about yet."  believed to be in wiring  commander Stephen Frick and  
Preliminary indications were  between Atlantis and the exter­ his six crewmates had yet to  

that the problem might be with nal fuel tank, the shuttle's climb aboard. 




UNC:AN 
All 
be part of a new tradition! 
Information Meetin 
for men interested in learning about the process for applying to live in Duncan Hall 
Tuesday, December 11 · 7:00PM Thursday, January 24 · 7:00PM 
Montgomery Auditorium I LaFortune Student Center 
Learn nwre about Notre Dame's uewestliviug optio11 
orlb.nd.edu 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOlJSIN(; 
305 Main Building I Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 


Mall shooter was 
depressed in past 
Hawkins and her sons showed
Omaha man received 
her a semiautomatic rifle. She treatment for illness said she thought the gun looked too old to work. Police believe Hawkins was
Associated Press 

using that AK-47 when he 
OMAHA, Neb. -The young stormed off a third-floor ele­man who killed eight people vator at the store and started and committed suicide in a shooting. shooting rampage at a Police said they have found department store spent four no connections between the years in a series of treatment 19-year-old and the six centers, group homes and fos­employees and two shoppers ter care after threatening to he killed. kill his stepmother in 2002. "The shooting victims were 
Finally, in August 2006, randomly selected," as was social workers, the courts and the location of the shooting, his father all agreed: It was Omaha Police Chief Thomas time for Robert Hawkins to be Warren said. released -nine months Acquaintances said that before he turned 19 and Hawkins was a drug user and would have been required to that he had a history of leave anyway. depression. In 2005 and 
The group homes and treat­2006, according to court ment centers were for youths records, he underwent psy­with substance abuse, mental chiatric evaluations, the rea­or behavioral problems. sons for which Landry would 
Altogether, the state spent not disclose, citing privacy about $265,000 on Hawkins, rules. officials said. In May 2002, he was sent to 
On Thursday, while some of a treatment center in those who knew Hawkins Waynesville, Mo., after threat­called the massacre ening his stepmother. Four Wednesday at a busy Omaha months later, a Nebraska mall unexpected, not every­court decided Hawkins' prob­one was surprised. lems were serious enough 
"He should have gotten that he should be under state 
help, but I think he needed supervision and made him a 
someone to help him and ward of the state. 
needed someone to be there He went through a series of 
when in the past he's said he institutions in Nebraska as he 
wanted to kill himself," said progressed through the sys­
Karissa Fox, who said she tem: months at a treatment 
knew Hawkins through a center and group home in 
friend. "Someone should have Omaha in 2003; time in a fos­
listened to him." ter care program and treat­
Todd Landry, state director ment center in 2004· and 
of children and family servic­2005; then a felony drug-pos­
es, said court records do not session charge later in 2005. 
show precisely why Hawkins Landry said the court records 
was released. But he said that do not identify the drug. 
if Hawkins should not have The drug charge was even­
been set free, someone would tually dropped, but he was 
have raised a red flag. jailed in 2006 for not per­
"It is my opinion, it was not forming community service as 
a failure of the system to pro­required. 
vide appropriate services," On Aug. 21, 2006, he was 
Landry said. "If that was an released from state custody. 
issue, any of the participants Under state law, Landry 
in the case would have said, wards are released 
brought that forward." when all sides -parents, 
After reviewing surveillance courts, social workers ­
tape, a suicide note and agree it is time for them to go. 
Hawkins' last conversations Once Hawkins was set free, 
with those close to him, police he was entirely on his own. 
said they don't know -and He was no longer under state 
may never know -exactly supervision, and was not 
why Hawkins went to the Von released into anyone's cus­
Maur store at Westroads Mall tody. 
and shot more than a dozen "When our role is ended, 
people. we try to step out," said Chris 
But he clearly planned Peterson, director of the state ahead, walking through the Department of Health and store, exiting, then returning Human Services. a few minutes later with a About an .hour before the gun concealed in a balled-up shootings, Hawkins called sweat shirt he was carrying, Maruca-Kovac and told her authorities said. he had written a suicide note, 
Debora Maruca-Kovac, a Maruca-Kovac said. In the 
woman who with her hus­note, Hawkins wrote that he 
band took Hawkins into their was "sorry for everything" 
home because he had no and would not be a burden on 
other place to live, told the his family anymore. More 
Omaha World-Herald that the ominously, he wrote: "Now I'll 
night before the shooting, be famous." 

Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free iTu11es subscription for n:flecfil'e listeuiu~ 011 your iPod.  
A,,>>)))))  Type "ndprayercasf'' VII the iTunes search engine,-or -log onto www.ndprayercast.org  
M www.ndprayercast.org  Hear it here this week: Rev. Lou delFra, c.s.c. Songs of the ND Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music  

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 
Friday, December 7, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre D.1me, IN 46556 024 Smah Dining I !all. Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EmTOR IN l.t!!F.F Maddie Iianna 

MANAG!Nt; EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
Ass·•~ MANA<;ING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass·!~ MANA<;!NG EmTOR: Mary Kare Malone 
NEWS ElllTJR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris !line SCF.NF. EmTOR: ·r;,e AnJr,·w, 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIIC.S EDITOR: MaJeline Nies 
AI>VI'.R'IlSING MANAta;R: Jessica Cortez 

An DF.SIGN MANAGF.R: Kelly Gronli CoNTROI.U;R: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAI'OR: Christian SagarJia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6')27 
ADVERTISING 
( S 74) 631-6900 observaJ@nd.eJu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.eJu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4.324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vic-wpoim.l@'nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4S43 sporrs.J@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK smc. I @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 
(S74) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

·l"he ()bservt'f is the independent, daily ncwspapt•r puf>lishcd in print and online by the srudt·nts of the Univnsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advmisements, is not gowrnt-d by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reservt-s the righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsignt-d editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rhc Ediror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assismm Managing Editors and department editors. Commemarics, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThc Obserwr. 
Vkwpoinr spa<.:e is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Lt·rters to rhc Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtiow rrgarding Obsrrver policit:S should br dirt'ct(d ttJ Editor in C'liiifMaddir /Janna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'111(' Oh.rrV('"I (ll.':ii'S ~f)f) l-4t)()()} ,, ruhhdu·fl Mmuluy dlWU~ Fri<.lo~y e~-qw ~hum!-: '"nm ~ml v.loolllllll JlC'flt"'i. A Alh"'-npt~•n lo 'll1r ()(~rver i1 $100 !111 tlltc .tt..1oktnk 
VClU; $,5 lilt IIIIC JW.':/IIC,I{fr 
(he Clh.crver 1\ puhli.lu·d ~1. I'<J;JMASTER 
ol4 S..•mh Dining t·b/1 Stnd JddfW! oomoinn' tt1 Nnrre l>o1mt', IN 4ti~'i(t 0719 lh"Oh..crvcr i'cri,"li.al pou~<" p!Ud ,u Norn: O,unc P.U Uuxn9 ;Ulcl.uidnum,tlm,:ulintt uflic:c... 021 Sou1h Dining I IJJI 
Nuut Dame, IN 1CJ'i)h·On9 
Th(' t )bac:rver j, .t m~mllt'r ut rhc A.oc1.u~ Pre..~. All reprudu'-riun ui\h~ .uc t'altN«1 
Basketball deserves support 
The night before Notre Damn's March 5, 1977 game against 29-0 San Frandseo, coach Digger Phelps spoke to the student section at a pep rally. Phnlps suggested the student body replace its traditional "We are," dap dap, "ND," chant with "29" dap, dap. "and-!." clap, clap. The students did as they were told. 
From the moment San Francisco entewd the .Joyce Center, it was grented with chants of "29 and 1." Throughout the ganw, the studnnts kept thn noise in the .Joyce Center at a deafening level. Soon. the rest of the the student section. True, tlwre are mon~ basketball ganws than football, and the aeademie dmnands of Notre DamP ol'ten prevnnt students from making evnry gamn, but every student should try to attnnd this weekend's ganw against Northern Illinois. NorthPrn Illinois may not lw 29-0 San Fran<~isco, but Notrn Danw has a chanr.e to set a n~conl it probably could not wach without tho lwlp of the stud1mt sec­tion -the record for most consecutive home wins. 
Students should show up not only to sharn this 
special moment with the team. but also to con­
OTHE

crowd joined in and willed Notre Dame to a 93-vince Notre Dame's athlotic dnpartnwnt that thny
BSERVER 
82 victory. The crowd had such a big impaet on desnrve bntter seating in tlw upcoming Joyen the game that NBC announcers Dick Enberg Center rnnovations in 2009.
Editorial
and Billy Packer awarded the game MVP to the crowd in the Joyce Center. 
Ov1~r the past few years, the student section at Notre Dame basketball games displayed that same ability to inspire the players to reach new heights. Last year's 99-85 win over No. 4 Alabama, when the student section rushed the floor like a rolling tide, showed that the enthusiasm for Notre Dame basketball did not die in the 70s. 
But that enthusiasm has failed to show up on a consistent basis. 
Unlike football games, when the student section is filled regardless of Notre Dame's record or quality of opponent, basketball games frequently have hundrnds of empty seats in Coach Miko Brey has repeatedly said he wishes 
students could sit around the floor like thny do at 
many other major univrwsities around tlw coun­try, but if the students fail to show up, why shouldn't the ath­letic department give thosn prime seats to paying customers who will attend games? 
In order to convino~ the athletic department that students deserve this privilege, students need to show an apprneiation for the history of the program and they need to show up to so-called "cupcake" games early in the year to demonstrate loyalty. 
Otherwise, students have nobody to blanw but themsnlves if they're stuck in the nosebleeds after 2009. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Chris Hine Liz Harter Lorenzo Reyes 
Amanda Johnson Scene Viewpoint Michelle Fordice Kara King Graphics Julie Grisanti 
Observer Poll 
Who should face Ohio State in the BCS title game? 

Pet.,.,..

Volet;  
Notre Dame  459  53%  
LSU  138  16%  
Hawaii  125  14%  
Georgia  98  II%  
Kansas  30  3%  
Virginia Tech  21  2%  


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Some people will never learn anything because they understand everything too soon." 
Alexander Pope English poet 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Friday, December 7, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Defining ~news' 
I am a proud Notre Dame student. Recent football seasons aside, I cannot recall one instance in which I was in any way ashamed of my status as a student here. That changed Thursday morning, when I picked up an Observer and read Liz Harter's front-page article, "SMC senior holds personal protest" {Dec. 6.) Its presence on the front page of our student newspaper is an insult not only to the 46 million babies aborted globally each year but to journalism and common sense. If Erin Brady wants to bemoan America's lack of "abortion facilities" and deficient "choice" advocacy, that is her option. I, of course, find her opinion abominable and ignorant. But that is also beside the point. 
Granting a "personal protest" front-page status and portraying it as news is not. Brady's "activism in action" professor should be proud. By standing out in the snow, she elevated her personal opinion to the status of a news article. I think The Observer's editors need to remember that there is a Viewpoint section and that it alone should be the main outlet for personal opinion. That is why Letters to the Editor are printed there. 
In conclusion, The Observer needs to reconsider what it classifies as news and what it classifies as one person with an opinion. One person with an opinion -regardless of whether I agree with it­does not constitute a story. If the editors continue the blur those lines, I want them to know that tonight I too am holding a "personal protest" in my tiny Morrissey quarters. I have all sorts of good opin­ions; can I call front-page? 
Adam Hansmann sophomore Morrissey Manor Dec. 6 
Dining hall menu needs. adjusting 
I want to elaborate on a serious issue affecting all South Dining Hall visitors: The lack of pie. Pie is an overlooked dessert option and there has not been nearly enough pumpkin pie. Also, what is up with the oriental line? When will pasta stir-fry make a much needed come­back into the weekly menu? 
Patrick McHugh sophomore Fisher Hall 
Dec. 6 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

U-WIRE 


Global health on the graying planet 
Our planet is graying. In every major society today, there are ever-increasing numbers and proportions of people over the age of 65. 
Indeed, the fastest growing segment of most societies is now the "oldest old" linda George -individuals who are 85 and older. This The Chronicle "graying of the plan­et" will continue for at least the next 50 years -until today's high school students are senior citizens. 
As stated in a recent report by the Center for Strategic and International Studies, "No challenge is as certain as global aging and none is likely to have as large and enduring an effect-on the size and shape of government budgets, on the future growth in living stan­dards, and the stability of the global economy and even the world order." 
The larger proportion of elderly com­pared to younger generations is the result of two population trends: declin­ing birth rates and increasing life expectancy. These trends affect every part of the globe, although at different rates. 
For example, life expectancy has incn~ased by roughly 40 years during the past century in Europe. and birth rates have fallen to bHlow replacement rates, making Europe the continent with the highest proportion of elderly. 
Developing societies -primarily in Asia, Africa and South America -are younger, but are aging at a faster rate than was historically true for industrial­ized societies. China, in particular, is aging rapidly because of its "one-child" policy, which has led to unusually small cohorts of children and young adults. 
The aging of society poses a variety of challenges to the younger generations that will support and succeed their eld­ers. Chief among these is how to pro­vide appropriate health care for older citizens. Here in the United States, Medicare costs are projected to account for 9 percent of the gross domestic product by 2050. Payroll taxes for Medicare alone would have to quadru­ple to maintain current coverage levels. Will younger generations be willing to pay the price of sustaining Medicare benefits at the current levels? Worldwide, the vast majority of health care dollars have traditionally been spent on acute illnesses-medical condi­tions that either resolve with treatment or lead rapidly to death. But chronic ill­nesses are increasing at an astounding pace in the United States and other developed countries. These are diseases sueh as diabetes and heart disease for , which cure is an unrealistic goal, but which can be medically managed to maximize disability-free life. 
Developed countries are painfully evolving from acute-care models of health care delivery to chronic care models. But the challenges are even greater in developing countries. 
As societies rapidly age, chronic dis­eases will become the major challenge to the health care systems in the devel­oping world. This puts these countries in the unenviable position of providing medical care for acute conditions and simultaneously developing the resources needed for managing chronic conditions. 
What do those resources look like? 
The keys to effective chronic care include early detection, consistent med­ical management as these progressive diseases worsen and interventions that address the needs of the disabled. Because of the long-term nature and the disability that often accompanies chronic illness, more than physician care is needed. The disabled chronical­ly ill also need supportive services such as transportation, help with housework, assistive devices (such as wheelchairs and walkers) and. for the most dis­abled, full-time custodial care. And, of course, effective and ongoing treatment of chronic illnesses is much more expensivP than treatment for acute con­ditions. 
Meeting the needs of an aging popula­tion requires a transformation of health care systems designed on acute-care models. An older population is a sicker population. Medical school curricula must be redesigned to focus primarily on chronic illnesses. Health care man­power needs increase-not only the per­capita number of physicians and nurs­es, but also a wide variety of medical technicians, rehabilitation workers and social workers. Different kinds of equip­ment are required for hospitals and clinics. Health care financing programs, whether public or private, need to reimburse more, different and likely more expensive services. 
Thus, global health is largely an issue of global aging. Improving basic med­ical care and public health during childhood and early adulthood are important in part because they result in healthier older adults. But preventing and treating chronic illnesses will be the primary global health care priority for decades to come, no matter where in the world you live. 
This column first appeared in the Dec. 6 edition of The Chronicle. the daily publication at Duke University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Friday, December 7, 2007 
Phil Donahue bringing BODY Of WAR to campus 
Assistant Scene EditOr 

Imagine going to Iraq to serve your country, only to be shot in the spine and paralyzed less than a week into duty without having fired a single bul­let. Now imagine having your story told in an award-winning documen­tary co-directed by Phil Donahue. 
"Body of War" follows the story of Tomas Young, a 25-year-old Kansas City native, as he returns home, injured, to start a new life with a dis­ability. Throughout his journey, Young bncomes a powerful voice of activism against the war in Iraq. The docu­mentary simultaneously follows Young's story and goes back to the debate in Congress leading up to the invasion of Iraq. 
Donahue and Young met while Young was recovering in a hospital in Washington, D.C. Young had asked to mnet Nader, who showed u with long-time Donahue. The seeds of the documentary were plant­ed in that tirst meeting, and the end result was "Body of War." 
Donahue will be on campus tonight to introduce both the 7 p.m. and 10 
p.m. screenings of the documentary at the Browning Cinema. The 7 p.m. screening also features a question­and-answer session with the former talk show host. Tickets for both screenings are sold out, but Donahue will be present at a public reception outside the cinema that starts around 9 p.m. 
"Body of War" has already gar­nered critical attention. It premiered at the Toronto Film Festival in September, winning runner-up for the People's Choice Award. It also received the Audience Award for Best Documentary at the Hamptons International Film Festival in October, and it is currently in consideration for Academy Award nominations. 
Donahue, a 1957 Notre Dame uate, co-directed the documentary with the award-winning Ellen Spiro. Spiro teaches tilm at the University of Texas and has directed several docu­mentaries, including "Are the Kids Alright?" and "Roam Sweet Home." Donahue asked Spiro to join the proj­ect because she's a one-woman crew, allowing for a more personal and inti­mate result. Eddie Vedder of Pearl Jam also contributed two original songs to the tilm, inspired by Young -"Long Nights" and "No More." 
Donahue is widely considered to be the father of the modern television talk show, paving the way for talk show hosts like Oprah Winfrey. His talk show, "Donahue," ended in 1996 after a 26-year run in national syndi­cation. Donahue wasn't afraid to tackle controversial issues such as abortion, gay rights and AIDS. lie also introduced a great deal of the nation to hip-hop and breakdancing in a 1984 episode. The television leg­end has interviewed leaders from all over the world, including U.S. presi­dents, Nelson Mandela and Ilenry Kissinger. 
Browning Cinema Director Jon Vickers said Donahue's documentary "makes no bones about its anti-war message," but even if they don't agree with its politics, students should still come to learn more about a man who has had such an influnnee on the tele­vision landscape. 
"I think just coming out for that reason should be a little bit enlighten­ing," Vickers said. 
With tickets for tonight already sold out, it is clear that there is not only an interest in Donahue the talk show host, but in Donahue the director as well. Young's story is both heart­breaking and controversial, but it sends a strong message about the ongoing effects of the war in Iraq and gives a face to a debate that has no clear end in sight. 

BRAND NEW EXCELS WITH LATEST ALBUM 
By JAMES COSTA Assistant Scene Editor 

It's been awhile since Brand New came out with an album. Ever since the 2003 release of "Deja Entendu," fans have waited to see what the Long Island quartet would come up with next, wondering if it could match the lyrical and musical levels reached in the band's three previous indie-label albums. 
After a few listens it is clear there is nothing to worry about. "The Devil and God Are Raging Inside Me" is a strong, introspective and pulsing record full of every lyrical twist and scream we've come to expect from Brand New, coupled with a more mature and nuanced look on the world. The sound only serves to make the album the band's strongest yet. 
What makes the 

album so good and appealing is the d~f­ferent approaches to music making and songwriting heard on each track. For example, "Degausser" uses an eerie and slightly creepy choir sound to back frontman and lead singer Jesse Lacey's vocals. In "Archers," the lis­tener is treated to a power-pop explosion typical to Brand New, but quite original nonetheless. 
On track three, "Jesus Christ," the experiences of life on the road and the torments that plague Lacey first appear on the record. At first, it's hard to tell whether he's using the phrase "Jesus Christ" as a curse or a prayer. But it becomes clear that the song is a four-minute prayer wrapped in a polished rock ballad, emo expression unique to Brand New. The song is riveting because it is sexy yet fragile, hope­less yet bold. Similar to "Me Vs. Madonna Vs. Elvis," it's the type of song that made "Deja Entendu" so appealing, yet it makes the embit­tered life perspective seem fresh and new. 
It's important to note that it's not like Brand New has turned a com­pletely new corner. But it's not like the band has to, or needs to, either. It's making the same music it has for years, full of tear dripped and sweating textures, anguished appeals to lost lovers and friends, and faux intellectualism laced with aching drama. 
What is best about the album is that not every song digresses into screaming and yelling after a minute and a half. So many similar bands go from soft to mad scream­ing, and after about seven years of hearing it, listeners have begun to appreciate bands that start songs soft and keep them soft until the next track begins. Yes, "The Devil And God Are Raging Inside Me" does employ the same tried tech­nique. However, many tracks stay mellow, and it's a treat to aging ears to not have to ring in pain just to get through the songs. 
"The Devil and God" brings Brand New to new heights. It improves upon the benchmarks set in the band's three previous and very good albums, delivering the listener to a realm that is distinctly Brand New, and yet still innovative. This rocking album will add depth to Brand New's current tour. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Friday, December 7, 2007 
page 13 

., Assistant Scene Editor 
If the Indianapolis-based band Ashworth was trying to choose between rock and acoustic guitar on its latest album, "Downtown," it seems to be suf­fering from a crisis of indecision. 
"Downtown" is an album that teeters between a low-key, almost Dispatch­
e acoustic style and an angrier, rock sound. For a stronger band, these might have led to a success­album. Unfortunately for "Downtown" i.e; neither. While 
of the album's acoustic tracks are "''"J"""· they feel incompatible with the other, rougher songs. The two styles could use some refining to mesh better on Ac;hworth's next release. 
The album is not without its merits, however. Several songs are catchy and well written. It is too bad that the rest of "Downtown" does not follow suit. 
Drummer Brian Meyers, bassist Cory Carleton and violinist Nathan Klatt join lead singer.Ai~!'9 N~ns to form the IndY""bred"gt"m.lji~;-~e9ltls' vocals vary between that hoarse kind of whine nor­mally characteristic of Nickelback or Daughtry, and a softer sound on tracks like "So Aware." 
It i.e; true that "Downtown" suffers from stylistic overextension. Where there is violin in one track, there is a weird tech­no-type noise in another. Both the title track and "Fine and Sultry" feel too much like Dave Matthews Band to make sense with anything else. 
What makes it an interesting album from a Billboard standpoint, though, is when it toys with Christian themes. Ifyou are vehemently opposed to the words "Christian" and "rock" being next to each other in a sentence, skip over "Downtown." At times Ashworth feels 
Downtown 

Ashworth Label: Denim Records Recommended Tracks: "So Aware," "Refine Me," "Tell Me AIF' 
bands' level of craftsmanship. While it far from being an overt worship praise album, songs like "My which talks about marriage and are definitely not mainstream nm,_r.,....... "This I know, I know to be trul'i was twelve, I was praying for you" exactly Britney Spears's "Gimme If, like George Michael, "you gotta faith," you may like Ashworth's occasit[Jll-. al affinity for the almighty. 
The album opens with "I Miss one of Ashworth's more rock 'n' roll tracks. "I wanna be with you till the dil'i I wanna be with you all the days my life," Nevins croons. It's too bad Nevin and Co., though, that the lyrics feel tired and predictable. there is something to be said for srnlpULCI­ty in lyricism. But Ashworth's brand straightforward songwriting borders the unoriginal, in particular on "I You." 
"Tell Me All" is an innocuous little that wisely plays up Asl;lworth's acotustic tendencies with just a hi_ntof elE:Jctric tar. The bridge consi~ of Ne\'irur "love, come down," and here, th Christian theme!? work well. I "Downtown" kept this up with the rest its tracks, it would be a much more album that it actually is. 
The strongest song on the album is Aware," which gets Nevins' vocal and the guitar work just right. Even lines like "She dropped into my life like happiness bomb" are borderline lous, they are more excusable once hear the song's sweet and catchy "Refine Me" also has good rhythm and solid melody. 
Ashworth is definitely a product of Myspace generation of music While the band doesn't have an Myspace page, its Web site functions 
one. On its site, the emphasizes its desire to at a grassroots level and buy into the corporate machine. This is admirable aim in a time artists can seem prepackaged than Spam, it's up to Ashworth to its strengths on wha comes after the mediocr "Downtown." 
Scene Writer 

The Hives are the world's biggest rock and roll band. Or so lead singer Howlin' Pelle Almqvist has claimed the past several years, his bravado backed by fired-up garage rock. Their biggest hit came five years ago with "Veni Vidi Vicious" and the impossibly catchy sin­gle "Hate To Say I Told You So," but not 
ince then have the Hives seen any­where near that kind of success. 
2004's "Tyrannosaurus Hives" was 
excellent album, but lacked the 
mediacy of "Veni"; album sales 
cted that. So in 2007, the Hives 
an odd place: pressured by their 
to make the new album a hit at 
risk of fading into obscurity. In 
ther words, things haven't gone 
cording to plan, because the Hives 
't the world's biggest rock band. 
If there is any justice in the world, The Black and White Album" will ""'l-"><;<> theJiives' fortunes. The ambi­at was always llresent for the is stiH <here -look only to the which references both the Beatles Metallica. Better yet, the music up the ambition, presenting the most melodic and catchy effort single "Tick Tick Boom" kicks album off in an explosive manner; may have heard it in a recent Nike 
album doesn't let up from there, sta.vm,g: fast paced and loud, but with melodic sensibilities. Nearly song on this album could be a with the exception of the instru­"A Stroll Through Hive Manor ." It's that catchy. Between speedy "You Got It All...Wrong," hilariously written "Return the 

The Black and White Album 
The Hives Label: Universal Recommended Tracks: ''You Got It All...Wrong,'' "Hey, UtHe Wor1d,'' Return the Favour,'' You Dress Up forArmageddon" 
copies. 

The Hives have always been a that knew not to mess with their ""Jn"-­ture sound too much. As a group plays garage rock, a genre that .._,xmu-­tially has not changed since its mc:en-• tion in the 1960s, a huge departure sound would leave a lot of fans scratch ing their heads. Not a lot of things be done with the formula, but Hives stretch their sound to its au."v'u"'­limit. The production is cleaned up given a pop sheen, keyboards m appearances, and there are shades disco-esque dance beats on "Well Right!" and "T.H.E.H.I.V.E.S." co-producer Pharrell Williams intriguing glimpse of what would pen if the Hives suddenly decided become Franz Ferdinand. 
The weakest song here is "Gidd Up!" which offers advice to c with relationship problems in a repetitive manner (hint: the horse ing theme is a metaphor). Even sonlfis S'till goon; it'jllst lmppens to only good, while the other songs range from very good to stellar. 
The lyrics are a notch better usual; this may be the best writing the Hives' career. Whether it's refe·r encing Pavlov's Dog, Samson an Delilah, Muhammad Ali or simp declaring the outright greatness of Hives, the lyrics combine Tnl>lHTnT-nT·n-•­voking and uproarious. For a band in today's scene, that's a nr.~tt,,_ big accomplishment. 
All the Hives want is your ear for minutes. So when Pelle Alm announces, "Look out!" at the be ning of album closer "Bigger Hole Fill," it's a warning that comes far 
late. If the listener been warned earlier, would have known expect an amazing memorable rock 'n' album with lyrics that also gets to be fun. The H"''""•• 
have blindsided am>r"<lnn.o­with a truly great rar•nrl'l­and, for once, gettin caught unaware is a thing. 
BARAKA BouTs 

Freshman Cara Norton upsets senior captain 
"Squeegee" Low takes bout with unanimous ruling; Cimino beats Elizondo; Erinn Mullee wins shootout in last fight ofnight 
well into the third round and
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, December 7, 2007 

By PAT STYNES used her elusiveness and  
Sporrs Wri[er patience to ultimately defeat  
Cummings, the judges ruling  
Cara "Boomer" Norton def. unanimously in her favor.  
Emily "The Raging Rhino"  
Rhatlcan Megan Cimino def. Maria  
Freshman Cara "Boomer" Paula "Tequila Hummingbird"  
Norton from Pasquerilla East Elizondo  
dtd'nated senior Emily "The Both fighters showed talent  
Haging Hhino" Hhatkan in a 2-1 and moved well around the ring,  
split decision. While Hhatican bobbing and weaving, constant­ 
was older and more expnri­ly looking for opportunities. The  
enced, Norton's ability to endure relentless attacks, however, and  
thn senior's blows, and respond. ferocious speed of Cimino, a  
harder, with punches of her own senior, proved to be too much  
was the deciding faetor. for Elizondo.  
"Going up against a senior While Elizondo made strides  
captain. that was probably the in the second round, overcom­ 
hardest thing in my life," Norton ing the timidity that held her  
said. "I just had to make sure I back in the first, Cimino's stami­ 
didn't b;u:k down, and kept my na eliminated any chance of a  
hands up. It was a tough light." comeback as she was threw as  
Early on in the fight, the two many punches, as fast, until the  
women seemed to be evenly last bell of the third round. The  
matclwd, trading punch for senior's tenacity was rewarded  
punch. llowever near the end of with a unanimous victory. LAURIE HUNT/The Observer  
the first round. the freshman "It was fun." Cimino said. "I Senior Catherine Crawford tries to find a point of attack against senior Jen Leong, who won the con­ 
began to pick up momentum, didn't really have a plan, I just test, Thursday at the Baraka Bouts tournament.  
and from the beginning of the wanted to go in there and do my  
second round, Norton and her best."  fight as Burke left herself  opportunities presented them­ night, junior southpaw Erinn  
strong jab-hook combos proved  exposed when she attempted to  selves. Despite Neville's strong  "Yeah ... 1 Sting Like a Bee"  
to be too much for Rhatican. Kayla "The Texan Terror"  attack around Bishop's guard  showing to close the third  Mullee pulled ofT a victory in a  
Bishop def. Kristin  instead of through it.  round, Koors' efforts culminated  mesmerizing shootout with  
Clgl "The Squeegee" Low def. "Burkaliclous" Burke  in a split decision victory.  sophomore Elyse "2 on 1"  
Lauren "Strong Island" Freshman Kayla "The Texan  Nicole "The Silver Bullet"  Hoffman. From the minute the  
Cummings Terror" Bishop defeated sopho­ Koors def. Rebecca "The  Sarah "Sunshine" Davidson  opening bell sounded, the fans  
Senior southpaw Cigi "The more Kristin "Burkalicious"  Claw" Neville  def. Jen "And Juice" Malherek  were all on their feet as both  
Squengee" Low pressed hard Burke in an even match. Both  Fight 20: The 20th match of  Senior Sarah "Sunshine"  fighters dealt each other fero­ 
and took control of the fight Burke's and Bishop's feet were  the night featured junior Nicole  Davidson came out of the gate  cious combos, neither of them  
early, as feroeious combos, fea­quick, and both women maneu­ "The Silver Bullet" Koors and  on the attack, and put on a clin­ backing down for one second.  
turing quick vered around the right jabs and ring we~l. powerful left However, the"/ knew that it washooks kept beginning of the Cummings on going to be a really second round  sophomore Hebecca "The Claw" Neville. The bout. proved to be a back and forth battle, as junior Nicole "The Silver Bullet" Coors started off strong, using her  ic for three rounds. Her quick mqving_ ff(et~ ,perpetually moving head and body, and fierce south­paw hook simply overmatched anything sophomore Jen "And  Early on, Hoffman turned her oppdhent around a few times. causing stoppages in the match and garnering a small edge at the end of the 1st.  
the ropes. What good fight. We're proved to be the was most difference.really good friends, impressive with "When I came Low's game was and we've sparred out in the sec­ reach and keeping her distance while maintaining pressure on sophomore Hebcca "The Claw" Neville. However "The Claw"  Juice" Malherek could muster in defense. "I just wanted to keep hitting until the fight ended," Davidson  "I had absolutely no idea it was going to be like that," Mullee said. "I really had to work for it. I had everyone in  
her ability to a lot against ond, I just tried move Wf~ll and to be moreeach other. " set up her aggressive."  finished the first round strong, unleashing a barrage of jabs and hooks before the bell  said. "I wanted to win, I didn't want to get tired in the middle of the fight, and I wanted to fin­ my corner cheering for me, and gave me the pick-me-up I need­ed in the middle of the match"  
punches ­there Bishop said.  sounded, evening up the score.  ish strong."  The repeated ehant of "Erinn,  
was barely a sin­Nicole Koors "But, I made  "I knew that it was going to be  Malherek could not keep her  Erinn" from her fans certainly  
gle wasted jab or Irish junior sure my defense hook. Her stayed up also,  a really good fight. We're really good friends and we've sparred  punches straight and kept wan­dering to the outside, as  inspired the boxer, as she came out even harder in the second  
patience and and not be too  a lot against each other," Koors  Davidson's lefty position seemed  round, landing solid hook after  
solid ducking ability gave her overanxious."  said. "And coming out in the  to throw her off. When she  solid hook. Hoffman certainly  
great opportunities to strike. Once the second-round bell  second and third rounds I knew  seemed to tire in the third and  did not lay down and die, how­ 
Latnr on the in the light, howev­rang, the "Texan Terror" used  I had to be the first one to throw  could not keep her hands up  ever, as she adapted well to the  
er, Cummings showed some life her reach advantage more efl'ec­and the possibility of a come­tively, keeping distance between  a punch or I wasn't going to win it...  effectively, it was all over as "Sunshine" was still packing  different angle shown when fighting a lefty, and kept it close  
back. her and Burke, while constantly  "The Silver Bullet" stood by  heat until the very end.  until the very end. However  
"When she carne out in that attacking from an unreachable  those words, as she came out  when the dust finally settled,  
last round, I was pretty much position. By keeping her arms to  swinging in the final two  Erinn "Yeah ... I Sting Like a  Mullee emerged victorious in  
thinking just stay out of the way the inside, punching efficiently  rounds. She danced effectively  Bee" Mullee def. Elyse "2 on  the last mateh of the night.  
- and don't get hit," Low said. in a straight line, she forced the "That's tho name of the game." sophomore to punch outside,  around the ring, avoiding many of the sophomore's punches,  1" Hoffman In what proved to be one of  Contact Pat Stynes at  
The senior kept her hands up which ultimately turned the  and attacked fiercely when the  the most exciting bouts of the  pstynes@nd.edu  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 f.m. a[ the Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves [he righ[ w edit all classifieds for comem withom issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
CYO CAMP RANCHO FRAMASA 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS ­
HIRING NOWI Secure your summer 
job I Camp Rancho Framasa is an 
Inclusive, residential camp. located 
1n south central, Indiana, operated 
by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in various programs. We offer a welcoming staff community in a beautiful outdoor setting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Inclusive Programming, Ropes Course, Adventure and Health posi­lions available. All posit1ons start at $240/week. Training is provided; start date May 31, 2008. Apply online ww.campranchoframasa.org Questions? contact Angi at 888­988-2839, x25 or e-mail angi@cam­pranchoframasa.org 
WINTER BREAK WORK $16.25 base-appt., flexible, no experience needed. customer sales/service. conditions apply, ages 18+. call now. start after finals, may continue during the spring, positions through the US. 
574-273-3835, www. winterbreakwork.com 
Female grad student with cat seeks people to rent a house with or a room in group house. For spring semester and ideally through summer. csarv­er1 @nd.edu 
We have 3 full-time &3 part-time positions open in our Marketing Dept. in our South Michigan St. opt1­cal center. Ambitious &outgoing traits are a plus. Good pay &flex hrs. Ema1l mikemccauley@cbop­ticalone.com 

NOTICES 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER­SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM.27 2-6306 
FoR RENT 
Blue &Gold Homes now showing 08-09 &09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com 
Blue &Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus "alumni owned". Bluegoldrentals.com 
Duplex apt for rent or sale. Each unit has newly remodeled 1­bdrm apt., partially furnished, new everything. Rent $400; sale $45,000. Call574-233-1604. 
Walk to campus! Good neighbor­
hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. Washer/dryer in basement. Landlord does the yardwork. $750/mo. No pets. No Section 8. Credit check and criminal back­ground check required. 574-250­
1266. 

ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU NUTS? WANT OUT OF THE DORMS? GREAT house for rent available January 1 stl 4 bed, 1 bath, 2 mi from NO &near new jogging trail, garage, central AIC. basement, NICE! $1100/mo. 503-757-8125 or visit domerhomes.wetpaint.com. for info &pies. 
Duplex apt. for rent or sale. Each unit has newly remodeled 1-bdrm apt.,partially furnished. new every­thing. Rent $400: sale $45,000. Call 574-233-1604. 
5 bedroom house available now and for next school year great location 1 05 Marquette just off of Angela & 31. 232-6964. 
4 BR furnished home, walk to NO, lg.yd,air,dishwasher, washer & dryer. 574-287-4961. 
1 or 2 bdrm. apt. Quiet historic neighborhood. 1 mi. to NO. Recent renovations &laundry. $500/mo. 574-532-8718. 


PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa. nd. edu/departments/rape. shtml 
jwillys Bar and Grille. Rece1ve 10% discount w/student 10. Thursdays 35 cent wings all day. U93 LIVE 5-7pm. Trivia contest. 52885 SR 933 jwillys.com Now hir­ing all positions. 





OUND THE NATION 
Friday, December 7, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE (}BSFRVER's WIRE SERVICES 
NFL
NBA 
Atlantic Division 

tPam record perc. home road 
Boston 15·2 .882 9·0 6·2 Toronto 10·9 .526 6·5 4·4 New Jersey 9-10 .474 4·7 5·3 New York 6-11 .353 5·4 1·7 Philadelphia 5-13 .278 3·7 2·6 
Central Division 

team record perc. home road 
Detroit 13·5 .722 6-1 7-4 Indiana 9·10 .474 4-6 5-4 Milwaukee 8·9 .471 6-2 2-7 Cleveland 9·11 .450 4-4 5-7 Chicago 5-11 .313 3·4 2-7 
Southeast Division 

team record perc. home road 
Orlando 16·4 .800 5·2 11-2 Washington 9-9 .500 5-3 4-6 Atlanta 8·10 .444 5-5 3·5 Charlotte 6·11 .353 5-5 1·6 Miami 4·13 .235 2-6 2·7 
Northwest Division 

team record perc. home road 
Utah 13-6 .684 8-1 5·5 Denver 11-8 .579 8-3 3·5 Portland 6-12 .333 5-3 1-9 Seattle 4·15 .211 2-8 2·7 Minnesota 2·15 .118 1-8 1-7 
Pacific Division 

team record perc. home road 
Phoenix 15-4 .789 6·2 9·2 LA takers 11·8 .579 6-4 5-4 Golden State 10-8 .556 4-5 6·3 Sacramento 7·10 .412 7-3 0-7 LA Clippers 6-11 .353. 4-6 2·5 
Associated Press 

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ­The New England Patriots 
Southwest Division 

team record perc. home road 
have their own guarantee:
San Antonio 16·3 .842 11-0 5·3 
They'd never guarantee a
New Orleans 12·7 .632 4·5 8·2 
victory like Pittsburgh's
Dallas 12·7 .632 8·1 4·6 
Anthony Smith did. 
Houston 10-9 .526 5·3 5·6 
Some of them can't even
Memphis 6-12 .333 4·5 2·7 
guarantee they'd recognize 
him. 

"I know Aaron Smith," 
Patriots defensive end Ty 
Warren said Thursday. "I 
don't know Anthony 
Men's Basketball 
AP Top 25 

Smith." Aaron Smith is in his 
team record points 
ninth season with the Steelers, a standout defen­
1 North Carolina (46) 7-0 1,770 2 Memphis (21) 6·0 1,716 
sive end who made the 
2005 Pro Bowl and will be
3 Kansas (2) 7-0 1,632 
pressuring Tom Brady on
4 Texas(2) 7-0 1,548 
Sunday when the NFL's
5 Georgetown {1) 5-0 1,529 
best team meets the
6 Duke 8·0 1,422 
1 UClA 7-1 1,370 
league's top-rated defense. 
8 Washington State 7·0 1,355 
Anthony Smith is a free 
9 Michigan State 6·1 1,093 
safety in his second pro 
10 Tennessee 7-1 1,004 
page 15 
put a bunch of stuff up on a board and write stuff down on paper and all of that," he said. "I think in the end it comes down to whether you can outplay the other team on Sunday or not outplay them. On a priority basis, that's what our priority is, trying to prepare well and play well." 
As usual, his attitude was the players' attitude. They reacted calmly to Smith's remarks. 
Linebacker Mike Vrabel: "I don't think that predic­tion's going to have much bearing on the outcome." 
Running back Heath Evans: "I don't see why anyone's comments outside of our head coaches and our position coaches should affect how we do things." 

-

season and starting only because Ryan Clark's sea­son ended in late October with an inflamed spleen that was removed last month. 
"I didn't know who he was until we started preparing for them," Tom Brady said. 
Some background: 

Smith is a third-round draft choice from Syracuse. He started four of the 16 games he played last sea­son and had two intercep­tions. This year he's started the last six games, has one interception and is sixth on the Steelers in tackles. 
He's also the guy who may be too sure of himself. 
"We're going to win," he said Wednesday. "Yeah, I can guarantee a win. As long as we come out and do what we got to do. Both sides of the ball are rolling, and if our special teams come through for us, we've got a good chance to win." 
Any Patriots player who said that would be guaran­teed one thing: sharp tongue-lashings from his teail1mates and coach Bill Belichick. 
'That wouldn't happen in this locker room. It just wouldn't," Junior Seau said. "We won't allow it. We don't talk. What we try to do is just work every day and build for tomorrow. That's all we do." 
He knows teams could use such pronouncements as bulletin-board material to provide extra motiva­tion. 
But Belichick suggested that wasn't part of his pre­game plan. 
"We can sit around and 
11 Marquette 5·1 959 12 Pittsburgh 7-0 928 13 Butler 7-0 892 14 louisville 5·1 878 15 Indiana 6-1 811 16 TexasA&M 7·1 781 17 Gonzaga 7-1 574 18 Clemson 7-0 570 19 Oregon 6·1 556 20 BYU 6-1 371 21 Xavier 6·1 338 22 Arizona 6·1 224 23 Vanderbilt 7-0 113 24 usc 6-2 161 25 Villanova 5-1 152 
around the dial 
NBA 
Chicago at Detroit 7 p.m., ESPN 
Utah at San Antonio 
9:30 p.m., ESPN 

IN BRIEF Bonds to make first court 
appearance today 
SAN FHANClSCO -From Patty Hearst to the Jonestown Massacre, the Phillip Burton Federal Building here has hosted its share of high-pro­file trials over the years. But they may all pale in comparison to the spectacle of the Barry Bonds perjury case. 
More than 200 journalists and members of the public are expected to crowd the courtroom and a second overflow room Friday for a brief hear­ing that marks the home run king's frrst public appearance since he was indicted Nov. 15 on four counts of per­jury and one of obstruction of justice. The charges could mean prison time if Bonds is convicted. 
In an attempt to corral the horde, the court has taken the rare step of bringing the judges to Bonds rather than requiring him to appear in two courtrooms, as is often the case with routine initial appearances by crimi­nal defendants. 
Wake Forest's Grobe to stay 
put despite Arkansas rumor 
LITTLE HOCK, Ark. -First basket­ball, now football. Another coach has spurned Arkansas. 
Wake Forest's Jim Grobe was the latest to turn down the Razorbacks after he appeared to be headed to Fayetteville. The Razorback Foundation, a private fundraising arm for the University of Arkansas, had actually approved a salary sup­plement for the Wake Forest coach, but Grobe was still with the Demon Deacons on Thursday. 
Before starting practice, some Wake Forest players cheered "Sooie!'' -a reference to Arkansas' famous "Pig Sooie" cheer. 
"I think Arkansas's a great place," said Grobe, who would've replaced Houston Nutt at Arkansas. "I wish them a lot of luck, I think it's a great opportunity for somebody, but I just felt like this was the best opportunity for me right here." 
Dodgers re~ch preliminary
agreement With Jones 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Andruw Jones is following Joe Torre to the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
The Gold Glove center fielder and the Dodgers reached a preliminary agreement Wednesday night on a $36.2 million, two-year contract that gives him the fifth-highest average salary in the major leagues. 
Jones, the former Atlanta star who has won 10 straight Gold Gloves, is coming off one of the worst offensive seasons of his career. But if he rebounds, he could give the Dodgers a desperately needed boost in the middle of the lineup. He must pass a physical for the deal to be complet­ed, a person familiar with the negoti­ations said, speaking on condition of anonymity because no announce­ment had been made. 
A five-time All-Star, Jones will receive a $12.2 million signing bonus. 
r------------~------------------------------------------------------------~­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 7, 2007 
MLB 

Guillen, Gibbons suspended for use of HGH 
Associat.,d Press 

NASIIVILLE. Tenn. -Jose 
<;uillen and Jay Gibbons were 
suspended Thursday for the 
first 15 days of next season for 
violating baseball's drug policy, 
an indication how the sport 
might treat players named in 
the Mitchell steroids investiga­
tion. 

Guillen and Gibbons were 
accusnd in media reports of 
receiving human growth hor­
mone after January 2005, 
when it was banned by base­
ball. 

Gary Matthews Jr., Hick Ankiel, Troy Glaus and Scott Schoeneweis also were linked to HGII. but baseball decided there was "insufficient evi­dence" to determine they .com­mitted a doping violation. They were accused of receiving per­formance-enhancing drugs before 2005. 
Former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell was hired by baseball commissioner Bud Selig in March 2006 to investigate drugs in baseball, and his report is to be released by the end of the month. 
Guillen instructed the play­
•~rs' association to file a griev­ance, which would be deeided by an arbitrator. Gibbons will not challenge his penalty. 
Earlier in the day, Guillen and Kansas City finalized their $:l6 million, three-year con­tract. 
"We signed Jose knowing that was a possibility," Hoyals gen­eral manager Dayton Moore said of the free-agent outfield­er. "While my initial reaction is one of disappointment, I am thoroughly convinced that Jose will put this behind him and we collectively support him as he 
begins a new chapter in his 
baseball life." 
Gibbons accepted responsibil­
ity and apologized. 
"I am deeply sorry for the mistakes that I have made. I have no excuses and bare sole responsibility for my deci­sions," the Baltimore outfielder said. "Years ago, I relied on the advice of a doctor, filled a pre­scription, charged tbe HGH, which is a medication, to my credit card and had only intended to help speed my recovery from my injuries and surgeries." 
The 15-day penalties match what a second offense would have drawn under 2003-04 rules. Current rules call for a 50-game suspension for a first offense, a 100-game penalty for a second and a lifetime ban for a third 
"Jay has acknowledged his mistake, and we appreciate his willingness to accept the conse­quences," Orioles president of baseball operations Andy MacPhail said. 
Cleveland pitcher Paul Byrd was linked by the San Francisco Chronicle to pur­chases of HGH between August 2002 and January 2005. Byrd, who has not yet been inter­viewed by the commissioner's office, said he took it for a med­ical condition and did so under a doctor's supnrvision. 
"Other open investigations should be completed shortly," MLB said in a statement. 
The six players whose cases were resolved Thursday met with baseball officials after media reports that their names surfaced in a national drug investigation by the district 

attorney in Albany, N.Y. 

The Chronicle reported last month that Guillen bought human growth hormone, two types of testosterone and the steroids stanozolol and nan­drolone between May 2002 and June 2005. 
Gibbons got six shipments of Genotropin (a brand name for synthetic human growth hor­mone), two shipments of testos­terone and two shipments of human chorionic gonadotropin (IICG) between October 2003 and July 2005, SI.com said in September. 
Ankiel, a St. Louis outfielder, admitted he used IIGH in 2004. The New York Daily News reported he received eight shipments of prescription IIGH that year. Schoeneweis, a reliever on the New York Mets, received six shipments of steroids in 2003 and 2004, ESPN.com reported. 
"We're obviously pleased," said Scott Boras, the agent for Ankiel and Schoeneweis. "As we had said before with each of these players, they had not vio­lated any baseball rule or any state or federal law." 
Glaus, a Toronto third base­man, received multiple ship­ments of nandrolone and testosterone between September 2003 and May 2004, Sl.com reported. His represen­tative, Mike Nicotera, did not return a call seeking comment. 
Matthews, a Los. Angeles Angels outfielder, received Genotropin in August 2004, according to Sl.com. llis agent, Scott Leventhal, declined com­ment. 

Continenta[ Cuisine with an Ita[ian 'I\vist Check out the Hottest New Restaurant in Town 
Lunch Hours: Monday-Friday 11:00 a.m.-2:30 p.m. Dinner flours: Sunday-Thursday 5:00-10:00 p.m. and Friday & Saturday 5:00-ll:OO p.m. Lounge Hours Daily: 4pm -always open late 
.,.,r.oo, 211 W. Washington Street • South Bend, Indiana 46601 • 574-323-2120 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Miles signs five-year extension, stays at LSU 
If LSU wins the national 
Associated Press 

championship, tho contract 
BATON HOUGE, La. -LSU provides Miles would become head football coach Les Miles among the nation's top-earn­signed a contract extension ing college football coaches, Thursday to keep him at the no less than the third highest­university through 2012 and paid. University offleials esti­end speculation that Miles mate that would put his annu­might leave for a job at the al earnings between $3.2 mil­University of Michigan. lion and $3.5 million -but 
''I'm thrilled to be here. I'm that could grow depending on thrilled to be LSU's head contract negotiations with coach. I'm thrilled to be on the other coaches around the campus," Miles told the LSU country. Board of Supervisors before LSU (11-2) faces Ohio State signing the deal. (11-1) in the Allstate BCS 
"I look forward to many Championship Game on Jan. 7 years as the LSU head coach," at the Louisiana Superdome. he added. Just before his team played 
The contract extension Tennessee in the SEC champi­requires approval of the full onship game on Dee. 1, Miles governing board. which is effectively stopped predictions expected to be a formality he would bolt Baton Rouge for when the board meets Friday. Michigan, announcing his The board's athletic commit­intention to remain at LSU. tee approved the extension Wolverines eoach Lloyd Carr Thursday with nearly all announced his retirement in board members present. November. 
The agreement doesn't Miles wouldn't talk about change Miles' salary, which the speculation that had will already rise to at least dogged him for the past weeks $2.8 million annually based on about a return to Michigan, LSU's Southeastern where he played, worked as Conference championship this an assistant coaeh and met his year. An SEC championship wife. win requires Miles' salary to LSU officials praised Miles' be at least the third highest in coaching, his straightforward­the conference. ness and his integrity. 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------­
page 17 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Da111e prepares for Purdue 
Coach McGraw doesn't want to overlook struggling Boilermakers 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
Purdue's advance to last year's Elite 8 is now a distant memory for the struggling Boilermakers, but it doesn't foretnll an easy win, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said about Saturday's road matchup. 
"I think that if you look at their lossns. they've lost to some high quality teams," McGraw said. "So I don't you can look at their record and say that they're struggling because they're only losing to teams in the top 2!i." 
The Boilermakers (4-4), who fpll to North Carolina in the !\lite 8 of the 2007 NCAA Tournament. have had _a tough start to the season. After two wins. Purdue dropped its next four, including a 0-3 perform­ance at the U.S. Virgin Islands Paradise Jam tournament. 
McGraw said the Boilermakers present some tough matchup problems defen­sivPly for the No. 16 Irish, espe­cially Purdue's top two scorers -guard Lakisha Freeman and center Danielle Campbell. 
Freeman leads the Boilermakers with 14.1 of her team's 56.9 points per game. · "Freeman's been playing real­ly well. She's kind of a tough matchup for us. She's a really athletic player. scores a lot in transition. She's going to give us problems," McGraw said. 
But Freeman's game suffers in some aspects. The redshirt junior has only four assists to go with her 21 turnovers and only grabs 3.7 rebounds per game. 
Campbell has been a domi­nant presence in the paint for Purdue so far this season. with 
8.6 boards per game and io blocks already this season. 
"Campbell is very good on the block. She's a little quicker than 
we are, McGraw said. "There's proba­bly something on everyone on their team that concerns me, but those are the main two." 
Going into the matchup with Purdue, McGraw said her team needs to improve 
its defense significantly from its 86-84 overtime win at Bowling Green Wednesday night. 
McGraw said she was "not too happy" with the defense against Bowling Green, but that much of the problem stemmed from inexperience. 

Irish senior guard Tulyah Gaines drives through the Michigan defense in a 77-46 win over the Wolverines Sunday. 
"I think a lot of it was fresh­man mistakes. [Freshman for­
"/ think that ifyou look at their losses, they've lost to some high quality teams. " 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
w a r d ] Devereaux [Peters] was picked on a lit­tle bit and I think we can help that," she said. "I think we can fix it pretty easily. I think we just have to see it on film and show them 

what they have to do." 
One positive McGraw took from the Bowling Green win was the confiden~e it gave her team. 
"To be in that situation I thought was great experience," she said. "Just to be in a game like that on the road with a great crowd, loud, everything you could want -you really learn a lot about your team. 
"We learned a couple things defensively. We're not good at defending, how can we get bet­ter and offensively we did great things." 
Notre Dame finishes its two­game road trip Saturday when it takes on Purdue at 4 p.m. 
Notes 
+Despite its 7-1 record, Notre Dame has had only the third best start in the Big East this season. No. 2 Connecticut and No. 15 DePaul are both 7-0, and No. 13 West Virginia and Villanova are also 7-1. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Friday, December 7, 2007 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Tri-State loolllS next for Saint Mary's in MIAA 

Observer file photo 
Belles point guard Alison Kessler drives past an Albion defender in 
a 72-69 overtime loss last January. 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
After a home"opening loss Wednesday night to rival Calvin, Saint Mary's travels to Tri-State University on Saturday to play the Thunder (3-4) in their second MIAA con­ference game. 
The Belles (2-4) beat Tri-State twice last season, 83-79 and 83-66, wary of Tri-State's 5-foot-9 guard Sarah Howe. Last season Howe averaged 13.6 points and 
7.0 rebounds per game to lead her team. This year. she aver­ages 19.5 points per game. Howe, however, was not able to lead her team to a winning sea­son last winter as Tri-State ended with a 6-19 record. 
Tri-State is averaging 66.9 points per game compared to 

with junior "We have really stopped Erin Newsom thinking about the game 
scoring 30 
against Calvin and we
points and 11 
rebounds in are now focusing on Tri­their second State. We are excited to 
matchup. 
play again against 
"We have 

really another good opponent 
stopped and really step up our thinking 
performance. As a team,
about the 
we need to become more
game against Calvin and consistent to be a top we are now 
team in the conference. 
focusing on 
Tri-State is a good team, 
Tri-State," senior guard and we are expecting to Alison 
face a challenge. " 
Kessler said. "We are 
excited to Alison Kessler play again Belles guard against another good opponent and 
really step up our performance. rebounds, while sophomore As a team, we need to become Anna Kammrath tallies 10.5 more consistent to be a top points and 7. 7 rebounds per 
team in the conference. Tri­game. State is a good team and we are expecting to face a challenge." Contact Meaghan Veselik at 
The Belles will have to be mveseiO1 @saintmarys.edu 
the Belles' 64.2 per game. Saint Mary's has averaged 
39.9 percent from the floor, giving the Belles an advantage over Tri-State's 35.4 percent. The Belles have also shot 71.8 percent in their free throw attempts and posted 27.8 percent from beyon9 the arc. 
Kessler is averaging 15.5 points per game with 5.5 rebounds. 
Newsom is second behind Kessler, aver­aging 11.5 points with 9.8 

Friday, December 7, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 18 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

Beltran brought in to aid Irish thro-ws 
Marquette and DePaul to compete at Blue and Gold today in Loftus 
America Molly Huddle. 
By ALEX BARKER & Sophomore Lindsey Ferguson 
ANDY ZICCARELLI will also be counted on to 
Sports Writers step up after she established 
a new school record in the 
Irish assistant coach Tim 3000-meter steeplechase last Connelly, whose Notre Dame year and finished third in the team f'inished seeond in last Big East conference meet. year's Big East Indoor meet In addition to the returning 
and won in 2002 and 2006, brought in a new assis­tant this year to help the Irish regain the erown ­throws coach Adam Beltran. 
Beltran, who came to Notre Dame from St. 
francis University in Pennsylvania, will help coach the Irish in their annual Blue and Gold Invitational against DnPaul and Marquettn today. Throwers under Beltran at St. Francis won 20 Northnast Con fe renee ti ties in throws events. 
"lie is a great teacher. The kids respond really well to him," Connelly said. "The results have been very posi­tiVf1 with him, and the kids are excited to have him here." 
Junior Anna Weber is the top returning thrower for 
Notre Dame. Last year, she set two school records, one in the weight throw at the Big East Indoor championships, and one in the hammer throw in the Outdoor ehampionships. 
For the dis­tance races, two-time cross country All­America senior S u n n i <>I d i n g will lead the Irish after sit­
"[Marissa Treece[ is a talented kid who had an outstanding senior high school season" 
Tim Connelly Irish coach 
runners, the Irish will look for freshman Marissa Treece, who won two high school national track titles in the 5000 meter run, to carry 
some  of  the  
load.  
"She is  a  tal­ 


ented kid who had an out­standing senior high school 
season," Connelly said of Treece. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, many of the dis­tance runners are suffering from injury or illness from fall training. Both ()(ding and Treece have been plagued by 
injury or illness during the fall, and it could be as long 
"[Adam Beltran/ is a great teacher. The kids respond really well to him. The results have been very positive with him, and the kids are excited to have him here." 
Tim Connelly Irish coach 
as February before either one is back in top eondition. 
"Hopefully they can both get back to full health and be con­tributors 
.. 
s o o n , Connelly said. 
The Irish will have to turn to youth in the sprint events. After losing seniors Maryann Erigha and 

'There are three months until the Big East meet and that is what we are most concerned about.'' 
Tim Connelly Irish coach 
been training s i n c e September, and it will be nice to see where they are at before they leave for finals and take a break from training." 
No matter what happens Friday, howev­

ting out the 2007 season with Okechi Ogbuokiri, only soph­an injury. She will try to fill omore Joanna Schultz and the void left by 10-time All-senior Chrysta Swayzer 


Beauti I Music for the Season 
with David Eicher, organist 
featuring Ottorino Respighi's beautiful 
Laud to the Nativity 
and the world premieres ofnew works by . American composers "' · · ."' Cary Boyce and Axel Theimer 
Sunday, December 16, 2007 · Church ofOur Lady ofLoretto Saint Mary's College 
.:tt/

7:30P.M. 
AR'Ttl"-f1WoiA Tkkets on sale at the --f!f­Saint Mary's Colle~ Box Office in SAINT
. ~t-~·;;~ 

O'Laughlin Auditormm, 9A.M.-5P.M., ~ Monday-hiday, or all (574) .ZM-4626. 
,...:.:, ~-:.
' . 

" ' ' Tbh ~o11art is rponsorrd in part by june H Edu•ards and Vridre Tlwmur. Visit our Web Site at' www.SouthBcndC.h.tmberSingers.org. 
return. Freshmen Natalie Johnson, from Inglewood, Ariz., and Kali Watkins from Newport News, Va., will be counted on heavily to make contributions. Watkins was a high school All-American in the 60-meter hurdles. 
Junior Mary Saxer will return to compete in the pole vault. She is the current Notre Dame record holder for the event with a high of 13-3 1/2 inches and is a two-time All-Big East performer. 
Connelly sees this meet as a measuring stick for his ath­letes before they head home for winter break. 
"The first meet is used to see where we are at. It gives our jumpers, throwers and runners a chance to com­pete," he said. "They have 
er, the Irish have bigger goals for the future, Connelly said. 
"There are three months until the Big East meet and that is what we are most con­cerned about." 
Contact Alex Barker at abarkerl@nd.edu and Andy ZiccareUi at aziccare@nd.edu 
ND MEN'S TRACK 

Season kicks off with invitational 
Head coach looks to build on past successes 
In the distance events, Notre 
By EUGENIA ALFONZO 

Dame looks to senior Kurt 
Sports Writer 

Benninger and sophomore Jake 
Watson, who are both running 
After a 2006-07 campaign that sub four-minute miles, to lead saw Notre Dame capture its third the paek this season. Big East indoor The team is also title in the past five relying on its long years, the Irish "I think we're and triple jumper, start their new going to have a Eric Quick, who season tonight at earned Big East hon­
very solid track 
the Blue and Gold ors last year as a Invitational in the team across the freshman, jumping Loftus Center. board." 6.62 m (21-8 ?) dur­
Head coach Joe ing the indoor season. Piane is hopeful Heturning solid tal­
Joe Plane
his team can per­ent from a wide vari­form at the same Irish coach ety of events, the 
level this season. 

"I think we should be equally as good. We lost a few kids but we brought a few in," he said. " I think we're going to have a very solid track team across the board." 
The team plans to build on the talent and skill it retajns from last season. 
For sprints, sophomore Halasz Molnar already made it into the record books as a freshman, run­ning 13 separate top-1 0 times in Notre Dame's history in the 400­meter hurdles, 500, and 400 relays. 
The Irish also have many key runners in middle distance, espe­cially senior Adam Currie, who took Big East honors in the 1,000 last year. Currie also had a share in the fourth-place 800 all-Big East relay team, along with sen­ior Brett Adams, senior John Cavanaugh, and graduate Tom Channey. 
Irish are eager to 
show how much progress has been made from last year, Piane said. 
"All the sprinters and field event people have been training since September," Piane said. "Distance kids are in a down period since cross country ended. As far as I know we're pretty healthy which is always key." 
Tonight's meet with DePaul will be run intersquad, which means the teams are competing for times, but not against each other. Any times recorded at the meet that are fast enough ·ean count as qualifying times for the Big East conference meet. 
"Last year, we had 40 qualify­ing marks," Piane said. 
The invitational begins tonight at 5 p.m. 
Contact Eugenia Alfonzo at ealfonzo@nd.edu 


Lunch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, December 13 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 

lhe Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students invites gay. lesbran, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends. and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. 
Eve~ne is welcome and confrdentiality rs assured 
Lunch will be served 

CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

--------------~-------------------~--~--~--­
page 19 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, December 7, 2007 
Students... Enjoy a Study Break-Free pizza and sodas will be delivered to your dorm one day between Dec. 9-Dec. 18th 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 

-
The Study Break is brought to you by Papa Johns Pizza, Coca-Cola, and the following Notre Dame Alumni Clubs... 


Alabama  Eugene/Southern OR  Maryland  Phoenix  Staten Island  
Atlanta  Fairfield County  McHenry County  Pioneer Valley  Syracuse/CentraI NY  
Aurora/Fox Valley  Gettysburg  Memphis  Pittsburgh  Tokyo  
Berkshire County  Greater Louisville  Mid-Hudson Valley  Quad Cities  Topeka  
CA Central Coast  Greater Orlando  Minnesota  Reno/Northern NV  Tuscon  
Central California  Greater Sarasota  Nashville  Rhode Island/SE MA  Ventura County  
Central Illinois  Greater Tampa Bay  Native American  Richmond  Vermont  
Central North Carolina  Greensburg/Uniontown  New Orleans  Sacramento  Vero Beach  
Charlotte  -Hanover Township  North Florida  San Antonio  West Central, OH  
Charlottesville  Harrisburg  Northeastern NY  San Diego  Western Carolinas  
Cleveland  Jersey Shore  Northeastern WI  San Jose/Silicon Valley  Wichita  
Columbus  Kokomo  Northern Alabama  SC/Midlands  Worcester County  
Dallas  Laredo  Ohio Valley and \fiN  South Louisiana  Wyoming  
Des Moines  Las Vegas  Oklahoma City  Southeastern CT  
Dubuque  Lee County  Omaha  Southeastern VA  
El Paso  Long Island  Orange County  Springfield, OH  
Emerald Coast  Marion  Pensacola  St. Louis  

Look for posters in your dorm for 
I· 
' 
more information ... 
team with boos.  
A . .sociated Press  Enter Grant.  
J>IIILADEI.I'IIIA--Villanova  lie converted  a  four-point  
was erawd. LSU was daznd.  play and came right back down  
No o1w  on  eithnr si£!11 could  and hit another 3-pointer that  
remmnher a comPbaek  --or a  cut LSU's lead to 56-53. The  
collapse --like this one.  Wildcats forced  a  turnover at  
Malcolm Grant conv11rted  a  midcourl and scored a  layup  
four-point play and seomd 13  and suddenly they had a pulse.  
points over the limtl three min­ Grant made four more free  
utf\S, and Dante Cunningham  throws that pulled the Wildcats  
seornd the game-winner with  within  three. Then  he  was  
5.9 seeonds IPrt as  tlw 25th­ amazingly fouled again on a 3­ 
ranknd Wildcats rallied from a  point attempt. This time the  
21-point delidl to stun LSU (>S­ basknl was  no  good, but he  
(>7  on  Thursday night in the  made all three from the line  
Big East/SEC Invitational.  and LSU, which had led 54-33,  
Villanova's only lead eamn on  was dinging to a 67-66 lead.  
tho shot that mattered most:  Granl tried to win it for the  
tlw Wildcats' last orw.  Wildcats on their last posses­ 
"That," said  an  exhausl11d  sion, but he missed a shot from  
Villanova eoarh Jay Wright.  the right side. Cunningham  
"was unbnlievablt>."  was there with the rebound  
No o1w  was  mofl) unbeliov­ layup that sent the crowd into  
ahln  than  Grant,  a  6-foot  a frenzy.  
rnsnrvn  freshman guard who  "I just crashed and got the  
l~<lllll\  in avPraging 7.2 points a  loosn  ball  in  my  hands,"  
gamn. lie scored s11ven points  Cunningham said.  
in  24  seconds  to  jolt  a  Added Grant: "We didn't play  
Villanova {6-1 l team that semn­ the way Coach wanted us to,  
ingly had lost its shot, its conli­ but we got the win and that's  
dencn and tlw ganw.  the important thing."  
LSU (:i-:l) dominated almost  Wright was about the only  
tho nnlirn game and  most of  one watching who wasn't sur­ 
tho crowd had startod to leave. lnstnad, Villanova gavo those who stuck around one to  prised by Grant's breakout night or the grit his Wildcats showed in climbing back from  Wildcats guard Corey Fisher goes up for a layup as Villanova's 68-67 comeback win over LSU on Thursday.  Tigers forward Garret Green defends  
rmnnmlwr. rallying from the  their biggest deficit of the sea­ 
21-poinl lead ov11r the final  son.  "We had the game in  our  12  straight  points  in  one  hope of a late rally. Martin hit  
night minutes. ''I've rwvPr, in my life, in 32  "We showed great heart and Malcolm was incredible,"  hands to win it," Brady said. "We didn't do the things that  stretch out of the frontcourt and their defense left LSU's 3­ a jumper just inside the 3-point line midway through the see­ 
yoars of coaching, had a  learn  Wright  said.  "I  can't  ever  were necessary. We don't know  point shooters wide open.  ond half, then came right back  
do  that,"  I.SU  coach  John  remember winning like that.  how to win yet. That was obvi­ Martin had already hit two 3s  and made one from behind the  
Brady ~aid.  "I hurt for  our  They had us."  ous tonight."  and no Wildcat was anywhere  line to push LSU's lead to 54­ 
players.  Grant 11nished with 18 points  Certainly, it wasn't obvious  near him when he nailed one  33.  
Thn Wildcats return  to  the  and Cunningham had 16 points  early.  from the left side for a  32-18  The Wildcats managed  to  
Top 25 appeared short-lived.  and 12 rebounds.  Villanova played fast and  lead. The Tigers led 35-24 at  chip away and make it 55-41,  
Tlwir  shooting  absolutnly  Marcus Thornton led LSU  loose with the ball  -­ four  halftime.  but Garrett Temple hit a 3 and  
desnrlnd tlwrn from all  ovnr  with  15  points  and  13  turnovers in the first four min­ When the Wildcats trailed by  then  a driving layup for a  19­ 
the 1:ourt and their starling  rebounds. Terry Martin hit four  utes, seven in the half --and  14 points early in the second  point lead.  
baekcourl couldn't hit any­ 3s to help the Tigers build the  missed 15 of its first 20 shots.  half,  Scottie  Reynolds  and  That was the last time LSU  
thing. 1\ven the normally loyal,  early lead and finished with 14  The guard play that has long  Reggie Hedding were a  com­ could celebrate.  
winn-and-chnnse Wildcat faith­ points.  been a strength under Wright  bined 3-for-19.  "Any team that loses, docsn 't  
ful had lurnnd on their favorite  LSU had 14 blocked shots.  went missing. The Wildcats got  LSU seemed to thwart any  deserve to win," Brady said.  

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 7, 2007 
of quick jabs and sweeping moxie of a veteran, taking beat senior Catherine Crawford. \Kelly "Real Deal" Davin def. hooks. But Dwyer went entirely punches and responding with a Both tighter showed good disci­Meghan "I'd hit that" Sllentz
Bouts 
on the offensive, landing several flurry of her own. pline and deflected blows, show­Freshman Kelly "Heal Deal" hard shot<> to the head. ing their experience in the ring. Davin hits hard -so hard in
continued from page 24 
After a fairly even first round, Alyssa "Fists of Fury" Hartsell fact that her fight with Meghan Laura "LII' Laura" Okonokhua Sheridan entered the second def. Maeve "The Mauler" Ezinne "The Nigerian ''I'd hit that" Silentz had to be def. Sarah "Make It Rain" round with a change of strategy, Maher Nightmare" Ndukwe def. Jackie stopped early with a technical Layne peppering Dwyer with a flurry of Freshman Alyssa "Fists of "Ace" Spengler knockout victory for Davin. 
In the opening light, sopho­punches very early in the round. Fury" Hartsell defeated fresh­In one of the closest fights of more Laura "Lil' Laura" Dwyer took advantage of man Maeve "The Mauler" Maher the night, sophomore Ezinne Dee "Stroyer" Gulls def. Okonokhua took it to junior Sheridan's lack of defense by also by unanimous decision. "The Nigerian Nightmare" Casey "Queso" Carney Sarah "Make it Rain" Layne in a continuing to unload hooks to Both fighters were freshmen Ndukwe took down sophomore Sophomore Casey "Queso" unanimous decision. her opponent's head. Sheridan's fighting in their first career bout, Jackie "Ace" Spengler. The two Carney didn't have quite 
From the opening bell, it was nose start11d bleeding just a few but that didn't hurt their enthusi­traded blows for most of the enough cheese to beat sopho­obvious that the two fighters had seconds before the end of the asm as both were aggressive contest before Ndukwe finally more Dee "Stroyer" Gulis. very dill"erenl strategies in mind. second round. right from the beginning. won in a split decision. Gulis landed thunderous Layne employed mostly jabs and About a minute into the third Hartsell began landing punches Ndukwe is the sister of former blows and while Carney stood body shots. though she did land round, Sheridan knocked Dwyer late and came away with the vic­Notre Dame and current up to them, she was unable to a few critical blows to the head. to the floor, and looked to be tory. Cincinnati Bengals safety retaliate enough to stave off Okonokhua, on the other hand, making a late rally. After a brief Chinedum Ndukwe. defeat. seemed to be only aiming for restart, however, Dwyer found a Sara "Awesome" Fossum def. Layne's head. This paid divi­second wind and hit Sheridan Sarah "The Mean Cuss from Tarah "The Tarah-rizer" Brown Emily "Rocky" Rickert def. dends as early in the second with several blows to the head, the C-Bus" Angle def. Colleen "The Taste You Kla "The Hurt" Johnson round the fight had to be securing her unanimous victory. Sophomore Sara "Awesome" Trust" McCormick Sophomore Emily "Hocky" stopped because Layne's nose Fossum proved she didn't need In another battle of seniors, Hickerl not only went the dis­bngan to bleed. Jenna "The Hebrew Hammer" an "h" in her name to take down senior Tarah "The Tarah-rizer" tance against sophomore Kia 
Toward the end of the second Zigman def. Lauren "The freshman Sarah "The Mean Cuss Brown defeated senior Colleen "The Hurt" Johnson, she camn round, aftnr sull"ering numerous Polacca Punishment" Kopsky from the C-bus" Angle. Angle put "The Taste You Trust" away with the victory. Hickerl hooks to the !wad, Layne took an In the third round, junior up a keen fight, but she couldn't McCormick. As with the other used solid technique to finish
-eight count from the referee Lauren "The Polacca stand up to the older fighter. all-senior lights, this one fea­off .Johnson. bnfon1 continuing the light. Aftnr Punishment" Kopsky took too tured good fundamentals and a the restart. the light continued many punches early and fell to a Whitney "Double Fistin" close battle. In the end, howev­Emily "Hard Hitting" Harig its previous pattern, with junior from Walsh Hall, .Jenna Endsley def. Kyle "R.I.P." Rocca er, Brown came out on top. def. Amy "The Attacker" Okonokhua landing blow after "The Hebrew Hammer" Zigman Endsley, a senior from Kohler, libardi blow to the head until tho judges in a unanimous deeision. Wise., took a break from her Carolyn Hersh def. Maureen Sophomore Emily "liard rulnd unanimously in hnr favor. president's duties to take down "The Machine" Sefton Hitting" Harig lived up to her 
Anna Dwyer def. Jackie "The Black Knight" Sheridan 
Frt$hman Anna Dwyer won tlw second light of the evening, defeating junior .Iackie "The Black Knight" Sheridan by unan­imous dndsion. 
Slwridan came out in the first round nmploying a combination 
Sarah "This Is My First Time" 
Burch def. Keaton "The Beast" Van Beveran 
It may have been her first bout, but Clearwater, Kansas's junior Sarah "This is My First Time" Burch fought her way to a win over Pasquerilla West's Knaton "The Beast" Van Bnveran. Burch showed the Kyle "R.I.P." Hocca. Fighting under the nickname "Double Fistin," Endsley showed the poise and precision of a veteran in defeating her opponent. 
Jen "Heartbreaker" Leong def. Catherine Crawford 
In a battle of two seniors, sen­ior Jen "Heartbreaker" Leong 
Sophomore Carolyn Hersh didn't need a niekname to take down senior Maureen "The Machine" Sefton with a combi­nation of solid technique and well-timed blows. Sefton retali­ated with flurries of her own, but when it came time for the judges decision, Hersh was deelared the winner. 
nickname in taking down fresh­man Amy "The Attaeker" Libardi, landing several huge punches and coming away with the victory. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdas­satt@nd.edu and Katelyn Grabarek at kgrabaO1@saintmarys.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Villanova overco111es 21-point de~ficit to knock off LSU 
--------,
----~----~-----­
Friday, December 7, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

know no boundaries 
WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

TICKETS: $3 FOR STUDENTS AND $5 FOR FACULTY/STAFF • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Spring 2008 World View Events Miss Navajo • January 18 • Director Billy Luther will discuss his film Desert Bayou • February 22 • Director Alex LeMay will discuss his film The Kite Runner • March 14 Blood Diamond • April 3 • Cosponsored with Center for Social Concerns 
($lUNIVERSITY OF 
·~~ D E B A R T 0 L 0 
WNOTREDAME (~,., ,f)JJ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
-=~ -~ 

Office of the President 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, December 7, 2007 
Elite 8 
continued from page 24 
This tinw, how1wnr, Clark says his tnam will bn ready. 
"Tho only way to bocome comfortabln playing in big ganws is to play in big gamns," Clark said. "This group of play­
nrs  has played in  a  lot of big  
gamo>  so  thny  should  be  
rnady.  

l•:xpnrinncn isn't thn only thing tho Irish gainnd from last ynar's 1\litn S game that's giv­offense. The Demon Deacons average 2.56 goals per game this season, and they have scored three or more goals in a contnst 12 times. Compare that to Notre Dame's 1.49 goals per game and four matches with three goals or more. 
Although Wake Forest has thren players with eight or morn goals, its top scoring threat is undoubtedly sopho­more forward Cory Arnoux, who scornd two goals in the Demon Deacons' 3-1 win over West Virginia in the Sweet 16. Arnoux leads· the team in 

ing thnm eonfi­"Everybody's goals (15) and donen hnading points (37). 
prepared for the
into their game Clark said the 
with the Wake Forest game, Irish must try to 
IJ n n1 ,, n and they're trying to keep possession Deacons. to prevent the
make up for last 
Dnspitn the fact Demon Deacons 
year.
that the match from scoring. 
occurn~d over "I've said all 
onn year ago. along that it's
Ryan Miller 
the disappoint­not just the
Irish defensman 
-
ment from that night in Charlottesville is still driving this year's Irish team. 
"Everybody there last year hated the feeling of Virginia," senior eo-captain Hyan Miller said. "They all know how we ended and how we didn't play wPII. Everybody's prepared for the Wake Forest game, and thny're trying to make up for last ynar." 
No matter how prepared Notrn Dame is, defeating the Dmnon Deacons will be a tall order. No. 2 Wake Forest ent1~rs Saturday's match with an impressive 19-2-2 mark, and the Dnmon Deacons had the No. 1 spot in Soccer America for nine weeks this season. Wake Forest was in lino for the No. 1 overall seed in thn NCM Tournament until an upset loss to Boston College in thn ACC tournament pro­pelled the Eagles to the top semi. 
The Irish will have to work to stop Wake Forest's potent defense," Clark 
said. "We have to play the game in their half of the field. You can't just sit back there and defend and hope the defense hangs on." 
Miller said it would "take the entire team defending" to pre­vent unwanted goals. 
"We pride ourselves on team defense, not just the back­line," he said. "We'll need to play team defense to our full potential." 
Luckily for Notre Dame, even if the defense falters, the Irish still have Chris Cahill. The sen­ior keeper has been exception­al for Notre Dame in NCAA tournament games, recording four shutouts -an Irish pro­gram record. Cahill's latest shutout came in last weekend's 2-0 win over Santa Clara. 
The winner of Saturday's contest will play the winner of No. 3 Connecticut vs. No. 11 Virginia Tech on Dec. 14. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
Thursday. 

Phelps, now an ESPN analyst, was in attendance at Notre Dame's (6-2) 68-59 win over Kansas State Tuesday at Madison Square Garden where he saw Irish forward Luke Harangody out duel the much­hyped Kansas State freshman Michael Beasley to the tune of 19 points and a career-high 14 rebounds. 
"[Harangodyl was awesome," Phelps said. "He put on a show at the Garden. He's a great kid. They're all great kids. What I like about this team, this year -their attitude. There are no issues with personalities and I think that's what makes this team special. You build that internal bond and you build that team chemistry, you do things you have to do in games to get it done." 
Phelps said the Irish have an opportunity to make it into the Sweet 16 this year, thanks in part to the guard play of sopho­
more Tory Jackson and junior Kyle McAlarney. For McAlarney, a win Saturday would mean a .lot to the Irish, given the rich tradition established under 
Phelps in the 1970s and 80s. 

"I guess as soon as the season 
started, Coach Brey was talking 
about it and we were talking 
about it together. It's just some­
thing special when you have an 
opportunity to make your mark 
in the history of Notre Dame 
basketball," McAlarney said. 
"But at the same time, we can't 
get too over our head about and 
we have to focus on Northern 
Illinois." 

Phelps led Notre Dame to numerous NCAA Tournament berths during his tenure and to its only Final Four appearance in 1978. 
"What made us that good back then, was that the stu­dents never quit on us," Phelps said. "Every home game they showed up, our place was a zoo." 
While student attendance at early-season, non-conference teams usually pales in compari­son to attendance at Big East games, Brey said there's no excuse for students not to show up to help break the record. 
"I think we sold 2,200 student season tickets, and I'm expect­ing them to be out," Brey said. "This is the last time we're going to see them before thn Big East starts and for them to be there where we have an oppor­tunity to set the homo record. The sixth man better bn out or 
they may havn to  run sprints  
when  they  eomn  back from  
Christmas break."  

Ilarangody said studnnt sup­port provides makes big games, such as last year's wins over Marquette and Alabama, more memorable. 
"When we see !the studnntsl out there, they really do give us an extra lift," llarangody said. 
A hallmark of Notre Dame's student section through the years has been its ability to get inside the heads of opposing players and make Notre Dame an intimidating venue to visit. And even though final exams begin next Friday, forward Zach Hillesland still hopes the stu­dents can fill the stands Saturday night. 
"We know there's big exams, big tests, big projects coming up, but this is a very special record," Ilillesland said. "I won­der how many fans are actually aware of the record that's potentially being broken on Saturday. To have that kind of support would be a really spe­cial moment." 
Northern Illinois enters the game 2-6, with only one starter, guard Hyan Paradise, averaging double figures (1 0.6 points per game). Tip off is at 7 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


Princeton 
continued from page 24 
Friday. 
"They're a high energy team that we will have to value the puck against. they arn probably going to bn a look likn BPI," .Jackson said. 
Notre Dame played Henssnlaer two weeks ago in the Henssnlanr lloliday Tournament. The Irish came from three goals down to win 4­3. 
The Tigers bounced back Saturday with another 4-3 game against HPJ, but this time they came out on top. 
Princeton's top line, consisting of juniors Lee Jubinville and Brett Wilson and sophomore Cam Macintyre, was responsible for three of those goals, includ­ing the game-winner from Wilson. 

Macintyre, who had two assists against Union, currently leads the Tigers in points with seven goals and seven assists. The trio has scored 16 of the teams 29 goals so far this sea­son. 
"It's hard to 

[shut down a lineJ "As they play, they 
on the road 
get stronger and
because they will have the last mentally gain change. We are confidence in their 
going to have to 
ability to do things
defend differently 
with the puck. " 
depending who is out on the ice with them," 
Jeff Jackson 
Jackson said. 
Irish coach on freshmen 
defenseman Kyle Lawson played on the national team last year when it won a bronze medal, and Jackson said the experience really helped him "turn the cor­ner" in the second half of his rookie season. 
Contact Dan Murphy at 
dmurphy6@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesda}' through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

Notre Dame's young defense and goalie Jordan Pearce will have to find a way to slow down Princeton's top line. The Irish. who have two freshmen and two sophomores in their regular defense rotation, have done a solid job of shutting down oppo­nents so far this year, while stepping up on offense as well. 
Last week, fmshman defense­man Ian Cole was selected to play on the U.S. Junior National Under-20 team this January in the Czech Hepublic. Cole, who has two goals and four assists from the point so far this sea­son. is the 11th player in Irish history to play on the team, which selects the top 22 teenagers in the country for the squad. 
"It's great opportunity for those guys. I would've liked to see Idefenseman] Teddy Huth and [forward] Ben Ryan make the team as well, and I know they were very close," Jackson said. 
Notre Dame's freshman class has adjusted well to the college game. Ruth's goal against Nebraska-Omaha last weekend 
made him the fifth rookie to find the back or the net so far this season. 
"As they play, they get stronger and mentally gain confidence in their ability to do things with the puck," Jackson said. 
Sophomore 
Friday, December 7, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

BLACK DoG 
DEUCES MANOR 
Hey, I heard you guys 
weren't coming back 
ne;-.:t ~emester. What's 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
Yeah right. Your jokes reminded me of a lame sitcom and your comics looked worse thanJoan Rivers in high definition. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
That may be. But you'll be sorry in a month when all you have to look forward to is jokes about BAC cards, Y:ideo games and "awkward" encounters. 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

CROSSWORD 
Across 30 They're played News 
at the track Corporation­
32 Buries owned Web site 34 Brass that's one of the 
36 Walled city of 1 0 most visited 
the Mideast sites in the world 
37 "Let me live my 8 Dirt on a person 
own life!" 14 Yellow fliers with 
41 Gives a little, large eyespots say 
15 "Cab," e.g. 
45 Wedding 16 Abscond concern 17 What the key of 46 Taper D minor has 
48 Was sluggish? 18 Sponge 
49 Old Testament 19 Driving distance book: Abbr. is a concern in it 
50 Reporting to 21 Dermal 
52 Vapid opening? 
53 1980s sitcom 

22 Miss Gulch biter 
title role 24 Height and such 
54 Flips

25Pet 56 Hiver's opposite 
26 Hostile 57 Not-so-good
28 In advance of feeling
29 Get a handle on? 59 Former field food 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Terminal timesaver 62 Its value is in creasing 63 Sprint acquisition of 2005 
64 Crossword source since 1942: Abbr. 
Down Slip 2 Poem reader at the 2006 Olympics opening 
ceremony 3 Gaga 4 With 20-Down. 
waffle alternative 5 Capping 6 Finishes quickly, 
in a way 7 Groundskeeper's 
charge 8 Family group 9 _-Neisse Line 
10 Abbr. in personal ads 11 Center of Connecticut 12 All thrown together, say 
13 Little women 
15 Cheering section 
20 See 4-Down 
23 "Heavens!" 25 1963 Academy Awards host 27 He wrote "It's certain that fine women eat I A crazy salad with their meat" 29 Alb coverer 
WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by David Quarfoot  
31 Sharp  40 Sch. whose  47 "Way to go,  
33 Meal source  colors are "true  dude!"  
35 Lopsided court result 37 Ones paid to  blue" and gold 42 Cry upon  50 Bernoulli family birthplace  
conceive?  arriving  51 Trouble  
38 Cartoon boss  43 Beau ideal  54 Raise  
working at a quarry  44 Burial place of  55 Not yet 58-Down  
39 Modern rental  many French  58 See 55-Down  
option  kings  60 _  Friday's  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .49 a minute: or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJt?JMID)1L!
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
EAPEY 

[ J I I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~f~l u 
RAZTUQ 
rJ b
www.jumble.com
tYARPIT 1 

IJ I I I 
Answer here: ITJITJ"[IIJ" (Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: BROIL MOSSY WISELY MAGNET Answer: How he performed in the lifeguard test ­"SWIMMINGLY" 

WHE=N THE: OOL.FE:R 
C.A.UGHT A. C.Ol-0, 
HE WA.SNT--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Lindsay Price, 31; Janine Turner, 45; Peter Buck, 51; Tom Hulce, 54 
Happy Birthday: You are a leader and, if you actively try to make reforms or find solutions to existing problems, it will lead to better opportunities in other areas of your life as well. Money is in the picture and a settlement can be reached this year. Your numbers are 8, 13, 17, 25, 37,48 
ARIES (March 21-AprU 19): Figure out what you have to do to save money. If you can put a little away each week for something you really want, it will give you a sense of security. Don't get upset with anyone you live with. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Spend time with friends and family. Whatever you can do to help your community or people in need, the better your opportunities will become regarding position, proposals and finding new friends. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't take sides if an issue arises. Instead, play the mediator today. A change with regard to your position may alarm you at first. Don't become emotional or you will be viewed as unprofessional. 3 stars . 
CANCER (June 21-Joly 22): Everything will work in your favor ifyou are ac­commodating today. A little give-and-take will go a long way. A love relationship looks very promising. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Ang. 22): Don't feel guilty for wanting to enjoy yourself. You can get more done in a shorter period of time than most. Money is in the stars --win­nings, settlements and even old debts can be collected. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Short trips will lead to positive changes. You may want to hold off making any changes around home. You aren't likely to get the re­spect you deserve or the job done that you require. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may not feel like taking the day off but force yourself to put in the time and make the professional moves that will help you ad­vance. An energetic approach to something could tum into a new position. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your emotions will be running at a fever pitch. Use them wisely. If you are in tune with what you need in your life, you should be able to make it happen. Love looks positive so make a promise. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): You need to distance yourself from emo­tional matters that could cloud your vision. Check out an investment that can help you get back on a positive financial track. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Partnerships and professional goals should be your prime concern. You can make some changes to secure your financial future. Don't give in to anyone making a loud noise about how to invest. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Someone may lead you in the wrong direction. Don't Jet your emotions get in the way of doing what's right. A problem with someone you have known in the past will crop up.2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put your time, effort and money into your home and your future. Invest in yourself and your sUIToundings. Fix up a workspace at home that will motivate you to follow your dreams. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are passionate, determined and intense about achieving your goals. You are outgoing, open-minded and lldaptable to whatever works best for everyone. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, December 7, 2007 
page 24 
MEN's SoccER 
Shaking their Dentons 

Men tackle No. 2 Wake Forest in Elite 8 serum 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
One year ago, Notre Dame was in uncharted territory when it reached the program's first­ever Elite 8, and it showed in its game against No. 4 Virginia. By halftime, the Irish had dug themselves a 2-0 first-half hole that they were unable to climb out of in their 3-2 loss to the Cavaliers. 
"People take stage fright sometimes, and we panicked a little bit at Virginia last year," Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said. "There were 6,000 people in the stands. !Virginia] was a good team, but we found out in the second half that we were as good if not a little bit better." 
One year later, the Irish are back in the NCAA quarterfinals as they prepare to take on No. 2 seed Wake Forest on Saturday at 7 p.m. in Winston-Salem, N.C. 
see ELITE 8/page 22 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Digger gives blessing for NO to smash record 
Irish can break home win-streak mark set in '74 

By CHRIS HINE Sports Ediror 
Notre Dame began "the streak" with a 66-61 win over I>PI'aul on March 4, 200(>, and continued it with victories over then-No. 4 Alabama. Louisvilln and Marquette last season. Saturday night, the Irish have a ehanen to make history if they 1:an heat Northern Illinois to post their 25th consecutivn win at the Joyce Center. 
A win would lm~ak tho previ­ous n'lconl of 24 eonsecutivn wins set between February of 1973 and December 1974, a streak that included one of the most famous wins in Notre Dame basketball history -a 71-70 triumph over No.1 UCLA, which snapped the Bruins' NCAA-record 88-game unbeat­en streak. Notre Dame's coach from 1971-91, Digger Phelps, said he's pulling for this year's team to break that record. 
"All stn~aks are made to be broken and !Coach Mike Brey's] a great guy and these kids are good kids, so go for it," Phelps said in a phone interview 
see STREAK/ page 22 
HOCKEY 

No.6 Irish head to Hobey's house 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Ediwr 

Notre Dame travels to Hobey Baker's alma mater tonight to take on Princeton in both teams' final series before the winter break. 
The No. 6 Irish, who took over first place in the CCJIA last weekend, will make the trip to the school made famous by college hockey legend Baker for the first time sinee late 2001. 
"You always worry about the last series before break and final exams," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "It's important for us to continue playing full, sixty-minute hockey games." 
After this weekend, the team will have three weeks off before beginning the second half of the year at the Lightning College !Iockey Classie on Dec. 29. 
The Irish (14-4) head to the east coast with a seven-game winning streak that dates back to their 4-1 Nov. 16 win over Western Michigan. They have outscored their opponents 29­11 during that stretch, induct­ing back-to-back five goal games against Nebraska­Omaha last weekend. 
Princeton (5-5) started the year with four straight wins but has since slowed down and dropped below .500 after a 4-3 loss to No. 18 Hensselaer last 
see PRINCETON/page 22 
BARAKA BOUTS 

Women duke it out for charity 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI and KATELYN GRABAREK Sports Writers 

Forty-four women fought Thursday night in front of a packed auxiliary gymnasium in the Joyce Center to 
See Also

r a i s e money for "Freshman eastern 
Cara Norton
African schools in upsets senior the annual 
captain."
Barak a Bouts. page 14 "These girls have come a long way," Baraka Bouts president Whitney Endsley said. 
see BOUTS/page 20 


I< '• 
... 
,~ ... ­
..,-;!ff';.l-··· 
~: 

r-----------------~------------------------------~----------~~-----------­
page 2 Friday, December 7, 2007 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
_________ ----------====================================================================================== 
For opponents, weaknesses are hard to find 
It's Nov. 30, and it's 13 ciencies for opponents to returned to her previous form. have combined for 30 goals react to Notre Dame's quick dngrnes outside. Every part of attack. Earlier in the season, Fowlkes has settled in at the and 24 assists this year, and attack and unyielding defense. my body is frozen solid except teams may have focused on center back position, as has Hanks presents teams with a Should the Irish gain control of for my mouth, which my sec­the goalkeeping. Opponents Scheidler at right back. At left deadly threat on corner kicks, the game early, it's not likely ond cup of hot chocolate mer­would have been wise to pres­baek, Elise Weber not only penalty kieks and set-play situ­they will relinquish it. cilessly surn in the offensive third and plays good defense but uses ations. Weissenhofer only has scorched. 
take shot after shot, hoping her experience at midfield, eight goals because an ankle The views expressed in this My krwe one would slip through. Senior where she played for two injury slowed her down this column are those ofthe author joints an~ keeper Lauren Karas, howev­years at Wiseonsin before season, but four of them have and not necessarily (hose of f'roznn in er, threw out any hints of transferring to Notre Dame, to come in the NCAA tournament. The Observer. thn lwnt weakness in the past two her advantage. Without a weak spot to pene­Contact Bill/Jrink at position. games. She made multiple Against Duke, Weber made trate, opponents will have to wbrin k@nd. edu But tlw cold savns against North Carolina numerous trips up the left didn't both­in tlw round of 1fi and stopped sideline and at times became a er tlw Irish a Duke breakaway in the first de faeto fourth midfielder, giv­-judging Bill Brink livH minutes of the quarterfinal ing the potent Irish forwards a by the way ganw with a diving save to her eatalyst. Break off a midfielder Not rn Damn right. and cover Weber, and Duke is playing Sports Writer Karas looked right at home had to leave one less defender against stopping the shot. She on forwards Brittany Boek, l>ukn, it approached the ball calmly Michele Weissenhofer and could have been July. ·and fluidly, reacting on instinct Kerri Hanks, an unfavorable 
Tho Irish ran all ovnr the to the direction of the shot. proposition. Allow Weber to Blun Devils and made a good She looked comfortable roam the left sideline and she l>ukn team look ineffective and between the posts. had all day to set up crosses slow. Watching the Irish play, Earlier in the season, teams into the box for the forwards they brought ono phrasn to may have tried to exploit the to attack. mind: Thesn girls are good. Irish back line. Center back The midfield has seen many 
Let's not get too carrind Carrie Dew still was not 100 faces this season; the Irish away, howevnr. They allowed· pereent after an ACL injury have great depth at the posi­Duke to score twice in the sec­last season and the defense tion. Ashley Jones, Amanda ond half-oncn after Notrn started two freshmen, Julie Cinalli and Courtney Rosen all Dame failed to clnar a corner Seheidler and Lauren fowlkes. have great feet, and against kiek and once on a long shot Fowlkes, especially, would Duke they deflected pass after from a midfielder they left have been a soft spot, consid­pass from their defenders to wido opnn. The Irish aren't ering she moved from midfield the forwards. Cinalli had lights-out. But finding and to the back line in the begin­injury problems earlier this nxploiting Notre Dame's weak­ning of the season. season but of late has played nessns is a tough thing for Now, the defense keeps better than ever. opposing teams to do, and in Karas from seeing much action There's no chance of oppo­that rospect, thn Irish are and allows the offense to eon­nents stopping the forwards ­solid. trot the ball for much of the all they can do is hope to slow 
Thern arn no glaring deli-game. Dew is healthy and has them down. Bock and Hanks 

Deep 111idfield keeps players fresh and defenses guessing 
thn time," Waldrum said. "This
Irish replace Krivacek 
ynar has been great because we've had the flexibility to move Amanda
and Buczkowski with 
ICinallil back into the midlinld." interchangeable options Thn Irish have not replaeed 
Krivaenk and Buczkowski with 
other superstars. Instead, have
By FRAN TOLAN 
employed an efJeetive platoon that 
Sports Writc:r 
allows them to exploit matchup 
problems against their opponents. 
An adidm; advertisenHmt limtur­Waldrum said the vnrsatility of ing former Frenr.h superstar senior Ashley Jones, junior Zirwdinn ZidanP orm~ prodaimod, Hnbeeca Mendoza and sophomore "If' you own tlw midlit>ld, you own Courtm~y Hosen allows the Irish to tlw ganw." mnstantly create mismatches. 
In tlwir run to tho Collnge Cup "Those three players are very sernilinals this season. the Irish interchangeable," Waldrum said. have cnrtainly owned the midfield, "It gives us a chanee to see what albnit sonwwhat unconventionally. the opponent has to try to match The unit indudes six playnrs that up." play regularly oven though only Waldrum said sophomore defen­thmn normally appear at any one sive midfielder Amanda Clark time. allows the other midlinlders to use 
"Sinen we play three eentrally, their ernativity on oflcnsn. its great to have live or six players "She's such a good ball-winner that you ~~an interdmnge in there for us in the midfield defensively and keep things a little bit more that you ean allow those other fresh," Irish eoarh Handy players to use their creative play," Waldrum said. Waldrum said. 
In dPI'Pating Duke 3-2 last But despite the midfielders"play­Friday, the Irish shut down one of making prowess, thfl Irish forward the most lin-midable midfield uniL'i unit garners most of' the attention in the nation and eontrolled the from opponents and fans. The possession showdown in the een­delimders. meanwhile, have been tral third of' the field. lauded for their rapid improve­
"That's tlw one part of Duke we ment since the beginning of the wen• really eoneerned with season. But the midlielders do not bm:ausn they'rp very quick in the mind the lack of praise. midfield," Waldrum said. "We "I don't feel like we get lost in mally li~lt like we had to win the the mix. I think all of us just want baUJe in midfield and I thought we to win and we're all out there for did a great job of that." the team," Jones said. "I don't 
The Irish lost star midfielders think it really bothers us that Jen Buczkowski and Jill Krivaeek we're not really mentioned very to graduation last year but much in the papers or that kind of Waldrum said the 2007 squad has thing." Jones said. ''I'm just having a great know we'd all give up minutes if want 90 minutes and that's great," filled their shoes admirably. An appearanee in the Duke time being able to contribute every our team could win the national Waldrum said. "But I also think 
Also, Waldrum said this year's game put Jones in second place in single game." championship," Jones said. they understand and buy into the depth has allowed the team to bet­NCAA history with 104 conseeutive Like the rest of the midfield unit, Waldrum said he appreciates fact that in this moment, at this ter utilize senior captain Amanda games played. Jones said she is Jones does not mind splitting play­the unselfishness of the midfield­game, beeause of that matchup, Cinalli's playmaking ability. simply happy to be part of a win­ing time with her teammates as ers. thi<> one works best." 
"Last year we played so mueh ning tnmn. long as the Irish are having sue­"Sometimes I know they don't with having IBuezkowskil and "IThe streak) is exciting but it's cess. play as mueh as they'd like in a Contact Fran Tolan at IKriacnkl in there consistently all not something I really f{Jcus on," "Sometimes it is frustrating but I certain game because they all ftolan@nd.edu 

~--------~------~--------------------~~--------~----~--------------------------------~ 
'!I I' f, • 'I' 
Friday, December 7, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Playing with passion 
Senior captain Amanda Cinalli's enthusiasm has given her an edge on the field her whole life 

By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Amanda Cinalli spoke delib­erately, answering questions with a measured demeanor. ller voice stayed even as she described her experiences in high school. her fellow team­mates and this season's rocky start. 
It's when she started talking about soccer that she got excited. 
llnr eytls lit up and her face widened into a smile when she told of the hours she spent outside as a kid -juggling and working on her footwork, lnan1ing her brother's 'secret moves' and taking lessons with a foot skills coach named Kiko. 
"lie was so much fun. a little short foreign guy but I loved being around him," Cinalli said. "I worked practically every day, and I loved doing it so it was easy to do every day." 
That love of the sport has earried her from childhood to high school to Notre Dame, where she won a national ehampionship as a freshman and has the opportunity to win another this weekend when the Irish travel to College Station. Texas, for the College Cup -soccer's equivalent of the Final Four. 
Cinalli had played soccer all her life, but said she became serious about playing in col­lege when the recruiting process began at Laurel High School in Maple Heights, Ohio. 
"I loved high school soccer. We weren't the best team around," Cinalli said of her soccer days at Laurel. "We played in a small private school league; the competition wasn't always that great." 
Cinalli said the small size of Laurel, an all-girls school, fos­tered a bond between her and her teammates. 
"Being at a small all girls school, we were all really close," Cinalli said. "It was just something that was really fun." 
Cinalli went from one close­knit community to another when she chose Notre Dame. She said that aspect of life on campus, along with the University's religious values, said. "You get great experi­enticed her to come here. ence, great competition. Cinalli also liked the dynamic Obviously you're getting differ­the players and the coaches ent types of games and players enjoyed as well as the school's from all around the world. academic reputation. You're getting thrown into a 
"Just being able to be situation where you're in a dif­around the team and the ferent culture and a different coaching staff, it felt like a country. It's very fun, it's a family here," she said. "I just good experience, and I learned really fell in love with it. You a lot." get a great education and Cinalli said the style of inter­come out with a wonderful national soccer differed slight­degree." ly from that in the U.S. 
Coming from an all-girls "International teams are school to Notre very good too, Dame, Cinalli and they're get­said, took some ting more and getting used to. "She's relentless in more athletic," 
"You're with Cinalli said.
the way she attacks 
people that "The thirig you're not as and continues to about the girls comfortable chase and continues internationally with, so they is sometirn.es
to work."
teach you to be they can be very very outspoken technical, very and speak your Randy Waldrum skillful. They mind," she said. Irish coach bring differ.ent "It's interesting types of games." coming in, Though Irish because there's coaches named guys around, and I'm just like, Cinalli the third solo captain in 'Whoa.'" the team's history before this 
Cinalli had another eye­season, she said the team's opening experience her fresh­upperclassmen combine to man season when the Irish form the true leading unit. went 24-1-1 and defeated "Yes, I am the captain by UCLA in penalty kicks to win title, but I think all the upper­the national championship. classmen are great leaders Cinalli started 24 games and and they all bring something scored 10 goals during the unique to the team," Cinalli championship season and said. "It's not just me leading earned first-team all-Big East the team, it's several players." honors. This season, the Irish faced 
"We're coming in as a fresh­something they hadn't often man, it's so, kind of, over­had to deal with-losing. whelming and just so exciting "We had never really experi­that you're actually in the enced something like that," national championship game," Cinalli said. "We'd never really Cinalli said. "It's so much fun lost that many in a season." and it's an experience that Notre Dame started 3-4-1. In we'll never forget." that span, it lost 7-1 to Santa 
Cinalli also had the chance Clara and lost twice at home, to take her game overseas as a to Oklahoma State and Penn member of the U.S. U-21 State. Since then, it has won national team. Along with fel­16 games and lost only once ­low Notre Dame players to West Virginia in penalty Brittany Bock, Kerri Hanks kicks in the Big East champi­and Michele Weissenhofer, onship. Cinalli played in Manchester, "It's truly unbelievable. This England, over that spring team has come so far," Cinalli break. She and Weissenhofer said. "It takes a lot of charac­also played on the 2007 U-21 ter to go from such a difficult team that won the Nordic Cup time at the beginning of the against international teams. season to grow so much and 
"It's always very beneficial to have the success we've been play internationally," Cinalli having. It just shows the char­acter and the heart that we have for the game and for each other." 
Cinalli's role in the Irish offense shifted this season. After scoring double-digit goals in each of the past three seasons, she currently ranks fifth on the team with only three. Still, she said the change made no difference to her. 
"It doesn't bother me at all. As long as our team's doing well, coach can put me wher­ever he wants me," Cinalli said. "If we're on top at the end of the season, I think that's the important thing." 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum said earlier in the season that Cinalli's versatility and skill with the ball made it easy for her to find a role, no matter where she played. 
"She's the one that has that ability to be creative with it, she's got probably the most overall skill level of the three forwards, she's more techni­cal, she's more clean with the ball, she can beat you off the ball in front of two defend­ers and tapped it to Hanks, who took it downfield and scored the game-winning goal. 
"Cinalli kind of epitomizes the day," Waldrum said of the play. 
Hanks couldn't say enough about her teammate's abilities, both as a player and as a leader. 
"Every time Amanda Cinalli steps on the field she is going to give you her best game ever," Hanks said after the Duke game. "She is going to be so positive and encouraging and cheer us up. She is amaz­ing, on and off the field. She is one of the best leaders I've ever seen." 
If the Irish beat Florida State Friday in the semifinal game, they face the winner of the Southern California-UCLA match. The chance to begin and end her collegiate career with bookend national champi­onships has Cinalli and her teammates excited. 
"To be able to send the sen­
iors off with 
wins is always 
the dribble," a positive
'Tve always wanted to
Waldrum said thing," Cinalli on Sept. 18, play soccer for as long said. "Just to 
back when as I can. !fit's possible, have all the 
Cinalli spent players on our
I'd like to play until I 
some time in team who will 
the forward was 8o. It's just being be able to position. "She's able to play a sport that experience a 
relentless in national cham­
you're so passionate
the way she pionship, just 
attacks and about and that you love to allow them continues to so much, it's an honor." to get that 
chase and con­feeling. tinues to because it's
Amanda Cinalli 
work." somflthing 
Since then, Irish midfielder you'll never Bock has per­forget." manently But Cinalli joined Weissenhofer and dido 't sound as if she was Hanks up front, and Cinalli has caught up in the championship anchored the midfield. hype. She said she was just 
No matter where she is on happy to be playing. the field, her deft footwork and ''I've always wanted to play subtle direction changes can soccer for as long as I can. If leave defenders behind. In the it's possible, I'd like to play Nov. 30 quarterfinal game until I was 80," she said. "It's against Duke, Cinalli kept the just being able to play a sport ball out of reach of the Blue that you're so passionate Devils defenders, at one point about and that you love so spinning between two of them much, it's an honor." in the middle of the field to mount an offensive charge. Contact Bill Brink Later in the game, she slid to at wbrink@nd.edu 

~---------------.-.-.-.-.~.~.~--------.-.-.~.~------------~~r-~------------------.~..-.~..----~-----.-.-.-.-.~.-.----------7,-,-------------­
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, December 7, 2007 
Irish face Seminoles in repeat of 2006 semifinals 
Coaches discount last year's contest, make new game plan 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will head to Collnge Station, Texas Friday to once again face Florida State in the College Cup semi­finals. The Irish defeated the Snminoles 2-1 in last season's tournament but will treat Florida State like a team they have never seen before. 
Irish assistant coach Ben Waldrum. who designs specif­ie game plans for the team before every eontest, said he 
and UCLA. The Irish (19-4-2). who are riding a 17-game unbeaten streak, believe if they play to their potential, they will come out of the weekend with their second national title in four years. 
"We have the capability to beat anyone if we all come together," midflelder Amanda Clark said. "I think that's kind of speeial about our team." 
Irish head coaeh Handy Waldrum echoed Clark's sen­timents. saying his team con­trols its own destiny. 
"I don't think we change anything we've done," Waldrum said. "Our program is to a point where we should dictate the way the game is played ... ! think we can impose the way we want to play 
will not take last ynar's game into considera­ "Our program is to a point where we  on them." When asked to pick a  
tion when eom­ing up with a stratngy to beat tho Seminoles  should dictate the way the game is played ... I think we  favorite to win ·the national ehampionship, the head coach  
117-5-3). "To be honest. we won't look at  can impose the way we want to  gave a narrow edge to No. 1 UCLA but said  
last year's tape;  play on them.''  the  title  will  
last year is done  probably  be  
and gonn," Bnn Waldrum said. "Wn'll takn a  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  won by team attaeks  the that the  
pnnk  at  tlwir  most.  
body  of  work  "You've got  

throughout this sPason and four really special teams; they somn of thnir bigger games ... all have their own strengths," Wn'll take a good look at that Waldrum said. ")t's going to and eome up with somn­be a battle in those first two thing." games. Who's going to be able 
The winner of tho Notre to impose their will on the Dame-Florida State matehup opposition?" will move on to the national The Irish have a three­rhampionship game Sunday pronged forward attack that to take on the winner of the is as good as any unit in the other stlmifinal bntween USC eountry at imposing its will on an opponent, Waldrum said. 

.Juniors Brittany Bock and Kerri Hanks and sophomore Michele Weissenhofer all seored in Notre Dame's 3-2 win over Duke in the quarter­finals. Weissenhofer's goal eame a game after she netted two and notched an assist against North Carolina in the round of 16. The forwards have eombined for 130 goals and 97 assists in their eareers. 
"When you've got all three of them playing the way they are right now, it's a handful for anybody," the head eoach said. "I wouldn't want to deal with that ... I wouldn't want to be on the other side trying 

STlJDY DATES ANil TIMES: 
Dec 12:  7am to 3:00am  Midnight Snacks!  
Dec 13:  7an'l to 3:00~un  
Dec 16:  7am to 3:00am  

Finals Week: Dec 14, 15, 17, 18, 19: Roonrs available except ,..he11 scheduled by the Regi.-.trar's ~.ifJice. 
See Building Support Personnel ij)•ou have .<opecijic needs: Roont ./()3, ./()4. 
d42JS%~ fJWWI 
Coleman-Morse: Dec 12-19: 
l"t Floor: 7:00arn-4:00arn 2nd floor : 7:00arn-3:00arn 3"d Floor: 7:00am-12an1 
See Building Support Person .Roo1n .1(}1 if~vou ltal•e a .'!>pecific need. 
O"Shaughnessy: Rooms available 'for open study except w-hen scheduled by the Registrar"s ot~fice. 
Dec 12, 13, 16 : 8:00ant to 1 :OOarn 
[)ec 14, 15, 16-19: 6pn1 to 3:00aJJJ Rom...•·a••ailab/eex<.·eptwllen S<.'he~luled by tile Regl5trar's office. 
Hoo1ns: 106, 107, 114, 115, 116, 117, IIH, 204,206,207, 20H, 209. 
Good Luck -with Finals 

:,j.J~u.:htl rhanks I£J H~t.\'inest~<' Opt•rtnit.'lns. C4U.,tf:KU~~· Mlfll.nr.J• t.znd th;! Sntdeltt llnhn1. Hoard. 
to devise some way to shut that down." 
Waldrum said the Irish defense will foeus on shutting down Florida State's danger­ous attacking trio of senior midl'ielder Kirsten van de Ven, junior midfielder Mami Yamaguchi, and freshman forward Sanna Talonen. The three players, who all hail from foreign countries, have eombined for 4 7 goals this season. Talonen reeorded a hat triek in the Seminoles' 3-2 quarterfinals win over UConn last Friday. 
"They're a very talented team and I think when Ben !Waldrum I gets disseeting how they're going to play, 
we'll know a little bit morn how we want to attack it," Handy Waldrum said. 
Notre Dame's semifinal game will air live at 5 p.m. eastern time Friday on ESPN2 and ESPNU. 
Even though the Irish will treat Florida State as a differ­ent opponent than thn squad they took on last season, thn teams are not entirely unfa­miliar with eaeh other. 
"There's not Ia lot of! lovn lost between us and Florida State so it's going to be a great Final Four," Waldrum said. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.cdu 








