
---------------------------------------------~---------­
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 62 THURSDAY, DECEMBER6, 2007 
SMC senior holds personal protest 
Brady gathers signatures to support a reversal offederal ban on partial-birth abortions 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
One Saint Mary's senior spent four hours sitting on the library green Wednesday, gathering sig­natures to support a rever­sal of the federal ban on partial-birth abortions as part of a personal protest. 
Erin Brady, a student in Professor Amanda Littauer's women's studies course. spent the afternoon "cold and alone" to show her solidarity for women who feel that their only choice is to have a child due to federal bans on par­tial-birth abortions. 
"There are thousands of women who feel as though 

By DAVID RHORER Jr. NewsWrirer 
The Notre Dame Washington Program offers studcnts real-world opportu­nities in the nation's capital with its internship opportu­nities, said Liz LaFortune, the on-campus coordinator for the Program. 
"[Students] are signing up for more than just classes," she said. "The hallmark of 
STUDENT SENATE 
Resolution passes, but with error 
Incorrect information on dorm workout facilities slips by senators 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate unani­mously passed a resolution Wednesday recommending the University increase the amount of funding allocated to dorms to improve their workout facilities; however. the resolution con­tainnd an inaccuracy that no one in thn Senate caught. 
Senatn Hnsidence Life commit­tee chair Mariana Montes pre­sented the resolution, the prod­uct of research conducted through a survey of the condition of the workout equipment in 
see SENATE/page 4 


the Washington Program is the internship." 
Every student in the pro­gram is required to intern in addition to having a regular course workload, LaFortune said. 
Fifteen Notre Dame stu­dents are currently studying -and interning -in Washington, and 21 are planning to participate next semester. 
Former Washington Program interns said their 
they have no choice either due to financial reasons, or lack of resources," Brady said. "Eighty percent of communities in the United States do not have abortion facilities." 
While the signature gath­ering is part of her "activism in action" assign­ment for Littauer's course, Brady said it is also a "per­sonal protest." 
"Obviously Saint Mary's is Catholic," Brady said. 
She discussed the College's Right to Life Club's prominent events on campus, like its display of white crosses on the library green each fall dur­ing Respect Life Week t 0 
see PROTEST/page 4 
LIZ HARTER!The Observer 

Saint Mary's senior Erin Brady gathers signatures to support women's reproductive rights on the library green Wednesday. 
experiences helped prepare them for their future careers. 
"The major advantage to being in D.C. is getting a jumpstart on your career" said Julie Opet, a senior who studied in Washington and interned for the Hudson Institute last year. 
Senior Mike Laskey said the Program has a "life after college" aspect, which pre­pares students for submitting resumes and conducting interviews, in addition to establishing connections. 

"I came out of the program having a much more precise idea of what I want to do as a career," senior Laura Brockelman said. 
Internship opportunities in Washington are very diverse and flexible, LaFortune said. 
"The field is really wide open," she said. "Students meet with me to determine 
see INTERNS/page 6 

Cancer survivor tackles 515K race 
SMC profraises funds, awareness for research 
By KATLYN SMITH News Writer 
Saint Mary's chemistry pro­fessor Toni Barstis, a triathlete for seven years, did not view her cancer diagnosis as a death sentence. For her, it was moti­vation to keep training. 
Barstis was one of 35 athletes invited to participate in this year's Ultraman World Championships during Thanksgiving weekend in Hawaii. 
She hopes her efforts will encourage other cancer sur­
vivor athletes to continue train­ing and competing. 
"If Lance [Armstrong] isn't a great motivator, I can be a motivator for middle-aged women," Barstis said. "Don't take no for an answer. I hope to show the importance of staying fit and reaching for something unattainable." 
The two-day event, which covered a total distance of 515 kilometers, was on the Big Island of Hawaii. The first day of competition included a 10­kilometer ocean swim, a 145­kilometer bike race through Volcanoes National Park on day one. On day two, participants completed an additional 276­
see TRIATHLON/page 6 

--------~----------~------------------.. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Songwriter Illakes visit to College 
JMoss to perform at Moreau Center tonight 
By KATIE KOHLER Sainr Mary's Editor 
In coordination with the Healthy Communities Initiative of St. Joseph County and the Great American Smokeout, Saint Mary's will host J Moss, a Detroit-based songwriter and record producer tonight at 7 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
J Moss is part of the three-man team PAJAM, which has produced artists such as *N Sync, Michelle Williams of Destiny's Child, Dru Hill and Boyz II Men. He was nominated for seven Stellar Gospel Music Awards this year including Artist of the Year, Male Vocalist of the Year and CD of the year. 
The concert is also spon­
sored  by  the  Office  of  
Multicultural Affairs  at  
Saint  Mary's,  Lexus  of  

Mishawaka and WUBU. Admission is $15. 
The Great American Smokeout, which is typical­ly held on the third Thursday of November, is a nationwide initiative to curb smoking, started in the 1970s. The event calls for a one-day moratorium for 
see WRITER!page 4 


ND students study, intern in D.C. 
15 Notre Dame students getting real-world career experience in nation's capital this fall 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, December 6, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A little bit of 'Gossip' 
It's WPdnesday, 9 p.m. And for all you fnllow "(;ossip Girl" addicts out there, this can only mean one thing -a whole new hour of juicy drama and scandalous happenings to help get you through tlw 
Bethany Whitfield
wnck. Surn, the 
Viewpoint Copy 
show's not 
Editor 
any good. 
The charac­
ters are over-the-top, the plotlines 
aren't original and each episode 
boils down to a bunch of melodra­
matic teenagers exchanging had 
I inns. 
Yet while my dignity and better judgmnnt try to dissuade me, I can't hnlp but lind myself glued to the tel­evision awaiting the latest updates on thn livns of these Uppnr East sidnrs. 
So hnrn I am, curled up in my 
classy sweat pants and dorm apparel 
watchingS strut around in a pair of 
designnr hoots that probably cost 
morn than my n~nt. I know I should 
bn mnploying my time doing some­
thing worthwhile. like finishing off 
that paper that's dun tomorrow or 
watching the spin-off of "Grey's." 
But how can I risk missing Blaire and Sen~na's weekly catlight or Hufus, Lily and Allison "s perilous love triangle'! (Seriously though, Allison nnnds to get out of the way so H u fus and Lily ean get together already.) 
Maybe it's the glitz and glamour of living a high-proliln life in Nnw York City that draws me in. Or perhaps it's tlw promise of cheesy teenage romanr.11 that r.omes with every new npisode. Whatevnr it is, it's got me shanwfully hooked to a TV show with ratings as bad as my sopho­more grade in Orgc>. 
The show probably won't last past one season, or at best, two. Which is good, considering the amount of time I'll save once it's off the air. 
But for now, I'll enjoy the short escape the show provides from South Bend and papers. It's a world where kids have retired rock-star parents and homework never seems to get in the way of weekday parties. 
If you haven't seen the show, don't watch it. Aftnr all the dirt's been dished, the episode's over and it's 10:05 p.m., I lind myself serious­ly regretting the loss of an hour of my life to this teenage soap opera (as well as the fact that I have to wait another week to see what hap­pons nnxt). 

But, ifyou'rn hooked and can't seem to escape your craving for this guilty pleasure, well, you have com­pany. 
Maybe with linals week fast approaching I'll be able to nick this unlwalthy addiction for good and "Gossip Girl" can become just anoth­er bad memory along with tho likes of "Dawson's Cn~ek." Maybe then I can get back to watching the occa­sional, and less embarrassing rerun of "Friends" or "The Daily Show." 
But until that happnns, I'll shamefully flip l1~ channel five every Wednesday for a little homework procrastination and a little gossip. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsertwr. 
Contact Bethany Whitfield at hwhitjie@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itsdfas a professional publication and strives lor the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so wt• can correct our error. 

QuESTION OF lliE DAY: WHAT WOULD IT TAKE FOR YOU TO WORK OUT REGULARLY IN YOUR DORM? 



Natalie Helfrick 
senior offcampus 
"Afull body rubdown from Katie Hauswirth." 
OFFBEAT  
Pa. girl told to 'unusual' pets IHWIN, Pa.  remove A  

Westmoreland County girl must get rid of her pet roos­ter and eight other chickens because a zoning board says they are not pets. 
The North Huntingdon board on Tuesday rejected a request by 14-year-old Meli.'isa llensler for a zoning exception. 
The township in September told the girl to get rid of her pet rooster, Sundae, after a neighbor complained. The township doesn't allow chick­ens or other farm animals in residential areas smaller than 20 acres. 
The girl hoped to at least keep the chickens until they 
TODAY 

_. 
c:( 
(.) 
0 
HIGH 27 HIGH 20 HIGH 33 HIGH 31
..J 
LOW 24 LOW 12 LOW 25 LOW 30 
Atlanta 55 I 39 Boston 36 I 24 Chicago 28 I 25 Denver 42 I 29 Houston 7 4 I 63 Los Angeles 63 I 55 Minneapolis 22 I 11 New York 36 I 25 Philadelphia 38 I 26 Phoenix 75 I 56 Seattle 44 I 33 St. Louis 41 I 33 Tampa 76 I 58 Washington 39 I 25 




Katie Hauswirth Joe Sarna Andrew Piotrowski Meghan O'Connor 
senior sophomore junior junior of! campus Carroll of!campus Pangborn 
':4 post-workout "Hot Chicks." "We'd have to "flap music." coffee stand." have one first, and then I'd go from there. , 
die. The zoning board voted 3-2 against her, even though the township gave her roos­ter a prize for "Most Unusual Pet" two years ago. 
Man sentenced in bizarre diagnosing scam 
MONHOE, La. -A man was sentenced to more than four years in prison for bilk­ing friends and family out of more than $800,000 by con­vincing them that his wife was a government agent who could arrange to have their medical problems diagnosed by satellite imaging. 
Brent Eric Finley, 38, of Rayville, was sentenced in federal court in Monroe to serve 51 months in prison followed by three years of 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 



supervised release. His wife, Stacey Pinley, was sentenced in August to spend 63 months in prison and both are ordered to jointly pay restitution in the amount of $873,786.94. 
U.S. Attorney Donald W. Washington said in a news release following Monday's sentencing of Brent Finley that the couple convinced numerous people that Stacey Finley was a CIA agent and with her contact<; she could schedule a medical scan of the victims' bodies by satel­lite imaging that would detect any hidden medical problems. 
Information compiled by the Assodated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Hosary will be said at at the Grotto at 6:45 p.m. today. The Bosary is said daily. 

Campus Ministry is hosting a celebration of Our Lady of Guadalupe. Prayer serviees held to obtain special graces are being held in St. Edward's Hall Chapel at 9 p.m. each night through Sunday. The celebration is co-sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies, La Alianza and OLA. 
The Take Ten program will sponsor local children at the Hobinson Community Learning Center in a book­mark recognition ceremony at 6 p.m. today. Local school children who participated in the Take Ten program will make bookmarks. The Bobinson Center is located at 921 North Eddy Street. 
The annual football banquet will be hold Friday at 
5:45 p.m. in the Joyce Center Monogram Hoom. The featured speaker will be 1993 graduate Aaron Taylor, a two-year All-American Offensive Tackle and Lombardi Award winner. Tickets can be purchased through the Notre Dame Ticket. Office at 574-631­7356. 
The Glee Club will hold its annual Christmas Concert Saturday at 8:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert. Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The concert will benefit tho Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
To submit information to he included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsn ews@n d. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


Thursday, December 6, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
'The Shirt' Ineets sales goals 
Numbers consistent with previous season despite team's losing record 
By AMBER TRAVIS Sports Writer 
The Shirt sales reported this year by the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore were consis­
tent with "We were very happy build momen-something that we need to those of pre­tum," Gott expect of ourselves to reach
with the sales. We 

vious sea­said. "The the same kind of success,"
had set a goal for 

sons. despite more people he said. the football ourselves of I2o,ooo that you have Gott hopes to see more team's losing shirts, and, obviously, wearing The people wearing The Shirt record. Shirt at the during home games next
we met that goal. ,

Junior first football season, and he wants to see Jason Gott, game, the more people attend the president of Jason Gott more other unveiling of The Shirt at The Shirt people are the Bookstore on the week­
'The Shirt' president

Project 2008, said that s a 1 e s through the week before the Duke game projected a total of more than 120,000 shirts sold. 
"We were very happy with the sales. We had set a goal for ourselves of 120,000 shirts, and, obviously, we nHlt that goal," Gott said. 
He said sales of The Shirt have totaled at least 90,000 in each of the 18 years of the project. 
Keith Kirkpatrick, direc­tor of retail operations, also said the fact that the majority of this year's home games were late in the sea­son did not negatively affect sales. 
(;ott said many factors have contributed to the 
going to want end of the Blue-Gold foot­to buy it." ball game. 
"The Shirt" started to build a repu­tation, Gott said. 
"That's something that really ties people to campus, and a lot of people like the fact that you can only get it on campus." he 

The name "We're always trying to 
"We're always trying to increase The Shirt's appeal and get the students and the alumni more engaged with it.,, 
Jason Gott 'The Shirt' president 
increase The Shirt's appeal and get the students and the alumni more engaged with it," he said. "I think that the bar has been set to the mini­mum of what the Notre Dame commu­nity expects from The Shirt 


Sociologypaperwins second place award 
successful sale of The Shirt. "We definitely had a vision of selling as many shirts as possible in the spring and summer before the football season even started, because that's a good way to 
son, but plans are still in the early stages, Gott said. The team hopes to sell between 120,000 to 130,000 units of next year's The Shirt. 
"Because of the consis­tency in sales over the last few years, I think it's really 

Special to the Observer 
A paper written by Notre Dame sociologist Jackie Smith and post­doctoral fellow Dawn Wiest has received the second-place award in an international competition held by the Zurich-based World Society 
Foundation, a major funder of social sci­ence research on the causes and social impact of global change. The paper, 


e n t i t I e d  Smith  
"Explaining  
Participation  in  Regional  

Transnational Social Movement Organizations," was published this year in the International Journal of Comparative Sociology and exam­ines the trend toward greater regionalism in transnational social moveii}ent organizing. 
Looking at data from 1980 to 2000, Smith and Wiest found that the European Union, the African Union and other regional institu­tions encouraged social movement groups to organize within regions, rather than across geographic divides. The researchers wanted to know whether this meant that global society was becoming more polarized along regional lines or whether it retlected a more com­plex phenomenon of closer ties among local and global processes. 
The study's findings suggest that organizers are responding to regionally defined opportunities rather than becoming polarized along geographic lines. 
"Regional organizations are becoming the 'connective tissue' between local and global political arenas," Smith said. "This will allow for greater participation from people and groups with less access to the sites of global policy­making." 
Smith is on the faculty of Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. She is the author of "Social Movements for Global Democracy" and eo­author of "Global Democracy and the World Social Forums." 
Wiest is assistant professor of sociology at Memphis State University. In 2006-07, she was a post-doctoral fellow at the Kroc Institute and in Notre Dame's soci­ology department. 

said. "It's something that you can take with you." 
The Shirt's project organ­ization team is currently working on the 19th shirt for next year's football sea-Project, and it's going to be the goal, from now on. to raise that bar." 
Contact Amber Travis at atravis@nd.edu 

GURLEY LEEP SU ARU 


2008 SUBARU 

TRIBECA 
5 r'/\SSE!'-lGER 
• 
IIHS Top Safety Pick' 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC) with Traction Control 


• 256-hp 3.6-liter Subaru Boxer engine 

$298PER MONTH LEASE/ 36 MONTHS 
$2,597.00 Down Payment $0 Security Deposit $0 Acquisition Fee $298 First Month's Lease Payment 
$2,895 Total Due at Lease Signing W1odei8TA) 
I:M1PREZA 
2.:;, 
• 
IIHS Highest possible crash lest ratings 

• 
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
l73~hp Suba~u BoAer engine 


• 4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 
$199 PER MONTH LEASE! 36 MONTHS 
$1,501 Down P•ymenl 
$0Security Depo!'iit 
$0Acq~:sition Fee $199 First Mor.fh'slec=:s.e Payment 
$1.700 Total Dve allease Signing 



2003 S ·_; [-~,L\PU 
FORESTER 
SPOR1:; l.5X 


• 
All.Wheel Drive standard 

•173-hp 
Subaru Boxerengine • 4-wheel ABS 


$199 PER MONTH LEASE! 24 MONTHS 
$2,10'1 Down Payment $0 Sec.urtty Deposit 
$0 Acqui::sition Fee 
$199 ~int Month's Lease Payment 
$2,300 Tclal Due at lease Signing 

B 


120 w. McKinlev Ave. MISHAWAKA 
514-256-5421 
GurlevleepSubaru.com 

• 
5-Star highest government crash test rating~ 

•
All-Wheel Drive standard 

• 
6 standard oirbags 


• 4-wheel disc brakes w,fh ABS 
$219 PER MONTH LEASEi 36MONTHS 
$1,766 Down Pa>'ment $0 Security Depos!t $0 Acquisitio:'l Fee 
$219 First Month'~ lease Pay~nt 
$1.985 Total Due at lease Signing 
U. 


W. MCICINLIEY AVE. 
I ~ 
subaru 


·Top Safety P1ck includes the 2008 Tribeca. --Government frontal and side crash tests are part of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) New Car Assessment Program. See safercar.. gov for more detail. Subaru Tribeca and Outback are registered trademarks. Leases based on 10.000 miles per year plus tax. title, license and doc. Rebates to dealer. With qualified credit. Offers expire December 31, 2007. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 6, 2007 

Writer 
continued from page 1 
American smokers. 
.I Moss Live is being advertisnd as "A Smoke­Fren Concert Promoting llnalthy Choicns." 
".1. Moss will really be pushing that message while they'rn here," said Christoplwr S a I I a k , patron serv­iens and 
marknting 
"The budget is 
managpr at the College. always a factor. 
"Thorn will which is why we 
be a booth at 
wouldn't bring in a
the Student 
Center rais­headline rock group 
ing awarn­party because l~{ nnss about 
expenses.
smoking also." S a i n Christopher Sallak Mary's marketing manager 
brings in internal and nxtnrnal events, Sallak said. "This eoncnrt is tiH~hnil:ally nxtnrnal, but has snveral internal ele­ments since it is partnered 
with  an  orfien  at  the  
Collegn," he said.  
Intnrnal  events  ineludo  

plays, seasonal eonenrts,. recitals and choir porform­anees by Saint Mary's stu­dents and faculty. 


Protest 
continued from page 1 
rnpresent the number of abortions in the United States. 
"For three years (during my time herel. tlwre have been the little. baby eross­ns and pro-life protests with no voice from the otlwr sido," she said. 
"For three years 

"It's important they said I to represent !during my time looked so 
the other side here/, there have been cold." 
of this debate." B r a d y
the little, baby 

Brady gath­hogan to ered signatures crosses and pro-life takn down 
for the protests with no voice her protest 
Frnedom of around 5
from the other side." 
Choien Ad p.m. when (FOCAl from student professors and Erin Brady traffic studnnts dur­protester tap1~red off. 
ing her time on the grnen. 
FOCA is an act that "will securn the right to d10ose by estab­1ish ing a federal law that will guarantne reproduc­tive froedom for future gnnerations of American wompn" according to fliers Brady JHtSSI'd out to stu­dnnts. It works to rnverse tlw han o n par ti a I -h i r t h abortions. 
"I've had mixed criti­cism," Brady said of her l!_rotost spot in a high ~_ra!·­IIc area on campus. Its benn a divided audience." 
While no one openly erit-

External events, like the Christopher's Christmas that took place this past week, rent the space, Sallak said and are not sponsored by a group at 
the College.  
"Many  or  this  year's  
evnnts  are  based  on  the  
bnatification  of  Father  

Moreau, especially for tho namesake of our building," Sallak said. "We try to tie 
the events into what is going on at Saint Mary's." 
The events that come through Saint Mary's arn dPJWndnnt on whieh depart­ment is involved. 
"All depart­ments have different budgets. Thern isn't one large sum," Sallak said. "Tho budget really 
comes into play." 
The Office of Special Events utilizes local adver­tising in the South Bend Tribune, The Observer, public radio, online e­newsletters and Facebook .com posts, Sallak said. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ieized her display, she said that she noticed some stu­dent quietly commenting negatively to their friends as they passed. But many students, Brady said, seemed to either disregard her totally or to support her. 
"I've gotten lots of posi­tive feedback," Brady said. "I had some girls bring me hot choco­1 a t c b n c a u s e 
But she 
said she 
may organ­ize something else to sup­port reproductive rights in the future. 
"(Students) have asked why I didn't advertise that I was doing this becausn they would have joined," shn said. "This was a per­sonal protest, but maybe next time it will be more organized and will have mon~ people because this is an issue that affects women directly." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Please recycle 
The Observer. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame's 27 residence halls. 
"Right now, a lot of the workout 
facilities are subpar," Montes said. 
The resolution states that: "The University Web site claims that each dorm contains full workout facilities and the !Residence Life] Committee Heport shows other­wise." 
A search of the Office or Hesidence Life and Housing (OIUJI) Web site by The Observer revealed no such statement, and in an e-mail to The Observer Wednesday night, Montes said it appeared the sitos had been updatnd since she cheeked thmn for the last time in April. 
Montes said in her n-mail that while she was preparing the n~so­lution, she had not looknd at the Web sites again. Slw said she would "takn the f~llllt for not re­n~searching the OBI J I Web site.·· 
"However, the most important thing I would like to reiteratn is that the current dorms that have work out facilities, as listnd on the OHLII W1~b site, do not always have functioning, adequate machines that serve the needs of thnir residents, and that is rnally the main !ileus or this resolution," Montes said. 
No senators questioned the elause of the resolution that elaimed the University Web site had listed incorrect descriptions of the residence halls. Montes said the resolution would have to be correeted before it was sent to the Campus Life Council for approval. 
In the survey Montns' commit­tee conducted, questions about workout facilities were sent to every rector and also to the sena­tors of each residence hall. The survey asked whether the dorm had exercise facilities and, if' so, how many people usn them and how frequently. The survey also asked about the condition of the machines and how the facility ean be improved. 
The survey lacked responses from McGlinn, Sorin, Lyons, Cavanaugh and Lewis halls. Many of the residence halls that have workout facilities said their nquip­ment was old or broken. 
The resolution states that "Holf Sports Recreation Center and Hockne Memorial Workout Facility are full at multiple times during the day," and that "ade­quate workout facilities are essential to the physical and men­tal well-being and other success of students." 
Montes said the resolution is intentionally vague about how much funding should be given to dorm workout facilities, because, sho said, it will allow hnr to work with OBLII to determine the fund­ing. 
"This is just a suggostion for improvemnnt." she said. 
The Senate agenda also listed a n~solution presentnd last wePk by Senate Oversight Committee chair Ian Seeviar again. but Sceviar dedded, and the Snnatn allirnwd with a vote, to table the rnsolu­tion, bncause tlm~e senators worn absent from t.hn meeting. 
"Just because it is of such importance to procedure, it rnally wouldn't behoove us to talk about it again until everyone is here," Seeviar said. 
!lis resolution addresses thn abstain vote, which is a vote sena­tors may make, instead of yay or nay, when the Student Senate considers a resolution. Secviar's amendment states that, except when noted otherwise in the Constitution and its bylaws, "all votes taken in the Senate shall bn taken from those senators casting a vote, provided there is a quo­rum, and not necessarily !rom the entire voting membership of the Senate or the voting membership presont at a 1-,riven meeting." 
The way voting takes place in the Senate currently, Sncviar said last week, a vote to abstain nega­tively allects the outcornn of the voting. Last Wednesday, the amendment failed to rnnet the two-thirds majority requin~d li>r it to pass, with 16 senators voting for it, seven against and two abstaining. 
Beeause Wndnesday's was thn last Snnate mneting of the semes­ter, eommittee chairs brinli~d the senators on their plans for thn remainder of their terms in th1~ spring semnster. 
The Multicultural All"airs com­mittee, led by dmir Ninny Wan, is planning a day of service in honor of Martin Luther King, .Jr. Day in January. The day will end with a reception in the llesburgh Auditorium of thn llesburgh Library, with a speech by University Prnsident Emeritus Fathnr Theodorn llcsburgh. 
Tho Ow~rsight Committe!' will be working on a comparison of student governnwnts at JWer institutions during the spring snnwstPr, S1~eviar said. 
Montes is brainstorming ideas for sttHI!mt gov1~rnnwnt's Aleohol Awareness Week nnxt spring. Social Concerns chair Karen Koski said shn is looking fi>r idnas about. how to her committee can address issuns aHeeting gay, les­bian, bisexual, transsexual and questioning studnnLc;. 
Acadomic AITairs chair Carol Hendrickson said her committee is anticipating the opening of study spacns in eurrnnt rnsidence halls once more dorms are built and stud1~nts are sprnad out. 
"We are working on a way to get fnndback on what pnopln want when the study spaces are reopened," she said. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Junior Gary Nijak gave a presentation about tho Social Action Network (SAND), a projnet facilitated through the Center for Social Concerns. SAND will post events being run by campus groups on one main calendar. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at krie1y@nd.edu 






Lunch ana Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, December 13 12:00-1:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council for Gay and Lesb1an Students inv1tes gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family. their friends, and supporters to an informal hmr.h at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and tonfidentiahty rs assured. 
Lunch wili be served 
CORE COUNCil 
FOR GAY i LESBIAN 
STUDENTS 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, December 6, 2007 Coiv1PILED FR01\1 T!·-JE Ons.ERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran claims victory in nuclear fight 
TEIIHAN -Prnsident Mahmoud Ahmadinejad on Wednesday called the dramatic U.S. turn­around in a new intelligence review a victory for Iran's nuclear program, suggesting it shows the success of his hard-line stance rejecting compro­misn. 
But his morn moderatn opponents at home are hoping tho assossment's conclusion that Tehran shnlvnd it<> o!lilrt to develop atomic weapons will boost a diplomatic resolution of the nuclear stand­ofT' with tho Wost. 
Tho political rivalry in Tehran could have impor­t.ant implications lilr what happens next in the dis­putn owr Iran's nuclear program, now that the rnport has likely weakened two of the threats Washin1-,rton lwld over Iran-morn U.N. sanctions and tho possibility of military action. 
In past months. Ahmadinejad has llu:ed a rising !'.halhmge from a more modPrate camp cnntPrnd around his top rival. formf)r pmsidnnt llashemi Balsanjani. 
Court opens investigations of Sudan 
UNITU> NATIONS -Tlw prosecutor of the lntnrnational Criminal Court announced Wnd rwsday hn was opening an invostigation . against SudanPsn govnrnmnnt o!fidals liw what he r.allnd systmnatic attacks on rnfugon camps in I>arrur. 
Luis Morl'no Ocampo said his ollicn would also inwstigatn violm1cP against humanitarian workers and pmu:nkPnpnrs in Darfur, including an Oct. 29 attack on tlw Ilaskanita military basn that left 10 Arrican Union soldinrs dead and 1 missing. Hnbnls wnn• blarnnd ICll' that attack. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

9 dead in department store massacre 
OMAIIA -A man opened fire with a rille at a busy department store Wodnesday, killing night people before taking his own life in an attack that made holiday shoppers run screaming through a mall and barri­cade themsnlvos in dressing rooms. Five more people wern wounded, two critically. 
The gunman lnft a suicide note that was found at his horne by his mother, said a law enforcement official who spoke on condition or anonymity because he was not author­ized to speak. TV station KETV reported that the note said he wanted to "go out in style." 
The official identified the gunman as Hobert A. Hawkins, age 20. 
Witnesses said the gunman fired down on shoppers from a third-floor balcony of the Von Maur store. One witness told a TV sta­tion that he shot up a teddy bear as he sprayed lire on shoppers. 

Teen birth rate sees slight increase 
ATLANTA -In a troubling reversal, the nation's teen birth rate rose for the first time in 15 ynars, surprising government health officials and reviving the bitter dnbate about abstinence-only sex education. 
The birth rate had been dropping since its peak in 1991, although the decline had slowod in recent years. On Wednesday, gov­ernment statisticians said it rose 3 percent from 2005 to 2006. 
The reason for the increase is not clear, and fnderal health officials said it might be a onn-year statistical blip, not the beginning of a new upward trend. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Schools may install wind turbines 
MISHAWAKA -School officials are work­ing with a Michigan company to assess the feasibility or erecting wind turbines to help generatn eleetricity for the city's schools. 
Michigan-based Alternate Energy Solutions Inc. has been gathering a year's worth of wind data from a tower erected on School City of Mishawaka's property, said Handy Squadroni, the district's business manager. 
The district -which spent $10,000 on the tower and eonsulting fees -could erect up to five turbines in one location, preferably on the outskirts of Mishawaka, he said. 
"We wouldn't do it unless it paid for itself without raising taxes," Squadroni said. 

IRAQ 
Gatessayscounhy's securityachievable 
Commanders in north callfor more troops as insurgentsflee increasingly secured Baghdad 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD-U.S. military commanders in northern Iraq told Defense Secretary Robert Gates here Wednesday that they need more troops to battle increased attacks by al-Qaida terrorists who have fled north after being pushed out ofthe Baghdad region. 
The call for tho movement of Iraqi and U.S. forces into the north comes as Gates hailed the improved security in Baghdad and said a stable Iraq is within reach. .Just before Gates spoke in the heavily fortified Green Zone, however, a car bomb explod­ed across the Tigris Hiver in a largely Shiite Baghdad neighborhood, killing at least 14 people, policP said. 
Up in Mosul, Army Col. Tony Thomas, deputy com­mander of U.S. l'orces in the north, told reporters travel­ing with Gates that com­manders would like more 
U.S. troops, as well as the return of 1,400 Iraqi troops who were sent to Baghdad as part of the military buildup there earlier this year. The plan could shift extra troops from other areas of the coun­try that are more secure. 
Thomas would not say how many troops are needed or where they would be deployed, but he said the 
U.S. needs more combat Qaida north, there was a "After discussion with the No," he said. "Frankly, our power to help stabilize a "resulting increase in terror­secretary and with my col­casualty count is going to number of areas -including ist activities in Mosul and leagues on the Joint Staff, continue to be lower and that Diyala province, Mosul and surrounding areas as al­there is a determination that is a good day," Conway said. Samara -to help counter an Qaida tried to establish a right now the timing is not He added that Gates fully uptick in violence, including new foothold." right to provide additional understood why Conway suicide bombings. l-Ie said Gates, who is using his lat­Marine forces to made the proposal. military leaders are still dis­est unannounced trip to Iraq Afghanistan," said Gen. Gates, making his sixth cussing the issue, and have to assess whether the down­James T. Conway, the Marine visit to Iraq in the last year, made no final decisions. turn in violence in parts of Corps commandant. acknowledged the precarious 
Gates, who met with com­the country can be sustained, Conway said he discussed nature of any security gains manders in Mosul before also said he believes a stable the matter with Gates last in the country. And he said heading to Baghdad for talks Iraq is within reach. week. Gates visited much work remains to be with Iraqi leaders, acknowl­"In many parts of the Afghanistan on Tuesday and done to ensure Iraqi forces edged the new challenges in nation, the positive develop­was in Iraq on Wednesday, are ready to take over more the north. ments have led to a growing although he did not go to military duties from U.S. 
"What I heard them say sense of normalcy and Iraq's Anbar province, where troops. Iraqis who have been was that they ... did need hope," said Gates. Marines operate. fighting insurgents on the some additional forces ... At the Pentagon, mean­In addressing the matter local level must be integrated particularly west of the while, the top Marine gener­publicly for the first time, into Iraqi security forces, for river," said Gates, who al told reporters Wednesday Conway said he was not dis­example, he said. appeared at a press briefing that he has set aside his pro­appointed by Gates' decision, "I believe that a secure, with Iraqi Defense Minister posal to shift Marine forces given that the Marines have stable Iraq is within reach," Abdul-Qader al-Obeidi. He from Iraq to Afghanistan, had considerable success in Gates said. However, he said that as military opera­reflecting opposition from stabilizing that province. added, "We need to be tions in Baghdad pushed a!-Gates. "Personally discouraged? patient." 

Global vvarming bill approved by cormnittee 
limiting greenhouse gas emissions portation.
Associated Press could become a hardship because of It would create a "cap-and-trade" higher energy costs. system whereby companies would WASIIINGTON -Democrats turned But Sen. John Warner of Virginia, a have pollution allowances that they back repeated efforts by Hepublican Republican co-sponsor who gave the could sell if they went below the emis­senators to soften the economic bill legitimacy among many moderate sion limits, or buy if they found they impact of a global warming bill before GOP senators, called it "a chance to could not meet the requirements. advancing it out of a Senate commit­give America our opportunity ... to be The trading is aimed at reducing tee on Wednesday. counted on this very very important the economic impact of putting limits It was the first bill calling for issue." on carbon dioxide from burning fossil mandatory U.S. limits on so-called "We now move to the Senate floor," fuels, the leading greenhouse gas. greenhouse gases to be taken up in said Sen. Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., Sen. Barbara Boxer, D-Calif., the Congress since global warming who along with Warner had intro­committee's chairwoman, called the emerged as an environmental issue duced the legislation. legislation "historic." more than two decades ago. The bill The bill calls for the United States But the bill's prospects are anything was approved 11-8 by the Senate to cut carbon dioxide and other but certain. It is not expected to come Environment and Public Works greenhouse gas emissions by 70 per­up for action until next year, and Committee. cent by 2050 from electric power many Hepublicans have vowed to GOP critics of the bill argued that plants, manufacturing and trans-seek significant changes. 
Thursday, December 6, 2007 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 


Interns 
continued from page I 
sonw plaet\S we've had really good expPrinnens with and sometimes studnnts proposn nnw plaens to mn." 
Washington studnnts arn givnn a list of' about 170 pos­sible internship plaeemnnts, hut they can also come up with tlwir own ideas. The stu­dents ultimately apply to night potential employers. 
I'as t stud tHl t s in the pro­gram havn interned with tlw Citiznns f'or Global Solutions, thn U.S. Conference of' Catholic: Bishops, "Mnct the Press" with Tim Hussert, the 
U.S. l>npartmnnt of .Justien, thn Australian Embassy, the Wildernnss Socinty and Snnators llillary Clinton, Barack Obama and John Kerry, LaFortune said. 
Tlw program, which began 10 ymtrs ago, aecepts sopho­mort\S and juniors from any 

major and college. Houghly half of the students partici­pating in the program pursue f'ields associated with politi­cal science. Other popular majors are American Studies and Sociology. 
Each student takes a core eourse on public policy and chooses from electives rang­ing from the philosophy of law to the arts in America, LaFortune said. 
Students live together in the same neighborhood and study together under Notre Dame professors, she said. 
Despite students' diverse interests, both moderators and former students in the Program agree that a feeling of community is formed in Washington. 
"We all become a family," Opet said. 
The application deadline for participating in 2008-09 is January 23, 2008. 
Contact Davis Rhorer Jr. at drhorer@nd.edu 

Triathlon 
continued from page 1 
kilometer bike race plus two marathons. 
Although unable to finish the race due to asthma, Barstis was not discouraged. 
She was the Ultraman Canada women's champion in September, finishing three minutes shy of the record. 
A survivor of gynecologic cancer, Barstis entered the triathlon just six weeks after finishing chemotherapy. 
The Northern Indiana Cancer Hesearch Consortium sponsored Barstis in the triathlon. She hopes to raise money and pr·omote aware­ness nationwide for forms of gynecologic cancer. 
"I want to help other women with the idea that you can live and survive after treatment,'' Barstis said. 
Training for the supreme challenge involved "every wak­ing hour," she said. "Ultraman is my part-time job." 
The Ultraman is more of a collegial event, where partici­pants encourage thnir com­petitors to finish, Barstis said. 
The Hawaii and Canada competitions each had a dill'er­ent level of difficulty. The Canadian course required climbing the Canadian Hockies. In Hawaii, Barstis had to contend with ocean cur­rents, humidity and voleanoes. 
The toll the race takes is morn mental than physical, she said. 
"Although your body wants to give up and you nxperience highs and lows, you must visu­ally believe you will finish," Barstis said. 
Each triathlete has a crew come along for motivation and focus. Throughout the event, the crews support other par­ticipants and form a close community. The participants celebrate each other's vietories and grieve for each other's failures. 
"It's a magical experience, they are my family,'' slw said. "Uitraman is the soul of triathlon." 
Barstis aims to finish Jlawaii, complete a 100-mile run and do some long distance biking in tho future. 
Barstis said her family has grown closer celebrating her achievnments. And tlw corn­petitions, she said, have given her a focus outside of cancer. 
The two Ultraman events, in Hawaii and Canada, have participants from Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Japan, Germany and thn Unitnd States. Founded in 198:{, the Ultraman World Championships in Hawaii are held annually on Thanksgiving weekend. 
Toni Barstis is dnpartment chemistry chair at Saint Mary's. She also performs cancor research. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO I @saintmarys.edu 

Gypsy clans struggle for dotninance in Southern California 
Court dispute over fortunetelling trade in Orange County provides rare glimpse into insular community 
Associated Press 

NI·:Wl'OBT BEACH. Calif.-A disputP hPtwPPn two Gypsy l'lans ovPr control of tlw l'or­turwtelling trade in this SouthPrn California rity has s pi lied in to rou rt, offering a rarn glimpsn of' an insular cui­turn that has long settled scores 1u:cording to its own Old World rules of' honor. 
The turf' war in well-to-do Orange County has unfolded like a gangster movie, with alle­
gations or death threats. a gravn­sidn scullle, and nicknamns like "Whitn Bob" and "Black Bob" ­details revealed in a police report and requests for restraining orders. 
"Tiw older Gypsies are pulling out their hair, not wanting the courts in our 
business because thny'lllind out too much about us," said Tom Merino, who is distantly related to onn of the clans but has spurned his heritagn. "Ignorance is the Gypsies' weapon against tho outside world." 
The StiWfms and Merino dans. like other Gypsy families, have run numerous for­tunntelling businesses in Soutlwrn California for decades. 
The troublt~ startnd two years 

ago when Edward Merino and his wife, Sonia. openrHI l'or­tunetelling parlors in two trendy resort sections of Newport Bearh, not far from where tlw Stevenses did busi­nnss. 
Mmnbnrs of tlw Stevens clan promptly broke in, stole a credit card machinn and threatened to kill tiHl MPrinos if' they didn't shut the places down, the Merinos claim in eourt papers. Sinee then, the bad blood has only gotten worse. 
"The older Gypsies are pulling out their hair, not wanting the courts in our business because they'llfind out too much about us." 
Tom Merino Gypsy relative 
University 
The Stevenses "an1 very territo­rial," Merino attorney Tom Quinn said. "This is crazy stuff." 
At the root of the conflict lies a delicate system of intermarriage and social cus­toms that has defused tensions among Gypsy dans for genera­tions, said Anne Sutherland, a of California, 

Hiverside anthropologist who has studied Gypsies. 
Gypsies trace their origins to India more than 1,000 years ago. They migrated to Europe in the 1300s. For centuries, Gypsies were enslaved and per­seeuted in Europe, where they were scorned as nomadie thieves and eon artists skilled primarily at palm reading. 
Gypsies -also known as Homany -began arriving in 
thn U.S. from Homania toward tho end of the 19th century. ExpPrts beliew there are now about 1 million in Ameriea, one­firth of t1Hll11 in California, where they dominate the for­tunntelling and psychic shops in funky beaeh communities and othnr neighborhoods. 
The Stevens and Merino dans adopted an Old World custom of uniting families through mar­riage to cope with intense com­petition, much as European nobility once did to avert war. A court after the allnged brnak-in and obtained a restraining order in 2006 requiring c;oorge Stnvens to stay a saf'11 distance away. 
That the dispute wound up in eourt rnfleets an nrosion of' tra­dition among tlw Gypsies, said Ian llancnck, an nxpnrt on Gypsy language and culture at the University of Texas. 
"It used to be that the Homany world was absoluttdy insulatnd from the outside world,''. said Jlancock, a Gypsy himself. "But 
Merino married the Stevens patriarch, George Stevens. 
But the family bond did not prevent tensions from flaring when, the Merinos say, the Stevenses demanded they pay $500,000 up front and $5,000 a week to open their for­
"/t used to be that the Romany world was absolutely insulated from the outside world. " 
lan Hancock Gypsy expert University of Texas 
it's very hard to resist the pres­sures of MTV, and people are beginning to see alternatives." 
He cited cases in which Gypsy women in Houston hired lawyers to get their ex-hus­bands to pay child support ­something previ­ously unheard of. 

tunetelling businesses in the Stevenses' back yard. The Merinos refused to pay, and went ahead and opened their parlors. The alleged break-in soon followed. 
Gypsies have traditionally resolved disputes in front of a secret council of' elders that can impose fines, make territorial decisions or order someone shunned. They don't like to involve non-Gypsies, who are considered impure. 
The Merinos, though, went to 
Things were calm for months until the Stevens patriarch died of a heart attack at age 53 last May. Edward "Davie" Merino showed up at the funeral, pulling up at the cemetery in a limo with what was described as a menacingly burly chauf­feur. 
Merino says members of the Stevens clan attacknd him and screamed, "We will make your · life a living hell!" But the Stevenses claim that Merino flashed a gun and threatened to "come back and kill all of you." Both sides agree that btd'orn spneding ofT, Merino shoutml that lw wanted to make sure "tho motlwr-(oxplntivPl was d<1ad." 
Morino declined repnatPd requests for an intt•rview through his attorney and calls to his honw wore not rdurrwd. 
Af'tnr tlw scrap, somnont' lnl't ominous phone nwssag11s and thrnatened to kill Sonia Merino and the eouple's c.hildren, ages 9 and 11, Edward M11rino claimed in eourt papers. 
Edward Merino filed for restraining orders against four Stevens men and two Stevens women. Over the sumnHlr,. a judge granted such an order against just one person, the new Stevens patriarch, Ted Stevens. 
Stevens' nephew, the only Gypsy direetly involved in the feud who spoke to The Associated Press, said the Merinos concocted the allega­tions and are using the courts to try to drive their rivals out of Newport Beach. 
"They beat themselves up and then they testify that we hired people to come to their house and beat them up," said Steve Stevnns, who goes by the nick­name "White Bob" to distin­guish him from his swarthier cousin, "Black Bob." 
Stevens, who owns two for­tunetelling parlors and a deli, added: "I feel like they've made me out like a character on 'The Sopranos.' I'm a businessman. I'm a family man. That's all I am." 


THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Thursday, December 6, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks  
Dow .Jones  13,444.96  +196.23  
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
1,188  79  2,187  3,347,334,211  
AMEX  2,355.65  +18.64  

NASDAQ 2,666.36 +46.53 NYSE 9,887.60 +139.22 S&P 500 I ,485.01 +22.22 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,840.43 +231.55 FTSE 100 'London~ 6,493.80 -178.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +1.67 +2.45 148.81 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.78 +0.90 51.57 COMCAST CPA (CMCSA) -12.30 -2.55 18.18 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.49 +0.45 30.63 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.57 +0.022 3.911 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.000 2.980 30-YEAR BOND +1.04 +0.045 4.391 5-YEAR NOTE -0.03 -0.001 3.276 
· Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.83 87.49 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.90 803.70 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.63 90.18 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 111.1150 EURO 0.6841 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0114 BRillSH POUND 0.4929 
IN BRIEF 
OPEC keeps production levels steady 
ABU I>IIABI -OPEC hedged its bets Wednesday, opting to keep production steady but setting a new meeting fi>r Feb. I to raise output if pricns skyrocknt. 
Benchmark crude prices rose on word of the derision. but the prospm:t of a review early next year -and its potnntial to raisn production ceil­ings ifwarrantnd-checked the upward trend. 
After spiking by about $2 on news that prosent levels would be maintained. light sweet crude for January delivery revers11d coursP and was down 55 cenl<> at $87.77 in af'ternoon trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
Priec hwnls were more than 10 percent on· the record of almost $100 a barrel set last month, suggesting the ehoice by the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries would not roil market<> -at least in the short term. 
A final communique from OPEC's oil ministers' meeting in Abu Dhabi said the group would leave output unehangnd "for the tin1e being," because the world was "well supplied" and crude reserves wern at comfi>rtable levels. 
Bristol-Myers to lay off 4,300 by 20 I 0 
NEW YOHK -Pharmaceutieals maker Bristol­Myers Squibb Co. on Wednesday said it would lay ofT about 4,300 mnployees and close more than half of il<> manufacturing plant<>, part of a broad restruc:turing aimed at cost savings of $1.5 billion by 2010. 
The company, whose best-selling product is the anticoagulant Plavix, also lowernd il<> 2007 narn­ings guidance said it would spin oil' its medical imaging business. Bristol-Myers is also reviewing options for ConvaTec, a wound earn produeL<> sup­plier. and il<> Evansvilln. Ind.-b<L'>Pd Mead Johnson Nutritionals business. 
"It is diflkult to sen our valued eolleagues leave tlw company, hut right-sizing our workf'orce across all an~as is rritical to achieving our produc­tivity goals and nnhanr.ing the rompntitive position of' tlw c:ompany." ChinI' I·:xecutiw Jamns Corrwlius said in a slatPnwnt. 
Tlw job cuts rPpresnnt 10 pnrrPnl of the stall' and will largPly lw madP in 200R and 2009. thP comJ.>any said. Tlw mmpany also said it will dose morP than !10 JH'I'rPnt of' its manufarturing farilities by tlw Pnd of 2010. 
Subprime rates frozen for 5 years 
Program available for owner-occupied homes bought from 2005 through this July 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -The Bush administration has hammered out an agree­ment to freeze interest rates for certain subprime mort­gages for five years to com­bat a soaring tide of foreclo­sures, congressional aides said Wednesday. 
The aides, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the details have not yet been relnased, said the five-year moratorium repre­sented a compromise between desires by banking regulators for a longer time frame of up to seven years and mortgage industry arguments that the freeze should last only one or two years. 
Another person familiar with the matter said the rate-freeze plan would apply to borrowers with loans made at the start of 2005 through July 30 of this year with rates that arc scheduled to rise between .Jan. 1, 2008, and July 31, 2010. 
The administration said President Bush will speak on the agreement at the White House on Thursday and the Treasury Department announced that Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Housing and Urban Development other banking regulators a higher adjusted rate. ened by the mortgage resets Secretary Alphonso Jackson and banks, mortgage Through October, there represented such a severe would hold a joint news con­investors and consumer were about 1.8 million fore­threat that a more sweeping ference Thursday afternoon groups trying to address an closure filings nationwide, approach was needed. They with mortgage industry om­avalanche of foreclosures compared with about 1.3 opted for a proposal that dais. feared as an estimated 2 million in all of 2006, was along the lines of a plan 
Treasury also announcPd million subprime mortgages according to Irvine, Calif.~ put forward in October by there would be a technical reset from lower introducto­based RealtyTrac Inc. With Sheila Bair, head of the briefing to explain more of ry rates to higher rates. home loan defaults still ris­Federal Deposit Insurance the proposal's details. In many cases, the higher ing, the trend is expected to Corp. 
Paulson, who has been rates will boost monthly worsen next year. Paulson and other federal leading the effort to craft a paymentc; by as much as 30 The plan represents an regulators began holding plan, said on Monday that percent. making it very diffi­about-face for Paulson. who talks with some of the coun­the pro!,rram would only be cult for many people to keep until recently had insisted try's biggest mortgage available for owner-occu­current with their loans. the mortgage crisis could be lenders, mortgage service pied homes -to ensure the The plan is aimed at handled on a case-by-case companies, investors who break is not given to real homeowners who are mak­basis. However, he and hold mortgage-backed secu­estate speculators. ing payments on time at other administration offi­rities and nonprofit groups 
The plan emerged from lower introductory mort­cials became convinced the that provide counseling for talks between Paulson and gage rates but cannot afford tide of foreclosures threat-at-risk homeowners. 

Wall Street rallies as 189,000jobs created 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Wall Street resumed its rally Wednesday after new data showed the overall economy is hold­ing up but isn't too strong to prevent the Federal Reserve from cutting interest rates. The Dow Jones indus­trial average rose nearly 200 points. 
Stocks turned around following two sessions of losses after a report showed hiring in the U.S. private sec­tor expanded at a faster pace in November. ADP Employer Services said 18<),000 jobs were added during the month -an inerease that bodes WPII for consumer spending. 
The report raised hopes !'or a strong November jobs rPport from the Labor Department on Friday. Investors were also encouraged WNinPsday after the dPpartment reported worker productivity advancPd by an annual rat.e of 6.3 pPrcent in tlw summer, the fastest pace in four years, while wage pres­sures eased. 
"The best news for the market is good news on the economy," said Jack Ahlin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank. "There might be a general malaise among homeown­ers these days, but as long as more people are getting paychecks then the economy can withstand the stress." 
Still, there is enough uncertainty in the economy to bolster the argument for lower rates. The financial sector is still struggling from months of credit problems, and the Institute for Supply Management reported Wednesday that service sPctor growth slowed in NovPmber. 
Some investors are betting the Fed will go beyond the genPrally antiei­patPd quartnr percentag1~ point cut. and lower rates by a half point. A mere quartm·-point <:ut eould bring snnw disappointnwnt to Wall StrePl. but as long as the Fed reiterates an openness to lower rates further in its accompanying economic assessment, the market should move higher, said Ryan Detrick, senior technical strate­gist at Schaeffer's Investment Research. 
"We could see a nice December here," Detrick said. 
The Dow rose 196.23, or 1.48 per­cent, to 13,444.96, resuming the big recovery it launched last week fol­lowing a mostly dismal November. 
The blue chip index got an extra boost from component Ameriean International Group Inc., which said that although it's expecting a hefty portfolio writedown in the fourth quarter. the ongoing mortgage crisis is managnable. AIG rose $2. 70, or 4.<J percent. tp $58.15. 
Broader indexes also moved higher. The Standard & Poor's 500 inc!Px addPd 22.22. or 1.52 pPrel~nt. to 1,485.01. while the Nasdaq compos­ite indPx rosP 46.53. or 1.78 pprc·ent. to 2,666.36. 

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 6, 2007 

C-M 
Campus Ministry 

BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
SOLEMNITY OF THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION OF THE BLE§§ED VIRGIN MARY 
Holy Day ofObligation 
THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION OF THE BLESSED VIRGIN MARY. the Patroness ofthe United States ofAmerica, is espe-­cialzr honored each year on December 8, a Holy Day ofObligation in the Catholic Church. The University (~/'Notre Dame will celebrate this specialfeast ofthe Church at the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart with a Solemn Mass ofAnticipation on Friday, De­cember 7, at 5:15pm. Music will be provided by the Women sLiturgical Choir. Various residence halls will a/so celebrate Mass 
jiJr the Immaculate Conception Holy Day, according to the following schedule, and all are welcome: 
FRIDAY9 DECEMBER 7 
4:00pm Zahm Hall Chapel 4:30pm Morrissey Manor Chapel Knott Hall Chapel 
5:00pm Alumni Hall Chapel Badin Hall Chapel Keenan Hall I Stanford Hall Chapel McGlinn Hall Chapel Pasquerilla West Hall Chapel Siegfried Hall Chapel 


5:15pm* Basilica of the Sacred Heart of Jesus 
University Mass with the Holy Cross Communi~v 
5:15pm Sarin Hall Chapel 8:00pm Lyons Hall Chapel 
SATURDAY9 DECEMBERS 
6:45am Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 9:00am Alumni Hall Chapel SponsoredbyChildrenofMary 
10:00 am Coleman-Morse Center Chapel 
11:00 am Carroll Hall Chapel Fischer-O'Hara-Grace Chapel Keough Hall Chapel Sponsored by Keough & Welsh Family Halls 
11:30 am Fisher Hall Chapel Lewis Hall Chapel Sponsored by BP, Cavanaugh, Farley, &Lewis Halls 
12:00 pm Pangborn Hall Chapel 1:30pm Dillon Hall Chapel 
*Due to ajitll schedule ofweddings at the Basilica on Saturday, December 8, this will he the unlv Basilica Mass to observe this /lo~v Day. The Basilica .S· Saturday 5:00pm Vigil Mass lvill be an anticipated Mass for Sunday (per the normal Basilica sched­ule) and not a Mass in observance of'the Ho(v Day of' the Immaculate Conception. 
Thursday, December 6, 2007 The Obser~er + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
THAILAND 
Nation unites to celebrate lllonarch's 80th birthday 
U.S.-bom king, recently hospitalized with stroke symptoms, honored withfestivities, prayer services before tens ofthousands 
demonstrations demanding his scores of governments, demo­
Associated Press 
resignation over alleged corrup­cratic and dictatorial. 
BANGKOK -Thais celebrated tion and abuse of power. The mil­Bhumibol was born Dec. 5, tlwir rnvernd king's ROth birthday itary-installed regime that suc­1927, in Cambridge, Mass., Wednesday, honoring the world's ceeded him has failed to restore where his father, Prince Mahidol, longest-reigning monarch with public confidence. was studying medicine at festivities and prayers amid con­The unity of the nation has Harvard University. At age 19, he cnrns about his declining health become Bhumibol's recurring became the ninth king of and potentially divisive elections. theme in recent speeches. Thailand's Chakri dynasty on 
Tens of' thousands of people, "I am glad that everyone has June 9, 1946. after his older many wearing yellow -the color come together in unison to give brother Ananda died from a mys­that symbolizes devotion to the me birthday wishes," he told a terious gunshot to the head. monarch -packed the streets crowd of well-wishers, seated on Bhumibol has never publicly around the Grand Palacn where a golden throne and dressed in a commented on his successor, an King Bhumibol Adulyadej made a gold brocade robe. issue that weighs heavily on Thai rare public appearance from the In his annual televised birthday minds even if it is rarely dis­balcony of his ceremonial Throne speech Tuesday night, Bhumibol cussed in public. llall. It was only likened the com1-His son, Crown Prince thn sixth such try's situation to Vajiralongkorn, has been
"J am glad that 
appearancn in difficulties he has groomed to succeed him. But the his 61-year everyone has come walking after his 55-year-old prince lacks the rnign. together in unison to recent illness. He stature and popularity of his Bhumibol's now moves about father. There is great concern
give me birthday
birthday has with a walker. that Vajiralongkorn, who has increasingly wishes." "(We) must be married three times, fathered six beeome a day of united, like our children and for years had the nationwide trib­legs must be unit­reputation of a playboy, will have 
Bhumibol Adulyadej
ute to the U.S.­ed which difficulty living up to Bhumibol's
King of Thailand
born king, who is means one goes record of hard work and dili­regarded the forward and one gence. most inlluential figun~ in modern pushes back before moving for­In his six decades on the Thai history and the key to its ward," he said. "This way, we throne, Bhumibol has taken an stability. could walk without falling. active role in rural development 
This year's celebration was Without unity, the country will and is respected for his dedica­clouded by nationwide anxiety face disaster." tion to helping the poor. over Bhumibol's health after he Thais see the king as a national The deep reverence for the was hospitalized recently for unifier, and his profile has been king was evident in the outpour­symptoms of a stroke, concerns high during the past two years of ing of public devotion about his eventual successor, and government upheaval. Wednesday. Thousands jammed uncertainty over elections on Although he is a constitutional the streets and sidewalks of !lee. 23. monarch with no formal political Bangkok dressed in yellow and 
The balloting will be the first role, he is regarded as the force waving yellow flags as Bhumibol since a Snptember 2006 military that holds the country together. and his family drove from coup toppled the elected govern­Bhumibol has stilled bloody Chitralada Palace, the royal resi­ment of' former Prime Minister uprisings, weathered military dence, to the ceremonial Grand Thaksin Shinawatra. following coups and has reigned through Palace. 
ISRAEL 


U.S. assessn1ent of Iran causes tension 
Israelis claim Tehran is still attempting to develop nuclear weapons 
based Institute for Science and irritation.
Associated Press 
International Security. "They Defense Minister Ehud Barak 
JEHUSALEM -A U.S. intelli­may force a military confronta­said that despite Washington's g~•rH~e assessment that Iran has tion." assessment, his own intelligence stopped developing atomic A summary made public analysis indicates Iran is still weapons is putting a burden on Monday of the U.S. National trying to develop a nuclear the Jewish state, which has long Intelligence Estimate on Iran weapon. relied on Washington to lead the concluded the Iranians suspend­"We cannot allow ourselves to in tPrrHttional charge against ed their attempt to build a rest just because of an intelli­Iran's nuclear ambitions. nuclear weapon four years ago, gence report from the other side 
With the U.S. now less likely to leading to increased calls within of the Earth, even if it is from take military the U.S. for a our greatest friend," Barak said. action, an less confronta­Meeting with former Secretary increasingly t i o n a I of State Madeleine Albright on nervous "This forces the Israelis to approach to Wednesday, Israeli President Israel might Tehran. Shimon Peres said many intelli­
make a decision instead
feel com-"This forces gence assessments around the pelled to of being able to take some the Israelis to world have later turned out to strike out on comfort that the U.S. make a deci­have been inaccurate, a state­its own if it sion instead of ment from his office said. 
would take action 
pnrceivns a being able to lie did not refer specifically to dangnrous at some point." take some the flawed 2002 U.S. intelli­threat. comfort that gence estimate of Iraq's Isranli offi­the U.S. would weapons of mass destruction
Wayne White 

cials say take action at program.
former deputy director 
their intelli­some point," Iran's military said last month 
Middle East Intelligence Office 
gence forces said Wayne it had produced a new missile believe Iran White, former with a range of 1,200 miles is still work-deputy director capable of reaching Israel and ing aggressively to build nuclear of the State Department's U.S. bases across the Mideast. arms. The Jslamie regime in Middle East Intelligence Office. Peres, who as Defense Tehran is strongly opposed to "With Israel, you can be sure Ministry director general in the Israel's existence and frequently they will be unwilling to tolerate 1960s spearheaded the develop­boasts of its ability to strike the as much risk as the U.S .... ment of Israel's own nuclear Jewish state with long-range because they can get hit," he program, told Albright that missilns. said. Iran's heavy investment in mis­
"The situation can become Israel sees Iran as its greatest siles could only be intended to tense if they (the lsraAJis) decid­threat and maintains that coun­deliver a nuclear payload. ed their red line has been try is aggressively pursuing a "There is absolutely no justifi­crossed," said David Albright, a nuclear weapons program. It cation for developing such mis­former U.N. nuclear inspector responded to the report with a siles and equipping them with a who now heads the Washington-mixture of skepticism and veiled conventional warhead," he said. 

People traveled to Bangkok from cities around Thailand, hop­ing to catch a glimpse of the beloved monarch. 
"I love the king. He has done so much for the country," said Todsapon Katiya, a civil servant who had waited since 4:30 a.m. "He tends to the poor, the sick, the crippled, the blind. No man has done as much in a lifetime. I want him to stay with us forever." 
Many in the crowd stayed all day, as the royal family traveled twice between the two palaces. A religious ceremony with 81 Buddhist monks was held at the Grand Palace. 
INDONESIA 
"You know they call Thailand the golden land, the land of pros­perity, where people live happily without trouble," said Umapon Pongsawap, a high school teacher. "Many people think it's just a myth. But it's true, and it won't be possible in this modern time without him." 
Outside the palace, one older woman said she had hoped to glimpse the king but could not see over the crowd. 
"I didn't see him at all. There were too many people," said Chaba Kongchukiat, 84, blinking back tears. "But it's OK. I plan to come back next year." 



Global warming endangers wildlife 
Associated Press 
BALI -More than 3,000 fly­ing foxes dropped dead. falling from trees in Australia. Giant squid migrated north to com­mercial fishing grounds off California, gobbling anchovy and hake. Butterflies have gone extinct in the Alps. 
While humans debate at U.N. climate change talks in Bali, global warming is already wreaking havoc with nature. Most plants and animals are affected, and the change is occurring too quickly for them to evolve. 
"A hell of a lot of species are in big trouble," said Stephen E. Williams, the director of the Centre for Tropical Biodiversity & Climate Change at James Cook University in Australia. 
"I don't think there is any doubt we will see a lot of (extine­tions)," he said. "But even before a species goes extinct, there are a lot of impacts. Most of the species here in the wet tropics would be reduced to . . . 15 per­cent of their current habitat." 
Globally, 30 percent of the Earth's species could disappear if temperatures rise 4.5 degrees Fahrenheit -and up to 70 per­cent, if they rise 6.3 degrees Fahrenheit, a U.N. network of scientisl<> reported last month. 
It wouldn't be the first tiine. 
There have been five major extinctions in the last 520 million years, and four of them have been linked to warmer tropical seas, according to a study pub­lished last month in the Proceedings of the Hoyal Society B, a British scientific journal. 
The hardest hit will include plants and animals in colder cli­mates or at higher elevations and those with limited ranges or little tolerance for temperature change, said Wendy Foden, a conservation biologist with the World Conservation Union, which catalogs threatened species. 
Butterflies that lived at high altitudes in North America and southern France have vanished, and polar bears and penguins are watching their habitat melt away. 
The carbon dioxide emissions that are a leading cause of global warming also turn oceans more acidic, killing eoral reefs and the microscopic plankton that blue whales and other marine mam­mals depend on for food. 
"In the long run, every species will be allected," Foden said. 
A tew will benefit, chiefly those that breed quiekly, already exist in varied climates and are able to adapt swiftly to changing con­ditions, scientists said. Think cockroaches, pigeons and weeds. 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, December 6, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
St. Nicholas and true Christmas spirit 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame. IN 46SS6 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A.~sT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Kart·t; Langley 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SI'ORI'~ EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris I line SCI\Nf EDITOR: litt· Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
I'IIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS Enm>R: Madeline Nics 
AllVEIUI~ING MANA<;Eil: Jessica Corte> 

AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLI ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AllMINI~TRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
()74) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
('i74l 63 r-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4141 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-)313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spom.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MAnY'S DESK 
Today is th1~ feast of St. Nieholas, a fourth-century bishop in Asia Minor, now Turkey. This is not nearly as big a deal in the United States as it is in many European countries, where gifts are exchangnd on Dee. 6 and Kate Barrett Christmas Day remains a reli­gious holiday. Faithpoint Ironically, howev­er. we could prob­ably use a great big dose of Nicholas­inspired sentiment here in the States, wh1~re the seasons of Advent and Christmas have been almost complete­ly submerged by frenzied comrnereial­isrn. Our partidpation in this month o' shopping is practkally our patriotic duty-aren't you in favor of a healthy and robust economy? Well then, get out thern and buy! 
While not much is known about the life of Nicholas-thm·p, being no Faeebook or MySpace in the 300s ­wn have held on consistently to sever­al legends about him and his humble, usually anonymous generosity to oth­ers, especially the poor. Perhaps the most enduring tale tells the story of the family in Nicholas' hometown of Patara, who, living in extreme pover­ty, feared for the lives of their three daughters. At that time young women who could not provide a dowry (and thus in that ancient cultme find a hus­band) sometimes had to resort to des­perate measures, even prostitution, to support themselves and not become an unbearable burden on their fami­lies. Nicholas, in possession of a great fortune after the untimely deaths of his parents, determined to give his inlwritance away to those in need, and found in this family an opportunity. As the story goes, he dropped little bags or gold down the family's chimney so the father could use it to marry ofT his daughters. Throughout the cnnturins, his generosity and selflessness have inspired countless people to provide for the poor and for children, follow­ing St. Nicholas' example ol' caring for the most defenseless. 

When we hear tlwse stories of St. Nicholas, and when wn (if wn can) shut out the clamorous demands of our American com mereializnd "Christmas" and hoar the Scriptures and prayers of the Advnnt season, tlwn we truly can begin to prepare our hearts to receive Christ-as he came in the manger one night, as h('l comes into our lives each day, and as he will come again at the end of time. 11' wn will welcome the Lord into our lives, however, we must makn room, and we can't do that if our hopes are all about what we might get for Christmas. We'll make room for Jesus only by offering ourselvns, generously, the way Nicholas did. 
John the Baptist, in this Sunday's gospel, urges his followers to prepare, for "the one who is coming after me is mightier than I." As we begin the Mass this Sunday, the second Sunday of Advent, we will pray that God will "remove the things that hinder us from receiving Christ with joy." What's so hard to remember as we are blast­ed with a constant stream of Christmas carols and incentives to shop for more, morn and still more, is that we cannot prepare for the Mighty Onn at the mall or at Best Buy. Why not try, this year, a completnly difTnr­ent approach'? Nned a gift idea for someone on your list'? Give to a chari­ty important to thnm. lias somebody been asking you what you want for Christmas? Suggest S1~cond llarvest, tho I Ieifer Project or anothnr worthy venture that will ofTer food or nHHliiS to a livelihood to thosn who nned Christmas gifts in a way we will rwver nvnn undnrstand. 
While we may not know if every detail of the St. Nidwlas stories are true, he remains a eompfllling r.harac­ter because in our deepnst snlvns, we too long to be faithful follownrs of our Lord. as hn was. Particularly during this time of the ynar, when our faith challenges us to be at odds with tlw overwhnlming demands of our culture, wn need a feast day like today's. We need an exampln like Nil:holas' to point us toward Christ; to help train our focus on trun generosity; to remind us of our call to show God's deep love to others in every moment or our lives. 
llappy St. Nicholas' Day! May you celnbrate as IH~ would have. 
Kate Barrett is director ofResources and Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbar­rett@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
EDITORIAL CARTOON
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL!Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. Tht· Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as po."ibk·. Unsigned editorials rt·prescnt the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of tht· authors and nor necessarily those ofThc t>bservcr. 
Viewpoint space is dvailahle to all readers. The free t•xprcssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. !.etters to the Editor must bt· signed and must includt• conmct information. 
(jumiom "Karding Obsm•rr policies should be rli~rd to Editor itl ChirfM,zrJdie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Htr Oh~~er\·rr II !Sf'., \')") !AIMM)) 1.1 puhli'-.!tcJ ~umt•r dunu~h i·mloly cXct'Jll dur111lt 
CJI4111 ;~~tkl YIII..UUIU JM:fllwk A Ult.M.MJllltllllu "J1u:OI~rvcr j, SIUII fur nnc.tc.adrmit. 
yt'4Ti $\S luruuc Kml'\!rr, 

·n,<' t >h-erv~r b puhJ.,J,cd .,. POSTMASTEil 0.!1 Scnnh llimn~ H.dl \end 1.ddn.•u currKUull.l ro: Nntrt Ddrnc.IN 4MSfdl779 TheOI~rver PcruK!iul f""'Alt'"' p.ml.at Nnuc: Dame Box 719
1~0. Jllll.k.tdnum~mathnttnt1kt• 024 Sotnh llming Hall 

Nnt~ [).unt, IN •1f•556.0n9 
The O~v« iJ J mcmt.er uf the-A.i.\C~<.illtro (II'QI All n:prudUlltlm tighu. arc 
lC'I<c.'IVcrl. 
L.AC,i l(eA,~ 1 WA~ T~D 
11<AN To NoT~ N\AklN' ~\J-OJ-l.eK ~10NS-BJJT NJW I \]JANT 't:M \0 ~ MAf::IN' 'EM A6AIN So w~ CA~ ~IC.f:-"TitiRE!.lfrS. 
TODAY'S STAFF WEEKLY POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

News Scene Jcnn Metz Cassie Belek 
"The nice part about being a
.Joseph MeMahon Viewpoint 
Who deserves to face Ohio State pessimist i~ tlza{ you are constantly
.John Tierney Jordan Gamble 
bezng eztlzer proven 
in the BCS Championship game? 

Graphics right or p[easantly surprised. " Matt Hudson Sports 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. George Will 
Chris Khorey 
American journalist 

Ellyn Michalak at www.ndsmcobserver.com Pat Stynes 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, December 6, 2007 page 11 
Because all children can learn 
Imagine standing beneath the Golden Dome, basking in the glory of earning a diploma from the University of Notre Dame. While doing so, your mind also wonders to the future. 
What will you Kenya Fuemmeler be doing? 
Where will your friends Guest columnist be? Will you 
be part of something you're proud of? Will your future steps have an impact on society as a whole? 
These questions raced through my mind last spring during my first walk up the hallowed steps of Main Building. I stood hand-in-hand with three girls I'd spent the last four years with as we each grew into the women we are today. We all took a different journey-not good not bad, just different. From that day on the steps of Main Building, I entered my future with Teach for America. 
No, I never intended to join Teach for America. In fact, I even refused to meet with the recruiter on sever­
al occasions, claiming I was law school bound. However, after their unrelenting insistence, I finally squeezed in time between class and practice. They informed me of our growing national crisis regarding the current achievement gap in edu­cation and ways that I could help rectify this great injustice. After many conversations, countless trips to the Grotto and the application process, I eventually agreed to spend the next two years helping our nation's poorest children. 
Looking back, I now realize how little I understood the growing epi­demic sweeping our country's schools: educational inequity in stu­dent achievement. I walked through the doors of Eskridge High School in north St. Louis on Aug. 20 and soon stood face to face with the achieve­ment gap. What a humbling experi­ence! The burden of educating 120 students, freshmen through seniors, in the subjects of personal finance, geography, economics and American History soon appeared overwhelm­ing. When I gave a reading and math diagnostic test to my students, they scored on average at a sixth­grade reading level and a seventh­grade math level. 

For me, this was the achievement gap: a senior reading at a second­grade reading level, "high perform­ing" students scoring 14 on the ACT, having to teach the seven continents in geography, acknowledging that I must teach my students how to write a paragraph. These students were not a statistic thrown at me; they were my responsibility. 
I acknowledge that I cannot undo the past for my students, but I pos­sess the ability to change their futures. I lack the power to change the entire system, but I can change the future of 120 students. I can use the leadership skills I acquired as a student of Our Lady's University to guide my students in their pursuit of academic excellence. I can invest and motivate my students in their education, so they become advo­cates for their future academic careers. I can empower my students to value their education, thus refus­
ing to accept mediocrity in the classroom. 
Through these actions I will help close America's achievement gap. The University of Notre Dame prides itself on service to the poor and underprivileged. I urge each of you to consider joining Teach for America's movement to end educa­tional equality. Consider the injus­tice of being giving options in life based on your zip code. 
Where would you be without your education? Utilize your education for the benefit of our nation's great­est commodity, our children, to empower them to achieve academic excellence and pursue their dreams. All children can learn, but it is our responsibility to teach them. 
Kenya Fuemmeler is 2007 softball alumnus and former PW Purple Weasel. Any questions or comments may be directed towards kjfuemmel­er@gmail. com 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
University workers must stand together 
Regarding the Letter to the Editor by Donna Bromeling entitled "Custodial staff deserves fair treat­ment" (Dec. 4), I fully support the call for working together with the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP) here at Notre Dame. At a recent prayer service with students and workers, members of CLAP, we lis­tened to a reading from Isaiah that reminds us God has not given us a spirit of fear. Workers, we do not need to be afraid. We need to stand together on the issue of fair treat­
ment. We have people who are work­ing with us to make change at this university. But we need to under­stand that nothing can change with a mentality that nothing will change. 
At another recent meeting with members of the Campus Labor Action Project, I was disappointed with the number of workers compared to stu­dents that were ready to fight for change. But I am hopeful that people are willing to speak out. We all have to stand together -workers, stu­dents, faculty, alumni and community members -to enrich the lives of every person who works at the uni­versity. We have not been given a spirit of fear, but rather of power. We must use that power and raise our voices for fair treatment. 

I encourage my fellow workers to use the voice that God has given us to speak on the issues that affect all of us here as Notre Dame. This is a great institution, as Donna said, but it will be so much better when we are the community that we proclaim to be. 
I hope and pray that one day we will all benefit from this wonderful place. I call on my fellow workers to talk together, to speak out for the community to hear, and to join the continued efforts of the Campus Labor Action Project. To find out more information, please check out the web site at www.campuslaborac­tionproject.org 
Denise McEwen Building Services staff Dec. 5 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 Thursday, December 6, 2007 
an got to ow an Petnr, 
At a time when Iraq war policy .ontinues to make national head­inPs and thn body count continues to ise, Christopher Shinn's play "Dying :ity'' conenntrates on the impact tho 
ar has on individuals. 
"I focused thn play on the personal of tlw war for those who have mily and loved ones fighting in 
raq," director Meghan Hartmann id. The St. 1\dward's Hall Players 
nt "Dying City" tonight at 7:30 rn. in 
shington Hall. e show will run rough Saturday 
night. 

Hartmann dneid­·d to put the play Ill a thrust stage, hich means the tage is extnnded nto the audience nd surrounded by it on three ides. She said she 
ade the deeision n order to cn~ate a "greater intima­:y" between the audience and the 
s. "It works well for a play focused personal stories," slHl said. 
"Dying City" is a personal play ndeed -the show features just a air of actors. The play's plot ves around an Iraq war widow ho receives an unexpected visit rn her dnad husband's twin broth­
r. London Vale takes the stage as elly, whose husband Craig died erseas. Velazquez said tl111 two­rson east had both positive and 
tive aspects. 
e fact that there are only two tors makes our jobs more dif"ficult .causn the script keeps us very sy," he said. "This, however, helps 
t the same time by allowing for a ore intimate erformance since 
"Dying City" Washington Hall Tickets $5 at LaFortune Box Office Thursday, 7:30 Friday, 7:30 Saturday, 7:30 

very well in the rehearsal process." 
Vale agreed, saying, "It's actually really great to have the opportunity to act in a play with only one other person because the connection is always there -it has to always be there. The relationships between Kelly and the two brothers is the foundation of the play and it doesn't allow for a lot of clutter in other ways on the stage, so it becomes a lot more intimate for the onlookers, too." 
Velazquez plays both roles of Petnr and Craig -a challenge considering the two are twin brothers. 
"The playwright did a very good job of making certain that the two charar.ters would be dis­tinct." Velazquez said. "From my side of the work though, I had to ensure that Craig and Peter were different physical­ly and vocally, as well as emotion­
ally. I relied on what thn playwright mentions in the dialogue in order to extract the varying circumstances of Crai~. and Peter in the setting of the play. 
Hartmann believes that Shinn's writing intends for the audience to believe that the gay Peter and the dead veteran soldier Craig are oppo­sites, but she said that the two char­ar.ters are more similar in their "manipulation" than most suspect. 
"They just go about it in different ways," she said. "For me, Shinn is commenting that the silent killer is just as deadly as the explosion." 
In addition to Velazquez's chal­lenge in taking on the dual roles, the production also faced the challenge of differentiating between scenes featuring Kelly and Craig, which take lace in 2004, and those 
place a year later. Shinn's scrip 
leaves no explicit directions on h 
to distinguish between the two, 
Hartmarin made the decision 
stage the Craig and Kelly scenes 
flashbacks. To this end, she u 
lighting and music to lwlp make 
distinction. 

Hartmann also cited the quality her acting talent as an added posi tive. Heferring to Velazquez an Vale, she said, "It takes a lot of focu on stage to jump back and fort between the characters and they dt a fantastic job." 
London Vale said she took a per sonal approach in preparing for lw role. 
"Since 'Dying City' focuses so m on the rnlationships bntween Knll and the two men -Craig and -I trind to focus on thn interactio I have had with men in my life and parts of' my life during which I felt the things Kelly might feel in thos situations," she said. "A lot of Kelly relationships with the two men hi close to home, so it was a pror.ess o looking back and remembering h I felt, how I reacted, and then eva ating how Kelly would react an applying it to each situation." 
Hartmann went on to say th Christopher Shinn wrote "Dyin City" as a play designed to hit h despite the distance between war zone and the home front. 
"So many people are affected events that happen thousands miles away," she said. "Many tim it's easy to look at the war in objectively, citing its impact on economy or foreign policy. But forget that each person sent to tigh in Iraq is a brother, sister, son daughter, husband, wife, lover friend -and the ones left behind a have stories about their own person al experiences saying 'goodbye' t those they love." 
MATI HUDSON I Observer Graphic 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, December 6, 2007 
page 13 

1. Ross & Rachel, "Friends" 
It was a 1 0-year saga that at times got ridiculotL'>, but you could not help but hope that the geeky teenager who was in love with his sister's beautiful best friend would finally get the girl. You laughed 
with them when they 
Caitlin Ferraro
fought about being "on a break," and when 
Scene Writer 
they got drunkenly married in Las Vegas. But you !ell in love with them when Boss accidentally said "Rachel" at his wedding, and when they had baby Emma. 
2. Jim & Pam, "The Office" 
A classic case of unrequited love, friends and coworkers Jim and Pam created chem­istry for two sea..'iOIL'>, a..<; they bonded over pulling pranks on Dwight and putting up with Michael. When Jim finally put the moves on Pam at the office casino night, Ame1ir~ swooned and hoped Roy was a thing of the pa..'it. But Jim's broken heart found Karen and we had to wait another season until Jim would give up a job at corporatH to finally get his girl. This season, the Internet is abuzz about 'IV's newest "It" couple-Jam. 
3. Carrie & Mr. Big, "Sex and the City" 
ShH L'i sort of a head case and viewers did not even know his first name until the final episode of the series, but you love them even more for it. We saw Carrie go through many affairs and other great loves (oh, Aidan), but you knew that it would be Ca..rrie and Mr. Big in the end -it was just a matter of timing. Rumors swirl of a wedding in the upcoming 
If you have ever watched a television show before, then you have probably identified with some character in some way. Maybe you've never had one of those "Oh my, we're the same person" moment'>, but you probably know what it feel<; like to boa fish out ofwator 
Cassie Belek
like Better Suarez on 
"Ugly Betty," or you're 
Assistant
just looking filr love and 
Scene Editor 
someone to control like New York on "I Love New York 2." And ifyou watch as much televi­sion as I do, it's scary how much you see your­sell' in lV characters. Here are just a few eha.raeters that I see traces of myself in. 
Justin Suarez, "Ugly Betty" 
I only wish I had Justin's eye for fashion, but whenever that kid gets glued to Fashion TV, I'm taken back to my hours and hours spent watching "Entertainment Tonight" and "Access llollywood" as a child. At least we do share a love for glittery objects and musical tl1eatre. 
Moment I realized we were alike: Justin, I Iilda and Santos were trapped on a New York subway during a snowstorm while headed to a perfbrmance of"llairspray." Inspired by cartoon character version of her, little Miss VIxen. And he named his boat after her. She fought for his love by dressing up as Wonder Woman. And she worked to get into Brown to go with him. They were proof opposites attract, as he softened her self-absorbed ways and she saved him from a world ofloneliness. 
5. Angel & Buffy, "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" 
As a science fiction version of Romeo and Juliet, these two were destined to end badly because she was the vampire slayer and he was a vampire. But he had a soul, and togeth­er they fought against vampires and demons while falling in love. Unfortunately, when he experienced a moment of "perfect happiness" with her, a curse turned him into Angelus, his former evil soulless self. Madness ensued as he massacred the people of Sunnydale, and she eventually had to kill him. Sure he came back from Hell, but things were never the same. 
6. Cory & Topanga, "Boy Meets World" 
The two basically dated since they met in the sandbox. Shawn was their perennial third wheel, and the threesome was unbeatable. Feeney watched as they broke up, got back together, and broke up again. Corey always believed they belonged together, and eventual­ly the childhood sweethearts walked down the aisle. 
some uncontrollable force within him, Justin proceeded to not only sing "Good Morning Baltimore," but also act out the entire musical for the subway passengers, proving that his love for "Hairspray" runs as deep as mine. 
Kelly Kapoor, "The Office" 
The popularity of Kelly Kapoor on "The Office" has been a victory for girls with high­pitched voices everywhere, including me. Kelly and I share annoyingly high voices and we like to use them by rambling off endless celebrity gossip and saying the world "awe­some" way too much. 
Moment that I realized we were alike: When Dwight announced that there would be no bonuses and that the branch was closing by first lying about a massive car accident involving Brad Pitt, all Kelly could say was, "Is Brad OK?" as everyone else was concemed about losing their jobs. Awesome. 
Kenneth the Page, "30 Rock" 
Does anyone love television more than Kenneth the Page? I like to think that I come close, but I doubt that even I have enough love to go through the abuse that Kenneth suffers, and always with a gleeful smile on his face. 
Moment I realized we were alike: Kenneth two got hitched in an outlandish lVmovie that included storylines about an escort serv­ice and a diamond thief-oh, and a surprise 

appearance by Jessie Spano. 
8. Doug Funnie & Patti Mayonnaise, "Doug" 
Doug was just a shy daydreamer who liked to write, listen to the Beets and crush on the tomboy orange girl with the southern accent, Patty Mayonnaise. Doug and Patty finally end up dancing together in "Doug's 1st Movie." 
9. Homer & Marge, "The Simpsons" 
Doh! He ruins almost everything but she loves him anyway and together they attempt to raise their crazy clan. Homer and Marge are from two completely different planets as she is as sensible as he is wild. They are dys­functional but somehow manage to function as a normal fanilly. 
10. Luke & Lorelai, "Gilmore Girls" 
Their witty banter over a cup of coffee at his diner was masterful. Only after helpful hints from others and listening to self-help tapes Luke finally realizes his "friend" Lorelai may just be the one. Even after interruptions by her meddling mother and his illegitimate daughter, the two finally ended up together. 
1.1. Simon & Paula, "American Idol" 
America's favorite judges. 
defends his love for television and his menial job to Jack by saying, "Think of all the shared 
experiences television has provided for us. 
From the moon landing to the 'Golden Girls' finale. From Walter Cronkite denouncing VIetnam to Oprah pulling that trash bag of fat 
out in the wagon." Right on, Kenneth. Right 
on. 

Liz Lemon, "30 Rock" 
Good ole liz Lemon and I have a few things in common-we both love "Star Wars," we both take up new crafts only to abandon them a few weeks later and lately, we've both been wearing very sinlilar dresses. But beyond this, I look to liz Lemon for guidance. She's the new Mary Tyler Moore and she can stand up against anyone who gets in her way, even though she may stumble along the way. Let's just hope I never accidentally date my third cousin or shoot someone at the Source Awards. 
Moment I realized we were alike: Pretty much every episode. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Cassie BeZek at cbelek@nd.edu 
14. Kevin Amold & Winnie Cooper, "The Wonder Years" 
The girl next door. 
15. Fred & Daphne, "Scooby Doo" 
Love in the mystery van. 
16. Dawson & Joey & Pacey, "Dawson's Creek" 
The girl across the creek. 
17. Nathan Scott & Haley James, "One Tree Hill" 
Very young love. 
18. Benson & Stabler, "Law and Order: SVU" 
Partners in crime. 
19. Sydney Bristow & Michael Vaughn, "Alias" 
The deadly duo. 
20. Coach Taylor & Mrs. Taylor, "Friday Night Ughts" 
Football's favorite couple. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at 
iferrarl@nd.edu 
Photo courtesy tv.yahoo.com Liz Lemon goes up against boss Jack Donaghy on a daily basis. 
page 14 

The Observer + CIASSIFIEDS Thursday, December 6, 2007 
NBA 

Pierce, Garnett help Celtics coast past Sixers 
Butler's 27 points send Cavs to fifth straight loss; Bulls overcome third-quarter deficit against Bobcats 
Pierce had 19 points and 12 Miller's free throws. They
Associated Press 

assists, Garnett scored 22 played hard, played smart, 
PIIILAJ>ELPIIIA The points and Allen scored 12. even shot 56 percent from the Boston CdtiGs hung on against Andre Miller kept the Sixers floor, but they simply couldn't a fPisty Philadelphia tnam alive until the fourth with his stop the Celtics down the thanks to their Big Three -lirst double-double of the sea­stretch. and a couple of big 3s, too. son, a 26-point, 12-assist effort 
Eddin House and James Posey that was one of his best games Wizards 105, Cavaliers 86 dnlivnrml decisive :~-pointers to in Philadelphia. Andre lguodala Caron Butler had 27 points to lwlp tlw usual. strong efforts of seored 24 points. lead the Washington Wizards Paul Pinrcn. Kevin Garnett and The Sixers gave an inspired past the Cleveland Cavaliers, Bay A linn hold up for a 113-103 effort in their lirst game with on Wednesday night. The win over the 76ers on Ed Stefanski as president and Cavaliers have lost four straight Wndnesday night. general manager. Stefanski left without LeBron James, side­
"You've got to have role play­his job as general manager of lined with a sprained left index ors to have a good team," the Nets to take a similar role finger, and do they miss him. CP.Itks eoach Doc Hivers said. in Philadelphia after Billy King It was the fifth straight loss 
llouso and Posey played their was fired on Monday. overall for Cleveland -its first roles to rwar perfection. The "For 40 minutes we were five-game skid since Feb. 22­duo went 7-for-I :1 on 3s that there, but you've got to be able March 1, 2006. made all the difference late in to sustain it against a team like Meanwhile, Washington is 6-4 the game against a Sixers team that," coach Maurice Cheeks without Gilbert Arenas, who with sonwthing to prove. Posey said. underwent surgery on his left scored 17 points, House had 15 Posey hit a pair of 3s in the knee last month. Arenas, hob­and Boston's bench outscored final minute of the third that bling around on crutches, sat Philadelphia 46-26. helped the Celtics take a three­on the Wizards' sideline for the 
"We were just making plays point lead. He hit another early first time since his surgery. through the fourth quarter. quarter that gave Chicago its 
for each other and that helped in the fourth that tied the game Antawn Jamison had 17 With James, who didn't talk to first lead. us in the second half to come at 86. points and 12 rebounds for the media, sitting forlornly on Jason Hichardson scored 17 back, get a lead and gf1t a win," The Sixers went ahead one Washington. Brendan Haywood the bench, the Cavaliers could­points, but was shut out in the Posey said. last time, 88-86, on two of finished with 17 points and 10 n't get any closer. final quarter and Haymond 
boards as the Wizards outre­Felton scored 17 points, but bounded the Cavs 45-29. Bulls 91, Bobcats 82 shot 5-for-14. The Bobcats had 
Washington coach Eddie Coach Scott Skiles has tin­little presence inside as they Jordan contemplated playing kered with his lineup all sea­extended the leagun's longest the James-less Cavaliers before son, trying to find the right current losing streak. the game, and remembered last combination to spark the strug­It didn't help that Charlotte's spring's playoffs. The Wizards, gling Chicago Bulls. offense was off kilter. The missing Arenas and Butler, The solution appears to Bobcats took 26 3-point shots, were swept in four games. involve Andres Nocioni. hitting six, and center Emeka 
"It's like the bully coming to Two nights after he scored 30 Okafor took only seven shots. the fight without the brass points off the bench, Noeioni "We don't need 26 3-point knuckles and the baseball bats. scored 10 of his 15 points in the shots. We need to try to get to They've been bullying us," fourth quarter and added 11 the rim," coach Sam Vincent Jordan said. "We want to rebounds as the Bulls rallied to said. "We don't need the return the favor." send the Charlotte Bobcats to jumpers. We need to be trying 
The Wizards had a relatively their seventh straight loss, 91-to get the ball inside to Emeka easy time returning the favor. 82 on Wednesday. even more." Butler's jumper to end the first With Luol Deng controlling The Bobcats, who haven't quarter gave Washington a 22-the inside with 30 points and won since Nov. 19 against 21 lead. Noeioni hitting big shots from Portland, found out Wednesday 
Washington led by 28 early in the outside, the Bulls erased an morning that Cleveland had the third quarter, which could­11-point third-quarter deficit matched their offer sheet for 6­n't have made Cleveland coach by outscoring the Bobcats 38-foot-1 0 forward Anderson Mike Brown happy. After the 22 in the fourth. Varejao. Cavaliers were pasted by New "I think we played the way Vincent has been pleading for Jersey 100-79 on Tuesday, the Chicago Bulls play, moving another big man for months, Brown ripped his team. He did­the ball, passing the ball," said and Charlotte's lack of depth n't back off his comments Nocioni after only the Bulls' inside was costly down the before Wednesday's game. second road win in nine tries. "I stretch. 
''I'm not trying to put a think we played really hard "I worry about our confidence charge in them," Brown said. defense." in terms of really understand­"I'm trying to tell them the Hard enough to stymie the ing how to elosc out games," truth. If there is anybody in the free-falling Bobcats. Vincent said. locker that can tell me they Gerald Wallace had 22 points In a matchup of coaches who competed for 48 minutes, I'd be and eight rebounds for were teammates at Michigan shocked." Charlotte, but was on the bench State and with the Orlando 
Cleveland did cut the lead to with five fouls for the decisive Magic, both Vincent and Skiles nine -trailing 88-79 midway 10-2 run early in the fourth continued tweaking lineups. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 r.rn. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER­SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM.2 72-6306 


WANTED 
Female grad student with cat seeks people to rent a house with or a room in group house. For spring semester and ideally through sum­mer. csarver1 @nd.edu 
WINTER BREAK WORK $16.25 base-appt., flexible. no experience needed, customer sales/service, conditions apply, ages 18+. call now, start after finals. may continue during the spring, positions through the US. 574-273-3835, www.winter­breakwork.com 

CYO CAMP RANCHO FRAMASA SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS­HIRING NOW! Secure your summer job! Camp Rancho Framasa is an inclu­sive, residential camp, located in south central. Indiana, operated by the Catholic Youth Organization since 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in various programs. We offer a welcoming staff commu­nity in a beautiful outdoor setting. General Staff, Counselor Manager, Inclusive Programming, Ropes Course, Adventure and Health posi­lions available. All positions start at $240/week. Training is provided; start date May 31, 2008. Apply online www.campranchofra­masa.org Questions? contact Angi at 888-988-2839, x25 or e-mail angi@campranchofra­masa.org 
FoR RENT 
Blue & Gold Homes now showing 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 P/S just off campus "alumni owned". 
Bluegoldrentals.com 
Walk to campus! Good neighbor­hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. Washer/dryer in basement. Landlord does the yardwork. $750/rno. No pets. No Section 8. Credit check and criminal back­ground check required. 574-250-1266. 
4 BR furnished home, walk to ND, lg.yd,air,dishwasher, washer & dryer. 574-287-4961. 

ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU NUTS? WANT OUT OF THE DORMS? GREAT house for rent available January 1st! 4 bed, 1 bath, 2 mi from ND & near new jogging trail, garage, central A/C, basement, NICE! $1100/mo. 503-757-8125 or visit domer­homes.wetpaint.com for info & pies. 
Duplex apt. for rent or sale. Each unit has newly remodeled 1-bdrm apt.,partially furnished, new every­thing. Rent $400; sale $45,000. 
Call574-233-1604. 
5 bedroom house available now and for next school year great loca­lion 1 05 Marquette just off of Angela & 31. 232-6964. 


PERSONAL 

PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
jwillys Bar and Grille. Receive 1 0% discount w/student ID. Thursdays 35 cent wings all day. U93 LIVE 5-7pm. Trivia contest. 52885 SR 933 jwillys.com Now hiring all positions. 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our website at: http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 

r----------------------------~-~~----­



OUND THE NATION 


Thursday, December 6, 2007 
NFL AFC East 

team Patriots Buffalo N.Y. Jets Miami  record 12-0 6-6 3-9 0-12  perc. 1.000 .500 .250 .000  PF 469 184 221 196  PA 209 274 291 317  
team Pittsburgh Cleveland Cincinnati Baltimore  AFC North record perc. 9-3 .750 7-5 .583 4-8 .333 4-8 .333  PF 296 336 291 206  I'll 155 338 316 270  
AFC South  
team Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston  record 10-2 8-4 7-5 5-7  perc. .833 .667 .583 .417  PF 337 268 232 263  PA 197 223 241 291  
AFC West  
to am San Diego Denver Kansas City Oakland  record 7-5 5·7 4·8 4·8  perc . .583 .417 .333 .333  PF 285 241 112 234  PA 233 329 230 260  
NFC East  
team Dallas N.Y. Giants Washington Philadelphia  record 11-1 8·4 5-7 5·7  perc. .917 .667 .417 .411  PF 395 274 229 258  PA 248 257 257 246  
team Green Bay Detroit Minnesota Chicago  NFC North record perc. 10·2 .833 6·6 .500 6·6 .SOD 5-7 .417  PF 323 267 278 237  PA 222 311 237 272  
team Tampa Bay Carolina New Orleans Atlanta  NFC South record perc. 8·4 .667 5·7 .417 5-7 .417 3·9 .250  PF 241 204 266 171  PA 187 257 279 272  
NFC West  
team Seattle Arizona San Francisco St. Louis  record 8·4 6-6 3·9 3·9  perc. .667 .500 .250 .250  PF 273 281 164 196  PA 207 280 285 297  

CCHA Conference Standings 
team conference overall 
1 NOTRE DAME 10·2·0 14·4·0 2 Miami 9·1·0 13·1·0 3 Michigan 9-1-0 14·2·0 4 Michigan State 6·2·0 10·3·2 5 Ferris State 6·4·0 7-6-1 6 Bowling Green 5-3-0 8·4·0 7 Northern Michigan 5·9·0 6·10·0 8 Nebraska-Omaha 4-7-1 5-7-1 9 Ohio State 2·8·0 4·11-1 10 Western Michigan 2-8-0 4·10-0 11 Alaska 1·6·1 1·8·1 12 Lake Superior 0·8·0 2·11-1 
around the dial 
NBA 
Heat at Trailblazers 
10:30 p.m., TNT 

Cn"vtPlLED rROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Associated Press 
DENVER The University of Colorado has agreed to pay two women $2.85 million to settle a lawsuit alleging they were sexually assaulted by foot­ball players and recruits, 
school  officials  said  
Wednesday.  
The  allegations  had  

sparked a football recruit­ing scandal at the school, prompted broad university reforms and led to a shake­up of its top leaders. 
University spokesman Ken McConnellogue said the school also agreed to hire an adviser to monitor compliance with federal laws governing equal treat­ment of women and add a position in the university Office of Victim Assistance. The agreement came two months after an appellate court revived the lawsuit. 


University President Hank Brown said agreeing to the settlement was "a difficult decision, painful in some ways, but it's my sense that it was in the interest of the university." 
He said the school faced years of litigation over the case, and fees for outside attorneys had already reached $3 million. 
One of the women, Lisa Simpson. will receive $2.5 million, McConnellogue said. The other woman, who did not wish be identi­fied publicly, will receive $350,000. The school did 
IN BRIEF 
SchillinJ!, McCain go to 
town hair-style meeting 
MANCHESTER, N.H. -Good times never seemed so good for Republican John McCain. 
The presidential hopeful showed up at a town hall-style meeting Wednesday with Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling, who tried his best to avoid the subject that brought them together: politics. 
''I'm way outside my element here," the World Series champ said. ''I'm not going to lie. I'm a latecomer to the political thing. I'm not proud of that. But it is what it is." 
One voter tried to draw him out nonetheless, asking Schilling whether he would challenge Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass. Another called him "Senator Schilling." 
"I'm going to stick to winning one more World Series," he said to cheers in Red Sox-supporting New Hampshire. 
not admit fault or liability. 
The Associated Press does not identify the victims of alleged sexual assault, but Simpson has agreed to be identified in media reports. 
The women said they were raped by football play­ers and recruits at an off. campus party on Dec. 7, 2001. Their lawsuit alleged the university violated fed­eral law by fostering an environment that allowed sexual assaults to occur. 
Simpson's attorney, Baine Kerr, said Simpson and her parents had met with Brown to discuss non-mon­etary provisions of a settle­ment but final negotiations were handled last month between attorneys and a mediator. Simpson met with 

Riske signs three-year deal 
with Milwaukee 
NASHVILLE -Free agent reliever David Riske agreed to a $13 million, three-year contract with Milwaukee on Wednesday, moving to the Brewers after an effective season with Kansas City. 
The Brewers made a deal with Riske after recently losing free agent relievers Francisco Cordero to Cincinnati and Scott Linebrink to the Chicago White Sox. Cordero posted 44 saves for Milwaukee; no one else on the team had more than one. 
"His durability and consistency will be a great asset to our ballclub," Milwaukee general manager Doug Melvin said. 
The 31-year-old was 1-4 with four saves and a 2.45 ERA in 65 relief appearances last season. The righty had a rough start witl1 a 6.97 ERA in April, then had a 1.67 ERA the rest of the way. Overall, his ERA was 11th among AL relievers who pitched at least 50 innings. 
page 15 
Brown at his office Wednesday but was not made available for com­ment. 
In a statement released through the school, Simpson said she was pleased with steps the school has taken. 
"I encourage other insti­tutions of higher education throughout the nation to take similar steps," she said. 
Simpson fought hard to make the school change, said Janine D'Anniballe, director of Boulder's rape crisis center. 
"She wanted change in the university. I think that's what she got. Even more important than money is change," D'Anniballe said. 

Scottish lawmakers aid 
Trump's golf resort 
EDINBUHGII. Scotland Scottish lawmakers on Wednesday backed government efforts to save Donald Trump's proposed $2.1 billion golf resort that would be built on an unspoiled beach near Aberdeen. 
The Scottish government took the unusual step of agreeing to review Trump's application after a loc:al council rejected it. 
The project is now before the Scottish Parliament's economy, energy and tourism committee and a final decision on the proj­ect is still likely months away. 
"The committee felt the deci­sion has given a worrying mes­sage to the rest of the world that Scotland is closed for busi­ness," Tavish Scott, the head of the committee, said after the meeting. 
Thursday, December 6, 2007 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Willingham retained as Washington head coach 
Despite three consecutive losing seasons, former Notre Dan1e boss will be back in Seattle next year 
SI\1\TTLI\-Tlwm is no ollieial ultimatum f'rorn Washington prns­ident Mark I~rnmnrt, but tlwre rn igh I. as weII lw -Tyro no Willingham must win in :Wm( 
l>ospil.n just II wins in threo years, and bneorning the f'irst Washington coach to have thrno eonsoeutivt~ losing seasons, Willingham will roturn to Washington. Tlw university eon­f'irnwd on Wednesday that tlw coach who was lirnd af'ter just thrnn snasons at Notre Damn would gnt a fourth season with thn Huskies. 
Thn announcnnwnt came in eonjuncture with Willingham's nnd-of'-ynar news eonf'nrenco, whkh had a setting morn akin to a hiring than thn wrap-up of a disappointing 4-9 snason. Many athlntie departmnnt stall' wen~ in attnndanee and broke out in applause wlwn Willingham fin­induding deferred compensation. The school would have owed him $3 million had it bought out his contract bd'orc Jan. 3. 
"The body of work I've observed and the university's lnadership has obsnrvnd over the past tlm~n ynars gives dear evi­dnnco to me that that rneord will change in the very near future," Turner said. "We're committed to that and feel strongly that coach Willingham has provided the kind of' lnadership that provides us the base to make this happen." 
Clarifying Willingham's status was important because this weekend is key for recruiting. All of' Washington's m<~jor prospects am dun on campus for oflicial vis­its. Willingham made note that gntting a resolution was vital in solidifying what is developing into a strong recruiting class. 
"We have to secure those guys that we've already gotten com­mitnwnts f'rom and continue the procP.ss of adding to them so we can have the team that will be better in the f'uture," said Willingham, one of' f'ivn black coaches in the Football Bowl Subdivision. 

With Willingham's status 'eon­firmed, the question now turns to his staff, namely on the defensive side. 
In his statement, Emmert indi­cated that changes could be forthcoming, but Willingham would not elaborate, saying that the evaluation process is eontinu­ing. 
Washington had the worst defense statistically in school his­tory, giving up 446.4 yards per game, and allowed record-setting performances to Orngon (rushing) and Arizona (passing) in consecu­tive weeks. That could mean the end of Kent Baer's tenure as defensive coordinator. lie has AP been on Willingham's staffs for Washington coach Tyrone Willingham instructs his team at a the past 13 years. Huskies practice Nov. 13. 

ishml with his remarks. r----::;;;~!!!~·;:=--------------------------------------1
Tho briefing was delayed amid 
speculation Emmert was · ewing whnthnr to lire Willingham. The delay porhaps only addnd the heavy burden Willingham now facns for the 2001{ s1mson. Entnring yoar four of' a li"".-.w•·•r• contract, Willingham will li rwed a bowl appoaranco to avoid tlw firing many fans and boostors wantnd to son happen now. 
"My rnessagn to thnm would bo plnasn hold on," Willingham said about tlw faction hoping a ehangn would bt> mad11. "Wo'vo had what I would call rough and turbulont watnrs to navigate whnn I arrived. I Iopef'ully wn an~ in the proc:c'ss of' getting through those difTieult waters and aro now ready to punch our way through and bn tlw fi10tball toam I think wn can be." 
Willingham doPs havo a point. Wlwn lw arrived f'or the 2005 snason, Washin1-,rton was coming ofT tho worst Simson in school history, a 1-I0 record that. hot­tomml out tlw once proud pro­gram. 
But tlw instant gratif'ication fans sought has not transpirod. Washington irnprovnd f'rom 2 in Willingham's first ynar to 5-7 ynar latnr. But Washington od 4-1 in 20()(, b1>fom losing six straight to fall out of bowl con-ton tion. 
Washington facPd a brutal schodule this sowmn ((•aturing six ranked opponPnts and nine~ t1~ams that will play in bowls. While tlw rneord was tough f'or fitns to accept, it wa..-; accentuatnd by tlw I Iuskies loading or boing lind at halftime in ninn of' their 13 games, and fourth-quart1~r melt­downs against Arizona, Washington State and I Iawaii. 
"Everyono eonneded to I Iusky football, from thn coadws and players to the studnnts, alumni and fans, is disappointod with this season's rneord," 1-:rnnwrt said in a statmnent. "No one is mom dis­appointnd than coach Willingham himsPif." 
Emmert, Willingham and ath­letic dirnctor Todd Turner lwld mnotings thn last two days to dis­cuss tlw program and diroetion. Willingham dndinPd to talk with reporters aft!'r a Tunsday night tnam meeting, but never wawn~d f'rom the bPiinf he would return li1r his fourth season. 
"I believed I would be the coaeh," he said. 
Willingham has two years remaining on the live-ynar eon­tract hn sign1~d in 2004. I lis eon­tract pays him $1.4 million a year, 

Best Value 1n ToRrn Cozne See Why.' 
,.. Indoor/ Ou:tdoor Tennis a:.n J Has.ke:tball ,.. Free Ta:.nning ,.. Hea:teJ Ptnd ,.. Relaxing Jacuzzi ,.. Ga:teJ Co.m.m uni:ty ,.. Co.m.m uni:ty Business Cen:ter ,.. No Applica:tion Fees for S:tu den:ts ,.. Close :to every:tl:ting_ __ far fro.m ordinary! 
astle1'oint 
1.801.1. Cl.evel.an:d Rd_ South Bend, IN 466 3 7 AfJtlr·t111 e11ts ~one: l574' 272-81.1.0 Fax: l574' 272-81.1.4 
Wfl" -Cppj -CIL'lm' 

Study in DC during the Fall 2008 Elections or Spring 2009 Presidential Inauguration and Ne'\v Congressional Session! UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
WASHI:NGT /' N R. GRAM 


INFORMATION OPEN HOUSE Thursday, December 6, 2007 163 Hurley, 9:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 
DEADLINE FOR 2008-2009 EXTENDED!!! 
Deadline to apply for Fall2008 or Spring 2009 is January 23, 2008. First Year students and Sophomores may apply; all majors welcome. Contact Liz.LaFortune.3@nd.edu, 163 Hurley, 631-7251; www.nd.edu/-wp 
Thursday, December 6, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Pitt holds off Duquesne despite late-game rally 
Summers scores 18 as Georgetown runs away from Alabama; Purdue tops Ball State; Clemson beats ECU 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH -Levance Fields scored four consecutive points in the final minute and No. 12 Pittsburgh held off a frantic rally by city rival Duquesne, winning 73-68 on Wednesday night to remain unbeaten. 
Sam Young had 23 points and live rebounds to counter Shawn James' 20 points, nine rebounds and five blocks for Duquesne (6-2), which never led but closed to within one point several times after falling behind 14-0 in the opening 3? minutes. 
Mike Cook added 12 points and Fields and DeJuan Blair had 1 0 each for Pitt, which is 8­0 for the sixth consecutive sea­son and has never lost to Duquesne in eight games as a ranked team. 
Pitt won its seventh in a row in the rivalry known as the City (~arne and ninth in 11 games against Duquesne, which hasn't beaten a ranked team since 1997. 
This one didn't come easily for Pitt despite the Panthers' dominating start. Kieron Achara's foliowup for Duquesne made it 66-64 with 1:18 remaining, but Fields scored from the lane with exactly a minute left to get Pitt's lead back to four points. 
After Kojo Mensah traveled for Duquesne, Fields made two free throws with 34 seconds left to make it 70-66 and the Dukes never got any closer. Until this game, Duquesne had never lost by fp,wer than 14 points to a ranked Pitt team. 
Pitt, a visiting team in its own city as it made the two-mile trek to play on the Dukes' court, came out like this one would be over early -just as it did while winning its first seven games by an average of 30 points. 
The Dukes, who were 3-24 two seasons ago but have since been rebuilt by coach Ron Everhart, looked tight and nerv­ous early as Pitt seized its 14-0 lead. 
Young and Ronald Ramon hit 3-pointers and Blair, a fresh­man, had six points and seven rebounds in the first nine min­utes before getting into foul trouble. 
Duquesne, down 25-8 just before Blair went out, went on a 9-0 run keyed by James and Aaron Jackson to get to within 27-22. 
Everhart also modified the two-unit rotation he used while the Dukes went 6-0 for the first time in 28 years, substituting conventionally to keep the 6­foot-1 0 tandem of James and Achara on the court together as much as possible to defend against Pitt's inside strength. 
Duquesne, facing the Panthers with a winning record for the first time in 14 years, shot only 38.5 percent (25-of­
65) and was outrebounded 44­36 despite James' big game. James, among five Duquesne players shot a year ago follow­ing a campus party, faced Pitt for the first time after transfer­ring from Northeastern. 
Pitt has been 8-0 in every sea­son under fifth-year coach Jamie Dixon, but won't play its first out-of-town game this sea­son until Saturday at Washington. 

Georgetown 70, Alabama 60 

DaJuan Summers had 18 points and nine rebounds and No. 5 Georgetown dominated down the stretch to beat Alabama in the first game of the SEC/Big East Invitational on Wednesday night. 
The Hoyas (6-0) went on a 14­1 run after the Crimson Tide ( 4­
3) briefly took the lead in the final minutes, giving up only a free throw before allowing a last-second basket in the final four minutes. 
Georgetown turned up the defensive heat against an Alabama team relying heavily on freshmen, forcing bad pass­es and tough shots. 
Roy Hibbert added 14 points, nine boards and four blocked shots for the Hoyas. He was 8­of-12 from the free-throw line as the smaller Tide mostly denied the 7 -foot-2 center the ball or fouled him when he got it around the basket. 
Jessie Sapp added 12 points and Alabama native Jonathan Wallace scored 11 for the Hoyas. 
Georgetown, which trailed at the half for the first time this season, at 35-33, is ofT to a 6-0 start for the first time since winning its opening 10 games of the 2003-04 season. This one didn't come as easily as most of the others, though, despite a commanding 45-29 rebounding advantage. 
Richard Hendrix, the nation's No. 3 rebounder, led Alabama with 1 7 points and nine boards. Mykal Riley scored 15 points and made 4-of-7 3-pointers. The rest of the team combined to make just 10-of-34 shots. 


Georgetown held the Tide to 33 percent shooting in the sec­ond half. 
Riley hit three 3-pointers in a five-minute span. His third gave the Tide a 57-56 lead with 4:01 left, Alabama's first edge since the opening seconds of the sec­ond half. He had scored all nine points in overtime and made a key 3 in the final seconds of regulation in Saturday night's win over Southeastern Louisiana, but couldn't fuel another fast finish. 
Georgetown took over from there. 
Summers and Sapp hit 3­pointers to start the 14-1 run for the Hoyas, who hadn't led by more than four points in the first 37 minutes. 
Purdue 70, Ball State 57 
Keaton Grant scored 15 points as Purdue beat Ball State Wednesday night. 
Scott Martin scored 14 points and Tarrance Crump had 13 for the Boilermakers (5-l), who improved to 6-2 all-time against Ball State. 
Purdue made 10 3-pointers as a team, its highest total of the 
season,  and  forced  22  
turnovers.  
Peyton  Stovall scored  14  

points and Malik Perry had 13 for the Cardinals (0-7). 
Ball State's tallest player was 6-foot-4, but the Cardinals out­rebounded the Boilermakers 29-26. Ball State made 6 of 7 3­pointers and shot 4 7 percent overall. 
Purdue led 36-31 at halftime, but Stovall started the second half with a four-point play to trim that lead to 36-35. The Cardinals took their first lead of the game, 40-39, on a 3-pointer by Brandon Lampley with 17:43 to play. 
Ball State led 44-42 before the Boilermakers went on a 17­4 run that included two 3-point­ers and a mid-range jumper by Martin to take a 59-48 lead with 6:32 left. Purdue's largest lead was 6 7-49 with just over 4 minutes left. 
The score was tied at 17 in the first half before Purdue 
went on a 13-0 run that includ­ed five points by Crump and four by JaJuan Johnson. The Boilermakers held the Cardinals scoreless for more than six minutes during that stretch. 
Ball State responded with a 13-4 run, including seven points by Stovall, to cut Purdue's lead to 34-30 with 1:24 left in the first half. 
Clemson 82, East Carolina 67 
Freshman Terrence Oglesby hit six 3-pointers and scored a season-high 22 points Wednesday night to help No. 18 Clemson beat East Carolina. 
Fellow rookie Demontez Stitt had 13 points and five assists for the Tigers (8-0), who took control midway through the first half and never looked back. 

Sam Hinnant scored 16 points to lead the Pirates (3-5), who led by three early before Clemson's defense locked down to fuel a 17-point spurt and help the Tigers build a big half­time lead. East Carolina fell to 0-57 all-time against Atlantic Coast Conference teams, and faces another one -North Carolina State -here Saturday. 
East Carolina's respect­starved fans were eager to see an ACC school come to Minges Coliseum for the first time in nearly four decades. After all, the league -particularly pow­ers Duke and North Carolina located about 90 miles west ­have long hogged the spotlight while the Pirates have had to fight for any attention once bas­ketball season arrives. 
But the Tigers sure didn't allow much room for optimism once the game began. Despite playing again without injured forward James Mays (hip), Clemson pushed ahead for good with a stickback dunk and free throw from Raymond Sykes about 7 minutes in before tak­ing a 47-29lead at the break. 
Oglesby, who had nine points in the first half, kept the pres­sure on after halftime. After East Carolina had closed to within 14 midway through the half. he knocked down a 3­pointer to answer the Pirates' push. 

.. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, December 6, 2007 
MLB 
Tigers, Marlins finalize huge eight-player deal 
Associated Press 
NASIIVILLE,Tenn.­l>ontrelln Willis was on vaca­tion in Mexico wlwn the block­bustnr dna! was completnd, and Migunl Cabrnra was honw in Vnrwzrwla. 
Tlwir rwxt stop is Detroit, wlwrn thn busy Tignrs arn building an awfully powerful tnam. 
Thn Tigers linalizPd their big lrad n with tlw Marlins on WPdnnsday, an Pight-player swap that sent both coveted All-Stars from cash-strapped Florida to go-for-broke Detroit. 
"I was caught off-guard." Willis said on a conference 1~all. "When I !ward wlwre I was going, I was eager and exeitnd." 
The Marlins rPceiwd a pack­age of six players, inrluding two highly ratnd prospects: ldt-handnr Andrew Miller and outl'inldnr Camnron Maybin. The tnams reaelwd a prnlimi­nary agnwnwnt Tuesday. with the deal subject to both sidns b11ing satisliml after exchang­ing nwdical nwords. 
Tlw Tigers also smrt catdwr Mike HabPio and right-banders Burkn Bac!Pnhop, Eulogio De 
l.a Cruz and Dallas Trahern to Florida in a huge tradn that d1W1~Ioped quickly and took the spotlight away from tlw Johan Santana swnnpstakes at base­ball's winter meetings. 
"The indusion of Dontrelle was not somnthing at the out­set that we had considered," Florida president of baseball operations Larry Beinfest said. "We recognize the market value for both playnrs." 
Detroit president Dave , Dombrowski didn't int1~1HI to p u r s u 11 t h P p a i r u n t i I h n re1:eivnd a surprisn phone call at home two days before Thanksgiving from ownnr Mike llitch, who read in a newspa­per that Cabrera was avail­abln. 
"I just wanted to kind of nrention his name, that he seems like he'd be a great play1H for us," II itch said, aceording to Dombrowski. 
"Wnll, he would be," Dombrowski rnmembered r11plying. 
Tlw dubs touched base a lit­tle bit Monday night, then Florida approached Detroit on Tuesday morning. The Marlins told the Tigers they could have both stars for those six players, tlwn Detroit caliNI back later in the day and agreed. 
"We made this trade to win now. It's obvilius," Dombrowski said. 
Tigers doser Todd Jones was more emphatio. 
"Wow. Those moves put us over the top," he wrote in an e­mail to Tho Associated Press. 
NFL 

Miami copes with losses 
Associated Press 

MIAMI -Zach Thomas walked onto the practice field Wednesday with a whistle around his neck, the bill of his cap tugged down low and his tight shorts yanked up high, a list of plays tucked in the waistband. 
"Now I'm coach Thomas," he said with a grin. 
"It's niee to see Zach hasn't lost his sense of humor," teammatn Jason Taylor said. 
If' any team could usn a laugh, it's the Miami Dolphins. Tho downward spiral in their winless season accelerated with a blowout loss Sunday against the woeful Nnw York .Jets, and postgame grumbling suggested eracks in team unity, which would be under­standable considering Miami's 0-12 record. 
Thomas' coaching getup gave the Dolphins reason to grin. The seven-time Pro Bowl linebacker was placed on injured reserve Tuesday because of recurring migraines, ending his season. but he wants to do what he can to boost spirits. 
"True colors eome out when things are going bad," Thomas said. "That's when you lind out the charaetnr of guys." 
A splintflred locker room would make the Dolphins even more susceptible to the NFL's first 0-16 finish. Four chances for victory remain, starting Sunday at frigid Buffalo. 

Through 11 ddeats, players remained remarkably upbeat, with none of the finger-point­ing that can plague bad teams. But after a 40-13 loss to the Jets. nose tackle Keith Traylor accused unspecified teammates of selfishness, and defensive taekle Vonnie Holliday said the team's will and charaetnr were wavering. 
Dissension? 

"People can snnse that, because it was a different gamn than thn other games," Thomas said. "It was an ugly game. Everything fell apart. 
"But nverybody is bouncing back. The lnadership on this team dons a great job with that." 
The leadership starts with in-laws Thomas and Taylor, the only players who have bonn Dolphins sinee the liJIJOs. But they'rn too eandid to prntPnd evnrything is rosy. 
COMI TO THI 10TH 
A UAL BA A 
BOUTJ TO 
IGHT 
starts at 6:00 in the auxiliary gym of the JACC 
TICKIT I 
All 


proceeds benefit schools 1n East Africa 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, December 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
Hea~ing to tk Jeat~t­cver tk Hcftttat breail 
Relax...Peggy has a waxing service to fit your needs! 
If you are hitting the beaches & warm weather this holiday season, you will need to get your legs looking soft &smooth! 
Peggy is a licensed aesthetician specializing in waxing services, LaRoche-Posay skin care products & Jane lredale mineral-based make-up. 

Our South Bend location is just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. 
From your face to your legs, our waxing services will have your9kin feeling smooth, soft & beautiful! 
Call Toda 
574.282.2020 

your 1st waxing service 25% 
when you mention this ad! 

MARCO'S Choose From 
• 
Italian 

• 
Steak & Cheese


Sub 
• Ham & Cheese 
99 
• Chicken Club 
• 
Veggie 

• 
Pizza Melt 


EACH

ONLY Free Delivery On Campus 
Minimum Order $8.00 For Delivery 
Limited time offer. Prices, tax, delivery areas & charges may vary by location. Excludes other offers. Good at participating locations only. 
SOUTH BEND 
52750 IN 933 (N. of Cleveland Rd.) 
(Serving Notre Dame & St. Mary's) 

• 
.574-243-1122
P1zza 

Vi~11 us on the Web at VvWW.marcos.com 02007 Marco's Franchising, LLC 5724(1}ND-1007 
NBA 

Finger injury still bothering LeBron · 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -LeBron James sat out his fourth game in a row Wednesday night because of a sprained left index finger, making this the longest injury absence of the Cleveland star's career. 
James, who did not speak to reporters before the game, was sitting on the sideline in street clothes when the game against the Washington Wizards began. 
The Cavaliers entered the day 0-3 without James and los­

ers of four con­"Stuff happens in the but didn't miss secutive games NBA. There are a lot consecutive to fall to 9-10. games.
ofteams missing
The reigning Shannon
multiple guys. " 
Eastern Brown scored a Conference .career-high 20 champions also Mike Brown points starting in have been James' place
Cavaliers coach 
playing without injured players Larry Hughes and Donyell Marshall. Plus, Anderson Varejao has been away during a contract stalemate that ended Wednesday, when Cleveland matched a $17 mil­lion, three-year offer sheet he signed with Charlotte. 
"By no way, shape or form do we want to play games minus LeBron. minus Larry, minus Andy, minus Donyell," coach Mike Brown said before Wednesday's game. "But stuff happens in the NBA. There are a lot of teams missing multiple guys." 
The Cavaliers were embar­rassed by New Jersey 100-79 
Tuesday night, and Brown crit­icized his players afterward for a lack of intensity. 
Asked Wednesday whether he stood by those comments, 

· the coach said: "Last night, I don't think we competed for an extended period of time, and that was part of the reason we ­got our behinds kicked." James was hurt a week ago at Detroit when Nazr Mohammed slapped at the ball as James attempted to shoot. James, in his fifth season, sat out four times last season because of a variety of injuries 
Tuesday. 
James leads the NBA in scoring average with ;30. 7 points. He's also averaging 7.6 rebounds and 
8.1 assists. 
"It's tough. Thn coach is struggling because he's trying to find new combinations. When LeBron is on the rloor, 80 percent of our offense runs through him. and we feed off of 
him  and  that's  why  we're  
good,"  center  Zydrunas  
Ilgauskas said.  

"But when you're missing that big part, all of a sudden you have to find the offense somewhere else. And some­times I think we try to do too much individually." · 
NFL 

Minnesota's Ed-wards suspended for steroids 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. ­Minnesota Vikings defensive end Ray Edwards has been sus­pended four games for violating the NFL's policy on steroid use. 
Edwards has been a starter for most of the season, but was replaced by Erasmus James for last Sunday's game against Detroit. Coach Brad Childress said that decision had nothing to do with Edwards' violation, which the coach learned of on Wednesday morning. 
Childress said he was disap­pointed in Edwards and could not comment further because of the confidentiality surrounding the policy. 
"It's disappointing, but there are policies in place and our players have to adhere to those policies," Childress said. "Every team goes through challenges as you go through the year. We'vp been through some of our own. It's an opportunity to have others step up." 
The Associated Press left a message with Edwards' agent, Doug Hendricks, seeking com­ment. 
The Vikings (6-6) will turn to James. rookie Brian Robison and Jayme Mitchell to fill in during Edwards' absence. The Vikings have won three games in a row to rebound from a 2-5 start and play at San Francisco (3-9) on Sunday. 
"I guess we're taking it about as good as a team can," Robison said. "We know things happen, and you just have to make sure that when things do happen, you just have to push through it and come together as a team and make sure we keep playing the way we're playing." 
Edwards is in his second year out of Purdue. The fourth­round draft pick has been one of the Vikings' most consistent performers at defensive end. 
He started the day second on the team in sacks, but jumped to the lead when the Elias Sports Bureau made a scoring change from the Lions game. Edwards hit quarterback Jon Kitna on the shoulder, forcing the ball to flutter into defensive end Kenechi Udeze's hands dur­ing a play that was initially ruled an interception. 
But on Wednesday, Elias announced it was changing tho scoring to give Edwards a sack -his fifth of the season -and Udeze a fumble recovery. Edwards also has 41 tacklns, including five tackles for loss, 22 quarterback hurries and a touchdown on a 9-yard fumbln return in Week 2 against Detroit. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, December 6, 2007 
NFL 
McNabb returns to practice 
Eagles quarterback backfrom ankle sprain 
Associated Press 
PIIILAI>I·:LPIIIA-Donovan 
McNabb has his mobility bark. 
and along with it. his starting 
spot. 
About thn rPrPplion hn'll 
rnrnivl' Sunday from fickle 
Philadnlphia Hagins fans. with 
whom hn's had a 1:anwr-long 
on-again. ol'f'-again r!dat.ion­
ship, tlw l'ivP-linw Pro Bowl 
quarlnrbark is unsurP and 
I'VI'Il a bit indiiTI'rnnl. 
1\kNahh rnturrwd to pr·a1·tir.n 
Wndnnsday for his l'irst full 
;vorkout s i ru· P s p r a i n in g his 
right ankll' and jamming his 
thumb in a victory ovl'r Miami 
two WPPks ago. 
"I do fPnl likn I'm rPady to 
play," MrNahh said hdor!' 
hPading oiT to prarli('(•, whirh 
was movPd indoors lwntUSI' of 
a light snowfall. 
As a tPam coming oiT a pair 
of disappointing loSSI'S With 
i\ ..1. FnPIPy dirPrling thP 
oi'I'Pnsl', !HlP would PXpnd 
1\I!'Nahh to rPrPiVP almost a 
hPro's WPiconH•. That's no surn 
Ihing, hoWI'VI'r, lwcausP somn 
fans Wl'f'f' !'ailing for McNabb's 
oust.nr wlwn tlw l~agiPs slrug­
giPd Parly-on. 
i\sknd whntlwr lw thought he would IH! rn o n• a p p rr~ c· iau~ d whPn tlw l·:agiPs takP on NFC l·:ast rival NPw York on Sunday, rvlcNahh jokingly rPplind, "Probably not." 
l.atnr. his l.orw got morP seri­ous. saying his past sur.1:nss spnaks for itsPif' and winning ganws is his goal. 
"It's rnally norw of' my eon­cPrn," Mc:Nabb said of crowd rnaction. "I can't wastn my nnnrgy worrying about how pPopln f'nnl about llll'. 
"I don't have anylh ing to prove. l'vp provnn a lot through my r.anwr.... Tlwrn is nothing I 1:an possibly do, at this particular point. bnsidns win ball ganws, for nw to make pnopln fnnl somn typn of way or to f'nnl lwllnr about rnn b1~ing in tlwrn. I don't gnl caught up in it, put it that way." 
Hngardlnss of' fan rnadion, McNabb's r!'lurn comes at a critical limn for a lPam smart­ing from loss to Nnw 1-:ngland and SnaltiP and in rwPd of a victory to k1wp its fading post­snason hop1~s alivP. 
"Donovan's our guy," said running hark Brian Westbrook, who missnd Wndrwsday's w o r ko u t w ilh a so r n krw n . "lin's a guy that wn'vn bP.nn through a lot of' wars with; a lot of' battlns. We'rp nxcitP.d that hn's lwalthy enough to !'omn bark and play and we're Pxpncting big things from him." 
Thn wnPks sinrP tho injury havn bnnn frustrating for M!'Nahb and troublnsonw for tlw l·:aglns. 
i\s hanl as hP tried, MrNabb couldn't n•gain Pnough move­nwnt in his ankiP to work his way back into thP lirwup. lin's ronlidnnt he did PVPrything lw rould to gPt hark onto tlw field ovnr tlw last two WPPks. 
"I think the way I tried to approa!'.h it is just to get myself' hnalthy to gnt back out on the l'ield," M1:Nabb said. "That's thn only thing that I could have possibly donn." 
M1:Nabh. who was semningly returning to form following last 
season's seven~ knee injury strong showing in the team's before getting injured, has 31-28 loss to New England regainnd P.nough mobility to overshadowed his three inter­satisfy eoach Andy Heid. ceptions. 
"I think that's thP. most Against Seattle, Feeley strug­important thing, that he can glnd, throwing four intercep­gel out of the way when he tions. including a pick down nP.eds to, and lw's able to do the stretch for the second that," Heid said. straight week 
That is a huge that cost the advantage for the Eagles a
"You want to do

Eagles against chance at a
whatever you can to

tlw Giants, who vie tory. racked up 12 help, but there is Watching sacks in the those losses
nothing I could have 

ll~ams' first nwP.t­p a i n e d
possibly done." 

ing this season. McNabb as NPw York ranks mueh as his SPCOIHI i11 lhP Donovan McNabb injuriP.s. NFC in total "You want to
Eagles quarterback 

dnl'ensn and has contribute," hn VPtPran dni'Pnsivn said. "It was end Mich;wl Strahan and Osi frustrating to see us lose like Unu'nyiora. who had tParn­that. You want to do whatnvPr rPrord six sacks the last limn you can do to help. but tlwn~ is tlH• teams nwt. nothing I eould have possibly 
I;PPiny handiPd lhP quarlnr­dorw. hack duliPs in McNabb's "What I wanted to do last absPncP, with mixPd rPsults -WPPk. I can do this week. and but without a vidory. llis that's lwlp us win this game." 
....,2f'".Ax: ·101' 

NOTRE··,··IDAME 
... ·· ...,. ·...::::.... . . . : :.·· 
·a··cw··· · ·s···m·'··,···oR···E·
..·.·K··

··:£:·::i0·3S·:~::w.~~:;s; 
I ~l iT H E. E: q K .rq E:: N :f tt;·• R phon~: {574) 631-6316 

-WHERE WE WILL BE OFFERING­FREE GIFT WRAPPING FOR ALL BOOKSTORE crVARSITY SHOP PURCHASES Ar 'I'l·IE ECK CEN'rER LCJCA'riON 
,'?19t:~.c 
COMPLIMENTARY REFRESHMENTS 
It's our Wt~J! ofsc~ying thanks! 
-WHEN & WHERE­
DECEMBER 6 & 7  DECEMBER 6 & 7  
8:00 AM  -10:00 PM  9:00AM-5:00PM  
HAMMES NOTRE 0AIY1E BOOKSTORE  VARSITY SIIOPS  
ECK CENTER  ] OYCE CENTER  

Where we will be offiring a 20% discount".* 
•EXCLUDES TEXTBOOKS, SOFTWARE. COMPUTER HARDWARE, AND PRCWESSIONAL REI'ERENCES WHERE APPLICABLE. HlJNIVERSITY ID REQUIRED. 


Thursday, December 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Four finalists selected for Heis111an 
Florida's Tebow hopes to befirst sophomore quarterback winner in 65 years 
strict weight classes, the Baraka Bout fights are paired
Baraka 
only by relative size and box­ing ability, as decided by the
continued from page 24 
captains. year. "We've got some novices 
"We raised about $4,000 -fighting senior captains and $5,000 last year," Endsley some novices fighting said. "We want to at least dou­novices," Endsley said. "We ble that." should have some really good 
The money fights." hasn't come or the 44 girls easily, though, fighting, 21 are as the fighters "We raised about sophomores or have been freshmen. The
$4,ooo-$s,ooo last 
working since high amount of
year. We want to at
the beginning underclassmen 
of September in least double that. " has Endsley preparation for optimistic about tonight. Whitney Endsley the future of the 
Practicing for organization.
Baraka Bouts president "Hopefully the
two hours everyday, the frnshm an and women have sophomores can been working on physical fit­continue carrying on the club ness and boxing skills. and knep it growing," shn said. 
"Because it's an introductory "The numbers have gone up club, most girls have ilo expe­every year, which is really rience before joining," Endsley encouraging." said. "It's a lot For now, to learn in just though. the girls two months." "Because it's an are concentrating 
Those two on tonight and
introductory club, 
months will the end of this
most girls have no
culminate at 6 season. tonight in the experience before "Our novices Joyce Center joining. look great. with 22 fights They've caught over five on really fast and 
hours. Unlike Whitney Endsley tomorrow they Bengal Bouts, Baraka Bouts president can showcase which is their skills in organized as a front of a crowd," tournament, each girl will only Endsley said. "Hopefully we get one fight to showcase her can raise a lot of money to abilities. send to East Africa, and have 
"Maybe sometime if we have a lot of fun." the numbers and we can organize a tournament that'd be great," Endsley said. Contact Sam Werner at 
Also, while the men have swerner@nd.edu 
Colt Brennan were the other 
Associated Press 
finalists. They will all be in New 
NEW YOHK -Florida quar­York on Saturday night when tnrback Tim Tebow, trying to the award is given to the top become tlw first sophomore to player in college football. win the Ilnisman Trophy, and "I think it's a good race," Arkansas running back Darren Brennan said at a news confer­McFadden, the runner-up for ence. "I think anybody can win last year's award. were among it. It's up to the voters. It will be thn four finalists selected interesting to see how it plays Wcdm~sday. out." 
Missouri quarterbaek Chase The lleisman race took a Daniel and llawaii quarterback while to develop this season and 
------------------------. 
Student Open Skate Sundav December 9,2007 
~ . 
/ -~ 6:00-8:00 pm 
r~~-=-~ Joyce Center Ice Rink 
Bring your ID FREE Skate Rental 
Open to Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
.k~~ 


seemed wide open until the last month when Tebow, McFadden and Daniel emerged as front­runners. 
Since the first Heisman was given to Chicago's Jay Berwanger in 1935, all 70 play­ers who have won college foot­ball's most prestigious award have been juniors or seniors. 
Tebow could break that trend. The ultimate dual-threat quar­terback, the 235-pound Tebow ran for 838 yards and an Southeastern Conference­record 22 touchdo\A11S. 
lie's also the nation's second­leading passer. having complet­ed 68 percent of his throws for 3,132 yards, with 29 touch­downs and just six interceptions in his first season as a starter. 
Tebow's already had a his­
toric season. becoming the first 
major college player to run for 
20 touchdowns and throw 20 
TD passes in the same season. 
"lie has done things that no 
one else in college football has 
been able to do and I hope peo­
ple realize the magnitude of his 
accomplishments," Florida 
coach Urban Meyer said in a 
statement. 
McFadden was one of the preseason favorites after finish­ing second to Ohio State quar­terback Troy Smith last year. His candidacy lagged with a mediocre October, but he gave 
himself a boost with a spectacu­

'-----------------------......1 Jar November. 



CELEBRATE THE 
LY CROSS TRADillON 
With this rich, vibrant, daily meditation book -perfect for .....g1v1ng. 
Ihigb(r recommend this wonder.fulnew hook, The Cross} Our Only Hope) tt~JiciJ encapsulatqs so mcm.v hojJes anti dreams abourtbework of HOQ' Cross and the ittspiralion ofourjounde" Ft: Basil Moreau, C.S.C. 
THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C. President Emeritus. The Universitv of Notre Dame 
.. •' 

l'hcse contributors will be available at various times during the book-signing event: 
Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C. Theodore M. Hesburgh~ C.S.C. Patrick M. Neary, C.S.C. Thomas Blantzj C.S.C. Peter.htrret' C.S.C. Edwin H. ObE·rmiller, C.S.C. Jim Bracke, CS.C. John Jenkins) C.S.C. Dan Parrish, C.S.C. ,Gary S. Chamberland, C.S.C. James H. Kingl C.S.C. Mark I. Poorman, C.S.C. John Conley, C.S.C. Edward A. Mallov~•' C.S.C. Hob Pelton. C.S.C. Alfred D'Alonzo, C.S.C. Pat Malonev, C.S.C. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C. Peter McCormick) C.S.C Kevin Russeauj C.S.C. (,e1 I·1e ('o 'kl.,('.•.,S...('' James E. McDonald1 C.S.C. Kevin P. Spicer, C.S.C.
. .1 r:s · Kevin Grove, C.S.C. Aaron Michka, C.S.C. David T. Tyson, C.S.C. Ralph Haag, C.S.C. Wilson D. Miscamblel C.S.C. 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14TH 1:00-4:00 P.M. HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Complimentary refreshment) will be served! !SB\: 9781594711626 I 512 pages I $16.95 
ave maria press' • Notre Dame, Indiana • www.avemariopress.com
Books also available at Ave Maria Press 
E-mail: avemoriopress.l@nd.edu • Ph: 1-800-282-1865 • fax: l-800-282-5681 !orated across from Moreau Seminary. 
A Mini~try of the Indiana Province of. Holy Cross 
Thursday, December 6, 2007 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Allen 
continued from page 24 
onto a two-point lnad. Aehter nailed both fnw throws to tiH tlw ~amn, but then Allen rPspondPd with more dramat­ics. 
Earlinr in ov1~rlinw. Allnn took a pass from Irish ~uard Tulyah (;airws lwyond tlw are and nailnd her first :{-point bas­knt of the night -three of her 17 points -to put thfl Irish up IG-HO. Falcons forward Crystal Murdau~h sank two free throws, but Irish guard Mnlissa Lnehlitrwr ~~ould not match her on tlw otlwr end of the court, hitting only orw of lwr shots to kenp Bowling GrPen within two points. 
But in the end. Allen's final shot was the mw that mattnrnd. 
Me<;raw said she thought Allnn startnd oil' uncharaeteris­tically slow, but pirked up her game in tho second half. 
"She n~ally came on I thought in the second half," McGraw said. 
In tho final minutes of regula­tion, Irish guard Lindsay Schrader knpt tlw Irish ahead by seoring six straight points for Notre Danw to givn the Irish a 74-h'J lnad with only I:04 
rnmainin~. 
"They worn playing zonn. We got to lwr in tlw post. She was abh~ to takP it to tlw baskPI. and she got somo really good looks," McGraw said of Schradnr. "Siw madn some rnally hu~n plays in tlwrn to knPp us going and she did a grnat job on tlw boards." 
Sehradnr finislwd with 17 points and 12 rnbounds for the gamn's only doublo-doubln. 
But a :{-point baskl't for Falcons guard Sarah ClapJwr and two fouls on Irish guard Ashlny Barlow gav1~ Bowling (;rPPn bark thosP livn points, tying tlw scorn with I 7 snconds 
n~maining. 
Notrn Danw playPd for thn last shot and gavP the ball to Allen with thn ganw on thn linn. But Falcons enntnr Tara Brnskn blockPd Allnn's attnm pt to send tlw ganw to ovPrtinw. 
Notrn Damn lwld 10-point loads in both halves but was rwvnr ahlP to put the Falcons away. McCraw said one part of the rnason for this is that the 
Calvin 
continued from page 24 
tho floor is just tnrrible," Kammrath said. "I don't why at home... it's just a lot of frus­tration -nothing fell. You have to knop shooting regard­loss, but just nothing fPII." 
Aftor trailing 2H-1 b at the break, .Jennifer llnnley hoped hnr squad could lind its shot and ro-commit to the game plan or pushin~ the ball down the floor with junior point guard Megan Conaty. 
Conaty could fend 

Faleons are a better team than most on Notre Dame's early schedule. 
"But playing at home, they had a big crowd, a lot of noise," McGraw said. "They're unde­feated so they had confidence and they had more eonfidencn because we let them stay in the game with us." 
Anotlwr reason the Irish could not put away Bowling (;rnen in the first half was the play or frnshman guard Lauren Prochaska. She came into the game shooting only 31 pnre<mt from beyond the are but went 5-for-5 from 3-point land Wednesday en route to scoring I H points. 
Tlw frPshman was a non-fac­tor in the second hall' al'tnr notching lwr fourth foul only 17 s<H~onds into tlw second period and her lifth with 2:59 left in wgulation. 
Prochaska was one of four Falcons in double figures Wedrwsday night, along with guard Katn Aehtnr (20 points), Murdaugh (14) and Breske (10). 
Notr<~ Dame had three play­ers in double-digit scoring othnr than Allen and Schrader: for­ward Devereaux Peters (14 points), guard Brittany Mallory (12) and Barlow (1 0). 
"We ~~an score. The problmn is: Can we stop people?" McGraw said. "Barlow didn't have a great game but man­aged to got 10 points.... But then you've got two freshmen in double figures with Brittany and Devereaux. 
In the first half they made a lot of big shots for us." 
Early in the first half. Bowling Gmen amassed an eight-point lead on Notre Dame before the Irish fought baek. Down 22-17 with 10:03 to play, Notre Dame tore ofl' a 10-0 run, marked by back-to-baek 3-pointers from Mallory -McGraw's perimeter spndalist. 
"llnr shots were key for us in that run in the first half," McGraw said. "She's doing hn"r job. She's doing what we want her to do." 
But after her team's biggest road win of the season, McGraw still feels her team has a lot to work on. 
"I was really disappointed in our defense," she said. "Especially in the first half we wen~ not able to guard them at the 3-point line at all. The noise was so loud we wern not able to communieate at all and we lost them sometimes. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

plan saw the Bolles make 12 llnnley said. "There's a reason of tlwir 13 second-half free why they're ranked near the 
throw attPmpts  top  of  the  
after going to  country.  
the linn twice in  just the  "You have to bring your  Calvin's a good team.  
first half. "!Calvin I did a good job of knnping their  'A' game every night, and tonight we didn't do that. "  It's just if our shots would have fallen in the  
composure,  first  half,  
running offense, milking  their and the  Jennifer Henley Belles coach  maybe it's a different story."  
eloek,  which  And,  if  
put  us  in  a  bit  the  Belles  

of a hurry-up offnnse. We have anything so say about it, looked to drive it will be when the two teams and hopefully meet again on Jan. 23 in draw thn foul, Grand Rapids. which we did do As for now, Saint Mary's will 
Kammrath "There's a reason why a couple of turn to Saturday's game and junior times, but we against Tri-State, another
they're ranked near
Erin Newsom could've dorw it conference foe. 
to open the top ofthe country." a lot more. We "Weleome to the MIAA; opportunities needed a little that's what it's all about," for duel­hnlp from the Henley said. "You have to
Jennifer Henley
thrnats stripes on that bring your 'A' game every
Belles coach
Alison Kossler and Katie Has hid. 
"We want­ed to try and· attack in the second half, make thnm foul us so we could seore with the clock stopped." said Henley, whose are allowed to call coaches whenever they want.
Recruit 
Frank said hn thinks Notre Dame's No. 1 recruiting rank~continued from page 24 

ing will probably hold up until players a sense of ownership signing day, unless Southern of the tPam. California gets snveral late 
"They've gone a very good commitmonts -which, hn job of keeping the players said, is highly likely. informed," said Mike Frank, "If anybody eatehcs !Notre who runs lrishEyes.eom, the Dame! it will probably be Notre Dame recruiting sito on USC," Frank said. "USC contin­the Scout.eom network. ues to get commitments from 
Frank also groat player said that Weis after great and the Irish player." assistant coach­"Recruiting is just Notre Dame's 
es have formed current com­
like sales. You've got 
good relation­mitment list 
ships with thn to build relationships includes nine parents and with people." offensive play­high school ers: quarter­coaches of the back l>ayne
Mike Frank
prospects on Crist; running 
Scout.com
their list, whieh back .Jonas 
means the play­ers aren't feel­ing pressure to start looking elsewhere. 
"Recruiting is just like sales," Frank said. "You've got to build relationships with people. I think the results of them building these relation­ships with the families and the high school coaches gives them the opportunity to say 'Here are the reasons you chose Notre Dame and they're still here. Nothing's changed."' 
But Weis, who by NCAA rules cannot mnntion spneif1c recruits or high schools, cred­its the players thnmselvns ­many of whom have already formed friendships with their fnllow Irish commits. 
"They've already got rela­tionships going," he said. "They ean't bark out on their friends. They'rn already dose with a whole buneh or these guys." 
Weis said at most one or two players will enroll at Notrt~ Dame narly, meaning the team could take up to 27 players this year -leaving prneious l'ew spots to l'inish out the class. Frank said thn Irish are still in the market for at least one more wide recnivnr, oiTen­sive lineman and defensive lineman or linebacker. 
Players cannot sign binding letters of intent until National Signing Day in February, but those who enroll oarly are essentially exempt from the rule. 
Notre Dame already has one player planning on coming to South Bend in .January ­del'ensivn lineman Sean Cwynar from Woodstock, Ill. 
Among the 17 high school players that will b1~ attending Notre Dame's football banquet this weekend is offensive line­man Trevor Robinson from Elkhorn, Neb. Robinson is deciding between Nebraska, Michigan and Notre Dame and would like to enroll early wherever he goes. 
The other 16 players attnnd­ing the banquet have already verbally committed to Notre Dame. 
Weis' single-minded focus on recruiting will em! Dflc. 17. because NCAA rules severely limit contact between coaches and high school recruits dur­ing the holidays and bowl sea­son. 
Right now, college coaehns can call players on the phone, invite them to campus for ofli­eial visits -whieh means the player's travel expenses are paid by the school -and visit their high schools. But between Dec. 17 and the American Football Coaches Association Convention on .Jan. 9, coaches are only allowed to call once a week and cannot meet with players face-to-face. 
Players, on the other hand, 
Gray; wide 
r e c e i v n r s 

Michael Floyd and John Goodman; tight ends Kyle Hudolph and Joseph Fauria; and offensive linemen Lane Clelland, Mike Golic, Jr. and Braxton Cavn. 
The Irish also have 12 defen­sive players committed: defen­sive baeks Robert Blanton, .Jamoris Slaughter and Dan McCarthy; linebackers David Posluszny, Darius Fleming, Anthony McDonald and Stevfl Filnr; and defensive linemen Ethan .Johnson, llal'is Williams, Brandon Newman, Omar lluntnr and Cwynar. 
Seout.rom rates four of the playprs as "five-star" mcruits, the highnst rating it givns. None is ratnd lower than "three stars." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Pacific Coastnade Pracznts The King of the Blua! 


Liver in This Moment Tour Sonday March 9 • 7:00PM Morris Performing flrts Ccznter 
0" SfllE Saturday D<rC1lmbllr 81 GROUP SfllES: 574/D5-9190 
one." 
Even when Kessler did get something going, Calvin 

always seemed to grab that extra offensive rebound or foree that final errant pass. 
"They had an answer," 
night, and tonight we didn't do that -especially in the first half. We just had too mueh to dig out of. and Calvin had an answer for everything we did tonight." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Thursday, December 6, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ1JJOO®J1JJ:. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 
C.AN Yo» ~H..IEVIO iliE f>Nl Y R!'A$DN n41S Go-VV! HE TAKI:S ANYoiJE'1 HV.Itl> FIFTEEN MIIJUTES ~F-1-\11'\ IC:. 13EU.,VS6 
FAI"If At-111 Tll~i'!S oF 'f!-<AT G-ob,A.WF'Vl 1"\o"IE:,H~W~
INTO A t,AUE~ 1 
PEt>PL~ IWAT"LH T/-lAT?~.,...--­

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LORBI 
I I I 

©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

j .._/<--<-.­
SYSMO 
·.···,c:;:7 ....
(] [ 
---....__ Nice job. you pass
tSWILEY 


HOW Ht= PER­
IJ I tJ 
FORMED IN THE 
www.jumble.com 
l-IFEGUARD TE5T. 


TASTES LIKE FAILURE RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
MAN, ACTUALLY 
COMING UP 
WITH CLEAN 

COMIC STJPS IS TOUGH .... 
REUGIOUS FIGURES. ALCOHOL. AND SEX CAN'T BE THE ONLY FUNNY THINGS IN THE 
WORlD. 

CROSSWORD 

Across 27 W.W. II fighting,''Thou art not with "the"lovelier than 
30Hugh_,
_,-no" 
successor to(Millay sonnet Louis V as kingstart) of France7 Make even 33 Kind of cup 10 Neighbor of 34 Les poissonsAfghanistan: swim in it

Abbr. 35 Charter 

13 Cadillac model 36 Folk wisdom, 
14 ..... jam part 2 15 Word with pick 37 Doggone or pack 38 Nabokov novel 
16 With 55-Across, 39 Biblical prophetdescription of thrown23-, 36-and 44­overboard by his Across shipmates17 Wither 40 Formal dress 
19 Atlanta's shoes 
Center 

41 Sane 20 College square 
43 Norwegian coin 22 Playwright 
44 End of the folk Edward and 
wisdom others 

49 Obliquely 23 Beginning of 
51 Bishoprics

some folk wisdom 52 Old Eur. domain 26 Clod buster 53 Cutout to fill in 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
59 Corrida combatants 60 Have 61 Shade of blue 62 Makeshift hatrack 
Down " ... _man put asunder" 
(wedding words) 2 "_tobe alone" (words attributed to 
Greta Garbo) 3 Wee, quickly 4 Exact proper 
divisor, in math 5 Part of a contract 6 French 
legislature 7 Spanish aunt 8 Incised printing 
method 9 Pendant place 1 0 Bit of wishful 
thinking 11 Yearn 12 Phi Beta Kappa 
mementos 13 Webster's, e.g.: Abbr. 18 Melancholy woodwind 21 Medicinal cardiac stimulant 24 Syngman _, first president of South Korea 25 The last Pope 
Paul, e.g. 28 Infield cover 29 Heavenly orbs 30 Scorch 
THE LAST NEW, 
GENUINELY FUNNY, 
BUT INOFFENSIVE JOKE WAS MADE AROUND...OH .... 1310 

WILLSHORTZ 
Puzzle by Susan Harrington Smith 
31 She dies with 40 Do some Radames advance organizing
32 Talk, talk, talk 42 Ayatollah's home 33 Robert of 'The 
43 Titania's 
39 Steps" 
husband 
36 Teflon, e.g. 45 Dividing membranes 
37 Any Sonny and 
46 When doubled, 
Cher song 
comforting 39 Bumps on a ride words 

47 Cause for an erasure 48 Fighters for Jeff Davis 49 Regarding 50 Pack 
54 Powell's co-star in "The Thin Man" 
56 Speed: Abbr. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
tGANTEMj 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rx 
1 1 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

"(X I I I XX I JJJ" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's Jumbles: CABLE FORTY OUTING LAGOON 
Answer: What she got from her new hairstyle ­A "BANG" OUT OF IT 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Frankie Muniz, 22; Margaret Cho, 39; Morgan Brittany, 57; Little Richard, 75 
Happy Birthday: You are so likeable this year that it will be hard for others to deny you whatever you want. A push to follow through with a goal you have will be successfuL Some changes may come as a surprise but you should be able to turn anything you face into something positive. Your numbers are 6, 19, 26, 29, 35,47 
ARIES (March 21-AprU 19): You can expand your interests, knowledge and plans. Traveling to oew places or trying new things will help you see your current situation more clearly. Emotions may run high today. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Opportunities will come to you through the most unlikely sources. You will be io a passionate mood, so put time aside to spend with someone you love. Be straight about the way you feel and what you want. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put every ounce of energy into what you need to complete. Talking about your intentions will not suffice when people are waiting to see the end result. A unique approach to an old project will probably save the day. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Everything is going much better than you think, so lighten up and relax. Let things unfold naturally without complaints or negative thoughts. Don't be afraid to try something new or to make a change along the way. 5 stars LEO (Jnly 23-Aug. 22): Some people may find you entertaining and fun but someone you are close to may be a little upset if you aren't attentive or don't do your share of the duties. You may be a party person today but don't let it ruin a good relationship. 2 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You are better off concentrating on work and getting ahead. Someone may try to slow you down by dumping additional responsibili­ties in your lap. Prepare to opt out even if it means a cooling off of your relation­ship. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get all worked up over nothing when you have so much going for you. A new look at an old idea will inspire you to take it to the next level. Love is in the picture so give tender loving care. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone may try to stand in your way or take over something you've been working hard to complete yourself. Don't back down: Stand up and take ownernhip. A hidden asset or matter will help you out. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Now is not the time to be greedy or self­centered. Yon can get ahead but only ifyou are willing to help others. Now is the time to give back; if you keep taking, someone will challenge you or stop you in your tracks. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't mix business with pleasure. Stick to basics and the simpler solutions and you will stay in control. If you don't play by the rules, you are likely to face the wrong kind of change from authoritative indi­viduals. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't trust everyone. Keep a tight hold on your money and refuse to let anyone talk you into investing in something that isn't your cup of tea. It's time you came up with a game plan that will lead to a better future. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put everything you've got into something you be­lieve in. Taking on a challenge will help to raise your self-esteem and show othern what you are made of. Don't go overboard, however. The Jess complicated you make things, the better. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, original and a troubleshooter. You are steadfast and determined yet flexible and appreciative of others. You are a true friend and a passionate lover. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, December 6, 2007 
page 24 
BARAKA BOUTS 

Showcasing their skills 
Women's boxing will raise nwneyfor charity 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writn 

Toni!{ht. 44 Notrn Damn women will put on the gloves and light in thn annual Baraka Bouts wonwn's boxing compe­tition. 
"These girls have come a long way," Baraka Bouts prns­idnnt Whitnny Endslny said. "We'rn rnally nxdtnd to allow tlwm to showcase their skills." 
While BPngal Bouts raises rnonny for lloly Cross missions in Ban!{ladesh, Baraka Bouts helps schools in nastnrn /\f'ri1:a. Thn organization f'undraisl!s through nwrchan­disn sales, ticket sales and an nvnnt known as the "Power flour." During ttw I'ower IIour, which took placn Nov. 1, the lighters competed to see how many push-ups, sit-ups or jumping jacks they can do in 60 minutns -and received donations for naeh repntition. 
"Tiwy'rn rnquimd to raisn at least $100, but wn've had sornn girls this year who've raisnd upwards of' $500 or $600." Endsley said. 
In total. the organization hopns to raisn $10,000 this 
see BARAKA/page 21 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's falls to Calvin in ho111e opener 
Belles fail to win despite center's thirteen points and nine rebounds 
By MAfT GAMBER Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's sophomorn cen­ter Anna Kammrath summnd up Wcdrwsday's frustrating 67­!i2 honw-opPning loss to Calvin tho only 
way shn (or any othnr B o I I o l could. 
"It was j II S l 0 IW 0 f' thoso nights," s a i d 


Kammrath, Kammrath who talliPd I:~ points and nirw rPbounds in thn dni'Pat. "What ran you do?" Nol much else could be said af'tpr a gamP in which thn Belles managed to hit only onn of llwir 20 3-point attompts and shoot 2X pPrTnnt from tlw floor. T lw pP r form an en was n 't what .Jpnnifer IIPnlny hoped for or expneted from lwr tal­entPd squad. nspndally not for 
its lirst home game with a con­ference opponent. 
"It wasn't necessarily Calvin's ddense as much as us having an ofT night," Henley said of her team's countless failed attempts to score from the field. 
To thn visiting Knights' cred­it, their bench trampled that of the Belles, outscoring it 25-4 and keeping the hosts from recovering f'rom a horrendous f'irst half' (7-of-36 from the l'inldl. Timely defense, time­eonsuming ball movement and the dominating presence of forward Marcia Harris (23 points, 11-12 on free throws) helped Calvin build a 24-point lead midway through t.he sec­ond half. 
"This was huge for us." Hoss said. "This is a vory difficult place to play and this is a vnry talented Saint Mary's team. I>ofonse was the wholo key for us tonight ... WP. try to stick to our principles, and we know that if' we do that. wo'll be OK." 
That tlwy were, especially af'tcr a 13-0 run that spanned more than nine minutes and gave the Knights a 21-7leact. 
"You know, 29 percent from 
see CALVIN/page 22 
FooTBALL 
Coaching staff hits the road 
Weis continues to find top recruits for ND 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis has a long list of things to do before next season. 
But right now, he's concen­trating on just one of them. 
''I'm recruiting," Weis said Monday, after staying on the road talking to high school players most of last week. "That's what I'm doing." 
So far, Weis' commitment to recruiting has paid off. Tlw Irish havP the No. 1 class in the nation according to Scout.com, with 21 verbal commitments -seven of whom arn in the Web site's top 100 national prospncts. 
And that elass has stayed in tact -in fact, it has grown ­during the team's :~-9 season. 
One of the reasons for that is how well Weis and his staff keep in touch with recruits. They sent commits almost daily c-mails during the sea­son to detail the inner work­ings of the team and give the 
see RECRUIT/page 22 

ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Allen leads Irish to victory 
Guard nails 15foat jump slwt at buzzer during OT against Bowling Green 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associare Sports Ediror 

Charel Allen refused to lose. 
With 0.8 seconds remaining in overtime, the Notre Dame guard nailed a 15-f'oot jumper to give the Irish an 86-84 win over Bowling Green Wednesday night. 
"They tried to double team her, she just kept the ball and kept her poise. She watched the clock, watched it tick down and shot it pretty much right at the buzzer," Irish coach Mum~t McGraw said in a phone interview after the game. "I thought it was an outstanding ell'ort at the end of the game." 
After the ensuing in-bounds play failed to give the Faleons a quality scoring chance, Notre Dame celebrated its second straight overtime win over Bowling Green. Last year's match-up in the Joyce Center endnd in an 85-81 Irish win. 
Prior to the game-winning shot. Allen had fouled Falcons point guard Kate Aehter with the Irish holding 
see ALLENIpage 22 






