
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Pipebursts,I..ibraty doses for 6 hours 
Flooding damages 1,500 books, employees race to preserve materials 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Water flooded from the third floor of the Hesburgh Library to the basement after a pipe burst Monday morning, damaging approximately 1,500 books on the second floor, said Nigel Butterwick, associate director for user services at the library. 
Water was "cascading" from the ceiling of the second floor on the west side of the building when Associate Vice President for News and Information Don Wycliff arrived shortly after the flooding was discovered. 
Fire alarms went off throughout the building shortly after 9 a.m., Butterwick said, most likely due to a short circuit caused by the water that created smoke and a "smoldering situation." 
When library staff members left their offices to evacuate, they discovered water was dripping down from the ceiling on the second floor. The scene was "pretty disastrous," Butterwick said. 
"When we came in here, there was water all 
see FLOOD/page 4 

Students embrace ND's tnission in Africa 

Plastic sheets cover book stacks on the second floor of Hesburgh Library Monday after a pipe burst, causing water to flood from the third floor. 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
News Writer 
After the Notre Dame Forum on global health in the fall and University President Father John Jenkins' recent trip to Uganda, it's no wonder students across campus have become caught up in the fervor to lend a helping hand to Africa. 
Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NOMOI) Assistant Director Tim Lyden pitched a series of forums to the Student Senate and the Hall Presidents' Council last week to facilitate dialogue between the Initiative and intrigued student<;. 
Representatives from the NOMOI student advisory council will visit residence halls this semester for round-table conver­sations that will introduce stu­dents to the NDMDI and also enable them to make proposi­tions. 
Lyden said the student advisory council -a team of 21 students well-informed in Sub-Saharan African affairs -will present the Initiative's skeleton and Notre Dame's partner village, Nindye, in central Uganda. 
But after those formalities are tackled, Lyden said he hoped questions would lead to argu­ments exploring economic devel­opment in Africa, the importance of empowerment over imposition in service interventions and the 
see AFRICNpage 4 


Transfer student runs for vice president 
Weiss is running for vice 
By BECKY HOGAN a ticket with
president on 

News Writer 
current Alumni Hall senator 
Danny Smith. 

Junior Ashley Weiss has She said she decided to been a student at Notre transfer to Notre Dame Dame for a little more than because she wanted to be 
two semes­part of a campus that ters -and included a communityif elected atmosphere. on Feb. 12, "I was looking for a strong she will be Catholic tradition and a uni­the fourth fied community aspect,"transfer Weiss said. "That was some­student in thing I didn't have previous­
,

University !y.history to Since she arrived at Notre serve as Dame for the spring semes­student body vice president. 
see WEISS/page 6 



Junior Patrick Reidy spent eight weeks in Africa through the Center for Social Concerns Summer Service Learning Program. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Dems travel to capital 
ByJOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
For many Democrats, the opportunity to meet and greet with the Democratic presidential candidates in 2008 would be a dream come true. For the Notre Dame College Democrats, this dream became a reality over the weekend at the annual Democratic National Committee (DNC) Winter Meetings in Washington, D.C. 
The meetings, the last offi­cial gathering of the DNC before the 2008 convention, provided delegates from throughout the country and leaders of both College Democrats and Young Democrats with the opportu­nity to meet presidential hopefuls and to discuss issues relevant to the party's platform. 
Candidates Joe Eiden, Wesley Clark. llillary Clinton, Chris Dodd. John Edwards, Dennis Kucinich, Barack Obama, Bill Hichardson and Tom Vilsack all gave speech­es and met with representa­tives from the College Democrats nationwide this weekend. 
The most well known can­didates made the biggest splash early at the meetings, as Clinton, Edwards and Obama all spoke on the con­vention's first day. 
Obama was greeted with a supportive response, espe­cially from the meeting's younger delegates. 
see DEMOCRATS/page 3 

Keough-Welsh Family win Olympics 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 
The Keough-Welsh Family team reclairried its title as reign­ing Late Night Olympics champi­ons last weekend, bringing its record to seven wins over the past eight years. 
Winning five of the 17 events helped the Keough-Welsh Family team edge the competition, said Welsh Family Hall athletic com­missioner Stephanie Bendinelli. Last year they lost to the MBA team. 
Keough-Welsh Family took first with 2,616 points, followed by the MBA Association team with 1,559 points, and the O'Neill­Lyons team with 1,285 points. 
see LNO/page 6 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Snow, ice and joy 
This might sound sappy, but I love this weather. 
l know. We-risk hypothermia every time we go to class, to eat or to work out. I know that every other step, we slip on the ice. And I know that in John-Paul Witt this sub-zero weather, we can't 
News Wire 
even make snow­
Editor
balls. Yet, walking 
to St. Ed's from South Dining Hall at 3 a.m., I was mesmerized. 
I always try to work late at The Observer, because that time, the predawn hours, is my favorite time of the day. It's right before the snow plows start their early shifts, when all the walks are white and unsalted. The vista kindles something in my heart, seeing Father Sorin, Jesus and Mary wearing robes of white. 
I think because I'm from Miami, Fla. and I never saw snow before my fresh­man year here, being surrounded by a world of white makes me a child again. I see an untrod field of foot­deep snow, and I can't help but to walk through it. I like the sound my shoes make as they compress the snow under me, and the lightness of it. How the slightest touch brushes mil­lions of tiny crystals aside. Beautiful, but fragile. 
Sometimes I feel that this fragility can affect us -the cold seeps through our many layers, external and inter­nal. For example, for us non-coffee drinkers, it's difficult to make a com­mute from the DPAC to say, North Dining Hall, without looking like a Mestrovic sculpture. 
But also, winter is the time when people are the loneliest, especially when it's cold and dark. That once­friend from Frosh-0 you passed after dinner could be having a hard time. I know it's not the Christmas season, but, perhaps a little extra cheer from those capable of it could go a long way towards getting us through these cold and gloomy months. 
One thing I do regret about this sea­son is the difficulty inherent in visiting friends across campus. The walk is perilous at best, and the many memo­ries one could create are squandered, victims to air that will freeze the hair­spray right out of your head. 
Granted, the excuse you used for missing your 8:30a.m. lecture seems to disappear when there's a possibility to eat, drink and be merry. No matter how far TC is from Fisher, or how bad the roads are between D-6 and Fever. But, like all things in life, it requires effort! Theodore Roosevelt admired the people who are "in the arena." Friendship is an arena, but only a few have the fortitude to brave the cold for non-charitable ends (here's looking at you, Siegfried). 
My last world to you jaded Chicagoans and Clevelanders, veterans of many winters, is that I understand you may think I'm too sentimental. But the way you feel about sunny beaches and crashing waves, is how I feel about Notre Dame in the darkest, deepest winter. 
God bless us, that we have the chance to be here. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at }witt1@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 6, 2007 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU TITLE YOUR AUTOBIOGRAPHY? 









"Ghost Ride: "Sex and The "Real Woman of "Coyle: The "Beware ofGifts "Grilled Cheese Get out ofthe City ofGod. " Genius: Tales Man, The Myth, Bearing Greek." Sandwiches, 
way, let Casper drive." 

City could get rubber sidewalks 
PHILADELPHIA -A Philadelphia official wants the city council to look at whether the city's side­walks should be made of rubber. 
City councilman Jim Kenney recently toured Chicago to see environmen­tally-friendly city projects there. He came back with a number of ideas on which he plans to hold hearings. 
One is using rubber for sidewalks. 
No, don't expect to see people bouncing down the street. Kenney says the rubber is very solid ­
TODAY 
r::r:: 

from the The Legend. " Popcorn 
Machine." 
probably harder than a running track. 
lie says rubber sidewalks are made from recycled tires. They don't crack, and they last longer than con­crete. 
Gambler gives birth on casino floor 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.-A woman playing the penny slots Saturday morning left the Hesorts Atlantic City casino with her own little jackpot-a new baby boy. 
Eight-months pregnant Nyree Thompson, 32, went into labor on the casino 11oor about 9:30a.m. 
Thompson said she mis-

TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 

Bengal Bouts fighters "warm down" after practice in the pit of the Joyce Center Monday. The Bouts begin Feb. 21 at 6:30 p.m. in the JACC. 
OFFBEAT 
took labor pains for gas at first, but after going to the restroom told a security guard that she might be giving birth. 
Thompson said the guard thought she was joking. Then her water broke. 
"A guard came over and said, 'Don't push,"' Thompson said. "I said, 'Forget you, this baby is coming right now!"' 
Minutes later, a boy weighing less than 5 pounds was born. Thompson named him Qualeem. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
LLI 
:c 
!;;: 
LLI 

3: 
..... 
<
(.) 


0 HIGH 7 HIGH 0 HIGH 10 HIGH 13
..... 
LOW -5 LOW -10 LOW -3 LOW 3 
The Greeks and Life's Other Insoluble Mysteries." 

IN BRIEF 
Visiting professor of political sci­ence Alejandro Poire will give a lecture entitled "Does Public Funding of Political Parties Improve Governance? Evidence from Mexico's States" today at 
12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center, Room C-103. 
Samuel Gregg, director of Research at the Acton Institute for the Study of Heligion and Liberty, will give a lecture entitled "Beyond Legal Compliance: The Moral Life & Business" today at 6 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. 
As part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival, former poet lau­reate of Queens, New York, Hal Sirowitz will read today at 8 p.m. in the Oak Room at South Dining llall. 
As part of the Notre Dame Literary Festival, essayist and humorist David Rakoff will speak Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the La.Fortnne Ballroom. 
The academic forum "Ragtime 100 Years Later: Defining Our Generation's American Dream" will be held at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday in Washington Hall. Five campus speakers will com­ment on the themes of the musical "Ragtime." The event is free of charge and is co-hosted by the student groups Shades of Ebony and Wabruda. 
Efraim lnbar, Professor of Political Studies at Bar-IIan University, will give the lecture "Israel's Security Environment" Thursday at 8 p.m. in Room C­1 03 of the Hesburgh Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer; e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 18 HIGH 20 LOW 7 LOW 2 
Atlanta 47 I 23 Boston 261 7 Chicago 8 I 4 Denver 49 I 27 Houston 66 I 45 Los Angeles 75 I 50 Minneapolis 8 1 -9 New York 24 I 11 Philadelphia 24 I 9 Phoenix 78 I 49 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 30 I 13 Tampa 66 I 42 Washington 26 1 9 

Tuesday, February 6, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Event no-shovvs to be charged sn1all price 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) members dis­cussed fining students a small fee if they sign up for an event but don't show up and do not inform the hosting organization. 
"We're just going to be charg­ing a small fee in hopes that [students] will be responsible and call us [to tell us they aren't going]," student body president Susan Mcllduff said at the board's meeting Monday night. 
This new rule is taking effect after the group analyzed the attendance of both the Heritage Week Dinner and the last Chicago bus trip. 
After all the tickets for space on the two buses had been picked up, about three quarters of the students did not attend the Student Government Association sponsored trip, Mcllduff said. 
The same thing happened with the Heritage Dinner-138 peo­ple signed up to eat in a room with a 120-person capacity and there were more on the waiting list for the evening. 
"We didn't call people on the waiting list because we were already over capacity," Mcllduff said. "People ended up not 
De01ocrats 
continued from page 1 
"Obama has a huge follow­ing in the youth community and he gave a great speech that resembled his speech at the convention in 2004," Notre Dame College Democrats co-president Helen Adeosun said. 
John Edwards was also impressive at the mini-con­vention, she said. 
"People were really super­charged by Edwards," Adeosun said. "He really motivated and fired up the crowd with a question and response-style speech." 
Freshman Matt Molloy went on the trip to Washington, 
D.C. as well and agreed that Obama and Edwards lived up to their hype. 
"I thought Obama and Edwards gave good, rousing speeches that got everyone in the crowd going," he said. "They really made people want to support them." 
While Obama, Edwards and Clinton continue to dominate the presidential debate nationally, former New Mexico governor Bill Richardson's campaign is gaining momentum, as evi­denced by the excitement surrounding his appearance this weekend. 
"Richardson did very well speaking on the second day," Adeosun said. "He had a huge presence there. A lot of peo­ple are very excited about his campaign because it makes everything so rich. Richardson livens up a lot of hope as a candidate and he brings a lot of moderates to the table." 
College Democrats co-presi­dent Megan Hawley and Molloy were able to meet Richardson in a small group setting. 
showing up so more [students who wanted to] could have attended." 
Future bus trips, including one next Saturday, will still be free. But according to the new rule, if a student picks up a tick­et and decides not to go, they must return their ticket at least 24 hours before Saturday so another student has a chance to attend or face a $20 fine. 
In Other BOG news: 
+ 
Sib Fest will take place Feb. 23-25. Sign ups have been extended until Friday. Students can contact Samantha Peterson at speter01@saintmarys.edu if they are interested in registering a younger sibling for the event. 

+ 
Elections for the Student Diversity Board and Residence Hall Association president and vice president begin with cam­paigning today. Voting will take place Monday. Two tickets are running for Student Diversity Board and one is running for Residence Hall Association. 

+ 
Board of Governance turnover is April 1. The new stu­dent body president and vice president, Kim Hodges and Kelly Payne, will take over at that time. 


Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
"I personally met Richardson and Vilsack. I also shook Obama's hand, but I didn't get a chance to talk to him," Molloy said. 
The College Democrats' main goal for 2006 was to help elect Joe Donnelly to Indiana's Second Congressional District seat, and now the club is firmly focused on the 2008 presi­dential election. 
"We're just trying to posi­tion ourselves as best we can for 2008," Adeosun said. "We need to develop new leader­ship of mostly freshmen and sophomores, and that's what this trip was really good for. We're priming other people to take over the club next year." 
Adeosun, a senior, will graduate in May. 
She said the club will not officially endorse a specific candidate in the 2008 pri­mary elections, but will pro­vide members with outlets to work for their favorite candi­dates. 
"When I was a freshman, we went out to Iowa to sup­port Edwards and we did some caucusing for him out there," she said. "I can fore­see the same thing happening in 2008, with a group that's truly rallying around one candidate to go to Iowa." 
While the candidates are competing against each other in the primaries, their overall goal remains constant -to 
get  a  Democrat elected in  
2008.  
"A  lot  of  candidates  

stressed that, no matter what happens, it's important to vote for a Democrat in 2008," Molloy said. "It's the first time in a long time that the field is this wide open and it's really exciting to be a part of it." 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
'Dis-orientations' discussed 
Resolution urges creation offreshman informational program 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL News Writer 
Resolutions recognizing the need for a program addressing freshman 'dis­orientations' and aimed at enhancing the reliability of campus Domer Dollar card swipe systems were passed Monday at the Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting. 
The resolution on disori­entations -which passed 10-2-1 -"urges the Vice President for Student Affairs to form an ad-hoc committee to create an informational program for first year students." 
The CLC recommended the committee include individu­als from a variety of organi­zations including Student Affairs, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education and Student Activities. The reso­lution left unspecified the direction of the committee so members can develop the most comprehensive pro­gram possible. 
"The report fleshes out why disorientations are unique and proves the basis for the addition of a new committee or incorporating findings into existing pro­grams," said Bill Andrichik, chair of the Conduct Awareness task force. 
"We wanted to create a group with all seven or eight input voices [from var­ious organizations] so that we can see what people want to do -no concrete plans are in the resolution so that the committee can do what is best." 
The CLC resolved to sup­port the findings and rec­ommendation of the conduct awareness task force, who presented research that was conducted "due to the exceptional number of arrests and student safety issues directly connected with dorm 'disorientation' events in the fall of 2006," according to the resolution. 

The task force interviewed upperclassmen, hall staff and rectors on a voluntary basis to garner information about the events planned to "break the freshman in after a week of Frosh-0 activities," as some students described it in the inter­views. 
The second resolution CLC passed on Monday aimed to enhance the reliability of campus Domer Dollar card swipe systems. Student con­cerns task force chair Danny Smith said the reso­lution is a two-step process. 
"First a survey needs to be conducted to figure out the frequency, geography and timing of why the Domer Dollar card swipe system goes down -especially tar­geted for laundry," Smith said. 
The second part involves urging the Department of Food Services to "work with all appropriate parties" and dedicate adequate resources to enhance the ability of the system accord­ing to the resolution. 
Carroll Hall rector Father Jim Lewis, among others, questioned CLC's ability to address Food Services directly since it is purely an advisory body to Vice President for Student 
Affairs Father Mark Poorman. But after chang­ing the wording to "CLC requests the Vice President for Student Affairs to urge the Department of Food Services" and attaching a similar resolution from the spring of 2005, the resolu­tion passed unanimously. 
In other CLC news: 
+ 
Poorman updated CLC on his response to the Jan. 23 resolution to enhance student life for Native Americans. Arthur Taylor, the assistant director of the Multicultural Student Programs and Services is the existing official who advises Native American students, but Poorman has contacted Associate Provost Jean Ann Linney to discuss securing a faculty counter­part to Taylor's position. He has also forwarded the res­olution to Hilary Crnkovich, vice president for Public Affairs and Communication, in order to address the presentation of Notre Dame's history in a cultural­ly sensitive way. 

+ 
The ad hoc task force on student safety finalized a list of safety tips it wants to include in the Contemporary Topics book that freshmen study during physical edu­cation classes. The identifi­cation of campus call boxes, the availability of SafeWalk and the addition of an ICE (in case of emergency) entry to cell phones are among the tips included. 


Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

, , Coffee at the Como 
" " "' 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, February 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, the1r friends, and supporters to an mformal gathenng ai the Co-Mo. 
Everyone 1s welcome and conf1dentmlity IS assured. 
CORE &BUN&Il 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN
STUDENTS 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
ten dollars to buy a bed net for 
an African child or discussing
Africa 

the crises in Northern Uganda continued from page 1 or in Darfur with friends can have a much greater impact 
roles of faculty members and than you could ever imagine,"students in the NDMDI, among he said. others. Senior Colleen Mallahan, 
"We're not expecting to fmd another member of the student defmitive answers at once but advisory council, had an rather to encourage students to encounter with malaria during 
ask  more  her  11  
questions  months  in  
and start a campus­wide dia­logue," he  "Everybody has talents and specific areas of interest which could be  Uganda last year. "One of my little homes­ 
said. Senior Nicole Steele-a  beneficial to the NDMDI, from graphic design to marketing the project to  tay sisters nearly died of malaria when I lived  
member of the NOMOI student advisory council - prayer groups for solidarity with our Ugandan brothers and sisters."  with her and that was absolutely terrifying," Mallahan  
echoed  s  a  i  d  .  
Lyden's words, urg­ing students  Nicole Steele senior  "Fortunately my family was relative- 

to learn more about the development of Africa and then take action. 
"Everybody has talents and specific areas of interest which could be beneficial to the NOMOI, from graphic design to marketing the project to prayer groups for solidarity with our Ugandan brothers and sisters," Steele said. 
Besides her efforts in the advisory council, Steele con­tributed to the development of the African continent when she taught English at various pri­mary schools in Uganda last summer through the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Fellow senior and student advisory council member Jimmy Bettcher also traveled to Africa through the Kellogg Institute to develop sustainable income-generating projects with a non-governmental organization in Uganda. 
He encouraged his peers to jump on the African wagon and explore the service options available the Kellogg Institute and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
Bettcher, however, recognized that not every student may feel compelled to travel to Africa and forsake running water ­but there are ways in which students can contribute to the relief efforts without leaving their hometowns, he said. 
"Simple steps such as giving 
ly 'middle 

class' so my mom could go and find the drugs she needed to bring the fever down. But many people in rural areas aren't as lucky." 
The incident -and the deaths of more than 3,000 chil­dren in Sub-Saharan Africa every day -could have been prevented with a bed net to shield infants from the malaria mosquito, the United Nation's Children's Fund's (UNICEF) Web site reported. 
Mallahan said she would address the threat of malaria when she moderates some of the residence hall forums. 
Mallahan's fellow advisory council member, junior Patrick Reidy, may share with his audi­ence his admiration of the Ugandan people's generosity and optimism despite adverse circumstances. 
"I visited numerous homes of students and teachers who could afford no more than two or three chickens and a small patch of earth to farm," Reidy said, remembering the eight weeks he spent in Africa through the CSC's Summer Service Learning Program. "And these families would slaughter a chicken to feed me." 
Steele, Bettcher, Mallahan and Reidy -among other members of the student adviso­ry council-will be visiting res­idence halls in the latter half of February, Lyden said. 
SIBC joins the effort 
Business students have start­ed their own initiative to foster progress in Africa, through the Student International Business Council's (SIBC) Global Development division. 
The director of global devel­opment for the SIBC, sopho­more Lupe Pineda, said there are ventures on track in Ghana, Tanzania and Uganda. 
"The Uganda project in par­ticular will be research-based, using the Internet and our part­nership with people that have visited the region, including Tim Lyden and Father Bob Dowd, the direetor of the NOMOI," Pineda said. "Tim will be the advisor to this club." 
Once the team of investiga­tors, design models and strate­gies that can contribute to the NDMOI goals, an Sll3C repre­sentative will be selected to travel to Uganda this summer and help implement the pro­posals, Pinnda said. 
"The Council looks forwards to sponsoring a project that will pursue research in line with its vision and the broader goals of the NDMDI," Pineda said. 
MDG Task Force 
In its efforts to eradicate extreme poverty, the Notre Dame's Millennium Development Goals task force also rallied troops to support the African relief movement. 
Sophomore Joella Bitter, president of the task force, said the group successfully collected more than $10,000 last December for the organization Malaria No More. 
To combat the threat of malaria in Sub-Saharan Africa, the money was donated to pur­chase 1 ,000 insecticide-treated bed nets in Nigeria, Bitter said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Flood 
continued from page 1 
over the f1oor... and water drip­ping down all over the books," he said. 
The problem began when an air circulation fan on the third lloor did not turn on and so did not circulate hot air around the pipes. A pipe froze in the sub­zero temperatures and when the air heated up again, it burst, Butterwick said. The third floor is a maintenance area and does not contain any books. 
Most of the damage was on the second f1oor on the west side of the building, where approxi­mately 8,500 books were taken off the shelves. 
"The library staff was extreme­ly diligent utilizing their resources to move the books that needed to be moved and also to protect the books on the book stacks," Butterwick said. 
Butterwick estimated the water in some way damaged 1,500 books, ranging from little to moderate damage. 
"In some situations we might consider sending some books to be freeze-dried," Butterwick said. "We are not in that situa­tion. Nothing's damaged to that extent." 
The flooded section on the sec­ond floor contained music and economic subject books, none of which Butterwick thought were irreplaceable. 
After the books have dried, librarians will be able to assess the damage, Butterwick said. He said he could not estimate the monetary cost of the water dam­age. 
The library closed Monday shortly after 9 a.m. Library offi­cials decided to close the building when the water began spreading toward the stairs on the second floor, creating a potentially haz­ardous situation for library patrons, Butterwick said. 
Butterwick led members of the media through the second floor Monday afternoon. Many of the book stacks were covered in plastic tarps and water was still dripping from the ceiling. Housekeeping stafl'ers were mop­ping up the water that was still standing on the floor. On tables throughout the area, books were placed upright so fans could blow through the pages to dry them. 

Some structural damage occurred due to the flooding, Butterwick said, mostly to ceiling tiles. The first floor was damaged slightly, but there was no dam­age to any library materials. There was no damage to any of the rare books and special collec­tions area in the basement, since the library stafl' took precautions to protect against flooding after a similar incident in January 2004. 
Cold temperatures three years ago and a broken damper on a heating/cooling unit led to flood­ing and damage on the first floor and in the basement of the library. Approximately 500 items were damaged in the flooding. After this incident, library offi­cials developed a preservation plan in case of future incidents. 
Butterwick praised the quick reaction of library staff and other University officials who helped clean up the water. 
"The University community as a whole was extremely active and got engaged very quickly, with help from Notre Dame Security/Police, from facilities maintenance, housekeeping and many other parts of the University," Butterwick said. 
Butterwick said hundreds of people aided in cleaning up the flooding. 
The library re-opened at approximately 3:30 p.m. on Monday. Parts of the library remained close so a company that specializes in dehumidifying large areas could work on the damaged parts of the building. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Every Tuesday enjoy our specialty Sizzlelini with Chicken, Sausage or both. 
Frosty Bellinis only $2 
Try raspberry, green_apple or peach. 
AllAN KITCHEN Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
511 0 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka 574-271-1692 
Reservations Accepted 


Co~ne and Listen Co~ne and Read Co~ne and Play 
Lectio@Eieven 
A Late-Night Caba..et fo.. the Soul 
11:00 pm every Tuesday at Recker's Free pizza supplied by First Year of Studies! 
February 6 featuring: Music by the Lazy Susans 
Lectio@Eleven brings a cabaret of great music and great writing, read aloud, for the Notre Dame community. Come to Recker's and hear it with your own ears! 
We are always looking for more readers and musicians. If interested, contact Jonathan Couser at jcouser@nd.edu or call63 I -3923. 
Sponsored by First Year of Studies 

Associated Press  
JAKARTA  Filthy  
brown water flooded large  
parts of Indonesia's capital  
Monday, forcing 340,000  
people from their homes  
and cutting off power and  
clean water in the city,  
where at least 29 have  
died after days of torren­ 
tial rain.  
In scenes reminiscent of  
New  Orleans  after  
Hurricane Katrina, resi­ 
dents of Jakarta waded  
through poor neighbor­ 
hoods in water up to their  
necks,  or  floated  on  
makeshift rafts bearing  
dothes and other salvaged  
possessions. Some scram­ 
bled onto roofs to await  
rescue from soldiers and  
emergency workers in rub­ 
ber dinghies from floodwa­ 
ters as deep as 12 feet.  
Rising along with the  
water was the threat of  
diseases such as diarrhea  
and  dysentery.  Also  
increasing  were  com­ 
plaints and anger about  
the response to the floods  
by local officials.  
"The  government  is  
awful,"  said Augustina  
Rusli, who spent four days  
on the second floor of her  
suburban house with her  
10-month-old baby. "We have a neighbor who is sick with cancer, but no  An Indonesian man wades through a flooded area of Jakarta, carrying belongings on his head. More rain is predicted in the coming days.  
one has come  to  rescue  cast  is  wrong,"  said  with relatives.  space for the development  
her."  Jayeng, 45, as volunteers  Hundreds of thousands  of luxury villas.  
Authorities estimated  handed out cups of hot  of residents remain with­ Low-lying river areas  _  
between 40 percent and 70  milk to children at a she!·  out electricity and clean  where thousands of poor  
percent of the city, which  ter where hundreds have  water.  people are crammed into  
covers an  area of more  been sleeping under leaky  Landslides  and  flash  shacks made of plywood  
than 255 square miles, had  tarps.  floods during the wet sea­ and metal sheets  _  are  
been submerged.  "We  are still afraid the  son  kill  hundreds  in  often the most devastated.  
Skies cleared Monday  water might rise again,"  Indonesia every year, and  On Monday, many of these  
and floodwaters receded in  said Jayeng, who uses a  the capital is not immune,  were only accessible by  
some parts of the city of 12  single name.  but it has rarely  _ if ever  _  boat.  
million. Residents of some  The seasonal, torrential  seen floods as bad as those  Some  people  rented  
districts were able to begin  rains in Jakarta and the  in recent days. The high  horse-drawn carriages to  
cleaning out their homes,  hills to the south forced  water washed into rich and  ford  flooded  streets  or  
witnesses  and  media  rivers to overflow their  poor districts alike, inun­ were pulled to dry land in  
reports said.  banks Thursday. Some res­ dating scores of markets,  garbage carts.  
But Indonesia's meteoro­ idents initially chose to  schools and businesses.  The floods entered most  
logical agency predicted  stay in the upper stories of  Environmentalists blame  districts slowly, causing lit­ 
more rain in the coming  their homes, expecting the  the annual flooding  on  tle initial structural dam·  
days, and officials warned  waters to quickly subside,  trash-clogged storm drains  age to buildings or city  
that more floods were pos­ but as the disaster dragged  and rivers, inadequate  infrastructure, and author­ 
sible because river levels  into Monday, some left for  urban planning, and defor­ ities  expect  they  will  
were still high.  makeshift camps at schools  estation of hillsides south  recede in full, allowing res­ 
"I really hope the fore- and mosques, or to stay  of the city, often to make  idents to return.  



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, February 6, 2007 CorvtPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. Embassy: Attack threats rise 
KHARTOUM, Sudan -The U.S. Embassy warned Americans on Monday of a height­ened terrorist threat against Westerners in Sudan. 
"The U.S. Embassy advises all U.S. citizens in Sudan that the United Nations mission in Sudan has received new information that an extremist group based in the country is like­ly to target Western interests," it said. 
The U.S. message followed a similar warn­ing that the United Nations sent its staff in Sudan last week. said a U.N. official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the issue with journalists. 
The U.S. message warned of the danger of bombings, kidnappings and assassinations. It said the primary target of the threat might be the United Nations, but added that "ter­rorists do not distinguish between official and civilian targets." 
Bomb explodes at British company 
LONDON -A letter bomb exploded Monday at a London company that con­trols the city's traffic congestion fee, fire officials said. One worker suffered minor injuries to her hand. 
The padded envelope exploded in the mailroom of Capita Commercial Services, which on behalf of the government con­trols the $16 daily fee for central London drivers meant to cut down on traffic in central London. 
"We can confirm that there has been a small explosion at our Victoria Street office this morning," said a Capita spokes­woman. speaking on condition of anonymity in line with department policy. Scotland Yard said the injured woman was a Capita employee. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Report: Youth suicide rates on rise 
CHICAGO -New government figures show a surprising increase in youth suicides after a decade of decline, and some mental health experts think a drop in use of antidepressant drugs may be to blame. 
Suicides climbed 18 percent from 2003 to 2004 for Americans under age 20, from 1,737 to 1,985 deaths. Most suicides occurred in older teens, according to the data -the most current to date from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
By contrast, the suicide rate among 15-to 19­year-olds fell in previous years, from about 11 per 100,000 in 1990 to 7.3 per 100,000 in 2003. 
Suicides were the only cause of death that increased for children through age 19 from 2003-04, according to a CDC report released Monday. 
Man pleads guilty to identity theft 
WASHINGTON -A 59-year-old man was sentenced Monday to 8 1/2 years in prison on charges stemming from his use of stolen identities in an attempt to acquire more than $100,000 in payments intended for victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. 
Jeffrey Alan Rothschild, who's also known as Jeffrey Zahler, pleaded guilty in August to bank fraud, mail fraud and money laundering in late 2005. He was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in Washington. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Election official won't hear debate 
VALPARAISO, Ind. -The debate over whether a newly elected lawmaker actually lives in his northern Indiana district may be headed to court after a top state election offi­cial announced he'll stay out of the dispute. 
J. Bradley King. the Republican co-director of the Indiana Election Division. said Friday he disagrees with his Democratic counterpart that the body has the authority to decide the case. 
In a letter King sent Friday to his Democratic Co-Director, Pam Potesta, he said that it's too late for the Indiana Election Division to act in the case involving Republican State Rep. Ed Soliday, H-Valparaiso. 
INDONESIA 

Flood leaves thousands homeless 
Indonesian capital faced with threat ofdysentery and widespread disease 
Charges filed in kidnapping case 
remaining counts were related to month. The boy was forced to have
Associated Press 

Shawn Hornbeck, now 15, who was intercourse with Devlin throughout 
CLAYTON, Mo.-A Missouri man abducted in 2002. that month and at least once a accused of kidnapping two boys and McCullough said the evidence month until Shawn and Ben were holding one for more than four years includes interviews with all of the found in January. was charged Monday with molesting people involved. "Devlin acknowl­Authorities refused to discuss other them nearly 70 times. edged committing these acts," details of the allegations beyond 
The charges were the first time McCullough said. what was described in the charges. authorities have openly accused Both boys were found inside Less than a week after the boys Michael Devlin of molesting the chil­Devlin's apartment in the St. Louis were found, S-hawn's parents dren. suburb of Kirkwood on Jan. 12. appeared on Oprah Winfrey's talk 
Devlin, a 41-year-old pizzeria man­The charges allege that Devlin show, saying they believed he had ager, was charged with 69 counts of forced Ben to have "deviate sexual been sexually abused during the forcible sodomy, all felonies and each intercourse" four times each day for ordeal. punishable by up to life in prison. the four days he was held. · In a written statement, defense 
St. Louis County prosecutor Robert The charges also allege that after attorneys Ethan Corlija and Michael McCullough said 17 of the counts kidnapping Hornbeck in October Kielty said they have explained the related to 13-year-old Ben Ownby, 2002, Devlin kept Shawn isolated in charges to Devlin and that he under­who disappeared Jan. 8, and the Devlin's apartment for the first stands they are "very serious." 
.-----------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
LNO 
continued from page 1 
In addition to the dorm rivalry the Olympics encourage, the event also raises money for the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. This year students raised a total of$6,207. 
Bill Heagan, HecSports assis­tant director for instruction, spe­cial events and family program­ming, said teams were charged game fees and students were asked to make donations at the door. Other events -like a penny war and raffle -also helped raise funds. 
The penny war -which con­tributed to the point system used to determine an overall winner -also helped Keough-Welsh Family win, Bendinelli said. 

"Keough raised a lot of silver money to put in other team's jars," she said. "And, they raised a lot of bills for our jar.". 
Keough-Welsh Family walked away with a $600 grand prize this year and the remaining money will go directly to the Special Olympics. 
The grand prize is typically taken by the winning team and used to fund events within dorms, but last year the winning MBA donated its prize to the Special Olympics. 
Bendinelli said it was "too soon to say" how the prize money would be used. 
The HecSports event, now in its 21st year, started at 7 p.m. Friday in the Joyce Center and ended with a broomball match at 3:55 a.m. Saturday, Reagan said. 
With over 800 students partici­pating, dorm teams competed in 17 sporting events including kayaking, target golf and 3-on-3 basketball. 
Reagan said the numbers this year were "commendable," especially considering the timing of this past weekend's event. 
"It was certainly more chal­lenging I this year], because we were competing against other activities on campus -the Dierks Bentley concert, the Cavanaugh dance, the ongoing track meet -not to mention the weather," Heagan said. "The issue [with weather! showed up in part early on, in the way of forfeited games." 
For Heagan, the event was a success, but in planning for next year, organizers will look for ways to update and improve the event after two decades. 
These twenty years, he said, are a tribute to Notre Dame stu­dents. 
"I think they come out [to par­ticipate] first for the competition. Some dorm teams take great pride in it," Reagan said, citing Keough-Welsh Family's "return to dominance." 
"Second, I think it's the nature of the Notn~ Dame student to do something good like this," he said. "They know they're raising money for a great cause." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 
Weiss 
continued from page 1 
ter of her sophomore year from the University of Rochester, Weiss was eager to become involved in student government. 
"I think it's my nature," Weiss said. ''I'm a leader and I have always pushed myself to the limit." 
Weiss is the coordinator of the upcoming Notre Dame Eating Disorders Conference and was the Arts and Letters Chair for Junior Parents Weekend. At Hochester, Weiss was the freshman president and a member of the Sophomore Class Council. 
Weiss made it a priority to 

GETUSC.COM JOINRED.COM 

U.S. ·Cellular@ gets me... even when it's ·not about me. 
)RED

(~US. Cellular + 
get involved in campus life at Notre Dame quickly, and she said she encountered few challenges. 
"I had probably the smoothest transition ever... " Weiss said. "It was just a mat­ter of getting involved and putting myself out there." 
Weiss interviewed for a position in student govern­ment last spring and was appointed chair of the Senate Gender Issues committee. She said she was qualified for this appointment due to her past experience at Rochester, where she tackled gender relations issues as the fresh­man representative of the Hesidence Life Advisory Council. 
"Gender issues is the place that touches on home for me ... and it's an issue that needs to be addressed on this cam­pus," Weiss said. 
She hopes to continue her involvement with gender rela­tions by restructuring Freshman Orientation activi­ties. She said she wants to "take the focus away from gender individualized activi­ties," and focus more on activities to help new students get to know their dorms and students from their sections, then branch out to "quad­size" activities. 
"At Rochester, the freshman orientation was gender neu­tral, but it lacked the family aspect," she said. "From sto­ries I've been told about Frosh-0, the activities can create and maintain a culture of dangerous social behaviors. . . . It's about finding a balance between the family aspect and gender relations." 
Weiss said her experience as a transfer student has given her a perspective of "objectivism" and "balance" on student life issues. 
"Drawing on both experi­ences has helped me to address issues of the student body collectively as a whole," Weiss said. 
If she is elected next week, Weiss -along with running mate Smith -hopes to implement a program for stu­dents which would allow free music downloads, expand Domer Dollar use at Notre Dame stadium, send the Notre Dame Marching Band to one more away game and improve the football ticket lottery. The ticket also hopes to stimulate dialogue with Health Services about the price of prescrip­tions and with the University about the possibility of locked tuition rates, Weiss said. 
"We bring a fresh perspec­tive," Weiss said. "When we walk into a room, we know what we are talking about on a multitude of issues." 
MOTOROLA IS APROUD PARTNER OF (PRODUCT)RED" 
U.S. CEllULAR IS ACONTRIBUTING PARTY TO (PRODUCT)REo·· 
A PORTION OF THE PROCEEDS FROM THIS PRODUCT GOES DIRECTLY TO THE GLOBAL FUND, TO HELP WOMEN AND CHILDREN AFFECTED BY HIV AND AIDS IN AFRICA. 
Contact Becky Hogan at rhogan2@nd.edu
U.S. Cellular ami Motorola will collectively make a $17 contribution on the sale of each red MOTORAZR phone to the Global Fund To Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
Tuesday, February 6, 2007 

MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
12,661.74 +8.25

}ones 
Ufx Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,865 157 1,366 2,570,371,488 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.92 -0,58 29.61 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.09 -0.04 44.12 
INTEL CP (INTC) 
+0.77 +0.16 21.28 CISCO SYS INC (SUNW) + 1.36 +0.37 27.5 I 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.39 -0.0 19 4.808 
13-WEEK BILL -0.10 -0.005 4.995 
30-YEAR BOND -0.32 -0.0 16 4.910 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.46 -0.022 4.796 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.28 58.74 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.60 656.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.73 104.68 
Excha Rates 

YEN 120.1450 EURO 0.7732 POUND 0.5100 CANADIAN$ 1.1824 
IN BRIEF 
Trade group: Service sector expands 
NEW YOHK-The U.S. service sector expand­ed at a faster rate in January than in the previ­ous month, a trade group said Monday, signal­ing a strong start to economic growth this year. 
The Institute for Supply Management, which is based in Tempe, Ariz., said its index of busi­ness activity in the service sector advanced to 
59.0 in January from 56.7 in December. Wall Street analysts had expected a reading of 57 for the latest month. 
A reading above 50 indicates expansion, while one below that indicates contraction. 
January marked the 46th consecutive month of business activity increase, the trade group said. 
The service industries covered by the ISM report represent about 80 percent of the nation's economic activity, and economists are looking for the sector to be a driver of growth in 2007 as the manufacturing sector struggles with weakness in the automotive and housing indus­tries. 
There was little discernible reaction in the stock market, where shares were mixed in morning trading. The Dow Jones industrial average was up 6.57 or 0.05 percent, at 12,660.06. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was down 1.67, or 0.12 percent, to 1,446.72 while the Nasdaq composite index fell 4.61, or 
0.19 percent, to 2,471.27. 
Investor makes offer to Lear Corp. 
DETHOIT -Automotive equipment sup­plier Lear Corp. said Monday a group affili­ated with billionaire investor activist Carl Icahn offered to buy the company for about $2.61 billion. But its share price climbed well above the offered price. 
The offer of $36 a share from American Heal Estate Partners LP represents a pre­mium of 4 percent over the stock's Friday closing price of $34.67. 
But Lear shares rose $3.97, or 11.45 per­cent, to close at $38.64 on the New York Stock Exchange after briefly touching a new 52-week high of $39.88. 
Southfield-based Lear, whose products include seats and electronic systems, and the bidder are negotiating specific terms and there is no formal agreement, the com­pany said. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Apple settles Beatles dispute 
Company gains rights to Apple name; Fab Four "a lock" to have music on iTunes 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Calif. -For 
the third time in nearly 
three decades, iPod maker 
Apple Inc. has resolved a 
bitter trademark dispute 
with The Beatles' guardian 
Apple Corps Ltd. over use of 
the iconic apple logo and 
name. 

But while the truce 
announced Monday 
appeared to finally bury the 
long-simmering animosity, 
music lovers will still need to 
wait for the right to buy 
such songs as "Love Me Do" 
or "Hey Jude" on Apple 
Inc.'s iTunes online store. 
The· announcement ­
made jointly by one of the 
world's largest music sellers 
and one of history's most 
beloved bands -was silent 
on whether the catalog of 
Beatles songs will become 
available for download any 
time soon. 

The Beatles have so far 
been the most prominent 
holdout from iTunes and 
other online music services, 
and Apple's overtures to put 
the music online have been 
stymied by the ongoing liti­
gation. 

The settlement gives 
Cupertino-based Apple Inc. 
ownership of the name and 
logo in return for agreeing 
to license some of those 
trademarks back to London­
based Apple Corps ­
guardian of The Beatles' bet they move pretty fast. Apple into the top ranks of trademarks," Jobs said in a 
commercial interests -for For Apple, it was critical music sellers. statement. "It feels great to 
their continued use. that they got this taken care Jobs even cued up some resolve this in a positive 
It ends the ongoing trade­of.'' Beatles music and album art manner, and in a way that 
mark lawsuit between the Jaffray estimates that in unveiling the company's should remove the potential 
two companies, with each Apple Inc. paid The Beatles highly anticipated iPhone of further disagreements in 
side paying its own legal $50 million to $100 million gadget at the Macworld the future." 
costs. Other terms of the set­for the rights to the Apple Conference and Expo last The Beatles had been one 
tlement were not disclosed. name. That would come on month, setting off rampant of the few remaining big­
Industry analysts said a top of more than $26.5 mil­speculation that some type name musical acts to reject 
resolution on putting The lion Apple paid to settle past of deal might be in the any legal distribution of its 
Beatles' music online is like­disputes with Apple Corps. works. work on the Internet. 
ly already in the works. It's no secret that Steve However, decades of legal Formerly hesitant artists 
"It goes from impossible to Jobs -Apple Inc.'s chief disputes between the two from Madonna to Metallica 
a lock that it's going to hap­executive officer and a huge companies have thus far have made peace with 
pen -it's a function of time Beatles fan -has wanted made any partnership all online customers as digital 
at this point," said Gene the British band's music on but impossible. downloads have continued 
Munster, senior research iTunes, which has sold more "We love the Beatles, and to grow in popularity -with 
analyst with investment than 2 billion songs world­it has been painful being at iTunes holding the bulk of 
bank Piper Jaffray & Co. "I wide and has catapulted odds with them over these the market. 

Russian oil tycoon faces new charges 
Associated Press chief of its largest oil producer, OAO Khodorkovsky would be eligible for 
Yukos, Khodorkovsky angered Putin's parole in October, after serving half 
MOSCOW -Prosecutors filed new Kremlin by funding opposition par­his term. With parliamentary elec­charges Monday against former oil ties before 2003 parliamentary elec­tions slated for December and a baron Mikhail Khodorkovsky, now tions. He also questioned government March 2008 presidential vote ­serving the fourth year of an eight­policy on pipelines and foreign par­which Putin is barred by term limits year prison term in Siberia. The ticipation in the oil industry, running from contesting -analysts said the relentless pursuit of the tycoon has up against a government increasingly president and those around him showcased President Vladimir Putin's bent on restoring its control over want to ensure Khodorkovsky highly successful campaign to tame Russia's vast petroleum wealth. remains behind bars. Russia's oligarchs using its politically Arrested in October 2003, his trial For the Kremlin, "The main thing pliant justice system. proceeded at the same time as a tax is that he doesn't get out before 
Lawyers for Khodorkovsky called probe that put most of his blue chip 2008," said Yuri Korgunyuk of the the new money laundering charges oil giant OAO Yukos in state hands. Indem think tank in Moscow. "They an "insane" Kremlin bid to neutralize Khodorkovsky was sentenced to eight very much wouldn't want that to any remaining political threat ahead years for fraud and tax evasion and happen." of crucial elections, casting it as a shipped off to a prison camp near the The new charges are about vengeful move to crush a man who Chinese border, where he has been "revenge," Korgunyuk said. challenged Putin's policies and broke out of the public eye but remained, "The idea is to crush them com­an unwritten rule against bringing for Putin's critics, a symbol of pletely," he said of Khodorkovsky and his vast wealth to bear in the political Hussian injustice. For Russia's super­his business partner, Platon Lebedev, arena. rich, his punishment served a stark who is also serving eight years and 
Once Russia's richest man and the reminder not to cross the Kremlin. faces the same charges. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Bengal Bouts essential 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.!@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBsERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Qt=tiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon, 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
lbt" ~(USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through 17iday a:ccpt during exam :mtl vacation fM'Tiods. A sub$cription ro The ObM:rvc.r is $100 for one academic pr.. $55 for one scmes.u:r. 
'Th:c Obscrveds published at: POSTMASTER 024 S.Uth Dining H.JI Send -address -correcdom w: Notre Doune. rN 46556..0779 The CJb>eNet Periodical postage paid at None Dame P.O. Box779 and additiom.l mailing Q:ffices. 024 Sooth Dining Hall 
Noue Dame, IN 46556-on9 
The O~rvct ls. a m:ernbtr ofthe Associated Press. All ttproduaion rights an: =vcd. 

Let me tell you about a serious piece of business we do every year at Notre Dame. It's the Bengal Bouts. llow can that be serious? Because every year since 1931, the Bouts have given to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh dona­tions averaging in the past decade over $50,000 a year. The annual per capita income of the 141 million people in Bangladesh is $1,470. Among the ultra-poor tribal peo­ple (1% of the popu­lation) served by the Holy Cross priests, brothers and semi­narians ( 126 of whom are Bangladeshi) and the 60 Holy Cross sisters, a family of four eould eat for two weeks on what we would casu­ally pay for a pizza. The Bengal Bouts literally provide a lifeline to the poor. 
Bangladesh is 88.3 percPnt Muslim and 10.5 percent Hindu. Catholics are fewer than 300,000. Holy Cross eon­duets over 200 primary schools and 12 secondary schools, all serving the very poor. Fr. Tom Smith, C.S.C., recently returned from Bangladesh, described the ministry as "evangelization, health care, education and hostels." The hos­tel-a bamboo and thatched-roof room with a dirt floor and platforms for sleep and study-provides chil­dren from remote villages their only chance for education. If we grumble about having to walk from North Quad to South Quad, it might help for us to think about the 14-year-old boy who told Smith that he walked three days through the jungle to reach the hostel in a Chittagong Hill parish near the border with Myanmar (formerly Burma). The education, the boy said, was his "only hope." Smith visited a pastor in another jungle parish where four teenage girls were lying on a hos­tel platform "burning up with malarial fever." When Smith asked the pastor why he had too few mosquito nets in the hostel, the pastor replied, "We do give nets, but at the first opportunity they take them home for their infant brothers and sisters. They consider themselves able to survive the malaria but they worry about their weaker sib­lings in the village. They care for the little onns first." 

The Tripura tribe, incidentally, "is embraeing Christianity, whole villages at a time, with 600-700 Easter bap­tisms in each parish eaeh year." In one village in Kalipur, 86 were baptized this last Christmas. 
So thn Bouts have a purpose. The program, under the sponsorship of Hich O'Leary and Dave Brown of HneSports, is run by the student offi­cers. presidBnt Andrew MeGill, and captains Stu Stypula, Stephen Hansen, Mike !Iennig, Dan Ward, Chris Calderorw, Hunter Land, Lawrence Sullivan and Jesse Brawer. The offi­cers run every aspect of the training but they agree that it would all come to a grinding halt without the student managnrs, Erika Meyer, Meghan O'Farrell and Melanie Hodarte. Working with Jimmy Hogers of HeeSports, the managers maintain imp(~ceable finaneial, medieal, spar­ring and other records. 
The volunteer coaches, Chicago lawyer Torry Johnson, Columbus developer Tom Suddes and University pilot Pat Farrell, are former Bengal champs. The training, under Suddes, builds character. Among the assistant coaehes are Sweet C. Hobinson of the Buchanan Police Department and for­mer boxers Ryan Hans, Chip Farrell and Judge Holand Chamblee. The Chureh gets into the act through the chaplains, Fr. Bill Seetch, C.S.C., who is in Rome this term, and Father Brian Daley, S.J., who also coaches, and the timer, Msgr. John Hagerty of Erie, Pa. 
If you want to know why this pro­gram has not had a serious injury in 76 years, give credit to Dr. James Moriarty, the University chief of medi­eine, and the Emergency Medical Technicians, led by Terri Engel, who attend every sparring session along with two of the Notre Dame Fire Department paramedics, Jordan Lacy, Baker Jones, Gordon Martinczak, Wayne Bishop and Damien Cruz. Safety is the controlling concern of the medical staff as well as of long-time trainer Jack Zimmerman. 
The Bengal Bouts will be held in five sessions, all in the Joyce Center: Feb. 21, 22, 26 and 28, all at 6:30 p.m. and the finals on Saturday, March 3 at 8 
p.m. The "season tiekPt," at $10, is good for all sessions. 
St. Joseph Parish in Srimangal is 60 miles long with 70 villages. To finish a hostel to house and educate 50 girls, grades 3-5, from those tribal villages, they need a well, latrines, wiring, fix­tures, equipment and furnishings. The eost: $2,800. In Fatima Hani parish in Bandarban, an area infested with malaria and also typhoid and jaundiee, they need $1,500 to cover medical care for one year. King of Peace parish in Thanci, the most rural and remote parish in Bangladesh, needs to build a medical dispensary. The parishioners will do the labor but they need $1,500 for materials. The list could go on. These may be trif1ing amounts to us. But not to them. Those people need the Bengal Bouts. Be there. 
Prof Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. He can be reached at 
(574) 633-4415 or at rice.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL
Kaitlynn Riely Kyle Cassily Kate Antonacci Greg Arbogast 

Aaron Steiner Michael Bryan Viewpoint Scene What was your favorite Kara King Chris McGrady 
Super Bowl commercial? 
Graphics Matt Hudson Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
.Submit a,Letter1 
"Men occasionally stumble over the truth, but most ofthem pick themselves up and hurry offas ifnothing ever happened."
.to the Ed1tor at Sir Winston Churchill British politician 
Iwww.ndsmcob~efY~r.eom 1. 
-,~\<-~ ll .n t~WJ Wlm.M$%4P4K#P..t..%#... )$!.4Pf.%A.<,-..,~~,., ..\1::>:W~'"' ·.. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 6, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Editor's Note: This column, written by Campus Labor Action Project organizers, is a response to several recent Viewpoint submissions. The Observer does not endorse CLAP, or any other organization. All viewpoints are welcome. 
Due to our recent absence from the public eye, we, the members of the Campus Labor Action Project (CLAP), would like to clear the air on who we are and what we are doing. CLAP is a coali­tion of staff, faculty, community mem­bers, and students who seek to resolve a number of labor issues here at Notre Dame. Although we do support increased wages, we are not simply a living wage campaign. Far too many pressing concerns exist among University employees to limit ourselves to just that one issue. 
The reason for our relative quietude last semester was that we recognized flaws in our past actions. Although well­intentioned, certain public actions were overly antagonistic and ultimately destructive rather than constructive. More importantly, we lacked the close relationships with campus employees that could bring legitimacy to our organ­ization and its mission. 
Last semester we concentrated on developing stronger ties with campus workers. These relationships now pro­vide a solid foundation for our organiza­tion. Although we have acquainted our­selves with staff from various depart­ments, our closest relationships are with Building Services and Food Services employees. These are the people who clean our dorms, classrooms, and offices, and prepare and serve our food whether in the dining halls, in 
CLAP clarifies its position 
LaFortune, or at one of the various cafes on campus. 
In conversations with these workers, a number of issues came to our attention. First and foremost, the primary issue is respect. Workers tell us that they enjoy being around the students, faculty, and each other, and often happily note how appreciative we are of their work. However, they feel that their employer, the University and its administration, cares little about them and does not value their hard work. 
Also, nearly every worker with whom we speak fears being fired or receiving some other reprimand from the University if he or she was to speak out. So, for now, it is our responsibility to tell their stories. 
However, for many employees, the most immediate issue is wages. Anyone who believes that a family can be sup­ported on $17,264 per year (the total annual pay of a Notre Dame employee making the base wage) has not tried to do so. CLAP believes that $12.10 per hour constituted a living wage in 2006. The 2007 number will be adjusted for inflation and included in our organiza­tion's revised living wage report within the next month. The figure that we have chosen is not random. It comes from the line used by the federal government to determine one's eligibility for food stamps and other subsidies. We believe that a living wage means not having to rely on government assistance or the local food bank in order to support a family. 
Concerning the benefits provided by the University, staff members appreciate the benefits package but argue that sub­sidized health care and a college tuition benefit do not provide their families with housing, pay the bills, or put food on the table. These workers tell us that their raises, the maximum being three per­cent per year, do not even cover rising energy costs and health care premiums. In other words, in exchange for one more year of loyalty and service to our University, the "raises" given by Notre Dame lower their standard of living. 
Other staff members point out that they incur injuries from being overc worked. Each employee of Building Services is expected to clean 25,000 square feet of building space each shift. Many of them receive assignments that are far larger than this, and the added load takes a toll on their bodies. Anum­ber of custodians with whom we've spo­ken have had surgery on their shoulders or backs due to these job-related injuries and were expected to return to work two days later. 
There is also an issue with part-time employees. The University has begun to replace retiring full-time employees with part-timers who work 30 to 35 hours per week. This saves the University money because it does not have to offer health care benefits to part-time employees. Instead, full-time employees are expect­ed to pick up the extra hours of labor and must work mandatory overtime after already long days. Of course, such an arrangement also leaves the part­time employee with no health care insurance and a very tight budget. 
As one can clearly observe, numerous labor-related issues exist on our campus. CLAP has chosen to focus primarily on wages because wages are the issue that arises most often in our interactions with University employees. By address­ing the wage issue, we hope to raise the administration's awareness concerning these other matters as well. 
Finally, we would like to directly address several groups in our communi­ty: 
To the administration, we believe that you want to be a good employer. The Campus Labor Action Project has invest­ed countless hours into understanding the concerns of your employees, and we would like to share what we have learned with you. We hope that our working relationship can continue in order to make Notre Dame the best University that it can be. 
To the student body, whether or not one supports a living wage is a personal decision that each of us makes based on our own interpretation of theology, eco­nomics and politics. We invite your dis­senting opinions. They have sharpened our focus as an organization. We only ask that you appreciate and respect the important work that campus employees perform for our community and support them in their efforts to obtain fair com­pensation and working conditions. 
Lastly and most importantly, to the employees of this University, we thank you for the hard work you perform to serve our community. We hear your con­cerns and will continue to address them as best we can. However, students can­not resolve these issues alone. For change to occur, you must overcome your fears and speak out on your own behalf. We stand beside you. We support you. 
Stuart Mora Campus Labor Action Project Feb. 5 

Polar run props 
I applaud Morrissey Manor's efforts to help charity through its "polar run" this weekend. I am reminded of the old saying, "Imitation is the sin­cerest form of flattery." 
Chris Mueller junior Siegfried Hall Feb. 5 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

uWIRE 

Pick privacy over profiles 
Tell me your name, and in less than a minute, I can know where you go to school, where you live, your screen name, who your friends are and what you did last Friday 
night. Give. me another mmute  Diana Kugel  
and a search engine, and I will know your home  TheGW Hatchet  
address, phone  

number, the particulars of your sev­enth grade blog and anything that you have ever done worthy of atten­tion. Scary, right? 
Even though privacy is not one of the freedoms explicitly guaranteed to us in the Bill of Rights, the American people have been fighting for it tooth and nail for a long time. Important court cases regarding issues as controversial as family planning and women's rights hinge on this very concept. As children, we've all posted "keep out" signs on our bedroom doors and have been told that it's not nice to snoop. If your college roommate went through your things or read your journal, you would be out of your mind with rage. So then why are we willing to forego all of this hard-won privacy in favor of posting the most intimate details of our lives online? 
It's not as ifwe don't know that all of this information is out there and open to the public. In fact, most of the time, we're the ones who put it there in the first place via Facebook and countless other networking Web sites. After all, what could be better than being able to keep tabs on all of your friends and people you bare­ly know without ever having to leave the comforting glow of your laptop? 
The general mindset is that only your friends are going to be clicking through last weekend's drunken pic­tures on Facebook in order to leave hilarious comments -wrong. As pointed out in a recent Hatchet front page article Facebook is no longer a domain reserved solely for the antics of college students. Coaches, professors, the university police department, student association candidates, parents and other peo­ple whom you most certainly do not want to make privy to the inner workings of your private life now use Facebook to keep track of us. 
Unfortunately, the consequences of making fools of ourselves in cyberspace will undoubtedly haunt us long after we stop checking Facebook 30 seconds after first waking up. Future employers are not going to be immune to checking up on who you really are, and if that means a quick glance online, so be it. If you think that you will be able to run for public office without those unfortunate pictures ending on the front page of the local newspaper or that embarrassing video circulating the Internet like wildfire, keep dreaming. 
The whole question of privacy comes down not to who should and shouldn't be allowed to view this and that online, but rather, what you personally choose to keep pri­vate. It would be close to impossible to police the Internet to make sure that only those whom you personally approve of are allowed to view a particular photograph or read a cer­tain comment. However, you do have power over how you present yourself online. Your profile picture would look just as charming even without the incriminating red plastic cup. 
Facebook aside, you also have power over giving away your per­sonal information to other entities. If you're sick ofjunk e-mail clogging up your inbox, stop giving away your e-mail address to every organi­zation and company that offers you something you already know is too good to be true. If you're just about ready to strangle the next telemar­keter that calls during dinner, don't fill out any more of those question­naires at the mall. Our generation seems to be more willing than those of the past to give out personal information left and right. 
It may be true that we're living in the information age, but do you really want your information to be floating around cyberspace unsu­pervised? Even if you take some­thing off your profile, it might still be attached to someone's blog or stored on servers. Don't want that video of your attempts at inebriated gymnastics to be accessible online anymore? Too bad. In order to enjoy our right to privacy, we first have to learn how to indulge in our ability to not be negligent. 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 5 edition ofThe Hatchet, the daily publication at George Washington University 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, February 6, 2007 

Super Bowl side dishes disappoint fans 
Commercials, music surrounding yearly event not up to old standards 
The Super Bowl has been criticized as being overblown pomp, and while certainly not a false statement, Super Bowl XLI is noteworthy because the game itself seemed to have more story­lines and drama than the surround­ing hoopla. Between featuring Prince during the halftime entertainment, Billy Joel singing the national anthem and the normal influx of new commercials, the Super Bowl always promises to be a complete show. Unfortunately, XLI Scene Editor wasn't as exciting or entertaining as Super Bowls of years past. 
Joel's rendition of the national anthem was above average, simply because he didn't indulge himself in it. His belting take on "The Star-Spangled Banner" sounded, well, exactly like you might expect Billy Joel singing the national anthem to sound. Yet Joel played it straight and respectfully, which was exactly what was hoped for. The real entertainment was yet to come. 
The decision to feature Prince during the halftime show caused a lot of head scratching in the media, yet it makes sense. Ever since the "wardrobe mal­function" debacle of Super Bowl XXXVIII, in which Justin Timberlake famously revealed Janet Jackson's breast, the halftime show producers have tended toward more traditional fare -Sir Paul McCartney for Super Bowl XXXIX and The Rolling Stones for Super Bowl XL. 
Yet Prince isn't as far in the audi­ence's cultural radar as either McCartney or The Stones, so his selec­tion was still puzzling. Prince is a per­former reputed for his bizarre, unpre­dictable behavior, which puts holes in the theory that the producers wanted someone "safe." 
Evidence of this is the media day con-ference, during which reporters were told that Prince would not take ques­tions. When he took the stage, howev­er, he told reporters that, "contrary to rumor, I'd like to take a few questions right now." As soon as the first ques­tion was posed, Prince turned to his band and immediately launched into a rendition of Chuck Berry's "Johnny B. Goode" which featured two white-clad go-go dancers and a brass band. After playing a few more songs, Prince said simply, "Thank you, see you at the Super Bowl, peace," and left the stage. 


The purpled-one's actual half time show, however, was far less unpre­dictable, though left much to be desired. The majority of the show con­sisted of a truly bizarre medley of unrelated songs, including (but not lim­ited to) Bob Dylan's "All Along the Watchtower," Credence Clearwater Revival's "Proud Mary" and The Foo Fighter's "Best Of You." 
He performed on a stage shaped like his symbol (from the days when Prince didn't have a name). slinging his guitar in phallic shadowplay that was just downright uncomfortable. 
Prince remains a pretty good per­former despite the fact that his heyday was over two decades ago, and his take on "Purple Rain" (complete with glow-in-the-dark marching band) was a reminder that once upon a time, The Artist Formerly Known As the Artist Formerly Known As Prince was a great songwriter. 
Most disappointing, however, were the commercials. Generally speaking, the advertisements were sub-par by Super Bowl standards, and none stood out as this year's "1984 Apple" spot. Among the most notable ads were a Nationwide Insurance spot featuring Britney Spears ex-husband Kevin Federline (reminiscent of Nationwide's ad last year, which featured Fabio), a CareerBuilder ad featuring a fight in a jungle and a Taco Bell commercial fea­turing talking lions. Somehow, all of these ads, while certainly entertaining, feel vaguely familiar-soon-to-be-has­beens, overblown action and talking animals seem to have become staples of Super Bowl commercials. There's nothing new, groundbreaking or gritty, which is why that old Apple ad still seems fresh and original two decades later. 

More egregious is that a lot of these advertisements (which cost over a mil­lion dollars for companies to air) are not new ads. Some, like the video game Coca-Cola ad, have been shown in movie theaters, while others, like a Flomax ad, are already tiresome (not to mention targeted at a niche audience). It really indicates toward a larger problem when the most popular ad, according to a USA Today survey, is of crabs worshipping a Bud Light cooler. 
The media surrounding Super Bowl XLI is of the most disposable variety ­entertaining and instantly forgettable. Nothing about Joel, Prince or any of the commercials hinted at a sort of timeless or classic status, which is a shame. Every year, the Super Bowl is a chance for advertisers and entertainers to showcase their wares, and it seems that in XLI the only ones who show­cased themselves were (for once) the guys getting it done on the field. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at 
bdoxtade@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Photo courtesy of superiorpics.com Kevin Federline, pictured here with ex-wife Britney Spears, starred in one of the bright spots for the Super Bowl ads -a commercial for Nationwide Insurance. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
page 11 

Perfecting the art of the American handshake 
The type of handshake you give someone when you see them in class, or out on the quad, speaks volumes about the type of image you want to present to others. For example, should you go with a high­five when you're saying hello? Or is that too casual? Or, do you want to go for the full-out hard­core handshake, in which you attempt to crush your oppo­nent's hand in a vise-like grip in order to project an image of power? Or is that too "square"? As you can see, when debating the various merits of the different handshakes and high-fives, picking one can be a very difficult and confusing decision in the best of cir­cumstances. For this reason, I've decided to go through the many differ­ent methods we college kids have of saying hi by talking with our hands, and debate their various pros and cons. 
Let's start off the discussion with the high-five. This classic staple of colle­giate "cool" is a fairly low-risk endeav­or. but it's also low-reward. Not a lot of style points are given for pulling off the old up-top routine. Shaking things up with the occasional low-five helps to break the monotony a little. Also, you have to keep in mind that you want to hit your pal with a solid, accurate strike, otherwise you risk a glancing, half-hearted high-five which is just lame. Common complaints of poorly executed handshakes are remarks such as, "Oh, that sucked" or "Let's try that again." Both of these scenarios are extremely awkward, and can make it hard to look cool. Also, your intended target should be very aware that you are coming in for the high-five, because if he isn't, there is a slight chance you could inadvertently end up smacking your friend with a five-star to the noodle, which makes for a really embarrassing situation. Just some food 


for thought. 
After the high-five there's the other staple of American greetings, the handshake. This one seems pretty sim­ple at first. Just a quick grab and squeeze of the hand. However, as with many things, the devil's in the details, and you have to worry about scope problems when pulling this one off. You have to think about duration and inten­sity when shaking someone's hand. If you give them a weak, limp handshake they might think you're a ninny. Squeeze too hard, and you risk break­ing bones. Just make sure your fingers don't get too squirrely while pulling off said handshake, or people might get the wrong idea while you're hanging out with your buddies. 
Fortunately for everyone, there are many other potential handshake options out there at your disposal if you're so inclined. For example, you could go with the cousin of the high­five, the standard fist pound, or you could "blow it up" afterward. Another variation on the standard pound is the "lock and load," in which you twist fists after the initial contact. Or perhaps the friendly and informative folks at Budweiser have it right as they showed the world during their Super Bowl commercial: perhaps the fist pound is out and the new handshake a Ia mode is the slap to the face. 
For the more adventurous of you out there, you could try the triple fist pound, in which you pound down, then up, then meet your friend's fist head­on. This is a pretty good option. And if you really feel like showing off, you could even go for "The Fresh Prince," as made famous by Will Smith on the show by the same name. For people who really like showboating, you could attempt the complicated choreography which New York Mets baseball players such as Jose Reyes and Carlos Delgado have been known to pull off during games. 
Or you could go with the "bro hug," in which you give your target a high­five, then kind of lean in with the shoulder until you're in a halfway hug­type thing. This one can be kind of awkward at times but it's a good choice if you find yourself in a No Man's Land type social situation where you're unsure whether to go for the hand­shake or the full-out hug. 
And then, of course, you have the full-out hug, usually reserved for mem­bers of the opposite sex or really good friends. Even grown men have been known to "hug it out," as the character Ari taught us all on the HBO series "Entourage." 
Regardless of what you decide to go with, it's vitally important to make sure your intended target knows what's happening. To this end, eye contact is a must when approaching your intended recipient. Perhaps even a finger point to single out your pal is a good idea. 
Suffering the pain of an unrequited handshake speaks volumes about your social stature and overall "coolness" level, and the pain of a denied or ignored handshake or high-five attempt can put quite a bruise on any person's self-esteerri. With enough practice and effort, even someone who's all thumbs can pull off some collegiate "cool." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tan drew 1 @n d. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
DVD REVIEW 
Subpar writing damages 'Hollywoodland' 
By MARTY SCHROEDER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
"Hollywoodland" is a film that has great potential and wants to be some­thing profound but can't quite make it to what it wants to be. The film is ham­pered by a plot that runs amok in too many directions, and the DVD is a typi­cal first release edition that doesn't have what fans really want. This movie is, in a word, boring. What could have been one of the best films of the year due to star power and storyline in the end couldn't quite figure itself out. 
The film itself is a mystery yarn about the death of Superman actor George Reeves. Reeves is portrayed by Ben Affleck in the best performance of his career. The one redeeming quality of this film is Affleck's performance, and the fact he did not get nominated for a Best Supporting Actor Oscar is one of the biggest crimes of this year. 
The rest of the performances, howev­er, are merely mediocre. Adrien Brody plays the detective Louis Simo and Diane Lane is Toni Mannix, the wife of Hollywood executive Eddie Mannix. Eddie is played by the always-great Bob Hoskins whose lack of screen time is the only reason he isn't remembered in this film. Otherwise, he could have put in a grisly and tough performance and made the film better for it. Body and Lane are agreeable and decent but these are certainly not the best per­formances of their career. Brody in "The Pianist" or even "King Kong" is better than this one. 
The DVD has a commentary by direc­tor Allen Coulter that is informative but not all that exciting. Fans of the film will appreciate the observations but otherwise, nothing special. One of the featurettes, entitled "Recreating Old Hollywood," is probably the best extra on the disc. For all of the plots lack of coherence, the art direction was top notch. Southern California in the glory days of Hollywood was faithfully creat­ed and allowed the audience to immerse themselves in the gaudy hotel rooms and elegant parties. There are a few deleted scenes that do little to bring order to the convoluted plot. The final cut drags so much that anymore screen time would only be annoying and unwanted. 
Overall, this is a DVD for the true fans of the movie. The film itself isn't very good so anyone who hasn't seen it should watch it before buying it. For those who are 
Hollywoodland 
Universal Studios 


.; 
) 



ambivalent toward the movie but want to own it should wait for a collector's or spe­cial edition with at least two discs of extras because the time period this takes place in is a gold mine for doc­umentaries and stories that might flesh out the film and make it better or at least more under­standable. Then again, if this DVD doesn't sell well, the possibility of a collector's edition may be slim. 

With gangster films such as "The Departed," which was directed by Martin Scorsese and "Smokin' Aces," which didn't take itself seriously at all, "Hollywoodland" feels like a lumbering bear that is too self-interested in itself to have any fun or know where it should go. Compared to Jack Nicholson (Frank Costello in "The Departed), Adrien Brody seems bored out of his mind. At the end of the day, the per­formances were good (Affleck's being great) and the art direction was good. The culprit was the script and the writer, Paul Bernbaum, hamstringed this film from the get go. With a better script, "Hollywoodland" could have been the film it wanted to be. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
NBA 

Bryant drops 27 points on Hawks in 90-83 win 
Lakers guard scores nine unanswered points in fourth quarter, wags finger at Atlanta fans in eighth game of road trip 
Associated Press in Atlanta's sixth sellout of the 
season were cheering for him, 
ATLANTA -The roar during anyway. pre-game introductions The Hawks, led by Zaza revealed that many in a rare Pachulia's inside scoring, Atlanta sellout came to see pulled within three points three Kobe Bryant. times early in the period, but 
The applause for the Los they came no closer than six Angeles Lakers' star continued after Bryant's hot streak. after the game-in the Hawks' Johnson made only 10 of 26 locker room. shots. Josh Smith scored 20 
Bryant, mostly quiet through points and Pachulia added 14. three quarters, scored nine Only two players joined straight fourth-quarter points Bryant in double figures for the to lead Los Angeles to a victory Lakers. Odom had 15 points over Atlanta on Monday night. and 18 rebounds, and Bynum 
"You've got to give it to him," added another double-double said Atlanta's Joe Johnson, with 14 points and 10 who matched Bryant's 27 rebounds. points but couldn't equal his The Lakers, who beat Atlanta fourth-quarter impact. 106-95 at home on Dec. 8, 
"He made some great shots completed their first season down the stretch, and I was sweep of the Hawks since the draped all over him for some of 1999-00 season. Even in recent them," Johnson said. seasons, when the Hawks bot­
Eleven of Bryant's 27 points tomed out with 13-and 26-win came in the final period. totals, the Lakers managed no 
"He's a great player; he's one better than a split of the two of the best players who has games. played our game," said Atlanta coach Mike Woodson. "When Rockets 105 he makes a 27 -footer. falling Timberwolves 77 away in the corner, you've got Tracy McGrady scored 16 of to come back on the other end his 32 points in the third quar­and execute your offense." ter on Monday night to lead the 
The Hawks were only 4-of-9 Houston Rockets to a victory from the free throw line in the over the Minnesota Hafer Alston, ejected from the Iguodala had 23 points, a The Nets didn't score again final period. Timberwolves. Hockets' loss to New Orleans career-high 15 assists, and from the floor until Vince 
Bryant said he didn't look at Luther Head went 5-for-7 on Saturday, converted a steal seven rebounds in the 76ers' Carter's layup with 36 seconds the game as a scoring contest from 3-point range and had 20 into a three-point play during overtime victory over New to go pulled them within three, against Johnson. points, and Juwan Howard had the spurt, which ended with Jersey on Monday night, the then Jason Kidd sank a pair of 
"To me individually it doesn't 20 points and eight rebounds Houston up 34-19. Nets' second OT loss in two free throws that trimmed the mean much at this stage of my for the Rockets, who've won Garnett ended Minnesota's 4-days. lead to 99-98. career; I've played in so many nine of 13 games since an minute scoring drought with Samuel Dalembert had 14 Korver went 1-for-2 from the of those individual battles," overtime loss to the his first basket with 6:50 left in points and 17 rebounds, and free throw line and set up one Bryant said. "It's more just, Timberwolves in Minnesota on the first half. Andre Miller had 18 points to last chance for the Nets. 'What can I do to help us win Jan. 7. But after Garnett banked in a give the Sixers their fifth win in Carter's 3-point heave was off the game?' Kevin Garnett had 18 points, shot over Dikembe Mutombo, eight games and sixth in 10. the mark, sending New Jersey 
"A couple years ago I proba­12 rebounds and five assists for the Rockets finished the half "We're turning it around," to its fourth straight loss. bly would have tried to end up Minnesota, which has lost 10 of with a 14-2 spurt. Head capped said Kyle Korver, who scored No, the 76ers didn't wildly with 25 points in the fourth its last 12 games and four in a the run with a fast-break layup nine points. "We're not winning celebrate at halfcourt like the quarter. Now it's not what's row. The Wolves are 2-6 since and a pull-up 3-pointer that as frequently as we'd like to, Hawks did on Sunday when important. Once I got on a roll, Randy Wittman replaced fired put Houston up 50-30 at the but we're doing so much bet­Tyronn Lue hit a 23-foot saw they were double and coach Dwane Casey on Jan. 23. break. ter." jumper at the buzzer to beat triple-teaming, I was able to McGrady topped 30 points for McGrady was 6-of-1 0 in the The same can't be said for the Nets. But they've at least use myself as a decoy." the 13th time this season and third quarter, all of them long the Nets. stopped playing like the worst 
Smush Parker hit a 3-pointer the 11th since Dec. 23, when jumpers _ and he had a good One day after losing at the team in basketball. after Bryant's nine straight Yao Ming broke a bone in his time doing it. overtime buzzer against "It's starting to get back to points, and Andrew Bynum and right leg. Yao is likely out until He playfully spanked Atlanta, the Nets couldn't avoid normal around here," said Lamar Odom combined for 28 March, but due mostly to Wittman after swishing a shot another crunch time defeat. Steven Hunter, who had 13 rebounds. McGrady, Houston is 14-6 since in front of the Wolves' bench They did pull off a late-game points. "Everyone's head is 
"It's a big difference in our that injury. with 3:12 left. Then, he high­thrill when Eddie House's 3-back to basketball. You can tell team, and that's the under­The Rockets had lost four of fived fans in the front row after pointer with 7.8 seconds left in on the court we're focused on standing of when enough is their last five home games beating the buzzer with anoth­regulation sent the game into basketball and nothing else." enough," Lakers coach Phil against the Timberwolves, but er jumper that gave Houston OT. But after Clifford Carter had 23 points and 10 Jackson said. "And when they took command of this one with an 82-52 lead heading to the Robinson's 3 gave them a 93-rebounds, House scored 15 started throwing extra bodies a 20-6 run bridging the first fourth quarter. 92 lead 2 minutes into the points and Kidd 14 for the at people, there was open and second quarters. Head, fifth in the league in 3-extra period, New Jersey went Nets, who blew an 11-point opportunities for other guys." McGrady missed seven of his point shooting, sank his fourth cold from the floor. third-quarter lead. 
The Lakers swept the Hawks first nine shots, then leaped for and fifth 3-pointers early in the Miller hit a running jumper "We have to work our way for the first time in seven years a rebound and dunked over final quarter to keep Houston for the lead, then Iguodala out of it," Carter said. "We and improved to 3-2 on their Mark Blount in the last minute in control. calmly sank a 3 with 1:06 left have to work hard and hope eight-game road trip with their of the opening quarter to put that gave the Sixers a needed things start breaking our way." second straight win. the Rockets up 21-15. Sixers 100, Nets 98 (OT) cushion. Nearly everything is breaking 
Bryant wagged his index fin­Garnett did not score in the New Jersey has become Iguodala hit the clutch basket the Sixers way of late. Maybe ger at Atlanta fans after his first quarter, missing three painfully familiar with watch­at the right time the Sixers they'll get fewer ping-pong fourth straight jumper in his shots. The Timberwolves start­ing other teams beat them in needed to put away the Nets. balls in the draft lottery, but hot streak, which left the ed 6-for-20. the final minutes. "He's one of the most well­the 76ers could create a sense Lakers with a 77-71 lead. Howard hit seven of his first This time, it was Andre balanced players in the NBA of excitement about the future Bryant didn't need to tease; it eight shots, including his first Iguodala and Philadelphia's and he's only in his third year," with some strong play in the seemed most of the 19,600 fans three of the second quarter. turn. Korver said. rest of the second half. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE FoR RENT 

2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR-House available for 2007-2008. QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT Very Large, Close to Campus, Just CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE Renovated. Contact OWNER, $6,500. CALL 243-5454. MacSwain@ gmail.com 
2002 Dodge Neon 4 Door Excellent condition 54,000 miles Two owners andersonNDrentals.com $4,500 Call323-5318 or 634-4605. 
Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4 bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. 
BETTER HOMES,BETTER AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com 
2 bdrm condo JPW & Grad wknds. 1 mitoND. 
614-985-5003. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$245/PER­ UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ 
SON/M0.574-329-0308  not go it alone. If you or someone  ONE WHO IS? You do not have to  
you love needs confidential support  be alone. We want to help. Call our  
Newly renovated home for rent, 3  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  24 hour confidential hotline at 1­ 
bedrooms, 2 baths, close to  Dunn, OP, at 1-7819.  BOO-No-ABORT or visit our website  
ND/SMC. Available now and for  at www.lifecall.org  
07-08. Inquire @574-289-7791.  
For more information, visit our web  COMMON SENSE COMPUTER  
PERSONAL  site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi- repair,clean-up,reload. data back­up.  
weekly ad in The Observer.  Student discount. 1.5 mi. from ND  
ConcordParty.org -We Listen  728 E. Colfax 574-217-8851  



OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, February 6, 2007 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NFL 
NCAA Hockey USA Today Top 20 
team record points previous 

1 NOTRE DAME 23-5-2 482 2 2 Minnesota 23-5-3 41Z 3 3 New Hampshire 20-5-1 465 1 4 St. Cloud State 17-5-4 414 4 5 Denver 20·10-2 348 5 6 Michigan Stale 17-8-2 338 7 7 Boston Univ. 13-5-8 286 6 8 Michigan 21-9-0 259 10 9 Maine 17-8-2 252 9 10 Clarkson 17·7-4 212 8 11 North Dakota 15·11-2 159 13 12 Miami (Ohio) 18-18-4 131 11 13 Colorado College 16-18-2 121 NR 14 Vermont 15-9-4 79 14 15 Boston College 15-11-2 54 13 16 St. Lawrence 15-11-2 51 17 17 Massachusetts 13-9-4 48 19 18 Niagara 17-10-3 34 16 19 Ouinnipac 13-9-5 22 18 20 Cornell 11-9·3 20 20 
NCAA Hockey USCHO.com/CSTV Top 20 
team record points prerious 

1  NOTRE DAME  23-5-2  756  
2  Minnesota  23·5-3  753  
3  New Hampshire  20·5-1  752  
4  St. Cloud State  17-5-4  693  
5  Denver  20-10-2  597  
6  Michigan Stale  17-8-2  562  
7  Maine  17-8-2  517  
8  Boston Univ.  13-5-8  507  
9  Michigan  2H·O  491  
10  Clarkson  17-7-4  471  
11  North Dakota  15-11-2  389  
12  Miami (Ohio)  18-10-4  363  
13  Colorado College  16-18-2  351  
14  Vermont  15-9-4  296  
15  Boston College  14-18-1  265  
16  St. Lawrence  15-11-2  196  
17  Massachusetts  13-9-4  97  
18  Niagara  17-18-3  92  
19  Ouinnipac  13-9-5  so  
20  Cornell  11-9-3  12  

Men's Basketball Big East Standlpgs 
Big East team record 
1 Pittsburgh 8-1 2 Marquette 7~2 3 Georgetown e;i2 
4 West Virginia 7-3 5 Louisville 6-3 6 NOTRE DAME 6-4 7 Syracuse 5-5 8 Providence 4-4 9 Villanova H 10 Connecticut 4-6 11 St. John's H 12 DePaul 4-6 13 Seton Hall 3-6 14 South florida 3-6 15 Rutgers 2-8 16 Cincinnati 1·7 
2 3 1 4 5 6 9 7 11 8 12 10 15 14 13 17 19 16 18 20 

overall 
18·4 
>16-7 18-S 16-8 14,-7 15-7 15·8 13-10 13-11 
.12"10 12-11 9·14 10·12 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Michigan at Ohio State 7 p.m., ESPN 
LSU at Tennessee 9 p.m., ESPN 


Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -The RCA Dome never felt so good to the Super Bowl champion Indianapolis Colts. 
After a rain-soaked vic­tory in Miami the night before and then a frigid, bone-numbing homecom­ing parade through the streets of downtown Indianapolis on Monday night, the Colts finally arrived back at their stadi­um for a raucous celebra­tion with their fans. 
More than 40,000 of them, just as loud and boisterous as they were when the Colts left the Dome two weeks earlier 
with the AFC champi­onship, welcomed them home, reveling in the city's first major profesional sports championship in more than 30 years. 
"It sure feels good to be back in this Dome after playing in that weather last night," shouted Peyton Manning, the MVP in the Colts' 29-17 victory over the Chicago Bears. "On behalf of the players, we want to thank the greatest fans in the world." 
Most of the fans had been there for hours, patiently waiting for the team to arrive. The parade was supposed to begin around 4 p.m. but got under way late because the Colts' plane from Miami was delayed. No matter. 
"It might be a once-in-a­lifetime thing," Robert Smith of Indianapolis said while watching a giant­screen TV replay of Sunday night's victory over the Bears. 
Many of the fans were wearing Colts blue. Many held signs such as "We love our Colts" or just a simple "Thank You." 
Once the team arrived, still wearing their parkas or hooded sweatshirts from the below-zero wind chill outside, it was the Colts themselves who delivered all the thank yous. 

"You guys are awe­some," coach Tony Dungy told the crowd. "For the last 16 or 18 hours, we've been enjoying this champi­onship. We had a team party (in Miami) last night, but we were looking for­ward to coming home. This is more than we could have ever expected. Thank you for this turnout." 
Two giant inflatable bal­loons resembling Colts players flanked a stage that was set up on the floor of the Dome. Amid a barrage of camera flashes from the stands, many of the Colts players -and Dungy, too -brought out their own cameras to record the moment. 
IN BRIEF 

Mears names crew chief for 2007 NASCAR Season 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Casey Mears got a new crew chief Monday, just four days before NASCAR begins preparations for the season-opening Daytona 500. 
Fortunately for Mears, he's team­ing with last year's race-winning crew chief. 
Darian Grubb, who led Jimmie Johnson to the Daytona 500 victory, will now lead Mears' No. 25 team at Hendrick Motorsports. Grubb, an engineer on Johnson's crew, filled in for Chad Knaus during his four-race suspension last season. 
Grubb led Johnson to a pair of wins during his stint. 
"Darian is one of the most respect­ed voices in our organization and has proven to be a terrific leader," team owner Rick Hendrick said. "He and Casey represent an exciting new combination for the No. 25 team, its sponsors and its fans." 
Flight resbictions from lidle 
crash made permannt 
WASHINGTON -Flight restric­tions imposed around Manhattan after New York Yankees pitcher Cory Lidle crashed his single-engine plane into an apartment tower will be made permanent, government docu­ments indicate. 
The plan for the rule change was revealed as the National Transportation Safety Board released papers Monday detailing its investi­gation of the Oct. 11 crash that killed Lidle and his flight instructor. 
"The pilot and owner was New York Yankee player Cory Lidle, and a California based flight instructor was with him," the NTSB said, also iden­tifying Tyler Stanger elsewhere as the "passenger/flight instructor." 
Included in the papers are toxicolo­gy reports showing that neither Lidle, 34, nor instructor Stanger, 26, had drugs or alcohol in their sys­tems. 
Micl!igan lawmakers propose 
day to honor Dungy 
LANSING, Mich. -State lawmakers on Monday proposed a day honoring Indianapolis Colts coach Tony Dungy, who was born and raised in Michigan. 
Dungy, whose Colts won the Super Bowl, is from Jackson, where he excelled in football at Parkside High School. He is the first black coach to win a Super Bowl. 
"Because of the strength of his character, as well as his success on the field, Tony Dungy is an inspiration to all of us," said Senate Minority Leader Mark Schauer, D-Battle Creek, whose district includes Jackson. 
Schauer plans to sponsor a legisla­tive resolution proposing "Tony Dungy Day" along with Democratic Reps. Marty Griffin of Jackson and Mike Simpson of Jackson County's Liberty Township. They had not yet determined which day to honor Dungy. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
U.S. SOCCER 

Dempsey joins American migration to England 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Two days after appearing in an English Premier League game with three other Americans, mid­fielder Clint Dempsey worked out with the U.S. national team Monday afternoon. 
He hopes the jet lag will wear off before the U.S. meets Mexico in a friendly Wednesday night. 
"This morning, I woke up at 6 o'clock," Dempsey said after practice at Grand Canyon University. "Normally I don't do that. I'm not quite there yet, but it's getting better." 

On Saturday, Dempsey was one of four Americans on the field when Fulham beat Newcastle 2-1 in the Premier League. Dempsey, who came on in the 78th minute, joined defender Carlos Bocanegra and forward Brian McBride while defender Oguchi Onyewu played for Newcastle. 
"It's kind of cool just to 
think about," Dempsey said. "It's funny to know somebody on the other team and joke around with him during the game. It's good to see more Americans making the move over there, and hopefully there'll be more to come." 
Dempsey joined Fulham on Jan. 10 for a transfer fee that could reach $4 million. 
Dempsey said he's enjoyed his brief time in England and is looking forward to naming a start. This week. though, hn is concentrating on beating Mexico, the United States' fiercest rival. 
The United States has domi­nated the rivalry recently, going 7-2-1 against Mexico since 2000. The Americans are 6-0-1 on home soil in that stretch, outscoring Mexico 11­0 in those games. 
Bradley said he selected Dempsey for this game because he likns his attacking style, which earned him a job in England. 


This way u 
Start at Ernst &Young, and your career is headed in the right direction. With our award-winning training programs. you'll have the resources you need to 
"The reason he's there is he's got an aggressiveness going forward, fearlessness when he gets around the goal in terms of taking chances, and that's what we're looking for from him every time he steps on the field," Bradley said. 
Bradley said he didn't know whether Dempsey would play in the middle or on the out­side. 
"It depends on how the team plays," Bradley said. "The most important thing is to still find a way for him to get the ball in situations going for­ward where his attacking skills come into play." 
Dempsey scored the only goal by an American at last year's World Cup and was voted U.S. player of the year. 
The 2004 MLS rookie of the year with New England, Dempsey scored 25 goals in 71 games in his three seasons with the Revolution. lie has scored six goals in 23 games for the United States. 
"He's a dangerous, attacking player," Bradley said. "He gets chances for himself. He's not afraid to go into the box and mix it up. So I think he's an important player for us." 
Dempsey is one of four U.S. team members who have returned from England to join the squad this week. The oth­ers are Bocanegra; midflelder Bobby Convey of Reading FC; and goalkeeper Tim Howard of Everton FC. 
Each was dealing with dra­matic changes in time and temperature. London is seven hours ahead of Phoenix, and it was nearly 40 degrees warmer in the desert. 
"I think it's like 4 in the morning for me right now," Convey said after the U.S. practice. "For us, that's the disadvantage to playing in England and being on the national team. I think my !light was like 15 hours to get all the way here. We'll see how it goes. I feel OK." 
Dempsey grew up in Texas and followed the Mexican national team as a youngster. He's looking forward to facing them on Wednesday, even though it may feel like a road game for the Americans. More than 50,000 tickets have been sold for the match at 62,000­seat University of Phoenix Stadium in Glendale, and the crowd is expected to be heavi­ly pro-Mexico. 

enhance your skills. It's an environment that promotes your personal and professional growth and success. So there's only one way to go-up. Visit us on campus or at cy.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE,. 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 


Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
TENNIS 
Sainpras eyes return w-ith Boston tourney 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The last time Pete Sampras played competi­tive tennis in Boston, his dou­bles team notched the only vic­tory for the United States in the Davis Cup quarterfinals against Australia in 1999. 
The winner of a record 14 Grand Slam singles titles returns in three months for his first tournament since 2002 when he participates in the Outback Champions Series at Boston University from May 2­
6. He wants to see how he feels there before committing to any of the other five tournaments in the series for players older than 30. 
"I just want to see how it goes," Sampras said in a tele­phone interview Monday. "I don't want to commit to a bunch of them, just see how I enjoy the week, the playing. I didn't want to commit to some­thing I wasn't 100 percent sure about." 
His participation in the event was announced last Tuesday. 
Boston is the second stop on the tour and Sampras prefers the hardcourt on which it will be played to other surfaces in the series. He said he enjoyed the city when he played in the Davis Cup where he teamed with Alex O'Brien for a five-set victory. Australia won the quar­terfinal 4-1 and beat France in the final. 
The 35-year-old Sampras retired after winning the U.S. Open in September 2002 with a victory over Andre Agassi. At first, he didn't miss the grueling routine of tournament tennis and practices. 
"Initially, you enjoy it, you decompress, and it's nice not having to worry about tennis," he said. "The stress of trying to win the majors was gone. It was fun. I did some things I didn't get a chance to do." 
One of those was golf. 

"After a couple of years of that you kind of wake up as the mornings go on feeling you 
WILD THANG 
need to do a little bit more and feel more fulfilled," he said. "Getting up in the morning to play golf is fun, but you miss a little bit of the structured life you had." 
One reason he's returning is his relationship with series co­founder Jim Courier, who also will be in the eight-man field in Boston along with John McEnroe. Total prize money is $142,000. To qualify for the series, now in its second full year, a player must have reached a Grand Slam singles final, been ranked in the top five, or played singles on a Davis Cup championship team. 
"I almost in a way wish he came back and played (regular­ly)." McEnroe said Monday night after attending the Rangers' hockey game in New York. "I know he sort of in a way wants to preserve what he's already done. But no one can take that away." 
Sampras said he won't return to the regular tennis tour but is ready for the competition again although it's "nothing as intense as it used to be." 
"I know that he can beat most of these guys still -cer­tainly at Wimbledon -so there's a temptation for him to want to do that," McEnroe said. "I know he's right. He can han­dle these guys but that's his call." 
Sampras did play some exhi­bitions and World Team Tennis last year. 
''I've been hitting the ball pretty well and using the bigger racket with the new technology string," Sampras said. "It's really given me the ability to hit the ball better today than I did in my prime." 
For the first time in 4 1/2 years, fans will get a chance to judge for themselves in a tour­nament setting. 
"You still have a lot of pride and you want to play well and you want to win," he said., "Every time I step on the court I still want to hit that big shot, hit that big serve." 
NHL 
Hasek beats out rough stretch 
Red Wings goalie bailed out by teammates late in game, makes 17 saves 
Associated Press won its fourth straight game 
and eighth in 11 contests. 
NEW YORK -Dominik Hasek "My teammates played flashed a smile and cracked great," Hasek said. "They some jokes even though he had scored four goals and we won just endured the worst period the game. All I can say is I of an otherwise stellar season. made some mistakes that I usu­
When your teammates bail ally don't make." you out with three goals in the Zetterberg got to a loose puck third period, there is every rea­off the stick of Rangers forward son to be happy. Blair Betts in front of the New 
The 42-year-old Hasek gave York net and quickly slammed up three goals on in a shot to break seven shots in a a 3-all tie with shaky first period, 7:24 left. but 1-Ienrik "What happened? The Red Wings Zetterberg will certainly
All I can say is it 
capped the Red want more trips 
was the worst
Wings' big finish to New York than by scoring the period for me this the current sched­decisive goal late ule allows. Their
year.

in Detroit's 4-3 last two road victory over the games have both New York Dominik Hasek been in the met­Rangers on Red Wings goalie ropolitan area 
Monday night. 
"What hap­pened? All I can say is it was the worst period for me this year," said Hasek, tied for third in the NHL with a 
2.08 goals-against average. "I feel like all three goals I should save. 
"It actually was a 7 o'clock game. I thought it was starting at 7:30." 
By the time the Red Wings rallied, Hasek had settled down and it was Rangers goalie 1-Ienrik Lundqvist's turn to be unsteady. He couldn't really be blamed for the winning goal, but the ones scored by Jiri Hudler and Robert Lang were hardly picture perfect. 
Hasek made 13 saves over the final 40 minutes as Detroit 
and featured big 
third periods in 

comeback victo­ries. 
Detroit, which hadn't played in Madison Square Garden since Oct. 25, 2003, erased a 3­0 deficit to the Islanders in the third period last Tuesday before winning in overtime. 
"We haven't had a lot of come-from-behind wins this year," defenseman Mathieu Schneider said. "It's huge for a team when you feel like you can win no matter what the deficit is." 
Zetterberg helped set up Pavel Datsyuk's first-period goal, and Hudler took advan­tage of Lundqvist's misplay early in the third to make it 3­
2. Lang tied it at 10:54. 

Club Information Meetings 
Mandatory for the two highest ranking officers of all undergraduate clubs 
Monday, Feb 51h @ 5 pm -Academic Clubs Tuesday, Feb 61h@ 4 pm-Athletic Clubs Wednesday, Feb 7th @ 5 pm -Cultural Clubs Wednesday, Feb 7th@ 6 pm-Performing Arts Clubs Thursday, Feb 8th @ 5 pm -Social Service Clubs Thursday, Feb 81h @ 6 pm -Special Interest Clubs 
All C!Ms take place in Montgomery Auditorium, LaFortune Student Center 
clf~OcF~cF~ 
Want to get involved with Student Government? 
Want to allocate over a quarter of a million dollars? 
We are looking for enthusiastic underclassmen to become representatives on the Club Coordination Council! 
All club members are eligible to run. 
Elections will be held at the Club Information Meetings. 
* If you are unable to attend the Club Information Meeting of the division which you would like to run for, send an email to ccc@nd.edu 
expressing your interest or send a written statement with a member of your club who is able to attend the CIM. 
That made up for Hasek's poor early effort. He yielded goals to Brendan Shanahan, Michael Nylander and Marcel 1-Iossa before 15 minutes elapsed. Hasek earned his 29th victory despite making only 17 saves. Lundqvist stopped 22 shots. 
Shanahan, in his first game against the Red Wings since leaving as a free agent in the offseason, gave the Rangers the lead just 2:18 in on New York's second shot. 
Nylander doubled the advan­tage 13 seconds later after Hasek flubbed the puck behind his net, and Bossa wrapped up the Rangers' most productive period in nearly a month at 14:24. 
Lundqvist saved his melt­down until the end. He commit­ted a costly turnover to Valtteri Filppula that turned into Hudler's ninth goal, then flubbed a soft, bouncing puck that Lang knocked in for the tying tally. 
"It was one of those things that happened," Lundqvist said. "They took advantage. It was a tough break." 
That put another crimp in the Rangers' fading playoff hopes. New York has dropped three straight, seven of 10 and 14 of 21, slipping to fourth in the Atlantic Division and 11th in the Eastern Conference. The loss, in the only NHL game Monday night, left the Rangers five points out of a playoff spot with 29 games left. 
"There's lots of hockey left but we're digging ourselves a hole," Shanahan said. 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
England 
continued from page 20 
"I hope the camaraderie will help us grow as a team and bring us closer together, and just give them a lifetime experience that they will never forget," MacKenzie said. 
The team will meet with a professional trainer in Manchester and compete in four friendly matches with teams of comparable skill levels. The trip, however, is not purely business. Mackenzie hopes to get in a good deal of sightseeing and to expose her team to a new culture. 
"When I was in college, I was fortunate enough to travel with the team to Scotland one summer," said MacKenzie, who played for Quincy Univ-ersity. "It was awesome to be able to travel abroad with my teammates." 
Being able to share that experience with her new team has been a dream of MacKenize's since she signed on with the Belles in 2003. After checking with 
Saint Mary's Athletic Director Stephen Hinkel, she began researching the trip. 
The Belles selected Go Play Sports, a well-established travel agency based in Boston, Mass., that special­izes in this type of event, to organize the tour. 
The last obstacle that the team is currently in the process of hurdling is the fundraising to fray the hefty costs of international travel. Members of the team have been working for ·over two years now to collect money by parking cars during Notre Dame home football games. 
"As a Division-III school, there are opportunities we can't really give our athletes because we don't have a huge budget," MacKenzie said. 
The Belles are also auc­tioning a chance to win a four-day, three-night stay in Paris with the purchase of a $10 raffle ticket. The draw­ing will take place during Saint Mary's final home bas­ketball game Feb. 1 7 against Hope College at 3 p.m. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
NFL 

City mourns Super Bowl loss 
Bears fans ofall ages attempt to digest loss, look towards future 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Everyone from rush-hour commuters to T-shirt vendors to transit workers start­ed the week here in a collmtive limk. lamenting how their Bears fell short of their first Supm· Bowl ehampionship in 21 years. 
A'ikod if he was a Boars fan the day after Chicago lost 29-17 to the Indianapolis Colts. Bill Lortz peered over a cup of eom1n at the dty's Billy Goat tavern Monday morning, looked up and grum­bled, "Not any more." 
But Lortz sortened minutPs later, saying he still held out hope for the futuro. 
"Yesterday was the Colts' day," the 60-year-old said. "I think the Boars will make it back to the Super Bowl next year." 
Other fans were quick to express gratitudP for the Bears at least making it to, if not winning, Sunday's championship. 
"They did something for Chicago," said Gene Burchell, a 41-year-old rail janitor for the Chicago Transit Authority. "They mprnsentPd us well." 
AI Castellanos agreed. 
"It was painful that they lost, but there were 30 other teams who didn't make it to the Super Bowl," said the 49-year-old, wearing a Bears cap as he walked through a Chicago train station. "Hopefully it won't be another 21 years." 
Tho Bears quietly returned to Chicago on Monday night, arriv­ing with no fanfare at O'llare International Airport shortly alter 7 p.m. 
Players and coaches, including head eoach Lovin Smith. walked on· a chartfJred flight and directly to buses that worn to take them to their I !alas I I all practice facili­ty in Lake Forest. None spoke to the crowd of news media that had gathered to observe their arrival. 

City ollicials said they would have considered going ahead with a parade to honor the Bears, despite the loss -but the team requested there be no such event. Last week, a post-Super Bowl celebration was tentatively planned lor Tuesday. 
"We wanted the team to know we appreciated them." said Cindy Gatziolis, a spokeswoman for the city's office of special events. "We would have done something, but it was the team's wishes not to unless they had a victory." 
Sunday's defeat also hit sou­venir vendors hard -right in the poekot book. 
Orange and blm~ Bears gear sold briskly in the lead-up to Sunday, and a Super Bowl would have boosted sales to new heights, said Farid Muhamad, a manager at the Press Relay sou­venir stem~ at Chicago's Union Station. 
"People were buying every­thing last week -Boars mugs. shirts, hats." he said. "We. sold thousands of things .... Today, no one's bought a single thing." 
The store had ordered 5,000 "Chicago Bears -Super Bowl Champions" shirts in advance, Muhamad said. The order from the manufacturer was contingent on the Bears winning Sunday, he added, so the store didn't have to pay for any of the merchandise. 
Some fans focused anger on Bears quarterback Rex Grossman, who had two fourth­quarter interceptions when the Colts still seemed within striking distance. 
"I don't dislike Grossman. But he choked in a big game," said 28-year-old Jon Risk, a native Chieagoan who flew in from his current Brooklyn home to watch the game on TV. "Their offense did not look like they knew what ... was going on." 
Others took solace in the fact that, however bad. the defeat could have been worse. 
"They eould have gotten blown out pretty easily," said Jose Heyes, 40, a Chicago-area com­puter applications developer. "They were able to stay in the game .... It could have been like a 40-3 game." 


Tuesday, February 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
and Villanova. 
But when the Notre Dame women enter the pool on Feb. 14, few around the Notre Dame community other than those wearing their swimsuits will realize that the Irish will be defending a record 10 con­secutive Big East titles. 
"I don't think it's been publi­cized very much," senior cap­tain Katie Carroll said. "It would be nice if people knew that we held the record. It would give a good name to the University." 
With a victory at this year's Big East championships in Long Island, N.Y., No. 19 Notre Dame would become the first school in Big East history to win 11 consecutive conference titles in any sport. The only other program to match Notre Dame's current streak is the Pittsburgh men's swimming and diving pro­gram, which won 10 consecu­tive titles from 1983-1992. 
"We've been fairly consis­tent over the years," Carroll said. "We've had some good coaching and some good recruiting, and it's helped us accomplish something pretty special." 
Carroll, a four-year standout for Notre Dame, has been an integral member of the last three Irish teams to earn the Big East title. In 2006, Carroll was the Big East champion in the 400-meter individual med­ley, and she has earned seven all-conference certificates. Despite the individual acco­lades, Carroll realizes the magnitude of what the pro­gram has accomplished. 
"It's pretty cool because in the past four years I've been part of something that's big­ger than myself," Carroll said. "People ten years ago started this winning streak, and we're just trying to carry it on." 
Despite being the highest­ranked team nationally from the Big East this season, the Irish can expect to face some stiff competition at this year's championships. By finishing second in five of the past seven Big East champi­onships, Rutgers is a worthy adversary. And this season figures to be no different. 
The No. 23 Scarlet Knights cracked the top 25 for the first time all season in the lat­est College Swimming Coaches Association of America poll. Hutgers, like Notre Dame, has only one dual loss. 
"Rutgers almost beat us last year, and that would have been huge for them," Carroll said. "Honestly though, I think it's going to be a competition for second place. We have a lot of confidence in our­selves." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
AROUND THE COMPETITION 

Notre Dame Law School is pleased to announce its Law School Diversity Conference. 
As part of the Law School Admissions Council sponsored National Minority Law School Recruitment Month, the conference is designed to provide guidance to students who are interested in or considering attending law school. The conference is free of charge and open to all. 
Friday, February 16, 2007 12 noon to 3 pm 
The program will include a Student Panel (Question and Answer session focusing on law school student life), a presentation on Applying to Law School Topics include: Preparing for the LSAT, Personal Statements, and Letter of Recommendation Choices and a presentation on Financing a Legal Education. 
You can register online through our website www.lawadmissions.nd.edu or by calling (574) 631­6626 on or before February 9th. Lunch will be served during the conference 
Fresh01en 
continued from page 20 
31 assists in conference games, compared to only 12 turnovers. But Barlow has provided the biggest spark to the Irish offense, averaging 
10.6 points and 5.2 rebounds per game this season. 
"It's been a challenge, but I think I'm up for it," said Barlow of the transition to college basketball. "I just try to come in and try to bring energy to the team and do what I need to do for the team." 
Even though these three garner the majority of the team's substitution playing time, they are not the only ones sitting with McGraw at the start of the game. 
Joining them off the bench for the Irish are freshman Danielle Ben-Tsvulun and junior Amanda Tsipis. Tsipis and Ben-Tsvulun have been able to get some time on the floor this season, although it has generally been limited to late-game situations in already decided games. 
For Tsipis, her biggest game of the season was Dec. 28 against Prairie View A&M, where she played seven minutes, grabbed two boards and had two points. Ben-Tsvulun had her break­out game Sunday against the Mountaineers, coming in late in the first half. 
Even though Ben-Tsvulun had only one minute in the game, she worked hard up and down the court. The freshman forward scored four points, including one fast-break layup to close out the half. 
"She did a really nice job at the end of the half, and I was really pleased with her," McGraw said. "We thought about playing her a little bit more in the second half, we were just about to when they went on that run. because I think she can really post up strong." 


For McGraw, the freshmen performances have been a highlight for her team this year. Coupled with the five veterans that make up the starting lineup, Barlow, Lechlitner and Williamson have been able to enter the game and play strong 
enough that the Irish don't miss a step. 
"Our bench -they've been outscoring the other team's bench all year long, And you know it's all freshmen," she said. "So it's great to see that every game, that our freshmen are coming in and playing like veterans. And this time of the year we need them to do that." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
For all ofyour skin care & hair removal needs come to our South Bend location just a couple miles from campus on North 
Michigan street. Peggy is a Licensed 
Aesthetician and specializes in Bikini, Brazilian, and full leg wax. From lip to leg, Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth 
and soft so you are ready to hit the BEACH! 
Peggy is available 
 Monday -Friday
Peggy Dibble 9am-5pm
Aesthetician 

 Saturday 8:30am -12:30pm 
Call Peggy TODAY! 
574.282.2020 
.. .and don't forget to mention this ad!! 
& FACIAL PLASTIC SURGERY 
401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
No. I 
continued from page 20 
Hockey Magazine poll, Notre Dame earned a little bit more breathing room in the national top five. The Irish grabbed 20 first-place votes to Minnesota's nine and New Hampshire's five. The Gophers and Irish are tied for the most wins in col­lege hockey this season with 23. 

With the sweep in league 
; 

ACC[N
SUMMER I TE 
play over Bowling Green, the Irish secured a first-round bye in the CCHA playoffs that are set to begin March 2. Notre Dame holds first place in the standings currently with 36 points, while Michigan (32 points) sits in second, Miami 
NS IPS 
Discover how microfinance is changing the world. 
INFORMATION SESSION: FEBRUARY 6 6:00 PM 


339 MENDOZA COlLEGE Of BUSINESS 


(30 points} is in third and Michigan State (28 points} rounds out the top four teams that receive a bye, and home ice, in the second round. With only six games left in the regu­lar season, the Irish cannot be caught by fifth-place Nebraska-Omaha (23 points). 
The Irish have been a target for struggling teams capable of pulling off mid-season upsets since they jumped into the rankings Oct. 23 at No. 11 fol­lowing a 7-1 destruction of then-No. 1 Boston College. 
"Our guys are getting more accustomed to dealing with it since everyone plays their A­game against us," Jackson said. "I think that makes us a better team. It makes our opponents play their best games against us and in turn makes us play our best as well hopefully that will benefit us down the road." 
Notre Dame has never been named the best team in college hockey before, but it has come close several times. 
On Jan. 31, 1977, the Irish were voted No. 2 following a two-game sweep of Colorado College on the road. The icers remained at the spot for sever­al more weeks after they beat and tied Minnesota the next weekend. The team fell short from a NCAA Tournament bid that year when it lost to the Gophers in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs, preventing the Irish from earning one of the limited four spots in the Tournament. 
Several years earlier in 1973, Notre Dame was voted No. 2 in the preseason poll and held the spot for the first two weeks of the season, but ulti­mately could not hold on and finished the season below .500 and unranked. 
The Irish were ranked No. 2 earlier this season when the polls were released Jan. 2, but dropped to No. 5 after a 4-2 loss to Robert Morris Jan. 7. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Graphic Illustration by Matt 

more pressure to score, but opposing defenses have focused 
Kurz 
their gameplan more toward continued from page 20 shutting them down without 
Kurz. This has forced traditional ward Zach Hillesland said. "He's role players like Hillesland and been our best rebounder. His size guard Tory Jackson to look to and strength give us a definite shoot more often. advantage on the boards." Falls scored 26 points to keep 
In the first meeting between the Irish in the game against 
South Florida and  South Florida, but  
Notre Dame Jan.  Carter and Jackson  
21, Kurz led the way for the Irish with 21 points and  "It's hard to play with [Kurz] not out  struggled from the floor, shooting a combined 7 -of-24  
10 rebounds. His  there."  from  the  field.  
limited  playing  Hillesland, who has  
time and ham­pered mobility in Saturday's loss  Luke Harangody Irish forward  started in Kurz's place the last two games, had four  

allowed South Florida to get 22 second-chance points and domi­nate the Irish on the glass 48-to­37. 
"They were more physical on the boards," Irish guard Russell Carter said. "They had five guys rushing in every time as opposed to Syracuse, who had bigger bod­ies but they weren't as tough inside." 
I Iillesland filled in well against Syracuse, piling up 14 points and 10 rebounds, but got into foul trouble early against the Bulls. Kurz and then had to come off the bench, and forward Luke llarangody was left with the lion's share of the workload inside. 
"We just couldn't get into the flow of the game, and we needed to hit the boards harder," llarangody said. "It's hard to play with [Kurz] not out there." 
Without Kurz's usual offensive production, Carter and guard Colin Falls -Notre Dame's two leading scorers -are under 
points and three rebounds against the Bulls. 
''I've been up and down. I was limited the other night because of foul trouble the other night," Hillesland said. "I was trying to contain some of those guys, they were pretty athletic getting to the boards. I've been trying to pick up some of the productivity we lost with Rob." 
Without a healthy Kurz on the defensive end of the floor, the Irish will try to avoid more games like South Florida where they gave up two or three shots on each opposing possession. 
"His size and strength on the boards really gave us an advan­tage [rebounding]." Hillesland said. "We have to have the whole team rebound. from the forwards to the guards. Hopefully he can come back and be that force on the boards." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

Tuesday, February 6, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
SOME. -:J~"'-~'-'lf>""i f(,E.CAU.E.t> M~ ~OP'j CF 11 WHE..I2...E.~ 
fP-OM 

BLAcK DoG 
t>o you 11-\IN~ 11-\E. L\S.ItA"'f R.EA L\ Z.E..<; 'Jou'v E.. C.HEL~~ OUT lHE..\ ~ E.NT\ R.E. '' 1--\A~l:>'\ So'fS" -=========::....~CO L.\..E. CTI 01'-.l "? 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
From: "ND News~ <news.vn7®ND.EDL!>~ 
LIAMMORAN 


Feb. 5, 2007 
You probably don't need another reason to avoid t:he library, but it's flooded with sh""" rlght now. Sorry. Office of News & Information 
P.S. The Badin 2.4·hour lounge will also be dosed because a pipe burst there last night (if you know what I mean). 
58 Quick Draw McGraw with laryngitis? 
61 Laconic president 

63 Many a realty deal 
64 Bugs Bunny's coat? 
65 Indigent one 
66 Black cat, to some 
67 Hails from Rocky 68 Reporters 

DOWN 1 Set up for a fall 2 Prepare for 
another shot 3 Silky-coated cat 4 Loosey-_ 5 Begot 6 Be plentiful 7 Ran out 8 Bellicose god 9 Fall back 
10 Beloved Bambi? 11 " Saini-Lazare" (Mane! 
painting) 12 Once, old-style 14 Sleep acronym 16 Hydrocarbon 
suffixes 20 Being broadcast 25 Oils, busts, etc. 
27 Some members 
of Parliament 28 Left Bank locale 30 Domesticated 
insect 31 Org. with a noted journal 
WILLSHORTZ 
refinement pitcher 59 Anita of jazz

37 Porky Pig's home movie 49 Main Street 60 West ender? 
presentation? 
event, maybe 

62 Grid great 39 Cuts back 50 Market areas Dawson 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
..;::+::+:=~ 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FOIMT 
± 
©2007Trlbune Media Services, Inc. 
r~~~rl] 


WHEN THE ROOM­
EN BODY 
MATES STUDIED AN.A.TOMY, THEY

() I 
KNEW THEIR 
www.Jumble.com 
SUBJEC.T--­
tSAYNUE t 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answerhere:( I I J I I) (I I) 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: MINER OBESE SAVORY GOSPEL Answer: Learning how to drive can lead to this ­SOME "REVERSES" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jennifer Jason Leigh, 45; Christopher Guest, 59; Barbara Hershey. 59; Roger Stauhach, 65 
Happy Birthday: No matter how you feel about the people around you or the work you are trying to do, you have to follow through. No one said il would he easy bul you have it in you to finish what you start. When you do, the accomplishment will set tbe standard for the entire year. You don't have to be perfect--just live up to the standards and goals you set for yourself. Your numbers are I 0, 14, 19, 21, 23, 38, 
ARIES (March 21-April19): You need to gather more information before you make a decision or take action. This is not the day to jump to conclusions. Chances are good that you are overreacting to a situation that is not out of line. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Learn to say no. You don't have time to waste getting other people's work out of the way. Focus on your own tasks and you will make an impression on the very people who can help you advance. ***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Watch who you are dealing with. Avoid people trying to get you to contribute, donate or give up your time. You have to be honest --if you give someone the impression that you are willing to do something, you will he held accountable. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You have no time to waste today. You can make some interesting personal changes to yourself or your home that will leave you looking pretty efficient. Love is on the rise. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Gambling, poor investments and, in general, overindulgence will have a far-reaching affect on you. Clear up unsettled business with friends, relatives or your lover. Now is not the time to let things linger. so clear the air.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let your emotions get the better of you. Take a closer look at what the people around you are doing and rea~sess your situation. This is not the best time to hire contractors or to renovate your home. Conserve, don't spend. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get your ideas down on paper. You will get some support from friends and relatives, with favors being granted. A child or older relative will do something unusual that can help you avoid a problem. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should be out discovering new things or making new acquaintances. The more networking you do, the better. Personal issues will confuse you. Someone you are close to will probably not tell you everything you need to know. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel and communications will be problematic today. Take a wait-and-see attitude before you make a decision. Someone will withhold information, leaving you blindfolded regarding personal matters. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can test your talents today and win. Any challenge you face will be a game in progress and you will play to win. Money can be made but someone may try to take advantage of your efforts and rewards. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be honest with yourself and others and you won't have a problem taking care of the emotional issues that arise today. If you hide your true feelings or withhold information. you will face an even greater obstacle. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Taking on too much, indulging too much or promising something you can't possibly deliver will all lead to trouble. An event or activity that requires physical skill will help you get rid of some of your anxiety and frustration. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are a perfectionist who must learn to be less self-critical. You are an adventurer--inventive, original and with plenty to contribute to society. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Wounds with a grenade, in 
slang 6 carte 9 Just squeeze by 
13 'The Bathers" painter 15 Naked Pooh? 
17 "An Inconvenient Truth" presenter 
18 Sources of free drinks 
19 Bullwinkle's salon application? 
21 Abbr. after many a major's name 22 Lop-_ 23 Opposite SSW 24 Blue 26 Omaha Beach time 27 Hollywood's Alan and Diane 
29 Country's McEntire 
32 Luau fare 
33 Think the world of 
35 Hunk 
38 The Bruins' #4 
39 USA Today chart shape 
40 _Irvin, classic cartoonist 
41 Washed away 43 Aardvark's morsel 44 "Beowulf" quaff 
45 "_bleu!" 
48 P. &L. statement preparers 
52 _judicata 
54 Anonymous John 
55 Struck down 
56 Sphere in space 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, February 6, 2007 
page 20 
HOCKEY 
By KYLE CASSILY 
Sporrs Writer 
Light up that bright yellow sign on top of Grace Hall, there's a new No. 1 team on campus. 
For the first time in the pro­gram's 39-year history, the Irish hockey team is ranked No. 1 in the country. With the release of the two national polls Monday, the Irish leapfrogged -if just barely ­previous leaders New Hampshire and Minnesota after a weekend in which the Irish slid past Bowling Green and got a helping hand out of New England. 
"It's really insignificant at this point," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said of the ranking. "We just have to keep the mindset of focusing on the next game and the next week­end. We can't allow ourselves to get caught up in those types of things. The only poll that 

Number one 
matters is the one that they take at the end of the season." 
Notre Dame (23-5-2) defeat­ed the last-place Falcons on the road 3-2 and 2-1 last weekend, while then-No. 1 New Hampshire fell 4-2 to No. 9 Maine in one of college hock­ey's most fierce rivalries, before taking the second game 2-1 over the Black Bears. The New Hampshire loss was enough to bump them down to No. 3 as Minnesota swept Alaska-Anchorage at home to jump to the No. 2 spot. And the then-No. 2 Irish became the third team in three weeks to take over the top spot. 
The Irish received 17 first­place votes in the USCHO.com/CSTV poll, while the Gophers earned 12 and the Wildcats took home 11. Only four regular votes separated the Irish (756) from No. 3 New Hampshire (752). 
In the USA Today/USA 
see NO. 1/page 18 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Kurz expects to play against DePaul 

Striding to the top: 
Notre Dame hockey's climb to No. 1 
By CHRIS HINE 
Sports Writer 
Irish forward Rob Kurz said before practice Monday that he would play in Notre Dame's game Thursday at DePaul. Kurz missed last Tuesday's game at Syracuse and saw limited action Saturday at South Florida because of a sprained right ankle he sustained in Notre Dame's 66-63 win over Villanova Jan. 27. 

Against the Orange, the Irish were able to win without their third leading scorer (13.4 points per game) thanks to an impres­sive offensive display. Notre Dame put up 61 points in the first half before besting the Orange 103-91, but the story was different against South Florida. 
Kurz, who leads the Irish with 

8.5 rebounds per game, saw only 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish look to make history 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
If it had been accom­plished by the soccer team, Notre Dame would be known as the Indiana soc­cer powerhousn, rather than the cross-state rival Hoosiers. 
And if it had been done by the basketball team, the Joyce Center would cer­tainly be selling out home games other than Alabama 
see BIG EAST/page 17 19 minutes of action against the Bulls, scored no points and com­mitted four fouls in Saturday's 69-63 loss in Tampa. 


"IThe biggest dilferenee with­out Kurz on the floor! is definitfl­ly rebounding," Notre Dame for-
see KURZ/page 1 8 
ND WOMEN'S BBALL 

Fresh111en fulfill key bench roles 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 

Irish coach Muffet McGraw has stressed the importance of the bench in her team's success. That was the case Sunday night, as it has been all season, with freshman guard Ashley Barlow helping lead Notre Dame past West Virginia 77-67. 
"I think [Barlow has] been a spark for us all year, and when she comes in the game we're trying to get her to be a little more aggressive offensively because we need her to score," McGraw said. "She really did that tonight." 
Barlow is one part of Notre Dame's trio of freshmen that compose the large portion of the team's substitutes ­along with guard Melissa Lechlitner and center Erica Williamson. 
These two have each been integral to the team's suc­cess, filling in at the point and the post, respectively, to run the offense while Notre Dame's veterans rest on the sidelines. 
Williamson has been a presence inside all season, averaging six rebounds per game while blocking a team­high 28 shots. Lechlitner has filled in well all season off the bench for starting point guard Tulyah Gaines and has 
see FRESHMEN/page 17 
SMC SoccER 

Belles travel to British isles, train for season 
By DAN MURPHY 
SportS Writer 
For the first time in Saint Mary's history, a Belles team will travel overseas to par­ticipate in international competition -specifically, a little European football. 
The Belles soccer team, which finished regular sea­son play at 5-8-2, will spend 10 days training in England and Scotland this July. 

Saint Mary's, led by third­year coach Caryn MacKenzie, will depart for Edinburgh. Scotland July 23 and return in time to start its regular training schedule for the fall. After spending the first three days in Scotland, the Belles will head to Manchester, England 
and  then  London  before  
returning  to  the  United  
States.  

see ENGLAND/page 16 

TE~NIS
NFL 
NHl 
NBA

SOCCER 
NBA 
w 
Pete Sampras will use 

American midfielder
Co) Bears fans come 
Rockets 105 
Lakers 90

Red Win~ 4
z together to mourn 

Boston tournament to 
Clint Dempsey is one of 
Timberwolves 77
Rangers 
Hawks 83 
team's loss to Colts and 

eye senior tour come-
many US players to
Hasek makes 17 saves 
McGrady scores 16 of 
Kobe scores 27 points
::5 
to rekindle hope for 

back. 
make jump to England. 
his 32 points in third
in 29th win of season. 
in eighth game of Los
= next season. 

quarter outburst against 
Angeles road trip. 
Minnesota. 

page 12
page 14 
= 
page 16 
page 15 
page 12
page 15 


