,--------------------------------------------~----------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Brown, Braun elected new student leaders 
Senate decides run-off tie in closed meeting by 15-13 vote 
BySONIARAO News Writer 
After a drawn-out election process, a decision on who will be next year's stu­dent body president and vice president was reached Sunday. 
Student body presidential candidate Liz Brown and vice presidential candidate Maris Braun defeated Danny Smith and Ashley Weiss by a 15-13 vote Sunday night in a closed Student Senate meeting. Brown and Braun will assume their positions April 1. 
Because neither Brown and Braun nor contenders Smith and Weiss received the 50 percent plus one of the student vote required to seal the election in the run-off, the Student Union Constitution required the decision to be made in a closed meet-
see WINNER/page 8 


Current student body president Lizzi Shappell, left, congratulates newly elected president Uz Brown after Sunday's closed Senate meeting. 
Confusion over Constitution causes problems for senators 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Senators had to deal with more than just elec­tion drama during Sunday night's closed meet­ing, after it came to light that they had been working from a copy of the Student Union Constitution with incorrect instructions for the tie-breaking procedure. 
Prior to the conclusion of voting in Thursday's run-off election for student body president, Student Activities Office Director Brian Coughlin discovered that the copy of the Student Union Constitution given to senators at the beginning of their terms contained the wrong description of voting protocol for a closed meeting of the Senate, student body vice president Bill Andrichik said. 
Since neither candidates liz Brown and Maris Braun nor Danny Smith and Ashley Weiss 
see SENATE/page 8 

Female officials: Power at ND wielded not only by men 
University's top women say bylaw restricting presidency to priest does not hinder their advancement 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
Media coverage surrounding the Feb. 11 election of Drew Gilpin Faust to the top spot at Harvard University focused on one fact and one fact only ­that Drew Gilpin Faust is a woman. 
Faust became the first female president in Harvard's 371-year history last Sunday, bringing the total number of Ivy League schools with women at the helm to four, including the University of Pennsylvania, Princeton University and Brown University. A 2006 survey by the American Council on Education found that 23 percent of college presidents were women, up from 9.5 percent in 1986. 
Notre Dame, however, will never join this trend. University bylaws state the president must always be a priest and a mem­ber of the Indiana Province of the Congregation of Holy Cross. 
Yet several of the highest ranking women at Notre Dame said this rule doesn't bother them, and does not restrict power so much as it encourages the University's mission of pro­viding a faith-based campus environment. In short, it insures that the University stays its course as a Catholic institu­tion, they said. 
"[The bylaw] absolutely does have an effect -but the effect to me is not on how leadership can therefore be expressed by women," said Carolyn Woo, dean of the Mendoza College of Business. "I think it's why we're able to maintain the whole Catholic mission and identity. If we didn't have [a priest as a University president] it would be very difficult to carry that DNA." 
Woo said to view Notre Dame's situation only as one in which a woman can never be head of the University limits the 
see WOMENIpage 4 

'Monologues' aims to stir debate 
Annual SMC event addresses hard topics 
By KELLY MEEHAN Sainr Mary's Editor 
Inflammatory stereo­types, abortion and eating disorders were just some of the heavy issues the third annual SMC Monologues addressed this weekend. 
The College's version of Eve Ensler's "The Vagina Monologues" drew a crowd of about 125 during the Friday and Saturday night performances. The 
see SMC/page 6 



By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistanr News Editor 
With the goal of making "Loyal Daughters" an annual production at Notre Dame, senior Emily Weisbecker and sophomore Sarah Van Mill are now interviewing a new wave of students and faculty mem­bers with stories about sex, sexuality and sexual violence. 
"Loyal Daughters," a play that featured skits based on interviews with members of the Notre Dame community, premiered in November. Weisbecker, who wrote the script, said she conducted 
$3 ll'mltl JARRED WAFER/Observer Graphic 

'Loyal Daughters' to change hands, title 
about 50 to 60 interviews to collect the information and sto­ries she needed. Van Mill, who will write a revised script over the summer, said she hopes to do between 30 and 40 inter­views, since she will not com­pletely rewrite this year's ver­sion. 
Van Mill sent out several mass e-mails earlier in the semester to announce she was conducting confidential inter­views with students and faculty from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. 
"When we first started send­ing them out ... just the next 
see PLAY/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
And the list 


goes on ... 
The following is a list of65 people who would have made better choices for cornuaencementspeakerthanGeneral Electric's Jeffrey Immelt. No offense to Mr. Immelt, but this is a Notre Dame 
graduation, not a Amanda lecture at Mendoza. 
Michaels
I didn't put any research into this 
Assistant 
list, so please, spare 
News Editor 
me the e-mails about how so-and-so is booked until 2009 or stopped speaking in public 15 years ago. I'm just trying to encourage the University to aim a little higher in choosing someone to send its seniors off into the world. 
In no particular order: 
l.Bono 
2. 
Martin Sheen 

3. 
Barack Obama 

4. 
Bill Clinton 

5. 
Dick Ebersol 

6. 
Jon Stewart 

7. 
Stephen Colbert 

8. 
Bob Geldorf 

9. 
Oprah 

10. 
JK Howling 


11. Kofi Annan (Sure, he spoke here in 2000, but he owes us one) 
12. 
Steven Spielberg 

13. 
Steve Jobs 

14. 
Bill Gates 

15. 
AI Gore 

16. 
Hillary Clinton 

17. 
Nancy Pelosi 

18. 
Angelina Jolie 

19. 
Rudy Giuliani 

20. 
Melinda Gates 

21. 
Alan Greenspan 

22. 
Madeleine Albright 

23. 
Diane Sawyer 

24. 
Brian Williams 

25. 
Bob Woodward 

26. 
Jerome Bettis 

27. 
Jodie Foster 

28. 
Meryl Streep 

29. 
Tom Brokaw 

30. 
George Lucas 

31. 
Teresa Heinz-Kerry 

32. 
Sister Helen Prejean 33.SamuelL.Jackson 


34. 
Daniel Craig 

35. 
Maya Angelou 

36. 
Anna Quindlen 

37. 
Maureen Dowd 

38. 
Katie Couric 

39. 
Archbishop Desmond Tutu 

40. 
Sandra Day O'Connor 

41. 
Ray Bradbury 

42. 
Steve Carel! 

43. 
Kiefer Sutherland, in character 

44. 
Elie Wiesel 

45. 
Clint Eastwood 

46. 
Bill Murray 

47. 
Aaron Sorkin 

48. 
Barbara Kingsolver 

49. 
Elaine Chao 

50. 
Judy Woodruff 

51. 
Christopher Gardner 

52. 
Christopher Walken 

53. 
Dan Rather 

54. 
Margaret Whitman (eBay CEO) 

55. 
Patricia Russo (Lucent CEO) 

56. 
Janet Robinson (NY Times CEO) 

57. 
Anne Mulcahy (Xerox CEO) 

58. 
Joyce Carol Oates 

59. 
John McCain 

60. 
Seamus Heaney 

61. 
Ben Stein 

62. 
Michael Douglas 

63. 
Peyton Manning 

64. 
Conan O'Brien 

65. 
Regis Philbin And the list goes on... 


Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 63!-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, February 19, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE BEST PLACE TO TAKE PARENTS OVER JPW? 



Brandon Faus  Mariana Montes  Noel Carson  
junior Morrissey  junior Lyons  senior Fisher  
"We hit up Mikado's for sake bombs. "  "My parents stood me up. "  "We enjoyed Second City."  


IN BRIEF 
Architect Michael Dennis will give a lecture entitled "Between Bombs and Blobs: The Search for Contemporary Urban Architecture" today at 4:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. Dennis spe­cializes in creating award-win­ning academic buildings and masterplans for top universities throughout the United States. 
There will be a panel discus­sion on "Imaging War: From Vietnam to Iraq" Tuesday at 4::~0 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. Diana Matthias, curator or education and aca­demic programs at the Snite, will moderate a panel comprised of members of the University com­munity inducting U.S. Army Lt. Col. Kelly Jordan, writing pro­gram adjunct instructor David Griffith and doctoral candidate Todd Thorpe. 
Author Lance Olsen will read from his book "Nietzsche's Kisses" Tuesday night at 7:30 in the Hospitality Room of Reekers. 
This Wednesday marks the beginning of the Lenten season for Christians. Mass will be cele­brated at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15p.m. 
As part of the Foreign Film Series, "Milagros: Made in Mexico" will be shown Wednesday at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The film is receded by a recep­tion with Mexican cuisine at 6 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Great Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 35 HIGH 37 LOW 27 LOW 27 

OFFBEAT 
English duckling born with four legs 
LONDON -Webbed feet run in Stumpy's family, but he's the first to have four of them. 
A rare mutation has left the eight-day-old duckling with two nearly full-sized legs behind the two he runs on. Nicky Janaway, a duck farmer in New Forest, Hampshire, 95 miles southwest or London, showed the duck­ling to reporters Saturday. 
"It was absolutely bizarre. I was thinking 'he's got too many legs' and I kept counting 'one, two, three, four,"' Janaway said. 
Stumpy would probably 
not survive in the wild, but Janaway, who runs the Warrawee Duck Farm in New Forest, says he is doing well. 
"He's eating and surviv­ing so far, and he is run­ning about with those extra legs acting like sta­bilizers," Janaway said. 
Mexican businessmen break kebab record 
MEXICO CITY -A group of businessmen in the northern Mexican City or Chihuahua broke a tasty record Friday, mak­ing a hunk of meat on a skewer big enough to serve 24,000 tacos. 
In the Friday event dubbed as the "Tacoton," 


Paul Goedde  Ryan Sarb  
senior O'Neill  junior offcampus  
"/took them back to my room. All right."  "We went to CJ's. "  


the meat for a pastor taco, a variety of the Mexican dish that consists of pork squashed onto a stake, weighed 3.9 tons and was 13 feet high, Mexican government news agency Notimex reported. 
Officials from the Guinness Book of World Hecords recognized the hunk of meat as the world's "largest skewer of 
kebab  meat,"  Notimex  
reported.  
Portions  of  the  vast  

snack were sold with a drink for $1 a piece to hungry spectators. 
Information compiled .from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
0:::: 
LLI :I: 
~ 
LLI 
J)~ 
....I 
~ 
<C 
(.) 

..J 0 HIGH 25 HIGH 15 HIGH 27 HIGH 35 LOW 2 LOW 2 LOW 18 LOW 25 
Atlanta 56 I 38 Boston 22 I 16 Chicago 39 I 30 Denver 44 I 30 Houston 67 I 59 Los Angeles 63 I 47 Minneapolis 40 I 22 New York 28 I 24 Philadelphia 31 I 24 Phoenix 67 I 50 Seattle 47 I 42 St. Louis 54 I 38 Tampa 65 I 46 Washington 37 I 32 
_i 'T 

~ .• '­Monday, February 19, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students, parents enjoy JPW 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 
Families gathered on campus this weekend for the 56th annual Junior Parents Weekend -an event consid­ered by many an important part of Notre Dame tradition. 
The weekend kicked off with an opening gala on Friday evening, where juniors and their families enjoyed a cash bar, hors d'oeuvres, portrait photography and dancing. 
Junior class president Bridget Higgins' parents drove the six-hour trip from Pittsburgh Friday morning, and she said was delighted they could be there so she could introduce them to her friends. 
"At the gala, wandering around and meeting people, you get more of a view of a person's life and their back­grounds, because sometimes you only see them in the con­text of school," Higgins said. 
In addition to an evening of socializing, visiting parents were also given a glimpse of the University's academic and spiritual aspects of the University during Saturday's program. 
From 10 a.m. to noon, par­ents and students had the opportunity to attend work­shops and lectures at the University's four colleges. 
Joe Real showed his parents the newly constructed Jordan Hall of Science, in addition to the resources available for pre­professional students like him. 
"At the reception and the workshops that followed, we learned a lot about the future in medicine," said the Philadelphia resident. "We also learned important things about entrance into medical school, relieving my parents about some of our concerns about the process." 
Immediately following were luncheons in the individual res­
idence halls, concerts per­formed by stu­dent ensembles and receptions for honors groups. 
A highlight of Saturday evening was the 
5:30 Mass held in the Joyce Center. 
University President Father John Jenkins 
1986-1996, in

"With all ofour 
addition to 

families and friends C h a n d r a together, we really had Johnson, asso­
the chance to reflect on the blessings that we have as members ofthe Notre Dame community. " 
Bridget Keating junior class president 
presided, and Zahm Hall rector Father Daniel Parrish delivered the homily. 
Keating said the Mass served as a great opportunity for per­sonal reflection. 
"With all of our families and friends together, we really had the chance to reflect on the blessings that we have as members of the Notre Dame community," said Keating, who also writes news for The Observer. 
Keating also addressed the class during the President's 

Dinner at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse after Mass. 
She said it was "incredible that nearly 3,500 parents from coast to coast had traveled in this horrible weather for this year's JPW," in comparison to the 120 in attendance during the inaugural event in 1952. 
The weekend concluded Sunday morning with a closing brunch featuring guest speaker Lou 1-Ioltz, head Irish football 
coach from 


ciate director of Campus Ministry and Kerry Carroll, JPW chairper­son. 
University President Em­eritus Father Theodore Hesburgh gave the benediction. 

Nancy McEvily said the clos­ing speakers made her realize how important JPW was in making her Notre Dame expe­rience truly unique. 
"During your junior year, you have a really solid group of friends and you know who's important to you," she said. "And this event allows your parents to meet those people who are really important to you." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 19, 2007 
Details of Student Union Board's budget up for debate 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT 
News Writer 
The Student Union Board (SUB), responsible for bringing events like last semester's Ben Folds concert to Notre Dame, has been mired lately in Student Senate debates about control over its budget. 
Two potential resolutions dealing with limitations on who can spend SUB's money and how much those people can spend have seen discussion on the Senate floor. 
The first resolution proposes that the amount SUB can spend without authorization from the Financial Management Board (FMB) -the group that over­sees SUB's budget -be raised from the current $5,000. 
The other proposes that money allotted to the Office of the President but kept in a SUB account be given entirely to student government, said stu­dent body vice president Bill Andrichik. 
"The most likely [outcome] 

Wo01en 
continued from page 1 
question to formal power. 
"I don't believe that leader­ship is just a formal title. In terms of formal power, no, women will not have as much power at Notre Dame. But I also don't believe that formal hierar­chy is the only source of power," she said. "Power comes from credibility, respect that a person generates, the informal type of power -which isn't less powerful by any means." 
And while the University does have hierarchy that formally favors men, it does not bar women from having as much influence as men, Woo said. 
"Does it prevent women from the exercise of leadership just because there's a man as presi­dent? No. Not at all, in fact," she said. 
For Christine Maziar, vice president of the University and associate provost, academic administration is about service rather than power in the strictest sense. 
"I think a place like Notre Dame, where by the bylaws, our president must be a member of the Indiana province of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, guarantees that the person asked to play that role is a per­son who feels very deeply about service," Maziar said. "That really should be a guarantee at every university." 
At the head of the class 
Differences in the University's will be a compromise -stu­dent groups will have to seek approval for requests of $5,000 or a certain percentage of their budget, whichever is higher," Andrichik said. 

SUB had an initial budget of $217,000 for the 2006-07 school year, said SUB manager Patrick Vassel. 
After winter break, SUB received $21,000 -its share of The Shirt proceeds, which are allocated to student groups. 
SUB divides its budget between its 11 programming committees, an administrative account and an advertising account. 
Concerts are by far SUB's largest cost, though the "Issues and Ideas" fund for bringing speakers to campus is also sub­stantial, Vassel said. The Notre Dame Literary Festival, Jazz Festival and Special Events committees are also large expenses. 
Revenue from ticket sales at events is looped back into the fund to pay for programming later in the year, Vassel said. 
"Anything left in the budget at the end of the year doesn't turn over Ito usl, so we're aim­ing for zero [left in the budg­et[," Vassel said. 
The $5,000 limit is central to the current debate in the S1mate. Vassel has argued that since SUB's budget is much larger than other student groups, an exception to the authorization restriction should be made so that SUB can secure bigger-name artists. 
If a week passes before FMB can approve an oiTer over $5,000, the delay can break a deal, he said. 
"What we do is time sensi­tive. Often, artists have only a few dates open, and by the time our offer is approved, the artist is booked," Vassel said. 
SUB treasurer Steve Friend said on several occasions, top artists could not be contracted because of the delay in the approval process. The new pro­posal will raise SUB's spending limit, provided that SUB gives regular updates to the FMB. 
"As long as SUB is willing to keep the FMB informed of its exp1mditures, I am not opposed to the proposal to amend the spending limit," Friend said. "The student body will benefit from superior performers." 
Vassel and Friend said they support the $5,000 limit for groups with smaller budgets, but argue that SUB's size puts it in a difl'erent league. 
"What [SUB] does is more significant than any other stu­dent group, and the [Student Union] constitution should reflect this," Vassel said. 
The other issue before the Student Senate relates to the funding of the Presidential Division, tasked with imple­menting programs directly from the Office of the President. 
The funding is currently in an account controlled by SUB, which is compelled to provide funding from the account to student government when requested. 
The resolution would remove the involvement of the SUB and place the account under the control of student government, something that Andrichik said he favors because the current text "creates an extra barrier for student government to withdraw its already-approved money." 
The next step in the process of changing the Constitution is the submission of draft resolu­tions for debate in the Senate by Oversight committee chair Chris Hollon. 
"The versions [of the resolu­tions] my committee has endorsed [read]: an organiza­tion would be able to spend $5,000 or five percent of their budget, whichever is more, without FMB approval," Hollon said. "This would reduce the amount of times SUB would have to seek FMB approval to a more reasonable level, while still maintaining strong student oversight over funds." 
The resolution will likely be introduced in the Senate on Feb. 28, Hollon said. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 

gender makeup among [tenure track] rank reflects the versity president has become that stands at the head of University professors -"an changing demographics of the very short. That takes institu­University governance. institution's true power center," doctorally-educated popula­tions through enormous churn­Woo said she sees Notre said Maziar -may also be tion," Linney said. "At the same ing when the Dame's unique cause for concern for those time, there has been some leaders fre­academic and playing the numbers game, but focused attention toward quently switch," "[. ..] Within the administrative the female administrators were increasing the numbers of Maziar said. "In environment
executive team the

optimistic about the future of women on the faculty at Notre contrast, Notre realized in the
opportunity for Notre 

women faculty members at Dame." Dame has enor­classroom. Notre Dame. Woo agreed, noting that while mous stability in Dame to draw on "Particularly Women made up only 23.6 faculty members are not hired senior leader­within the
talent from all around 

percent of Notre Dame's full­"just because they're women," ship." College of
the country exists., 

time instructional faculty in the University is working to She said Business, our 2005, up from 15.6 percent in expand its pool of applicants to another positive mission is to 1992, according to the Otlice of include qualified women. is the allowance Christine Maziar prepare people Institutional "It is important to for the to succeed, but
vice president;

Research. have more women University's succeed in the
associate provost 

In 2005, "Does it prevent women faculty members other two execu­right way. We 
Notre Dame 

only 12.2 from the exercise of because we have so tive officer posi­believe that percent of many women stu­tions -provost people can suc­
leadership just because
full profes­dents, and these and executive vice president -ceed, but also that we must suc­
there's a man as
sors were students benefit to be filled by laymen. ceed together, but rather than women. president? No. Not at from having a role "That means that within the against each other," Woo said. However, model to show executive team the opportunity "That is such a predominate
all, in fact.,
40.5 per­them what they can for Notre Dame to draw on tal­ethos; that is what we believe cent of fac­be," Woo said. ent from all around the country in. It's not that other schools ulty mem­Carolyn Woo Along with gen­exists," she said. don't believe in that, but for us bers on the dean der diversity, she The Board of Trustees, which it is explicit and intentional. tenure said, it is important is responsible for electing the That's what makes the differ­
Mendoza College 
track were to encourage differ­officers of the University as well ence."
of Business 
women-a ences in ethnicities, as exercising the University's Notre Dame's is not, there­statistic cultural back­corporate powers, does not fore, an ethos based on male University Vice President and grounds and personal styles have restrictions on its mem­leadership versus female lead­Associate Provost Jean Ann among students, faculty and bers. Currently, 13 out of 53 ership -it is one deeply reliant Linney said reflected both administrators. Trustees are women, according on religion. changing trends in doctoral to Father Jim McDonald, associ­"University president is a very program graduates as well as a The total package ate vice president and coun­special position, and to require greater effort on the part of Not only does having a priest selor to the President. this University's president to be Notre Dame to recruit a diverse at Notre Dame's helm reify its "[The number of female a Holy Cross priest gives Notre faculty. Catholic character without dis­Trustees[ is roughly 25 percent Dame a special kind of connec­
"Nearly half of the Ph.D. advantaging female leaders, but [of the Board] and is consistent tion to its history and its roots," degrees awarded in the U.S. are it also creates a unique "admin­with the numbers generated by Maziar said. "And it also shows now going to women, so the istrative structure and rhythm," the Association of Governing a special concern and need to applicant pool for entering Maziar said. Boards of universities and col­care for the legacy that each tenure track positions includes "What has happened both in leges," McDonald said. president will leave." significant numbers of women. public education and increas­One of these women is also Notre Dame's gender distribu­ingly in private higher educa­one of six lay "fellows," part of Contact Amanda Michaels at tion at the assistant professor tion is that the lifetime of a uni-the 12-person group of fellows amichael@nd.edu 
hrought·to y·ou by; 

TauR. FEmtul\H.Y 22 8:00pm ~lazz and Swing Night: ~ Oak Room SDH 
Fru. F'EJ3RUARY 23 6:00pm Evt.fning Cottcert Blo<'k--\Vashington liaH 
SAT. FEWUJAHY 24 6:00prn. Evening Concert Block -Washine,rton BaH 
FH,F;E fbr ND!SMC!HC . . . .. .·. . . 
•HVIiilnhle nt rhe L<J m~5Hi~x.(.)H;)cp, ... r~itkets VviiJhe<:(lrmi i<Vitliahk:·(}i~ 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 19, 2007 CoMPl LED fROM THE ()BSERVf:R'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS ISRAEL 
Chinese ring in Lunar New Year 
BEIJING -Asians flocked to temples, parks and Disneyland on Sunday to pray, play, eat, and celebrate the first day of the Lunar New Year, ushering in the Year pf the Pig. 
At the Lama Temple and White Cloud Temple in Beijing, faithful burned incense and tossed coins at incense burners, believing that if they landed in the pot they would have better luck in the New Year. 
At a traditional fair in the capital's Ditan Park, performers sang folk songs and snippets of Peking opera for throngs of people snaking through the park, many carrying balloons and pinwheels. Vendors sold pork dumplings and other treats, such as freshly made caramel candy sculpted into chubby pig shapes. 
U.S. helicopter crash kills eight 
SHAHJOI, Afghanistan-A U.S. helicopter suffered a "sudden, unexplained loss of power" and crashed Sunday in southeastern Afghanistan, killing eight American troops, the military said. Fourteen people on board survived. 
A NATO spokesman denied the helicopter had been shot down, saying the pilot had radioed ahead to report engine problems. It was the deadliest U.S. crash in Afghanistan since last May. 
The CH-47 Chinook helicopter was carry­ing 22 U.S. service members under overcast skies when there was a "sudden, unex­plained loss of power and control and crashed," U.S. military spokesman Lt. Col. David Accetta said. The 14 survivors suf­fered injuries. 
The helicopter crashed in the Shahjoi dis­trict of Zabul province, about 50 yards from the main highway between Kabul and Kandahar, and appeared to be destroyed and scattered in several pieces. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
N.J. civil unions law takes effect 
HADDONFIELD, N.J.-Diane Marini used to joke that she was always the bridesmaid and never the bride because, as a lesbian, she thought it was unlikely New Jersey would ever approve same-sex marriage. 
Still, she and longtime partner Marilyn Maneely campaigned for gay marriage. They were among seven couples who sued the state in 2002 demanding the right to marry. While their suit didn't lead to a gay marriage law, it has led to New Jersey becoming the third state to offer civil unions to same-sex couples. 
The civil unions law takes effect Monday and some same-sex couples are planning ceremonies. For couples who are not already in civil unions from other states, however, there is a 72-hour waiting period after applying for a license -just like with mar­riages. A few town halls around the state planned to open at 12:01 a.m. Monday so couples could filed their applications. 
Food inspection policy updated 
WASHINGTON -The first major changes to food inspection in a decade will increase federal scrutiny of meat and poultry plants where the danger from E. coli and other germs is high or where past visits have found unsafe practices. 
The new policy will result in fewer inspec-· tions at plants with lower risks and better records for handling meat and poultry. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indy mayor won't run for governor 
INDIANAPOLIS -Democrat Mayor Bart Peterson of Indianapolis said Saturday he will not be a candidate for governor in 2008. 
Peterson made the statement after accepting the Marion County Democratic Party's nomina­tion for re-election as mayor. 
"I thought it was important before announcing my candidacy for mayor to state that I will not be a candidate for governor in 2008," said Peterson. 
Peterson said he would not rule out running for governor later, but said that ifhe is re-elected he would complete his four-year term as mayor. 
Peace bid begins amid doubts 
Rice encounters stalemate between governments over Palestinian militants 
Associated Press JERUSALEM -Hoping to turn the page on six years of stalled Mideast negotiations, the U.S. instead found itself boxed in Sunday by a char­acteristically complex politi­cal impasse involving ally Israel and the Palestinians. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice came to the region intending to lead a symbolic peace summit. Her plans, however, have been eclipsed amid uncer­tainty and disagreement over how to handle last week's sudden announce­ment of a power-sharing deal to end internal Palestinian fighting. Rice met for two hours with Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, resolute in his position that he must govern hand-in-hand with Hamas militants who refuse to moderate anti-Israeli policies. The United States consider Hamas a terrorist group. Later Sunday, the U.S. diplomat held a similarly long meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert over a similarly hard-line position. Israel will not recognize a Palestinian government that refuses to renounce vio­lence, honor past commit­ments and accept Israel's right to exist. Olmert says Washington able to do it face to face," has said it would boycott said. "We're talking about ... agrees and will shun the Rice told reporters. Abbas, who is widely known what the destination might new government. U.S. offi­The meeting was planned by his nickname, Abu look like." cials, however, are not going before Abbas made his pact Mazen. As head of the Many of the core ques­that far -yet. with Hamas. The gathering Palestine Liberation tions that frame the hoped­The United States, still was meant to offer weary Organization, he would rep­for destination -an inde­hoping Abbas will change Palestinians a brighter resent the Palestinians in pendent Palestine alongside Hamas or change his mind, vision for their future by any peace talks. Israel -apparently would says it will reserve judgment opening a discussion of the Negotiations broke down not be on the table Monday. until the planned Palestinian contours of an eventual more than six years ago in Those include the borders government takes shape. Palestinian state. an explosion of violence and the fate of disputed Rice acknowledged that It also was a way to between the two sides. areas of Jerusalem. the moment is awkward for strengthen Abbas in his "I think that we can con­Israeli leaders were luke­discussions of peace. But power struggle with Hamas, tinue to work with Abu warm about the session she wanted to go ahead with which surprised the Bush Mazen, continue to discuss even before Abbas' deal; Monday's summit with administration by defeating with Abu Mazen, continue to some have been openly Abbas and Olmert. Abbas' secular Fatah Party explore with Abu Mazen," skeptical since. "We could have decided in elections 13 months ago. Rice said. The United States, United not to meet during this time, Although U.S. officials Rice was the latest U.S. Nations, European Union but I actually think that brush off any suggestion the official to lower expectations and Russia have said jointly when people have questions pact has tainted Abbas, for Monday's meeting even that a Palestinian govern­and want to explore issues diplomats have not hidden as she described a deep ment must renounce vio­that arise out of something their displeasure with both commitment to the larger lence, abide by past agree­like the agreement to form a the content and timing of goal of peace. ments with Israel and others national unity government the deal he made. "Nobody is at the point of and accept Israel's right to that it's better that they be Neither the U.S. nor Israel talking about a deal," Rice exist. 

Democrats seek limit on Iraq war 
Associated Press bat troops to Iraq, Senate Democrats from cutting off funds," said Levin, D­
declined to embrace measures -Mich. 
WASHINGTON -Senate Democrats being advanced in the House -that Sen. Joe Biden, a 2008 presidential pledged renewed efforts Sunday to would attach conditions to additional candidate who leads the foreign rela­curtail the Iraq war, suggesting they funding for troops. tions panel, said the 2002 authoriza­will seek to limit a 2002 measure Sen. Carl Levin, who chairs the tion should be repealed to restate the authorizing President Bush's use of Armed Services Committee, said president's authority and clarify the force against Saddam Hussein. Democratic senators would probably mission of U.S. troops in Iraq. 
The top Republican on the Senate seek to capitalize on wavering "I've been working with some of my Foreign Relations Committee said the Republicans to limit the "wide-open colleagues to try to convince them proposal had little chance of succeed­authorization" Congress gave Bush in that that's the way to go ... make it ing. "I think the president would veto 2002. clear that the purpose that he has it and the veto would be upheld," said "We will be looking at a modifica­troops in there is to, in fact, protect Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana. tion of that authorization in order to against al-Qaida gaining chunks of 
A day after Republicans foiled a limit the mission of American troops territory, training the Iraqi forces, Democratic bid to repudiate Bush's to a support mission instead of a com­force protection and for our forces," deployment of 21,500 additional com-bat mission, and that is very different said Biden, D-Del. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 19, 2007 
Play 
continued from page 1 
day we had four responses," Van Mill said. 
Weisbecker said she experi­enced a similar response last year. 
"I was really amazed and impressed with how much peo­ple were ready to come in and share their personal experi­ences with me," she said. "They were very open and there was definitely no short­age of volunteers." 
Van Mill was not involved in last fall's production of "Loyal Daughters," but went to sever­al rehearsals and all three shows to aid in her research of rape on campus. She decided to take up the task for next year since Weisbecker will graduate in May. 
Van Mill changed the name of the project to "Loyal Daughters and Sons," since last year many men eager to tell their stories responded to Weisbecker's interview requests. 
"Sexual assault isn't just one gender's issue," Van Mill said. "[The play] still focuses on the women's experience, but men are a part of that experience." 
Sitting through the inter­views can be a difficult experi­ence, Van Mill said. Weisbecker advised her to never schedule more than two in a day to avoid an emotional overload. 
To learn how to best conduct the interviews, Weisbecker received training from the S-0­S rape crisis center in South Bend. 
Weisbecker said she starts the interviews casually to establish a connection with the interviewee and then she lets them guide where the inter­view goes. 
"I ask questions for clarifica­tion, but I don't push people beyond where they arc com­fortable going," she said. "It's about trying to help people, not repeat the experience." 

Many people who respond to her e-mails are not survivors of sexual assault, but just want to talk about their own feelings on sexuality and sexual assault, Van Mill said. for many interviewees, telling their story is part of their heal­ing process, Weisbecker said. 
"It's really hard emotionally, but it's also really exciting that people are willing to trust you with their stories," Van Mill said. 
Van Mill has recorded the interviews, and over the sum­mer she will write the play based on her transcriptions. Van Mill said she applied for research permission last week and will also apply for a UHOP grant to subsidize her time spent writing and interviewing. 
To reserve a place for the play to be performed next year, Van Mill needs to get either club or departmental sponsor­ship, Weisbecker said. Last year, the Gender Studies department sponsored the pro­duction. Weisbecker would not comment. on which depart­ments may sponsor the event next fall, but said three have expressed interest. 
While her close involvement in the project is drawing to an end, "Loyal Daughters" is a production Weisbecker said she thinks should continue to be produced at Notre Dame. 
"I think the fact that we sold out every night is an indicator that this is something that peo­ple want around and they want to see it because it is a difficult thing to talk about and even though it's not pleasant, it's good to know that it happens," she said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
goal, said producer Becki Faunce, was to alter the audience's views of women and the world. 
The production's 17 mono­logues, written by members of the College community and performed by student actresses, touched on issues ranging from Notre Dame's academic freedom debate to middle school sex education class -topics Saint Mary's senior Dana Christiano said increased campus con­sciousness. 
"[SMC Monologues! raised issues that are not talked about openly on campus," she said. "1 think !the pro­duction] allows for more freedom to express and not to be afraid of certain issues on campus." 
While junior actress Giuliangela Hosato said she enjoyed "hearing the audi­ence laugh so much," the lightheartedness of some monologues left senior Erin Bergman questioning the skit's message. 
"I thought that some of the skits were relatable," she said, "but other times they tried too hard to be too humorous. The message was kind of lost." 
The SMC Monologues' message was clear, however, for faculty advisor Catherine Pittman, who called the pro­duction an "emotional rollercoaster" -an experi­ence that "gives the audi­ence a sense of the strength of the intimate personal and emotional experiences that are associated with one's sexuality." 
While Pittman said she did not anticipate that people would agree with every 
monologue, she said she nae," she said. "Graduates "just [asks[ that people lis­have a perspective on their ten, and be aware of the experiences at Saint Mary's diversity of sexual experi­that our current students ence and perspective that is don't have yet." part of this campus." As Woodward reflected 
The energy of the audi­upon her first year directing ence's reactions fueled the the SMC Monologues, she 
actresses'  said next year  
spirits, said director H e n e e  "{SMC Monologues] raised issues that are  she would have a "better idea of what  
Woodward,  not talked about  need  to  be  
"which made our mono­logues even  openly on campus. I think [the production]  done and how to do it." "I learned  
more  excit­ allows for more  what  works  
ing." "The audi­ence respond­ed in ways I  freedom to express and not to be afraid of certain issues on  best on stage and what the audience enjoys to  
would never  have imag­ campus.  hear," said.  she  
ined,"  she  Pittman said  
said, recalling  Dana Christiano  part  of  the  
a  student's  Saint Mary's senior  Monologues'  

father who approached her after Saturday's per­formance to tell her "how moved he was by the pro­duction." 
Pittman said it was the vocalization of silenced cam­pus voices that impressed upon her how diverse the Saint Mary's community really is. 
"When we call for mono­logues," she said, "we seem to get the most responses from survivors of sexual assault, women asking ques­tions about their sexuality, women questioning the views of sexuality that they have been taught and women celebrating their sexuality, whether it be het­erosexual, bisexual or les­bian." 
In the future, Pittman said she would like to find a way to reach out to alumnae dur­ing the monologue submis­sion process. 
"Some of our best mono­logues are written by alum-continued suc­
cess could be attributed to the suggested $3 admittance donation, which raised more than $600 for the South Bend 
S.O.S. Hape Crisis Center at Madison Center. 
"We appreciated the audi­ences' enthusiastic response," she said. "We received a great deal of sup­port from those who came." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
American Hair Cuters 57 4-273-1286 

'"'"'·..... '"'"' men's Cuts. Ladies Style: Cuts/Perms/Color/Waxings. 
On the corner of SR 933 and Brick Rd. 
STUDENT DISCOUNT -with ID. Walk-ins or Appointments Welcome 

fi~<;,prir\9 Br~~ 'flill 
.• · ~ ~ \\ere be-Fore 'IOU ~o'fl if\ 
Make your Appointment Today 
~Jl~o~~~o®®®© 
s 
Minutes from campus at a~ull-ser\'ic.e sai!M 1639 N.lronwood Or. 
" ­
• 
$10oft any color service 


• 
$5 ott Bikini or Brazilian wax . 

• 
Complimentary brow wax with any servtce 


~good 'til Marth Wl.,2007 
FACULTY/STUDENTS 
Brand New Dublin Village Townhomes for Rent Across from St. Mary's -behind Perkins 3 or 4 BR units available, 3 1/2 baths, 2-car attatched garage 
call Linda@ 708-460-5500 





SALON ROUGE
Specializing in color and cuts 
$1 0 OFF WOMEN'S CUT $5 OFF MEN'S CUT 
Discount good Mon-Fri with Nicole or Emily. 
(Not good w~h any other offer.) 
Need Color?? We'll take an extra $5.00 off. Close to Campus-right on Edison Road 
call 258.5080 
620 W. Edison, Suite 126 Mishawaka, IN 46545 salonrougeinc.com 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS

Monday, February 19, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

12,767.57 +2.56
}ones 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,634 140 1,618 2,400,320,940 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.33  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -0.05  
ONYX PHARM INC (ONXX)  +12.35  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -2.44  


YEN EURO POUND CANADIAN$  Excha  Rates  119.4850 0.7600 0.5118 1.1641  
IN BRIEF  



Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.534 13-WEEK BILL +0.20 30-YEAR BOND -0.33 5-YEAR NOTE -0.23 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($!Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 

-0.15 44.71 -0.07 145.73 +3.05 27.75 -0.72 28.74 
-0.0 16 4.690 +0.01 5.030 -0.0 16 4.788 -0.0 I I 4.676 
+1.40 59.39 +1.40 672.80 -1.65 I 03.05 
Housing industry in major slowdown 
WASHINGTON -Housing construction plunged to the lowest level in nearly a decade last month as the housing industry continued to struggle with a severe slow­down. 
Meanwhile, wholesale prices fell 0.6 per­cent in January, the biggest drop in three months, providing fresh evidence that inflation pressures are easing. 
Construction of new homes and apart­ments plunged by 14.3 percent in January, pushing total activity down to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.408 million units, the Commerce Department reported Friday. 
The decline pushed activity to the slowest pace since August 1997, with construction in January 37.8 percent below the pace of a year ago. The steep decline last month followed two months of construction increases that had raised hopes that per­haps the worst of the housing slump was over. 
The weather was blamed for part of the setback. November and December had been unusually mild while more normal winter weather returned to much of the 
country in January, depressing building activity. 
However, economists said the depth of the decline showed that housing was still facing major problems after a five-year boom that ended last year. 
House passes business tax breaks 
WASHINGTON -The House overwhelm­ingly approved business tax breaks worth $1.8 billion over 10 years, a key step toward forging a congressional compro­mise on increasing the minimum wage. 
Friday's vote on the tax cuts was 360-45. 
Passage of a wage hike for the lowest­paid workers now depends on how quickly the House and Senate work out differences between their tax packages. The Senate tax breaks -worth $8.3 billion -are more than four times bigger than the ones passed in the !louse. 
Under the House bill, small businesses would see an extension in some tax write­offs that are scheduled to expire and would be able to continue to claim a tax credit for hiring disadvantaged workers. 
Fox News competes with CNBC 
Murdoch says new business channel will be more accessible than competitors 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -News Corp. chief Rupert Murdoch says the new Fox Business Channel will be "more busi­ness-friendly" than rival CNBC, making that point on the day he announced his network would launch at the end of the year. 
It was the first hint that a classic political tactic used in launching Fox News Channel a decade ago -defining the opposition -was back in play. 
Within a day of Murdoch's statement on Feb. 8, Fox News business anchor Neil Cavuto told MarketWatch that "we're going to be a channel for America -not for old white men with money." 
Roger Ailes, chairman and chief executive for Fox News, told The New York Times that he'd often seen things on CNBC where they aren't as friendly to corporations and profits as they should be. 
"We don't get up every morning thinking business is bad," Ailes said. 
Substitute "America" for "business" in that quote and you'd swear it was 1996 again, and Ailes was needling CNN. 
The tactic worked for Fox News Channel. Worked bril­liantly. Many people doubted the network was even neces­sary yet it charged past the industry pioneer within six years and hasn't been caught since. Now many are questioning whether Fox Business Channel can com­pete against CNBC. 
CNBC will be defined by what it delivers on the air every day, and not by Fox, said Jeff Zucker, chairman and CEO of NBC Universal, CNBC's parent company. 
"When you don't have a product, it's easy to throw darts," Zucker told The Associated Press. "We're not concerned at all." 
Rick Kaplan, who ran CNN from 1996 to 2000, wasn't much concerned back then, either. Why worry about snide references to the Clinton News Network or a Fox slogan like "fair and bal­anced," with the inference that CNN wasn't? Fox's rat­ings were so negligible it did­n't matter. 

"I thought that people were not going to buy the argument," Kaplan said. 
CNN didn't bother responding. 
Yet Fox caught on with an audience that believed the slogans. Partly it was because there was a ring of truth, Kaplan said. Not that CNN was partisan, but main­stream news organizations may not have been sensitive enough to other points of view, he said. President Clinton's impeachment trou­bles galvanized what became Fox's audience, he said. 
What should CNN have done? ''I'm not sure," he said. 
"Maybe fight back harder and not just show disdain for Fox News Channel and the noise that was coming out of Fox and their advertising campaigns." 
CNN counterpunches now, as it did recently when Fox referred to Anderson Cooper as the Paris Hilton of TV news. 
CNBC hasn't sat back. Spokesman Kevin Goldman answered the criticism com­ing from Fox Business Channel: "It doesn't surprise me that our alleged competi­tion is already starting with its usual lies and propagan­da." 
Like a boxer training before a fight, CNBC has also made several changes in the two years since Mark Hoffman became president. 

It has added a business newsmagazine, retooled "Squawk Box" and added the popular "Fast Money." 
What worked in politics is not likely to work in busi­ness, said Porter Bibb, of Wall Street's Mediatech Partners and author of a biography on CNN founder Ted Turner released the year after Fox News Channel started. 
Bibb believes CNBC's advantage will be too much for Fox to overcome. CNBC, which started in 1989, is in more than 90 million of the nation's 110 million homes; Fox will start this fall in 30 million homes. There's usu­ally room for only one TV on the desks of business lead­ers, and it will stay tuned to CNBC, he said. 
JetBlue cancels more flights, 'resets' 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -JetBlue called off almost a quarter of its flights for Monday but hoped that would be the last round of cancellations as it strug­gles to recover from the snowstorm that saw some travelers sitting on grounded planes for hours. 
The news sent passengers scram­bling to deal with the disruption to their plans. 
The airline had scheduled 600 flights for President's Day, more than the 550 to 575 flights it has on a normal Monday, but 139 of them were can­celed, JetBlue announced late Saturday. 
The latest cancellations were needed to make sure all flight crews had got­ten the legally mandated amount of rest before returning to service, JetBlue Airways Corp. spokesman Sebastian White said Sunday. 

"Canceling one more day's opera­tions will really help reset our airline," White said Sunday. 
All JetBlue flights were canceled in and out of 11 airports: Richmond, Va.; Pittsburgh; Charlotte and Raleigh/Durham, N.C.; Jacksonville, Fla.; Austin and Houston, Texas; Columbus, Ohio; Nashville; Portland, Maine; and Bermuda. 
The cancellations followed hundreds of other canceled and delayed flights since Wednesday, when the snow and ice storm that had plowed across the Midwest struck the Northeast, ground­ing the company's airliners at John F. Kennedy International Airport. 
Maria Arbelo and two companions had been ticketed for a JetBlue flight to Houston on Saturday morning to get on a cruise. That flight was canceled, as were all flights to Houston on Sunday. The airline put the three women up in a hotel for the night, and had them on a Sunday evening flight to Cancun. From there, they would have to find a driver to take them on a four-hour trip to meet their ship. 
"Oh my God, horrendous," Arbelo, a teacher from New Haven, Conn., said of her experience. "It's been a terrible ordeal, I tell you. We've been from line to line." 
....-----------~---­
page 8 

Winner 
continued from page 1 
ing of the Student Senate, said Judicial Council presi­dent Liz Kozlow. 
"Each senator is mandated by the Constitution to follow the plurality of their dorm, which means they must vote according to the majority vote in their dorm," Kozlow said. Only in the event of a tie within a dorm will a senator be able to vote freely, she said. 
Each senator received an envelope with the voting breakdown of his or her dorm directly before the Senate meeting vote took place. Four senators were not present for the formal vote, but none of the four had ties within their dorms and therefore their absence did not affect the outcome, Kozlow said. 
McGlinn and O'Neill were the only two dorms with a tied vote, and both senators voted for Smith and Weiss. 
Even those swing votes, however, were not enough for Smith and Weiss to pull away with the presidency. 
"It happens," Smith said fol­lowing the decision. ''I'm just going to take a step back, start focusing a little bit on school again and see what comes my way." 
Brown said she felt "a little bit shocked and over­whelmed" after the results were announced. 
"It was a long meeting and it's been a long process," she said. 
Resorting to a Student Senate meeting to determine a president is "not something that people are hoping for," Kozlow said. 
"[The meeting] was a tense and difficult environment," she said. "It's not ideal. We 

would have all liked it to end after the run-off vote." 
A contributing factor to that "tense" environment is the fact that senators may strong­ly support one candidate but be required to vote a different way. 
"[Senators] must follow their constituents," Kozlow said. "No one wanted it to end like this [a Senate vote[. We dido 't feel great." 
Brown said there was a concerted effort to make sure correct protocol was followed. 
"I think everyone wanted to make sure that the procedure for voting was correct and accurate so that it was done as professionally and accu­rately as possible," she said. "There wasn't a lot of antago­nism. I just think that every­one was just in a little bit of high stress and wanting to make sure it was done right." 
Though this process is unpleasant, it is also rare. 
"The only time I know of Lan election being determined by Student Senate] is three years ago," Kozlow said. "That's the only time I can think of. It's a huge deal." 
Kozlow was referring to the 2004 election, when tho Senate elected Adam Istvan and Karla Bell in a 15-13 vote over opposing ticket Charlie Ebersol and James Leito. 
Now that the election process is finally over, Brown and Braun will be able to take a breather before assuming their roles as leaders of the student body. 
Brown, speaking for an absent Braun, said they hope to "hit the ground running on our initiatives," and that both she and Braun are "definitely excited" about the decision. 
"I think we're all just happy it's over," she said. 
Contact Sonia Rao at srao@nd.edu 
Fallen cli111bers on Mt. Hood all found alive 
Associated Press 
GOVERNMENT CAMP, Ore.­Rescuers located three climbers who fell from a ledge on snowy Mount Hood on Sunday, but res­cue efforts were being ham­pered by blinding snow and wind, officials said. 
Rescuers were trying to rap­pel 150 feet to reach the climbers, but were caught in whiteout conditions. Officials were in sporadic cell phone contact with the three, and believed they were in decent condition. 
All three -a man and two women -were able to walk, and rescuers suggested they cautiously try to work their way down the mountain as rescue teams worked their way up toward them, said Sgt. Sean Collinson, a spokesman for the Clackamas County Sheriff's office. 
At least one of the three had a mountain locator unit, which emits signals used to find miss­ing or stranded climbers. Rescuers were using the signals to keep track of the trio's posi­tion on the mountain. 
"They're very cold," said Russell Gubele, who was coor­dinating communications for the rescue operation. "It's snowing heavy. Conditions are awful." 

Collinson said the two women appeared to have suffered some bumps and bruises and their male companion is in good con­dition. lie said all three "were in fairly good spirits when we talked to them on the phone." 
The drama on Oregon's high­est mountain began shortly before noon, when someone in the eight-person climbing party called emergency dispatchers to say three of the climbers had fallen off a cliff. 
The climbing mishap occurred at about the 8,300­foot level on the mountain. which is about 60 miles east of Portland. 
Battling snow and winds that exceeded 70 mph, a team of rescue mountaineers serambled up the mountain to search. The other members of the party were told to dig a snow cave and wait for help. 
Authorities said the climbers' electronic locator device helped rescuers lind them. One of the devices was aetivated after the fall, authorities said. 
The three climbers who fell were found near the five others, authorities said. The live were taken down to Timberline Lodge, a ski resort at the 6,000­foot level of Mount Hood, and all are reported in good condi­tion, the sheriff's office said in an e-mail. 
The Observer + NEWS Monday, February 19, 2007 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
reeeived 50 perennt plus one vote in the student body run-oil' elec­tion, the Constitution dietated that the winner be decided by a majority vote in a dosed meeting of the Senate. Andrichik, who as vice president is also the Student Senate chair, called an emer­gency meeting of the Senate for Sunday night at 6 p.m. 
In an e-mail sent Thursday, which The Observer obtained, Andrichik included the text of the Constitution that applied to the voting protocol in the elosed meeting. Article VII, Section VI, Part 1c of the Constitution read: 
"Senators must east their votes for the eandidate eapturing the plurality of his eonstitueney's votes. Each senator shall be informed of the vote in his or her constituency by the Judicial Council President immediately preceding the meeting." 
But the copy of' the Constitution given to senators at the begin­ning of their terms last spring read di!Terently and did not say senators were compdled to cast their vote in aceordance with the plurality in their residence hall. 
The section of the Constitution that senators have had since the beginning of their terms roads: 
"Prior to the meeting, the Judicial Couneil prnsid1mt shall present each senator with the voting breakdown from the Senator's respective dorm. In light of this information, each Senator may east his vote freely." 
Coughlin diseovered this dis­crepancy Thursday and called a meeting of various members of student government inducting Andrichik, student body presi­dent Lizzi Shappell, Judieial Couneil president Liz Kozlow, Senate Oversight ehair Chris IIollon and parliamentarian Matt Barlow to deeide whieh version to follow, Andriehik said. 
"The decision of the meeting something like this to change it was that, fi1r the integrity of the so dose to this emergency meet­Constitution, we felt that regard­ing almost seems like pulling the less of what infiJrmation was dis­rug out under our feet." seminated at the beginning [of There is no information in the the term], the correet Constitution as to what to do if Constitution should be followed there is a discrepancy in rules, lilr this nloction," Andrichik said. the senator said. 
The eorrnet version called for Fisher senator Drew Clary senators to vote aecording to the called the mix-up a "terrible situ­
plurality in their  ation."  Forcing  
residence hall, he said. The version of the Constitution  "A lot ofpeople were ticked offthat  senators to vote according to their dorm pluralities  
that allows sena­ they were forced to  gave the Brown­ 
tors to vote freely was never actual­ly voted on by  go to a meeting in which they had no  Braun ticket an advantage, Clary said.  
senators during  control over their  Smith-Weiss  
the 2003-04 tnrm, when the  vote."  would have had a better chance of  
Constitution  winning if senators  
underwent major  Drew Clary  could vote accord­ 
revisions.  Fisher senator  ing to their own  

"Aceording to minutes from the 2003-04 Senate that we reviewed during this whole process, the Constitution was never changnd from how it was initially road, which required the senators to vote as their dorm voted, which is why we went with the aetual Constitution," Andriehik said. 
But one senator, who wished to remain anonymous to avoid con­flict with fellow senators, dis­<Lf:,'l'ned with the decision to sub­stitute a section of the Constitution without consulting the senators. 
"To give a version of the Constitution and then to say, well, actually, that's not true -we have a difl'orent set of rules we are going to go by -it sets a dangerous precedent." 
At the dosed meeting, many senators expressed confusion over the changns and over being Jell out of the decision to insert a difli.lrent dause regarding dosed meetings into the Constitution, the senator said. 
"Tho biggest issue is that the clause concerned senators so much," the senator said. "Doing 
preference, he 

said, since many senators served on their cam­paign committee. Clary worked on the Smith-Weiss campaign. 
And had the two tickets known dill'erent rules would be followed in the dosed meeting than those that were laid out in the Constitution possessed by sena­tors, the candidates could have ehanged their campaigning strategies and spent the final hours of the election week trying to win votes in dorms with close numbers, Clary said. 
Some senators were also unhappy to be at a meeting where their vote was predeter­mined. 
"Another main concern was that since we have to vote with our dorm no matter what. ... A lot of people were ticked ofl' that they were forced to go to a meet­ing in which they had no control over their vote," he said. 
Brown-Braun won the majority with a 15-13 vote and will be stu­dent body president and vice president starting April 1. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Do you know about OIS's Summer Programs! 
Earn ND credits and grades while abroad this summer! 
Summer 2007 only: 
• 
Vienna, Austria 

• 
Paris, France 

• 
Milan, Italy 

• 
Rome, Italy 

• 
Auckland, New Zealand Offered every year: 

• 
Dublin, Ireland 

• 
Puebla, Mexico 

• 
Toledo, Spain 

• 
Kampala, Uganda 

• 
London, United Kingdom 



For more information attend an Information Session on Tuesday, February 20, at 5:30pm in 131 DeBartolo or visit http://www.nd.edu/-ois/Locations/Locations.html 
The application deadline for most summer programs is March 1, 2007 
Monday, February 19, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 





LOSTCOC POO 
REWARD OF $500 FOR THE SAFE RETURN OF 

By now. tear stains would have formed near Milo~s eyes into hts fur. which would appear dark brown. He could be wearing a red sweater and would have a teal colored collar, with matching leash. I believe his rabies shot was given by Kryder Clinic so he should have that tag on his collar. Milo was apprehensive of people he didn't know. He was a upuppy mill" dog. We believe he would run from someone if he was approached.. 
If found, please contact Animal Hospital of South Bend (MILO'S VET) 282-2303 


,.....-----------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, February 19, 2007 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Dialogue is not dead
024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed bypolicies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599-24000) is puhlisht:l;i M~mday through Frid.;iy .c~~pt during exam and vacation periDd!>, A ~~priM roTh~ O~rvcr is $100 fot ut)~ <'czdem-ic; year.: $55 .fur oru: semester. 
The Obscrvtt is published at: POSTMASTER 044 South Dining Hall Scm:!. addtc!S5 correcrjoru to: Notre Dame,. IN 465-56--0779 The Oi>«rv<:f Periodkal pos:tage paid ar Noue Darnel P.O. Jlo, 779 and additional mailing offices, 024 Soud1 Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Obsc:rt.a is .a mtmber oftbe Asroctatcd Pres.s. All reproduction rights .art' tcscrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Amanda Michaels Eric Retter 
Aaron Steiner Greg Arbogast Viewpoint Bill Brink Lianna Scene 
Brauweiler Brian Doxtader Graphics Madeline Nies 
I would like to thank and congratu­late all of the academic departments that truly understand the importance and meaning of academic freedom, and in particular, those that chose to not sponsor "The Vagina Monologues" this year. 
An Observer editorial published this past Friday ("After debate, inaction can't continue," Feb. 16) lamented the decisions of these departments in regards to the "Monologues." The editorial expressed a sense of confu­sion as to why "departments wouldn't fully exercise the right they fought so hard to protect." This confusion, I believe, stems from a misunderstand­ing of both the nature of freedom and of academic departments. The mean­ing of freedom is not the obligation of people to slander and disrespect each other, or bombard their community with "controversy" that makes excit­ing headlines. The meaning of free­dom is far deeper and more beautiful than that. 
Freedom, which is grounded in rea­son, contains its meaning only when used in the pursuit of truth; and it is only within truth that we become truly free. Universities and academic departments within them are founded so that this quest may be pursued. Here at Notre Dame, we understand that the truth we pursue in freedom is God, whom we come to know through both faith and reason. Because of the knowledge which has been given to us by revelation, we fol­low the teaching of the Catholie Church and pay due respect to its sacred teaching and tradition. Therefore, the editorial's statement "It doesn't matter what people think of the 'Monologues,' or 'Qlassics,' or any other student-run event that 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
we 1\1-eel> ACARTOON CoNIM£lf.JTING ON IH€ '\fAI.Ue OF THe HOU~e'S 
"NON-SINDIN&" 
'R.~O#..VflON ... 
) 


OBSERVER POLL 
How will you observe Lent? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
presents ideas in opposition to Church teaching. It just matters that they think about them,'' is false. 
The University is a place of forma­tion where young men and women come seeking the assistance of learned professors in order to pursue tho truth in each of their aeademic fields, from engineering to English. The issues should not be simply "thought about" as one thinks of grabbing some fro-yo on the way out of the dining hall, but rather that one carefully eonsiders them in light of what we know so that the truth may be better grasped. Thus, academic excellence and freedom enter into the University. Eaeh department must focus itself within its own discipline and understand that it is there that true freedom lies and not in the wan­ton spending of funds and time on events ill-suited to their mission of pursuing the highest and ultimate truth. 
It is true that discussion of issues makes Notre Dame a vibrant place. Tho editorial eorrectly noted "As he issued his dosing statement last spring, Jenkins commended students and faculty members for engaging in thoughtful, concerned debate." But then it added, "Unfortunately, that debate now seems to be lost." That, however, is far from the truth. There are daily opportunities to eontinue that dialogue. Groups formerly opposed to each other, such as Feminist Voice, Hight to Life, the Identity Project of Notre Dame and Sustained Dialogue have come together on a number of occasions to continue fruitful debate and also to reach out of themselves to make a positive impact on the broader com­munity. 
.....


ill. 


SubmitaLetter 
to theEditor at r 
. . . . ··...• ·., ..., J , . .•. .• 

1www.ndsmcob~erver.com II 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

'The way to get things done is not to mind who gets the credit for doing them." 
Benjamin Jowett English scholar and theologian 

I would like to invite anyone inter­ested in discussing these topics to contact one of these groups. I may suggest attending the Edith Stein Conference Feb. 23-24 to learn about women's issues. Or contact Emily Weisbecker to interview for next year's "Loyal Daughters." Join Sustained Dialogue -perhaps the most "vibrant" group from The Observer's perspective since it brings together people from "both sides" to debate and discuss a number of issues. Mark your calendars for the Hight to Life Conference April 13-14 to discuss human sexuality. 
The University is not hurt in the slightest by the invisibility of the "Monologues" this year. I could fill this entire newspaper with opportuni­ties for vibrant dialogue which have all proven more fruitful than the viewing of an explicit stage produc­tion year after year. The dialogue does continue, in a civilized, educated and reasonable fashion every day. Hather than sitting in a pi ush theatre seat you can actively discuss with your peers and professors. You can volunteer by working at one of the local women's centers. You can per­sonally step forward and be a part of these issues. I would invite you all to participate with us. It is not hard to get involved, and it will be rewarding. 
Perhaps we do not scream and sling mud at each other, but this is not the proper form of debate at a premier academic institution. If that is what you wish for, then I respectfully sug­gest you consider transferring to another school. 
Mary Walter president, NO Right to Life Feb. 18 
<;; 
~ :H 
;.~ 
CU.,j. 
L-.1 ~ 
J~
c;;;. 
... ~ 
rt:;,• \£-: 
. ~~ i> ~'-' 
"' ~ ~~ 
-CJ "' 
? ~< ~? 
0.. 
&J

":i:: 
(& 
~ ~ 
·~ 
(;) 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Monday, February 19, 2007 
page 11 
Looking for cotnedy in the conservative -world 
It's often tempting for a tree-hug­ging, anti-war, blue-state Yankee like me to get a little self-important while watching the foibles of conservative America in recent months. As if hear­
ing President Bush say "Madam Speaker" at his State of the Union Address wasn't sat­isfying enough, learning that the leader of the National 

Association of Joey Falco 
Evangelicals had an affair with a gay Forty Ounces prostitute last fall to Falco almost caused me to spit my free-range chicken out onto a biodegradable recycled napkin, and what an eco-waste that would have been! 
I soon realized, however, that much of my liberal arrogance and ability to laugh at the antics of the Keystone Kops in the White House can be attrib­uted entirely to the fact that nearly all of America's current comedy is whole­heartedly liberal. Having Jon Stewart or Jay Leno cue me in on when to laugh at a presidential misnomer cer­tainly makes me feel better for not supporting the president's Iraq troop buildup. And hearing Stephen Colbert mock Republican ideology by sounding like a stubborn fool who honors blind faith over solid fact definitely allows me to pat myself on the back for encouraging increased measures to eliminate global warming. 
But what about conservatives? Maybe the reason they're so glum all the time -picketing abortion clinics, chopping down trees, blowing up other countries, fantasizing about Jack Bauer-is that they don't have any conservative comedians to bright­en their spirits and bolster their ideol­ogy. Whenever Nancy Pelosi is feeling down, she can simply turn on "The Daily Show" and listen to Jon Stewart do his Dick Cheney impression. But what about Dick? Where does Dick turn when he needs to laugh at America's silly liberals? 
Sure, there are a few bright spots of Republican humor in America. Trey Parker and Matt Stone, the creators of "South Park," famously announced a few years back that they voted Republican because, while they "hate conservatives, they really [expletive] hate liberals." "South Park" is possibly the funniest show on television, but one can hardly call Parker and Stone's outrageously offensive humor "conser­vative." Then there are the members of the highly successful Blue Collar Comedy Tour -certainly some of the favorite comedians of the American South. Unfortunately, these four men are only at their best when they are either fall-down drunk (Ron White) or making fun of themselves for being hicks (Jeff Foxworthy and the Get 'R Done guy). One could also point to the so-called "American Conservative Comedian" Brad Stine as a beacon of humorous hope for the conservative world, but a quick scan of YouTube proved that Brad Stine's rants on the difference between cat names and dog names were about as comically inspir­ing as Ben Stein's deadpan teaching voice in "Ferris Bueller's Day Off." 
Simply put, there is no truly funny conservative comedian out there who rips into the left wing like Stewart, Colbert, and Sacha Baron Cohen (Borat) rip a new one into the political right. 
Then along came the programming gurus at the Fox News Channel. In an effort to tap into the market for politi­cal comedy exposed by Stewart and Colbert, Fox News introduced a con­servative version of "The Daily Show" last night, cleverly titled "The Half­Hour News Hour." Unfortunately, that title was really only clever the first time it was used-in the short-lived 1983 MTV show featuring Victoria Jackson titled "The Half-Hour Comedy Hour." Strike one, Fox News. 
The new show is the brainchild of Joel Surnow, the co-creator of the most patriotic show in the history of the world, "24." Surnow, who actually calls himself "a right-wing nut job," decided that a conservative comedy news program was necessary because "the other side hasn't been skewered in a fair and balanced way." To fur­ther clarify this point, advertisements leading up to the show's premiere announced that it might offend "the left, the far left, anyone standing to the left, gay penguins, lawyers, the ACLU, anyone with the ACLU in their name, etc." Clearly, skewering in a "fair-and-balanced way" meant attacking both liberals and their gay counterparts in the penguin communi­ty. Unfortunately, if Morgan Freeman taught us anything last year, it's that Americans love penguins-even pen­guins who like dudes. Strike two, Fox News. 
When portions of "The Half-Hour News Hour" were finally released to the public in the past few days, one would have expected a truly rollicking zinger to introduce the show to the world. Instead, co-anchor Kurt Long 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ACE for all reasons 
Thirteen years ago I graduated from Notre Dame with majors in marketing and sociology, an optimism for the future and a desire to serve. One of 40 fortu­nately selected to comprise the first class of a new program called the Alliance for Catholic Education, I had an undergradu­ate degree, a big heart and a thirst for adventure. 
We spent that first summer developing in each of the three pillar areas of ACE: teaching, community and spirituality. Then it was off to Hammond, La. For the next two years I taught religion and English to fifth and sixth graders at the under-resourced Holy Ghost Catholic School there. I lived in a community with fellow ACE teachers and we shared everything from evening meals to lesson plans. We celebrated classroom triumphs, supported one another when people less than half our age got the better of us and wondered together about the futures of our students, our schools and ourselves. 
Now former pupils are calling me with engagement announcements, career plans and questions of their own about what impact they will have on the world. I know that somewhere in there a seed was planted a dozen years ago, and I hope that I played some part, even if a slight one, in these young men and women growing and blossoming into com­mitted Christians and citizens who are going on, in turn, to create a better world. 
In my current work with homeless men, women, and children, I'm tasked with thinking of new and more effective ways to break the ruthless cycle of genera­tional poverty afflicting our nation today. It's a very large and complicated prob­lem, but there's one thing I know for cer­tain: there's no replacement for a strong education. There's no exaggerating the impact a teacher can have on the life of a young mind. I have also come to realize that there's no exaggerating the impor­tance of the preparation needed to become a highly effective teacher. I am convinced that ACE not only prepared me to be the best possible teacher I could be, but that it continues to get better each year. 
There's also great need in our Catholic schools today. Our Church is in a position to continue, as it has historically, to serve immigrant and inner-city families by pro­viding them with quality schooling and formation in faith and character. But this is only possible if people like you commit your time and energy to the mission. ACE teachers today have a unique and crucial role to play in the future of our Church and country. Last July, the U.S. Secretary of Education, Margaret Spellings, speak­ing at the ACE Commencement Exercises, praised Catholic schools as "national treasures" that must be preserved. In particular, she cited their heroic work to educate the poor and marginalized, whether the students are Catholic or not. 
So if you seek to change the world one life at a time or if you're looking, like I was, to give to give back something of what you've been given here under the Dome, ACE is one incredible experience for a truly credible cause. I have pro­found gratitude for my challenging, awe­inspiring time in ACE, and I hope many of you will look to serve in this program that, without question, was the most transformative experience of my life. 
Steve Camilleri executive director, Center for rhe Homeless Feb. 14 
led with the following: "Illinois Sen. Barack Obama admits that as a teenager he sometimes used cocaine. This news sent Obama's approval rat­ing among Democrats plummeting to an all-time low of99.9 percent." A laugh track (I didn't even know they still existed) filled in the awkward silence that followed until Long added, "But, in a related story, Sen. Obama has just been endorsed for president by former Washington, D.C. Mayor Marion Barry." Even the prerecorded laugh track had a tough time giggling after this one. Strike three, Fox News. 
Clearly, conservative Americans are faced with a serious dilemma. Without any truly great comedians or remotely· funny political satire shows to tickle his gun-toting funny bone, what is a right-wing boy to do when he needs to let out a good laugh after a long day of melting the polar ice caps with the exhaust from his Hummer? Certainly, he cannot be expected to laugh along with Stephen Colbert as he unabashedly mocks Bill O'Reilly. 
No, without a talented conservative comedian to incite their laughter, right-wing Americans will simply have no choice but to continue to grumpily invade foreign nations, attack illegal immigrants and destroy the happiness of gay Americans -and gay penguins -everywhere. 
It's not their fault. They just haven't had anything to laugh at in awhile. 
Joey Falco is a senior American Studies major and Journalism, Ethics, and Democracy minor. He can be reached at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Kaleidoscope a valuable addition 
Vu Nguyen's criticism of the comic strip Kaleidoscope McDaniels ("Kaleidoscope McDaniels proves its poor taste," Feb. 16) is unwarranted. It is true that the comic does dance along the border between decency and obscenity, but it also takes on issues that we must confront ourselves. One example of this is the very memo­rable comic that featured University founder Father Edward Sorin shotgunning a Natural Light. That comic showed the irony that Notre Dame is riddled with. Here we have arguably the most famous Catholic university in the world, yet there is an unending search for debauchery on the weekends. 
Another example is the Eating Disorders Conference comic Nguyen mentioned. To be perfectly honest, the reality of the impor­tance of such a conference was not apparent to me until I read the comic which made fun of Notre Dame's perceptions of eating disor­ders. Our inability to laugh at the imperfections we are riddled with is a reflection on our inability to correct these imperfections. For example, the constant comparison of girls to gremlins reflects the dominant opinion of many Notre Dame men who feel that Notre Dame women do not fit society's norms for beauty. As most of us will admit, society's "norm" for beauty is an exaggeration and is not representative of reality anyway. The comic's portrayal,then, challenges the men to alter their perceptions of women here. 
It is true that sometimes the portrayals are ridiculous, such as Nguyen's reference to the comic featuring University president Father John Jenkins smoking marijuana. What makes this comic funny, though, is not that Jenkins is portrayed as being a pothead, but that this is very unlike Jenkins. Personally, I find Liam Moran's sarcasm and satire a refreshing escape from the surrealistic life that Notre Dame is famous for. Kaleidoscope McDaniels is a valu­able addition to The Observer. We spend so much time worrying about the image of the University and the student body, but most of us are not willing to make a change. We want the world to see us as a pristine and wholly moral institution. So every now and then, we need a humorous reminder that the world and even Notre Dame are not perfect places. 
Levi Checketts freshman Stanford Hall Feb. 17 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Monday, February 19, 2007 
DVD REVIEWS 
New 1 Dogs' DVD has bite to match bark 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
Has it really been 15 years since "Reservoir Dogs" came along and introduced the world to the mad genius of writer/director Quentin Tarantino? The cooler-than-cool dia­logue, the matching suits, the ear-slic­ing violence and the constant cultural references made Tarantino a hot com­modity in Hollywood. Those elements laid the groundwork for his next pic­ture, "Pulp Fiction." Yet "Reservoir Dogs" remains a great film on its own merits, an involving and fast-paced heist movie with a freewheeling energy and desultory sense of detached cool. 
The basic plot revolves around a dia­mond heist organized by Joe Cabot (Lawrence Tierney). Cabot hires a group of professional thieves, who are all given code names: the unstable Mr. Blonde (Michael Madsen), the sea­soned veteran Mr. White (Harvey Keitel), the rookie Mr. Orange (Tim Roth) and the consummate profession­al Mr. Pink (Steve Buscemi). After the robbery -which is never shown on­screen -goes awry and Mr. Orange ends up with a bullet in his gut, the an immersive mix that uses quite a bit of surround. "Heservoir Dogs" is a dia­logue-heavy nim, and the dialogue is clear and upfront. 

This edition jettisons the worthless full screen version of the film in favor of some new special features, which include a documentary about the impact "Heservoir Dogs" has had, and some interesting featurettes on the characters. The commentary tracks are the same as on the 10-year anniversary l:)dition.•.~Qich means ifs snippets of Tarantino, and not an actu­al track he recorded specifically for the film. 
"Reservoir Dogs" is released in some of the funkiest packaging to come around in a while. It comes in a tin case shaped like a gasoline barrel, with the DVDs themselves housed in a giant cardboard matchbox. Unfortunately, there's no booklet to accompany the set, but the packaging is definitely unique. 
It's usually difficult to recommend upgrades on films, especially since it encourages studios to release multiple versions. In the case of "Reservoir Dogs," however, the remasteted pic­ture and i!Udio are eno,l,lgll,ip, Il)-P.)~}(; .. 1this a worthwhile release of a ground­breaking picture. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

Reservoir Dogs 
15th Anniversary Edition 
Lions Gate Entertainment 

thieves assemble at the meeting point and try to determine which one of them is the rat. 
"Reservoir Dogs" didn't quite have the massive cultural impact of "Pulp Fiction," but it came pretty close, though accusations that it ripped off the Hong Kong film "City on Fire" slightly hampered its reputation. Still, Tarantino's sense o[ dialogue (much of which has little to do with the plot) and pacing drive "Reservoir Dogs" and are the main reasons it doesn't feel outdated. 
Artisan released a special edition to commemorate the 1Oth anniversary, and five years later, Lions Gate has released a 15th anniversary edition. This is something the studios can keep milking, with a new release of "Reservoir Dogs" every five years ­fans will surely appreciate shelling out more money for bigger and better editions. 
Actually, however, in this case there is ample reason to upgrade. The pic­ture quality was one of the weakest points on Artisan's release, with faded, washed-out colors. The image has been remastered on Lions Gate's ver­sion and the difference is immediately noticeable. The colors are much more 
vibrant and the 


image looks much sharper. The audio is improved as well, with a 6.1 DTS-ES track (and a 5.1 Dolby Digital Surround EX mix), which doesn't sound a whole lot different than Artisan's 5.1 DTS track -still, it's 

Anniversary of 'The Doors' breaks on through 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Scene Editor 
Oliver Stone's biopic "The Doors" is much like the band itself -sometimes brilliant, maddeningly inconsistent, yet ultimately memorable. It was released to mixed reviews a decade and a half ago, and its uneasy mixture of standard biopic, nco-psy­chedelic head-trip, and rock god worship understandably caused reservations with critics and audiences. Yet it's still a fascinat­ingly atypical look at a major rock band, anchored by a strong cast and the group's music. 
"The Doors" hits all of the major points in the band's development: its formation in Los Angeles in the mid-1960s, the skyrocketing popularity of its first album, its infamous performance on Ed Sullivan, Morrison's trial for indecent exposure and his death in Paris in 1971. The band consisted of singer Jim Morrison (Val Kilmer), keyboardist Ray Manzarek (Kyle MacLachlan), guitarist Robby Krieger (Frank Whaley) and drum­mer John Densmore (Kevin Dillon). The fihn focuses on Morrison, whose increasingly erratic behavior and difficult relationships 

The Doors 

15th Anniversary Edition 
Lions Gate 


with girlfriend Pam Courso (Meg Ryan) and rock journalist Patricia Kennealy (Kathleen Quinlan) form the bulk of the picture. 
Kilmer's performance may be the best thing about "The Doors." He effortlessly embodies the spirit and quirks of Morrison, drawing the audience into the character. Stone, however, makes the charismatic front man almost impenetrable, which means that "The Doors" isn't as insightful as it could (and should) be. The Doors' music, which forms most of the soundtrack, is great, with many of the band's biggest hits and best known tracks ("Ught My Fire," "Break On Through," "Riders on the Storm") making appearances. 
Stone remains an energetic and powerful director, and there are scenes of great power and beauty. The strangeness of the film often matches the strangeness of the band, which is why many of the sequences feel oddly appropriate, despite theil' seem­ingly unfocused nature. The concert scenes in particular are often fantastic, and the fihn version of the band does a great job of imitating the strangeness of The Doors' stage show. 
Unfortunately, the fihn often gets bogged down in nco-psychedelic fantasy, much of 


which does little to advance the plot. This would be forgiv­able if "The Doors" made much effort to give psychological insight into the mind of Morrison, but it instead chooses to celebrate his legend. The film includes plenty of familiar folklore about The Lizard King, such as his claim that the spirit of a dying Indian entered his body when he was a child. 

"The Doors" was already released once on a special edition DVD, now usurped by this new 15th anniversary edition. Both ver­sions were two-dises, but the 15th anniver­sary edition has received a picture and audio upgrade. The 6.1 DTS track sounds fantastic, with The Doors' music popping out of the speakers. Most of the special fea­tures, which are housed on the second disc, focus on the band rather than the film. Sadly, the DVD does not contain an audio commentary from director Oliver Stone, which would have been welcome, especially considering Stone's outspokenness and the mixed reaction to the fihn. 
As a document of its time and a straight­forward examination of the band, the impact of "The Doors" is negligibh~. It's not quite a great picture, but it's not nearly as bad as its reputation, either. The new 15th anniversary edition is a welcome upgrade, especially for those who have never seen the film -it's a strange and sometimes powerful ode to one of the 1960s most revered rock gods. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 






CENE
Monday, February 19, 2007 
page 13 
I sclri'&fiRn 
I 

The dangers of walking in a winter wonderland 
Normally I'm a fairly sure-footed fel­low, save for those occasional exceptions when my internal inner-ear mechanism seems to be out of whack (such as late at night Thursdays, Fridays or Saturdays on my way to and from Sbarros). 
So imagine my shock when I was exiting DeBartolo last week, bundled up in my jacket like a South Park character to protect against the cold, when I slipped on some ice and bit it. Hard. I felt like Kenny as he suffers one of his many ignominious deaths. 
As I lay there dazed, random passers-by looked at me in derision, laughter written all over their faces. (Oh, and by the way, thanks to random South Quad guy for stepping over my prone form. What a Good Samaritan you are.) 
Of course, I have been on the other side of that scenario, pointing and giggling like a schoolchild as other people wiped out on the treacherous slip 'n' slides that pass for walkways around this campus. However, I found the sudden role rever­sal somewhat less than hilarious. 
It's all fun and games until you're splattered on the ground like Humpty Dumpty. Trust me, it's no fun when you find yourself in that position. So as I lay there in what some would refer to as the "Awkward Turtle" position, flipped back­wards onto my shell as my arms and legs waved feebly in the air, a variety of thoughts occurred to me. 

The first was just to lie there and die of embarrassment and hypothermia. 'Til wait it out until I succumb to the freezing temperature and my body shuts down," I thought. Well played, Mother Nature, I thought, as I waited for Death to take me (complete with scythe and Norm MacDonald's voice). 
Yet apparently a part of my psyche wanted to live, for some spark within me burst into flame. "No," I thought, "it's not my time to die. Not yet." As such, the next issue at hand was how to get up. This turned out to be easier said than done. However, as Jeff Goldblum and the Jurassic Park movies taught us, "Life will find a way." 
I recalled a news story I read once about how a pair of hikers trapped in a snowstorm built an igloo and weathered the frozen tempest. So I started to gather snow about me in the hopes of insulating myself against the cold. Unfortunately, all I succeeded in doing was creating a sort of sloppy snow angel out of the muddy slush around me. 
Finally, I was able to roll over and pick myself up off the ground, wet and cold with a bruised knee and a battered ego. 
So if you find yourself in that position, perched precariously at the tipping point between keeping your footing and finding yourself splayed out on some black ice, here are a few tips: 
+Yelp for help and latch onto anyone and anything close at hand. Maybe you'll be able to stay upright, but even if you can't, misery loves company and it always helps to drag people down with you. 

+ Tuck your shoulder and try to snap roll like a ninja (you could also try to launch into some break-dancing move like the step-over). The upside to this one is that if you pull it off, you'll probably look pretty cool, although the downside is that if you don't pull it off, you'll probably just face-plant and eat some ice. 
+Try to increase the coeffrcientof:\fr.~c­tion on your shoe soles by wrappiiig chains around your sneaker soles. Who says snow tires are just for cars? 
+ Or you could try to build a protective igloo or pass off your wiping out as an impromptu snow angel-making session. 
Regardless of what you decide to go with, remember to keep a smile on your face as you traverse the treacherous crosswalks on campus. Whoever thought that walking could become an extreme sport? 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

DVD REVIEW 


Taut, tight thriller 'Unknown' arrives on DVD 
By SEAN SWEANY Assisranr Scene Ediror 
Fear of the uncertain is one of the most alarming and terrifying feelings. Not know­ing where one is, how one got there or ­worst of all -who one is can instill a ter­ror so profound that one resorts to desper­ate measures to find the answers to these simple questions. 
This is the dilemma facing five men who awake to find themselves injured and locked inside a warehouse in the movie "Unknown." Confused as to who they are and why they are injured, the men learn from a discarded newspaper they are all connected with a kidnapping plot -and that two were kidnapped while the other three were kidnappers. 
A phone call alerts them that the ring­leader of the kidnapping will return to the warehouse in several hours to "sort out" the situation. What follows is a race against time for the men to piece together their col­lective memories and escape the ware­house before the other kidnappers arrive. 
The greatest strength of "Unknown" is its script. Penned by Notre Dame grad Matthew Waynee, the smart writing drops hints and creates mystery at just the right times. Cerebral explorations of good and evil take place at the same time as charac­ter development and even brief flashes of humor, demonstrating Waynee's skill in his first screenplay. 
The narrative is quick-paced and com­plex, using flashbacks to gradually reveal the truth to the audience slightly before the characters themselves realize it. One man (Jim Caviezel, "The Passion of the Christ") seems most integral to the plot and quickly becomes the story's protagonist. 
Caviezel's fellow actors include Greg Kinnear ("Little Miss Sunshine"), Barry Pepper ("Saving Private Ryan"), Joe Pantoliano ("Memento") and Jeremy Sisto ("Six Feet Under"), all of whose story arcs weave in and out of each other as their characters gain and lose each other's trust. 
At its heart, "Unknown" is a psychologi­cal thriller about the interaction of fear and trust, and all five men convey this per­
fectly in their acting. 

Unknown 
Widescreen Edition 
Weinstein Company 


Occasionally, the narrative eases the tension by leaving the warehouse to show us the head kidnapper (Peter Stormare, "Prison Break") and the wife of one of the kid­napped men (Bridget Moynahan, "I, Robot"), two deep characters that add much to the film. 

The excellent script and acting overcome what is mediocre directing and camera work, especially since the unchanging set­ting provided director Simon Brand a realm of creative possibilities. The simple and repetitive cinematography becomes evident towards the end of the film, which is also when the whole ship starts to sink. 
In any film of this genre, like "Reservoir Dogs," one expects plot twists, and they begin in earnest in the last 15 minutes of "Unknown." As the plot twists begin to pile up like the dead bodies in the film, howev­er, the plausibility becomes questionable. 
Ultimately, the good traits of the first thrilling hour of the movie become negated by unrealistic events and connections view­ers are asked to believe in the last few min­utes. This is not to say that the movie is not worthwhile -the acting is superb, and the first five minutes alone should be enough to hook anyone. However, it is hard to imag­ine what "Unknown" could have been had its ending kept pace with the rest of the movie. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 19, 2007 
NHL 


Stars close gap in Pacific with win over Sharks 
Malkin's bad-angle goal helps Penguins top Capitals, extend Pittsburgh's streak ofgames with at least 1 point to 16 
record scoreless streak at 190 minutes, 22 seconds on Mark DALLAS -The Dallas Stars Bell's power-play deflection at keep gaining ground in the 1:5 2 of the third period. San Pacific Division. Jose's previous record was 165 
Mike Ribeiro and Jere minutes, 38 seconds from Jan. Lehtinen each scored two 21-Feb. 1,1999. goals, Darryl Sydor added three Mike Grier also scored and assists and Marty Turco made Evgeni Nabokov stopped 16 17 saves as the Stars beat the shots for the Sharks, who have San Jose Sharks 5-2 on Sunday. lost their past three and were 
The Stars have 72 points, one beginning the second half of a behind the second-place Sharks season-long eight-game road and six behind first-place trip. Anaheim in the Pacific before "It's a little late in the season the Ducks' game against the for moral victories," Grier said. Los Angeles Kings on Sunday "We're not getting it done, not night. playing well enough to win 
On Jan. 15, the defending games." Pacific champion Stars trailed Turco was returning as the Ducks by 15 points and the Dallas' starter after backup 
Sharks by seven. Mike Smith played in the previ­
"We're confident we can keep ous four games. Smith had moving up," Ribeiro said. "We started two of the previous four know where we stand. This games and came on in relief of was a four-point game for us." Turco in the other two, but 
Stu Barnes added a goal and coach Dave Tippett says there Sergei Zubov had two assists is no goalie controversy, that he for the Stars. was merely giving Turco a rest. 
Lehtinen capped the scoring "He's looked good the last with 1:35 left on an empty-net­couple of days in practice," ter to help Dallas improve to 9-Tippett said. "You can tell he 
3-1 in its past 13 games, was fresh and rejuvenated out including a 6-1-1 run at home. there." "(The Sharks) are a good Evgeni Malkin scored a bad­Gonchar -at this time a year Shanahan was released from team so we knew we had to Penguins 3, Capitals 2 angle goal to give Pittsburgh ago, Malkin's Hussian Olympic the hospital Sunday after 
come out and play hard," Sydor Alexander Ovechkin didn't do the lead in another tightly teammate. spending the night under said. "We know what the stand­much offensively, a common­played game against Malkin took Gonchar's give­observation for a concussion. ings look like. For us, this game place event lately. Instead, it Washington and the streaking back pass and, from along the The 38-year-old forward was meant a one-point deficit or a was the runner-up Russian who Penguins won their sixth in a goal line, one-timed a perfectly knocked unconscious Saturday five-point deficit (behind San created a goal out of nothing, row, beating the Capitals placed left-handed shot inside during a 5-3 home loss to Jose)." -keeping the Pittsburgh Sunday. the far post, almost before Philadelphia after colliding After consecutive shutouts, Penguins' most successful The Penguins have gained at Washington backup goalie hard with Flyers forward Mike 
the Sharks ended their team-stretch in 14 years going. least a point in 16 consecutive Brent Johnson could react. Knuble. games, going 14-0-2 -their The goal reminded Recchi of Tests didn't reveal neurologi­longest run since they won a some of those scored by a for­cal damage, and Shanahan league-record 17 in a row and mer Penguins teammate named doesn't have any other serious tied one to end the 1992-93 Mario Lemieux. injuries beyond the concussion season. The surprise is that "With his size and his hands, and general aches and pains. It NHL scoring leader Sidney Geno looks like him," Hecchi is unknown how long he will be Crosby, who has 91 points, is said. "Mario was one of those sidelined, but he won't play for slumping with only one goal in guys who can score from that at least a week. 10 games. angle, and only a few guys can. That didn't stop him from 
Malkin has keyed the A lot of guys don't even try taking a detour to see the Penguins' first playoff run since that." Rangers about an hour before 2001 with 10 goals and 16 the first puck dropped. assists in 17 games. His team­Rangers 2, Blackhawks 1 "It was pretty inspirational to mates are convinced that Brnndan Shanahan made his see him come when he is sup­Malkin, the No. 2 pick in the mark on the latest New York posed to go right home and just 2004 NHL draft to Ovechkin, is Hangers' win without even lac­rest," said Matt Cullen, who more than a little motivated ing up a skate. assisted on Marcel Rossa's any time he goes against his A simple hello in the dressing goal. "For him to go out of his Russian rival. It was the first room when none of his team­way and do that shows how and only time two llussians mates expected to see him lit much he cares. were picked 1-2. the fuse Sunday and provided a "It was really impressive." 
"They're very competitive, lift in a victory Sunday over the And the message was simple. good hockey players and good Chicago Blackhawks. Shanahan wanted his team­friends so there's definitely a "It didn't hurt, that's for mates to know he was thinking little bit of something with sure," coach Tom Henney said about them. He gave them good him," Mark Recchi said. of Shanahan's impromptu visit. luck wishes and expressed his 
Of Malkin's 29 goals as a "It was good to see him stand­desire to rejoin them quickly. rookie, perhaps none was more ing up." "He said thank you for all the creative than his score late in The last time the Rangers phone calls he got from the the second period. With the saw Shanahan he was strapped guys, but he didn't remember score tied at 1, Malkin carried to a back board with a brace who called," said Henrik 
AP the puck out from behind the around his neck, being wheeled Lundqvist, who made 21 saves. Capitals' net and fed it up the out of Madison Square Garden "It was just good to see him right wing boards to Sergei on a stretcher. smiling." 
Associated Press 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

Quality Beef raised by ND grad std andersonNDrentals.com Room for rent in huge home 1 block UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­& fam on small farm. Low price per east of campus. Very clean, safe & ONE WHO IS? You do not have toWANTED lb on 1/4,1/2 or whole cow. 419-Luxury townhome,walk to NO. 3or4 private. Great student price. 239-Do not go it alone. be alone. We want to help. Call our 894-6718 after 5pm bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09. 707-2025. 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­$600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569. If you or someone you love needs 800-No-ABORT or visit our website 
Condo For Sale in SB 2 bdrm confidential support or assistance, at www.lifecall.org 
twnhse great condition & neighbor-BEITER HOMES,BETIER please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­
hood new sun room call 269-445-AREAS,BETIER DEALS. 7819. Notre CAN win a game on the road. 
FoR RENT PERSONAL
2765. $93,000 BlueGoldRentals.com For more information, visit our web Who knew? 
site at 2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR-House available for 2007-2008. Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 COMMON SENSE COMPUTER http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Gumby's stat line: 12 pts, 4-4 3 pt. QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT Very Large, Close to Campus, Just bdrm,3 bath homes,frpls,2-car repair,clean-up,reload, data back-nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad field goals, and 1 Dirk Nowitzki CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE Renovated. garages. up. Student discount. 1.5 mi. from in The Observer. impression OWNER,$6,500. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-ND 728 E. Colfax CALL 243-5454. Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com 5038. 574-217-8851 Blondin loves his Wii above freezing this week 
--; 



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, February 19, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE Or)SERVER'S wmE SERVICES page 15 


:w::: Mrv: =-=-==~¥/='=~:::::::¥:==:::· 
ut.a~r~.~o£!> Basketball Standings
-:-:-:::·::. 

8•5  
8•5  19·8  
7•6  16-11  
Villanova  6·6  18·8  
Providence  6·6  16·9  
St. John's  6·8  15-12  
Connecticut  5-1  16·10  
Seton Hall  3·9  12·13  
South Florida  3·10  12·15  
Rutgers  3·10  10·16  
Cincinnati  1·11  10·16  

NCAA Women's Basketball Big East Standings 


.. , conferencJJ, ,, 
iii;:;;;: record ·· ····· 

1 / 13•0 10·3 10·3 22-4 
9·4 18•8 .. 
8·5 22·5 
8·5 20·6 
8·5 11-9 
8-5 18·8 
s''"setonHau 1-6 16·9 
'" 10 DePauL}\ 6·7 16·10 11 St. John's 4·9 8·16 11 Cincinnati 4·9 13·12 13 Providence 3·10 13·13 13·,,Syracuse 3-10 9·17'·, 15 Jieorgetown. 2·11 12·14 16 ?Villanova · M2 H9 

around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL Villanova at Marquette 7 p.m., ESPN 
Kansas at Kansas St. 9 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Tennessee at LSU 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 


Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS -The Eastern Conference turned the NBA's big game in Las Vegas into a dud. 
Overmatched by the West -or perhaps worn out from a weekend of partying in Sin City-the East bum­bled its way to a 153-132 loss Sunday night in the All­Star game. 
Kobe Bryant had 31 points and six of the West's record 52 assists and was the game MVP. Amare Stoudemire added 29 points for the West, which quickly built a big lead and held it this time, a year after blowing a 21-point cushion in a loss in Houston. 
LeBron James scored 28 points for the East, and Dwight Howard had 20 points and 12 rebounds, but offense wasn't the prob­lem -the East allowed a record 69 field goals. 
An event that some locals called the biggest thing to hit Las Vegas featured showgirls, acrobats, magi­cians and Elvis imperson­ators -all the glitz and glamour that this city offers in excess. 
Good thing the players had plenty to deflect the attention away from them. 
The East was hovering at barely 40 percent shooting for nearly all of the first three quarters in a game that isn't known for its defensive intensity before a late flurry during garbage time brought it up to 49 percent. 
Late All-Star addition Carmelo Anthony scored 20 points and Shawn Marion of Phoenix, who played at the Thomas & Mack Center at UNLV, added 18. 
Dwyane Wade had only 10 points on 5-of-12 shoot­ing, but he had reason to be tired after hosting events Thursday and Friday night. Those were two of the many functions that kept the players out until all hours of the night. 
Still, the game was sec­ondary to the show in this most unusual of All-Star games -and it was quite a show. 
With tickets unavailable to the public, brokers were asking more than $20,000 for a top seat. Jay-Z, Beyonce, Diddy, Prince, Eva Longoria and Adam Sandler were among those who scored spots in the front row, and Christina Aguilera and Toni Braxton performed at halftime. 
The event started with a celebrity red carpet, where Las Vegas Mayor Oscar Goodman, flanked as usual 
by  his  showgirls  and  
backed  by  entertainer  
Wayne  Newton,  vowed  

again to get the NBA here full-time with a new arena to play in. 

IN BRIEF 
Howell defeats Mickelson in 
playoff to win Nissan Open 
LOS ANGELES -Charles Howell III finally ended that nasty habit of finishing second, making three clutch pars in a playoff that deliv­ered a dramatic victory over Phil Mickelson in the Nissan Open on Sunday. 
Howell closed with a 6-under 65 and got into a playoff when Mickelson bogeyed the 18th hole. Howell put away the two-time Masters champion with his third straight par save, holing a 3-foot putt on the 14th hole and raising his head to the sky in utter relief. 
"I said a prayer before I hit the putt," Howell said, his voice crack­ing. "I said, 'It's time. Go in.'" 
It was only the second victory of his career, and Howell had been haunted by nine runner-up finishes since winning the now-defunct Michelob Championship in the fall of 2002. 
Harvick edt!es Martin for 
win in rough'Daytona 500 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. -Kevin Harvick nosed out Mark Martin in a frantic wreck-filled finish to win Sunday's Daytona 500. 
Martin, making his 23rd attempt at a 500 win, seemed to have victory in hand when a hard-charging Harvick barreled along the outside of Martin to earn his second victory at Daytona International Speedway in two days. Harvick won Saturday's Busch race -his first victory at Daytona. 
As Harvick pushed into the lead, Kyle Busch wiggled behind them and bumped into Matt Kenseth to start a melee. Harvick and Martin raced side by side, waiting for NASCAR to call for a caution. When it finally came, Harvick was barely ahead. 
"My go-kart experience over the winter paid off, because I didn't let off the floor and we just kept hitting things and the wall and bouncing off everything," Harvick said. 
Shvedova sweeps San!angelo 
to win first career WTA event 
BANGALORE, India -Yaraslova Shvedova of Russia won her first WTA Tour title by stunning top-seeded defending champion Mara Santangelo of Italy 6-4, 6-4 at the Sony Ericsson International on Sunday. 
Shvedova, ranked 143rd in the world, again showed the outstanding form she displayed all week to over­come the 36th-ranked Santangelo. 
"It's been a wonderful week, win­ning one's first title surely is a very special moment," said an excited Shvedova. 
"Playing my first final, I took one game at a time and tried to keep things simple," said Shvedova, who had the spectators rooting for her in this southern Indian city. 
Santangelo committed too many unforced errors. 
"I played well to reach the final, but she played better than me today," Santangelo said. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 19, 2007 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish win twice in last at-bats in opening tourney 
Freshman Johnson goes 81or-16 with a homer in her collegiate debut 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Freshman Heather Johnson wasted no time making her presence known at Notre Dame. 
In her debut this weekend, the rookie racked up eight hits, four RBI's and a walk-off home run as the Irish went 2-3 to open their season at the Tiger Invitational. 
Trailing 5-4 in the bottom of the seventh against Tennessee Tech Saturday, Johnson stepped up to the plate with a runner on third. She got a hold of a pitch and drove her third hit of the game over the fence to help Notre Dame pick up a win over a weekend where the Irish went 2-3. 
Johnson, who leads the team with a .500 batting average, also played a big role in the first win of the season. Friday afternoon the Irish took on Auburn at Jane B. Moore field and won in another final at-bat thriller. 
Tiger outfielder Myesha Finney gave Auburn a 2-1 lead in the seventh with a sacrifice fly, but the advantage did not last long. Senior captain Stephanie Brown led off the inning with a bloop single for Notre Dame and eventually scored on a sacrifice from Johnson to tie the score. 
Sophomore Erin Glasco ended the game in the very next at bat with a line drive single down the right field line. 
Sophomore pitcher Brittany Bargar threw complete games in both wins, striking out a combined total of 15 batters and allowing three earned runs. Bargar lost her first game of the year Sunday in a 2-0 pitcher's duel with Virginia Tech. 
Hokie junior Angela Tincher continued her incredible start to the season with a one-hit complete game shutout. Tincher (5-0, 0.60 ERA) has thrown complete games in all five of her starts so far this season. She has three shutouts and is averaging more than two strikeouts per inning. Tincher rang up 15 batter against the Irish. 
Notre Dame also dropped games to UAB and Tulsa. 
UAB (4-4) jumped out to a quick lead in the second game of Friday's doubleheader by scoring at least one run in each of the first four innings. Junior shortstop Holly Krzan put the final nail in the coffin for the Blazers with a two-run double in the sixth to bring the score to 8-0. 
The Irish bats also struggled in their loss to the Golden Hurricanes. Notre Dame's offense was dormant until the fifth inning when Brown· drove in junior outfielder Sarah Smith on a double and later came around to score junior shortstop Katie Laing got a ball deep enough for Brown to tag 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Buckeyes spy top ranking 
Carolina and Wisconsin this start thinking about a seeding, Ohio State may jump season. my mind is not on this team Lawrence McKenzie scored and getting better." 
UF in the polls after 22 points for the Gophers (9-Interim Gophers coach Jim 18, 3-10), but he didn't get Molinari has no such worries.taking down Gophers nearly the help from his sup­His team looked to its past porting cast that Oden did. Sunday, not a tournament 
Associated Press The Gophers lost their fifth seeding. MINNEAPOLIS -The last straight and 1Oth in their last Minnesota honored the 25th time Ohio State was No. 1 in 12. anniversary of its 1982 Big 
..-r the AP men's basketball poll, The No. 1 ranking is up for Ten championship team, John Havlicek, Jerry Lucas grabs Monday after top­bringing back such former and a sub named Bob Knight ranked Florida lost at players as Trent Tucker, were leading the Buckeyes to Vanderbilt on Saturday night, Darryl Mitchell and Handy the NCAA championship game. but Ohio State isn't the only Breuer to be recognized in the That was 45 years ago, but team to have a legitimate second half. after Greg Oden and No. 2 claim. Also in attendance was Ohio State breezed to an 85-67 Third-ranked Wisconsin (26-Detroit Pistons coach and victory over Minnesota on 2) is the only Big Ten team to Minnesota alum Flip Saunders, Sunday, Hondo and the beat the Buckeyes this year who was an assistant on that General might finally have and travels to Columbus for a 1982 team. When he was some company. showdown with Ohio State introduced, Saunders was ser­Oden had 19 points, nine next Sunday. enaded with chants of "We rebounds and Fifth-ranked want Flip!" by a crowd hoping two blocks, Ron UCLA (23-3) also he leaves Motown to coach the Lewis scored 16 could make the Gophers next season.
"We're trying to 
points and Mike jump to No. 1 Molinari is filling in after Conley Jr. fin­get better as a after soundly Dan Monson was fired seven ished with 10 team and hopefully beating No. 19 games into this season, and assists and five make a run., Arizona 81-66 in Gopher basketball is reeling. steals for Ohio Tucson on Monson struggled mightily in State, which is Saturday. recruiting, and the Gophers
Mike Conley, Jr.
looking for its Being ranked have been overmatched in first No. 1 rank­Ohio State guard No. 1 heading most Big Ten games this sea­ing since 1962. into selection day son. 
"Right now it would give Ohio Sunday was no differnnt. doesn't mean as much as it State the inside "A lot of them are pros," would at the end of March in track on the top seed in the St. Molinari said of the Buckeyes. the tournament," Conley said. Louis bracket. Coach Thad Ohio State took control early, "Regardless of what ranking Matta was asked after the scoring eight straight points to we are-1, 2, 3, 4-it does­game about the advantages of open a 14-7 lead in the first n't matter to us. We're trying staying close to home as 6:30. But McKenzie came right to get better as a team and opposed to being seeded in, back, scoring 13 points in a hopefully make a run." say, the Meadowlands. three-minute stretch to keep 
The Buckeyes (24-3, 12-1 "You just named sites and I the Gophers in it. His three­Big Ten) have won 11 in a row, didn't even know there were point play at the end of the with losses only to heavy­sites," Matta said. "Maybe it's half pulled Minnesota within weights Florida, North superstitious of me, but if we 24-23. 
up on. 
However, the short burst was too little, too late for the Irish who had dug themselves a four-run hole earlier in the game. 
Notre Dame will continue with their early season slate next weekend as the Irish head 
to California for five games in the Palm Springs Tournament. No members of the team were available for comment follow­ing the weekend's games due to travel. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
MEN'S lACROSSE 
No. 11 ND starts year with win over Loyola 
us," Kemp said. "We were
Hubschmann notches 
down in the beginning, but this tells us a lot about our
hat trick to come back 
team. We had a lot of ques­
against the Greyhounds tions about our midfield, but they played well on both offense and defense. I was
By PAT O'BRIEN slow in the first half," Kemp
Sports Writer 
added. "But I bounced back in the second half. I made saves 
Trailing 7-5 in the third that I normally would not have quarter, Notre Dame made." outscored Loyola (Md.) 4-0 Irish coach Kevin Corrigan down the stretch and came also shared enthusiasm about from behind to beat the the victory. Greyhounds 9-7 Saturday at "[The gamel felt great," the Loftus Center. Corrigan said. "It wasn't very 
Senior attacker Brian pretty, but we played physical­Hubschmann led all scorers ly and with a lot of poise. Joey with three goals Kemp was terrif­and an assist in ic from goal. We the victory. plan to look for Freshman "Itfelt good to help from fresh­attacker Will men, sopho­
contribute to our 
Yeatman added mores, juniors
team. Loyola is a
a goal and two and seniors." 
assists while very tough team. , Loyola held a sophomore 39-37 advantage attacker Hyan on total shots in
Brian Hubschmann 
Hoff and junior the contest while
Irish attack
midfielder both teams made Lucius Polk each nine saves. had two goals Loyola (0-1) and an assist of their own. was led by Shane Koppens Junior midf'ielder Michael who had one goal and two Podgajny netted a goal as well. assists. Patrick Kennedy, Dan 
"It felt good to contribute Bauers, and Greg Leonard all our team," said llubsehmann netted two goals each for the of his eighth-career hat trick. Irish at the Loftus Center in "Loyola is a very tough team." front of over 1,000 fans. 
Joey Kemp also helped out Notre Dame {1-0) travels to by making nine saves in goal Penn State for its next match and holding the Greyhounds Sunday. scoreless in the last quarter and a half of the game. Contact Pat O'Brien at 
"This was a good win for pobrien5@nd.edu 

..-------------·---~--~ 
Monday, February 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish fall to Pepperdine, blank Pennsylvania 
grabbed victories at No. 2 and Pepperdine the winning point. The Irish finished off their he rallied to win the tiebreaker 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA No. 5 singles, respectively. "Some of our veterans didn't weekend with a 4-1 win over No. 7-6(4). 
Sports Writer Parbhu trailed 3-0 in the first set quite get it done," Irish coach 18 Texas. "He got out in front early and 
but turned around to win it 7-5 Bobby Bayliss said. "It is unchar­Notre Dame again took the won the first set and you could 
Friday's match against and take the second set 6-1 for acteristic of our team but that's doubles point to jump ahead 1-0. see his strength kind of wane Pepperdine was a rollercoaster the win over Johnson. King fol­the way it was." Parbhu followed with a 6-3, 6-2 and he got broken back," Bayliss of ups and downs. lowed in Parbhu's tracks with a Notre Dame avenged its loss to win over Milan Mihailovic at No. said. "He got down in the 
No.9 Notre Dame had convinc­6-3, 6-4 win over Altmann. Pepperdine with 2 singles. tiebreaker and really hit some ing leads against the Waves but Stephen Bass could not hold on a 4-0 blanking of Texas' only glim­big shots and fmished the match was unable to pull away with a to Notre Dame's lead at No. 1 Pennsylvania. mer of hope came very aggressively." win, losing 4-2 on the road. singles. Bass took the first set 6-4 The Irish swept "We can ,t worry too at No. 3 singles The Irish will return to South 
The Irish fell behind 1-0 early but lost his momentum dropping doubles play to when Helgeson Bend to prepare for Michigan
much about the 

in the ITA National Indoors the next two sets 6-3, 6-3. take the early 1-0 dropped the match Friday. Bayliss said the team will match after dropping the doubles Number four singles played out lead and never immediate results.,, 6-2, 6-4 to Dimitar focus on improving doubles and point. Senior Ryan Keckley and in similar fashion as Keckley looked back. Kutrovsky, but put the loss to Pepperdine behind junior Sheeva Parbhu faltered at took the first set 6-1 from Notre Dame pro­Bass brought the them.
Bobby Bayliss 

No. 1 doubles, losing 8-4 to Omar Bassam Beidas but could not do ceeded to take Irish closer to vic­"There is a lot of tennis to be
Irish coach 

Altmann and Richard Johnson. the same in the second and third straight set victo­tory with a 6-2, 7-played," he said. "We can't Pepperdine clinched the doubles set. Beidas defeated Keckley 1-6, ries at Nos. 1, 3, 5 win over Miguel worry too much about the imme­point when Andre Begemann 6-4, 6-4 to give the Waves the go­and 4 singles. Reyes Varela at diate results. We have to worry and Mahmoud Kamel defeated ahead point. Keckley opened No. 1 singles. about making our team better Barry King and Brett Helgeson 8-No. 6 singles marked the third up play for the Irish with a 6-1, King battled sickness to take week to week and showing 5 at No. 2 doubles. match in which the Irish would 6-2 win over Joseph Lok, and the win for the Irish. King -who improvement so that we can play 
Despite falling behind, the Irish take the first set but drop the Helgeson followed with a 6-2, 6-had been suffering from a fever our best at the end of the year, came out swinging in singles match. Andrew Roth battled to a 3 win over Mikhail Bekker. Bass and soar throat -took the first that's the goal." action. 7-5 win in the first set but ulti­secured Notre Dame's victory match 6-3 from Josh Zavala. It 
Notre Dame jumped to a 2-1 mately fell 7-5, 3-6, 5-7 to with a 6-2, 6-4 beating of Jason looked like King might succumb Contact Deirdre Krasula at lead when Parbhu and King Mahmoud Kamel to give Pinsky. to his fever in the second set but dkrasula@nd.edu 


CAMP SWEENEY 
Amedical sports summer camp in Texas. 
Currently has openings for male counselors. 
Feb 2lst. .................... 8 pm 
DeBartolo Hall -Group Information Setting 
Feb 22nd ....... 9 atn-5 pm 
Flanner Hall -Walk-in Interviews 
CONTACT: 
John Sissney 903-651-9575 or Skip Rigsby 940-665-2011 
TRACK AND fiELD 
Relay team locks up Big East title 
sion and scaled 14.86 meters to finished second behind the

Women falllO points 
finish second in the event. Hoyas, 112-102. short of Georgetown Senior Christopher Jacques "When you're scoring that 
also exceeded expectations, many points, eleven points isn'tin second-place finish clearing 2.06 meters in the high that much," Piane said. 
jump for a personal-best and The Irish women did not win 
second place finish. any individual honors thisBy JAY FITZPATRICK In the throws, Irish senior weekend, but did place second 

Sports Writer 
Garet Koxlien set a Notre Dame in three events. In the triple 
record in the weight throw with jump, senior Cassie Gullickson 

Once again, Notre Dame his toss of 18.77 meters. The set a personal-best with a score stands atop the Big East, win­previous mark was set by Matt of 12.33 meters. Sophomores ning the men's championship Thompson in the 2000 Alex Mary Saxer and Kate Mattoon and finishing second at the con­Wilson Invitational. placed second and third, ference indoor meet in the "We had a lot of kids perform respectively, in the pole vault women's division this weekend above our expectations," Piane with scores of 3.86 and 3.60 in Miami, Ohio. said. "We had a lot meters. 
On the men's side, the Irish of guys perform One highlight had outright wins in just two very, very well." was the perform­
"We had a lot of 

events -the 800 meter dash Notre Dame's ance of thrower
kids perform above 

and the 4x800 meter relay. In distance team ran Anna Weber. the 800, senior Thomas well again, espe­our expectations.,, Weber tossed the Chamney won in 1:51.76, set­cially in the 1,000 20 pound weight ting the pace throughout the meter run. Junior a school-record
Joe Piane 

race. Adam Currie 17.35 meters, and 
Irish coach 

"He looked very dominant in (2:26.65, 4th followed that with the prelims and he just con­place) led the Irish a 13.94 toss of trolled the race in the finals," contingent, fol-the shot put -for Irish coach Joe Piane said. lowed by senior Todd Ptacek fifth place in that event. 
Chamney competed with jun­(2:27.22, 6th place) and fresh­"[Weber] did a great job in iors John Cavanaugh, Brett man Blake Choplin (2:27.31, the 20 pounds weight. She Adams and Adam Currie in the 8th place) and Jim Notwell probably did a little better job 4x800 victory, and he ran the (2:32.20, 9th place). than it said on the form chart," anchor leg of the relay in Junior Jake Watson earned Piane said. "The women field around 1:50, Piane said, to all-conference honors in the events did a really, really good cement Notre Dame's win. mile with a third-place finish in job." 
"He certainly ran a very nice 4:05.30. Notre Dame's final second­anchor leg," Piane said. "It was Because of Notre Dame's suc­place finish was in the 4X400 a wonderful team performance cess this season, the Irish men's relay, manned by seniors across the board." coaches were named Big East Maryann Erigha and Okechi 
Even though the two victory coaching staff of the year. Along Ogbuokiri, junior Crysta were important to the Irish with Piane, assistant coaches Swayzer and freshman Joanna title, Piane was Tim Connelly, Schultz. Erigha ran the first leg most impressed John Millar, Scott of the race while Ogbuokiri fin­with Notre Winsor and B.J. ished it off with the anchor leg. Dame's ability to Linnenbrink In the distance events, Notre
''I'm thrilled for the

perform well in were honored. Dame senior Amy Kohlmeier important entire staff., "I like the idea finished third in the 3,000 events, especial­that the Big East meter run with a time of ly in the field. calls it staff of 9:32.67 to garner all-Big East
Joe Piane

"I think that the year not honors. 
Irish coach 

would be the coach of the year Overall, Piane was impressed success of the because every­with the women's team's per­field events one on the staff formance in the Big East cham­because we had contributed to pionships. to get some help in the field our victory," Piane said. ''I'm "The women did a great job. events and we did," he said. thrilled for everyone on the If you looked at the form chart, "We got some in the vault, we staff." they probably should have been got some in the high jump." Notre Dame came close to a third or fourth, but they com­
Freshman jumper Eric Quick season sweep of the Big East peted very, very well," he said. entered the Big East meet as indoor championships, but the the No. 7 seed in the triple women's team fell 10 points Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jump. Quick rose to the occa-short of Georgetown. The Irish jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
...----------~-­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 19, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

No. 2 Irish make case for top spot 
13 Annual 
Mini-Medical School Lecture Series 
Presented by the Indiana University School of Medicine-South Bend 
Sponsored by the Medical Education Foundation 

.Join us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors, professionals and university/medical school professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free of charge and open to the general public. 
Medical professionals attending the lectures may rcceh·c 2 CME credits per session. The Indiana University School of Medidne is accredited b~· the Accreditation Council for Continuinl( Medical Education to prrn·idc l'ontinuinl( education for t•h~sicians. 

ND tops No. 7 UNC, No. 20 Wake Forest to stay unbeaten this year 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Wrirer 

No. 2 Notre Dame made its case this weekend for a No. 1 ranking, knocking off two more top-20 teams with a 5-2 win over No. 7 North Carolina Friday and a 7-0 win Sunday over No. 20 Wake Forest. 
Against the Tar Heels, the Irish stumbled out of the gate, losing the doubles point for only the second time this season. Both doubles pairings of Christian and Catrina Thompson and Brooke Buck and Kelcy Tefft dropped their matches, giving the Tar Heels an early 1-0 lead. 
"I was a little nervous after that," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "[Freshmen] Cosmina Ciobanu and Kali Krisik played well, but our other two doubles teams just didn't play well." 
Luckily for Notre Dame, the Tar Heels were missing some of their players due to sickness, including No. 7 Jenna Long. 
"They fought harder than we did. I thought winning the dou­bles point gave us some momen­tum, but they came out and won a bunch of first sets and took some momentum away from us," North Carolina coach Brian Kalbas said. ''I'm not so sure we would've won the match [if we were healthy] with the way they played singles." 
After junior Brooke Buck made quick work of Tar Heels sopho­more Meg Fanjoy 6-0, 6-1, North Carolina took a 2-1 lead when Christian Thompson fell to fresh­man Katrina Tsang 6-3, 6-2. 
No. 41 Catrina Thompson dom­inated Tar Heels sophomore No. 33 Austin Smith in the first set, 6­1, and staved off a comeback by Smith in the second set, winning it 7-5 and tying the score at two points apiece. 
"Austin Smith played really well to stay in the match, and I was impressed with the way she played," Louderback said. 
Freshman Colleen Hielley snapped her four-match losing streak with a 6-4, 6-2, defeat of Tar Heels senior Sara Anundsen to make the score 3-2. 
Then, in a match that drew the attention of the crowd gathered at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, Ciobanu fought back from a 4-1 first-set deficit and a 5-2 second­set deficit to knock off North Carolina freshman Sanaz Marand 6-4, 7-5. Ciobanu's victo­ry clinched the match for the Irish. 
"That match was very tiring," Ciobanu said. "I think the difler­ence was the momentum shifts. The first set, she played unbeliev­able, and then I had a good game at ~-1 and started playing bet­ter. 
Teffi added the fifth point after dropping the first set to North Carolina's Caitlin Collins, 4-6, 6­2, and 6-3. 
On Sunday, the Irish made quick work of Wake Forest. The Irish grabbed all three doubles matches, and Christian Thompson and Hielley won first­set tiebreakers to boost the Irish to victory. 
"I just thought we played really well all weekend," Louderback said. "Our doubles bounced back [Sunday]." 
Ciobanu preserved her perfect 10-0 dual match record and clinchfld the match again for the Irish. 
Notre Dame has a couple of days off before it battles Iowa Sunday at home. 
"We can get a couple of our kids to get a couplB of days rest," Louderback said. "WB've had three tough matches in live days. We've had a few naghring iqjuries with some players, so it's good to get them a few days rest." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Session I, Wednesday, February 21, 2007 
"'Wonll!ll 's Health and Hormone Replacement 1'heraf~1'" 
Sloan Shah, MD 
South Bend, Indiana 
Session 3, Wednesdav, March 7, 2007 "Autism: I lnlocking the ( 'ause With Hope to the Future .. 
Elizabeth Berry Kravis, MD, PhD Chicago. Illinois 
Session 5, Wednesdav, March 21,2007 
"I'erfcmnance E-.illwncing Drugs Among Prc!fe.s:siona/ A th/eres: I'he HALe'() hm:stigation-Not .lust Ban:v Bonds .. James Moriarity, MD Notre Dame, Indiana 
Time: 7:00-9:00 p.m. (E.S.T.) Place: Indiana University School of Medicine-South Bend Raclin-Carmichael Hall I 234 Notre Dame Avenue South Bend, IN 46617 (The southeast corner of the Notre Dame main entrance at Angela Blvd.) Free parking in the lot adjacent to the building. To re ister, or for more information, call Jami at 574 647-7389. 
Session 2, Wednesday, February 28, 2007 
"'Alzheimer's /)isease: A l,ooming J~jJidemiologic Nightmare" 
Diana Kerwin. MD Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Session 4, Wednesdav, March 14. 2007 
"'Avian Flu l:pidemic: Are We l'repared For a 1Jisaster? ·· Joseph J. Contiguglia, MD, Colonel USAF Keesler Air Force Base, Mississippi 
Session 6, Wednesdav, March 28. 2007 
"/)iahetes: Fwt:vbody 's Got It, What /)o We Do Now?" Mary Ann Emanuele, MD Maywood, Illinois 
For all of your skin care & hair removal needs come to our South Bend location just a couple miles from campus on North 
Michigan street. Peggy is a Licensed 
Aesthetician and specializes in Bikini, 
Brazilian, and full leg wax. From lip to leg/ 
Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth 
and soft so you are ready to hit the BEACH! 
Peggy is available 

• Monday -FridayPeggy Dibble 9am ~ Spm 
Aesthetic ian 
• Saturday 8:30am -12:30pm 

Call Peggy TODAY/ 
574.282.2020 
...and don't forget to mention this ad!! 
& FACIAL PLASTIC SURGERY 

401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 


Monday, February 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish fall just short in Big East championship 

PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer Irish freshman Ray Toomey swims during the Dennis Stark relays Oct. 6. Notre Dame finished in first with 264 points. 
West Virginia denies Welsh and Co. third straight Big East title 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame achieved coach Tim Welsh's goal of swimming lifetime bests at the Big East championships this past week­end, but it still wasn't enough for the Irish to capture their third consecutive Big East title. 
Heading into the fmal event of the four-day championships ­the 400-yard freestyle relay ­the Irish held a three-and-a-half point lead over West Virginia. The Notre Dame quartet of freshman John Lytle and seniors Louis Cavadini, Ted Brown and Tim Kegelman touched the wall in a school-record time of 2:59.59, but they were outdone by the Mountaineers, who fin­ished the race in 2:56.21. 
The victory gave West Virginia 40 points while Notre Dame's third-place finish netted 32, which was the ultimate differ­ence in the Mountaineers' 765.5­761 defeat of the Irish. 
"It's crushing, but I don't feel like we lost the meet as much as West Virginia won it," Welsh said. "We had four guys set a school record in the last event, and it still wasn't enough. What more can you ask of them?" 
In addition to the 400-yard freestyle relay, Notre Dame set nine school records, 13 season­best times and six NCAA consid­eration times. 
"We swam fast, and we raced well," Welsh said. "If you look at anything other than the final score, we had a very good meet." 
Despite Notre Dame's impres­sive performances, which includ­ed seven second-place finishes, the Irish did not win a single event. West Virginia took 12 out of the 15 events. 
"[Not winning any events] played an enormous role," Welsh said. "On the positive side, though, the fact that we almost won the title without winning a single event shows the emphasis we place on the team aspect. We're team-oriented rather than superstar-oriented." 
Brown and Kegelman, espe­cially, stood out on the weekend. Brown, who picked up three all­Big East honors on the weekend, finished his career at Notre Dame with nine such accolades. Kegelman, who also picked up three all-Big East honors, con­cludes his Irish career with a school-record 12 conference awards. 
"They've been very depend­able performers, and they go about things the right way," Welsh said. "We've leaned on them ever since they've been here, and we'll miss them." 
In addition to the senior lead­ers, the team's underclassmen also raced well. 
Lytle set school records in both the 100 and 200-meter freestyle. NCAA "B" cut times were posted by freshman MacKenzie LeBlanc (200-meter butterfly) and sopho­more Sam Pendergast (100­meter breaststroke), and sopho­more Daniel Rave achieved a NCAA consideration time in the 200-meter breaststroke. Juniors Jay Vanden Berg and Rob Seery, who both garnered all-Big East honors in the 1,650-meter freestyle, will also be back next season. 
"We have a very good return­ing team, a very good incoming class, and we aren't graduating any of our divers," Welsh said. "We want some time to recover a little bit [from this weekend's loss], but we think the future's very bright for us." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall just short of upset 
ing the stretch. The Flying Dutchmen dis­

Underdog SMC loses 
The Belles held their final played a balanced offensive lead of the game 60-59 with attack that saw five players

79-71 to Flying Dutch 
seven minutes left, but Hope score in double digits. Senior went on a 13-3 Forward Ellen 

By DAN COOPER 
run to take its Wood Jed Hope

Sports Writer 
largest advan­"We proved on in scoring and tage of the Saturday that we rebounding, hit­

In the regular season finale evening 72-63. ting seven of her
can compete with 

for both teams, Saint Mary's The Flying 12 shots for 20 made a run at No. 5 Hope, Dutchmen hit the top teams in points and but ultimately fell 79-71 seven of their the country. " pulling down 15 Saturday night at the Angela final eight free boards for the Athletic facility. throws to seal double-double.
Jennifer Henley 

The loss dropped the Belles the deal. "Ellen Wood is to 11-12 on the season and After the Belles coach a tall, veteran 
time. 
In the second half, Saint Mary's went on a 13-2 run and took a 50-48 lead with 
11:31 remain­ing. For the next four-and­a-half minutes, the lead bounced 
between the two teams, but rebounds. Sophomore center neither side held a lead of Nicole Beier added 12 points more than three points dur-off the bench. 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
ND to tee off on season in Florida 
6 top-30 squads set to compete at River Wilderness Golf& CC 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame begins the sec­ond half of its season with the seventh-annual Central District Classic in Parrish, Fla., today. 
Fifteen teams from the NCAA's Central Region will showcase their talent at The River Wilderness Golf and Country Club in the tourna­ment hosted by Michigan State. 
The Irish face some stiff competition, including the Spartans, who are ranked No. 20 on Golfstat.com. Other top-30 teams include Arkansas at No. 23, Texas A&M at No. 24, Ohio State at No. 26, LSU at No. 27 and Northwestern at No. 30. 
"This is a very strong field to open up the season with," first-year Irish coach Susan Holt said. "The positive with that is we have an opportuni­ty right out of the gate to make a statement, and that's what I'm hoping for. It's early 
Junior guard Allison Kessler "We have had the led the team in 
great opportunity to scoring with 28 
points, and
play ranked teams in 
sophomore for­
our conference." ward Erin Newsome con­tributed 12
Jennifer Henley 
points and
Belles coach 
pulled down a game-high s e v e n 
in the season and everyone is getting started so we hope things can go our way." 
The Irish are currently No. 66 and will compete against Missouri and LSU for the sec­ond time this season. 
Irish senior co-captain Noriko Nakazaki will tee it up from the No. 1 spot in Florida. With her average score of 75.93, she posted the 
team's highest mark through 14 rounds, which spans five tourna­ments. 
Sophomore Lisa Maunu will tee off from the sec­ond spot. Maunu twice achieved a score of one­under-par 71 during the fall portion of the season. 
Freshman 
Kristin Wetzel will take the field from the third spot for the Irish. Wetzel is averaging a 79.14, and has played in all five tournaments of the sea­son. Her best round of the season was a score of 72 at the Lady Irish Invitational. 
"/ think they really know where their game stands right now. We were able to knock the rust offand that felt really good.,, 
Susan Holt Irish coach 
post player," said 
Henley. "She was on the National Championship [Hope] team [last season], so she knows what it takes to be success­ful." 
St. Mary's first opponent in the MIAA tournament will be Alma, over whom the Belles own a perfect 2-0 record. 
"Alma is a well coached team, and they play a trian­gle-and-two defense that has given us trouble," Henley said. ''I'm glad we're at home because our crowd has been so supportive all year, we'll be ready-that's for sure." 
The third-seeded Belles will tip-off at 7:30 p.m. against sixth-seeded Alma Tuesday night at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper1@nd.edu 
Freshman Annie Brophy, will start from the fourth spot today. She ranks third on the Irish with an average score of 78.29. At the Cougar Classic last September, Brophy scored a two-over­par 7 4 -her best finish of the season. 
Fellow freshman Julie Kim will round out the list at the fifth spot Monday. Due to an 
she said. "We 
knock the rust off and that felt really good. We hope to build on that at this tourna­ment." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
injury suf­fered in the fall, Kim will participate in her first colle­giate competi­tion. 
Holt hoped the team would build some momen­tum after last week's prac­tices. 
"I think they really know where their game stands right now," 
were able to 

10-6 in the MIAA. The Flying Dutchmen, ranked fifth nationally, held off Saint Mary's to improve to 21-3 overall and 13-3 in the MIAA. 
Despite going into the game as a major underdog, the Belles kept the game close. After falling behind early, the Belles rallied and cut the lead to 36-33 going into half­game, Belles coach Jennifer Henley was pleased with her team's performance. 
"We proved on Saturday that we can compete with the top teams in the country," she said. "We have had the great opportunity to play ranked teams in our confer­ence this season." 

Launches this Ash -wednesda
>)))))))) 


www.nd ra ercast.or C-M 

r------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 19, 2007 
ND WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish win opener 
•

In sudden death 
McKinney scores in final seconds to send game to extra period 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
A clutch performance by No. 5 Notre Dame gave the Irish a 10-9 overtime victory on the road against No. 12 James Madison in the first game of the regular season. 
With 16 seconds Senior Meghan Murphy also added two goals in the winning effort. 

Berger led the Dukes with five goals, and junior Natasha Fuchs contributed a strong per­formance with two goals. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said the team was confident it could pull through despite the late deficit. 
"We have total confidence in our preparation, mental train­ing and fitness," Coyne said. "Even in tight games we feel like we'll win beeause of our 
remaining in sud­experience and
'7 think this game 
den death, senior training."
gave us a lot of
Lena Zentgraf The opening assisted sopho­momentum.,, game for both more Jill Byers teams was moved for the game-win­from James
Tracy Coyne 
ning goal, the Madison's home 
Irish coach 
field in
sixth of the game for Byers. 
The Irish trailed most of game and were just 19 seconds from defeat when jun­ior Caitlin McKinney netted an unassisted goal to tie the game at the end of regulation. The Dukes took a 9-7 lead in the opening half of the six-minute overtime period after two goals by senior Kelly Berger. 
Notre Dame responded quickly in the second half of overtime with an early goal by sophomore Jillian Byers. Then, with just nine seconds left in overtime, McKinney scored another clutch goal to tie the game at 9-9 and advance to sudden-death. 
Both teams played strong defense in the sudden-death overtime, and once again the Irish showed their flair for the dramatic in sudden death. 
Notre Dame was led by Byers' six goals and McKinney's two clutch goals. 
POPS ON TOP 

Harrisonburg, 
Va., to the University of Virginia's field in Charlottesville, Va., after a win­ter storm created unplayable conditions at the Dukes' facility. 
"I think this game gave us a lot of momentum," Coyne said. "To win a close one like that against a worthy opponent, in that kind of adversity just shows what our team is made 
0.f" 
The Irish posted a 35-25 advantage on shots over the Dukes. Notre Dame sophomore goalkeeper Erin Goodman recorded four saves, and James Madison goalie Kelly Wetzel finished with seventeen. 
Notre Dame will next face No. 16 Stanford in its home opener Saturday. The Cardinal are 1-1 after dropping their opener to Oregon and defeating St. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Announcing the Year 2007 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert RaYarino family. the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2007 annual competition for travel in support ofsummer research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who arc planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study in Italy arc invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will invohc the study of Italian language, literature, and cullure: and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include. but arc not limited to: Loyola UniYcrsity in Rome. Boston University in Padua. UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino. Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students arc encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
I)  an explanation of how the proposed research o•· fot·eign study will enhance their  
degree prog..am at Notre Dame;  
2)  a personal statement indicating their bacl<ground, interests, and long-term goals;  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow;  
4)  a budget indic.ating the costs involved;  
5)  two letters of recommendation  
6)  a tmnscript showing all grades and courses completed  
7)  a list of other sources of funding (being sought or confirmed) for the same project  
(i.e. Office of International Studies, Nanovic Institute, etc.)  
Application Deadline: Friday, ·February 23,2007  
Albeti Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship  
Program in Italian Studies  
343 O'Shaughnessy Hall  
University of Notre Dame  

Attention 

JUNIORS and SENIORS 
interested in teaching English, researching, or studying abroad for one year after graduation: 
Come to an information meeting on 
FULBRIGHTS 
Monday, February 19 at 7pm or Tuesday, February 20 at 5:30pm 
1n 


If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 1OS O'Shag fellows@nd.edu 
VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer Irish captain T.J. Jindra skates up ice on a breakout during a 4­2 win over Nebraska-Omaha Feb. 9 at the Joyce Center. 
Monday, February 19, 2007 

The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Friars 
continued from page 24 
she has topped 25 points. Allen became the first Notre Dame player who has scored upward of 25 points in three straight games since Katryna Gaither scored 25 in the first four rounds of the 1997 NCAA Tournament. 
"[Allen has] been amazing the last few weeks," McGraw said. "She's shooting the ball well. She's taking good shots, she's not forcing things. She's scoring in the offense. She's patient -the team is looking for her and yet not exclusively. She's been just phenomenal." 
Despite Notre Dame's second­half domination, the opening period was much more of a back-and-forth battle. Friars guard Chelsea Marandola took control of the first half, scoring 14 points with four boards and three assists. Providence led for most of the stanza, and had a 33-31 lead with less than four minutes to play. 
Allen nailed every shot she took down the first-half stretch, sinking two free throws and two jumpers to put the Irish up three. 
Allen led all scorers with 26 points, but Notre Dame's offense was split between its entire line­up. Four Irish players fmished in double figures, as freshman guard Melissa Lechlitner scored 16, junior center Melissa D'amico had 11 and freshman center Erica Williamson finished with 10. 
Freshman guard Ashley Barlow fmished with eight points and nine rebounds. Notre Dame's freshmen once again outplayed the opponents bench, outscoring the Friars reserves 34-11. 
"I thought Melissa Lechlitner gave us a huge lift off the bench," McGraw said. "She did a good job of looking to score, doing what she can do running the offense, running in transi­tion. And I thought Erica came in and did a good job on the boards. And Ashley made some great contributions also." ,.. 

After the convincing win, McGraw still felt that the Irish had some work to do, especially on the defensive end of the court. 
"We've played a lot of man-to­man recently and so it was good to see our zone work today," she said. "Our press wasn't as good, I think we need to work on that a little more." 
Notre Dame returns to the Joyce Center to finish out its home schedule this week with a game against Georgetown Wednesday and another with Rutgers Sunday. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Start 
continued from page 24 
their belt. We have a young team, and we have to get our feet wet." 
"We'll be fine once the Big East [schedule] starts [against South Florida March 23]." 
In the first game Saturday, Notre Dame hit three home runs in a win over Prairie View A&M. 
Designated hitter Mike Dury, third baseman A.J. Pollock and leftfielder Michael Wright all homered for the Irish. 
Sophomore Wade Korpi gave up four runs on four hits in four innings to earn the win for Notre Dame. 
The Irish jumped out to a 6­0 lead after three innings, but the Panthers (8-5) jumped on Korpi for four runs in the fourth to cut the lead to two. Notre Dame bounced back with a two-run single by sophomore Jeremy Barnes in the bottom half of the inning and then scored six in the sixth to blow the game wide open. 

After the 15-run outburst "Our focus was not good," against Prairie View, the Irish Schrage said. "We were a lit­were shut down by Texas tle anxious at the plate." 
State  pitchers  Irish  pitchers  
Mike Hart and Kyle Gembler,  "Our guys were  Brett Gaffy, Sam Elam and Dan  
scoring just one run in two games. Notre Dame  trying a little too hard. They really wanted to win two  Kapala each threw a third of the game and gave up a com­ 
scored the first  out ofthree. ''  bined  10  hits,  
run  of  with Elam taking  
Saturday's game on Hart, going up 1-0 on  Dave Schrage Irish coach  the loss. The Irish made three errors behind them.  

a sacrifice fly by centerfielder Danny Dressman that drove in Wright. 
But the Bobcats bounced back with a run in the fifth and another in the eighth inning. Notre Dame got two men on in the bottom of the eighth, but couldn't drive tthe runners in. 
The Irish stranded 10 run­ners Saturday. 
"Hart did a great job," Schrage said. "He threw about seventy-five percent of his sliders for strikes." 
On Sunday, Notre Dame managed just two hits for the game and was unable to score. 
"We didn't play 

a very good game," Schrage said. "Our effort wasn't as good as [Saturday]." 
The Bobcats slowly built a lead, getting runs in the sec­ond, third, fifth and ninth innings for an easy win. 
"Our guys were trying a lit­tle too hard," Schrage said. "They really wanted to win two out of three." 
Next week, the Irish travel to Myrtle Beach, S.C., to face UNC-Wilmington, TCU and Coastal Carolina in Baseball at the Beach. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Edgell. On Friday night, very important to perform
Focus 
Edgell touched the wall first well there," Nixon said. "It's

History 
in the 200-meter going to be IM with an NCAA important for

continued from page 24 
"It's a

"B" cut time of our recruiting, 2:02.08, and she culmination of for our confi­and 400 IM. Carroll was also also earned All-Big dence, and it
your career to 

part of the victorious 200 East honors in the will give us a
get [to the NCAA

and 800-meter-freestyle 400 meter IM. chance to relay teams. With those vic­"It was a nice Championships}, break onto the tories, she brought her changing of the scene national-
and it's very 

career Big East champi­guard," Nixon ly. " 
important to 

onship win total to 15, and said. "Ashley With Carroll, she was also named the Big [Edgell] did a perform well Claire East Most Outstanding great job, and win­Hutchinson,
there." 

Swimmer for the second -ning an event as a Julia Quinn time in her career. freshman is a spe­and the mem­
Nixon gushed with praise cial accomplish­Carrie Nixon bers of the when describing her cap­ment. She's Irish Coach 800-meter tain. worked very hard freestyle relay 
"Irreplaceable is probably this year, so we team as virtual the word I would use [to were thrilled for her." locks to compete in the describe While the Big NCAA Championships, Notre Carroll]," Nixon East title was Dame will be sending more said. "She's "Irreplaceable is one goal for the girls than ever to the event. taken us to a Irish, the team That, more than anything
probably the word 

whole new now has larger else, has Nixon confident
I would use [to 

level. She's tasks ahead. about her team's potential at been a leader describe Katie With the NCAA this year's meet. and a competi­Carroll]. She's Championships "Having more girls going is tor from the only three weeks the big difference between
taken us to a

day she's away, Notre this year's team and last walked in, and I whole new level." Dame will year's," Nixon said. "The hope the resume training more girls you have going, younger girls in preparation the more emphasis you
Carrie Nixon

learn a lot from for the biggest place on the NCAAs and the
Irish coach

here." meet of the year. more confidence it gives 
One under­"It's the culmi­you." classman nation of your already learning from career to get [to the NCAA Contact Greg Arbogast at Carroll is freshman Ashley Championships], and it's garbogas@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, February 19, 2007 
Cha01ps 
continued from page 24 
en route to a No. 1 ranking and a guaranteed NCAA Tournament berth. 
"We sang the fight song, just like we always do," Jackson said. "There was still another game to be played. There will be time to celebrate later." 
The Irish (26-5-3, 20-3-3 CCHA) took the conference title after a 1-0 win Friday over Alaska ­the team that 

knocked Notre "For me, it's all Alaska native Dame from the Jordan Pearce.
about Notre Dame 
first round of "[Alaska is] a
and the hockey 
last year's CCHA tough team to playoffs program. It's huge score against, before complet­and we are too,"
stufffor us in such 
ing the sweep Jackson said.
a short period of
Saturday with a "We were fortu­3-2 overtime vic­time." nate to score at tory in the end and be Fairbanks, able to hold on.
Jeff Jackson 
Alaska. The teams at the
Irish coach 

Notre Dame eliminated Michigan, the only remaining contender, from the title race with the shutout win and then added a couple more points Saturday for a season total of 43 points with two games remaining -nine more than second-place Miami. 
The Irish are the first con­ference champions in college hockey this season, with both No. 2 Minnesota and No. 3 New Hampshire one win away from taking their respective titles in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association and Hockey East. Notre Dame also has the most wins (26) in col­lege hockey this season as the team heads into the final two games of the regular season this weekend at home against ninth-place Ferris State. 
It is the third CCHA regular­season championship for sec­ond-year coach Jackson, who won his first while head coach of Lake Superior State in 1990-91. He earned his sec­ond in 1995-96 when the Lakers split the crown with Michigan. 
"For me, it's all about Notre Dame and the hockey pro­gram," Jackson said. "It's huge stuff for us in such a short period of time. It's a real credit to the kids, and it's great for Notre Dame." 
It is the second time this sea­son that the Irish have swept Alaska (9-17 -6, 7-14-5 CCHA), with Notre Dame taking 3-1 and 6-2 decisions at home Dec. 2-3 over the then-No. 14 Nanooks. Notre Dame has gone 16-2-2 since that week­end, including a current nine­game unbeaten streak that started after a Jan. 19 loss to Western Michigan on the road. 
The Nanooks watched a promising start to their season give way to a free fall to the bottom of the league standings since that series. Alaska has gone 3-16-2 since Dec. 2, including a nine-game losing streak that ended with a 5-2 win Jan. 26 over last-place Bowling Green. 
The Irish, however, needed a third-period goal in the first game from freshman Ryan Thang and an overtime tally from sophomore Garrett Regan to get past the Nanooks -the fifth straight game in which the Irish have won by only one goal, including a 4-2 win Feb. 9 over Nebraska­Omaha in which the Irish got an empty-goal with only sec­onds left. 
"The thing is that we're win­ning those one-goal games," Jackson said. "It's more important that we win those games, than we lose them. If it's by one goal, then that's not a huge thing." 
Thang scored the only goal in Friday's 1-0 victory 4:47 into the third period when he stole the puck in Alaska's zone from defenseman Tyler Eckford and beat Nanooks goalie Wylie Rogers through his pads for the game-winner. 
Irish goalie Dave Brown made 28 saves to earn his fourth shutout of the year and the lOth of his career, before he was replaced in net Saturday by sophomore and 
bottom of the 

standings are not much different than the teams at the top." 
Pearce made 33 saves in the 3-2 Irish overtime win Saturday -his first start since a 4-2 loss Jan. 7 to Robert Morris. Sophomore center. Christian Hanson also made his first appearance this week­end since he was sidelined by mononucleosis over a month ago. 
"It was good to get Christian Hanson back in the lineup," Jackson said. "It was good to have Jordan Pearce get a game under his belt, play well and look confident. We want to get guys ready for the play­offs." 
Regan scored the overtime winner 1:41 into the extra ses­sion on a three-on-one. He made a rush up the ice with center Mark Van Guilder and defenseman Wes O'Neill and dished the puck off to Van Guilder in the Nanooks zone. Van Guilder drew in the Alaska defenseman and sent the puck back to Regan, who beat Alaska's Rogers up high for the win. 
"Once again, we found an answer," Jackson said. "It's a different guy every game." 
The Nanooks forced the overtime period when Alaska's Trevor Hyatt shoveled a rebound past Pearce 17:45 into the third period to tie the game 2-2. 
The Irish scored first with a power play goal from right wing Erik Condra at 8:29 of the second period. Alaska evened the game at 1-1 with a goal from right wing Kyle Greentree at 13:05, but the Irish got back into the lead 2-1 with Regan's first goal of the game a little over a minute later. 
"You get to February, right as everyone is battling for position in the playoffs, [andl it gets tight," Jackson said. "In every level I've ever been involved in, there's a different level of hockey after Christmas time and a different level right before the playoffs." 
Notes: 
+Jackson said senior for­ward Josh Sciba, who has been out of the Irish lineup for three weeks with an upper­body injury, will begin to skate again following next week­end's series against Ferris State. Sciba was last season's leading goal scorer and has seven goals and 10 assists in 27 games this year. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Record 
continued from page 24 
see in practice everyday that he's got a great stroke. lie's a very good shooter. That's something we want him to do, if he's open or even if he's a little bit contested ... beeause he's a long guy and can get the shot off against any other perimeter player." 
Ayers and Falls eontributed to Notre Dame's (20-6, 8-5 Big East) 13-of-20 perform­ance from 3-point land. 
Carter, who has been nurs­ing a hip flexor injury over the past few weeks, finished with only three points in lim­ited minutes. 
"Once he gets baek and he's healthy, we'll be hitting on all cylinders," Falls said. "It's huge for guys like Ayers to step up when he's not in thfl lineup." 
Trailing 37-30 at halftime, the Beareats (10-16, 1-11 Big East) could only get as close as four in the second half. Twiee in thfl frame, Cincinnati scored four straight points and picked up s_ome momentum, but Falls came down and knocked down 3-pointers -giving the Irish some breathing room and quieting the sold-out erowd of 11,038 at the Fifth Third Arena. 
"It's very fitting that [Falls] broke the record here because every one of those shots had a lot riding on it," Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
Beareat forward John Williamson matched Falls' game-high 23 points and guard Deonta Vaughn pitched in 22 for Cineinnati. 
The Beareats utilized baek­court zone pressure on the Irish for much of the second half, but could not create enough turnovers to give them the lead. 
"We were patient and took our time," Hillesland said. "A press like that is designed to make you go faster than you want to. They were quick, so it was just a matter of taking our time." 
Irish forward Luke llarangody gave the Irish a lift inside. The freshman scored eight in the second half, l'inishing with 11 points and eight rebounds for the game. 
"I just felt like I had good position down low on the block and I could get my shot off-and I did," Ilarangody said. 
In the first half, Notre Dame used 3-pointers from Falls and guards Tory Jackson and Jonathan Peoples to open up 
a 20-11 lead at 11:43. Cincinnati cut the lead to 22­18, but never got ahead. 
The victory lifted Notre Dame into a four-way tie for fourth place in the Big East with Marquette, West Virginia and Syracuse. The Irish own tiebreakers over the Orange and the Mountaineers, and 
face Marquette next Saturday at home. 
Notre Dame returns Tuesday to the Joyce Center to take on DePaul. The Blue Demons bested the Irish 6 7­66 in Chicago Feb. 8. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
00®®~ W®Wlm ~mHOOffii 


1flmfllj) OO®WAW 
Sample fares From South Bend to: Sample fares From Chicago to: 
Chicago $131 London $273 
Minneapolis $131 Amsterdam $307 
$364 
Terms:AllfawsarebasedonroundtrlpHavelandlndudeaStuder.tuniverseserviccfeeofSS.Domesticfaresincludea 
vary depending on the itinerary ar.d are not included. Fares are subject to availability ar1d change Without r:oti~e. DomestK and require al day rnm stay induding aSat night required max 5tay i5 30 days. Fares valid Mon-Thu until Mar 30.! I i Mar.-vvea. tl<DPHI'" rr.ust be purc!lased 7days in advance and require a 4 day min stay amax stay of 365 days Valid for departures umil Mar l5. AustraliaiAsia dayslnailvar.ce and ~quire a7day rninstay maxsray af lBO days. Valid lardeparrures from feb 1ra MaKh Jl. Blackour dates and ; 
I C:• StudentUniverse.com 



Monday, February 19, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
TI-lE STv~&JT 1/Nlo/J CJl>.I,TITVTION IIJ A $"-'1 ~Pt..IT t>Ea~to/J, THE NEIIJ ·.sue. THE WIJJI'IERS wE-~ r>tc.rr>EJ>,
H 

STui>ENT B:ol>'( rusti>ENT ,4Nb THE STvi>E.IJT SE.WIITE. IN II I:.LM£1>­Vlc.E-I'R£~1 J>E.NT A~ .•. oi>J $UNMY. TotM'( THE G-EoR.~£ ""· gvsH
R.HVI..TS AU: FINAU.Y IN. 
.t.NI> I>Jl.J(. <:.HENel'. 
LIAMMORAN

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
For the 2007-2008 academic year, tuition will increase 5.4':1•• bring1 education to $44,477 per year. We are very excited. This is where IOther-4% I 
Optoelectronics and Photronics Terrorist Office of Alcohol 
Organizations and Drug Education 
Laboratories -37% 
Dining Hall Ice Sculptures 
Charlie Weis' Opto-Lawyer 
Flipside couplers yHa!l Cellar Replacement Pornographic 
Parking Gates Videos 
(Road to 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
1 Heartbeat 65 50 minutes after 35 Historic time the hour
6 Impersonator in "Little Red 36 Cut_ (dance) Riding Hood" 37 Ways DOWN 
10 Heavy, durable 39 Nose-in-the-air 1 Settled upfurniture wood type 
2 Nullify 14 Santa 40 Snoring sound 
3 Steadracetrack 41 Plain crazy 
4 Knife15 Jai 42 Scalds, e.g. 
5 Where Cockney16 Folkie Guthrie 43 What a 
is spoken in 20-Across might London
17 Think tank products say 6 Heavy, durable 
47 Baseball stat

18 Not so much furniture wood 48 Hoopsters' org.
19 Dec. 25 7 Designer 49 What a Cassini
20 Skeptic 20-Across might aBringing up the23 Web address say, ignoring rearender grammar 9 Unfriendly looks 24 "Little" girl of 57 Tobacco plug 10 I.R.S. worker"Uncle Tom's 58 Jacob's twin
Cabin" 11 Humorist
59 Designer Donna Bombeck25 What a 60 Wintry

20-Across might 12 "Oh, woe!" 
say 61 Angry outburst 
13 Some boxing62 Turn inside out wins, briefly
32 Washed (down), 32 Having a bit of 42 Relative of a 50 "Stop!" as a sidewalk 63 Meowers 21 Wedding words smog quilt 
51 "The Last Time 22 "Ars Amatoria" 33 Ricelike pasta 44 After-Christmas Paris" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

poet shopping 52 Comic Carvey37 Nicknames 
scenes Rodeo 38 Columbus Day's office" 25 Maker of the 53 "I at the 
45 Working, as a 26 Computer police officer 54 Wee warbler
mo. 

storage unit, 39 1 + 2 + 3, e.g. 46 Sash in 55 Male deer informally 
41 Pharmaceutical Sapporo 56 Not duped by27 Words before 
roses or lettuce 28 Instrument For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with amaking HI credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
notes? 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday29 Variety 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 30 Do post-laundry 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000work past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 31 Setters of Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young indents solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~1JJOOlY1LE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PECOU 
I I I 
In
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
~~~~fl [] 
tMEEDER I 
WHAT HE DID 
AFTER. THE C.OM­
) () 
PANY FAREWELL PARTY.
www.jumble.com
t 
'lKATEIN

V 'l Now arrange the circled letters ~ l ~ to form the surprise answer, as
1 1
r.::..~L----'.::.......LJ._....L_-L._...J suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: HE 
"(I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: BASIN LOGIC WHOLLY IMPOSE Answer: Where to find runners-up no matter who wins the race -ON A HILL CLIMB 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Shane Lyons, 19; Molly Ringwald. 39; Matt Dillon, 43; John Travolta, 53 
Happy Birthday: You'll have everything going for you this year, as long as you can keep your head screwed on straight. Stick to basics and implement moderation and you will surpass your dreams, hopes and wishes. Nothing is unattainable if you maintain honesty and integrity. Your numbers are 13, 16, 26, 35, 39,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): This is the perfect time to go through your files or reconsider your financial posilion. Changes can be made that will increase your cash flow and give you room to breath. Someone in the know will offer you some creative suggestions. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Have faith in your own abilities and don't second-guess your choices. Avoid anyone who tries to put you down. By participating in an event you believe in. you will align yourself with people who will build you up and help you out. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Listen to your own inner voice, not that of someone trying to manipulate your situation. Follow through. A change is required and. if someone doesn't like it. you may have to rethink this connection. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Reevaluate your position and prepare to make adjustments, You will be in a position of power today and what you decide will be what you should do. A money deal can be put to rest. Collect old debts. Plan a romantic evening with someone special. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be honest about your goals and practical aboul how long it will take you to get things off the ground. You may have to rethink your strategy. If you are careful, you can turn a small idea into something big. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't allow yourself to be put in an awkward position. Lay your intentions on the table and ride out the storm. Most of all. don't get sucked into any form of overindulgence, overspending or overdoing. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look on the bright side of things today and get out and have some fun. The more positive your attitude. the more you will accomplish. Travel and visiting friends or relatives will be enlightening and will help you make an important decision. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Network, network, network. You have to put yourself in a position to present and promote. You are so close to getting what you want personally and professionally. Make time for love and you will not be disappointed. 5 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you least expect will catch you in the act or do something to make you look bad. If you have been doing things by the book, you have nothing to worry about. If not, you had better cover your tracks and protect your assets. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can fonnulate the changes that must be made in order to do what you really want to do. A change in your direction is apparent and will give you a whole new lease on life. Compassion will play a role in your future today. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let situations get blown out of proportion. Listen to what others have to say and, rather than argue, nod your head and move on. An opportunity is apparent hut you have to be willing to do the groundwork to take advantage of it. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be emotional, passionate and ready to make changes but, before you do. question your motives. You may have been overreacting lately. Drastic measures don't usually have positive or lasting effects. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You inslinctively know how to implement what's necessary to get your way. You are intelligent, original and draw on the unfamiliar to give whatever you do a unique twist. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun. eugenialast.com for conlidenlial consultations 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, February 19, 2007 
page 24 
HOCKEY 

Conference clinched 
Irish win their first­ever CCHA regular season championship 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Only two years removed from a five-win season and a year after a rebuilding campaign ended in an early tournament exit, No. 1 Notre Dame has won the CCHA regular season title for the first time in the pro­gram's 39-year history. 
But Irish coach Jeff Jackson continued to walk the modest line that has been characteristic all year of a Notre Dame pro­gram that has shattered and barnstormed its way through records and ranked opponents 
see CHAMPS/page 22 


BASEBALL 
NDdrops 2 of 3 to open year 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
It wasn't a pretty start to the 2007 season for Notre Dame in San Antonio this weekend. 
After beating Prairie View A&M 15-8 in their first out­door action of the year Saturday, the Irish (1-2) lost two games to Texas State, 2­1 Saturday and 6-0 Sunday. 
"I'm not too worried," Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage said. "Texas State and Prairie View both had eight or nine games under 
see START/page 21 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Notre Dame stakes place in Big East history 
championship and became 92. the rest of the conference NCAA consideration times
By GREG ARBOGAST 

the first program in the con­"It shows what a dominant that we're not going away and setting two school 
Sports Writer 

ference to win 11 consecutive force we've been in the Big anytime soon." records. 
titles in any sport. Before this East for 11 years," Irish The result was never in Leading the way for Notre The Irish have earned a weekend, the Irish shared the coach Carrie Nixon said. doubt as Notre Dame led Dame was senior captain spot in Big East history. record with the Pittsburgh "After how close last year's wire-to-wire during the Katie Carroll, who finished 
With a 758-530 victory over men's swimming and diving championships were, domi­course of the four-day meet. first in both the 500-freestyle Rutgers, Notre Dame won its program, which won 10 nating the way we did this The Irish won six events in 11th consecutive Big East straight titles between 1983-year really sent a message to addition to garnering 12 see HISTORY/page 21 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Big second-half run fuels squad's victory 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
After going into the locker room with just a 3-point lead over Providence, Notre Dame scored the first 21 points of the second half en route to a domi­nating 82-65 road win Saturday. 
Notre Dame (18-8, 9-4) held Providence (13-13, 3-10) score­less for the first 8:57 of the half until Friars guard Brittany Dorsey hit a pair of free throws to make the score 60-38. Providence did not score its first field goal until 10:37 in the half, when Shauna Snyder sank a jumper at the free-throw line, pushing her over the 1,000 point mark for her career. 

In the opening nine minutes of the half, the Irish shot 7 -of-1 0 from the floor while the Friars were 0-of-12. 
"We switched to zone, we played mostly man in the first half, and [the switchI worked pretty well," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "They missed some shots, we rebounded well and we didn't give them any sec­ond chance opportunities." 
Irish guard Charel Allen was crucial to Notre Dame's second half success, scoring eight points in the first eight minutes of the half. Allen finished with 26 points -the third straight game 
see FRIARS/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Falls breaks record in win 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Irish guard Colin Falls scored 23 points and broke Notre Dame's career 3-point record as the Irish reached 20 wins Sunday for the first time in four seasons with a 76-64 victory in Cincinnati. 
Falls netted 5-of-8 threes to boost his career total to 305, surpassing former guard Chris Thomas (302) for the school mark. 
"It's a great accomplishment. There have been a lot of great shooters in Notre Dame's past," Falls said. "I've had a lot of great point guards that have gotten me the ball in posi­tions where I could make a lot of shots." 
Sophomore forward Ryan Ayers, who saw significant playing time in place of injured guard Hussell Carter, shot 4-of-4 from beyond the arc to finish with a career-high 12 points. 
"That's something we've been waiting on him to do," Irish forward Zach Hillesland said. "We 
see RECORD/page 22 




SMC BASKETBAll ~D WOME~'S TEN~IS TRACK AND FIELD MEN'S lACROSSE ~HI. ~Hl 
w 

Co) Hope 79 No. 2 Irish top North Irish men win Big Notre Dame 9 Stars 5 Ran~ers 2
z Samt Mary's 71 Carolina 5-2 and beat East meet as Notre Loyola (Md.) 7 Sharks 2 Blac hawks 1 
::5 Belles end regular Wake Forest 4-0 over Dame women take Attacker Brian Dallas pulls within six Henrik Lundqvist season with home loss. weekend. second. Hubschmann's hat trick points of lead in Pacific makes 21 saves for New
= 
leads No. 11 Irish over Division with win over York in win over
c:c 
No. 13 Greyhounds. San Jose. Chicago.

=: 
page 19 page 18 page 17 page 16 page 14 page 14 




