
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 42: ISSUE 34 FRIDAY. OCTOBER 12.2007 
City elections involve student issues 
Mayoral, Common Council candidates' platforms include stances on crime rates and safety 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor . 
Most of the approximately 80 percent of Notre Dame students that live on campus will not be able to vote in the local South Bend primary election Nov. 6, but Student Senate community relations chair Colin Feehan thinks the recent debate over the Common Council's party ordinance may have piqued student interest in the upcoming Common Council and mayoral elections, regardless of students' eligi­bility. 
When Feehan worked at a student government event 
geared toward getting stu­dents living off campus regis­tered to vote a few weeks ago, the turnout was disap­pointing, he said. He said he thinks student turnout on Nov. 6 will be "modest." 
"I think student interest in these elections has definitely increased, especially with all the issues with the ordinance this summer," he said. "That being said, I think it's proba­bly not at a level where it should be. Hopefully, in the coming year, or years, we can increase student civic engagement in local issues." 
The shooting of two stu­dents outside local pub Club 23 in August and frequent break-ins of students' houses 
and cars off campus may also be drawing student interest to the election, Feehan said, with many can­didates promising to drive down crime rates. 
"I think, as of late, first and foremost, students are concerned about crime and safety," he said. 
Crime rates and safety for city residents is something candidates for mayor and for the Common Council posi­tions are worried about as well. 
Current Democratic Mayor Stephen Luecke is running against Republican Juan Manigault and Green party write-in candidate Tom Brown. 
Luecke has been mayor of South Bend since 1997 and is running for his fourth term. 
~·we've built, I think, a great relationship with the University and have had excellent communications, in particular, with the last two student body presidents working on relations that affect Notre Dame and South Bend," he said. 
Luecke pointed to the start of construction on Eddy Street Commons and the freshman tours of South Bend that began two years ago. 
Luecke said his work to alt!'Jr the recent ordinance 
see CANDIDATES/page 8 


ND average time to Ph.D. 6.1 years 
Duration two years less than national average, attributed to program policies 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame's 1,300 doc­toral students at The Graduate School complete their degrees in an aver­age of 6.1 years, two years less than the national average of 8.2 years, according to the National Science Foundation. 
Terry Akai, the senior associate dean of The Graduate School, said Notre Dame's policies, such as requiring disserta-· tion topic approvals within a certain time frame, are the major mechanisms keeping the time reason­able. 
"We want them gainfully employed. We use carrots and sticks to push them out the door," he said. 
Doctoral students in 20 programs make up more than two thirds of The Graduate School popula­tion, which totals about 1 ,800. The students who are not on the path to a Ph.D. are either enrolled in Masters-only programs or working toward Masters degrees in Ph.D. programs. 
Science and Engineering are the most popular divi­sions of study at The 
see DEGREES/page 4 


Faculty, students debate irrunigration 
Panelists cite labor costs, assimilation in discussion 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 

News Writer 
In a faculty-student debate on social. political and economic effects of immigration Thursday, the only clear conclusion the panel could reach is that the issue is not going away. 
More than 20 students gathered in the Dooley Room of LaFortune to watch the panel, with a team of polit­ical science Professor Anthony Messina and senior political science major Amy Meyer and a team of Latin American studies Professor Jorge 
see DEBATE/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Ratnadan fast ends Saturday 
Campus Minstry helps Muslims practicefaith 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON News Writer 

As the month of Ramadan draws to a close this Saturday, followers of the faith celebrate the end of fasting, while at Notre Dame, the Muslim commu­nity expressed gratitude to Campus Ministry for creat­ing a welcoming environ­ment, especially during the holy month. 
Although the estimated statistics say there are only around 30 Muslim under­graduates and graduates at the University, Campus Ministry has gone to great lengths to make sure they are able to practice their faith at Notre Dame. 
Priscilla Wong, assistant director administrator and campus coordinator at Campus Ministry, serves as a special advisor to the Muslim Students Association (MSA). 
"We are trying to provide support and hospitality to all our students regardless of their different faiths and traditions," she said. "We want to make sure they can practice their faith in a comfortable environment. It is about supporting and respecting students so that they can have a meaningful growing experience at Notre Dame." 
As it is an Islamic tradi­tion to wash before prayer, 
see RAMADAN /page 3 


Author speaks on capitalistic systems 
Novak describes ideal economic institution 
By DAVIS RHORER, Jr. 
News Writer 

Truth and liberation of the human spirit are at the core of modern capitalistic systems Michael Novak, author of Business as a Calling, said Thursday. 
Novak placed considerable importance on the idea of cari­tas, or the interaction of God's love and the Trinity in the world through other people, as a principle ideal figuring in the tenets of capitalism. 
"The great generator of wealth is discovery and inven­tion." Novak said, identifying the key component of freedom that is in both caritas and capi­talism. 
"The human person is the originating source of human action," he said, emphasizing the idea of protecting the right to initiative. 
Novak recognized the impor­tance of the individual to the wealth of nations as a compo­nent to a healthy economic sys-
see AUTHOR/page 6 
Friday, October 12, 2007 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Adventures in 

live TV 
I got a phone call on Tuesday from ESPN. 
They told me they were looking fi1r some­one to debate a Boston College student on "First Take" on Thursday. 
People who know me know I'm not much of a trash t.alker. but I agreed. Who could turn down a chance to be on live national televi­sion'? 
The producer, Mr. Gabriel Goodman, told me that my Boston College Chris Khorey counterpart was Jell'Weinstnin. Sports Editor sporl'i mlitor of' Th1~ lleighl'>, Boston College's student newspaper. Goodman also told me that this debate would not be about Xs and Os. 
"This is time for some good, old-lk'ihioned snuu:k talk," he said. 
We filnwd live at WNDU. llinmd out that my only contad with Weinstein and the host, Jay Crawfiml, would be from the headphone in my right ear. I wouldn't be able to sne tlwm. Wlwn I put the headphone on, the audio from "First Take" started playing. 
A f(~w minutes later, Goodman interTupted to say our sehTJnent was about to begin and added, "The other kid said he's ready to kick your ass." 
I lward some musk, and then Crawfiwd talking. Ill~ IL'iked me a question -Is Boston College the most overrated team in ((JOtball'? 
I had been warrwd this question would come up. And the horwst answer is that I do fi~nl BC is overrated-although not horribly so. 
So I said basically that, only I had been told I WIL'i debating and I most certainly did not want to have my IL'iS kicked. I began "obvi­ously they'rp overrated, they haven't played anybody!" I WIL'> doing my host Tony Kornheisnr impression. 
Tho next question went to .Jell"-Is Charlie Weis overrated'! This is how Jell' began-"I have a lot of rnspPct f(w Charlie Weis." 
Uh oh. Now IIHt likn a jerk. Jell'w<L'>n't trying to kick my IL'>S at all. lie WIL'i being nice. 
I WIL'i a'iked about tlw infamous Letter to the Editor by Bob Grillin and I defimded his position-rushing the field during a poor season because we beat an opponent that we defeat eonsistently when we'rn good just rninlhrees that we're bad and gives the oppo­nent status that tlwy didn't earn during the game. 
Then I wa-; IL'.;ked about if studenl-; at Notre I>ame consider Boston College a "safety school." I knew this question W<L'i corning­Goodman had talked to me about it. lie asked nm to find a "Backup College" T-shirt and show it on air. So I IL'iked one of our sports writnrs li1r his. and I showed it to the world. 
All through this, .Jell' continued to be nice. 
I ((~It like more and more of a jerk. but what eould I do'? I wa-;n 't about to sell out my frim1d Bob Griflin or lie and deny that a lot of' Notrn Dame studenl'> were admitted to Boston College a<; wnll. 
Aller hnaring me describe the shirt (I can only a-;sume he couldn't see me either), .Jell' said ''I'm very proud of' the degree I'm going to get from Boston College." 
I told him I would bn too. After all, Boston Collegn is a great school. 
So we ended on that positivll note. But the darnagt~ wa-; already done. Jelfwa'i eondlia­tory and friendly, and I came out swinging and making a ti10l out of mysell'. 
Jell' kicked my a<;s, and he hadn't even been trying to. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are thmw of the author and not necessarily thosl' ofThe Obsertwr. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey(a)nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Du,· w ROfX>ning errors in rhe Oa. II i.~'uc ofThe Observer, fdcts were mi'iStatetl in the article emiclcd "Group appmve; errors." Pmft"SS<>r Jalch I );l.Jui-t;ibson wJS nm involved in rhe creation of a ( ;Iuhal Studies concemr:uion in rhc Peace SruJies minor, whicl1 is a Studem Covenm1em initiative. The Observer reg= rhc error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GOING TO TITLE YOUR AUTOBIOGRAPHY? 








Tamuto Takakura John Fullard Tim Luchetti Joe Raupp Kristine Murphy 
sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore junior Knott Knott Knott Knott McGlinn 
"Nap Like a "Born with a "Big Head =Big ''This is Why "You Know You 
Champion Ph.D.: The Life Ideas: The Tim I'm Hot." 
, ,
Today. ofJohn Luchetti Story. 
Fullard." 

Condom experts told that size matters 
SEOGWIPO, South Korea -As the world's top con­dom experts convene this week to update interna­tional standards, one American entrepreneur has a simple message: Size matters. It's shaking up an industry that has generally taken a one-size-fits-all approach. 
Frank Sadlo, founder of' TheyFit, which makes what he claims are the world's first custom-fit condoms, is pushing for updated standards to allow greater variation in con­dom size. 

It's not just about well­endowed men in cramped prophylactic quarters, Sadlo told a meeting Thursday of' delegates from 21 countries under the Geneva-based International Organization for Standardization. 
When given a choice, he said many men prefer con­doms smaller than the standard minimum 6.3 inches long, with more than half ordering those less than 5.12 inches. 
Man asks boy for urine sample at mall WHITE PLAINS, N.Y.-A man who was apparently 
worried about a random drug test asked an 11-year­old boy at a mall for a urine sample. 
White Plains Police say Marcos Delacruz, 42, was charged with endangering the welfare of' a child. lle was arrested several hours after the incident in the men's room at the mall on Wednesday. 
Deputy Public Safety Commissioner Daniel Jackson said Delacruz took the sample to his appoint­ment with his probation officer. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Love Me, 
XOXO." 

IN BRIEF 
The Mendoza Collnge of' Business' Boardroom Insights Lecture Series will feature Niek Shepherd, senior excecu­tive vice president and chief operating officer of Blockbuster, Inc. today from 

10:40 a.m. to 12:15 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. 
The football Pep Rally will be held today at 6 IJ.m in the Joyce Center. Students with ID may enter from 5:15-5:45 p.m. through Gate 11; the public ean enter at 5:45 p.m. through Gate 8 with f'rne tkkel<;. 

The Notre Dame women's soccer team will face Georgetown tonight at 7:30 at Alumni Field. 
Ilypnotist Tom DeLuca will give a free performance tonight at 9 in Washington Hall. 
The Hammes Bookstore will host a book signing by Connie McNamara, author of "Go Irish, My First Notre Dame Words," and alum Paul Kostolansky, author of' "The Snow Bowl; A Children's Book" Saturday from 9::m to 
11:30 a.m. 
The Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies' con­ference, "Race and Immigration in the New Ireland," opens with a keynote address by Mary Robinson, former president of' Ireland and U.N. High Commissioner for lluman Hights, in Washington Hall Sunday at 7:15p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 



....I 
<
(.) 0 

HIGH 58 HIGH 48 HIGH 60 HIGH 62 HIGH 65 HIGH 64
..J 

LOW 37 LOW 27 LOW 41 LOW 43 LOW 48 LOW 45 
Atlanta 72 I 49 Boston 63 I 54 Chicago 55 I 41 Denver 75 I 43 Houston 85 I 60 Los Angeles 69 I 58 Minneapolis 56 I 39 New York 63 I 54 Philadelphia 68 I 52 Phoenix 96 I 69 Seattle 60 I 45 St. Louis 64 I 43 Tampa 83 I 64 Washington 71 I 51 

-------------------------------------. 
Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


TIIE SIIIR PROJECT PRESEf)TS: 
1~11€ SI)ECIAL EDl'I~IOI) 


SHIRT 2007 
A 
Ll(lJI~I~ED rl1 1{1)E OJ)LyI 
{f1HILE S 'I)I'LIES L 
li.A )KSl'Cli{E 



SMC senior sits on Board of Trustees 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Ead1 ynar, the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees chooses onP senior to serve as the studnnt trustne. This year, thn Board chose political sci­enen major Cate Cetta after she applied for the position and went through a series of intervir,ws. 
As student trustee, Cetta is required to attend the quar­terly Board of Trustees meet­ings that take place on cam­pus throughout the year. 
"I am responsible for bring­ing the voice of the students to the Board," Cetta said. "[I am also responsible for] keeping a general awareness of students feelings on the happenings of Saint Mary's." 
Cetta also attended the Board's retreat on campus in June, though this weekend's session will be her first offi­cia! meeting. 
Board meetings are held in June, October, February and April, meaning Cetta will serve as the student trustee for two more meetings until a new one is elected. 
Cetta also feels that she will be able to impact the Saint Mary's community in her position with the Board, which will fulfill a goal she set for herself during her first year on campus. 
"From the moment arrived on campus freshman year, I knew I wanted to give back to Saint Mary's," she said. 
This position is a great way to accomplish that, Cetta said. 
"The student trustee posi­tion is the perfect opportuni­ty to impact the lives of cur­rent and future Saint Mary's women, and I am excited to do my part," she said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Ra01adan 
continued from page 1 
Campus Ministry recently updated its meditation room to include a fountain. 
Islamic prayers are inducted in Campus Ministry's Prayer Around the World celebration, and on Sept. 17, Campus Ministry, along with the MSA, hosted a dinner called an lftaar. which is the meal Muslims eat after sunset during Ramadan. 
Sarah Shafiq, a graduate student majoring in sociol­ogy, is the president of the MSA. She is an interna­tional student from Pakistan, and although the 
Ramadan schedule is slightly dif­ferent in the United States, she thought the University helped in making sure Ramadan at Notre Dame is an authentic religious and spiritu­al experi­ence. 
"The idea of Ramadan and of fast­ing is the religious experience 
of working hard and living arrange do not get a lot of your normal life, while still response," she said. "But, experiencing the hunger probably because Islam 
"The idea of Ramadan and of fasting is the religious experience ofworking hard and living your normal life, while still experiencing the hunger the poor feel everyday." 
Sarah Shafiq president Muslim Students Association 
the poor fee I everyday," has become such a part of she said. the global community, we The only major complaint are starting to see a of some Muslim students heightened level of interest 
during the month of Ramadan, Shafiq said, was that. on occasion, the dining halls would close before sun­set, forcing students who were partici­pating in the fast to look elsewhere for food and lose their meal points. 
"Campus Ministry, espe­cially Priscilla Wong, has 
been very help­ful and sup­portive to the Muslim com­munity here," she said. 
Though the administration has been very hospitable, the student body at large some­times forgets about the Muslim com­munity on cam­pus. Shafiq said. 
"The student body tends to be slightly dis­interested, and sometimes the events we 
in somP stu­dents."

"We want to make 
This past sure that all students Wednesday, 50 Notre Dame
on campus have a 
and Saint

well-rounded 
Mary's stu­understanding of dents partici­pated in a soli­
Muslimfaith and 
darity fast and

culture." 
took part in a prayer service Sarah Shafiq at the Islamic Society of
president 
Michiana's

Muslim Students 
mosque.

Association 
"It was a 

really great interfaith meeting," Shafiq said. "Really, the goal of MSA is not only to provide a resource for Muslim stu­dents, but also to reach out to the Notre Dame commu­nity and explain what Islam is all about." 
MSA will continue to host and sponsor events throughout the year, including teaching stu­dents about the Islamic approach to music, art and comedy. 
"We want to make sure that all students on cam­pus have a well-rounded understanding of Muslim faith and culture," Shafiq said. "In today's world, where the Islamic faith is so often misunderstood, it is important to have inter­faith cooperation at a place like Notre Dame." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 12, 2007 


Degrees 
continued from page 1 
Graduatn School, with 61 per­
cent of ineoming Ph.D. stud1mts 
choosing to enter one of the two 
areas. About 25 percllnt of 
Enrollments in each l'illld are 
Lmsnd on the number ol' faculty 
in each dnpartnwnt and on 
available funding, which is "sort 
of a limiter," i\kai said. 
"Most Ph .D. students in good 
schools are supported by thn 
institution in some way, either 
by assistantships, internal and 
external fellowships or research 
grants advisors have," he said. 
Doctoral students are guaran­
teed varying degrees of funding 
for at least four years if' they 
rnmain in good academic stand­
ing. Usually students receive 
funding for five years, and, 
depending on resources, can 
receive funding in their sixth 
year, Akai said. 
"For most students, they can 
count. on four to six years of 
f'inancial support from the 
University, depending on the 
discipline," he said. 
More than 85 percent of' Notre 
Dame graduate students 
received stipends during the 
2006-7 academic year. 
The base stipend for a new 
graduate student is $16,000 for 
nine months. For those students 
who arc on prestigious national 
fellowships or who are in com­
petitive programs, that stipend 
can be as much as $30,000 for 
12 months. 
"Our stipnnd is not out of line for our location," i\kai said. "But I'm sure a graduate stu­dent would want to see more." 
Most students receive between $1,700-2,500 a month in a stipend to cover living expenses, in addition to tuition scholar­ships, Akai said. 
The Graduate School's Web site says that graduate students "generally receive full-tuition scholarships for the duration of their graduate studies." 
According to The Graduate School, approximately 37 per­cent of stipends were from external sources, such as grants, and about 15 percent were from endowments. 
"In terms of relative value, it depends on how people see things," i\kai said. "At Ivy League schools, the stipend is a little bit higher, but their cost of living is very high .... We're in a relatively cheap part of the U.S." 
Thtl National Science Foundation report said about 50 percent of doctoral candidates drop out of their programs. 
The attrition rate at Notre Dame is slightly less than 40 percent, i\kai said. Students drop out of their Ph.D. pro­grams, which are open-ended research degrees, for various reasons. 
"Some students come into the Ph.D. without a dear reason for doing so," he said. "At some point along the Ph.D. path, stu­dents run out of coursework and Iiave to start generating their own new work." 
Though some programs include researeh and course­work simultaneously from the beginning, many doctoral stu­dents must complete about two to thren years of coursework before starting their individual research, which includes pro­posing a dissertation subject and having it approved by the department. 
The unstructured research phase of the doctoral path is where many students fall off course, Akai said. 
"Some people spend one or two years literally doing noth­ing," he said. "Here, what we've 

done, is try to put some policies 
in place that promotes people 
going through the system." 

In order to keep students on 
traek, different departments 
have different policies about 
advisor-student meetings and 
departmental annual reviews, 
Akai said. 

"Some departments have 
rather substantial annual 
roviews of graduate students, 
others do not," he said. " ... 
Some advisors will push stu­
dnnts, some will not, it depends 
on the personal style of the 
advisor." 

lie cited non-academic rea­
sons like general life issues, 
relationship issues, jobs and dis­
engagement from research top­
ics as others contributing to stu­
dent attrition. 

"I would say more people 
drop out of Ph.D. programs for 
non-academic reasons," he said. 
In some disciplines, like engi­
neering, there is a lucrative job 
market for applicants with 
Masters degrees, he said. 

With about half of doctoral 
students dropping out and oth­
ers taking many years to com­
plete their degrees, it raises the 
question, Akai said, of whether 
or not schools are wasting 
money. 

"Maybe, maybe not," he said. "If students go out and get jobs that reflect well on the University anyway, perhaps not. Also, some of those leaving without the Ph.D. may have contributed to the research pro­gram before leaving." 
Some schools have suggested shortening or limiting doctoral students' assistantships to help them devote more time to their d(lgrees. 
That, Akai said, is a simplistic solution. 
"Most Ph.D. £candidates] that go into the academic world will go to small universities or col­leges where teaching is impor­tant," he said. "To eut them off from teaching takes away valu­able job experience." 
At Notre Dame, doctoral stu­dents' teaching load is limited, Akai said. Most teaching assis­tants work less than 15 hours a week. A Graduate School policy limits teaching assistant work to 17 1/2 hours a week. 
The National Science Foundation reported the aver­age age for a doctoral graduate is 33. At Notre Dame, most stu­dents enter the graduate school right after receiving their Bachelor's degree. 
The exception is theology, a department where students cannot enter a Ph.D. program without a solid Masters first, Akai said. • 
On average, the Notre Dame doetoral graduate is between 29 and 30. 
"Obviously, this is the prime time of life for relationships," Akai said. "It's part of the pack­age that leads to some of the attrition." 
The University awarded 161 doctorates during the 2006-7 academic year and admitted 282 new doctoral students. 
Women, who were accepted to The Graduate School before the University itself became co-edu­cational. make up 42 percent of thn incoming graduate students. Nearly 30 percent of graduate students are international. Of the American students at The Graduate School, 15 percent are raeial minorities. 
Graduate programs began at the University in 1918, Akai said, but The Graduate School as its own entity was instituted in 1944. It was not until 1990 that The Graduate School received its own dean. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

Rev. John I. Jenkins CSC President ,_ University of Notre Dame 
Entertainment by The Notre Dame Glee Club 
Monday, October 22 (Monday after USC game -During Fall Break) 
University Club of Chicago 76 East Monroe 

11:30-1:30 pm 
'Notre Dame Coeducation: Past, Present and Future' 
All grads, students, parents, fans welcome! 
Tickets: $40 

For tickets: www.thankingfatherted.com 
Sponsored by The Thanking Father Ted Foundation and ND Alumni Association 
1972 2007 


Gele6rating Thirty-Fire Yeard ofNotre Danze CoeducatuJn 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, October 12, 2007 CoMPJlED FROM T!IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Egyptian plane on fire over Turkey 
ISTANBUL. Turkey -An Egyptian plane car­rying 163 people to Warsaw caught fire Thursday after making an emergency landing at Istanbul's international airport, a govern­ment official said. One passenger was slightly injured. 
The lire in the Egyptian plane was extin­guished, and there was no loss of life, said the ollicial at the state agency in charge of airports. He spoke on condition of anonymity because he is not allowed to talk to the media. 
The plane was forced to land in Istanbul due to a technical problem, but its landing gear failed to work properly. The aircraft landed on its fuselage, starting a fire, the official said. 
There were 156 passengers and seven crew members aboard, and one of the passengers was slightly injured, he said. 
Bomb explodes at shrine, 2 dead 
NEW DELHI -A bomb exploded at a famous Muslim shrine in northern India on Thursday, killing at least two people and wounding 17 others ahead of one of the holiest days on the Muslim calendar, police said. 
The blast at the shrine of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti. a 12th century Sufi Muslim saint, took place just after dusk as hundreds of men and women broke the daily fasts they observe during the holy month of Hamad an. 
The explosion appeared to have been caused by a small bomb packed inside a lunch box, said S. Sengthir, police superin­tendent in Ajmer, where the shrine is locat­!HI. 
Ajmer's top official, Naveen Mahajan, said at least two people had been killed and 17 wounded. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Trial wraps up in boot camp death case 
PANAMA CITY, Fla. -A 14-year-old boy died because seven juvenile boot camp guards and a nurse lacked good judgment and decided to ·use force against him rather than calling for medical help, a prosecutor told jurors in closing argu­ments Friday. 
Mike Sinacore said the eight defendants ignored common sense in the 30-minute video­taped altercation with Martin Lee Anderson in January 2006. The guards repeatedly hit, kneed and dragged the limp boy around after he col­lapsed while running laps. The nurse stood by watching. 
'This case i.<; about the failure of caregivers to provide Martin Lee Anderson with the care that any prudent person would deem necessary and essential to the well being of a child," Sinacore said. 

Warning signs evident in Ohio shooter 
CLEVELAND -A 14-year-old suspended stu­dent opened fire in his downtown high school Wednesday, wounding four people as terrified schoolmates hid in closets and bathrooms and huddled under laboratory desks. He then killed himself. 
A fellow student at SuccessTech Academy alter­native school said Asa H. Coon, who was suspend­ed for fighting two days earlier, had made threats in front of students and teachers last week. 
"He's crazy. He threatened to blow up our school. He threatened to stab everybody," Doneisha LeVert said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Wheels fly off, kill officer on highway 
SHELBYVILLE, Ind. -A pair of wheels came off a semitrailer and fatally struck a police officer who was standing along a cen­tral Indiana highway, authorities said. 
Sgt. Gary Henderson was assisting another officer with the stop of a stolen ear on an Interstate 7 4 entrance ramp when the set of rear dual wheels came off the passing truck about 11:30 p.m. Wednesday, police said. 
Investigators were trying to determine what caused the wheels to come off the truck as it changed lanes to avoid the ears on the shoulder at the interchange with Indiana 44 about 25 miles southeast of Indianapolis. 


MYANMAR 
U.N. scolds government's actions 
International community encourages release ofestimated 6,000 people seized in demonstrations 
Associated Press 
YANGON, Myanmar ­Guards at Myanmar's deten­tion centers beat, kicked and slashed protesters rounded up during the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstra­tions, sometimes leaving their victims to die of their injuries, a dissident group said Thursday. 
At the United Nations, meanwhile, the Security Council said it "strongly deplores" the violent crack­down by Myanmar's military rulers and called for a "gen­uine dialogue" between the government and the pro­democracy opposition. 
At least a dozen freed pris­oners described brutal treat­ment at detention centers, including one who said "dozens" of detainees were killed, according to the Democratic Voice of Burma, a Norway-based short-wave radio station and Web site run by dissident journalists. 
Myanmar's repressive mili­tary junta has said 10 people were killed and nearly 2,100 arrested in last month's demonstrations, with 700 later released. Diplomats and dissidents say the death toll is likely much higher and up to 6,000 people were seized. 
The government has long rejected allegations of tor­ture of political prisoners. Yangon for five days. boy medical treatment for a Myanmar newspaper, a The accounts released There was no way to inde­gunshot wound and even mouthpiece of the ruling Thursday included fresh pendently confirm the refused to let him drink junta, dismi.<;sed pro-democ­accusations that the military reports attributed to freed water from a toilet before he racy protesters as "stooges of rulers brutalize prisoners as prisoners. died, the man was quoted as foreign countries putting on a way of crushing dissent. The Democratic Voice of saying. a play written by their for­
"They beat everyone, Burma also reported Human rights groups have eign masters" in an attempt including women and girls," Thursday that a 48-year-old long accused the military to discredit the anti-govern­the dissident group quoted detainee, U Than Aung, died government of abuse and ment movement. an unidentified female at a detention center in torture of prisoners. The The paper singled out "big detainee as saying. "I was Yangon. Detained Sept. 27, Thailand-based Assistance powers" and radio stations beaten myself. Monks were he suffered severe internal Association for Political -the British Broadcasting targeted and they were not injuries from beatings and Prisoners, comprised of Corp., Voice of America and only beaten but also verbally died three days later after around 100 former inmates, Radio Free Asia -as behind abused by security officers." being denied medical atten­has put out a report describ­the demonstrations. 
"I heard people shouting tion, the group said. ing homosexual rape, elec­A compromise statement and crying from the interro­The group also released tric shocks to the genitals, approved Thursday by all 15 gation room and then I saw video of an unidentified man near drowning, burning with U.N. Security Council mem­an army medical surgeon who said "dozens" of hot wax and other abuse. bers -including close carrying people away," said detainees died. Another man The embattled junta on Myanmar ally China ­the woman. The group said was quoted as saying he saw Thursday accused Western emphasized "the importance she was held at the two people die from severe powers and foreign media of of the early release of all Government Technical beatings at Yangon City Hall. inciting the protests. political prisoners and Institute detention center in Authorities failed to give a The New Light of remaining detainees." 

Airline conununications error tnay repeat 
Associated Press ter. During the breakdown, 100,000 
They succeeded, but now members of square miles of airspace were closed 
Congress want to know if the Memphis off for more than three hours and 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -Ron Carpenter failure last month was an isolated flights around the country were can­and his fellow air traffic controllers breakdown or evidence of a design flaw celed, delayed or diverted, adding to were busy keeping more than 200 air­in a $2.4 billion project to upgrade the woes of a flying public already fed planes on course over seven states telecommunications at air-control cen­up with disruptions. when their communication system ters and other FAA installations across The upgrade is called the FAA crashed. Suddenly they couldn't talk to the country. Telecommunications Infrastructure pilots or call for help. The FAA blames the disruption on project, or FTI. The prime contractor 
"Somebody just pulled out a cell the failure of a major AT&T phone line, on the 15-year project is Florida-based phone," Carpenter said. "Then every­but critics say that the trouble is deeper Harris Corp., which said in September body else says, 'Hey, that's not a bad -that the new communications net­that nearly 90 percent of the FAA's idea."' work being installed lacks sufficient entire system of more than 4,000 
So at a major Federal Aviation backups. installations had been switched over. Administration center, controllers were "It's engineered this way, and it's The FAA told a congressional sub­reduced to using their personal cell going to happen again," said Dave committee that the Memphis outage phones to ask other centers to help Spero, a vice president of the union was an AT&T problem and that an keep planes on course and avert disas-representing FAA technicians. investigation was under way. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 12, 2007 
Solidarity and voluntary coop­components that Novak inelud­as the ambassador to the Center for Ethics and Culture eration were two other key ed in capitalism, a system United Nations' lluman Rights and the Mendoza College of
Author 
continued from page 1 
tnm. 
"Wealth comes from lindivid­uall invtmtion and discovery," he said. ")Individual initiative) will aceordingly afl'ord eonstitu­tional protection." 
Another key eoncept of cari­tas Novak emphasized was the libnration of the poor. 
An ideal economic institution, Novak said, "must have an international vision and inter­national institutions." 
"It must bn a system better at raising up the poor than any known alternative," he said. 
Novak dtnd the vast influx of wealth to impoverished masses in various nations, sueh as India and Chin.a after the adoption of morn capitalistic economies. 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
Bustamante and senior his­tory major Stuart Mora. 
Messina described immi­gration as a moral plug and "an interest driven phenom­enon," and said he views American 

''There are many
immigration as "In many a cyclical prob­European countries parts of the lem. world you will
that are fairly 
"We are part find ideals
homogeneous. These
of a political based on immigration countries are adverse racism, cycle." he said. Bustamante
to immigration
"Wn knnp mov­said. "The
because it threatens
ing along and most important at one point we their homogenity." issue for immi­are going to grants them­move to a bet­selves is the
Anthony Messina
ter part." raids going on 
history professor
Comparing all over the 
the current American issue to th1~ problnms in Europe, Messina said the European condition is a much more dangerous situation. 
There are many European countries that are fairly homogennous. These coun­trins arn adverse to immi­gration because it threatens thnir homogeneity," said Messina. "There is no onn silvnr bullnt. there is no one r,omprehnnsive act, and t lw r n i s n o o n e p o I i cy approach that is going to address all these issues 

simultaneous­
ly." 

Mnyer argued that. immigrants are not a thrnat to our soeiety and can assimi­latn themselves into society ovnr time. 
"There is a nend l'or gov­ernment to rng­ulate any pno­ple moving back and forth, as well as to pro­mote immigra­tion education just to make sure that we take care of the 
attributes of an ideal eapitalistic system Novak identified. 
"Things are done best and most realistieally by people dose to the action," Novak said, noting that individuals within a system must find initiative to sueeeed within themselves. 
By identifying the major ele­nwnts to a more perfect society based on the ideas of caritas, Novak justified private property, market exehange and private aeeumulation of wealth. Drawing upon empirical evi­denee, Novak challenged eritics to identify the economic system that the wealthiest nations of the world utilized. 
")Capitalism) is a very bad systmn until you eompare it to the others," Novak said. 
Creativity, community and mercy overall were three other 
of perception versus reality. 
"The first exercise that anyone is analyzing in the United States speeifically is to separate pereeptions from realities," he said. "The two things can go into two very contradictory positions." 
lie also discussed the reali­
ty of the U.S. government response to illegal immi­gration. 
United States. 

Adults are being taken in front of the children wondering why that is happening. That is hap­pening right now, right now in the United States." 
Mora explored the topie of immigrant workers in oppo­sition with native workers. 
"You will see in capital and labor relations that the abili­ty of workers to organize is hindered by the fear that they feel toward these immi­grant workers," he said. 
Unions struggled to organ­ize because they couldn't 
"You will see in capital and labor relations that the ability (~{workers to organize is hindered by the fear that they feel toward these immigrant workers." 
Stuart Mora senior history major 
overcome racial barri­ers, he said. 
"When you look across tho border and see eight to ten times highor wages than your own, and you look at your children and wonder if you can afford to give them an education, you are willing to take that risk, and as long as that opportu­

residents nity is there, they will con­
which he thought found its ori­ Commission and is the author  Business.  
gins  in  individual  human  of 26 books. llis lecture in the  
thought and reason.  Jordan Auditorium  was spon­ Contact Davis Rhorer, Jr. at  
Michael Novak served twiee  sored  by  the  Notre  Dame  drhorer@nd.edu  

t;:;·tJmaginotion 
o GE commitment 
Imagine a cleaner way 
to produce electricity 
Wi1~d ;;nergy i:; (!fl~· rJf the \'-Wid's deonest. rw.1st renel'.•oble power 5ources. WhiCh is whv GE i~ or,e of the WGriJs !eodir.g supi)ilers of wir,d turbines. In total, ·;ur turbines sov0 t!~t? pln11et from as much GS ll./.1 mi!lion tons of grer,nhouse gases f..very yeor It\ JuSt OIKJther woy GF is tron5forming imogmotlon ;nt(J reaiit.y. 


lrnoglnat,on at work 
IN HONOR OF BLESSED BASIL MOREAU 
Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross 

The story of Basil Moreau, the recently beatified founder of 
tl1e Congregation of Holy Cross, comes to life in this updated 
edition of his biography. 

ISBN: 97!!1594711336 I 256 pages with !!·page photo insert I $1S.9S 
MacEoin :1· gentle and re,\pectfid s~yle brings Fr. Moreau to life in a wayfew others ofhis biographers ha/!e, and I bojJe this neu• edition receives wide reading 
FATHER JOHN JENKINS, C.S.C. President, the Universily of Notre Dame 

MacEoin ~· biograp~y ofBasil Moreau is a reminder ofhou• the cross ll'aS woven into the u•ho/e clotb u•hicb was tbejimnder~· lifo. This story as told kv MacEoin is more them history; it is sustenancejiJr our continuingjounzeyfrom jailb to bojJe, U'e/1 worth reading again. 
BROTHER RICHARD B. GILMAN, C.S.C. President, Holy Cross College 

Aprogressive educator u•ho aimed to revitalize religion through 
wider diffusion ofknowledge, Moreau was committed to the excellent professionalpreparation ofHoly Cross faculty. That 
Prayer is the key ofheaven. With it, the just person opens up all the treasures of heaven where the soul may draw its ease. 
-BASIL MOREAU (1799·1873) 
commitment has horn excellentfruit. Everyone in /Jo(y Cross ministry' should read this book. 
CAROL ANN MOONEY, PH.D. President, Saint Mary's College 

To read more about Basil Moreau visit our website at www.avemariapress.com 
Available from your bookstore, Hammes Notre Dame bookstore, or from 
ave maria press I Notre Dame, IN 46556 

www.avemariapress.com I Ph: 800·2 82-1865
A ~ 
ave marla press• A Ministry of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross 
Keycode: AD20912l712l5Pl 
whieh I think is actually the most important part of immi­gration," she said. 
Mnynr diseussnd a study on thn prnferred identity or immigrants in the United States. 
"I think that the longer we promotn our image, the more likely they are going to assimilate to the American cultural order," she said. 
Bustamante, of the oppos­ing team, discussed the idea tinue to take that opportuni­ty," Mora said. 
lie said he does not believe illegal immigration is going to go away. 
"As long as that carrot is hanging out there, wages ten times higher than home, people are going to continue crossing the border," Mora said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE OBSERVER 





USINESS
Friday, October 12, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 14,015.12 -63.57
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,258 102 2,031 3,934,482,842 

AMEX 
2.429. ri +3i3t NASDAQ 2,772.20 -39.41 NYSE 10,245.25 itt ···~t9J25 S&P 500 I ,554.41 -8.06 
1

NIKKEI (Tokyo) r7.4~s.9s nw 'o:oo FTSE 100 (London) 6,724.50 +91.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.48  -0.75  155.47  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -1.59  -0.85  52.66  
EM C CP (EMC)  +0.80  +0.18  22.75  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI)  -3.25  -0.12  3.57  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.26 +0.012 4.659 13-WEEK BILL +1.78 +0.070 4.005 30-YEAR BOND +0.41 +0.020 4.883 5-YEAR NOTE +0.09 +0.004 4.372 
Commodities LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.78 83.60 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +10.70 756.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +1.50 87.18 
Exchange Rates YEN 117.36 EURO 0.7044 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9759 BRITISH POUND 0.4921 
IN BRIEF 

Loan companies misleading students 
ALBANY, N.Y. -The state of New York has subpoenaed 33 companies and lenders who market edueation loans directly to college stu­dents in a widening of his investigation of deceptive tactics in the industry. 
After launching a probe of college-sponsored lending, state Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said Thursday he is now investigating independent lenders and marketers who solic­it business from students and families, often implying they are part of the federal govern­ment or affiliated with a college. 
"This is a new front," he said. A pitch made by telephone, broadcast ads, online ads, mail and direct sales can "sound like it's coming from the federal government. It will look like it's coming from the federal government and it's, we believe, a deceptive practice. And it's a very big industry." 
Investigators will try to determine if con­sumers paid higher interest rates or fees to the companies because of their practices, said Cuomo spokeswoman Rashmi Vasisht. 
Dollar and deficit in the decline 
WASHINGTON -The falling dollar led more foreigners to buy American in August, helping to push the trade deficit down to tlw lownst point in sevnn months. That was weleome news for the Bush administration as it tries to deal with a Congress unhappy over hugn trade imbalances and 3 million lost manufacturing jobs. 
PrnsidPnt Bush also got good news Thursday on his other deficit headache. Tlw budgPt deficit declined in 2007 to the lownst level in five years, dropping to $162.R billion, an $85 billion improvement over 2006. 
Bush said the declining budget defieit was a sign that his economic strategy of cutting taxes to grow the economy was working. But Democrats pointed to the soaring national debt under Bush as evidence of his fiscal irresponsibility. 
SWITZERLAND 



U.S. to ask WTO to investigate China 
Media providers, especially, concerned about lackluster distribution opportunities 
Associated Press 

GENEVA -The United 
States will ask for a formal 
investigation of Chinese 
restrictions on the sale of 
American movies, music 
and books, which would be 
the fourth World Trade 
Organization case 
Washington has launched 
against Beijing in little over 
a year. 

The U.S. will request the establishment of an inves­tigative panel at an Oet. 22 meeting of the WTO's dis­pute settlement body, according to an agenda for the meeting released Thursday. 
The ease will be of par­ticular interest to llollywood studios, Apple Inc.'s iTunes store and other Ameriean media providers possibly sufTering from the "less favorable distribution opportunities" in China that the U.S. has cited in its WTO complaint. 
The WTO is already investigating three Sino­American trade disputes. Washington accuses China of illegally hindering the import of foreign auto parts, providing govern­ment subsidies to a number of Chinese industries, and effectively providing a safe haven for product piraey time under WTO rules, the next step in this case tribution is limited to and counterfeiting through meaning the investigation and asking the WTO to Chinese state-owned com­excessively high thresholds will most likely be author­establish a panel," said panies, the U.S. said. For for criminal prosecution. ized next month. Sean Spicer, spokesman for others, foreign companies 
Faeing a U.S. legal The U.S. held consulta­U.S. Trade Representative face censorship rules that assault, China fired back tions with China in June Susan Schwab. do not extend to Chinese last month by filing its own and then again in July, Washington first brought competitors. complaint over the after the U.S. expanded its the case to the WTO in The U.S. government has antidumping duties the complaint to include April alongside its com­brought a series of com­United States applies on Chinese rules on music plaint over rampant prod­plaints to the global com­Chinese paper imports, the downloading and einema uct piraey in China, alleg­merce body sinee last year first case initiated by rights that appeared to dis­ing that Beijing had failed amid pressure from Beijing against Washington criminate against foreign to remove import and dis­Congress to do something in five years. sound recordings and tribution restrictions on about America's soaring 
China has the right to films. copyrighted U.S. goods trade deficits and lost man­block the WTO investiga­"Those discussions have ineluding newspapers, ufacturing jobs, which crit­tion later this month. But it unfortunately not led to a magazines, COs, DVDs and ics blame in part on unfair cannot delay the panel's resolution of our concerns video games. trade practices by foreign establishment a second and so we are now taking For some products, dis-nations. 

NBC to sell 'Tonight Show' locale 
Associated Press The new facilities will be located of the 34-acre studio lot in the 
in a new building adjacent to a sub­Burbank Media District. They would 
way line connecting Universal City, lease it back for news operations 
BURBANK, Calif -NBC Universal in the southeast earner of the San until the University City facility is 
plans to sell part of its site in Fernando Valley, to downtown Los finished. "beautiful downtown Burbank," Angeles. They will be across the NBC also announced that, starting home to the studio housing "The street from Universal Studios, the Oet. 22, MSNBC will begin originat­Tonight Show With Jay Leno," and Universal Studios Hollywood theme ing from its new home at move to a new broadcast facility park and the CityWalk tourist desti­Manhattan's 30 Hockefnller Plaza. across the street from Universal nation. The switchover from MSNBC's old Studios. "When looking at our long-term Secaucus, N.J .. home base will 
NBC (which is owned by General business operations, we realized solidify an effort to combine the Electric Co.) will take the "Access there are very real strategic and New York-based operations of NBC Hollywood" set, local news opera­synergistic opportunities in bringing News and MSNBC under one roof. tions and other facilities with it our production facilities and talent The centralized newsgathering when it moves into the new loeation together to grow in Los Angeles," facility will include the editorial and in 2011. Tom Smith, senior vice president of production staffs for nearly all NBC 
Meanwhile, it plans to move "The West Coast real estate for NBC News and MSNBC programs. Tonight Show" to the nearby Universal said in a statement posted MSNBC will air from an 8,500­Universal Studios' Stage One lot Thursday on the KNBC-TV Web square-foot studio equipped with a when Conan O'Brien takes over cite. motorized platform for the anchors hosting duties upon Leno's depar­Company officials said they are that can travel on a 50-foot-long ture in 2009. pursuing opportunities to sell part track. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 12, 2007 
Both Luecke and Maginault commitment to the people of pie to be more neighborly. enforcement." a~.es have made crime major por­South Bend to see that they "I think the best answer to Rouse was one of' the spon­
Candid •. 

tions of their platforms. continued from page 1 Luecke said, since he 
became mayor, crime has passed by the Common gone down 24 percent in Council is another indicator South Bend. lie said he has of his good relationship with achieved that decline by pro-
Notre  Dame.  viding  sup­ 
The ordinance,  port  to  the  
as it was origi­nally written,  "/ think student interest  South P o I  Bend i c e  
would have required resi­dents of board­ing houses - in these elections has definitely increased, especially with all the  Department and through community outreach.  
defined  as  a  issues with the  C  r  i  m  e  
r e s i d e n e ewhere more  ordinance this summer."  remains a key issue, he  
than two  unre­ said.  
lated  people  Colin Feehan  Manigault  
live -to file for a permit 10 days in  community relations chair student senate  said he would put more police officers  
advance  of  on  the street  
hosting 25  or  and  redraw  

more people who would have the police beats, so the right access to alcohol. After much number of officers are in the debate, the ordinance was trouble spots in the city. passed with the registration "As mayor, I am going to be process not enacted. very outspoken against 
Luecke said he has a "spe­crime," he said. cial connection" to Notre In terms of development, Dame -his daughter gradu­Manigault said he wants to ated from the University last see a "strong emphasis on May. lie said he intends to private investment." keep that connection strong. "The benefit to students 
"I would look forward to means there will be great continuing to jobs here for work with stu­students who dents and the wish to stay
"We've built. I think, a

administration in South
great relationship with 

of the Bend" after University and the University and have graduation, appreciate he said
had excellent

what you do in The third
communications. in 

our communi­candidate for ty and look particular, with the last mayor, Tom forward to Brown, is a
two student body 

continuing our write-in can­
presidents working on

partnership," didate run­he said. relations that affect ning for the One of Green Party.
Notre Dame and South 

Luecke's oppo-Students
Bend."

nonts, should be Manigault, is a interested in 1974 Notre Stephen Luecke (D) his campaign, Dame grad u­Brown said,
South Bend mayor

ate. lie spoke because he by phone provides sus­Thursday after a meeting tainable solutions to South with University President Bend's problems. Father John Jenkins and "Everybody's going to have other officers of the to deal with global climate University. change," he said. "None of 
The purpose of the meeting, the other candidates are even he said, was to introduce talking about that." himself to Jenkins and Brown encouraged eligible Executive Vice President John voters to come out to the polls Aff'leck-Graves and share on Election Day. with them his plan for South "We'll do anything to get Bend. more people involved in poli­
"I'm running for mayor tics," he said. because I want to restore South Bend as a great city," At-large Council candidates he said. "I believe by increas­Seventeen candidates are ing private investment and running for the nine seats on good jobs, reducing crime, the South Bend Common and making, our self and with CounciL The Observer school cooperation, a world attempted to reach the seven elass education system, we candidates running for the can restore our city to great­three at-large seats and the ness." two candi­
As a student dates running who lived both "''m particularly for the 4th on and off District seat,
interested in thinking

campus in which is a dis­South Bend trict in which
towards the future and while at Notre making sure the many off-cam­Damn, pus students
decisions made in
Manigault said live. 
government are not so

he wants to The candi­forge a re la­short term." dates for the tionship three at-large between stu­
Karl Hardy (G) positions are 
dents and the Democrats AI 
community "to At-large council candidate " B u d d y " ensure their Kirsits, safety." Timothy Rouse "There shouldn't be specific and Karen L. White; laws concocted to address Hepublieans Christopher P. student problems," he said. Adamo, Wayne Curry and Manigault said he wants to .James D. "Jim" Frick; and see students more involvnd in write-in candidate Karl Hardy the community, and said if" for thn Green Party. Kirsits, nloeted mayor, he would Housn and White are the organize an executive intnrn­incumbents. ship program that would get House said he is one of the Notre Dame students involvtld best candidates for the at­in eity government as interns. large seat "because of my 
have the best possible work­crime is to know the commu­sors of the party ordinance ing councilmen in the nity, know the neighborhood," proposed in July. He said he Common Council." he said. "We are only kidding is pleased with the way it has 
Rouse said his solution to ourselves if we think we are crime was to encourage peo-going to do it through law 
see CANDIDATES/page 9 




VOLVNTEER~ WANTED 
Do you want to make a difference in someone'slife? 
Holy Cross House is looking for energetic, outgoing volunteers to assist with and or lead activity groups for our retired priests and brothers. Do you have an hour a week or couple hours a month to share your time and talents with us? 
Then join us for our open house Thursday, October 18, from 9:00-11:00 A.M. or 3:30-5:30 P.M. 
Holy Cross is located on Douglas Road just west of Juniper. 
Come tour our house, enjoy refreshments and see the faces ofHoly Cross House. Ifyou have any questions please call Tricia at 631-3957. 
Thank you! 

Ken David Watercolors 
Holiday Special 33°/o Off 
SCENES INCLUDE: THE GOLDEN DOME A DORM THE STADIUM THEGROTIO AND 43 OTHER SCENES 
INCLUDING SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 


EACH HANDCOLORED PRINT COMES IN AN 11X14 DOUBLE MAT $29.06 $20.00 PLUS SHIPPING 
3680 NE 15TH TERRACE POMPANO BEACH, FL 33064 954.782.3924 
FOR COLOR PICTURES OF ALL SCENES VISIT MY STORE, stores.ebay.com/notredamecollectibles 
Satisfaction Guaranteed or your money back. 
Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
neighbors. He said he sees ing ordinances "that I don't Common Council seat has two to vote. students as an asset to the think are important." candidates, Democrat Ann "Find out where your

Candidates 

South Bend community. "I went to college," he said. Puzzello and Republican Gary polling place and make sure continued from page 8 "I see the students as neigh­"People drink at college. As King. you exercise 
bors," he said. " ... Some of long as it doesn't get out of Puzzello, a your right," he turned out, especially with the most intelligent students hand, I don't see a problem four-term "If South Bend keeps said. "If South the formation of the in the world go to Notre with that." council mem­Bend keeps
going the way it is ... 
Community/Campus Advisory Dame, and I think it would be Regarding development in ber, did not going the way
we are going to not
Coalition (CCAC). a great thing if, after gradua­the eity, Frick recommended return mes­it is ... we are "If the CCAC is successful, tion, they stayed in the area." that South Bend bring in a sages. only have four more going to get as I think it Bringing professional from another city King said he not only four
years of the same, but 
will be, the more jobs into that has already led new proj­thought the more years of
it's going to get way
issue with the "There shouldn't be the community, ects. 4th District the same, but permits will Curry said, Green candidate Karl Hardy seat needed a worse. " it's going to get
specific laws concocted 

bn greatly would be an is a graduate student in a change in way worse." 
to address student

diminished," incentive for program through Arizona's leadership. The other
Gary King ( R)
he said. "I problems." students to Prescott College. His partner The neighbor­candidates

4th district
don't think stay. graduated in spring of 2008 hoods should running for we'll need the Curry and at­from Notre Dame, where she be "accommo­Council candidate Common

Juan Manigualt (R) 

permits." large candidate earned a Master's in fine arts dating" to stu-Council posi­

South Bend mayoral

Neither James D. "Jim" and creative writing. dents, he said, tions are Derek Kirsits nor candidate Frick are sup-He said he is running to since some of the houses may Dieter and Kathleen Petitjean White, the porting each spread the sit vacant if for the 1st District seat, Tom other incum-other's cam­world about students did La Fountain and William A. bents. returned multiple paigns. Frick echoed many of Green Party val­not rent Soderberg for 3rd District
"Everybody's going to 

phone calls. Both are seeking Curry's sentiments. ues. them. King seat and Debbie Ray and
have to deal with 

a third term on the Common ''I'm frustrated with the way "I believe that said he was David Varner for the 5th Council. this city runs," he said. the Green Party global climate change. opposed to District seat. Henry Davis Jr. Wayne Curry, the vice presi­The last straw for him was is the only truly the party and Oliver James Davis are
None of the other 

dent of South Bend's when his wife was robbed last progressive ordinance running unopposed for the
candidates are even

Northeast Neighborhood summer. He decided then to party that is out proposed by 2nd and 6th District seats, Council, is running on the run for a Common Council there," he said. thinking about that." the Council. respectively. Hepublican ticket. He said he position. ''I'm ... particu­"From the thinks it is time for new lead­Frick said he wants to see larly interested minute I read Contact Kaitlynn Riely at 

Tom Brown (G)

ership in the city. more police patrols and a in thinking it first, until kriely@nd.edu

South Bend mayoral

"There's a lot of problems more aggressive city attorney towards the its final ver­in South Bend to prosecute future and mak­candidate sion, I think that I see," he criminals. ing sure the its just plain
"If the CCAC is

said, citing "I know stu­decisions made wrong," he high taxes, the successful, as I think it dents are wor-in government are not so said. "No matter how many crime rate and ried about short-term." ways they try to fix it. It's the
will be, the issue with 

vacant and crime, he Hardy said he wants to wrong way to go about doing
the permits will be 

abandoned said. "There's "ensure that students are things. It's an invasion of pri­buildings. greatly diminishd. " crime all over brought into the conversa­vacy." A solution to the city." tion." King said laws already in reducing Timothy Rouse Frick said he The Observer was unable to place can control loud stu­crime, he said, considered reach Republican candidate dent partying. To deter crimi­

At-large Council candidate students regu­
is to put more Christopher P. Adamo. nals, King said, he supports 
patrols on the lar eitizens of putting more police officers 
street and to encourage peo­South Bend and criticized the The 4th District on patrol. 
ple to communicate with their Common Council for support-The 4th District South Bend King encouraged students 


"These condos are a win-win proposition!" 
-Mike Golic, ESPN Personality and former Notre Dmne football playe1~ Class of '85. 

You'll win when you stay in your luxurious Waterford Estates Lodse Plus, purchase a unit now and \X-'aterford will donate 2% condo unit f(x Notre Dmne football weekends and more-it compares ofthe purchase price to Hannah & Friends -H d1Hrity to a three-star hotel with indoor and outdoor pools, Rtness facilities. founded by fV1num and ChHrlie Weis to help improve the restaumnt and an authentic Irish pub. quality oflite t(x children and adults with special needs. 
And, you'll win when you're not usin8 it-with an option to place your Freshmen Parents: Book now·f<x 2011 Gmduation with only a $25 deposit. Come over in person tovisit \Vaterford first-hand and we'll 
unit in a professiorwlly rnmwsed rental prosmm. waive the deposit! 
(.:;ucst rooms still 8V8ilable for most '07 home footballg8mCS. 



Located at 52890 SR 933,just north ofthe Notre Dame campus and minutes from downtown South Bend and the South Bend Regional Airport. 



Waterford 

Contact W<:1terford Estates Lodge at (574) 272-5220 
estates lodge or online at www.waterfordestateslod(~e.com 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 12, 2007 
Shipvvreck reveals clues to Florida's colony past 
Associated J>ress 

PENSACOlA. Fla.-In 1559. a hurricane plunged as many as seven Spanish sailing vessels to the bottom of Pensacola Bay, hampering nxplomr I>on Tristan de Luna's attempt to eolonizo this soction of tlw Florida Panhandle. 
Almost 500 years later and 15 years aftor the first ship was fimnd, anotlwr has bonn discov­ered. helping archaeologists unlock secrnts to Florida's Spanish past. The colony at the site of prostmt-day Pensacola was abandoned in 1561, and no 100 people, among them mem­bors of the public, who gathered on land about a half mile from the shipwrm:k. 
"It's an amazing site," said (;rngory D. Cook, a University of West Florida nautical archaeolo­gist. 
Test excavations suggest about 60 to 66 feet of preserved hull from a small to medium-size ves­sel, he said. 
The ship would likely have been built a few years before 1559, said I>r. Roger C. Smith, the state's underwater archaeologist. 
The first de 
Luna ship was 

trace of it has "It was in good found in 1992 in lwnn found on the same area,
condition. As far as

land. near what de 
Toarns of pieces ofpottery, you Luna founded as University of West could feel the bowls. " Florida's initial Florida archaeol­European settle­ogy students last m e n t sumnwr dist:ov-Kurt Browning Hesearchers nred what ttwy Rorida secretary of state believe as many 
thought was tlw shipwreck, pick­ing up pim:ns of artifacts from the sito. A :~2-by-24-fiHlt barge now covers tlw site to give divers ;u:cess. 
!;lorida Sncrdary of Stato Kurt Browning joined diwrs Thursday fin· a dose look at tlw shipwrock, partially buried in sand about 12 foot lwlow tlu~ watl'f surfat~n. It was "incredible" to touch sonw­thing that has bt~Pn subr111~rgod for conturies. Browning said. 
"It was in good condition. A'i fitr as pioct~s of pottery, you muld fnnl tlw bowls." lw said. 
ThP discovery is "anotlwr piece of tho puzzlo" of Florida's Spanish ancostry, Browning said. adding that lw do1~s not expect thn ship to lw rnmovnd from tho water. 
About 650 artifacts, mostly piecPs of pottory and wood, wore on display Thursday for about as five other ves­
sels were lost in the hurricane Sept. 19, 1559. The searrh filf the others continues. 
"Tiwst~ sil!~s are unique door­ways into Florida's past," Smith said. 
They also givn an:haeolo).,ry stu­denl'i an unusual opportunity for research. 
Siska Williams of Atlanta, a West Florida graduate student in arduwology, said she has made about 100 dives at tlw site. In one, divers recovered seeds and rat sknldons, she said. 
Thn ship apparently held food stocks and other supplies for the colonization campaign, a careful­ly planned expedition financed by the Spanish crown. 
Af'tnr the storm, only three ships were still afloat, including two small barks and the expedi­tion's only caravel. 

So. Ill. president not guilty of plagiarism 
Associated Press 
CABBONI>AI.I:. Ill. -The Soutlwrn Illinois University pres­ident did not plagiarizn parts of his 1!JH4 dot:toral dissertation but ht~ should update its aca­demit: citations. a school rnview panPI conrludPd Thursday. 
President Clenn l'oshard. a fornwr fivo-term rongrPssman and one-tinw Democratic candi­datn lilf Illinois governor, said lw accl'ptPd thP rnport and its rot:­
olllllle IHI a lions. "I take ru II responsibility for tlw inadvm'lent I'ITors that I madP 2:~ years ago," he said in a staten11mt. 
The nwiew panel of nwmbers of tlmw hy faculty groups at the school concluded that l'oshard usl'd a ritation styli' accnptl'd by his dissertation commitltw at tlw timl', but tlw style would not lw rPrommtmd­ed today. 
Tlw parwl's rPport released Thursday reeomnw nded l'oshard publicly rt~cognizt~ the disst~rtation 's incomplete 1:ita-· lions and corrt~ct them using current standards. 
l'oshard compiPted his badw­lor's degrtH' in spcondary educa­tion. his ma.stPr's in lwalth edu­cation and his doctorate in high­er Pduration administration at the flagship st:hool in Carbondale. lie has held his $29 I. ?fA-a-year job heading the ]5,000-student university sys­tem since January 2006. 
Thn allegations surfaced Aug. 30 whPn SIU's student newspa­per. Tlw Daily Egyptian, report­Pd that at least 30 sm:tions in l'oshard's 111-page doctoral dis­sertation were not attributed to tlwir original sources or put in quotation marks to show tlwy wen~n't Poshard's writing. 
On Sept. 10. Tlw Chronide of lligher 1\dueation reported that l'oshard's master's thesis con­tairwd sent1~nces found nearly verbatim in sourees published earlier. without attribution. 
Bamanarayamm Viswanathan, tlw school's Faeulty Snnate pres­ident who headed the panel, said tlw parwl focused the vast majority of its attPntion on the dissnrtation lmcause there were only a fnw minor qunstions on thn mastnr's thesis. 
Bognr Tedriek, chairman of SIU's board of trustees, said Poshard has "acknowledged that mistakns wern madn, but they were dt~arly unintnntional then and eertainly correctable to aca­demic expectations now." 
Tedrick also said Poshard would remain the university's president "with full board sup­port." 


School bans Confederate flag 
Attack on minority students called 'disturbing and repulsive' 
Associated Press 
LITITZ, Pa. -For years, a clique of high school students in this prosperous and over­whelmingly white borough have worn clothes adorned with Confederate flags and parked their pickups in a sec­tion of the school parking lot known as "redneck row." 
The display, some parents of minority students say, was just one symptom of festering racism that school officials ignored until animosities boiled over last week. 
That's when three white 16­year-old students allegedly yelled racial slurs and threw paper wads at minority stu­dents outside the 1,600-stu­dent Warwick High School. 
School officials vowed to dis­cipline the three students, tighten security and ban Confederate flags on school property. On Wednesday, police charged the three with disorderly conduct. 
The "disturbing and repul­sive" Oct. 3 confrontation was a "wake-up call" for Warwick High School, said Superintendent John George. "Perhaps we were lulled into a false sense that our school district was immune to racism and bigotry," he said. 
Some students suspect the perpetrators were trying to imitate white students in Jena, La., who fanned racial ten­sions last year by hanging nooses from a tree outside a high school. 
Police Chief William Sease said there's no evidence the suspects were influenced by the Jena case. 
"What is racial intimidation? It's trying to have power over someone else," Sease said. "I think that's their motivation." 
Erasmo Cora Jr., a Puerto Rican native whose 14-year­old son, Erik, was among the victims, said the school should expel all of the roughly dozen students who allegndly engaged in raeist behavior. 
''I'm not going to put up with it -my kid should have never went through this," Cora said. "Either they all get out, or we're just going to have to make a bigger issue of it." 
The confrontation comes as a major disappointment to Cora. He moved his family from nearby Lancaster about a year ago, expecting his son to receive a better education than he could in Lancaster's troubled schools. 
Erik Cora, a freshman, said he was hanging out by the flagpole with two boys -one black and one biraeial ­when the taunting occurred before the start of school. It broke up when the morning bell rang, but it also spawned rumors that some students planned to bring guns to school later in the wellk and start riots. 


Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
NY AG subpoenas 33 lenders in loan probe 
Associated Press 
ALBANY. N.Y. -The state of New York has subpoenaed 33 companies and lenders who market education loans directly to college students in a widen­ing of his investigation of deceptive tactics in the indus­try. 
After launching a probe of college-spon­sored lending, practices, said Cuomo spokes­woman Rashmi Vasisht. 
"We know that many of these companies were offering rates which were higher than rates you could have gotten in the marketplace," Cuomo said. He had no specific rates, but said even a couple of percentage points difference could cost a borrower thousands of dollars 
over the life of a 
loan. 


® 
$ 

Unmistakably Italian \.Unbelievably Good 
Italian classics and contemporary creations in a comfortable, casual setting. 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka Catering for et•ery occasion (574) 271-1692 
www. PapaVinosCatering. com 

www. PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 



state Attorney General  "We want parents  To entice stu­dents,some of the  
Andrew  and students to be  companies offered  
Cuomo said Thursday he  aware.  gift cards of up to $500 to customers,  
is now inves­ used fake checks  
tigating inde­ Andrew Cuomo  and rebates, pro­ 
pendent  New York  vided  $100  gift  
lenders and marketers  attorney general  cards to recruit other students, and  
who  solicit  advertised $25,000  
business from  and  $50,000  

students and families, often sweepstakes, Cuomo said. He implying they are part of the said some lenders and loan federal government or affiliat­"middle men" were also decep­ed with a college. tive about the conditions for 
"This is a new front," he said. repaying loans. A pitch made by telephone, "We want parents and stu­broadcast ads, online ads, mail dents to be aware," Cuomo and direct sales can "sound like said. it's coming from the federal Earlier this year, Cuomo's government. It will look like it's investigation of conflicts of coming from the federal gov­interest in deals between ernment and it's, we believe, a lenders and colleges to desig­deceptive practice. And it's a nate preferred lenders helped very big industry." lead to national reform of the 
Investigators will try to deter­industry. Cuomo won millions mine if consumers paid higher of dollars in penalties from interest rates or fees to the dozens of lenders and colleges companies because of their nationwide. 
Now Open 

Thhr,~how life was m~ant to be. Suddenly, there is more time to enjoy family and friends. The freedom to tome and go as you choose opens endless possibilities. Vatat!on. shopping. g0 t.f~ or being at the big game become your regular appoilitments. Best of aU~ the comfort you witt enfoy as gef!~-J1~e. 
a~Jhe quality that surrounds you. 
Two" and three.. bedroom $ifllc %lO!J ht1mcs• w.itf'l.uttriot ntQtnttnon(t pruvidrd. 
rnougf£iliitty· f)/armed. camwliy ·executed. 




For more information: 

625 DubUn Drive Mishawaka. IN 46545 www.epconcommunlties.com 

.---------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, October 12, 2007 

page 12 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
Bondage suffocation death raises questions 
Associated p...,.. 
LYNN. Mass --Adrian Exley was wrapped tightly in !wavy plastic. t.lwn bound with duet lapP. A lnatlwr hood was put ovnr his lwad with a thin plastic straw insPrl!'<l so that he could brPathP, and lw was shut up in a rlosPL 
That. appanmtly, was tlw way HxiPy liknd it. But the way it t•ndPd --wilh lixlny sull'ocating --was not what lw had in mind wlwn l11• traveled from Britain for a h •lage session with a man h1· met through a sado­masochism Web site. 
Exley's body was discovemd in t.hn woods last ynar. two months al't.11r hn was bound up in the bondage 

"playroom" "There's definitely the s c 0 t t 
Cary L11Bianc whole spectrum ofthought Vincent, dis­had built in covnred
on what really happened 

thn basemnnt Exley was 
of his subur­-was it a consent issue, not breath­
ban Boston or negligence or misunder­ing. Exley horne had bnen put
standing."

l.nBianc, a 4X­in a closet ynar-old Gulf while bound Oil sales exec­Vivienne Kramer in plastic up 
utivn, detailed New England Leather Alliance to his neck his responsi­and left
board member 
bility in thn fatal bondagf1 snssion in a l'ivn-pagt~ suicide note, just bnforn he put a gun to his head and killed himself. 
Now the question is: Since Exley consented to the sex play, can l.nBianc be held msponsible for his death'! 
Exley's family is suing LeBlanc's estate for unspecified damages. daiming wrongful dnath. Many bondage enthusi­asts are watching the ease close­ly, seeing it as lesson in when1 to draw the line or responsibility on consensual but dangerous sex. 
"Tiwre's definitely thn whole spnetrum or thought on what rnally happerHHI --whether it was a consnnt issue, or nngli­gnnt:n or misundPrstanding," said ViviPnnP Kranwr, a board nwmb11r of tlw Nnw England I.Patlwr Alliancn. "t·:vnryhody has tlwir own idPas on what should haw happPrwd." 
Hxlny and LP!Hanc met through an onlirw fi1rum for gay mnn into rubbPr, leather and hondag11. Exh•y, a :{2-year-old stripper. used tlw SITI1tm nanw "Studpup." while LeBlanc eallnd himsnlf "Hubrman" and built a cham bnr with rubber mats on 
. . . 
···PI~se 

recycle The Observer. 

tlw floors and walls, chains, leatlwr restraints, rubber suits and a hospital gumny. 
Exlny arrived at LeBlanc's house in Lynn in April 2006 al'tPr thn pair had exchanged e­mails in whi<:h they discussed plans for LeBlanc to play the "rnasttw" and Exley his "slave," according to thn lawsuit. 
.John Andrews. a lawynr for LeBlanc's nstatl~. said Exley knnw Uw risks going in. "What oecurrnd was an act or actions bntweon two consenting adults, both of' whom knew what they wnre doing. and it had a tragic nnd," hn said. 
The lawsuit dnscribes a three­day bondage and discipline ses­
sion that 
ended when 
a third man, 
alone for 
several 
hours, according to the lawsuit. 
In his suicide note, LeBlanc adrnittnd that Exley at one point had trouble breathing. But he said that after "cooling him down," Exley improved. LeBlanc said that he went to sleep about 3 a.m. but was woken up a few hours latnr by Vincent, who told him Exley was not breathing and was turning blue and cold. 
LnBlanc said he panicked, and hn and Vincent drove to Hhode Island, where they buried the body and threw away Exley's clothing and identification. 
The Hhode Island medical examiner determined that Exley suffocated. Vincent said in a sworn statement that the straw had fallnn out of his mouth in the dosPI.. 
Vincent, a flight attendant who is also b11ing sued, is charged with litilure to report a death in lllwdn Island. But hn has not bonn charged in Massachusetts. 
In his note, LeBlanc said he was "rnsponsible for a horrible tragedy," adding: "Had I dealt with the first crisis responsibly, he would likely have returned horne safnly." 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

---·--·--·-----·&··----··-~--·-·--·--­
L"'a Ftdwd ~: 1.<>1111 G1/t., • Si,~m • l'lll'm.l I'la•[IIO • Nw"" 1;m, ;> ~ f~ubl•cr .\lwrlf.'·' • llnittta• Ctil/1.> (:las' l·.t• hin11 • ( uslorn A1imalm.:., 
LASER CREATIONS 
•• (}11 iqll<' I 'roduc /"' TJ, r11 I. cl.\t'T 1i·d,w{ogy ,. }tl< k h· lWart/l>dl. Kom~>J.·i 22459 A(.>plcwoud Lwu~ I'lwm: nr htx 
South Ll•:tul. ludiww .J(I(,;U~ ') 7..J 2 7 3.Kf.>62 



14-year-old dies at bootcamp 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Fla. --A 14­year-old boy died because seven juvenile boot camp guards and a nursn lae.ked good judgment and decided to use !'oren against him rather than call filr medical help, a prosecutor said in closing argument<; Thursday beforn the ca<;e went to the jury. 
Attorneys !'or the eight defen­dants said Martin Lee Anderson's death was the unavoidable consequence of his genetic blood disorder and alleged that the manslaughter charges were part of a "twisted agenda" by former Gov. Jeb Bush and others who were under fire from civil rights groups. · 
A prosecutor played segment<; of a 30-minute video showing the guards repeatedly slamming Anderson on the ground, drag­ging his limp body around the boot camp exercise yard and hit­ting him. 
The video, prosecutor Scott Harmon said, shows jurors what they need to know about the actions of the eight defendant'>. 

"They are manhandling this kid who is basically fluid in their hands," !Iarmon said. "You may not hear anything mming out of that video sound-wise. but that video is screaming to you in a loud, dear voice; it is telling you that thesn defendants killed Martin Lee Anderson." 
Anderson died because the guards crossed a line, he said. 
"They went way too far, fur­ther than they had ever gone befi1re. They sufl'oeatnd Martin And orson," Harmon said. 
He pointed to omissions in reports compiled by the dnl'en­dants after the inddent. 
"The cover-up started immndi­ately," Harmon said. 'This litbri­cation, this cover-up begins, and it continues all the way until this week in front of you." 
The defendants face as many a<; :{0 years in prison if convicted ol' aggravated manslaughter of a child. Jurors could decide to acquit them of manslaughter but convict them of lesser charges including child neglect or culpa­ble negligence. 
. .

Plltl~SS on stage
'' ••• 
. 

-Rolling Stone 
.. t···.. 

' 
. .,

·. '·' ·•··. 




ToMD~ucA 
free show 
h ll

:. ·..,.,,: ...·. :: .. 
. .
was ....... gtQn .a 

fri~~;~ ;;~J;~ 

lili 
IAO.ID.EDU 
Anderson died Jan. 6, 2006, when he was taknn oil' lifi1 sup­port, a day aft11r his altnn:ation with the guards. 
A del'nnse attorney said con­victing the guards would be like spitting on troops fighting an unpopular war. 
"They have not brought in one witness to say thos11 tactics are ill!~gal. That thosn wrist bnnds. those knne strikns arn impropnr," said Hobnrt Sombathy, who rep­rnsenL<; guard Patrkk Carrntt. 
lfjurors f(mnd thosn tactil:s are wrong, nvnry boot eamp in the state would be guilty of child rwglect. hn said. Florida ended its military boot camp system last year because or the Anderson ca<;e. 
In his dosing argument, James White, attorney for guard Haymond Hauck, called state oflicials "Monday morning quar­terbacks" who decided to appoint thn speeial prosecutor and order a seeond autopsy because they didn't like the results of an autopsy by Dr. Charles Siebert, the medieal examiner fi1r Bay County. 
'' 

Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Security videos to be revievved in noose case 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The graduate school where a noose was found on the door of a black professor agreed Thursday to turn over security videotape, but police were dismayed that they had to get a subpoena to acquire the evidence. 
Police claim that Teachers College -Columbia University's graduate school of education ­had agreed to give up the tape without a court order Wednesday. New York Police Department spokesman Paul Browne said police officials were "disappointed and sur­prised" by the delay in a case that rocked the Ivy League campus. 
Teaehers College spokes­woman Diane Dobry said the school wanted to work in "the spirit of cooperation" with police, but privacy laws required it to demand a court order. Since a subpoena was obtained, "We are giving them everything," she said. 
Investigators plan to review several hours of tape from up to seven digital security eameras in and around the building where the noose was discov­ered early Tuesday morning on the doorknob of the offiee of Madonna Constantine, Browne said. 


Serving Lundt & Dinue·r 
Tne..Sat 
11-2; 4-9pm 
Clow:d ."imtday 
&M<>nday-
Our Specialties Inclt1de Exquisite 
Meat. Entrees (.,.·Healthy Vegcl:wian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: Lentil Soup & Garlie Paste 
Come Dine With Our family A11d Be Ow· Friend! 
115 Dixie: Way North, South Bend 
(574) 277-7239 


Cold medicines recalled 
Major drug makers warn of potential health risks to infants 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Drug mak­ers on Thursday voluntarily pulled children's cold medicines off the market less than two weeks after the government warned of potential health risks to infants. 
Over-the-eounter medications aimed at children under the age 
of two are b e i n g removed from store shelves because of rare instances of parents overdosing young chil­dren, a trade group that represents the drugs' manufactur­ers said. The group said parents should no longer admin­
"These medications were never designed to cure colds buy only to treat cold symptoms and in children under two there was a little evidence they were effective anyway." 
Catherine Tom-Revzon pediatric pharmacist Children's Hospital New York 

ister these medieations. 
The Consumer Healthcare Products Association said last month it agreed with govern­ment officials that use of the drugs should be restricted, but had previously stopped short of pulling the produets from the market. 
Cold medicines being with­drawn inelude: Johnson & Johnson Pediaeare Infant Drops and Tylenol Concentrated from store shelves. The phar­maey chain said cus­tomers can return the products for a full refund. 
Catherine T o m -Revzon, a pediatric pharmaeist. said par­ents should use natural therapies, 
including saltwater drops and humidifiers, to treat infants' eolds before using drugs. 
"These medications were never designed to eure colds but only to treat eold symptoms, and in ehildren under two there was little evidenee they were effective anyway," said Tom­Revzon, who is pharmacy man­ager at the Children's Hospital at Montefiore in New York. 
Late last month the Food and Drug Administration tentatively recommended adding the words "do not use in children under two years" to products' labeling. Current labeling directs parents to eonsult a doc­tor before administering the drugs to infants and toddlers. 

The medieines eome in tiny, droplet-size doses, but parents occasionally do not consult or follow directions from physi­eians, which can lead to aeei­dental overdose. 
FDA will formally eonsider revising labeling at a meeting seheduled for Oct. 18-19. 
After reviewing reports of side effects over the last four decades, FDA found 54 child fatalities from over-the-eounter decongestant medieines. The ageney found 69 reports of chil­dren's deaths connected with antihlstamines, whieh are used to treat runny noses. 
The Consumer Ilealthcare Products Assoeiation said it will conduct a multiyear campaign to educate parents and physi­eians on safe use of cold medi­cines. A spokeswoman for the group said it was too early to rule out a return of the prod­ucts to the market. 
"The manufaeturers made this deeision after a lot of con­sideration and with great eare for the best interests of parents and children," said CHPA spokeswoman Virginia Cox. "But we can't spP.ak to what the future holds." 
Infants Drops, Wyeth's Dimetapp Decongestant Infant Drops, Novartis' Triaminie Infant & Toddler Thin Strips and Prestige Brands Holdings' Little Colds Decongestant Plus Cough. 
CVS Caremark Corp. said Thursday morning it would remove the affected products as well as CVS-brand equivalents 


Men ofNotre Dame ... Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? 

vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? Call 1-6385 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 14 
Friday, October 12 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Norre Dame, IN 46556 024 Snuth Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIF.I' Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANA<;tNG EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWI'OINT EmToR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hinc ScllNF. EDITOR: Tae Andrt•ws 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
AllVIiRTISING MANA<;F.R: J~sica Cortez 

All OtlSI<:N MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLl.IiR: 'J'im Sobolewski SYSTF.MS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 ohscrvad@•nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vi<·wpoint.l @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.edu ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @'nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@lnd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Tht· Obscrvt•r is the indt'JlCntknt, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University of Notre Damt· du l.ac and Saint Maty's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer rt'Scrves the right to rcfi.Jsc advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Un,igncd editorials represem the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A'sisrant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and l'olumns prcsem the vitws ofthe authors and not nec<'SSarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free t·xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
QuMions rrgarding Oburver policits should b~ dircct«i to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'rht ()\,<orrvrr (USl'$ ~l)f) l-4UOO) i, publt~d Mundqy d1rough ~riJo~y cx.£"Cflt Jurmt; rum and ~'lldou J>ct!Oth AIIJb.cnp~k.Jn 1o'01r (~r iJ SIOO 11Jt UIU" acr.dnnic year; $S$ fitr unc ~emn*,tr 
TI1c Oba:<:rver IS puhli•ll«i ~r: POSTMASTER 014 Sc.outh Dining f !•ll Send ~ddrc.1o11 corttt.'1ivns to Norn: Do:~mc.IN 46~1\6-0779 ThrOlJscMt l":riudic.t po~t<tKC paid u Notn: Dotftlt P.O. Box779 ~tnd addiriona.l mailing offkcs. 02-t Soufh Dininr. H..JI 
Nm:rt Dame. IN 4U'5'j6·0n9 
11lt ( ll'llttt'Ytr 1~ 11 memhct 1lf the A..oo.utll Pret>S. All repmducrion ngtm IUC n:Rt'Ytd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Jenn Metz Chris Hine Liz Harter Michael Bryan 
Amanda Johnson Matt Gambler Graphics Scene 
Julie Grisanti Michelle Fordice Viewpoint Kara King 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ESPN appearance goes wrong 
After watching today's showing of "First Take" on ESPN. I felt compelled to write to The Observer about the stark contrast between the two student reporters from Boston College and Notre Dame. While BC's representative showed class and made intelligent points, The Observer's Chris Khorey came ofT as arrogant and disrespectful. 
The show's weekly segment has been an oppor­tunity to showcase two schools that will be playing an important game over the weekend and allow the nation to see a spirited but fun presentation of both schools. Given the historic rivalry (both aca­demic and athletie) between the two schools, I expectl~d to see an intelligent discussion between the two reporters. The resulting exchange, howev­er. fell far short. I have never met Chris Khorey and surely do not mean to ofl'er any judgments about his character based on a short television appearance. I graduated from an Ivy League school and have no college athletic affiliations to bias my judgment of either sehool. In faet, I have a high opinion of both schools and was sorry to see Notre Dame's representative resort to taunting BC as a "backup college." 
I hope that the portrayal of Notre Dame that many sports fans witnessed today is not an accu­rate representation of Notre Dame students. Even a long and storied rivalry can be discussed and analyzed with respect and dignity, and we should certainly expect as much from two highly-regard­ed institutions. 
James Healy Norwich, Conn. Ocr. II 


Reduce your impact 
Americans often see environmentalism as a distant topic. going to be out of the room, there's no reason not to. But on the heels of Notre Dame's Energy Week. there are Second, use compact Iluorescent light bulbs. These bulbs many things college students can do to reduce their daily, last 10 times longer and consume 7 5 percent less energy negative impact on the environment. The U.S., home to than incandescent bulbs and can save 260 pounds of carbon about live percent of the world's population, is responsible dioxide each year. for about a quarter of the world's total energy consumption. Third, turn off your computer overnight. No one important Think of it this way: Americans use one million gallons of is going to instant message you at 4 a.m. At other tirnns, put gas every two minutes. it in power-save or sleep mode instead of using a 
By using energy more efficiently, the U.S. screen saver. could preserve natural resources and save Fourth. avoid leaving the water running (while more than $2.3 billion by the year 2030. OirSEERVER brushing teeth, dealing with leaky faucnts, and 
And while much of the environmental taking showers). One drippy faucet that leaks damage has already been done, there are enough to fill a soda bottle every 30 minutes can
Editorial 
ways to stop more from happening, and waste over 2,192 gallons of water each year. some scientists are saying there are ways to Fifth, wash your elothes on the cold-water set­reverse it. By 2100, there is hope that the ting. Switching from warm to cold can save more ozone layer will be repaired -depending on how serious than 500 pounds of carbon dioxide each year. Air-dry your global citizens are about being more energy efficient. clothes when you can. 
Global citizenry means leaders, voters and students alike. Sixth, walk, bike or use Transpo. Gasoline emission is one There are many things we can do on campus to contribute of the biggest contributors to air pollution. to reverse the negligence of the past hundreds of years. By Seventh, recyde. This one is simple. adhering to a few simple, reasonable requests, Notre Dame The Environmental Protection Agency knows it. The and Saint Mary's can "go green" and positively contribute to United Nations knows it. Even Bob Dole knows it. Energy the global call to conservationism. conservation is r~l and necessary. The country is talking. 
Pirst. turn off your lights. It sounds petty, but if you are Jump on board. 
Respect m_ust be earned 
I found it interesting that in her letter, "Not a Little Brother" (Oct. 11), Sheila Miller seems upset about the lack of respect that Notre Dame has shown to Boston College. I'm just eurious what she thinks of the various disrespectful acts committed by her beloved Eagles over the years. 
What about in .2002 when BC spoiled Notre Danw'H undefeated sea­son. and its players proceeded to rip up the stadium turf'? Or what about when they got ofT the field and proceeded to trash the visitor's locker room? 
How about in 2003 when, even after a win, Bos(on College line­backer Josh Ott refused to admit that then freshman Brady Quinn was going to be something special. Apparnntly, 350 yds passing and 2 TDs from a freshman weren't enough to imprnss Mr. Ott. llow elassy. 
And what about the "smug superiority" Miller aceuses ND fans of having? After saying this, she proce1~ds to say in no uncertain terms that Notre Dame will lose this weekend's game. How's that for the pot calling the kettle black? 
The fact that Miller, a BC class of 2002 alumnus, took the time out of her presumably busy day just to write to the Notre Dame student newspaper just goes to further validate most of the student body's feelings toward Boston College. Good luck on Saturday, Sheila. But win or lose, you should probably do something about that inferiority complex of yours. Although I guess it goes with the territory of going to Boston College. 
Matt Hammond 
sophomore 
Dillon Hall 
Oct. II 
Unnecessary source? 
After reading Sheila Miller's Letter ("Not a little brother," Oct. 10), I only have one question: Why is a Boston College graduate who lives in Oregon reading the Notre Dame campus newspaper? Perhaps she should have cancelled her subscription when she got her Notre Dame rejection letter. 
Irena Zajickova sophomore Lewis Hall Oct. II 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We can't take any credit for our talents. It's how we use them that counts." 
Madeleine L'Engle 
U.S. novelist 

Observer Poll 
Hover 21. tbe fmal showdown: Keystone <W Natural light? 
s Natural Light _ _ Keystone Light 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, October 12, 2007 page 15 
Tearing at the edges of freedom 
Author Christopher Hitchens' latest book, "God Is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything," contends-among other assertions -that religious faith is grounded on wish-thinking. He writes that God did not create man in his own image, but the other way around. With man conjur­ing an image of God, Hitchens says, that it "is the painless explana­tion for the profu­sion of gods and reli­gions, and the fratri­cide both between and among faiths, that we see all about us and that has so retarded the development of civilization." 
Hitchens suggests that people who are otherwise goodhearted can be blinded by a belief in a higher authority which ulti­mately causes them to uncharacteristically do wrong. While they may profess to believe in the worth, dignity and rights of mankind, they degrade and confme others. Famed World War II journalist Ernie Pyle best described a close analogy of this thought when he wrote about how American soldiers learned early during the war to transition from a belief of killing as sinful to a casual professionalism of killing as a craft. 
The Hitchens' theory that wish-thinking of a higher belief in religious dogma can corrupt us also applies to wish-thinking in politics. Americans have and will use fear and political wish-thinking to preserve the high belief of freedom while invading other nations, oppressing even our own citizens and denying our long-standing rights. President Franklin Roosevelt was flat wrong at the outbreak of World War II to confine Japanese-Americans living on the west coast. Democratic U.S. Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii is living testa­ment today to such prejudice that prevent­ed him from enlisting-that is, until our government faced a military manpower shortage. Then he was sent to the front lines to face the ultimate sacrifice. 

With each passing day, the Bush White House tears another edge away from our fabric of carefully balanced American free­doms. Under the broad mantle of national security, federal government departments both domestic and abroad claim exemp­tions from the protections enshrined in our Constitution and defined in international agreements. Under Bush, the American government has retarded constitutional guarantees through warrantless wiretaps, indefmite imprisonment without trials and torture-like interrogation techniques. Once envied and revered around the world as the beacon of freedom, American ideals are now tarnished throughout the interna­tional community. 
For the first time since World War II, persons have been detained in the name of security -sometimes for years without acknowledgment of their whereabouts and 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Audience n'Ot to blame 
Recognized  Student body  
complexity  receptive  
The audience at the Notre  This letter is in response to Conor  
Dame Forum on Monday reacted  McNamara's letter ("Audience behav­ 
the way it did to Sen. Martinez,  ior disappointing," Oct. 8). I resent  
Gov. Napolitano and Cardinal  McNamara's attack upon the student  
Mahoney's remarks -with  body as "self righteous" soldiers of  
sometimes thunderous applause  morality "armed with emotional pre­ 
-because what they said made  suppositions." I find this ironic  
good common sense across politi­ because, throughout his letter,  
cal boundaries. Martinez spoke  McNamara condescendingly loads his  
of the need for comprehensive  sentences against the student body  
reform that ensures all of the  with phrases like "coldly received"  
U.S.'s interests are addressed.  and "silent hostility" in reference to  
Napolitano discussed the chal­ the actions of the student body.  
lenges in maintaining border  In contrast, his behavior constitut­ 
security, and Cardinal Mahoney  ed "genuine spirit of good will" and  
spoke of the Church's ministerial  "intellectual inquiry." The irony, as I  
duties extending to everyone,  mentioned before, is that McNamara  
residency status aside.  himself comes across as self right­ 
By stark contrast, Mayor  eous, setting himself up higher than  
Barletta's remarks smacked  the proletariat student.  
largely of demagoguery and con­ Unfortunately for McNamara, in  
sisted of anecdotal stories about  this case the audience was dead-on  
gang violence and traffic acci­ in its rejection of Mayor Barletta's  
dents. It sounds to me as though  racist policies and arguments and  
the mayor has a crime problem  praise of Cardinal Mahoney's and  
in Hazleton, not an illegal immi­ Sen. Martinez's unbiased and ·  
gration problem. But he was far  humanitarian views of the immigra­ 
more interested in appealing to  tion situation we have in the United  
xenophobia than he was in actu­ States.  
al solutions. He spoke of solu­ McNamara concludes that the  
tions once ­punitive action  "back slapping sanctimony Iof the  
against illegal employers. He  ignorant audience] ... does nothing to  
rambled about evil illegals nearly  help advance ... the immigration  
all the rest of his time with the  reform plan," sadly without realizing  
microphone. It is hard for a  that the clearly wrong actions of peo­ 
group of well-educated students  ple like Mayor Barletta also do not  
and faculty trained in the art of  help the problem and that people like  
intellectual discourse to respect  him should not be listened to. Maybe  
someone who discussed such a  McNamara should stop slapping his  
complicated subject in such a  own back before accusing others of  
simplistic manner.  doing the same.  
Jarett DeAngelis  . Ryan Slaney  
graduate student  sophomore  
offcampus  Carroll Hall  
Oct. 10  Oct.!O  

without legal counsel. They have been subjected to extremes of deprivation and torture techniques both in a war zone at the Abu Ghraib prison in 2003 as well as on American territory at Guantonamo, Cuba. ln the eyes of foreign admirers who yearn for our freedoms, Americans are now hypocrites. 
In years past, the American way of life needed no explanation. Our system of fair play and equality was the foundation and origin of all freedoms. Because equality was our beginning-not the end -of all arguments about law, life and human nature, it was also the beginning-but by no means the end -of all disputes about the constitution and justice. So it was no surprise last week when White House Press Secretary Dana Perino denied that secret memos written by the Justice Department in 2005 sanctioned torture. Yet, as time passes, more evidence to the contrary exists. 
The New York Times described the 2005 memos as "an expansive endorsement of the harshest interrogation techniques ever used by the Central Intelligence Agency." The techniques consisted of extreme tem­peratures of heat and cold, water-board­ing or simulated drownings, prolonged stress positions and isolation accompanied only by continuously played loud music. It does not matter that other nations had been calling these same techniques torture for decades. 
Since the Bush administration claimed that these methods approved for use by the CIA were "not torture," officials could parse words and maintain their deniabili­ty. Their narrow defmition, unrecognized elsewhere, defined torture as "severe physical or mental pain or suffering that results in significant harm of significant duration, lasting months or even years." 
As a result, America's bedrock principles of human rights and standing as a global leader in a respect for the rule of law con­tinues to be undermined by their wish­thinking policies. An essential part of win­ning the war on terrorism and protecting our nation is to safeguard the ideals and principles that Americans hold dear: that torture is not acceptable and the constitu­tion must be respected. 
It is sad to think that Hitchens could be describing our current poisonous political climate in his anti-God book when he wrote of an "inescapable demand for com­fort, reassurance, and other infantile needs subsisting largely on lies and fears." Unfortunately, political wish-thinking will continue until we restore America's stand­ing as a nation committed to human rights, human dignity and the rule of law. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a com­munications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton sadministration. His col­umn appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and· not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Comic in poor taste 
In the comic "Tastes Like Failure," immigrants. printed on October 1Oth, the writers Dare I suggest that those at Notre Rich Protiva and Andy Spangler reiter­Dame who actually believe the Saint ated an old stereotype we all have Mary's "stupid and sleazy" stereotype heard: Saint Mary's women are stupid are intimidated by the strong smart and sleazy. women who live across the street? Well, 
You know, the funny thing about get over yourselves. We're Saint Mary's stereotypes is that even'though they are and we're proud of our student body frequently used in jest, they are devel­and rich heritage. oped by specific groups in a social struc­And for all of you who actually believe ture to counteract feelings of intimida­we at Saint Mary's are "akademickly" tion from another group. Stereotypes inferior, the next time you attempt to get are put into place by one party to a taste of a strong, independent Saint oppress another. Mary's woman, I am going to predict it 
Let's use our beloved Irish as an will "Taste Like Failure," because if that example. Between the years of 1820 and is how you perceive me, I would not 1880, nearly 3.5 million Irish women even talk to you for $299.00 per minute. and men entered the United States. Stereotypes that all Irish were drunken Audrey Ballinger and angry were developed by American semor· citizens who felt that their jobs and wel­Saint Mary's College fare were being threatened by Irish Oct.!! 
Set scooters free 
You've seen them on the quad. They I understand the liability of taking look like so much fun to ride, and you the scooter off campus. If I were to may have even fantasized about driv­injure myself while on the scooter and ing one. I'm referring to the bright red off campus, I could theoretically sue scooters that students with temporary the University because I was using mobility problems use. I'm writing this their scooter. But why not have me letter because, recently, I have been sign a waiver, or a whole series of one of those students on a scooter. waivers? And if anything happens to After I fractured my tibia and sprained the scooter -if it is stolen or damaged my ankle during a game of touch foot­-I will need to pay for it: This is ball, I was put on crutches for six already the policy. So why punish weeks until the bone heals. I was very those who get injured and live off cam­thankful that the University provides, pus? Why not allow us to drive the free of charge, the use of the scooter scooter home? for up to two months. The scooter idea is a great one and a 
Things weren't looking so bad, but credit to our University, but why not then I realized that one little detail extend it to help as many students as made a huge difference. I live off cam­possible? pus. The scooters are not allowed to go off campus. I must store it in a friend's Chris Spellman dorm and then arrange for someone to senior pick me up, even though I live only two off campus blocks away from the edge of campus. Oct.IO 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Friday, October 12, 2007 

By CASSIE BELEK Assistam Scene Editor 
"Funny Faee" is as much a love story betwBen Fred Astaire and Audrey Hepburn's characters as it is a love story between the eamera, fashion and Paris. 
The musieal, directed by the !,'Teat Stanley Donen, tells the story of Jo Stockton (llepburn), a young bookshop girl diseov­en~d f(>r her peculiar lace by "Quality" mag­azinn photographer Dick Avery (Astairn). 

fashion designers consider Paris
Funny Face 

the center of the fashion world and Givenehy's designs in "Funny Face" 
Starring: Fred Astaire, Audrey Hepburn 
llleMovie 
TheDVD 


By LAURA MILLER 
Scene Writer 
Expectations for Hascal Flatts arn high. From its sell'-titled first album through tho four albums that followed, tho group has bnen a success story. 
But its latnst album does not deliver up to standards. While it still appealing, it simply dons not have the strength of the band's previous releases. 
The beauty of Hascal Flatts is in the combination of amazing lyrics and heart-gripping music. The band's style extends the movement to revolutionize eountry into a truly national phenome­non -onn that stays true to its country-After Dick convinces editor Maggie Prescott (Kay Thompson} that Jo is the perfect choice for the new face of "Quality," all involved are whisked away to Paris to unveil a new fashion line and introduce Jo to the world press. 
It is diffieult to pinpoint the star in "Funny Face." Hepburn and Astaire are obvious choices, but always at the forefront of the lilm are the City of light and the fashions of Hepburn's favorite designer and friend, Hubert de Givenchy. The camera displays ParL<> and fashion with such adoration that 
it is no wonder why even today, 
a milestone in 20th century fashion. 
Despite the fundamental pres­ence of Paris and fashion, Hepburn and Astaire are the true, irresistible . appeal of the film. "Funny Face" marks the first and only time the pair would star in a movie together, but their combined performance is unforgettable and magical. 
The collaboration almost didn't 
happen. Their schedules failed to matc:h up, but when Astaire heard that Hepburn specifically requested to star with him in the musical, he decided to wait for her. 
"She asked for me, and I was 
western roots but appeals to a wider audience. And the group was incredibly successful. In 2006, the sale of Rascal Flatts' albums composed an astonishing seven percent of all country music albums sold. The group is particularly unique in the number of singles released per CD. Rascal Flatts has released 27 singles from the 5 albums, with the majority of the "Feels Like Today" and "Me and My Gang" albums being released over the span of two years. Of these singles, eight have been top hits on the country charts, and 18 have cracked the overall U.S. charts. Rascal Flatts' in11uence has been felt in many domains, and its music can be recognized from films such as "Cars," which features the 

band's cover of "Life is a Highway" -a cover that is arguably better than the original. 
The group rose out of Nashville -country capital of the nation. Gary LeVox is lead vocalist; Jay DeMarcus is harmony vocalist and on bass guitar, guitar and piano; and Joe Don Rooney is on harmony vocals, electric guitar, steel guitar and mandolin. 
Three songs have already been released from the newest album, "Still Feels Good." "Take Me There" was the first released and has already topped country ready," he said at the time. "ThL<> could be the last and only opportunity I'd have to work with the great and lovely Audrey and I was not missing it. Period." 
The performances from both of the two Hollywood legends are exceptional, yet much credit is due to Hepburn, who isn't the typical musical star. Although she had formal dance training in her youth, she never possessed the same skill as other Astaire partners, like Ginger Rogers and Leslie Caron. But Hepburn's natural grace and passion for dance made her an easy partner for Astaire, and the two dance searnlessly together throughout the film. 
Unlike in her most famous musical, "My Fair Lady," Hepburn was allowed to do her own singing in "Funny Face." Her voice lacks the vocal strength and quality of co­stars A<>taire and Thompson, but what she lacks in singing ability, she makes up for in pure emotion. Hepburn infuses her songs with feeling, something she mastered with "Moon River" in "Breakfast at Tiffany's." 
While Hepburn's star shines bright in "Funny Face," Astaire's is just as brilliant. The hoofer once again displays hL<> creative talent as Dick sings and dances his way to Jp;s heart. In the number "Let's Kiss and Make Up," Astaire demonstrates his pen­chant for incorporating props of all sorts into his routines. Dick taunts an imaginary bull with his red-lined raincoat and subdues 
~cal Flatts 
m Good, :Fails to Meet 
tions 
charts. The second released, "Hevolution," is a part of the soundtrack for "Evan Almighty." And "Still Feels Good" is climbing the charts as well. This album has a lot to live up to -espe­cially with all four of the group's previ­ous albums achieving double platinum ("Hascal Flatts" and "Melt") or quadru­ple platinum status ("Feels Like Today" and "Me and My Gang"). 
"Still Feels Good" is undoubtedly a great album. Rascal Flatts has the typi­cal great sound and vocals. Yet while this album might still feel good, it just doesn't sound as good as the last two albums. It's not quite the worst of the five, but it doesn't even come close to matching the top two albums. It lacks the surge of energy in "Me and My Gang" and the passionate love songs of "Feels Like Today." It is instead some­thing more akin to "Melt." A few great songs, pleasant to listen to, but nothing that just makes getting out of bed in the morning a must. "Take Me There" is the only song that is reminiscent of the band's best romantic lyrics. It oozes with the simple purity of love that makes Rascal Flatts so endearing. The rest of the songs, however, are a bit lovelorn and even border on that whiney pop­country that is so frequently criticized by lyrical critics. 
But the pull of Rascal Flatts' voices 
it with hL<> pointy umbrella. It's an idea that 
c:ame to A<>taire when he showed up to his 
studio and began dancing in front of a mir­
ror with his mat still on. 

Unfortunately, the 50th anniversary edi­
tion of "Funny Faee" doesn't have a special 
DVD mmmentary. It does c:ontain insightful 
featurettes such as "The Fashion Designer 
and His Muse," which explores the relation­
ship between Hepburn and Givenchy, and 
"Parisian Dreams," which describes the 
influence of the city of Paris on the film. 
However, there must be someone who 
could have provided an expert's opinion on 
"Funny Face," and the absence of that com­
mentary is a shortcoming on this anniver­
sary edition. 

Despite any shortcomings among the spe­eial features, the film il<>elf does not disap­point. Donen and company wnavo together the stars, the music and daneing, ParL<> and fashion in such a way as to croate a linishod product that still has an ellect on musical fans and fashion designers today. llepburn and A<>taire would certainly be enough to earry a film themselves, but the added ele­ments of Paris and fashion not only facili­tate the narrative, but they intensify the J1<>manee between the two main eharaetnrs ·and ultimately the romance bPtween 'th~ 
film and the audience. 

Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
JULIE GRISANTI I Observer Graphic 

Rascal Ratts just released their latest album, "Still Feels Good." 
and style is still a pull that makes the album a roquired indulgence for the true fan. It will be a platinum album, and the singles will still top the charts. Haseal Flatts is just that good. Even its mediocre music for is amazing. 
Contact Laura Miller at Laura.E.Miller.389@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, October 12, 2007 
page 17 

By MARl{ MANLEY and MICHAEL REDDING Scene Writers 
It is not often that the small, poorly publieized films capture the hearts of theatergoers -they rarely get the chance -but there are some that can­not be ignored. "Once" is one of those films. Healistic and romantic, "Once" offers something different to the audi­ence. 
This Fox Searchlight Film is very dif­ferent from your typical, canned flick. Much of its novelty stems from its focus on character development rather than plot twists. Though not much activity occurs in this movie, it constantly engages and intrigues. 
"Once" is a modern musical, in that it takes musical interludes -but it is not a grandiose, bright song-and-dance extravaganzas like "Chicago" or "Across the Universe." Tha movie has tbe grainy, rough feel of an independent film. The songs are not drawn from the plot, either; instead, they are songs the main characters wrote while living through the experiences depicted on the screen and sing in realistic circumstances. There is no bursting into song in the middle of a street -unless they are husking and looking for change. 
The director, John Carney, cast singer/songwriters for the protagonists, not actors. Glen Hansard is the bass gui­tarist of Irish rock band The Framers. Together, Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova, along with two other artists released an album, "The Swell Season," in 2006 and later toured with Damien Hicc. Despite coming from a different art, these musicians gave a compelling performance worthy time playing songs with his guitar for By ANALISE LIPARI money. The Girl is a Czech immigrant Assistant Scene Editor who sells flowers on the streets. 
One evening, the Girl passes the Guy When was the last time you listened to on Dublin's Grafton Street as he plays an a modern film soundtrack that didn't original song and loves it. She starts up have "Walt Disney's" in the title? a conversation and they plan to see each Film musicals aside, movie sound­other again as he offers to fix her vacu­tracks, like badly-moti­
of the album's subsequent tracks. Irglova, who is also a professional musi­cian, is the key vocalist on the sound­track's second track, "If You Want Me." Her voice has a haunting quality to it that sticks with the listener, and, again, the general feel of simplicity is refresh­ing in a time of 
um. Their relationship sprouts as they vated compilation discs, intense house beats
Each track comes directly
get to know each other. Both are trying are albums that tend to and over-mixed top-to move on from relationships that left be little more than from the performartces and 40 countdowns. them crippled: The Guy's old girlfriend mediocre collections of moments in the film, giving lrglova also leads in left him and moved to England, and the barely-connected pop "The Hill," a mourn­
the album a refreshing,
Girl's husband left her to provide food songs. The soundtrack ful ditty about lost and shelter for their child. from the Sundance Film deeper love. ''I'm on my The Guy and the Girl bond over their Festival award-winner connection to its knees in front of passion for music. The Girl's father was "Once" is changing that him I But he doesn't 
cinematic source than 
a concert musician, and she learned to trend. seem to see me,"
soundtracks often have. 
play classical piano as a child. Her pres­"Once" is the tale of an she croons, giving 
ent situation precludes her from owning Irish street musician 
a piano, however, and they have to go to the local music shop to play 
.,together. There they discover that they have a musical chemistry, and decide to spend the weekend recording their music. 
The Sound Engineer, initially skeptical of these poor workers' musical ability, quickly becomes enamored of their songs. Though this might sound remi­niscent of a high school football movie or even a chick flick, "Once" is more of a realistic film. The characters end up finding resolution, but not in a n y 

of more experienced Subtly strong and ter kind of way. actors. In fact, since captivating, "Once" is Subtly strong and cap­the people portraying tivating, "Once" is truly
truly one ofthe standout
the characters have one of the standout films not only actually films of the year. of the year. It is fitting 
experienced the process of writing and performing songs, but wrote many of the songs themselves, the movie captures the earnestness of their feeling. 
"Once" is set in Ireland. No one actual­ly says the names of the main characters -or most of the other characters for that matter -but the story focuses on a short period in the lives of two working class citizens. The Guy, who works in a vacuum shop, spends much of his spare 
that at the 2007 
Sundance Film Festival it won the World Cinema Audience Award for dramatic film; it is the kind of movie that sends away its audience feel­ing like they have seen something worth­while. 
Contact Mark Manley at M.Manley.l7@nd.edu and Michael Redding at Michael.W.Redding.l3@nd.edu 
"Once·· 
Browning Cinema DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 
Friday, October I 2 7 p.m. and IO p.m. Sunday, October I4 ?p.m. 

(Glen Hansard) and his brief. emotionally­charged friendship with a young Czech woman (Marketa Irglova) in Dublin. The two meet by chance when Hansard's unnamed character is performing on a. street corner, and their mutual love of music propels their friendship into a near­romance. While the two eventually part ways, their powerful but fleet­ing bond encourages them both to create ·music -music that makes up the film's soundtrack. Each track comes directly from the performances and moments in the film, 
trite sort of cookie-cut­
giving the album a refreshing, deeper connection to its cinematic source than soundtracks often have. 
The album opens with "Falling Slowly," a track that initiates the pair's friendship in the film. The song, with its clear echoes of Damien Rice and male and female vocal harmony, is a slower-paced, bare-bones piece that grabs the listener with ease. With little instrumentation accompanying the simplicity of the vocals, "Falling Slowly" sets up a stripped down musicality that, though varying at times, carries through the rest of the album. 
Hansard, first and foremost a musician in real life, is the main vocalist in "Falling Slowly" -a role he fills in most 
this simple little song a tragic touch. 
The album occasionally departs from its stripped-down sensibilities, but when it does, it is to the soundtr~~·s benefit. Two of the album's stronge!rt tracks ­"Gold" and "Fallen from the Sky" ­have a more complex feel and, in the case of "Fallen," an unobtrusive touch of the electronic. "Gold," performed by Irish band Interference, is a guitar-cen­tered track with a folk ballad feel. "Fallen" departs from the rest of the album with an almost whimsical feel to Hansard's vocals and a sweetness in its harmonies and lyrics. 
Other notable tracks include "Lies," a bitter reflection on the frustrations of love that calls to mind shades of both Rice and early David Gray; "Trying to Pull Myself Away," a guitar-heavy track highlighting Hansard's emotionally­strained vocals; and "Once," the album's title track that relishes in subtlety. 
The album isn't entirely without weak­nesses. At times .. Hansard sounds almost distractingly Rice-like. lrglova, then, also must move beyond the comparison between her and Rice's usual counter­part, Lisa Hannigan. In both of their cases, however, the strength of their individual performances and the devel­opment of the album prevent these com­parisons from dominating the overall experience. The final track, "Say It to Me Now," more than makes up for any faults with its juxtaposition of beauty and anger. 
In the case of this strong, understated album, listening "Once" is definitely not enough. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
Once Once: Music from the Motion Picture Directed by: John Carney 
Released by: Columbia
Starring: Glen Hansard, Marketa 
Recommended Tracks: "Falling Slowly,"
lrglova 
"If You Want Me," "Fallen," "Gold' 

~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, October 12, 2007 MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
St. Ed's looks to continue suprise season against Siegfried 
Dillon hopes to contain high-powered Morrissey offense; strong Fisher defense tries to remain unbeaten against Knott 
ship."
By MATT GAMBER, ANDY The St. Ed's defense has alsoZICCARELLI, JARED JEDICK, 

played a big role with defen­and SAM WERNER sive touchdowns in their past
Sports Wrirers 

two wins. Junior strong safety 
Dan Murphy, an Observer 
If Siegfrifld had looked at its sports writer, leads the team schndulfl during thfl preseason, with two interceptions, one of it might have viewed Sunday's which he returned for an 85­2 p.m. matchup with St. Ed's as yard touchdown against an easy victory. Not anymore, Carroll. as the Stedsmen --last year's Up front, Wang and senior league doormat --are 3-0, and defensive lineman Corey thn rest of the league has taken Fitzpatrick have anchored the notien. defense that "excels by playing 
"We haven't really gotten a team ball," Wang said. chance to scout them that And while the Stedsmen are much, but we know they're a anxious to begin their first lot better this year than they playoff run in recent memory, have been in the past," they won't be looking past their Siegfried senior captain Tom regular season finale. Martin said. "We'll really have "We treat every game we to comn out focused to beat play as if it's our last one," them." Wang said. "It'd be really 
The Hambiers (1-0-1 ), led by something to end our season junior running back Marcus undefeated, and that's our Young, will stick with a two­goal." quarterback system that has benn relatively successful thus • Dillon vs. Morrissey far. .Junior Max Young and Af'tnr pieking up its first win fn~shman Mike Garda are both of the season last weekend, pocket passers with similar Dillon will look to continue its styles, and that fact has turnaround against defending allowed for a "smooth transi-champion Morrissey. lion" between the two, Martin Junior captain Alex Duffy said. said that limiting mistakes will 
"We don't have a set system," be crucial. said Martin, who will play "What we've been focusing offensive guard and dHfensive on in practiee is maintaining end. "Hotating them lets us the aggression and intensity keep them fresh and allows that makes us a good football thnm to play team, while limit-some deftmse. ing the mental So far. it's been "It's mostly been a slip-ups that can mostly about cost us games,"kneping people change in attitude-Duffy said. lu~althy, and once you win a game, It was a Keough it's worked." everything changes." miseue that Dillon 
For St. Ed's, capitalized on last a talented week, recovering f r e s h m a n Ge Wang a muffed punt to elass, led by St. Ed's captain set up the game-quarterback winning touch-Matt Abnling down. Led by out-and top receiver Dan Crisman, side linebacker Brett Berceau, has been a driving force in the Big Hed will look for their leading the Stedsmen baek to dei'Hnse to step up again this rnspeetability -and now, week. beyond. "Our defense was nasty," 
"It's mostly bHen a change in Duffy said. "We have a group attitude -once you win a of studs." game, nverything changes. and The Dillon defense will have we've rnalized wn can play their hands full this Sunday as with thn best of them," senior they take on the high-powered lirwbacker and fullback Ge Manor offense. Despite missing Wang said. "The freshmen starting quarterback Joe havn definitely played a large McBrayer last week, Morrissey part in that, but there's a good still managed to move the ball amount of uppnrdassrnen who effectively in its 12-0 win over have provided a lot of leader-O'Neill, twice stringing togeth­er long touchdown drives from more captain Aidan Fitzgerald deep in its own territory. said. "It was a few missed Senior Nick Bencomo and snaps and an interception sophomore Mike Fletcher have returned for a touchdown that both done damage out of the killed us." backfield so far this season for Catching up with Fisher will the Manorites. be a tall order for the 
The Dillon offense managed Juggerknotts, who are without to break out last week. After a go-to quarterback. Knott's being shut out by Stanford in first and second-string signal-their first game, callers will be Dillon found the unavailable due end zone twice "We need elevated to injuries and last week in its prior commit­
execution and
12-6 win over ments, and they Keough. intensity on every will be forced to 
"We ran our down." play with inex­offense very effi­perienced ciently against freshman Nick
Aidan Fitzgerald 
Keough," Duffy Lezynski. said. Knott captain "He was very 
Sophomore good in high quarterback Joe school. We just Garigliano will lead the Big hope that he can make the Red attack, while workhorse translation into the Interhall Duffy will shoulder the load as game," Fitzgerald said. running back. The Juggerknotts will try to 
"lnterhall games are so short take some pressure of Lezynski because of the running clock by running the ball early and that it's very tough to overcome often. Fitzgerald wants the mistakes," Duffy said. team to come out with a good The action begins Sunday at balanced strategy. Freshman 3 p.m. at Riehle Field. running back Cameron Smith has led the Knott rushing Fisher vs. Knott attack so far this year. · Fisher will attempt to contin­"We are not the biggest ue its undefeated season team, but we make our blocks against Knott Hall Sunday at 3 and we create holes to run 
p.m. at Hiehle Field. through," Fitzgerald said. 
Fisher enters the game at 2-The focus throughout prac­0, with wins over Sorin and tice this week has been on Carroll. doing the little things on each 
The defense and special and every single play. teams have been key for "We need elevated execution Fisher. The Green Wave scored and intensity on every down," a touchdown off a blocked punt Fitzgerald said. and added two interceptions A win against Fisher will and a turnover on downs boost the Juggerknotts against the Vermin. chances of making the play­
The Fisher offense is led by offs, and Fitzgerald expects his senior quarterback Kevin team to be up to the challenge. Habil. Habil 's veteran leader­"We responded pretty well ship has kept the team on the when we needed a win in our positive side of the turnover second game against Zahm. battle this year. Rabil's main This team knows how to step target this season has been fel­up," Fitzgerald said. low senior Pat Gotebeski. 
The Green Wave's experience Carroll vs. Sorin will make them a team to con­Carroli and Sorin will be tend with deep into the play­playing for hall pride when offs. they face off at 1 p.m. Sunday 
Knott needs to come up with at Hiehle Field. Even though an upset victory to keep its both teams are eliminated own playoff hopes alive. Knott from playoff contention in the dropped to 1-1 after a 20-6 Blue League, they still plan to loss to St. Ed's last week in fight for a win this weekend. which they felt they deserved "We just have to stick to our the win. game plan and see what we 
"We scored first, and we set can do," Vermin senior cap­the tone offensively," sopho-tain Kyle Kownacki said. 
Carroll, 0-3 on the season, 
will look to find some type of 
offensive consistency behind 
sophomore quarterback John 
Sarna. 

"A lot of the points we've 
given up have been off 
turnovers," Kownacki said. 
The defense has been the 
sole bright spot for the 
Vermin this season, holding 
opponents to a paltry 6.3 
points per game. 

"I can't really single any one guy out," Kownacki said. "Our defense has just played well all year." 
They face an Otter team that has also had its share of disappointment this year, going 0-2 and scoring just one touchdown in two games. 
"As you can tell by our record, it's been pretty tough," Sorin senior captain Hyan Bove said. 
Bove attributed his team's disappointing seasQn to men­tal mistakes on both sides of the ball. 
"If we cut down on mis­takes, we're a couple of plays away from being 2-0," he said. "We've given up four or five big plays, which is huge [in this league]." 
Against the Vermin, expect the Otters to continue to pound a running attack cen­tered around sophomore run­ning back Hob Gallic and rely on a strong defense to keep the game close. 
Sorin should be aided on defense by the return of soph­omore lineman Preston Bennett, who missed the first two games to injury. 
"!Bennett] should definitely help," Bove said. "We've been short on linemen, and ·he can help fill that position and free up other guys to play other spots." 
Even though their main focus may already be toward next season, expect both teams to fight for a win on Sunday. 
"It's been disappointing," Kownacki said. "But we're just going to go out there and have fun." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu, Andy Ziccarelli at aziccare@nd.e<lu, Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu, and Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 ('·m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is J p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Moving on with my life Moving in FSB0-6.2 miles to NO-Colonial Weekend Home Rentals Two beau-Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. with yours. Lake St. George is your 2story home 4bdr 2-1/2 baths close tiful homes in NE Neighborhood campus. washer/dryer, landlord PERSONAL new home With an almost view of to schools county tax many xtrs. available to rent for football week· does the yardwork. $750/month. No For Sale: NO football tix. All Home 
the dome Sleep in one of three 574-291-2899 ends, JPW, Graduation and pets. No section B. 574-250-1266. Games.. 574-232-0964. Chess Lessons Adult & Children suites Taste the city water. It is other NO events. Located just Large house available for 2009­Online/in-person (Michiana) Dennis sweet New. New Everything You three short blocks from campus, 2010. Full renovations completed Monokroussos USCF National can have it for some bling Not too WANTED these homes are perfect for this year. Great location on E 
PERSONAL 

Master historicchess@comcast.net bad for $345 thousand Call Jan families or friends looking Marion. Large common areas, 5 57 4-277-8673. Lazzara on her band Notre Dame items. Rockne, Leahy, to share accommodations bathrooms. Also available: 5bdrm 2 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 574-233-6141. Ara, Holtz. Helmets, Uniforms, for the weekend. Each bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008-Do not go it alone. If you or some-Footballs, Old Programs & Tickets. sleeps 8-10 people. For more 2009. Contact one you love needs confidential FoR SALE 3bdrm, 1.5 bath condo. Close to Call574-257-0039 or 574-277-information, please contact MacSwain@ gmail.com support or assistance, please call 
NO. Immaculate move-in condition. NDND langmeyer64@comcast.net or Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For Call me for a list of properties near Prefer to sell totally furnished mowhelan@ more information, visit our website NO. 574-217-1557 Tatiana w/linens, etc. All new & like-new fur-sbcglobal.net or call TICKETS at: 
niture. Extremely reasonable, FoR RENT http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-NO Grad selling Granger home. $130.000. Not furnished $115,000. 574-289-3968. Wanted NO Football Tix Please nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad Open, spacious & newer. 4 br. 4 Woodbridge Condos. Call 2BR/2bath condo for rent at Helpl 574-251-1570 in THE OBSERVER. bth, +finished basement. 3 car g. 574-272-0360, cell574-274-8359 Jamison Residential( Ivy Court). B&B-style lodging in a log cabin in Century 21 Jim Dunfee Realty. for appt. to see. For your Available for jan-may or june-aug or the woods 20 min from campus. www. victorytickets.com If you or someone you care about Call Tim convenience, appt. hrs. on both. Perfect for young couple or $250 for weekend. NO tickets for sale. Best Prices. has been sexually assaulted, visit 
Fri & Sat 9 a.m to 8 p.m.; visiting prof. contact Mike: 507-326-http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 574-271-3440. Sun. 9-3. 7044 or mikec@cbatty.com 269-362-0300. 57 4-288-2726. shtml 
.....-----------------~---­
OUND THE NATION 
Friday, October 12, 2007 CoJvtPllED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 

NFL AFC East 

team  record  streak  opp.  
New England  5·0  W5  @OAt  
Buffalo  1·4  L1  BYE  
New York Jets  1-4  L2  PHI  
Miami  0·5  L5  @CLE  

AFC North 

team record streak opp. 
Pittsburgh 4·1 W1 BYE Ballimore 3-2 W1 STL Cleveland 2·3 L1 MIA Cincinnati 1·3 L3 @ KC 
AFC South 

team record streak opp. 
Indianapolis 5-0 W5 BYE Tennessee 3-1 W2 @TB Jacksonville 3-1 W3 HOU Houston 3-2 W1 @JAC 
AFC West 

team record streak opp. 
Oakland 2-2 W2 @so San Diego 2-3 W1 OAK Denver 2·3 L3 BYE Kansas City 2-3 L1 CIN 
NFC East 

team record streak opp. 
Dallas 5-0 W5 NE Washington 3-1 W1 @GB New York Giants 3·2 W3 @ATL Philadelphia 1-3 L1 @NYJ 
NFC North 

team record streak opp. 
Green Bay 4-1 l1 WAS Detroit 3·2 L1 BYE Chicago 2·3 W1 MIN Minnesota 1-3 L3 ®CHI 6; 
•l' -; •lit '1:'' 
NFC South 

team record streak opp. 
Carolina 3·2 W1 @ARI 
Tampa Bay 3-2 L1 TEN 
Atlanta 1-4 L1 NYG 
New Orleans 0-4 L4 @SEA 
NFC West 

team record streak opp. 
Arizona 5-0 W5 CAR Seattle 1-4 L1 NO San Francisco 1-4 L2 BYE St. Louis 0-5 l5 @BAL 
NCAA Men's Ice Hockey 
Preseason Poll 

team points preuious 
1 North Dakota 545 6 
2 Boston College 519 4 
3 Michigan State 513 10 
4 Miami 471 13 
5 Minnesota 470 2 
6 New Hampshire 454 5 
7 Clarkson 396 3 
8 NOTRE DAME 358 1 
9 Boston University 332 9 
10 Michigan 296 8 
11 Colorado College 277 20 
12 Maine 234 14 
13 Denver 232 15 
14 Ouinnipiac 196 16 
15 Wisconsin 181 17 
16 St. Lawrence 159 11 
17 St. Cloud Slate 90 NR 
18 Cornell 85 NR 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Hawaii at San Jose State 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB PLAYOFFS Cleveland at Boston 7 p.m., FOX 
MLB 


Associated Press 

ATLANTA John Schuerholz stepped aside Thursday after 1 7 years as general manager of the Atlanta Braves with only one regret. 
Despite an unprecedent­ed 14 straight division titles, the Braves won just one World Series. 
With a few more rings, he figured, this would have been the perfect farewell. 
"What else is there?" said Schuerholz, who will become team president and turn over the GM duties to his right-hand man, Frank Wren. "It would have been, unequiv­ocally, the complete valida­tion of the grand nature of this franchise. Nobody could have said anything about the Atlanta Braves and ended the sentence with the word 'but."' 
Otherwise, Schuerholz has no complaints with his career, one that could land him a spot in Cooperstown someday. 
He turned 6 7 last week and was admittedly worn down by the grind of more than a quarter-century as a general manager. Before coming to Atlanta, he spent nine years in the same post with the Kansas City Royals, winning another World Series title in 1985. 
But he will forever be remembered for his impact on the Braves, a 
perennial last-place team when he took over in 1991. That very first year, Atlanta won the NL West and went all the way to the World Series. In the years that followed, the division titles kept coming with numbing regularity, until the streak finally ended with a third-place finish in 2005. 
"Obviously, John has done an unbelievable job with the organization," outfielder Jeff Francoeur said. "He definitely deserves to retire and enjoy what he's accom­plished. It's sad, because we didn't want to see him go." 
Actually, he's not going anywhere. Schuerholz signed a four-year contract and remains second in command to chairman Ten;y McGuirk, but will step away from day-to-day personnel decisions, such as trades, free-agent sign­ings and other roster moves. 
''I'll miss that," Schuerholz said during a news conference at Turner Field. 
Wren, a former GM with the Baltimore Orioles, spent the past eight years working for Schuerholz and hoping to eventually replace him. 
"Our styles are differ­
ent," said Wren, who also "got a four-year deal. "But our philosophies are very, 
very similar." 

IN BRIEF A&M coach admonished for 
exclusive team newsletter 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas -Texas A&M officials admonished coach Dennis Franchione for his secretive, for-pay newsletter Thursday and said the embarrassing episode would be a factor in deciding whether he returns next season. 
Franchione didn't lose his job, but athletic director Bill Byrne said the newsletter -which delivered inside information to boosters for $1,200 a year -would be considered when he evaluates the coach after the season. 
The school said it would report the results of an internal investigation to the NCAA because of possible rules violations, and Franchione was ordered to shut down his Web site, CoachFran.com. He also will receive a "letter of admonishment." 
"The Aggies are embarrassed right now," Byrne said. "This has been a very unfortunate incident we do not want to experience again." 
Wizards center Thomas 
undergoes heart surgery 
WASHINGTON -Washington Wizards center Etan Thomas under­went open heart surgery Thursday at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota to repair a leak of the aortic valve, an irregulari­ty discovered during a routine physical before start of training camp. 
The Wizards, citing Thomas' right to privacy, made no statement other than to acknowledge the surgery took place. The team hoped to provide details Friday after consulting with his doctor. 
"Hopefully they can correct the prob­lem," forward Antawn Jamison said. "We know how much he loves the game of basketball and what he means to this team, but the most important thing -you just hope that the surgery goes well." 
Whether the 29-year-old Thomas will play in the NBA again is unknown, and at the very least he will need months to recuperate before rejoining his team. 
Struggling Hornish pon­ders NASCAR future CONCORD, N.C. -As the list of open-wheel stars moving to NASCAR grows, Sam Hornish Jr. remains undecided about his future. He's had tremendous success in IndyCars -winning three champi­onships and last year's Indianapolis 500 -but his tryout in stock cars hasn't been nearly as smooth. He's still trying to make his first Nextel Cup event, and dropped to 0-for-4 after failing to qualify for Saturday night's race at Lowe's Motor Speedway. "We knew it was going to be diffi­cult coming in," I-Iornish said Thursday. "We'd like to have been racing a couple times so far, but we knew this was a possibility. We knew this was going to be tough, and that's why I said I wanted to do this." A longtime open-wheel loyalist, Hornish now finds himself one of the many newcomers in NASCAR. 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 12, 2007 
NCAA BASKETBALL
GETTING HIS KICKS 

Huggins back hollle at West Virginia 

Senior punter Geoff Price kicks against UCLA as senior Anthony Vemagtla races Into coverage In Pasadena. 

Associated Press 

CIIAHLESTON, W.Va. -Bob Huggins' dream job is about to begin -in a big way. 
No more pep talks to alumni and fans. No more basketball camps. No more recruiting. Finally, Huggins gets to scold, teach and mold his players full time, beginning Friday night at the official start of practice at West Virginia. 
"It seems like I've been gone every day," Huggins said Thursday. ''I'm just so happy I'm off the road and back to coach­ing. I can hardly stand it." 
Three decades after hi'> playing days at his alma mater, a new generation will see Huggins' intense and unrelenting coaching style in person, their roles far dif­ferent than the 3-point loving ofl'nnse of his WVU predecessor, John Beilein. 
Huggins anticipates an emo­tional return to the WVU Coliseum in Morgantown where he played from 1975 to 1977. leading the Mountaineers in assists his senior year. 
lluggins expects several former teammates to show up at Mountaineer Madness, which coincides with the start of prac­tice nationwide. Be's holding out hope that his father, Charles, who was his high school coach in east­ern Ohio, might show up if his health allows. 
Free admission should boost 

I~ I.. Y il t•t.. JlNI~ l~ftll I~ Ill~ I~ 
INTERESTED IN BEING A PILOT? 
Then do something about it. A U.S. MARINE CORPS A VIA TOR will be giving FREE ORIENTATION FLIGHTS Tuesday, Oct. 16, at the Corpm·att Wings Building at the South Bend Airport. 
-
No obligation incurred. 
Get in the cockpit of the PIPER NAVAJO (TWIN ENGINE TURBO CHARGED, AIRSPEED 205 MPH, ALL WEATHER RADAR EQUIPPED AIRCRAFT) and see if you have the skills required to earn a GUARANTEED A VIA TlON OPT'ON as a MARINE CORPS OFFICER. 
('ALL lST LIEUTENANT ERIC CRECELIUS OR GUNNERY SERGEANT CLAYTON AND RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY 
Call Toll Free 1-877-299-9397 

Fly these with us on the 16TH ... 
I,. l.tcuh!ntml Fnc Creech us MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION OFFICER 134 Wc'l Stnlc Street Stule ··c" w~.,tl.nfll\ cllc. IN 47906 
(765) 74:l:R35<J I 1\762 
bnaal crccchuscp(a:murinc:i.usmc mil 
. . fly these after you graduate. 
CHECK OUT OUR WEB SfTES 
www.indianamanncofficcr com 
www.marincx.11lkcr com 
\\<Vo'\\'.nlllflllCS.C(lln 
www .ocs..usmc mil 

attnndance. There will b1~ auto­
~-,rraph sessions, a slam-dunk con­
test and a two-ball competition 
between the men's and women's 
teams, along with team scrim­
mages and a speech from 
Huggins. 

"I guess it will hit me tomor­
row. I've still got jet lag," said 
Huggins, fresh ofT a trip to the 
West Coast. ''I'm surn walking in 
the Coliseum tomorrow will hit 
me. It's just such a spec:ial placn 
and there are so many special 
memories there for me. So it will 
be a fun time." 

Early season ticket sales have 
been strong, although it's too 
soon to tell whether Huggins will 
have a huge impact. The 
Mountaineers sold 5,600 season 
tickel'i last year. 

"All indications arc that it's 
going to be a good year," said 
Matt Wells, WVU's ticket market­
ing manager. 

West Virginia couldn't lure 
Huggins back fivn years ago after 
Gale Catlett's retirement. lluggins 
was ousted after 16 seasons at 
Cincinnati following a 2005 
drunken driving arrest. lie took a 
year off and coached last sea'ion 
at Kansa<; State. 

West Vir~-,rinia athletic director Ed Pastilong didn't need to bog Huggins again when Beilein left for Michigan in April, even though it meant leaving behind one of the nation's best recruiting classes at Kansas State. 
Huggins' work at West Virginia began with a recruiting trip the day allnr he wa'i hirnd. lie's since criss-crossed the state too many times to count -not to mention many out-of-state plane trips~ And never mind the 54-year-old Huggins is only five years remov11d from a heart attack. 
"In my line of work, peoplo used to say, 'man, you need to slow down, stop and smell the roses,"' Huggins said. "Well, what happens when you slow down, stop and sm11ll the roses, people like Hick Pitino and Billy Gillispie run right by you." 
He'll have some work to do to move closer to those established programs at Louisville and Kentucky, tnams he was familiar with at Cincinnati. 
Huggins inherited three startnrs .from the team that won the NIT championship. llis influ­ence on his nnw players was immndiate. 
Under Beilein, the Mountaineers gamblnd with one­shot possessions, so who nendnd a bulked-up body to absorb the hil'i of crashing the boards'? 
Huggins' tnams, that's who. 
"I think we lost a couple games last year when we were out­toughed," forward Alnx Huoff said. "I don't think that will hap­pen this year. I am exdted. A lot of things are new." 
Guards Da'Sean Butler and Joe Mazzulla and forwards Jon Alexander and WHIIington Smith have put on notieeabln weight through oflsnason workoul'i. 
"Jon Alexander, that's the guy you'llnotien is mueh bigger," cen­tHr .Jamie Smalligan said. 
Not that the players didn't lift weights under Beilein, but "there's just a bigger emphasis now on transferring it to the court," point guard Darris Nichols said. "That's how (Huggins') teams play. It's more physical and you nend to get in the weight room." 
The roles among the eight returning players will be much different than a year ago. 
Huggins plays a tough man-to­man defense, far different the Heilein's signaturn 1-3-1 zone. 
Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB PLAYOFFS 
Power pitchers lead Red Sox, Indians to ALCS 

the Los Angeles Angels. 
"The matchup, it's a great thing for baseball," Boston catcher Jason Varitek said. "Those two guys have had tremendous years and they both have tremendous stuff." 
Sabathia's 1-0 loss in Cleveland the day before Beckett's setback came against Daisuke Matsuzaka, who is set to pitch the third game against Jake Westbrook. 
The Indians lefty finished at 19­7 with a 3.21 ERA but labored in his team's playoiT opener, throw­ing 114 pitches in five innings. Still, he got the win in the 12-3 rout of the New York Yankees. 
"It was just a case of me over­throwing," Sabathia said. "It was the first game against the Yankees, first game of the play­offs, (my) first playoff game in six years, so I was excited." 
He's not alone . 

Despite his postseason success -three shutouts in six starts and the MVP award of the 2003 World Series with Florida -Beckett feels the jitters on days he pitches, too. 
"All day is kind of like an anxi­ety-type deal for me," he said. "I think it's a little more during the playoffs, but after you throw your first pitch, it's back to executing pitch by pitch by pitch." 
Both teams finished at 96-66, the best record in baseball, but Boston gained home-field advan­tage by winning the season series 5-2. 
The Red Sox had a better bat-

Associated Press 
BOSTON -Even when they lose, Josh Beckett and C.C. Sabathia can seem unbeatable. 
The hard-throwing Cy Young award candidates had outstand­ing outings on consecutive days in late July. Both struck out seven and allowed one run and no walks -but ended up losing 1-0 decisions. 
And they came against each other's teams. 
The Boston Hed Sox and Cleveland Indians meet again on Friday night, and now their aces square ofT against each other in the opener of the AL champi­onship series. 
"They were great ballgames to 
• 
watch, old school baseball," Cleveland manager Eric Wedge said Thursday. "It's feasible for something like that to happen again." 
That loss in Cleveland on July 25 in which Beckett pitched an eight-inning complete game, but Game 2 starter Fausto Carmona was just a little better, probably didn't provide much help for Friday's outing. 
"They've got a couple new guys so you've just got to go at it as a new game," Beckett said. 
He was 20-7 this season, the first 20-game winner in the majors since 2005, with a 3.27 ERA. He pitched a four-hit, com­plete-game shutout in the opener of the AL division series against 

aa~••• Bead•s 
Best TaUgete Spot 
Open at Bam to kickoff the day! 
1803 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 574-247-9293 
ting average, .279 to .268, but the Indians hit more homers, 178­
166. Their pitching staffs were comparable -Boston had the AL's best ERA and Cleveland ranked third. 
"They've got great pitching and we do, too. They've got huge bats and we do, too," Sabathia said. "I think we're dead even." 
He'll have to face a potent Boston lineup that outscored the Angels 19-4. David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez found their power strokes, each hitting two homers in the three games. For Cleveland, five of their nine starters hit .353 or better in the four games against the Yankees. 
So with the Green Monster looming in left field and the short wall down the right-field line, might this be the time for Beckett and Sabathia to unravel? 
"I don't see panic taking over," said Boston pitching coach John Farrell, who was Cleveland's director of player development before joining the Red Sox this season. 


The Kings of Kilburn High Road 
By Jimmy Murphy 
Tuesday, October 16 and Wednesday, October 17 8:00p.m. Decio Theater 
To celebrate the conference, 11 Race and Immigration in the New Ireland;' the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies will host two performances of Jimmy Murphy's The Kings of the Kilburn High Road in the Decio Theater of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts on Tuesday, October 16th and Wednesday, October 17th at 8:00.ln this highly acclaimed play, agroup of friends take ahilarious and tragic look back on their lives as they gather in apub twenty-five years after they left their homes in Ireland to make their fortunes in England. The play is the work of Arambe Productions, aprofessional Irish theater company led by director and performance artist, Bisi Adigunl who currently has a version of The Playboy ofthe ~/estern World running in the Abbey Theatre, Dublin. 
For more information call the Box Office at 631-2800. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 12, 2007 
NHL 

Hurricanes halt Senators five-game win streak 

Associated p..,,, 

crrrAWA -In fadng the Eastern Confnrencn champions, Peter Laviolette want1~d the Carolina llurrieanes to remember that they arn essentially the same team that won the Stanley Cup two seasons ago. 
Erik Cole seored twice and Chad Larose had three assists, helping Carolina end Ottawa's season-opening five-game win­ning strnak with a 5-3 victory over the Senators on Thursday night. 
Cam Ward stopped 27 shots and Matt Cullen and Rod Brind'Amour also scored for the llurrieanes, who improved to 3­1-1 overall. Carolina, which missed the playoffs last season, is 2-1 midway through a six-game road trip that included Monday's 7-1 win in Toronto. 
"We've got to stop playing the opponent. We've got to start play­ing our game," said Laviolette, the Hurricanes eoach. "We've got great hockey players in there who are capable of' good things on any night. Yeah, they have a good hockey team, obviously, but we've got a good team, too. We should just worry about our­selves." 
Cole, who opened the scoring with his first goal of the season on a power play in the first peri­od, got his second goal 6:35 into the third to put Carolina up 4-1. 
Mike Fisher and Joe Corvo scored goals 1:55 apart late in the third to draw Ottawa within 4-3. But Eric Staal scored into an empty net with 59 seconds remaining to seal the win. 
"It was definitely a niee win for our team," Staal said. "Ottawa being undefeated, we knew it was going to be a good test for us and it was kind of nice to be sit­ting here, kind of waiting for them with them playing in Atlanta (Wednesday) night." 
Dany Heatley also scored his fifth goal of the season for Ottawa, which fell one game short of matching its best start ever. Martin Gerber made 27 saves. 
"They were working hard and they were really aggressive," Gerber said. "It was a tough grind. They really battled." 
The Senators, who won 3-1 in Atlanta on Wednesday, began the 2005-06 season with six straight victories on their way to setting franchise records for wins (53) and points (113). 
"Obviously they're a pretty 

"Global Ireland: From Celtic Twilight to Celtic Tiger" 
Luke Gibbons Donald R. Keough Family Professor of Irish Studies 
12:00 Noon Saturday, October 13, 2007 
Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt 
good team but they're maybe a little road weary from last night's game and last night's trip so we're just going to take it as a pretty good effort from us," Cole said. 
Ottawa captain Daniel Alfredsson ended a five-game points streak. Through Wednesday, Alfredsson led the league with nine points, inducting five goals and four assists. 
Each of Carolina's first thrne goals came off rebounds. 
Cole opened the seoring on a power play 17:33 in. The Hurricanes' lel't wing jumped on a rebound of Staal's shot that Senators defenseman Wade Hedden was unable to dear, bmtt­ing Gerber for his lirst goal of the season. 
Cullen made it 2-0 just 1:10 into the seeond when he batted a floating rebound of Larose's shot out of mid-air, though only all1~r hesitating long enough to ensure that he made eontaet with the puek below the height of the crossbar. 

Information Meeting Tuesday, October 16, 6:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 
for more information visit www.peacecorps.gov or call 800.424.8580 
Fall 2007 Schedule 

Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues ofour times. 
tl 9/01-Georgia Tech ''\x:'hy is Goethe's Faust the Greatest Work of German Literature:" Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor ofArts and Letters 
tl 9/22-Michigan State "Health Care Reforms: An Economist's A.ssessmem'' William Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Economics 
tl 10/13-Boston College "Global ireland: From Celtic 'Twilight to Celric Tiger" Luke Gibbons, Donald R. Keough .Family Professor of Irish Studies 
tl 10/20-USC "Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam" Asma Afsaruddin, Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies 
tl 11/03-Navy ~ "Cops, Protest, and Rioting" :::..._ Daniel Myers, Director of Research and Faculty Development, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Professor of Sociology '-t: 
~~ 11/10-Air Force ''1heological But Nor Religious: l11e Case ofJohn Milton" Stephen Fallon, Professor, Program of Liberal Studies 
tl 11/17-Dukc 
"Words and Music, Music and Words: The Songs of Franz Schubert" Susan Youens, J.W Van Gorkom Professor of Music 
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium, Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). For more information, visit http:/ Isaturdayscholar.nd.edu 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
MLB PLAYOFFS 
Rockies continue i111probable run w-ith Ga111e 1 victory 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX -Make it 18 out of 19 for the remarkable Rockies. Neither a ruckus by the Arizona crowd nor a four-day layoff could slow them down. 
Jeff Francis outpitched Brandon Webb, Brad Ilawpe got the big hit and Colorado won the NL championship series opener 5-1 Thursday night in a game interrupted when fans angered by an umpire's disputed interfer­ence call threw objects onto the field. 
After several water bottles landed near Colorado players, umpires pulled the teams off the field in the bottom of the seventh inning. 
"There comes a point in time when you need to make a point. 
Enough's enough," Rockies man­ager Clint Hurdle said. 
After an eight-minute delay, umpire crew chief Tim McClelland told Hurdle to have Francis throw a pitch and "fight through it." 
He did, the wild-card Rockies escaped a jam and their superb bullpen did the rest. 
Colorado won on almost a daily basis during its surge. But the Rockies hadn't played since completing a three-game sweep of Philadelphia on Saturday. 
The time allowed the nervous­ness to mount for the first NLCS game in Hackies' history. 
"As soon as I stepped on the field, I'm sure I speak for every­body else, you had butterflies," said Hawpe, whose bases-loaded single brought home two runs in Colorado's three-run third. "It was an emotional, high-energy day for all of us. We weren't in the flow of it like we had been. So you know today's win, I think, is even more special because of that." 
Game 2 is Friday night in Phoenix, with Arizona lefty Doug Davis facing hard-throwing Colorado rookie Ubaldo Jimenez. 
Francis dominated while Rockies hitters, coming off a first-round sweep over Philadelphia, patiently waited out Webb. Then again, they were familiar with the 2006 NL Cy Young winner -this was the seventh time he started against Colorado this year. 
All seven hits Webb surren­dered were singles. "It was just bloops over short 
and second," he said. "It was tough luck. There's really noth­ing you can do." 
Colorado's lone loss during its streak came to Webb and the Diamondbacks at Coors Field on Sept. 28. This time, the Rockies won by bunching singles against the Arizona ace -it was the first time this season they won without an extra-base hit. 
"Our offense can find a lot of ways to win games," Francis said. "It's been fun to have them behind me this year." 
On a hot night in the desert ­it 93 degrees outside at game­time -tempers flared after a relatively calm six innings. 
Down 5-l, Arizona put run­ners at flrst and second with no outs in the seventh. Augie Ojeda bounced to third baseman 

YOUR CATERING SOLUTIONlll 
BOX LUNCHES, PLATTERS, PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 
FREEBIE$ ISUB$ & CLUB$ ONLVJ Onion, lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK 1r 
Garrett Atkins, who threw to second baseman Kaz Matusi. 
Justin Upton, running from first base, slid over second base and then rolled his right shoul­der into second baseman Kaz Matsui's left leg, knocking the infielder to the ground. Second base umpire Larry Vanover immediately called Upton out for interference, resulting in a dou­ble play. 
"I was just playing the game. I did what I was supposed to do," Upton said. "That's what you're taught to do when you slide is pop up." 
"It's his decision," he said. "I told him I was close to the bag." Vanover wasn't buying that explanation. 
"You had obvious intent on the part of the runner to break up the double play, and when it turns into intentional, that's when he's out for interference," he said. 
"Once he got to the base, I thought he threw his hip up into the guy, and his intent at that point is not to get to the base. His intent is to crash the pivot man, so you've got obvious intent there," he said. 
Said Hurdle: "It looked like a good, aggressive slide going in, and I thougpt he went out of his way to make contact." 
Upton, barely 20 years old, was in Class A when the season began, but on this big stage he didn't hesitate to let Vanover know how he felt in arguing the call. 
"He's battling out there," Melvin said. "He's trying to take somebody out. He's trying to get us an extra out. He's trying to break up a double play. He was emotional about it." 
Fans started throwing water bottles onto the field from the upper decks. When more debris followed, umpires told the teams to get back in the dugouts. 
"We were tired of getting water bottles thrown on the field, that's all," Hurdle said. 
The Rockies returned to the field after admonishments from the public address announrer that anyone throwing objects on the field would be ejected. 
"It was just fans being upset. It's too bad," llawpe said. "A few like that label a lot of people, but sounds like the other fans took care of it and were pulling the people out who wern throwing stuff at us." 
Even though thousands of tick­ets were available at midweek and there were a smattering of empty seats, the crowd of 48,142 was called a sellout. 
Francis threw just one more pitch, giving up a bunt single to pinch-hitter Jeff Cirillo. Matt Herges relievfld and walked Chris Young, loading the bases. 
The Hockies brought Jeremy Affeldt from the bullpen, and he retired Stephen Drew on a fly ball to end the threat. 
The game ended on a bad baserunning play by Arizona. Miguel Montero singled with two outs, but was tagged out when he overslid second base trying for a double. 
Webb and the Diamondbacks swept the Chicago Cubs in the first round. Arizona kept it going in the first inning, taking a 1-0 
lead on a single by Drew and a
5.4570 N.IRONWOOD DR. 1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 53.43 N. MAIN ST. 
double by Eric Byrnes. · 

574.277.8500 574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.968.4600 Hawpe, long a nemesis of SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA Webb, drove in two runs with a bases-loaded single in Colorado's three-run third inning. 
"YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOHN'S!" © Hawpe, who also singled, 
improved to 15-of-40 {.375) against Webb with 14 HBls.


.-.---------------------------------------~~ --------------­
page 24 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles set to face first-place Calvin 

By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

Earlier this season, Saint Mary's faeml defending confer­ence ehampion Calvin in a non­conference match, tying the Knights 0-0. 
Saturday, the Belles (6-2-4. 2­1-2 MIAAI will faee the Knights (9-3-1, 4-0) and arn hoping for a dif'f'nrence without having Lauren [llintonl and Micki llledinger) and having to adjust with nnw players up top." 
Saint Mary's has definitely showed that this season, with 10 different playnrs tallying goals, not all of them forwards. 
"We're quite versatile," MacKenzie said. "We have the ability to put players different plaees, and to eome at you 
dillimmt outeome. "One good thing we from different "I 11xpeet plaees, and
showed is that we 
!Calvin! to be a lot have found 
can score, and that
more organized, success that particularly in we have the way. The of'l'nnse," BPllns c o a c h e s
ability to. " 
eoaeh Caryn believe it, the MaeKnnzin said. players not so "Thny've madP Caryn MacKenzie much. When adjustments, Belles coach they start to 
espndally in their conference ganws. They are a much better team than wlwn we last played thnm, and we'll have to bring our best effort to beat tlwm." 
Tlw Knights lead the eonl(lr­enee in scoring with 41 goals overall this sPason. The Belles have scored 17. 
Thn Belles arn coming ofT a 4-3 win Tuesday against Ad r i a n , w h i ch m o v e d tlw m bad into fourth place in the MIAA thanks to their four goals -the most they 
believe that, 
things will start to happen, and anything's possible. " 
Saint Mary's has shown improvement, demonstrating consist play with thn exception of a half or two in various games. The Belles have moved players around due to injury and have defeated tough teams such as Kalamazoo (8-3-1, 3-1­0). and tied intense teams like Albion (H-2-2, 2-1-1). 
"We are capa­
ble of more 
than we real­
have scored in a ize," MacKenzie
"We are capable of
conference game said. "It's a 
more than we
this season. A matter of the goal three min­realize." entire team utes into the believing that, game by sopho­and not just a
Caryn MacKenzie 
more midfielder few of our play­
Belles coach 
Katie Wehrli ers. It's com-
gave the Belles a jump start that was followed later in the half with tallies from sophomore defender Bridget Honayne and freshman forward Samantha Smoger. 
Saint Mary's controlled the ball for a majority of the first half, allowing a goal toward the end of the first half. I lownver, two morn goals got past the Belles' defense and into the net during the second half. 
"One good thing we showed is that we ean seore, and that wn have the ability to," MaeKnnzie said. "That was long overdun for the talent we possnss as a team. It makes a 
ing." 

As they head 
into their game against Calvin, who has been ranked the top team in the league in MacKenzie's four­year tenure at Saint Mary's, the Belles are looking to show the Knights they can play with the best. 
"As a team, we need to start to believe in ourselves in com­peting and beating anybody," MacKenzie said. "It's time for our women to believe that it's our turn to be at the top of the conference." 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveseiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 12, 2007 

MASQUE DE FER DU LAC New ND Fencing Club 
New Fencing Club for aspiring varsity to beginner fencers frotn ND, StMary's and Holy Cross. Practices: Fencing Salle in Joyce Center, Tu & Thur 7-9ptn, Sat 10-Noon (or Sun 1-3 on hotne Football). Contact: Head Coach Larry Calhoun CSC, 631-1887, lcpadrecal@aol.com, or stop by a practice! 



AIVl.S 
wtr#inpourreacH/ 
OurPRll\IIEquityAdvantage Line-of-Credit allows you to usc the equity in your hmne to n1ake hmne in1provetnents, take a vacation, consolidate high-rate debt, or an)'thing else you choose! 

.90%APR'~ 
.U..Month lnttocluctql)' Rate 


drean1s, what are you waitingfor? Apply today! 
and\v&ll 
\~1h ~£!~c~E~~~~
Open onetoday1 giveyoua $100 Gift Card .Ftri the1-IomeDepot!1 
.Wtth 6'1"eat, low rates and a chance at your 
Jr/;e"le fnem6&16Y fnti/,f;e'} 
574/631-8222. 800/567-6328 W\\W.ndfcu.org 
•,\nnual ~rif~~ge Rate #\PR}. Alt<:.-r the intmduclnly period, the ruk will wvcrf.to mlr rc£11tlar rule. Our R-gular rnte is ba.~cd qn the Prime IA.>tl<ling Rate,wtiiehl'ut10!1/07 mb7)'5%. fural.om1 to\itlt.e(U\)of70"Xorless. the ~ular rate l~ e(]tllli to the Prime I.endingRate (In effect mtlhe Ia>! da~ of tlflntmdudmyperiod} i\lll'.'tJS126%,"itit:h asofl0/01/07 \Vlls 6,49~~. IJnc'arc alsn ll\'.illable tql lo 100% IJY Rates arc ,.nbjed to d~>mgc. Propcrt1 
· inst!rd!tce l~ reqt!~ Consult.11 tm.advi<;<>r regrudiug dedudibility of inleresl A balloon l~'u"nlmay re"dt at maturity. Minhuum line anmuntkSIO,Dll(}; m:Nmum is S20tl;OOO. Maximum APR is IS%. Certain other rcslrld:ious may apply. Available in Indiana and l\:fichlgmwn~c hJdej'lC!Ident of the Onl\'et'Sil}c ''I he !lome Depot" isaregistered ltademarl< ofllon~er 'll.C,lttc. Notre Damef<(;,deral CreditUnion Is 1 witl11l1e Home DtiJof''. Initial draw ammu1t of$10.000 reqnirt'<l to rccclvellw Home Depot" Cift 
tin;ll:i!lllatanytime, ~Qt valid11ill1 anyolix.'foffer. '' ' 
~­
~---~ 

Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Wake Forest tops Seminoles again 
Associated Press 
WINSTON-SALEM. N.C. Riley Skinner threw a 35-yard touchdown pass to Kenneth Moore in the fourth quarter to lead Wake Forest past No. 21 Florida State 24-21 on Thursday night. 
Skinner completed 19 of 27 passes for 215 yards and two touchdowns for the Demon Deacons (4-2, 3-1 Atlantic Coast Conference), who rallied in the second half to beat the Seminoles (4-2, 1-2) in consecu­tive seasons for the first time in school history. 
Skinner led the Demon Deacons 82 yards in nine plays, converting three third downs during their game-winning drive. The biggest came when Skinner sidestepped a pass rush, stepped forward in the pocket and found Moore, who had a step on cornerback Jamie Robinson at the goal line, for the easy score that put Wake Forest up 21-14 with 6:41 remaining. 
Florida State gave the ball right back to Wake Forest on the first play of its ensuing drive, when Chip Vaughn inter­cepted Xavier Lee's deep pass at the 26. The Demon Deacons milked the clock and set up Sam Swank's 48-yard field goal with 
1:40 to play that made it a 10­point game. 

Lee scored on a 17 -yard run with 17 seconds left to draw the Seminoles within 24-21, but Wake Forest recovered an onside kick to seal it. 
Josh Adams rushed 18 times for 140 yards, including an 83­yard touchdown run, and caught a scoring pass. Micah Andrews ran hard as his relief, gaining 57 tough yards in help­ing spark the comeback. The Demon Deacons ran all over Florida State's 11th-ranked run defense, gaining 180 yards, more than double the Seminoles' 81.8 yards entering the game. 
Wake Forest's defense in the first half allowed two big plays that set up the Seminoles' two scoring drives, then shut them down after halftime. The Demon Deacons forced five second-half punts, intercepted two passes and allowed 105 total yards after the break -with a good chunk coming after Swank's late kick. Florida State's rushing offense never could get going, finishing with 47 yards on 24 carries. 
Lee finished 24-of-45 for 283 yards and two touchdowns for the Seminoles. 


IRDitRt R>U~ CO. 
Custom Area Rug.~: 
Fabrication & Design Carved and lnlayed Bordered Tapest1y Hooked/Prodding 
Carpet Binding Area Rug Repair Floorcloths Wearable & Other Fiber Arts 

indianarugco.com 
l 
AR ,A 


574.233.7312

1217 N. Merrifield Mishawaka~ lN 46545 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish face off vvith Big East rivals 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame looks to improve its conference record this weekend with matches at Marquette and Syracuse. 
Notre Dame (7-8, 3-2 Big East) travels first to Milwaukee today to face the Golden Eagles at 8 p.m. The Irish then go east to take on Syracuse at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
Notre Dame beat both Big East foes last year in the Joyce Center. Marquette lost 3-1 (30­17, 30-17, 21-30, 30-24), while Notre Dame downed Syracuse 3-0 (30-25, 30-22, 30-22). 
The Irish are led by senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk. She has recorded 187 kills and has team highs in service aces and digs with 18 and 207, respec­tively. 
Four other Notre Dame play­ers have notched more than 100 kills this season. Sophomore outside hitter Serinity Phillips has 206, soph­omore outside hitter Megan Fesl has 185, freshman middle blocker Kellie Sciacca has 146 and junior middle blocker Justine Stremick has 137. 
Senior setter Ashley Tarutis and sophomore setter Jamel Nicholas lead the Irish in assists with 583 and 169, respectively. 
Phillips has 114 digs, and F esl has 13 5. Tarutis has 146 digs, while freshman libero Angela Puente is second on the team with 173. 
"We all have confidence that we've learned from our losses and we will finish on the top of the Big East," Stasiuk said. "We need to work on our defense and offense, and things will fall into place." 
Marquette (6-8, 3-2) and sen­ior outside hitter Kimberly Todd are trying to get win num­ber 399 coach Pati Rolf. Todd is second in the Big East with 
4.82 kills per game. Junior defensive specialist Terri Angst is sixth in the Big East with 
4.50 digs per contest, while senior setter Katie Weidner ranks seventh in the Big East with 11.54 assists per game. 
"[We got] a scouting report on Marquette," Nicholas said. "They are a strong team, and I'm sure that it will be a good game." 
Senior outside hitter Cheryl Cobbina and sophomore out­side hitter Kacie MacTavish lead Syracuse (11-9, 2-3). Cobbina has 262 kills and 202 digs and MacTavish has 243 and 228, respectively, this sea­son. Senior defensive specialist Joscie Kaup tops the team with an impressive 339 digs, and junior setter April Quigley leads the Orange with 609 assists. 
"Marquette and Syracuse are both very competitive teams, and we will have to pass very well and play with a lot of enthusiasm," Stasiuk said. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 



page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 12, 2007 
MEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Keough battles to stay in playoff race 
Alun1ni, O'Neill/oak for their first victories 

By MIKE GOTIMER and 
GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Sports Writer 

Stanford vs. Keough 
Playoff' hopes hang in the balane1~ this Sunday when Stanford and Knough faco ofT at Hiehle Field at 1 p.m. 
A win for the Griffins (2-0) would extnnd their undofeatnd season and virtually assure thnrn a pI a yo rr spot. A win for 
Alumni vs. O'Neill 

Alumni takes on O'Neill this Sunday in a battle of winless teams. 
Either the Uawgs (0-2) or Tho Mob (0-3) will have to come away with their first vic­tory or the year. 
Unh~ss, of course, they tie. 

Both teams are looking to erase memories of lackluster seasons. Alumni senior captain Bret Shapot says the Dawgs' 
Keough would 
"Anytime you have a
put the 
Kangaroos at rival like Keenan 2-2 and greatly looming, there:'> 
improve t.hnir 
always going to he a 

own playoff 
ehanees. little looking ahead if 
Stan ford cap­you're honest with lain Hob lluth 
yourse(/:"
bnlieves the (;riflins havn a lot of room to Rob Huth improve. Stanford captain 
"W1~'ve been a bit slow on offense and had sornn breakdowns on dnf'nnse," lluth said. "But when it has mattered most, we've scored and kept our opponents out of tho emlzone. Ovmall, we have some things to fix if we want to bnat Knough. but I can't hn too upsl't since we're 2-0." 
Stanford has been trying hard to stay focusnd on the Kangaroos despite next week's matchup against bitter rival Kennan. 
"Anytimo you have a rival like Kennan looming, there's always going to be a little look­ing ahead if you're honest with yourself," lluth said. 
The stingy Stanford defense is led by sopho­morn corner­back Chris Gill, 

senior defensive  "It's win or die. We  been one or two  
lineman Matt Temp Iemire and freshman  have to win out to have a shot at the  plays each game that have hurt us, usually  
linebacker Colin McNamara.  playoffs. "  against our defense," Conley  
On of"fense, senior running back Tregg  Bret Shapot Alumni captain  said. "Our offense just has­n't been clicking  

Duerson has led the Griffins grind-it-out attack behind oiTensive line­men Pat Noble and Karun Ahuja. 
Keough enters Sunday after a crushing 12-6 loss to Dillon in last week's contest. In the closing minutes of the game, tho Kangaroos came up short on a fourth-and-goal play that would have forced at least a tie had Keough put thn ball in the nndzone. 
After tlw loss. tlw Kangaroos find thnmsnlvns at 1-2 and with their backs against tho wall if tlwy want a realistie shot at a playoff lwrth. 
In Ias l w fH~ k e n d · s g a m e against l>illon, the Kangaroos ran the ball well, allowing tlwm to control the tempo or t lw g a nw . For m u c h of tho fourth quarter. tlwy had the Big Hed on tlwir heels. To be stu:cessful in this week's matehup, Keough will need to continuo to pound the ball inside against the strong Stanford defense. 
biggest weak­ness is their bench. 
"We start games off really strong," Shapot said. "But we lack a lot of depth. We have a lot of guys going both ways. It's usual­ly 6-0 at the end of the first half. Then we'll get on the field and just be dead after halrtime." 
Shapol plays both sides of the ball for Alumni at running back and strong safety. 
Despite the lack of sopho­more and juniors, he sees hope in a few recent additions, ineluding former varsity walk­on sophomore Alex Lough. Lough will fill in as a middle linebacker and running back against O'Neill. 
"We're really working on ... running [through] the funda­nwntals. What we want do this week is to put the ball in the end zone," Shapot said. 
Lik!l Alumni, O'Neill senior captain and linebacker Pat Conley thinks his team is not as bad as their record indi­
cates. 

"Basically, 
there [have] 
like it was last 
year. We haven't 
really found any­thing that's worked. You can't point out one thing, it's a whole group of things that haven't been working." 
At 0-3, and coming off a 12­0 loss to Morrissey, the play­niTs are no longer a possibility for the Mob. Like the Dawgs, O'Neill wants to return to fun­damentals on offense. Conley said junior running back Don Joycn and senior quartorbaek Chris Stroh will lead the rnvarnpnd offense this week. 
Depsito the bad start, the Dawgs on tlw other hand, have a slim shot at the postseason, a shot Shapot says will be kept wnll in mind Sunday. 
"It's win or die. We have to win out to have a shot at the playoffs," he said. "We have to beat O'N1~ill this week and then take out Dillon next week. It's that simple." 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu and Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 


Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles to face tough competition at Millikin 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's hits the road this weekend to take part in the Millikin Invitational in Decatur, Ill. 
Taking a break from confer­ence play, the Belles will face Franklin, Fontbonne, Central Iowa and host Millikin in the two-day event. 
Although none of these teams are in the MIAA, Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek has studied up on her opponents. 
"I have learned a little about our opponents by reviewing their stats online," Schroeder­Hick said. "It just helps us to mentally prepare for our oppo­nent, and get an idea of what we are up against." 
Schroeder-Biek said she looks at a variety of statistics to better prepare her team. 
"Do the majority of their attacks come out of the middle or the outside or is it a pretty terns and are experimenting balanced attack?" Schroeder­with some new systems as oth­Biek said. "Does their setter ers have become more confident have a lot of attacks -is she an in their new positions," she said. offensive threat? As a team, do The Belles will face opponents 
they have a lot of  who  have  had  
aces? What kind of blocking team  "I would like to see  varying degrees of success this  
are they  -what  each and every  season. Millikin  
is their size ver­ player bring their  has  a  14-10  
sus our middle, outside? You can  own intensity and  record strong  with a offense.  
learn a lot about  drive to win with  Franklin College,  
teams that you  them.,,  5-11, started its  
have never seen  season off strong  
if they have a decent Web  Julie Schroeder-Biek  but is now going into the event  
page."  Belles coach  with  a  three­ 
The Belles are  game  losing  
on a two-game  streak.  

losing streak after dropping con­Fontbonne is coming off a strong ference matches to Hope and conference match and has a Olivet. Schroeder-Biek said her record of 9-11 overall. Finally, team will try to improve on dif­Saint Mary's will face Central ferent aspects of the game and Iowa, a very tough team with a will do some things differently 16-6 overall record. After three on the court. matches with nationally-rated 
"Of course, we continue to per­foes last weekend, Central Iowa fect our current offensive sys-is No. 21 in the CSTV/AVCA 

By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 

With the Manchester College Invitational tomorrow slated to be Saint Mary's final tune-up before the Oct. 27 MIAA championship meet, the Belles will look to build on last weekend's first-place finish at Benedictine's Eagle Invite. 
"This race has traditionally been a great day for personal 
records for the we're looking to come out of Manchester with some sea­son bests," Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. "I would also like to see our three-four­five pack [of runners] con­tinue to move up and close the gap with 

team, so 
our one and two so we can take that with us to champi­onships." 
Senior Megan Gray, who claimed the individual title at Division III coaches poll. 

"I would like to see each and every player bring their own intensity and drive to win with them," Schroeder-Biek said. "Everyone needs to feel that and see that in their teammates." 
The Belles will face Franklin first tonight at 5, Fontbonne tonight at 7, Central Iowa at 1 
p.m. Saturday and Millikin two hours after the beginning of the Central Iowa game. 
Contact Samanthan Leonard at sleonaOl@stmarys.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners ready for season'slasttuneup 
the meet a year ago, has -as well as Uunior] Alicen looked strong all season and Miller, who has really been 
is the Belles top  excited  for  
runner.  this race."  
Freshman Sam Wieczorek has  "! believe much of  While this race offers an  
quickly developed  the team is ready  opportunity  
into a solid No. 2 for Saint Mary's  to have a great ,,  for some of the Belles less  
and finished fifth  race.  heralded run- 
at  the  Eagle  ners  to  see  
Invite. Freshman  Jackie Bauters  their  times  
Catie  Salyer,  Belles coach  drop,  the  

sophomore Megan McClowry and 
senior 

"This race has traditionally been a great day for personal records for the team." 
Jackie Bauters Belles coach 
Olenka Bilyk have con­sistently occu­pied the final three scoring positions for the Belles, but Bauters has seen improve­ment from sev­eral other run­ners. "I believe much of the team is ready to have a great 
race," Bauters said, "but I think it will be fun to see what [freshman] Stephanie Waite and [junior] Caitlin Brodmerkel do this weekend team is 
focused for its 
shot at the conference championship in two weeks. 
"We've been doing more repeats in practice to continue to prepare for [the MIAA championships], so the girls can feel strong finishing the six-kilometer race in two weeks," Bauters said. "No tapering yet. We have another great week of practice ahead next week. 
"Other than that, we're just trying to keep the girls healthy and on track for a good l.~st few weeks -or longer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
i\ •li))))) 

Plug in to the PrayerCast! ~ www.ndprayercast.org 
Fn:e iTu11es subscription j(Jr nif!ective listening 011 your iPod. Type "udprayercast" on tile iTuues search engine, or log onto www.ndprayercast.org 


Hear it here this week: Rev. Lou DelFra, c.s.c. 
C-M
psalms • homilies • meditative music 
Campus Ministry 

page 28 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, October 12, 2007 


-------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Tough con1petition a"Waits Irish 
Pre-National meet in Terre Haute features nine top-10 opponents 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame travels Saturday to Indiana State for the Pre­National, the last meet before the postseason begins. The meet will mark the first time the men and women have had to venture off­campus since the Crusader Invitational at Valparaiso on Sept. 7. 
The Pre-National meet lives up to its name. It sports a field that includes nearly all championship hopefuls and is run on the same course that will host the NCAA Championships. 
"That's one of the reasons they have this meet," men's head coach Joe Piane said. "It gives teams the opportunity to race once on the course before the national meet. They have been holding this tournament at the site of the national meet for decades." 
The men's team has won its first three meets, including an impressive showing against a stacked field in the Notre Dame Invitational. That performance earned the Irish the No. 7 rank­ing in the USTFCCA national poll. 
But the opposition doesn't get any easier for the Irish this weekend in Terre Haute. Nine of the top-10 teams in the nation­and 27 of the top 30 -will be in the field. Piane will enter the top seven finishers from the Notre Dame Invitational in the varsity race. Those include senior Jake Watson, junior Patrick Smyth and sophomore Jake Walker. 

"I would like to think that Patrick Smyth and Jake Watson will come up big for us again," Piane said. "Jake Walker has also been training really hard and should make an impact." 
Smyth, Watson, freshman Dan Jackson and Walker finished sec­ond, No. 10, No. 16 and No. 30 against the stiff competition at the Notre Dame Invitational. Freshman Paul Springer and seniors Brett Adams and Mike Popejoy will round out the varsi­ty lineup for the Irish this week­end. 
The women won their first two meets of the season and entered the USTFCCA poll at No. 27, but they relinquished that ranking after fmishing 12th in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Like the men, the Irish women will face their toughest test of the season. Nine of the top-1 0 teams in the nation will run, giving the women an opportunity to put themselves in position to receive an at-large bid for the NCAA Championships. 
Freshman Marissa Treece, who has paced the Irish in the last two meets, will try to lead the way, along with sophomore Lindsey Ferguson, who finished only 14 seconds behind Treece at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
NHL 

Miller's 20 saves shut out Atlanta 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO -After two straight losses to start the sea­son, Ryan Miller was deter­mined to get his slumping team in gear. 
Miller made 20 saves for his fifth career shutout, Tim Connolly and Brian Campbell each had a goal and two assists and the Buffalo Sabres got their first win of the sea­son, 6-0 over winless Atlanta on Thursday night. 
"Not that I was slacking off in the summer, but I had to really put the pedal down because we want to be an elite team," said Miller, who had allowed nine goals in Bufl"alo's first two defeats. "I need to be there for the guys when they need me." 
Miller wasn't tested too much by a sputtering Atlanta ofl"ense that has generated just four goals in its first four games, all regulation losses. But when he needed to make a key save to help keep Bufl"alo's momentum going, Miller was there. 
"That's the kind of attitude we need to have," he said. 
It was also an emotional game for Miller, whose 18­year-old cousin died Monday after a complication with a bone-marrow transplant. 
"For him to go through what he did wasn't easy," Sabres coach Lindy Rufl" said. "It was a special night for him. I want­ed to see him get the shutout." 
After winning the President's Trophy last season, the Sabres had gotten off to a sluggish start. dropping their first two games to the New York Islanders. They quickly got healthy against a struggling Thrashers team that is oft" to its worst start since dropping the first nine games of the 2002-03 season. 
Buffalo scored three power­play goals in the first period, and didn't allow a shot when Atlanta had a 5-on-3 advan­tage for 1:34 in the first. 
"Special teams are a big momentum booster," Connolly said. "Killing that two-man advantage kept us going in the right direction." 
Derek Roy, Ales Kotalik and Daniel Paille added a goal and an assist each, and Jason Pominville also scored for the Sabres. 
Atlanta goalie Kari Lehtonen finished with 15 saves before being lifted for Johan Hedberg to start the third period. Hedberg made seven saves. 
The Thrashers were without forward Marian Hossa for the second straight game. Hossa, who had team highs of 43 goals and 57 assists last sea­son, hurt his groin during practice on Monday. 
"Right now we're not playing good hockey," Atlanta coach Bob Hartley said. "We're so tight and anxious to get that first win that we forget to do the right things." 
FOR RENT -NEW CONSTRUCTION! 
New 3,600 square feet brick home within walking distance to campus with 8 Bedrooms, 4 Dens, 4 Y2 Bathrooms, Kitchen, Family Room, Dining Room, Laundry Center, Steam Room, Mud Room and Back Patio. 
Main Featuru 
-Fully equipped Kitchen with new refrigerator, range, oven, dishwasher, microwave, cooking pots and pans, tableware and cooking utensils -Each two students with share a porcelain-tiled bathroom (private toilet room and a shower with seat) and a small den with kitchenette (sink, bar refrigerator, cook top and microwave) having hardwood flooring -Fire/Security Alarm System -Hardwood flooring on entire main floor (except Steam Room and Mudroom) 
-Dining Room with table and 8 chairs -Laundry Center with stackable washer and dryer Rental Rate: $425.00 per student plus utilities -Wood-burning fireplace in Family Room -Steam Room 
-Each Bedroom area is approximately 10' x 16' and has the following design features: 
(! Fully carpeted (! Vanity cabinet with sink and mirror 
(! Walk-in closet (! Desk (! Bedroom 
furniture with mattresses 
(!Wired for cable television and internet service 
-Gas barbeque grill on Back Patio -Wireless internet service ready 

For more information, contact Robert Cimala at legacyhomes@comcast.net or 630-886-7715 
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, October 12, 2007 
Opener 
continued from page 32 
Thn turnaround of' tlw pro­gram has not lwnn contairwd to tlw icP. A $15 million anony­mous donation toward a nnw an~na was annourH'Pd on Snpt. 
12. raising t.lw total budget for tlw nnw rink upward of' $25 million. 
ft. will bn dillkult for the Irish to rnplieate last sPas on's succnss hncauso the tmun lost Pight smJ­iors to graduation, ineluding llob1~y BakPr finalist goaltendnr Davn Brown. Eight f'rnshnwn havn f'illnd tl11~ir spots, and .Jackson said it will takn tirn1~ for tlw nnw players to learn the systmns up to the team's stan­dan!. 
"I know every game is impor­tant in the NCAA," .laekson said. "But we also have to do a good job of' eoming out of th1~se next four non-conference games hav­ing a good feel for areas that we need to improve, our line com­binations, our defensive pairs, our goaltnnding." 
The Irish eould open the sea­son by playing four straight ranked tnams in those non-con­f'nrnnce games if' thny play No. "I know I Badgers coach] Mike I'J Ohio Statn in the soeond Eaves, and I know some of the ganw of' tho MeFadden talent they have corning in Invitational. Next wnnk. No. 1:~ them," Jackson said. "As good a lknvnr will travd to South Bend dass as we had, they may have for a two-game series in tlw a better freshman class. If' you .Joyen Contnr. look at NIIL 
"We're going to draft status. they f'ind out when~ have tlm~e first­
"You've got to try
wn'rn at.," rounders." .lal'kson said. your all because Jackson said 
"With so many there's people in your junior Jordan young guys, it's Pearce will start
rearview mirror 
going to be an in net against nxperiPnee trying to take your Wisconsin, but undm· firn. I just spot." Jackson is still want to g1~t unsure if Pearce through these will play
Jordan Pearce
four games in Saturday.
Irish goalie 
doeent shape. I Sophomore Torn don't want to fall O'Brien and on our faces. But freshman Brad with the opponents we're play­Phillips are the alternatives. All ing, anything's possible." three goaltenders are battling to 
But Wiseonsin, whieh made a replace Brown. second half' revival last season "You've got to try your all after a lackluster start, presents because there's people right in the immediate threat to the your rearview mirror trying to Irish. The Badgers add a fresh­take over your spot," Pearce man recruiting class ranked No. said of the three-way competi­I in the nation. Notre Dame's tion. "So it makes you work class was ranked fourth by even harder than you would if Inside College !Iockey and had you knew you had a job." one first round draft pick in defenseman Ian Cole (No. 18 Contact Kyle Cassity at overall). kcassily@nd.edu 

WU YUE/The Observer Irish right wing Erik Condra advances the puck during Notre Dame's Blue-Gold scrimmage Wednesday at the Joyce Center. 
Huskies 
continued from page 32 
I UCLA 2-1 in overtime to open thn year at the Adidas/IU Classic on Aug. 31. 
Notre Dame ended a nine­game unbeaten streak Wedrwsday al'tnrnoon with a 1­0 loss to non-c:onl'erenee l'on Michigan State in East Lansing. Tlw Spartans hav1~ lost only one game this year and will most likely crack thn top 25 after this wonk's upset victory. Notre Dame is hoping to prove its merits in thn. top 5. 
"Tho guys will be excited because it is a great way to bounce hack," Clark said. "The best way to do that is to ho playing the No. 1 team in the country. It lets you como back immmliatdy." 
Connecticut also comes into the weekend with only one loss in its l'irst 13 games. The Huskies lost to Big East foe DePaul 1-0 on Sept. 23. Since the loss, the team has gone on a five-game tear, outscoring its opporwnts 14-1 and taking over the No. 1 ranking. 
Junior striker O'Brian White leads the II uskies attack with 14 goals in the team's first 13 games. He seored bac:k-to-back hat tricks in Connecticut's past two games -a 4-0 win over 
Pitt  and  a  3-0  shutout  of  
Providence.  
"Everybody in  the  league  

knows he is very fast and strong. 11~1 doesn't have many weaknesses." Clark said. "It will be a grnat opportunity to sen thn two best forwards in the league and arguably the two best forwards in the eountry." 
Tlw other forward would be Notre Dame's senior Joseph Lapira. Lapira won last year's M.AC. IIermann Trophy for the most outstanding player in col­lege soccer. lie has two goals so far this year and leads the team with four assists. 
Lapira also had an assist in a 1-0 victory over the If uskies in last year's final regular season game. 
"They are very much the same team we played last year," Clark said. 
Connecticut returns eight starters from last season's team that lost in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
One new face, freshman goal­keeper Josh Ford, has wasted no time making a name for himself. Ford has logged nine shutouts and given up only live goals this season. lie has played every minute between the pipes and has a goals-against average of 0.38. 
The Irish will need a total team effort in order to come away with a victory this week­end, Clark said. 
"We're just going to try and play a complete game," he said. "If' we get seven or eight of us playing close to 100 percent and the remainder playing around 80 percent, we'll be pretty close." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

The Bistro features the freshest seafood, steaks and much more •••• 
Parisi's 2nd location Newest fine dining with a European flair located 1 mile from the stadium 
our Martini Lounge and enjoy live music 
Streak 
continued from page 32 
senior goalie Jillian Loydnn rocordml eight savns en routn to lwr :Brd r.arnnr shutout. 
"I Loydenl is a good size, she's athletk," Waldrum said. "She takes a lot of shots so lwr slats Iook good." 
But thn Irish have been rolling ov1~r opposing dPfenses lately. Irish junior Brittany Bork, who rncnntly switdwd from midfinld­er to forward. was named the NCAA national player of' thn week af'tPr scoring four goals and notching an assist in the vietorins ovnr Synu~usn and St. John's. 
"Moving IBockl up front givns us another dimonsion on otlilnse." Waldrum said. "Just as far as holding the ballli1r us, she dons a grnatjob." 
Bock was also namnd the Big East ol'l'nnsive player of the week, while Irish junior defend­er Elise Weber was also named to tho Big East weekly honor roll al'tnr helping set up goals in both of' thn tmun's eontnsl'i last week­end. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


FOOTBALL HOURS fdefvt.ate witn .&cp!M! 
FRIDAY Join us after the pep rally for food, Restaurant: 11 :00 am -Midnight 
drinks, and live music. Return on

Pub: 11:00 am -2:00am 
Saturday to cheer on the Irish and
SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00 am -Midnight celebrate with friends and fans! Pub: 8:00 am -2:00am 
NATALIE SEXTON/The Observer 
Irish forward Brittany Bock controls the ball during Notre Dame's 6-1 win Sept. 30 over Cincinnati. 
Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 



HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~(JJWJ]3)1JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
USHOE ± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DUGIE 
j

I I r [] 
tWAYYAN ± 
-
J r J
1 
www.jumble.com 
tTYGODS j
IJ r I I 
A: rI I I I JIN rI I rI I J -... 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's IJumbles: INLET PENCE INVADE OSSIFY Answer: What the boy experienced when he was fitted for a suit -PINS AND NEEDLES 
HOROSCOPE Fridays with Fran 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Spare everyone the details, pervert. 
Libra (Sept. 23-0ct.22) Double-check your pits before heading out for a night of debauchery. 
Scorpio (Oct. 23-Nov. 21) Don't worry, it's all about perceptions. Actually --that sucks for you. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) But, honestly, what diseases are you really gonna con­tract? 


WHEN THE SAILORS WERE AT SEA, THEY WERE--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
Across 33 Constellation 59 Opposite of seen on the diminish
Be an agent of flags of 60 "Let's have it" 
7 Shock source, Australia, 61 Cardinals'sometimes 
Samoa and 

gathering place 15 Hawaiian "thank Papua New 
62 Violent 

you" Guinea 
35 Club's cover16 Exchange for Downsomething you 37" Peak" Unscrupulous

really want? (1997 Pierce Brosnan film) 2 Pantheon
17 Handle, e.g. 
heads?
38 Parliamentary 

18 Catholic 
address? 3 Fights with 19 Wrestler Flair knights
42 This, in 4 Cool, in a way
20 They might just ThOringen squeak by in a 43 Striking figures 5 Hockey player basketball game Tverdovsky
46 Regulation 22 Grooming brand targets for 
6 Youngest of the introduced in Theodore 
Culkin brothers 1977 Roosevelt: Abbr. 7 Gather 
24 Runners with 47 "Deal with it!" 8 Scale developer 
hoods 49 Catchers of 9 One-room some ring house, typically 
25 Sound from a silencer leaders 10 Skin pies? 
50 Hard up 11 Truncation
28 1965 Sonny Bono hit 53 Seraglio section indications: Abbr. 54 Void 12 Skin pic?
31 "Berenice" author, briefly 57 Second chance 13 Agent Gold on HBO's "Entourage"
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
14 It has pickup lines 21 It has many functions 23 Ancient meeting places 

.-..:.:..+=+=-! 25 Cleaning product that may be useful after a party 
~-'-+:.:..j-=-l.O;.,I 26 Spray source 
alternative 

,..:.;.+=+~~+=-! 29 Short, close­fitting jacket 
--:....L.::....&.:~::..L.:..L=.J 30 To 
WILLSHORTZ 

40 Dumps 51 Even 41 Come back 

52 Lexicographic 44 Tree with concern Roosevelt Natl. double-toothed 
54 "I get it" 

Park leaves and 
responses . 
35 U.S.N. position durable wood 
55 See, say

36 Eyebrow 45 Bad-tempered makeup 48 Give a 
56 Turbulent water 39 Speak stemwinder stretch explosively in 50 Bygone 58 Tribe visited by anger magistrate Lewis and Clark 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19) 
Want me to stop? Really? Ya beg me? 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) Today will be all Chutes and no Ladders. Sor-ry, that's Trouble-ing. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) 
Whoa ... you're actually reading these? Well, if your week­end was going to be good, it won't be now because you '11 be so mad about these darn horoscopes. 
Aries (March 21-Apr. 19) Yours is a Mad Libs horoscope: Your day will be (type of poop)-y. Example: Your day will be corn poop-y. 
Taurus (Apr. 20-May 20) Beware of ESPN First Take. You will lose, badly, to Chris Khorey. 
Gemini (May 21-June 20) Why export when you can import? Translation: Why give when you can get? 
Cancer (June 21-July 22) 
There's only one way to find out if you have the Willpower. TRY. 
Leo (July 23-Aug.22) 
Can't do any more ... my groin is aching. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, October 12, 2007 
page 32 
HocKEY 

Offense picks up speed with help from frosh, including two Swedes 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Wri1cr 
Thn No. S Irish will havn a bit morn spend on om~nse with the addition of some European power and creativity when they fac1~ No. 15 Wisconsin tonight in tlw season opmwr. 
Four n1~w freshmen will makn their oiTensivn debut in the first game of tho Lefty McFadden Invitational in Dayton. Ohio ­induding two rookies who hail from Stockholm, Sweden. Robin Bergman and Calle Ridderwall, two of the fastest players in the junior United States Hockey League last season, have joined an oiTensive unit that kept near­ly all of its talent from last sea­son. 
"I think we'll be faster," Irish coach Jell' Jackson said. "I don't want to get too far from being a good puck-possession team. Sometimes highly-skilled play­ers try to make risky plays. We n1~ed to bn creative, but we also rwed to be responsible. That will take a little time to make sure evnrybody understands that." 
Notre Dame's first appearance in the Invitational and the 62nd overall meeting with the Badgers tonight will be the first game the Irish have played since they were knocked out of the second round of the 2007 NCAA Tournament by eventual­champion Michigan State in April. The Irish were ranked No. 1 at the time and had held the top spot for over two months, during which they cap­tured their first league regular season and playoff champi­onships. 
"Sitting there watching Michigan State win the champi­onship had a lot to do with our work ethic this summer," cap­tain and center Mark Van Guilder said. "We were thinking about that all summer." 
MEN's SoccER 
Top-ranked Huskies coine to tovvn 
By DAN MURPHY Assncia!e Spnns Ediwr 
Boston College's football team won't be the highest ranked team on eampus Saturday ­not oven second best. 
No. ;{ Notrn Dame welcomes No. 1 Conneeticut to Alumni Field at noon in a possible pre­view of the Big East title game. 
Tho Huskies lead the eonfer­ence with a 6-1-0 record ( 1 S points). The Irish are only two points behind at 5-0-1. The winner of' Saturday's match will put itself in good position to pick up the top seed in the Big East tournament in early November. 
"It's a huge game," Irish eoaeh Bobby Clark said. "I don't know that therH has been a biggnr orw in my time here at Notre Dame." 
The Irish will try to take down their second No. 1 team this season. They beat then-No. 
see HUSKIES/page 30 


On offense, Notre Dame should be even better this sea­. son than they were a year ago. 
Freshman forwards Bon Ryan, 
a fourth-round draft pick in the 
NHL Draft last June and Ryan 
Guentzel add punch behind the 
goal-producing "little guy" line 
of junior alternate captain Erik 
Condra and sophomores Hyan 
Thang and Kevin Deeth. 
Ridderwall was showcased on 
the top power play unit in 
Wednesday's Blue-Gold game 
with the little guf''1ine and 
defenseman Kyle Lawson, 
where he could become a 
speedy fixture to a unit that 
convnrted 18.6 percent of its 
chances. 

"We've got a lot of talent," 
Van Guilder said. "I think you're going to see a lot of creativity offensively. So hopefully that translates into some more scor­ing." 
Not that the Irish underper­formed in 2006-07. 
Program milestones came in Jackson's second year behind the Irish bench and only two years removed from a live-win season that rnsulted in the res­ignation of' former coach Dave Poulin. Jaekson. who won two national championships as head coach of Lake Suporior State in the narly 1990s, accepted the job at Notre Dame for a chance to rebuild a program. 
see OPENER/page 30 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish try to remain hot this weekend 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Wri1er 
After outscoring Syracuse and St. John's by a combined 7­1 in road games last weekend, Notre Dame looks to remain unbeaten in Big East play when it hosts Georgetown and Villanova this weekend. 
Since falling to non-confer­ence foe Penn State on Sept. 23, the Irish ( 7-4-1 , 5-0-0 Big East) have won four straight against conference foes. With freshman Lauren Fowlkes anchoring the defense, the Irish have allowed only two goals during their four-game winning streak. 
"We are playing well and we got a few of the problems solved on our back line," Irish assistant coach Ben Waldrum said. "Lauren has fit in nicely at center back for us." 
When they face Georgetown tonight, the Irish will try to extend their home winning streak over the Jloyas to eight games. Notre Dame has outscored its conference rival 46-2 at Alumni Field in that span. 
But Georgetown defeated No. 24 Marquette in Milwaukee Sunday to improve to 9-3-0 overall and 2-2-0 in eonf'nrence play. 
"I think that this is the best Georgetown team I've seen," said Waldrum, who is in his fifth season as a membnr of the Irish coaching staff. 
On Sunday, the Notre Dame ofl'lmse will have its work cut out for it when the Irish face Villanova (7-1-5, 1-1-3). In a scoreless draw against South Florida last weekend, Wildcat<; 
see STREAK/page 30 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 12, 2007 
COMMENTARY 

Sullivan needs to be offense's leader 
Saturday at the Hose Bowl, 
Irish conter John Sullivan 
snapped the ball to the side 
of quarterback Jimmy 

Clausen's head. Clausen dove 
on tho ball 
for a loss of 
nino yards. 
The rnal 
problnm 
with this 
play wasn't 
the loss of 
yards. 
It wasn't 
the bad 
snap­
we've seen 
plenty of 
those this 
season. 
The real 
problnm was what happened 
on the sidelines after the 
play. 
Sullivan could be seen 

berating Clausen on the side­
line. as if the snap were 
somehow the freshman's 
fault. 
Clausen has started only five games in college. Sullivan is a four-year starter. There is no reason why he should be calling out a freshman so publicly. 

Even worse, this wasn't tlw first time that Sullivan has called Clausen out on the sidelines after a bad snap this season. Sullivan did the same thing after a bad snap against Purdue on Sept. 29. 
Sullivan needs to step up and be a loader on offense. Thero's a reason he is a cap­tain. 

Sullivan entered the 2007 soason as one of the top­rated centers in the nation. I le was listed on tho Outland Trophy watch list over the summer and even made Mel Kipnr, .Jr.'s "big board" for olTnnsive linemen for the NFL Draft. 
And when Irish coach Charlie Weis announced that Sullivan would be one of the tnam's captains, hn said it was because of his leader­ship on offense. 

"I'd say more than anyone, one of the reasons why we made Sully a captain, why the c:oaches added a fifth captain to the team, is becausn Sully really has been tho lwart and soul of our whole offense this whole training camp," Weis said at the time. "A lot of the responsibilities we had on the quarterback in the past, 

Jay Fitzpatrick 
Associate Sports Editor 
wc~'ve taken ofT the quarter­
back and we put it on Sully." 
So Weis knows that 

Sullivan has the potential to 
be a leader. The fifth-year 
eenter took over a lot of 

duties traditionally ascribed 
to the quarterback-like 

picking out the middle line­
backer before the snap ­
because Weis trusted that 

Sullivan would be the best 
person to lead the Irish in 

the huddle and on the field. 
But now Sullivan needs to 
re-earn that trust. 

Sullivan has had at least 
one bad shotgun snap in 
most of the team's games 

this season -something that 
he rarely did last year. 

Instead of gelling an inexpe­
rienced offensive line, it has 
become the worst in college 
football, allowing the most 
saeks and aiding the fewest 
rushing yards. 
It's gotten so bad that 

Sullivan is one of the top 10 
most disappointing players in 
eollege football -and the 

only offensive lineman-this 
season, according to Sports 
Illustrated's Web site. 
Hight now, Sullivan's co­
captains on offense have 

become almost non-factors. 
Hunning baek Travis Thomas 
has been relegated to the 

goal-line back, and tight end 
John Carlson has not pro­

duced as much in the passing 
game as he did last season. 
That means that Sullivan 
needs to show some leader­
ship. He is the only captain 
who can make a major 

impact on his own. He needs 
to take charge of the huddle 
in a positive manner, bring­
ing Clausen and the rest of 
the team along to where they 
nnml to be. 

Sullivan's leadership is by no means the only problem this season. Far from it. But his problem is both notice­able and unnecessary. 
On Saturday, don't blame other people for mistakes. Don't worry about anything in the past or anything you ean't control. 
Jusl lead. 

The offense has plenty of problems. 11 just needs a leader. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd. edu 

•Persons 
without authorization are not permitted on the field 

•No 
cans or glass bottles are permitted in the stadium ·The use ofintoxicating substances is strictly prohibited 

•'lbrowing 
objects in the stands or onto the field is prohibited 

•Please, 
do not bring stadium chairs, seat backs or other oversized or noise-producing items into the stadium 

•Limited 
use of cameras, portable/handheld televisions and portable radios is permitted 


·In accordance with aSt. Joseph County ordinance, there will be no smoking allowed in any part of Notre Dame Stadium 
•All persons are subject to search, which includes clothing, jackets, bags and purses (Violators arc subject to ejection from the stadium and may have future ticket privileges 
2007 Irish opponents 
Last week L, 26-28, Maryland  This week at Miami  
W, 27-7, Iowa  vs Wisconsin  
W, 33-22, EMU  vs Purdue  
L, 41-48, NW  vs Indiana  
L, 7-23, OSU  at Michigan  
L, 6-20, ND  Idle  
W, 55-24, BGU  at Notre Dame  
L, 23-24, Stan.  vs Arizona  
Idle  at Pittsburgh  
W, 31-14, UNLV  at Colorado St.  
L, 36-41, Wake w, 24-23, usc  vs Virginia Tech vsTCU  

' s 


)ust seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates Lodge has hotel rooms at reasonable ratesfur upcoming ND fOotball weekends.) 

Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
14 years of pain 
Notre Dame has yet to recover from Eagles kicker David Gordon's 41-yard game-winning FG 
ent."

By CHRIS KHOREY 
Red-shirt freshman quarter­
SportS Edtor 
back Ron Powlus began his 
career with a bang, throwing for 
The date is Nov. 20, 1993. 291 yards and four touchdowns 
Coming off a dramatic and in a season-opening win over impressive win over then-No. 2 Northwestern. Notre Dame Florida State, Notre Dame is 10-0 opened the season 4-1, with only and ranked No. 1 in the country. a close loss to Michigan. With only a home game against But as the year went on and Boston College left in the regular injuries mounted on a young season, the Irish look primed to offensive line, the Irish were head into the bowl season in the shocked in consecutive weeks by top spot. Most of the country Boston College and BYU. The expects Notre Dame to capture its team limped into the Fiesta Bowl 
12th National Championship. 6-4-1 and was soundly beaten by 
"Everybody assumed Notre Colorado. Dame would beat Boston College "We had some ups and downs," because they manhandled them said Powlus, who is now Notre the year before," says Tim Prister, Dame's quarterbacks coach. who covered the Irish for Blue "There were a couple games we and Gold Illustrated at the time feel like we should have won." and now writes for Irish The next season opened in dis­Illustrated. appointing fashion with a stun­
But Eag~es quarterback Glenn ning loss to Northwestern, Foley is on fire, and tight end Pete although the shock wore off later Mitchell seems to be open every in the year as the Wildcats went play. 10-2 and played in the Rose Bowl. 
Boston College opens up a 24-But 1995 was important for 14 halftime lead, and then other reasons -most notably, extends it to 38-17 in the third Holtz's health. The storied coach quarter. The 59,075-seat Notre entered the Mayo Clinic for spinal broke right. It looked as if the find out many years later that he otherwise successful 9-3 season Dame Stadium is silent. surgery in mid-September. He thrilling win over the Eagles had lied on a resume." in 2005 had two major pitfalls. 
With 11 minutes remaining, only missed one game, naming broken the malaise that had Tyrone Willingham was hired The first came in September. Irish quarterback Kevin defensive coordinator Bob Davie gripped the program since 1993. with much less fanfare, quietly Notre Dame was 2-0 and riding McDougal suddenly gets hot. He acting head coach for a 41-0 win But quarterback Jarious introduced on January 1, 2002-high after its first road win over leads his team to 22 straight over Vanderbilt. When Holtz got Jackson, who' had replaced during Christmas Break and in Michigan in the post-David points and a 39-38 lead. The out of the hospital, he coached Powlus as the starter, was hit and the midst of other school's bowl Gordon era, the Irish suddenly crowd roars. Notre Dame is in the from the press box, wearing a injured his knee while trying to games. found themselves down 38-17 to lead, the National Championship neck-brace, while Davie patrolled run the clock out in his own end Michigan State in the s.econd half. is still in reach. the sidelines. Notre Dame fin­zone. Without Jackson, the Irish 1993, part II In a repeat of the 1993 Boston 
But the enthusiasm is short­ished 9-3 that season, with losses fell 10-0 to USC the following After an 8-0 start to his career, College game, Notre Dame lived. After beginning their last­only to the Wildcats, Ohio State week and dropped all the way to Willingham was being lauded as stormed back, only to lose in minute drive with two incomplete and Florida State, all of whom the Gator Bowl, where they lost to a hero. Notre Dame was ranked overtime when Jason Teague's passes -one of which is almost ended up ranked in the top 10. Georgia Tech. No. 3 in the BCS and was fresh off touchdown run gave the Spartans intercepted -the Eagles drive South Bend was ecstatic with After a 5-7 season in 1999, an impressive win over then-No. a 44-41 win. straight down the field. With five Davie's performance. many expected 2000 to be Davie's 11 Florida State in Tallahassee. Even with the loss, the Irish seconds left, kicker David Gordon "That was ground work of him last year in South Bend. But when David Gordon was a distant mem­looked to be able to jump back trots on to the field for a what becoming the head coach," the Irish turned in a 9-3 perform­ory -but it shouldn't have been. into the national title picture if would be a career-best 41-yard Prister said. "When he filled in as ance behind freshman quarter­Boston College was coming to they could pull off a home win field goal. The ball wobbles the interim head coach, they back Matt LoVecchio, Notre town to follow Notre Dame·~ big over No. 1 USC four weeks later through the uprights as time poured Gatorade on him. There Dame's new athletic director, win over the Seminoles. -and after Brady Quinn dove expires. were a lot of positive vibes." Kevin White, gave the coach a Notre Dame, wearing neon into the end-zone to put his team 
"It was like a death in the fami­contract extension. green jerseys, turned the ball up 31-28 with less than two min­ly," Prister says. "You really felt The Davie regime The season was not without an over five times that day, including utes left, that victory looked like this was the best team in the Holtz entered the 1996 season intervention from the curse, how­an interception in the Irish back­assured. country, especially after the with high expectations. He had 14 ever. field that Eagles linebacker Josh Then the curse struck. Florida State game." returning starters and Powlus At 2-1 and with only an over­Ott returned 71 yards for what The Trojans faced fourth-and-9 
Notre Dame hasn't been ranked entering his junior season. But time loss to No. 1 Nebraska, the proved to be the winning score. at their own 26, but quarterback No.1 since. the team slumped to 8-3 -Irish looked primed to get right Matt Leinart hit wideout Dwayne 
including a stunning upset loss to back into the national title race. A media firestorm Jarrett with a perfect pass down 
Air Force -and Holtz decided it They didn't. It was all down hill after that the sideline that Jarrett turned 
was time to call it quits. On Nov. Leading Michigan State 21-20 for Willingham, as consecutive 5-into a 61-yard gain. A few plays 
In the 14 years since the 19, he announced he would with two minutes left in East 7 and 6-6 seasons resulted in his later, Leinart spun across the goal Eagles' upset, the Irish are 100-resign after the season. Lansing, Notre Dame had the firing on Nov. 30, 2004 -and for line, with the help of a pushing 63-1 -a winning percentage of Bob Davie was named the new Spartans where the Irish wanted the second time in four years, the Reggie Bush, for a 34-31 win. .610, about .120 below Notre head coach less than a week them: fourth-and-10 deep in their usually on-field curse lasted well Dame's all-time mark. The Irish later. own territory. into December. 2007: Rock bottom have won only one bowl game Optimism was high in the fall of But then disaster struck. Willingham was the first Notre In his first two seasons in South since Gordon's kick split the 1997, but the downturn of Holtz's Michigan State wide receiver Dame coach to be fired after only Bend, Weis went 19-6. Even after uprights: the Cotton Bowl against last two seasons continued. Herb Haygood took a quick slant three seasons since Hunk a disappointing 10-3 record in Texas A&M to conclude that sea" Davie installed a new pass-ori­and raced 68 yards for the win­Anderson in the early 1930s and, 2006, Weis had turned around son. Lou Holtz retired, three ented offense designed to show­ning score. because he was African­recruiting and appeared comfort­other coaches have come and case Powlus in his senior season, American, there were accusa­able as the coach of the future. gone, and a ilfth is feeling the but Notre Dame struggled to The embarrassment of 2001 tions of racism. ESPN aired 48 But a 1-5 start to 2007 has pressure of a 1-5 start in his third move the ball, scoring 17 points Despite his contract extension, hours of near-continuous cover­raised questions. The team is season. or fewer in each of its first five Davie was fired a season later. age. most of it attacking the extremely inexperienced, but its 
Notre Dame hasn't seriously games, four of which were losses. After an 0-3 start, including an University. struggles are nearly unmatched challenged for a National "People had a lot of questions anemic 24-3 loss to Texas A&M, "That was wild," Prister said. in the annals of Notre Dame foot­Championship, has only had an because [Davie] had never been a Prister says, the coach knew his "It was a combination of things. ball. outside shot going into November head coach before," Prister said. fate. There was not enough offense, ''I'm caught by surprise," three times and has only fmished "You start losing people as soon "A decision had been made that and it was clear the recruiting Prister says. "Is it going in the in the top 10 only once since as you start to lose." they were going to start looking was going poorly. I will go to my right direction? I think it will go 1993. Notre Dame recovered to finish for a replacement for Davie at the grave knowing this school did not in the right direction. [Weis] has 
So what happened to the the regular season 7-5 but fell to end of the year," Prister says. make a racist decision, it made a done a very good job of keeping nation's most storied program? LSU in the Independence Bowl. After finishing the year 5-6, business decision, because the this team playing hard." Did Gordon's kick do more than In 1998, it looked the like the Davie was let go. business of Notre Dame football On Saturday, the Irish have an pierce the hearts of the 1993 curse might be broken. On Nov. 7, Notre Dame's replaced Davie was not going in the direction opportunity to pay back the team? Are the Irish cursed? the Irish ended a dramatic Boston with Georgia Tech head coach they wanted." Eagles for Gordon's kick, as 
College comeback by stuffing George O'Leary. O'Leary was pre­After courting several coaches, Boston College comes in unde­Holtz's final years Eagles running back Mike Cloud sented to the student body with including Utah coach Urban feated and ranked No. 4. A win 
Notre Dame immediately at the 1-yard line with seconds to pomp and circumstance, but he Meyer, who had been an assistant might break the curse, but it regressed in the 1994 season. In go. resigned within a week, after under Davie but ended up taking could also do something much their first season laboring under Two weeks later, Notre Dame reporters discovered he lied on the job at Florida, Notre Dame more tangible: Give Notre Dame a the "curse," and after losing 10 was 8-1 and was closing out a his resume. settled on New England Patriots signature win to give its young starters to the NFL Draft, the thrilling 39-36 win over LSU. The "You felt like you were at one of offensive coordinator Charlie players confidence and turn this young team struggled. Irish were ranked No. 10 and the low points in Notre Dame Weis. season -and Irish football in the 
"There were six first round were looking at an appearance in football," Prister says. "I don't post-David Gordon era-around. draft choices from the [1993] sen­a BCS Bowl and possibly even a know that anyone was prepared A glimmer of hope ior class," Prister said. "There spot in the National with someone of George O'Leary's Weis' offensive expertise imme­Contact Chris Khorey at was a significant drop-off in tal-Championship game if things qualifications and magnitude to diately improved the Irish, but his ckhorey@nLd.edu 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 12, 2007 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEADT
Record: 1-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 


Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Charlie Weis Third season at Notre Dame career record: 
20-11 

at Notre Dame: 

Notre Dame 2007 Schedule 
Sept. 1 GA.TECH-L Sept. 8 at Penn State-L Sept. 15 at Michigan-L Sept. 22 1\fiCH. ST.-L Sept. 29 atPurdue-L Oct. 6 atUCLA-W Oct. 13 BC Oct. 20 usc Nov. 3 NAVY Nov. 11 AIR FORCE Nov.18 DUKE Nov. 25 at Stanford 
No. 
I 
2 
" 
7 
M 
~ 
II 12 D 14 15 1o 17 1H 19 20 21 22 23 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 35 36 37 3H 
3lJ 
39 40 41 42 43 43 43 44 45 45 47 
4H 
49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 59 61 1>3 1>7 69 70 71 72 73 
74 
75 76 77 78 HO H2 H3 
H4 
HS H'l 
<)() 
Yl 92 
()~ 
lJ4 95 
96 
97 
YH 
CharlleWels head coach 
Roster 
Name Pos. 
D.). I lord WR Darrin W.tll~ DB Gory Gray DB 
20-11 against BC:0-0 

Ht. Wt. YR f>-1 196 JR f>-1 180 so 5-11 180 FR 
Armando Alll•n  RB  5-10  1~0  I'R  
Ray lll·rring  DB  5-10  197  so  
JimmyCiaust.>n  QB  f>-3  207  FR  
Racshon McNl•il  DB  f>-0  187  FR  
Tl)ffi ZbikliW!-iki  DB  f>-0  207  SR  
D.wid Crimes  WR  5-10  177  )R  
lJarrin Bragg  QB  f>-1  188  5R  
Evan Sharplt•y  QB  6-2  216  JR  
Brandon Walkl'r  K  6-3  197.  FR  
Ll•o Ferrine  DB  6-0  189  5R  
Justin Gillett  QB  5-11  1HO  5R  
Geoffrey Price  I'  6-3  208  SR  
Duvt1l Kc1mara  WR  6-5  222  FR  
l;l•orge Wl•st  WR  5-10  1~7  50  
Tt>rrail L.1mbt•rt  DB  5-11  191  SR  
B.my Gallup Jr.  WR  5-11  IH5  50  
AmbroSt' Wm1dt•n  CB  5-11  196  5R  
(;oldt·nTate  WR  5-11  188  FR  
W. D.wid Williams  DB  5-9  173  5R  
Lt•onard Gordon  DB  5-11  194  so  
Munir Prince  DB  5-10  184  so  
Travis l110mas  RB  6-0  216  SR  
David Bruton  DB  6-2  207  JR  
Kyle McCarthy  DB  6-1  207  so  
Jrlshaad Gaim•s  DB  6-0  203  so  
fakt• Richardsville  WR  6-1  180  so  
Hourison Smith  DB  6-2  205  FR  
Sergio Brown  DB  6-2  196  so  
Luke Schmidt  RB  6-3  248  50  
Rohert llughes  Rll  5-11  238  FR  
janws Aldridge  RB  6-0  222  JR  
Natt• Whitaker  K  5-9  165  I'R  
Kevin Smith  DB  6-0  180  SR  
Dt•xCurt•  DB  6-1  220  So  
Junior jdhhil·  RB  5-11  205  SR  
Wade lams  WR  5-9  183  SR  
Ry.m Burkhart  K  5-11  1%  so  
Kt•vin Brook!>  TE  6-2  241  so  
MauriccCrum,jr.  Lll  6-0  230  SR  
Scott Smith  l.B  6-4  235  JR  
Kt•vin Washington  l.B  6-1  241  JR  
Mike Anello  DB  5-10  170  JR  
Eric M.lUst  I'  5-10  177  so  
Mike Anello  DB  5-10  180  so  
Asaph St·hwapp  FB  6-0  261  )R  
John l..conis  DB  5-9  169  JR  
Kris Patt«.•rson  WR  5-11  185  JR  
Ail ron Nngt•l  LB  6-1  229  FR  
Stl'vt• Quinn  LB  6-2  231  jf{  
Toryan Smith  l.B  6-1  245  so  
Stcvt• Paskorz  LB  6-2  235  FR  
Dan Wenger  Ol.  6-4  287  so  
Jot• Brockingtlm  l.B  6-2  240  SR  
Morrice RkhMdson  I.B  6-2  244  50  
Anthony Vl·rnagliil  I.B  6-3  234  SR  
Eric Olsen  OL  6-4  303  so  
KNryNt•<~1  LB  6-2  245  FR  
IJwi~ht Stephenson  DL  6-2  272  SR  
Chris Sh•w11rt  OL  6-5  339  so  
j.j. Jansen  LS  6-3  242  5R  
)l'ff'li>ak  OL  6-5  306  JR  
Tom Bemt'ndcrfcr  OL  6-5  285  JR  
Neil Kt•nm·dy  DL  5-11  266  5R  
Mtltt Romim•  OL  6-5  279  FR  
Bartlt•y W<•bb  OL  6-6  305  so  
J\1Ul Duncan  OL  6-7  308  JR  
M.tttCaruft.•l  OL  6-5  295  so  
Sam Young  OL  6-8  310  FSO  
T;.tylor Dt•vt•r  OL  6-5  289  FR  
Andn·w Nu~s  DL  6-5  292  FR  
Michael Turkovich  OL  6-6  301  JR  
John Sullivcm  OL  6-4  303  SR  
Richard jackson  WR  6-3  204  so  
l{obby Pilrris  WR  6-4  209  50  
Mikt• H.•lg<mt•  TE  6-5  230  FR  
Will Ycatm.m  TE  6-6  264  so  
Sam Vos  WR  5-10  19Y  so  
john Carlson  TE  6-6  255  SR  
john l~y.m  LB  6-5  253  so  
Emt•ka Nwankwo  DL  6-4  283  FR  
IJt•m•IIJI,md  DL  6-3  287  )R  
!',H.idy Mulll•n  DL  6-5  290  50  
justin Brown  DL  6-3  261  5R  
l.mWiliams  Dl.  6-2  300  FR  
P.1t Kuntz  DL  6-3  285  JR  
K.11len Wade  Dl.  6-5  257  so  
Tn.•vor Laws  Dl.  6-1  296  SR  

UJ 
:E 
c( 
Q 
UJ 
a:: 
..... 
0 
z 
UJ 
C-' 
UJ
....
.... 
0 
(.) 
z 
~ 
0 
m 

Irish experts 

COACHING 
Charlie Weis finally got his elusive 20th win at Notre Dame last Saturday, but it came despite just 140 yards of total offense. Individual pieces of his team have looked good, but the whole picture has never come togeth­er at the same time. 
Jefl' Jagodzinski is unde­feated as a college head coach. His team is confi­dent and playiing well and appears to believe in him. He has Boston College in the top five for the first time since Frank Leahy was the head coach in Chestnut Hill. 

QUARTERBACKS 
Jimmy Clausen has­n't made very many freshman mistakes,· but he hasn't been very effective through the air either. He will need to air it out a lit­tle more this week for Notre Dame to have any shot to upset the Eagles. 
Matt Ryan is a Heisman candidate that 
is averaging over  300  
yards  passing  per  
game.  He  is  

expereienced at finding the right receiver, and he has been extremely efficient moving his team this season. 
Matt Ryan is a tremendous quarterback who will demonstrate why he is first-round material. The Eagles might not be the best team in the country, but they certainly belong in the conver­sation. Notre Dame will play much better than it has all season, but that only goes so far -talent and experience are on the side of Boston College. The Irish play well but lose. 
FINAL SCORE: Boston College 31 Notre Dame 21 
IRISH RUSHING 
Notre Dame rushed for barely a yard per carry agaisnt UCLA. Although the days of negative rush­ing appear to finally be over, James Aldridge's 100-yard game against Michigan State also feels like a distant memory. The Irish must be more pro­ductive on the ground. 
Boston College is giv­ing up less than 50 yards per game on the ground and less than two yards per carry. Part of the success on the ground may be because teams have to pass when the Eagles get ahead early. 
Chris Khorey 
Sports Editor 
IRISH PASSING 

After a 377,yard day against Purdue, Notre Dame reverted to its old form through the air, pao:;s­ing for just 94 yards against UClA. Freshman Golden Tate's speed will be a factor against Boston College, even though the Bruins were able to neu­tralize him.  
The Eagles are giving up nearly 300 yards per game through the air, although their passing efficiciency defense is solid. Bowling Green had over 400 yards against them last week while try­ing to overcome an early deficit.  

For the first time this season, a victorious Irish team returns to Notre Dame Stadium. They will be greeted by a raucous crowd and will jump out to an early lead over the nation's No. 4 team. But around the third quarter, real­ity will set in as Boston· College's experienced offense will start moving the ball and Notre Dame will sputter. The Eagles will pull away late. 
FINAL SCORE: Boston College 27 Notre Dame 17 


Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Boston College 
Eagles

HEAD 
Record: 6-0 

Boston College Eagles 
Boston College 2007 Schedule 

Sept. 1 Sept. 8 Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 25 Nov.3 Nov.10 Nov.17 Nov. 24 

EAGLES RUSHING EAGLES PASSING 
Notre Dame's pass defense has been its strength this season. The Irish are allowing under 150 yards per game and intercepted UCLA quar­terback McLeod Bethel­Thompson four times. But Matt Ryan is the b~st quarterback they've faced.  
Ryan spreads the ball around to lots of targets and is averaging more than 300 yards passing per game. Boston College has eight receivers aver­aging over 10 yards per catch, including leading receiver Brandon Robinson.  

WAKE-W 
N.C. STATE-W 
at Ga. Tech-W 
ARMY-W UMASS-W BGSU-W 
at Notre Dame at Vrrginia Tech 
FLORIDA ST. 
at Maryland at Clemson :MIAMI 
SPECIAL TEAMS 
Notre Dame's special teams improved marked­ly last week -but there is still along way to go. Geoff Price needs to punt more consistently, and the punt return team needs to stop committing penalties. Brandon Walker emerged as a reliable kicker. 
Walk-on Steve Aponavicius is 7-for-8 on field goals, and punter Johnny Ayers has pinned 12 punts inside the 20. DeJuan Tribble returns punts, but he's only gotten four oppor­tunities to do so this year. 
INTANGIBLES 
The Irish got their first win of the season last week-and the emotion­al impact of that can't be underestimated. They're coming home to play a team who has beaten them the last four times they've played. If Notre Dame isn't fired up now, it never will be. 
Boston College is off to one of its best starts ever, and its head coach has never lost a game. After feasting on three cupcakes, it enters a tough stretch of games beginning with its most-hated rivaL Now is the time for the Eagles to prove themselves. 
This should be a very emotional contest. Both teams have plenty to play f · addition to the fi ivalr . The 
IrS Will 0 eason, but the Eagles have so much confidence that it might not matter. 

aJ 
0 
(/) -f 
0 
z 
(') 0 
I=
., 
.,G) 

AP:4 Coaches: 4 
Jeff Jagodzinski First season at Boston College. career record: 6-0 at Boston College: 6-0 

against Notre Jeff Jagodzinski Dame: 0-0 head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
2  Brandon Robinson  WR  5-10  194  JR  
3  Ifeanyl Momah  WR  6-6  216  FR  
5  Ryan Lindsey  WR  5-8  162  so  
6  Jeff Smith  RB  5-9  191  so  
7  Kevin Akins  LB  6-2  220  JR  
8  Marty Bowman  s  6-2  214  so  
9  DeLeon Gause  DB  5-11  179  FR  
10  Chris Crane  QB  6-4  236  JR  
11  Clarence Megwa  WR  6-1  208  so  
12  Matt Ryan  QB  6-5  220  SR  
14  BillyFlutie  QB  6-2  184  so  
15  Dominique Davis  QB  6-4  187  FR  
16  John Houseplan  WR  6-3  189  JR  
17  Razzie Srni th  DB  5-10  186  so  
17  Chris Johnson  QB  6-2  220  FR  
18  Rich Gunnell  WR  5-11  206  so  
19  Paul Anderson  DB  6-1  208  JR  
21  John Lowell  QB  6-4  195  so  
23  Billy Bennett  K  6-1  198  FR  
24  Dan Mulrooney  s  6-1  197  FR  
25  Rob Swanke  QB  6-4  194  SR  
26  Dominick Magazu  WR  6-1  183  FR  
27  DeJuan Tribble  DB  5-9  190  SR  
28  Michael Dell-Aquila  DB  5-9  190  SR  
28  A.J. Brooks  RB  6-0  191  JR  
29  Michael Blackwood  WR  6-5  176  so  
29  Taji Morris  DB  5-9  189  SR  
30  LV. Whitworth  RB  5-11  219  SR  
32  Andre Callender  RB  5-11  199  SR  
33  DaveCurrid  WR  5-10  175  JR  
34  Mike Mclaughlin  LB  6-0  250  so  
35  John Siravo  RB  5-9  188  JR  
36  james McCluskey  LB.  6-2  231  so  
37  jarick Walker  LB  6-0  213  so  
38  Patrick Quinn  FB  6-2  225  SR  
38  Mark Maglio  DB  5-9  176  so  
39  Darius Bagan  LB  6-2  2333  so  
40  jolonn dunbar  LB  6-0  226  SR  
41  john Quinones  FB  5-ll  232  SR  
42  Chris Fox  DB  5-11  190  so  
43  Michael Kozicz  FB  6-0  214  so  
44  Jamie Silva  DB  5-11  210  SR  
45  Wes Davis  DB  6-1  214  so  
46  Kevin Distaso  LB  6-1  220  so  
46  johnny Ayers  p  6-0  186  SR  
47  Brad Newman  FB  6-2  250  FR  
48  Tyronne Pruitt  LB  5-11  226  SR  
49  Garrett Seeger  LB  6-0  213  JR  
50  Will Thompson  LB  6-1  233  FR  
51  Jack Geiser  LS  6-2  244  so  
52  Austin Giles  DL  6-3  291  so  
53  Samuel Lovett  K  5-ll  170  so  
54  Jason Stewart  LS  6-0  192  )R  
57  Nick Larkin  DL  6-4  241  SR  
58  Bill Ferguson  LB  6-2  215  so  
59  john Chisholm  LB  6-2  207  so  
60  Ron Brace  DL  6-3  325  JR  
61  Kevin Sheridan  OL  6-3  284  SR  
62  Bryan Murphy  OL  6-3  280  SR  
64  Nick Rossi  DL  6-6  294  so  
65  Matt Tennant  OL  6-4  284  so  
66  Rich Lapham  OL  6-8  234  so  
67  TomAneski  OL  6-2  282  SR  
69  Mark Spinney  OL  6-4  273  FR  
70  john Elliott  OL  6-4  280  FR  
71  Carlo Huggins  OL  6-6  308  JR  
72  Ryan Poles  OL  6-4  290  SR  
73  ClifRamsey  OL  6-6  302  JR  
74  Anthony Castonzo  OL  6-7  262  FR  
75  Nathan Richman  OL  6-6  274  FR  
76  Patrick Shell  OL  6-6  283  so  
77  Gosder Cherilus  OL  6-7  319  SR  
78  TyHall  OL  6-4  290  SR  
80  Ryan Purvis  TE  6-4  258  JR  
81  Warren Wilson  WR  6-5  195  so  
82  justin Jarvis  WR  6-5  179  so  
83  Steve Aponavicius  K  5-10  183  JR  
84  Kevin Challenger  WR  5-8  180  SR  
85  Ryan Thompson  TE  6-4  258  SR  
86  Jim Ramella  DL  6-4  247  so  
87  Lars Anderson  TE  6-3  235  FR  
88  Jordon McMichael  TE  6-5  254  so  
89  jon Lyte  TE  6-5  257  SR  
90  B.J. Raji  DL  6-1  325  SR  
91  Thomas Claiborne  DL  6-3  330  so  
92  Allan Smith  DL  6-2  237  so  
94  Mark Herzlich  LB  6-4  238  so  
95  Brendan Deska  DL  6-4  250  so  
97  Brady Smith  DL  6-2  284  so  
98  Alex Alright  DL  6-5  235  so  
99  jerry Willette  DL  6-5  282  JR  


The Irish rush defense improved dramatically last week, allowing only 89 yards to UCLA. It remains to be seen whether this improve­ment is temporary or if the front seven has really turned the corner. Notre Dame's rush defense was awful the first five weeks.  
Andre Callender leads a Boston College rushing attack that plays second fiddle to the passing game. He's averaging 89 yards per game on less than 20 carries per con­test. The Eagles throw the ball to set up the run.  


This is Boston College's best team in a long 
Never discount a rivaL time, and its Notre Dame's worst squad in a Boston College is overconfident because they while. Emotions will be high early on, but have steamrolled every team they've played reality will quickly set in. Yes, Notre Dame's while the Irish just beat a team led by McLeod 
Irish

secondary hasn't given up many yards this Bethel-Thompson. But Notre Dame doesn't just season, but teams haven't tested them, pre­need this game to maintain a slim chance to get ferring to run on the weak front seven. At to a bowl game, it should want to win badly. If times against Purdue, they were susceptible. Notre Dame comes out Saturday fired up, the expertsAgainst the Eagles, they will be picked apart. Eagles can't win. FINAL SCORE: Boston College 41 Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24 
Notre Dame 13 Sports Editor Boston College 21 
Chris Hine 
Sports Editor 

page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 12, 2007 
-=-===-====--­
Crunching the 

Saturday Pick 'em 
Khorey Hine Fowler Fitzpatrick
numbers 
Season Record: (81-34) (89-26) (91-24) (89-26) . No. 17 Kentucky at No. 1 LSU LSU LSU LSU LSU 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
Oregon State at No. 2 California Cal Cal Oreg. Cal 
Kent State at No. 3 Ohio State osu osu osu osu 
HC points scored 35.81 
' Central Florida at No. 5 South Florida USF USF UCF USF 
ND points scored 

·· No. 11 Missouri at No.6 Oklahoma Mizzou Okla. Okla. Mizzou No. 7 South Carolina at North Carolina S. Car. S. Car S. Car. S. Car. 
BC points allowed 

Washington State at No.9 Oregon Oregon Oregon Oregon Oregon
ND points allowed 

Arizona at No. I 0 USC usc usc usc usc BC rush yards 140.7 
No. 12 Virginia Tech at Duke V. Tech V. Tech V. Tech V. Tech 
ND rush yards 

Washington at No. 14 Arizona State ASU ASU ASU Wash. 
Louisville at No. 15 Cincinnati Cincy L'ville Cincy Cincy 
BC rushing allowed 

No. 16 Hawaii at San Jose State Hawaii Hawaii Hawaii Hawaii
ND rushing allowed 

No. 19 Wisconsin at Penn State PSU Wise. Wise. PSU BC pass yards 314.2 
Baylor at No. 20 Kansas Kansas Kansas Kansas Kansas 
ND pass yards 152.7 
No. 22 Auburn at Arkansas Ark. Auburn Auburn Auburn No. 23 Texas at Iowa State Texas Texas ISU Texas 
BC passing allowed 

No. 24 Georgia at Vanderbilt UGA UGA UGA UGA
ND passing allowed I 153,7 


Friday, October 12, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Line needs to improve running game for BC 
Clausen. successively lighter-hitting ses­
Irish last in Div. 1 in 

And the rushing game was sions Wednesday and 
total rushing offense still an issue. Even excluding Thursday paid dividends. sacks, Notre Dame had 65 "It's kind of a game feel ­yards on 35 attempts -not you're going first team on first
By KEN FOWLER 

even two yards team, and like 
Sports Writer 

per carry. last year we Still, the Irish "We're going against a didn't get that 
Two-touchdown victories for view the win as opportunity,"
good run defense this 

winless squads are not nor­a major build­Young said. "It mally indications that a team ing block, so' to week in Boston College. helps definitely. needs to improve. spea:k. We know we need to when it comes Then again, Notre Dame isn't "I think to Saturdays.
improve, and that's 

a normal team. everyone's got ... When we A week after the 20-6 Irish a little more what we're went against win over UCLA in the Rose confidence trying to do." Georgia Tech, Bowl, Notre Dame's offensive now that we've we had that line knows it will have to do a won a game," problem with
Mike Turkovich

better job opening up holes for Turkovich said. speed of the its rushing backs and protect­"I don't know Irish guard game, and this ing quarterback Jimmy about for the has really cor-Clausen to have a shot at be&t­other players, rected it." ing No. 4 Boston College. but I know for me, I didn't Still, Young said, there's 
"I think we've hit some realize how heavy [the losing work to be done. The Irish are rough spots, like streak] was on last in the nation in rushing last week my back." yards and total yards per against UCLA "But going into this Sophomore game. The passing offense is going against a game, I think we've tackle Sam in the bottom 10. And, most good run Young said the importantly, the Irish are 1-5,
got to establish an
defense," Irish three sacks now facing an undefeated junior guard identity in the were too many, team. Mike Turkovich run game. and there is still "I think that we have to, no said. "We're work to be matter who we're playing ... I going against a done. think the offense needs to pick
Sam Young 
good run "We have to up the pace a little bit," Young defense this Irish left tackle keep building. said. "We're able to do that week in Boston We're still not when we need to. Last week, College. We at 100 percent we didn't need to -our know we need to improve, and [mentally]", Young said. "So defense really carried us, they that's what we're trying to do." we've just got to keep improv­did a great job. But going into 
Against UCLA, the Irish sur­ing on that and strive for pro­this game, I think we've got to rendered three sacks -a rela­tection." establish an identity in the run tively low number for the team He said coach Charlie Weis' game." this season, but largely the decision the week before the result of three-tight end sets UCLA game to have a very Contact Ken Fowler at with extra protection for physical practice Tuesday with kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Weis says BC's Ryan has 'it' like Quinn 
he involves everybody," Weis Lewis said. "He'd spread youBy CHRIS HINE said. "He reminds me of the from sideline to sideline, and Sports Editor quarterbacks that I'm used to you're going to see that this 
being around in .that they're week. He believes in using 
Notre Dame coach Charlie not looking to create a star every inch of the field and Weis said he sees shades of out of anyone as a receiver. he's got a quarterback that Tom Brady and Brady Quinn He just can read coverages, can throw the ball there." -two of Weis' former pupils throw the ball to the open Lewis, who also coached -in Boston College quarter-guy on time and he's done a nine seasons as the defensive back Matt Hyan. very good job of doing that." nickel package coach for the 
But instead of using a star Weis also said from what he Miami Dolphins, said Ryan quarterback of Brady's or has seen, Ryan has the "it" makes different types of Quinn's caliber to design a factor -a hard-to-define throws with equal effect and game plan that preys on quality that makes a good should be a hot commodity opposing defenses, Weis and quarterback great -that, come draft time. the Irish secondary are the Weis said, both Quinn and "In my opinion, he's got to hunted -and Ileisman can­Brady have. be at the top of the quarter­didate Hyan will try to pick "Watching him on tape he back class coming out this apart Notre Dame's defense. certainly has it," Weis said. year," Lewis said. "Wheth·er 
"Their offense starts with ''I'm not coaching him so I'm he's the top guy, or top two or Ryan. Ryan is a heck of a not around him all the time, three, he's got to be up there quarterback," Weis said. but this kid's a good player." because he makes great deci­"lin's poised, he's tough, he's Ryan and the Eagles will sions. He throws the ball efficient. he's accurate. He'll face an Irish defense that where it's supposed to be stay in the pocket when he ranks No. 4 in the country in thrown. He gives receivers a feels the pressure. He's a overall pass defense; but chance to catch the ball." very, very, very good player." opponents have had little use Lewis also said Ryan has 
Last season, Ryan threw for for a consistent air attack the ability to make everyone 2,942 yards and 15 touch­against the Irish because of around him play better. downs to lead Boston College Notre Dame's porous rush "He raises the level of to a 10-:~ record. This season, defense. Through six games, everyone around him. His in six games, Ryan has the Irish have given up an offensive line wants to pro­already thrown for 15 touch­average of 190 yards per tect him because they say· downs, 1.857 yards and a game on the ground, 96th in 'Hey, if we protect this guy he 
139.41 passing efficiency rat­the country. can get the ball there,"' ing to lead Boston College to But Boston College and Lewis said. "The receivers a 6-0 start ---c-its best since Ryan may come out firing are very well-coached. 1942. early and often, Notre Dame They're precise in their 
One of the ways in which defensive backs coach Bill routes. They know, 'Hey if I Hyan is similar to Brady and Lewis said. Lewis worked run this route that I'm sup­Quinn, Weis said, is Ryan's with Boston College first-year posed to, he's going to read ability to spread the ball head coach Jeff Jagodzinski the coverage, and he's going around to different receivers. and offensive coordinator to get it to the right guy and Seven Eagles receivers have Steve Logan when Lewis was he's going to give me a ball more than 10 catches, and the head coach at East that I can catch.' wide out Brandon Hobinson Carolina from 1989-91. "That's what's so impres­leads the team with only 29 "Steve's one of those kind of sive about him." receptions. guys, I swear if you'd let him 
"'.l'hey don't have one star throw the ball every snap, Contact Chris Hine at in their pass game because he'd throw it every snap," chine@nd.edu 


ON SITE SALES OFFICE OPEN SAT:1 Oam-12pm SUN:1 Oam-2pm 
By C{e{andHomes
Move In Now 





