
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Residents unsure ofparty ordinance 
South Bend neighbors frustrated with ND students, but question legislation's effectiveness 
their late night visitors ­detract from the home lives of their neighbors when they mark each weekend by litter­ing beer cans to the street or causing noise so loud it wakes neighborhood children, resi­dents told The Observer Sunday. 
John Whelan, who lives on Notre Dame Avenue, does not know if the proposed ordi­nance will be effective, but is glad the "real problem of out­of-control student behavior" is being addressed. 
"Being a Notre Dame Avenue resident, the problem is real -drunk students urinating, defacing property and commit­ting vandalism," he said. 
That large parties are fre­quently followed by student transgressions ranging from the inconsiderate to the egre­
see NEIGHBORS/page 4 

Jenkins encourages dialogue through film series 
Religion, ethnicity, class, gender subject ofsemester-long event to celebrate CSC anniversary 
ByJENNMETZ Assistant News Editor 
The Office of the President and the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) have launched a semester-long film series called WorldView, a project aimed at promoting dialogue about religion, ethnicity, class and gender. 
The first film. "God Grew Tired of Us," was screened Sunday night to a sold-out crowd in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
University President Father John Jenkins introduced "God Grew Tired of Us," the story of the Sudanese Lost Boys, as "a wonderful, beautiful film" that is "accessible, but powerful." 
WorldView is a partnership between the Office of the President and the esc to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the esc. 
,,~ 

The goal, Jenkins said, is to 
't. 

use the arts to create a Jenkins universal expression of solidarity. 
"Film is both accessible and capable of high expression," Jenkins said. 
Sunday's film was "intended 
for a particular, educational purpose," he said. "I hope the series gives rise to conversa­tions.... We come from differ­ent backgrounds and cultures that have a beauty that express God's grandeur." 
Bill Purcell, assistant profes­sional specialist for the esc, spoke after Jenkins and said he hoped the series would help create a global community at Notre Dame. 
"The arts are a way that we can lift up the human spirit in solidarity," he said. "Film is one of the best ways to lift that up." 
Purcell had the opportunity to travel to Sudan and called the people "inspiring." 
"They are the holiest people I've ever met," he said. 
The film follows three refugees from Sudan to Ethiopia, to Kenya and finally to the U.S. Though the Lost Boys experience the worst kinds of suffering possible, they still hold out hope for their families' safety and are able to achieve their dreams and reunite in America. 
"God Grew Tired of Us" was directed by Christopher Quinn and produced by Brad Pitt. Nicole Kidman narrated the two-hour-long film. 
Other films in the WorldView series to be presented through-
see FILM/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Linney leaves forUAB 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Former Interim Dean of the Graduate School Don Pope­Davis has replaced Jean Ann Linney as University vice president and associate provost. 
Linney said she w o u I d leave the University a f t e r t h r e e years on the post to become the dean of the School of Social and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Alabama at Birmingham (UAB). 
Pope-Davis replaced her on Aug. 15, the same day Linney took office in Birmingham. In a news release, Provost Thomas Burish called Pope­Davis "an accomplished researcher, teacher and administrator with an unwa­vering commitment to Notre Dame's Catholic mission." 
Despite Linney's short tenure at Notre Dame, Burish said, her contributions were numerous and will have a lasting impact. 
"Jean Ann worked hard and effectively to oversee a broad array of academic and admin­istrative areas, including the tenure and promotion proce­dures for faculty, new faculty orientation, the Snite 

see LINNEY/ page 4 


By JENN METZ and JOE McMAHON 
News Writers 
One week before the public hearing of the Common Council's proposed party ordi­nance, a number of South Bend residents said there are indeed problems with rowdy student neighbors -though not ones the ordinance would necessarily solve. 
The ordinance would require residents of boarding houses -defined as homes where more than two unrelated per­sons live -to apply for a per­mit to host gatherings at which more than 25 people would have access to alcohol. The ordinance, proposed this summer, will be discussed Sept. 17 at the South Bend City-County Building. 
Some student renters -and 
SMC offers free physical education classes 
By KATIE STAAK 
News Writer 
All Saint Mary's students will now be able to take physical education classes free of charge. 
In past years, students who were not taking the classes for academic credit would be required to pay a $50 fee at the beginning of each semes­ter to participate. 
The reason for the policy change is simply to encour­age more students to take any of the six classes offered at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
"I just felt that some of our students were having a hard time finding an extra $50 per 
semester and I did not want the fee to be in the way of anyone taking our fantastic education classes," said Lynn Kachmarik, director of ath­letics at Saint Mary's. 
Kachmarik said there has been a noticable influx in participation under the new policy. 
"It is nice to see the women of Saint Mary's more physi­cally and mentally healthy," she said. 
Freshman Caitlin McGuire, who is taking the yoga class, likes the flexibility with the classes. 
"I've only gone to one class so far, but because I'm not taking it for credit, I can go anytime I want and I like that," she said. "I've also 
tried Pilates. I'd definitely recommend trying some of these classes." 
For some students, the appeal of the classes is not only fitness but also afford­ability. 
"I like that the classes are free because at home, I had to pay $5 for each class," freshman Claire Phalange said. 
Classes are available on a first come, first serve basis, giving preference to those taking class for credit, fol­lowed by other students and faculty. They are offered Monday through Thursday and include spinning, person­al fitness instruction, Pilates, 
see FREE P.E./page 4 


.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Why "We'll beat Michigan 
I've livnd and dind with Notm Damn (hot­
ball sincn I ww; night years old. but I'm not 
that upset with tJw rough start to tJ1is year's 
I( 1otball snw.;on. 
Part of tJmt is because tJw Irish are so 
young tJ1is ynar. 
With allthn nxpl~ri­
nncn tJws(~ )..'llys arP 
gaining, we'll be 
much beU.Hr rwxt 
year and tJw year 
after. 
llowever, cu10thnr 
part of my happier­
than-w1ntld-b!~­
expected mood is 
tJw dn~am season 
anotlwr power col­
leg~~ lbothall pro­
gram is having. 
It's tim sm1son I've always dreamed oC any­
way. 
Michigan is 0-2, witl1 two losses ar)..'Uably 
W! wsn than nither of the mnbarrassmnnts 
Notm l>anw has sulli~n~d. It lost in an hist.oric 
upsnt to Divl-;ion 1-M Appalachian State and 
then gave up an historic numbnr of yards in a 
:19-7 loss to Oregon. Both games wem at 
horne. 
I grow up in Michigan and morn than 50 lll!~mrn~rs of my high school da.o.;.-; now go to sc.hool in Ann Arbor. Every time they win, I hear about it. I\wry timn the Irish loS!\ I hoar about it. Cod litrbid the two happnn on tim same day. 
But hating Michigan is about mon• t11m1 just ribbing from student-; <UJd litns from that school. I hate The Uniwrsity of Michigan bncausn it is PverytJJing that Notm Damn is not. 
NotrP l>mnn is private, small, wPlmming and religious. Michigm1 is public, huge, bureaucratic and atlwist. Notre Damn l-; ((,cusml on undergraduate education. Michigan is l(u:used on liu:ulty rnsearch. 
But t.hn dill(•rpnce between tl1n two school-; is mon• than numbPrs and missions. Them is a wry dillimmt pmvailing attitude on campus --onn that has a din~et rn~aring on how tlw ((,otball tmuns will mmvnr lhun tlwir terrible start-;. 
At Notm Damn, stud!mt-; am loyal to each other--espl~cially tlwir da.o.;.-;mates on the ((,otball t.mun. They stay to tile nnd of cvnry game, win or losn, to sing tlln Alma Mater, rn~cau-;n, no matter what, wn all still Love ThPn Notre Danw. 
Notre I >ame is ab!mt overcoming adversity --whntlwr it's somntlling silly like parietals, sonwtl1ing seriou-; like )..'Ullshots outside Club 23, or something tlmt's a bit of botll, like los­ing a ((,otball gamo. 
At Michigan, tim nmph<L<;is is on being tlw bl•st. lf'sornething l-;n't up to snull', it's quickly disregardnd. Thl-; obviously leads to some imprnssivo univnrsity an:omplishmenl-;, but it also lmuls to tllings liko a low (bur-year grad­uation rate <UJd a student body tllat tum-; on it-; own ((,otJmll team when times am tough. 
The dim~rnnce can even b!~ soon in tile two sdHKII's light sonhrs. Student-; singing tile Vkt.ory M!tr<"h plPdgn to "ehoor her ever," and h!~ "loyal to Notre Dame" "what. though tlw odds lx~ groat or small." 
Thosn who sing Tlw Victors ehenr only the "leado~ mul b!~st" and tile "eonquering herons. 
Which attit.udn do you think better helps a t.nmn down on it-; luek meover and start win­ning again? 
The Irish am re)..rrouping this week, witll tllo hdp of a suppllrtive student body. The Wolverines are infighting while boos rain down from tlleir own crowd. 
And tlmt l-; why we'll rnmt Michigan on Saturday. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Chris Khorey 
Sports Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
Tht• Observer regards itself as a professional publica !ion and strives f(~r the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, September 10, 2007 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO AFTER THE PENN STATE GAME? 





Eric Hoffman Caitlin Pulte Pat Mulhern Caitlin Garvey Tim Loftus Christine Hedge 
freshman

senior freshman freshman senior senior
Welsh Family 
St. Eds Morrissey Welsh Family off campus McGlinn ''I'm in the "We had a fire "/ drowned my "/ went out with "Got heckled by "Left State 
band, so I just drill in Welsh sorrows in my friends from rode back. It Fam. , quarter dogs., P.E., was a pretty quiet bus ride., 

Students congregate in the Grotto for the Junior Class Mass Sunday. Father Bob Dowd presided over the Mass. More than 100 students were present. 
OFFBEAT 

Japanese man remains air guitar champion 
OULU, finland -A Japannsn man out "played" challengers to win the Air Guitar World Championship for the second consecutive year at a eontest in northern Finland. 
Ochi Yosuke received the highest score from a panel of judges in the final late Friday at the Teatria rock club in Oulu, ncar the Arctic Circle. 
Apart from the glory, he received a custom-made Flying Finn elnctric guitar worth $3,400. 
The talent on display was variable at best. The surprise of the qualifying round was 
TODAY c::: 

Oulu native Hilkka "Gore Kitty" Suvanto, who has twice before scored the low­est points ever in that round but now achieved a perfect six from many of the judges. 
Synagogue seats go for $1.8M at auction 
MIAMI BEACl-I, Fla. --Just in time for the Jewish high holidays, two lifetime front­row seats to services at a synagogue hnre are being auctioned off on eBay. The bidding starts at $1.8 mil­lion. 
Besides getting to schmooze up front with the rabbi, the lucky winner's family name will be 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
1.&.1 :I: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
_, 
c:c 
(.) 



0 

HIGH 71 HIGH 75
...I LOW 60 LOW 48 

61 50 

68 
49 

engraved on Seal-; 1 and 2 of Row 1, Section DD, at Temple Emanu-El. The win­ner also will receive free parking, two custom-made prayer shawls and yarmulkes, and a hefty tax write-off. Plus, the winning bidder can pass the snats down to his or her children. 
"It's a gift that goes from one generation to another," said Habbi Kliel Rose, who came up with the concept with a little bit of chutzpah and the help of two congre­gants who work in advertis­ing and marketing. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
Penn State College as fast fans., as possible. , 
IN BRIEF 

There will be an informa­tion session for students in the Mendoza College of Business who are interested in studying abroad tonight at 5 in room 101 DeBartolo Hall. Dr. Gina Shropshire, undergraduate academic advisor. will present. 
There will be altar server training Tuesday at 8:30 in the Basilica of the Saered Hl'art. This !Went is manda­tory for all interested. 
Campus HOTC units will do a demonstration to remem­ber September 11 tomorrow at 7 a.m. The event will take place at the reflecting pool of the Hesburgh Library. Head basketball coach Mike Brcy will speak, as well as the ROTC chaplain. 
There will be a student mixer Tuesday evening at 
6:30 for entrepreneurial­minded students at Legends. The mixer will combine short spneches, information tables from the Gigot Center for Entreprennurial Studies, MBA club and the 4 Horsnmen Club. 
There will be a staged reading and premiere per­formance of "Ballade Nocturne" by playwright Gao Xingjian Wednesday at :l:45 
p.m. in McKenna Hall. The event is free and open to the public. 
Thn rosary will be said Wednesday night at 6:45 at the Grotto. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
recognize that we will make mistakes. If we make a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 

New York 82 I 68 Philadelphia 88 168 Phoenix 1041 84 Seattle 791 54 St. Louis 91 I 71 Tampa 86 I 76 Washington 91 171
correct our error. 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 10, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Gondoli examines growth 
Associate psychology professorfocuses on child progression in study 
Swedish researchers began
Special to The Observer 
publishing studies indicating 
To paraphrase a proverb, it that firm parenting might not may take a village to raise a be the best way for moms to child, but there's no guarantee stay informed and that they that everyone in that village should instead focus on build­will see eye-to-eye on parent­ing warm relationships with ing, especially when it comes to their children, a claim that adolescents. Just ask Dawn caused some controversy. Gondoli, associate professor of "The Swedish folks saying psychology at Notre Dame. that control wasn't important 
In  2001,  she  for knowledge  
received a grant from the National Institute of  ''A theme in the parenting literature  seemed to many like an attack on  
Mental Health to complete a five­year study of moms and their  is that parenting doesn ,t change much.,,  authoritative parenting, or a recommen­dation for per­ 
first-born  chil­ missiveness,  
dren as the kids progressed from fourth to eighth  Dawn Gondoli psychology professor  something w h i c h American par- 

grade. 
"A theme in ·the parenting lit­erature is that parenting does­n't change much," she says. "IIowever, l believed that if one made use of more cutting-edge techniques ... one might see fairly substantial patterns of change." 
An area Gondoli planned to focus on was maternal knowl­edge -mothers' awareness of their children's activities, whereabouts. acquaintances and behaviors when not at home -which she says has been consistently associated with positive outcomes for kids and the parent-child relation­ship. 
Around the same time, 

enting researchers do not endorse," Gondoli says. 
It was in this climate that she and her team initiated their study. She started with 181 mother-child pairs, and 162 completed the full five years. Once a year, they would come to her lab, where they would fill out surveys separately and be videotaped together while discussing issues that recently had caused conflict between them. 
Using advanced statistical methods, Gondoli found that maternal knowledge usually exhibited "a modest but signifi­cant decrease" as kids went through adolescence. She calls this a "normative" change that doesn't tend to have an adverse effect on mother or child. 
"It is important to document just how knowledge may change during the transition to adolescence," she says, "and we seem to be the only researchers in the countrv and internationally who have" data that can describe this over this particular period." 
As for whether being strict maintains maternal knowl­edge? 
"Our results are actually more consistent with the Swedish researchers," Gondoli says. "We have found that mothers' warmth toward their children and the emotional cohesion and closeness of the mother-child relationship is a much more important predic­tor than is mothers' firm con­trol." 
But while her study doesn't make a strong case for strict parenting, Gondoli doesn't feel it points to a hands-off, "kids­will-be-kids" approach, either. 
"This might reflect my train­ing as an American parenting researcher, but I find it hard to dismiss control entirely," she says, noting that the way her team measured control was "a bit extreme." Most of the moms who had healthy relationships with their kids were quite firm even if they weren't considered "strict," making it difficult sta­tistically to isolate the effect of control. 
Abroad students adjust to ca111pus life at ND 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
After spending a semester abroad, many students say they view Notre Dame differently -a change that requires readjusting to on-campus classes, housing sit­uations and South Bend social life. 
One of the biggest differences, returnees say, is campus life. Senior Kaitlyn O'Leary spent the spring semester studying at John Cabot University in Rome. 
"Living off campus this year helps because I was much more independent [in Rome!." she said. "I lived with five girls and cooked all of my meals. Dorm life would have been much harder to adjust to." 
Senior Kim Crehan, who stud­ied in Toledo, Spain and lived with a host family, also said living on campus would have been a diffi­cult adjustment. 
"It's easier to live off campus this year because I was more free in Spain," she said. "People stay out much later, which would be a problem living on campus." 
Many students said returning to campus meant readjusting to greater demands in schoolwork. 
"I had a much smaller workload in Rome, although I did miss some of the academic challenges of Notre Dame," O'Leary said. 
Senior Amanda Deckelman, who studied in Dublin, also felt the differences in academic struc­ture. 
"The biggest adjustment was being busy again," she said. "Classes are structured differently here." 
For some students, however, studying abroad was similar· to Notre Dame -making the return home less of an adjust­ment. 
"Notre Dame London is much more like ND than other study abroad programs," senior Christy Laufer said. "I took classes with students from Notre Dame. It was a lot like Notre Dame." 
Other students who studied in countries where a significant cul­tural immersion was necessary faced a greater adjustment. 
Senior Katie Ward spent last semester teaching English in Puebla, Mexico. Living in Puebla was "more like high school," she said, "because I was living with a family and taking a bus to school." 
Regardless of where seniors spent last semester, returning to Notre Dame meant coming home. 
"Coming back to campus, I am trying to maintain my friends abroad. My circle of friends just got bigger," O'Leary said. 
Senior Mary DeBartolo, who studied in Copenhagen, said com­ing back to Notre Dame was something she looked forward to all semester. 
"I am very happy to be back home with my friends at Notre Dame for my senior year," she said. "It feels like home." 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


UBS Firmwide Presentation 
The Investment Bank is one of the world's leading investment banking and securities firms, providing a full spectrum of services to corporate and institutional clients, govern­ments and financial intermediaries. 
Date:  September 10, 2007  
Time:  6:30 PM ­ 8:30 PM  
Venue:  CCE-McKenna Hall ­ Rm 100  

Business Area: IBD-Chicago Office 
Resume Drop Deadline: September 12, 2007 
It starts with you: 

www.ubs.com/graduates 
UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace. (M/F/DN) 

*UBS 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September I 0, 2007 

Linney 
continued from page 1 

Museum, Notre Dame University Press, and a large number of othnr areas," Burish said in an e-mail. 
Iter resume and work at Notre Damn made her a strong candi­date for the UAB position, according to the UAB Web site. Philip Way, assoeiate provost li)r undergraduate programs at UAB, said he conducted "a very thorough national search and brought forward candidates who truly were exemplary." 
Linney said she appreeiates the importance of bnhavioral sci­ences in understanding the world's most difficult conflicts, and she said she is looking for­ward to working with the UAB faculty and students to produce more research on those disci­plines. 
"UAB is a major research uni­versity and the programs in the School of Social and Behavioral Sciences have the potential to make a significant difference in the world. I am excited to be a part of that," Linney said in a statement. "Many of the world's most difficult issues can be bet­ter understood with contribu­tions from the disciplines within the School of Social and Behavioral Sciences." 
Burish praised Pope-Davis' contributions to the school's racial diversity and graduate 
programs, as well as his "will­ingness to serve in this critically important position." 
Pope-Davis was associate vice president of the Graduate School from 2004-06 and as acting dean during the 2006-07 aca­demic year after Jeffrey Kantor stepped down in July 2006 to return to the classroom full­time. 
He has been coordinator of the University's Multicultural Hesearch Institute since 2000, and last year he was also appointed chair of Notre Dame's Faculty Board on Athletics and its NCAA faculty athletics repre­sentative. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 



Free P.E. 
continued from page 1 

yoga, yogalatns and a "cardio combo" class. Each elass is 50 minutes long. 
Thnre is no pre-registry 
required, unless students are taking the class for credit. 
"Students are encouraged to dedicate themselves to a certain class weekly, so they can receive the best results from the workout," Kachmarik said. 
Kachmarik hopes to attract a widn variety of students by 
offering several different types of classes. 
"All of the classes are free, so it depends on what you like. There is something for everyone," she said. 
Contact Katie Staak at kstaakO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Neighbors 
continued from page 1 

gious is not surprising to resi­dents of the highly student­populatlld neighborhoods sur­rounding the University 
Notre Damn Avenue resident .Janet .Jessup's main complaint was the noise -particularly in the early hours of the morn­ing, when her children are sleeping. Students walking baek from late-night parties frequently cause enough noise to wakn her family inside their house, she said. 
"I have kids who have to get up for school," she said. 
The members of the Phillips family, who live at 902 E. Washington Street, are some of the only non-students in their neighborhood, which is lined by houses rented to stu­dents by landlord Mark Kramer. 
It is a neighborhood that gets rowdy. 
"Kramer has turned Washington Street into a party Mecca," James Phillips said. 
The family has lived in the house for 15 years and has long endured the noise and disruption from parties. 
They did not complain about their student neighbors, but rathnr the hundreds of other University -and high school -students who 11ock to the street each weekend. 
"It has turned my life and marriagP. into a pressure cook­er," lleidi Phillips said. "Our lifP has been ugly hern." 
Students who choose to live ofT cam pus rwed to tn~at their new communities with respect, she said. 
"If you live in the neighbor­hood, you are expected to be a responsible citizen of the eity," she said. 
.James Phillips agrned. "Students fed they've bought tho right to party," he said. 

Fil01 
continued from page 1 

out the semester inelude "El Norte," "From A Silk Cocoon," "Hebirth of A Nation" and "All the Invisible Children." Director Gregory Nava, D.J Spooky and director Katia 
"You haven't bought that right. 
It can be taken away." 

Tho Phillips call in noise complaints "quite often," but are never satisfied with the results, they said. 
The ordinance, if passed, could help the situation by "giving law enforcement the tools they need to keep order," .James Phillips said. 
In a move he said could help ease tensions between stu­dents and the community, Kramer hosted a block party Sunday afternoon on Notre Dame Avenue between Howard Street and Corby Boulevard. 
The crowd, split between students and other residents, numbered about 30. 
Tom Guinan and Jean McManus, like many residents who chose to attend, reported favorable impressions of the student population -at least during the week. 
Guinan, a local resident, said the students bring "funkiness" to the neighborhood. He dis­agreed with the tone set by passing new laws regulating student behavior. 
"The ordinance breeds ill will," he said. 
McManus, who lives on the corner of Notre D.ame Avenue and Howard Street, said she has had predominantly good experiences with students. 
"I love seeing the students ­they're very friendly," Jean McManus said. 
However, "there's the occa­sional person who's just rude," she said. 
Neither residents at the block party nor those at their homes expressed high confi­dence that an ordinance or similar legislation would have lasting impact on long-estab­lished patterns of student behavior. 
.Jessup, whose child was awoken by noise from student neighbors on school nights, said an ideal solution would depend on communication and respect within the community, 
Lund are expected to appear at the screenings. 
The series organizers hope a positive dialogue will come out of these screenings, .Jenkins said. 
"Film will help," he said. "It's a good start." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

rather than oversight and enforcement from the law. 
"It starts with relationships," Jessup said. "We need to build something that will work to help the situation stay under control. If that could be accomplished without the ordi­nance, that's great." 
While students need be con­siderate to their neighbors, she said, some of those neigh­bors might remember what it was like to blow off steam after a week of studying. 
"We were students once," Jessup said. "We understand kids and college." 

Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu and Joe McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 

SOUTH BEND 




888-222-2024 




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 10, 2007 CoMPILED FROJ\t THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AI-Qaida takes credit for deadly attack 
ALGIERS -Al-Qaida's North African affil­iate claimed responsibility Sunday for a car bombing that killed 30 coast guard officers and another recent blast that ripped through a crowd waiting for the president. 
In Saturday's blast, explosives planted in a van ripped through barracks in the north­ern coastal town of Dellys, about 30 miles from the capital, Algiers. The bombing appeared timed to kill as many officers as possible when they were grouped together to raise the flag. 
Al-Qaida in Islamic North Africa claimed responsibility in a statement posted on the group's Web site, and it said it also was behind a blast Thursday that killed at least 22 in eastern Algeria. 
"We swear to God to continue sacrificing our lives until you stop supporting the cru­saders in their war, apply the Islamic tenet and stop your war against God's religion," the group said in the statement. 
Pope ends trip to Austria with request 
VIENNA -Pope Benedict XVI, beset by drab weather and relatively small crowds, ended a pilgrimage to Austria on Sunday by reminding Europeans of their Christian heritage as they grapple with immigration and Islam. 
Bereft of huge throngs of adoring pilgrims such as the 1 million Brazilians who turned out to see him in May, the German-born pontiff appealed to far smaller gatherings of believers in mostly Catholic Austria not to discard their faith. 
In a farewell speech, he urged Austrians "to bring the traditional values of the continent ­values shaped by the Christian faith -to European institutions." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Whale shot off Washington cost dies 
NEAH BAY -A California gray whale that was harpooned and shot with a machine gun off the western tip of Washington state has died, officials said. 
Coast Guard Petty Officer Kelly Parker said five people believed to be members of the Makah Tribe shot and harpooned the whale Saturday morning. 
Petty Officer Shawn Eggert said the whale disappeared beneath the surface in the evening, dragging buoys that had been attached to the harpoon, and did not resur­face. A biologist working for the Makah Indian tribe declared it dead, Eggert said. 

Search for missing pilot continues 
RENO -Rescue crews were headed to another potential sighting of Steve Fossett's plane Sunday afternoon near where the famous aviator took off on Labor Day. 
The sighting occurred within a 50-mile radius of the airstrip about 80 miles south­east of Reno, said Kim Toulouse, a spokesman for the Nevada Department of Wildlife assisting in the search operation. 
"We have aircraft and ground forces en route to that location," Toulouse told reporters, refusing to take any questions. 
At least six times during the past week search and rescue crews have spotted air­plane wreckage they thought might be Fossett's only to learn they were from crash­es years and sometimes decades ago. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Mayoral candidate claims innocence 
FORT WAYNE-Republican mayoral candi­date Matt Kelty has taken to the radio to pro­fess his innocence weeks after being indicted on charges of campaign finance violations and perjury. 
Kelty's campaign has started airing radio commercials in which he says he filed his campaign reports correctly and told the truth to the grand jury. 
"Only one side of this story has been told," Kelty said in the advertisement. "I am wrongly accused, and I am innocent." 
A grand jury indicted Kelty last month on nine charges, including seven felonies, related to how he reported $158,000 in loans to his mayoral campaign in Indiana's second largest city. 
If convicted, he faces six months to three years in prison on each of the felony charges. 
PAKISTAN 

Nation prepares for Nawaz Sharif's return 
Current government awaits the arrival of ousted prime minister to Islamic state 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD -Police manned roadblocks and rounded up supporters of former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif who left London Sunday after seven years in exile to return to Pakistan and lead a cam­paign to topple the coun­try's U.S.-allied military ruler. 
Before leaving London, Sharif warned that President Gen. Pervez Musharraf's government might try to .arrest or deport him. At the last minute, he asked his broth­er Shahbaz Sharif to remain in Britain so that he can lead the party in case anything happens to the former prime minister. 
The Pakistani govern­ment has hinted it may arrest or deport Sharif when he arrives, and an arrest warrant was issued against his brother last week in connection with a murder case. 
Any attempt to arrest Sharif, whose elected gov­ernment was ousted by Musharraf in a 1999 coup, is likely to sharpen political tensions ahead of presiden­tial and legislative elections and could trigger street vio­lence. 
The looming showdown he said that only under­International Airways and a supporters in Punjab have could further weaken scored the need for him to handful of other airlines. been detained in a crack­Musharraf's faltering grip return and fight to restore They carried banners wish­down over the past four on power and comes as the full democracy and the ing him well and chanted days, and others have gone country battles surging power of the judiciary. "Go Musharraf, Go!" and into hiding, said Ahsan Islamic extremism that has "We are not scared of "Prime Minister Nawaz Iqbal, a spokesman for spread from the Afghan anything -prisons and Sharif, people are waiting Sharif's party. Police and border, where Osama bin jails we have gone through for you!" security officials, speaking Laden and other al-Qaida all that," Sharif said. Scores of journalists and on condition of anonymity leaders are believed to be At the boarding gate, party workers were booked because of the sensitivity of hiding. Sharif turned to his brother, on Sharif's plane, a com­the issue, confirmed about 
"We are going, nothing who had a boarding pass to mercial flight that is sched­700 arrests. can stop us," Sharif told travel with him, and asked uled to transit in Oman. On Sunday evening, reporters at London's him to stay behind in After his expected arrival police patrolled and Heathrow airport before Britain. in Islamabad Monday manned roadblocks on the boarding the Pakistan "In case anything hap­morning, Sharif plans to main roads leading from International Airways pens in Pakistan, you can travel in a motorcade to Lahore to Islamabad. One flight. "We are happy we run the party from here," their home and political mobile squad swooped are going go back to our he told his brother, who base in Lahore, about 180 down on three buses carry­country after seven long had tears in eyes. miles to the south. The trip ing suspected Sharif sup­years in exile." Hundreds of his support­through Punjab province porters. Armed officers 
He said he expected ers crowded the departure could take three days as he mounted each bus and Musharraf to invoke emer­hall, briefly disrupting greets supporters along the ordered the drivers to take gency powers to stop his operations at the check-in way, Sharifs party said. the passengers away ­supporters in Pakistan, but counters of Pakistan More than 2,000 Sharif apparently into custody. 

Tropical Storm Gabrielle hits North Carolina 
Associated Press center made landfall along the out into the Atlantic. At 5 p.m., the 
Cape Lookout National Seashore center of the storm was about 30 
HATTERAS -Tropical Storm around 11:45 a.m. miles southwest of Kill Devil Hills, Gabrielle made landfall Sunday on Forecasters said Sunday after­headed north near 12 mph. Its North Carolina's Outer Banks, noon it appeared that much of the maximum sustained winds were packing 50 mph winds and rain, rain -concentrated well to the close to SO mph, with stronger but it wasn't enough of a threat to south of the storm's center -will gusts, and it was expected to weak­scare vacationers from the shore miss the parched inland coast. en slightly in the next 12 hours. and surfers from the beach. "Some of it may work over Forecasters kept a tropical storm 
"It's a lot rougher out there, but towards Hatteras, but the bulk of warning in effect for the North this is what we look forward to the precipitation is going to remain Carolina coastline north of Surf every year," said Derek Creekmore, just offshore," said James City through the Outer Banks and 32, of Chesapeake, Va., as he car­Wingenroth, a meteorologist at the to the Virginia border. A tropical ried his surfboard into tall, break­National Weather Service office in storm warning was also issued ing waves near Cape Hatteras. "We Newport. northward to Cape Charles Light, plan to stay out here until we get While moving over Pamlico Va., along the Atlantic Coast, and a tired." Sound on Sunday afternoon, watch remains in effect for the 
Although Gabrielle strengthened Gabrielle was expected to take a area extending to New Point slightly Sunday morning, it was a sharp turn and reach Nags Head Comfort peninsula, along the weak tropical storm when its small around sunset before heading back Chesapeake Bay. 
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 10, 2007 


Disorderly conduct under revievv 
Senator will ask court Monday to rescind guilty plea in case 
A..sociated Press 
WASIIJN(;T()N -Sen. Larry Craig will l'ile court docu­mnnts Monday asking to with­draw his guilty plea in a sex sting that seems likely to end his carc1~r. his attorney said. 
Craig, an Idaho Hnpublican, pleaded guilty in August to disorderly conduct following a sting operation in a men's bathroom at the Minneapolis airport. 
lin has said he regrets that dneision, which he said he made hastily and without talking to an attorney. He said he was under stress and pleaded guilty only to put the mattnr behind him. 
Attorney William Martin said Sunday night that a request to withdraw that plea would be filed Monday. Such requt1sts are rarnly granted. Martin would not discuss the argument he planned to make in court. 
Martin said he was not involved in discussions about Craig's future in the Senate. Craig originally announced he would resign at the end of the month, then said he was reconsidering that decision. llis chief spokesman later said Craig had dropped virtu­ally all notions of trying to fin­ish his third term. 
"My job is to get him back to where he was before his rights were taken away," Martin said. 
Craig's congressional spokesman has said the only way that Craig is likely to remain in the Senate is if a court moves quickly to over­turn the conviction, some­thing that is unlikely to hap­pen before the end of the month. 
But Judy Smith, a spokes­woman for Craig's legal team, said the lawyers are focused only on the Minnesota case, not political outcomes. 
Many Republicans have urged Craig to say for sure that he will resign. That would spare the party an ethics dilemma and the embarrassment of dealing with a colleague who had been stripped of his commit­

tee leadership posts. 
It also would negate the need for a Senate ethics com­mittee investigation, which GOP leaders had requested. 
If Craig succeeds in undoing his plea, he would likely try to have the charges dismissed to avoid an embarrassing trial. 
A police report alleged that Craig had solicited sex from a male officer at the Minneapolis airport in June. 
Appearing on CNN's "Late Edition," Sen. Arlen Specter, R-Pa., said Craig is entitled to his day in court. 
"Maybe he'll be convicted, but I doubt it," said Specter, 
the  Senate  Judiciary  
Committee's  ranking  
Republican.  

Specter said that when he learned the details of the arrest "I was convinced that he couldn't be convicted if he fought the case." 
Minnesota law is that a guilty plea may be withdrawn if it was not intelligently made "and what Sen. Craig did was by no means intelligent," said Specter. 

Another 9/11 victim named 

Long sickness still debated as 6th anniversary of attacks nears 
Associated Press 
NHW YOHK-Joseph Jones marks his wife's death on two days 1~ach year. 
I~ very Feb. I 0 -the day she dind of lung disease -Jonns lays !'lowers at her gravn in Staten Island. On Sept. I I -the day the World Tradt~ Center collapsed and sIll) in hal nd the toxic dust cloud that enveloped lower Manhattan -Jones watches tolnvision at home. listening to 2,749 names of the finan­cial workers, firefighters, paronts and children who were killed in tho attack. 

For the f'irst time on Tunsday. Jones is going to a small park southeast of ground zero, where he will stand for hours with those vietims' families marking the sixth anniversary and hear tho narno of his wife, Felicia Dunn-Jones, who died just f'ive months after the towers fn II. lie is not sure how he will feel. 
"It's j.~st a se~sn .~'f ~a~ness, really, he sa1d. Its JUSt a sense of acknowledgment that her death was 
"It's just a sense of
caused by abandon the events happen­acknowledgment that men and ing that day." women who 
... her death was
The addition helped lift
caused by the events
of Dunn-Jones, our city back a 42-year-old happening that day." onto its feet eivil rights during our attorney, to greatest time

Joseph Jones
Nnw York City's of need,"

widower

Sept. I I death M a o r 
toll occurred in a year that sharply focused on post-Snpt. 11 illness ­and thn legacy of the deanup of ground zero -more than over bnforn. 

That legac~y was painfully altnrnd by thP unnarthing ol' snvnral hundrnd human rnmains from strnets and snwPr linns around tlw trade cnntnr site, which officials acknowlndgnd worn missed the first ynar. Dot:tors pub­lishnd morn studies establish­ing direct links to respiratory illnesses and the exposure to the mixture of pulverized concrete, asbestos, mercury and other toxins that wafted over ground zero for dose to a year. One study showed a powerful connection to sar­coidosis -the lung-scarring disease that killed Dunn­Jones -and city firefighters. 
"I don't think anyone's questioning any more how many thousands of people are sick," said David Worby, who represents close to 10,000 plaintiffs suing the city and contractors who oversaw ground zero's cleanup. More than 100 of his plaintiffs have died, he says. 
City officials have argued that more research is needed before the true health effects of Sept. 11 can be proven. But they significantly changed their position this year, commissioning a health panel that concluded in February that treating the ailments of exposed workers could cost close to $400 mil­lion a year. 
"We are not 
about to 
y 
Michael Bloomberg said at the time. 
Three months later, city Medical Examiner Charles Hirsch surprised many by adding Dunn-Jones' name to the official Sept. 11 victims' list. 
Citing "accumulated scien­tific research" that linked sarcoidosis to ground zero exposure, Hirsch wrote in May, "the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner has thus concluded that Mrs. Dunn-Jones' exposure to World Trade Center dust on 9/11/01 contributed to her death and it has been ruled a homi­cide." 

His ruling did not bring her husband money -he had already received over $2 mil­lion from special master Kenneth Feinberg, who over­saw the federal fund that compensated Sept. 11 vic­tims. Jones just sought recog­nition that her death was caused by Sept. 11 to allow him to hear her name read at anniversary ceremonies and etched onto the Sept. 11 memorial. 
"Feinberg said she was a victim of the terrorist attacks. If she was a victim of the terrorist attacks, her name should be on the list," said Jones, 55, although he added he understands why more people haven't waged similar fights. "Sometimes people just don't want to get involved. It's hard enough losing somebody." 
On Sept. 11, while Jones watched planes hit the tow­ers from the Staten Island Ferry terminal, Dunn-Jones tried to escape her office a block from the north tower. She put a piece of clothing over her face but couldn't keep the choking, white dust out of her lungs, Jones said. 
She developed "just this crazy, persistent cough," mostly at night, Jones said. She was diagnosed with asth­ma and kept working at the 
U.S. Department of Education, going on a four­day field trip to upstate New York the weekend before her death and keeping up trips to the gym three times a week. 
She woke up tired on the morning she died, barely ate and died that afternoon in her teenage daughter's bed after asking her husband to bring her some tea. An autopsy later found she had had a heart attack brought on by sarcoidosis. 




Man shoots officers in domestic disturbance 
Two killed, another critically wounded in Texas 
Associated Press 

ODESSA, Texas -Two police officers responding to a domestic disturbance were killed and a third was criti­cally wounded by a gunman who led authorities on an hours-long standoff, authori­ties said. 
Investigators said a woman leaving the home Saturday night told the responding officers her husband had hit her. When the officers were unable to enter the house through the front door, they tried to go in the back door, where a man came out shooting at them, said Tela Mange, a Department of Public Safety spokeswoman 
The suspected gunman, Larry White, 58, went back into the house, where he held police in a four-hour standoff until he surren­dered around 10 p.m., Mange said. 
The Texas Hangers are investigating the shooting deaths of Odessa Cpl. Arlie Jones, 48, and Cpl. John "Scott" Gardner, Mange said. 
Cpl. Abel Marquez remained hospitalized in critical condition after being shot in the face, Mange said. 
White, who was shot in the abdomen and was in stable condition at a hospital under police guard, likely will face two counts of eapital murder and attempted murder of an officer, Mange said. It was not immediately clear who shot White. 
"This is a tragic day for Odessa," Mayor Larry Melton said. "Our concern now is for the families of the officers." 
Odessa is about 300 miles west of Austin. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Monday, September 1 0, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,113.38 -249.97
Jones 
Up: 745  Same: Down: 69 2,513  Composite Volume: 3,198,408,279  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&P 500 NIKKEI (Tokyo) FTSE 100 (London)  2,242.14 2,565.70 9;486.44 1,453.55 15,711.91 6,191.20  ~19.04 -48.62 -151.11 -25.00 -410.25 -122.10  

COMPANY %CHANGE-$GAIN PRICE S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) 1.39 -2.06 146.07 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -1.85 -0.91 48.23 SUN MIROSYS INC (JAVA) -2.01 -0.11 5.37 HOME DEPOT INC (HD) -2.87 -1.01 34.21 
Treasuries 
10-YEAR NOTE -2.93 -0.132 4.368 13-WEEK BILL -5.29 -0.220 3.940 30-YEAR BOND -2.03 -0.097 4.693 5-YEAR NOTE -4.13 -0.173 4.020 

Commodities 
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.40 76.70 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.10 709.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.30 66.30 

Exchange Rates 
YEN 112.96 EURO 0.7258 POUND 0.4925 CANADIAN$ 1.05 

IN BRIEF 
The dollar is down, S!Old prices are up 
NEW YORK -Golu prices advanced Friday as investors sought a haven from ' sinking stock prices, a falling U.S. dollar and heightened world political risks. 
Wall Street slumped after the Labor Department reported payrolls dropped by an unexpected 4,000 in August -the first decline in four years and a shock for econo­mists who projected the nation's employers would add 110,000 jobs to the payrolls. The weakness bolstered the case for a cut in the Federal Reserve's benchmark interest rate, and in turn undermined the U.S. dollar. 
Investors have been wary of any sign that the housing slump or tighter credit condi­tions would spread and spoil growth in the broader economy, and the poor jobs data was "one signal that definitely contradicted the containment scenario," said Jon Nadler, senior analyst with Kitco Bullion Dealers. 

Nelnet forced to make budget cuts 
OMAHA -Student loan company Nelnet Inc. said Thursday it will have to eliminate 400 jobs, including hundreds in Indianapolis, because of new lending rules before Congress that would cut back on fed­eral subsidies for student aid. 
The Lincoln-based company says it will close five small loan origination offices and significantly reduce its Indianapolis cus­tomer support operations from 320 people to about 55. 
Nelnet plans to cut expenses by at least $25 million annually and the reductions announced Thursday represent more than 12 percent of the company's 3,300 employ­ees. 
Nelnet Chairman and CEO Mike Dunlap said the company is changing its approach to the student loan business because of the changes Congress is expected to approve. 
The company announced the cuts a day after House and Senate negotiators announced a proposal that will boost aid to college students by cutting roughly $20 bil­lion in government subsidies to banks that issue student loans. 





Companies penalize at-risk workers 
Unhealthy employees forced to shape up to avoid higher health insurance costs 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -First they tried nudging. Now compa­nies are penalizing workers who have high health risks such as obesity and high blood pressure or choles­terol as insurance costs climb. 
Lee Morrison, 51, doesn't mind the push, which came in the form of added insur­ance charges from his employer, Western & Southern Financial Group. 
"I knew if I wanted to be healthier and pay less, it was up to me to do some­thing about it," said Morrison, who has lost 54 pounds and lowered his body mass index enough to earn refunds the past two years. 
A small number of compa­nies have linked health fac­tors to what employees pay for benefits, but the practice is expected to grow now that some federal rules have been finalized, spelling out what's allowed by law. Employee advocates worry that other anti-discrimina­tion laws such as the Americans with Disabilities Act won't cover the person who is 20 or 30 pounds overweight. 

The businesses are deducting from employees' grams since the firm general's report said health employees in its health plan paychecks, adding insur­released a study in April on care costs of obesity totaled by $10 per paycheck if their ance surcharges or offering legal issues and trends asso­more than $117 billion in BMI -a measurement of insurance discounts or ciated with requiring 2000. body fat through a height rebates only to low-risk healthy practices. More employers have and weight ratio -is in the workers. Health care spending in charged higher insurance obese range of more than 
"Employers know they the United States is estimat­premiums the past few 29.9. The deduction will be have to do something," said ed to reach $2.2 trillion this years for tobacco-using $5 per check if they don't Garry Mathiason, a senior year, with at least 54 percent employees. Otherwise, well­meet required cholesterol, partner at the national of spending in the private ness programs had been pri­blood pressure or blood glu­employment and labor law sector, and is expected to marily voluntary, offering in­cose measurements. firm Littler Mendelson, nearly double by 2016, house fitness centers and Workers will be required to based in Boston. "I believe according to the National free health screenings, for complete an annual health that in just the next two Coalition on Health Care. instance. risk assessment and can years more employers will A 2003-2004 National But many employees of appeal to have their fees turn to penalties to change Health and Nutrition Indianapolis-based Clarian dropped if they show employee behavior." Examination Survey showed Health didn't use the pro­improvement. 
Mathiason said more than about two-thirds of adults in grams, hospital spokesman "We want more people to 300 companies have sought the United States were over­James Wide said. participate so that they can advice on creating more weight and almost one-third In 2009 the company will take control of their health," aggressive wellness pro-were obese. A U.S. surgeon start reducing pay for Wide said. 



Small business owners back to school 
Associated Press extremely well," Figueredo said. the equation." 
But "how to manage people, set up So Cramer, whose company is 
an infrastructure, finances, human based in Clifton, N.J., took a course 
resources was still something very at nearby Montclair State 

NEW YORK -As the fall semester new to me." University. All of Adagio's public begins at colleges and universities So in 2004, he began a three-year relations is now done in-house, and across the country, thousands of program on entrepreneurship at the the company has gotten itself men­small business owners will be Massachusetts Institute of tioned in a number of very high­among the students. Many people Technology. Besides classroom profile newspapers, magazines and who run their own companies real­learning that led to his being grant­Web sites. ize they need to learn more about ed a certificate from MIT, he came Colleges and universities around finance, marketing and managing, away with a network of other small the country -junior colleges as and so they decide to squeeze business owners who he still turns well as the big-name schools-are courses into their already tight to when he needs help or advice. an ever-growing resource for com­schedules. Michael Cramer had taken plenty pany owners looking to further their 
Peter Figueredo, CEO of of undergraduate and graduate business education. And with manyNETexponent, a New York-based business courses, but realized after schools catering to small business advertising agency, had run the he'd founded Adagio Teas that he owners, there is a huge range of company for three years when he didn't know enough about public individual courses as well as certifi­realized he needed to learn more relations. And he knew that "the cate and degree programs avail­about operating a business. best way to get people to get to able. And many schools offer flexi­
"I know the actual type of adver­know you is through media stories. I ble-attendance programs and online tising and marketing we do was never exposed to that side of learning. 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, September 10, 2007 
~----~-----·===================================== 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining HalL Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EI>ITOR IN ClliF.F Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGF.R Ken fowler Kyle West 
A~s1: MANAGING EunuR: Kyle Cassily A~s1: MANAGING El>ITOR: Mary Kace Malone 
NEWS EorroR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: joey King 
SPORTS Em IURS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: ·r;,e Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EOITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPillCS EOITOR: Madeline Nies 
AllVERTISIN<; MANAGf.R: Jessira Conez 
An DEMGN MANAGf.R: Kelly Gronli CoNTROI.I.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS AL>MINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 6.31-6'>27 
ADVERTISING 
(S74) (,J 1-6'.>00 ohst"vad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(S74) 6JI-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6jl-4541 ob,mt"@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5.313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 6.H-S303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc I @nd.t·du 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The O~rvcr is the independent, daily nt"WSpaper published in prim and online by the srudents ofthe Uniwrsity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saine Marys College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not gowrned by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The ObSt·rver reservt-s the right to refuse advertisement~ based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and dL'Partment editors. Commentaries, lettt·rs and columns present the vit'WS ofthe au1hors and not necessarily those of'Ibe 
O~m·r. 
Vit'Wpoim spae<: is available co all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Qt~tiom "l,arding Observer policies should be dim:ted to Editor in ChiifMnddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'11!c OhU'M"f (IJSPS ,'.)? 2--4000) ia published Mu11do.y rluuugh fTKio~y CX~.-cpr during exam ami VlK'.triun pcmKb. A....t..... nptiun ro·nu·l)hfcrvcr il $100 (urullC' :~Uk.lcmk fl'ar: $55 li1r uUC' wmatcr 
Tlu: Obwrvcr .-pullluh"'f .u PO,TMMTER 1124 Svu1h Duun1l f.Ul Send .u!dra:s corrtcuons ro: 
Nurn:: Pa111c. IN 46"'6·0774.) TI,eOh.w!fVt't 
l!criodiul putUtJ,t: paid 111 None Oo~mt r:o.nuxn9 
ancl addn~unal mailing ol'fke. 021 Sourh Dining H.dl 
Notrt Dame. IN 16'5~n9 
llK" Ol~~~erwr I' 1 nu~ml1n ul 1hc AMoca.ued fli'CC.\, All rcproduaion ngh1s lUI:' 
""'""' 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Karen Langley Lorenzo Reyes Allen Murphy Kate Arnold 
Graphics Scene Jarred Wafer Analise Lipari 
Viewpoint 
Lianna 
Brauweiler 

Be true to your school 
Saturday night, about a half hour before kick off in Happy Valley, I was talking via AIM to several groggy Notre Dame study abroad students. At 5:30 a.m. Sunday morning in Frernantle, 
Katie
Australia, the whole 
Palmitler
group was getting 

ready for Game Day, A Word to the 
Aussie style. Wlse Although they were only going to be able to listen to the game on the Internet, the Notre Dame Australia kids showed their true school spirit. Even after an unsuccessful home opener last week­
end, fans from around the world joined together to support the Irish and give them another chance. 

After Saturday's game, however, many Irish fans are upset-espe­cially those who woke up at 5:30 a.rn. to listen to the Irish lose. Complaints concerning the quarter­backs, the ofTensive line and the coaches are being echoed throughout campus, on Sports Center and at Alumni Club parties. The fate of the rest of the football season is in seri­ous question. 
Although others may disagree, win­ning football games is not the most important attribute of Our Lady's University. Academic excellence, enduring tradition, and the Catholic spirit all contribute to making Notre Dame one of' the top 20 universities in the nation. The grotto, Touchdown Jesus, and the Golden Dome are just several of the many campus land­marks that make Notre Dame so unique. Debauched SYH's, exhilarat­ing Drummers' Circles and world­renowned Bookstore Basketball are traditions that cannot be found any­where else. 
So while the rest of the football season may look grim, there are . many other things around campus to get excited about, or at least make the football season a little more bearable. 

+ 
Campus Concerts: This fall the Notre Dame concert schedule is jam­packed. After hearing Ok Go and Lupe Fiasco last weekend, we still have the Format and John McLaughlin to look forward to this year.

+ 
More Flex Points: Notre Dame food services decided to boost our ability to dine outside of the dining halls. If you are anything like me, in past years the previous Flex Point stipend had me dining hall-bound starting mid-November. But with $310 Flex Points, students will take advantage of Subway, Heckers and the Huddle Mart all semester long.


+ 
Dorner Dollars in the Stadium: To ease one's pain of watching the Irish on the field, the Notre Dame Stadium now proudly accepts Domer Dollars. When you cannot bear watching Jimmy Clausen get sacked one more time, head on down to the concessions, where a delicious Stadium hot dog or some tantalizing nachos are sure to so ease your aching Irish heart, or at least help prevent you from a massive hangover Sunday morning. 


Campus Construction: Excitement and anticipation linger as we all anx­iously await the cornplotion of Duncan llall and the new Law School building. The three-story male resi­dence hall is sure to be a beautiful addition to West Quad, while the addition to the Law School is a great excuse for why you were five minutes late to elass. 
We all wish Wll could have thn per­fect football season, the pnrl'ect grades, the perfect boyfriend. Yet, as I have learned the hard way, that is not always a· roality. Thankfully, at Notre Dame those things are not nec­essary to have fun and enjoy college life. And with the tradition and spirit of' Notn~ Dame, fans of the Fighting Irish will still come togother to sup­port their team. Tailgating will still go on (even more so now-continu­ing one, perhaps two hours into game time), Hoeco's will still have a two hour wait on Friday night ... and the Notre Dame Australia students will still get up at the crack of dawn, huddlo around a computnr, and ehner on their beloved Irish while listening to them play. Hogardless of the out­come of the 2007 football season, embrace all that Notrn Dame has to offer, and, as tlw Beach Boys so elo­quently put it, be true to your school. 
Katie Palmitier is a junior political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
When will Notre Dame win its first football game this season? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Write the bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece ofmarble. " 
Arable proverb 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, September 10, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tear dovvn North 
To the students. faculty, staff and administra­tion of the University of Notre Dame: Greetings and peace. 
In accordance with all standards of equality, there ought to be a more striking similarity between the dining halls. The North Dining IIall is a full-fledged post-modern cafeteria with a labyrinthine layout and several sepa­rate levels of eating areas. The South Dining Hall is a true hall in the collegiate sense, although it is regrettably divided into two Dining Booms, West and East, with a central court between them, which is systematically arranged for the benefit and satisfaction of all. 
These almost diametrically opposed dining alternatives display a lack of sincerity by the University administration which must be reme­died at any cost. This writer does not suggest revolution, as Will Guappone has done ("Fight for your Cocoa Puffs," Sept. 5). A more peace­ful way is possible. 
The University intends to build several resi­dence halls on the east side of campus, near the Hesburgh Library. It is the opinion of this writer that in addition to these new dormito­ries, a new dining hall ought to be constructed at the expense of North, which would be demolished at the earliest possible date. This new edifice, to be called the East Dining Hall, would resemble its southern counterpart in architecture, layout, service, and mission. In this way, not only would the grave disparity between the current dining halls be remedied, but there would also be an opportunity for true competition, for which in the past few decades the reasonable grounds have been at best mediocre. 
Timothy Gotcher 
sophomore 
Fisher Hall 
Sept. 7 

Host fatnily praises band tnetnbers 
We were honored to have two members of your amazing band as visitors to our home on the eve of the Penn State-Notre Dame game. The band performed for our local football game on Friday night. The halftime and post-game shows were amazing, but more enjoyable to me was seeing these spirited young men and women in the stands with our high school band. 
After the game, we collected Patrick and David and took them to our home to sleep before going off to Happy Valley the next day. They are delightful young men and wonderful representa­tives of your school. Being far from "home" and in. a competitive venue can't be easy (nor was the long bus ride, complicated by an emergency on the Pennsylvania Turnpike), but these students were a joy to have. Thanks for sharing your band with us and with Altoona. ­
Megan Hess Duncansville, PA Sept. 8 


Students encouraged to continue fight against ordinance 
Take business elsewhere 
As a 1995 grad, I'm finally shocked at the lengths South Bend is going to to show Notre Dame students how unwelcome their presence is. There are plenty of places to drink enough to end up in the hospital, other than Marion Street, St. Pete's, etc. Banning house parties is primarily harassment. 
If the proposed ordinance is passed, I would like to see a follow-up PowerPoint presentation that breaks down the number of house parties busted under the ordi­nance that are hosted by Notre Dame students versus IUSB students-and those at random townies' houses (like the crack-house that used to sit behind my townhouse at Lafayette Square, with large "gatherings" of unrelated people at all hours). 
I have a suggestion: How about, starting this weekend, for the rest of the football season, Notre Dame students make the three-mile trip north, and purchase all of their alcohol in Michigan. As a resident of Illinois, I'll make sure that the 20 cases of Miller Lite I bring for USC weekend is purchased in Illinois. Same for the rest of you traveling alums. Buy your booze out of state, and let's see how the impact of lost tax revenue and grocery/liquor business sits with South Bend. 
Michael Casey alum Class of 1995 Sept. 7 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
:BRAVO} PAVAROTTI... ... ]RA.VO 

Demand answers 

After reading Kaitlynn Riely's article on the new proposed South Bend ordinance ("ND drinking habits under scrutiny," Sept. 7), I am troubled by the reasoning that is behind the law. 
For starters, Council member Kirsits probably amazed the Council with his prowess at PowerPoint presentations, but his findings are, quite frankly, bunk. He showed statistics on hospital visits to St. Joe's Medical Center without even proving that the patients were Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross or IUSB stu­dents. Kirsits also used the hearsay testimony of various para­medics and hospital workers (none of whom he attached a name to) as further reasoning that Notre Dame students visit the area hospitals in droves due to excessive drinking habits. Ms. Riely quotes him as saying he "heard paramedics and hospital workers complain." Now, I don't know about the complete details of the goings-on in the South Bend City Council, but if a law is passed because a member "heard people complain" about something, then I fear not for the students, but for the city at large. 
Mr. Kirsits provided data show­ing that in four months in 2005, 119 people were admitted to St. Joseph's Medical Center with injuries. Assuming that Mr. Kirsits is using those four months because of Notre Dame Football season, I'll assume that the num­bers drop off during the year. So, give-or-take, 300-360 people are admitted to St. Joseph's per year with alcohol-related injuries. South Bend's population is esti­mated at 107,789 people. Assuming the worst ratio, that means that 0.3 percent of the pop­ulation of South Bend goes to St.· Joseph's with an alcohol injury. Given the testimony of Memorial Hospital officials, the numbers are not as high, but like Mr. Kirsits and Ms. Brubaker, I'll just guess and assume numbers. 
Say Memorial Hospital takes in the same amount of injuries, 600­720 people attend those two hospi­tals with alcohol-illnesses. That is paltry 0.6 percent. 
I am even more amazed as an alumnus when I read the com­ments by Ms. Brubaker, a University official. Ms. Brubaker "estimates" on how many students a weekend come to the health cen­ter with drinking-related injuries. Why 10 students? Why not 20? 30? If the estimate, as Ms. Riely states, cannot be corroborated, is it even substantial? Why are drinking-related injuries not cata­logued? Why state them as injuries? If the problem is as bad as Ms. Brubaker and Mr. Kirsits make it out to be, why not prove their points with data instead of empty guesses and hearsay? 
Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and IUSB students, you deserve better than this. Demand answers. Question your student government. Make sure that you don't get victimized as the prob­lem, when they can't even prove it in the first place. The issue here is not with the student body. It is with the empty reasoning behind a _ law that is directly aimed at the Notre Dame campus. The Council is using assumption, baseless sta­tistics and an inherent lack-of­proof that Notre Dame students have a clear effect on the health, safety and security on South Bend. Until students fight back at the Council, they will continue to push you around until you will be com­muting to campus from Niles, Mishawaka and Elkhart. But their local town councils haven't direct­ed their fury at you yet, so they might not be a bad place to live. 
Paul Rigney alum Washington, D.C. Sept. 7 



THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Monday, September 10, 2007 

L UPE -FIASC-·0 BR·INGS TALENT~ CONTROVER Y TOT E OW 
emerged from the darkness with his By CORBIN HICKS hypeman and immediately opened with SralrWriter the mixtape track "Conflict Diamonds." 
Made by sampling the Kanye West 
Dnspite a less-than-impressive famil­instrumental from "Diamonds From iarity with his critkally acclaimed cata­Sierra Leone," "Conflict Diamonds" let logun among some audience members, Lupe put his own spin on the diamond l.upe Fiasco was undoubtedly able to conf1ict and the destructive power of add a few new mmnbnrs to his fan club capitalistic greed affecting underdevel­after his stellar performance for the oped countries. This theme of economic Notre Dame faithful at The Show last and political commentary is coupled Friday in tlw Joyce Cnntnr. with a powerful social consciousness, 
1\ach ynar, The Show obtains two heard clearly during "American musical acts, and in recent years, one of Terrorist," "The Instrumental" and "lie thorn has fallen under the category of Say She Say." hip-hop or rap. The three Lupe's near-constant previous aets were Talib energy level can largely Kweli. Akon and The complexity of be attributed to his song Common, with each put­Lupe,s songs should choices. The chosen ting on llawml shows and tracks were carefully
keep them from being
so-so performances. picked in an order that Those pnrformers catered casually perused on kept Lupe's faithful enter­only to their core fans the way to other, tained. From his show­without trying to deviate stealing verse in another
more radio-friendly
from their proven meth­West song, "Touch The ods or expand their fan offerings. Sky," complete with Roc­base. A-Fella diamond hand 
l.upe, however, was signs, to a hip-hop medley ahln to take the brighter spots of these featuring the monster single "Kick, previous acts and combine them into Push," Lupe chooses and performs one hour-long, absurdly high-energy songs that truly bring him joy as an performance. artist. 
Aftnr a half-hour-long delay, Lupe In an attempt just to show off, he per-
OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Jarred Wafer 
formed the mix tape track "Switch," dis­limited exposed to these songs can lead playing his mastery of double-time listeners to a biased opinion against rhyming. what Lupe stands for. Only by listening 
This led to other high-energy perform­to the song in its entirety, breaking ances of tracks like "I Gotcha," "Cool" down the lyrics, and keeping an open and "Daydreamin." He even chose to mind can one truly appreciate what debut his new single, these songs stand for and "Superstar," which what they represent. sounds like a surefire hit. Rather, Lupe is a These are not the views 
While many at this uni­of an angry Muslim rap­
frustrated American
versity may take offense per aiming to get under to a song title like using his talents the skin of fans of country "American Terrorist" -for songwriting western music. Hather, or to Lupe's vocalized Lupe is a frustrated
to express his 
wish that President American using his tal­George W. Bush fall down complaints in a ents for songwriting to a night of stairs -one timeless song format. express his complaints in must understand that a timeless song format. with the current state of When fans of hip-hop American affairs, these statements are music envision an entertaining concert, hardly unexpected from any rap act. they should look at the film of Lupe 
Although most artists don't go so far Fiasco's performance at The Show as a as to pen a song referring to crooked blueprint to follow. The song choice was police officers as "The Pigs" (a track superb, and the energy level and pas­that can actually be attributed to his sion for his material that he displayed hypeman), concertgoers should under­could convert even casual fans into full­stand that listening to Lupe's full cata­fledged followers. logue definitely puts these statements Hopefully this passion will permeate into a proper context. the rest of the music industry, replacing 
The complexity of Lupe's songs should the lackluster performers that fill the keep them from being casually perused charts today. on the way to other, more radio-friendly offerings. However, it is easy to see how Contact Corbin Hicks at chicks2@nd.edu 

black tee, rumpled blue jeans and a black baseball cap pulled down low
By BOB COSTA 
over his furrowed brow. The lights
ScalrWrirer were minimal, with only a spotlight Aaron Lewis, the lead singer of the shining on center-stage. The set's black popular alternative metal group Staind, background seemed more like PBS's stopped by the Morris Performing Arts "Charlie Rose" than a rock concert. Cnnter in downtown South Bend on With just a stool, an acoustic guitar Friday evening for a poignant, if sim­and his music, Lewis brought a wel­ple, solo acoustic performance. come sense of emotional authenticity to Lowis, 35, has been the lead vocalist his stripped-down concert, evoking and guitarist for the Massachusetts­such grunge-rock favorites as Pearl based Staind sinco 1995. Staind's Jam and Nirvana on the MTV television breakthrough 2001 album "Break the series "Unplugged." In the recent past, Cycle" spawned the hit Lewis and Staind also singles "It's Been appeared on the leg­
Much like folk musi­
Awhile," "Outside," endary program. "Epiphany" and "Fade." cians, Lewis focuses Lewis began the show The band's subsequent on telling a story or with a somewhat rocky releases -"14 Shades of take on "Please," a track
sharing a feeling in 
Grey" and "Chapter V" off 2005's "Chapter V" -both hit the No. 1 spot his songs, stretching album. While he may be on the Billboard charts. his imperfect voice nowhere near a guitar Lewis' current tour, maestro, Lewis' emotive
between soulfully 
"llave Guitar, Will style and deeply resonant Travel," with an empha­earnest and voice are the welcome sis on aeoustic music and deeply troubled. hallmarks of his music. personal connection Much like folk musi­
botween audience and cians, Lewis focuses on pnrformer, is a much quieter affair telling a story or sharing a feeling in than Staind's usually raucous live gigs his songs, stretching his imperfect in rock dubs and arenas. voice between soulfully earnest and 
lin walked alone onto the Morris deeply troubled. Lewis' raw emotions Conter's oxpansive stage clad in simple easily held the audience's rapt atten­
tion more than once during the show, lion as a hard-rock and metal band, especially on the recently penned Lewis let his softer side show during "Angel" and "Everything Changes." the Morris Center concert, chatting 
Other highlights of the performance casually between songs about dropping included another new song called his daughter off on her first day of "Anywhere But Here," which Lewis school. amusingly noted was written in a park­After a brief encore, Lewis returned ing lot in Sioux Falls, S.D. Lewis also to his stool to strum out his hit songs gave fans a moving take "Outside" and "It's Been on Staind's single "Home" Awhile," inviting the from the album 1999 In a rock 'n, roll audience to sing along. "Dysfunction," singing In a rock 'n' roll world
world where being 
with an almost unbridled where being super-skin­despair. super-skinny, super­ny, super-hip and super­However, even though hip and super-ironic ironic is the "in" thing, many of Lewis' songs Lewis plods on with his
is the "in,, thing, 
seem depressed or nearly cross-country acoustic tragic, he is an artist who Lewis plods on with tour. He plays solid and knows how to let an audi­his cross-country straightforward meat­ence enjoy themselves. and-potatoes rock songs
acoustic tour.
Between deeply person­to the delight of fans al acoustic takes on dif-who like their musicians ferent tracks, Lewis threw singing about love, loss in fun songs like "Bong Hits for and hope instead of "girls from the Breakfast," a blues-based ode to club" or something being "bootyli­cannabis that he wrote as a teenager. cious." Toward the end of his set, Lewis also At the Morris on Friday night, the played a medley of classic rock covers, Vermont-born Lewis seemed to feel from Led Zeppelin's "Stairway to right at home in the Midwest. Maybe Heaven" to Lynyrd Skynyrd's "Free John Mellencamp doesn't need to be Bird" and even Kermit the Frog's the only popular rocker in Indiana any­"Rainbow Connection" (which is about more. as far from metal as one can get). 
Although Staind has a public percep-Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 




NSIDER 
OTHE 

Monday, September 10, 2007 BSERVER Penn State 31, Notre Dame 10 
Nittany blues 
Irish offense fails to reach end zone in second straight blowout loss 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. -For the second straight muggy Saturday, Notre Dame's offense was sluggish. 
And for the second straight week, its defense wilted in the heat in the fourth quarter. 
The Irish were competitive early, but couldn't move the ball consistently and fell to 0-2 with a 31-10 road loss to No. 14 Penn State {2-0) Saturday. 
"Obviously, on offense, we weren't doing enough to protect a defense that was, for three quar­ters, playing their butts off," Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said. 
The Irish mustered only 144 total yards -including zero net rushing yards -in the first start for freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen. Clausen, who passed sophomore Demetrius Jones and junior Evan Sharpley on the depth chart, was sacked six times a week after the three quarterbacks took a combined nine sacks. 
"We've been trying different things and trying different per­sonnel groups, but the production just isn't there," Weis said. "Maybe we need to reduce what we do and try to find some things we can hang our hat on and do them." 
Clausen completed 17-of-32 passes for 144 yards and an inter­ception, with most of his attempts in the first half coming on short swing passes and screens. 
"There were only a couple times the whole night that he wasn't looking in the right direc­tion," Weis said."... I'm not doing cartwheels, but I'm not displeased either." Penn State wide receiver one score down. the ball down to the Irish 8. Robby Parris. 
Penn State, behind senior quar­Derrick Williams returned a punt "After last week's performance, Scott scored two plays after an But Parris and freshman Duval terback Anthony Morelli, had lim­7 8 yards for a touchdown to tie we wanted to make sure we went Ambrose Wooden pass interfer­Kamara dropped passes in the ited success on offense through the score with less than a minute into the half with a chance to win ence penalty on third down gave end zone, and Parris' drop result­40 minutes but wore down the remaining in the first quarter. the game," he said. the Nittany Lions a new set of ed in an interception on fourth Irish defense late. The scene was Williams broke attempted tackles Penn State cornerback A.J. downs on the Irish 2. down. Even though the Irish did­reminiscent of a week ago, when by Irish defensive backs Terrail Wallace returned the second-half After yet another three-and-out n't score, Weis said, the drive was Georgia Tech exploited an over­Lambert and David Bruton, juked kickoff 68 yards, sending the by Notre Dame, Penn State broke important for Clausen's confi­worked Irish defense in the sec­his way out of trouble and zig­home crowd into a frenzy, but the the game wide open with a 10-dence. ond half en route to a 33-3 win. zagged downfield for the score. Irish defense stiffed. Scott was play, 62-yard drive on all rushes, "If you think about the grand 
Morelli finished the game 12-of-"The other guys on the touch­stuffed on third-and-one at the capped by a five-yard touchdown scheme of things, you want the 22 for 131 yards with a touch­down return did a great job," Notre Dame 18, and the Lions run by Scott. kid to leave with a decent taste in down and a costly interception on Williams said. "I had the easy part had to settle for a field goal by "If you don't start getting first his mouth," he said. "At least he the Nittany Lions' opening drive. of just running.... I just tried to Kevin Kelly. downs and keeping your defense could leave the field at the end of 
Irish sophomore cornerback make something happen." Notre Dame would get back off the field, once you get to the game with those last couple Darrin Walls intercepted a deep Seven minutes later, Morelli within a touchdown -thanks to fourth quarter, you start to wear drives, even though they didn't pass by Morelli and ran it back 73 found wide receiver Jordan its own special teams. Tom down a little bit," Weis said. end up with points, feeling that he yards to score the first Irish Norwood for a 10-yard touch­Zbikowski returned a punt 4 7 Penn State finished the game was doing better." touchdown of the season -and down score to put the Nittany yards down to the Penn State 7, with 295 yards of total offense, Notre Dame earned nine first give Notre Dame its first lead of Lions ahead 14-7. Norwood but Notre Dame couldn't punch it including 164 on the ground. downs and was 2-for-16 convert­the year. caught the ball at the 5 and dove in after two Clausen passes feli Scott led the rushing attack with ing third downs Saturday. It 
Nittany Lion running back into the end zone, giving Penn incomplete. Freshman Brandon 28 carries for 116 yards and two opened the game with an 11-play, Austin Scott fumbled at his own State a lead it would not relin­Walker split the uprights to make touchdowns. 48-yard drive, but sophomore 46 on Penn State's next posses­quish. the score 17-10. Down 31-10 late in the game, Nate Whitaker missed a 50-yard sion, but a false start penalty and The Lions fumbled in their own Penn State answered right the Irish offense switched to the field goal. a sack left Notre Dame with no territory late in the half, but again back, starting with the game's no-huddle and looked briefly points from the drive. the Irish couldn't take advantage. first big offensive play -a 51 sharp, going 65 yards in nine 
It was a missed opportunity the Still, Weis said, Notre Dame-was yard pass from Morelli to wide plays, including a 35-yard pass Contact Chris Khorey at Irish would regret. happy to go into intermission just receiver Chris Bell that pushed from Clausen to sophomore ckhorey@nd.edu 

play of the gamestat of the gameplayer of the game quote of the game 
"[Clausen} played a great game. He
Austin Scott's 1-yardDan Connor 
0 

was calm for the most part. He looked like Brady Quinn out there." 
touchdown run 
The Lions middle linebacker wreaked Notre Dame's offensive havoc on Notre Dame's offense, 
The run gave Penn State a 24-10touchdowns -the first time 
Dan Connor 

lead and put the game out ofaccumulating 12 tackles -2 .s for a since 2002 the Irish offense did 
Nittany Lions linebacker 

reach for Notre Dame. 
loss -and a sack. 

not score in the first two games. 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 10, 2007 
report card 
8 
quarterbacks: Clausen played well in his first start. but still threw one 
intPrn~ption and no touchdowns. llownvor, Clauson's 144 yards aeeountod for all of' the Irish ofTense. 
C-
running backs: !\lien looked impressive on tlw opnning drive and ended the ganw as Notrn Damn's leading recevi­
Pr. But i\ldridgn's fumble and zero total rushing yards need improvement. 
c 
receivers: The rneeivers had trouble gntting opon all game, leading to mul­ti ph~ mvorago sacks. When they were 
abln to lind room to work with, they 
gtmnrally did catch the ball. 
D-
offensive line: The line did improve from last week, but there is still far too murh work left to do. Five false 
starts and two holds are bad enough, but tlw squad also allowed six sacks 
8+ 
defensive line: I \ven though Georgia Tnrh ran for 164 yards, most of that canw in tho f(lllrth quart1~r against a 
tin~d dd"nnsn. Laws and Kuntz stull'ed tlw run woll in the first throe quarters. 
8-
linebackers: Crum and Brockington playml wdl on tho inside, but the outside linPbarknrs have room to improve. John 
Hyan missml tackles in the backfield tlmt could hav1~ put more pressurn on PSU. 
defensive backs: Walls was obviously one 
A-
of' Notn~ Damn's key pertimnances against tlw Lions, seoring the team's 
only touchdown. but the rest of the squad k11pt Mornlli in cheek all game. 
c 
special teams: Price punted well and 
Zbikowski had a nice punt return, but 
a PSU rnturn for a score and a long 
kick return hurt the special teams. 
coaching: Weis did well preparing 
c 
Clausm1 fi1r his first start, but called a 
poor game, filled with penalties. The 
dntimsive eoadws, however, got the tnmn rnady to face the Lions. 
overall: Notre Dame looked better 
again.•;t Pnnn State than la-.t week, 
but the ofl!lnse !>iagnated alter a 
2.82 

promio.;ing first drive. It needs to continue to impnwe lilr next week. 

adding up the nuinbers 
Irish rushing yards -the second consecutive 
o 

week the Irish failed to gain positive yardage 
on the ground. 
1 
Touchdowns Notre Dame has scored in the last 10 quarters -on Darrin Walls' interception return. 
The Irish have no offensive touchdowns this season. 
Third downs Notre Dame converted in 
16 attempts. The Irish are 7-of-32 for 
2

the season. 
144 Passing yards for Notre Dame freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen in his first start. Clausen completed 17-of-32 attempts with one interception. 
Red-zone scores for Penn State on four attempts. 
4 

The Irish were 0-for-1. 
lions rushing yards in the fourth quarter, including a 32-yard rush by Rodney Kinlaw against the second-string defense. 
111 
Penn State time of possession in the 1o·. 3 2 
fourth quarter. 
448 
Notre Dame punter Geoff Price's gross yards on 10 kicks Saturday. 
It would be easy to write a column and slam coach Charlie Weis for another poor game plan or crucify the ofl'ensive line for another poor performance. It would be easy, and even cathartic, 
but it would be useless. 
Weis knows these past two games have not been his best coaching efforts, and the offen­sive line knows 


it did not play 
Chris Hine 

well. Notre Dame is 0-2 and 
Sports Editor 

fans are, to say the least, frus­trated. 
Still, there were some glimmers of hope defensively during Saturday's game. 
Notre Dame cornerback Darrin Walls ran back an interception for a touchdown. Two plays later, the Irish recovered a fumble inside Penn State territory and gave fans hope that last week's nightmare against Georgia Tech was long gone. 
But then reality set in -the reality that Notre Dame has a young, and mostly inexperienced, offense. 
After the fumble, the Irish commit­ted an illegal procedure penalty, fol­lowed by a 12-yard sack. Notre Dame had to punt despite starting the drive on Penn State's 37. 
Notre Dame's inexperience showed at another critical time in the game. 
In the third quarter, the Irish had an opportunity to cut Penn State's lead to 1 7-14 following a Tom Zbikowski punt return to the 7-yard line. But Notre Dame settled for a field goal. 
All game, the Irish offense strug­gled. 
With no help from the other side of the ball, the defense wore down once again late jn the game and allowed Penn State to put the game out of reach. 
The Irish ofl'ensive line, which only returned two starters this season, had trouble creating room for the running backs, most of whom are young (Armando Allen, James Aldridge) or are not used to being the 
I 



primary back (Travis Thomas). 
Without a solid running game, the 
Irish had to rely on the arm of a 
freshman quarterback, who had to 
throw to an inexperienced receiving 
corps that had trouble getting open 
downtield. It's going to take some 
time for this team to gel every 
Saturday, but just how much time 
that will take is a mystery. 

Every good team, regardless of age, has a moment where everything clicks. Things that were hard to do a week ago become second nature, and everybody on the team elevates his game to the next level. Once an offense clicks under Charlie Weis' system, the possibilities are endless. 
In 2005, the oll'ense elieked imme­diately, but that group had played together for a significant amount of time before Weis came to Notre Dame. They had already developed a solid chemistry from playing together and learning each other's tendencies. 
In order for this year's team to click, Clausen has to develop a rap­port with his receivers so that on every play, they are thinking the same thing. The otl'ensive line has to trust each other that everybody will pick up their man. When that hap­pens, Clausen will not have to worry so much about the pass rush. It will take a lot of effort, and a little luck. but it will happen. 
The talent on oll'nnse is apparnnt. Nearly everybody that has played was once a highly touted meruit coming out of high school. But it takes more than talent to make a good football team. Teams need chemistry, that intangible quality that turns talent into a good football team. Right now, tho Irish don't have chemistry, but they will gnt it. They have a good coach and good players. They are too good not to clkk. 
But don't worry if the Irish never elick. You can always blame the coach. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd.edu 

.--------­
~-~--~­

Monday, September 10, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Penalties stifle Irish momentum 
Team committed fouls in all three aspects of game 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 
STATE COLLGE, Penn.-After Notre Dame forced Penn State to punt from its own 14-yard-line, a fair catch by Tom Zbikowski gave the Notre Dame lirst-and-10 from its 44-yard-line with 
2:35 remaining in the first quarter. The Irish had prime field position and momentum on their side. 
Then they saw the flag. 
Fifth-year captain Travis Thomas was flagged for a personal foul, unsportsmanlike conduct penalty after Thomas got in a scuffle with Penn State wide receiver Jerome Hayes after the punt, forcing the Irish back to their own 29. 
"They had a player on the ground, he came up swinging, I happened to be near him when he came up swinging. We're on the road, we're in Happy Valley, things aren't going to go our way," Thomas said. 
Before viewing the replay. Irish coach Charlie Weis said that although he didn't see exactly what happened. he was disappointed that Thomas com­mitted the penalty. 
"I did say to Travis when he got off the field, 'Look, you're 50 yards away from the play. Why are we even in a position to get a penalty 50 yards away from the play,"' Weis said. "That's not using very good sense in that situa­tion." 
This penalty was one of 14 the Irish level at Beaver Stadium, he said most ter us not doing fundamentals and committed against Penn State, giving of the blame lies with a lack of concen­technique and we've got to get back to the Nittany Lions 97 free yards in the tration on Notre Dame's part. that," he said. 31-10 Penn State win. The Irish drew Irish senior center John Sullivan Defensively, Notre Dame committed flags on offense, defense and special agreed. several drive-extending penalties. teams -meaning the problem is more "You can never condone false starts. The defense was flagged twice for widespread than just one position. Penn State is a loud place to play, but incidental facemask -one committed 
"It seemed like any time you're play­false start penalties, line of scrimmage by middle linebacker Joe Brockington ing and you're not playing a very effi­penalties -things that we can control and one by defensive end Morrice cient offense yourself, any time you -we don't want," he said. Richardson. Although the penalties 
have the number of penalties in there, Junior guard Dan Wenger agreed were not serious enough to warrant a it just doesn't bode well for any type of that Notre Dame's offensive linemen personal foul, both extended Penn momentum," Weis said. need to return to the basics and focus State drives. Brockington's followed a 
Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden on how to continue to improve. six-yard run from Lions tailback Austin was called for pass interference after "It's not just one guy that's jumping Scott, giving Penn State a first down at reaching around Lions wide receiver off sides, it's everyone that has to real­Notre Dame's 24-yard-line. Penn State Deon Butler, giving Penn State the ball ize the situation that we're in," he said. took advantage of the free yardage at the Irish one-yard-line and a fresh "We knew we were going to get a lot of with a touchdown and 14-7 lead. set of downs. noise, we knew the crowd was going to But the offense is just as concerned 
The Irish committed crucial, drive­be crazy. We just have to be more about the calls as the defense. killing penalties on both sides of the focused and everything like that." "We have to go back and look at ball Saturday, either adding fuel to the Wenger also said that, while Penn everything we did wrong and correct Lions' fire or killing whatever momen­State's defense did do a lot to put pres­it," Wenger said. "It's going to be tum they could muster. sure on the Irish line, the penalty prob­tough, it's going to be hard, but that's 
One of the key problems with penal­lem lay more in Notre Dame's inability what it's going to take. That's what it's ties came from the offensive line, who than Penn State's skill. going to take for us to get back on as a corps committed four false starts "We knew what they were going to top." 
and two holds. bring. It's not a matter of what they Although Weis said the false starts brought that caused us to hold, it's a Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at could be in part attributed to the noise matter of us not executing, it's a mat-jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

Clausen 8th freshman starting QB for ND 
Walls scores first ND pick-six since MSU 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
First time starter 
On Saturday, freshman quar­terback Jimmy Clausen became just the eighth fresh­man to start at quarterback for Notre Dame since 1 9 51. Clausen also became only the second freshman starter to lose his debut. 
The only other freshman quarterback to lose his inaugu­ral start was Brady Quinn, who threw one touchdown pass and four interceptions in a 23-10 loss to Purdue in 2003. 
Defensive scores 
Sophomore cornerback 
Darrin Walls' 73-yard inter­ception return in the first quarter was Notre Dame's first interception return for a touchdown since Terrail Lambert returned a Drew Stanton pass for a score against Michigan State last season. Lambert's score capped a 16-point, fourth­quarter comeback in East Lansing. 
Specializing kickers 
Sophomore Nate Whitaker -Notre Dame's long-range kicker -attempted the first field goal try of Saturday's game. His 50-yarder was long enough, but missed wide right. 
Freshman Brandon Walker -the short range kicker ­made the second field goal the Irish attempted, a 22­yarder in the second quarter. 
Whitaker is a walk-on, while Walker and sophomore Ryan Burkhart are Notre Dame's two placekickers on scholarship. 
Struggling offense 
Notre Dame's offense has not scored a touchdown since the second quarter of the team's 41-14 Sugar Bowl loss to LSU. The scoreless streak has spanned 10 quar­ters. 
Huge crowd 
The announced crowd of 110,078, who mostly dressed in white as part of Penn State's "white out," was the second largest in Beaver Stadium history. 
"You hear legends about 110,000, but playing in front of them is something you just have to experience," Nittany Lions receiver Terrell Golden said. "You cannot put it in words." 
Washington introduced 
Former Notre Dame bas­ketball player and new Penn State women's basketball coach Coquese Washington was introduced during the second quarter. 
Washington was previously an assistant for the Irish before being named the Nittany Lions' coach in April. 
Coin toss 
Penn State won the toss, but deferred to second half. Nittany Lions kicker Kevin Kelly boomed the opening kick into the Notre Dame end zone for a touchback. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
•
scoring surnrnary 

1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 7 0 3 0 10 Penn State 7 7 14 7 31 
First quarter Notre Dame 7, Penn State 0 
Darrin Walls 73-yard interception return lor a touchdown with 8:23 remaining (Walker kick) Drive: 1 play, 73 yards, 0:00 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7. Penn State 7 
Derrick Williams 78-punt return with 00:52 remaining (Kelly kick) Drive: 1 play, 78 yards, 0:00 elapsed 
Second quarter 
., Penn State 14, Notre Dame 7 
Jordan Norwood 10-yard pass from Anthony Morelli with 6:37 remaining (Kelly kick) Drive: 6 plays, 51 yards, 2:17 elapsed 
Third quarter Penn State 17, Notre Dame 7 
Kevin Kelly 37-yard field goal with 13:13 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 7 yards, 1:36 elapsed 

Penn State 17, Notre Dame 10 
Brandon Walker 22-yard field goal with 8:16 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 2 yards, 0:56 elapsed 
Penn State 24, Notre Dame 10 
Austin Scott1-yard touchdown run with 4:47 remaining (Kelly kick) Drive: 7 plays, 65 yards, 3:32 elapsed 
Fourth quarter Penn State 31, Notre Dame 10 
Austin Scott 5-yard touchdown run with 7:40 remaining (Kelly kick) Drive: 10 plays, 62 yards, 5:12 elapsed 
statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 
I•I~NN t64 

Nl) 0 
passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

passing 

Sharpley 17-32-1 Morelli 12-22-1 
rushing 

Thomas  6-13  Scott  28-118  
Allen  8-12  Kinlaw  9-50  
Jabbie  1-5  Hahn  4-22  

receiving Monday, September I 0, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 4 

Allen  6-38  Norwood  3-20  
Grimes  5-45  Hahn  2-16  
West  2-9  Golden  2-15  
Parris  1-35  Williams  2-14  

tackling  
Brockington  10  Connor  12  
Kuntz  10  Scirotto  5  
Laws  8  Sales  4  
Zbikowski  6  Lee  4  
Crum  6  Sargeant  4  
Ryan  4  Davis  3  



I<" 
Big hopes, bigger fall 
Notrn l>anw and l'rnshman quartrwback Jimmy Clausen started off with an imprnssiVP opening drive, taking the ball 47 yards down the 
lield hnl'ore missing a long field goal. Tlw Irish took an early 7-0 lead OVI'r No. 14 l'nnn Statr~ arter cornerback Darrin Walls' 73-yard intnrcPption rnturn. hut tlw Nittany Lions responded with a H)-yard touchdown pass to Jordan Norwood and a 7R-yard punt return from l>nrrirk Williams to regain the IPad-one P<mn State would not rnlinquish. ThP Lions del'nnse contimwd to pressure Notre Dame all ganH'. and the Irish wern unabiP to regain the success uf their first driw. Although Notre Dame's defense continues to improve from last snason. it could not hold off the relentless Penn State attack. giving up a late touchdown arter being on tho field tho majority of tlw game to push thn score to 31-10. 


Top left, Irish cornerback Darrin Walls returns an interception for a touchdown. Top right, Irish quarterback Jimmy Clausen runs upfleld. Center, Uons tailback Austin Scott jumps for a touchdown. Bottom right, Lions linebacker Dan Connor sacks Clausen. Bottom left, Irish linebacker Anthony Vernaglla tackles Uons tailback Rodney Kinlaw. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE -­
Monday, September 10, 2007 
page 11 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It's a shame that people with such great comedic talent can make such a humorless and boring film as "The Brothers Solomon." It's difficult to put the blame on any one person, but within the first 10 minutes of the slow-moving comedy, the audience knows it's in for a stinker. 
Of course, there's only so much a per­son can do with the material that he or she is given. Will Forte ("Saturday Night Live") pens the script and also co-stars as Dean Solomon. Dean and his brother talented but unspectacular "Saturday Night Live" cast member. He's good enough when it comes to sketch comedy, but writing sketch comedy isn't the same as writing a feature film. And just like "Saturday Night Live" sometimes strug-

The Brothers Solomon 
Directed by: Bob Odenkirk Starring: Will Forte, Will Arnett, Lee Majors, Kristin Wiig and Chi McBride 
Between Odenkirk's directing and Forte's writing, the movie is left with implausible situa­tions and far too many underdeveloped charac­ters. 
The most tragic aspect of "Brothers Solomon" is that the cast is filled with some of the comedic world's best. Arnett stole scene after scene as Gob in the now­defunct "Arrested Development," but he 
By DAMON JASON Staff Writer 
"Transformers: The Game" parallels the summer blockbuster based on much-beloved '80s pop culture icons the Autobots (good guys) and Decepticons (bad guys). The game's loose plotline revolves around the "AllSpark," or the life force of all Transformers. Somehow the AllSpark has fallen to earth, and the dueling forces of the Autobots and Decepticons must race against time and each other to retrieve it. 
As cool as this may sound, eventually garners have to play the actual game, which is broken up into two separate John (Will Arnett) resolve to give their father, Ed (Lee Majors), a grandson as his dying wish. But the two brothers (who happened to be home-schooled at the North Pole) aren't very lucky with the ladies, and they eventually settle on a surrogate -Janine (fellow "SNL" player Kristen Wiig). 
Forte's script isn't all bad. The funny is there; we just never see it on the screen. Blame that on director Bob Odenkirk, who hasn't spearheaded any significant projects prior to "The Brothers Solomon." There are a few laugh-out­loud moments, but everything in between feels drawn-out, and many of the gags fall far short of being comedic. 
campaigns. The two opposing storylines are both painfully short, as the entire game can be completed in approximate­ly six hours, and they are far too simi­lar. In the Autobot campaign, players must retrieve the AllSpark while work­ing to preserve human life. In the Decepticon campaign, players must retrieve the Al!Spark while, in a 
destructible, but they 
Transformers: The Game 
Developer: Traveller's Tales Consoles: Playstations 2 and 3, XBox 360, Nintendo Wii, Nintendo DS and PC 

aren't very con­sistent. Why is it that garners can easily level a house, but chain link fences are as unyielding as the Great Wall of China? 
Graphically, the game is respectably average. The in-game engine is done well enough that all of the Transformers resemble their cinematic counterparts. 
But while it may just 
.. 

perhaps draws too much on the charac­ter he played in that late, great sitcom. His character here, John, evokes no sympathy and instead borders on creepy and psychotic. As for the "Saturday Night Live" cast members in the movie, 
Forte is harmless enough, but Wiig is dis­appointingly underused. As the lead female, her character is as boring as any of the stock female characters thrown into male comedies for the sole purpose of advanc­ing what little plot actu­ally exists. Wiig deserves better material than what she is given ­
Not every comedy has to be a commentary on society, but it should at least make us laugh more than seven times. 
maybe even a joke or two. 
The only funny character that we actu­ally come to like is Janine's on-again, off-again boyfriend James, played by Chi McBride -a wonderful television actor seen in the upcoming ABC series "Pushing Daisies." Maybe James is the funniest because he's the most realistic of all the characters. John is too forceful, Dean isn't forceful enough, Tara is too mean and J anine shows no passion for anything. James is just right. 
In addition to the director and actors, quite a bit of blame lies with Forte -a 
be nostalgia, the cartoon-like, anime­inspired versions of Transformers of yore are much preferred over the newly mechanized and industrial look featured in "Transformers: The Game." The com­puter-generated cut scenes look beauti­ful, however, complete with voiceovers 
featuring 
actors cast in 
shocking twist, working Why is it that garners Each of the Buick Regal -read: not
Transformers has its 
to destroy human life. can easily level a Transformers very well -one has to The Decepticon cam­has its own own unique assort­voice their concern.
house, but chain link 
paign might have been unique ment ofweapons, Garners are forced to more fun to play if the fences are as assortment of restart levels multiple
which include both a
environments were unyielding as the weapons, times because the terri­designed to be fully which include primary gun and ble handling for each
Great Wall ofChina? 
the film. Each ofthe form handles like a '96 
both a primary secondary missile. vehicle prevents them 
gun and sec­
ondarv missile. Any player must admit that running around with Optimus Prime and his double wielded pistols is one cool gam­ing experience. But all Transformers have the exact same three-hit melee combo, a circumstance that gets old very quickly. 
The control scheme itself would be passable if it weren't for the awkward camera angles that jerk excessively dur­ing battles'. Occasionally, the camera work·also gets "hung up" on buildings and other environmental elements. 
For those not in the know, all 
gles to find proper endings for sketches, Forte fails to find a proper ending for "The Brothers Solomon." The conclusion (which doesn't come quickly enough) seems almost like an afterthought, a way to quickly tie up loose ends for characters we care too little about. 
After a summer domi­nated by Judd Apatow and 
his legion of smart, sophisticated and funny actors, writers and directors, "The Brothers Solomon" only succeeds in making us wish that another Apatow project were in theaters right now. Not every comedy has to be a commentary on society, but it should at least make us laugh more than seven times. In this post-Apatow world, we have raised our comedy standards, and "The Brothers Solomon" fails to measure up in too many ways. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edn 
Transformers also have a vehicle form. Even if garners are spoiled by racing titles like "Need For Speed" and "Burnout," is it wrong for them to expect somewhat realistic car physics from these vehicle formations? True, the game is, in the end, only a game. But when every Transformer's vehicle 
from racing back to the 
green checkpoint bea­con before time expires. 
Ultimately, "Transformers: The Game" is only the latest in a seemingly endless series of shameless cash-ins to popular summer blockbusters. It looks and plays decently, but too much of the game feels like a "been there, done that" experi­ence for most garners. "Transformers: The Game" is fine for a limited rental, but there are far better games on the market that are deserving of any play­er's $60. 
Contact Damon Jason at djason@nd.edu 
-

--page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 10, 2007 
New target Moss propels Patriots to victory 
LaDainian Tomlinson helps Chargers take down Bears in season opener with rushing touchdown, TD pass to boot 
so that I've pretty much got
Associarcd Press 

down catching balls and making 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. plays after I get them," Moss Handy Moss eaught a long pass said. "''ve got that covered, but and stnppnd into tlw end zone, I've got to get my mind ready." !lashing tlw dominant playmak­Moss was prepared after two ing ability that mmil~ him one of miserable years with the NFI.'s most fean~d wide Haiders. A perennial Pro Bowl n~<:nrvnrs. receiver with Minnesota, he 
Looks lik1~ it's timn for oppos­app<lared rejuvenated Sunday, ing dnfnnsns to gPl s1:arml again. showing no ill effects from the 
Moss caught ni1w passes from missed time in camp. Tom Brady for liB yards and a "lie was a great player before touchdown in his Nnw England he got to the Patriots," Brady dPIJUt. loading llw Patriots to a said. "Obviously, he's still a great :~X-14 vidory over the Now York player." Jots on Sunday. Fllis llobbs also Brady, who faced little pres­sPt an NFL rm:ord by taking tlw sure from the Jets, was 22-of-28 snwnd-half kickofT IOX yards for for 297 yards and three touch­a scorn. downs. including a 5-yarder to 
"I was nervous before the Benjamin Watson that was set ganw," Moss said. "I didn't know up by catches of 22 and 33 yards how much I was going to play or by Moss. Brady continued his what might happen. I settled mastery of the Jets, improving to down af'tnr tlw first catch and 7-0 against them at Giants thn first hit. I don't think I evnr Stadium, and 11-2 overall. Brady was mom anxious or more nerv­has thrown 17 touchdown pass­OLIS. I didn't know how I would es and only five interceptions in play." his 14 appearances against the 
Nnithnr did anyone else, Jets. including the Patriots. With many fans still returning 
Moss, acquired from Oakland to their seats from the halftime in a draf't-day deal. missed most break, Hobbs caught Mike of training camp with a ham­Nugent's kickoff deep in the end string injury and it was unclear zone and surprisingly ran it out. can feel it opening up more and the bench, where he was sur­winner in his debut as Chargers how much of an impad he would Hobbs made a few cuts to the more," Hobbs said. "You just rounded by team trainers. Kellen head coach, raising his overall have with his new team, or if left sideline and took off want to head for that end zone. I Clemens replaced him, but head coaching record with three lw'd oven play against the Jets. untouched into the end zone to always try to find that sixth or Pennington came back to start teams to 59-82-1. 
In the nnd, Moss made all the ~ive New England a 21-7 lead 14 seventh gear, the gear they don't the Jets' next series with his Tomlinson threw a 17 -yard Tl> difl"nnmce. seeonds into the third quarter. even make." right ankle heavily wrapped. He pass to All-Pro tight end Antonio 
'Tw hmm playing long enough "When you start going, you The play also tied the record led the team on a scoring drive Gates with 45 seconds left in the for longest in NFL history, capped by Coles' 1-yard touch­third quarter, then scored on a matching the 108-yard missed down catch. 7 -yard run with 9:09 left to play. field goal returns by Chicago's While Tomlinson ton~ through Devin Hester last season against Chargers 14, Bears 3 Chicago's defense in a shoe com­the Giants, and the Bears' Maybe this wouldn't be such a mercial that's been airing Nathan Vasher the previous sea­good Super Bowl matchup, after recently, he didn't faro nearly as son against San Francisco. all. well against the real Bears. lie 
"That was tough to swallow," At least not the way the was held to 25 yards on 17 car­Jets linebacker Jonathan Vilma Chicago Bears and San Diego ries, the second-lowest total of said. "It was tough for us to give Chargers looked on Sunday. his seven-year career. His up that." · LaDainian Tomlinson and the longest gain of the day was 1 0 
Laveranues Coles had two Chargers finally took control of a yards on the final play of the first touchdown catches for the Jets, sloppy season opener, with the half, when the Chargers ran out who had a scare in the third reigning NFL MVP throwing for the clock and went into the lock­quarter when quarterback Chad one touchdown and rushing for er room trailing 3-0. Pennington hobbled to the side­another in a win over the Tomlinson did catch seven line with a lower right leg injury. defending NFC champion Bears. passes for 51 yards, but the guy 
On second-and-12 from the It's clear these two teams, each who saved the Chargers was Patriots 49, Pennington went with high expectations, have Gates, who had 107 yards on back to throw and was hit hard some work to do. nine catches. by Jarvis Green. Pennington was The Bears, who topped the The Bears got away with a big slow to get up and was in obvi­NFC last year at 13-3 before los­one in the third quarter, when ous pain before standing up, ing in the Super Bowl to the Chargers were poised to then collapsing to the turf after Indianapolis, were nothing short punch it in from the 1. Defensive taking a few steps. Pennington of brutal with four turnovers. tackle Tommie Harris appeared eventually hopped on his left leg Two of them set up the game's to be offside as he anticipated to the sideline. only two touchdowns. the snap and plowPd into quar­
"I've never had a lower leg The Chargers, an NFL-best 14-terback Philip Hivers, forcing injury before," Pennington said. 2 in 2006 before their playoff him to fumble. Mike Brown ''I'm not going to lay there, I'll pratfall against New England, recovered and, despite the tell you that." had two turnovers and allowed Chargers' protests, the Bears 
Pfmnington flung his helmet to three sacks. kept the ball. They ended up the ground as he hopped over to Still, Norv Turner came away a punting, though. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from B a.m. ro 2 r.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for conrenr wi rhout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
BABYSITIER NEEDED. Local lam­. ily is seeking babysitter for 2-year· WANTED old boy. 
Flexible hours, Tuesfrhurs. pre-SOCCER REFEREES-needed for !erred. Must have references. 574­southside elementary school. 271-0747. Located near Erskine Golf Course on Miam1 St. $35/per game. Call athletic director al574·291-4200. FoR SALE 
Tutor for Calculus 3. Fee nego-FOR SALE-4BR, 2.5 Bath, liable. Call 574·276-8299. 2800 SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to NO. 
BUY/SELL used CDs,DVDs, video games, video game systems and vinyl. Buyco, 3602 Grape Rd., Mishawaka. 252-9222. 
FoR RENT 
Furn. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. NO home games. Right next to NO. 574-273-3030 ask for Pat. 
Furnished house for rent.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
15 min. to NO. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4 mile to lake.  TICKETS  Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love  
Game wkends or whole year.  needs confidential  
Students welcome.  WANTED -NO FOOTBALL TIX.  support or assistance,  
57 4-288-2726.  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  please call  
Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819.  
Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms.  FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX.  For more information,  
Walk to NO.  ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964.  visit our website at:  
574·876-7341.  www. victorytickets.com  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- 
For Football weekends,  nant.shtml  
call 574-532·1408.  NO tickets for sale. Best Prices.  or see our bi·weekly ad in THE  

$217,500 243-1953 57 4-288·2726. OBSERVER. Web Designer needed to create LODGING FOR FOOTBALL FOOTBALL HOUSE · new website. Experience with shop· Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun-GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-3 bedroom home, 5 blocks from If you or someone you ping carts, autoresponders, room trybb.org for 24 campus for rent on football care about has been sexually 
PERSONAL 
video/audio files desired. $1 0/hr. great SB neighborhood Quality Bed and Breakfast weekends, assaulted, visit Call 574-320-2522 after 5. $93,000 call Accommodations. JPW, Graduation. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. 
269-445·2765. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Operated as a weekend LASER CREATIONS Unique shtml Friendly smiling servers needed. Breakfasts. rental. Products Thru Laser Technology. Full or part time openings. If you are 2 bdrm/1 bath condo. Great alternative to Laser etched logo gifts, signs, NFL Week 2 predictions friendly and smiling. we will train Nice area. 4 miles from campus. Bed & Breakfast lodging w/alum stupid hotel prices on those award plaques, name tags, rubber CIN over CLE, INO over TEN you~ Some cook positions available $74,900. family for NO home games. Great weekends. stamps, glass etching, etc. Call DAL over MIA, CHI over KC too. Apply in person 52285 US 31 N Call Meredith, Milligan Real Estate rates & nice accommodations. 574-www.notredameliving.com or call Jack 574-273-8662 or email: laser-NYJ over BAL. SO over NE South Bend. Damons Grill eoe 220-9817. 243-2628. Alex 212-418-6937. cr@comcast.net CAR over HOU, NO over TAM 
--~------------­


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, September I 0, 2007 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 87-57 .604 7-3 NY Yankees 81-62 .566 7-3 5.5 Toronto 72-70 .507 5·5 14 Baltimore 61-81 .430 3·7 25 Tampa Bay 60-83 .420 7-3 26.5 
American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB Cleveland 82-60 .577 7-3 Detroit 77-66 .538 6·4 5.5 Minnesota 70-73 .490 3-7 12.5 Kansas City 62·80 .437 3-7 20 Chicago Sox 61-82 .427 4-6 21.5 
American League West 
team record perc. last 10 GB LA Angels 84-58 .592 6·4 Seattle 75-66 .532 2·8 8.5 Oakland 69-75 .479 4·6 16 Texas 68-74 .479 8·2 16 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB NY Mets 81·61 .570 8·2 Philadelphia 75-67 .528 5·5 6 Atlanta 73-70 .510 5-5 8.5 Washington 64-79 .448 6·4 17.5 Florida 61-82 .427 3-7 20.5 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB Milwaukee 73-69 .514 7-3 Chicago Cubs 72-70 .507 4-6 1 St. Louis 69-71 .493 5-5 3 Cincinnati 64-79 .448 3-7 9.5 Pittsburgh 63-80 .441 4-6 10.5 Houston 62-81 .434 3-7 11.5 
National League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB Arizona 81-63 .563 7-3 San Diego 77·65 .542 4·6 3 LA Dodgers 75-68 .524 5-5 5.5 Colorado 74-68 .521 7-3 6 San Francisco 65-78 .455 4-6 15,5 
Division I NSCAA Women's Soccer 

team record previous 
1 Portland 1-0·0 4 2 NOTRE DAME 1·0·1 2 3 TexasA&M 2·0-D 5 4 Texas 2·0·0 9 5 Stanford 2·0·0 10 6 North Carolina 0·1·0 1 7 UCLA 0·1·0 3 8 Rorida State 0·1·0 6 9 Santa Clara 1·0·0 8 10 BC 1·0·0 11 11 Virginia 2·0·0 17 12 Rutgers 2·0·0 12 13 Tennessee 2·0·0 25 14 Florida 1-1·0 13 15 Penn State 1·1·0 7 16 Cal 2·0·0 18 17 UConn 1+0 16 
around the dial 
NFL Baltimore at Cincinnati 7 p.m., ESPN Arizona at San Francisco 10:15 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Cleveland at Chicago White Sox 
8:11 p.m., Comcast 

Co.MPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
PGA TouR 
Associated Press 

LEMONT, Ill. -Playing next to Tiger Woods for two days was daunting enough. It was when Steve Stricker watched him from 200 yards away on an elevated tee that he realized how tough it would be to beat him Sunday in the BMW Championship. 
He arrived on the par-3 12th tee in time to see Woods, in his customary black pants and red shirt, rap a putt that traveled from one side of the green to the other until the ball disappeared after a 50-foot journey and gave Woods an unlikely birdie. 
"It looked like he looked back to make sure that we were watching him make birdie," Stricker said. 

Not so, Woods replied. 
"I didn't do a Sergio," Woods said with a smile, referring to when Sergio Garcia stared him down at nearby Medinah eight years ago in a fruitless chase at the PGA Championship. 
Woods only cared about making birdies, and he got enough of them at Cog Hill to close with an 8-under 63 for a two-shot victory over Aaron Baddeley. Along the way, Woods shattered the tournament scoring record, collected his 60th career victory on the PGA Tour and moved atop the stand-
IN BRIEF 

Bills' Kevin Everett has surgeryfor cervical spine injury 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y-Kevin Everett had surgery Sunday evening, hours after the Buffalo Bills reserve tight end showed no signs of move­ment after sustaining a severe neck injury in the team's season opener against Denver. 
Bills spokesman Scott Berchtold said he was informed by the team's medical staff the player went into surgery at a Buffalo hospital at about 8 p.m. Berchtold said he had no fur­ther information, and didn't know whether Everett had shown any signs of movement since he was driven off the field in an ambulance. 
Coach Dick Jauron said immedi­ately following the game that the player sustained a cervical spine injury, but wouldn't discuss the severity of the injury. 
The player's agent Brian Overstreet was not immediately available for comment. 
ings in the FedEx Cup with one week remaining. 
"If you wanted to win this tournament, you had to make putts," Woods said. "And I just happened to make them today." 
The 63 matched Woods' lowest final round to win, and he fmished at 22-under 262 to break by five shots the 72-hole record at Cog Hill first set by Scott Hoch in 2001 and matched by Woods two years later. 
And while his 60th tour victory surprised him, the amazement wore off when he was reminded that it was only 13 months ago at the Buick Open that every­one made a fuss out of Woods winning No. 50. 
Gibbons received illegal
prescription medications 
NEW YORK -Baltimore Orioles outfielder Jay Gibbons received per­formance-enhancing steroids and human growth hormone after both substances were banned by baseball, Sl.com reported Sunday. 
Gibbons is the latest athlete to be linked to the Florida pharmacy under investigation for illegally dis­tributing prescription medications. 
Major League Baseball asked Friday to meet with St. Louis' Rick Ankiel and Toronto's Troy Glaus after two reports said they received performance-enhancing drugs from Signature Pharmacy several years ago. 
Between October 2003 and July 2005, Gibbons got six shipments of Genotropin (a brand name for syn­thetic human growth hormone), two shipments of testosterone and two shipments of human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG), SI.com said. 
page 13 
Baddeley gave him a good chase until he ran out of birdies on the back nine and settled for a 66. Stricker was tied for the lead until his 3-iron clipped a tree and came up well short on the 12th, leading to a bogey no one could afford. He wound up with a 68 to finish alone in third, enough for him to move up to No. 2 in the FedEx Cup standings. 
'There isn't a lot you can do," Stricker said. "I would have had to shoot 63 today to beat him. When you see him ahead of us making the birdies and hearing the roars, you know that he's on a roll and not making many mistakes. It's tough." 
Franchitti wins PEAK 
Antifreeze Indy 300 
JOLIET, Ill. -Dario Franchitti topped off "a crazy season" with an unlikely victory Sunday at Chicagoland Speedway, winning his first IndyCar Series title in what might be his farewell to open-wheel racing. 
The difference for the Scot in the PEAK Antifreeze Indy 300 was his ability to squeeze out half a lap more than Scott Dixon on their fmal load of fuel, with the New Zealander running out of ethanol while leading two turns from the end of the 200-lap race. 
Franchitti, who nearly saw the chance of winning his first open-wheel title slip away with crashes in each of the four races leading up to the sea­son finale, could hardly believe his good fortune after struggling with traffic and an ill-handling car most of the day. 
"It's been a crazy season," said Franchitti, who also won his first Indianapolis 500 in May. 
Monday, September I 0, 2007
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Federer wins fourth straight U.S. Open title 
Swissnzan now within two championships of American legend Pete Sampras' record for career major titles 
Associat~d J>ress 

NI\W YOHK -Bognr Federer sure gave Novak Djokovic chancPs, piPnty of chancns, to pull oil' a rn<~jor upsPt in the U.S. Open linal. 
Fndnrnr knows how to win thesP things, whiiP Djokovic is still lnarning, and that made tlw dill'nrnncn Sunday. llardly at thP top or his gamn, FedPrnr canw through. healing Djokovie 7-6 (4), 7-6 (2), (,-4 for his fourth ,·onsn<:ut.ivn U.S. Open champi­onship and 12th Grand Slam tille overall. 
Fmlnwr is tlw first man since Bill Tilden in the 1920s to win tho Amnri<:an (;rand Slam four years running, and, still only 26 ynars old, lw moved within two of Pete Sampras' can~nr record of 14 major titles. 
"I think about it a lot now," FederN said of Sampras' mark. "To cornn so dose at my age is l'antastil:. and I hope to brnak it." 
I low many Slams can he win'! "I don't know," Federer said. "I hope mor1~ than Pnte." 
This one was a dose call. The 20-ynar-old Djokovic was in his lirst Slam final, yet he led 6-5 in mu:h of the opening two Silts. 
In tlw first, he held five set points. In the second, he held two. 
Federer erased all of those, showing thn eraft and cool that have allowlld him to hold the No. I ranking for the past 188 wonks, the longest run ever. 
"My next book is going to be ealllld, 'Seven Set Points,"' I>jokovie said, flashing the same sort of humor he displayed when he did on-court impersonations of other players after his quar­tnrlinal victory. 
On a more serious note. the 
No. 3-sneded Djokovie said of 
Federer: "Once again, he 
showed he's the bnst." 

In Djokovic, Federer was fac­ing the only man to beat him over the past three months, but that was in early August at Montreal. not early September at New York, and in a Grand Slam tuneup, not the real deal. 
So, not just talented with a racket but prescient, too, Ff~derer pretty much predicted what would transpire. Shortly beli1re walking out for Sunday's match, he said knowingly, "It'll be interesting to sen how he handles the !ina!." 
Sure was. 

Afterward, Federer spoke about having enjoyed getting another shot at Djokovie. 
"New guys challenging me ­this is my biggest motivation out thnre," Federer said. "Seeing thnm challenging me, and then beating them in the finals." 
In the end, about the only cat­egory Djokovie won on this day was "Most Intriguing Guests," with 2006 Open champion Maria Sharapova-"just a friendship," he said -and actor Hobert De Niro sharing a box with his par­ents in the stands. 
Federer was dressed for an evening on the town -all in black, from headwrap and wrist­band to socks and shoes, from shirt to shorts with tuxedo-like satin stripes down the sides ­and he linished things under the lights by breaking Djokovic in the last game with the help of a no-look, over-the-shoulder volley winner. 
It's the type of shot that has prompted plenty of people to call Federer the greatest to ever swing a racket. 

Which is why, at the start, it was surprising that Federer was not the Federer everyone has to come to expect. When Federer double-faulted, then sprayed two forehands long, Djokovic broke to go up 6-5. Perhaps thinking they'd witness an upset, many in the over-capacity crowd of 25,230 got on their feet, clap­ping and screaming. 
So, serving for the first set, Djokovic raced to a 40-love edge. 
Three set points. Three chances to take a one­set lead against Federer in the 
U.S. Open final. 

And just like that, they van­ished: Federer hit a cross-court forehand winner that eaught a line, and Djokovic missed two backhands. 
Then came two more set points that Federer erased. Then, in the tiebreaker, Djokovic made three backhand errors and two double-faults, including on the last point. 
"He knows what it feels like to be in that kind of situation. He knows how to cope· with the pressure," Djokovie said. "For me, this is something new." 
It shownd again lat1~r. 

When Federer servlld while trailing 6-5 in the second set, Djokovic let two mom set points go by the wayside. Again they went to a tiebreaker, and again Federer was better. When he ended it with a baekhand pass­ing winner down the line ­placing the ball through the one, tiny opening there was -Federer skipped toward the sideline, screamlld and punchlld the air. 
Take your career to a i r level. 
At Ernst &Young, you'll elevate your skill set working with and learning from some of the best talent in the industry. And thanks to our award-winning training programs, you'll have all the resources you need to give your career a boost. Next stop: the top. 
Grow. Succeed. Visit us at ey,comjusjcareers and on our Facebook.com group. 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
~8WCC~t~~~ 
#25 on the list. 
Monday, September 10, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
~~ 


looking~~ feeling GREAT ... come see me! 

Peggy Dibble 
Aesthetic/an ...and don't forget to mention this ad!! 
Peggy is available: Monday-Friday: 9am-5pm Saturday: 8:30am-12:00pm & E<\(]AL PLASTIC SURGERY 


401 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 574.282.2020 
A bit ofIreland in 
your own backyard. 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the fireplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(WaterfOrd Estates Lodge has hotel roomsat reasonable ratesfur upcomif13 NDfootball weekends.) 
For all your cosmetic, skin care and hair removal needs come to our South Bend location just minutes from campus on North Michigan Street. 
Peggy is a licensed aesthetician and specializes in Jane lredale mineral-based makeup, LaRoche-Posay skin care products, facials and waxing services. 
From your face to your legs, Peggy will have your skin feeling smooth, soft & beautiful! 
Call Peggy Today! 
574w282*2020 
TRACK AND fiELD 

Powell sets record for 100-meter dash 
Jamaican bests his previous record mark 
Associated Press 

RIETI, Italy -Asafa Powell set another world record in the 100 meters, and suspects he can go even faster. 
The world's fastest man improved his record Sunday, winning a heat at the Rieti Grand Prix in 9.74 seconds despite eas­ing at the end. 
"This means that I can do even 9.68," Powell said. 'Tm worth that time, I know it." 
The record comes only two weeks after the Jamaican fin­ished a disappointing third at the track and field world champi­onships in Osaka, Japan. 
"I made a couple of mistakes and I corrected them," said Powell, who lowered the mark by 0.03 seconds, having run 9.77 three times. "That's what hap­pens when I start to listen to the coach." 
The heat, the second of two, was run with a strong tail wind, but it was below the maximum allowed by track and field's gov­erning body, making the record valid. 
In the final, Powell won in 9.78 -with no tail wind. Michael Frater of Jamaica was second in 10.03, followed by Jaysuma Saidy Ndure of Norway in 10.10. 
"Today I ran like I should have done at the worlds," Powell said. "At Osaka I was too tense, I was thinking about the race and the time I had to set. Instead here I was relaxed." 
In the heat, Ndure was second to Powell in 10.07, and Kim Collins of St. Kitts and Nevis was third in 10.14. 
After winning the fmal, Powell celebrated amid a crowd of pho­tographers on the field of Raul Guidobaldi stadium, throwing a bouquet of flowers into the stands. He also ran a lap of honor, shaking hands with fans and signing autographs. 
"Me and my coach have been working to getting myself back to normal," Powell said. "I came here today and I executed prop­erly and did what I was sup­posed to do." 
Powell is only the fourth non­American to hold the 100 world record since 1912. Donovan Bailey of Canada (1996), Armin Hary of West Germany (1960) and Percy Williams of Canada (1930) are the others. 
Rieti is a fast track on which six middle-distance world records have been set. That was not lost on Powell, who was try­ing to bounce back from his dis­appointing performance at the worlds. 
"It's a very fast track. I love this track. It's very bouncy," said Powell, who trains in Italy three months of the year. "Italy is a good place for me. It's my second home." 
Powell first set the world record of 9. 77 in June 2005 in Athens, Greece. Justin Gatlin matched the time in May 2006, but the American faces a suspen­sion of up to eight years follow­ing a positive doping test for testosterone and other steroids at the Kansas Relays a month earlier. In June 2006, Powell again ran 9.77, and then did it a third time in August 2006. 
But despite the fast times, Powell has struggled at major competitions, missing a medal at the 2004 Athens Olympics. At the worlds, he finished behind gold medalist Tyson Gay and Derrick Atkins, running 9.96. The bronze was Powell's first major medal. 
"That was a race I had to win and I didn't. Enough. I lost," Powell said. "The real Powell is the one from today, not the Osaka one." 
Powell had also been one of the favorites at the 2003 worlds, but he was disqualified in the heats for a false start. He missed the 2005 worlds because of a groin injury. 
Michael Johnson, the world record holder at both 200 and 400 meters, criticized Powell during the worlds last month, saying the Jamaican is "not a great competitor." Johnson said Powell gave up in Osaka when he was overtaken by Gay in the final 40 meters. 
"He's not a great competitor, you can see it in his eyes," Johnson wrote in his column for the BBC. "He can learn to be a great competitor, but first you have to admit that you're not." 
Powell should get another chance to race Gay next Sunday. Both are scheduled to compete at the Golden League's Memorial Van Damme meet in Brussels, Belgium. 
Sally McLellan of Australia won the women's 100 in 11.30, with Stephanie Durst of the United States second in 11.37 and Debbie Ferguson-McKenzie of the Bahamas third in 11.38. 
Several world champions also won, including Lauryn Williams of the United States in the women's 200, Janeth Jepkosgei of Kenya in the women's 800, Yargelis Savigne of Cuba in the women's triple jump and Irving Saladino of Panama in the men's long jump. 
AP 


page 16 
SMC GOLF 

Belles finish in second 
Senior Katie O'Brien shoots 76 to lead all players in the field 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Wrirer 

The Saint Mary's golf' team got ofT to a good start in the 2007 MIAA season Saturday in Kalamazoo, finishing sec­ond to Oliv<~t in thn l'irst of three MIAA jamborees with a s1:ore of' :!45. 
Senior captain Katie O'BriPn shot a 7h to lnad all players in the liPid. Freshman t·:mily <;oro sustairwd some momnnl.urn from last week­end in shooting an IH1, while f'n~shmen Mirlwlle llird and Amanda Mainstorw shot a 1J3 and 1)5, rnspnl'lively. 
Junior Perri llarnma shot a 
C) 5 to round out tlw st:orin g l'or lhP Belles. (;ore's S6 placed her orw stroke behind a lop len finish on tlw in(li­vidual leaderboard. 
Freshmen Megan l.ehr and Hosie O'Connor both shot 90s while t:ompt~ting as individu­als. 
Btd'ort~ Saturday's jam­bo r 111~ • he a d e o a e h Ma r k llarnillon stressed the need l'or eonsistPrH'Y in MIAA eom­pntition. With the tightly packed MIAA standing, Saint Mary's cannot af'f'ord to have any bad days this ynar. Tho Bnllns nxpnrieneed no such hieeup at Kalamazoo, coming 
in only 10 strokes behind 2006 conference champion Olivet. 
O'Brien's performance was especially impressive. She finished a comfortable five strokes ahead of her nearest individual competitor, Olivet's Megan Himmel. 
Consistency will continue to be key, as only 18 strokes separate second-place Saint Mary's from sixth-place Albion. Tri-State and Hope are just two and three strokes behind the Belles, respeetively. 
The Belles look prepared to top thnir record from last year. The H5 they tallied on Saturday is 19 strokes better than their best round in MIAA competition in the 2006 f'all season. 
Olivet will likely provide stiff competition throughout the year. Four Olivet golfers placed in the top 10 on the individualleaderboard. 
II' O'Brien and Gore contin­un playing the way they have so far, the Belles will be able to knn p pace with Olivet and compntt~ for the MIAA eham­pionship. 
Saint Mary's will be baek in action Tuosday at Tri-State when it participates in the second MIAA jamboree. 
The Observer could not rHach any members of the team for comment following Sunday's tournament. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gray leads Saint Mary's to seventh-place finish 
By KATE ARNOLD 
Spom Wrilrr 

In its second event of the season. Saint Mary's finished snvnnth at the fivn-kilometer Aquinas Invitational, placing ahead of Lansing Community Collegn and MIAA ftw Olivet. 
Grand Valley State won the event, followed by Indiana Tech, Aquinas, Cornerstone, St. Xavinr and Sinnna I I eights. 
Bnllns eoach .Iackie Bauters was proud of the team's finish bneause most of the teams partieipating were mueh larg­er than Saint Mary's. 
"Although it shows we fin­ished 7th overall, the teams abovo us are NCAA Division II and NAIA teams that we do not ev1~r score against," she said. 
Tlw Btdlns' timns improved signil'ieanlly from their first rat:e. The course at thH Aquinas Invitational is notori­ously flat, and Saint Mary's believos its hard throughout tho WtHlk paid dividends. But the team was not satisfied with itstiines and hopes to eontinun to cut them down. 
"Thorn was a mix of feelings after the race. Some girls ran very wnll and some were slightly disappointed with their times," Bautcrs said. "We ran in pacn groups for tlw first two miles, which really seemed to help a number of the girls race better." 
Corning in first for the Belles was senior captain Megan Gray. With a time of 20:09, she took 32nd place overall. 

"Megan has many strengths. As a runner, she is patient to see results and has tremen­dous drive and determina­tion," Bauters said. "As a cap­tain, she carries herself well and leads by example well. She has really taken a few freshmen under her guidance this year which has been ben­eficial to such a young team." 
Gray's leadership seems to be paying off, as three of the top five Belles' runners were underclassmen. Following closely behind her were soph­omore Megan McClowry (20:31), freshman Catie Salyer (21 :04). freshman Sam Wieczorek (21 :08) and senior Olenka Bilyk (22:21 ). 
For Gray and sophomore Emily Graf, the event was their first of the year. 
"I think waiting to race until this week was better physical­ly and mentally for them," Bauters said. 
The Belles will next run Sept. 22 in the MIAA .Jamboree at Angola, Ind. The team remains confident and ready to run. 
"I feel like we're in a good spot for this time of the season and leading up to preparing for our .Jamboree," Bauters said. 
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 

Monday, September I 0, 2007
The Observer + SPORTS SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Strong leadership creates 2 vvins 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 
Sports Wrirer 

Saint Mary's had a roller­coaster weekend, going 2-2 at the Hiram Invitational. The young Belles squad picked up some valuable experience in the busy tournament. 
"We experienced some good success this weekend. I felt that we finally started to gel as a team and that players were really working hard for their teammates," head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "I made some position changes, and after some initial adjustments, those players really stepped it up and exeelled in those posi­tions." 
The tournament got under­way Friday afternoon, when the Belles took on Texas Lutheran and fell 3-0 (30-22, 30-24, 30-21 ). 
Sophomore outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski and junior middle blocker Kaela Ilellmann had big games in the losing effort. Slupczynski had a team-high 10 kills in the opening match. while llnllmann contributed seven kills and 10 digs. 
Saint Mary's bounced back with a win over Thiel College later that night. Thiel put up a tough fight, but the Belles were able to pull out the victo­ry in live games (29-31, 30-16, 17-30, 30-16, 17-15). 
The Belles had to light off a match point at 14-13 in game five before they could claim the win over the Tomcats. Slupczynski posted 17 kills and 
a .452 hitting percentage to lead the Belles offensive. Hellmann and junior middle blocker Cathy Kurczak both 

posted double figures in kills with 14 and 11, respectively. Senior setter Amanda David eontributed to the win with an impressive 48 assists. 
The Belles started day two of' the Hiram Invitational with a match against (~eneva College. The team won the match in four games 3-1, (30-22, 25-30, 30-27' 30-22). 
In the opening match, the Belles' team leaders stepped up again. Slupczynski had 15 kills and 10 digs while Hellman added 11 kills and 14 digs in the win. Freshman middle blocker Andrea Sasgen stepped up with three service aces to assist in the win. 
The Belles finished their weekend against M.I.T., and 
tiona! was hard fought by thn Belles. Slupczynski led thn pack with another double-dou­ble, 17 kills and1 H digs. She was named to the !Iirarn College Invitational All Tournament tnam. 
The Belles now look forward to the week ahead. Saint Mary's will take on conference foe Olivet Tuesday, for their first home match of the season. They will play another eonfer­ence competitor, Alma, on Thursday also at home. 
The Belles and Sehroeder­Biek arc ready to be horne. 
"Being on the road so much these past two weeks is tough," Schroeder-Biek said. "We are anxious for the home crowd to see us play." 
fell in five games 3-2, (29-31, 30-23, 30-25, 21-30, 15-13). Contact Samantha Leonard at The final match of the invita-sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

c 

Mishawaka 4810 Grape Rd. 
2]1.1330 

*Offer valid every Monday 11 a.m. to close. Monday, September 10, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles l~ose first of season 
Hope outlasts Saint Mary's in conference showdown Saturday 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Men and women both 
•

-win In• season opener 
ByJAYWADE 
Sports Writer 

The men's and women's teams both started their sea­sons by running away from the competition at the Crusader Invitational last Friday in Valparaiso, Ind. 
The men, looking to build on their success from last year, showed no signs of slowing down, as they placed five run­ners in the top 15. The Irish finished 30 points ahead of the second place team, host Valparaiso, and Wisconsin­Milwaukee filled out the top three, finishing with 75 points. 
Junior Chris Rodriguez was the top runner for the Irish, fin­ishing first with a time of 19:51 for the 6K course. He was fol­lowed closely behind by team­mate junior Kevin Veselik, who came in second overall with a time of 20:01, only 10 seconds off Rodriguez's time. 
The other runners for the Irish fared nearly as well, with Kevin McFadden (20:28), Mark Moore (20:30) and John Daly Jr. 
(20:36) finishing ninth, lOth and 
11th, respectively. With all five players in the top 15, and only seconds apart from one another, the men's team looked sharp and well prepared for the upcoming season. 
The women's team avenged last year's heartbreaking one­point loss at the invitational by blowing away the competition this year. Western Michigan fin­ished in second place, more than 20 points behind the Irish. 
The leading runner for the Irish was Beth Traci, who com­pleted the 4K course in just 
19:01 to fmish third. The Irish also managed to get three more runners into the top 10, with Abby Higgins (19:27), Emily Wauford (19:46) and Julie Opet (19:54), who finished sixth, sev­enth and ninth. 
Both teams showed they would be contenders for the Big East title this season, and both teams hope to build on Friday's strong performance and use it as momentum for the coming season. 
Notre Dame's next meet will be the National Catholic Championships, which the Irish will host in South Bend at 4:15 
p.m. Friday. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu 
Maunu 
continued from page 20 

ninth in the nation by the American Junior Golf Association is in a five-way tie for seventh place. 
The third-best score on the day for the Irish belonged to sophomore Annie Brophy. The second-year golfer put up a three-over par (75) for the first round and stands in a tie for 48th place. 
Fellow sophomore Kristin Wetzel carded a four-over par (76), which placed her in a tie for 54th place. Rounding out the top five finishers for Notre 
Dame was freshman Katie Conway, who shot a six-over par (78) on the day, leaving her in a tie for 73rd. 
Tee times for the second round begin today at 7:40 
a.m. Notre Dame will look to build upon its record-setting day in an attempt to climb the leader board and begin the season with a tournament vic­tory. 
The Cougar Classic will fin­ish Tuesday afternoon, giving the Irish less than a week to prepare for the Napa River Grill Cardinal Cup in Louisville, Ky. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


special guest to be announced 
Wednesday September 12. 2007 • 7:30 pm Morris Performing Arts Center South Bend, Indiana 
Tickll"lts On Salv How at thcz Morris Box Officll"l, Sopll"lr Sounds In Goshen. LaPorte Civic floditorlum Box Office, Charge by phonv 574/235-9190 or online www.morriscenter.org 
Welcomed by gurhryleep.com 
.:"" 
By CHRIS DOYEN SportS Writer 
Saint Mary's suffered its first loss of the season Saturday in a 3-1 loss to Hope College. 
The Belles broke through first on a goal by junior for­ward Lauren Hinton in the 37th minute. Freshman mid­fielder Julia Gragtmans assist­ed on Hinton's third goal of the season. 
"We started a little bit slug­gish," Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie said. "But we worked our way through that and started creating good chances and doing some fun stuff." 
The lead was short-lived. Less than one minute later, junior forward Suzi Knowles assisted on a goal by senior forward Julia Fischer. The goal came off of one of Hope's seven corner kicks in the match. 
The game remained tied until the 50th minute when Hope struck on a goal by Sonya Masghati, assisted by Emily Cook. Hope grabbed the momentum and never looked back. 

"When they got that second goal, it took the wind out of our sails," MacKenzie said. "It wasn't that we quit, but we felt that if we'd gotten a break and scored that second goal, the outcome of the game could have been a lot different." 
Hope senior Ellie Tresslar added an insurance goal in the 86th minute on an assist by Masghati. 
Despite the 3-1 score, MacKenzie was pleased with the overall performance against an organized and well­coached Hope squad. 
"The score doesn't reflect how competitive the game was," MacKenzie said. "It was a really well-played game by both teams. We were disap­pointed that we lost, but we did a lot of very good things." 
While the Belles were disap­pointed by the loss, MacKenzie is well aware of some of the benefits that can come from an early non-conference defeat. 
"It's good to lose early," said MacKenzie. "You learn a lot more about yourself when you lose, and it gives us the oppor­tunity to prepare for our con­ference matchups later in the year." 
The Belles will be back in action Wednesday at Saint Mary's when they host Calvin, the 2006 MIAA champions. 
The Belles record now stands at 3-1, while Hope improved to 2-2. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
The Cen.ter for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and 
. ­


;;.••~ ThE~ Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Ber~:es Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Data Mining: Business, Ethical and Societal Considerations" 
Panelists include: 

Sarv Devaraj, Associate Professor ofManagement Joe Holt, Director of Executive Ethics Barry Keating, Professor of Finance Constance Porter, Assistant Professor of Marketing 
Patrick E. Murphy, Co-Director, Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide, will serve as moderator. 
All participants are faculty members at the University of Notre Dame. 
Tuesday, September 11, 2007 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

--~-­

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, September 10, 2007 
Berticelli 
continued from page 20 
Clark said. "lie played real well. and he caused a lot of trouble. I thought that was a rnal positive." 
Thern still wero nogatives to come for Notre Dame. though, as senior goalitl Chris Cahill appeared to injurn his quad muscln late in Friday night's game, and junior defend­cake because that would have been the game right there," Clark said. "That's what makes it hard. That's what makes it seem like a loss because you had the game within your grasp." 

Despite missing the penalty kick, Martin was the primary reason Notre Dame didn't lose the game. After receiving a pass 40 yards from the Huskies goal, Martin took two touches and let rip from 35 yards out. Northern Illinois' goalie Joe Zimka was 
er .lack helpless as
"This is an
Traynor was Martin's shot sent ofT after opportunity for the knuckled over rtH~eiving his youngsters, and this is his head, dip­socond ydlow ping down into
when you've got to step
card. the back of the 
up."
Although the net. p e r s o n n ~~ I The Huskies losses w1~re Bobby Clark tied the game lwavy !wading 11 minutes
Irish coach 
into Sunday's gamn with NorthPrn Illinois, Clark did not appear too worril~d about the short or long-tPrm prospects for his tPam. 
"!Tho injurinsl shouldn't havo any PITt~ct. and I don't think it dons." Clark said. "This is an opportunity for the youngstPrs, and this is when you'vn got to stPp up. llnjuriesl Wtlre how Jon Lapira got his dmnt~n his freshman year. and thn youngstPrs can't wait to takn advantage of' this." 
It would be o1w of those youngsters who gave Notre I>amP a chancP to win Sunday aftPrnoon against tlw lluskies. With Lhn two teams tied at 1-1 entering tlw SIH~OJHI overtime period, Donahue arrived first at a loosn ball in Northern Illinois' pnnalty box, where a vidous slidn tackle l'roin lluskins df'fondnr Chris Hufa took him down. 
Tlw rderee pointnd immedi­attdy to tlw penalty spot, but Martin's kiek sailed over the crossbar. 
"ITho pPnalty kickl would havP hnPn tlw ir.ing on tlw 
Sha01rock 
continued from page 20 
Whilnny HussPII addPd 10 kills. 
Tlw Irish recovered from a 2-1 dtllkit to narrowly def'1~at Alahama :~-2 (2fi-30, :~0-28, 24-:W, :HJ-IIJ, Ifi.l)). 
Tarutis assistPd fi6 hits and marknd 15 digs during the match play while Phillips had 18 kills and I 0 digs. 
Crimson Tidn All-American player Crystal II u d s o n marked tho most kills of 
the game 

"Overall, we played a 
with IIJ. 

really tough weekend
lleading into tho final schedule." match of the weekend with 
Megan Fesl 
an overall 
Irish junior
record of 3-3 

and an unde­fnated Shamrock Invitational rneord, tho Irish struggled to compote with No. 13 Ohio. Though tlwy kept their loss­es within a sevPn-point mar­gin and won the second game of tho set, the Irish ultimatHiy lost 3-1 (26-30, 30-25, 28-30, 23-30). 
Stasiuk and Fest dominated in kills for the evening while 

frnshman  libero  Angela  
Pu o n t n  lw I d  t hll  de fe n s e  
togHther.  

Though the Irish played later when 

forward Ben Thomas slipped behind the Irish defense and finished low near .post past an onrushing Cahill. 
Notre Dame will be back in action next Saturday when it opens Big East play at Marquette. 
Notes 

+ 
After lflaving Friday's game with a muscle injury. Lapira came back to play in the soeond hall' and the first 10-minute overtime against Northern Illinois. Clark said he rnmoved Lapira from the game al'tnr the first overtime period bneause he didn't want to push Lapint onco he became tired. 

+ 
Cahill played Sunday's game with a heavy wrap over his right quadriceps, and his short goal kicks showed that his leg was not at 100 percent. Clark, however, said Cahill should fully rocover by next weekend at Marquette. 


Contact Greg Arbogastat garbogas@nd.edu 

el'fective defense. Bo beats' sophomore Ellen IIerman's off'pnsive attacks were unstoppable. Senior Stophanie Blackburn also had a big game for Ohio serving the ball as well as on dnfense. 
"Overall, we played a real­ly tough weekend schedule," Fest said. 
Tho Irish left the weekend with a tournament record of 2-1 and an overall season record of' 3-4. Ohio also fin­ished with a weekend record 
of 2-1, while the College of Charleston and Alabama both went 1-2. 
"This week­end we saw a lot of improve­ment. It's very 
exciting  and  
gives  us  a  lot  
of  hope  and  

encouragement for the rest of the season, Stasiuk said. 
"[Wei played some really good teams and pulled it together especially at the end of the matches." 
Notre Dame travels to The Bronco Invitational in Santa Clara, Calif., Friday to play UC Santa Barbara, No. 15 Cal, and No. 19 Santa Clara. 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu and Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
Loss 

continued from page 20 
the first half on a one-timer 
off a pass from Hanks in the 
34th minute. Sophomore for­
ward Kelley O'Hara tied the 
game for the Cardinal in the 
52nd minute, and the score 
remained tied until senior 
midfielder Shari Summers put 
a penalty kick past freshman 
Nikki Weiss in overtime. 
"We played a very good Stanford team," Waldrum said. "It was one of those games that could have gone either way. It's one that you really want to at least get a draw or get a win out of." 
For much of the Stanford game, Notre Dame was with­out senior forward Amanda Cinalli, who suffered a con­cussion in a collision with the goalkeeper and a defender during a cross. 
"That really takes a lot away when you don't have her on the field as well, because her and Hanks are so good together," Waldrum said. 
The Irish once again rotated all three of their keepers. Senior Lauren Karas started the game against Santa Clara, but was replaced by sopho­more Kelsey Lysander at half­time. Weiss started and played for the entire game against Stanford. 
"We were not good in goal at all Friday night, too many mistakes," Waldrum said. "And Nikki was there for us today. Still a couple mistakes that she made, but overall she was a little bit better for us today. I would imagine that Nikki would get the look next Friday in our tournament, and then we'll go from there. Basically, it's still wide open." 
While Waldrum said he expected the defense to go through an adjustment peri­od, he expected more out of the offense. 
''I'm a little surprised because from an attacking standpoint we got pretty much everybody back," Waldrum said. "It's a little bit disappointing that we haven't done a better job on the offen­sive end of things." 
Notre Dame has a very tough schedule to begin the season. Of its first six games, including the preseason, five teams have been ranked in the top 10. 
.Waldrum hasn't lost confi­dence in his team's ability to succeed this season. 
"Tough weekend, but there's a lot of big games left for us in the year," he said. "If we continue to approach things the right way, we'll be okay by the ~nd of the year. We'll be fine. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Mon. 9-10 I Investment Club Kick-off Meeting 7:00-8:00PM, 141 DeBartolo 
Thur. ·9-13 I Wall Street Forum 6:30-8:30PM, McKenna Hall (CCE) Fri. 9-141 )l;hvestment Banking Boot Camp 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, September 10, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA AND ANDY SPANGLER 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
GREAT MOMENTS IN WESTERN HISTORY•.. 
.--7-t=-t-:-+::+.+.:-t 21 Train that makes all stops 22 Speaker's spot 25 Spilled the beans 26 & -=+.:.-t'+.'+:'-+-7-1 27 "It's no_!" (cry of despair) 29 Go all out 31 Like a mechanic's hands 

WOW, THE FRENCH JJ.MOST WON AWAR. IT'S AGOOD THING WE STOPPED THEM. THE FASRIC OF TIME AND SPACE MIGHT JUST HAVE COUAOSED! 

UH, COLONEL CUSTER, 
THERE ARE UKE TWICE 
AS MANY INDIANS AS US. SHOULD WE CtJ..L FOR REINFORCEMENTS? 
DUDE. HAVEN'T YOU SEEN 300? NUMERICtL 
SUPERIORITY MEANS NOTHING. SO LONG AS WE WEAR C/>PES AND SPEEDOSI 
61 Ponders 62 Like some Steve Martin humor 63"_11 Romantic?" 64 "Give it !" ("Quit harping!") 
Down Actor Snipes of "Blade" 2 Prefix with suppressive 3 Owner of MTV and BET 4 NewYork Harbor's _ Island 5 Order in a bear 
market 6 Faithfulness 7 Licoricelike 
flavor 8 Hand-to-hand fighting 
9 8-Down ender 1 0 Singer lves 11 "I Like_" (old 
campaign slogan) 12 Barbie's doll partner 13 Inexact fig. 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these lour Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form lour ordinary words. 
CILLA 

I [ J b
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights ReseiVed. 
OMACE 

I [ J 
MELTIG 
j

rr I I
1 
www.jumble.com 
CLAM BY 

page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHAT THI:: POST­MAN D!::L-IVI::RI::D TO THI:: BACHELOR. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as 
L--1.---W..-Ll,___J..___w.,~ suggestea by the above cartoon.
I [ J [ J 
Answer here: 

rxrrJrrrrJ 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer:  FI;TCH NOVEL AGHAST NAUGHT What she got when she dried her laundry outdoors  
-THE "HANG" OF IT  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Michelle Williams, 27; Henry Thomas, 36; Adam Sandler, 41; Hugh Grant, 47 
Happy Birthday: You can make some interesting changes to your home and per­sonal life that will open up greater opportunities in other areas of your life this year. Your will power and determination will lead to your success and happiness. Your numbers are 6, 11, 22, 35, 36, 43 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Love, romance, adventure and fun are all in the stars. Self-improvement, pampering and taking care of your personal needs will bring added confidence and rejuvenation. You will learn something if you attend a seminar or tradeshow. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Everything is looking bright and you can finally take care of problems that have been plaguing you for some time. Don't pay for the mistakes of othern with your cash. Invest in yourself, not someone else. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Anger never solved anything. If you are creative, en­tertaining and use your Gemini charm, you will get much further ahead. Someone from your past may try to inch his or her way back into your life. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You are in control, so don't hesitate to make a change that will benefit yon. Information regarding a position or a product you want to purchase will be offered. Jump at any chances that arise. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be hard to resist so don't be afraid to ask for favors today. Someone will see your potential and offer you wise advice regarding an op­portunity. Fun and games should be mi your agenda. You'll be highly competitive. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not everything will be made readily available for you to see. Overspending on children, your home or something you want will lead to financial worry. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep a tight lid on your plans and make a splash. It's the element of suipl'ise that will get everyone talking and will put you on a pedes­taL Love is on the rise and travel and adventure can be yours. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): As long as you keep your personal thoughts to yourself and your emotions intact, no one will deny you what you want. You should make some changes at home or even a residential move. Confusion regard­ing a friend or family member may leave you at odds. 2 stars 
SAGnTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be walking a tightrope when it comes to communications. Don't promise what you can't deliver. Travel will be costly and you can expect delays. Love is on the rise. Choose wisely. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have to follow through with plans. There is money to be made and deals to be closed. Real estate, moves, renovations and 
making personal changes should all be up for grabs. Be sure to take an older friend's advice. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Do things that will help you better prepare for the 
week abead. If you participate in something that allows you to help others, you 
will hook up with someone who has something interesting to offer you. Love is in 
the stars, so put time aside to spend with someone speciaL 3 stars 
PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Someone may offer you something that isn't fea­sible. Do your homework before you put too much time and effort into something 
that isn't likely to fly. Focus on what you can do to make personal improvements. Avoid arguments with loved ones. 3 stars 
Eugenia43 Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
PTo subscribe to The Observer, mail this form to The Observer, P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 along with a check for: 
_ $120 for a full year _ $65 for a semester 
Name ______________ Address ________________________ _ City______ State___ Zip ____ 
CROSSWORD 
Across Old tale 6 Fiction's 
opposite 10 Two-wheeler 14 Novelist Zola 15 "Are you .. 
out?" 16 Luau instruments, 
informally 17Wee 18 Cost of an old 
phone call 19 Check for a landlord 20Game equipment for an 
old sitcom star? 23 Son of Seth 24 Organic salt 25 Greek T 28_ Kippur 29 Chern. or bioi. 30 Captains of 
industry 32 Sudden outpouring 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
34 Mark in "pinata" 35 Game location 
for an actress? 38 Major mix-up 40 Deflect, as 
comments 41 IBM/Apple product starting 
in the early '90s 44 Pull tab site 45 Pinup's leg 48 Product p tches 49 Carved, as an 
image 51 Florence's river 52 Game site for a 
popular singer? 54 Plastic building 
block 57 Melange 58 When repeated, 
classic song with the lyric "Me gotta go" 
59 Rainbow goddess 60 Pasta sauce first sold in 1937 

I WONDER WHAT THE OBSERVER EYER DID TO DESERVE THAT? 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Elizabeth A. Long 
32 Ump's call with 39 Doze (off) 50 Winston outstretched Churchill flashed
42 A _ (kind of 

arms it
reasoning)33 Paranormal 51 Love of one's life 

ability 43 Maria of the Met 52 Inquisitive
35 Tools with teeth 36 Wasn't turned inward  45 Bellyache 46"_Song" (John Denver #1  53 mater 54 Gossipy Smith  
37 Tehran native  hit)  55 Pitcher's stat.  
38 Place lor a mud bath  47 Not given to self-promotion  56 Beefeater product  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card. 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September I 0, 2007 
page 20 
MEN's SoccER 

Battering the Rams 
Injured Irish come away with a win and a tie in tournament 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writor 

Dun to a combination of injuries and cards, the Irish squad that took the field this weoknnd featured some new faces, but No. S Notre Dame managed a win over Hhode Island and a draw with Northern Illinois to finish in sec­ond place in the Mike Bertieelli Memorial Tournament. 
Already missing starting cen­tnr midfinlder Miehael Thomas, who brokn his jaw last weekend against UClA, things went from had to worse for the Irish on Friday night against Hhode Island. 
Senior forward and 2006 IIermann Trophy winner Joseph I.apira pulled up grabbing his hamstring while chasing down a long ball in the 11th minute. 
Though Lapira would return to play about 30 minutes Sunday against Northern 
' 

Illinois. the injury ended his night against Rhode Island. The Irish had no problem coping without him, cruising to a 3-0 victory. 
The scoring started before Lapira's injury when sophomore Dave Donahue, starting in place of Thomas. notched his first goal in an Irish uniform. Senior Ryan Miller fed an overlapping Kyle Dagan down the right side. 
Dagan's eross skipped through the Hhode Island box to an unmarked Donahue at the back post, who made no mistake slid­ing the ball into the Ram net first-time. 
Another new face made his way on to the scoring sheet when sophomore Justin Morrow tallied his first career goal to double Notre Dame's lead in the 57th minute. In for the injured Lapira, Morrow ran down an Alex Yoshinaga through ball, beat one defender on the end line and cut back towards the center of the box, firing past Ham goalie Chris Pennoek. 
"It was niee to see Morrow get his first goal in a Notre Dame uniform," Irish coach Bobby 
see BERTICELLI/page 18 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
No. 5 Stanford takes down Irish with OT penalty kick 
Brittany Klein and senior for­time to make adjustments. The get a goal. It didn't matter at an attempt to get back in the By BILL BRINK ward Meagan Snell had two Irish played a 4-4-2 formation that point, losing 3-1 or 7-1." game. We could have contin­
Sports Writer 

goals apiece for Santa Clara. in the second half. The strategy failed. Santa ued playing the way we The Broncos led 2-0 midway "So now at halftime, you're Clara scored four goals in the played, and maybe end up 3-1 
The Irish had a rough week­through the first half until changing the game. You need second half, and the Irish were and it looks respectable." end on thn West Coast. where sophomore forward Michele two to tie it," Waldrum said. unable to put any of their six The Irish performed better tlwy lost to Santa Clara 7-1 Weissenhofer scored off an "We gambled a little bit, the shots home. against Stanford, which Friday and droppnd their sec­assist from junior forward coaching staff. I think the "We kind of gambled a little defeated Notre Dame on an ond garnn to No. 5 Stanford 2-Kerri Hanks in the 24th seore really was not indicative bit and unfortunately it back­overtime penalty kick. 1 in overtime Sunday to lower minute. Santa Clara scored of the game. We moved anoth­fired on us," Waldrum said. Freshman midtielder Lauren their record to 1-2-1. again and took a 3-1 lead into er player up front in the sec­"We gave up four goals in the Fowlkes put tho Irish ahead in 
Sophomore forward Kiki the half, when Irish coach ond half and took one of our second half' because of it. I Bosio, senior rnidfinlder Handy Waldrum felt it was defenders off. We needed to think it was a little bit more of see LOSS/page 18 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Stasiuk reaches milestone 
Senior gets 1,OOOth kill as team goes 2-1 
By PAT O'BRIEN and ELLYN MICHAlAK Sporrs Wri rers 

Senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk rmu~hed a milestone with her I,OOOth kill this weekend as the Irish took two of' three rnatehns at home. 
Stasiuk had 14 kills and beeamn thn 7th player in N o t r e Dame his­tory to obtain her I,OOOth career kill 


in a 3-2 victory over Alabama Saturday night. 
"I think it's a reflection of the team," Stasiuk said. "It just shows how well the pass­es and sets are and how well our team works together." 
Notre Dame got things started in the Shamrock Invitational with a :l-1 (30­24, 24-30, 30-26, 30-19) win over the College of Charleston. Four Notre Dame players recorded double-dou­bles in a game where the Irish pulled through with a powerful finish. 
Stasiuk recorded two aces for points 29 and 30 of the third game to put the Irish ahead 2-1. 
Arter three tough games, Charleston seemed lifeless in the fourth contest. There were a few early ties, but Notre Dame stepped on the 
throttle and never looked back for a convincing 3-1 final. 
Sophomore outside hitter Megan Fesl led the way for the Irish with 19 kills and 15 digs. Both Stasiuk and sopho­more outside hitter Serinity Phillips added 16 kills and 12 digs, while Stasiuk also had three aces. Senior setter Ashley Tarutis had a game­high 54 assists while record­ing 15 digs. 
The Cougars were led by the effort of freshman set­ter/outside hitter Cole Dawley, who amassed 15 kills. Senior defensive spe­cialist Megan Parkerson tal­lied a team-high 18 digs. Senior middle blocker Annie Uthe helped with 12 kills, and freshman outside hitter 
see SHAMROCK/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Maunu sets record 
with six-under par 
Junior leads Irish to second place in first round of tournament 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 

Junior Lisa Maunu etched her name in Notre Dame his­tory after the first round of the Cougar Classic Sunday. The co-captain shot a school­record round of six-under par 
(66) at the Yeamans llall Golf Club in Hanahan, S.C. 
In the 2004-05 campaign, then-senior Karen Lotta set the previous program best round with a score of four-
under par (6R). Maunu's record-setting day has her leading the field by two strokes. The top score helped to propel the Irish within one shot of first place as a team with a mark of 2S7. This score is two strokes ofT the program best mark for a single round of golf. 
Alabama and Louisiana State are tied atop the leader­board with a team score of 
286. Texas and Tennessee are behind the Irish in a tie at 2R8 to round out the top live. 
Freshman So-llyun Park, playing in her first collegiate tournament, shot a two-under par (70). The reeruit ranked 
see MAUNU/page 17 



