

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OlUME 41: ISSUE 98 · TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 2007 
ND plans construction ofnew donn 
By KEN FOWLER News Writer 
Notre Dame will break ground Thursday on the all­male Duncan Hall, the first of four new dormitories the University hopes to build in the next 10 years. 
The new building, funded by 1952 Notre Dame graduate Raymond T. Duncan, will be completed by the summer of 2008 and house students that fall, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said Monday. 
"We put it on accelerated time schedule because we're very eager [to finish the proj­ect)," Aflleck-Graves said. "We know that there's urgent needs on campus right now." 
Duncan Hall will house 232 students and stand next to McGlinn Hall, which was the last dorm built by the University, completed in 1997. 
The University is not disclos­ing the total cost of the dorm, said Shannon Chapla, assistant director for News and Information. 
Chapla said Duncan Hall will ease the housing crunch in men's dorms that have con­verted spaces to increase occu­pancy, but she could not pro­vide a breakdown of what reductions individual dorms would see. 
Affleck-Graves said the University has three main goals for Duncan Hall and the three other dorms it wants to build: Reduce the stress of overcrowding in current dorms, accommodate more transfer students with addi­tional on-campus housing options and allow juniors and seniors more on-campus living arrangements with more sin­gles, doubles and triples. 
Duncan Hall will feature six 
see DUNCAN/page 4 


Portions of roads closed 
Three campus streets cordoned offfor work 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
Three internal campus roads closed Monday to begin a new phase of construction that will make the campus more pedestri­an-friendly, said Vice President of Business Operations Jim Lyphout. 
The University closed sections of St. Joseph Drive, Moose Krause Drive and Juniper Road so work­ers can remove Juniper Road, realign parking lots and extend underground utilities, particularly the sewers, Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) said in a March 1 e-mail. 
Lyphout said this construction is part of the "campus master plan that was written in 2002 and adopted by the Board of Trustees." 
This plan will reduce the num­ber of vehicles traveling through campus by routing traffic around the perimeter of campus, he said. 
Another goal of the construction project is to improve the campus sewer system. 
Lyphout said working on the sewers is necessary to increase their capacity since the campus has grown, making the current system insufficient. 
The construction crews are tak­ing precautionary safety meas­ures while they work on this new group of construction projects, University Architect Doug Marsh 
see ROADS/page 3 

Fleming hopes to excel in role 
New vice president ofacademic affairs is excited to join administration 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
When Patricia Fleming visit­ed Notre Dame for an academ­ic conference in 1975, she said she could not help but notice the quaint campus across the street. And 32 years later, she's been named Saint Mary's vice presi­dent of aca­d e m i c affairs and dean of fac­

Fleming

ulty. 
Fleming, a California native, was named vice president of Saint Mary's on Feb. 20 and will begin her duties on July 1. 
"I believe that Saint Mary's is the best Catholic women's College in the nation," she said. "I want to work at the best ... I want to return to the kind of college which formed me as a scholar and leader." 
Fleming will replace acting Vice President and Dean of Faculty Jill Vihtelic, who will return to the Department of Business Administration and Economics as a full-time mem­ber of the faculty this fall. 
As Vihtelic makes the move from the administration to the classroom, Fleming plans to put her passion for philosophy aside to guide the College's academic realm. 
During her visits to Saint Mary's, Fleming said she admired the College's teacher­scholar model -a system she said she shared with other members of the faculty. 
"My teaching really profits from my scholarship," she said, "especially in the area of envi­ronmental ethics. But for me my scholarship also needs to connect back to the ways we can transform lives through the classroom." 
Fleming said her time at Holy Names College in Oakland, Calif., and Marygrove College in Detroit "contributed to [her] formation in distinct ways when [she] was 17-21 years old." 
She said the foundation of her growth was her learning 
see FLEMING/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Degree recipients na111ed 
Supreme Court justice among 2007 honorees 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
A U.S. Supreme Court justice, an advocate for Philadelphia's homeless population and a the­ologian will be the recipients of honorary degrees during Saint Mary's com­mencement ceremonies, College offi­c i a l s announced Monday. 
U.S. Sup­reme Court Justice Samuel Alito -who will also address the 2007 gradu­ates -will be the recipient of an honorary degree, along with Sister Mary Scullion, co­founder and executive director of Project H.O.M.E. (Housing, Opportunities for employment, Medical care, Education) and Dr. Bernard McGinn, the Naomi Shenstone Donnelly Professor Emeritus at the University of Chicago Divinity School. 
Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer said this year's recipients fulfill the College's quest for "someone who has achieved the highest level of success within their field and made a difference in the world." 
Dampeer said the honorees are chosen in a method similar to the commencement speak­er's selection. 
Nominations must be sup­ported by significant informa­tion and then pass several 

see DEGREES/page 4 


Student travel safety tops University priorities 
Anthony Travel books band, sports team trips with reputable, insured bus companies 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
When Notre Dame student athletes or members of the University Marching Band travel away from campus to play at other locations, their safety is "always number one," said Pat Walsh, the vice presi­dent of business services at Anthony Travel. 
Walsh said the travel agency in LaFortune arranges approx­imately 300 bus trips a year for the varsity sports teams ­and during those trips, there's always the possibility of an accident like the one last week involving the Bluffton University baseball team. 
A bus carrying the team from Toledo, Ohio to spring training in Florida drove off an overpass in Atlanta and crashed onto a pickup truck traveling below. Six people were killed -including four students -and 29 others were injured. 
That means for each of these trips, safety is a huge concern, Walsh said. 
"Notre Dame does absolutely everything to ensure the safety of student athletes, coaches, staffs and administrators," he said. "The nice part about an athletic department of Notre Dame's size is that they can afford the best safety possible." 
Notre Dame lived through a tragic accident of its own 15 years ago, Walsh said. 
The women's swim team was returning to South Bend from a meet at Northwestern University in January 1992 when its bus turned over on the Indiana Toll Road. Sophomore Colleen Hipp and freshman Meghan Beeler were killed and 38 others were injured. 
This was a "horrible acci­dent," Walsh said, and one that will "never ever be gone from people's memories here." 
"It was an extremely difficult moment for everyone in the University," Walsh said. "It's a very close reminder that is always foremost in everyone's minds that safety is number one." 
When Anthony Travel arranges trips, it uses bus services that meet high stan­dards of safety, Walsh said. 
"Everyone looks at costs too ... but Notre Dame always makes the decision with the safety standards of that com­pany foremost in mind," Walsh said. 
Robert Zerr, the director of Risk Management and Safety 
see TRIPS/page 6 

page 2 The Obsm,er + PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Quinn: status quo 
Forget, for a moment, that Brady Quinn led the Irish to a 10-3 record this season. Forget that he threw for :3,426 yards and 37 touchdowns, third-most in the nation. Forget that he's been under the tute­Bill Brink lage ofone ofthe sport's greatest Sports offensive minds for Production Editor 
two years. 
Ifyou can man­age to do that, you might be able to piece together the reason behind Quinn's sud­den plunge in the pre-NFL draft predic­tions. It's been said he lacks spectacular arm strength. He has a low yards-per­attempt average. His throws over 20 yards float on him. He fails to win big games. But the main culprit behind the reversal of opinion concerning Quinn is LSU quarter­back JaMarcus Russell. 
Russell has a cannon, throws tight deep balls and decidedly outplayed Quinn in the Sugar Bowl. All are legitimate argument<;, but all eventually fall short. 
Poor arm strength? Explain how he hit a diving Jeff Samardzija on Purdue's one­yard line for a 41-yard completion last season, a replay seen before every broad­cast. Or how he found David Grimes between defenders in the corner of the end zone for a 36-yard touchdown against Navy this year. 
Some cite Russell's 9.1 yards per attempt, when compared to Quinn's 7.3 ypa, as evidence that Russell can throw the deep ball better than Quinn. But any­one who watched Notre Dame football this season remembers the three-yard dump­otis to Darius Walker at least once per set of downs, passes that decreased his aver­age. 
Quinn's play unquestionably suffered against Michigan. In the Sugar Bowl, how­ever, Quinn spent the game racing around the pocket to avoid pass rushes. And let us not forget the comeback against UCLA in the final minute of the game, during which Quinn led the team on an 80-yard drive that culminated in Samardzija's winning touchdown catch. 
The fact that Russell has superior arm strength does not make him the superior quarterback. He suffered in big games as well-Russell threw one touchdown and three interceptions two losses to Florida and Auburn. 
The final argument lies in the possibility ofcombining Russell's arm strength with the size and speed of Randy Moss of the Oakland Raiders, who have the first pick of the draft. The Raiders tried something similar in 2004 when they brought in for­mer Giants quarterback Kerry Collins, also known for his strong arm. 
That worked well. Collins played in 29 games for the Raiders, had a 54.9 comple­tion percentage, averaged 6.52 yards per attempt and threw just 14 passes of40 yards or more. 
Without any action in the past two months, imaginations run wild and blow Quinn's potential shortcomings out of pro­portion. Hopefully, completing 58-of-63 passes in his Sunday workout for NFL scouts will reverse that. 
He is still a future franchise quarterback with the size, athleticism, skill and where­withal to be a star in the NFL. Russell, while a great quarterback, is just a novelty pick iftaken No. 1. Let's hope the Raiders keep their head out of the fabricated clouds of suspicion and make the right decision. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to misinformation, there was an error in the March 5, 2006 edition ofThe Observer. "Records broken at Loftus" reporred that Austin Wechter ran the 400 meter leg ofthe distance medley relay. In fact, Ryan Postel ran the 400m leg. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD GO ABROAD ANYWHERE, WHERE WOULD YOU GO AND WHY? 

Emily Stewart  Lauren Miller-Lemon  Lizzi Reed  Mary Kate Daly  Sam Vadas  Trevor O'Brien  
freshman  freshman  senior  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Howard  Howard  off-campus  Welsh Family  Breen-Phillips  Alumni  
"Spain, because  "Dublin, so I  "Rome. It's just  ''I've never been  "England,  "Ireland,  
I went to  can experience  sweet. I love  out ofthe US.A.,  because I can  because ofall  
preschool with  where my  gelato. And the  but probably  only speak  the stories you  








English." hear." 
IN BRIEF 
A blood drive will be held at Saint Mary's today from 9 
a.m. to 3:30 p.m. in the Student Center. It is the school's third-annual blood drive and watk-ins are also welcome. 
The College Libertarians will be showing the movie "Busted: The Citizen's Guide to Surviving Police Encounters" at 8 p.m. today in 144 DeBartolo. After the movie, there will be a ques­tion-and-answer session regarding civil liberties with a criminal defense attorney. 
David Cortright, Kroc Institute Research Fellow and former executive director of the Committee for a SANE Nuclear Policy, will give the lecture "The New Nuclear Danger and the Imperative of Disarmament" Tuesday at 
4:15 p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Angela Ndalianis, an asso­ciate professor of cinema studies at Melbourne University in Australia, will speak at 4 p.m. Wednesday in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center on "Podcasts, Mobisodes, and the TV Experience." 
David Solomon, Director of the Center for Ethics and Culture, will be speaking at Wednesday's Theology on Tap at 8:30 p.m. in Legends. The topic for the discussion is "Right to Full Life. Consistent Ethic of Life." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

,
Spanish grandparents Romans. England because royalty." grew up. everything is 
better British 
and I'm 
monolingual. " 

Firecrackers cause ostrich to lose sex drive 
BERLIN Three teenagers may be on the hook for a hefty fine if a court decides that their fes­tive firecrackers outside an eastern German farm scared the libido right out of an ostrich named Gustav. 
Rico Gabel, a farmer in Lohsa, northeast of Dresden, is claiming $6,450 in damages for the alleged antics of the three youths, ages 17-18, between Dec. 27 and 29, 2005. 
According to his lawsuit, the farmer claims that fin~­head with a hammer. Richard Edison Johnson, 76, is charged with attempted murder. He is accused of striking Elizabeth Alwine, 81, who was hospitalized in serious but stable condition, officials said. 

Both were residents of the Lend-a-Band retirement home in Davenport. 
Johnson and Alwine were in the smoking area of the building when an argument between the two became violent, said Davenport police Capt. David Struckman. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

works set ofT by the boys made the previously lustful Gustav both apathetic and depressed, and thus unable to perform for a half-a­year with his two female breeding partners. 
Before Gustav regained his sex drive in the second half of the year, the farmer estimates he lost out on 14 ostrich offspring -worth $460 apiece. 
Man hits fellow retirement home resident with hammer 
DAVENPOHT, Iowa -An elderly man was arrested at his retirement home Monday after allegedly strik­ing a fellow resident in the 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::1: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
~ 


~ 
c( (,) 

...I 0 HIGH 32 HIGH 25 HIGH 38 HIGH 37 LOW 25 LOW 17 LOW 27 LOW 28 
Atlanta 63 I 37 Boston 21 I 5 Chicago 27 I 14 Denver 59 I 30 Houston 69 I 37 Los Angeles 72 I 51 Minneapolis 25 I 7 New York 24 I 14 Philadelphia 28 I 18 Phoenix 81 I 52 Seattle 59 I 42 St. Louis 45 I 27 Tampa 70 I 45 Washington 35 I 22 
.! 
' 

Tuesday, March 6, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Group discusses pornography in male dorms 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) members discussed Monday measures the Conduct Awareness task force can take to alleviate uncomfortable situations arising from pornographic images dis­played in residence halls. 
Carroll Hall rector and task force member Father Jim Lewis said he wanted to open the' debate to the CLC. 
"It is not the desire of this 
Council that we aspire to do some­thing that would be overly intru­sive," Lewis said, "[but] at the same time pornographic images are so counter to the University mission and to our Catholic identi­ty that I feel it bears addressing." 
Professor Gail Bederman, who brought the issue to the CLC last spring, said her female students told her they often feel uncomfort­able entering rooms in male resi­dence halls when there are porno­graphic images displayed either on TV or the walls. 
Task force chair and student 
. 'If' ­

National Family Plans 
(even friends can share) 
1400 minutes for $89.99 a month 
,_ UNUM!TED Mobi!e·to·Mobi!e Minutes 
UNLIMITED Night & Weekend Minutes (Starting at 7:00 p.m.) 
FREE 
Incoming Text Messages 

Motorola KRZR Tennessee 
body vice president Bill Andrichik said the committee's investigation focused not on access on a person­al computer -since accessing pornography on the University's server is regulated by the student handbook, du Lac -but instead on displays "either in the dorm room, common rooms or places that could become common space." 
"That goes beyond the person who individually places it and extends it to anyone who walks into your room," he said. 
But Alumni Hall senator Danny Smith said these images are cul­turally pervasive and pointed to a blurred line between what people consider acceptable and objection­able. 
"It's hard sometimes defining what is pornography and what isn't," he said. "The swimsuit issue of Sports Illustrated, for example -is that pornographic or is it not?" 
Student un'ion Board (SUB) president Patrick Vassel said the problem is likely related to stu­dents not speaking up in uncom­fortable situations. 
Take our best network challenge, test our products, experience our customer service and make sure · they are right for you. 

Cellular 
·-,: 
_< :­

Tracy Motorola Fire Red RAZR Tennessee 
"I would say the big problem or topic for discussion on this cam-. pus is on a personal basis," he said, "People say, 'We always hang out in that guys' dorm but I hate those posters on the wall.' If it offends you, tell your friends so." 
But Bederman said the posters suggest a larger problem. 
"The comments tended to come from students who felt that there was an unhealthy sexual climate on campus in that women felt they were being turned into sexual objects," she said. 
With this in mind, Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs G. David Moss advised consulting with the Gender Relations Center (GRC) to start programming that might address pornography and related concerns. 
Andrichik said the task force will look into working with the GRC to further investigate the issue. 
In other CLC news: 
+ 
Smith, the Student Concerns task force chair, said his commit­tee is researching Notre Dame's peer institutions to see how they run their bowl game and regular season ticketing programs in order to improve the program for next fall. His committee is also investigating whether podcasting can be used as an academic tool. 

+ 
The Student Voice and Input task force has completed its pam­phlet about du Lac -tentatively called "duLac Abridged"-and will send it to the Office of Residence Life and Housing for editing, chair Liz Brown said. 


Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

Roads 
continued from page 1 
said. 
These safety measures are "to protect pedestrians from falling into what will be very deep trenches and pits dug into the ground within these areas," Marsh said. 
This construction project should be finished in mid-August before fall classes begin next year, Marsh said. Landscape work will be completed during the fall. 
But Lyphout said Notre Dame Avenue could experience heavy traffic, since he -expects the next couple of years to be "very busy in terms of construction." 
Construction is set to begin on a new Law School this summer and also on an engineering building next year. 
"It's going to take a lot of patience on the part of the Notre Dame community," Lyphout said. 
Marsh also said the campus construction will cause some interruptions to normal campus life. NDSP instructed people who park in. the B, C or Legends lots, for example, to enter from the Edison Road driveways east of Eddy Street. 
"We appreciate very much the campus community's patience with these inconveniences," he said. 
Marsh and Lyphout both said these safety precautions have nothing to do with the gas leak that occurred near the Hesburgh Library a few weeks ago. 
"It's totally independent," Lyphout said. "These precautions are very normal. We try to keep a proper distance from the potential hazards of construction." 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
Jt 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Mcllduff briefs members on summit 
Saint Mary's representatives hope to improve relations with local community, colleges 
By LIZ HARTER and MANDl STIRONE News Writers 

Saint Mary's student body president Susan Mcllduff told members of the Board of Gove•rnance (BOG) Monday that she left last week's com­munity summit with new ideas for ways to increase the College's interaction with the local community. 
The summit brought togeth­er student government repre­sentatives from Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, Notre Damn, Indiana University South Bend and Bethel College with representatives from the mayor's offices in South Bend and Mishawaka, as well as the Community Developmnnt Office of Mishawaka, the South Bend Common Council and the South Bend Legal Department. 
The representatives at the summit proposed improving the information college stu­dents receive about South 
Bend and Mishawaka. the community, rather than Mcllduff said. just welcomn to college," First-year students at Saint Mcllduff said. Mary's currently receive a The summit also looked into 
South Bend booklet that includes a restaurant guide as well as general infor­mation about the South Bend and Mishawaka area. 
An idea that camP out of the summit. Mcllduff said. was to provide a similar book­let to all stu­dents at the livP diiTeren t col-
the possibility of crnating a uni­"Right now, each f'ied Wnb sitn listing activities
school has its own 
at tho 1:ollogns
Web page, and the 
and in thn community has its South BPnd and 
own Web page. We're Mishawaka 
area.

looking for a way to 
"Hight now,list everything on · nar.h school has one page. its own WPb pagn, and thn community has
Susan Mcllduff 
its own Wnb Saint Mary's pagn," McllduiT student body president said. "Wo'ro looking for a way to list 
lege campuses with more everything going on ono input from other schools and page." the community. Admissions commissiorwr 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Annio Davis said shn was 
Student body president­eloet Kim !lodges and vice president-elect Kelly Payne will oversee the project when thny assumn thnir positions in student governmnnt. Payne attendod the summit with McllduJT and current student body vice president Maggie Siefert. 
In other BOG News: 
+ The dinner f'or the Women Honoring Women event will take place March 

21. The annual event, spon­sored by tho Student Academie Council (SAC), hon­ors a f'ema1e faculty member who is influential in students' lives. Students have been able to submit nominees to the SAC prior to this point. 
+ Tlw Saint Mary's Annual Safety Fair will be held April 19 outside the Student Center. 
Luecke proposed that his eoncernnd about tlw futuro of ortice write letters welcoming the community relations ini­Contact Liz Harter at all freshmen at local colleges tiativn since turnovor for thn eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu and to the area. studnnt govnrnmnnt will Mandi Stirone at 
"It would be a welcome to occur April 2. astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Duncan 
continued from page 1 
sections with mixes of singles, doubles, triples and quads. Each room for four will include a pri­vate bathroom and bay win­dows. Every section will have a social lounge, a study area, a kitchen and vending machines. 
"Hay's remarkable generosity to Notre Dame will provide a significant improvnment to the quality of student life on cam­pus," University President Father John Jenkins said in a statement. "lie can take grnat comfort in considering the gen­erations of' Notre Dame students who will reap the-benefits of his contribution." 
The additional amnnities are part of the Univnrsity's long­term plan to increase the attrac­tiveness of' on-campus housing, Al11eck-Graves said. lie said the University's plan is to add more common spaces and amenities to current dorms .once the school completes construction on tho four new dorms in its 1 0­ynar plan. 
Duncan llall will be the University's 29th dormitory and 15th for men. Dun!:an is presi­dent of' Duncan Oil Inc. and owner of Silver Oak Cellars in Oakville, Calif. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Degrees 
continued from page I 

reviews by College committees before the final decision is made by the College president. According to the selection process guidelines, nominees must exhibit significant achievements marked by "rec­ognized intellectual and person­al attainment," "significant con­tribution to the enhancement of Saint Mary's College" and "con­tribution to other recognized organizations in the city, state or world" -traits Dampeer said each of the honorees pos­sess. 
"[Saint Mary's] is excited to present these degrees," she said, "but the recipients are equally excited to receive them." 
Alito will receive an honorary degree for his national leader­ship after being nominated to the Supreme Court by President George W. Bush. He was sworn in on Jan. 31, 2006, after previ­ously serving as a judge on the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
Third Circuit -a position President George H. W. Bush appointed him to in 1990. 
Alito, who is the 11th Catholic to serve on the Supreme Court and the fifth on the current Court, has also held many high­profile positions, including Assistant to Solicitor General Hex E. Lne, Deputy Assistant to Attorney Gnneral Edwin Meese and U.S. Attorney for the District of' New Jersey. 
Dampeer said the Sisters of the Holy Cross were pleased to present Scullion with a degrne for her dedication to breaking thn cycle of homelessness and poverty in thn Philadelphia area. 
For ovor 30 years. Scullion has dedicated her life to aiding the homeless and mentally ill, and as -the executive director of Project II.O.M.E. She has expanded that program from an emergency winter shelter when it opened in 1989 to 273 units of housing and three businesses that provide employment to those who wnre previously homeless. 
As a political activist, Scullion has also worknd to give the 

Together. Spring Run 
SL Joseph Cuunty 
0 

Saturday, April 14, 2007 11:00am 
Race will begin at Legends (Opens at 10 am) 
Register in advance at RecSports. (Students, Staff & Alumni Divisions) Registration begins March 26, ends @ 5:00 pm April 13 
$10.00 in Advance $15.00 Day of Race 
For more information call1-6100 or visit recsports.nd.edu 
Refreshments & T-Shirts to all Finishers 
homeless the right to vote, and she influonend a eourt dndsion that improved fair housing rights for those with disabilities. 
In 2002, tho eity of' Philadelphia awarded her the Ford Foundation's prnstigious Leadership f'or a Changing World Award. 
McGinn -a preeminent scholar of mysticism in thn Westnrn Christian tradition ­taught at tho University of 
Chicago Divinity School from 1%9 to 2003. 
MeGinn, whosn wife Patricia is a Saini Mary's alumna, is a follow of the Medieval Academy and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and has served as the president of the American Society of Church History and of the American Catholic 1-Iisiorical Association. lie is currently president of the Medieval Academy of America. 

Dampner said all three hon­orary degree recipiPnts will be prPsent at thn May 19 com­mencement ceremony, and may 
· or may not choose to give a brief acceptance speech. She said the College typically awards between three and five honorary degrees, but has in some cases awarded up to 10. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Saint Mary's College · Center for Spirituality 
2007 Endowed Spring Lecture Series 
Tuesday,March 6, 2007 4:00 i'.M., Stapl~ton Lounge, Le Mans Hall Spirituality for a Globalizing World Vincent Miller, Ph.D. 
Associate Profes..<>or,Theology; Georgetown University, Washington, D.C. 
Thursday,March 29,2007 
7:00 t>.M., OarroJlAuditorium, Madeleva Hall Spirituality and Sexuality:TheMarriage ofEt'l.)sand Grace 
James D:Whitehead,Ph.D.,and Evelyrt EatonWhitehead, Ph.D. facolty:rtLoyola University Chicago and at ··· ··Fudan University, Shanghai 
Saint ~s Coil~ 
NOTRE DAME •JNDIANA 
Center for Spirituallty www.saintmarys.edu/-ds (574) 284-4636 E-maU: astrotma@saintmarys.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
.Tuesday, March 6, 2007 CoA-H'lU:D rROtv1 Tl·lE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
EU halts restoring Palestinian ties 
BHUSSELS, Belgium-The European Union will wait until a Palestinian unity govern­ment finalizes its policy toward Israel before deciding whether to restore financing to the Palestinian Authority. 
The issue of whether to offer early encour­agement to the new Palestinian Cabinet ­perhaps even without the condition that the militant llamas movement fulfill internation­al demands on recognizing Israel -domi­nated Monday's meeting of the bloc's 27 for­eign ministers. 
Traditionally pro-Arab nations such as France have been keen to resume direct assistance to the Palestinians after a year­long boycott of the Hamas-led government that economically devastated the Palestinian territories. The bloc's position has been to insist that Harnas recognize Israel, renounce violence and accept past agreements before ties can be re-established. 
"We simply cannot decide yet when, or even if, we will be able to re-engage with the new Palestinian government of national unity because we will need to see its program and we will need to see its actions," said the EU's external relations commissioner, Benita Ferrero-Waldner. 

Russian journalist falls to death 
MOSCOW -A military correspondent for Russia's top business daily died after falling from a fifth-story window, and some media speculated Monday. that he might have been killed for his critical reporting. 
Ivan Safronov, the military affairs writer for Kommersant, died Friday in the fall from a win­dow in the stairwell of his apartment building in Moscow, according to officials. His body was found by neighbors shortly afterward. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Blood clot found in Cheney's leg 
WASHINGION -Doctors discovered a blood clot in Vice President Dick Cheney's left leg Monday, a condition that could be fatal if left untreated. 
The 66-year-old Cheney, who has a history of heart problems, will be treated with blood-thin­ning medication for several months, said spokes­woman Lea Anne McBride. 
She said Cheney visited his doctor's office in Washington after feeling minor discomfort in his calf. An ultrasound showed the blood clot ­called a deep venous thrombosis -in his left lower leg. 

Obesity surgery triples for U.S. teens 
CHICAGO -The number of U.S. children having obesity surgery has tripled in recent years, surging at a pace that could mean more than 1,000 such operations this year, new research suggests. 
While the procedure is still far more com­mon in adults, it appears to be slightly less risky in teens, according to an analysis of data em 12-to 19-year-olds who had obesity sur­gery from 1996 through 2003. 
During that time, an estimated 2,744 young­sters nationwide had the operations. The pace tripled between 2000 and 2003, reaching 771 syrgeries that year, the study found. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Owners not liable for icy sidewalks 
IINDIANAPOLIS -Pedestrians who fall on icy sidewalks cannot sue adjacent property owners despite an Indianapolis ordinance requiring walks to be cleared, the Indiana Court of Appeals has ruled. 
In the 3-0 ruling, the appeals panel said Denison Parking cannot be sued for damages by a woman who fell on an icy sidewalk in January 2001 outside a parking garage in downtown Indianapolis. 
Barbara L. Davis sued Denison and the city after her hip and back were injured. A Marion Superior Court judge denied Denison's pretrial request for a judgment that would clear the company of liability, and Denison appealed. 
IRAQ 


Baghdad blast kills 38, wounds 105 
Violence errupts after suicide car bomber and Sunni insurgents target Shiite pilgrims 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD-A suicide car bomber turned a vener­able book market into a deadly inferno and gunmen targeted Shiitfl pilgrims Monday as suspected Sunni insurgents brought major bloodshed back into the lap of their main Shiite rivals. At least 38 people diec;l in the blast and seven pilgrims were killed. 
The violence -after a relative three-day lull in Baghdad -was seen as another salvo in the Sunni extremist campaign to pro­voke a sectarian civil war that could tear apart the Shiite-led government and erase Washington's plans for Iraq. 
The Shiite Mahdi Army militia has so far resisted full-scale retaliation through a combination of self-interest and intense government pressure. But the militia's leader, the rad­ical cleric Muqtada al-Sadr, is now being cornered in new ways that have put him on the defensive. 
An expected Cabinet reshuffie could take a seri­ous bite out of al-Sadr's voice in government -a move strongly encouraged by Washington. 

Al-Sadr also opened the highest in weeks. trucks were took large for scattered everywhere," he door for U.S. and Iraqi And the Sunni extremists the warren of lanes in old said. troops to enter the Mahdi keep pressing. Baghdad. At least 38 people A worker at a nearby stronghold of Sadr City in The suicide mission tore died and 105 were injured, shoe store, Youssef Haider, Baghdad under a through booksellers and said Raad Jabar, a Health 24, said the blast flipped painstaking deal with other stores on narrow Ministry official. burning cars with charred authorities -but his loyal­Mutanabi Street, a mostly But the final casualty bodies trapped inside. He ists are still being hunted Shiite-run commercial area count may not be clear and co-workers used two­outside the capital. in Baghdad's historical until Tuesday. Fire crews wheel pushcarts for shoe 
"Al-Sadr and his forces heart along the Tigris River. still battled the blazes more boxes to carry away the could be feeling under Within seconds, flames than 12 hours after the wounded. siege," said Alireza engulfed open-air stalls and attack, said civil defense In other violence, gunmen Nourizadeh, chief shops brimming with books Maj. Gen. Abdul Rasoul al­opened fire on Shiite pil­researcher at the London­and magazines. Gas-pow­Zaidi. grims in several places based Center for Arab­ered generators -needed "Papers from the book around Baghdad, killing at Iranian Studies. "That because of frequent power market were floating least seven people, police makes them less pre­cuts -exploded one by through the air like leaflets said. dictable. That means they one. dropped from a plane," said The Shiites were appar: are more dangerous." Bloodstained pages that Naeem al-Daraji, a Health ently heading to shrines 
One possible sign of escaped the fire were car­Ministry worker who was and holy sites· in southern brewing troubles was 30 ried away in a wind­driving about 200 yards Iraq for the annual com­bullet-ridden bodies found whipped pillar of black from the blast and was memoration to end a 40­across Baghdad. Many of smoke. slightly injured by broken day mourning period for those killings are blamed Firefighters had to spray glass from his car window. the death of a revered 7th on Shiite death squads, and huge arches of water from "Pieces of flesh and the century Shiite martyr, Monday's figure was the blocks away because their remains of books were Imam Hussein. 



Board green lights Bush's programs 
Associated Press Treasury Department's monitoring of ly protective and attentive to civil lib­
international banking transactions erties," she said. 

WASHINGTON -A White House have sufficient privacy protections, Some board members were trou­privacy board is giving its stamp of three board members told The bled by the Homeland Security approval to two of the Bush adminis­Associated Press in telephone inter­Department's error-ridden no-fly tration's controversial surveillance views. lists, which critics say use subjective programs -electronic eavesdrop­Both programs have multiple lay­or inconclusive data to flag suspect ping and financial tracking -and ers of review before sensitive infor­travelers. says they do not violate citizens' civil mation is accessed, they said. One area the board will focus on in liberties. "We looked at the program, we vis­its report is the computerized anti­
After operating mostly in secret for ited NSA and met with the top people terrorism screening system recently a year, the five-member Privaey and all the way down to those doing the announced by DHS_ and used for Civil Liberties Board is preparing to hands-on work," said Carol Dinkins, years without travelers' knowledge release its first report to Congress a Houston lawyer and former Reagan to assign risk assessments to millions next week. administration assistant attorney of Americans who fly abroad. 
The report finds that both the general who chairs the board. "That's a place where there's a lot National Security Agency's warrant­"The program is structured and of opportunity for improvement," less eavesdropping program and the implemented in a way that is proper-Dinkins said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 6, 2007
' 
Renting 
continued from page 1 
experiences with religious women -particularly the Holy Name Sisters who fostered her love of philosophy. Their academ­ic inspiration also motivated Fleming to go on to graduate school at Washington University in St. Louis, Mo., where she earned her master's and doctoral degrees in philosophy. 
She also said a foundation of her work is her educational and administrative experience as a philosophy professor at Creighton University in Omaha, Neb., where she has taught since 1977. 
At Creighton, she focused on environmental and medical ethics, as well as the philosophies of science and social science. She was appointed to senior associate we encounter today," she said. "The Saint Mary's women I had lunch with in January spoke of their own desires for a more diverse student experience." 

Fleming said she hopes to ere­ate a diverse and enriching edu­cational experience for all stu­dents. 
"I hope that Saint Mary's women will be as proud about Saint Mary's as I am about my undergraduate experiences at Marygrove and Holy Names," she said. 
Fleming said as she works to meet the College community she hopes to model herself after a former Creighton administrator who was greatly admired by the students and faculty because or his openness with the communi­ty. 
"He had a bench [on campus] he sat on when the weather was good," she said. "Some faculty lacrosse team is taking a bus to Chicago to take a flight to

Trips 
the East Coast or if a team is continued from page 1 
playing at DePaul University­Walsh said Anthony Travel 
"Notre Dame always 

for the University, said  his  uses  mostly  the  Royal  
department  Excursion or the  
makes sure the  Cardinal  bus  

bus companies companies. 
the University makes the decision "Out of town, hires meet all we use a number
with the safety 

necessary fed­of" different bus 
era! require­standards ofthat companies, but ments. company ones thai are "The federal presereened and
foremost in mind." 

government are the biggest requires bus and safest and
Pat Walsh 

companies to most trustworthy have a mini­vice president of bus lines," Walsh mum amount business services said. of insurance And Notre
Anthony Travel 

and il' they are Dame also hires a eharter bus enough buses so company it's five million dol­passengers can be comfortable lars," he said. during the drive. 
For local travel -like if the Sophomore Charlie Vogelheim, a trump!lt player in the marching band, said he has always felt safe when trav­eling on the buses to away games. ­
"The bus driver will some-· times get on the intercom and tell us not to walk around or stand in the aisles too much," he said. 
The longest trip he has taken with the band was to Pittsburgh last year, a trip thai lasted about seven or eight hours, he said. 
"We travel on the bus a lot and like any sports team or any other team like that, you just get used to it," Vogelheim said. "Sometimes you forget that you are on a moving vehi­ele that is traveling 60 miles an hour." 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
dean of the College of Arts and Sciences in 2001. 
Fleming's career will come full circle this summer, however, when she moves into her admin­istrative office on the first floor of Le Mans Hall -a building that she said fosters the school's spirit. 
"Aside from aesthetics, I found Saint Mary's to be a warm, wel­coming and very spirited place," she said. "I loved the way the stu­dents identified themselves as 'Saint Mary's women."' 
And Saint Mary's women will be the central focus of Fleming's goals and plans for the College. 
"I hope to look back at some point in my tenure as Saint Mary's Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty and be able to say that the largest goal we accomplished in the academic arena is one that both energized the students and faculty and met a very real edu­cational need," she said. 
As Fleming works to get acquainted with the College com­munity, she said she strives to discover the best academic goals for the students and faculty. 
"I really look forward to the complexity of Saint Mary's College," she said, such as the ability "to work more closely with faculty and staff from such wide­ranging areas as nursing, educa­tion, business, science, humani­ties, social science and profes­sional education." 
Although Fleming acknowl­edged that it's impossible to think the administration will always agree on difficult College issues, she believes the deep respect they show towards each other will allow them to accomplish their goals. 
Fleming also said she is "partic­ularly excited" about working with College President Carol Ann Mooney -someone whose "love of the College and fierce determi­nation to send it to new heights comes through so clearly," she said. 
Fleming will also work closely with Associate Deans Deborah McCarthy and Joe Incandela, who will work in these positions for three more years. 
Incandela and McCarthy both said that they have not had the opportunity to work closely with her, but look forward to the start ofher administrative term. 
An objective Fleming said she shares with College administra­tion is making Saint Mary's one of the nation's top bachelor degree awarding institutions -a posi­tion that would require the school to reassess its demographics, she said. 
And to better comprehend the needs for a new demographic, Fleming said she would work to become involved with student life. 
"Our world is rapidly changing, and the demographics for 10-to­30 years out suggests that our everyday encounters will be with even more diverse people than and staff would even venture up to the bench to chat." 


As Fleming begins her adminis­trative quest at the College she asked that the students find her a bench, where she "promises to sit as often as possible." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at 
kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Do you vvant a great on-campus summer job? 
2007 SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL STAFF 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing is currently accepting applications for sutn111cr staff positions. Arc you taking classes this Sutn~cr Session? Want to stay on ca111pus? 
Applications and additional infortnation arc available on the Office of Residence Life and Housing 'Web site at: 
Ol"'lh~ndedu/en.ployn.enl 
Call "1-5878 or stop in 305 Main Building Priority Deadline: March 2"1 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
Phoncz 631-5878 E-Mail:t: orlh@nd-cdu
ofl&fi 

Castl~. PointApartments 574~272-811 0 18011 Cleveland Road 574-272-8114 FAX South Bend Indiana www.cppj.corn
•.. .... .. ••········••·• ... .·.··! ·... 
O.J:.J:eRfng pecfals! 
lndoor/Outdoor·J'fas Basketball 
Relaxing Jacuzzi Gated Community 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 
Dow 

12,050.41 -63.69
jones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 592 88 2,725 3,457,238,344 
AMI:il'',; ,,,,, 
NASDAQ

NYSE . 
S&PSOO 


ll-OIIIIi 

fTSf IOO(London) 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR (QQQQ) -1.51 -0.65 42.48 
ISHARE RUS 2000 (IWM) -2.08 -1.63 76.80 
INTEL CP (INTC) -1.89 -0.37 19.22 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) -1.3 I -1.84 138.67 
Treasuries 
I0-YEAR NOTE +0.07 +0.003 4.518 
13-WEEK BILL -0.20 -0.0 I 0 4.960 
30-YEAR BOND +0.09 +0.004 4.654 
5-YEARNOTE +0.20 +0.009 4.459 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.57 60.07 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -4.90 639.20 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.58 106.20 
Excha Rates 
YEN 116.4600 
EURO 0. 7632 
POUND 0.5189 
CANADIAN$ 1.1795 
IN BRIEF 
Wall Street fluctuates, finishes low 
NEW YORK-Wall Street seesawed through an erratic session Monday, trying to stabilize but ultimately finishing near its lows of the day amid worries about mortgage defaults, a strengthening yen and tumbling stock markets abroad. 
The major indexes fluctuated throughout the session, with the Dow Jones industrials bob­bing between positive and negative territory as investors tried to size up where the market was headed after last week's big decline. The Dow finished 63 points lower, having fallen in eight of the last nine sessions. 
The market remained jittery about losses over soured subprime loans, or loans to cus­tomers with poor credit ratings. HSBC Holdings PLC, Europe's largest bank, said its 2006 earnings rose 5 percent but that it suf­fered $10.6 billion in losses on bad loans from its U.S. subprime mortgage operations. 

Wal-Mart fires systems technician 
-NEW YORK -Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said Monday it fired a systems technician who allegedly recorded phone conversations between the company's public relations office and a newspaper reporter. The case is now being investigated by federal authorities. 
Wal-Mart said the technician, whom it did not identify, also intercepted text messages using his own personal equipment. The retail­er said he was acting alone, _but declined to say what his motive may have been. 
Wal-Mart said its internal investigation began on Jan. 11 after an unidentified party alerted the company. That led to the discovery that the technician had monitored and record­ed phone conversations between Wal-Mart's public relations staffers and a New York Times reporter between September 2006 and January 2007. Wal-Mart said it notified The New York Times earlier Monday. 
A New York Times spokeswoman, Diane McNulty, identified the reporter as retail writer Michael Barbaro. She said the newspa­per does not plan "to take any legal action at this time." · 
During the investigation, Wal-Mart said it discovered that, in separate instances, the same technician had intercepted text and pager messages, including communications that did not involve Wal-Mart employees. 
UNITED KINGDOM 



World markets continue to fall 
European, Asian and U.S. markets plunge, investors fear 'global slowdown' 
Associated Press 

LONDON -European and Asian markets fell again Monday, extending their slide into a second week as investors worried about a possible global slowdown and dumped stocks that had surged in recent weeks. U.S. stocks fell after trying to steady themselves. 
Britain's benchmark FTSE 100 fell 0.94 percent, while France's CAC 40 slid 
0. 
73 percent and Germany's DAX dropped 

1.041 percent after declines in Tokyo and other Asian markets. 
"The fact that the FTSE closed Friday's session vir­tually unchanged may have left some thinking that the recent slide in equity mar­kets may be at an end, but triple-digit losses on the Dow ahead of the weekend break have taken their toll on Asian markets," said Matt Buckland, a trader ai CMC Markets. 
Also sparking jitters was the yen's jump to a three­month high against the dol­lar as investors reversed so-called yen-carry trades. A decline in this trading practice, which involves borrowing money at Japan's ultra-low interest rates to invest in higher­yielding assets elsewhere, could hurt global liquidity. percent. seat relative to the selloff market move in such a 
U.S. markets fluctuated Markets in Hong Kong, that we are seeing. It's short period of time, there's as investors tried to size up Australia, the Philippines, emotions," Vistan said. that element of surprise where the market was Malaysia, India and South "You throw away technicals and confusion," said headed. The Dow Jones Korea all fell sharply and fundamentals out the Teruhisa Ishikawa, section industrial average traded in Monday, continuing their window. Emotions are the chief for investors informa­a 150-point range before declines from last we.ek, ones driving share prices tion at Mizuho Investors closing near its session when a 9 percent plunge in right now." Securities Co. lows, falling 63.69, or 0.53 Chinese stocks on Tuesday Hong Kong's Hang Seng Funds and institutional percent, to 12,050.41. triggered cascading selloffs index tumbled 4 percent to investors tend to go on a 
Tokyo's Nikkei 225 index on Wall Street and other its lowest level since mid­selling binge to trim losses fell for a fifth day, tumbling global markets. December. Australia's stock in reaction to such market 
575.68 points, or 3.34 per­"I don't know where the market -which had hit moves, he said. cent, to 16,642,25 points, domino effect will stop," records last month -fell In China, the Shanghai dragged down by major said Jose Vistan, research for a fifth day, sinking 2.3 Composite index fell a more exporters such as Canon director at AB Capital ·percent. South Korea's modest 1.6 percent, but for­Inc., Sony Corp. and Toyota Securities in Manila, benchmark index dropped eign-currency denominated Motor Corp., whose earn­Philippines, where the 2. 7 percent and Indian "B shares" tumbled after ings are eroded by a benchmark index sank 4.5 stocks fell 4.2 percent. officials denied rumors stronger yen. Since reach­percent. "Emotions are the Investors still seemed those stocks might be ing a,nearly seven-year ones driving share prices risk-averse after the previ­merged with the main­high last Monday, the right now." ous week's turmoil. stream Chinese-currency Nikkei index has slid 8.64 "Everything takes a back "When there's such a big "A shares." 



Lawsuits-increase over heart device 
Associated Press 

The total is up from 842 cases when how much Boston Scientific may ulti­
BOSTON -Lawsuits over problems Boston Scientific filed a quarterly mately have to pay in damages. with Guidant heart-rhythm devices update with the Securities and But Wald said he found the recent have recently grown at a rate of nearly Exchange Commission on Nov. 9. The rate of new lawsuits surprising, since three new cases per day, according to increase amounts to 333 cases over most of the problems involving a regulatory filing tallying up the legal 112 days. Guidant's heart devices became public risks Boston Scientific Corp. inherited Although the lawsuits are still pend­in 2005. in its $27 billion Guidant Corp. acquisi­ing in various courts, Boston Scientific "It seems to me it might have been tion. said it had set aside $485 million "for trickling down to less than three a day 
Boston Scientific faces more than legal matters that are probable and by now," Wald said. 1,17 5 individual and class-action law­estimable" as of Dec. 31, primarily Allen Michel, a Boston University suits over recalls and safety warnings related to Guidant. That's up from $35 professor and expert in mergers and issued in 2005 and 2006 involving million at the end of 2005, and $384 acquisitions, said the number of law­Indianapolis-based Guidant's million at the end of last September. suits Boston Scientific faces pales com­implantable defibrillators and pace­Jan Wald, an industry analyst with pared with the thousands of claims makers, the company said in an annu­A.G. Edwards & Sons, said Friday said brought against companies like Merck al filing made after markets closed it was "awfully hard to know" how the. & Co. over its painkiller Vioxx and W.R. Thursday. recent flurry of litigation will affect Grace and Co. involving asbestos. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Thl! Indtpentlent, Daily Nn.u~ttper Serving Notre Dam I! llttd Sai,l Mary'$ 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGINs,i EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Maddie Hanna ' Jim Kirihara 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griftln 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: JeffAlben 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EOITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(57 4) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
ViEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1 @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 


OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
Rediscovering Eucharistic Adoration 
Let's look at a new phenomenon you may know very littlo about. It is the rmnarkable rise of Eucharistic Adoration in Catholic parishes and iustitutions in every part of the world. Why is it happening? And what is it? 
"The Catholic Church," says the Catechism, "offers to the ... Eucharist ... adoration, not only during Mass, but also outside of it, reserving the consecrated hosts ... exposing them to the solemn venoration of the faithful, and carrying them in pro­cession" {No. B7S). 
But why do we do this'? "In the ... Eucharist, tho body and blood, ... soul and divinity, of our Lord Jesus Christ and, therefore, tlw whole Christ is truly, really and substantially contained. This prosence is callod rnal, by which is not intended to exdude the other types of presence ... but because it is presence in the fullest sense ... it is substantial prnsence by which Christ, God and man, makes himsolf wholly and entirely prnsent" (Catechism. no. 1374). 
This conversion of the bread and wine into the body and blood of Christ, promised in the sixth chapter of John's gospel and fulfilled at the Last Suppor, is called transubstantiation. 
"Substance," as Cardinal Avery Dulles put it, "denotes the basic reality of the thing, i.e., what it is in itself." A change in appearance does not afl'ect the sub­stance of the thing. When the angel Haphael stood before Tobiah, his appearance was that of a "young man," but his substance was that of an angel (Tobit, 5:5, 12:15). 
"Christ is present," wrote Cardinal Dulles, "by his dynamic power and action in all the sacraments, but in the Eucharist, His presence is, in addition, substantial. For this reason, the 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Eucharist may be adornd. It is tho greatest of all sacraments" .(Feb. 15, 2005). 
You arn in the rnal prnsencn of Christ every time you step into a Catholic church with the lighted lamp or candlo indicating that tho Blessed Sacrament is in the tabernade. At any such timn one can he with Christ in adoration. The term Eucharistic Adoration, how­ever, is usually appli1~d to the Exposition of tho S;u:ramnnt to view. Christ is as fully presnnt in the dosed tabernacle as he is in the monstrance during Exposition. It is conducive to devotion for us to bn able also to look upon him in thn host in which "tlw wholn Christ is truly, roally and sub­stantially eontained." 
"Thn central problom of the Chun:h today," wroto Boston College professor l'etnr Krneft, "is that most of thn gener­ation now becoming adults ... are not mnrnly unawarn of right doctrino ... but of Christ llimsnlf. If is rnal presencn. Nothing less than Christ eould have christianiznd tho world, nothing lnss than Christlessness has do-christianiznd it, and nothing lnss than Christ can rn­christianizn it" (Crisis, March 19SS). 
So what can we do about it'? We have Eurharistic Adoration in the Basilica on Friday from noon to 5 p.m., with Benediction at 4:45 p.m., and in tlw Coleman-Morso chapel Monday through Thursday from 11 a.m. to 9 p.m., with Benedidion daily at S:45 p.m. 
When Pope John Paul II instituted Eucharistic Adoration at St. Peter's Basilica in 19S1, hn said, "The best ... way ol' establishing nverlasting peace on thn face of the earth is through ... Pnrpntual Adoration ol' the Blessed Sacrament." Why is this so? "Above all," said Pope Benedict XVI, "Abovo all, thn Eucharist is thn great school of love. When we participato regularly and with devotion in Holy Mass, when we spend a sustained time of adoration in thn presence of Jesus in the Eucharist, it is easier to understand the length, breadth, height and depth of his love that goes beyond all knowledge" (cf'. Eph. 3:17-lS). In his message in 2005 for the National Day ol' Young Catholics of the Netherlands, Berwdict XVI exhortHd them to "go to the encounter with him in the Blessed Eucharist, go to adore him in the churches, kneeling bel'oro the tabernacle: Jesus will fill you with his lovo and will reveal to you the thoughts of his Heart. If you listen to him, you will feel ever more deeply tho joy of bnlonging to his Mystical Body, the Church, which is the family of his disciplos held close by the bond of unity and love." 
Benedict XVI has insisted on this point: "Eucharistic Adoration is an essential way of being with the Lord ... In thn Sacred Host, lle is present, the true treasure, always waiting for us. Only by adoring in this presence do we learn how to receive him properly .... Let us love being with the Lord! There we can speak with Him about every­thing. We can offer I lim our petitions, our concerns, our troubles, our joys. Our gratitude, our disappointments, our needs and our aspirations... " (Sept. 11, 2006). 
What can we at Notre Damn do to fix a world in cultural meltdown'? The greatest event in the history of the world is tho Incarnation, when God beeame man. It's just possible that Christ, tho God who bPeame man for us, ean give us some answers. Why don't you go ask him? Maybe you don't feel like it. Then pray for the desire to see him. Maybe you have too much to do. As Peter Kreeft put it, "That's why you can't afford not to give God five loaves and two fishes of your time so that he can multiply it." In short, we need to go meet with the Boss. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. He can be reached at (574) 633-4415 or at rice. 1 @n d. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials repr=nt the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The C>l=cvtt (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday l;:Xccpt during exam anJ vacation period~. A sub$c.ription ro The! Observer is $1 flO ftlr one a~d~mic yt".ar; $55 .fur OIH' scmcsrc:r. 
The Observer ls published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dinlng Hall Send addtt'S$ cortecdons w: Notre Dame. IN-46556-C779 TlttOboe= 
l'triodical postage paid ar Notte D;ame PO. Box 779 .md additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame, IN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is. a m~lher ofthe Assodatcd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL
Kaitlynn Riely Chris Hine Aaron Steiner Bill Brink Becky Hogan Becky Slinger What are you doing Viewpoint Scene 
for spring break? 

Bethany Tae Andrews Whitfield Graphics Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Matt Hudson 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 


1Submit aletter 
"Don't be reckless with other people's hearts. Don't put up with people who lire reckless with yours. " .
~ to the Editor at 

Mary Schmich 1 
American journalist 
~ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
www.ndsmcobserver.com.  
Letters·  
than 35  umns  
shoul.  and  
must  ar, and  
major.''  the  
author's  umber.  

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 page 9 
U-WIRE 
Who really deserves a cupcake? 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l@nd.edu or online at 


Submissions be··· 00 p.m. to be considered for publication the next day. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 


'Oregon Trail' highly offensive 
For those of you who didn't make it out to see St. Edward's Hall Players' comedy, "The Oregon Trail," I applaud and envy you. For those who did, I am sure that you will agree with me that the play was offensive on many grounds, and the only "humor" garnered by the cast was through making crude and insensitive jokes. 
I can recall a particular scene in which a stem cell was used to revitalize two oxen to help carry the family wagon to Oregon. The Catholic Church teaches that it is wrong to use embryonic stem cells for medical purposes, as adult stem cells are just as useful in the medical world and human life does not have to be wasted in order to obtain them. Also, the mode by which the stem cell "revitalized" the oxen was through blatantly sexual and perverted acts. 
In another scene, Native Americans were brutally shot down. Amid the audience's laughs during these scenes (and many others), I had to wonder: How is this funny? These things really did happen to real Native Americans who were murdered or forced from their land by the "white man." 
Our culture today is too desensitized to sex, violence and murder, and this play was exemplary of our moral decay as a society. At a Catholic university like Notre Dame I don't see how a production like this could be allowed, and I would hope that in the future similar productions will not be shown on campus. 
Ryan Slaney freshman Carroll Hall Mar.3 
U-WIRE 


Young people need to take risks in life 
A small conversation with a student led me to find out that one of the greatest regrets of older people is not taking risks during their life. Whether these risks were related to careers or relationships, what people had the opportunity to do but did not do bothered them the most. Think of the most successful and Gina content people you know of. Hosterman Chances are they took several risks in their past to get to where The Poly Post they are today. Just as easily as we can recall success stories, we can recall many people who have suffered because a lost opportuni­ty. 
We ourselves have experienced this type of regret. Think back to a time when it was in your power to do something you would have liked to have done, but decided not to take action and an opportunity was lost. Perhaps you wished you had tried out for a sport in high school but talked your­self out of it because you hadn't made it the year before, or maybe you could have applied for a job you really wanted but felt your skills were not ade­quate. Maybe it is as simple as wishing you had told that person how you felt but instead remained silent. It may not be possible to change the past, but making a conscious decision to not make the same mistakes in the future is the first step in leading a life that you will look back on with satisfaction. 
So what are some practical ways you can take risks in your everyday life? Say hi to that attractive person in class. Initiate conversations with random people you meet because you never know where it will lead. Everyone has something to teach you if you are open to learning. And it works the other way too. You have experiences that can help others if you are willing to share. Give someone a daringly honest compliment. Chances are they will remem­ber you in a very positive way. Raise your hand in class. You have valuable insights to share. Remember that those who speak up are the most influential. 
If you're a little intimidated, start with small steps. Venture to speak up just once in each class or in every other class. When you see a job or vol­unteer opportunity posted and it interests you, make a conscious decision to follow up with it. Contact the person in charge and ask how best to get involved or apply for the position. Ask other students what their favorite class was and sign up for it. 
Be looking for opportunities at all times and don't be quick to turn down invitations that at first seem to hold little or no immediate benefit. Not every­thing will be what you expect, but you will certainly have some surprises, and you will find that the ben­efits far outweigh the risks involved in risk-taking. 
This column originally appeared in the Mar. 5 edition of The Poly Post, the daily publication ofCal Poly University-Pomona. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
According to one friend, he missed out on being narcissistic like the rest of our generation because he had a summer birthday. 
"We never got cupcakes on our birth­days," he said of his own July date. "We Amelia never got to feel spe­Veneziano cial. Somehow, we 
Daily

missed out on that 
Evergreen

whole 'Generation Me' thing. We weren't spe­cial enough." There is no doubt my friend is a special guy. While his observa­tion might be a bit oversimplified, it is a good one. 
According to NBC.com, five psycholo­gists recently conducted a study on col­lege students across the country and found that students today are more nar­cissistic and self-centered than our pred­ecessors. 
The study, lead by San Diego State University professor Jean Twenge, asked for responses to prompts such as, "If I ruled the world, it would be a better place," "I think I am a special person" and "I can live my life any way I want to." The number of people who agreed with these statements rose from previous studies. The study makes clear that stu­dents today believe they're each special in their own little way. Actually, no. 
People of our generation don't like to do anything for anyone else, unless they can see a clear and present benefit to themselves. 
We want to be the center of attention; we want to make a lot of money, have a lot of nice things and have fame and power wherever we go, at least accord­ing to this study. 
And why shouldn't we? Our preschool teachers began drilling our "specialness" into our brains at age five; it's no wonder we have to deal with the consequences now. Everyone was an artist and an ath­lete; you got a gold star for smiling on cue and a ribbon for showing up. As time went on, the competitions started -and there were no losers. All the teachers made a calendar with everyone's birth­day and on each special day, that student got a cupcake. We were all equal. 
Today, most college students have a Facebook or MySpace account-or both -to celebrate their own uniqueness and contribution to the world. People upload hair cuts, dumb dog antics and their music videos to YouTube to gain fame. Those sites are all about us and sharing ourselves with everyone else. Wherever we go, we're plugged into our own music, so we never have to listen to something so demeaning as the radio. Our choices are best. 
The study may be a bit harsh, but the ultimate conclusion is right on target. At the risk of making an over-broad state­ment, all members of our generation believe they are the ultimate member of the generation. They don't see the rest or see their responsibilities to the world. It's all about them. 
As for my friend, I'll make him a cup­cake. If I ever get around to it. 
This column originally appeared in the Mar. 5 edition ofthe Daily Evergreen, the publication ofWashington State University. 
The views expressed in this article are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
lsc~&Ji&nl 
Spring break travel itinerary includes the couch 
With only a few midterms and papers standing in the way of a week of nothing­ness, I figured it would be about time to plan my spring break. After booking a trip to the Bahamas, I was shocked to hear that United Airlines doesn't accept Flex points. Nor could I make a charge to my student account. Once I realized this, spring break was on me. 
I decided it might be in my best interest to suck it up, swallow my pride and endure all my friends' awe­some stories about their 18-roorn villa in the south of France, and just go horne. However, I've concoct­ed a loose itinerary of my spring break that I think will appeal to those of us who aren't jet setting around the globe. 
Days 1-3: Operation Sleep Coma 
After ingesting a copious amount of my morn's homemade meatloaf and mashed potatoes, I plan on duct-taping blackout sheets over my windows and slipping into a three-day state of hibernation that will rival even the deepest of post-TC inspired sleeps. 
Supplies needed: Meatloaf, duct tape, blackout sheets (Please, no one get the wrong idea.) 
Days 4-5: Redefine Couch Potato 
I recently learned something about par-ents. When we children move out of the house, other interests-namely personal happiness and material possessions ­replace the time and energy spent on us. A new pet replaced my sister (at least this is living and breathing) and, unsurpris­ingly, a new television replaced me. I would like to think this is because I may share some positive characteristics with the television, in that it is entertaining and informative. Unfortunately, it's more likely I share the characteristics of taking up space and being expensive. Whatever. 


Despite this, the new TV plays directly into my plan to spend the entirety of these days on the couch, watching bas­ketball and taking advantage of Sam's Club's 2-for-1 sale of cheese pull's. I really can't wait to slip into an orange finger­stained state of bliss. However, I can't decide what is a more effective way of calling for new refreshments from my parents-a buzzer or a whistle, and I would like to use this opportunity to con­duct an informal pull on the position. Feel free to send me an e-mail with your choice. 
Supplies needed: Couch, television, remote with fresh batteries, whistle/buzzer 
Days 6-7: Operation Parental Mooching 
I know, I know. This sounds awful. I'm a bad person, right? Well, to quote my good friend God, "Let he who has not sinned cast the first stone." These last two days will involve some serious mooching efforts, for what I like to call the "Big Three Cs"-cash, cookies and card upgrades. I want Domer Dollars like you don't even know. Errands will be run. Foot-rubs will be given. Cars will be washed. Hopefully, with the right combi­nation of incessant hints (i.e. "I would love to help the needy ... but it's just so gosh darn expensive and I really can't afl'ord it right now") and carefully placed mooching tasks (i.e. "Don't worry about it Mom, I'll make dinner. You just rest.") I hope to leave home a richer man. 

So those are my spring break plans. They may not be a trip to Cancun com­plete with a torrid love affair with Hamon, the saucy pool boy, but it's all I could muster up. 
So while you chumps are sweating it out in some shady dub or removing the pounds of beach sand from your shorts, I'll be taking it easy on the couch, which is just fmc by me. I guess. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd. edu. 
DVD REVIEW 

'Platoon' reloads with 20th anniversary DVD 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
Two decades ago, Oliver Stone was the toast of Hollywood. The "Scarface" and "Midnight Express" screenwriter's direc­torial breakthrough, "Platoon" was a smash hit, winning the Best Picture Oscar and awarding the filmmaker the Best Director Statuette. 
But Stone would never equal the raw power of that early masterpiece, and it's not hard to see why. "Platoon" crackles with passion and purpose fueled by its semi-autobiographical perspective, which examines war from the point of view of one of its lowest soldiers. 
Written and directed by Stone, who was a soldier in Vietnam, "Platoon" follows Chris Taylor (Charlie Sheen), who drops out of college to join the war effort in 1968. Under the watchful eyes of two commanding officers, Sgt. Barnes (Tom Berenger) and Sgt. Elias (Willem Dafoe), Taylor slowly becomes disillusioned with the war and witnesses it devolve into chaotic fighting. 
At the time, "Platoon" was evolutionary because it offered a different perspective than its contemporaries. Unlike "Apocalypse Now" or "The Deer Hunter," which were epic and allegorical in nature, "Platoon" is immersed in minutiae, with its mostly realistic portrayals of the nature of individuals in war. Although it ultimate­ly goes over the top with some of Stone's patented spectacle, the first three-quar­ters of "Platoon" are among the finest depictions of war ever committed to film. 

Barnes and Elias form the crux of the film's conflict, as the two have differing opinions on how to approach the war. Initially enamored with Barnes, Taylor begins to realize the futility of his rage and eventually sides with Elias, whose genuine afl'ection for his troops is one of the few reprieves from misery in the jun­gle. The performances of Berenger and (especially) Dafoe guide the film, though Sheen is undoubtedly the weakest link. 
"Platoon" already had a special edition, but that never stopped a studio from going back to the well. The new two-disc 20th Anniversary Edition comes in beau­tiful packaging that features some essays and photos from the film. The image quality is sharp and clear, with several 
noticeable improve­ments over the last edition. The sound has been augmented with a DTS track in addition to the stan­dard 5.1 Dolby Digital. The DTS track is deep and irnrnersive, which is a major improvement over the sometimes­thin Dolby Digital track on the special edition release. 


The special features include a commen­tary from Stone and a separate eommen­tary from Dale Dye, who was the military consultant on "Saving Private Hyan" as well as "Platoon." Both of these commen­taries are ports from the Special Edition, though they are also both insightful and interesting. 
The second disc retains "Tour of the Inferno," an insightful 52-minute docu­mentary, from the original release and also adds several new featurettes and doc­umentaries, many of which give real-life context to the film, framing it in terms of the situations in both America and Vietnam in 1968. 
In the wake of films like "Saving Private Hyan" and "Letters from lwo Jima," "Platoon" already feels a bit antiquated, but its immersive quality is undeniable. Of all the films in Stone's rich oeuvre, this is among his finest and certainly his most personal. The third time seems to be the charm for MGM and makes the 20th Anniversary Edition of "Platoon" the definitive take on a classic war film. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
page 11 
Schola Musicorum to present biannual concert 
od. The directors of the program are which is true for the vast majority of voices heard throughout most of theBy MARTY SCHROEDER 
professor Alexander Blachly, professor Gregorian chants -although a small show. 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Calvin M. Bower and professor Daniel portion of the chant corpus was written The Reyes Organ Hall provides the Stowe. The name of the concert, in Greek. Also, no instruments were perfect space for this type of perform­On Wednesday, the Schola Musicorum "Abend-Musique," is a combination of used in last spring's performance and ance. The wooden crossbeams of the will present its biannual "Abend­the German word for evening and the likely none will used in the upcoming ceiling and massive organ with its Musique," a concert of French word for performance. beautiful woodwork transports the Gregorian chant -music. It comes If the singers are up to last spring's audience to a Medieval church. The which derives its The name ofthe concert, from the name 17th standard, the show small size of the space name from Pope "Abend-Musique," is a century composer will be equally also provides an intimacy Gregory the Great -Dieterich Buxtehude impressive. Since Abend-Musique that would not be present
combination ofthe
from the Middle Ages. used for his after­this type of music is elsewhere. The acoustics
Who: The Schola Musicorum 

The performance will German word for evening noon recitals in the no longer used in are fantastic and allow
What: A concert of Gregorian 

take place in the and the French word for Marienkirche in liturgy and differs the music to flow into the
chant.

Reyes Organ Hall of Liibeck. rhythmically from audience, at times
music. It comes from the When:· Friday, Nov. 18 
the DeBartolo Center Last spring, the music made today, exhibiting its power and
Where: Washington Hall 

of the Performing name seventeenth-century Gregorian chant one of the joys of at others its delicate
How Much: $3 for all 

Arts. The singers are composer Dieterich performed hailed this performance is beauty. expected to give a fine from England and hearing unique If one would like to wit­
Buxtehude used for his 
performance, espe­was the music used music. The talent of the performers is ness an excellent performance of
afternoon recitals in the 
cially if students on the first Sunday unquestioned. Medieval chant in a wonderful space accompany the faculty Marienkirche in Lubeck. of Lent. It was writ­The style of the "Abend-Musique" provided on campus, then this is the performers -some­ten in the 15th and ensemble is to have one individual perfect performance to attend. The thing that happened 16th centuries. sing, bring in another and then add the Schola Musicorum performs "Abend­last year and greatly enriched the The music performed is interesting rest if present. The bringing of voices Musique" every fall and spring, and its music. because it predates the use of the mod­in and out of the performance adds a spring performance is this Wednesday 
The music department faculty found­ern harmonic system. As a result, it complexity that would not be present at 8:30 and 9:30 p.m. Tickets are $3 ed the Schola Musicorum in 1993 for does not follow a metrical rhythm but otherwise. Student participation this for all. the purpose of Gregorian chant study instead relies on the rhythm of the year would add another level of com­and performance directly from manu­words sung. All the pieces featured by plexity. If female students sing, this will Contact Marty Schroeder at scripts dating from the Medieval peri-the Schola Musicorum were in Latin, add even greater depth to the male mschroel@nd.edu 


Abroad students catch up on missed television 
What's the only thing that can make channels. Unless you own a satellite "Walker, Texas Ranger" even better? dish, it's nothing like the United States. That would be "Walker, Texas Ranger" Television is almost as important here dubbed in Spanish. as it is in the States. Every family has a 
After a month and a half of my stud­television set in the kitchen. My own ies in Spain, I have host family's set rests only one foot come to learn of the away from the kitchen table. During glories of Spanish dinner, we don't talk -we watch TV. television and of the I have also noticed that nine times wonders of the out of 10, my host family will choose advancement of the American programs over Spanish pro­internet. I've been grams. After all, Hollywood studios able to keep track of spend much more money producing America's major programs than anyone in Europe. popular culture American programs have the money to events, and thank pay for the best acting, the best special goodness, I've still effects and the best sets. Every been able to watch Thursday, we have to watch "Without a "The Office" and Trace." During the rest of the week we "Ugly Betty" for free. watch everything from "CSI: Miami" to I remember a time "Prison Break" to "Grey's Anatomy." when I was nervous about missing my I've seen relatively few programs from wouldn't want to sit in front of my com­online is hindering my study abroad series when I came to Spain. Now that Spain with the exception of Spain's puter and watch American TV when I experience. After all, the point of study seems so silly. "Big Brother" and "Dancing with the had Spain at my feet. But then again, abroad is to immerse yourself in a new 
Because of my love of American tele­Stars." try telling that to the approximately 15 culture and escape your comfort zone. vision, I have become completely fasci­Of course, I have remained loyal to other people here who approach me At this point, I feel almost no loss of nated with Spanish TV, or rather, the current seasons of American televi­each week asking if I have seen the lat­connection from the United States. I American television dubbed in Spanish. sion. Before I left for Spain, my friends est episode of "The Office." can intensely follow the Britney saga Spain only has a handful of television were absolutely convinced that I We are a generation who loves our and watch the newest episode of 
television, and I believe that I couldn't "Scrubs" with ease. I'm still getting a have picked a better hefty dose of Spain, semester to be but the internet has
Between YouTube and the
abroad and be a TV allowed America to 
fan. Between explosion offree Web sites stay in my life every­
YouTube and the that post new episodes day. explosion of free Web But then again, I
each week ofpractically
sites that post new really can't imagine 
episodes each week every series, it's never been not being able to find 
of practically every easier to stay connected out what happens next series, it's never been with Jim and Pam until
and updated.

easier to stay con­I return in May. I want nected and updated. what I want when I I've even found a website that posts want it. It's not just a character flaw­new episodes of my dearly beloved it's a generational flaw. "General Hospital" everyday. It's quite wonderful. The views expressed in this column 
However, I often wonder whether or are those of the author and not neces­not the spread of American television sarily those of The Observer. 




Thanks to the Internet, fans of ABC's hit television show "Grey's Anatomy" in Europe and the easy access of pop Contact Cassie Belek at can catch up on back episodes even while studying abroad in other countries. culture news and American television cbelek@nd. edu. 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
NBA 

Turkoglu's 25 points lead Magic over Bucks 
James has double-double as Cleveland defeats Houston in Yao's return; Miami climbs above .500for first time in months 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. -It was about this time last season that Hedo Turkoglu heated up. lie may be doing it again for the Orlando Magic. 
Turkoglu hit 10 of 14 shots from the field, including three 3-pointers, and scored a sea­son-high 25 points to push the Orlando Magic to an easy 99-81 victory over Milwaukee. 
Turkoglu, who has struggled with his shooting all season, hit­ting only 41 percent from the field, is 29-for-41 (70. 7 percent) in his last four games. He is averaging 22 points over that span after averaging 11.8 points. 
"I knew my shot was eventu­ally going to come around," Turkoglu said. "It's just a mat­ter of confidence and getting the shot to fall. I might have relied too much on the jump shot, but I've been mixing up the drives with jumpers, and now it seems to be clicking." 
Turkoglu's backup, Trevor Ariza, was almost as good, scor­ing 20 points and grabbing six rebounds in 31 minutes. In fact, Ariza was playing so well that Turkoglu didn't get off the bench in the final 16 minutes. That prevented Turkoglu, who had a season-high nine rebounds, from getting his first double-double of the season. 
"I wish I had known that because it would have been nice to get a double-double," Turkoglu said. "But really, stats aren't important at this point in the season. We have to reach our goal of making the playofl's and I want to do what I can to help us get there." 

The Magic currently hold the eighth spot in tho East. barely ahead of New Jersey and Nnw York. 
Michael Hedd led Milwaukee with 15 points, but hit only three of 16 shots from the lield. This came one day after Redd scored 52 points on 18-of-:~2 shooting in an overtime loss to Chicago. Hedd, who made night 3-point attempts against the Bulls, was 0-for-:~ from behind the arc against Orlando. 
"We were a little spent emo­tionally and physically arter the overtime loss," Milwaukee coach Terry Stotts said. "Michael (Hedd) had some good looks early and his threes were open, but we dug ourselves a hole early and couldn't get out of it." 
Dwight lloward had 10 points and nine rebounds for the Magie, who ended a three-game losing streak. Orlando had 24 fast-break points to just five ror Milwaukee. 
The Bucks started slowly and were never really in the game. They were stone euld from the opening tip, hitting only two of their first 10 shots while turn­ing the ball over six timos. Milwaukee finished the half shooting 32.4 percent with 10 turnovers. 
The Magie, meanwhile, shot 50 percent in the first half and led by as many as 20 points before settling for a 49-34 half­time advantage. Turkoglu had 15 points on 6-for-9 shooting 
AP 


and added eight rebounds. 
The Magic scored nine straight points to start tho sec­ond half to boost the lead to 24. Turkoglu had seven of those points, ineluding the 3-pointer that made it 58-34 with 9:42 left in the period. 
The Bucks never got closer than 16 points from there. 
Huben Patterson scored 14 points, while Charlie Villaneuva and Lynn Greer had 11 eaeh for Mila waukee. 
Cleveland 91, Houston 85 
LeBron James seored 32 points and the Cleveland Cavaliers held ofT the Houston Rockets on Monday night to spoil Yao Ming's first game baek from a leg injury. 
James, who added 12 rebounds and eight assists, scored more than 30 points for the fourth straight game. Tho Cavaliers have won three of those four. 
Yao returned to ac:tion after missing :~2 gamos while reeov­ering from a broken bono undor his right knee. llo finished with 16 points, 11 rebounds, two bloeks and live turnovors. 
The 7 -l'ool-6 center airballed a loft hook on tho Hoeknts' first possession, but immediately got in the Cavaliers' way on tho other ond by blocking a shot. 
Wearing a blaek bnu:e on his right knee, Yao looked slow and out of syneh on oiTonsn, lntting a crisp pass tip off his hands and missing open shots. 
But Yao, who played 27 min­utes, helped spark the Rockets in the fourth quarter after they trailed by 14. lie scored seven straight points and provided a presenee inside that forced Cleveland to take outside shots. 
The Hoekets, who have lost four of five, pulled to within 84­82 on Traey McGrady's jumper with 1:34 left. But Zydrunas Ilgauskas put back James' missed jumper on the next pos­session to protect the lead. 
llgauskas then stole ball from Yao, who fell to the floor in a heap. Hughes tossed an alley­oop to James on the other end and he slammed in it for a 88­821ead. 
Yao got up with help from a trainer, limped oil", but returned to the game. 
McGrady n~sponded with a 3­pointer to pull within 88-85 al"ter the Cavaliers twice eould­n 't grab a rebound. 
Hughes hit 3-of-4 free throws in the final I 0 seconds, the last two after McGrady missed a tough 3-pointer. 
McGrady led Houston with 25 points but struggled, going 10­for-32 and setting a season-high for attempts. lie often took a shot as soon as the ball touched his hands. Shane Battier scored 15. 
Hughes scored 22 points with seven assists and six rebounds. llgauskas had just eight points but added three blocks, two steals and made things difficult for Yao. 
James opened up a 43-33 lead on a three-point play just before halftime. McGrady shot 2-for-13 and Yao 1-for-9 in the first half. 
Miami 88, Atlanta 81 
The Miami Heat got above .500 for the first time in nearly four months by beating the Atlanta Hawks Monday night. 
Eddie Jones had 14 of his sea­son-high 21 points in the final quarter and Shaquille O'Neal added 14 points and nine rebounds on the eve of his 35th birthday. 
Jones hit a 3-pointer to start a game-deciding 13-2 run over a 5-minute stretch of the fourth quarter by the Heat (30-29). The defending NBA champions last had a winning record on Nov. 10: 3-2. 
Gary Payton had 11 points and seven rebounds and James Posey added 10 points for Miami, which got promising news earlier in the day from star guard Dwyane Wade. Wade announced he will not have immediate surgery to repair his dislocated left shoulder and will attempt to return by the end of the season. 
Josh Smith and Anthony Johnson each had 16 points, Josh Childress had 14 and Joe Johnson had 12 -13.3 below his average -for Atlanta, which dropped its sixth straight. 


Cleveland forward LeBron James takes a shot over Houston guard Luther Head during the Cavaliers' 91-85 win Monday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED FoR SALE 

BETTER HOMES, UNPLANNED PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-The Yankees' 2007 World Series BETTER AREAS. PREGNANCY? ONE WHO IS? You do not have to run has begun. BETTER DEALS. Do not go it alone. be alone. We want to help. Call our BlueGoldRentals.com If you or someone you love needs 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-46 days until Notre Dame football 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. Oakhill condo-confidential support or assistance, 800-No-ABORT or visit our website starts again. $15.50 base-appt. 3-4 bdm,3 full baths, Now leasing for please call at www.lifecall.org flexible schedules, 2 levels,large deck. 2007/8. Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, Is anyone else not ready for the no exp.needed, customer 312-933-7234 or email Great houses close to campus. at 1-7819. Write for Observer Sports! weather to get warm? sales/service, mstacey1 @nd.edu. Anlanproperties@ comcast. net For more information, Openings available conditions apply, $210,000 abo. visit our web site at Make money The Rangers beat the Islanders all ages 17+, http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Write sports Hear that Joe? positions in all of Indiana & PERSONAL nant.shtml Email Chris Khorey at Lundqvist and NY are Michigan, FoR RENT or see our ckhorey@nd.edu or Stanley Cup bound 273-3835. Oberon: I will put a girdle round the bi-weekly ad in Chris Hine at www. workforstudents.com andersonNDrentals.com earth. In 40 mins. The Observer. chine@nd.edu Is it spring break yet? 






OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE Q[)SfRVER'S wmE SERVICEs page 13 
NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record canf div. 
Toronto 32-28 22-13 8-2 New Jersey 28-32 21-16 7-6 New York 28-33 17-21 2-8 Philadelphia 22-38 14•20 5-5 Boston 17-42 11·24 6-7 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record canf div. 
Detroit 37-20 26-11 6-4 Cleveland 34-25 20-16 4-5 Chicago 35-27 24-12 9·3 Indiana 29-29 20-14 7·4 Milwaukee 22·38 11-25 1-11 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record conf div. 
Washington 33-25 21-13 1-2 Miami 29-29 16-16 4-3 Orlando 28-33 16-20 6·6 Charlotte 22-38 · 14-21 3·7 Atlanta 22-38 12·23 4·6 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record conf diu. 
Utah 40-19 24-12 8-3 Denver 28-29 12-21 5-6 Minnesota 26-33 15-22 5-6 Portland 25-35 15-20 5-5 Seattle 24-35 12-23 3-6 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record conj div. 
Phoenix 46-14 22·10 8·2 LA. Lakers 33·27 19·13 7·2 L.A. 29·30 16·19 4-6 Clippers 27-32 14·21 3·6 Sacramento 26·35 14-19 3·9 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record canf div. 
Dallas 50·9 32··6 12-2 San Antonio 41·18 24·11 9-4 Houston 36·23 20-18 7·7 New Orleans 28·32 16·20 4-7 Memphis 15·46 9-29 H3 
Women's Big East Basketball Standings 
conj overall team record record 
1 Connecticut 16•0 28·2 
2 Rutgers 12~4 20·8 
3 Marquette 12-4 25·5 
4 West Virginia 11-5 20-10 
5 Louisville 10·6 26·6 
6 Pittsburgh 10-6 23·8 
7 NOTRE DAME 10-6 19-11 
8 USf 9-7 20·11 9 Seton Hall 9·7 18·11 10 DePaul 8•8 19·12 11 Cincinnati 6-10 15·14 12 St. John's 4-12& 8-20 13 Georgetown 3-13 13-16 14 Providence 3-13 13-16 15 Syracuse 3-13 9-20 16 Villanova 2-14 8-21 

around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Pennsylvania at Princeton 7 p.m., ESPNU 
NHL Colorado at Bruins 7 p.m., VERSUS 

NBA 

Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. ­Sacramento Kings forward Ron Artest was arrested Monday after a woman called 911 from his home saying she had been assaulted. 
Placer County sheriff's deputies responded about 
9:30 a.m. to Artest's five-acre estate in the Sacramento sub­urb of Loomis, where they found a woman who had suf­fered injuries, officials said. She declined medical atten­tion. 
Deputies arrested Artest on suspicion of domestic violence and using force or violence to prevent the woman from reporting a crime, sheriff's spokeswoman Dena Erwin said. 

"lie and the female were in the house and separated," Erwin said. "The deputies interviewed them and took Mr. Artest into custody." 
Artest was booked into the Placer County Jail and released later on $50,000 bail. 
Erwin said she could not disclose the woman's injuries or characterize her relation­ship with the player. She said Artest was cooperative when deputies arrived at his home. 
The Kings did not respond 
· to a telephone message left by The Associated Press. But spokesman Troy Hanson told The Sacramento Bee, "We are aware of the situation and are in the process of gathering information." 
Artest has had previous run-ins with police. 
He was at the center of the infamous brawl on Nov. 19, 2004, between Indiana Pacers players and Pistons fans at The Palace in Detroit. Just when a confrontation between players seemed to be over, Artest, lying on the scor­er's table, was hit with a cup filled with an icy beverage. He bolted into the stands in a rage, followed by fist-swinging teammate Stephen Jackson. Artest and teammate Jermaine O'Neal later slugged fans on the court. 
Two days later, Artest was suspended for the rest of the season -73 games, plus the playoffS -in a move that cost him almost $5 million. 
Artest and Jackson were sentenced to one year of pro­bation and 60 hours of com­munity service after pleading no contest to misdemeanor assault charges. In January, Artest was released from that probation. 
Artest also has had trouble with local authorities. 
Last month, county animal control officers seized Artest's Great Dane, Socks, from his home about 25 miles north­east of Sacramento. They said the animal wasn't being fed. 
County records showed the NBA star had paid nearly $2,000 in boarding and impound fees for his dogs, which had spent 77 ' nights at the pound since July. 
IN BRIEF 
Eleven plead not guilty after 
steroid raid of pharmacy 
ALBANY, N.Y. -Eleven people con­nected to a Florida pharmacy at the center of a nationwide investigation into the illegal sale of steroids pleaded not guilty Monday, a growing case that has linked the online drug network to doctors and health care centers in at least tlrree states. 
Robert Stanley Loomis and wife Naomi, the owners of Signature Pharmacy in Orlando, Fla., were arrested last Tuesday during a raid in which police confiscated truck loads of drugs and other evidence. Both are registered pharmacists in Florida. Robert Loomis' brother, pharmacist Kenneth Michael Loomis, and Kirk Calvert, Signature's marketing director, also were charged. 
The four are charged with 20 counts each of criminal diversion of prescrip­tion medications and prescriptions, criminal sale of a controlled substance and insurance fraud. 

Beckham to be sidelined a 
month for knee injury 
MADRID, Spain -David Beckham's return to form has taken a new twist-a bad twist of his right knee. 
The Los Angeles Galaxy-bound midfield­er will be sidelined for about a month after hurting a knee ligament during a Spanish League game last weekend, an injury that eliminated his chance of being recalled to England's national team for upcoming European Championship quali­fiers. 
The 31-year-old hurt his right knee dur­ing Real Madrid's 1-1 tie with Getafe on Sunday when his momentum following a cross took him into an advertising sign behind the goal. He limped off the field, and a scan Monday revealed the injured ligament. 
"Obviously, we hope it's not a serious injury so he can get back to helping Real Madrid challenge for the title," Galaxy general manager Alexi Lalas said. 'We do not expect this injury to affect his arrival in Los Angeles or his debut with the Galaxy."' 
Henry signs with Denver 
aftercutbyTenn~ 
DENVER, Co. -It took Travis Henry only two days to get a job -with a team that turns running backs into star. 
The former Titan and Bill, cut by Tennessee on Saturday, agreed to terms with Denver, which has made one-year wonders of Olandis Gary, Mike Anderson, Reuben Droughns and others, largely because of its schemes. 
Henry is more than that, having rushed for 1,211 yards and a 4.5 aver­age last season for the Titans, who released him after he and the team could not agree on restructuring a contract that called for an $8.3 million bonus. He is getting $12 million in guaranteed bonuses from the Broncos. 
The Broncos did not announce the signing, which was disclosed by some­one familiar with the deal who requested anonymity because it had not yet been signed. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
NBA 

Wade decides against surgery 
Wade faces no risk of further damage, hopes to return by mid-April 
Associated Press regular-season games before 
the playoffs start April 21, the 
MIAMI -Dwyane Wade's two-month anniversary of his dislocated left shoulder is so injury. Even if he does come fragile there's a risk of aggra­back, he's still expected to vating the injury when he have surgery after the season, 
sleeps.  with the recovery  
But come April.  time estimated at  
Wade figures he might be up to  "He's a warrior.  four to months.  six  
the rigors of the  He's a soldier. And  That means the  
NBA playoffs. The All-Star guard  these. are his guys."  delay in surgerycould force Wade  
said Monday he  to miss the start  
has decided to delay surgery and  Pat Riley Heat coach  of next season. The Heat would  

rehabilitate his shoulder with the goal of returning to help the Miami Heat defend their league title. 
"It could have been easy for me just to shut it down," Wade said at a news conference. "You don't know if you're going to be able to attack the same way and dive on the floor the same way. I'll find out after therapy and rehab how my body responds to things." 
Wade's decision was good news for the injury-plagued Heat, who entered Monday night's game against Atlanta at 29-29. But even with rest and therapy, there's no guarantee Wade can return this season. 
"The fact there's a possibility would give us hope," coach Pat Riley said. "He's a pretty good player. He probably would be a pretty good player one­armed." 
The Heat went into Monday's game 4-8 this season without Wade, but 3-2 since he was hurt Feb. 21 in a collision with Houston's Shane Battier. At the time, he was the league's third-leading scorer, averaging 
28.8 points. 
Wade underwent extensive tests and received a second opinion from specialist Dr. James Andrews before decid­ing he would try to return. 
Wade disclosed Monday that his injury included a torn labrum. He was without a sling at the news conference but still wears one when he sleeps to keep the shoulder stable. 
The decision to attempt a comeback this season was dif­ficult, Wade said, even though Andrews and team physician Dr. Harlan Selesnick supported the idea. Wade said he was told he can't further damage his shoulder by playing, although another dislocation is possible. 
"The main thing I can do is feel that same pain again. That's one thing I don't want to feel," he said with a smile. 
Wade said he has received encouragement from team­mate Eddie Jones, who missed 15 games with a dislocated left shoulder and torn labrum in March 2001. Jones returned late in the regular season and played in three playoff games before undergoing offseason surgery. 
Jones talked to Wade last week about what to expect during the rehab process. 
"You're going to get a work­out, a big-time workout," Jones said. "There's going to be days when you don't want to do it. But you've got to stay on top of it. ... I think he can get through it. He's a tough guy." 
If therapy goes well, Wade sa.id, he might be able to return for the last couple of 
ratiHlr have him 
for this year's 
playoffs, but Hiley said the organization didn't try to inf1uence Wade's decision. 
"lie's a warrior. lie's a sol­dier. And these are his guys," Riley said. "The doctors are world-renowned, and they said he can go l'orward this way. This is what you do when 
Want to spend your summer living and working in the Hamptons? 
You'll have aonce in a lifetime opportunity to work in the Hamptons for two summers! Earn a partial scholarship plus a weekly stipend. 
Looking for a motivated, self-starter that enjoys working with people. Must be freshmen or sophomore that is able to do light manual labor and work outside. 
If interested, send aresun1e and a briefcomposition to ~h~tmphre@nd.cdu, explaining why you would be a great candidate for the internship by Thursday) March 9. 

Turtle Creek ApartiDent Homes 
Join us at the Cllubhouse on Wednesday, March 7th for a 
"Break B4 Break" Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dive into a BUFFET of 

Delicious GOODIES & Treats 

EQUAl HOUSING OPPORTUNITY 
you're a defending champion. lie has made the decision to try to rehab it and hopefully help the team, and he should be admired for that." 
Riley said hn's confident Wade can alter his slashing, acrobatic playing style as nec­essary to protnct his shoulder. 
"lie has a tremendous amount of skill and awareness and smarts," Hilny said. "Whatnver adjustment would have to be made, I think he would make the adjustmnnt and still be pretty nJTeetive." 
Heat players learned ol' Wade's decision Monday morn­ing, and Jonns said the group was, not surprisingly, thrilled. 
"We knew he probably would come baek, bneause he's a tough kid," Jones said. "lie's not going to just give up on the season, especially il' he can't do any more damage to the joint." 

Enter Our Drawing for: 
$50 Gift Certificate to Houlihan's 1-Pod Shuffie $25 Gift Certificate for 1-Tunes 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 
._,
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, March 6 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Core Council invites gay. lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends. and supporters to an informal gathering at the Co-Mo. 
tvs.yooo is welcome and confidentialil)' rs assured. 

C~RE CUUMCIL 
FOR GAY &LESBIAN

STUDENTS 
Do you want to be the next... 
PGA TOUR 




Classic concludes with tense playoff 
Wilson wins the four-way extended overtime 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH GAHDENS, Fla. -Mark Wilson was a math major at North Carolina and confesses that one of his favorite things is crossing off items on his to-do lists. 
He can now erase the top entry on that sheet of goals. 
Wilson made a birdie to beat Jose Caceres on the third play­off hole and win the Honda Classic at PGA National on Monday, the 32-year-old play­er's first PGA Tour victory in 111 career tries. He won a four-man playoff that began Sunday, was interrupted by darkness, then ended when he hit from 10 feet on the par-3 17th hole. 
"I didn't sleep very good last night at all just because I real­ly wanted to finish it off here and win," he said. 
He got into the playoff with some big putts Sunday: par from 45 feet on the 16th hole, par from 8 feet on the final regulation hole, then a 3D­footer -in near-dark condi­tions, r.emember -on the playoff first hole. 
Some of his competitors acknowledged buckling under pressure. 
Wilson seemed cool the whole way. 
"Maybe in these moments, I'm nervo].ls," said Caceres, who also lost a playoff to Fred Funk last week at the tour's stop in Mexico. "Mr. Wilson, he played very good." 
With the win, Wilson got a $990,000 winner's check, an exemption through the 2009 season and a reprieve from making an 11th consecutive trip to the tour's qualifying school. He also vaulted 179 spots to No. 86 in the world rankings. And, if he can stay in the top 10 on the money list, he has a chance at playing the Masters for the first time. 
His ca~die, Chris Jones, got two things: a nice cut of Wilson's earnings, and a huge 

JUDICIAL COUNCIL PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT OF ELECTIONS OR VICE PRESIDE~T OF PEER ADVOCACY? 
The Judicial Council is now taking applications for President, Vice President of Elections and 
Vice President of Peer Advocacy, as well as general interest in the Judicial Council concerning elections and as a Peer Advocate. 
Applications are available outside of the Judicial Council Office (214 LaFortune Student Center) and on the Judicial Council website. Applications will be due in the Judicial Council Office (214 LaFortune) by tomorrow, Wednesday March 7th at 5:00p.m. 
For more information on the Judicial Council, please visit: www.nd.edu/-jcouncil. 
For any questions or concerns, please email jcouncil@nd.edu 
sense of relief. 
Wilson, Caceres, Boo 

Weekley -who missed a 3­
foot par putt Sunday on the 
18th hole that would have 
given him his first career win 
-and Camilo Villegas all fin­
ished the 72 regulation holes 
at 5-under 275. But Wilson's­
score included a two-stroke . penalty from his round of 66 
on Friday, after Jones made a 
major goof. ­
On the fifth tee Friday, Jones 

overheard Villegas and his 
caddie talking about club 
selection at that par-3 hole. 
Jones blurted out, "It's an 18­
degree," referring to the 
hybrid club that Wilson carries 
in his bag. 
Offering advice to competi­

tors like that is against the 
rules, and Wilson knew it. So 
he summoned a rules official 
at the next hole and docked 
himself two shots. 
"I felt like I almost cost us 

this tournament Friday," said 
Jones, who cried after Friday's 
round and was fighting tears 
after Wilson got the win 
Monday. "But he hung in there 
and knew I didn't mean to do 
it. It was just a mental error. 
... A lot of guys wouldn't have 
even called it on themselves." 
If that's true, Wilson isn't 

one of them. The rule was one 
of the first things he discussed 
with Jones when he hired him 
to carry the bag. 
"Part of me thought he was 

just upset with me for even 
making a big deal about it," 
Wilson said. "But then I finally 
just put my arm around him 
and said, 'Hey, let's go; let's go 
play golf.' Camilo was a gen­
tleman. He did the same thing. 
... From there on, I just played 
some of the best golf of my 
life.'' 
On the second playoff hole 

-the first one played Monday 
-Wilson used that 18-degree 
hybrid to set up a putt that 
nearly ended the tournament. 
A 224-yard approach put him 
in birdie range at the par-4 
10th, but he settled for par. 
Weekley and Villegas 

weren't so lucky. 
Weekley's drive landed in 

the left rough, buried so 
deeply he had no chance of 
reaching the green. He 
chopped the ball out, advanc­
ing it about 100 yards. His 
third shot hit 8 feet from the 
pin but spun backward, and 
his par try slipped past. 
He walked to the front of the 

green, hands on hips, head 
bent, knowing his chance was 
gone. 
"It's a learning experience. 

I'm disappointed in myself 
after yesterday, but that's golf, 
man," Weekley said. "That just 
happens.... Just a part of it." 
Villegas missed the 1Oth 

green to the left, but hit a 
great flop shot to within 4 feet. 
His par attempt, though, 
ducked beneath the hole, end­
ing his day. 
"I was feeling good over it. 

... I wasn't shaking as much as 
I thought," Villegas said. 
Caceres made his par putt. 

and he and Wilson headed to 
the par-3 17th, where each hit 
tee balls to about 10 feet. 
Wilson putted first, made his, 
and Caceres couldn't answer. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 2007 

NFL 





Colts ~e-sign free agent linebacker 
Morris returns after aiding in Super Bowl win 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Th1~ 

Indianapolis Colts will have one 
of their free agents back to 
defend the Super Bowl next sea­
son after ro-signing veteran line­
backer Hob Morris on Monday. 
Team president Bill Polian said keeping Morris was one of the team's top priorities and that he expects the converted middlo ·linebacker to continue to start on tho strong side, where ho exeOIIed in the playofl's. Terms of' tho contract wore not immedi­
atoiy disclosed. 
"It's in line with our philoso­phy that you re-sign your own." Polian told The Associatnd Press 

.late Monday. "We felt Hob played awfully well for us down the stretch and it gives us some security knowing we've got a starting linebacker." 
A message was left on the voice mail of Morris' agent, Ethan Lock. 
Morris was expected to anchor the defense when Indianapolis selected him with the 28th over­ill! pick in the 2000 draft. 
Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services 
© 2007 ERNST & YOUNG llP 

But his development as a rookie was stunted by a lengthy contract holdout. and his season ended after just seven games when he was carted off the field after rupturing the quadriceps in his right leg. 

Insight comes from 
Over the next four years, Morris piled up the tackles but eventually lost his starting job to undrafted free agent Gary
all ir ti ns. 
Brackett in 2004. He had re­signed with the Colts long after he became a free agent each of the last two years. 
It wasn't until his emergence late last season, at outside line­backer, that Morris finally gained the respect of those out­side the Colts organization. When he replaced Gilbert Gardner as the starter in December -the only lineup change coach Tony Dungy made -the Colts run defense went from the league's worst during the regular season to one of the best in the playoffs. 
Morris' ability. to adapt to a position he had never before played, and his performance in the playoffs, made him a more valuable part of the Colts' hopes to repeat as world champions. 
"He made it clear he wanted to come back and we wanted him back," Pollan said. "For us the issue was that we have a guy we really covet and he wanted to be a part of it." 
It's the first major signing the Colts have made since beating Chicago 29-17 in the Super Bowl although they have tendered all of their restricted free agents, which include starting guards Ryan Lilja and Jake Scott. 
But some questions remain. Former Pro Bowl linebacker Cato June, starting cornerback 
You bring something unique to the table, and at Ernst &Young, 
Nick Harper and running back Dominic Rhodes are all unre­
you'll be encouraged to speak up and contribute. Because we 
stricted free agents. 
know that bringing together people with different backgrounds 
Polian said the team doesn't have the salary cap room to sign
and perspectives lets us deliver quality results for our clients. 
a big-name player, but he would
It's why we've created a work environment of mutual respect 
like to keep at least some of 
Indy's key players if the team can afford it. 
that promotes your personal and professional growth and 
success. So visit us on campus or at ey.comjusjcareers. · 
Rhodes, who was arrested last month after being accused of drunken driving, has already ·
FORTUNE" 

visited with the New York Giants. Polian did not have any additional updates on Ilarper or 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ 

June.
TO WORK FOR~ 

"I have nothing to tell you on that, I don't know anything other than Dominic visited the New York Giants," Polian said. 
The 6-foot-2, 240-pound Morris, 32, had 48 tackles dur­ing the 2006 regular season and then had 21 tackles, including 17 solo tackles, during the Colts' four playoil' victories. 
Morris had more than 100

i!/ ERNST& YOUNG 
tackles each season from 2001­03, and now has 531 career
QualityIn Everything We Do 
tackles. 
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
who moves onto the semifi­nals in Detroit for a chance to
Alaska 

continued from page 20 
after earning a first-round bye as one of the top four teams to finish the regular season. 
The first-place Irish (27-6-3, 
21-4-3 CCHA) have played eight games agaiiLSt Alaska in the past two seasons, including a four­game, regular­season sweep this year. Alaska (11-20-6, 7-16-5 CCliA) knocked Notre Dame out of the first round of last year's league. playoffs with a two-game sweep in South Bend. That first-win the crowning Mason Cup at Joe Louis Arena. 
Second-seeded Michigan will play Northern Michigan, while third-seeded Miami will host Lake Superior and fourth-seeded Michigan State will face off against 
The first-place Irish have played eight games against Alaska in the past two seasons, including a four-game, regular season sweep this year. 
Nebraska-Omaha. 
Notes: 
+Three Irish freshmen were named Monday to the CCHA all-rookie team, making Notre Dame only the third school in league history to have three players named to the six­man honorary ros­ter. 
Forwards Kevin Deeth and Ryan Thang and defense­

round win came only one man Kyle Lawson wern weekend after the two teams awarded spots on the .all­played to a split in the last rookie team along with series of the regular season -Wnstern Michigan forward with all four Mark Letestu. games played at goalie Riley Gill
The Irish outscored
Notre Dame. and Nebraska­The Irish the Nanooks 13-5 Omaha defense­outscored the in their four man Eddie Del Nanooks 13-5 in Grosso. Michigan
meetings this 
their four meet­has had three ings this season, season, freshmen named which included which included to the team five two early different times,
two early
December wins of while Michigan
December wins 
3~ 1 and 6-2 State has had it against then-No. ofJ-I and 6-2 happen once. 14 Alaska. Notre Irish sophomore
against
Dame then took Erik Condra was
then-No. 14
two games 1-0 named as a for­and· 3-2 in Alaska. ward to last year's 
Fairbanks in mid­February. The all-time record between the two teams is deadlocked at 20-20-3, with last year's playoff series the only time the two have met in the playoffs prior to this sea­son. 
Alaska, however, did not own the only upset of the first round of the CCI-lA playoffs last weekend. 
Tenth-seeded Northern Michigan defeated seventh­seeded Ohio State to advance. Fifth-seeded Nebraska-Omaha took their series with last­place Bowling Green, while eighth-place Lake Superior State advanced to the second round with wins over ninth­seeded Ferris State. 
Three other second-round matchups this weekend will determine -along with the Notre Dame-Alaska winner ­
all-rookie team. 
Condra and his 

teammates repre­sent four of nine freshmen to earn the honor in Notre Dame history. 
Deeth has 34 points this season with 16 goals and 18 assists, while Thang tied his linemate with 34 tallies also on 17 goals and 17 assists. Both freshman forwards played on Notre Dame's offen­sive powerhouse line this sea­son with Condra. 
Lawson had three goals and 13 assists on the year with a plus/minus ratio of 19. He also won the bronze medal while serving as alternate captain on the U.S. Junior National Team at the 2007 World Championships in Sweden. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
but was ultimately able to do so at 5-4 and take the win at

Huskies 
No. 1 singles as well as for the team.
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame's win over the decisive 6-3, 6-2 win over No. 15 Huskies marked the Derek Drabble at No. 5. The end of planned indoor win over Drabble puts King at matchups for the Irish. The 10-2 in dual play. team will try to 
"[King] has translate its suc­become a tower cess in the first
"[King] has become 
of strength in the half of the sea­
a tower ofstrength
lower half of our son as they head lineup and is in the lower halfof toward spring capable of play­break and out­
our lineup and is 
ing higher," door play.
capable ofplaying
Bayliss said. "We will work 
Senior power­higher." harder on play­house Bass, who ing longer points improved his when we get out­
Bobby Bayliss 
dual match side and being
Irish coach 
record to 11-2 more patient," Monday, clinched Bayliss said. the win for the "But still [be Irish with a 6-1, 6-4 defeat of focused on] being able to do Slovic. Bass cruised past what got us here -being Slovic easily in the first set aggressive." but Slavic fought back in the second. Bass struggled to Contact Deirdre Krasula at break serve in the second set dkrasula@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 6, 2007 


Tourney 
continued from page 20 
year," McGraw said. "At this time I think we [had] 18 wins. I think we played a little bit better [than last year!." 
The Irish are 2-3 against ranked opponents this season. They did a great job of win­ning at home -a facet stressed repeatedly by McGraw -going 14-2 in the Joyce Center. On the road, however, they struggled with a record of 5-8. 
Notre Dame has had its ups and downs. The Irish lost three straight road games in January, only to come back and win their next six straight. That stretch included a 64-55 defeat of No. 17 Louisville and ended on a high note as they defeated Georgetown 73-48. 
"That stretch in February I thought we played really well," McGraw said. "So I feel good about our chances." 
After that, the team some­how lost momentum, as well as its final three games of the season. 
The Irish are likely compet­ing for one of the final spots in the field with DePaul, Hofstra, Seton Hall, Western Kentucky and Auburn. DePaul, having defeated Notre Dame twice in three games and with a chance to continue to prove its worth in the Big East tour­nament, would most likely get the bid over the Irish. Notre Dame defeated Seton Hall 64­61 on Jan. 2, giving the Irish a leg up on the Pirates. 
Hofstra is 23-6 and 13-5 in the Colonial Athletic Association. With a quality win over Michigan State early in the season and a seven­game winning streak to close out the year, the Pride are in a good position to get an at­large bid. 
Western Kentucky, playing in the Sun Belt Conference, does not get the chance to gain quality wins often. It fin­ished with a record of 20-8 and 14-3 in regular season play, good for second in the East division of the confer­ence. The end of the Big Red's season, however. was not spectacular. They lost two of their last three games. 
Auburn is least likely to bump the Irish out of their spot. The Tigers arc 17-14 and just 7-9 in SEC play. They also failed to defeat any ranked teams during the sea­son. 
Even with the rocky end to the season, Notre Dame has a fairly strong resume and a good chance at a spot in the Tournament, which begins March 1 7. And if the Irish are granted a bid, they will have the chance to forget the last three games and start their season anew. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
The Sweep DETOUR 
Begining on Monday March 5th, the Sweep will detour from the regular route due to construction. 


Changes are as follows: exit the NO Library Circle on ROTC Drive, turn north (left) on Leahy, turn east (right) on Bulla, turn south (right) on Twyckenham, turn west (right) on Edison, turn north (right) on Notre Dave Avenue resuming the posted route. 
-fE'/ifJ..Y];}_;[~ 
For more information call (574) 233-2131 



Luke 

continued from page 20 
personality just changes," llarangody said. "One of the greatest compliments I ever received was that when I'm on the court I'm really intense, but wiHm I come oiT I'm laid back and a good guy." 
llarangody displayed this intensity in Notre Dame's final home game against Marquette -an 85-73 Irish win. With 22 seconds left, Marquette for­ward Dan Fitzgerald had lirw) -another skill he devel­oped before he eame to South Bend. The freshman said he has worked hard at shooting wnll from the eharity stripfl because he realized he would get fouled a lot in the low post. 
"I always knew if I was going to be inside I would get to the line a lot, so I had to learn to make free throws," he said. 
llarangody has also avoided the physical "wall" that fresh­men sometimes hit toward the end of the college season, a period that lasts longer ~han in high sehool. 
"A lot of the older guys told 
me to make sure 
I took eare of my 

enough of body, that I ate
"I always knew if
llarangody's style well and kept in and pushed the I was going to be shape," 
freshman to the inside I would get Harangody said. ground, earning a "The cc)aches
to the line a lot,
technical foul. have done a 
"That had to do so I had to learn really good job with how the game to make free with practices, was going I think," too, to keep us
throws."
he said. "They frnsh." were a little frus­Even with all trated at the end Luke Harangody that personal of the game." Irish forward and team suc­
Ilarangody grew up in Schererville, Ind., where he led Andrean High School to two conference championships. lie led the Fighting 49ers with 
23.6 points and 12.8 rebounds, both team highs, his senior year. 
But aside from his high school experience, Ilarangody is quick to note that the variety of post moves he brought to Notre Dame actually eame from his AAU days with the SYF Players. Now, near the end of the season. he has improved those and added some new ones. 
"My AAU coach taught me a lot and the eoaehing starr here has taught me as well," llarangody said. "It's a combi­nation of both." 
llarangody has shown an ability to hit free throws this season (81 percent from the cess, Harangody 
still has a few 

more goals to aeeomplish this season. 
Notre Dame is the No. 4-seed in this week's Big East tourna­ment and will play the winner of Syracuse and Connecticut Thursday at 2 p.m. 
''I'm really excited," Ilarangody said of the tourna­ment in Madison Square Garden. "It should be a great environment." 
Arter that, the Irish will lind out where they will spend the f'irst round of the NCAA Tournament. llarangody said he was exeited by the prospect of the program's lirst appear­a nee in the Big Dance sinee 2003. 
"It's going to be great," he said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

Honors 
continued from page 20 
after Kyle McAlarney was sus­
pended in late December. 
llarangody earned national freshman or the week honors lrom rivals.eom last week for his performances against Marquette and DePual. He averages 11.2 points and 6.3 rebounds per game. 
"I look at those two guys on the lirst team and I go, 'Wow, we have to replace a lot,"' Brey said. "But then I look at the All-Rookie team and go, 'Oh, I got those guys lor three more years."' 
Carter began his career as a rarely used reserve, playing in· just 11 games his freshman sea­son. Now, he leads the Irish in scoring-with 16.9 points per game -and is fourth in the Big East. 
"I thought [this was possible!. Personally, if you ean't think it's going to be done, how are you going to aecomplish it?" Carter said. ''I've always had goals set for myself and so far things are get­ting aeeomplished, but there's a lot more I want to accomplish before my eollegiate career is over. It's an honor but we have other things on the agenda." 
Since he was a freshman, Falls has been one of Notre Dame's biggest three-point threats. This season, he broke Gerry McNamara's Big East record for career 3-pointers and currently has 318. 
"It's an honor to be on this Learn," Falls said. "There are a lot of great players in this confer­enee. Having four guys getting postseason mention speaks vol­umes for the season we've had." 
Notre Dame will take on the winner of Syraeuse and Conneetieut in the seeond round of the Big East tournament Thursday at 2 p.m. on ESPN. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


mateur Boxi 

Benefit for the TommyZ9 Foundation, Hannah and Friends, Make-A­Foundation, and Cystic Fibrosis. All proceeds go to these organizations. 


10 BOUTS 
7:30P.M. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
Doors open at 6:30 
For Ticket Info Call 



Tuesday, March 6, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLAcK DoG 
MEMI!>Eil..S OF Tl-lf. l'fl.ES~, 
'ri1E 'TITI\tJtc, ArJl1 Now I srNI< c.I-\JtlsTIANiiY 1 1 "'"\/~ t>ISc.ovEiteP... THE LoS1" TOM~ 
OF-JE.$V.S .' 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Carroll's tea party visitor 

1 Hindu master 34 Take to the sky
6 "All That Jazz" director Bob 36 Scored 100% on 
11 Scoreboard fig. 39 Sophisticated 
14 Apartment sign 41 Be delayed 
43 Banjo site in "Oh! Susanna" 15 Crayola choice 

16 Sound of relief 44 Magi's origin, 17 Supply weapons with ''the" 
to a committee 46 Heroic Schindler
head? 47 Many a sitcom
19 Org. for Bulls rating
and Bucks 49 Isn't misused?
20 Check payee, maybe 51 Colonnade tree 
21 Deere product 52 Bengay user 
23 Conger catchers 54 The "magic word"
26 Western resort lake 56 Calls to help lines
27 Playboy publisher, to 
58 California wine friends 
valley 62 20's dispenser 

30 Wimpy 63 Donate to Eve?
31 Purchase for a beer blast 66 "Don't fool!" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

67 Fruit served in balls 
68 Toothbrush brand 
69 Author Rand 
70 Huge haulers 
71 Big name in little trucks 

DOWN 1 Wild guess 2 Sported 3 mater 4 Downing Street 
distance 5 Nuptials words 6 Media 

watchdog agcy. 
7"__ 1a Ia!" s Blind parts 9 Evening, to 
Yves 10 Printing after a printing 11 Criticize a 

bakery dessert? 12 Just not done 13 Don't hog 18 _Stanley 
Gardner of mysteries 22 Cellist Pablo 24 Expected grade in a gut course 25 Original "King Kong" studio 27 Pro-war sort 28 North Carolina university 
29 Send law enforcement packing? 

WILLSHORTZ 
pop group38 Skin: Suffix 54 Song of David 
64 Louis XVI, e.g.
40 Piece of dark 55 Start of the aiio meat nuevo 65 Nav. rank 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 


~lYM®IbrE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TONCH ± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 


r~g"~fi 
(]
tGHAREC t

J I I IJ 
www.jumble.com 
BOPISH ± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

WHE:N HE: E:NTE:RE:D THE: C.05TUM!:: C.ONTE:5T, HE: DIDNT HAVE: A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

A:"[ I I I I J" o: r I x xI I J 
Yesterday's  IJumbles:  RHYME  RUSTY  (Answers tomorrow) EQUITY SOIREE  
Answer:  What an "uppity" waiter is bound to get  - 
A "RISE" OUT OF THEM  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jake Lloyd, 18; Kevin Connolly. 33; Michael Warren, 61; Samantha Eggar. 68 
Happy Birthday: Try not to take on too much this year. Concentrate on what you know you can accomplish. You are likely to run into people from your past this year--whatever problem you may have had with these people before is likely to surface again. Protect your heart, health and emotional well-being. Your numbers are 5. 14, 18, 25, 38.40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Organization will be what counts if you want to tit as much 
into your day as possible. You will learn something very important by watching the way others do things. Your passionate nature will attract people who support your efforts. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be a little secretive about your comings and goings today. Avoid confrontations. Money issues can be resolved if you speak to an older or more experienced friend about your situation. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may have a lot riding on your performance today. You will face criticism but, if you are prepared, you will surpass anyone who tries to be negative. Put time aside for romance. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): If you let your emotions get in the way, you will not get ahead. This is a great day to make a career move and to put yourself on the line for something you believe in. Changes may be difficult but will be good for you in the long run. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): If you really care about someone from your past or someone you recently met, make an all-out effort to be with this person. If you are already in a relationship, let your passionate side take over. Don't overspend in the process. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): What you do today, whether it be learning. doing a great job or selling yourself at an interview, will surpass your expectations. Don't let personal issues cloud your decisions. A change in your attitude will make a difference. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Nothing can stop you if you take control and do what you say. This is a great time to start an adventure, take a trip or make plans to move in a new direction. Love is on the rise so get out and have some fun. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may feel as if someone or something is holding you back. Get past that and put your heart and soul into doing what you do best. It's what you accomplish that will count, so don't waste time worrying. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Someone may try to persuade you to go off in a different direction today but you should stay the course. Love is in the stars and a commitment can be made but, keep in mind that once you put yourself on the line, you must stand by your word. 2 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Financial deals can be made. Buying and selling personal items will bring about a prot1t. Base your decisions on facts not an emotional whim. Stick to your original plan and you won't go wrong. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have a huge amount of ground to cover so hop to it. 
A chance to improve a personal relationship you are in looks promising. Speak from the 
heart about your intentions and goals. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Not everything will be out in the open for you to consider. Knowing that you don't have all the facts should deter you from making a final decision. Spending time on looking your best will help your attitude and boost your confidence. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, passionate and inventive. You are entertaining, charming and intelligent. You are a great storyteller and a strong competitor. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 








PORTS
Tuesday, March 6, 2007 
page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Big East beckoning 
Harangody's post play frustrates opponents, key for ND success 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Six months ago, Notre Dame's inside game was considered its weakness and forward Luke Harangody was a freshman adapting to college workouts. 
Now, after a season of basket­ball, the Irish are 23-6 and Harangody has become one of the most feared and effective inside players in the Big East. 
The 6-foot-8, 250-pound freshman is averaging 11.3 points and 5.3 rebounds per game this season, including a 22-point outburst in Notre Dame's win over Marquette Feb. 24. 
Harangody, who also pulled down 13 rebounds against the Golden Eagles, frustrated Marquette's defense with his physical style that wore down opposing defenders. 
"When I go on the court, my 
see LUKE/page 18 



Carter, Falls make all­conference first team; frosh earn rookie honors 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

Irish guards Russell Carter and Colin Falls were named to the all­Big East first team Monday, mark­ing the only time in school history two Notre Dame players made the first team in the same season. 
''I'm just happy for two seniors who have paid their dues," Irish coach Mike Brey said before prac­tice Monday. "Their paths have been a little bit different -Colin being a consistent guy from day one, Russ taking a little bit differ­ent route, and it's a great story. 
"I think anytime you can have seniors make the All-Conference team I think it says you're guys are getting better every four years." 
Meanwhile, guard Tory Jackson and forward Luke Harangody made the cut for the Big East All­Rookie Team. Jackson took over the starting point guard position 
see HONORS/page 18 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish improve to 11-2 vvith win over No. 15 Washington 
they defeated Patrick Fischer Bobby Bayliss said. do a better job of holding the doubles point they were 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and Mike Ricks 8-5 at No. 2. The No. 1 doubles team jun­serve right now, they are not not good enough to win four 
Sports Writer The No. 3 team of senior ior Sheeva Parbhu and senior volleying with a lot of authori­singles," Bayliss said. 
Stephen Bass and junior Ryan Keckley finished doubles ty and we've frequently Parbhu avenged his loss in 
Notre Dame garnered victo­Andrew Roth clinched the play with an 8-4 loss to Daniel opened up the court without doubles play with a quick 6-1, ries in all first sets of singles doubles point for the Irish Chu and Alex Slovic. The pair, any real purpose. 6-1 win over Slovic. The jun­play in its 6-1 win over with an 8-5 win over Derek ranked No. 9 in the country, "We gave Washington some ior controlled the matchup Washington. Drabble and Andy Kuharszky. struggled to break serve and opportunities to hit some pret­from the back of the court and 
The No. 8 Irish (11-2) Bass and Roth came out play aggressively at the net ty good shots, we just need to got to the net early to win at jumped out early with a 1-0 strong, taking the 4-1 and 7-2 against the No. 15 Huskies (9-play with more discipline." the No. 2 singles position. lead after winning the doubles leads. 3). With the doubles point in King put Notre Dame within point. Senior Barry King and "We came out of the box "It was pretty anti-climatic," hand, the Irish moved on with one point of victory with a junior Brett Helgeson clinched quickly and jumped all over Bayliss said. "It was purely an confidence to singles play. the first doubles match when them," Notre Dame coach individual thing, they need to "We felt that if we could win see HUSKIES/page 17 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL-ANALYSIS 
NCAA spot not a lock after slide 
It will be tough for Notre Dame to rebound from its three-game losing streak. The consecutive losses to Rutgers and DePaul at end the season and anoth­
Bill Brink
er loss to 
the Blue -----­Demons in Sports Writer the first 
round of the Big East tourna­ment dropped the Irish from their once favorable position of entering the NCAA Tournament with momentum to one of recovery and rebuilding. 
The Irish (19-11, 10-6 Big East) would have almost been guaranteed a spot in the tour­nament had they won 20 games. Although currently projected to enter the tourna­ment as a No. 8 seed by ESPN .com analyst Charlie Creme, the importance of the end of the season in tourna­ment selection may drop Notre Dame's seed even fur­ther or eliminate them from the tournament altogether. 

Notre Dame coach Muffet McGraw has confidence the team is ready for the tourna­ment and will have a chance to play. 
"I think we're in much bet­ter shape than we were in last 
see TOURNEYIpage 18 
HOCKEY-ANALYSIS 
Nanooks await Irish in playoffs 
For the second time in as many years, the Irish will face off against Alaska, their colorful head coach Tavis MacMillan, physical sniper K y I e 
G r e e n t r e e Kyle Cassily 
and the rest of the burly Sports Writer Nanooks in 
the CCI-lA playoffs. 

No. 1 Notre Dame will host Alaska in the second round of the playoffs starting Friday night, after the Nanooks upset their first-round oppo­nent Sunday. The 11th-seeded Nanooks knocked off sixth­seeded Western Michigan, 3-1 to take the best-of-three game series, while Notre Dame was idle this weekend 
see ALASKA/page 17 





