
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 117 FRIDAY, APRIL 13 2007 

Student Affairs undergoes resbucturing 
Coughlin promoted to assistant vice president, Poorman reassigns departments to supervisors 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
The Division of Student Affairs began restructuring its chain of command Thursday with the announcement of the promo­tion of director of the Student Activities Office (SAO) and LaFortune Student Center, Brian Coughlin, to the recently created position of assistant vice president of Student Activities. 
Coughlin's promotion marked the beginning of a reorganization that will redistribute the different 
departments under the Division's umbrella to differ­ent supervisors, including Coughlin. 
"Brian is a gifted, experi­enced and astute adminis­trator who has Jed the Student Activities Office through a period of substan­tial growth over the last six years," Father Mark Poorman, vice president of Student Affairs, said in a press release. 
Coughlin will continue to head his office's activities, but in hiS new role he will report directly to Poorman, "freeing up" the department by reducing bureaucratic red 
tape. The SAO had previous­ly fallen under the jurisdic­tion of Division Assistant Vice President David Moss, who also supervised the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education (ODAE). 
"These changes can be seen as an acknowledgement of the SAO's expansion and growth in the last six years and the staff's continued hard work and commit­ment," Coughlin said. ''I'm excited about the new orga­nizational structure because it elevates the SAO to its own category." 
Coughlin will oversee the SAO, broken into two 
branches, Student Activities for Programming and Student Activities for Facilities. Peggy Hnatusko and Ryan Willerton, associ­ate directors of Student Activities, were also promot­ed Thursday to head the Programming and the Facilities divisions, respec­tively. 
"This model is consistent with other student activities structures at major universi­ties across the country, and is the most effective way for us to provide students with the highest quality of pro-
see COUGHLIN/page 4 

Protester, Saint Mary's debate Iraq war 
Sheehan encourages nonviolent activism 
By KELLY MEEHAN Senior Staff Writer 
Hell froze over last weekend, anti-war activist Cindy Sheehan said, as snow fell on President Bush's ranch in Crawford, Texas -a place where she has spent many of her days protesting the war in Iraq. 
"Hell will freeze over when our troops can come home," she said, calling the unexpect­ed southern snowfall a sign from the universe that "we will prevail, and we will be suc­cessful" in ending the conflict in Iraq. 
Sheehan, who lost her son, 
see SHEEHAN/page 9 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SBPDunits respond to traffic block 

Driver abandons car, prompts manhunt 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Several South Bend police units surrounded an area near the 800 block of Sorin Street in South Bend late Wednesday night after a driv­er blocked traffic by parking his car near a curb and then ran away from the vehicle, SBPD Public Information spokeswoman Teri Lanning said in an e-mail to The Observer Thursday. 
Notre Dame senior Emily Kane was headed toward a friend's house on Corby Boulevard around 11 p.m. when she saw "three or four" police cars lining Notre Dame toward Route 23. 
"The cop from the megaphone told us to go inside," Kane said. "He said they had K-9s looking for someone." 
Senior Michael Rossmann, who lives on Corby Boulevard, said he also saw police cars stationed in the area. He said he first saw a police car from his window at about 10:40 p.m. When he went outside to walk to Ouh 23, located at 744 N. Notre Dame Ave., he said he saw several more squad cars. 
"I then walked out of my house at 11 p.m. and tried to walk down Corby, but the nearest police offi­cer told me to return to my home," Rossmann said. "A friend and I then walked to Ouh 23 a different way, but in our short trip there we saw at least 15 police cars in the neighborhood, stationed at every block." 
Rossmann said cars were sta­
see SBPD/page 9 


Journalist discusses trade's trends 
TV correspondent Woodruffstresses role ofreporters despite downsizing 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
Despite a decline in the popularity of print and broadcast media, journalists will continue to be necessary -especially in light of the younger generation's civic involvement -Judy Wood­ruff. senior correspondent on PBS's "The News Hour with Jim Lehrer," said Thursday. 
Students, journalists and University dignitaries, including President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, filled the Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library to hear her deliver the annual 
see WOODRUFF/page 3 



SMC students spend 
Easter in Holy City 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
While many Saint Mary's students spent Easter at home with their families and pets, some of their 55 class­mates studying abroad in Rome instead joined the Pope in Vatican City. 
Saint Mary's has sent stu­dents to a satellite campus in the center of the Italian capi­tal since the Rome program's inception in 1970, said Peter Checca, the program's coun­selor. 
Sophomore Meghan Larsen seized the opportunity of being in the Eternal City dur­ing Holy Week to participate 
in events that commemorated Jesus' death and resurrection with Catholic pilgrims from every corner of the planet in St. Peter's Square. 
Larsen said she saw Pope Benedict XVI six times during the week as she attended Mass and participated in a seven-station Church Walk ­a pilgrimage around Rome. 
"[The walk] was between 15 and 20 miles," Larsen said. "We saw the four major basilicas of Rome and the three minor ones." 
Larsen also attended the Mass for the late John Paul II, which took place on April 
2. She and fellow Saint 
see ROME/page 6 


Panel reflects on role ofmedia, White House 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
After anti-war activist Cindy Sheehan's speech on campus earlier in the day, the debate about the legiti­macy of the Iraq War contin­ued last night in the Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary's. 
A panel of three Saint Mary's professors -Linda Berdayes, Patrick Pierce and Joseph Miller -spoke to a house full of students and faculty members to conclude "A Day of Reflection" on the war. 
Sister Kathleen Dolphin 
see PANEL/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Happy 21st, Buffalo boys 
No one will remember them for their so-called contributions to rock and roll or even music in general. 
The world won't stop when they dis­solve like all greatthingsdo. 
.---~----~ 
Their fans aren't rabid; their egos aren't insufferable. 
But, goodness, when they sing, they mean something so much more than so many others. 

Watching from the Ken Fowler back row as the ------------­Goo Goo Dolls cap­Managing tured an audience Editor of fifteen and fifty year-olds a month ago, it wasn't too hard to figure out what to like about them. 
Front man Johnny Rzeznik first made sure one friend got a little joy on a Saturday night, grabbing a fan's cell phone and singing two thirds of a song with the microphone on one side of his mouth and the mouthpiece on the other. 
He smiled and laughed. 

Later, he pulled out the NO Fight Song bottle opener the Bookstore sells. Someone staying at his hotel met him in the hallway and gave it to him. He pulled it out of his jacket and put the "Victory March" over the loudspeakers. After a smattering of boos. he responded polite­ly. 
Do you know how hard it was to be an Irish fan growing up in Buffalo as a Polish kid, where all the Irish kids would beat you up? 
His mom was a strict Catholic. 
Sometimes, it shows in his lyrics. 

"And you ask me what I want this year I 
And 1try to make this kind and clear I 
Just a chance that maybe we'll find better days I 
Cause I don't need boxes wrapped in strings/ And designer love and empty things I Just a chance that maybe we'll fmd 
better days" 

That's from "Better Days." It's a politi­cal song, sure -CNN even used it as a symbol its Katrina relief coverage. But more than politics, it's about morality. 
"Let's say I'm sorry and start over again. That was basically the message," Rzeznik said in an interview with EMI Publishing. "Something better is going to come." 
But in terms of rock, nothing better is going to come than a band with a con­science that maintains mainstream sup­port and can urge a little morality in the listener's life. 
For us, it's a question of whether or not we're paying attention. 
"And you know I see right through you I 
When the world gets in your way I 

What's the point in all this screaming I 
You're not listening anyway" 

Eleven years ago, Buffalo proclaimed April 13 to be Goo Goo Dolls day -10 years since their birth in "the toughest city in America." On your 21st, Goos, I'll drink to you. 
Let love in. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
----··--------------------------------------------~ 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, Aprill3, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT GAME SHOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE ON? 







Andrew Schumacher  Heidi Sundry  Kate Sylvia  Stephanie Klem  Marques Camp  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  
Siegfried  McGlinn  Howard  Howard  Keough  
'"Wheel of  '"Who Wants To  "'Legends ofthe  "'The Price is  '"The Price is  
Fortune ,  Be A  Hidden Temple. '  Right' but only  Right' so I can  
because I would like to buy a  Millionaire?' but only ifRegis  It's so annoying when they can't  with Bob Barker."  win a china set and a car."  

vowel." is the host. " make the silver monkey." 

CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer 

M.O.B.B., a student New Orleans-inspired brass band with a contemporary twist, performs Thursday night at Reekers. 
OFFBEAT 

Rogue seal menaces man, beasts in California 
JENNER, Calif. -Nibbles the elephant seal is defying his tame nickname by killing smaller seals, menacing a kayaker and chomping on a surfer and a dog on the northern California coast. 
The 2,000-pound lone male is seen frequently at the Russian River outlet to the Pacific, and local marine recreational outlets are warning the public about the seal's aggression. 
On Easter Sunday, the seal grabbed an 80-pound pit bull and only let her go after he was attacked by the dog's owner. 
"I was throwing a stick in the water for the dog," Angel Garcia said. The dog "started to shake when this torpedo thing launched itself out of the water and grabbed her." 
On Tuesday, Nibbles growled at a kayaker, scaring him out of the water, said Suki Waters of Water Treks, a kayaking tour company. 
Man sentenced for printing lewd stickers 
MANTORVILLE, Minn. -A Byron man, who distributed sexually vulgar stickers fea­turing his ex-girlfriend's name, phone number and address, has been sentenced to four months in jail after pleading guilty to a felony harassment charge. 
Thomas Carl Tiedeman, 62, who appeared in Dodge County District Court on March 21, was also ordered to serve five years on proba­tion, perform 32 hours of community service and pay a $100 fine. 

The stickers included a photo of a woman, along with the phrase "call me now for the best," according to the criminal complaint. 
The Kasson Police Department received reports in September that someone was placing the stickers on vehicles and buildings. 
Tiedeman admitted to police that he had printed about 20 stickers and placed them on vehicles. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 


TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 





HIGH HIGH HIGH 43 LOW LOW LOW 35 
IN BRIEF 
Author and reporter Joel Garreau from the Washington Post will deliver the lecture "Radical Evolution" as part of the "Ten Years Hence" lecture series at the Jordan Auditorium today at 10:40 a.m. 
Norma Clarke, professor of English literature at Kingston University in London will deliver the lecture "Scandalous Histories: Mrs. Pilkington, Mary Wollstonecraft and the Kingsborough Family Connection" today at 3 p.m. in 120 DeBartolo Hall. 
Owen Smith, a 1995 Notre Dame graduate, will perform his comedy act today at Legends at 10 p.m. Admission is free. 
The Spring Run will take place Saturday. Participants can run either 5-K, 10-K or do the 2­mile walk. The races will start from Legends at 11 a.m. Runners and walkers can sign up at RecSports for $10 prior to the race and for $15 the day of the race. 
Opera Notre Dame will pres­ent "A Midsummer Night's Dream" Saturday at 7:30 at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 for students and $10 adults. For tickets, call the LaFortune Box Office at 631-8128. 
Notre Dame men's lacrosse will play Denver Sunday at 1 
p.m. at Moose Krause Stadium 
Notre Dame baseball team will play Georgetown Sunday at 
1:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 58 HIGH 65 LOW 37 LOW 40 
Atlanta 72 I 44 Boston 48 I 34 Chicago 45 I 30 Denver 35 I 28 Houston 82 I 66 Los Angeles 78 I 50 Minneapolis 48 I 27 New York 55 I 42 Philadelphia 57 I 42 Phoenix 78 I 55 Seattle 56 I 41 St. Louis 48 I 35 Tampa 84 I 64 Washington 58 I 40 
Friday, April 13, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC to host baseball conference 
By·KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
Starting today and running through Saturday, Saint Mary's will host the fifth-annual International Women's Baseball Leadership Conference. 
The conference, coordinat­ed by the Saint Mary's College Club Baseball Program and titled "Getting Girls in the Game of Baseball," will attempt to increase female interest in the sport at the College. 
John Kovach, an archivist 

improve softball skills. 
"After playing baseball, women come back as better softball players," he said. "The softball field just does­n't challenge them like it used to." 
A former major league baseball pitching coach, Bob Cluck, will deliver the keynote address. Cluck, a consultant for the San Diego Padres, will also otTer base­ball lessons from 9 to 11 
a.m. Saturday morning in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Kovach wanted to hold the conference earlier in the semester, to avoid sharing 
and faculty advi­sor to the Club Baseball Program, said he hopes the conference will stress the importance of women's base­ball -which they may not know as women oftentimes replace the sport with soft­ball. 
"It is assumed that because you're a female 
"Sports shouldn't be regulated by gender because there are so many similarities between baseball and softball." 
John Kovach faculty advisor Club Baseball program 
the weekend with Junior Moms Weekend. Cluck, however, was unable to attend the ear­lier date, as he was at Spring Training with the Padres. 
Cluck is also an author of many self­improvement baseball books, as well as "Baseball for Girls," a book focusing on 

you only play softball. It's something [female baseball players I just have to deal with," he said. "Sports shouldn't be regulated by gender because there are so many similarities between baseball and softball." 
Kovach, a former Saint Mary's softball coach, sees baseball as a way to breaking the stereotypes of women in baseball. 
Other speakers include the president of the Women's Baseball League (WBL) and conference founder, Justine Siegal and Terri Lakowski, the public policy coordinator for the Women's Sports Foundation. Siegal will focus on youth girl's baseball, and Lakowski will discuss the ways to cope with discrimi­nation against girls in base­ball. 
Participants are coming from Toronto, Detroit, Chicago, California and other regions of the country, Kovach said. This is only the second time the conference has taken place in the Midwest. 
Kovach. who has worked with Siegal in the past, said getting the conference to Saint Mary's was fairly easy. 
"Justine [Siegal] liked the idea of coming to a women's college and thought we could make it a diverse pro­gram," he said. 
Typically, the conferences are hosted in club league locations. 
The registration cost for the conference is $65 for adults and $30 for students. The ticket includes access to all sessions, lunch and the Cluck lessons Saturday. The Friday sessions and keynote lunch cost $50. Pre-registra­tion is required. 
Previous conferences have been held in Cleveland, Baltimore, Orlando and Toronto. The conference is financially sponsored by the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership (CWIL). Additional sponsors include the First Source Bank, South Bend Blue Sox Women's Baseball and the United States Girl's Baseball Association. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Woodruff 
continued from page 1 
Red Smith journalism lec­ture, titled "Are Journalists Obsolete?" 
Woodruff was not opti­mistic about the current state of journalism, noting that "every sector of jour­nalism" -especially news­papers -is losing readers or viewers as corporate scrutiny increases and executives downsize news organizations to ensure they are profitable. 
"The Tribune Company ­owners of the Chicago Tribune and L.A. Times ­may soon cease to exist as we know it," she said, "One of the great newspaper chains, Knight Ridder, van­ished last year when it was sold. It was profitable, but not profitable enough." 
Woodruff also said the major news networks need to increase the amount of resources they spend on their news coverage. There are only half as many for­eign correspondents with CBS, NBC and ABC now as there were 10 years ago, despite the increased inter­dependence of the planet's countries, she said. 
"With September 11 there were countless stories on why we don't understand the world, yet none of the major TV networks had a correspondent based in a majority Muslim country," she said. 
But Woodruff said she was encouraged about the future of American journal­ism through her participa­
tion in Generation Next, a documentary for which she interviewed 500 students in 29 cities. 
She found that young peo­ple were "far more up on national and international events" than their parents and professors may think and that the younger gener­ations are more likely to get their news from the Internet than other sources. 
Students were also more likely to engage in volun­teer work, she said. citing the 90 percent of the Notre Dame student body that is involved in service projects as "an example for young people across the country." 
Woodruff connected the students' commitment to community involvement to the future of journalism, saying high-quality report­ing goes hand-on-hand with the expectations of these readers. 
"A generation that is this civic-minded will be more receptive to good journal­ism. Satisfying those minds requires good content and good journalism," she said. 
Woodruff also predicted that as the younger genera­tions mature, there will be more demand for high-qual­ity content, as opposed news sources like the Drudge Report that often provide "false" stories. 
"Good content is not just content," she said. "It requires thought, imagina­tion and discussion and planning in the newsroom about what [journalists] should be covering." 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwitt@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 13, 2007 

Coughlin 
continued from page 1 
grams and services," Poorman said in an e-mail to all the omployees in the Division of Student Affairs. 
Coughlin will join the sen­ior staff of the Division and assume his new duties July 1. 
In his six years heading the SAO, Coughlin said the num­ber of student organizations on campus grew from approximately 250 to 320 and four full-time employees joined the office during the period to assist with the workload. 
The SAO's budget has also grown expo­nentially in the 

Liam Hall, the University Counseling Center and Health Services. 
Associate Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk will continue to work with Notre Dame Security/Police and the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing. The Gender Helations Center will also keep its present supervisor, Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Ann Firth. 
Poorman and Coughlin said they believed the new organi­zational structure would only facilitate communication in the Division and enable its staff to work more effectively. "I regularly tell trustees, alumni, students and parents that the University of Notre Dame has one of the best 

last decade, Student Affairs
"These changes can
Coughlin said. operations in
be seen as an
In the near the country," future, he said acknowledgement of Poorman said. he plans to "I am proud of
the SAO's 
continue the the level of
expansion and
department's excellence that expansion by growth in the last six we have finalizing plans achieved in our
years and the staff's 
to construct a division, and of
continued hard work 
building to the wonderful replace the and commitment. " service that we Stepan Center offer to our stu­
MONDAY, April 16th
and increasing dents. We are
Brian Coughlin 12:00 pm, Montgomery Auditorium
the SAO's excited to involvement director implement 12:30 pm, Montogmery Auditorium 
with graduate Student Activities Office these changes 4:00 pm, Montgomery Auditorium 
students. These goals are a part of the office's 10-year plan, Coughlin said. 
Poorman also announced other changes in the Division's structure, includ­ing the retirement of assis­tant vice president of Student Affairs, Sister Jean Lenz, to a part-time position. 
"As part of our restructur­ing efforts, Sister Jean will assume part-time duties as special assistant to the vice president," Poorman said. "She has been an integral part of student life at the University of Notre Dame for the last thirty-four years. She has served for the last twen­ty-three of those years as assistant vice president for Student Affairs. Her wis­dom, experience, compassion and insight are unparalleled, and I am delighted that she will continue to serve as a member of the senior staff of Student Affairs." 
The departments under Lenz's superviSion, International Student Services and Activities and Multicultural Student Programs and Services, will be reassigned to Division Assistant Vice President Sister Sue Dunn. 
Dunn  will  also  take  the  
Career  Center  under  her  
wing.  

Moss will keep supervising the ODAE but he will also start overseeing the other two departments in Saint 
over the sum­

mer and hope MONDAY, April23rd that the new structure will 12:00 pm, LaFortune Ballroom allow us to provide even bet­
12:30 pm, LaFortune Ballroom 
ter opportunities for our stu­
4:00pm, LaFortune Ballroom
dents." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at 
aberrios@nd.edu 


THURSDAY, April 19th 
12:00 pm, Montgomery Auditorium 
12:30 pm, Montogmery Auditorium 
4:00 pm, Montgomery Auditorium 
THURSDAY, April 26th 
12:00 pm, Montgomery Auditorium 
12:30 pm, Montogmery Auditorium 
Montgomery Auditorium is located in LaForhlne across from Starbucks 

A journey of Rwandan Genocide Survivors: 
Seeds of Hope and Peace 
The Comm~moration of the 13th Anniversary of the 1994 Rwandan Genocide 
Keynote Speaker Felicia Middlebrooks, CBS Radio Anchor, will present her documentary 
"Somebody's Child: The Redemption of Rwanda" 
and a powerful testimony by Grace Mukasekuru, a Rwandan Genocide Survivor. 
Saturday, April 14th at 3:00 pm 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
SponsorL"Cl by the Africd Faith dnd justice Network, the Notre Dame Holocauot ProjeLt, International Student Services and Adivities, 


-----------,. 

ORLD & NATION 
Friday, April 13, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SL:RVJCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IAEA chief: Iran in beginning stages 
RIYADH, Saudi Arabia-The head of the U.N. nuclear watchdog said Wednesday Iran is oper­ating only several hlindred centrifuges at its ura­nium enrichment plant at Natanz, despite its claims to have activated 3,000. 
Mohamed E!Baradei said Iran's nuclear pro­gram was a concern, but he discounted Tehran's .claims of a major advance in uranium enrich­ment, a process the United Nations demands Iran suspend· or else be hit by increasing sanc­tions. 
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced Monday that the Natanz facility had begun "industrial-scale" production of nuclear fuel. Iran's top nuclear negotiator said workers had begun injecting uranium gas into a new array of 3,000 centrifuges, many more than the 328 centrifuges known to be operating at Natanz. 
Iran ultimately aims to operate more than 50,000 of the devices at the site. 
But E!Baradei, head of the U.N.'s International Atomic Energy Agency, said "Iran is still just at the beginning stages in setting up its Natanz enrichment facility." 
Businessman addresses Israeli panel 
JEHUSALEM -A Syrian-American busi­nessman with ties to the Damascus govern­ment made an unprecedented appearance before an Israeli parliamentary panel Thursday, telling lawmakers that Syrian President Bashar Assad is ready to make peace with the Jewish state. 
The lawmakers reacted positively, pepper­ing him with questions about secret talks he held with a former senior Israeli diplomat. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's government, however, gave no indication it was ready to restart peace talks with Syria -broken off in 2000. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Research supports bird ancestry 
WASHINGTON-Hesearchers have decod­ed proteins from a 68 million-year-old Tyrannosaurus rex, the oldest such material ever found. The unprecedented step, once thought impossible, adds new weight to the idea that today's birds are descendants of the mighty dinosaurs. 
"The door just opens up to a whole avenue of research that involves anything extinct," said Matthew T. Carrano, curator of dinosaurs at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History. 
Duke lacrosse players may sue DA 
HALEIGH, N.C. -The disgraced district attorney in the Duke lacrosse rape case apol­ogized to the three athletes in a carefully worded statement Thursday as their lawyers weighed whether to sue him -and some legal experts say they have a case. 
While prosecutors generally have immuni­ty for what they do inside the courtroom, experts said that protection probably doesn't cover some of Mike Nifong's more question­able actions in his handling of the case _ such as calling the lacrosse players "a bunch of hooligans" in one of several interviews deemed unethical by the state bar. 
"I think their chances of success suing Mr. Nifong are reasonably good, despite what we call prosecutorial immunity," said John Banzhaf, a professor at the George Washington University School of Law. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Four tornadoes hit Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS-Four tornadoes hit central Indiana within three hours, causing damage to houses, barns and garages but no injuries, the National Weather Service said. 
The first hit near Harmony in Clay County at about 4:20 p.m. Wednesday, causing minor tree damage. The tornado was the weakest on the Enhanced Fujita scale which rates twisters, the NWS said in a Thursday news release. 
The same storm produced a tornado near Brownsburg in Hendricks County, about 20 miles northwest of Indianapolis, at about 5:35 p.m. 
IRAQ 

Bombing in parliament cafe kills 8 
Suicide bomber blows himselfup in U.S. Green Zone, video camera captures blast 
Associated Press  
BAGHDAD  - A suicide  
bomber blew himself up in  
the Iraqi parliament cafe­ 
teria Thursday, killing at  
least  eight  people  - 
including at least two law­ 
makers -and wounding  
about 30 in  a  stunning  
assault in the heart of the  
heavily fortified, U.S.-pro­ 
tected Green Zone.  
A news video  camera  
captured the moment of  
the blast:  a  flash and  an  
orange ball of fire causing  
a  startled  parliament  
member who  was  being  
interviewed to duck, and  
then the smoky, dust-filled  
aftermath of confusion  
and shouting. The video  
was  shot by Alhurra,  a  
U.S. government-funded  
Arab-language channel.  
Iraqi officials later gave  
wildly varying accounts of  
how many peopfe  were  
killed and who they were,  
and  some  disputed the  
U.S. death toll but gave no  
definitive figure of their  
own.  
The  explosion  came  
hours after a suicide truck  
bomb exploded on a major  
bridge in Baghdad, col­ 
lapsing the steel structure  
and sending cars tumbling  
into the Tigris River, police AP  
and witnesses said. At An image from AP Television News shows people leaving the area_ in a U.S. Green  
least  10  people  were Zone in Baghdad after a bombing in an Iraqi parliament cafe Thursday.  
killed.  
The parliament bombing  found near the cafeteria.  State television said 30  showed  the  immediate  
was  believed  to be the  A U.S. bomb squad took  people were wounded.  aftermath:  People  
deadliest attack in the  the explosives away and  ~·we  don't know at this  screamed for help in  a  
Green Zone, the enclave  detonated them without  ·point who it was. We do  smoky hallway, with one  
that houses Iraq's leader­ incident.  know in the past that sui­ man  was slumped over,  
ship as  well  as the U.S.  President Bush strongly  cide vests have been used  covered in dust, motion­ 
Embassy, and is secured  condemned the attack,  predominantly  by  al­ less. A woman  kneeled  
by American and Iraqi  saying: "My message to  Qaida," Caldwell said.  over what appeared to be  
checkpoints.  the Iraqi government is  Government spokesman  a  wounded  or dead  man  
Security officials at par­ 'We stand with you."'  Ali al-Dabbagh suggested  near a table. The camera  
liament, who spoke  on  Maj.  Gen.  William  that  those  behind  the  then focused  on a  bloody,  
condition of anonymity  Caldwell  told  The  attack might work in the  severed leg.  
because they  were  not  Associated Press that eight  building.  TV cameras and video­ 
authorized to release the  people were killed in the  "There are some groups  tapes belonging to a crew  
information,  said  they  attack,  which  witness  that work in politics dur­ sending  footage  to  
believed the bomber was a  accounts indicated was  ing the day and do things  Western networks were  
bodyguard  of  a  Sunni  carried out by a  suicide  other  than  politics  at  confiscated and apparent­ 
member  of parliament  bomber.  night," he told Alhurra.  ly handed  over  to  U.S.  
who was not among the  Iraqi officials said the  The  Alhurra  video  authorities.  
dead.  They  would  not  bomber struck the cafete­ showed the blast, with  After the blast, security  
name the member of par­ ria while several lawmak­ startled  lawmaker  guards sealed the building  
liament.  ers were eating lunch, and  Jalaluddin al-Saghir, who  and  no one  -including  
The officials also said  at least two of them  - is also a  Muslim imam,  lawmakers ­ was allowed  
two satchel bombs were  both Sunnis-were killed.  ducking for cover. It th~n  to enter or leave.  

Imus fired from CBS radio show 
way in this society," CBS President On Wednesday, MSNBC dropped the 
Associated Press 

and Chief Executive Officer Leslie simulcast of Imus' show. 
NEW YORK -CBS fired Don Imus Moonves said in announcing the deci­Losing Imus will be a financial hit to from his radio program Thursday, the sion. "That consideration has CBS Radio, which also suffered when finale to a stunning fall for one of the weighed most heavily on our minds Howard Stern departed for satellite nation's most prominent broadcast­as we made our decision." radio. The program is worth about ers. Rutgers women's basketball team $15 million in annual revenue to CBS, 
Imus initially was given a two-week spokeswoman Stacey Brann said the which owns Imus' home radio station suspension for calling the Rutgers team did not have an immediate com­WFAN-AM and manages Westwood women's basketball team "nappy­ment on Imus' firing. One, the company that syndicates the headed hos" on the air last week, but Time Magazine once named the show across the country. outrage continued to grow and adver­cantankerous broadcaster as one of The Rev. AI Sharpton and Jesse tisers bolted from his CBS radio show the 25 Most Influential People in Jackson met with Moonves on and its MSNBC sirimlcast. America, and he was a member of Thursday to demand lmus' removal, 
"There has been much discussion of the National Broadcaster Hall of promising a rally outside CBS head­the effect language like this has on Fame. quarters Saturday and an effort to our young people, particularly young But Imus found himself at the cen­persuade more advertisers to aban­women of color trying to make their ter of a storm as protests intensified. don Imus. 
·-----------------. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 13, 2007 
-
============================================================================ 
RoiDe 
continued from page 1 
Mary's sophomore Suzy Swygart participated in multiple services and even­tually started recognizing the different seminarians and priests that led them ­and later befriended them. 
"Suzy and I ran into semi­narians that we recognized from the morning station Masses we had great opportu­
been  attend­ 
ing,"  Larsen  
said.  "We  sat  


"It was one of the
with them, and nity to join it was an amaz­most beautiful other Catholics ing experience." things I have ever to celebrate She also the greatest
been a part of"
attended the day of the Chrismal Mass, Christian year where priests Meghan Larsen with the Pope, renew their Larsen said.
sophomore 
vows before the Pope the Lord's Supper Mass, known for the rite of washing feet on Holy Thursday and the Passion celebration inside St. Peter's Basilica on Good Friday. 
"We knew priests that were in the procession of the Chrismal Mass, so it was pretty neat to see the priests that we knew renew their vows with the Papa," Larsen said. "We had really good seats [for the Passion celebration] and could see the Pope very well." 
Larsen attended the Easter Vigil on Holy Saturday with Swygart, sophomore Lisa Ficker and three other Saint Mary's students. 
Before entering St. Peter's Basilica, crowds were lined up outside the gates of the square, Larsen said. 
"Once the gates open peo­pie just start sprinting to them," Larsen said. "When the gates open, though, it's every man for himself." 

Larsen said Ficker scaled the barricades to get insid!!, an older man present helped Swygart over the fence while Larsen was "sucked into the crowd" but eventually she also man­aged to enter the Basilica for the Mass. 
"We had an amazing view," Larsen said. "It was such a beautiful Mass most­
ly in Latin." 
The entire 
week was a 
"It was one 
of the most 
beautiful 

things I have ever been a part of," she said. "People from all over the world were there to cel­ebrate Mass." 
Not all the students who are studying in Rome par­ticipated in the events of Holy Week -students are on Spring Break until April 15. 
Sophomore Sarah Dapkus, who will be in Rome the entire academic year, chose to travel to Ireland during the break because she had seen the Pontiff on other occasions. 
''I've gone to a number of events with the Holy Father," Dapkus said. "It's so crowded that I opted to leave the hustle and bustle for Easter." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
moderated the panel, co-spon­sored by the Justice Education Program and the Political Science Department. 
Berdayes, a professor in the Communication and Performance Studies depart­ment, addressed the role of the media in the events leading upto the war, as well as their influ­ence throughout the armed con­flict. 
"Journalism now is not objec­tive. It is subjective from the very beginning," she said. "There is some bias always because journalists frame sto­ries from how much to cover, what to emphasize, what to make the foreground and what to make the background." 
Her focus was on the manipu­lative nature of present-day journalism and its effects on the American public. 
"Journalism is dangerous dur­ing wartime in matters of what stories are covered and how," she said. "Propaganda is often a prerequisite of war. Information is a weapon used on all sides." 
The most distressing journal­istic shortcoming, however, is not a ma.rked political orienta­tion but rather the failure to obtain all the correct informa­tion, she said. 
"Liberal or conservative bias is beside the point. What you see, read and hear may not be true," Berdayes said. · 
She also talked about a study that addressed the three major misconceptions of the war, as a result of disinformation, she said. The first untruth was the belief in the existence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. The second misconception, Berdayes said, had people thinking many other foreign countries supported America's war effort. And, finally, the notion that Saddam Hussein was directly linked to the September 11 attacks consti­tutes the third and most com­mon misunderstanding about the war in Iraq. 
These misconceptions alone illustrate the undeniable influ­ence -positive or negative ­of the media on the American people, Berdayes said. 
"The stakes are high, and we cannot be naive," she said. "We must be able to see the bias." 
Patrick Pierce, a political sci­ence professor, addressed the constitutionality of the war and the accountability of the sitting Bush administration. 
Initially, however, he revisited the common misconceptions of the American public, shaken by the "incredible percentages of citizens" that believe untrue and unsubstantiated rumors. 
lie also emphasized the importance of activism, on either end of the political spec­

. trum. Heflecting on the President's accountability, Pierce said that looking at the past will help dic­tate the future of the conflict. "In terms of administration, the last thing Bush wants to do is look backward, but backward is important because it pin­points accountability of our elected officials," he said. "Hegardless of what situation we face politically now, an important part of a democratic state is to hold oflicials account­able positively and negatively .... If the president is held account­able for negative actions, he loses power." The misuse of intelligence was another key point in Pierce's argument. "It is clear that what led up to the war was a manipulation of intelligence," he said. "Did [the Bush administration] lie? Disregard the truth? Make a good fake argument? Probably a mix of both." The implications and results of investigating the past for 
mental to further progress in both countries. 
"Our mere presence has made it very difficult for a stable democracy to be established no matter what," he said. "The whole situation was created by poor decision-making leading up to the war. There are no good choices for stability." 
The final speaker was Joseph Miller, a psychology professor, who spoke about the impact of the Iraqi conflict on Iran. 
"Presently, there is extensive evidence that Bush, Cheney and neoconservative advisors are trying to justify an attack in Iran," he said. 'They are using the same tactics as Iraq. This time, however, Congress, media and groups of all sorts are speaking out, demanding unnecessary and dangerous preparations with Iran be replaced with diplomacy." 
Miller addressed the impor­tance of avoiding the repetition of the Iraq War in Iran. 
"If we launch an attack in Iran, the tragedy will be even more intense," he said. 
Miller divided his presentation into four parts, starting with a discussion of the essential infor­mation that isn't being acknowl­edged. He went on to the essen­tial actions that are not occur­ring, the unfolding provocative actions that could spark a war and the options facing the United States. 
"There is no evidence Iran poses a nuclear threat in the near future, so there is no need to provoke war," he said. "Unproven information is as unreliable as the claims with Iraq." 
Miller also questioned Bush's willingness to explore diplomat­ic avenues with North Korea, but not with Iran. 
"The conflict with North Korea is much more advanced. Why can't we use diplomacy in Iran?" he said. "Many individu­als believe -myself included ­that the only way we can make 

answers to the above questions sure war is not launched in Iran may determine the electorate's is impeachment proceedings." future decisions, he said. 
Pierce also safd the continued Contact Katie Kohler at American occupation is detri-kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 
------------~~~~~~------------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering ------------~~~ -----­We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN -16637 Accepting reservations for graduation parties 
EXPERIENCE AFULL LIBERAL ARTS EDUCATION 
Explore the Program of Liberal Studies 
Applications Due Apri/17 
(available on-line) For Further Information See: 
wlvw.nd.edu/~pls 
~~ 
411! ~­
Gourmet Sandwiches, Salads &Soups Plus Fantastic FAIR TRADE Coffees 
Just aWalk from Campus Open Every Day! Edison Plaza, 1631 Edison Rd, 273-6216 
CREDIT &DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED! 
Cany Out Avuiluble 


$ $ 
i1ucK 
$ ~ne Per Visit $
Exp1res May 2007 
,-------------------------,
:s $ 
:~
·~ ~ BUCK 
I
: $ One Per Visit $ 
,___________ _
1 Expires May 2007 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----~-----~---------------------------------------. 
Friday, April 13, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
12,552.96 +68.34
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2, 148 142 1,106 2,774,401,222 

NASDAQ 2,480.32 +21.01 -;~;; •' ~·; ,,;'/<: -l.11ki1·1~t :1:11111111!11·1·11; S&P 500 1,447.80 +8.93 
NIKKEI(rokyO)• +l,l~·~6i~t!~!~\;1~·ii!~ii\ll'itlllllll· 
FTSE IOO(London) 6,416.40 +3.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 0.00 0.00 5.90 
INTEL CP (INTC) +0.15 +0.03 20.50 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ) -0.41 +0.35 44.56 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.70 +0.18 25.97 
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY) 
+0.44 +0.64 144.66 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.04 -0.002 4.737 13-WEEK BILL 0.00 0.00 4.885 30-YEAR BOND -0.10 -0.005 4.910 5-YEARNOTE +0.09 +0.004 4.653 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.84  63.85  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.00  679.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +1.93  103.78  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  118.9650  
EURO  0.7398  
POUND  0.5044  
CANADIAN$  1.1 343  

IN BRIEF 
Arkansas court remands case 
LITTLE ROCK -The Arkansas Supreme Court ruled Thursday that a state judge was wrong to dismiss Wal-Mart's lawsuit to break a retirement deal with a convicted former executive, saying the world's largest retailer is entitled to have a jury hear its claims. 
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., based in Bentonville, wants to void a multi-million-dollar retirement settlement it gave to Tom Coughlin, who later pleaded guilty to defrauding the company through the misuse of gift cards and expense reimbursements. 
Wal-Mart and Coughlin had signed a pact in which the two sides agreed not to sue the other for grievances that might come to light after Coughlin's departure. However, the com­pany said it discovered Coughlin's fraud after that pact was signed and believes Sam Walton's former right-hand man was obligated to reveal his deceit before retiring. 
Stocks advance despite oil prices 
NEW YORK-Stocks resumed their advance Thursday following a one-day hiatus as investors looked past higher oil prices and a somewhat cloudy picture for retail sales. The Dow Jones industrial average has shown gains in nine of the last 10 sessions. 
Retailers' reports on sales at stores open at least a year, an important measure known as same-stores sales, initi1;1,lly concerned some investors Thursday because of scattered warnings that sales would be light during April. Investors seemed to shake off those con­cerns as well as unease about inflation and oil prices as they awaited a deluge of earnings reports set to begin in earnest next week. 
"I think investors are trying to figure out what the next Fed move is. We're really at the point of chicken -where the Fed is trying to ward off inflation without submarining the economy," said Mark Coffelt, portfolio manag­er at Empiric Funds, referring to when the Federal Reserve might adjust short-term interest rates. Sentiment on the health of the economy has wobbled as investors have looked to each new piece of economic data for direction. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Nestle plans to purchase Gerber 
Company will become No. 1 in baby-food market ·after $5.5 billion aquisition 
Associated Press 

GENEVA -Nestle SA, the world's biggest food and drink company, said Thursday it will buy Gerber Products Co. from pharma­ceutical maker Novartis SA for $5.5 billion, giving it the largest share of the global baby food market. 
The acquisition helps fur­ther Nestle's reeent foeus on health and nutrition, follow­ing its purchases of the U.S. weight control company Jenny Craig and Novartis Medical Nutrition. · 
Nestle, which owns brands sueh as Nescafe, Perrier and Dreyer's, is also the world's largest manufacturer of infant nutritional products ­largely through its leading positions in developing coun­tries such as Brazil and China -but had no pres­ence in baby food in the United States. 
Gerber, whieh Nestle has coveted for more than a decade, dominates the U.S. baby-food market, with a 79 percent share, according to Morgan Stanley. 
"The acquisition of Gerber is the perfect complementary fit," said Nestle Chairman and CEO Peter Brabeck­Letmathe. "It not only gives Nestle the leadership posi­tion in baby food, but it also constitutes a decisive step to establish Nestle Nutrition as the undisputed global leader in the nutrition field." 
Adding Gerber will help the company's nutrition busi­ness generate annual sales of close to $8.2 billion. The company said it expects Gerber to generate sales of around $1.95 billion this year. 
Nestle shares fell 0.7 per­cent to 406.05 Swiss francs in Zurich, where Novartis shares were up at 67.35 francs ($55.27). 
Nestle first tried to acquire Gerber in 1994, but lost to Sandoz AG, which later businesses in recent years. merged with Ciba-Geigy to In December, Novartis sold form Novartis. Since then, its medical-nutrition division Novartis has taken steps to to Nestle for $2.5 billion. broaden Gerber's business Novartis is focusing on three beyond jarred foods. main areas: inventing new 

In 2000, Gerber began prescription medicines, vac­selling a line of powders, oils cines, and selling low-cost and other toiletries for chil­generic drugs and over-the­dren, and in 2002 it counter medicines. launched microwavable "This transaction is also meals for older toddlers. It the right move for Gerber, as also has a life-insurance it will become a priority busi­unit. But the baby-food busi­ness in a leading global ness has never been a good nutrition company," Novartis fit for a parent company that Chairman and CEO Daniel mainly sells medications. Vasella said in a statement. 
Novartis, based in Basel, Analysts said although the has shed several noncore price appeared high at first 
sight, it was in line with simi­lar deals. "Added to Nestle's existing baby food business in the 
U.S. and its overall North American business, this makes Nestle a very clear leader in infant nutrition in the U.S., where, unlike Western Europe, having babies remains in vogue," said Rob Mann, a Collins Stewart food analyst in London. 
The purchase is expected to be completed during the second half of this year, sub­ject to approval by regulato­ry authorities, Nestle said. 

Apple delays launch of 'Leopard' 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Calif. -Apple Inc. said it won't be shipping its next-genera­tion operating system in June as planned, saying it had to divert resources from the project so that it could launch its highly anticipated iPhone on time. 
The new shipment date for Mac OS X "Leopard" will be in October, the company said Thursday. The iPhone will make its debut in June as planned. 
Apple shares dropped $1.7 5, or nearly 2 percent, to $90.44 in extended-session trading after the announcement. Earlier, they had closed at $92.19, down 40 cents, on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 
The "iPhone contains the most sophisticated software ever shipped on a m_obile device, and finishing it on time has not come without a price -we had to borrow some key software engineering and (quality assurance) resources from our Mac OS X team," Apple said in a state­ment. 
Apple announced the iPhone -a smart phone that also serves as an iPod media player -in January to much fanfare. The Cupertino-based company said Thursday the iPhone is still on track to be shipped in late June and has passed several of the required certification tests. 
Apple, which had previously said Leopard would be available in the spring, had hoped to release the Mac operating system upgrade at its Worldwide Developers Conference, a five-day event in San Francisco that starts June 11. 
Instead, a "near-final version" of Leopard will be ready for the devel­opers at the conference to take home, Apple said. Though Leopard's features will be complete by then, Apple said the company won't be ready to ship what it considers a "quality release." 
"We think it'll be worth the wait," Apple said. "Life often presents trade-offs, and in this case we're sure we've made the right ones." 
Analysts agreed. 
"If it came down to one product or the other slipping, they made the right choice for iPhone to be on time -where consumer demand and anticipation is already running high," said Michael Gartenberg, an industry analyst at JupiterResearch. 
Apple plans to ship two versions of the iPhone -a 4-gigabyte model for $499 and an 8-gigabyte one for $599. It will be available in the U.S. exclusively through AT&T Inc.'s Cingular Wireless network. It will be sold in Europe later this year and in Asia next year. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 13, 2007 


DEUS, CARITAS EST 

I lDislz in 1nyjz"r.Jt En(yclica!to Jpeak o/'the love uJhich (/odlavishes uponlts anduJhich u;e in turn rru;stshare UJtth othe1~r 
-Pope Benedict XVI, Deus Caritas Est Encyclical Letter 

FRIDAY, APRIL 27 

...  4:00 p.1n.  Opening Mass at Alumni Hall Chapel (Fr. Jenkins presiding)  
...  5:15p.m.  Reception in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies  
6:15p.m.  Opening remarks from Fr. Jenkins  
6:30p.m.  Keynote ·speech from Ms. Brosnahan followed by panel discussion  

SATURDAY. APRIL 28 

-9:00a.m. Breakfast buffet in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies -9:45a.m. Keynote speech from Fr. Anderson followed by panel discussion -11:00 a.m. Concurrent presentations of student papers (including roundtable discussions with faculty and students) -Noon Lunch in the Grand Hall of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies l:OO p.m. Continue with concurrent presentations of student papers 
KEYNOTE SPEAKERS 

... Ms. Mary Brosnahan, director of the Coalition for the Homeless in New York City and a 1983 graduate of Notre Dame The Very Reverend Philip Anderson, O.S.B., Prior of Our Lady of the Annunciation of Clear Creek Monastery 
SPONSORED BY 

The Office of the President and the Deus Caritas Est Student Committee 
nd.edu/encyclical 
~UNIVERSITY OF For catering estimates, please email h·rodislow@nd.(·du and indicate your attendance. WNOTREDAME 

Friday, April 13, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
SBPD 
continued from page 1 
tioned on Corby on every block for at least four blocks, and on Route 23 he said he passed three or four more cars. He said he also saw polic~ cars parked along Notre Dame Avenue. 
Rossmann said he saw at least one K-9 unit. 
An auto impound report filed the incident as a parking violation/traf­fic hazard, Lanning said. The report listed the owner of the vehi­cle as Gerald O'Brien of the 1300 block of North Johnson Street. The vehicle was impounded for block­ing street traffic on the 800 block of Sarin Street. 
Kane said the police cleared out about a half hour after she arrived on Corby Boulevard. 
A bartender at Oub 23 said the police did not enter the building. 
Maddie Hanna contributed to this report. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 


r 
I I I 
XllE.... 
I 
I 
ll
I 

Sheehan 
continued from page 1 
Casey, in Iraq, spoke to a packed Carroll Auditorium Thursday morning as dozens of South Bend residents con­vened at campus to hear the words of the anti-war activist. 
While students were the audience's minority, Sheehan said she did not fear a lack of youth activism calling for an end to the war. 
"People always ask me, 'Where are all the young peo­ple?"' she said. "It seems they are not involved like they were in Vietnam, but there is a big difference.... If young people started burning things people would take more notice, but young people are doing it in a peaceful, authen­tic way." 
Sheehan began her personal crusade in August 2005, when she protested at a peace camp outside President Bush's Crawford ranch during his five-week vacation there. 
Her continuous efforts to gain Bush's attention garnered her international media atten­tion at Camp Casey during her five-week stint camped out­side the ranch. She demanded an audience with the presi­dent and an explanation for her son's death. 
Sheehan said there is great value in nonviolent demon­strations -giving her a voice louder than angry critics like conservative columnist Ann Coulter, she said. 
"If you wrestle with pigs you only get dirty," Sheehan said. · "And the pigs like it. We must 
..
.,...:;::,:..·: .. 

---------------------------..
I I I
Fresh Mexican Grille Fresh Mexican Grille
I I I I I I
THE

I I 
I I I I
BUY 1 BUYl
I I I 
keep ourselves clean. Peace is the most radical concept." 
The concept of peace within our own society, she said, is so rare that Sheehan only includ­ed it in the title of her organi­zation, Gold Star Families for Peace, after careful delibera­tion. 
Sheehan is one of nine founders of the organization, which provides support for families of fallen soldiers and seeks to end the U.S. occupa­tion of Iraq. 
While Sheehan said people often approach her in a state of shock about America's involvement in Iraq in this post-Vietnam era, she said she explains that after Vietnam those actively seeking peace thought their jobs were done. 
"I tell them, 'You put your signs in your garages and your peace badges in your jewelry box,"' she said. "Of course this can happen again. The war machine wants constant war ... In twenty, thirty or forty, your children will be involved in something like this." 
Sheehan made the decision to speak at the College as a "break" from her large venue speaking tour, College Democrat president Meaghan Herbst said. 
And while Sheehan could have spoken at a larger local venue, University spokesper­son Don Wycliff said no request to have Sheehan speak at Notre Dame came through his office. 
Although the expected atten­dance was only 200 people ­a relatively small crowd for the internationally known activist -Sheehan said she was enthused to be at a small 
Tel. (574) 2·73-2200 
women's Catholic college, par­
ticularly because the religious 
and leadershiD values Saint 
Mary's intends ·to instill within 
its graduates attracted her. 
"[Leadership] is not being 

elected or hired," she said. 
"To me, leadership is about 
living your life in an authentic 
way that honors your values 
and the values of humanity." 
As a convert to the Catholic 

religion and former youth 
leader within the Church, 
Sheehan raised concerns over 
the state of today's Church. 
She said she will not belieye 

priests, bishops, cardinals and 
the Pope are truly against the 
war until they join the nuns 
who are willing to physically 
sit in and protest the unjust 
bloodshed in the Middle East. 
This reference resounded in 

audience members who were 
in support of the Sisters of the 
Congregation of the Hol.Y 
Cross' recently announced 
stance in favor non-violence. 
The lecture's introductory 

speaker, Regina Wilson, said 
the Congregation "declared 
that nonviolence is constituent 
of Jesus, right with all 
Creation and requires innova­
tive responses to conflict." 
While Sheehan was in sup­

port of this declaration, it Mprompted the audience to question the College's involve­ment in the Notre Dame-based Reserve Officers' Training 
Corps program. 
Introductory speaker and 

Notre Dame Assistant 
Professor of theology Michael 
Baxter said he did not believe 
ROTC had a place at the 
University, and the scholar­
ship money should instead be 
used to finance student peace-
Fresh Mexican Grille 
Center 
Locate near the ew Martin's 
makers' scholarships -an idea that won the applause of Sheehan. 
Sheehan said a shortcoming of domestic anti-war activism is the individual protester's unwillingness to make sacri­fices. 
The first change she urged was the end of Saturday marches on Capitol Hill, jok­ingly saying that not even the person responsible for clear­ing dog waste from the side­walks is in the neighborhood on a Saturday. 
In turn, she extended an invitation to the 10,000 Mother March on Monday, May 14 -a date when she said she is confident the mani­festation will draw the atten­tion of lawmakers. 
Sheehan said the ultimate sacrifice, however, lies within the individual, as every citizen has the responsibility to con­tribute his talents to the improvement of society. 
"Look inside and figure out what more you can do," she said. "Don't worry about what you will eat, where you will sleep or your clothes. Step out in faith and that will be pro­vided for you." 
A mother of three other chil­dren, Sheehan said she would gladly stay in her California home to cook and clean for them, but after Casey's death and the loss of thousands of innocent Iraqis, she realized that was no longer an option. 
"If we want true and lasting peace," she said, "we all have to sacrifice.... We have to give something until it hurts." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehanO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
I I I I ,1 I I I
GETl FREE GETl FREE
I I I I 
I 0f1'?COUP 1One coupon per day, per guest. Can not be combined with any other offer. Beverages not 1 inCluded. included. 2nd item of equal or lesser price. Offer good at this store only. ExpiresApril30,2007.
I,. 7130 

I 7130 Heritage Square Drive,#440 Granger, IN 46530 I
.. _.. 

·-----------------------~ 

page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Jim Kirihara. 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hine SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews SAINT M;\RY's EDITOR: Karie Kohler PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 

ADVER)"ISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Roh Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4 543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse · advertisements based on content. 
· The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include con tact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tht.: Observer-(USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday Ihrough Friday ~=cpt during exam and v:tcation periods. A subKription [0 The Ob&r:!Ver is $100 for one academic yerr; $55 foro~ scmc:su::r. 
The Observer-is published ac POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall s~nd address corrections co: Nm1e Dame,.lN 46SS6-Q179 The Observer 
Pcriodital postage paid at None D.unc W. Box779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 Sou£h Dining Hall 

Notre Dame. lN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is a mem~r ofthe Associated Ptess. All reproductiM rights are reserved. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT 
Friday, April 13, 2007 

McDaniels' presence justified 
It's generated strongly worded Letters to the Editor, prompted plenty of angry complaints and often required sig­nificant changes before publication. 
So why is Kaleidoscope McDaniels still in The Observer? It's a fair question, and the short answer is. usually, it's pretty funny. 
Concerns about Observer comic strips have surfaced fre­quently in recent years. Readers have questioned Kaleidoscope since it began in January, and before that Jocular was a frequent target of criticism -although other cartoons, from time to time, have drawn objec­
cause. 

These observations are not meant to undermine complaints. After all, a newspaper's role is to serve its community, and upset readers deserve explanations. What's important to remember, however, is that the purpose of a comic strip isn't to infuriate people -it's to make them laugh. Some may see those laughs as eoming at others' expense, but that's ascrib­ing a baser motive to the cartoon than what its author or the newspaper had in mind. 
Humor is subjective. That doesn't mean anything goes, 
however. When we think one of our cartoonists 
O 
TI

tions as well. Whatever the r.ase, a common has r.rossed the line, we tell him. When we
os'erver 
theme has emerged. judge a -particular submission to be in poor When a joke is made -unless it's the taste, we ask for a replacement, or we run a
Editorial
mildest, safest and. more often than not. least gray box apologizing for the comic strip's 
funny option -someone gets oll'ended. 
And when a joke is made that touches a nerve with a broad­er group of readers, it's often because it exposnd an underly­ing issue. 
What do men at Notre Dame think of the school's women? Do people u)fderstand the magnitude of problems caused by eating disorders? Why is there tension between tho Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses? 
These are serious subjects, and they aren't eausod by stereotypes or jokes found in a comic strip. Those jokes stem from pre-existing problems -and while it's easy to blame a cartoon for inflamiqg a situation, it's not addressing any root 
absencn. (That's not what happened with Kalnidoseope McDaniels this week, though -the cartoonist took three days off.) 
Eventually, it eomes. down to a value judgment. Maybe the cartoons stimulate productive discussion, and maybe they don't. But we aren't asking our cartoonists to lead that discus­sion. We're asking them to make people laugh. That's what Kaleidoscope McDaniels docs, and that's why we value it. 
Wn hope that readers will continue to tell us when they think we've stepped over the line. But we also hope the com­munity will takn these jokes for what they are, and what they're always intended to be-jokes. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Marcela Berrios Chris Khorey Jenn Metz Fran Tolan 
Do you feel the Notre Dame Law School is well respected? Becky Hogan Ellyn Michalak %of votes #of votes
Viewpoint Scene 

a. Yes 73% 1117
Kara King Analise Lipari 
b.No 27% 421 Graphics 
Tom Hanculak 


b. 
This poll is based on the re!;ult of 1538 
votes at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To be stupid, selfish, and have good health are three requirements for happiness, though if stupidity is lacking, all is lost. " 
Gustave Flaubert French realist novelist 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Friday, April 13, 2007 page 11 
The madness of the poets 
In the middle of the seventeenth cen­tury, the divorcee, propagandist and future regicide, John Milton, claimed that would-be poets should mold their own lives in the form of virtue before daring to represent it 
James

in poetry. He "who 
Matthew

would not be frus­
Wilson

trate of his hope to write well hereafter The Treasonous in laudable things," Clerk Milton asserted, "ought himself to be a true poem; that is, a composition and pattern of the best and most honorable things; not presuming to sing high prais­es of heroic men, or famous cities, unless he have in himself the experience and the practice of all that which is praiseworthy." To lay such a burden on scribblers of verses must seem madness to us, so far is it from the common assumptions of our society. This is not only because we live in a half-literate age where even the nominally well educated neither read poetry nor could identify it if they heard it. Rather, our time lacks poetry in another sense. Our "popular poetry" is in fact the endless spectacle of mass entertainment, and we demand of that entertainment not that it be "honor­able," not that it be a "pattern of the best" to which a human being might aspire. Instead, we insist that it recre­ate, in as apparently unmediated a form as possible, the basest and worst aspects of our experience: sometimes to justify it, and sometime merely to affirm its pathos, validating the misery in which we wallow. In the greatest works of art, however, we discover what the philosophers 
intend when they say all things possess truth, goodness, and beauty insofar as they exist. In the madness of Achilles, we encounter the very form of courage, seeing that the practicing of a virtue takes narrative shape, and that shape we discover as beautiful. In Achilles also we discover a certain blindness, a fail­ure to distinguish courage from pride. The thin veneer of Christianity that has been brushed over most of us helps us to see that Achilles' lack of mercy proves at times a deficiency, an imperfection in the form of his life that betrays his adherence to a false system of truth. 
In most societies and times this identi­fication of the beautiful with the true and the good holds in art and in life. Of ours this cannot so confidently be asserted. The vast majority of us con­sume mass entertainment and that alone. We devour the crude banalities of rock or hip-hop as quickly as possible, requiring the music to be simple yet intensely emotional so that it provides satisfactions closer to those found in brothels than in the sacraments of enduring love. 
The complications of orchestral music render it unintelligible to us, as if we can believe that the only excuse for assembling so many instruments must be that they are going to bleat one, loud explosive noise while some airplane blows up an asteroid at the end of this week's box-office smash. We justify this scorn of the sophisticated and saturation in the squalid by saying that the music of mass entertainment speaks to our experience. This is partially true. The sulfurous auditory secretions of Trent Reznor, I'm sure, originate in the bowels of a painful adolescence no less than 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pride in appearance not a flaw 
Katherine, Katherine, Katherine. As not know you and therefore will not com­someone with a 3.66 GPA I am sure in ment on your physical appearance, but no your SAT prep you came across the defmi­one can love you unless you love yourself tion of hypocrite. You know, someone who and respect yourself. does something that they themselves con­Taking pride in your appearance is in no demn? Because you, my dear, have done way a crime, nor does it take away from just that. the ability to learn and increase intelli­
You claim that Liam Moran stereotypes gence. We all have hard days where we Notre Dame women and rowers and that may not look our best, but in no way is it he needs to broaden his standards, that acceptable to make this an everyday his viewpoint of Notre Dame women and occurrence. Ifyou do, it will not only be rowers is wrongfully placed. Yet as soon boys who are turned off by your appear­as you are done bashing someone (who ance but girls and teachers as well. I produces comics that the majority of the respect well-dressed women and men student body enjoys) for his actions, you alike. Take note boys, sweats and sweat­turn around and do the exact same thing shirts everyday are not that hot. I take by stereotyping him and telling him not to time in the morning to make myself pre­lower his standards and to go after the sentable, I wear some hot shoes and I am sexy unintelligent bimbo that you are sure a good student. I don't think this little bit he wants. of self-pride will offend you since you were 
Someone does not practice what they so inclined to declare your GPA. preach. As a fellow Katharine and some­See, Katherine, it's not that hard to have one who was a member of not only her it all. Some of the smartest girl I know are high school crew team but also one at the also some of the most beautiful girls I collegiate level as well, I can tell you I know. I can say that they do not take care never took Moran's comics serious. I never of themselves to attract boys, as many of felt like a Gremlin; it was you who called them already have boyfriends, but to feel me a Gremlin. You don't know me or good about themselves. It's called self­Liam, therefore you do not know how I esteem and self-love. And let me tell you feel or what kind of woman Moran is that combination is awesome. So don't interested in. take offense to Moran's comic-as it is a 
At a University that prides itself on hav­comic, the opposite of serious. But do lis­ing hardworking, well rounded students ten to it, as taking care of yourself makes who obviously put forth a great deal of you feel good. effort, I can say I am ashamed of your I would say that judging on your strong actions. You claim not to put enough effort reaction, someone hit a nerve, learn from in to your appearance and therefore could it. Chocolate? Fine by me. be considered unattractive by Liam Moran or possibly other male students. If you Katharine Sylvia consider yourself unattractive due to lack sophomore of effort it is only natural that other people Howard Hall will too. You call yourself a Gremlin. I do Aprill2 "Ms. Jackson" translates some of the sorrows of a country where illegitimacy and estrangement are commonplace. 
Some of us dabble in the decayed forms of the fine arts, justifying our practice on the authenticity of the suf­fering or sentimentality that inspired it, rather than on any actual achievement. We have no "mute inglorious" Miltons, but we have mobs of millions looking to express their all too legitimate sufferings in the sincere but incompetent lineated prose they call "poetry." They speak of the "healing" printing their pain brings about, but that is no excuse for bad art. As many of us have witnessed, one can have fantastic success as a playwright, no matter how ugly and vulgar the play, if one can convince enough college stu­dents that they are being "liberated" by acting or viewing it. This therapeutic justification serves not to better the world or the lives of its audience, but to assure those still maturing that they are just fine the way they are and to short circuit any serious critical thought. 
All art has some aboriginal contact with the foundational emotions of human experience. All great art engages dialectically with that experience, repre­senting it truly, calling forth its actual form. In that dialectic, great art also calls forth the potential forms of experi­ence, to show us how life should be and how we should live. We find in it what we already know as well as what we ought to desire, what we lament as well as what we ought to praise. 
In this respect, art frequently acts as a kind of goad, which suggests why human beings have always assigned an "edifying" element to art even as they fail time and again to explain it. 
Sometimes this "goading" can smack of pedagogical arrogance. How many school children of past generations came to loath Mozart or even poor Longfellow, because their knuckle-rapping school­master said they ought to love "The Requiem" or "The Song of Hiawatha"? The sublimity of a poem should not make one feel like a court jester staring ruefully up at his king; it rather threat­ens to absorb us in that sublimity. 
True poets and artists must indeed be mad, as in angered, to live in a time when the craft of making a beautiful thing is either ignored or patronized as therapeutic "self-expression." The more numerous charlatans who manufacture the monstrosities that pass for much of contemporary art, however, are prone to a peculiar madness. They march about the ruined colonnade of the fine arts, believing themselves to be its king mak­ing great works. What they in fact pro­duce-in film, print or music, on can­vas or in "installation art" -is a mirror, ugly yet rose-tinted to flatter our culture in the midst of its own deprivation. They are Miltons who helped murder a king and wrote lengthy tracks to "validate" the blood on their hands. They are not the Milton who wrote an epic about Christ, capable of praising the beauty of a life he might not succeed in imitating, but to which he might still aspire. 
James Matthew Wzlson is a Sarin Research Fellow, and knows all shall be well in his great taskmaster's eye. Roundheads may contact him at jwil­son5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Sheehan not in line with College mission 
As an alumna of Saint Mary's College, on campus. There are certainly many I was ashamed to read the story, "Anti­other scholars and activists who dis­war activist to speak," in the April12 agree with the war that would have issue of The Observer. I was disappoint­been a better alternative than her. She ed to learn the College had extended an is not someone who the College should invitation to Cindy Sheehan to speak be so willing to be affiliated with as her Thursday morning. I continue to find avenues of protest are not valued in the her behavior and conduct disrespectful College's mission. and undeserving of Saint Mary's sup­During her visit, Sheehan received an port. overwhelming amount of support from 
While I admit I am no enthusiast of official entities of the College, including Sheehan's views on the war in Iraq, I the Center for Women's Inter-Cultural have real reservations over the manner Leadership (CWIL), the Women's in which she has chosen to protest this Resource Center, Peacemakers and war in Iraq. Please do not misunder­Justice Education. These organizations, stand my position. I believe in the First funded by grant money and student Amendment. I believe in the right of tuition, should not be sponsoring such a every citizen to question her govern­high-profile, politically-driven visit. That ment. These are values of our American should have been left solely to the democracy. Nevertheless, Sheehan has College Democrats or other politically­routinely abused those rights. affiliated clubs on campus. Would the 
First and foremost, she continues to CWIL -or the other groups -ever misrepresent the war through false sponsor a visit by a supporter of the facts while casting unwarranted asper­Iraq war, or even just a conservative, to sions upon those who fundamentally speak on campus? From my four years disagree with her. She has been arrest­spent at Saint Mary's, I have my doubts. ed on numerous occasions due to Ifthe goal of Sheehan's visit was to unlawful protests across the United allow students the opportunity to partic­States and the world. The most despica­ipate in democracy and to aid Saint ble of these being her 2006 attempt to Mary's women in becoming informed wear an anti-war T-shirt in to the citizens, then Saint Mary's should be as gallery of the U.S. House of willing to invite an alternative viewpoint Representatives during President Bush's to argue the other side. I'll be waiting. annual State of the Union Address. As she most certainly knew or should have Sarah Vabulas known, protesting in this chamber is not alumna allowed. Her actions were disrespectful Class of 2006 and political in nature. There is a time Saint Mary's College and a place for this type of activity. This April 12 certainly was not the time. 
I am disappointed that my alma The writer is a former Viewpoint mater chose to allow Sheehan to speak editor for The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Friday, April 13, 2007 



Much of the humor in "A Midsummer Night's Dream" comes from the mechanicals, a troupe of actors led by Bottom (Steve Soebbing, back row). 
CHRISTIAN SAGARDIA!The Observer 

Callie Hoffman (left) and Emily Sladek take the stage as fairy king and queen Oberon and Titania, respectively, in Opera Notre Dame's latest production. 
ByTAEANDREWS 
Scene Ediror 

When the curtain goes up on "A Midsummer Night's Dream" tonight in Washington Hall, it will mark a milestone for Opera Notre Dame -the culmination of its most ambitious project to date. 
Most college students have come to know and love William Shakespeare's play through high school English courses, but it's an entirely different show when presented in opera form. 
For a quick refresher course, the play's rather complicated plot revolves around two pairs of lovers -Hermia and Lysander, and Demetrius and Helena ­who end up in a forest after Hermia and Lysander elope. The play is very soap opera-esque, 
as Helena is in love with Demetrius, who loves not Helena but Hermia, who in turn loves Lysander. This complex "who-likes­who" dynam­ic becomes even more complicated when fairy king Oberon has his bench-fairy, Puck, inter­vene. Puck plays Cupid with a series of love potion applications, which scram­ble the preexisting romantic relation­ships and create a whole new series of interlocking love triangles. 
In addition to the lovers, a roving band of thespians arrives in the woods, Oberon feuds with his fairy wife Titania, and there's an impending marriage between Duke Theseus of Athens and Amazonian queen Hippolyta. 
Oh, and one man's head is turned into that of a donkey. 

As far as the opera goes, legendary British composer Benjamin Britten com­posed the music in late summer of 1959 for a performance at the Aldeburgh Festival, held less than a year later. Britten is considered to be perhaps England's most important composer ever, but any discussion of the music of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" must include mention of Peter Pears, Britten's lifelong friend and contemporary. In fact, Britten composed much of the opera with Pears' tenor voice in mind. Due to the time con­straints under which they wrote the opera, Pears was responsible for adapt­ing the text of Shakespeare's original play. 
As such, there's a considerable amount of change and revision in the operatic version of "A Midsummer Night's 
Dream," which makes its 
performance consider­ably more diflicult. 
"Whenever you're talk­ing about the opera, it's important to keep in mind that it's an adapta­tion," director Mark Beudert said in the midst of a busy rehearsal Wednesday night. "The location of the opera is changed to the woods. The woods music runs through the whole opera. [Also), Oberon's role is bigger and the lovers' roles are propotionately smaller. The mechanicals are about the same. Theseus and Hippolyta are reduced to almost nothing. 
"In Shakespeare's text, there's more words and therefore more nuances. However, for the opera, it can't be han­dled the same way. You have to search for the nuances in the music. In fact, we had to go back and look for clues in the play in order to find back-story for the lovers. 
"Here, you have a decision to make in order to create an opera that works well. You have to pick and choose. So it's an interesting process." 
In addition to the challenge of custom tailoring the opera, there's the music itself. Fortunately for Beudert, in Andrew Bisantz he has found a conductor up to the task. 
Bisantz earned a Master of Music degree in Orchestral Conducting at the Cleveland Institute of Music in 1997, making him the youngest person ever to achieve such a degree in the institute's history. Ten years later, he is the resident conductor of Florida Grand Opera in Miami. 
Of course, Beudert himself is an accomplished professional. A visiting professor of opera here at Notre Dame, Beudert is a tenor who completed his undergraduate studies at Columbia University, then received his doctoral degree in music from the University of Michigan. 
In terms of degree of difficulty, Beudert and company should be awarded a per­fect ten for taking on the challenge of pulling off "A Midsummer Night's Dream." As Beudert himself says, "This is music that challenges professionals." 
So why did he choose to put on "A Midsummer Night's Dream?" 
"This is a fiendishly difficult opera to present, and it's almost impossible for an all-undergraduate cast to perform -but we didn't accept that," Beudert said. "We have a very diverse cast, a very young cast. Frankly, we had so many talented people we had to do it. We have pushed everyone. It's been a learning experience for all of us. I don't know anyone else who's doing this. I think it's unique for us." 
But due to the difficulty of the perform­ance, Beudert did wind up making one concession -calling in some backup with professionals imported from the South Bend Symphony. 
"It's a perfect opera for this campus because it's a complete liberal arts expe­rience," Beudert said of the opera, speaking for himself, cast and crew. "It's been a tremendous experience, and we're looking forward to doing it in front of an audience." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
I 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, April 13, 2007 
page 13 
CD REVIEW 
'Devils and Angels' is divinely uninspired 
DVD REVIEW 
'Dazed and Confused' gets high on teen spirit 
Photo courtesy of dvdbeaver.com Director Richard Linklater's classic 1993 film "Dazed and Confused" is an irrever­ant, character-driven return to his high school years in the mid 1970s. 
McConaughey and superb character actors like Adam Goldberg and Parker Posey all shine here -several of them in their very first screen appearances. 
In this way, "Dazed and Confused" becomes one of the most singularly charac­ter-driven movies in recent memory. Even Linklater, on the director's commentary to the new DVD, admits to the film's lack of an identifiable plot. Do we miss having a plot? Not really. But if you need one, here it is: A bunch of high schoolers cruise around a small town in Texas for kicks on the last day of school in May 1976. They have fun, get in trouble and get away with it. Some justice is served, but mostly they talk the night away. 
Linklater's motivation for making the movie was simple and two-fold: to capture the energy of being a teenage and playing loud music. Everything else is nonessen­tial. He hoped to capture "what it was like in that moment-to-moment reality, looking around for something to do, trying to be cool, and not much really going on," he admits on the commentary. "But I still wanted to capture the essential boredom of being a teen and trying to find something to d0." 
The fmished film plays out a lot like its simple premise, with teens amusing them­selves, realizing their boredom before mov­ing on to another pursuit. Its refreshing simplicity never gets old and instead ele­vates it to one of our great teen pictures. And as a testament to Linklater's story­telling skill, it never feels like a string of sight gags, which is what it could have easi­ly devolved into in the hands of a lesser filmmaker. 
As promised, the soundtrack is bumping. The characters tool around while Aerosmith, War, ZZ Top and Lynyrd Skynyrd carry the plot with ease. 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
With their newest release, "Devils and Angels," pop-rock band Melee have some­how managed to create one of the most generic albums ever put to digital disc. This album is what Rob Gordon once called "music I can ignore," and its polish seems so overdone that it has virtually eliminated any semblance of originality or talent. 
"Devils & Angels" opens with the espe­cially ignorable "Built to Last." Frontman Chris Cron 's style feels something like 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Senior Staff Writer 
In hindsight, high school really was one big haze. At least, that's the impression you get from "Dazed and Confused," writer­director Richard Linklater's cheerfully droll and hilarious revisit of his '70s teen years. 
Employing an ensemble cast with the tal­ent to match the prowess of his prose, Linklater drives the movie forward by parading his characters, one group after another, in front of us. He flexes his rare talent for developing a handful of charac­ters in a two-minute exchange, before whisking us away to another equally com­pelling group and introducing us to them. Big names like Ben Affleck and Matthew Coldplay, melded to a sad imitation Motion City Soundtrack and with a dash of The Shins -only, well, not as good. When Cron wants to croon, his vocals try to massage the tinny guitars in an attempt to sound epic. Unfortunately, it only sounds like over­produced babble. Cron should leave the singing to guys like Modest Mouse front­man Isaac Brock -someone who actually knows how to croon with his instruments -and return to the delusions of grandeur from whence he comes. 

This is not to say that every song on the album is horrible -some of them manage to be only quite bad. The third track, "Frequently Baby (She's a Teenage Maniac)." kicks the album into second gear, past the feeble "first gear" of the rest of the album. Sadly, for listeners, this is where the placid excitement ends. Trying to sound like British rockers Muse, they throw in piano for good measure. But where Muse is epic, Melee sings about a teenage mani­ac with her heart of the dance floor. If Melee wants to sound and look like British rockers, it should stop singing about high school girls. It's just plain creepy. 
The rest of album follows along like a pop music cookbook. Producer Howard Benson seems, like numbers before him, to have followed the path of least musical resistance, and "Devils and Angels" feels like an uninspired combination of pop ten­dencies and pseudo-hipster sensibilities as a result. It's as though Benson and Melee consulted the library of generic blues con­ventions, added a quarter of a cup of rhythm, mixed in a dash of monotonous guitar and covered it with a bland produc­tion glaze. 
myspace.com Californian pop-rockers Melee have recently released a new album, "Devils and Angels," which aims to imitate artists like Muse and Modest Mouse. 
"Drive Away," from the first half of the album, tries to be edgy with some crunchy guitars. Sadly, it's just too little too late ­and Melee hasn't hit the middle of the album. The rest of the "Devils and Angels" continues along the same well-trod path. 
The only decent song on the album is its bonus track, "You Make My Dreams." This song is actually catchy, with its fuzzy gui­tars that seem to have escaped the produc­ers' spit-n-shine routine. Cron sings with some real feeling, and the rest of the band provides decent background vocals. The best thing about this track is its honesty ­the band isn't trying to be epic or ground­breaking. They are, strangely enough, hav­ing fun with the song. It's too bad for Melee that this diamond in the rough is a bonus track, and that they couldn't take a cue from it for the rest of the album. 
All in all, Melee's "Devils and Angels" is a horrible piece of recorded music. It knows what it wants to be, which is more than many bands can say, and it is what it is ­very bad. Go check out Modest Mouse, Muse or even Coldplay before you go near this one. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroe 1 @nd.edu 

Like Zach Braff with "Garden State," Linklater had the music in mind when fashioning the screenplay. "Music articulat­ed everything you couldn't really say," he admits. 
With the film already past its lOth birth­day, the Criterion Collection has bestowed Linklater's lovable little film with a two-disc special edition DVD that captures its semi­nal place among '90s independent cinema. Featuring a new clean-up video and audio transfer and a wonderful commentary from Linklater, the film looks and sounds better than it ever has before. 
But the meat and potatoes of the release are the copious extras. The DVD includes on-set and behind-the-scenes interviews with cast and crew, trailers, deleted scenes and footage from the 10-year anniversary reunion. The real treasure is the "Making 'Dazed"' documentary, a 45-minute piece that digs into why the film was so hard to make, and how Linklater and the crew managed to will it into existence. 
Playing out like one charming vignette • after another, "Dazed and Confused" is a rare and wonderful film that succeeds without ever concerning il'ielf with a plot. "Dazed" remains a landmark teen picture purely on the strength of its characters. They seem almost endless as they laugh, idle, bicker and torment one another for the better part of a day and night in '76. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 13, 2007 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

Laxers prepare for home tilt versus Georgetown 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
No. 12 Notre Dame will look for a crucial win Saturday, fac­ing off against Big East foe Georgetown. 
The Irish (10-3) will conclude their five-game home stand against the No. 11 Hoyas (7-5) at 1 p.m. Georgetown sits atop the Big East standings with a 3-0 record, and Notre Dame stands 

--tied for second at 2-1. Georgetown, ranked third in the preseason, has played an up and down season against an incredibly tough schedule. While the Hoyas have impressive wins against ranked conference oppo­nents Rutgers and Syracuse, the team has dropped five games, 
including three of its last four. 
All five of Georgetown's losses have come to opponents ranked in the top-12 nationally. 
For Notre Dame, the game against the conference leader is critical if the Irish want to remain in contention for the Big East regular season title. A win against the Hoyas would vault the Irish into first place, while a loss would effectively end any hopes of a regular season cham­pionship and the No. 1 seed in the inaugural Big East Tournament. 
Offensively, the Hoyas are led by senior Coco Stanwick, cur­rently second in the conference in points with 40 goals and 18 assists. Seniors Brittany Baschuk and Schuyler Sutton also have 22 and 20 goals, respectively. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne said the team hopes to contain Stanwick, but doesn't expect to completely stop the Georgetown star. 
"You know Coco will get her goals," Coyne said. "But we feel confident we can handle and contain her defensively, and I have a lot of confidence in Kaki Orr against her in draw control." 
Georgetown's strength this season, however, has been in its defense. The Hoyas are giving up an average of only nine goals per game -best in the eonfer­ence. 
Notre Dame will look to con­tinue two recent trends that have led to wins -smothering defense and a balanced offen­sive attack. In the Irish wins this season, the team has given up an average of 7.3 goals per game, while giving up totals of 20, 16 and 18 in the three loss­es. 
While sophomore Jillian Byers and junior Caitlin McKinney have been Notre Dame's top scorers all season, the emer­gence of a complete offensive attack has been a key to Notre Dame winning five of their last six. Sophomore Jane Stoeckert and senior Meghan Murphy have each led the Irish in points in recent games, and seniors Orr and Lena Zentgraf have each made significant contributions as well. 
''I've been excited to see so many players stepping up," Coyne said. "Mary Carpenter had a career high in goals last game, and Meghan, Lena and Jane have been excellent -it's been great and huge to our suc­cess." 
The Georgetown game starts a tough schedule leading up to the Big East tournament for the Irish. Notre Dame will face No. 15 Vanderbilt on the road and conclude the regular season against No. 18 Rutgers. 
The Irish, however, look for­ward to these challenges. 
''I'm psyched to play three ranked teams, especially with the rivalries," Coyne said. "It gives us good mental prepara­tion without any easy games, and we want to end the season on a positive note." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to 111aintain do111inance 
Team travels to Evanston to take on No. 9 Northwestern 
By DAN MALOOF Sports Writer 
The No. 2 Irish will attempt to improve to 22-1 overall as 
they  take  on  No.  9  
Northwestern  today  in  
Evanston, Ill.  

The Irish, riding a 16-match winning streak, are coming off two impressive performances over the weekend in which they easily handled both No. 34 Indiana and No. 48 Ohio State by a score of 7-0. 
The Irish have been battling injuries all season, but Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback hopes to get junior Brook Buck back in the lineup at some point this weekend. 
"We'll know tomorrow," Louderback said. "We're going to try to get Brook in some doubles this weekend but we don't know when for sure. It all depends on how she's feel­ing." 
The Wildcats, who have won their last four matches and seven of their last eight, will look to carry the momentum into the match after they defeated Indiana 5-2 on Easter Sunday. 

Louderback understands that this will not be an easy match because, at No. 9, Northwestern brings a different a 
"Ifthey go with the 
different level of strong doubles play to the court. lineup they've been reputation, "It's going to Louderback has
going with, I feel 
depend on line­placed a lot of
pretty good about 
ups," Louderback emphasis on said. "If they go the matchups. " doubles in the with the lineup praetices this they've been going week.
Jay Louderback
with, I feel pretty "We did quite
Irish coach
good about the matchups. The key is going to be doubles because they have good doubles teams and their number one team just beat the No. 1-ranked William and Mary's number one doubles last week." 
The two teams are no strangers. They faced off in the semifinals of the ITA Indoor National Tournament in February. The Irish outlasted the Wildcats 4-3 in that match, but Louderback feels that his team has improved greatly since that match. 
"Our freshmen aren't fresh­men anymore because they've played a lot of matches," Louderback said. "I just think that we've gotten a lot of expe­rience playing against a lot of good teams, and I really think our doubles depth right now is very good because all the kids have played a lot." 
Due to 
Northwestern's 
a bit of doubles 

work this week because doubles is going to be very important, and our sin­gles are pretty sharp at this point because we've played a lot. I figured we needed to be ready to give ourselves the best shot of winning the dou­bles." 
After battling Northwestern today, the Irish will look to fin­ish their regular season on a high note as they take on DePaul and Marquette Saturday and Sunday, respec­tively. 
Contact Dan Maloof at dmaloof@nd.edu 
MEN'S GOLF 
Tea111 heads to tuneup 
for conference tourney 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
For the second consecutive weekend, Notre Dame will have to contend with Mother Nature as well as the other teams in the tournament field. 
In their final event before the Big East Championships, the Irish will head to Columbus, Ohio, for the Kepler Intercollegiate at the Scarlet Course of the Ohio State Golf Club. 
"[The course] is going to play tough," Irish senior co-captain Cole Isban said. "It's difficult to begin with and the wind and snow we're expecting is just going to add to that." 
Last week, the Irish earded an eighth-place team score amid rain and strong winds at the Boilermaker Invitational in West Lafayette, Ind. 
In Columbus, Notre Dame will take on a number of regional foes, including the Buckeyes, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Wisconsin, Northwestern, Michigan and Michigan State. 
"We're just looking to get some district wins against some of those teams," Isban said. 
This tournament will also mark the first one of the season in which the Irish will have the opportunity to take on Louisville, a team Isban calls Notre Dame's most formidable Big East oppo­nent. 
"We get to take on Louisville so that should give us a good idea of where we stand," Isban said. 
Along with Isban, the Irish will send senior co-captain, junior Greg Rodgers, sophomore Josh Sandman, and freshman Doug Fortner to compete in the team's final tune-up before the confer­ence tournament. Freshman Mike King will also play in the Kepler Intercollegiate as an indi­vidual performer. 
"It's going to be an important weekend for us," Isban said. 
Practice rounds will be held today. Each team will play two 18-hole rounds Saturday and one on Sunday. Temperatures are expected to top out in the mid-40s with constant precipita­tion likely throughout the week­end. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office,  
CLASSIFIEDS  024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
BETTER HOMES,BETTER  Houses for rent for 2007/8,8/9.  2-6 BDRMS HOMES.  PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME- If you or someone you care about  
WANTED  AREAS,BETTER DEALS. BlueGoldRentals.com  Close to campus. 3-9 bedrooms. Call Anlan Properties at 532-1896.  GREAT RATES.  ONE WHO IS?  has been sexually assaulted,  
You do not have to be alone.  
SUMMER WORK-$15.50 base­ 3 to 6 bedroom homes for rent for  Very large home for rent for next  574-329-0308  visit  
appt. flexible schedules, no  07/08 school year. On line see rent- school year. 1 block east of cam- OFF CAMPUS HOUSING.  We want to help. Call our 24 hour  
exp.needed,customer sales/service,  nd.com or mmmrentals.com.  pus. Walk to class/food/shops. 4  confidential hotline at  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape  
conditions apply,all ages 17+, posi­ huge bedrms/3 full baths/large  6-bdrms & 3 bdrms still available for  
lions throughout the US, apply now,  Contact Gary at Grooms@ourweb­ kitchen-lam rm & laundry rm. 3  07-08.  1-800-No-ABORT  to learn about resources at ND and  
start after finals, www.workforstu­ spot.net or phone 574-277-4759.  decks overlook huge fenced yard.  
dents.com  Very private & safe! Must see! 239­ Call Cosimo 277-1875. bumbaca­ or visit our website at  in South Bend.  
RENTLIKEACHAMPION 3-5  707-2025.  houses.com  
bdrms avail tor 07-08. $250/bdrm.  www.lifecall.org  Professional couple to house sit for  
...  FoR SALE *ND CONDOS*  Call312-545-5123 or email mitchell.58@nd.edu  2 bdrm home close to ND. Avail Now. $650/mo + utilities. Call Peggy 269-687-3096.  TICKETS  Oberon: Lord, what fools these mortals be!  summer. Saving to buy home.  
Condo for rent-walk to ND/SM. Grt  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  P.  
NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath condos  loc.Spac.Lower,2b/2b incl.all appli.  New 3 BR,3.5 bath twnhse, close to  ND references.  
A/C,Carpet,Porch,Car Port $925 +  campus, carpet, unfurn, all appi,AC,  Do not go it alone.  Come see the foolish mortals in W- 
Minutes from campus Starting in  util. 630-417­ 2 car gar. No pets.  If you or someone you love needs  hall2nite & Sat.!  Dave 574-204-2877 aft 6p  
$130,000s 574-252-2427 ndcon­ 8763/MCL214@ aol.com  confidential support or assistance,  
dos.com  $1650/mo plus util.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­ Adopt:  IT'S THE WEEKEND....  
Reserve Yours Today!  4 Bedrooms 2 Baths Swanson  7819.  
Highlands; Central Heating & air;  914-232-3328.  A young loving couple long to share  SO SMILE EVERYBODY!  
remodeled appliances;  For more information, visit our web  their Hearts and home with a new- 
FoR RENT  $1250/mo; Responsible parties,  For rent: Nicest house in area. 4 bedrooms,A/C, security. 5 blocks  site at http://osa.nd.edu/depart­ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi- born & will provide Endless love. Expenses paid call Eileen & Ed at  Then again ...  
andersonNDrentals.com  students OK. 574-243-2778  from campus. 289-4071.  weekly ad in The Observer.  1-800-718-6577  At least it'll be Monday soon  



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 13, 2007 Cotv\PlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S W'IRE SERVICES page 15 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team  record  pet.  
Toronto  5·3  .625  
Boston  4·4  .500  
New York  4-4  .500  
Tampa Bay  3·5  .375  
Baltimore  3-6  .333  

American League Central 

team record pet. 
Cleveland 4·2 .667 Detroit 5·3 .625 Minnesota 5·3 .625 Chicago 4·4 .500 Kansas City 3·6 .333 
American League West 

team record pet. 
los Angeles 6·4 .600 Seattle 3·2 .600 Texas 4·5 .444 Oakland 4·6 .400 
National League East 

team record pet. 
Atlanta 7-1 .875 New York 5·3 ..625 Florida 5·4 .556 Philadelphia 2·6 .250 Washington 1-8 .111 
National League Central 

team record pet. 
Milwaukee 58·19 .753 Cincinnati 40-38 .513 St. louis 38·40 .487 Pittsburgh 37·40 .481 Houston 32-45 .416 Chicago 3-5 .375 
National League West 

team record pet 
Arizona 7-3 .700 San Diego 6·3 .667 los Angeles 6·3 .667 Colorado · 4-5 .444 San Franciso 2·7 .222 
GB 
1 1 2 2.5 
GB 
1 2.5 
GB 
.5 1.5 2 
GB 
2 2.5 5 6.5 
GB 
16.5 19 20.5 24 1.5 
GB 
.5 .5 2.5 4.5 
NCAA Men's Baseball America College Top 20 
team  W-L  prev.  
1  Vanderbilt  29-5  1  
2  North Carolina  29·5  4  
3  Florida State  31-4  2  
4  South Caronna  26-7  5  
5  Virginia  29·7  3  
6  Texas  28-10  7  
7  Rice  26-10  8  
8  Oregon State  25-7  9  
9  Arkansas  25·10  6  
10  Pepperdine  26·8  11  
11  Wichita Stale  26-8  10  
12  Arizona State  26·10  15  
13  Arizona  28-6  17  
14  Clemson  23-9  18  
15  Oklahoma State  23·8  13  
16  Texas A&M  27-7  J6.  
17  UC Irvine  23-8  23  
18  Cal State Fullerton  19-12  12  
19  Coastal Carolina  28·5  14  
20  Mississippi  24·10  20  

around the dial 
MLB 
Florida at Atlanta 
7:35 p.m., TBS 
NBA 
Indiana at Miami 
8:00 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 


Associated Press 

Venus Williams cruised 
. into the quarterfinals of the Family Circle Cup on Thursday with a 6-2, 6-1 vic­tory over Chan Yung-Jan of China. The American, unseeded and in her fourth tournament since recovering from a wrist injury earlier in the year, reached 125 mph with her serve and needed just over an hour to win the match on a bright, breezy day on the green clay at Daniel Island. In Friday's quarterfinals, Williams, ranked No. 29, meets Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain, who eliminated eighth-seeded Li Na of China, 6-4,7-5. 
Williams won in Memphis in her return, advanced to the third round in Miami and made the quarterfmals last week at Amelia Island. She · said she feels stronger with each match. 
"I've been off so long and I'm eager to play and I'm eager to get my ranking up and I want to play matches," she said. ''I'm excited about the snowball effect." 
Second-seeded Jelena Jankovic of Serbia, ranked No. 9 and the highest remaining seed at the $1.3 million Family Circle Cup, had an even easier time than Williams. 
She defeated Mara Santangelo of Italy 6-3, 6-0 in 47 minutes, losing only six points in the second set. It's Jankovic's fourth appearance in Charleston, but until this week she never survived the second round. Last year, Jankovic lost to a qualifier. 
''I'm now in the top 10 and I'm just a different player," she said. "I really don't have to prove anything to anybody, but all I want is just to enjoy my game, play my game." 
Jankovic meets Katrina Srebotnik of Slovenia, who beat Zheng Jie of China 7-5, 7-6 (5) in the quarterfinals. 
'Fourth-seeded Dinara Safina of Russia also won in straight sets, defeating Lourdes Dominguez Lino of Spain, 6-2, 6-2. She will face Tatiana Golovin of France, a 6-2, 4-6, 6-3 winner over 
AP 

Peng Shaui of China. 
Golovin captured the first tour victory of her career last week at Amelia Island and said success builds confi­dence. 
"It's one of the most impor­tant things," she said. "A lot of top players sometimes win matches they shouldn't win because they have confi­dence even if they aren't playing that well. And I think that's what I'm building up to." 
Michaella Krajicek of the Netherlands, who earlier this _ week defeated the tourna­ment's top-seed, Nicole Vaidisova, also advanced with a 6-7 (4), 6-2, 6-1 win over Sybille Bammer of Austria 
IN BRIEF 

Slight prow;ess in basketball 
players staying in school Two weeks ago, Kevin Durant showed up to collect one of sev­eral player-of-the-year awards wearing a burnt-orange tie, black shirt and black suit. Somehow, it made him look even younger, taller and skinnier than he did in a Texas Longhorns jer­sey. That is no small accomplish­ment. 
Durant had to lean down at the lectern to reach the microphone, and at the end of a short, gra­cious acceptance sp'eech, he flashed an uncertain smile at the front row. There, his parents and grandmother sat and beamed back. He still looked like an 18­year-old kid to everybody pres­ent, but he was about to become a $40 million man with a lot 
more  to  worry about than his  
grades.  It  was  a  bittersweet  
moment.  

Sorenstam's injury improves
Ochoa's ranking 
REUNION, Fla. -Lorena Ochoa would prefer a head-to-head vic­tory against Annika Sorenstam to become No. 1 in the women's world rankings. 
The 25-year-old Mexican star might have to settle for gaining the top spot a different way ­with Sorenstam injured and out of the mix. 
Ochoa shot a 6-under 66 in the opening round of the Ginn Open on Thursday, tying Laura Davies for the lead and moving a step closer to supplanting Sorenstam atop the rankings. 
"I would love for her to be play­ing, yes," Ochoa said. "So I guess right now it's the way it is. But I think I better keep playing good and just take advantage of that. 
But  I  wish  her  all  the  best.  
Hopefully  she  will  be  (back  
soon)."  

Chi~o, L.A. compete for site 
of Olympic games m 2016 
Pacific Ocean or Lake Michigan. Sunset Strip or Magnificent Mile. L.A. glitz or Chicago brawn. 
One of America's two iconic cities will get the nod Saturday as the country's candidate to host the 2016 Olympics. Although winning this part of the selec­tion process will be something to cele­brate, it will only be the start of the hard work. 
The real race is in the quest to win over the International Olympic Committee and earn 60 votes in 2009, when the games are awarded. The field is expected to also include Madrid, Rio de Janeiro, Rome and Tokyo. 
Finding a way to win those 60 votes has been the crux of every speech, every presentation, every detailed list of instructions the U.S. Olympic Committee leaders have given the cities since the USOC commandeered and retooled the domestic selection process 21 months ago. 
,..-------------------------------------------------­page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 13, 2006 
Department of Music Presents 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE 
& CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR PAIVI EKROTH, PlANO 

7

BYRD MOZART BEETHOVEN BRAHMS
l' l' 
BRUCKNER l' DEBUSSY 7 STRAVINSKY 
8:00P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 21, 2007 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HAlL MARl[ I'-DEBARTOLO CENHR FOR HIE PERFORMING ARTS 
Tickets ~1o, ~8, ~6, ~3 
phone 574-631-2800 
~DEBARTOLO 
~ PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
CREW 

Team to compete in its largest event 
By DANIELL£ KELLER 
Sports Writer 

The Irish travel to Redwood Shores, Calif., to compete in the fifth-annual Windermere Real Estate Rowing Classic this weekend. 
The regatta is the team's largest competition this sea­son, featuring more than 100 races among the nation's top universities. Rowers will com­pete in two days of Henley style racing, in which all the races consist of just two boats. 
Notre Dame kicks off the weekend with a varsity-eight race against California on Saturday. The varsity-four boat will also race against California later in the morn­ing. 
On Saturday afternoon, Notre Dame's varsity-eight and second varsity-eight boats will race Stanford, Saturday's competition ends with the novice-eight boat racing UCLA. The second varsity­eight boat returns to action on Sunday morning in a race against UCLA. The varsity­eight and varsity-four boats will also race UCLA Sunday. 
UCLA's last competition was in the San Diego Crew Classic, in which the Bruins won the 
Laurel V. Korholz Perpetual 
·Trophy for the novice-eight race and placed in the top­four in three other races. Stanford and California also competed in the· San Diego Crew Classic. No. 9 Stanford placed third in the varsity­eight race and third in the novice-eight race. California placed second in the varsity eight race and the open eight race, third in the second varsi­ty-eight race, and fourth in the novice-eight race. 
Notre Dame is ranked No. 14 
in the Collegiate Coach's 
Rowing Association/US Rowing 
Poll. Last weekend's regatta in 
Indianapolis was cancelled 
due to inclement weather. In 
their previous competition, the 
Irish won the Lubbers Cup at 
a regatta in Grand Rapids, 
Mich. 
So far the team has enjoyed success, due in part to the novice-eight boat, which went undefeated for the earlier part of the season. After this week­end's regatta, the Irish will travel to New Jersey, where they will face No. 6 Princeton and George Washington, before in the Big East Championships. 
Contact Danielle Keller at dkeller@nd.edu 

Store our Stun I
r.~

rlh.. e:»ummer. 
Call or stop on by & reserve today! 
866-232-2769 
Creating a 21st-Century College Town 
A SYMPOSIUM PRESENTED BY THE SCHOOL Of ARCH!Tf:CTL'RE AND AlA NORTHERN INDIANA 

FRIDAY, APRIL 13 KEYNOTE ADDRESS DHIRV THADANI, PRINCIPAl.. Wl"l H AYERS/SAINT/GROSS ARCIIITECTS AND PLANNERS, WA~lllNCdON, D.C. 
4:30 r.'>l, 104 BOND HALL 
SATURDAY, APRIL l'f ARCHil ECTS, PLANNERS AND PROFESSORS DISCL'SS 'vVH:\T MAKES A SUCCESSFUl COLLEGE TOWN. 9:30,\~1 Tt> l2:00PM l:OO PM w -f:30 P\1 l04 BOND HALL 
For mon: information visil. hup://architecture.nd.edn or call 631-5720 
Friday, April 13, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish, Demons rained out 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's doubleheader against No. 18/14 DePaul, which was originally sched­uled for Thursday, was post­poned until April 29 to be played in Cacciatore Stadium in Chicago. This marks the second time this season the two teams have had to cancel a doubleheader due to inclement weather. 
The Irish (19-13, 8-0 Big East) and Blue Demons remain the only undefeated teams in conference play, and their set of games could be crucial once the Big East championships start. 
The Irish, however, have to focus on a pair doubleheaders this weekend at conference rivals Providence and Connecticut. 
On Saturday, Notre Dame will face the Friars in Providence, R.I., at 12 p.m. Providence is currently ranked ninth in the Big East with a 3-7 conference record to go with a 14-14 overall mark. 
Against Providence, Notre Dame will face senior pitcher Sara Surosky, who is 7-8 with a 2.87 ERA and freshman Danielle Bertolette, who has a 3-3 mark with a 3.05 ERA. 
On the offensive 'side, senior catcher Rachel Bartholomew is the Friars' main threat with 
a .405 batting average and a team-leading seven home runs and 31 RBis. 
Notre Dame will then travel to Storrs, Conn., to face the Huskies, who currently occupy seventh place in the Big East with a 4-5 conference record. The Huskies are 15-15 overall. 

Huskies freshman pitcher Tricia Sullivan will take the mound with a 5-5 mark and 
3.82 
ERA. Also, the Irish expect to see senior hurler Krista Michalczyk, who has a 7-5 record to go along with a 

4.31 
ERA. 


Sophomore utility player Jillian Ortega is the main offensive threat for the Huskies, batting .358 with 23 RBis. Senior catcher Holly Calcagno can also do damage at the dish with her .342 aver­age and five home runs. 
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR THE BEST JOB ON CAMPUS? 
Look no further! The Development Department Phone Center is seeking students with excellent communication skills, enthusiastic 
Notre 
Dame aHitudes, and a love for and knowledge of ANNUAL FuND Notre Dame. 
EVENING STUDENT CALLER 
CAMPAIGN STUDENT CALLER 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Call alumni. parents. and friends on behalf 
Call alumni. parents. and friends on behalf of 
of Notre Dame's Annual Fund. 
Notre Dame's Development Department. 
. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 
. 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 

. 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 
. 
EVENING HOURS 

. 
FLEXIBLE DAY & EVENING HOURS 
. 
PAID TRAINING 
. 
PAID TRAINING 
. 
MERIT PAY INCREASES 

. 
NO SOLICITATION CALLS 
SUMMER, FALL. AND SPRING 
. SUMMER, FALL, AND SPRING 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE 

POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
Questions? Contact Moira Madden or Mark 
Questions? Contact Lori Rush, Phone Center 
Coordinator. at pcsplrlt@nd.edu or 631-7935.
Seller, Assistant Directors of the Annual 
Fund, at phcenter<{fnd.edu or 631 -3152. 
Notre Dame's pitching staff will rely heavily on its pitching staff, especially sophomore Brittney Bargar, who has a 12­7 record to compliment a 1.94 ERA. Senior Kenya Fuemmeler has also been solid, compiling a 7-6 record and 2.58 ERA. 
Irish senior outfielder Stephanie Brown brings a nine-game hitting· streak into this weekend's contests. She also boasts a .472 average and has scored 25 runs this sea­son. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Squad heads into last regular season event 

--· 

Irish senior Ryan Keckley hits a backhand in Notre Dame's 5-2 victory over Illinois Apr. 1 at the Eck Tennis Center. 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to add another win to its record as the team travels to Louisville for its fmal regular season matchup. 
The No. 6 Irish enter the match after sweeping Kentucky 7-0 in their final home match Wednesday. The win put Notre Dame at 9-0 on its home courts and 20-3 overall. After strug­gling in doubles play earlier this season, the Irish rallied to sweep doubles play for the second time in a row -the team also won the doubles point in its 7-0 win over Ball State Tuesday. 
The Irish had not changed their double pairs all season but did so against Ball State and kept the new lineup against Kentucky. They likely will stick with the same pairings against Louisville. Senior Stephen Bass and Ryan Keckley defeated Kentucky's Bruno Agostinelli and Kenny Hodge 8-5 at No. 1 doubles in just their second match together this season. The duo hadn't played alongside each other since Sept. 18, 2004. 
Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said Bass and Keckley's recent success at No. 1 doubles has been a result of the pair's great chemistry. 
"We put our two best sets of hand at No. 1 doubles," Bayliss said. "Ryan's ability to poach off Stephen's serve has been help­ful." 
New pairings also include jun­ior Sheeva Parbhu and sopho­more Brett Helgeson at No. 2 doubles and senior Barry King and junior Andrew Roth at No. 3 doubles. All three doubles teams have won the past two matches in which they have been paired together, and Bayliss hopes they will see the same success in Louisville. 
"We've been successful with [doubles] the last two matches, and we hope that this will con­tinue to make us a more viable threat to win the doubles point," he said. 
Louisville enters Saturday's matchup with a record of 8-13 on the season. The Cardinals last faced No. 31 Virginia Commonwealth April 8. The team was defeated at doubles but rallied back in singles play. Louisville jumped ahead to a 2-1 lead as No. 60 Slavko Radman made quick work of No. 79 Petr Olsak defeating him in straight sets 6-2r 6-2. But VCU took four points at No: 3-6 singles and captured a 5-2 win. 
Even though Louisville fell to VCU, Bayliss said that Notre Dame is prepared for a challeng­ing match. 
Louisville defeated Notre Dame 4-1 in the 2006 Big East champi­onship fmal last April. En route to victory Radman defeated Bass 2-6. 6-4, 6-4 at the No. 1 spot. The lone Irish point came from Helgeson as he cruised past Johnson in a 6-7, 6-3, 6-2 deci­sion. The Irish had defeated Louisville 5-2 earlier that month during a regular season match. 
Bayliss said that the team hopes to avenge last year's showing in the Big East champi­onship as they travel to Louisville Saturday. The team will look to doubles to continue posting strong performances as well as Roth. The junior has been a key player for the Irish at No. 6 sin­gles. Roth's ability to secure wins for the Irish at the bottom of the lineup has been crucial to their success. 
"The growth in Andrew Roth's game has been important," Bayliss noted. "We started the year not really knowing what we were going to get from him. Now he's our spark plug, he plays with a lot of emotion." 
The Irish are prepared to be challenged by Louisville but will look for strong performances at doubles play to jumpstart the match. Bayliss said the memory of last year's match won't hurt either. 
"We are expecting a big chal­lenge and our guys remember the loss we had a year ago," Bayliss said. "That's been firmly imprinted on their brains the whole year, and they are anxious to make amends to that match a year ago." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, April 13, 2007 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles ~eady to take on streaking Tri-State team 
By REBECCA SLINGER Sports Writer 
Facing a team with a nine­game winning streak may seem daunting to some, but Saint Mary's said it was ready. 
The Belles (14-4, 1-3 MIAA) will face league rival Tri-State in a doubleheader Saturday in Angola, Ind., beginning at 1 p.m. 

Tri-State, currently third in the league, has a conference record of 2-0 and an overall record of 18-4. The doublehead­er with the Belles will be Tri­State's second in two days. The Thunder take on Olivet today in a series that was postponed from Thursday. 
After dropping three of its first MIAA contests, Saint Mary's sits at seventh in the MIAA. Sweeping Tri-State is important if the team wants to reach its goals of postseason play, Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. 
"We always want to win all of our conference games," Sullivan said. 'Tri-State is doing a great job this year but they are a team we can b.~at as long as we're prepared. 
The Thunder, who are 7-1 at home, have a potent mix of power hitting and pitching. Only three players arc hitting below .300. 
Their bullpen is deep, too ­their five pitchers feature a combined EHA of 2.57. 
But the Belles pitching is just as stingy. Talented sophomore pitchers Calli Davison and Kristin Amram have a 2.03 ERA between them. 
The Belles recently split a doubleheader against Calvin, which squeaked out a 4-3 win in the second game. Sullivan said her team needs to maintain focus in order to sweep one of the league's best teams. 
"I think we have to realize that once game one is over, game two is a completely sepa­rate game," Sullivan said. "We have to come out with the same intensity and the same motiva­tion to want to win." 
Contact Rebecca Slinger at rslingO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Saint Mary's suffers first conference defeat 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's lost its 
unblemished conference 
record after a 5-4 loss to 
Hope today. 

Both teams now boast a 3-1 · MlAA conference record and 
are tied for third place behind 
Kalamazoo and Albion. 
The Belles only earned one 
win in doubles play 
The number one doubles 
duo of freshman Camille 
Gebert and senior captain 
Kelly McDavitt narrowly 
defeated sophomore 
Samantha Stille and freshman 
Lucy Himes 8-6. Gflbert's 
powerful serves, combined 
with McDavitt's flawless 
finesse, allowed them to come 
back after initially being 
down 4-3. 
The number two doubles 
team of seniors Tara O'Brien 
and Grace Gordon did not 
have as much luck. Though 
the duo dominated when in 
control of the serve, they had 
trouble returning their oppo­
nents' serves, which eventu­
ally led to an 8-2 loss to 
Flying Dutch freshman Ashley 
Austin and junior Christine 
Garcia. 
"I feel. like we played 
alright. We didn't play terri­
ble, but we certainly didn't 
play our best," O'Brien said. 
"We had trouble returning 
serves and ended up digging 
ourselves into a hole. We 
need to learn how to close 
matches. The score does not 
reflect our competition and 
ability." 
In the final doubles match 
of the afternoon, the fresh­
men team of Lisa Rubino and 
Erin Kaplan utilized their 
strong serves and quick feet 
to push the match into a 
tiebreaker. After a long bat­
tle, the duo was defeated 9-8 
by Hope College senior and 
three-time letterwinner 
Ashley .Leary and freshman 
Danielle Werley. 
After trailing in the doubles 
matches, the Belles hoped to 
dominate in singles play, but 
didn't quite achieve their 
goal. While McDavitt played 
in the number one singles 
spot and defeated Stille in two 
straight sets 7-5, 6-2, Gebert 
fell to Austin, also in straight 
sets, 6-4, 6-4. Lisa Rubino 
had better luck in the number 
three spot where she earned 
the victory against Leary in 
two sets 7-5, 6-3. While 
O'Brien battled through to the end of the match, she eventu­ally fell to Garcia after three sets, 6-4, 5-7. 6-4. In the fifth spot, junior Cassie Quaglia fell to Werley 6-2, 6-3. In the final singles match of the day, Gordon dominated freshman Marissa Kooyers and won the match in two sets, 6-3, 6-4. 

With an overall record of 7­10, the Belles will host Alma this Saturday. They will hope to add another win to their record and move into second place in the MIAA conference. In last year's match, Saint Mary's dominated Alma, shut­ting them out 9-0. 
The match will take place this Saturday at 1 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
JUST THE FACTS ABOUT 
OPERA NOTRE DAME® 
AND THE NUMBER ONE REASONWHYYOU SHOULD GO SEE THE OPERA IS BECAUSE 
SUMMER WILL NEVERICOME TO SOUTH BEND, SO YOU MAY AS WELL DREAM ABOUT IT. 


.-------~---~-­
Friday. Aprill3, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



Rev. Mr. James T. Gallagher, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Gregory P. Haake, C.S.C. 


Rev. Mr. Stephen M. Koeth, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Peter M. McCormick, C.S.C. 
The Sacrament of Holy Orders will be conferred by the Most Reverend Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Bishop of Peoria 
Saturday, April 14, 2007 2:30p.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
"We heard a summons to give over our lives in a n1ore explicit way" 
(Constitutions, 1.3) 
vocation. nd. edu 
page 19 


-' ' 
' 
'
' 
' 
' ' 
' 
' 
' 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS , Friday, April 13, 2007 

Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
valiant effort. The Forfeiters were without two of their orig­inal members and were only able to recruit one other play­er before the game ·started. With a 5-to-4 player ratio, the outlook was bad from the onset. 
Team Cougar did not exer­cise chivalry, trying to get the game over as soon as possible due to the miserable weather conditions. 
The game was marked by sloppy play from both teams, each having trouble dribbling the wet ball. However, it was Cougar that was able to take advantage of their opportuni­ties, scoring nearly all of their points in transition. 
When Cougar was not scor­ing on a fast break, they moved the ball around on offense, taking advantage of their extra player. 
"Playing 5-on-4 made it pretty easy to score, there was just always an open man," Cougars guard Jim Napier said. 
Forfeit did not go down with­out a fight, however, playing aggressively, but seemed to fall just short on every oppor­tunity. 
"They put up a great fight," Cougar forward Michael Urbaniak said. "They were really scrappy, especially with their defense. Toward the end they were difficult to score on." 
The Best of the Best of the Best 21, Los Bombones Asesinos 19 
In a game that lasted over an hour. these two powerhous­es battled it out on Bookstore Court Four. The game, rescheduled from Wednesday due to inclement weather, was marked by turnovers, half court heaves, long passes and a lot of over the backboard shots. 
Despite the win, Best of the Best captain Paul Laughlin was disappointed by his team's effort. 
"We probably had 30 turnovers ... and I got blocked by my own teammate. I think a blacked-out team could have beaten us," he said. 
Los Bombones Asesinos (The Chocolate Assassins) jumped out to an early lead, helped by their pump-up Spanish music that played throughout the match. They were quick to pull the trigger. And their first couple of shots hit nothing but net, but they soon cooled off. 
The Best were quick to respond, battling back with fast break opportunities and capitalizing on turnovers com­mitted by Los Bombopes. 
Both teams scored in bunch­es, as well, going long stretch­es of time without a basket. 

-
In the end, The Best were just too strong for Los Bombones, as Laughlin, the 
leading scorer for The Best, took over down low. 
"I think five really tall park­ing meters could have beaten both of our teams combined," The Best's Andy Gloss said. 
PT on the ET 21, Team 335 1 
In a game that was over shortly after the opening bas­ket, PT on the ET was able to make quick work 21-1 of Team 335. 
It was obvious at the outset of the game that PT on the ET was much more athletic and talented on the basketball court, and until Team 335 made an off-balance jump shot late in the second half, PT on the ET was poised to shut out its opponent. 

After a dominating first half. PT on the ET head coach Ryan Kelley was pleased, but critical of his team's performance. 
"We got an 11-0 start to start the first half of the game, so I really can't complain because that's the best you can do," Kelley said. ''I'm not lik­ing the defensive output, though, and we just need to step up and stay focused. I don't like the work ethic right now, but I think we should be able to pull this one out in the end." 
Much to the delight of the head coach, however, PT on the ET came out firing in the second half jumping out to a quick 17-0 advantage. · 
Team 335's lone bright spot in the game came when a fade-away jump shot somehow tickled the twine to eut the lead to 16 points. 
However, PT on the ET was not ready to relinquish any more of their lead and they turned up the heat to eventu­ally secure the 21-1 victory. 
With the brutal wind and temperatures in the 30s, PT on the ET was somehow able to overcome the adversity and put together a solid all around performance. 
"It's all about heart," birth­day boy and key contributor Graham Austin said. "We just wanted it more. It's also the off-season conditioning. We've been running sprints for four months now, and I grew like three inches in three weeks so we had a solid height advan­tage." 
PT on the ET hopes to carry their momentum into the third round next week. 
Engineering Giants 21, That's What She Said 8 
After a somewhat slow start, the Engineering Giants were able to overcome the weather as well as That's What She Said's aggressiveness to pre­vail 21-8. 
According to the Giants after the game, it was all about the basics as they were able to take control late in the first half. 
"We got rebounds," team captain Brian Seger said. "They played pretty tight at the beginning of the game, and the score really wasn't indica­tive of how close the game was." 
The Engineering Giants jumped ahead early and appeared ready to end the game, up 20-8, but couldn't finish it off for 20 minutes. 
In addition to not giving up at the end, That's What She Said opened the game strong and for the first few minutes of the first half out hustled and even overpowered the Engineering Giants. 
When the Engineering Giants took the lead at 5-4, the game was theirs for the rest of the way. 
The Engineering Giants were able to step up their play and eventually matched the inten­sity of their opponent, but it was the fundamentals that ultimately secured the victory. 
"Turnovers and rebounds were huge," Seger said. "We were able to commit a few less turnovers, and that was a big key to the victory." 
The Engineering Giants will look to continue their aggres­sive play as they will matchup with a formidable opponent in round three next week. 
Contact Jay Wade at jwade@nd.edu and Dan Maloof at dmaloof@nd.edu 

Ideal candidates will possess: , 
o 
Strong knowledge of Windows XP and/or Mac OS X 

o 
Knowledge of Notre Dame's network setup 

o 
Ability to manage time effectively 

o 
Great customer service attitude 


Primary duties include: 
o 
Answering telephone calls from faculty, staff and students regarding IT issues 

o 
Troubleshooting issues based on telephone calls and provide resolution 

o 
Hands-on help setting up and troubleshooting computers and network connections 


UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES 
,.------------------------­
-------------------~---------­
Friday, April 13, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Molnar's performance got interest, Millar then made the tator in Hungary visited for weeks at a time in training back to John Millar, Notre trip to Hungary to meet with Molnar, an event that cement­camps, but outside of those
Molnar 
Dame's assistant sprints Molnar and his family. ed the decision. camps the athletes could 
coach. '!We were sur­"Coach Millar prised," Molnar' wrote me an e­said. "I had
"Coach Millar
mail and invited never heard of 
wrote an e-mail
me to come to an American Notre Dame," and invited me to coach coming. Molnar said. We just spoke
come to Notre
"After that, I real­about this uni­
Dame."
ly wanted to come versity. I didn't here and race know anything here because I about this uni­
Balazs Molnar 
knew that the versity. After
Irish freshman 
competition and that, I decided atmosphere is way to love it, and I better than in Europe. It's a decided to come here." higher level. You can race bet­Another Hungarian runner ter com petition." who had come to Notre Dame 
In an unexpected show of and now works as a commen­

continued from page 21 
Championships in 2006, Molnar won the 400 meter hurdles, his main event, in 
51.97 seconds as well as the 400 dash in a time of 47.63 seconds. It was his perform­ance at the 2005 European Junior Championships, howev­er. that paved the road to Notre Dame. 
Molnar finished fourth in the 400 hurdles (in 51.38 seconds, better than his winning time a year later). An American coach was at the meet scout­ing talent, and word of 
-EACH DIVISION WINNER WILL RECIEVE AFREE PAIR OF ADIDAS SHOES! -THE RACE WILL START AND END AT LEGENDS -REGISTRATION WILL BEGIN @8AM...THE RACE STARTS AT 9AM -REGISTER THE DAY OF THE EVENT OR PRE-REGISTER @THE ROLFS FRONT DESK -POST-RUN BREAKFAST 
FREE T-S 

ONLY $10 
"He thought was this univer­never run together. The team sity was the best, so I just atmosphere gives Molnar wanted to follow him," Molnar more training partners. 
said.  Molnar  
As  Molnar's  and the rest  
coach,  his  of the track  
father had a profound influ­ence on his  7 didn't know anything about this university.  team will compete in the Mount  
career  and  After that I decided to ·  SAC Relays  
decisions. He wholeheartedly supported  love it, and I decided to come here."  this week­end. Molnar will run the  
Molnar's deci­ 400 hurdles  
sion to come to the US.  Balazs Molnar Irish freshman  as the  well as 4x400  

''I'm really thankful to my father, because he told me all the time if I want to be a unique person and if I want to see other places and other cultures, I would be different than other people who just stay in one place," Molnar said. · Used to a vibrant social life in Hungary, where everyone was eager to go out and Budapest was a short car ride away, the smaller venue of South Bend took some getting used to. He believes it to be for the best, at least for the time being. 
"I think it's good to me that I can't go to a lot of parties and go out, 
because I can "... ifI want to be a unique tion he'll just focus on person, and ifI want to see face in 
study and America.
other places and other
training," he He has 
said. "When I cultures, I would be different qualified go home dur­than other people who just for the 
ing the winter NCAA
stay in one place. " 
break and region­during the als, and summer, I Balazs Molnar if he have some Irish freshman k e e p s 
fun." 
Home is the common sub­ject of his musings, and it's mainly his friends, whom he says he misses very much. Thoughts of his family don't quite tally with this sentiment. 
''I'm surprised, but I don't really miss my family," he said, shrugging. "I don't know why. Maybe I grew up, I don't know." 
Training in America, espe­cially in a closed setting like a university track team, benefits Molnar's running. Molnar never ran track for his high school; instead, he joined clubs to race. The clubs met 
The Run with the Legends -SK and Fun Walk Saturday, April 28 @9:00am 

IRT FOR ALL PARTI 
IPANTS! 


THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CELEBRATES 3 5 YEARS OF WOMEN'S ATHlETICS QUESTIONS?? -CAll MEG @631-2 909 
relay along 
with seniors 

J o r d a n Powell and Ryan Postel and junior Austin Wechter. The Irish, who have already earned 16 NCAA regional qualifications, will look to add more to their resume. Athletes still looking for qualifications include Wechter, Powell, sen­ior thrower Garet Koxlien, senior distance runner Thomas Chamney, sophomore distance runner Billy Buzaid and sophomore high jumper B'lair Majcina. 
Molnar will run the hurdles on both Friday and Sunday in order to acclimate himself to t h e tougher competi­
going at 
this pace 

he may soon have another plaque on his desk. 
"It's a really cool feeling," he said of the plaque, which represents Notre Dame's Big East indoor victory. "It's so colorful and it's so nice, like gold and everything. I really like it. It's a good thing because when I was in the coach's office after I arrived, I saw a lot of these kinds of awards on the shelves. I really wanted one." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
McDonald 
continued from page 24 
Willingham, Notre Dame never received a verbal commitment before July. 
Frank credited part of the improvement in early recruiting to the hard work of new Irish defensive coordinator Corwin Brown. 
"Corwin Brown has done an outstanding job," Frank said. "He's kept in constant contact with Anthony, telling him 'you're my middle linebacker.' I can't remember anyone who works as hard as him at landing these guys." 
Posluszny is the younger brother of former Penn State standout Paul Posluszny. Frank said the two linebackers have very similar styles. 
"David reminds me a lot of his brother," Frank said. "He's got a real knack for playing line­backer. And he does a heck of a nice job in pass coverage." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
r---~--.. 
~  . '  
'  
'  
'  
' f  page 22  The Observer + SPORTS  Friday, Aprill3, 2007  
========~~=================================================================  

Record 
continued from page 24 
at Moose Krause Stadium, look­ing for a school-record 11th and 12th straight wins at home. 
After sputtering to a 3-3 mark to begin the season, Notre Dame has run off three consec­utive victories, outscoring oppo­nents 37-11 over that span. The winning streak has helped pro­pel the Irish up to No. 11 in the latest Nike/lnside Lacrosse media poll and USILA coaches' poll. 
The only problem is that just as the Irish were starting to build some momentum, their schedule intervened. Thanks to cancellations, Notre Dame's last game was April 3 -which means it will have had 10 days off before facing Air Force. 
Corrigan, however, feels that his team will be ready to go despite the break. 
"I wouldn't have volunteered the break for us when we got it," Corrigan said. "We were playing very well, and when you're playing well, you don't want to take a break. I'll tell you what, though, our practice intensity has been so good late­ly that I don't feel there will be any drop-oft'. Despite the break, we shmild be ready to play." 
Notre Dame will have to be ready to play this weekend because their games will have critical implications on the Great"Western Lacrosse League (GWLL) standings. Currently the Irish, Falcons, 1,1nd Pioneers all sit tied atop the standings at 1­0. 
Air Force is coming off a 16-9 victory over Bellarmine in its GWLL opener. Notre Dame is 9­0 all-time versus Air Force at home, but the Falcons won last year's contest in Colorado Springs 9-8. Overall, Air Force carries a 2-5 record into this weekend's game, but Corrigan expects the Falcons to pose a difficult challenge. 

"I can't believe they're 2-5," Corrigan said. "When you watch them at their best, you see a very good lacrosse team. Whenever you prepare to play somebody, you prepare to play them at their best, and their best is very good." 
After taking on Air Force, the Irish will return to action Sunday afternoon when they take on Denver. The Pioneers will carry a 6-5 overall record into this weekend's action, and they will play Bellarmine on­Friday before coming to South Bend on Sunday. 
Denver has defeated the Irish in each of the past two seasons, and the Pioneers are also com­ing off a GWLL title in 2006 when they went 5-0 en route to an NCAA tournament berth. Denver lost 16-8 in the first round to Maryland. 
Junior goalie Joey Kemp said the Irish "definitely" have extra motivation for the Denver game given last year's results. 
"You always want to beat a team coming off a loss to them last year," Kemp said. "With them winning the league last year and getting an automatic qualifier, they're obviously a good team. Getting our league's automatic qualifier is some­thing we're trying to accom­plish this year." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
In its last conference series, Georgetown was swept by Seton Hall in a thrne-game set in South Orange, N.J. The Hoyas' last conference win was an 8-3 dedsion owr Cincinnati March 30. 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame dropped two of three to the Bearcats last weeknnd and was swept in a two-game series with Pittsburgh tho weekend · before. 
Schrage said both squads have had thn sanw problem ­defense. 
The Irish havn made 52 errors in 31 ganws this season, and unearned runs were the difference in both of their loss­es to Cincinnati. 
"The timflS we're making the errors are hurting us," Schrage said. "We're making errors that are causing unearned runs." 
Georgetown has been even worse. The Iloyas have made 78 errors this season. including 15 by shortstop Matthew Bouchard. 
Schrage changed his pitching lineup last weekend against the Bearcats, moving former closer Kyle Weiland into the confer­ence starting rotation in place of junior lel'thander Wade Korpi. Weiland is scheduled to start Sunday's match up. 
Weiland, who made 16 saves last season, has only appeared in six games this spring because Notre Dame hasn't had many save situations. Schrage said hn will be more valuable as a starter. 

"We felt like he was one of the best pitchers in the league, and he wasn't getting on the mound," he said. 
Korpi switched to making midweek starts and will be available out of the bullpen during conference series. His scheduled start this week, against Bowling Green, was cancelled due to inclement weather. 
Schrage said Weiland may still come in to close if neces­sary today and Saturday, and, in that ease, Korpi would start Sunday's game. 
"We'll have some depth this weekend," he said. "If we have to use Weiland [today and Saturday! we'll start Wade on Sunday." 
The forecast for this week­end is cold with scattered showers. Schrage said that makes pitching and defense even more important than usual. 
"You have to pitch and play defens·e on cold weather days, because it's hard to get a lot of hits," he said. 
The bad weather also increases the chance of rain­outs, which would be frustrat­ing for a team that has already had three this season. 
"The players get up to play," Schrage said. "Anytime you show up to the park and don't play, it's frustrating." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Friday, April 13, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
BLACK DoG 
6000 -NOW SA'{ 5oMETHINl::l AU... CJ<.t\"l....'t ANO ~>Tu f"F, U \<..£. "HE>-{ , \N'HAT 1"\-\E f "' .. • 1S uP 
\N\TH 'T'I-\1 S F .,_,...,.,~., W'E'AII-IEF-.. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 


KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Band components

1 Waylay 26 Polo of "Meet
7 Object of the Fockers"
ailurophobia 21 Archaeological

10 Penny: pound:: handle:krone 28 Out of this world 
13 Bug's 29 The Oscars, e.g.
midsection 31 What two

14 "Hollywood zeroes after aHomicide" dot may mean
actress, 2003 33 1978-80 F.B.I.

15 Box to check on sting that forced a form 
a U.S. senator 16 TV show that to resign earned Jane 
35 Big bills
Wyman a Golden Globe 36 Green shade 
37 First name in denom. 

18 Protestant architecture 
38 One not pure of19 Handy thing to heart

know?: Abbr. 39 Boss for agents

20 Like some Youngfellowchurch matters 
and Rossi 21 List heading 
41 Object of a 22 Try scout's search 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

45 Alcohol-laced cookie 47 Blue prints? 48 Play bit 49 "Willow Song" opera 51 Cost 52 Here, over there 53 Common and cheap 55 French pronoun 56 Certain asst. 57 Snap out of it 58 Bygone flier 59 Animal with a white rump 60 Destroys 
DOWN 1 Equally quick 2 Pure 3 Arrest 4 Dungeons & 
Dragons beast 5 Adaptable 
aircraft 6 Sandwich filler 7 End-of-season 
event 8 It divides people 9 "We know 
drama" 
sloganeer 
1 o Rocker with the 1981 triple­platinum album "Diary of a Madman" 
11 Signs back in 
WILLSHORTZ 

12 Some "60 32 It's to the left of 43 France's F.B.I., Minutes" pieces a dot formerly 
14 Ocean threats 33 Misers' feelings 44 Some assistants
17 Dessert garnish 34 Plant supervisor? 46 Tyrolean refrain
21 Dangers for paragliders 

36 Words of 50 Must, say 23 Hoo-ha contentment 
53 Peer Gynt's 25 Ornamentation 40 Other side mother 30 "What !" 42 Floors 54 Medical suffix 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JroJWffi)1fE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
This isn't 

to form four ordinary words. working 
LAVIT 
1 
rJ rJ 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
r~1~fi (J 
I SNORPEj
I I r (J 
www.jumble.com
tCLIPSE 
IJ I tJ 
Answer: 

" rI I I I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: TULIP POACH UPHELD SCROLL Answer: What the divorced father gave his son ­CHILD "SUPPORT" 

TRYING TO S~W WITH A BROK~ N~EOL~ IS--­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Riley Smith, 28; Claire Danes, 27; Nicholas Brendan, 35; David Letterman, 59 
Happy Birthday: Believe in your own abilities this year if you want to prosper. 
You show great potential but, if you take on too much, you may lose ground or 
head in the wrong direction. Your numbers are 6, 19, 24, 29, 35,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Put your plan in motion but first correct any past mistake. Don't let a change of plans fluster you. 3 stars 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't think that anything is too much to accomplish. Plod along steadily and refuse to look at the magnitude of the job. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't meddle in other people's affairs. Avoid confrontations and focus on what you can do. A little ingenuity will go a long way today. You can expect to upset someone who is jealous of your talent. 5 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Love is in the air. Don't let your stay-at-home attitude stop you from getting out and meeting new people. 2 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Question what you are being told today. The truth is likely to be stretched and that may lead you in the wrong direction in a personal matter. Friends and relatives will help you keep things straight. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let your emotions take over, especially in the workplace. Remain as confident and calm as possible if you want to be eligible for a raise or new position. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do what appeals most to you. This is a perfect day to engage in a creative hobby, spend time with friends or make personal changes. Short trips will help you make a difficult decision. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make all sorts ofchanges to your personal life and living arrangements. An interesting relationship will develop quickly but may leave you confused. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Drawing attention to someone else in order 
to stay out of the line offire will only make you look bad. You will make a far 
better impression by taking care of business instead of running away. 4 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jao. 19): Business is looking very good. Take a unique approach and everyone will want to jump on board. 2 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You really have to set your priorities straight and get down to business. Someone may try to lead you astray but, if you rely on yourself and your own research, you will discover that anything is possible. 5 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Everything may seem to be up in the air. Don't get discouraged; instead, deal with the matters that will bring the highest returns and let everything else fall by the wayside today. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are strong, determined and never back down. You are imaginative, creative, energetic and outgoing. You are capable of whatever you set your mind to. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, Aprill3, 2007 
page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

California linebacker gives verbal commit 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Just days after Notre Dame received a verbal commitment from Pennsylvania prospect David Posluszny for the recruit­ing class of 2008, another line­backer has committed to the Irish. 
Anthony McDonald, 6-foot-3, 220-pound junior at Sherman Oaks-Notre Dame High School outside Los Angeles, gave his verbal to Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis Wednesday. 

Mike Frank, who covers Notre Dame recruiting for Irisheyes.com, said McDonald had been excited about the Irish from the very beginning of the recruiting process. 
"The first time we talked to him he was very excited about Notre Dame," Frank said. "Notre Dame was the school he was most interested in to begin with. As soon as the offer came, it did­n't take very long [for him to commit)." 
Frank said McDonald likes con­tact and should be an excellent run stutTer. 
"The thing that I like about this kid is that he's a very physical player," Frank said. "He loves to hit and he's got a real good feel for the position. He recognizes things very quickly." 
McDonald also possesses a linebackers instinct -a knack for being in the being in the right place that is hard to teach, Frank said. 
"He looks like a natural line­backer, not an athlete playing linebacker," Frank said. "He really understands what he's supposed to do." 
McDonald's father Mike played at USC, but despite showing interest in Anthony, the Trojans did not offer him a scholarship. 
"They only need one or two linebackers in their entire class," Frank said of USC. "He was a guy that they liked, and they were recruiting him, but they haven't offered too many guys at line­backer. That was the one thing holding Southern Cal back." 
Scout.com lists Boston College, Ole Miss, Nebraska, North Carolina State and Oregon as schools that gave an offer to McDonald. 
McDonald is Notre Dame's sev-

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXVI 
Back on the courts 
Ballers return to action after weather cancelled contests 
By DAN MALOOF and 
JAY WADE 
Sports Writers 
After getting rained and snowed out at the same time Wednesday, Bookstore Basketball XXXVI returned to the courts Thursday for sec­ond round action. 
Team Cougar 21, Team Forfeit 5 
Team Cougar came to play in this male vs. female match-up. 
"We had to represent for the men ... plus it was really freaking cold," Cougar captain Jason Larch said. 
While the score was lop­sided, Team Forfeit gave a 

A Bookstore Basketball player drives around a defender at the Bookstore Courts Thursday. The tour­
see BOOKSTORE/page 20 nament's second round continued Thursday after rain and snow cancelled Wednesday's session. 

enth commitment for next February's signing class. Three of the verbals -McDonald, Posluszny, and Woodstock, Ill., native defensive tackle Sean Cwynar -play in the defensive front seven, a key need for the Irish this year. 
In the past two recruiting sea­sons, Notre Dame has had just two verbal commitments each by the time the second week in April rolled around. 
In the three years before that, under former coach Tyrone 
see MCDONALD/page21 
BASEBALL 
Irish host 
last-place 
G'Town 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 
Two teams desperate for con­ference wins will face off this weekend at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Notre Dame (15-16, 2-6 Big East) will host Georgetown (12­21, 2-7) tonight at 6, Saturday and Sunday in a three-game series that is crucial for each team's chances to climb back into the conference race. 
"I think it's going to be a very spirited weekend because both teams are fighting for their lives," Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
The Hoyas are at the bottom of the Big East standings, with the Irish just a half game ahead of them. 
see HOYAS/page 22 
TRACK AND FIELD 

--Hungarian sensation emerges for ND squad 
Freshman Molnar leads team into Mount SAC Relays in California 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Eight months ago, Balazs Molnar was a member of the Hungarian National track team, was coached by his father and had a knowledge of American teenage culture that came only from "American Pie." 
Now he's a full-fledged col­lege athlete who, going into this weekend's Mount SAC Relays in Walnut, Calif., has qualified for the NCAA Mideast regional competition and has a Big East Championship plaque placed proudly on his desk. 

The culture shock of coming to America and keeping up with the Notre Dame work­load is difficult enough. Add the commitments of a varsity sport, and life can get down­right crazy. But Molnar takes it all in stride. 
"It's kind of hard, but I'm getting used to it," Molnar says in clear but heavily accented English. "I really like the university in terms of aca­demics. And now I really like the track here." 
Excelling in track gave Balazs (pronounced Bollage) the exposure needed to give him a chance to study and run in America. At the European Under-23 Outdoor 
see MOLNAR/page 21 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Team chases school record 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame takes the field this weekend, it will have an opportunity to set the program record for con­secutive home victories. 
Just don't tell that to the Irish. 
"[Setting the record] is not something we've talked about at all," Notre Dame coach Kevin Corrigan said. "It's one of those interesting, but irrelevant facts. What's important for us is that we're starting to reach our potential as a team, and that's what we're focused on." 
The No. 11 Irish take on Air Force today at 5 p.m. and Denver Sunday at 1 p.m. 
see RECORD/page 22 








