-----------~---~-­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 66 FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 2007 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Jenkins says ND mission is global in nature 
Trip significant to University and key to presidency 
By MADDIE HANNA News Writer 
University President Father John Jenkins didn't go to Uganda just to help people. 
First. he went to learn ­and while he sees aiding a country that faces tremendous challenges as both an opportu­nity and an obligation, he says it takes a certain approach. 
"It is very important not to come to a place like Uganda with a condescending attitude, that, you know, 'We're going to help you get back up' -there's a sort of hidden arrogance in that that I think is wholly unhelpful, and it's insulting to the people of Uganda," he said Thursday. 
Jenkins arrived in Uganda two weeks ago, accompanied by Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers, Associate Vice President for Marketing Communication Todd Woodward, Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NDMDI) Director Father Bob Dowd, NDMDI Assistant Director Tim Lyden, Africana Studies department chair Richard Pierce and soph­omore Tess Bone. 
The trip was significant in a number of ways, Jenkins said. Besides the desire to explore another culture, there was the goal to connect with the uni­versal Church-two ideas that Jenkins called "central to the core mission of Notr-e Dame" and key to his presidency. 
There was also, of course, the purpose that is probably most associated with the week­long trip -meeting the peo­ple of Nindye, who Notre Dame will work with through the Millennium Villages Project, founded by Columbia University's Jeffrey Sachs. 
"[Uganda] is a poor country, education is less than what it should be, diseases that are easily preventable people die from in large numbers," Jenkins said, "and the sense of justice and fairness -but also the sense of Christian charity -requires that, in the way that we can, we strive to help people ... to rise out of poverty enough to have a dignified 
see MISSION/page 8 


Observer File Photo Since his inauguration in Sept. 2005, University President Father John Jenkins has traveled frequently, including his recent trip to Uganda. 

Report on Catholic schools optimistic 

The ACE Program has helped improve many Catholic schools, according to Father Timothy Scully. 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
In response to declining enroll­ments at Catholic primary and secondary schools, the Notre Dame Task Force on Catholic Education has produced a report that outlines a strategic plan to strengthen Catholic schools. 
Task force chair Rev. Timothy Scully, who directs Notre Dame's Institute for Educational Initiatives, said the report is opti­mistic about the future of the world's largest private school sys­tem. 
"We're bullish about Catholic schools," Scully said. 
The report, entitled "Making God Known, Loved, and Served: The Future of Catholic Primary and Secondary Schools in the United States," was produced by a committee of approximately 50 people from Notre Dame and around the country, including educators, administrators, invest­ment specialists and leaders in other fields. 
The task force began meeting in September 2005 when University President Father John Jenkins commissioned the study in response to the United States Catholic Conference of Bishops (USCCB) 2005 pastoral statement, "Renewing Our Commitment to Catholic Elementary and Secondary Schools in the Third Millennium." 
The bishops' statement said Catholic education is "the respon­sibility of the entire community." As the leading Catholic university in the United States, "Notre Dame not only has a responsibility, but also an enormous opportunity" to continue the tradition of Catholic 
see TASK/page 4 

Presidential campaigns heat up -with debate 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
The three tickets for Saint Mary's student body president tried to win over voters Thursday evening in their frrst campaign debate, fielding ques­tions ranging from campaign promises to diversity. 
Interaction between the can­didates remained amicable as they responded to inquiries from both moderator Christin Molnar and the nearly 50 stu­depts present for the debate at Noble Family Dining Hall. 
The first ticket to speak, jun­ior presidential candidate Colleen Ferreira and her run­ning mate, sophomore Jenny Antonelli, highlighted their leadership roles on campus. 
Ferriera, who served as pres­ident of her sophomore class, wants to reposition herself at the helm of the student body. 
"Being [sophomore class] president was so gratifying," she said. "I am really looking forward to the opportunity to lead the whole student body in the future." 
The Kimberly Hodges-Kelly Payne ticket also spotlighted prior directive roles. Hodges, who boasts leadership roles in a variety of student government and diversity groups and activi­ties, recognized that being stu­dent body president is a multi­tasking role. 
"I have always been involved and made an effort to be a leader in different groups," she 
see DEBATE/ page 4 


Early action applicants 
•


Increase 

1,340 accepted for 2011 class out of3,812 
By ROHAN ANAND News Writer 

Christmas arrived early for approxiinately 1,340 high school seniors worldwide who applied to join the Notre Dame class of 2011. These individuals were among the 35 percent of candidates selected from a pool of 3,812 applications considered for Early Action Admission by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions this winter. 
Prospects who received their acceptance letters early, like Tanner Ryan of Jesuit College Preparatory School in Dallas, were elated to receive notilication a few months earlier than their regular decision counterparts. 
"Though I was anxious to receive my decision letter, I was relieved to know I was accepted somewhere great with plenty of time to decide," he said. 
Under Notre Dame's non-bind­ing Early Action admissions pro­cedure, high school seniors must submit a completed application to the University by Nov. 1, and can expect a notification of either admit, defer, or deny by Dec. 1. 
1,575 applications-or 41 per­cent of the pool -were denied admission, and 680 were deferred to the regular decision round. Students admitted under Early Action have until May 1 to notify the University if they plan to attend or not. 
The Undergraduate Admissions committee was shocked to see the surge in applications, 1,200 more 
see ACTION/page 9 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Weather vvonders 
Whenever I can't think of something to say, I usually turn to talking about the weather. It's a fallback, a last­ditch effort to salvage a dying conver­sation. Usually. 
Here, however, I'm going to begin Jennifer Metz (and end) by dis­cussing the 
News
weather. 

Production
I'm going to 

Editor
admit it: I am not a huge fan of snow. I like to look at it from inside my house while sitting comfortably toasty under a blanket, drinking hot chocolate. I try to avoid personally interacting with snow, or other forms of precipitation, as much as humanly possible. The inconvenient truth is that however much I try to avoid it, snow happens. 
Except this year. When I returned to my lovely home state of New Jersey, usually bombarded with snow by mid­January, I was greeted by the sun and downright balmy temperatures. 
I didn't wear a coat. I didn't wear my new sweaters. I didn't wear the scarves I knitted in attempt to pass the hoUJ;s of the afternoon I spent doing absolutely nothing. 
And I really didn't care. 

It was fifty, sixty, seventy degrees! When it hit seventy-four, my friends and I piled into my car, rolled the windows down and drove down the shore. At times it was a little too chilly to sit on the beach, and the ocean was most definitely frigid. It may have been a little ridiculous in retrospect, but we couldn't resist. And we weren't the only ones -the beach was surprisingly full that afternoon. 
It was, after all, the middle of January, not a prime beach-going time. 
I began to get a little uneasy about this unseasonable weather near the end of break. We did get some rain and some cold nights, but I felt as if I was missing out on winter. I couldn't believe what I was thinking -me, missing cold, slippery snow? The snow that turns black on the streets and makes walking my very small Yorkshire terrier impossible? 
But when I arrived back to campus last Sunday it was cold and I was happy. When it snowed and I got to wear my coats and sweaters and scarves, I smiled. In public. To no one in particular. And I felt like an idiot, but I was that excited to finally get to experience winter. It still hasn't snowed, really snowed, once at home, even though the tem­peratures are dropping. I feel badly for my friends who go to school there because they're not experiencing a proper, dreaded east coast winter. What good is the excitement of spring if summer comes in January? 
I used to wish it would be nice out­side year-round. But now I want to keep my seasons just the way they were: disgustingly humid in the sum­mer, damp in the fall, freezing in the winter and gorgeous in the spring. 
I t And though I still prefer the snow 
I the best when walls and windows 
r separate me from it, I'm going to 
'·I maybe interact with it and enjoy it 
I when it comes this year. 
! 
Or try to, at least. 

Contact Jennifer Metz at jmetz@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, January 19, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: Do YOU BUY YOUR BOOKS FROM THE BOOKSTORE? WHY OR WHY NOT? 



Tom Susdorf  Gordon Farmer  Bill Westfall  
sophomore off campus  senior Alumni  junior Fisher  
"Yes, because {Veterans Association] pays for it anyway.  "No, I prefer to make bids."  "Yes, because I'm too lazy to go to half. com and I put it on my student account  
anyway.  

Couples betting 7/7/07 is lucky for love 
SACRAMENTO -Will lucky sevens result in wed­ded bliss for the lucky in love? 
Wedding planners say July 7th -or 7nt07 -as the date appears in print, has become the most popu­lar day in years to get mar­ried. 
From vaunted Napa Valley wineries to vistas along Lake Tahoe, California couples .have booked up thousands of churches and reception sites hoping to begin wed­ded bliss on the lucky date. 
"It's the most popular 

stranded deer to safety after it lost its footing on a frozen lake and could not get up. 
A small crowd had gath­ered to watch the deer strug­gling, its hooves repeatedly slipping, near the shore of Lake Thunderbird around 4 
p.m. Wednesday. 
With the helicopter's cam­era rolling, KWTV pilot Mason Dunn used the wind from the rotor to push the deer, initially sending it into a break in the ice where the animal managed to hold onto the ice with its front legs. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

date -ever," said Tonya Simmons, wedding special­ist with Boomtown Casino Hotel on the outskirts of Reno, where lining up sev­ens more often means win­ning a slot-machine jackpot. 
Richard Markel, head of the 800-member Association for Wedding Professionals International, said group members first began noticing extra inter­est in the novelty date last year. 
Helicopter pilot saves deer 
NORMAN, Okla. -The pilot of a TV news helicopter used the wind from the air­craft's rotor to push a 


Tres Studer  James Spitalere  Carl MacMichael  
junior off campus  sophomore Morrissey  junior Siegfried  
"Yes, because I can charge it to my student  "Yes, and everyone else's books too!"  "No: because I like money."  


account and save valuable cash." 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a::: 
LLI 
::1: 

!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
...1 
<
0 

23 4 


23 
12 

28 20 


0 

HIGH 25
..... 

LOW 8 
IN BRIEF 

The Snite Museum is host­ing a new exhibit of 290 pho­tos taken during the Vietnam War by photojournalists who died in the violence. The exhibit, titled "Requiem," will be on display at the museum from Jan. 4 until March 4. Admission is free. 
The Notre Dame Track and Field Indoor Opener will be held today at 5:30 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. 
The film "Marie Antoinette" directed by Sofia Coppola will be shown tonight at 7 and 10 in The Browning Cinema of The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are six dollars for the general public artd three for students. The film will also be shown Saturday at 10 p.m. 
Hypnotist Tom DeLuca will perform tonight at 8 in Washington Hall. This show is free and open to all students. 
The film "Old Joy" directed by Kelly Reichardt will be shown Saturday at 7 p.m. in The Browning Cinema of The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are six dollars for the general public and three for students. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will play Syracuse Saturday at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will play South Florida Sunday at 1 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

27 15 


25 10 
Atlanta 481 31 Boston 23 I 12 Chicago 29 I 23 Denver 34 I 14 Houston 39 I 37 Los Angeles 69 I 43 Minneapolis 27 I 18 New York 31 I 24 Philadelphia 33 I 24 Phoenix 60 I 39 Seattle 36 I 29 St. Louis 37 I 28 Tampa 72 I 60 Washington 36 I 26 
..· 

Friday, January 19, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Huddle gets an aesthetic facelift 
By MEG HAN WONS News Writer 
The LaFortune Student Center underwent its latest facelift during Christmas break as the University renovated the nook in the southeast corner, home to quarter dogs and the wall of candy: the Huddle Mart. 
Jim Labella, Huddle manager, said the Huddle Mart was "originally going to be part of the summer reo­novations" that included the main lounge and seating areas around Subway and Burger King. While the Office of Student Activities was responsible for renovating these areas, Food Services was put in charge of changes to the Huddle Mart. 
The refurbishing, which includes new flooring, lighting, counterwork, a new ceiling and an expanded dis­play area, was the first in the Huddle Mart's 11-year history. The plans were the result of a collabora­tive effort between Labella, design­ers employed by the University, and the vendor from whom Food Services purchased the counter­work, Labella said. 
"It turned out very well; I'm· very happy with the outcome," he said. 
As for new products, Labella said the Huddle Mart's products are always changing, but nothing major was added or replaced over Christmas break -he did say, how­ever, that with more display area, there will be room for more and perhaps some different products. 
Especially considering the atten­tion paid to LaFortune over the summer, Labella said, decorum changes for the Huddle Mart were due. 
"Now everything blends in," he said. 
Senior graphic design and mar­keting major Noel Carson appreci­ates the new aesthetics of the con­venience store, calling it "more pro­fessional, less cluttered." 
Great-great grandmother Helen Hitte has been a LaFortune employ­ee for "39 years last October," Hitte said, and she has seen a lot of changes during her tenure. She recalls the days of selling smokes to students at what she called the "cig­arette counter" years ago, and talk­ing to the football players when they would come in after practice. 
'The Huddle [Mart] wasn't even here about twenty years ago," Hitte said. "The renovations are nice; it's nice and bright for the kids so they can come in at night and get their food," she said. 
At 84 years old, Hitte continues to work at LaFortune because "I just like to be around people," she said. 
Hitte believes that with its new renovations, LaFortune will likely continue to attract plenty of students seeking good food, a place to study or, for regulars like Hitte, the com­pany of friends. 
Contact Meghan Wons at mwons@nd.edu 
Students benefit fro111 book sales 
Buyback program not breaking even with original prices 
By AARON STEINER 
News Writer 

Long lines, low semester­end refunds and hefty price tags at the Nolji"e Dame Hammes Bookstore regularly frustrate students at the start and end of each semester, despite the convenience of services the store offers. 
With the price of a semes­ter's worth of books tipping the scales at up to several hundred dollars, and the refund on those books being what many describe as a pal­try few dollars, many stu­dents are finding ways around these issues by taking their business elsewhere. As a first semester freshman, Ellen Rolfes said she "didn't really know of any other way" to purchase texts, and as a result paid close to $800 at the bookstore in August -a sum she called "ridiculous." 
But when she returned those books to the bookstore through the Buyback pro­gram offered at the end of each semester, she was fur­ther dismayed. 
"I b_rought five books back (at the end of the semester). One went for $1.50, another for $30 ... I ended up keeping the one for $1.50, with the 
others they wouldn't take," she said: 
Many students have similar stories and do their best to find the most convenient and reasonable methods for acquiring their textbooks. 
Knowing which texts they require in time to employ such other methods -like ordering books online -can be the first obstacle, students say. 
But according to the book­store's textbook manager Bob Thompson, beginning around Jan. 1, students were able to search and find lists of required books for each course on the bookstore's website. The bookstore typi­cally makes the textbook list­ing available in the weeks before the semester begins. 
For other students, like sen­ior Ellen Pollock, professors are often an additional resource to find out what books are required, well before the list is posted online. 
Pollack said that some of her professors have sent the course syllabus in advance, and in other cases students can contact the professor on their own. 
After determining what needs to be purchased, senior Marie Lange looks to online sources like Amazon.com and Half.com, a division of eBay.com. 
According to Lange, 1-Ialf.com is usually cheapest, "even when shipping can cost a lot." 
She has had positive experi­ences shopping online for books in the past, Lange said. 
"Even the books that I've bought used, they're not even really that 'used' . . . thEll, are often quite new," she saitl. 
And in the one case where Lange didn't get the book she purchased in the mail, she was able to resolve the issue and receive a prompt refund. 
At the end of the semester, Lange said she returns to Half.com to sell her books. While she is responsible for selling and shipping the items, Lange said the benefits· outweigh the cost. 
Still, others state that the convenience of bookstore services is worth the extra cost. 
For junior Allyson Connelly, the bookstore has kept her loyalty thus far, she said. 
"It's convenient; I know they have what I need, and I can get it on time," she said. Still, she commented, she would like to pursue purchasing_and selling her books outside of the bookstore in the future in order to save a little. 
Rolfes' entrepreneurial plans for her textbooks ought to yield her at least a little more than $1.50. 
"Instead of giving them back," she said, ''I'll keep them and sell them to fresh­men next year." 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 



I 



BROUGHT TO YOU BY TH~ STUDJ;NT UNION BOARD 
SUB.ND.WU 
..-----------------------------------------------. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 19, 2007 
"It's not just information," he for Notre Dame include: quality of the education offered is talented people. 
added, "-it's knowledge in pur­+recruiting and forming a new "superb," Scully said. "What ACE has done is dramati­
Task 
continued from page 1 
schools, Scully said. 

Citing a book by Anthony Bryk, Valerie Lee and Peter Holland titled "Catholic Schools and the Common Good," Scully said Catholic schools provide an edu­cational experience that cannot be found in government-run schools. Catholic schools offer a sense of community, a basic curriculum with a focus on reading, writing and arithmetic and remain free from political pressures, Scully said. 
"The most important thing is that Catholic schools offer a learn­ing environment that is penetrat­ed by faith," Scully said. "And that makes a difference. The learning enterprise . . . is one where values are taught as an integral part of the curriculum. 
suit of faith and faith in pursuit of knowledge." 
According to Scully, the growing number of faith-based schools throughout the country suggests a growing interest in alternative choices to state-run schools. Enrollment has been increasing at such alternative schools ­excepting Catholic parochial schools, he said. 
Enter Notre Dame's task force report. 
The report identifies four goals for improving elementary and sec­ondary Catholic schools: strength­ening Catholic identity, attracting and forming talented leaders, ensuring academic excellence and financing Catholic schools. Based on these four areas, the report recommends specific ways Notre Dame and the Church can achieve these objectives. 
The twelve recommendations generation of Catholic school teachers and leaders 
+forming partnerships with other Catholic colleges and uni­versities as well as Catholic pri­mary and secondary schools 
+attracting and supporting the Latino community to attend Catholic schools 
+accessing public funds for Catholic schools and students 
+using Notre Dame's market­ing prowess to attract families to Catholic schools. 
Marketing Catholic schools is a complex issue, Scully said. The marketing strategy must be indi­vidualized for its audience, he said, so the techniques to recruit suburban families will be different from those used to recruit inner­city students. But before a Catholic education can be market­ed, Notre Dame and the Catholic Church should make sure the 
ing to work with us on these ideas." ­
Hodges and Payne centered on the student voice during the debate. Pontificating students to the administration and student government is a major part of their platform. 
"We want to host open forums so that students will always have a voice," Hodges said. "Many stu­dents are uninformed about so many things on campus and we want that to change." 
Hodges and Payne also see the need for change. 
"To lead is to change," Hodges said. "We must take initiative to implement changes to make Saint Mary's better for students during their time here." 
Reflecting on her leadership experience, Hodges recognized that she would not have been as informed had she not been a leader. 
"We want to make you happy. We know what you need and we 
So, "[t]he report aims at, before marketing anything, enhancing the quality of the experience," he said. "[This includes] both the educational and the faith-based experience of a Catholic educa­
.
tion. " 

One way Notre Dame will con­tinue to enhance the quality of American Catholic schools is through the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), a two-year serv­ice program founded by Scully. The program, started in 1994, 
· gives participants a Master of Education degree and two years of teaching experience. ACE has sent "the best and the brightest" to under-resourced Catholic schools in the United States, Scully said. "What education is about essen­tially is about recrUiting talent," Scully said. "The best schools are the schools that recruit the most 
are not working for us," Payne said. "We are working for you." The ticket also describes diver­sity as a "second nature." 
"Diversity is so important to us," Hodges said. "I have always learned not to complain, but to try and make a change." 
Hodges, who was one of three African-Americans in her fresh­man class of approximately 400, has been working to increase diversity at Saint Mary's. She is the vice president of the Student Diversity Board and founded the Diverse Student Leadership Conference. 
"It is not just about recruitment, but retention," she said. "We want diversity in all things, like race, religion, background and so on." 
The final ticket, juniors Annie Davis and Courtney Kennedy emphasized communication. 
"Now, the student government relies on e-mail as the most effi­cient way to connect to students; cally improve the quality and the character of the talent that is available to Catholic schools." 
Now that the report has estab­lished the areas of focus, the next step is to break the requirements of the report down into "bite-size pieces, pieces we can chew," Scully said. 
Scully was invited to present the report to a joint session of the USCCB education and catechesis committees Jan. 9 in Washington. 
"The Bishop's conference gave us [its] full blessing and support as we move forward toward imple­mentation of these recommenda­tions," Scully said. 
The University will accomplish most of its objectives through the Institute for Education Initiatives and ACE, Scully said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

but there are other ways," Davis said. 
These ways included a sugges­tion box and "Letters to the President" in the Bellzine. 
Davis and Kennedy also wel­comed the senior vote. 
"It is a chance for [seniors] to leave a legacy behind," Davis said. "It is definitely something good for the college." 
Davis, who works closely with admissions, termed their primary 
election  goal  the  "Identity  
Initiative."  
"Right  now,  the  Board  of  

Trustees and administration is reworking how Saint Mary's is portrayed. You are the identity and we want your input to show what the real SMC woman is," Davis said. 
Elections will be held Monday night on PRISM. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Debate 
continued from page 1 

said. "I plan to continue to be involved in these groups once elected." ' 
Juniors Annie Davis and Courtney Kennedy also have experience leading students in student government and also in clubs -Davis is vice-president of the Notre Dame Figure Skating Club. 
"Everyone is a leader. In order to be.st represent a women's col­lege, we all need to have the opportunity to take leadership roles," Davis said. 
When asked about their acces­sibility once elected, Ferriera emphasized her availability to students. 
"I am a student too," she said. "I am not here to be a power over you, but to represent you." 
While Ferriera and Antonelli's campaign centers around costly improvements on campus, they also stressed how well they'll rep­resent their constituents. 
"We want what you want. That is the most important thing," Antonelli said. 
Seniors having the opportunity to vote this year, according to Ferriera, will greatly affect the future of the College. 
"Why not bring immediate change?" she asked. "Our mission and tradition is strong, but we are not working for twenty years from now. We are working for now and the seniors can help put the school in good hands." 
Ferriera and Antonelli spoke confidently about their lofty budg­etary increases, including cam­pus-w-ide wireless Internet and maintaining printer clusters in the dorms. 
"Many girls have asked me about going wireless," Ferriera said. "It is a feasible idea and we have a great administration will-

Attention JPW ~egistrants 
If you plan on attending either the JPW Dinner or Brunch and would like to be seated with friends, you must participate in Seating Registration 


JPW Seating Registration Monday, January 22nd 12:00 pm -5:00 pm 115 McKenna Hall 
Each table seats up to nine guests. You may select a different group to sit with for each of the two events. Send one representative from your table group to Seating Registration with the names and NetiDs of each student at the table. For more information, visit the JPW website: http://www.nd.edu/ ~jpw 
lN LOV!'NG.MEMORY OF 
LucY  B LANDF()RD  PI  LK!  NTON  
/\:.  B  .  ,  M.  A.  ,  PH.  D.  
2  7  F E B  943--19  JAN  1994  




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 19, 2007 CoMPLLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Northern Europe buffeted by rain 
LONDON -Hurricane-force winds and heavy downpours hammered northern Europe on Thursday, killing 25 people and disrupting travel for tens of thousands ­including Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, whose plane was forced to circle for 15 minutes before landing amid winds gusting to 77 mph. 
The storms were among the fiercest to bat­ter northern Europe in years, ripping off part of the roof at Lord's Cricket Ground in London, toppling a crane in the Netherlands and upending trucks on Europe's busiest highway. 
By evening, weather-related accidents had killed 25 people, including a 2-year-old boy hit by falling brick from a toppled wall in London. 
Al-Qaida linked to convoy attack 
CAIRO, Egypt -An al-Qaida-linked coalition of Iraqi Sunni insurgents claimed responsibility Thursday for an attack in Baghdad on a convoy of a Western democracy institute that killed a 28~year-old Ohio woman and three security con­tractors. 
The Washington-based National Democratic Institute identified its slain staffer as Andrea Parhamovich of Perry, Ohio. Contractors from Hungary, Croatia and Iraq also were killed in the ambush Wednesday. Two other people were wounded, one seriously. 
Parhamovich. a graduate of Marietta College in central Ohio, had been working with NDI in Iraq since late 2006 as a communications spe­cialist advising Iraqi political parties on how to reach out to voters and constituents. She was helping "build the kind of national level political institutions that can help bridge the sectarian divide and improve Iraqi lives," NDI said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Pentagon releases new trial rules 
WASHINGTON -The Pentagon set rules Thursday for detainee trials that could allow terror suspects to be convicted and perhaps executed using hearsay testimony and coerced statements, setting up a new clash between President Bush and Congress. 
The rules are fair, said the Pentagon, which released them in a manual for the expected trials. Democrats controlling Congress said they would hold hearings and revive legislation on the plan, and human rights organizations complained that the reg­ulations would allow evidence that would not be tolerated in civilian or military court­rooms. 
Crew acted properly before crash 
BROOKS, Ky. -Federal officials said early inspections indicate the crew of a CSX train acted properly just before it derailed, igniting a massive chemical fire that forced evacuations south of Louisville. 
The fire sent thick black clouds of smoke into the sky, prompting officials to evacu­ate residents and shut down a major high­way. Firefighters were finishing a con­trolled burn of some chemicals from tanker cars. 
"We have not found any anomalies in operations at this point, we've not seen any train handling issues at this point," said Mark Rosenker, chairman of the National Transportation and Safety Board. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Police intensify search for student 
WEST lAFAYETTE -Hundreds of volunteers joined police Thursday in an expanded search for a Purdue University freshman who has been missing since Saturday. 
Wade S. Steffey, 19, was last seen leaving a party at the Phi Kappa Theta fraternity house on the north side of campus. 
Police said Thursday that a $50 withdrawal from Steffey's bank account was made from an ATM at a campus dining hall at 8:30 p.m. last Friday. Originally, they thought the withdrawal was at 1:11 a.m. Saturday, but that was the time when bank records were downloaded, not when the withdrawal was made. 
IRAN 

Ahmadinejad warns Iraq is ready 
Criticism at home does not stop Iranian president's tough stance towards U.S. 
Associated Press  
I TEHRAN -President  
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  
lashed back over the U.S.  
military buildup in the  
Gulf, saying Thursday that  
Iran is ready for any possi­ 
bility in its standoff with  
the West over its nuclear  
program.  
The president made clear  
he was not backing down  
in his tough rhetoric  
toward the United States,  
despite criticism at home.  
At the same time, his top  
national security official,  
Ali Larijani, sharply  
denounced U.S. policy in  
Iraq, accusing Washington  
of fueling Shiite-Sunni  
hatreds. •  
Washington has accused  
Iran of backing militants  
fueling Iraq's violence and  
has tried to rally its Arab .  
allies in isolating Tehran.  
The Iraq cnsrs has  
increased tensions between  
the U.S. and Iran amid the  
dispute over Iran's nuclear  
program, which Washing­ 
ton says aims to produce  
nuclear weapons.  
The United States sent an  
aircraft carrier, the USS  
Stennis, to the Gulf this  
week -the second to  
deploy in the region -a  
buildup that Defense  
Secretary Robert Gates Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad waves as he leaves Tehran on Jan. 12, for a  
said was intended to Latin American trip. Ahmadinejad lashed back over the U.S. military buildup Thursday.  
impress on Iran that the  
four-year war in Iraq has  defying a resolution  consensus in Iran that the  reach out."  
not made America vulnera­ demanding that it suspend  oil-rich nation needs to  Secretary of State  
ble.  uranium enrichment, a  master the complex  Condoleezza Rice said this  
In an apparent reaction  process that can produce  process of uranium enrich­ week that now is not the  
to the deployment,  fissile material to fuel  ment. Iran this week said it  time for the United States  
Ahmadinejad vowed  nuclear reactors or, at  is moving toward large­ to talk to Iran, adding that  
Thursday that Iran would  purer concentrations, the  scale enrichment involving  Tehran does not appear  
not back down over its  core of nuclear weapons.  3,000 centrifuges, which  ready to accept a condi­ 
nuclear program, which  In Paris, the head of the  spin uranium gas into  tional U.S. offer to join  
Tehran says is being devel­ U.N. nuclear watchdog  enriched material.  European talks over its  
oped only to produce ener­ agency, Mohamed El­ ElBaradei called for a  nuclear program.  
gy.  Baradei, said he was con­ resumption of talks with  ElBaradei warned that  
"Today, with the grace of  cerned the sanctions could  Tehran and said he would  only applying pressure  
God, we have gone through  escalate Iran's standoff  support any efforts to  could prompt the Islamic  
the arduous passes and we  with Western powers.  "engage Iran," including  republic to follow the path  
are ready for anything in  "I don't think sanctions  the possibility of a French  of North Korea, which  
this path," state-run televi­ will resolve the issue ...  negotiator. "My worry right  kicked out U.N. inspectors  
sion quoted the Iranian  Sanctions in my view could  now is that each side is  and pulled out of the  
leader as saying.  lead to escalation on both  sticking to its guns," the  Nuclear Nonproliferation  
The U.N. Security Council  sides," he warned.  International Atomic  Treaty in 2003 and then  
recently imposed limited  ElBaradei said the pres­ Energy Agency chief said.  conducted its first nuclear  
sanctions to punish Iran for  sure has failed to break a  "We need someone to  weapons test last October.  

Pelosi seeks to set up committee 
nology would be asked to draft bills Democratic leadership aide, speak­
Associated Press 

based on the global warming com­ing on condition of anonymity 
WASHINGTON -House Speaker mittee's recommendations. because Pelosi had yet to announce Nancy Pelosi sought on Thursday "The science of global warming her choice. to create a special committee in an and its impact is overwhelming and Pelosi's move increases the likeli­effort to jump-start long-delayed unequivocal," Pelosi said in a hood that Democrats will propose government efforts to deal with statement. "With this new select far tougher constraints on green­global warming and produce a bill committee, we demonstrate the house gas pollution than the Bush by Independence Day. priority we are giving to confront administration wants. She also has 
Pelosi, D-Calif., said she would this most serious challenge. Now is outflanked for now -and angered ask the House for a vote to set up time to act. The future of our coun­-a few Democrats who head the committee. She wants it to hold try, indeed our entire planet, is at important House committees. hearings and recommend legisla­stake." "We should probably name it the tion on how to reduce greenhouse Pelosi set a goal of the Fourth of committee on world travel and jun­gases, primarily carbon dioxide July for finishing a global warming kets," said Rep. John Dingell, D­generated by fossil fuels, that most bill that would "truly declare our Mich., chairman of the House scientists blame for a gradual energy independence." Energy and Commerce Committee, warming of the earth's climate. The committee will be led by which overseas the Clean Air Act 
Existing committees that deal Rep. Ed Markey, D-Mass., who and the Environmental Protection with energy, environment and tech-shares Pelosi's goals, said a Agency. 
..--------------------­
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, January 19, 2007 
Iran plans for installation of uranian enrichtnent progra111 
Associated Press 

VIENNA, Austria -Iran is ready to start assembling thou­sands of centrifuges to produce enriched uranium -a possible pathway to nuclear arms -after finishing most preliminary work on an underground facility hous­ing such machines, a diplomat and a U.N. oflicial said Thursday. 
The two said much, but not all. of the hardware needed for the installation of the centrifuges was now in place at the Natanz facili­ty designated to house Tehran's industrial-scale enrichment pro­gram. 
Both men-who spoke on con­dition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss confidential information ­emphasized that the facility had been ready for some time, and there was no sign that actual work on putting in the cen­trifuges would begin at any par­ticular date. 
The revelations -based on reports by inspectors of the International Atomic Energy Agency visiting Natanz this week -appeared to strengthen claims from Tehran that it is moving toward large-scale enrichment involving 3,000 centrifuges, which spin uranium gas into enriched material. 
Low-Pnriched uranium can be used to generate power, while highly enriched levels servP as the fissile corP of nuclear war­hPads 
"We are moving toward the production of nuelear luol, which requires 3,000 centrifuges and more than this ligure," govern­ment spokesman Gholamhossein Elham told reporters Monday. "This program is being carried out and moving toward comple­tion." 
Iran's leaders havP. suggested those machines would be in plaee by March 20, the end of the Iranian year. But the diplomat and oflicial said quick completion of such a large-seale project was unlikely, saying the complicated process takes months. 
Another point or uncertainty is how many centrifuges Iran has assembled. The IAEA has not seen any beyond the few hundred Tehran has shown inspectors. But David Albright, whose Washington-based Institute for Science and International Security tracks Iran's nuclear activities, said Tehran technicians are likely to have built more than 1 ,000 of the machines at a secret location. 
Even if Tehran proves suecess­ful in installing 3,000 centrifuges, experts estimate that it would take Tehran several years for all of them to be running smoothly and without breakdowns. Once that happens, Tehran could pro­duce two bombs a year. 
Iran plans to ultimately expand its enrichment program to 54,000 centrifuges. That would give it the capacity to produce dozens of nuclear warheads a year, if it chose to develop weapons. 
It also imposed an asset freeze on key companies and individuals in the country's nuclear and mis­sile programs named on a U.N. list and gave the country 60 days to comply or face the likelihood of tougher nonmilitary sanctions. 

Friday, January 19, 2007 


Dow 
12,567.93 -9.22
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume I, 73 I 143 I ,537 2,599,548,630 


6,210.30 +5.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -1.85  -0.83  44.08  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SJRI)  +4.92  +0.19  4.05  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.85  -0.39  20.65  
APPL INC (AAPL)  -6.19  -5.88  89.07  
Treasuries  
I 0-YEAR NOTE  -0.75  -0.036  4.751  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.980  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.72  -0.035  4.846  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.59  -0.028  4.750  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.76  50.48  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -5.20  633.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.25  96.00  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.3150  
EURO  0.7701  
POUND  0.5061  
CANADIAN$  1.1748  

IN BRIEF 
Economists find low inflation in 2006 
WASHINGTON -Americans finally saw some relief when they filled up their gas tanks and visited their doctors. 
A retreat in energy costs from last summer's record highs and the smallest rise in doctor charges in more than a half century helped to keep the lid on consumer prices. 
The Labor Department reported Thursday that the Consumer Price Index rose 2.5 per­cent in 2006, the best showing on inflation in three years. 
And in further good news, workers got a boost in the paychecks with the biggest jump in wages, after adjusting for inflation, in nine years. 
That 2.1 percent gain in wages, after remov­ing the effects of inflation, followed three straight years in which wages had fallen even as many corporations were enjoying record profits. 
Democrats focused on those wage declines to argue in last fall's congressional elections that President Bush's economic policies were failing the middle class. 
Analysts attributed the rise in real wages to the slowdown in inflation and to a low unem­ployment rate, which meant companies had to pay more to attract qualified workers. 
Benefits could thwart CVS' takeover 
NEW YORK -There is nothing like greed in corporate America. 
For the lucky few, it makes them wealthy almost beyond imagination. But it can ruin careers, businesses and in the case of Caremark Rx Inc., possibly even thwart a takeover deal that many on Wall Street think has merit. 
That's because the leaders of the pharma­cy-benefits manager seem to have put their own interests before those of shareholders. Regulatory filings suggest they got CVS Corp. to promise them all sorts of perks -big money, job protections and indemnification from legal proceedings -if they support Caremark's combination with the nation's largest retail drug chain. 
Such behavior has given a rival bidder, Express Scripts Inc., some good ammunition to potentially win investor support. 
THE 0HSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 
Plea offered in HP spying case 
State prosecutors will drop felony charges ifdefendants plea guilty to misdemeanor 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -State 
prosecutors offered to 
drop fe·lony charges 
against former Hewlett­
Packard Co. Chairwoman 
Patricia Dunn and the four 
other defendants in the 
company's boardroom spy­
ing scandal if they agree to 
plead guilty to a misde­
meanor, a defense lawyer 
said Thursday. 

Stephen Naratil, lawyer for ·private investigator Bryan Wagner, said the attorney general's office offered a plea deal that would eliminate all four felony charges against his ·client in exchange for a 
misdemeanor guilty plea. 
Naratil said Deputy 
Attorney General Robert 
Morgester also told him 
that the other four defen­
dants in the case -Dunn, 
former l-IP ethics chief 
Kevin Hunsaker, and out­
side investigators Ronald 
DeLia and Matthew 
DePante -were offered 
the same deal. 

The attorney general's 
office declined to com­
ment, as did lawyers for 
DePante and DeLia. One of 
Hunsaker's lawyers, 
Thomas Nolan, also 
declined to comment but 
said his client is not inter­
ested in taking any plea 
d1'Jal. 

"We're not involved in scandal, which rattled the any plea bargains at the On Wednesday, the state 
the plea negotiations top ranks of a company state level is compounded attorney general's office 
because Kevin didn't do long known for its profes­by an ongoing federal said it would probably not 
anything wrong and didn't sionalism and commitment investigation. oppose a motion by 
do anything illegal," Nolan to privacy. Wagner pleaded guilty Wagner's lawyer to dismiss 
said. The scandal led to the last week in San Jose fed­all the state charges 
Dunn's defense lawyer departure of Dunn, eral court to identity theft against him because he 
could not immediately be Hunsaker and former gen­and conspiracy. He had admitted to the crimes 
reached Thursday, but he eral counsel Ann Baskins acknowledged using the in federal court. 
has said previously that he and prompted investiga­Social Security numbers California law prohibits 
plans to challenge the tions by state prosecutors for l-IP directors, journal­prosecutors from pursuing 
charges at trial. and several federal agen­ists and their family mem­charges against ~omeone 
Each defendant faces cies. bers to trick telephone convicted of t-he same 
four felony counts -iden­Naratil said each of the companies into divulging crime in federal court. 
tity theft, conspiracy, fraud charges can be prosecuted phon,e records and con­Lawyers for all five 
and illegal use of computer as either a felony or a mis­spiring to share the infor­defendants appeared in 
data -for their alleged demeanor, and the defen­mation with others Santa Clara County 
roles in l-IP's ill-fated effort dants were offered the involved in l-IP's probe. Superior Court on 
to root out the source of chance to plead guilty to Wagner never had any Wednesday to discuss the 
boardroom leaks to the any one of the lesser direct contact with anyone progress of the case. 
news media. offenses. inside l-IP and was at the Wagner's lawyer is sched­
Former Attorney General So far, apparently none bottom of a long chain of uled to return to court 
Bill Lockyer filed the of the defendants has security subcontractors Jan. 26 to file his formal 
charges in October amid a agreed to the deal, and the that led back to l-IP, his motion to dismiss the 
media frenzy over the difficulty in negotiating lawyer said. charges. 

Fannie Mae's weaknesses persist 
Associated Press meeting with reporters, referring to the cast its results beyond June 2004. The 
government-sponsored companies that company, which is the second-largest 
WASHINGTON-Fannie Mae and are the two biggest financiers in the $8 U.S. financial institution after Citigroup 
Freddie Mac have made progress trillion home-mortgage market in the Inc., is not expected to return to timely 
toward correcting financial weakness­United States. "They have a long way to financial reporting until early next year. 
es, but tight government supervision is go; there are still significant worries." Fannie Mae spokesman Brian Faith 
needed as the mortgage giants emerge The problems "are massive and declined to comment on the third-quar­
from accounting scandals, a federal they're ongoing,"he said. ter results. 
regulator said Thursday. Lockhart noted that the companies' With the Democrats now in control of 
James B. Lockhart, director of the financial results continue to be volatile Congress, prospects have improved for 
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise from quarter to quarter, saying that compromise legislation tightening the 
Oversight, also disclosed that Fannie both lost money in the July-September government's reins on Fannie Mae and 
Mae, which just last month announced period last year. Freddie Mac, the Freddie Mac. The accounting scandals 
a restatement of $6.3 billion in profit for smaller of the two," recently forecast a that roiled both companies in recent 
2001 through mid-2004, had a loss in loss of about $550 million for the quar­years brought demands by Republicans 
the third quarter of 2006. He did not ter due mainly to declines in interest in Congress and the Bush administra­
specify the amount of the loss. rates, compared with a profit of $880 tion for cuts in their massive mortgage 
"They unfortunately have very, very million in the third quarter of 2005. holdings -a move vehemently opposed 
large problems," Lockhart said in a Fannie Mae has not reported or fore-by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 19, 2007 
late nigh 
Iafortune • 
10pm -lam
+ 
free quarter & arcade ga 

Mission 
continued from page 1 
life." 

What's important to realize, ·Jenkins said, is that Notre Dame isn't just pouring dollars on Nindye -it's a partner­ship. And partnerships work both ways. 
"I think we need to help in 
what ways we can ... to assist 
[the villagers]." Jenkins said. "I 
do believe that in that process, 
we will be the beneficiaries as 
much as they are. Because we 
will learn about their culture, 
we will work with them and 
form relationships that will 
enrich our lives as much as it 
enriches their lives." · 
While Notre Dame's involve­
ment with the Millennium 
Villages Project is unprece­
dented, the trip itself wasn't. 

After all, Notre Dame presi­
dents are frequent travelers. 
Global connections 

University President 
Emeritus Father Theodore 
Hesburgh has been "all over" 

Africa. 
He visited Uganda in 1958, 

"before Holy Cross got there," 
he said. Those priests arrived 
years later, and since then, 
more Holy Cross priests and 
teachers have gone to the 
region. 
"We're not an isolated place 

in northern Indiana, but we're 
a Catholic institution interested 
in the whole world," Hesburgh 
said, echoing one of Jenkins' 
reasons for the trip. "We pick 
and choose the places where 
we can have an influence edu­
cationally." 
Hesburgh's successor, 

University President Emeritus 
Father Edward Malloy, has also 
taken multiple trips to Africa. 
"Notre Dame's an interna­

tional university, and I think 
everyone who's part of it needs 
to think globally," Malloy said. 
Malloy, who has been to 

Cameroon, South Africa, 
Madagascar and Uganda, said 
he was "delighted" to hear of 
Jenkins' recent trip. 
And while both Hesburgh 
and Malloy noted that Notre 
Dame presidents are expected 
to see the world, they recog­
nized the importance of this 
particular trip. 
"It's an'important step. When 
you're president of Notre 
Dame, it's important you have 
firsthand knowledge of the 
places where you choose [to 
help]," Hesburgh said. "And 
we've been doing that for years 
... especially in Chile [and] 
Bangladesh." 
In the past, Notre Dame has 

helped schools in those two 
countries, he said. Hesburgh 
believes the educational 
approach to providing aid ­
like the idea ~ehind 
Millennium Villages Project ­
is the one a university should take. 
"Good ideas have to be insti­tutionalized, and there's no better way of doing it than cre­ating a learning center that will exist and grow and be a constant help to an emerging area," he said. 
Catholic character 
Another way Jenkins grew to know the Ugandans was not through their culture, but through their religion. 
While the Notre Dame group did meet those at the forefront of the Ugandan Catholic Church -not unlike last January's trip to Rome, where Jenkins and University Trustees built on relationships with Vatican leaders Jenkins emphasized the value in less official encounters. 
"We went to parishes in Uganda, just ordinary, faithful people," he said. "You do feel a bond with them -it's a com­mon faith, common commit­ments, that brings you close to one another. The whole idea of the Mass, and the Eucharist, is formative of a community.... I think all of that is part of this richness of community that extends across cultures, across languages, across countries, to a deeper unity and a deeper solidarity with one another. 
"I think that's part of what we believe here at Notre Dame, and that's why the struggles of people in Uganda are our struggles, their joys are our joys. And it's important always to remain aware of that." 
Enriching a community 
Members of the Notre Dame community will travel to Uganda again, but apart from Lyden -who's slated to go back in February -definite plans haven't been made, Jenkins said. 
He said there would be research opportunities for both undergraduate and graduate students. 
"I think it's a great educa­tional opportunity for our stu­dents, and again, it would be a limited number of people, but ... I think there are possibilities there," Jenkins said. 
The opportunity provided by Nindye village isn't directly related to Provost Thomas Burish's initiative announced last fall to increase research at 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesdax through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 
'' ••• joy and happiness on stage'' .. Rolling Stone 

Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, as well as Jerusalem this May. 
"I think of my job both kind of on campus and off campus, and I think Notre Dame has a job obviously to educate the students ... but it also has an obligation to interact with the world," he said. 
Like his predecessors, Jenkins hopes those interac­tions will benefit the entire Notre Dame community. 
"I Uganda] really was an enriching trip," he said, "and I have great hopes it will enrich this community in the future." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

the University, Jenkins said, but the two are intertwined. 
"I think Tom Burish's empha­sis is more focused on certain areas, that our faculty do research on, but it's all part of the same plan -that is, Notre Dame is a place where people ask questions and try to answer them in intelligent and creative ways," Jenkins said, "And so all that is part of research." 
It will take a few years to see if Notre Dame's involvement in Uganda is successful, and Jenkins knows that. 
"I think that there's some criticism that [Millennium Villages Project] is too opti­mistic," he said. "It is true that development programs have been undertaken in sub­Saharan Africa for many years, and many of them just haven't succeeded. So people are skep­tical about their success, and it's yet to be seen whether this village can be self-sufficient, but we'll see. 
"I just think the alternative, doing nothing, is not accept­able. Ahd I'm sure there are other criticisms, but if someone has a better idea, let's hear it. I haven't heard a better idea. So that's why we're happy to be involved in this," he said. 
As for Jenkins, more trips are in the works. This semes­ter, the president plans to visit multiple U.S. cities, 
Friday, January 19, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Action 
continued from page 1 
than last year, which caused the selectivity rate to drop from about 1/2 for the class of 2010 to around 1/3 for 2011, said Director of Admissions Operations Bob Mundy. 
"Certainly the increase in appli­cations indicates our rise in popu­larity and is positive for the insti­tution," he said. "Unfortunately, the things we measure tend to be very statistical informatioB like SATs and class ranking, so it becomes harder to gain admis­sion." 
From this year's application pool, the average class rank of each accepted apt>licant was with­in the top 3 percent, up from 3.7 percent last year. The average SAT score was 1442 (sans the writing component) up from 1420 last year, and average ACT score was 32.7, up from 32.4. 
Additionally, approximately 190 valedictorians, 69 salutatorians, and 22 students with perfect test scores were admitted. Legacy stu­dents also comprised about 20 percent of the admitted group. 
At this point, the admissions committee is still in the process of tallying the number of applica­tions submitted for the regular decision round. Mundy projects that while the number of applica­tions for Early Action considera­tion went through the roof, it doesn't necessarily mean that it will be same for regular action. 
"There's still plenty of uncer­tainty that exists in Early Action in that we ask, 'does it have any bearing on the numbers for regu­lar action?"' he said. "Last year, Early Action numbers were down, but regular action numbers rose by about 1,500, so it's never quite clear. Still, we do project that reg­ular apps will be up to some degree." 
Despite the fact that Notre Dame's ranking in the "2006 US News and World Report" dropped slightly, the University did receive several other recognitions that may have boosted the rise in applicants. 
"Newsweek-Kaplan College Guide" nominated Notre Dame as the "Hottest Legendary School," among 25 other schools listed, while "Business Week" ranked the Mendoza School of Business as the No. 3 undergraduate business school in the nation. 
Katherine Novinski, a senior at the Hockaday School in Dallas, was moved to apply early because Notre Dame has "an ingrained spirit and tradition" that she was looking for in her college selection criteria. 
"I know I wanted good academ­ics, a sense of family and commu­nity, and spirituality," she said. "It's one of my top choices right now, and the final decision will come down to scholarship and financial aid." 
Undergraduate Admissions Counselor Beth Giudicessi attrib­utes the rise to many factors, ranging from the baby boom to the University's strong academic caliber becoming more wide­spread. 
"Most importantly, I think our team of fifteen members traveling worldwide telling the ND story is what really draws our candi­dates," she said. "It's less of a recruitment process and more of informing students about Notre Dame, and they make the decision on their own." 
The University was also very proactive in attracting more minority students to campus. The number of admitted multicultural students from Asian, African American, Latino, and Native American backgrounds grew nine percent from 230 last year to 253. Twenty-two international students were also offered admission. 
"We spent a lot more time visit­ing students from schools that we haven't seen before," said Assistant Director of Undergraduate Admissions Son Nguyen. "For instance, we gave special attention to an inner city school in Camden, New Jersey, because we felt that if an under­represented school had some potential for ND, we would let them know more about the school." 
Other highly selective schools ­such as the University of Pennsylvania, Columbia, and Northwestern -recently adopted the common application as a tactic to increase the number of minori­ty applicants. Though the Notre Dame Admissions Committee deliberated as to whether they should use the ·Common Application in lieu of Notre Dame's customized one, they opted not to. 
"Students who want to go to Notre Dame will fill out our appli­cations, which indicates that they're putting in the extra effort because Notre Dame is important to them," said Nguyen. "Without the Common App, we're still get­ting many prospects a and high yield, showing that many people want to be here." 
Usually, admitted Early Action candidates comprise about 25 percent of each incoming fresh­man class. Until the May 1 dead­line, however, much is left to be done with Early Action admits. Financial award packages will be mailed in March, and shortly after will come Spring Visitation week­end to host admitted minority stu­dents. 
For now, high school seniors like James McKee, also a student at Dallas Jesuit, are happy with where they stand and will wait a few more weeks before they know for sure where they are headed. 
''I'm still tvaiting to hear from my other top choice, Duke University," he said. "But even if I'm accepted there, I still might want to attend Notre Dame because I know so many people who are going there. We'll just have to see." 
Contact Rohan Anand at ranand@nd.edu 


For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
Tuesday, January 23 7:30 p.m.-9:30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 


The Core Council invites gay, lesbian. and bisexual members of the Notre Dame famHy. their friends. and supporters to an informal lunch at the Co-Mo. 
Everyone is welcome and confidentialitY isassured. 
C!lR£ C!lUMCll 
FOR GAY &lESBIAN 
STUDENTS 

Rice says peace talks too early 
Associated Press 

LONDON -Israel and the Palestinians can pick any agenda they want for a pre­liminary peacemaking sum­mit with the United States, but it is too early to tackle the toughest issues, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice said Thursday. 
"We're not yet at the point where I think we can deter­mine what we would do about formal negotiations, when and if' they can occur, Rice said at the close of a week's trip to the Middle East and Europe. "It's really a time to try to get the par­ties into more of a confi­dence-building phase and we'll see what comes after that." 
Rice said her three-way meeting with Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas probably would take place in the Middle East in the first half of February. 
Rice said her talks with both leaders last weekend "broke through that." Olmert and Abbas agreed to the three-way meeting, a sym­bolic advancement both of their relationship and the involvement of traditional peace broker Washington. 
Olmert and Abbas are both politically compromised: Olmert by last summer's dis­appointing war in Lebanon and allegations of political corruption in his ranks; Abbas by his yearlong inter­nal power struggle with l-lamas radicals. 
Rice hopes the meeting will be part of a wider effort to support Abbas in that fight. 
Both Abbas and Olmert inherited the 2003 plan agreed to by others. U.S. officials say it may be time to fine-tune some require­ments in the plan, and that an agreement between Abbas and Olmert about how to do that could be a first step toward larger accords. 
"It really should be up to them to put anything on the agenda that they'd like," Rice said, but she made clear that she hopes to dis­cuss more than the outlines or borders of an eventual Palestinian state. 
Assessing he prospects for progress on the Palestinian questions, the chief U.S. diplomat met in Berlin and London with European lead­ers who are keenly interest­ed in an issue with wide public appeal. 
In Kuwait, Rice sat down with foreign ministers from eight Arab states, including the three U.S.-allied heavy­weights Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia. The grouping encouraged by the United States excludes Iran and fel­low U.S. outcast Syria, but Rice has avoided comment on the perception that she is forging an anti-Iranian alliance. 
Rice's second in command planned another round of diplomatic calls in the region next week. 
Some Arab media depicted Rice's visit as a failure. "The whole jet-setting trip turned out to be yet another stage­managed, futile diplomatic exercise .... In effect, Rice returns to Washington empty-handed with a lot of false promises rather than optimism," the Doha, Qatar­based Peninsula newspaper wrote in editorial. 
Jordanian analyst Labib Kamhawi said that besides their doubts over the plan itself, Arab leaders had a difficult time throwing sup­port behind it "when there has been a total failure in Iraq and the Palestinian ter­ritories with no attempt to soften the anger that is seething in the Arab and Muslim countries." 

<.3· Jrt ~-=-=~ <:i1 : : . . · ··.·f_y;, ·... 
A truly unique dining and drinking experience,. 
featuring a creative blend of fusion style culinary delights with a delicate touch of Asian flavors 
in an exciting yet intimate setting. 
Plus, a stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
ConVeniently located in the center of Downtovvn South Bend between Morris Performing Arts Center, College Football Hall of Farne. and Marriott Hotel. 
119 North Michigan Street. 
Dovvntovvn South Bend. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, January 19, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Uganda methods set example 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
The importance of service is ingrained in the Notre Dame communities. If the relationship progresses like those behind EDITOR IN CHIEf culture. Large numbers of students volunteer on a regular the project believe it will -a partnership on a slower scale, MikeGilloon basis and regularly devote a year or two of their post-gradu­gradually building to self-sufficiency -the Ugandans will MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER ate lives to programs like ACE and Teach for America. · receive the basic tools they need to succeed. Furthermore, a Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara So it's not that surprising that the University has chosen to long-term relationship will be created that should benefit 
affiliate itself with a group of people in Uganda, vowing to both Nindye and Notre Dame. AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
support Nindye village in its quest to raise the quality of life. Now, it's a matter of spreading the word. AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin What's notable about this project, however, is the way it's It is important that those who went to Africa continue the NEWS EDITORS: Kate Anronacci being done. initiative. This isn't the only focus for University
O 
TI 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King Notre Dame's approach to the Millennium os'erver President Father John Jenkins, and he knows it Village Project appears to be a smart one. The won't be everybody else's. But this can't be a
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 

goal is not to just pour money into Nindye every worthy initiative that falls off the radar or gets
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxrader 
Editorial
time the villagers need it-it's to lil't people up. lost in a mess of played out awareness weeks. SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan The University community needs to recognize It's the job of Jenkins and the others who have PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella that the project is not just intended to make "do-good Noire been to Nindye to prioritize. Dame" look generous. Hather, Notre Dame is entering the It is equally important that those who go in the future keep
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert partnership. It is one of many partieipants, one of two univer­the bigger picture in mind. Nindye cannot be a place used 
AoVEIU1SING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 

sities and 5,000 hardworking villagers aiming to create simply to ennduct personal research and write for academic AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly change and dialogue. journals. To appropriately support the projeet, people need to CoNTROLLER: Kyle West Most importantly, the project is a promising alternative to understand why it's important -and no one can better WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas what could have simply been a lump-sum charitable gift -transmit that information than those who have been to 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud generous, absolutely, but probably not as enriching for both Nindye and develop relationships with villagers. 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF . 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Univen;iry of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor fn Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editon; and department erliton;. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authon; and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observu (USPS 599 2-4QOO) is published MorTday through Friday~ during exam and vacation perioth. A Sllhscriplion to The O~rYer I$ $100 for one academic year; $55 for OrTC' st:me5~t't~ 
The Observer is published aC POSTMASTER 024 South Din.ing Hall Send address corttctions ro: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 ThtO!=vO< 

P-eri~ po~ paid at Notre Dame ~o.Bo,m and additional mailing offices. 02-4 South Dining Hall 
Nom: Dam(:, JN 465-56-0n9 
The Observu is a member uf the Associated Pres:.. All reproduction right'i are reserved. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Eileen Duffy Kyle Cassily Katie Kohler Deidre Krasula 
Do you think Father Jenkins' trip to Uganda Joe Piarulli Michael Bryan 
was important for Notre Dame? Katie McDonnell Scene Viewpoint Marty 
A. Yes. Kara King Schroeder B.No. Graphics C. I don't care. Tom Hanculak 
This poll was based on 572 responses given at http://www.ndsmcobserver.cornJ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Half the world is composed of those who have something to say but can't; the other halfis of those who have nothing to say and keep on saying it." 
Robert Frost American poet 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, January 19, 2007 page 11 
Well wishes for the new year 
With the advent of a new calendar year comes greetings and well wishes that --like the beginning of each school year -roll off the lips of everyone for about a week until routines smother the outwardly moment. What a wonderful place it would be if we coddled that openness throughout the entire year. With that in mind. here are well wishes for 2007. 
To the senior class, drink in every moment of your last semester. By savor­ing every moment of your final semester, you c·an actually slow the progression of time. The semester will seem much longer, and you will truly enjoy your­selves. Ten years from now, you will recall more fond memories from this semester than most of your college career because you seized the semester and absorbed every precious moment that will not be repeated in this life­time. 
For Notre Dame's Director of Security Police Rex Rakow, whose herculean battle against a debilitating disease teaches us the meaning of dignity and courage, my thoughts are often of you regardless of time of year. Speaking with Rex in my section at the UCLA football game. capped a wonderful 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
weekend beyond expectations. My prayers have always been soaked in admiration and will continue through­out 2007. 
One of the loudest well wishing calls goes out to 200 of the late Rev. Robert Griffin, CSC's closest friends to assist in establishing a Notre Dame scholarship in Griffin's name. Thus far, the Notre Dame Development Office has only heard from nine of you ... only 191 more yet to be found. Last semester this column called for Father Griffin's 200 dearest friends to contribute $500 each to achieve the minimum $100,000 endowment goal. "Griff," as the many young souls whom the priest comforted and sometimes saved affectionately called him, had legions of followers. May 2007 be a time to contact them with what can most commonly be called, "the word." 
Turning to the world of politics, we Democrats could gloat over our con­gressional gains by repeating Newt Gingrich's immortal statement when Republicans swept the legislative branch in 1994, "Get over it." But that was the recipe for more than a decade of acrimony which must end with Democrats being gracious winners. It is humorous to see how quickly the presi­dent abandoned his over-the-top "doom and gloom" campaign rhetorical char­acterizations and begin admitting his mistakes. My wish has two parts. First, the president cannot ever again tell us that "the American public needs to understand" one thing or the other. Secondly, for the president's 30 percent of support, the Bush side of life needs to understand Coca-Cola's newly launched advertising campaign. It is perfect for the beginning of a new year with the jingle, "You give a little love, and it all comes back to you. The Coke side of life." 
On the lighter and arguably more comfortable side of life, my two new year's wishes for the auditioning con­testants this week on "American Idol," the reality television talent contest, can prevent much heartache and many tears. First, avoid dressing in costume or using props. Boxing gloves never impress the judges. Neither do juggling batons, excessively large Cat-in-the-hat top hats, cowboy hats or pants pulled up above your belly button. Dress to fit the Idol brand, not to impress nor depress the judges. 
Additionally, judge yourselves by lis­tening to your tape before Simon describes you as "juvenile, mediocre and horrible" while you make fools of yourselves before 37 million viewers. Do not expect your 10 years of singing lessons or your degree in vocal any­thing to magically advance you to Hollywood. Expect the judges to ask you to sing Abba's "Dancing Queen" when your initial song repeats the lyrics, "I had a bad day." One girl in pigtails vio­lated both rules by propping her hand­made Wizard of Oz poster while singing the cowardly lion's "courage" song ... 
complete with rolling animal noises. When asked to sing a Prince song, she included her unique (and atrociously sounding) rolling noises during that performance. Any wonder the judges did not even want her poster? 
My college classmate -an English major and Notre pame graduate -who considers himself "a maker of book," for sports entertainment purposes only, notes that all four of last weekend's NFL underdogs beat the Vegas odds. His new year's wish is more of a per­sonal resolution, namely to be the most possibly accurate "maker" this year for clients. He offers advice with new year's generosity and good humor for the upcoming championship and Super Bowl games ... the Saints over the Bears and the Colts to win, but to "push" by equaling the point spread. For the Super Bowl, note that the game has never gone into overtime, and the odds favor its likelihood. 
Personally speaking, our world would be better this year if everyone followed the decade's old Coca-Cola slogan, "A Coke and a smile make you feel good." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a leg­islative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Minimun1 wage argument flawed 
Mark Poyar opens the new semester with the latest salvo in the ongo­ing minimum wage debate. I wish to applaud him for his rigorous argu­mentation and join with him in praising the virtues of examining the implications of our beliefs. He presents an eloquent argument of the sort logicians and mathematicians call a "reductio ad absurdum." in which we reject one principle because it is inconsistent with another. In partic­ular, let us call the two principles he considers the Principle of Self­Ownership and the Principle of Minimum Wages. Then his conclusion, which I will grant for the sake of argument, is: If the Principle of Self­Ownership is true, the Principle of Minimum Wages is false. But is the Principle of Self-Ownership true? Mr. Poyar speculates that many people would not disagree with it, but of course this fars fall short of a strong argument for its truth. And perhaps many people would disagree with it, if they knew that it was inconsistent with other principles they hold more dear. 
Indeed, this is the argument I want to make in this letter: while Mr. Poyar has given us an elegant reductio ad absurdum, I believe it is actu­ally a reductio ad absurdum of the Principle of Self-Ownership, not the Principle of Minimum Wages. That is, the conclusion we should arrive at is that, since the Principle of Minimum Wages is more likely to be true, the Principle of Self-Ownership is more likely to be false, relatively to each other. So, why is the Principle of Minimum Wages more likely to be true? 
I have several reasons for thinking this; here is just one, which I am simplifying for the sake of space. The Principle of Self-Ownership implies that we only have moral obligations to not harm others, and do not have any moral obligations to actively prevent others from suffering harm. For example, suppose I happen to come across an infant drown­ing in a shallow pool of water. Rescuing the infant would require no more of a sacrifice on my part than expending a small amount of time and energy. Nevertheless, the Principle of Self-Ownership says that it is entirely within my rights to let the infant die. She has no right to even this minima,! use of my property. On the other hand, the Principle of Minimum Wages finds some support from the intuition that we do in fact have moral obligations to prevent harm -in particular, to prevent at least the worst harms of the deepest poverty. Since it seems true by a moral intuition that we have these sorts of positive moral obligations, it follows that the Principle of Minimum Wages is intuitively more attrac­tive than the Principle of Self-Ownership. And by Mr. Poyar's reasoning, since we must reject at least one of these, I conclude that we must reject at least the Principle of Self-Ownership. 
Dan Hicks grad srudenr offcampus Jan. 17 
~ctually, minimum vvage preserves self-ownership 
If all basic needs were provided for in our society, I might see Mark Poyar's point 
·("The other side of the coin," Jan. 17). I support the idea that an affiuent 17-year-old should be able to bargain for a job contract of any price. After all, he can choose not to enter into a job contract at all. Many workers do not have this choice; they must accept some job contract, or perish on the streets. Without minimum wage laws, it is possible or even likely the best offers a base-laborer could fmd would be insufficient to meet his or her basic needs. But this person would have no choice but to enter into the contract, no matter what this meant (18-hour work days, living in the factory, etc.) Poyar says that a beliefin self-ownership and minimum wage laws are incompatible; I disagree. The minimum wage ensures that the contract a person can find will meet at least some degree of basic sufficiency. In most cases, the minimum wage works to prevent workers from being stripped of self-ownership. 
Scott Feister sophomore St. Edward's Hall Jan. 17 
Wednesday Lunch Fast an easy way to show support 
Every five seconds, a child dies of a hunger-related cause. This means that while I ate my lunch today in North Dining Hall, about 350 children died because they were born into pover­ty. If you're like me, you're looking for a way to make a difference in the lives of the millions who go to bed each night hungry. Pr-eferably, an easy way. 
Luckily, I have one for you: the Wednesday Lunch fast. Students that sign up for the Wedne\)day Liinch Fast simply give up their Wednesday dining hall lunch. This means they will not go to th j dining hall between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. on Wednesdays and will have one less meal each week. The money the dining hall saves will go to help many in poverty. Signing up is easy. Just e-mail your full name and ndiD number (the number on our IDs that begins with 90) to whc@nd.edu by Friday, Feb.2. I hope that you join me in skipping this one dining hall meal a week. 
Jessica Pillarella junior Pasquerilla East Jan. 17 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Friday, January 19, 2007 

'LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE' DVD GLOWS 
MATT HUDSON/Observer Graphic 
courtesy 


"little Miss Sunshine" begins with a dysfunctional family. The film then follows them through humor and emotion on the way to the titular beauty pageant. 

By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
Every family has its quirks. No recent film demonstrates this so wholeheartedly as the charming, sleeper hit of 2006, "Little Miss Sunshine," recently released on DVD. With a buzz generated at last year's Sundance Film Festival, "Little Miss Sunshine" -helmed by husband/wife directing team Jonathan Dayton and Valerie Faris -took Hollywood, the indie circuit and both mainstream and art-house audiences by storm. 
Faris and Dayton, who had previously done only television commercials and music videos for bands like The Red Hot Chili Peppers and Smashing Pumpkins, turned the initially small-budget production into an award-winning film. 
The movie follows a girl, Olive Hoover (Abigail Breslin). who aspires to win the Little Miss Sunshine beauty contest but needs the help of her family to cross the country in their bright yellow Volkswagen bus amidst several family crises to make it to the pageant on time. 
The opening sequence of the film travels 
Little Miss Sunshine 
20th Century Fox Home Entertainment 

from character to character, showing the audience vignettes of each person and their personal problems. Richard (Greg Kinnear) and wife Sheryl (Toni Collette) face the struggles of supporting their family when money is a problem. The son, Dwayne (Paul Dano), begins the movie in a vow of silence in honor of Nietzsche and, like any teenager, fmds his family c~;azy. 
Steve Carrell breaks away from his usual funnyman antics and portrays the Proust scholar and clinically-depressed brother of Sheryl, Frank, who recently attempted sui­cide because of a failed romance with a male graduate student. Alan Arkin -the perennial supporting aetor best known for roles in "Edward Scissorhands" and "Wait Until Dark"-plays the vulgar, drug-addict grandfather who shepherds Abigail on her path to win the beauty contest. 
The undoubted star -playing the char­acter whom all the others revolve around and eventually look to for stability in their family -is Breslin, who began her career as Mel Gibson's daughter in M. Night Shyamalan's "Signs." She perfectly plays Olive, who is not the conventional entrant in a beauty pageant. but who has the dream and desire to compete regardless. 
Comparisons to Dakota Fanning are easy to make, but Breslin shows a much broader and wide range of tal­ent than Fanning has ever shown. Iler best trait, which makes the movie so endearing to the viewer, is the ability to aetas a character who is marked­ly dilli\rent than everyone around hnr, but yet fnels no shame or embarrassment from this. ller pnrf(mnance is stunning to watch and gons down as one of the best screen perf{>tmances of 2006. 

The DVD is light on extras, but this is not terribly noticeable as the main attraetion is the film itself. Several alternate endings make up the bulk of the special features, which give interesting insight into the thought processes of the directors in craft­ing an ending to the fllm. Beyond this, the various eommentaries ar:e interesting, but nothing more or less than in most other films of this nature. 
This character drama sueceeds because the audience becomes the final family member traveling in the dilapidated VW bus across the country and lives the ups and downs of life together with the lloovers. The sense of reality is tangible and any viewer can find traits to which they can relate in various characters. At times hilarious and at times dark and sad, "Little Miss Sunshine" is one of those rare films that is able to entertain while also teaching audiences something about family at the same time. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
"Little Miss Sunshine" opened to massive critical acclaim and made the jump from the indie circuit to the mainstream -one of those rare art films that connected with those outside the art house theaters. It was original, interesting and, more importantly, it had heart, and critics praised its develop­ment of familial conflict that was quirky but somehow intimately reaL 
One of the integral reasons this film was able to connect with such a large audience was the music. The soundtrack contains many songs written by DeVotchKa, the Denver, Col. based indie band that has been influenced by film genres such as the 
'LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE' SOUNDTRACK LENDS HEART TO fiLM 
Spaghetti Western and traditional dancing music from Eastern Europe. The band's sound provides the emotional center of this film, from the mellow and haunting open­ing track, "The Winner Is" (co-written with Danna), to the final track of the lilm before the credits roll entitled "La Llorona" -a piece that would sound more at home in a Leone film than at the end of what the best of American in die had to offer in 2006. 
Aside from these songs by DeVotchKa, the group also composed most of the songs throughout the soundtrack with a few notable exceptions. Other DeVotchKa high­lights include the second song on the soundtrack. "Til the End of Time," which brings frontman Nick Urata's crooning vocals to the fore and provides an upbeat counter to the aforementioned "The 

WinnlH ls." A ,---------------~----.===========iJ 
French accordion 
leads "Let's Go" through its wobbly yet highly enjoyable trajectory that halts, stalls and restarts in its own time lending itself to the film it was meant to comple­ment. If one song had to epitomize the lilrn, it would be this one, not only through its title but 
Little Miss Sunshine 
Official Soundtrack 
Lakeshore Records 

Recommended tracks: 'Til the End ofTime,' 'La Llorona,''We're Gonna Make It,' 'Superfreak' 
'-------------------------------' 
also through tho methods by which this DeVotchKa/Danna eo-production operates. It has an internal rhythm much like the family in the film, but there are points where it seems on the verge of collapse only to lind itsnlf again. 
The notable exeeptions to the DeVotchKa solo efl'orts or the DeVotchKa/Danna elforts are two tracks by indie-folk singer/song­writer ~u!Jan Stt;vens .~~d the ~iek James super-hit Superlreak. Stevens s songs are not as strange as the DeVotchKa songs because they maintain a more traditional folk sound, on.e that may not be as ear catching but is as equally soothing and appropriate to thn film as any other song on the soundtrack. 
Rick James's "Superfreak" and Tony Tisdale's "Catwalkin"' are the only points of the soundtrack that bring some pop influ­ences to the front and provide entertaining points in the film, especially the "Superfreak" incident. They are points on the soundtrack that are pure pop and pure enjoyment. 
Overall, this film's soundtrack is excellent for two reasons: it compliments the lilm extremnly well and it also stands alone extremely well. This may be due to the fact that most of the songs were written by DeVotchKa. However, most of the group's songs on the soundtrack were not written exclusively for the soundtrack, and their style, in and of itself, is incredibly diverse. 
This is a film everyone should own and a soundtrack everyone should own. Most bands eould only hope to put together an album as enjoyable as this, and the sound­
. traek does not fall prey to the cliche that lilm soundtracks only work in the film and not outside unless the music is from "Star Wars," "Jaws," etc. "Little Miss Sunshine" is a great film that is complimented by some great music. One can't go wrong with either. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, January 19, 2007 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
'Balboa' lacks original film's underdog spirit 
New DVD edition of 'Rocky' released on heels of lacking 'Rocky Balboa' 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 
ROCKY BALBOA 
That "Rocky Balboa" is not a terrible film is a testament to the character and Sylvester Stallone's obvious respect and affection for his creation, but that doesn't make it a good film either. Its positive critical receMion seemed mainly due to low expectations, and while it doesn't tarnish the "Rocky" legacy, it doesn't really enhance it either. 
"Rocky Balboa" is ridiculously illogical, and this is its biggest problem. This, in a lot of ways, has become the series' trade­mark. Somewhere between Rocky's bouts with Clubber Lang (Mr. T) and the Soviet Ivan Drago (Dolph Lundgren). his humanity and warmth were stripped away and replaced with a superhuman quality that was more comical than epic. 
"Rocky Balboa" was written by, direct­ed by and stars Sylvester Stallone -as were "Rockys· II -IV." While "Rocky Balboa" presents itself as a stripped­down return to the realism of the first installment, the truth is that the central conceit of the film is more outrageous than even his mountain-climbing, wood­chopping trip to Russia. A simulated fight between Balboa (Stallone) and reigning Heavyweight Champ Mason "The Line" Dixon claims that an in-his-prime Rocky would've beaten Dixon. Balboa himself is retired, but runs a restaurant called Adrian's. Adrian herself passed away sometime between "Rocky V" and "Rocky Balboa," so the Italian Stallion is left with just Paulie, who has become no happier nor wiser sipce the first "Rocky." 
Balboa, who spends most of his time putzing around his restaurant entertain­ing guests, finds a new friend in Little Marie (Geraldine Hughes). whom fans might recognize· as a foul-mouthed girl from the original film. Grown up and with a son, Rocky takes her under his wing, presumably because he has noth-
Rocky Balboa 
. #C'· 
·~

••t 

Director: Sylvester Stallone 
Writers: Sylvester Stallone 
Starring: Sylvester Stallone, Burt 
Young, Tony Burton, Geraldine 
Hughes, Milo Ventimiglia 

Sylvester Stallone returned to the silver screen for the last time as American icon Rocky Balboa in 2006's "Rocky Balboa." This film lacked the heart of the original. 
ing better to do. He also tries to reconcile things with his son Robert (Milo Ventimiglia), who has become an office worker and resents being in the shadow of his famous father. 
Upon hearing about the simulated fight, Rocky is persuaded to step into the ring one last time. You can guess what happens next. 
When Dixon's agents approach Balboa for the first time, they tell him that the simulated fight got a lQt of people inter­ested, which is why the proposition of an exhibition match between the former champ and the reigning champ is put on the table. Yeah, right. ESPN could simu­late a football game and claim that the 1977 Notre Dame football team could've beaten 2006 Florida, but odds are that it's not enough to inspire Joe Montana and Ken McAfee to suit up and take to the field. It's just not realistic. 
"Rocky Balboa" is a nice little movie and it's a solid "goodbye" to the cinema icon, but it didn't need to be made. If anything, it just undoes the damage of "Rocky V," a truly horrendous film that really, really didn't need to be made. Yet somehow, Stallone managed to make the character age gracefully. 
There are obvious elements missing from "Rocky Balboa." If it is, as Stallone purports, the last of the series, then why not tie up all the loose ends? Key charac­ters like Apollo Creed and Mickey are simply ignored, and the film leaves open the possibility for another sequel. If Stallone wanted to close on the highest poosible note, it would have been better if he had come full circle and made the series feel like a complete arc. 
The first "Rocky" was about going the distance, fighting until the last bell and winning the girl of your dreams. It was a simple movie, and that simplicity was part of its appeal, something the sequels lost sight of. "Rocky Balboa" is more like those sequels than it seems, it is a super­hero send-off, but it also shares a key quality with the original that hearkens back to the simplicity of the 1976 Best Picture Oscar winner -it is not a film about a man who wants to win, it is a film about a man who once again wants to go the distance, to prove to himself that he wasn't just some bum from the neighborhood. 
ROCKY: THE COLLECTOR'S DVD 
Something lost in the sequels, the hubris and the less-than-stellar career of Sylvester Stallone is that the original "Rocky" is -surprise! -a fantastic movie. The Best Picture winner of 1976, "Rocky" helped launch the careers of its director, John "Karate Kid" Avildsen, and its writer/star, Sylvester Stallone, drawing comparisons to (and this is true) Marlon Brando and Robert DeNiro in the process. And while the careers of Stallone and Avildsen and the subse­quent sequels have done much to dilute the original's impact, "Rocky" is still the ultimate underdog story and a really great picture in its own right. 
"Rocky" follows a small-time boxer and hustler, Rocky Balboa (Sylvester Stallone), as he is given a chance at the title by World Champion Apollo Creed (Carl Weathers). He enlists the help of crusty old trainer Mickey (Burgess Meredith) while also romancing local pet shop worker Adrian (Talia Shire). 
Another year, another DVD edition of "Rocky," which means there are at least three releases of the same film -the original "Special Edition," the upgraded "Better Picture Quality" and now the two-disc "Collector's Edition." Like the series itself. the DVD of "Rocky" seems to have breathed its last, only to resur­face yet again. This version promises to be the last, because really, can MGM put much more content on these discs? The picture quality (a "new high-definition transfer") is quite good, and the film includes a sparse 5.1 audio track, which is unsu11Jrising considering that it was originally released in mono (a track which is noticeably absent). There are three commentary tracks, and two of them are new -one from Sly himself, and one featuring trainer Lou Duva and commentator Bert Sugar. Stallone's com­mentary is intelligent and informative, filled with anecdotes and asides about the blood, sweat and tears that went into the making of "Rocky." 
Few people probably thought that the "Rocky" franchise would run its course over 30 years and five sequels. And real­ly, it didn't have to. The first film is a minor miracle, a serendipitous marriage of timing and talent, and a complete and satisfying story. Watching the first film again is a reminder that "Rocky" is truly a great film, free from the glossy sheen and cheap thrills that marred the sequels. While Stallone might have thought that audiences wanted slick, action-packed "Rocky" movies, he should have looked to the original and remembered that nothing is more thrilling than the simple pleasure of watching the Italian Stallion run up the steps of the Philadelphia Art Museum to the strains of "Gonna Fly Now." 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

In the newest "Rocky" installment, Rocky fights Mason "The Line" Dixon. The original "Rocky" garnered the Academy Award for Best Picture in 1976. It has "Rocky Balboa was based on an illogical computer simulated fight. been released three times on DVD with the latest being the best. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 19, 2007 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Fifth-graders boost Arizona State to victory 
Freshman point guard Houts scores career-high 21 points to help No. 16 Georgia take down No. 14 Vanderbilt 
Associated Press "But their perimeter defense is so disruptive it's hard to get
TEMPE, Ariz. -Arizona 
the ball inside," Olivier said. 
State's noisiest home game The balanced scoring 
was also one of its best. 

showed Arizona State's depth. 
Danielle Orsillo scored. 16 
"That's what is so greatpoints to lead five Arizona about this team," Orsillo said. 
State players in double figures "We don't rely on just a coupleand the lOth-ranked Sun 
of players and everybody has Devils routed UCLA 92-52 on everybody else's back." 
Thursday. 

The Sun Devils made 11 of 
Aubree Johnson added 15 
their first 12 shots, 4-of-4 bypoints, Dymond Simon 14, Jill January, to bolt to a 25-10 lead 
Noe 13 and Briann January 10 
on Jill Noe's 3-pointer with 
for the Sun Devils in a game 12:42 left in the half. It was 
played in front of several thou­never close after that. 
sand enthusiastic fourth-, fifth­The lead reached 37-13 after 
and sixth-graders on "Sparky's 
Johnson made two free throws Kids to College Field Trip." with 4:22 to go in the half. 
"Let's have a field trip day 
Seven players scored as 
every game," Johnson said. "It Arizona State took a 46-23 was awesome." 
lead at the break. Orsillo led 
With the kids cheering them 
with 10 first-half points, fol­

on, the Sun Devils (17-2, 7-1 
lowed by January and Simon 
Pac-1 0) led by as many as 24 
with eight apiece. The Sun 
in the first half and 44 in the 
Devils shot 56 percent in the second, handing UCLA (9-11, first half (19-for-34) compared
3-5) its most one-sided loss of with 28 percent for the Bruins the season. · (8-for-29).
"I felt like I was at home because of the screaming chil-Georgia 83, Vanderbilt 71 dren," said ASU coach Charli Georgia won more than just 
Turner Thorne, who has three a key conference game young sons. "It was great." Thursday night. The Lady 
The Sun Devils, who play Bulldogs also won some extra USC on Sunday, shot 59 per-free time on Friday. cent in their fifth straight win • Ashley Houts scored almost and 32nd regular-season home half of her career-high 21 victory in their last 33 tries. points from the free-throw The Bruins shot just 33 per-line, and No. 16 Georgia made cent and committed 25 32 of 42 free throws to beat throws. late in the game. points.
turnovers in their fourth loss No. 14 Vanderbilt 83-71. 
"Free throws down the "We were able to hang It was the fewest points
in five games. "What it means is we get out stretch were key," said Houts, around, and I was proud of my North Carolina has allowed"That's the Sun Devils oper-of practice 10 m--inutes earlier a freshman point guard. "It team for that," Balcomb said. any ACC opponent and the Tarating on pretty close to all (Friday) because we shot all feels good to be able to pull out " ... It's always tough to come in Heels' biggest margin of victo­
cylinders," Turner Thorne our free throws tonight," 
a win, especially after a tough here and play. We'll find the ry in their series with Georgiasaid. "Now the challenge is to Georgia coach Andy Landers loss." positives from this game and Tech.
bring that again for our next said. 
Georgia, coming off a 52-41 build on them." North Carolina led 33-16 at 
game because we've had a ten-Georgia's 32 free throws 
home loss to No. 4 Tennessee, Vanderbilt, led by Williams' the half.
dency to let up defensively in made was its eighth-highest 
regrouped offensively with nine points on three 3-point­Latta went 4-for-6 from 3­
those second games." total, and its 42 attempts ranks four players scoring in double ers, led 30-29 at halftime. point range to account for herLindsey Pluimer led UCLA lOth in the program's history. 
figures. Georgia shot only 31.3 percent 12 first-half points. She hit 3­with 17 points. Noelle Quinn Georgia broke open a close Tasha Humphrey had 18 from the field, but stayed close pointers on consecutive pos­added 13 but made just 5-of-game with a 10-0 second-half 
points, and Janese Hardrick on Humphrey's nine points, sessions to key an early 17-418 shots. run and then protected the 
added 17 points, eight also on a season-high three 3-run.
Turner Thorne said the lead by making free throws in rebounds and four steals for pointers. Miller scored 11 points whendefense against Quinn was the final minutes. Vanderbilt Georgia (15-4, 3-2 "I thought her 3s gave us the North Carolina pulled away incrucial. coach Melanie Balcomb used a 
Southeastern Conference). confidence to get started," the game's final 14:57. She
"She's one of the best players full-court, trapping defense in Hardrick, a senior, matched Landers said. "I thought they scored seven points in a 1:52in the country but we didn't an effort. to force turnovers or her career high in rebounds. were huge." span to spark a 13-2 Northallow her to be that today," the get the Lady Bulldogs to miss Christy Marshall was 7 for 8 Carolina spurt.
Sun Devils' coach said. free throws. 
from the free-throw line in the North Carolina 78 Georgia Tech was 11-of-59
It was the first meeting of the Despite the pressure from last 3 minutes and added 13 Georgia Tech 31 from the field (18.6 percent). 
two teams since the Bruins Vanderbilt's defense, Georgia points. Reserve Alex Miller scored The Yellow Jackets hit justbeat Arizona State in the semi-committed only 11 turnovers. 
Christina Wirth led 15 points, Ivory Latta added 14 eight of their first 36 shots and
finals of last year's Pac-10 Landers said he was 
Vanderbilt (16-3, 3-2) with 16 and No. 2 North Carolina held had more turnovers (13) than tournament. impressed by his team's poise points. Merideth Marsh, Georgia Tech to its lowest field goals in the first half. 
UCLA coach Kathy Olivier "because they're coming after Caroline Williams and Carla score ever, beating the Yellow North Carolina hit 12 of itssaid she will reserve judgment you, trying to trap you and Thomas each added 12 points, Jackets 78-31 Thursday night. first 17 shots in the second on just how good the Sun stop you and we didn't give it but couldn't keep the Camille Little added 12 half and finished 29-of-62 from Devils are until her team plays up in that situation very often, Commodores from falling to 2-points and Jessica Breland 10 the field.
them in Los Angeles. if even once." 
2 against ranked teams. for North Carolina (21-0, 5-0 Georgia Tech went 8:28 with­"They're very comfortable at Vanderbilt was called for 31 Thomas, fourth in the SEC Atlantic Coast Conference). out a basket in the second halfhome," she said, "and they just fouls and had two players foul averaging 17.4 points per Reserve Jacqua Williams and had just one field goal inget it done." out and three finish with four game, was 4-for-11 from the scored 11 to lead the Yellow the last 14:24. North CarolinaShe said the Bruins wanted fouls. 
field. Jackets (11-7, 2-3), who had closed the game by outscoringto use their height advantage Houts was 1 0-for-13 on free Marsh and Wirth fouled out no starter with more than four the Yellow Jackets 24-7.
against the ~un Devils. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day-classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be l:'repa1d. . 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
House available for 2007-2008.  Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm  Wish wish fish  
FoR RENT  Very Large, Close to Campus, Just Renovated. Contact  houses available for sale/rent. Contact Meredith  PERSONAL  TICKETS  Fish yummy in my tummy.  
MacSwain@ gmail.com  Allsop, Milligan Real Estate 220­ I don't know.  
9817.  My feet are just happy.  
Leasing 2nd semester 2007. Also  Studio Apt. Stove, Refrig, Heat,  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  WANTED- 
leasing 2007-08. Stadium Club  Water, Sewage and Trash service  Furnished, very clean, 3-room apt.  Do not go it alone. If you or some­ 3 tix NO hockey Sat.  Go Irish!  
Condominiums. Call Susan 574­ Incl. $350/mo. 20 Min. to NO. 269­ in Roseland.  one you love needs confidential  Jan 27.  
243-7530 or email: stadiumclubcon­ 684-2268.  Utilities paid,quiet,  support or assistance, please call  Call 703-585-8663.  Let in snow  
dos@ sbcglobal.net  Wooded setting.  Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For  Snow, Snow, Snow  
Leases available for 2007-08:3,4,5  3 mins. to NO.  more information, visit our web site  Happy Birthday Kelly Meehan!  
Houses for rent, 3 to 6 bedrooms,  bdrm, 3 bath homes, frpls, 2-car  Undergrad or grad student (one).  at  It's Friday people!  
walking distance,  garages.  Reasonable rent pays  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ Go Bears!!  TGIF  
mmmrentals@aol.com. Call Gary  Call574-232-4527 or 269-683­ Call. 272-6377  nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
574-993-2208.  5038.  8 arn-10pm  in The Observer.  Happy Birthday Rohan!!  R.I.P. GEORGE  



OUND THE NATION 
Friday, January 19, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 

NCAA Hockey USCHO.comjCSTV Top 25 
team  record points  
1  Minnesota  20·2·3  793  
2  New Hampshire  17-3-1  762  
3  NOTRE OAME  19-4-1  716  
4  Maine  14-5-2  617  
5  Denver  11·7·2  606  
6  St. Cloud Slate  14-4-4  602  
7  Boston College  12-6·1  524  
8  Boston University  10·4·6  509  
9  Miami (Ohio)  '17-8-1  499  
10  Clarkson  13-5-3  471  
11  Michigan State  14-8-1  449  
12  Colorado College  14-9-1  363  
13  Michigan  15·9-0  330  
14  Vermont  12-8-2  226  
15  Cornell  9-6-2  186  
16  Quinnipiac  11-6-5  169  
17  Lake Superior  13-8-3  141  
18  North Dakota  11-11-2  112  
19  St. Lawrence  11-9-1  86  
20  Niagra  13·8-3  77  
21  Bemidji State  12-7-3  56  
22  Wisconsin  10-12-2  45  
23  RIT  13·7-2  20  
24  Sacred Heart  13-6-4  17  
25  Ohio State  9·9-4  11  

NCAA Hockey CCHA Standings 
league team points record 
1 NOTRE DAME 27 13-2-1 2 Miami (Ohio) 25 12-5-1 3 Michigan State 21 10-6-1 4 Michigan 20 10·6-0 5 Lake Superior 17 7-6-3 6 Ohio State 17 7-6-3 7 Nebraska-Omaha 16 7-8-2 8 Western Michigan 15 H-1 9 Alaska 13 5-8·3 10 Northern Michigan 13 6-11-1 11 Ferris State 8 3-10-2 12 Bowling Green 6 3·14-D 

previous 
1 3 5 2 7 4 8 12 6 9 10 
•11 
13 18 14 19 15 20 
NR 
17 
NR 
18 
NR NR NR 
overall 
record 
19-4·1 17-8-1 14·8·1 15-9·0 13-8-3 9-9·4 10-9·6 8-12•1 
7-11~4 
9-14·2 6-14-3 5-19-1 
Women's Basketball  
MIAA Standings  
league  overall  
team  record  record  
1  Calvin  8-0  14-1  
2  Hope  7-1  15-1  
3  Albion  4-4  9-7  
4  Olivet  4-4  7-8  
5  ST. MARY'S  4-4  7-8  
6  Alma  3-5  7-8  
7  Adrian  2-6  5-10  
8  Kalamazoo  2-6  3·13  
9.  Tri-State  2-6  4-12  

around the dial 
NBA Detroit at Minnesota 8 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS Austratlian Open 10 p.m., ESPN2 


Associated Press 

FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. -For the third time in nine months, Atlanta Falcons quarterback Michael Vick is making headlines for all the wrong reasons. 
Vick reluctantly surren­dered a water bottle to security at Miami Inter­national Airport that smelled like marijuana and contained a substance in a hidden compartment. He was not arrested and was allowed to board an AirTran flight that landed in Atlanta before noon Wednesday. 
Miami police said Thursday it could be weeks before a decision is made on whether to file charges against the three-time Pro Bowl player, who this sea­son became the first quar­terback in NFL history to rush for 1,000 yards. 
Falcons owner Arthur Blank, general manager Rich McKay and new coach Bobby Petrino met with Vick, who left team head­quarters without speaking to reporters. McKay described Blank as being "upset" with the quarter­back, whose $137 million contract was richest in the NFL when Vick signed it three years ago. 
"We are an organization that prides itself on not hav­ing off-the-field issues," McKay said. "I think we have done a pretty good job of bringing the right people in here so we don't have to face these types of issues. We don't like "it. We don't accept it. It is not what W{) want." 
Under Florida law, posses­sion ofless than 20 grams of marijuana is a misde­meanor punishable by up to a year in prison and a $1,000 fine. First offenders rarely do any jail time. 
"We'll do an analysis and see what it is. There's no sense of urgency to it," Detective Alvaro Zabaleta said Thursday. 
The NFL's substance abuse policy states any team can decide that a play­er's "behavior, including but not limited to an arrest," can warrant a physical exam from its appointed medical director. NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said no decision had been made in Vick's case. 
"We have a process that provides guidelines for every situation," Aiello said. "Our doctors conduct a lengthy evaluation, if neces­sary, and then decide if enrollment in a treatment program is necessary." 
Last April, Vic"' settled a lawsuit filed by a woman who claimed the player knowingly gave her herpes. In November, Vick made an obscene gesture toward Atlanta fans who heckled the team as it came off the field after a 31-13 loss. 
IN BRIEF 

Trezza,_ women's baseball 
leader, oies at 81 
NEW YORK -Betty Trezza, a pio­neering player in the World War 11-era All-American Girls Professional Baseball League and a model for one of the characters in the 1992 movie "A League of Their Own," has died. She was 81. 
Trezza died of a heart attack on Tuesday at her Brooklyn home, where she lived with her two sisters, her sis­ter-in-law Sally Trezza said Thursday. 
Her brother, Daniel Trezza, of Brooklyn, called her "a pioneer in sports." Trezza, born Aug. 4, 1925, in Brooklyn, was one of 12 children. 
Trezza played with the league for seven seasons. She was 17 years old when she was recruited as a shortstop in 1944 and assigned to the Minneapolis Millerettes. 
When Minneapolis was replaced in 1945 by the Fort Wayne Daisies, Trezza split the year between the Daisies and the South Bend Blue Sox. 
Jaguars resign linebacker 
Smith to five-year deal 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -The Jacksonville Jaguars locked up anoth­er key defensive starter Thursday, signing linebacker Daryl Smith to a five-year contract extension worth about $25 million. 
Smith, a second-round draft pick from Georgia Tech in 2004, has start­ed every game the past two seasons and led the team with 170 tackles last year while filling in for injured middle linebacker Mike Peterson. 
The new contract, which begins in 2008, includes $10 million in bonuses. 
The 6-foot-2, 244-pound linebacker became the seventh defensive starter to sign a long-term deal with the Jaguars since coach Jack Del Rio took over in 2003. 
Defensive linemen Marcus Stroud, John Henderson and Reggie Hayward, cornerback Brian Williams and line­backer Mike Peterson each signed contracts worth at least $20 million. 
Sosa continues contract 
talks with Rangers 
DALLAS -Sammy Sosa and the Texas Rangers kept up negotiations on a ·minor league contract Thursday, working their way toward a deal. 
The Rangers and Sosa's agent, Adam Katz, have exchanged a cou­ple of proposals. While they could finalize a deal this week, Katz said Thursday that the sides had not yet reached an agreement. 
Texas has offered Sosa a deal that would require him to earn his spot on the roster during spring training. The 38-year-old former slugger, 12 short of 600 home runs in a 17 -sea­son career that began with the Rangers in 1989, didn't play in the major leagues last year. 
If completed, the contract likely would be worth about $500,000 if Sosa is placed on the 40-man roster. He would have the chance to earn additional performance bonuses. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 19, 2007 
NCAA 

NAACP asks to stop talk on Duke rape case 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C.-The state chapter of the NAACP on Thursday called on those involved with the Duke lacrosse sexual assault case -from defense attorneys to state bar officials -to stop talking publicly while the state attorney general's office begins its review. 
"We sincerely believe that the high level of public scrutiny and controversy involved in this matter is unwarranted and threatens to pervert the truth-finding process," said the Rev. William Barber, president of the North Carolina chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
No parties involved in the case have indicated whether they plan to stop speaking publicly. 
Durham County District Attorney Mike Nifong, under heavy criticism for his han­dling of the case, asked the attorney general's office this month to take over the prose­
cution  - a  decision Barber  
said  his  organization  
applauded.  

Until turning the case over to state prosecutors, Nifong led the investigation into aile­gations that a 28-year-old black student at North Carolina Central University, hired to perform as a strip­per, was raped and beaten by three white men at a March 13 party thrown by Duke's highly ranked lacrosse team. 

In late December, after the accuser changed a key detail in her account, Nifong dropped the rape charges. Legal experts have said there appears to be little evidence to support the remaining charges against Dave Evans, Collin Finnerty and Reade Seligmann. All three have strongly proclaimed their innocence. 
"Nobody knows the totality of the facts," Barber said. "We do not expect, nor should North Carolina citi­zens condone, a resolution of this case based on biased and political or public pressure from the public or any overzealous supporters on either side. What we must do is insist that we follow the facts wherever they lead and face the facts when they are all in." 
The state bar has also accused Nifong of making misleading and inflammatory comments about the lacrosse team, charges that could lead to his disbarment. 
NFL 
Catneron front-runner for Dolphins' position 
Current San Diego a-coordinator sought 
Associated Press 
MIAMI The Miami Dolphins hope to complete their two-week search for a coach by Saturday, and the front-runner appears to be San Diego Chargers offensive coordinator Cam Cameron. 
The former Indiana coach kept his hotel room near the Dolphins' complex Thursday night after a second day of interviewing with team offi­cials. A Dolphins spokesman said management was still weighing the candidates. 
"I can tell you with 100 per­cent certainty that no decision will be made today," Dolphins· senior vice president Harvey Greene said Thursday evening. "We hope to finish the process by tomorrow or Saturday at. the latest." 
Cameron first interviewed with the Dolphins shortly after coach Nick Saban left for Alabama on Jan. 3. Cameron became available when San Diego was eliminated from the playoffs Sunday by New England. 
Other candidates still in the mix to replace Saban include Georgia Tech coach Chan Gailey, Dolphins defensive coordinator Dom Capers, for­mer Atlanta Falcons coach Jim Mora and former Alabama coach Mike Shula, the son of ex-Dolphins coach Don Shula. 

Cameron was coach at his alma mater, Indiana, from 1997-2001 and has directed a high-powered attack the past five years as San Diego's offen­sive coordinator. The Dolphins might opt for a coach with an offensive background because a sputtering offense is a major reason they've failed to make the playoffs the past five sea­sons. 
The Dolphins interviewed at least 13 candidates in their most extensive coaching search since the franchise's first season in 1966. They hope to make a decision before next week's Senior Bowl in Mobile, Ala., where teams scout college prospects and assemble coaching staffs. 
The 55-year-old Gailey was Miami's offensive coordinator from 2000-01 before leaving to become the head coach at Georgia Tech. He is 37-27 with Tech and has taken the team to five straight bowls. 
Gailey also was 18-16 in two playoff seasons as the Dallas Cowboys' coach from 1998-99. He interviewed for the Pittsburgh Steelers' opening but was not one of three final­ists to replace Bill Cowher. 
Gailey just completed the first season of a five-year. $5 million contract extension at Georgia Tech that runs through 2010. lie and Tech athletic director Dan Radakovich wPre awaiting a decision by the Dolphins before commenting on the sit­uation. 

NFL 

Two long decades for Bears 
Associated Press  
CHICAGO -Two decades and  
forever. That's the time span  
between trips to the Super Bowl  
for the Chicago Bears and New  
Orleans Saints.  
While various players from.  
each side have been to the NFLs  
biggest game with other teams,  
these are two organizations mired  
in, well, Super droughts. The last  
time the Bears played for the  
league title, it was in January  
1986, and the stars wern named  
Payton, Singletary, Hampton and  
McMahon. The defense was over­ 
whelming and Da Coach, Mike  
Ditka, was overbnaring.  
That 21-year hiatus is distress­ 
ing in Chicago, but it's also 19  
years shorter than the span New  
Orleans has gone without a Super  
Bowl trip. Those four decades  
make up merely all of the Saints'  
APexistence.  
Bears cornerback Charles Tillman, left, and Rashied Davis celebrateBecause Sunday's NFC champi­ 
with Chicago fans after defeating the Seahawks 27-24 Sunday.onship game involves franchises  
that haven't enjoyed much suc­ 
cess in the Super Bowl era, the  Ricky Manning Jr., and Dante  much."  
celebrations might be just a bit  Wesley; tackle Fred Miller; and  Beyond the second round of the  
more exuberant.  punter Brad Maynard. Backup  playoffs is farther than the Saints  
"Growing up watching the NFL,  quarterback Bob Griese was with  ever have traveled. They've made  
being such a fan of the sport and  Denver in 1999, but didn't get on  this uplifting journey in the wake  
the league," Bears quarterback  the field.  of a nomadic season where they  
Rex Grossman said, "it means a  "I think experience teaches you  played home games in three cities  
great deal to bn in this position. I  a lot, so if you have been in that  after Hurricane Katrina devastat­ 
really respect where we are at  situation ... we have a few, we  ed New Orleans. They went 3-13  
right now as far as the history of  don't have many," said coach  during 2005, and Sean Payton  
the league. I'm approaching it  Lovie Smith, the defensive coordi­ was hired as coach.  
with a ton of intensity and focus,  nator for the 2001 Rams that lost  Payton's work this season,  
but not trying to make it bigger  to New England for the NFL title.  when the Saints went 10-6 and  
than it is. It's still just a football  "But yes, it has to have helped,  won the NFC South, earned him  
game we are playing at Soldier  especially if you've been there  AP Coach of the Year honors. He  
Field against the Saints."  recently.  and his players, from All-Pro  
Sure it is. But it's also the  "But once you get down to it,  quarterback Drew Brees to rookie  
biggest game of the careers of  gametime we're going to kick it  stars Reggie Bush and Marques  
every Bears player except five  off and now it's just another foot­ Colston to longtime Saints Joe  
with previous Super Bowl game  ball game. You know the week  Horn and John Carney, have been  
experience: wide receiver Muhsin  leading up to it is quite a bit dif­ vital forces in the revival of their  
Muhammad;· defensive backs  ferent. But beyond that I don't see  city's spirit.  

Friday, January 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
~Smith couldbe first blackcoachinSuperBowl 
Associated Press Dungy started nearly a decade ago in Tampa, with Edwards and 
INDIANAPOLIS -Two weeks Smith on his staff. Back then, 70 ago, Lovie Smith made the three­percent of the league's players hour trip from Chicago to watch were black -a percentage that Tony Dungy's Colts take on still holds. Herman Edwards' Chiefs in a This year, there were seven first-round NFL playoff game. black coaches, including Dennis 
The night before, the three old Green in Arizona and Art Shell in friends and their wives dined at Oakland. Both men were fired 
P.F. Chang's in downtown after the season, although Shell Indianapolis in what wa~ as much will remain in the Raiders' front a symbolic meeting as a gathering office. The others are Cincinnati's of old pals -three black coaches Marvin Lewis and Cleveland's celebrating the arrival of their Romeo Crennel. teams in the NFL playoffs. Though he didn't coach this 
"We talked about starting in '96 season, Ray Rhodes coached in Tampa and some of the things Philadelphia and Green Bay in the we remembered from then," 1990s. Dungy recalled on Thursday. Despite the strides, no black "How great it is that we are in the head coach has ever taken the playoffs and that at least two of us final step. have a chance to make it to the "Of course, it would be special if Super Bowl. You realized it would that happened," Smith said. "I be awesome if it happened and, hope for a day when it is unno­hopefully, it will." ticed but that day isn't here. This 
It's officially one game from is the first time, I think, two black being awesome. men have led their teams to the 
If the Colts beat the New final four. You have to acknowl­England Patriots on Sunday and edge that. I do, we do. I realize Smith's Bears beat the New the responsibility that comes with "I don't think players think of have to think of their race," he An example: When Jerry Reese Orleans Saints, it would put two that." 'black players' and 'white play­said. was promoted to general manag­black coaches in the NFL's mar­So do black players. ers.' It shows that for Tony and NFL leaders acknowledge that's er of the New York Giants this quee game for the first time in its "We're making progress slow­Lovie to come this far that there in the future. week, he became just the third 41 years. Even ifjust one of them ly," says defensive tackle Anthony are at least some organizations "We still have problems with black man in that key position, wins, that, too, would be a first. McFarland of the Colts, who that have confidence that black the front office," said Pittsburgh's joining Baltimore's Ozzie 
There were just three black played for both Dungy and Smith men can be head coaches. I hope Dan Rooney, one of league's sen­Newsome and Houston's Rick head coaches in the NFL when in Tampa Bay. it goes beyond that so we don't ior owners. Smith. 
NFL 
Testaverde hopes another Super Bowl win won't slip away 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. -The some other quarterback and think, 'It got away from me AFC championship game onship game. But John Elway, clock ticks down to zero, con­Vinny Testaverde clicks off the again,"' the New England against Indianapolis. "I've in his final season, led the fetti falls, the Super Bowl tro­television. Patriots' third-string· QB said always been on the outside, Broncos to a 23-10 victory and 
looking in. I've always won­then to their second straight dered what the players went Super Bowl title. through. I think I'd enjoy that "It was really tough," experience." Testaverde said, swallowing 
Let others complain about the hard, "to let it go then.'' distractions and hype sur­Testaverde tore his anterior rounding the Super Bowl. cruciate ligament in the '99 Testaverde would just like a opener -against the Patriots chance to see what it's like -and lost in the first round in after failing to make it to the 2001 in his final playoff appear­NFL title game, so far, during ance as a starter. After coming an otherwise distinguished 20-out of retirement when the Jets' year career. Chad Pennington was hurt last 
A Heisman Trophy winner at year, Testaverde was out of the Miami who was the first overall league again this season when pick in the 1987 NFL draft, Belichick, who had been work­Testaverde is on his seventh ing with two quarterbacks on stop with five franchises. At 43, the roster, asked if he wanted he is resigned to the fact that to be an insurance policy. he probably won't be barking "We all knew what the situa­out signals in a Super Bowl tion was going to be. I knew I huddle, but he still has a was the emergency guy," chance to tag along as an emer­Testaverde said. gency QB if the Patriots beat And he was OK with that. the Colts on Sunday. "If I wasn't, I wouldn't be 
"I came here knowing it here to begin with," he said. would be an opportunity for me Although Belichick insisted at to win a championship, some­the time that the goal was to thing I've never experienced," keep Testaverde off the field, Testaverde said. ''I've been for­the 43-year-old veteran tunate enough to play this long, appeared in four regular-sea­to be in position to do it again. son and playoff games. Three of It's exciting. This is what you them were kneel-down situa­live for. tions, but in the regular-season 
"It'd be nice," he said. "It'd be finale against Tennessee, nice." Belichick gave him the chance 
Testaverde played his first six to throw a touchdown pass that years for the woeful was meaningless except that it Buccaneers and the next five extended his record to 20 con­for the Browns-turned-Ravens, secutive seasons with a scoring making the playoffs only once pass. ---'--in the 1994 season while "That's the thing about playing for coach Bill Belichick Vinny," said No. 2 quarterback in Cleveland. It was at his next Matt Cassel. "He has so much stop, with the New York Jets, respect in this locker room. that Testaverde came closest to You'd love to see him get a the Super Bowl. chance to do that at the end of 
After leading the Jets to their his career. I hope I'm lucky first AFC East title in 1998, he enough to be around long helped them to a 10-0 lead over enough to have that kind of Denver in the AFC champi-success." 



The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Firrnwide Information Session 
Learn about our summer analyst opportunities Monday, January 22, 2007 
6:00 pm -8:00 pm The Center for Continuing Education, Room 210 
Application deadline: Tuesday, January 30, 2007 Apply online at gs.com/careers and through your career service office. 
© Goldman. Sachs & Co. 2007. AH rights reserved. Goldman Sachs is an equal opportunity employer. 
Friday, January 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Ownerswarned to work with steroids investigation 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX ~ Former Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell warned baseball owners that a lack of cooperation with his investigation into steroid use will "significantly increase" the chances of government involve­ment. 
Speaking to owners at base­ball's quarterly meetings, Mitchell said he intends to interview active players and raised the possibility that Congress or other government authorities could compel testi­mony. 
"I believe it will be in your best interests, and the best interests of baseball, if I can report that I have received full cooperation from your organi­zations, and from others, in conducting this investigation," Mitchell said in remarks that were released to reporters. 
Mitchell cited last week's Hall of Fame vote to underscore the importance of his investigation. Mark McGwire was picked on 
23.5 percent of ballots ~ far below the necessary 75 percent needed for induction. The vote was viewed by many as the first referendum on how history will judge an age when bulked-up players came under suspicion of using performance-enhancing drugs. Baseball didn't ban steroids until after the 2002 season. 
"If nothing else, the results of the Hall of Fame voting last week, and the reaction to it, offer fresh evidence that this issue will not just fade away," Mitchell said. "Whether you think it fair or not, whether you think it justified or not, Major League Baseball has a cloud over its head, and that cloud will not just go away." 
Mitchell cannot compel testi­mony. He warned the clubs that Congress or other federal or state authorities which do have subpoena power could get involved. 
"I believe that a report that is not credible and thorough will significantly increase the possi­bility of action by others, espe­cially if it's the result of a lack of cooperation by the clubs, or by anyone else who is or has been involved with baseball," Mitchell said. 
The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee held a series of hearings on steroids and pro sports in 2005 and 2006. 
'The use of steroids in profes­sional sports continues to be an issue the committee is interest­ed in, and we are looking for­ward to learning more about the progress Senator Mitchell has made in his investigation," said Rep. Henry A. Waxman, the California Democrat who chairs the committee. 
Keith Ausbrook, Republican general counsel for the commit­tee, said he's almost certain Mitchell has not been in contact with the panel recently about this issue. 
"We've certainly been very interested in his investigation and what the results are going to be," Ausbrook said. "If he's not getting anywhere, we'll cer­tainly consider whether to re­engage in it." 
The players' association declined comment, spokesman Greg Houris said. 
Mitchell did not speak to reporters after addressing own­ers. He was hired by commis-sioner Bud Selig last March fol­lowing more than a year of alle­gations against Barry Bonds, McGwire and other stars. No timetable was set for Mitchell's report. 

Bonds is under investigation by a federal grand jury as to whether he perjured himself when he testified in 2003 in the BALCO steroid distribution case that he hadn't knowingly taken any performance-enhancing drugs. 
The San Francisco Giants are negotiating a contract with Bonds, who needs 22 home runs to surpass Hank Aaron's 
t Tht mn;re tlbl .#limn~=~This word >nal contttl! of (l!kt4 by WW1itt% wt t&w j difficulties, pttttl}r (%;\;'tng. w~ the tt04Wd%ris way . aby Japan, paxtly owing ttl ~fte . . .. ·~d e British Inspecttlr,.;(}\.-neral ofCn&httum
overpnc..., ..• mys: 
mark of 755. Speaking to reporters at a golf tournament in the Dominican Republic this week, Bonds declined to discuss ongoing negotiations with the Giants, or his reported positive test for amphetamines last year. Giants owner Peter Magowan declined to answer questions about Bonds. 
Selig also spoke to the owners about Mitchell's investigation. Asked if he had urged the clubs to cooperate with Mitchell, Selig said, "Urge is probably not strong enough." 
"Look, some clubs have been more cooperative than others, but at this stage, I'm not con­cerned about that," Selig said. "He will have cooperation." 
Selig would not say which clubs are lagging in their coop­eration. Mitchell acknowledged that teams aren't used to deal­ing with "large-scale document discovery," which can be time­consuming. But he said his investigation would move faster if clubs cooperated more quick­ly. 
"Many have asked when my report will be completed," he said. "The pace of this investi­gation is dictated by the rate at which information is received." 
If you didn't buy your textbooks at Half.com, you paid too much. Half.com has all the textbooks you need like chemistry, astronomy and history for a lot less. 
,----------------,
I I 
I I  FOR ALIMITED TIME,  
SAVE AN ADDITIONAL $5  
ON PURCHASES OF $50  
I  OR MORE: SIMPLY USE  
THIS CODE: SAVEBIGNOW  •  

'----------------~ 

*$5 off promotion open to legal U.S. residents 18 years nf age or aider wllo are first-time uuyers on Half.com. $5 ufl promotion good lor first-lime purchase nf $50 nr more, exciuding shipping and handling, on Half.cnm only. limit one niJar par ••or 10, •nd offer may not be combined wiUr any other nf!er, coupon or promotion. Voi~ where ptohibrtetl, taxed or restricted. Oller expires february 16, 200J at 11:59.59pm PT. 
..--------------~----­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 19, 2007 
SMC BASKETBALL 
N D TRACK AND FIELD 
Young runners ready
Close contest awaits Belles 
By DAN COOPER Sporrs Writer 
Saint Mary's takes the court at home Saturday at 3 
p.m. against Adrian in an important conference game. 
The last time these two teams met, Saint Mary's came from behind to beat the Bulldogs 56-48 at Adrian. 

This time, Saint Mary's. plays host and a Belles victo­ry would move them to third place in the MIAA. As it stands now, the Belles have a 4-4 conference record and are 5-10 overall. Adrian is 2­6 in the conference and 7-8 overall. 
Sophomore guard Meghan Contay recognized the importance of this matchup. 
"We can't overlook them, they're a scrappy team," Contay said. 
Contay also noted that the top four teams in the confer­ence have the advantage of starting the conference tour­nament at home. 

Gullickson and sophomore Mary Saxer. Gullickson garnered a vic­tory in the high jump with a 1.63­
MEN'S SWIMMING 
meter jump. She also mflt her season-best mark with an 11.46­meter win in the triple jump. Both
Wildcats pose biggest threat of year wins guaranteed her a spot in the 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sporrs Writer 

Coming off a quad meet vic­tory that improved its dual meet record to 8-0, No. 20 Notre Dame will face the greatest threat yet to its undefeated record when it hosts No. 8 Northwestern this Saturday at 2 p.m. at the Rolf's Aquatic Center. 
The Wildcats boast their own undefeated dual meet record, having won all five of their contests. Their record includes a win over then-No. 18 Purdue. Northwestern also picked up first-place fin­ishes in its TYR NU Invitational and last week­end's prestigious Dallas Morning News Swimming and Diving Classic. 

"They're an excellent team," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "They haven't lost in anything they've done all year, and they might be under-ranked. They could be the fastest team to swim in this pool since the late '90s." 
In Dallas last weekend, Northwestern triumphed over a quality field that included No. 3 California, No. 10 Florida State and host Southern Methodist. The Wildcats finished with 359 points, besting Cal's total of 334. 
The Irish, however, have reason to be confident despite facing a quality oppo­nent. 
Last weekend's defeat of Cleveland State, Xavier and Duquense gave Notre Dame its best start since the 1974­1975 season. Along the way, the Irish have defeated tradi­tional foes Purdue, Michigan State and Pittsburgh. 
Welsh said that the team is very excited about their potential this season. 
"This is as good a start as this team has ever had, and we had a wonderful training 
The game will feature two said. "We've been working sharply contrasting offensive · hard on rebounding in prac­
for indoor season opener
game plans. Adrian has a tice." balanced offensive attack, The Belles will look to neu­with no single player averag­tralize Kim Olech, the 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA

ing double figures in scoring. Bulldog's leading scorer and 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's; on the other rebounder. Adrian's greatest hand, runs its offense strength is rebounding, with through junior a positive 
Notre Damn will take to its home guard Allison rebound differ­
track for the first time in the Kessler, who is ential of 6. 9 per 
spring season when it hosts the averaging 19.9 game. 
Notre Dame Indoor Opener at the 
"All five [starters] 
Loftus Sporls Complex today. assists per need to play meeting, Adrian 
points and 3.4 In their first 
The meet is a chance for young game. She was out-rebounded 
athletes to try to qualify for the Big
aggressive D., 
East Indoor Championship and to named MIAA 39 and the 
also recently Saint Mary's 44­
allow both the men and the Player of the Meghan Contay Belles have a 
women's teams to get back into Week. Belles guard negative 
routine after being away over "All five turnover margin 
break. !starters] need on tho season. 
"There will be good competition to play aggres-Conversely, 
for the [young! guys to try to hit sive D," Contay the Bulldogs 
!Big East] standards," junior dis­said. "We need to make sure greatest weakness is their 
tance runner Adam Currie said. no single player has a stellar tendency to turn the ball 
"And it's a tester meet to try to see game." over. Adrian has a negative 
where [wei are at arter being Rebounding has been a turnover margin or 3.3, and 
away." main focus in practice this Saint Mary's will look to 
The team comes of!' a successful week after Saint Mary's .was exploit this weakness to 
showing at the Purdue out-rebounded 42-28 in come away with a victory. 
Invitational, where individual win­Wednesday's loss to Albion. 
ners were determined, but an "We struggled on tho Contact Dan Cooper at 
overall team score was not kept. boards last week," Contay dcooper@nd.edu 
The women's team had two indi­vidual winners, senior Cassie 
Big East Indoor Championship in each event. Saxer took fi.rst in the pole vault with a season-best clearance of 
3.8 meters -again qualifying her for the Big East Championship. Freshman Michelle Hipple was not far behind with a personal-best vault of 3.35 meters, just short of a Big East qualifier. 
The Irish saw success on the 

SPEND THE NIGHT WITH 13 AMAZING FILMS 
YOU'LL NEVER SEE AGAIN. 
Michigan State and Notre Dame swimmers get ready to start a race Nov. 10 at Rolf's Aquatic Center. 
trip between the semesters," 
Welsh said. "We're optimistic 
about how our season will 
end and how fast we can 
get." 
The Irish will likely need to 
be faster Saturday than at any other point this season. Despite their impressive record, Notre Dame has yet .to face a team ~ of Northwestern's caliber. The Irish have competed in a 
dual-meet against a top-25 team only once this season. 
"We want to measure our­selves at [Northwestern's] level because that's where we want to be," Welsh said. "We want to come out of this meet and be able to say we're improving. We're swimming faster than we have all year." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

men's side as well. Freshman pole vaulter Jim Merchun took seventh with a season-best height of 4.45 meters -placing him in the Big East Championship. Sophomore Brian Mahon and freshman Matt Schipper both cleared the 4.3­meter mark but fell short of 4.45­meters, which would have allowed them to grab a spot in the Big East Championship. 
Senior Christopher Jacques led the men's squad with two top-five fi.nishes in the long jump and the high jump. Jacques' 7.03-meter long jump was second best, trail­ing behind the 7.08-meter jump of Purdue's Nolan Petties. Jacques also took fourth in the high jump with a 1.91-meter clearance. Freshman Eric Quiek was not far behind Jacques with a season-best 
6.62 mark in the long jump ­making him the first Irish rookie to gain a place in the Big East field. 
Senior Garet Koxlien furthered Notre Dame's success in the field with a third-place finish in the weight throw with a toss of 16.64 meters. 
Both teams have experienced veterans returning to guide the way for the new faces. The men's team will turn to leaders like Jacques and senior distance run­ner Kurt -Benninger. The women will continue to rely on Gullickson as both teams hope to take the Big East Championship and send a handful of runners to the NCAA Championship. 
"Both teams sent a minimum to win the Big East and get as many people as we can to the NCAA championship," Currie said. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 

Now leasingquality houses 
close to campus for the 2007/8 and 2008/9 school years. 
Call Bill at An/an Properties 
574-532-1 896 
THURSDAY•FRIDAY•SATURDAY JANUARY 25•26•27 7PM &lOPM BROWNING CINEMA • DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER TICKETS AVAilABLE ONLINE http://performingarts.nd.edu OR CALL631-2800 PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE 

----------------.., 
Friday, January 19, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Ice 
continued from page 24 
Western Michigan has played the lumberjack to three top-20 ranked team's sequoias this season, chopping down then­No. 3 Michigan State, then No. 6 Miami and then-No. 6 Michigan-all at Lawson. And the Broncos have the nation's 13th most potent offense, aver­aging 3.33 goals per game. 
The Irish are no strangers recently to upsets in college hockey either. Robert Morris defeated Notre Dame 4-2 at the Joyce Center Jan. 7 in what the Colonials Athletic Department called, "the biggest upset in ·Robert Morris University ath­letics history." 
"They're a good enough team to where they can beat those [ranked] teams, which tells you something," Jackson said. 
Notre Dame recovered from 
the unexpected pothole with a 
two-game sweep of No. 15 
Lake Superior State last week­
end on the road and its for­
tunes this season and beyond 
shined a little bit more brightly 
with the release Tuesday of the 
National Hockey League's 
Central Scouting Service Mid­
Term Rankings. 
The CSS Rankings showcase the top 210 undrafted skaters and top 30 undrafted goal­tenders in North America in preparation for the NHL Entry Draft. All seven incoming Irish freshman for the 2007-08 sea­son were ranked in the list that impacts pro teams decisions when the draft begins June 22 in Columbus, Ohio. 
"On paper, this class is one of the best classes that I've ever recruited," Jackson said. "A lot of the credit has to go to [Irish assistant coach] Andy [Slaggert] and [associate head coach] Paul [Pooley] -Andy specifically because he does most of the recruiting." 
Recruit Brad Phillips, the Under-18 U.S. National Team Development Program's goalie, was ranked No. 4 in goal­tenders and was the highest­rated goalie to sign a collegiate letter-of-intent. 
Phillip's teammate on the NTDP, Teddy Ruth, was rated the No. 34 North American skater and the 12th best defenseman. Forwards Ben Ryan, Robin Bergman and Calle Ridderwall were No. 50, No. 97 and No. 109, respective­ly. Defenseman Ian Cole was at No. 113 and forward Billy Maday was at No. 177. 
"It's a little bit of a gauge, but it still doesn't predict on how· fast they develop," Jackson said. "You don't know if they're going to come in and be gang­busters as freshman." 
Jackson noted the impact that undrafted Erik Condra made in his freshman season when he led the Irish in points, and how current undrafted freshmen Kevin Deeth and Ryan Thang are currently sec­ond and fourth on the Notre Dame points leaderboard. 
Many prospects listed on the CSS Rankings forego college and jump straight from United States and Canadian junior leagues -particularly the Canadian major juniors -into the NHL or their pro team's minor league affiliates. 
Notes: 
+Irish goalie Dave Brown. 
and right wing Mark Van Guilder were named Jan. 10 as two of the 40 finalists for the Hobey Baker Award, given to the top college hockey play­er in the country each year. 
''I'm proud of [Van Guilder's nomination' because he's an unsung player," Jackson said. "He doesn't get the recognition as maybe some of the top play­ers in our league -let alone the country." 
Brown is currently the fron­trunner for the award among college hockey analysts. 
Fan voting will now run until March 4 and will combine with votes from all 58 Division I head coaches to determine the final 10 candidates. From there, a Selection Committee composed of media, NHL scouts and college coaches appointed for three-year terms by an Advisory Committee will decide the winner. 
+Sophomore Christian Hanson will miss the next three to four weeks with mononucle­osis. Hanson has five goals and two assists this season, serving mostly as center on the same line as leading goal-scorer Van Guilder. 
"We're going to miss him tak­ing face offs, we're going to miss him from an instinctive part of the game," Jackson said. "He's a smart player and he has good hands. He always has the potential to score or create offense." 
Sophomore Justin White will see increased ice time, along with freshmen Dan Kissel and Christiaan Minella in the next few weeks, Jackson said. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Sabre 
continued from page 24 
The Observer was unable to contact Zagunis Thursday night. 
What's more, 2004 NCAA women's sabre champion Valerie Providenza, a senior, is 
. recovering from an appendec­tomy, and Bednarski was unsure how well she would bout. 
Nonetheless, Bednarski said the Irish are mentally and physically 
Championships with 155 points, just 10 behind the win­ning Harvard squad. Stanford placed seventh, while Wayne State earned 1Oth place at the competition. 
Notre Dame and Ohio State are scheduled to bout· Saturday and Sunday begin­ning in the JACC Fieldhouse at around 11:20 a.m. in what fig­ure to be some of the most competitive 
"It will be very tough for us, but I believe that those who haven't had a chance to be starters will ... do their best to defend the place," Bednarski 
said, refer­

prepared to ring to
"It will be very tough for 
succeed. N o t r e 
us, but I believe that those 
"From one Dame's point of view, who haven't had a chance h o m e ­it will give a a r e n a
to be starters will ... do
chance for advantage.
their best to defend the 
the younger At last kids" to place." weekend's prove their N o r t h talent, American
Janusz Bednarski 
Bednarski Cup event 
Irish coach
said. i n 
Senior sabre Matt Stearns and sopho­more foil Adrienne Nott are two of the top fencers who will be available for Notre Dame in the home event. Stearns earned All-America honors in 2005 and 2006. He is a three­time participant in the NCAA Championships. Nott captured All-America honors as a fresh­man and serves as the women's foil co-captain with junior Rachael Cota. 
Among the top squads that will be testing the Irish are Ohio State, Wayne State and Stanford. Despite failing to earn points in the women's foil, the Buckeyes finished third at the 2006 NCAA 
Columbus, nine Buckeyes earned top-20 finishes, compared to six for Notre Dame. Ohio State sopho­more Mike Momtselidze had the best finish for the Buckeyes, earning second in the men's sabre -one spot ahead of Ghattas. 
This weekend's competition is the first of four events Notre Dame will host this year. The Irish will fence at home in the Midwest Duals Feb. 3, the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships March 3-4 and the NCAA Midwest Regional March 10. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 


this season scoring, but also one of the conference's top 3-pointers given up," she said. tried to improve their 3-point has 5.5 blocks per game and freshmen centers, averaging "Teams have been shooting shooting, something that has
Allen 
35 blocks this season. 7. 5 points and really well from hindered them in the past. 
continued from page 24 "Defensively, they have a eight boards "The three kids that the 3-point line, Overall, the Irish are only 
really good big kid against Big East and we have to shooting 31.4 percent from 
are scoring in double 
very consistent -she's been Sipaviciute -she hurt us a lot opponents. fix that." long distance in conference taking great shots. She's being last year," McGraw said. "So Williamson also figures are the three McGraw has games and 29.0 percent over­patient, looking for her oppor­we·~.e got to get ready to guard set the Notre planned for this all.
that we have to 
tunities. We're encouraging her. Dame rookie game similarly to But overall, the Irish will
focus on." 
her to shoot more and to be Matching up with Sipaviciute record for how she prepared need to come out strong on more aggressive. I think in the for the Irish will be the duo of boards against for St. John's. both sides of the court if they last couple of games she's defi­junior Melissa D'Amico and South Florida Muffett McGraw The main areas want to extend their winning nitely done that." freshman Erica Williamson. with 18. of focus have streak against the Orange to
Irish coach 
Of the three, the strong play D'Amico is coming off a strong To McGraw, been preparing seven games. of Sipaviciute early in the sea­performance against St. John's, the main prob-the offense to son has concerned McGraw the posting her first career double­lem for her team defensively play against Syracuse's zone 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at most. The Orange center has double with 10 points and 11 has been their 3-point defense. defense. 

jfitzpa5@nd.edu

not only averaged double digit rebounds. Williamson has been "We're leading the league in To that end, the Irish have 

I ,,--------------------------------------------,,\ 
Receive a 2 liter Coke product for 99¢ 
with the purchase of a $5 To Go Pizza. 

r.11w~~ Coupon required for 99¢ 2 liter. No coupon required for $5 To Go Pizza. 
• Not to be used with any other coupon or discount. Coupon has no cash value. Please present this coupon before ordering. Limit one per customer. Only valid at LaFortune Sbarro. Offer expires February 28, 2007. 
Sbarro 
accepts *
' ,
'--------------------------------------------~' 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 19, 2007 
Big East 
continued from page 24 

only unbeaten team in confer­ence play -just 19 days into January. Notre Dame was con­trolled from the start in its most recent game Wednesday at Villanova. The Wildcats dictat­ed the tempo early and never allowed the Irish to recover ·in a 102-87 landslide. 
The Irish had a similar per­formance at Georgetown Jan. 6 when it lost 66-48. 
"We've had this cycle .before, win by a good margin at home, lose by a good margin on the road," Brey said in a radio interview following Notre Dame's loss to Villanova. "They both count as just one league win and one league loss." 
And that attitude -focusing on Sunday's home game against USF -is crucial before the Irish address their recent strug­gles on the road, Brey said. 
South Florida's lone confer­ence win came against Cincinnati on Jan. 14. The Bulls lost contests at Connecticut, at Pittsburgh, home against Louisville and at West Virginia. 
Last season, Notre Dame and South Florida matched up once, on Feb. 15 at the Joyce Center. The Irish won the game 62-55 and guard Russell Carter led the team with 13 points on 5-of­1 0 shooting to go with five rebounds and three steals. 
South Florida, despite being 0-10 in conference play at that point in the season, hung with the Irish and outscored them 36-31 after being dominated in the first half. 
But that was last season. 

This year, Notre Dame has a clear statistical advantage over South Florida. USF is among the bottom half of the confer­ence in offensive categories such as scoring margin (plus 2.5, 13th) and scoring offense 
(66.9 points per game, 13th). 
The Irish lead the conference in both categories. Notre Dame, though, despite showcasing an improved effort thus far this season working the ball inside -has still fired 416 attempts from 3-point range this season, which is second in the Big East behind West Virginia (491). 
And South Florida's strength defensively might very well be 


Insight comes from all ir cti n 
You bring something unique to the table, and at Ernst &Young, you'll be encouraged to speak up and contribute. Because we know that bringing together people with different backgrounds and perspectives lets us deliver quality results for our clients. It's why we've created a work environment of mutual respect that promotes your personal and professional growth and success. So visit us on campus or at ey.comjusjcareers. 
FORTUNE" 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 
its perimeter defense. The Bulls hold their opponents to 32-per­cent shooting from 3-point range. 
The Bulls have four players who average double figures in points per game -Melvin Buckley (16.4), Kentrel Gransberry (14.4), McHugh Mattis (12. 7) and Solomon Bozeman (17.7). 
Gransberry leads the team with 10.7 rebounds per game· and Bozeman has 89 assists in 19 games this season. Mattis had 12 points and 11 rebounds in 28 minutes last season against the Irish. 
Tip off is scheduled for 2 p.m. at the Joyce Center Sunday. 
Contact Bob Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 
Irish guard Colin Falls, right, moves the ball down the court in Notre Dame's 90-45 win over Winston-Salem State Nov. 29. Notre Dame takes on South Florida Sunday. • 

© 2007 ERNsT & YouNG LLP 
Quality In Everything We Do 

-~ 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­Friday, January 19, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-... 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
SO F.~'l  'f:,.'E.N 'bjE.-uU'\  INS"T'E.P..P  Or  PI'\"!INL:r  MP.'{€.€.  \-\'E.  CAN  -r\-\KfS  t='IN\:..\.  WE  
WHO  P.,.Ut-JS  -n-\~  FoR i"f2..A\IE.L  , WE..  Roue:,'E.  ""1"\-\"E.  f" ANS  CAN  WoR~  '\NI'\\-\  
MA.F!.C.H IN'-1  ~Nt:>­ rOUNP  1'-\P...'I..WE.\..L  A..,.  1'-WA'\  C:l I),M'E..S  -"\1-\'€.  C.. Ll>o.'.l\\ONE.  
&u-r  RecE-NI  \-\1:-I?...E.  IN  A  'DE.\R..O\\  'WI"TI-\  A  f'IAN()  ~\{.:11-\"T,  11'.'E."-)?  
f"ooi&A\...L Lo5SE.?  S';' ~WA'\  5"TA\\~ •  \IER..S\ON  Of"  \\-\€.  
r\AV'E..  roR..<:.Et:> us -ro  \-\E s  \/E.Ri  MUSICAL I  SoN (;I!  
cu-r  13A'-""­ ON  1'-\U~IC  ON\...'{  ON€.  ~f!.":>ON,  
F~  AvvC..'\  0AM.~.S  P-t-~t:>  AI..REP..'t>'j  H,...S  
NE..)I."T  SE.ASON­ HIS  oWN  

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square. to form four ordinary wo_rds. 
TABLO 
j
I (I () 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
HAFES 
j
I (X ()tUMLUTT t 



WH!::N TH!:: SPEED T!::AM PREPARED
J I I I) 
FOR TH!:: BIG DRAG 

Yesterday's  IJumbles:  HEDGE  MUSIC  (Answers tomorrow) JOYFUL ALPACA  
Answer:  How he paid for the freezer­ 
"COLD" CASH  
HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jesse L Martin. 38: Jane Horrocks. 43; Mark Messier. 46; Kevin Costner, 52 
Happy Birthday: Be unique and take a different approach to something that has been overdone in the past. Refresh, recycle, renew and redo will all work well for you this year. You can pull everything together. Hard work will pay off and leave a lasting impression. Your numbers are 4, 17, 18, 25, 32, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep looking until you lind exactly what you want. .Someone you asked to do something for you will probably let you down. Connect with someone from your pastwho should still be in your life. ** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Things may be looking up hut don't be too trusting of someone who promises to do things for you. Take the initiative if you want things done to your own specifications. A change will turn out hetter than you thought. ***** 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take a very original approach to everything you do today and you will reign supreme. Don't let personal issues that arise cause emotional stress. You arc likely to overreact given the chance. *** 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You've got a lot on the line today and, if you don't realize it, you better take a second look. Someone may be trying to take advantage of you financially. Stay in control by keeping close track. *** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may find your temperature rising if someone hasn't been honest with you or if you are caught in a lie or uncompromising position. Protect your interests by staying clear of aQyone who may make your life difficult. A romantic opportunity is apparent. 
*** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept 22): Do things with friends, your lover or children. This is a great time to bond with the people you enjoy spending time with. A change in one of your personal relationships may leave you feeling confused or deceived. ***** 
LffiRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): If someone is looking for answers, reveal what you know. A deal that can help you develop one of your ideas looks very promising. Love is on the rise, so put time aside. If you don't, you may upset the very person you want to impress. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Travel, attending a seminar or getting together with friends will all be better than dealing with the people you live with. You need to remain active if you want to accomplish anything at all today. **** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Travel and communications may present a problem for you. A new idea or way of presenting an old one will enable you to make a career adjustment. Be true to your beliefs. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Once you have everything in order, you will be in a better position to make suitable changes. You may feel a lillie on edge regarding a partnership. If you don't know where you stand, ask. You'll be relieved and have a better sense of where you are heading. *** 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Things are picking up so there will be no room for error. This is not the time to make changes. A chance to get involved in a new project should be taken advantage of. Money can be made. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Keep a close eye on what everyone around you is doing and saying. A secret affair or private matter may be exciting but will probably result in a problem if you are the least bit underhanded. **** 
Birthday Baby: You speak your mind and will always take a position of leadership. You are strong, courageous and unique. You look for unusual ways to master whatever interests you. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenidlast.comfor confidential consultations 
SoARt> I_ 
BLAcK DoG 
>J£l-C"ME To SuR\1('1/oR c..ooK o>LANl>S, Tt1C: 1"/R..ST SURVII(oJ<. io t>t\110£ 'TRI~eS BAS:Ecl> ON RAe£. ~vT JUST !3EC.AUSE .:>u~ Co>ITEn,a.JVTS: AI'.E. RACIALLY SeG-REG-ATE.!) 
DoE51J'T 1-'tE.A.rJ WE'LL SE PLA'rtNG To 
~L S:TEJI.EDiY'PE$. 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
/'lOW TO O<JR. FoRST 
CHAU.E/J~E THE. FR.l&P <:-H tC.KEIV, MALT t-o <Q voR ANl> \.JATf:/U1E LDrJ-6AT IN t:­(...oNiE!:T. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
LIAMMORAN 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS "Hoc in votis" 5 Six-Day War hero 1oEponym of a classic Minnesota­
brewed beer· 14 Specify, in a way 15 Pungent fish 
garnish 16 Novel of the South Seas 17 Implement with a serrated front edge 20 Forestalled potential 
impediments 21 Stink 22 Fresh 23 Biblical 
possessive 
24 Start of a new season: Abbr. 26 R.J. Reynolds 
brand 
29 Sound associated with a 40-Across 
31 Shark's activity 
37 "Dies 
38 _ Krispies 
39 "Dial 
Murder'' 40 Doctor's tool 43 Center 
(Chicago's second-tallest building) 
44 End of abnormalities? 45 Little 46 It's read for a price: Abbr. 48 Bad thing to live in 51 Whip 53 Lightheaded people? 
59 A century in American politics 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

so-Big dot-com headquartered in San Jose 
61 Like some paper 
62 Track star elected to Congress in 1996 
63 HDTV component 
64 Quick scorers on the court 65 Store advisory 
DOWN 
1 Hwy. dept. employee 2 Opera_ 
(classical music record label) 3 Passage leading 
to Panama? 4 Halfhearted 5 Crackers 6 River of Leeds 7 Bar line 8 Common 
biography subtitle 9 Munitions compound 10 Bad thing to abandon 11 Quite some time 12 Bum 13 Composition of some rolls 18 Japanese mushroom 19 Sp. misses 24 Bar in a bar and grill 25 Dollar rival 27 Hardly at all 
WILLSHORTZ 


28 Start of an invocation 30 Tourist stop conveniences 32 Big name in blocks 33 Swells 34 River to the Rhine 35 Time to draw? 
36 Goes off 41 Flabby, e.g. 42 These, in Cadiz 46 Underdog's thrill 47 Newbie, of sorts 49 "Waterworld" girl 50 Goldfinger's first 
name 52 End of 54 Diggs of "Rent" 

55 Champ who lost his title to Braddock 
56 Geo. Washington and M.LK Jr. were awarded them 
57 German iPod holder 
58 Form data: Abbr. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
-.. 
.----------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, January 19, 2007 
page 24 
HOCKEY 

Lawson Lunatics aWait contenders 
Rankin returns home to the 'Zoo for series against Western Mich. 
By KYLE CASILLY Sports Writer 

Junior right wing Evan Rankin got intimate and bloody real fast with Western Michigan's Lawson Ice Arena. 
"The first time I stepped on the ice there, I fell right on the ice and split my chin open," Rankin said. "I was three or four years old." 
Rankin is a native of Kalamazoo, Mich. -where Western Michigan is located ­and called Lawson Arena home throughout much of his youth hockey days. Rankin went with his father to Broncos games before he could even walk, and once he got his feet beneath him, he would spend the game running around the arena with friends. 
This weekend, Rankin won't be exploring the bowels of the raucous rink, but will barn­storm into his hometown as a member of a national contender and provide a juicy target for Western Michigan's notorious student section -the Lawson Lunatics. 
"Every single year it seems that Western's fans get rowdier and rowdier," Rankin said. "It's going to be pretty exciting to play there again. 
"Yeah, we have a big mark on our back right now, but if we just have the right mindset ­we'll be alright." 
The No. 3 Irish (19-4-1, 13-2-1 CCHA) travel to Kalamazoo tonight for a two-game series against eighth-place Western Michigan (8-12-1, 7-9-1 CCI lA). Notre Dame heads into the series with sole control of lirst­place in the CCHA, one.week before a crucial two-game set at home with second-place Miami. 
The Lunatics designate certain hecklers to sit behind the oppo­sition's penalty box and taunt players as they arc whistled for penalties, Rankin said. But both Rankin and Irish coach Jeff Jackson were unconcerned about any challenges to the Irish that were not presented directly on the sheet. 
"If you allow it to become a distraction -it can," he said. "But I think it does more for the home team than it does for the visiting team." 
Last season, Notre Dame fell victim to the Broncos at Lawson, dropping a 4-3 decision before taking a 3-0 win the next day at 
see ICE/page 21 

Junior right wing Mark Van Guilder skates Dec. 2 against Alaska in a 3-1 win. Van Guilder was recently named one of 40 finalists for the Hobey Baker Award, along with Irish goalie Dave Brown. 
fENCING 

Irish face 'ilnpossible' hoiTie dual 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Notre Dame coach Janusz Bednarski is honest about the Irish's prospects in this week­end's highly competitive Notre Dame duals, kicking off Saturday and Sunday at 8 a.m. 
"To win looks impossible," he said. 
With 10 top teams from around the country coming to the Joyce Center for a season­opening rendezvous, Notre Dame will compete without two of its top fencers, who will be taking on international compe­tition at an event in Istanbul. 
Irish senior sabre Patrick Ghattas and junior sabre Marie! Zagunis will be in Turkey for a World Cup event there. 
Ghattas will return to the team Monday after the Istanbul competition, but in Zagunis' case, the absence will be more than temporary. The reigning Olympic champion in her weapon has decided to with­draw from school for the next three semesters in preparation for her medal defense in 2008. 
see SABRE/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Squad looks for lucky No. 7 
By BOB GRIFFIN Sports Writer 

If Irish coach Mike Brey's teams have learned anything over the past few years, it's that there are no givens once Big East play begins. That's why the No. 20 Irish (15-3 overall, 3-2 in the conference) wont be looking past South Florida this Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
South Florida (10-9 overall, 1-4 in-conference) is one of two teams with one win in the Big East. Rutgers is the other after dropping a 68-54 home contest against Georgetown Wednesday. Cincinnati is win­less in three tries. 
But in a league defined by parity, especially this season when seven teams have three or more wins, anything is pos­sible when the ball is thrown in the air. 
No. 6 Pittsburgh remains the 
see BIG EAST/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Allen to lead teaiTI at Joyce against Orange 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame has not lost to Syracuse since March 3, 2003 -and doesn't want to change that Saturday when the Irish (12-5, 3-1 Big East) square off against the Orange ( 8-11, 1-4) at 2 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
So far this season, the squad has fared well against Big East opponents, and especially in the Joyce Center. The Irish have won both of their home conference games with ease ­a 83-65 drubbing of Saint John's Jan. 16 and an 81-70 win over Cincinnati Jan. 10. 
Overall, Notre Dame has won 9-of-1 0 home games this sea­son, falling only to Indiana 54­51. 
One thing that could trouble tho Irish is tho high-seoring Orange trio of freshman guard Nicole Michael (16.5 ppg), jun­ior center Vaida Sipaviciute 
(13.6 ppg) and junior guard Fantasia Goodwin (12.6 ppg). · 
·"[Sipaviciute is] impressive, and they have a freshman who leads them in scoring, and she's playing really well," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "The three kids that are scor­ing in double figures are the three that we have to focus on." 
Even though the Orange bring three top scorers into South Bend, the Irish have their own prolific shooter to counter with -junior guard Charel Allen. Allen has aver­aged 19 points in four Big East games this season and has shot 5-of-7 from the arc. 
"She's the one we look to, to lead us in scoring," said McGraw of Allen. "She's been 
see ALLENIpage 21 
~D TRACK 
SMC BASKETBAll
~D SWIMMI~G 
NFL

NH
MlB 
LLI (,) Irish to host 

Former Senate Tony Dungy and Vinny Testaverde
No. 20 Irish will face 
Adrian at Saint 

:3 
looks to earn a Super Northwestern this 
Lovie Smith could beoff with No. 8 Majority Leader George 
... 
z indoor event Mary's 
Mitchell warns baseball the first black coaches to Bowl ring as New 
Saturday at the Rolfs 
appear in a Super Bowl. 
England's third-string quarterback. 
owners not to impede
Today, 5:30 p.m. 
Saturday, 3 p.m.
Aquatic Center at 2 p.m. 

steroids investigation. 
= 
Young runners race 
Belles look for winning 
cc 

for chance at Big East 
conference record!i Championship. 
against Bulldogs. 
.page 20 
page 19 page 17 page 17page 20 page 20 

.. 









