

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 9 .: FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 7. 2007 

•

NDd • g habits under scrutiny 
South Bend Common Council member cites alcohol abuse as a reason for new ordinance 

By KAITLYNN RIELY Assisranr News Ediror 
The "red zone," the term for the mental and physical state of someone with a blood alcohol content at or above 0.25, is not uncharted territo­ry for some Notre Dame stu­dents -a point that a South Bend Common Council mem­ber has made while pushing for the passage of a new ordi­
nance  to curtail student par­ 
ties.  
At  a  meeting of the South  

Bend Community Relations Committee to discuss the pro-
College plans for 
conference 
Science, religion to be topic of2009 meeting 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
The John Templeton Foundation recently awarded Saint Mary's a grant of $95,905 for its Center for Spirituality, which will use the money for a new project to discuss the interface between science and religion. 
Sister Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for Spirituality, and Ed Ackerly, director for Business and Foundation Relations. worked together with other adminis­trators to write the proposal for the grant. 
"We had to write a very, very detailed proposal," Dolphin said. 
Several meetings last fall gathered ideas from interest­ed faculty members to include in the proposal, she said. The money will fund "The Quest Project: Women Exploring the Science/Hnligion Interface." 
"The professors have a high sense of ownership in it," she said. 
The Quest Project has two major goals -to learn more about the "important ques­tions facing us" and "to organize a conference at which the findings are to be presented," Dolphin said. 
Plans are still tentative since the grant was awardeq to the Center less than three weeks ago, she said. She does know. however, that there will be book discussion groups, students working with profes­
see GRANT /page 6 

posed ordinance, Council member AI "Buddy" Kirsits 

-'
1:~:; ~;~ ·~
discussed a printout of a 
Powerpoint presentation 
.·~ ',• 
showing statistics on drinking and hospital visits. The pres­entation listed general statis­tics about college drinking from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and data about 
2006
medical services provided to intoxicated patients at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in South Bend. 
But determining the actual 
number of Notre Dame stu­dents who are taken to the 

see LECTURE/ page 6 Source: Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center JULIE GRISANTI/Observer graphic 
Grants enable research abroad 


ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
Africa moved to the fore­
front of Notre Dame's atten­
tion last year during the 
Notre Dame Forum and 
again when University 
President Father John 
Jenkins visited Uganda in 
January. This summer, sen­
ior Jenna Rogers got to see 
the country for herself with 
the help of research grants. 
Rogers, a political science 
and politics, philosophy and 
economics (PPE) major, 
received funding from both 
the Kellogg Institute and 
the Undergraduate 
Re.search Opportunity 
Program (UROP) to spend 
seven weeks in Uganda. 
She conducted research ·for her senior thesis in the 
Notre Dame Millennium 
Development Initiative vii­lage, Nindye, where she held interviews. Her thesis advisor and director of the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative, Father Bob D('Wd, was also in Uganda at the time. 
Rogers also received UROP funding for a one­month trip to Kampala, the capital of Uganda, in the summer of 2006, where she conducteJ the initial research for her thesis. 
Her thesis would not have been possible, Rogers said, without the grant-funded trips to Africa. 
"I conducted 92 inter­views this summer, which were the basis of my the­sis," she said. 
"Just applying for the grants was really helpful ­it helped to synthesize my thoughts about my project." 
Many Notre Dame under­graduates, like Rogers, 
.have taken advantage of opportunities to do researeh funded by grants from insti­tutions like the Kellogg Institute and UHOP, said Holly Rivers, program man­ager for the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
Students can receive up to $4,000 in the nine research grants the Institute offers to juniors for summer research abroad, Rivers said, with special emphasis placed in developing coun­tries. 
"For a frugal student, this should cover the costs of transportation, living, etc.," she said. 
These grants are very competitive, Rivers said. She said the Kellogg Institute has partnered with the Kroc Institute for 
see UROP/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



NDFCU's 
scammer 

identified 

Chicago man arrested, could see prison time 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 

Police in Fullerton, Calif., released the name of the man arrested Tuesday in connec­tion to the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union (NDFCU} e-mail scam and said he could face years in prison if convict­ed of online fraud. 
Francisc A. Wonerth, 32, was arrested Tuesdav at 1 
a.m. after a Fullerton ·police officer ran a check on Wonerth's Illinois license 
1 plate and discovered the vehi­cle he was driving had been reported stolen in Chicago in August 2006, officials said. Sgt. Linda King of the Fullerton Police Department said Thursday that officers at the scene were inspecting the vehicle when they discovered 18 American Express gift cards with a magnetic strip recoded with the debit card information stolen online. On Aug. 31, many members of the credit union received a wave of e-mails that -redirect­ed them to a mock-up of the NDFCU Web site and prompt­ed them to enter sensitive account information and pass­words. 
NDFCU President Leo Ditchcreek said Tuesday more than 60 customers had given out their personal information to the Web site, but only five accounts had reported suspi­cious transactions during Labor Day weekend. 
see NDFCU/page 6 



North Dining Hall turns the music on 
By KATIE PERALTA News Writer 
While South Dining Hall has long had music playing in the serving area. North Dining Hall just started playing music quietly on the north side of the dining room as well as in the serving area where students fill their trays. 
North Dining Hall Operations Manager Dan Patterson said the dining hall has had a sound system for years, but he just recently decided to turn the radio back on to see how students like the music. 
"A little music adds to the ambiance of the dining room," Patterson said. "Sort 
of like in a restaurant, where music is also common." 
Patterson began the trial run by turning on WAOH 95.3, a local hard rock station. 
"I had some complaints that it was too much early in the morning," Patterson said. 
So he later switched to Sunny 101.5, a loeal station that plays a variety of more relaxed songs, from oldies to pop to country. 
The music is only audible in the north sit!e of the dining hall, Patterson said, and is tu rued off completeIy in Dining Room A, a room isolat­ed from the bustle of the main dining room. 
Patterson hoped to eventu­
see NDH/page 6 


Friday, September 7, 2007 
page 2 The Observer + PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Minor league madness 
Have you evnr been to a minor league baseball game? 
It probably lasted two and a half to three hours. Now think back. Did you ever see those people in khakis with radios stuck in their ears? Well. Samantha those people are Leonard the front office staff. 
The typical Sports Wzre workday for a Editor front office staff member, in pro­fessional baseball, is 14 to 16 hours. Now imagine having 10 games in a row. It can get pretty ridiculous. 
I have spent the past two summers in this crazy environment and am not sure how I survived. 
It seems simple to prepare for a minor league baseball game, especially if you are not playing in it, but that is not the case at all. 
There are usually only 10 to 15 people running the behind-the-scenes opera­tion, along with four to six interns. 
Everyone in the office knows how to sell a ticket, and then there are tasks you only find in minor league baseball, such as washing a giant bird costume. There is constant media presence, with phone calls from radio stations, press releases for the next promotion and commercials shot in the stadium. 
Along with the regular 4,000 fans, there are the group picnics and birth­days, where somehow 500 people are fed in just half an hour by a stafl' of five or six. 
Almost every game is sponsored by a local business or organization, and that sponsorship usually entails some sort of promotion or giveaway. Ever get a ball cap or bobble head while walking into the stadium, thanks to such and such company? 
Getting 2,000 bobble heads out to 2,000 anxious adults and children is a task in itself. Throughout the day, the staff is making sure everything is cor­rect for that sponsor, with the give­aways ready to go out and the announcements written to welcome the fans. 
During the game, the staff walks quickly down the concourse, watching everything imaginable. There are the foul balls that seem to always aim for the 80-year-old woman or four-year-old boy who has stopped paying attention three innings ago. There's also the number one headache for any staff member; the terrible dreaded rain cloud. 
No one hates rain like the front office staff of a minor league organization. Unlike the big leagues, the staff is also the grounds crew. The thought of being on hour 13 and pulling an enormous piece of tarp across a soaking wet field in a storm is by far the last thing any staffers want to do, but it is part of the job and they do it, usually smiling and making fun of each other all along the way. 
My point in writing this is to show that sure, those nine guys out on the field work hard and put on a hell of a show. But that show would not be pos­sible without the hard work of those staff members running by with an icepack for the grandma in Section 104. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column· are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe make a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE BEST JOB ON CAMPUS? 




Ben Winter  Jessica Rodriguez  Cinthya Mabee  Alfredo Morales  
freshman Alumni  senior Cavanaugh  sophomore Cavanaugh  sophomore Zahm  
..My dream job is to be the card swiper at The Rock.,,  "The card swiper for checking out basketballs. ,,  "Being a barista at Starbucks ... especially during finals week.,,  ..Welcome to Edy's, would you like an Ultimate Shake?"  

OFFBEAT 

Woman accused of giving 9-year-old gin 
BLOOMINGTON, Minn. ­Police said a 9-year-old girl told them her grandmother poured her two drinks from a gin bottle while she was watching TV. 
Bloomington Police Commander Jim Ryan said the girl remembers vomit­ing, hitting her head and blacking out about 1 p.m. Aug. 31. Ryan said the girl's mother was working a 12-hour shift at the time and was out of the house. 
He said police suspect the grandmother gave the child the alcohol in hopes that she would pass out so the adult could go out for the night instead of babysitting. 
65-year-old gets carded in supermarket 
FARMINGTON, Maine ­A 65-year-old woman who went into a Farmington supermarket to buy wine was turned away b-ecause she didn't have an ID with her. But Barbara Skapa of Mount Vernon says that won't happen again. 
''I'll be bringing my dri­ver's license with me from now on,"Skapa said. 
She normally carries her license. But with her leg in a cast, Skapa was 


Cari Pick 

freshman Welsh Family 
..South Dining Hall, because the managers are the best.,. 

ALLISON Observer Erin Conway and Colleen Nolan watch as Christie Golubski receives a flyer from Katie Swiss at Tuesday's Student Activities Fair in the Joyce Center. 
being driven by a friend when she went into the Hannaford Bros. market last week in and picked up several items, includ­ing a few bottles of wine. 
The cashier told her it was policy to check for identification, said Skapa, who believes "no one would mistake me for 30 or even 40." Skapa asked if her friend could buy the wine for her, but that was disallowed too because it's considered "third­party" purchasing. Skapa asked to see the manager. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0:: 
IJJ 
:I: 
IJJ

;: ~ 
.... 
•• • /l


• •• ,4 ·. 

cc 
(.) 

.9 HIGH 84 HIGH 74 HIGH 80 HIGH 75 LOW 72 LOW 62 LOW 58 LOW 52 
IN BRIEF 

Fitness Class sign ups will take place today in The Rolfs Athletic Center beginning at 
7:30 a.m. Be sure to bring your ND id & cash/check. Schedule is subject to change. Class space is limited. 
There will be a welcome back picnic for all students today from 4 to 6 p.m. The event is sponsored by Multicultural Student Programs and Services. The picnic will be held at the Fieldhouse Mall. The rain location will be the LaFortune Ballroom. Food is free. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play the College of Charleston in the Shamrock Invitational tonight at 7 at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame men's soccer team will play Rhode Island tonight at 7:30 at Alumni Field. 
The Show will take place tonight at 8 in the Joyce Center. OK Go and Lupe Fiasco will headline the con­cert. Tickets are on sale in the LaFortune Box Office for $10. 
There will be a Biathalon (one half mile swim and two mile run) on Saturday at 10:30 
a.m. Contact Bill Reagan for more information. Registration needed. Open to students only. 
The film "Panther Panchali" will be shown Saturday at 3 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor7 mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 



• i
...
~ 

HIGH 68 HIGH 75 LOW 60 LOW 48 
Atlanta 89/ 70 Boston 73/ 59 Chicago 90 /66 Denver 86 I 57 Houston 92 /77 Los Angeles 85 /69 Minneapolis 91 /69 New York 79/65 Philadelphia 86 I 65 Phoenix 102 I 86 Seattle 74 I 59 St. Louis 90 /74 Tampa 93177 Washington 891 68 

Friday, September 7, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
\X/HEN: FRIDAY: SEPTEMBER 'l~ 2007 
TJME: 4:00--6:00 PM Wl-·IERE: Fl~LDHOUSE A'ilAll (51~0NEI-;EDGE) (RAIN SITE: l~~FORl'LJNE BALLROOM) 




The Show welcomes bands 
OK Go, rapper LupeFiasco will play to audience in Joyce Center 
By DAN JACOBS News Writer 
The Joyce Center will buzz with a different kind of energy tonight than during the usual Friday evening pep rallies when it hosts The Show, featuring band OK Go and rapper Lupe Fiasco. 
Each year, The Show com­mittee selects performers, then organizes and pro­duces the concert. What m a k e s tonight's 
concert "In two years. you're record, "food special, and Liquor,"
going to say. "I saw OK
said The which was
Go before they blew up.
Show chair­released man Steve I saw Lupe Fiasco through Tortorello., Atlantic
before he blew up. "' 
is that it Records in brings the 2006 and cutting Steve Tortorello received three edge to chairman Grammy nom­N o t r e inations.
The Show 

Dame. 
"In two years, you're going to say, 'I saw OK Go before they blew up. I saw Lupe Fiasco before he blew up,"' Tortorello said. 
The Show has a reputation for bringing in soon-to-be­big acts, such as The Black Eyed Peas in 2003 and Akon in 2005, allowing students to experience artists before their popularity peaks. 
Chicago-based foursome OK Go released its first self­titled album in 2002. The group first found fame when the musk video for the sin­gle, "There it Goes Again" 
Fiasco's next 

album, titled "The Cool," is due in stores Nov. 20. 
Philadelphia-based disk jockey Diplo will also join this year's act. Diplo, who will spin before The Show and in between the two acts, is well known for integrat­ing diverse material and styles as well as producing mix tapes and mash-ups. 
Students are already mak­ing preparations for the concert. 
"It's one of the biggest first events of the year," freshman Sissy Peters said. "I've heard a lot of people 
tl/·;,··T~:;7~,f·,~~ 

f~~'~ 
...
,·······.
A.··· 
-a low budget, self-chore­ographed dance perform­ance on eight treadmills ­became a popular Internet video. 
OK Go began its touring career alongside pop band They Might Be Giants, which headlined the first Show in 2001 after signing with Capitol Records. 
Rap artist Lupe Fiasco, also a native of Chicago, headlines The Show this year as well. Fiasco quickly moved to the top of the rap charts with his first 
are going, and I think it should be a great show." 
Upperclassmen have high expectations as well. For senior Lauren Gulley, the Third Eye Blind show in 2006 as the one to beat. 
A major foundation of The Show is its responsibility, as a student-run organization, to be for the students. The Show is a completely inde­pendent production. Each step -from booking per­formers, to marketing, to managing the final produc­tion -is done by students. 
Along with serving the students, keeping ticket costs low is also a priority. To help offset the cost of the performers, The Show com­mittee solicits donations from various departments and student clubs, which pay for the majority of pro­duction costs. 
Tickets for The Show are $10, and are available at the LaFortune Box Office until 5 p.m. today for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. Tickets will also be available at the door before the show. 
Doors open tonight at 7, and the first act starts at 8. A student ID is required for entry. 
More information about The Show 2007, including videos of the performers, information on past con­certs and ways to get involved can be found at http://theshow.nd.edu 
Contact Dan Jacobs at djacobsl @nd.edu 


Letterman to return to 
Ball State for ceremony 
Associated Press 
MUNCIE, Ind. -Ball State University is planning to wel­come back its most famous graduate with academic fan­fare and a touch of humor. 
Thousands of people are expected to crowd on to the campus Friday for the dedica­tion of the $21 million David Letterman Com m unic'a ti on and Media Building. 
The daylong night show.
"I think David Letterman 
program will T h e 
include will be proud ofthe 75,000 
speeches on building because we have square-foot such weighty building
spent
topics as digi­includes
thousands ofhours
talization in studio and the media and creating the nation's office lighter fare space and
premzer
such as "The is open to
communications facility 
Top 10 students Reasons Why for our students. " 24 hours a the Letterman day. It fea­Building Will tures a $1
Roger Lavery 
L e a d million 
dean
Multimedia production Higher College of Communication, complex 
Education." Information and Media with five 
T h e Letterman Building, which has· been in use since fall semester classes started a few weeks ago, is much snazzier than the facili­ties Letterman used as a stu­dent in the 1960s when he was a disc jockey for WBST­FM. 
"I think David Letterman will be proud of the building because we have spent thou­sands of hours creating the nation's premier communica­tions facility for our stu­dents," said Roger Lavery, the dean of Ball State's College of 
surround-

sound edit­ing suites and two surround­sound recording studios. 
Lavery said the new produc­tion facilities have the same equipment found at major recording studios and film sound studios in New York or Hollywood. 
"This new building will enhance the university's efforts in recruiting highly talented students and facul­ty," he said. 
Some of them, no doubt, will harbor dreams of following in Letterman's footsteps. 
Communication, Information and Media. 
The host of "The Late Show with David Letterman" on CBS grew up in Indianapolis, mov­ing on after college to work as a television weatherman and doing standup comedy. He moved to California and made many appearances on the "Tonight Show" during Johnny Carson's reign before getting his own late­
FREE POOD! ltJEET l\'Efll PEOPI,.E! 
SEE OLD 

ENTERT:4lJVi11E"NT·
FRJElVIJS! 
TRY,:.VE'W
D./ 
F'OOD..\'1 

Friday, September 7, 2007 
page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Drinking 
continued from page 24 
hospital each year is difficult because records of people admitted by school affiliation are not kept, hospital spokes­men said. 
But anecdotal evidence from rectors, University health services and the 

Patricia Brubaker, the assis­tant director of Clinical Services at University Health Services, worked as an emer­gency room nurse at St. Joseph's hospital for 27 years, where she said she saw high numbers of Notre Dame stu­dents admitted for alcohol intoxication. Now at Notre Dame, Brubaker said she doesn't see any of the severe medical problems 
hospitals shows that  ....Working in the ER. I used  caused by excessive  
N  o  t  r  e  to see a lot and wonder  drinking  at  
Dame stu­dents arc taken to  about Notre Dame. But really, working over here,  the health center since they do  
the hospi­tal for alco­hol-related illness fair­ we have a lot ofgreat kids. I don't want to give the impression that all the  not have the resources to treat those students.  
ly regular­ly. Siegfried r e c t o r  students drink so much, but it is a problem that we see, and a lot ofillnesses and  But she estimated that at least 10 students a  
Father J o h n Conley said  actions that happen, happen because ofthis ...  weekend come to the heaHh center  
he has had  with  what  
students in  Patricia Brubaker  she  called  
his hall and  assistant director  "concomitant  
students from other dorms in or  Clinical Services University Health Services  injuries" -injuries caused by  
around  falls or other­ 
Siegfried  wise inadvis­ 

occasionally sent to the hospi­able behavior that would not tal due to alcohol use since he have happened if the student first became rector in 1997. had not been drinking. 
"I would say, no, it's not an "A lot of the stuff we see, every-weekend occurrence, the root cause is the alcohol and no, it's not a very rare consumption, but you can't occurrence," he said. "It's in say you never fall without the middle." alcohol," she said. "But many 
Although he doesn't keep of things we see are related to data about ambulance trips, alcohol consumption." he said the hospital visits Brubaker said her estimate tended to be around football of 10 a weekend cannot be season. corroborated with actual 
Kirsits, in addition to serv­data, since the symptom is ing on the Common Council, is logged as an injury, not as a also a battalion chief at Fire drinking accident. Station No. 2 at 110 East "Working in the ER, I used Marion in South Bend. to see a lot and wonder about 
Over the course of his public Notre Dame," she said. "But safety career, Kirsits said at really, working over here, we the Aug. 20 meeting, he has have a lot of great kids. I heard paramedics and hospi­don't want to give the impres­tal workers complain about sion that all the students the large numbers of Notre drink so much, but it is a Dame students who are taken problem that we see, and a to the hospital for alcohol­lot of illnesses and actions induced illness. that happen, happen because of this." 
At St. Joseph's, Brubaker said she saw how a night of drinking could lead to sexual assault, a head injury, a week in the Intensive Care Unit or missing graduation. 
"It's just one night of revelry that has changed their lives," she said. 
When Kirsits was explaining the motivation behind the ordinance, he cited the dan­gers of a college drinking cul­ture as a reason why the ordi­nance should be passed. 
The ordinance Kirsits co­sponsored with fellow Council member Timothy Rouse would require residents of boarding houses -places where more than two unrelated persons 
live ­ to apply for a permit to  
have  gatherings  at  which  
more  than 25 people would  
have  access  to alcohol. The  

next public hearing for the ordinance is scheduled for Sept. 17. 
In the Powerpoint presenta­tion he discussed, Kirsits cited numbers from St. Joseph Regional Medical Center, listing the number of emergency room visits coded as alcohol abuse diagnoses. St. Joseph public relations communicator Mike Stack verified the numbers as accu­rate. 
In 2005, during the months of August to November, 119 people were admitted to St. Joseph with alcohol abuse diagnoses on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays. Of the 119, 32 people were under the legal drinking age of 21. 
In 2006, 151 people were admitted to the hospital on the weekends during the months of August through November. Of these, 44 people were underage. 
The hospital does not keep records of the number of Notre Dame students admit­ted to the hospital, Stack said, so these numbers include both Notre Dame students and the rest of the area popu­lation. But, he said, on foot­ball weekends during the fall it is primarily Notre Dame students who are brought to the hospital with sickness needs to be taken to the hos­caused by alcohol consump­pital or whether they just tion. need a glass of water can be 
Ruth Linster, the media liai­difficult, Brubaker said, since son for Memorial Hospital in different bodies can tolerate South Bend, said Memorial, different levels of alcohol. like St. Joseph, does not keep A person's health also data specifically for Notre depends on what food he ate Dame students. Linster men­earlier in the day, how long tioned another difficulty in he has been drinking and getting a what kind of completely alcohol he accurate pic­has been 
ture of the ..The way doctors code drinking, 
number of Brubaker
things make a big
Notre Dame said. students who dij.ference. Ifsomeone A person are taken to should be
comes in for a 
the hospital taken to the
broken arm, it will be 
as a result of hospital, she 
overcon­coded for a broken arm. If said, if he sumption of somebody has had a beer ca-n't walk, 
alcohol. complete sen­
or two [and then broke 
"The way tences or doctors code their arm], they are not doesn't wake things make going to be coded as acute up after 
a big differ­provocation.
alcohol concentration." 
ence," she Sister said. "If Susan Bruno someone Ruth Linster has been the comes in for media contact rector of 
a broken Pasquerilla
Memorial Hospital 
arm, it will West for 15 be coded for years. This a broken year, she arm. If somebody has had a said, a student was taken to beer or two [and then broke the hospital in record time ­their arm], they are not going a freshman on the first night to be coded as acute alcohol of freshman orientation. concentration." But normally, she said, the 
Memorial's figures for peo­number of people taken to the ple who come in with acute hospital depends on what is alcohol concentration, Linster going on in the hall or on said, are surprisingly low. But campus. If several dorms are she said the reason for that having dances on the same could be that St. Joseph's night, the number of students Hospital is closer to the Notre taken to the hospital probably Dame campus and off-campus increases, she said. student housing. Bruno said her hall has not 
From August through had too many students taken November of 2005, Linster to the hospital. In less severe said, 11 people were admitted situations, she said, it can be to the hospital and coded for handled within the dorm, and acute alcohol concentration. hall staff will sit with the resi­Those people were probably dent through the night. not all students, Linster said, "The reason we send them as there was only one 18-to the hospital is that we are year-old and the other 10 concerned about their ranged in age from their 20s health," Bruno said. "Because to 40s. we are not doctors, we do 
"What it does support," need a professional to handle Linster said, "is that you don't the case." have to be a Notre Dame stu­dent at a p;uty to get into trouble with alcohol." Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
Knowing when a person kriely@nd.edu 
sis." microfinance. methodology, achievable Like Rivers, Abbey also The fellowship does not As for geographic location, goals and the skills needed to emphasized the need for "a
UROP 

come with the same expecta­students have been "spread carry out those goals. good match between methods continued from page I tions, she said. out over the last couple of "The purpose of the project of inquiry and research 
"Students get their feet wet years," Rivers said. should be more then just a goals." International Peace Studies to . and get to experience another "Choice of location is very summer project," she said. Katie Hauswirth, a senior fund more students. country," Rivers said. much relate to the student's "It's worthwhile to take political science major, 
Recently, the Kellogg After students complete the interests," she said. "Africa is advantage of these opportuni­applied for a grant from the Institute added grant oppor­fellowships, Rivers said she very important for Notre ties to help define interests." Kellogg Institute while study­tunities for freshmen and hopes they Dame students, Ruth Abbey, the acting ing abroad last semester in sophomores in the form of will return but in general director for the Institute for Dublin. She traveled to Spain eight "Experiencing the World for more they span the Scholarship in the Liberal for a week to conduct and Fellowships." These grants intense continents." Arts, said the UROP grant interview in Madrid and do 
..There are not very many
can be research or intern­research. The intern­offers are based on the merit library research in Bilbao, an ship-based for students look­Students universities out there ship program of the proposal. There is no experience she called essen­ing to experience Asia, Africa who apply that offer these fully at the Kellogg fixed number or acceptance tial toward the completion of and Latin America. for these Institute will rate, she said. her thesis.
funded opportunities.''
"There are not very many programs add more sites "Students can spend the Jordy Brooks, a senior polit­universities out there that are tradi­in summer summer in the Notre Dame ical science and gender stud­offer these fully funded tionally Holly Rivers 2008. library or travel abroad or do ies major, studied in Nairobi, opportunities," Rivers said. from the program manager "Research some combination of both," Kenya for five weeks last 
For both Kellogg Institute College of can help stu-Abbey said. "During term, summer working for the
Kellogg Institute for 
programs, students need to Arts and dents win [students] go to conferences Coalition on Violence Against
International Studies 
come up with a budget. Letters, awards and to present research, visit Women with the Gender Research grant applicants especially direct what archives and seek funding to Studies' Boehnen grant. must submit a five-page pro­p o 1it ic a l they do in the participants in surveys.... "It gave me the opportunity posal. science, history, anthropology future," Rivers said. The funding follows good to work with amazing people 
"Students are expected to and sociology majors. In "Research has made a huge ideas." and get to know the Kenyan be working with a faculty recent years, however, more difference." In order to obtaining UROP culture," she said. Brooks is member who can help guide students from science and The research funded by the funding, Abbey said the appli­now writing her thesis from in terms of methodology and business fields have been Kellogg Institute grants, cant must have "a clear idea her experience. research," Rivers said. "The applying for grants. Rivers Rivers said, is very much aca­of his or her research goals." ultimate goal is to use the attributed this rise in interest demic.. Students must present This also requires a proposal Contact Jenn Metz at research for the senior the-to the growing importance of a solid project, usable and knowledge of the topic. jmetz@nd.edu 


Friday, September 7, 2007 COA1PilED FROl\1 THE OBSERVER'S \VlRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Syrian, Israeli tensions increase anew 
DAMASCUS -The Syrian government charged Thursday that Israeli aircraft dropped "munitions" inside Syria overnight and said its air defenses opened fire in a new escalation of tensions between the decades­old foes. 
It was unclear what happened. Syria stopped short of accusing Israel of purposely bombing its territory, and an Israeli spokesman said he could not comment on military operations. 
Analysts speculated such a foray could have been probing Syria's defenses or monitoring long-range missile bases. The reported path also would have taken the jets near Iran, whose growing power and anti-Israel govern­ment worries leaders of the Jewish state. 
The incident came after a summer of build­ing tensions that have fed worries of a mili­tary conf1ict erupting between Syria and Israel. Syria accused Israel last month of seeking a pretext for war, and the Israelis are keeping a close watch on Syrian troop move­ments. 
14 killed in fights with ai-Sadr's militia 
BAGHDAD -U.S. and Iraqi troops backed by attack aircraft clashed with suspected Shiite militiamen before dawn Thursday in Baghdad, bombing houses and battling more than a dozen snipers on rooftops. Residents and police said at least 14 people were killed. 
The fighting occurred in a Mahdi Army stronghold of anti-American Shiite cleric Muqtada al-Sadr, who had ordered his militia not to carry out any more attacks for up to six months. The U.S. military stressed the raid targeted breakaway factions that remain vio­lent partly as a way of bullying minority Sunnis out of Baghdad. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Teen suicide rate up, especially in girls 
ATLANTA -The suicide rate among pre­teen and young teen girls spiked 76 percent, a disturbing sign that federal health officials say they can't fully explain. 
For all young people between ages 10 to 24, the suicide rate rose 8 percent from 2003 to 2004 -the biggest single-year bump in 15 years-in what one official called "a dramatic and huge increase." 
The report, based on the latest numbers available, was released Thursday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and suggests a troubling reversal in recent trends. Suicide rates had fallen by 28.5 per­cent since 1990 among young people. 
The biggest increase -about 76 percent ­was in the suicide rate for 10-to 14-year-old girls. There were 94 suicides in that age group in 2004, compared to 56 in 2003. The rate is still low-fewer than one per 100,000 popu­lation. 
Bush, Chinese President Hu meet 
SYDNEY -President Bush and Chinese President Hu Jintao tackled contentious issues on Thursday, from climate change and Iran and North Korea to recalls of tainted Chinese food and indhidual freedoms in China. 
"He's an easy man to talk to. I'm very com­fortable in my discussions with President Hu," Bush said after a face-to-face meeting that lasted about 90 minutes on the sidelines of an Asia-Pacific economic summit. 
LOCAL NEWS 
State fines recycling company for fire 
ELKHART, Ind. -A state agency has issued a nearly $10,000 fine against a hm1ber recycling company over a fire in June that killed a worker. 
The Indiana Occupational Safety and Health Administration investigation sent a safety order to VIM Recycling on Wednesday listing 10 safety concerns. 
The most serious of those dealt with dust and electrical equipment, as the dust generated inside the plant can become explosive in a con­fined space, said Jeff Carter, deputy commission­er for IOSHA. 
VIM intends to appeal the fines, company spokesman Tom Holt said. 
EGYPT 

Bin Laden to release video on Sept. 11 
Al-Qaida normally celebrates 9/11 anniversary with publicity campaign, not with new attacks 
Associated Press 

CAIRO -Osama bin  
Laden will release a new  
video in the coming days  
ahead of the sixth anniver­ 
sary of the Sept. 11 attacks  
in what would be the first  
new images of the terror  
mastermind in nearly three  
years, ai-Qaida's media arm  
announced Thursday.  
Analysts noted that al­ 
Qaida tends to mark the  
Sept. 11 anniversary with a  
slew of messages, and the  
Department of Homeland  
Security said it had no credi­ 
ble information warning of  
an imminent threat to the  
United States.  
Still, bin Laden's appear­ 
ance would be significant.  
The ai-Qaida leader has not  
appeared in new video  
footage since October 2004,  
and he has not put out a new  
audiotape in more than a  
year, his longest period with­ 
out a message.  
One difference in his  
appearance was immediate­ 
ly obvious. The announce­ 
ment had a still photo from  
the coming video, showing  
bin Laden addressing the  
camera, his beard fully  
black. In his past videos, bin  
Laden's beard was almost AP  
entirely gray with dark A Palestinian mirrt:ant displays a picture of ai-Qaida leader Osama Bin Laden on Feb. 3, 2006.  
streaks. Bin Laden is expected to release his first video since 2004 within the next 3 days. 
Bin Laden's beard appears  
to have been dyed, a popular  three days before the video is  Alexandria, Va. "Historically  in new footage, it would be  
practice among Arab lead­ posted on the Web.  the anniversary of 9-11 has  the first inlages of him since  
ers, said Rita Katz, director  IntelCenter, which moni­ never been drawn to attacks.  an Oct. 29, 2004 videotape.  
of the SITE Institute, a  tors Islamic Web sites and  It's drawn to video releases."  just before the U.S. presiden­ 
Washington-based group  analyzes terror threats, said  But the fact that bin Laden  tial elections. In that appear­ 
that monitors terror mes­ the video was expected with­ is delivering the message is  ance three years ago, he said  
sages.  in the next 72 hours, before  significant, he said. Whether  America could avoid another  
··1 think it works for their  the sixth anniversary of the  the message will indicate a  9-11 style attack if it stopped  
[al-Qaida's] benefit that he  Sept. 11, 2001 suicide  potential attack will depend  threatening Muslims.  
looks young, he looks  hijacker attacks on the  on what bin Laden says.  The new video would also  
healthy," Katz said.  World Trade Center and the  Homeland Security  end the longest period bin  
The announcement and  Pentagon.  spokesman Russ Knocke  Laden has gone without  
photo appeared in a banner  The anniversary has  said he could not confirm the  releasing a message. His last  
advertisement on an Islamic  always been a major media  existence of a tape, "and  audiotape was on July 1,  
militant Web site where al­ event for al-Qaida -a  there is no credible infonna­ 2006, in which he welcomed  
Qaida's media arm, Al­ chance for it to drum up sup­ tion at this time warning of  new leader of al-Qaida in  
Sahab, frequently posts mes­ port among extremists, tout  an imminent threat to the  Iraq succeeding the slain  
sages.  itself as the leading militant  homeland." But he said  Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.  
.. Soon, God willing, a  group and show off its con­ increased activity overseas  Bin Laden went silent for a  
videotape from the lion sheik  tinued survival.  and recent arrests of mili­ similar long stretch before ­ 
Osama bin Laden, God pre­ "They've always gone out  tants in Germany reinforce  from Dec. 28, 2004 to Jan.  
serve him," the advertise- of their way to commemo­ the department's assessment  19, 2006. That absence  
. ment read, signed by Al­ rate it," said Ben Venzke,  that the country is currently  sparked widespread specula­ 
Sahab. Such announcements  chief executive officer of  in a period of increased risk.  tion he was ill, wounded or  
are usually put out one to  IntelCenter, which is based in  If bin Laden does appear  possibly dead.  

Study: U.S. should reduce forces in Iraq 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -U.S. forces in Iraq should be reduced significant­ly, according to a new study on Iraq's security forces that inflamed debate in Congress on how quickly that can happen without hurling the country into chaos. 
The report, authored by a 20­member panel comprised mostly of retired senior military and police officers, said the massive deploy­ment of U.S. forces and sprawl of U.S.-run facilities in and around Baghdad has given Iraqis the impression that Americans are an occupying, permanent force. 
Accordingly, the panel said the Iraqis should assume more control 
of its security and U.S. forces should step back, emboldening Democrats who want troop with­drawals to start this fall. 
"Significant reductions, consoli­dations and realignments would appear to be possible and pru­dent," wrote the group, led by retired Gen. James Jones, a former Marine Corps cor.1mandant. 
The recommendation echoed pre­vious independent assessments on the war, including the high-profile Iraq Study Group that said the combat mission could be trans­ferred to the Iraqis by early 2008. But the burning question, left mostly unanswered by the panel, was precisely when Iraqi security units could take control and U.S. 
troops could leave. 
The study concluded only that the Iraqis could not assume control of the country without U.S. help in the next 12 to 18 months. 
"We need to start transitioning to an Iraqi lead," no matter the time­frame, said retired Army Gen. George Joulwan, a panel member and former NATO commander in Europe. 
"I think the signs are there to do that, and we have to reduce that dependency," he added in testimo­ny before the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
The study sparked ongoing debate among committee members on whether to pass legislation ordering troops home. 
page 6 Friday, September 7, 2007 
The Observer + NEWS 

California] or how this hap­pened or if he was working
NDFCU 

with someone else." continued from page 1 Ditchcreek said Tuesday the credit union's technology staff 
The transactions added up had traced the origin of the e­to over $2,000, Ditchcreek mails and the Web site to a said. service provider in the 
He said the Fullerton Police Netherlands. Department contacted him King said Wonerth had not Wednesday to tell him about been charged with the fraud Wonerth's arrest in connection Thursday because investiga­to the scam. tors were still looking into his 
Wonerth was charged role in setting up the Web site Tuesday with auto theft, pos­and sending thee-mails. 
session  of  Wonerth,  
stolen proper­ possibly from  
ty and fraudu­lent use of an access card, King said. She  '"We can't know how long he could be in jail until we identify all the  the Chicago a r e a , remained in custody  
could not say  victims and all the  Thursday.  
if Wonerth had a prior police record or how  accounts he got from the scam. But ifa court  The Aug. 31 e-mails with the  
many years of  convicts him ofthese  fraudulent  
jail time he could face if he were con­ charges, he will definitely be spending a  link told users to review their  
victed. "The investi­ few years in prison. ''  account information  
gation is still underway," King said. "We  Sgt. Linda King Fullerton Pollee Department  because there were "one or more  
can't  know  , unsuccessful  
how  long  he  attempts  to  

could be in jail until we identi­log in to your Online Banking fy all the victims and all the Account ... from a foreign IP accounts he got from the address." scam. But if a court convicts Students, people outside the him of these charges, he will Notre Dame community, definitely be spending a few NDFCU members and non­years in prison." members received the e-mails, 
She said Wonerth was the Ditchcreek said. only name tied to the fraud On Thursday, authorities Thursday. were still investigating the ori­
"We're still trying to deter­gin of the e-mail list used in mine out when and where the the scam, King said. scam was set up," King said. "We don't know if this hap­pened in Indiana and he made Contact Marcela Berrios at the cards and drove out [to -aberrios@nd.edu 
storming," Dolphin said. The conference, which stu­The professors departments dents and faculty will have
I Grant 

including science, religion two years to prepare for, will a n d include papers
continued from page 1 

English. and presenta­
sors on research projects, "[The ..The exciting thing is that tions given by guest lectures, a Web site project] the students
our students are going to
and a conference that will is won­who help to take place in April 2009. derfully, organize this major organize it. The Web site for the Quest creative­conference . ... [My] hope is "The excit­Project has not launched yet, ly open ing thing is
that after having this 
but Dolphin said it should be to other that our stu­
modes of conference we'll have one dents are
up in early October. There will be a link on the Saint expres­every other year.,, going to Mary's Web site as well as on sion," organize this the Center for Spirituality Dolphin major confer­
Sister Kathleen Dolphin
Web site, she said. said. ence," Dolphin "It will be easy to find once director said. " ... fMy] 
it gets up and running," she Center for Spirituality hope is that 
said. after having 
The project will involve this confer­professors and students at Students could, for exam­.ence we'll have one every Saint Mary's as well as other ple, present some kind of other year." universities and colleges. drama piece or dance per­
"I have close to 40 [Saint formance as a "visual expres­
Mary's] professors with sion of how religion and sci­Contact Mandi Stirone at 
whom I have been brain-ence interact," she said. astiroO1@saintmarys.edu 
week of school. that many students do not I notice it at all.
NDH 

thought it Sophomore Meghan was good "Well, I don ,t really Shaughnessy said
continued from page 1 

w h e n she does not mind
have anything
t h e y the music.
against it, but I think 
ally switch to XM radio, which played "Well, I don't really is used in South Dining Hall. WAOR," the music kind ofgets have anything He said the student response sopho­against it, but I think
lost in the noise. ,, 
to the new music has been m o r e the music kind of positive. Dominic gets lost in the 
Sophomore Meghan Go said. Meghan Shaughnessy noise," Shaughnessy Magargee said she likes the "I guess I sophomore said. "I guess I just music and said it makes going haven't don't really notice it to the dining hall more fun. p a i d that much." 
Other students preferred the attention to it recently." 
Contact Katie Peralta at

rock they heard in the first The music is quiet enough 
kperalta@nd.edu 


ITALY 

Crowds gather to pay respects to tenor Pavarotti 
Opera singer, known as 'the King ofthe High C's,' died at 71 in hometown after yearlong bout with pancreatic cancer 
Associated Press 
MODENA -Admirers massed by the hundreds in Modena's main piazza Thursday night to pay their final respects to Luciano Pavarotti, the tenor cherished by many as "the last, great voice" of Italian opera. 
The crowd applauded as pall­bearers carried the white casket into the cathdral, where a funer­al Saturday will draw dignitaries from opera, politics and culture. The tenor died early Thursday in his hometown at age 71 after a yearlong battle with pancreatic cancer. 
While Pavarotti moved the world with a wonderous voice, his legacy went beyond the opera house. The tenor collabo­rated with classical singers and pop icons alike to bring opera to the masses, rescuing the art from highbrow obscurity in the process. 

In many ways, Pavarotti ful­filled the public's imagination of what an opera star should be. He often wore a colorful scarf and a hat, be it a fedora or a beret, and while he didn't always have a beard, it was hard to imagine him without it. His heft -as well as a restaurant on his property in Modena ­underlined his gourmet appetite. 
But above all, his crystal clear voice, prized for its diction, made him the most celebrated tenor since Caruso. "Pavarotti was the last great Italian voice able to move the world," said Bruno Cagli, president of the Santa Cecilia National Academy in Rome. 
On the Piazza Grande, hun­dreds of people gathered for the first evening of public viewing. Police on horseback stood at attention as mourners shuffied up the steps into the cathedral to view Pavarotti, dressed in his trademark white tie and tails, a white handkerchief and white rosary clutched in his hands. 
His wife, Nicoletta Mantovani, stood off to the side of the cas­ket, chatting calmly with well­wishers. 
The atmosphere wasn't sad or tearful but warm, as Modena residents celebrated their native son, many bringing their chil­dren to see what they said was an unforgettable moment for thP city and world. 
Simone Sarrau, 32, waited in line until nearly midnight to pay his respects. 
"He's a symbol. He's a symbol of Modena, a symbol of Italy, he's international," Sarrau said. "I think this demonstration of affection is justified, and it's not just Modena its in the whole world. He's a one-of-a-kind. There's only him, and there will always only be him." 
Mayor Giorgia Pighi said the singer had been a beacon for the city. 
"Thanks to Luciano Pavarotti, the name of Modena has gone around the world as the name of a city much bigger than it actu­ally is," Pighi told Associated Press Television News before the casket arrived. 
The viewing was scheduled to end at midnight and then resume Friday at 6 a.m. and last, but for a few hours of clo­sure overnight, until shortly before the funeral. 
Authorities planned for a mas­sive outpouring of grief: Giant television screens were to be set up near the cathedral where Italian Premier Homano Prodi, among others, would pay their final respecl". 
From the world of music, tenor Andrea Bocelli planned to sing the hymn "Panis angelicus". at the service, the ANSA news agency reported. 
Within hours of Pavarotti's death, Modena authorities had posted information on the city Web site detailing the extraordi­nary public transport services that would be put in place to help get mourners from parking lots to the city center for Saturday's service. 
Amid an outpouring of trib­utes, the Vienna State Opera raised a black flag in mourning and the Guards band at Buckingham Palace played Pavarotti's signature aria "Nessun Dorma" at the Changing of the Guard ceremo­ny. 
In his heyday. Pavarotti was known as "the King of the High C's" for his ease at hitting the top notes. The Venezuelan soprano Ines Salazar recalled hearing him warm up backstage and thinking it was a recording. Even when critics complained he had lost his voice, audiences did­n't mind. 
While opera lovers treasure recordings with soprano Joan Sutherland, Pavarotti slipped into the CD collections of the hip­per set mixing notes with Elton John, the Spice Girls, Cheryl Crow and Liza Minnelli, among others. 
He was the best-selling classi­cal artist, with more than 100 million records sold since the 1960s, and he had the first clas­sical album to reach No. 1 on the pop charts. 
U2 frontman Bono said Pavarotti was "a great volcano of a man who sang fire but spilled over with a love of life in all its complexity." 
"No one could inhabit those acrobatic melodies and words like him. He lived the songs, his opera was a great mash of joy and sadness; surreal and earthy at the same time," Bono said in a statement. "Even when the voice was dimmed in power, his inter­pretative skills left him a giant among a few tall men." 
Some of the greatest opera stars were in his debt -from the young talent whom he fos­tered to Spanish tenor Jose Carreras, who said Pavarotti had supported him in moments of difficulty, including his battle with leukemia. Some would argue opf~ra owed itself to "Big Luciano." 


Friday, September 7, 2007 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


2l.ol4.:J2 +&.37
NASOAQ 

COMPAr4Y ~'ai[.HA.~6 E ~6AHI P Ric. E 
S&..o O€P ~€0:PJ.OTS (SPY) t0.2.3 t0.34 1"lfl.13 POW€~HAR€S (Q QQQ) -{J.OO -D.0-'1 .qg .1-'1 .69PL€ H~ (AAPL) -1 ..2a -1.75 135.01 SUN 1'-llROSYS INC (JAV/J.) t2.05 t0.11 5 .-'a 

10-YI:AR ~IOic tO .ta tO .ooa .q .so6 13-'!\'€8{ 8lll -{J.95 -{J .Oi!O -'1 .160 30-Y€AR 801'>10 t900.00 t-'1.311 "l.7':t:l 5-YI:AR r-nn: t907.93 t3.777 -'1.193 

t057 76.30
LIGHT ~UJ€ (:$!Obi.) t 13.90 70-'I...SO
GOLO (:$/Tror <l2 .) 
-o.-'la aa.3o
PO~ I( &:Ll...I€S (o:::ents,llb.) 

Y€~1 115.37 ;:u~ 
0.730-'1 POUI'>IO 0 .49"l2 C#IAOWI :$ 1D517 
IN BRIEF 
Retail sales up despite credit woes 
NEW YORK -Consumers undeterred by escalating credit problems and a weakening housing market went on a back-to-school buy­ing spree last month, helping many retailers rebound from July's disappointing sales. But analysts are still worried that economic con­cerns might curtail shopping in the critical months ahead. 
As the nation's retailers reported better­than-expected sales results Thursday, winners crossed all sections of the industry and includ­ed Wal-Mart Stores Inc., Target Corp., Pacific Sunwear of California and Saks Inc. Among the handful of disappointments was Kohl's Corp. 
"When you look at August, there was a lot of doom and gloom," said Chris Donnelly, partner in the retail practice at the consulting firm Accenture, referring to news headlines chroni­cling growing numbers of mortgage defaults and financial market turmoil. "But consumers were out there spending.... Back-to-school sales were good." 
Worker productivity, wages increase 
WASHINGTON -Worker productivity rebounded, growing at the fastest pace in nearly two years, while wage pressures eased sharply in the spring -developments that should reduce inflation worries. 
The Labor Department reported Thursday that productivity, the amount of output per hour of work, jumped to an annual growth rate of 2.6 percent in the April-June quarter, even better than ·the 1.8 percent increase that was originally reported. 
Wage pressures, as measured by unit labor costs, slowed to an annual growth rate of 1.4 percent, slower than the initial estimate that labor costs were rising at a 2.1 percent rate. 
Rising wages are good for workers, but if those gains are not accompanied by increased productivity, they can trigger unwanted infla­tien. If productivity is growing, it allows busi­nesses to pay their workers more out of the increased output rather than by raising prices. 
The increase in productivity and the reduc­tion in labor costs were better than had been expected, raising hopes that the Federal Reserve will have the leeway to cut interest rates at its next meeting on Sept. 18. 
Apple slashes $200 off iPhone prices 
Discounts made to spike holiday sales anger current iPhone owners; company's stockfalls on day 
Associated Press  
SAN FRANCISCO -Apple  
Inc.'s price cut of its iPhone  
and the new lineup of iPod  
players are expected to ring in  
healthy holiday sales, but Wall  
Street investors accustomed to  
Apple's meaty profit margins  
appear a bit disappointed.  
Apple stock dropped $1.43,  
or 1.1 percent, to $135.25, in  
Thursday morning trading,  
but it was still up 2 percent  
over four weeks ago. On  
Wednesday, after the price cut  
was announced, shares had  
fallen 5 percent.  
Meanwhile, gadget enthusi­ 
asts who snapped up the bal­ 
lyhooed iPhone before  
Wednesday are coping with a  
bitter aftertaste now that it is  
$200 cheaper within 10  
weeks of its introduction.  
The price cut, from $599 to  
$399 for the 8-gigabyte  
iPhone, immediately set off a  
debate on online tech forums  
between early adopters, who  
said paying a premium price  
came with the territory, and  
those who said they felt  
burned. The price reduction  
was too much too soon, some  
complained.  
In a discussion on The  
Unofficial Apple Weblog site,  
the views were split evenly.  
Many customers took the  
iPhone price cut in stride,  
however. Ryan Roth, who  
bought one for $599 on Friday Apple Inc. CEO Steve Jobs talks about the pricing of the Apple iPhone In San Francisco, 
after months of research, Wsdnesday. He offered $100 credits Thursday to customers who paid $599 for the product. 
chalked up his purchase to  
"the worst timing ever."  get a refund of the price dif­ Motorola Razr, for instance,  in the United States by the end  
"I realize this is not their  ference.  debuted at $499 but can now  ofSeptember.  
problem: I agreed to the origi­ The steep price cut less  be bought for less than $100.  The newest iPod media  
nal price ­it's my fault," said  than three months after the  "This is about Apple learn­ players, also announced  
Roth, 32, of New York, who  iPhone's launch on June 29 ­ ing how to become a cell  Wednesday, include a model  
has been thinking about get­ and the discontinuation of the  phone retailer," said Jeff  called iPod Touch that incor­ 
ting a cell phone for four  4-gigabyte iPhone, which sold  Kagan, an independent  porates the iPhone's touch­ 
years but held out until the  for $499 -were surprising  telecommunications industry  screen and adds the ability to  
last week.  from Apple, which usually  analyst based in Atlanta. "All  wirelessly download songs  
But some relief is in sight.  keeps prices steady while  of a sudden it's in the cell  directly from the new iTunes  
According to Apple's return  adding new features. It nor­ phone business, and everyone  Wi-Fi Store. Also new are a  
policy, anyone who purchased  mally discount" products only  is trying to figure out how to  version of the best-selling  
an iPhone within the past 14  when they age.  measure it, and we don't  iPod, the Nano, that plays  
days and has the receipt can  Analysts said quick dis­ know yet."  video and a larger capacity,  
get a full refund ifthey haven't  counts are typical for the cell  Apple Chief J:.~ecutive Steve  160-gigabyte version of the  
opened the product. If they  phone industry, however. The  Jobs said the company is on  video iPod, newly dubbed the  
have opened it, they still can  world's best-selling cell phone,  pace to sell 1 million iPhones  iPod Oassic.  

30-year mortgage rates up on week 
Associated Press the slowest three-month change since age fee of 0.5 point. Five-year ARMs 
the fourth quarter of 1994. and one-year AHMs both carried an 
WASHINGTON -After falling for Rates on 15-year fixed-rate mort­average fee of 0.6 point. two weeks, rates on 30-year mort­gages, a popular choice for refinanc­A year ago, rates on 30-year mort­gages edged up slightly this week. ing, averaged 6.15 percent this week, gages were at 6.47 percent, 15-year 
Freddie Mac, the mortgage compa­compared with 6.12 percent last mortgages were at 6.16 percent, five­ny, reported Thursday that 30-year, week. Rates on five-year adjustable­year ARMS averaged 6.14 percent fixed-rate mortgages averaged 6.46 rate mortgages fell to 6.32 percent, and one-year ARMs were at 5.63 per­percent this week, compared with compared with 6.35 percent last cent. 
6.45 percent last week. week. After a five-year boom, sales of both 
The rate last week was the lowest Rates on one-year adjustable-rate new and existing homes fell sharply since 30-year mortgages averaged mortgages, which had risen steeply last year. The slump has gotten worse 
6.42 percent the week of May 31. last week, dropping to 5. 7 4 percent this year as lenders have tightened 
Analysts attributed the basically from 5.84 percent. standards amid soaring foreclosures unchanged reading to the fact that Many economists believe the and late payments. Those problems economic data over the past week Federal Reserve soon will decide to began in the market for subprime came in close to market expectations. cut a key interest rate in an effort to loans, which are ofl'ered to borrowers 
Frank Nothaft, chief economist at insulate the economy from recent tur­with weak credit histories, but have Freddie Mac, said the weakness in moil in the housing and financial mar­spread to other loan categories. housing is continuing to depre"s price kets. The Mortgage Bankers Association increases. The mortgage rates do not include reported Thursday that homeowners 
A Freddie Mac report found that add-on fees known as points. Thirty­got hit with a record number of fore­house prices increased by 0.1 percent year mortgages and 15-year mort­closure notices in the spring as the from April through June. That was gages each carried a nationwide aver-crisis in subprime lending intensified. 

Friday, September 7, 2007 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Attorney argues science toproveSpectorinnocent 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES-An attorney for Phil Spector on Thursday outlined scientific evidence she said clears the record producer of murder, and accused prose­cutors of resorting to theatrics in their efforts to mark "the first celebrity notch in the gov­ernment's gun belt." 
Linda Kenney-Baden, the member of Spector's defense team who is a specialist in forensic evidence, in her clos­ing argument accused prosecu­tors of using "cute jokes" as distractions. Kenney-Baden said they offered only "accusa­tions and demonizations rather than showing you what evi­dence they have that proves their case beyond a reasonable doubt." 
"Stories don't trump science and they can't prove Phil Spector killed Lana Clarkson," Kenney-Baden said. 
Spector, 6 7, is accused of sec­ond-degree murder. Clarkson, a 40-year-old actress working as a nightclub hostess, died of a gunshot fired inside her mouth early Feb. 3, 2003, in the foyer of Spector's mansion. She had gone home with him after meeting him at the nightclub. 
"What the government wants you to believe is that Phil Spector is a bad man and therefore he shot her," she said. "They want you to hate him and supplant the facts of this case with that hatred. They want you to use emotion to convict Phil Spector rather than rely on the scientific evi­dence that clearly exonerates him." 
Kenney-Baden depicted both Clarkson and Spector as flawed people in a lengthy closing argument that was to continue Friday. After a prosecution rebuttal, the jury will get the case, possibly late Friday or Monday. 
Kenney-Baden's argument came down to assertions that Spector was too far away to have fired the gun and that Clarkson killed herself. The defense contends Clarkson was depressed about her acting career struggles, fi nancia I problems and other personal problems and that she made a spontaneous decision to kill herself at Speetor's home. 
She said prosecutor Alan Jackson tried to explain away the facts with a series of improbable speculations in his dosing argument Wednesday. 
"Some of them, you heard yesterday, include: The gun fell into her mouth. She was talk­ing and he put the gun in her mouth. She screamed and he put the gun in her mouth. It even got to the point [where l a big gust of wind or an earth­quake could have made the gun go off. It must have been San Andreas' fault," she said sar­castically. 
Showing them a photo of the knee-l(mgth white coat Spector wore the night of the shooting, Kenney-Baden asserted that the condition of the garment was proof he didn't kill Clarkson but "unfortunately for him the name Phil Spector becoming the first celebrity notch in th'e government's gun belt was more important than this crucial finding of inno­cence." 
The reference called up memories of previous 
California celebrity cases which resulted in acquittals: O.J. Simpson, Hobert Blake and Michael Jackson. 
She said the jacket was "pris­tine" to the naked eye and only a few miniscule blood spatters were found when it was exam­ined under a microscope. Had he shot Clarkson, she said, he would have been covered in blood and tissue. 
Kenney-Baden also sought to rebut perhaps the prosecution's strongest point -Spector's words as related by a Brazilian immigrant chauffeur who said he saw him come out of his house with a gun in his hand. Adriano De Souza quoted Spector as saying: "I think I killed somebody." 
Kenney-Baden said De Souza's problems with English -his second language -the noise of a fountain in Spector's courtyard, a car radio playing and music coming from the house, made the quote suspect. 
"Mr. De Souza had the classic problem of a lot of witnesses," she said. "He was simply mis­taken." 
Jackson presented a long summation Wednesday that was heavy on drama with video clips of women who accused Spector of past threatening acts with guns. It concluded with a video accompanied by music showing the glamorous Clarkson dancing, smiling and singing. It was meant to show that the actress. the star of the 1985 cult film "Barbarian Queen," was not despondent, had plans for her future and would not have shot herself as the defense claims. 
But Thursday's session began with the judge telling jurors there were misstatements in Jackson's closing argument. 
"Argument is very emotional" and sometimes statements are made that should not be, the judge said. 
Fidler told jurors Jackson crossed the line by characteriz­ing the defense case as having murdered or assassinated Clarkson's character. Fidler said he approved all evidence admitted about Clarkson's background because it was rel­evant. 
The judge also said the jury could not consider a suggestion that the defense and a witness "got together concerning testi­mony." 
"There's no showing whatso­ever that defense counsel asked a witness to testify untruthfully in any way," he said. 
Outside the jury's presence, he denied a defense motion for a mistrial due to the suggestion by Jackson that Clarkson had been "murdered twice." 
Kenney-Baden responded to Jackson's claim of a "check­book defense" which used Spector's money to hire high­profile forensic experts. 
"For all their talk about a checkbook defense, it is the government who has a com­bined budget of billions of dol­lars," she said. "They had every forensic tool available to them as to who fired the gun that night -every forensic tool, every scientist, a crime lab, thousands of investiga­tors." 
Spector chose Kenney-Baden to give the closing argument despite her absence for several weeks of testimony due to ill­ness. 
The Next Stage® 


Talk with a Wells Fargo Banker and get your PhD in Money-omics. 
With College Combo®, designed especially for college students, you get: 
• 
Free Wells Fargo College Checking® account* 

• 
No annual fee Wells Fargo® Check Card -now with Visa® payWave 

• 
Free access to Wells Fargo Online® Banking and Free Bill Pay 

• 
Free Direct Deposit of paychecks and/or financial aid 

• 
Free access to over 6,800 Wells Fargo ATMs Stop by your local Wells Fargo and talk with a banker today. 


*Eligibility subject to approval. Students must provide proof of enrollment at an accredited college/university or trade school when the account is opened. $100 minimum opening deposit required for new checking account. Additional restrictions apply. 
© 2007 Wells Fargo Bank. N.A. All rights reserved. Member FDIC. 


1 
I 
' 
Friday, September 7, 2007 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
U.S. truckers protest Mexican pilot program 
Co-ed stabs roommate to death 
Henderson from Tuba City "It's just tragic because the
Associated Press 
and Harrison from Chinle, people in Tuba City know her 
TUCSON, Ariz. -Upset that about 100 miles east of Tuba really well, and Mia was a 
her roommate had accused City near New Mexico. good kid," said Hope 
her of theft, a University of After Harrison's initial court MacDonald-Lonetree, a 
Arizona freshman bought a appearance Thursday, her Navajo council delegate who 
knife, returned to their dorm mother, Janice Harrison, said represents Tuba City and 
room and stabbed the woman her daughter has no history grew up with the young 
as she slept, according to of violence. Noting the teen woman's mother. "She was 
court papers filed Thursday. was injured and briefly known as a high~achiever; she 
But before 18-year-old hospitalized, she said her was very congenial. She was 
Galareka Harrison kiJJed Mia daughter must have been not known to be in any kind 
Henderson, she forged a note defending herself. of conflict or anything like 
in which the victim purport­"She never did anything that. She was just a good kid." 
edly admitted falsely accusing wrong," she said, teary-eyed When Henderson filed the 
her roommate and and speaking softly and police report, she told police 
"mentioned ending her own hesitantly. "She's a real nice that she would not stay in her 
life," university police Officer person. She's never been dormitory room until either 
Mario Leon wrote in a sworn away from Harrison or she 
statement. home." was moved, 
Harrison entered the room, Galareka Police Chief 
left the note on her Harrison had Anthony Daykin
..lt,s just tragic because 
roommate's desk and then not discussed said. Daykin
the people in Tuba City 
stabbed her numerous her roommate said the room­times," according to the or spoken of know her really well, mate had also probable cause statement any problems been named as
and Mia was a good
filed in Pima County Justice at school, a possible
kid.,,

Court. Janice suspect in a 
Harrison is jailed in lieu of Harrison said. theft report $50,000 bail on a first-degree Janice Hope MacDonald-Lonetree filed by another murder charge in Harrison said student in the
Navajo council delegate
Wednesday's stabbing. A her daughter dorm. 
judge entered a not guilty wants to The next day, 
plea on her behalf. become a Henderson 
Police would not say what pharmacist, participated in declined an offer of different 
Harrison had been accused of high school track, and is housing, Daykin said. The 
stealing and would not heavily involved in rodeo and chief said Wednesday that he 
release the police report her devoted to her three quarter­did not know when Henderson 
roommate filed Aug. 28. horses. had returned to the dorm 
But Lee Ann Dejolie, a Henderson, 18, had room or what had triggered 
Northern Arizona University attended a summer science their fight. 
student who described herself program at the university, But students called police 
as a close friend of held a prestigious tribal shortly before 6 a.m. after 
Henderson's, said Henderson scholarship and planned to hearing screams, and officers 
had complained this week major in biology. found both young women 
that her roommate had been About 200 people, including injured. Both were taken to a 
going through her purse and members of Henderson's hospital. where Henderson 
taking things. former softball team at Tuba was pronounced dead. .. "So Mia was _really ticked City High School on the Harrison was not seriously off," Dejolie said. Navajo reservation, went to hurt. Both girls were residents of the school's athletic field Harrison has turned down communities on the Navajo Wednesday night to all media interview requests, 
Indian Reservation remember her. a jail spokesman said. 
2007-08 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

Actors Frorn rrhe London Stage 
MACBETH 
_,11 ·.,. by William Shakespeare 

Wednesday, September 12, 7:30 p.m. Thursday, September 13, 7:30p.m. Friday, September 14, 7:30 p.m. Washington Hall, University of Notre Dame 
General Public $18 • Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens $16 • Students $12 
Tickets are available through the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts ticket office. Visa, MasterCard, and American Express orders accepted. Call574-631-2800 or purchase online at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
The Actors From The London Stage residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
r;:J;)UNIVERSITY OF 
DEBARTOLO 
~NOTRE DAME 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
Associated Press 
LAREDO, Texas-Dozens of truckers rallied at Mexican bor­der crossings in California and Texas Thursday to protest a pilot program to allow up to 100 Mexican trucking companies to haul their cargo anywhere in the United States. 
Carrying signs reading "NAFTA Kills" and "Unsafe Mexican Trucks," a few dozen protesters circled in the heat for two hours at Laredo's port of entry on the U.S.-Mexico border. 
"What do we want? Safe high­ways. When do we want them? Now!" they chanted. 
The U.S. Transportation Department i'isued the first per­mit Thursday to Transportes Olympic, based in a suburb of Monterrey, Mexico. It won the permit after Mexico granted authority to Stagecoach Cartage & Distribution Inc. of El Paso, Texas, to travel anywhere in Mexico. 
Both companies can cross the border immediately but may not do so for several days while they determine new routes, said John Hill, who runs the U.S. Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, which regulates truck safety. 
"\'Vhat we're hearing from the carriers is they could be ready to go as soon as days from now," Hill told reporters on a confer­ence call from Washington. 
The U.S. plans to give as many a.'i 25 Mexican firms permission by the end of September and add another 25 companies each month until hitting 100 by the end of this year under the om~­year program, Hill said. 
Mexico has aLo;o committed to allow as many as 100 U.S. firms anywhere in Mexico by the end of thi'i year, he said, and 14 are poi'ied to receive permission. 
So far, 38 Mexican trucking frrms have been prescreened to go anywhere in the U.S., Hill said. 
The Teamsters union, Sierra Club and watchdog group Public Citizen had sued to stop the pro­gram, arguing there wouldn't be enough oversight of drivers, but a federal appeals court ruled the Bush administration could move ahead. 
Government lawyers said the program is a necessary part of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the trucks would meet U.S. regulations. 
Near San Diego's Otay Mesa border crossing, dozens of truck­ers led by the Teamsters mixed with anti-illegal-immigration activists. Business was uninter­rupted, said Lt. Hector Paredes of the California Highway Patrol, which inspects about 3,000 trucks a day at the crossing. 
"We're already inspecting Mexican trucks and will continue to inspect them the same way," Paredes said. "These trucks already haul product from Tijuana to San Diego. Now they will be able to go beyond San Diego." 
Critics such as Teamsters organizer Hugo Flores doubt that Mexican drivers will be held to the same rules, such as tho length of work shifts and drug testing. 
"There are no means to regu­late these guys. Bush has opened up highways to unsafe trucks," Flores said at the Laredo protest. "I don't want them sharing the roads with my family." 

Audit reveals glitch in FBI terrorist watch lists 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The FBI failed to put a.o;; many as 20 sus­pected terrorists on watch lists tailored to alert border agents and immigration officials because of a technology glitch, a Justice Department audit con­cluded Thursday. 
It was not immediately clear whether any of the suspects entered the United States as a result of the security lapse. 
Responding, the director of the FBI's Terrorist Screening Center acknowledged the gap, but said it soon will be fixed. 
The audit by Justice Department Inspector General Glenn A. Fine gave the FBI mixed reviews for its eflorts over the last two years to clean up its terror watch list database. The database contains more than 700,000 records about suspect­ed terrorists and was created after the 9/11 Commission called for a single agency to consoli­date and manage 12 govern­ment watch lists that existed before the 2001 terror attacks. 
Since Fine's last audit, in 2005, the FBI has worked to fix several problems, including trying to make sure the watch list is accu­rate and creating an office to deal with complaints from peo­ple wrongly identified a.'i terror­i'its or suspect..<;. 
Still, problems persist, the 

-~-----~­
audit found. It faulted two tech­nology systems that feed into and from the master watch list that are not identical -a.o; they should be -because they con­tain differing records. As a result, alerts weren't raised about some suspected terrorist..'>, the audit found. 
"Specifically. we identified 20 watch list records on suspected or known terrorists that were not made available to the front line screening agents such as border patrol officers, visa appli­cation reviewers, or local police officers for use during watch list screening encounters -such as during border crossings, visa processing, or routine traffic stops," the report concluded. 
Parts of the audit were not released publicly, making it impossible to know whether any of the people on the watch list entered the country. 
Terrorist Screening Center director Leonard Boyle said the technology glitch resulted in data not being included on alert lists tailor-made for some agen­cies, including U.S. Customs and Border Protection, an arm ofthe Homeland Security Department. But he said the entire watch list is available to officials -includ­ing most police and other law enforcement agencies -that rely on National Crime Information Center data to do background checks. 


THE OBSERVER 
NDFCU scam prompts 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nacre Dame, IN 46556 · 
EOimR IN CHIEF 

security questions
Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Ken Fowler Kyle West What could have been a large-scale fraud ended up being rel­something wrong with the address recognition software for atively minor -a suspect was arrested within days, and the Webmail? It was essentially impossible for users to determine 
AssT. MANAGING Emma: Kyle Cassily 

attack on Notre Dame Federal Credit Union appears to have that the fraudulent e-mails did not originate from 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
caused only minimal damage. alert@ndfcu.org, as they claimed. NEws EDITOR: Karen Langley Still, the seam should give the University, NDFCU and its Second, what is the future of Notre Dame's online directory? VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King members pause. It appears that thee-mails students received were sent to their NDFCU should better clarify the warning preferred addresses as listed on the directory. And 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey 

messages it posts on the Web site, spelling out some students who do not have NDFCU accounts
Chris Hine 

precisely what it cannot-and will not -ask received the e-mail, asking for NDFCU account infor-
SCENE EDITOR: Tae Andrews of members. That information also should be OtrSERVER mation. These signs point to the scammer's use of the 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Katie Kohler 

housed permanently on a prominent portion directory in his plan. Whether that requires the PHOTO EDITOR: Dusrin Mennella 
of the Web site as reference for members in University to alter its policies in regard to the directo­
Editorial 
GRAPHICS Emma: Madeline Nies the event of future scams. ry -specifically, requiring a Notre Dame, Saint ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez NDFCU also needs to have at least some Mary's or Holy Cross login before viewing contact workers on duty during holiday weekends. The scam began information -is a discussion the Office of Information 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli 

Friday, but few answers were available to affected members Technologies should initiate with students immediately. 
CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 

until Tuesday because of the extended weekend. A bank relies Coming to a thought-out decision on the topic, with clearly 
SYSTEMS ADMINlSTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
on the trust of its members, and displaying quick response to delineated reasons, and keeping the process open would go a OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO fraud is essential to maintaining that trust. long way in convincing students they are protected as best as 
(574) 631-7471 The University also has questio~s to answer. First, is there possible.
fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF 

EDITORIAL CARTOON
(574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.l @nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based orl content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanc Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily thoM: ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolici~ should be directed to Editor in ChiefMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: Obs<rv.r {USI'S ~99 2-4000) is publioh<d Mnnday rhrough FJi<l•y cxu:pr during cx1.111 ~nd vactcion peri~. A ruhscriptk>n lo "f"ht Obtervtt ls $100 {<Jr one acadnnk 
year; $~5 for one Kmeslt..T.  
Th~ Ob.o<rvc:r is published '"  POSTMASTER  
1}24 Sourh Dining Hall  Send .tddrcss ooncctloru to:  
Notre D.une. IN 46~56-0779  Th< Observer  
l'eriodi<.U po,.ag< paid a1 Norre Dam<  1~0. Boxn9  
and ;uidifional mailing offices.  024 Sourh Dining Hall  
Norr< Dame. IN 46~56-0779  

the Obicrver i~ 01 mctnbtt of d1e ~iatcd Pr~. All rc-produuion righrs ate resttvtd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  
Kaitlynn Riely  Chris Hine  
Liz Harter  Bill Brink  
John Tierney  Samantha  
Graphics  Leonard  
Julie Grisanti  Scene  
Viewpoint  Michelle Fordice  
Kara King  

11\~ ~A~\..~, ~~U,~ SA\> fA~\ of M\SS \~~~ SD\fTt\ CA~ol,Jf\)~~ JuM'3LED 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 64% 
·:4s I grow older, I regret to say that a 
detestable habit ofthinking seems to 
be getting a hold ofme. n 
H. Rider Haggard English novelist 
. . 
p

Friday, September 7, 2007 page 11 


Bringin' back the high fiv~ 
Recently, a certain techno/hip-hop beat master deluxe god of pop boldly stated, ''I'm bringin' sexy back. (WHAT!?)" Not to downplay the roof-raising hotness of this jam, but was there ever a point in time when sexiness was uncool? Were teens ever ridiculed at school for calling a scorchin' hot babe sexy? Was ogling the lingerie mannequins at Victoria's Secret ever on the same level as entering a Magic: The Gathering tour­nament at Games By 
James? Of course not. Smooth as silk Being sexy has always been cool. Unfortunately, not everything has the staying power of sexy; some things have to be "brought back." There is one thing in particular that needs to be Timberlaked if we want to make the 2007-08 school year the sexiest ever ... the high five. After a few long years in the spotlight, the fist pound has run its course. We aJl have some fond pounding memories, 

maybe after a big game, a sweet joke, or perhaps even a discrete pound when you saw something cool. People like the pound. You have the exploding pound, people locking their pounds, or a few other pound variations. But where do you go from there? The high five has infi­nite variations. We have the high five, the low five, the back and forth five, the up­high/down-low combo five, the high five that is caught on the flip side, the super low b-ball intro five, the behind-the-back five, the over-the-shoulder five, the between-the-legs five, the Ninja Turtles group high five, the air five, the "skin it" five and the jump high five ... just to name a few. If the situation calls for it, you can even unleash a massive body five, more commonly known as the chest bump. This type of versatility is just not available with the pound. The high five is a superior hand motion celebration, and it's time to bring it back. 
The success of the high five revival depends upon strict adherence to a sim­ple cardinal rule. A high level of confi­dence must be established. Nothing is more demoralizing to a potential high fiver than the infamous pull away. Such an act could be a career ending experi-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Truth behind the ordinance 
' fP'revious discussion of the so-called South Bend party ordinance has largely missed the point. Instead of addressing the important issues which are at hand, the participants in this discussion have resorted to name-calling and using this issue to decry aperceived lack of Notre Dame student activism. Here is where that stops. 
The fact is this: The ordinance egregiously violates constitutional free assembly rights (see: the first Amendment) and directly tar­gets a relatively disenfranchised part of the population-that is, non-resident students. 
It is for these reasons that I am opposed to the ordinance, and any other legislation that violates my rights as a citizen of the United States. 
Chris Higgins junior St. Edward's Hall Sept. 6 
Thanks to fans 
Thanks to all the Irish fans who so warmly greeted us Tech followers last Saturday. Time and time again we were wished good luck and welcomed to the campus. Your fans showed far more genuine "southern hospitali­ty" than we are accustomed to seeing at rival schools here in our region. 
We were lucky on this particular Saturday, but we wish your team the best for all your remaining games. 
Ben Dyer Atlanta, Ga. Sept. 5 
ence to an up-and-coming high fiver, leading them to return to the way of the pound. Pulling back a high five after jt has been offered is completely forbidden. 
On a lighter note, high fives are conta­gious. The only thing even remotely com­parable to the high five fever is the feel­ing you get on Thursday nights at Michiana's number one bar-slash-dance club. Often times, a single high five with a single partner can leave a person feel­ing unsatisfied and wanting more, like only getting two tortillas on Fajita Friday. Since one high five is not nearly enough, usually a raucous high five "session" will ensue. These sessions consists of any willing participants in an area offering up high fives and everyone else slapping any open hand. Imagine that peace thing at Mass, where you don't just go for the hot chick sitting near you but instead everyone in the area. Then replace hand­shakes with nasty hand slaps, multiply it by 10, and you have a good idea ofwhat a high five session is all about. During a successful high five session, no hand goes unslapped and even stolen offers are not removed until the intended recip­ient gives you some skin. After a great high five bonanza, everyone can go back 
seamlessly to enjoying the situation that 
ignited such a celebration of hands. It is 
possible to have a pound session with 
knuckles flying all over the room, but 
anyone who has seen one happen can 
attest that it looks more like a fight than 
a celebration. 
Even though sexy is here to stay, the high five needs to be reintroduced, and in a big way. So next time you get your cup filled even though you don't know anyone at the party, throw up a five. \Vhen you get two crepes in that long line give the Dining Hall workers some skin. Most importantly, if you see a solitary five offered up, slap that hand and offer two more, expand the finger fiesta into an all out high five party because .... we're bringing it back. 
Kessler and ... is a non-profit pharma­ceutical organization in search ofa cure­for male pattern baldness. Pat Canna, Fritz Shadley, Rick Loesing and Bill Ehrlich contributed to this column. They can be contacted at kesslerand@gmail. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 
E

page 12 


Friday, September 7, 2007 

':iii.._# 

IRKY AND ENERGETIC, OK Go LEAPS INTO THE LISTENER'S MEMORY 
Scene Editor 

While millions have taken delight in the eclectic music videos of OK Go as the band members dance round the backyard and across treadmills, few have taken the next step toward exploring the rest 
their music. This is a shame. 
Over the last few years, it has become harder and 
arder for energetic and poppy bands to gain wide­spread recognition and acclaim because of a glut of similar acts vying for mainstream appeal and fame. While it's tough to say that OK Go has been margin­
ized any more than any other similar band ­think The Thrills and Phantom Planet -it's still a small injustice to the millions who might've heard them and loved them if only pop radio was a little kinder when constructing song rotations. Pretty simply, OK Go is as best as you're going to get if pop rock is what you want. 
They are everything that a pop rock band could 
-shaggy-haired guys singing shaggy-haired and enduringly upbeat tunes that are fun the frrst and fiftieth time you listen to them. 
OK Go's first studio offering, the self-titled "OK 
" was not intended to be the band's frrst album. 
parently, the band pulled a Green Day and ,...,.£•n..•rt<>r1 an entire album just to decide to scrap it 
d record a brand new one. The new set of songs 
OK Go and Oh No 
OK Go Released by: Capitol Records Recommended Tracks: Invincible, No Sign of Life, You're So Damn Hot, There's a Fire 
we've received is a stellar o1Tering from the Chicago band with plenty of range to the tone and feel of the tracks. They've found a way to be smart but not overly self-important, fun without sounding stupid and shallow. Indeed, it seems that the boys have made sure they've learned from the best, with the most obvious element of the album being its heavy draw on the band's musical influences -groups such as Weezer, Cheap Trick and the Beach Boys. 
Sure, maybe it sounds a little bit too over-pro­duced and radio ready, but aren't there are enough artsy and introspective bands to satisfy even the most needy pseudo-intellectual and discerning lis­tener? OK Go gives us a little less in the deep meaning arena and a lot more in the raucous sound and energy department that'll actually get humming along to the beat. 
"Oh No," their second studio album, was record­ed in Malmo, Sweden with the help of Tore Johansson, who produced the similar sounding record of Franz Ferdinand. After a listen it is clear that "Oh No" does not suffer from the sophomore slump. It has a natural feel, stripped a bit of the first record's polish, but still packing in the hooks. 
The record is balanced. It features the typical number of total party songs with chorus words anchored on a few shouts of "hey," but it also adds more subtle tunes that really show their strength after a few listens, when you start looking for what's on the record beyond the quick-appealing pop rock standards. Also -and this is a good thing -it's tough to find a favorite song on the record. Each one is exciting and fun, and you'll likely find that each listen brings a new favorite song to play on repeat. Right now it's "No Sign of life," with its desperate message masked by crashing guitars and a lyrical performance that jumps between near­scream and subdued reflection. 
The Show is tonight. OK Go will be there. You should go. At worst it'll be an evening of infectious music that'll be entertaining to witness live. At best it might get you dancing to a band you didn't know existed a few weeks ago. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
,· 

-----------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Friday, September 7, 2007 page 13 
REFRESHING LUPE FIASCO PROVIDES INTROSPECTION TO RAP GENRE 


By CORBIN HICKS Staff Writer 
You might think that Lupe Fiasco's road to star­dom has followed the tri8d and trw~ method perfect­ed by other big name rap stars. Start a label inde­pendently and perfect your rhymes. Create your own mixtapes, frcestyling over other artists' instrumen­tals, and use this to create an industry-wide buzz. Once that buzz is big enough, capitalize on this fame and quickly get a record deal and put out an album on a major label. 
Someone forgot to tell him that dropping a near­dassic album, getting a Jay-Z feature on your debut, and skateboarding do not describe the typical rap­per. 
Fia.•im represents a picture of hip-hop that wa.'i not possible 10 years ago. He is a video game aficionado, Japanime fan and just about every other stereotype of suburban middle school white kids. The only thing he doesn't do is play lacrosse or soccer. Fiasco is a black rapper from the tough streets of the West Side of Chicago, where these activities typically remain on -the other side of the racial barrier. But Lupe's lyrical · ability transcends that of most new artists and ' ...• .allows him to gain credibility from those who would · discount him based on his hobbies. His flow, word . choice and delivery capture your attention in a way · :. • that is less monotonous than an Immortal 
Food and Liquor 
Lupe Fiasco ·.. Released by: Atlantic Records 
~/i~~:~!f1~.1~.j; Recommended Tracks: Just Might Be . OK. Kick, Push, Hurt Me Soul, The 
,,~Instrumental 
J 
,;;. __ 

Technique, but better for you spiritually than the lat­
est offering from the Ying Yang Twins. In fact. Lupe's rookie effort-"Food & Uquor"­was produced by Shawn Carter, a name that marked a vote of confidence in a new rap artist. Ilis 16-track opus begins ·with a three-minute spoken-word style intro about the city of Chicago. This leads into "Real," a reflection on making music of which he doesn't have to be ashamed. Heal has many different definitions in today's music industry, with the influx of hardcore rap and monotonous 808-beat singles, but Lupe captures the essence of doing lyrically con­scious music without having it sound like a lecture. ' The next track "Just Might Be OK" is another stand-. i out, with the self-proclaimed "Cornel West'!ide" lyri-; , ­~ally tf~aring ~o shreds a track filled with luscious live ~;;--~~, . . . 
mstrumentatwn. The album seamlessly moves f.rom one song to the 
next. This is a feat, as the original version of the album was leaked onto the Internet, and Lupe wa.'i forced to redo the entire album. He is not a one-hit wonder artist, as he was able to turn up his focus in crunch time and bang out classic tracks such as "Hurt Me Soul." In this song, he talks about the 
_ Jf' ""'·. .;;_..-~ . r· iit-::_-..4
~'{"'" ~· . ...~ ·. . -4ffll 
.~ 

demons that he faces on a daily basi~ and the dual--: ism between what happens to someone and how he responds to it. The honesty and openness that he reveals throughout the album has to be admired as appreciation not only for rap but also for someone who is able to internalize his surroundings and talk about them in a manner which is both appealing and enjoyable. 
Tracks like "Sunshine," "American Terrorist," "The Instrumental" and "Daydreamin" reveal the thought process of your average person. While this may not sound as appealing as "Partying Like A Rock Star," it offers a refreshing alternative at a time when one is desperately needed. Despite his rap per­sona, Lupe delivers an album that walks the thin line between songs crafted to play in your car speaker system at full volume while also being lyrical enough to present to your literature teacher. This duality is the key to Lupe's longevity in the music industry. 
Contact Corbin Hicks at 
chicks2@nd.edu 
• 
,II' 
..• ~ 
..
-.... 
--... 
-... .. 6 ­
-



Friday, September 7, 2007 
page 14 The Obsen,er + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 
Two singles in ninth lead Tigers over White Sox 
Ankiel homers twice in rain-shortened Cardinals win; Dodgers defeat Cubs with Ethier's ninth-inning homer 
dribbled a single through the
Associated Press 
drawn-in infield to score pinch­DETROIT -One inning from runner Cameron Maybin. 
another costly loss, the Detroit ''I've known Timo a long time, Tigers rallied against Bobby and he's been in some big situa­Jenks. tions, so I know he's not going to 
Sean Casey and Placido make a mistake on the bunt Polanco hit run-scoring singles attempt," Leyland said. "Once he off the White Sox closer in the got to third, then you go strictly ninth inning, leading the Tigers on speed. Timo's fast, but it's over Chicago 3-2 Thursday in apples and oranges to compare Gary Sheffield's return from the anyone to that kid." disabled list. Brandon Inge grounded to the 
"Obviously, this is huge," catcher, Jenks hit Curtis Tigers manager Jim Leyland Granderson with a pitch and said. ''I'm not saying we can't Polanco looped a single to left, 
lose another game, but it is too triggering a celebration at the late in the season to make up plate as pinch-runner Omar many of them_." Infante came across. 
Detroit, which closed within "I made some good pitches out three games of the wild. card­there -maybe they were too leading New York Yankees, good," Jenks said. "It's one of trailed 2-1 entering the ninth. those frustrating days when you Sheffield, who hadn't played know you are making good 
since Aug. 21 because of an enough pitches to get the outs, injured shoulder, went 0-for-3 and they keep getting hits." with two strikeouts and a walk. The Tigers have a three-game 
"I felt good, but my timing is series with another wild-card the St. Louis Cardinals over the Cardinals had 22 hits, their high­crowd, but also their team." still off," Sheffield said. "I contender, Seattle, this weekend. Pittsburgh Pirates Thursday in a est total since April 27, 2003, at Alfonso Soriano hit two haven't seen a curveball in a "We're still in this thing," game shortened to eight innings Florida. homers for the Cubs, including a month." Casey said. because of rain. Mike Maroth, back from a bout three-run drive in the seventh 
Pinch-hitter Timo Perez Ankiel hit a tiebreaking, three­of elbow tendinitis, allowed two that put Chicago ahead 4-2. But reached on an infield single off Cardinals 16, Pirates 4 run homer in the second inning runs, six hits and two walks in 1 it wasn't'eriough to avoid a Jenks leading off the ninth and ST. LOUIS -Rick Ankiel isn't for a 5-2 lead against Bryan 2-3 innings, throwing 54 pitches deflating defeat that dropped the advanced when the throw from just hitting, he's turning into a Bullington (0-1), who made his in his first appearance since Cubs into a first-place tie with second baseman Danny Richar force. major league debut five years Aug. 4. On Wednesday, Mark idle Milwaukee in the NL went into Chicago's dugout for The pitcher-turned-outfielder after he was the No. 1 overall Mulder pitched for the first time Central. The Dodgers took three an error. Mike Rabelo sacrificed homered twice and had a pick in the amateur draft. Ankiel in over a year and gave up six of four in the series and closed and Case):'. another pinch hitter, career-high seven RBis, leading made it 11-3 with a two-run runs over four innings in an 8-2 within 3 1/2 games of NL West­
drive in the fifth against John loss. leading Arizona. Grabow and added a two-run Matt Kemp's homer off reliever double in the sixth off Dave Dodgers 7, Cubs 4 Bobby Howry closed the gap to Davidson, also making his big CHICAGO -Wrigley Field was 4-3 in the eighth, and the league debut. rocking in anticipation of a Cubs' Dodgers took the lead in the 
Brought up Aug. 9 in his first victory. Then Andre Ethier tuned ninth against Dempster (2"'5 ), major league appearance since out the noise, turned off the who blew a save for the third he pitched for the Cardinals in crowd and sent the Los Angeles time in 28 chances. 2004, Ankiel is batting .358 with Dodgers to a stunning victory. "These are big games. That nine homers and 29 HBis in 23 Ethier connected on a three­was a tough loss," said games. He also homered twice run, pinch-homer in the ninth off Dempster, who was booed when against the Los Angeles Dodgers closer Ryan Dempster, and the he was removed from the game. on Aug. 11. Los Angeles Dodgers used a "We battled back and got the 
He made his second start in four-run rally to beat the Cubs. lead, they hit a couple of balls in center lield, hauling in Steven "Take, for instance, the the right spot and then I gave up Pearce's drive at the wall in the bleachers out there. Everyone the homer. As tough as it comes, third. He barely missed a diving out there is having a good time right there." catch on pinch-hitter Matt Kata's enjoying the party, and then all Dempster, who had converted slicing drive that fell for a double of a sudden something like that 1:{ straight save chances. was in the fourth, getting a round of happens," Ethier said. tagged for four runs and five hits applause for the efl'ort. "The stadium is still filled, but in two-thirds of an inning. 
St. Louis (69-68) moved within it's like everybody left. It really "I didn't put guys away, and one game of NL Central co-lead­changes the complexion, the that's what you are supposed to 
AP ers Chicago and Milwaukee, way the game is going and the do in that situation. For whatev­scoring its most runs since Aug. way it had been up to that point. er reason, I left some pitches up 29, 2001, against San Diego The It takes lifn not only out of the and they hit them," he said. 


Tigers second baseman Placido Polanco drives in the game­winning run in Detroit's 3-2 win over the White Sox Thursday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Very nice 3 BR 2 BA FOOTBALL HOUSE -3 bedroom Babysitting: CollegeSitter.com ranch at 1213 Climbing home, 5 blocks from campus for is a new site which 
WANTED FoR SALE Rose Ln in Mishawaka, FoR RENT rent on football weekends, JPW, connects ND student 
IN. Easy 12-15 min. Graduation. Operated as a week-babysitters with area SOCCER REFEREES -needed for Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun-drive to ND. Fenced LODGING FOR FOOTBALL end rental. Great alternative to stu-families. Student sitters southside elementary school. room great SB neighborhood back yard, full basement GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-pid hotel prices on those weekends. looking for babysitting Located near Erskine Golf Course $93,000 call269-445-2765. w/egress window & trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and www.notredameliving.com or call work should visit on Miami St. $35/per game. Call large eat-in kitchen. Breakfast Accommodations. Non-Alex 212-418-6937. CollegeSitter.com/student/ athletic director at 574-291-4200. 4 bdrm,2.5 ba home at 4210 Home is only 4 yrs. old. smoking, Private Baths, Full to fill out their FREE profile. 
Cross Creek Dr. Great corner lot on Call Judy Allie at Breakfasts. Tutor for Calculus 3. Fee nego-a cul-de-sac wlbig deck & 574-220·9043 for TICKETS Spring Break 2008. tiable. Call574·276-8299. fenced-in yard. 10 min. to ND. your private showing Furn. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. ND Sell Trips, 
The MLS #is 219961 or today. MLS #is 220031. home games. Right next to ND. WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. Earn Cash Friendly smiling servers needed. www.Kristinperk.com. 574-273-3030 ask for Pat. PLEASE HELP! 574·251-1570 and Go Free. Full or part time openings. If you are Or call Kristin at 574-274·21 04 FOR SALE -4BR, 2.5 Bed & Breakfast lodging Call for group discounts. friendly and smiling, we will train today. Bath, 2800 SF Fin bsmt. w/alum family for ND FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Best Deals Guaranteed! you. Some cook positions available 3 mi to NO. $217,500 home games. Great ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. Jamaica, Cancun, too. Apply in person 52285 US 31 N 3 bdrm.2 full BA ranch at 243-1953 rates & nice accommodations. www. victorytickets .com Acapulco, Bahamas, South Bend. Damons Grill eoe 52233 Ironwood Rd. 574-243·2628. S.Padre, Florida. 
Many updates. 2 bdrm/1 bath condo. ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 800·648-4849 or Varsity Clubs of America is looking New flooring in kitchen & Nice area. 4 miles from Furnished house for rent. 574-288-2726. www.ststravel.com for part time bartenders. Must have FR & newer cherry cabinets w/gran-campus. $74,900. Call 15 min. to NO. 2BR, 6 acres night and weekend availability. ite countertops & stainless steel Meredith, Milligan Real 1/4 mile to lake. Game Competitive no-Apply at 3800 N. Main St., appliances, glass-enclosed Estate 220-9817. wkends or whole year. check hockey league. 
PERSONAL 

Mishawaka. 574-277-0500. porch and 2-car garage. Students welcome. October through March. 
Just min. to ND. The BUY /SELL used CDs, 574-288-2726. Products Thru Laser Technology. Contact Bill at Web Designer needed to create MLS # to see on line is 218253. DVDs, video games, Laser etched logo gifts, signs, 57 4·236-51 07 or new website. Experience with shop-For more info, please call video game systems Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. award plaques, name tags, rubber email billl@steelwarehouse.net. ping carts, autoresponders, Kristin Perkins at and vinyl. Buyco, Walk to ND. 574·876-7341. For stamps, glass etching, etc. Call Final roster spots video/audio files desired. $10/hr. 574-27 4-21 04 today or 3602 Grape Rd., Football weekends, call 574-532-Jack 574-273-8662 or email: laser-filling up. Call 574-320-2522 after 5. visit me at www.kristinperk.com Mishawaka. 252-9222. 1408. cr@comcast.net All games played at the Ice Box. 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Friday, September 7, 2007 COJ\t\PILED FROJ\t\ THE OBSERVER'S \AliRE SERVICES page 15 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA/adidas Poll 
team record previous 
1 Portland 1-0-0 4 
2 NOTRE DAME 1-0-1 2 
3 Texas A&M 2-0-0 5 
4 Texas 2-0-0 9 
5 Stanford 2-0-0 10 
6 North Carolina 0-1-o 1 
7 UCLA 0-1-0 3 
8 Florida Slate 0-1-0 6 
9 Santa Clara 1-0-0 8 
10 BC 1-0-0 11 
11 Virginia 2-0-0 17 
12 Rutgers 2-0-0 12 
13 Tennessee 2-0-o 25 
14 Florida 1-1-o 13 
15 Penn State 1-1•0 7 
16 Cal 2-0-0 18 
17 UConn 1-1-0 16 
18 Coiorado 1-0-1 14 
19 usc 2-0-o 24 
20 Clemson 1-0-0 19 
21 'Oklahoma State 2·0-0 23 
22 South Carolina 1-0-0 NR 
23 West Virginia 1-1-0 21 
24 Wake Forest 1-1-0 22 
25 Villanova 2-0·0 NA 
NCAA Men's Soccer 
NSCAA/adidas Poll 
team record pts.......•. Prepi.qus
:<·:···· . 
1 Wake Forest 2,-D-0 25 32 Ouke .2...o-o 24 43 Vitginla 2-o-o 23 5 4 Indiana 2"-0-0 22 7 5 Santa Cfara 1..0·1 21 .· fi <H 
6 Maryland 1~0 20 s· :;ig ··,·,·: ''· .·•7 ''·' &ai¢Wki<t.bt1i<•)h9 ::>··0~1 19 ,, .. 18.,_.,, '*!'""~
'~~:;(·i·:··.!·' :;;;;;4~:·''<···:~::···~·#::.,:.· 
17 lO 10 Nortllwestem 0..2-0 16 14 11 UCLA 0-D-1 15 2 12 Sainllouis 04~1 14 22 13 UCSB 2-D-0 13 1 
14 UCONN 1..Q-0 12 25 15 South carolina 1-'0·U 11 NA 16 Washington 1-IJ<.1 10 1811 Fairfield 2-o-o 9 RV 18. Akron 2-0-0 8 NR 19 Clemson 1-1-0 7 12· 20 West Virginia 1-1-0 6 13 21 Harvard 1-IJ-0 5 24 22 Ohio State 1-0-1 4 RV 23 Towson 1-0-1 3 20 24 New Mexico 1~1-0 2 15 25 Creighton 1-0-1 1 NA1 
MIAA Women's Volleyball 
team league overall 
1 Adrian 1..0 4-1 2 Calvin 1·0 4-1 3 Hope 1·0 4-1 4 Tri-State 1..0 2-3 s Albion 0·0 1-3 6 Alma 0·1 2-3 7 Kalamazoo 0-1 1-4 8 Olivet 0·1 1-4 9 SAINT MARY'S 0-1 1-3 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Navy at Rutgers 7 p.m., ESPN 
NASCAR Busch Series at Richmond 8 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB Minnesota at White Sox 7 p.m., Comcast SportsNet 
MLB Dodgers at Giants 10 p.m., ESPN 

NCAA FooTBALL 

AP 
Appalachian State coach Jerry Moore is carried off the field after the Mountaineers upset No. 5 Michigan 34-32 Saturday. Former Division 1-AA schools can now be voted Into the Associated Press top-25 poll. 
AP poll adds Appalachian State rule 
Associated Press 

After pulling off one of the greatest upsets in col­lege football history, Appalachian State is still shaking things up. 
The Associated Press said Thursday that lower­division schools -that means you, Mountaineers -are now eligible for its 71-year-old poll. 
"It's great they opened the door," Appalachian State coach Jerry Moore said from his office in Boone, N.C. "Certainly we're not going to be the No. 1 team in the country. We know that. We're not even going to be in the top 
10. But if you have a win over a nice football team, I like that it's not out of the realm of possibility for a school like us to be one of the top 20 or 25 teams in the country." 
Several AP voters expressed interest in put­ting Appalachian State on their ballots after a shock­ing 34-32 upset at then­No. 5 Michigan last week­end. But the poll guide-· lines, which mirrored the coaches' rankings con­ducted by USA Today, lim­ited eligibility to teams competing in the former NCAA Division 1-A, now known as the Football Bowl Subdivision. 
The Mountaineers com­pete in the Football 
Championship Subdivision, known before this season as Division I-AA. 
The AP decided to make the change because schools that show they can compete with big-time teams on the field should have a chance to be recog­nized with them in the top 25, Sports Editor Terry Taylor said. 
"Why not? The poll was always intended to meas­ure teams that compete against each other, regard­less of division, based sole­ly on on-field perform­ance," she said. "rt was that way long before Division I was divided into I-A and 1-AA in 1978." 
One poll voter, Adam Van Brimmer, said he wanted to put Appalachian State at No. 25 after their win over the Wolverines, large­ly as a symbolic gesture. He might still do it next week, assuming the Mountaineers beat Division II Lenoir-Rhyne. 
"If I have any openings in my poll, they would cer­tainly be strongly consid­ered," said Van Brimmer, who works for the Georgia-based Morris News Service. 
In a previous job, he cov­ered longtime Division 1­AA powerhouse Georgia Southern, which, like Appalachian State, is a member of the Southern Conference. 
IN BRIEF 

Rugby World Cup coverage
suspended 

PARIS -A day before the opening of the showcase tournament, the world's three leading news agencies suspended coverage Thursday of the Rugby World Cup in a dispute with the sport's governing body over media restrictions. 
The Associated Press said its jour­nalists would not atiend any World Cup events until the dispute over media credentials is resolved with the International Rugby Board. Reuters and Agence-France Presse also said they were suspending cov­erage. 
"It is more than two days since the news media organizations put for­ward a possible peace plan, but the IRB has yet to formally respond or to set up a meeting," the media coali­tion said in a statement late Thursday. "We do not believe it is the best interest of the game of rugby for the IRB to drags its feet any longer." 
Bit! Ten Network and Dish 
Nelwork reach agreement 
CHICAGO -The Big Ten Network reached an agreement on Thursday with satellite TV provider Dish Network, expanding the reach of the new channel. 
The number of households with the network nationwide will initial­ly increase from about 17 million to 
28.5 million. In the eight states with Big Ten schools, the number will increase from 3.5 to 6.2 mil­lion. 
Dish customers who subscribe to the Americ<J 's Top 100 package or higher will have access to the chan­nel through early 2008. After that, customers in the eight Big Ten states will get the channel on the America's Top 100 Plus service, which includes regional sports net­works. It has yet to be determined how the channel will hi' made available to customers outside the eight states after that time. 
Tom Brady misses practice 
FOXBOROUGH -New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady missed a portion of practice Thursday because of his chronic right shoulder injury. 
Brady was on the field during the time the media was allowed to view practice, but the team later report­ed that had he "limited participa­tion." Patriots coach Bill Belichick was not available for comment. 
For several seasons the two-time Super Bowl MVP has been a regu­lar on the weekly injury report with the shoulder problem, which is believed to date to the 2002 sea­son. 
Nevertheless, Brady has started 108 straight games, the third­longest active streak among quar­terbacks, trailing only Brett Favre 
(257) and Peyton Manning (156). 
Brady turned 30 last month. At the start of training camp, he said he planned to rest his arm more. 
Friday, September 7, 2007 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
U.S. OPEN 
Williams not satisfied, wants 10-plus majors 
Venus currently has six and may win her seventh soon, but has to get past Justine Henin in the semifinal 
• 
> 
~ 
> 
> 
•
• 
> > > 
>
f 
> 
> 
f 
> '-· > > 
( > 
( 
I, 
• 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK Venus Williams wants more. More matches, more victo­ries, more Grand Slam titles. 
"Yeah, I definitely would love double-digits" in major championships, said Williams, who won No. 6 at Wimbledon in July and hopes to get No. 7 at the U.S. Open this week­end. "Definitely had a few years there where some Slams were lost between injuries and a lot of other stuff happening." 
Consider this: Friday's show­
down with No. 1 Justine Henin will be Williams' first semifinal at Flushing Meadows since 2002. 
Now look at things from the Belgian's per­spective: She 


..It will be a good ·challenge for me to play both sisters in the same tournament ... 
Justine Henin tennis player 
had to deal with Serena Williams in the quarterfinals and must try to become only the second woman to beat both sisters during a single Grand Slam tournament. The only time it happened was at the 2001 Australian Open, where Martina Hingis eliminated Serena in the quarterfinals and Venus in the semifinals ­only to lose to Jennifer Capriati in the final. 
"It will be a good challenge for me to play both sisters in the same tournament," 2003 Open champion Henin said, mastering the art of under­statement. 
Taking all tournaments into account, the Williams sisters have lost to the same player at an event a total of five times in their decade on tour. On 11 occasions, a woman made it past one Williams, then lost to the other. 
After edging No. 3 Jelena Jankovic in a third-set tiebreaker Wednesday night, Venus Williams made a point of saying she watched Henin 
AP Venus Williams celebrates her win over Jelena Jankovic Wednesday at the U.S. Open in New York. Williams must face top-seed Justine Henin today in the semifinal. 
with her only victory eoming in their very first match, on clay at Berlin way back in 2001. 
There is, let's not forget, another semifinal Friday, with No. 4 Svetlana Kuznetsova facing No. 6 Anna Chakvetadze in an all-Russian matchup. Kuznetsova won the 2004 U.S. Open and also reached the 2006 French Open final, while Chakvetadze never before made it beyond the quarterfinals at a major. 
Neither will be given much of a chance in the final, regardless of whether the opponent is Williams or Henin. 
..Venus and Justine will be a great match," Jankovic said, "and I think one of them will win the whole tournament." 
beat Serena -..From what I can right now." and that she Williams
see, Venus is 
wants to play arrived in New well Friday to moving better York late last uphold the fam-than anyone month and ily's honor. essentially said
who's playing 
llenin has to she was merely be aware, as right now.·· happy to be well, that she is here. She 1-7 against the missed the
Richard Williams 
older Williams, 2006 U.S. Open
father and coach 

In the men's semifinals Saturday, No. 1 Roger Federer will play No. 4 Nikolay Davydenko, while No. 3 Novak Djokovic will meet No. 15 David Ferrer. 
Three-time defending cham­pion Federer took the day off Thursday, skipping practice and resting after beating 2003 Open winner Andy Roddick in a match that began Wednesday night and ended after midnight. 
Djokovic defeated No. 17 Carlos Moya 6-4, 7-6 (7). 6-1 Thursday night to reach a 
put in a 
third consecu­tive Grand Slam semifinal. Earlier, Ferrer -who upset Rafael Nadal in the fourth round -beat No. 20 Juan Ignacio Chela 6-2, 6-3, 7-5 . 
L a t e Thursday afternoon, Venus Williams 
practice session, 

pausing for a moment to get her right shoulder massaged by her boyfriend, pro golfer Hank Kuehne. . 
It has been quite some time since she was at the height of her powers in New York, swatting big serves and groundstrokes and using all of her 6-foot-1 frame to get to everything back along the baseline and cover all angles up at the net. 
She fared no worse than reaching the semifinals at the 
U.S. Open every year from 
1997 to 2002, winning the 2000-01 titles and finishing as runner-up twice. Her game can be as intimidating as any­one's in women's tennis when she's healthy -and Williams sure looks in fine form at present. 
"Venus is moving extremely well," her father and coach, Richard, said earlier in the tournament. .. From what I can see, Venus is moving bet­ter than anyone who's playing 
The Centerfor Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institutefor Ethical Business Worldwide 
because of an 

injured right wrist, part of a lengthy layoff that put her at No. 46 in the rankings at year's end. 
She was at No. 31 entering Wimbledon, and became that major's lowest-ranked women's champion ever. 
She was at No. 14 entering the U.S. Open, and her run so far already assures Williams of getting back into the top 10 next week for the first time since April 2006. 
A victory over Henin would push Williams to No. 7. In her mind, of course, she's No. 1. 
"I always think that I'll be on top. I never think that I'm not the one," Williams said. "I believe always I'm the one ­and when I'm not the one. it really bothers me." 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the .John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Data Mining: Business, Ethical and Societal Considerations" 
Panelists include: 

Sarv Devaraj, Associate Professor ofManagement Joe Holt, Director of Executive Ethics Barry Keating, Professor of Finance Constance Porter, Assistant Professor of Marketing 
Patrick E. Murphy, Co-Director, Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide, will serve as moderator. 
All participants are faculty members at the University of Notre Dame. 
Tuesday, September 11,2007 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 

Friday, September 7, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
U.S. OPEN 
Djokovic wins in straight sets to make semis 
Bounce. Bounce. Bounce. her semifinal Friday against No. Before seeing off Nadal, Bounce. Bounce. Bounce. 1 Justine llenin. After eliminat­Ferrer escaped a match point Bounce. Bounce. Bounce. ing Serena Williams in her pre­against 2002 Wimbledon run­Bounce. Bounce. Bounce. vious match, Benin will try to ner-up David Nalbandian in the Bounce. Bounce. Bounce. become only the second woman third round. Bounce. to beat both sisters at the same "The last three matches is my 
Eventually, he tossed the ball Grand Slam tournament. best tennis," Ferrer said. "For overhead -and hit a fault. The other women's semifinal me, it's unbelievable." 
ISSA's ANNUAL WELCOME/ WELCOME BACK PICNIC 
All international students and their host families are invited to welcome in the new academic year. 
Friday, September 071h@ 5:30pm 
Holy Cross Field (across from the Grotto) (Rain location: Stepan Center) 



AP 

Novak Djokovlc celebrates his quarterfinal victory Thursday. Djokovlc has beaten his semifinal opponent, David Ferrer, just once. 
z007 C!ttltit jftstibal anb ~igbfanb <§ameg 
--···--·-------·-·-·-···---······---·-···· 
Saturday, September 8'\ 2007 -Roseland Park 
Just !!I Mile North ofNotre Dame-Cripe /it. Just OffS.R. 933 
Festivities Begin at lOAM: RAIN or SHINE and Include~ . BrFUl VerkJer Imitational Highland G<unes 
Scottish Clan Booths  
:\ferchant Booths  
Irish Dance ., Sheep Dog Demonstrations  Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students: Take the #5 Bus to North  
Clydesdale Horses/Scottish Cattle  Village Mall where a  
Ultimate F1isbee Tournament  Trolley will take you to  
Tug of\Var Competition  the park  
Food, Drink, and Entertainment Stage  
Music-Bagpipe Bands, Celtic B;mds  
Children's Activities  
And Much More...  

Admission: $5 Adults, Children 12 and under, $2 (Ages 2 and under are free) 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -As hilarious after his U.S. Open quarterfinal victory as he was good during it., Novak Djokovic treated an appreciative audience to his spot-on impersonations of Maria Sharapova and Rafael Nadal. 
It was a scene most likely never before seen at a Grand Slam tennis tournament -or any sporting event of any signif­icance, for that matter. First, Djokovic did Sharapova, hop­ping behind the baseline the way she does, bouncing the ball the way she does, pretending to tuck strands of hair behind his ears, and capping it off by doing a perfect rendering of the two-time major champion's serve. 
Next, Djokovic did his take on Nada), sprinting the way he does, even yanking at the back of his shorts the way the three­time French Open champ does. 
The act. prompted by USA Netwnrk's postmatch reporter, was the most entertaining por­tion of Thursday's activity in Arthur Ashe Stadium -and showed, without a shadow of a doubt, that Djokovic is poised to become tennis' next star. He already is a hit on YouTube, where his imitations of fellow pros are posted. 
The No. 3-seeded Djokovic's game is quite impressive, too, as he showed by reaching a third consecutive Grand Slam semifinal by beating No. 17 Carlos Moya 6-4, 7-6 (7). 6-1. 
"It's funny. He does it very well. That's a gift," Moya said, referring to Djokovic's rendi­tions. "If he doesn't succeed in tennis, he has a career in that." 

Even Djokovic's pre-serve routine requires attention. When he faced a set point in the tiebreaker, for example, he kept dribbling the ball, 28 times 
in all.  
Bounce.  Bounce.  Bounce.  
Bounce.  Bounce.  Bounce.  
Bounce.  Bounce.  Bounce.  
Bounce.  Bounce.  Bounce.  

Before his second serve, 
Djokovic cut his total to 13 
bounces, hit a 113 mph offer­
ing, and won the point. 

"This is just a matter of con­
centration. I'm trying to really 
focus and not irritate anybody. 
Sorry if I'm a bit annoying," 
Djokovic said. "The thing is, I 
want to stay longer on this 
court, so that's why I'm bounc­
ing more and more." 

Unlike at the French Open, 
where he lost to No. 2 Nadal, 
and at Wimbledon, where he 
stopped because of an injury 
while losing to Nadal, Djokovic 
will finally face a different foe. 

In Saturday's semifinals, he'll meet No. 15 David Ferrer ­who just happens to be the man who ran Nadal ragged in the Open's fourth round. Ferrer reached his first major semifi­nal by beating No. 20 Juan Ignacio Chela 6-2, 6-3, 7-5 Thursday. 
Top-ranked Roger Federer is in his record 14th Grand Slam semifinal in a row and plays No. 4 Nikolay Davydenko on Saturday. Federer is 9-0 against Davydenko, and hasn't fared too poorly against the semifi­nalists on the other side of the draw-he's 7-0 against Ferrer, 4-l against Djokovic. 
Djokovic's one victory over Federer came in their most recent meeting, in the final of a hard-court tournament in Montreal last month. It was at that event that Djokovic became the first man since 1994 to defeat men ranked Nos. 1-3 at the same tournament. 
That counted as Djokovic's breakthrough moment. It also gave him four titles in 2007. and his 57 match wins through Thursday rank second only to Nadal. 
Federer took Thursday off, skipping practice and resting, a day after improving to 14-1 against 2003 U.S. Open champi­on Andy Roddick by beating him in straight sets. 
Venus Williams, though, was out on the practice courts in the late afternoon, preparing for 
is 2004 U.S. Open champion 
Svetlana Kuznctsova against 
No.6 Anna Chakvetadze. 

There was an all around 
more subdued vibe in Arthur 
Ashe Stadium on Thursday. a 
sort of hangover effect follow­
ing up on Wednesday's electric 
atmosphere for the Federer­
Roddick and Venus Williams­
Jelena Jankovic matches. 

It didn't help that Djokovic 
and Moya were hardly at their 
best, combining for only 16 
winners and 30 unforced errors 
in the first set. 

Djokovic, though, was just 
better enough throughout. In 
the tiebreaker, he erased 
Moya's set point, and then con­
verted his second, bouncing the 
ball 23 times before hitting a 
123 mph serve that set up a 
forehand winner. 

Djokovic then broke to start the third set, and that was pret­ty much that against Moya, a former No. 1 who won the 1998 French Open. 
Against Chela, Ferrer kept up his surprising run -and it turns out he hasn't been eating as well as he's been playing. It was a far shorter and less tax­ing match than in the previous round, when Ferrer was on court until nearly 2 a.m. while stunning Nadal. 
After that rousing victory, the biggest of his career, Ferrer had a hard time finding some­thing for dinner. So he wound up eating a fast-food burger. 
"Yeah, really, at 4:15. my coach and me walk into the McDonald's," Ferrer said. 
He Jeads the ATP in most major returning categories, and he was up to his usual tricks against Chela, compiling 16 break points. That count already was up to 12 by the time Ch e Ia earned his first break chance on Ferrer's serve. 
Chela converted it to take a 2­0 lead in the second set -then promptly got broken right back when he sailed a forehand wide. 
"That," Chela acknowledged, "was my only real chance." 
Contact lSSA at 631-3825 with any questions. 
Event sponsored by International Student Services & Activities 


Novak Djokovlc stretches to return a volley during his straight-set win over Carlos Moya. Djokovic defeated Moya 6-4, 7-6 (7), 6-1 and will face No. 15 David Ferrer in the semifinals. 
l. 
\' 
I I 
Friday, Sept~mber 7, 2007 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
I\ MLB 
Varitek's single lifts Red Sox over Orioles 
Boston trails three times in game; Buchholz comes on in relief after Wakefield struggles through short outing 
McDowell had 27 in 1993. and put runners on first and to third, he could have gone drive to left. One batter later,
Associated Press 
Baltimore ended Wakefield's second, Olson fielded a come­to second. Unfortunately, both Olson left with tightness in his 
BALTIMOHE -The no-hit run of 22 backer and of those plays left forearm. rookie kept the Baltimore straight score-inexplicably were a big part Baltimore Orioles scoreless in his encore less innings with threw to first. of the game." c h a s e d performance, and a trio of a run in the ''/ mixed up my Ortiz followed In the bottom Wakefield in veterans helped Boston rally first. Redman with a tapper half, Millar hit a the bottom
pitches well and "You find ways to
three times before prevailing. singled, stole to the mound, two-run homer half, using an Pinch-hitter Jason Varitek second and made the pitches I and with Hoyce on an 0-2 pitch, win games. •• RBI double by singled in the go-ahead run in scored on a sin­needed to get out Clayton Aubrey Huff Markakis and the ninth inning, and the Red gle by Tejada. halfway down doubled and run-scoring
ofsituations . ., Jason Varitek 
Sox got home runs from David Boston took the line, Olson Melvin Mora hit single by
Red Sox catcher
Ortiz and Coco Crisp in a 7-6 advantage of threw to first, an HBI single Tejada to go up victory Thursday night. two straight Clay Buchholz allowing for a 4-2 lead. 6-5. 
Crisp had three hits and mental errors by Red Sox pitcher Clayton to The Red Sox Ortiz tied it in scored three runs, including Orioles rookie score. went ahead 5-4 the fifth with a the tiebreaker in the ninth, as starter Garrett "It looked like in the fourth. drive to right the Red Sox extended their AL Olson to go up he panicked," Olson issued two walks before off Hocky Cherry. It was his East lead to 6 1/2 games over 2-1 in the third. After an RBI Trembley said. "Both Crisp ended a 54-game home­27th homer of the season, the the idle New York Yankees. single by Julio Lugo tied it instances, he could have gone rless drought with a three-run 200th with Boston. Boston, which trailed 1-0, 4-2 and 6-5, has been in first place for 142 days -its longest streak since 1986. 
Boston rookie Clay Buchholz, who pitched a no­hitter Saturday against Baltimore in his last appear­ance, got off to a shaky start. Entering in the sixth with the score tied at 6, he walked Brian Roberts and gave up a single to Tike Redman before walking Nick Markakis to load the bases with no outs. 
But Miguel Tejada hit into a 5-2-3 double play and Kevin Millar struck out, and Buchholz {3-0) followed with two perfect innings. 
"They hit a lot of good balls but I had some big plays behind me," Buchholz said. "I mixed up my pitches well and made the pitches I needed to get out of situations." 
Boston manager Terry Francona said. "He did a great job getting out of the jam." 
The Orioles wore throwback uniforms that paid tribute to the 1932 Baltimore Black Sox of the Negro Leagues, but the new clothes couldn't prevent them from meeting a familiar fate. With their lOth straight loss at home, they matched an Orioles record set in 1954 ­the club's first season in Baltimore -according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
Baltimore got a home run from Millar and three hits from Redman, but lost for the 14th time in 16 games. 
I 

"The opportunity we had, the bases loaded and nobody out and didn't score, that would have been to our bene­fit if we could have broke the game open there," Orioles manager Dave Trembley said. "We certainly had the oppor­tunity to do that and it didn't happen." 
With the score 6-all, Crisp led off the ninth with an infield hit off Danys Baez {0­6). He stole second and came home when Varitek lined a single to left. 
"You find ways to win games," said Varitek, who is 3-for-6 as a pinch hitter this FREEBIES ISUiS & CLUBS ONLY) season. Onion. lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato, mayo. sliced 
Jonathan Papelbon struck cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. out two in a perfect ninth for his 34th save. Red Sox starter Tim 
Wakefield allowed six runs and nine hits in 3 2-3 innings, matching his shortest outing of the season. It was the first time in 27 starts this season the knuckleballer did not receive a decision; his streak of 26 games was longest in the majors since Jack 

• 
Friday, September 7, 2007 page 19 
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC SocCER 


Hope awaits unbeaten Belles 
Saint Mary's takes 3-0 record on the road to avenge last season's loss 

By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's visits Hope Saturday in an attempt to win its fourth consecutive match to start the season. 
The Belles are 3-0-0 after posting victories against Case Western, Saint Lawrence, and Manchester. Hope stands at 1-2-0 after losing its first two games to· Denison and Saint Joseph and then defeating Rochester. 
In the teams' lone meeting last year, Ho~ won 1-0, and the Belles will be looking to avenge that loss after a 1-0 victory of their own in their home opener against Manchester Wednesday. 
Hope plays in the MIAA, but Saturday's game will not fac­tor into the conference stand­ings. Still, Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie expects the atmosphere to be similar to that of a late-season league match. 
"Any time we step on to the field with any of our confer­ence opponents, it's going to have a conference feel to it," MacKenzie said. "It will be a good introduction for our first-year players to get to know what it feels like before we get into our real confer­ence schedule in a couple of weeks." 
Hope returns 14 letter win­ners from a team that fin­ished second in the MIAA, including seniors Ellie Tresslar and Sarah Cochrane -two players MacKenzie knows can be dangerous. 
"Tresslar and Cochrane both have reputations for being able to put the ball in the back of the net, so we need to contain them as much as possible," MacKenzie said. "But they have 10 freshmen too, so we'll be able to find out just how dangerous they actually are." 
While the Belles will be paying close attention to those playmakers, MacKenzie sees no reason to panic. 
"We just need to bring our A-game and play with a lot of intensity," MacKenzie said. "We need to be mindful that they can find a lot of ways to score, but we are just going to match up with them and play our game." 
The defensive corps consist­ing of junior Whitney Fron, senior Justine Higgins, and sophomores Bridget Ronayne and Jessica Slean will look to continue the dominance it has displayed so far. In the Belles' first three games, they have allowed only one goal. Five different .Players have scored the Belles' first six goals of the season. 
This is the first of two games against conference opponents that do not count toward the MIAA standings for Samt Mary's. Next week, the Belles face Calvin, the 2006 MIAA champions. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Colorado assault case sent back to trial court 
Associated Press 

DENVER -An appeals court on Thursday revived a lawsuit by two women who claim they were gang-raped at an ofT-campus party attended by University of Colorado foot­ball recruits. ruling there is evidence the alleged assaults were caused by the school's failure to adequately super­vise players. 
The ruling by the lOth U.S. Circuit Court. of Appeals, which sends the case back to the trial court, said there is football recruiting practices that led to broad reforms and a shake-up of the university's top leaders. 
The wome11's lawsuit alleges the university violated federal law by fostering an environ­ment that allowed sexual assaults to occur. A U.S. dis­trict judge dismissed it in 2005, saying the women failed to show evidence of deliberate indifference. 
Kerr's client, Lisa Simpson, a student at the time of the alleged assault, has agreed to be publicly identified. The other plaintiff has not. The 
evidence the ..There is absolutely Associated Press does not
university had nothing [in the 
an official poli­identify the
ruling] that the 
cy of showing victims of high school university can alleged sexual recruits a take comfort in. ,, assault without 
"good time" their permis­and that it sion. 
Baine Kerr 

showed a Kerr said "deliberate prosecutor Simpson 
indifference" to any known sex­ual harassment. 

"We could not be happier," said Baine Kerr, an attorney for one of the plaintiffs. 
"There is absolutely nothing [in the ruling] that the univer­sity can take comfort in," Kerr said. "It's a great endorsement of the facts as we have seen them and the legal principals that we have argued." 
In a written statement, CU said: "The university does not have a policy that would place any of its female students at risk of assault; in fact, it has stringent policies prohibiting sexual harassment and sexual assault." 
CU said it has become a leader in policies and prac­tices to prevent sexual assault and harassment. 
The women said they were raped at an off-campus party for football players and recruits in 2001. No one was criminally charged with sexu­al assault, but the lawsuit sparked a scandal over CU's 
became emo­
tional when she heard of Thursday's appeals court ruling. 
"I think it was the emotion of happiness that was driving it, at finally getting what she had her sights on," Kerr said. "She's never lost faith. We haven't either." 
Janine D'Anniballe, execu­tive director of the Boulder rape crisis center MESA, called the ruling "huge." 
"The university used all its resources to silence, stifle, and shut down the entire process," she said. "The fact that the lawsuit is revived shows that maybe there is some hope for justice and in some sense things have changed." 
The recruiting scandal prompted a grand jury investi­gation, which resulted in a single indictment against a former football recruiting aide for soliciting a prostitute and misuse of a school cell phone. He pleaded guilty in the case and received probation. 
LUTHERAN SERVICES ELCA 
Gloria Dei Lutheran Church 
225 E. Haney Street, South Bend, IN 46613 
Parking: Broadway at Carroll 
(2 blocks off Michigan St.) 
Sunday Schedule: 10:00 a.m. Holy Eucharist 
9:00 a.m. Youth/Adult Sunday School Need a Ride? Call Church Office 288-5266 

Celtic Fest 
Roseland 
Town Park 
Saturday, 
September 8 
12:30 p.m.; Sign Up Noon 232-2853 

ND Residence Hall Competition Tug-of-War! 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Duquesne forward arrested 
situation. and attended Miami Dade
Charges come two 

A few hours later on College. Baldonado has a girldays after school Wednesday night, Pittsburgh friend and a child there. police said they spotted The 6-foot-7 Baldonado, con­
suspension for drugs Baldonado smoking by himself sidered one of the nation's top on a street corner near the junior college recruits last Duquesne campus. After being year, never told anyone at 
Associated Press questioned, the 22-year-old Duquesne of those charges. 
.....
Baldonado was told he would The school learned of them 
PITTSBURGH -Duquesne University forward Stuard Baldonado, suspended from school Wednesday after being charged with drug violations, was arrested near the campus again hours later that day on a misdemeanor drug charge. 
Baldonado, one of five Dukes players shot on campus a year ago this month, was initially arrested Friday and charged with criminal conspiracy involving thf~ manufacture. delivery or possession of a con­trolled substance. He was indefinitely suspended from the university and the basketball team on Wt~d nesday after school officials revit~wPd the be mailed a summons charging him with misdemeanor posses­sion of marijuana, officer David Honick said Thursday. 
Baldonado told one of the oflicers, who also was involved in his arrest last week, that he was "stressed out," according to Honick, who did not take part in the arrest. 
Further complicating Baldonado's situation, The Associated Press learned Thursday through court records that Baldonado was charged in May with aggravat­ed battery and false imprison­ment in a domestic violence case in Miami-Dade County, Fla., where he onee played for 
only last week after being called by a prosecutor in Miami. 
Because of the multiple arrests, it seems unlikely Baldonado will play basketba]] for or attend Duquesne again regardless of the outcome of his eourt cases -or his law­suit against the university that resulted from last year's on­campus shootings that left him vvith left arm and back injuries. 
Even if Baldonado is cleared, Duquesne's student code of conduct is so strict that a stu­dent can be permanently f~xpelled for certain behavior even with the absPnee of a criminal conviction. 

page 20 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Hope hands Belles second MIAA loss 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's played its second conference match of the week ­and suffered its second defeat ­Thursday at the hands of the Flying Dutch 3-1 (30-14, 30-20, 30-17). 
The Belles fell to 1-4 overall and 0-2 in the MIM Conference. 
The tough Hope defense was dominant over the Belles. Junior defensive specialist Meghan Wmer led the team with 13 digs. Not far behind was sophomore setter Andrea Helminiak, who con­tributed 11 digs along with 35 assists. 
"We will be working on really coming together as a team· and playing for each other," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. "In these first few matches of the year, we have had individuals working through trying to find their fit while we are still defining roles; we have had individuals that had some setbacks and are working hard to make up ground." 
The Flying Dutch also doubled the Belles in kill<i, 48 to 23, with 12 from junior outside hitter Nora Slenk. 
Sophomore outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski led the Belles in defense and offense with eight kills and 11 digs. 
The Belles travel to Hiram, Ohio today for the Hiram College Tournament. 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners look to build on last week's victory 
By KATE ARNOLD Sports Writer 
After last week's victory fin­ish at the Tri-State invitation­al, Saint Mary's is anxious to prove itself again tonight at the Aquinas College Invitational in Grand Rapids, Mich. The team has spent many hours practicing in preparation to face the stiff competition. 
"This week we got back on the track, got speed back into the legs," Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. "We've also been working on pacing." 
Bauters has especially high hopes for freshman Sam Wieczorek, whose time of 
21:58 was tops at the Tri-State Invitational. 
"I expect her to be up front, scoring for us," Bauters said. "She'll be at the front of the pack." 
The Aquinas College Invitational is notorious for its 
TUMBLIN' DOWN 
flat course, and Bauters pre­dicts the times will reflect the change in incline. 
"Times should be dramati­cally better for everyone," she said. 
Among the team's toughest competition tonight will be Aquinas, Olivet, St. Xavier, Holy Cross and Indiana Tech. Although several teams at the meet have many more runners than Saint Mary's, the team remains confident. 
"A couple teams are outside our division, but I think we'll do well," Bauters said. "It will be good competition; it will push us." 
In preparation for this meet, Bauters has slightly changed the team's strategy, in an attempt to get the runners at a faster pace. 
"We'll be running in packs, so we'll see how that turns out," she said. 
Contact Kate Arnold at karnold2@nd.edu 

Friday, September 7, 2007
The Observer + SPORTS SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary's heads to first tourney 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will open conference play with the first MIAA Jamboree at Milham Park in Kalamazoo, Mich., Saturday. 
The Belles will be squar­ing off against all eight con­ference opponents, includ­ing Olivet College, the 2006 MIAA champions. 
In their opening event last weekend at the Ferris State Invitational, the Belles post­ed a two-round score of 697, which put them in a tie for 13th in ·the 18-team field. Olivet finished 11th with a score of 683. 
Since this is the start of the conference schedule, the intensity level will be high for all participating 
teams, Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. Because each team gets a cumulative five-round score, Hamilton is stressing the need to fin­ish well in these conference meets. 
"Every round counts, and it is important to be consis­tent," he said. 
While there will be four more rounds of conference play after Saturday, it will be important for the Belles not to dig themselves into a hole. 
"If we just play to our potential, we should be fine," Hamilton said. 
One obstacle the Belles will have to overcome is their lack of familiarity with the course. Host Kalamazoo played in a three-team match at its home course on Wednesday, finishing third -behind Olivet and Saint Francis -while posting a score of 399. None of the current Saint Mary's golfers have ever played the course. But even though two squads from the conference are coming off of a recent outing at Milham Park, Hamilton doesn't expect that to factor heavily in the results. 
"It's a slight disadvan­tage," Hamilton said. "But it's a pretty simple course, and we shouldn't have any trouble figuring it out." 
Freshman Emily Gore will look to follow up her team­best performance from last weekend. Gore fired a 168 from last weekend to earn 45th overall. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Trag~dy links Hokies, Tigers 
required when No.9 Virginia~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~
Tech comes to town Saturday night. 
A nearly 10-foot tall quilt, knit­ted by a student group that included several LSU players, arrived at the Tigers' practice facility on Wednesday, where head coach Les Miles signed it. 
The iconic maroon and orange "VT" of Virginia Tech was stitched into the center, accompa­nied by the names of the 32 vic­tims of the shootings on campus last spring and surrounded by typical Louisiana symbols such as a Tabasco pepper sauce label. 
Various members of the LSU community are signing the quilt, which will be presented to VIrginia Tech alumni before the game. 
On Thursday, the LSU athletic department published a letter, signed by Miles and team cap­tains Matt Flynn, Glenn Dorsey and Craig Steltz, urging fans to be respectful to this weekend's guests. 
"As students, fans and alumni from VIrginia Tech come to the LSU campus for the Hokies' first road football game of the 2007 season, we know Tiger fans will welcome them with open arms and sympathetic hearts," the let­ter said. "The people of Louisiana are known for their heartfelt compassion and gracious hospi­tality, and on this occasion we hope everyone will pay particular respect to the VIrginia Tech play­ers and their fans." 
It's certainly not the usual buildup to a Saturday night in Death Valley, featuring two of the nation's top teams. 
But second-ranked LSU and Virginia Tech will have more than their top 10 rankings in common when they take the field. Both know well the role just like we felt obligated, and enjoyed doing, to represent ours 
in 2005. 

Ali Highsmith is among the LSU starters who played for the Tigers two seasons ago. 
A number of people displaced by Katrina -a storm that struck Aug. 29, 2005, and was blamed for more than 1,600 deaths and tens of thousands of wrecked homes and business -were being housed at LSU when that season began. 

Serving 
Lunch & 
Dinner 
Tues-Sat ll-2; 4-9pm Closed Sunday 
f'>'Monday 

Our Specialties Include Exquisite 
Meat Entrees & Healthy Vegetarian Dishes 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwic.hes Meat Dishes • Vegetarian Selections • Desserts extras: Lentil Soup & Garlic Paste 
Come Dine With Our Fami~y And Be Our Ftit11d! 
115 Dixie \Vay North, South Bend (574) 277-7239 

sp«Kial goat to be Gnnoun(9(t Wqdncnd<Jy Sclptvmbvr 12. 2007 • 7:10 pm Morris Performing Arts Cvntvr South Bvn<l. lndiQnQ 
Tickets On Solo now ot the P1orrls Box Oftlcct, Supctr SOUnds In Goshen. I.CIPortt! Civk Auditorium Box Oflkct. Char~ by phonct 574/135-9190 or oniiM www.morris~nter.org 
Wttlcom9(t ~Y gurlcrytnp.com 
"j 
j 
Associated Press 

BATON ROUGE -When oppo­nents arrive at LSU, their buses run through a purple and gold gauntlet of seething fans hurling a wide range of insults, a prelude to the earsplitting hostility the vis­itors face inside 92,000-seat Tiger Stadium. 
This week, however, there's a sense in Baton Rouge that a more dignified welcome will be they can play in helping commu­nities rebound from tragedy, and it brings to their games a compo­nent that goes way beyond school pride. 

"There are similarities between the two teams," Miles said, recall­ing how LSU's 2005 season took on another dimension after hur­ricanes Katrina and Rita. "It is a 
tremendous opportunity to rally for a cause. There isn't any ques­tion that it is a motivating factor. They will represent their state 
,, 
Friday, September 7, 2007 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Runners 
continued from page 24 
kids an idea of how to compete, line up, and race a little bit," Connelly said. "Somebody always comes out of that meet who becomes a big contributor down the line and will end up being a big player for us throughout the season." 
Contact Jay Wade at 
jwade@nd.edu 
Shamrock 
continued from page 24 
to lead the team. In last week­end's win over Florida International University, Fesl registered a team-high 20 kills, while Stasiuk earned 14 kills and eight digs. 
Brown expects this weekend's play to improve her team for conference play. 
"We look at each match indi­vidually and as an opportunity to learn a lot more about the team's dynamic. We use each match to continue to get better and better," Brown said. ''I'm really pleased with not necessar­ily the number of wins and loss­es [the team has], but the level we're playing at as a team." 
Notre Dame faces Alabama Saturday at 7 p.m. and Ohio Sunday at 2:30. 
The Irish went 1-1 at last wek­end's Tiger Invitational to improve their record to 1-3 for the season, and will try to imr­pve their record this weekend. 
"It's important to have a good record against NCAA Tournament teams," Brown said. "We certainly want to win the Big East to earn an automat­ic bid into the NCAA Tournament." 
During last season's Shamrock Invitational, the Irish went 2-2. They defeated both Valparaiso and Idaho and fell to No. 20 Missouri and No. 19 Santa Clara. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 

: FIRST 250 FANS RECEIVE 
SOCCER SCHEDULE 

SuN: FIRST 250 REcEIVE A LONG..SLEEVE SHIRT 
NFL 
Colts down Saints 41-10 in opener 
Manning throws for 288 yards and three touchdowns, U'hile Addai runs for 118 yards 


AP 
Indianapolis receivers Marvin Harrison, left, and Reggie Wayne, right, catch touchdown passes during the Colts 41-10 victory 
over New Orleans Thursday. 
Harrison for 42 yards to set focus back on football after 27-of-40 for 183 yards and Associated Press up a 2-yard TD run by Addai. an offseason dominated by two interceptions. Then the Super Bowl MVP player discipline problems The only score by the New 
INDIANAPOLIS -It took came right back to throw a and long suspensions, most Orleans offense was a 34-yard the Indianapolis Colts one half 28-yard TD to Wayne. notably involving Michael field goal by Olindo Mare in to shake off their post-Super "NFL games are 60 minutes Vick and Adam "Pacman" the second quarter after a Bowl hangover. long. We were a little out of Jones. Commissioner Roger nine-play, 36-yard drive. 
Then Peyton Manning and synch in the first half,'' coach Goodell, who was at the From the middle of that quar­friends came alive to beat Tony Dungy said. "They game, said beforehand, "I ter until the middle of the New Orleans 41-10 Thursday played us defensively a little think we're ready now to get fourth, the Saints ran just one night in the different than the focus back on football." play in Indianapolis territory 
NFL's opener, we thought. It took a little while before and that was for a 2-yard 
running away in We knew we Manning got the Colts' offense loss. 
..NFL games are Go
the final 30 min­had to run the focused. Indy linebacker Freddy utes with a minutes long. We ball a little Manning was just 8-of-1 7 Keiaho, replacing departed championship were a little out of more." for 101 yards in the first half, free agent Cato June, was caliber perform­Another 66 of those yards on two com­outstanding.
synch in the first 
ance. major player pletions: the 27-yard TD to In the second quarter, he
half.,
Playing against -for both Harrison, plus 39 on a throw drove through a blocker, car­his hometown sides -was to Dallas Clark that set up rying him into Bush and drop­team, Manning New Orleans Adam Vinatieri's 33-yard field ping the runner for a 5-yard
Tony Dungy
had three TD cornerback goal that tied the game at 10. loss. In the third quarter, he
Colts coach 
passes, two to Jason David, But the Saints, who reached picked off a pass that led to a 
Reggie Wayne who started the NFC title game last season 33-yard field goal by Vinatieri and another to for the Colts before losing to Chicago, that made it 27-10 in the first Marvin Harrison. Joseph in their Super Bowl win over never could get their potent minute of the final quarter. Addai ran for 118 yards on 23 Chicago, then left as a free offense going. The Colts took a 7-0 lead on carries and a super-quick agent. He was victimized by They had just 112 total the Manning-to-Harrison TD defense with four new Harrison on a 27 -yard TD yards in the first half, and in the first quarter. David's starters shut down Drew pass in the first half and Bush and Deuce McAllister play tied the game, and Brees, Reggie Bush and the again by Wayne on both his each had just 21 yards rush­Mare's field goal put the explosive New Orleans scores, the second a 45-ing before intermission Saints up 10-7. That lasted offense. yarder in the fourth quarter. against a made-over until the late drive keyed by 
The game was tied 10-10 But David also produced the Indianapolis defense. That the Manning-Clark hookup. after a sloppy first half. Saints' only TD, stripping unit included undrafted rook­Then the Colts took over . J 
But Manning, who finished Wayne after a second-quarter ie Ed Johnson at defensive completely in the second half. 18-of-30 for 288 yards, led completion, picking up the tackle in place of Anthony The Manning-Wayne 45­two quick TD drives in the ball and returning it 55 yards McFarland, out for the season yarder made it 34-10 five first 8:49 of the second half as for the score. with a knee injury. minutes into the fourth quar­the Colts put up 24 points in Wayne finished with seven Both finished with just 38 ter and Matt Giordano's 83­20 minutes after intermission. catches for 115 yards. yards, Bush on 12 carries and yard interception return On the first drive, Manning hit The game finally put the McAllister on 10. Brees was closed the scoring. 

-
FRIDAY, SEPT. 7TH • 7:30PM 
vs. RHODE IsLAND 
SUNDAY, SEPT. 9TH • 2:00 PM 
vs. NoRTHERN ILLINOIS 

page 22 Friday, September 7, 2007
The Observer • SPORTS 

==========================-=·=====~==-=·=·-~~~..==~===-=-~--==--============~======================= 
scu 
continued from page 24 
eontain. 
"We've got to be aware of her speed," Waldrum said. "We can't give her the kind of time on the ball that she'd like to have." 
Waldrum said there are two ways to contain fast players like O'Hara: Keep the ball away from her entirely, or play the defense deep in their own zone to prevent O'Hara from getting behind them. 
"You've got to do one of the two things," he said. "If you get caught halfway in between either of those you're going to be in trouble." 
Waldrum said the Irish faced a similar threat against Florida in junior midfielder Ameera Abdullah. Irish sopho­more defensive midfielder Amanda Clark had the task of watching Abdullah. 
"Amanda did a great Job of keeping her out of the game," Waldrum said. "I think AC can handle [O'Hara] as well." 
The Irish used all three goalkeepers in their first two 
games, but Waldrum said he settled on senior Lauren Karas as the starter. Karas played the entire game against Florida. 
"They got down and had a lot of crosses and service into the box that she had to deal with, and quite a few corner kicks that she had to deal with that weren't really shots but balls in the air, with people around her that she had to deal with," Waldrum said. 
Although she made orily one save, Waldrum said the way she handled the wet condi­tions and difficult situations elevated her above the others. 
"It was a ball driven to the opposite post that she had to dive to get," Waldrum said of the lone save. "Usually in the wet surface like that the goal­keepers mishandle it or bob­ble it and the rebounds come out, and she held it. clean. There were players all around that were just ready to tap it in." 
Waldrum said sophomore keeper Kelsey Lysander would make the trip as well in a backup role. 
Junior Carrie Dew, still recovering from an ACL injury suffered last season, came off the bench in Notre Dame's first game against Michigan, but started against Florida. 
"She's getting better and better," Waldrum said. "I think she'll be ready to go this weekend." 
The freshmen got their first taste or live action last week­end and are adjusting nicely, Waldrum said. One freshman, midfielder Lauren Fowlkes, started both games and said the eollege game differs stylis­tically from high school. 
"I think that it's a lot more of a physical game than com­ing from high school," Fowlkes said. "A lot more is demanded of you in the college game, but it's good because the speed of play is a lot better." 
To be successful this week­end, Fowlkes said, the team needs to become more consis­tent. 
"We'll put together a good 20 or 30 minutes and then drop back for like 15 or 20 minutes," she said. "We need to put the whole game togeth­er on offense and on defense." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 



Berticelli 
continued from page 24 
coach -an Irish soccer jersey in the mail after the two had a conversation about their fami­lies. 
"That was just the kind of guy Bert was," Clark said. ''I'm sure he'll be looking down on us and will us to play well this weekend." 
Rhode Island brings a 1-1 record to South Bend after 
beating Providence 2-0 earlier in the week. The Rams lost their season opener to Harvard on Sept. 1. They return 10 starters from a team that fell in the second round of the NCAA Tournament. 
Rhode Island coach John O'Connor knows the Irish well after coming to Notre Dame to work at summer camps with Clark and several members of the coaching staff. O'Connor was an assistant under Clark for five years at Dartmouth, and the pair won two Ivy 

Irish midfielder Michael Thomas tries to steal the ball during Notre Dame's 2-0 loss to South Florida on Sept. 8, 2006. 
League titles during their time. 
"I think I know the way his team will play," Clark said. "But the downside is he knows what I will do too." 
After facing Rhode Island, the Irish will take on Northern Illinois Sunday. Northern Illinois coach Steve Simmons has also spent some time at the Notre Dame clinics. 
The Huskies {1-0-1) started their season by tying Bucknell, then downed Colgate 2-1 in overtime. Senior forward Marcus McCarty was selected for the MAC all-conference team and all tournament team in 2006 and will be athreat for Northern Illinois this year. 
"These will be some good games," Clark said. "Both teams are just below the top­tier level. which means they are hungry." 
The Irish will get a chaneo to scout the Huskies Friday night when Northern Illinois takes on No. 7 Indiana to open the tournament at 5 p.m. This is the second weekend in a row that Notre Dame and the Hoosiers are competing in the same tournament, but the in­state rivals will not go head-to­head until late October. 
In the meantime, the lri.sh will try to bounce back from a rollercoaster weekend, which included taking down No. 1 UCLA before losing 3-0 to No. 6 Maryland. 
"It will either be a stumbling block or a stepping stone," he said. "I think we will use it as a stepping stone." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Carolina 
continued from page 24 
player to post a high number." 

The lineup for the Cougar Classic will feature sophomore Kristin Wetzel from the No. 1 spot. Wetzel was a key contribu­tor last season, participating in all 10 events during her rookie campaign. She beeame one of the most consistent golfers with her 
78.22 scoring aw~rage. 

The second and third spots of the lineup will belong to a pair of freshmen -Katie Conway from Wading River, N.Y., and So-Hyun Park from Seoul, South Korea. The rookies will face the prns­sure of their first collegiate per­formance this weekend. 
Shooting fourth will be junior Lisa Maunu. Maunu was an important factor for the Irish last season with a 78.04 scoring aver­age -good for fourth on the team. One of her most memo­rable performances was her 1Oth place finish in the conference championships, which earned her All-Big East honors. 
Finishing off the group will be sophomore-Annie Brophy, who looks to build on a strong fresh­man season in which she record­ed the second-best scoring aver­age on the team and sixth-best in program history with a 77 .04. Her third-place finish at the Big East championship solidified her spot as a talented young golfer in the program. 

Holt stressed the importance of practice, specifically on the short ·­game. 
"Since it's the first tournament of the season. we just wanted to get out there and play as much golf as we could," Holt said. "We've been working a lot on our , short game of 100 yards and shorter -specifically our wedge shots, bunker play and putting.... 
"With the depth and the talent we have, as long as we get every­body on the same page -whieh I know we can do -we can achieve all our goals. But our strength is definitely each other." 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 


·.. 
~­

--~­
Friday, September 7, 2007 ­
The Observer + ·roDAY page 23 
BLAcK DoG MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
WELL, 1)-IERE A. LO'T oF ~TIJFF  \io/RITE. THIS OoWN: oF -n-iE. MONoTOI'JY o~  c::Al"\NS LtF£.?  Sf'Y THAT MY Hl~l-4 kHDOL  
ON Tl-fi.S" UST YDu  MIC.HAEL ~ YouR WoJtLt>  NltK-"'~E W1>~  
CrAVE ME. I THINK  "\HE ~EXALA"Tcl2. •  
I G-oT IT ALL..  
IN TH&It.C..  
LooK, I  
G-AvE You M'( ()~(... Tr C..Kt.T.S JuST Tl"rE. ..  
DEUCES MANOR  MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI  


CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
JUMBLE 

JNJW®rLJ! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordi'lary words. 
PLUIP 

[J I I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 
i~;;rl [J 
GLUNJE 

(J I I [) 
www.jumble.com 
PIMNED 
1 
rJ 


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

-
WHERE: THE DOG SL-EPT WHE:N THE FAMIL-Y WE:NT CAMPING. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: TI~E " ( 
I I ]" [ I I I J 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's Jumbles: TRILL AIDED LOCKET TYCOON 
Answer: What Junior got when he came home filthy -A "DIRTY" LOOK 
Fridays with Fran
HOROSCOPE 

Aries: Brace yourselffor Billy Baldwin's menis (that's Greek for 'wrath.' for all you dumbos). (2 stars) 
Taurus: It'd be a nice day ifit didn't rain. (3 stars) 
Gemini: Today you will feel the need to look for your horoscope in a different newspaper. (1 star) 
Cancer: Remember September. (5 stars) 
Leo: Go for the gold, baby. (5 stars) 
Virgo: To whistle properly, you must make sacrifices and not be afraid what your neighbor will think if you spit on him or her. (3 stars) 
Libra: After walking around campus and seeing some of the modern art, you will have a strong desire to become a modern artist, because in order to get ND to buy one of your pieces, you would merely have to lump some ugly metal together and give your creation a weird name. (2 stars) 
Scorpio: You will encounter a pug today. And his name will be "Pug." (5 stars) 
Sagittarius: For advice on how to get a blonde, call 
(845) 729-0367 and ask for Jimothy. (2 stars) 
Capricorn: You will be surrounded by monkey bungs at various points throughout the day. (1 star) 
Aquarius: If you knew the real name of Tails from "Sonic the Hedgehog," seriously consider making a run at becoming the President of the United States. The country needs people like you. By the way, Tails' real name is . (5 stars) 
-
Pisces: All the penguins from "Happy Feet" will be there. Now, it's your responsibility to find out where "there" is. (3 stars) 
-
AerO!J.S 27 Kh'd ul ~he'~~~ !!<8 At~ fkt'li'lt1:?5 29Cow Fiank!Jner? 
tcmm~JnGate :Y:'J JLrl~, .;!.g 59 tAae-&ro Maaur 
!fnth 1oom 

EJJ Milk t: ff(()f~
31 Flt.:tJ\ €1f11 Fll)l

4. Meoovacs. in r-ner~allng ml'l""N ."'h~"<>'1 H;ll o1 f!WTlB
... .1.,7'• .r ".'m• ··~ 

81 Fuh.He ShOO! 9 Shcp toot' f!'HiHCtBiJ :<r!CMm 
62 Jan4Dttal tod
t3 Got!; i1 mP~o~ll! t:m tJ!5 th\ii White 
eJ Bip hi\fHJ era '5 c.:»t<.er slam n Latty of SoHl s!enoard tt.eO~ 36 r.acr~w 
E--t Kird o1 i~ restamfni 'J7 Nebj!>C;'>US StiJlt Down
43 'I•'Q rd~ to live by

16 Ear-reh~'tart£ 
1 Halt of a 1970s­
17 Shn~y out~nr. 44 Ptr~ petmle 
·tex~So cl)Tiooy di;t)
19 PfEilt•, lf,'t!h 4(i Bllibr""*,rd n;t1rqN 2 W~nt ~aput
r~dfc., 
49 Put~; tOQathsr in 

3 Oppo-~te of
a hutry

19 Carpentet'a 
Cf,!S0113$
50 Wood amootMr

bfOOYe 4 Qvar~!51 f1)f)ij 'tltn:;~
1'(1 /.:;1!Flf.fllnh1rtr'"t! 
l)nme is U&ian 5 froots~n 
21 CitY c•1 C$Oats 
fz)( ~lilt!~fS.· 

t~r tlf.l-~rl
ZJ Rooeattr)~ft 
5:3 Ri! off 6 Sctma f)flttr
trK.'ffl Oft 

"Fklooanne• f:4 Crt=~ vmnrnmt .., p~~!;1lflii¥1 ooniaii
~4 ffjrq:; 'ATI0fl~ ;;TA.!P m 56 Re5t:f'l~l1Klfl 6 C::.aoot'$ tor.pnr 5~nrmotrlt:ct::;1 ~iir,g 
9 Ptt;1 ~Mr1 
10 Vtuy ~-'Gf'J hn!!
ANSWER TO PREV10US PUZZLE 
ll LJkQ SmlQ 
h!g-tw~r.;~r 
;~$1nu;bon 
NOrk 17 Furrutuoo 
~n1er.tor 
14 What ram rrngnl la1rn ~.lll conmrn. the ~WM~C~~ 
~ Ab$0rtled 
2S Det:uoomg 
tiseat.>el)' 
21:l C ratioo replacer 
3.2Th~,n ~rseil!e 
:!3 Thing to be l=fcked 


34 FtHrtlt!f t~t!(:Qfn 40 Sooat~; 


g~ar~ \J(%ntnartt ooes 3SC~ 41 Pttt a new -'9 GOI brand 
bott001 \Jil, in a 'N:.Jy 52.1\SltGf'Klf!)ef'S
31 Mot..1l in lhQ 
42 Bladt & C-&::;kfft stuth•,
prnnt$ rA !}{}kl 
cffeft'lg
PQn!; 
55 \((if(M lll:t 
43C~~r;~
39 Earthtnk 
..:t!letr~tive
a~rnBil\~ 
,,0i!!OOZ(I eact1or 
.... Lxpres~

39 ma oeteorat.e1 #'t 57 C!ear~rtJ pwdtu::t
47 v)l.flft); &ii\!Jer

!ate ..January or •ith me·s~:>~o
Mt."CO't' and 

~?-3rt;· FetHUllfy {}thefs 11'-S that tasr 
111&1 Ill& I I 11111111 111111 US 5 11• B II I I 
For an~!A'Crs! <:aft '·9C(ki85-$S&j, $1 ,20 a mmute; cy~ ~th a credit card, 1-BOCH!14·5554. 
Annual &Jb&e~ons ar~ iwal!ti:b1e for tl'!s bt351 cf Sunday cn::eswc."t'ds 1mrn tt~ \ast 5D yffirS: HJBa-7-ACRO.SS, (xdtne sobscrip1~; TootWs puu~ itrn1 m~ tnQn '\000 
past puules, nytirnes.t.'Ot'ti/ooo:a•IOidl {S39.95 e ye&(l. S1~«J tp;: nyfirnqs,CQm•puzzt\lfortl11 CrOOSYICfds for ywr~ sows.: t'\)11~ COO'\lleami!)QI'~cts. 

> 



Friday, September 7, 2007 
page 24 
-· 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Taking the hard way 
Irish to battle pair of top-five opponents 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Fresh off a 3-0 win over Florida on Sunday, No. 2 Notre Dame will travel to California to play No. 3 Santa Clara and No. 5 Stanford in the SCU Adidas Classic this weekend. 
Santa Clara is 1-0-0 ·after beating San Jose State 3-2 last Friday. Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum described Santa Clara's style of play as similar to that of the Irish, who handed the Broncos one of their five losses a season ago. 
"We know it will be a soccer game because that's the way they are," Waldrum said. "It won't be a physiCal bloodbath kind of a thing. There will be two teams trying to play some good soccer." 
Stanford is 2-0-0 with wins over Bostqn University and Connecticut. Waldrum noted that sophomore forward Kelley O'Hara will be tough to 
see SCU/page 22 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 

NO VOLLEYBALL 

Slumping
. 

squad tries to regroup 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will compete against three teams during this weekend's Shamrock Invitational beginning with the College of Charleston tonight at 7 in the Joyce Center. 
After facing the Cougars, the Irish will take on Alabama and Ohio. Last season, the Irish defeated Alabama 3-1, but they fell to No. 13 Ohio. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said that while Ohio will pose the toughest challenge to the Irish, the other teams in the tournament pose a consider­able threat. 
"These are the kinds of teams that are typically NCAA Tournament teams," Brown said. "This is the level of com­petition we need to be playing right now in ordflr to prepare ourselves for the conference season." 
This weekend, the Irish will look to senior outside hitter 
see SHAMROCK/page 21 
Runners try to erase memory of last season 
By JAY WADE Sports Writer 
Last season brought mixed results for Notre Dame: The men's team finished 19th at the 2006 NCAA Championships, while the women failed to make the NCM meet and placed third in the Big East, a· disappointing outcome from a perennially pow­erful team. 
Both, however, have high expectations for the new season, which begins today at 5 p.m. at the Crusader Invitational in Valparaiso, Ind. 
The men, who return nine sen­iors and nine juniors, plan to continue on the path set last year. 
The women will look to get back into form as they return all top nine runners from last sea­son, including seven seniors. 
"I think our goal is to be a lot better than we were a year ago because last year, to be honest, was a little bit of a down year," women's coach Tim Connelly said. "We got used to fighting to be winning the Big East.... I think the theme for this year is raising our expectations. 

"We have our top nine kids back from a year ago, so that's a pretty good starting point, and we have some freshmen coming in that I think can be contribu­tors ... so I think our group is pretty excited about the potential we've got and they have high expectations of themselves." 
The invitational, which is run more like an exhibition, will help show coaches which freshmen and returning runners are ready to compete. 
"[The] meet will be for giving some of our less experienced kids an idea of how to compete, line up, and race a little bit," 
see RUNNERS/page 21 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
First fall tourney awaits young team 

By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
After a solid 2006-07 cam­paign, Notre Dame is looking to improve in several areas to make a run toward victories this fall. 

The Irish ended last season with a second-place finish in tho Big East cpampionship after a tense playoff with Louisville and failed to qualify for the NCAA Regionals. 
Notre Dame's first tournament of the season, the Cougar Classic, will begin Sunday and end Tuesday. Hosted by the University of South Carolina in Charleston, the young Irish squad will try to prove its worth. 

One of the team's senior lead­ers, Noriko Nakazaki, graduated after last season and left a void in the team's leadership. 
Coach Susan Holt said she hopes her team's depth can make up for Nakazaki's loss. 
"We have a lot of good players out there," she said. "The impor­tant thing is for everyone to ful­fill their talent level that they are capable of. We have some solid depth in our top five this year so we don't need to rely on one player to post a high number." 
The lineup for the Cougar 
see CAROLINA/page 22 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish ready for Berticelli Memorial 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
No.9 Notre Dame opens up its home schedule tonight against Rhode Island at 7:30 in the sixth annual Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament. 
The tournament began in 2002 in memory of the former Irish coach who died two years earlier of a heart attack at the age of 48. Berticelli, widely respected in soccer cir­cles, coached Notre Dame for 10 seasons. 
Current head coach Bobby Clark, who worked clinics with Berticelli, recalled a time when Berticelli sent Clark's son Jamie -now assistant 
see BERTICELLI/page 22 


.• . 


.. . . . ' . . . ..

' '.. .. . ·. 
.... . .· .. -. ..

. . '. ". ' . ' '· . 
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 7, 2007 
Clausen won't be agreatQB yet 
2007 Irish opponents 
Last week  This week  
W, 33-3, ND  vs Samford  
(1-0)  W, 59-0, FlU  vs Notre Dame  
(0-1)  L, 32-34, App. St.  vs. Oregon  
W, 55-18, UAB  vs Bowling Green  
W, 52-24, Toledo  vs E. Illinois  
(1-0)  W, 45-17, Stanford  vs BYU  
(1-0)  W, 38-28, Wake  vs NC State  
(1-0)  W, 38-10, Idaho  Idle  
(1-0)  W, 30-19,Temple  at Rutgers  
(1-0)  W, 34-3, SC State  at Utah  
(0-1)  L, 45-14, UConn­ atVirginia  
(0-1)  L, 45-17, UCLA  vs San Jose State  

So it's Jimmy. 
To paraphrase Irish head coach Charlie Weis regarding last week's starter, you would 
have to be brain-dead at this point not to know freshman Jimmy Clausen will be the start­ing quarter­

back for Jay Fitzpatrick
Notre Dame 
against Penn State. Stories  Associate Sports Editor  
about the  
decision  

ran on the front pages of the Web sites for ESPN and Sports Illustrated and in most news­papers that cover college foot­ball. Most Irish fans felt a titter of excitement when they read the news and felt that the sea­son could be saved. 
But don't get too excited just yet. 
Clausen still has a lot of work to do, regardless of how great a practice player he is or how much upside analysts think he has. Clausen looked impressive in his limited time last Saturday against Georgia Tech -completing 4-of-6 passes for 34 yards -but in a mop-up situation. 
Clausen entered the game when any forward progress would have been an improve­ment over the first three quar­ters of play. But Clausen will be in for a rude awakening when he heads to State College this weekend. 
For starters, he will have to trade in the re-born Sea of Green for a Whiteout in Happy Valley-more than 100,000 strong, all wanting vengeance for last year. 
Instead of facing a second­stririg defense that still found gaping holes in Notre Dame's offensive line, he will go against the newest class at Linebacker U -a defense that recovered five fumbles and allowed only 114 yards of total offense in a 59-0 shutout of Florida International Saturday. 

But most importantly, Clausen's real potential is still very much a mystery. 
Clausen already had surgery on his throwing arm before ever playing a down in college football. His long list of impressive high school records and statistics are meaningless now as he enters an entirely different brand of football. 
Jimmy Clausen is the most highly touted recruit in South Bend in a long time, on par with current Irish quarter­backs coach Ron Powlus. Powlus, after throwing four touchdowns in his Notre Dame debut, was projected to win two Heisman Trophies by the time he left college. Powlus never quite panned out to be a dominant quarterback, but he did leave as the Notre Dame record holder in most passing categories. 
But fans may not be as for­giving if Clausen doesn't lead Notre Dame to glory-start­ing on Saturday. With his sen­ior season in high school fol­lowed closely by Irish fans nationwide -including nationally-televised games ­Clausen was already seen as the next great Irish quarter­back before he ever donned the golden helmet. 
So the real question is, how will he respond to pressure? 
Weis said that Clausen got the starting job because he was impressed with the fresh­man's ability to manage the team and the fact that his arm is "full-go." 
"I think he gives us the best chance of winning," Weis said. 
And Clausen will likely win a lot of games in the blue and gold -just not yet. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfltzpa5@nd.edu 


ALLISON AMBROSE/The Observer 

Irish freshman Jimmy Clausen looks downfield during a Sept. 4 practice at Cartier Field. 
, 

Friday, September 7, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Into the Lions' den 
Freshman Jimmy Clausen continues journey from top recruit to starting quarterback 
school football player," he said. away, Clausen decided to haveBy CHRIS KHOREY 
But just as his reeruitment surgery to remove bone spurs.
Sports Editor 
intensified, it came to an In the meantime, Weis abrupt end. Clausen commit­announced publicly that 
Last fall, Jimmy Clausen was ted to Charlie Weis and Notre Sharpley, Jones and Clausen the biggest name in high Dame on April 22, 2006 -the would compete in fall camp for school football. Ilis games day of the Blue-Gold Game in the chance to start against would sometimes draw more South Bend. Georgia Tech. tan 10,000 people. Clausen almost stole the But when training camp 
When Clausen makes his spotlight from Brady Quinn opened Aug. 6, Clausen's arm first collegiate start Saturday, and the scrimmaging Irish, wasn't fully healed. He could it will be in front of 10 times pulling up to the College throw, but the distance and that many. Football Hall of Fame in a number of passes he threw 
A year ago, Clausen was stretch Hummer limousine and were severely limited. Even beginning his senior year of announcing in front of a crowd though he was expected to be high school. Now he's wading in excess of 200. healthy in time for the opener, through his second semester of Although the commitment he could not get enough prac­classes at Notre Dame, with decision was made relatively tice time to challenge for the classmates and teammates early, Redell said he is confi­starting job. who hope he can be the dent it was the right one. Weis ran misdirection with answer for a team that lost a "I think he chose the right the media and Yellow Jackets lot of confidence after opening school because of Charlie Weis coach Chan Gailey, saying on the 2007 season with a crush­and the great tradition and the first day of practice that ing 33-3 home defeat at the academics," he said. "when we're teeing off on hands of Georgia Tech. Clausen's senior year lived Sept. 1, would Jimmy Clausen 
Clausen not only has to pick up to the lofty expectations set be capable of being our start­up the pieces, but he must do by his announcement and ing quarterback and slinging it so in front o f a pred i c t e d recruiting hype. Oaks Christian 30 or 40 times? The answer 110,000 Penn State fans bent went undefeated, and several would be yes." on revenge after last year's 41-of its games were broadcast Weis revealed Tuesday what 17 drubbing by the Irish and nationally on ESPN. Then, at was really going on. behind an offensive line that the U.S. Army All-American "After the spring, he had allowed nine sacks last week. Bowl, a high school all-star that spur taken off and then he 
But, according to Bill Redell game played in December, rehabbed his way to, just as -Clausen's high school coach Clausen was presented with we had felt, that he was going at Oaks Christian in Westlake the Hall Trophy, given annual­to be ready to throw full speed Village, Calif. -if any fresh­ly to the nation's top high by Sept. 1," Weis said. "But he and get rid of the ball quickly," their teams to major bowl man can handle it, it's school football player. wasn't ready to do everything the high school coach said. games after taking the reigns Clausen. Just a few weeks later, on a daily basis until Sept. 1. Weis said the offensive line of the Irish in their freshman 
"What really helps is that Clausen moved into St. So we kind of got in that gray will be working hard this week seasons. Kiel's squad went 9­his brothers [Casey and Rick] Edward's Hall at Notre Dame area where we really couldn't to stop blitzers in their tracks. 2-1, made the Sugar Bowl, and played at Tennessee, and he's along with fellow freshman consider him as the starter for "I have a feeling we're going was undefeated in his first been in a stadium like that," football players Armando Allen the opening game." to have a couple of very physi­seven games under center. Redell said. "He knows what and Gary Gray. All three had Meanwhile, Weis decided to cal practices," he said. LoVecchio won his first seven it's like." decided to graduate from high start Jones against Georgia Irish sophomore wide receiv­games under center, taking 
Clausen's current coach, school a semester early in Tech, adding some spread er Robby Parris, said the wide Notre Dame to its first ever Charlie Weis, is confident as order to jump into college option plays to take advantage receivers can also help make BCS bowl appearance in the well. classes and be able to partici­of Jones' speed and emulate Clausen's job less difficult. Fiesta Bowl. 
"I think he's ready to run the pate in spring practice. the West Virginia offense, "A lot of what happens with Clausen has been compared offense," he said. "I think he which ran over, around and the quarterback is what we to current Irish quarterbacks was always ready mentally." The Injury mystery through the Yellow Jackets in do," he said. "If we run our coach Ron Powlus. Powlus 
Clausen arrived in South a 38-35 win in last year's route we11, it's easier." came to Notre Dame with A superstar recruit Bend with a sore elbow and Gator Bowl. Clausen, who has only spo­almost as much hype as 
Clausen, a four-year starter refrained from throwing ken to the media once since Clausen, then started for four at Oaks Christian, went 42-0 through his first few months A opening day disaster arriving at Notre Dame due to years from 1994-97 after a under center while throwing on campus. But when spring During the Georgia Tech Weis' restrictions on access to preseason collarbone injury for over 10,000 yards and 146 camp opened, he jumped right game, the spread option freshmen, will continue to be scuttled his freshman season touchdowns. in, competing with then-rising experiment blew up in Weis' sequestered until Weis sees fit in 1993. 
By his junior season, scouts junior Evan Sharpley and face. Jones rushed for 28 to let him talk to reporters. And while Irish fans are hailed him as as the top quar­then-rising sophomores yards, completed one pass for probably hoping that Clausen terback recruit and one of the Demetrius Jones and Zach three yards, fumbled twice and The legacy to live up to can turn the 2007 squad best high school players in the Frazer for the starting quar­produced no points in a quar­Clausen starting the second around like Kiel and LoVecchio country. terback job. ter and a half running the game of the season marks the turned their teams around, 
Clausen's reputation as a Weis revealed Tuesday that show. earliest a freshman has started there is historical precedent top-level recruit also got Penn by the end of the spring, he Sharpley replaced him and under center for Notre Dame. that the future might be State coach Joe Paterno's had Clausen pegged as the No. went 10-of-13 passing for 92 Previously, the earliest a brighter if the Irish struggle attention. 1 quarterback. yards, but was also sacked freshman had started was in this season. 
"We knew a lot about him as But the freshman's sore seven times and produced just game four, which has hap­After tremendous starts to a high school player, and he elbow had other ideas. three points of his own. pened four times -Blair Kiel their careers, Kiel and was an outstanding high When the p~in wouldn't go Clausen played late, complet­in a win over Miami in 1981, LoVecchio struggled the rest of ing four of the six passes he Steve Beuerlein in a. win over the way. Kiel was shunted on threw -experience Weis said Colorado in 1983, Paul Failla and off the bench by then­will be key. on Saturday. in a win over Purdue in 1991, coach Gerry Faust and eventu­
"I would be more concerned and, most recently, Brady ally lost his starting job in his if his first reps were in front of Quinn in a loss to Purdue in senior year to then-freshman 107,000 in Happy Valley, but I 2003. Beuerlein. think we got that out of the Irish freshman quarterbacks LoVecchio was benched for way in the fourth quarter last are 6-1 in their first starts, Carlyle Holiday after starting 
week," the coach said. with Quinn owning the only the 2001 season 0-3. He even­And now the freshman, final­loss. Several of them also have tually transferred to Indiana. ly healthy, steps under center excellent track records follow­By contrast, the 1951 squad for a team that has problems ing that first game. averaged just 13 points per that go deeper than quarter­Quinn was a four-year game with Guglielmi at the back play. starter who owns more than helm, Powlus's first team 
The Irish offensive line gave 30 school records. I-Us shadow struggled to a 6-5-1 record, up nine sacks on fewer than will be the longest over and Quinn's freshman year 40 called passes against the Clausen, who has to replace featured a 5-7 record and Yellow Jackets. It often look the Cleveland Browns rookie humiliating blowout losses to confused and flat-footed as the who has already achieved leg­USC, Florida State and speedy Georgia Tech lineback­endary status in South Bend. Syracuse. All three went on to ers flew right past it. Ralph Guglielmi started for set school records and lead 
Seeing that success, Penn the first time as a freshman in successful Irish squads. State defensive coordinator 1951, then led the Irish to top Redell says Clausen is ready Tom Bradley will probably call five finishes in 1952, 1953 and to succeed right now. a similar blitz package. 1954, while completing passes "If there is a true freshman 
But Redell says Clausen in 34 straight games and fin­that can start at Notre Dame showed in high school that he ishing fourth in the 1954 or any other major school, it's can negate pressure by making Heisman Trophy balloting. Jimmy Clausen," he said. 1"\LLr,ou,.AM decisive throws. Kiel and Matt LoVecchio, "One of his great strengths is who took over in the fifth Contact Chris Khorey at his ability to read the coverage game of the 2000 season, led ckhorey@nd.edu 

Irish freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen drops back to pass during a practice Tuesday at Cartier Field. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 7, 2007 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish Record: 0-1 AP: NR 
Coaches: NR Notre Dame Fighting Irish 


Charlie Weis Third season at 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame career record: 
2007 Schedule 
19-7
.. 
~-., 

at Notre Dame: 19-7 
Sept. 1 GA.TECH-L
Charlie Weis against head coach Penn State: 1-0 
Sept. 8 at Penn State 
Roster 
No. Name Pos. Ht. 
I D.J. Hord WR 6-1 
2 Darrin Walls DB 6-1 
3 Demetrius Jones QB. 6-4 
4 Gary Gray DB 5-11 
5 Armando Allen RB 5-10 
6 Ray Herring DB 5-10 
7 Jimmy Clausen QB 6-3 8 Raeshon McNeil DB 6-0 9 Tom Zbikowski DB 6-0 11 David Grimes WR 5-10 12 Darrin Bragg QB 6-1 13 Evan Sharpley QB 6-2 14 Brandon Walker K 6-3 15 Leo Perrine DB 6-0 16 Justin Gillett QB 5-11 17 Geoffrey Price 6-3
p 
18 Duval Kamara WR 6-5 19 George West WR 5-10 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 21 Barry Gallup Jr. WR 5-11 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 23 Golden Tate WR 5-11 23 W. David Williams DB 5-9 24 Leonard Gordon DB 5-11 25 Munir Prince DB 5-10 26 Travis Thomas RB 6-0 27 David Bruton DB 6-2 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-1 29 Jashaad Gaines DB 6-0 29 Jake Richardsville WR 6-1 30 Harrison Smith DB 6-2 31 Sergio Brown DB 6-2 :12 Luke Schmidt RB 6-3 33 Robert Hughes RB 5-11 34 James Aldridge RB 6-0 35 Nate Whitaker K 5-9 35 Kevin Smith DB 6-0 36 DexCure DB 6-1 37 Junior Jabbie RB 5-11 
38 Wade lams WR 5-9 39 Ryan Burkhart K 5-11 39 Kevin Brooks TE 6-2 40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 41 Scott Smith LB 6-4 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 43 Eric Maust p 5-10 43 Mike Anello DB 5-10 44 Asaph Schwapp PB 6-0 45 John Leonis DB 5-9 45 Kris Patterson WR 5-11 47 Aaron Nagel LB 6-l 48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 49 Toryan Smith LB 6-1 50 Steve Paskorz LB 6-2 51 Dan Wenger OL 6-4 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-2 53 Morrice Richardson LB 6-2 54 Anthony Vemaglia I.B 6-3 55 Eric Olwn OL 6-4 56 Kerry Neal LB 6-2 57 Dwight Stephenson DL 6-2 59 Chris Stewart 01. 6-5 61 J.J. jansen LS 6-3 63 jeff Tisak OL 6-5 67 Tom &menderfer OL 6-5 69 Neil Kmnedy DL 5-11 70 Matt Romine OL 6-5 71 Bartley Webb OL 6-6 72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 73 Matt Carufel OL 6-5 74 Sam Young OL 6-8 75 Taylor Dever OL 6-5 76 Andrew Nuss DL 6-5 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 80 Richard Jackson WR 6-3 82 Robby Parris WR 6-4 83 Mike Ragone TE 6-5 84 Will Yeatman TE 6-6 85 Sam Vos WR 5-10 88 Konrad Reuland TE 6-6 89 John Carlson TE 6-6 90 John Ryan LB 6-5 91 Emeka Nwankwo DL 6-4 92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 93 Paddy Mullen DL 6-5 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 95 !an Wiliams DL 6-2 96 Pat Kuntz DL 6-3 97 Kallen Wade DL 6-5 98 Trevor Laws Dl 6-1 

Sept. 15 at Michigan Sept. 22 MICIDGANST. 
Wt. YR 196 JR 
Sept. 29 at Purdue
.

180 so 213 so 
Oct. 6 at UCLA
180 FR 190 FR 197 so 
Oct. 13 BC 207 FR 187 FR 
Oct. 20 usc
207 SR 177 JR 188 SR 
Nov. 3 NAVY 
216 JR 197 FR 
Nov.11 AIR FORCE
189 SR 180 SR 208 SR 
Nov. 18 DUKE 
222 FR 197 so 
Nov. 25 at Stanford
191 SR 185 so 196 SR 188 FR 173 SR 194 so 184 so 216 SR 207 JR 207 so 203 so 180 so 205 PR 196 so 
llB 

Quarterbacks
261llomll$ 
34 Aldridg~ 1 Clausen 
WR 
l9West 
1 Hord 


TE 
89Dirllllm 
84 Ycatnllll) 
:~,.A
" ...
. .

OLB :·:-./ 99Ryan 53 .Richard.sM 
..•...·. 
I·~ 
... ··~.J 
-·) 
111'1' %Kuntz 
95Will~ 


LCB FS lWalls vliniton .22Wood.en .28 MliCartby 
P'8 44Sdlwapp 32 Schmidt 
WR 

l1 GrimM 
82 Parris 
·:.:o:w· 
LT 7'7 Turkovid• ···7%Duncan 
SSOI!i<!tt 70~omin~ 

OLB 54 V«DagliaILB 
56 Neal or58 Smith
<~ ~ingt.on 
·.·. <lll:' 4~ Snllth 
RDE 94Brown , or 57 StepbeiiSOn Jr. 


··-··-· 
RCB 
20.11im"bert 
8.McNei1 


248 so 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
238 FR 222 JR 165 FR 180 SR 220 so 205 SR 183 SR 
LLI

196 so 241 so 
::E 

230 SR 
<( 

235 JR 
c

241 JR 170 jR 
LLI 

177 so 
a:

180 so 
t­

261 jR 
o

169 jR 185 JR 
z 

229 PR 231 jR 245 so 235 FR 287 so 240 SR 244 so 234 SR 
LLI

303 so 245 FR 
:ct

272 SR 
...... 

339 so 
U)

242 SR 306 JR 
z 

285 JR 
z 

266 SR 
LLI 

279 FR 
a.

305 so 308 JR 295 so 310 PSO 289 FR 292 FR 301 jR 303 SR 204 so 2()<} so 230 FR 264 so 199 so 255 so 255 SR 253 so 283 PR 287 jR 290 so 261 SR 300 FR 285 jR 


257 so 296 SR 
In two years as Notre Dame head coach, Charlie Weis has led the Irish to back-to-hack BCS berths. But his last three games have all been blowout losses and  Jimmy Clausen was the top-rated quarter­.back recruit in the nation last year, but he will be making his first career start in front of a very hostile crowd in  The Irish have a big offensive line and five talented running backs, so the running game should be effective on paper. Last week, how­ever, it wasn't, as Notre  Notre Dame's wide receivers performed well when they were given opportunities aginst the Yellow Jackelc;-but that wasn't very often. Clausen will have to get rid of the  
last week's disaster against Georgia Tech has left him with more questions than answers.  Happy Valley. He com­pleted 4-of-6 passes for 34 yards against Georgia Tech last week.  Dame was held to -8 yards rushing by Georgia Tech's attacking defense.  ball to his surehanded tar­gets quickly or this game might be another sack fest like last week.  
Joe Paterno is one of the most successful coaches in college football history, winning 363 games in 42 seasons in State College. After some rough seasons in the early 2000s, his teams have won 20 games over the last two years.  Although Anthony Morelli has a reputation for bad decisions and untimely turnovers, the cannon-armed senior can be extremely effec­tive. He completed 23­of-38 passes for 295 yards and three touch­downs against FlU last week.  Penn State is known as "linebacker U," for its his­tory of ferocious lineback­ers, and Dan Connor is no exception. Connor and company held Florida International to -3 yards rushing last week, although the Irish do pres­ent a bigger challenge.  Led by cornerback Justin King, the Nittany Lions allowed just 117 yards through the air last Saturday. Because blitzing worked so well for Georgia Tech, Penn State will prob­ably also bring extra rush­ers to try to hurry and con­fuse Clausen.  
Weis outcoached Paterno in lastsear's Irish romp in 'South J:Jend, but very few peo­ple c·an compete with Paterno's career record and Notre Dame looked  Morelli is a senior who started all last season and looked sharp agiust a weak opponent in the open­cr. Clausen is a fresh· man making his first  It is extremely unlikely that NQ.~r~.D~me will ruq, for negative yardage again th i~. week, but against Penn State's defense, establishing a \consistent rushing  Like the run game, the Irish pass g(lme will look better this week simply becau,se of quar­terback continuity, but whether the offeusive line can protect Clausen  
confused and disorgan­ized last week against Georgia Tech, while Penn State killed FlU.  start who has thrown just six collegiate pass­es in garbage time last week.  offense will be a strug­gle. Weis will need to be creadvi'f to give his backs running lanes.  and whether the fresh­man will perform on the road are still up in the air.  


What everyone saw last week was as bad as it 'Ibis week won't be nearly as bad as last week. gets. After the game, Anthony Vernaglia said Jimmy Oausen will be effective, and the offensive there's nowhere to go but up. He's right. Notre line will be improved -at least to the point wherp, Oame turns its offense around, produces two fan.•;; r.an tell there are five of them on the field. The
Irish 

touchdowns and a field goal thanks to an effi­defense will be solid, like in the first half against cient, though not spectacular, effort by Jimmy Georgia Tech. In the end, however, the Irish are Clausen. Despite a solid game by the freshman, still too young and will be too inconsistent to win in
experts 
Penn State's talent overcomes a shaky Irish a hostile environment like llappy Valley. squad. 
Ken Fowler FINAL SCORE: Penn State 27 Chris Khorey FINAL SCORE: Penn State 24 Sports Writer Notre Dame 17 Sports Editor Notre Dame 17 
--.. .. 
' . ~. 
• • • • ; i 

Friday, September 7, 2007 page 5 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 


Penn State Nittany Lions 
14 

34llaha 20Kinlaw 17 Clark. 38 Lawlor 
'0 

WR 
WR 3 Butler 2.c Nnood 83 Brackett !9 llel]
~ 


LG. 82Sbuler 78Shaw 57 SWpley 64 Oltmberger 76 CaciQallll 89Lyons 50 LuciAn 60Weber 77 Eliades 15 ~kC.mmarl 
TE RG c LT




·~···. 
:..: . 
; 
·.:~:.. 0. .... 
~.;.··~;..


LB 46 Sales 
!~Bowman 
DE 

DT 47Gaines 
91 Odrkk 5 Hayes 
90Taylor 


CB .s tO Sargeant n iinu llWallace 9Rubin 

LIONS RUSHING LIONS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS 



Penn State 2007 Schedule 
Sept. 1 FL.INT'L-W Sept. 8 NOTRE DAME Sept.15 BUFFALO Sept. 22 at Michigan Sept. 29 at Illinois Oct. 6 IOWA Oct. 13 WISCONSIN Oct. 20 at Indiana Oct. 27 OHIO STATE Nov. 3 PURDUE Nov.10 at Temple Nov.17 at Mich. State 
INTANGIBLES 
z 
0 
-1 
:a 
rrl 
c 
l> 
3: 
rrl 

Penn State 
Nittany Lions 
. 
Record: 1-0 AP: 14 Coaches: 15 

Joe Paterno 42nd season at Penn State career record: 363-121-3 at Penn State: 363-121-3 against Notre 
Dame: 8-6 
Roster 


head coach 
No. 1 2 3 4 5 5 6 7 8 9 
10 
10 
11 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 18 19 20 21 22 
23 23 
24 26 27 28 29 
30 
32 33 
34 
35 
36 
37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 4R 49 50 51 52 53 
54 
55 56 
56 
57 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 71 
72 
73 74 75 76 77 78 79 80 81 82 83 84 85 87 87 88 89 90 91 93 94 96 97 99 
Name justin King Derrick Williams Deon Butler Jamal Lewis Graham Zug Jerome Hayes Willie Harriott Anthony Scirrotto james McDonatd Mark Rubin Lydell Sargeant Andrew Quarless Tony Davis ' A.]. Wallace Kevin Suhey Anthony Morelli Paul Cianciolo 

Pos. Ht. Wt. YR DB 6-0 186 jR WR 6-0 203 JR WR 5-10 168 JR DB 6-0 199 SR WR 6-2 183 FR LB 6-2 236 so DB 5-8 181 so DB 6-0 195 JR WR 6-2 195 so DB 6-2 211 JR DB 5-10 186 JR TE 6-5 252 so DB 5-10 197 JR DB 6-1 195 so QB 6-1 197 so QB 6-4 232 SR QB o-4 225 jR 
Shelton McCulloough DB 6-0 183 FR Daryll Clark QB 6-2 232 JR Navorro Bowman LB 6-1 228 FR Patrick Mauti WR 5-9 192 so Chris Bell WR 56-2 210 so Devin Fentress CB 5-10 171 so Knowledge Timmons CB 5-10 186 so Tyler Ahrenhold WR 6-0 169 FR Evan Royster RB 6-1 211 FR Kevin Kelly K 5-7 167 JR Jordan Norwood WR 5-10 172 JR Stephfon Green RB 5-10 185 FR Chaz Powell DB 6-0 186 FR Drew Astorino DB 5-10 179 FR Cedruc Heffrues DB 6-2 207 FR josh Matzkin LB 6-0 213 FR Brent Carter DB 6-2 216 FR Austin Scott RB 6-0 222 SR Matt Hahn RB 6-0 236 SR Jesse A I frena WR 5-11 192 FR Collin Wagner K 5-9 169 FR Joe Suhey RB 6-1 209 FR Dan Lawlor FB 6-2 244 JR Nick Pincheck RB 6-0 2U6 SR Dan Connor LB 6-3 233 SR Jeremy Boone p 5-9 11l3 so jason Ganter DB 6-0 211 SR Josh Hull LB 6-2 229 so Larry Federoff FB 5-11 236 so Sean Lee LB 6-2 232 JR Tyrell Sales LB 6-2 237 JR Josh Gaines DL 6-1 264 JR Maurice Evans DL 6-2 269 so Ryan Brt•en 6-2 224 FR
p 

Mike Lucian OL 6-2 284 JR Shaine Thompson LB 6-0 201 FR Dontey Brown LB 6-2 236 JR Chris Colasanti l.B 6-2 224 FR Jed Hill DT 6-2 269 )R Tom McEowen DT 6-4 279 FR Eric Latimore DE 6-6 260 FR Austin Hinton OL 6-2 288 JR 
A.Q. Shipley OL 6-1 293 JR Aaron Maybin DE 6-4 238 FR Patrick Weber OL 6-1 272 SR Stefen Wisniewski OL 6-3 283 FR Ross Muir OL 6-3 287 ]R joe Toriello OL 6-4 300 JR Rich Ohmbergt>r OL 6-2 289 JR 
J.B. Walton OL 6-3 27S FR 
josh Marks OL 6-4 308 FR Quinn Barham OL 6-3 292 FR Doug Klopacz OL 6-3 276 FR Devon Still DL 6-5 281 FR Kyle Stout OL 6-5 275 FR Dennis Ladnolt OL 6-4 294 so Johnnie Troutman OL 6-4 311 FR Nerraw McCormack OL 6-5 296 JR Gerald Cadogan OL 6-5 296 JR Lou Eliades OL 6-4 305 FR john Shaw OL 6-4 303 SR AkoPoti OL 6-3 302 JR Andrew Szcerba TE 6-6 251 FR Brennan Coakley TE 6-4 249 so Mickey Shuler TE 6-4 241 so Brett Bracket WR 6-6 241 FR Ben Woodward WR 5-9 176 FR OllieOgbu DL 6-1 293 FR Chris Rogers DL 6-2 261 JR Greg Miskinis . TE 6-5 256 JR Jon Ditto TE 6-3 227 FR jordan Lyons TE 6-5 249 JR Phillip Taylor DL 6-4 337 so Jared Odrick DL 6-5 291 so Chris Baker DL 6-2 305 so TomGolarz DL 6-1 249 so Joe Hughes K 5-10 172 JR AbeKoroma DL 6-3 312 FR Chimaeze Okoli DL 6-4 270 FR 
Tashard Choice ran  Notre Dame's second­ Geoff Price is one of the  The Irish got  
over, around and  ary was one of the few  best punters in the nation  absolutely obliterated  
through thf~ Irish  bright spots against  and Tom Zbikowski is  last week. How they  
defense last week for  Georgia Tech. Jackets  always dangerous ac;; a punt  respond will determine  
196 yards. He was even  quarterback Taylor  returner. Freshman  how the rest of their  
successful when he lined  Bennett rarely had open  Armando Allen hac;; blazing  season goes. They have  
up at quarterback and  receivers to throw to  speed and will return kick­ to rally around Clausen  
Notre Dame knew he  and managed just 121  offs again. Brandon Walker  and be competitive in  
was going to run. The  yards through the air.  and Nate Whitaker both  this one or it could be a  
Irish defensive line is  The Irish pass rush has  looked good placekicking  bad year of historical  
small and not deep.  room for improvement.  last week.  proportions.  
The Nittany Lions used  Morelli completed 60  Kevin Kelly, who made  Penn State smells  
running back by commit­ percent of his passes  one of two field goals last  blood in the water. They  
tee in their blowout win  last week, although it  week, is back from 2006.  were embarrassed last  
last week. Five running  did come against  Punter Jeremy Boone is  year in South Bend and  
backs combined for 230  Florida International.  new, and averaged 47.5  they want revenge  
yards on the ground. Evan  lie has a rocket arm  yards per punt against  against an Irish squad  
Royster had the most  and speedy receivers to  FlU. Williams, King and  that is reeling. The  
yards, but Austin Scott  throw to, but he has  A.J. Wallace are speedy  Lions also have a rau­ 
should get the most car­ thrown costly intercep­ and dangerous return  cous white-out home  
ries against Notre Dame.  tions in the past.  men.  crowd behind them.  
Unlike some areas of t h e I r i s_h ,.§quad , the rus.h d~fense might actually be as bad as it looked last week. Penn <·State doesn•t have any :backs as good as Choice. but it won't matter if they push Notre Dame off the ball all day.  The Irish know they have to prov~ them­selves in this one, but otherwise Penn State has all the intangibles. They're confident and p'l aying at home against a team that killed them last year ­but is struggling in 2007.  





The Irish keep this one close thanks to an 

No one really knows what character Notre improved defense. They manage to score a 
Dame's offense will take this year, especially after few touchdowns, but in the fourth quarter, 
a home blowout and a quarterback change after Penn State's experience on defense over­
one week. Even though Jimmy Oausen is already 
Irish

whelms the shaky Irish offense. Clausen has 
the third quarterback to start a half thi<> sea<>on, a good game, but not great. The offensive 
he is the only one expected to be great right line is able to open holes for the running 
away. Notre Dame \viii look better offensively, but game. 
it's going to take more than a week to get the 
experts

offensive magic from last season back. 
FINAL SCORE: Penn State 21 Associate FINAL SCORE: Penn State 27 Notre Dame 14 Sports Editor Notre Dame 10 
Chris Hine 
Sports Editor 

.
. . 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 7, 2007 
Crunching the numbers 
WEEK ONE STATISTICS 
PSU points scored 
ND points scored 
PSU points allowed 
ND points allowed 
PSU rush yards ND rush yards 

PSU rushing allowed ND rushing allowed 

PSU pass yards ND pass yards 
PSU passing allowed ND passing allowed 

*Upset special in bold 

Saturday Pick 'em 
No. 9 Virginia Tech at No. 2 LSU Troy at No. 3 Florida No.4 West Virginia at Marshall Miami at No.6 Oklahoma No. 19 TCU at No. 7 Texas No. 10 California at Colorado State Akron at No. 11 Ohio State No. 12 Georgia at South Carolina South Florida at No. 13 Auburn BYU at No. 14 UCLA Notre Dame at No. 15 Penn State Navy at No. 16 Rutgers No. 17 Nebraska at Wake Forest No. 18 Arkansas at Alabama No. 20 Boise State at Washington Samford at No. 21 Georgia Tech Fresno State at No. 23 Texas A&M No. 24 Tennessee at Southern Miss NC State at No. 25 Boston College 
Khorey  Hine  Fowler  
LSU  LSU  LSU  
Florida  Florida  Florida  
wvu  wvu  wvu  
Okla.  Okla.  Okla.  
TCU  Texas  TCU  
Cal  Cal  Cal  
osu  osu  osu  
S. Car.  Georgia  S. Car.  
Auburn  Auburn  Auburn  
UCLA  UCLA  UCLA  
PSU  PSU  PSU  
Rutgers  Navy  Rutgers  
Nebraska  Nebraska  Nebraska  
Alabama  Arkansas  Alabama  
Boise  Boise  Wash.  
GT  GT  GT  
A&M  A&M  A&M  
Tenn.  Tenn.  Tenn.  
NC State  NC State  BC  

Fitzpatrick LSU Florida wvu 
Okla. Texas Cal 
osu 
Georgia Auburn UCLA PSU Rutgers Nebraska Alabama Boise GT A&M Tenn. BC 


MoE's SoL1t&,wE.st ~rill Vv'elco""""ES S+LidEvtts BAck 
~ . ~ 
K' (. C £;;;, f' t ;;;; fu;t 1 r t' 1e r 1:>~ '~ •ry ~: ('(L' \(li .. C:J,;t. •Jn~ 
""' I i ·. ·....... "1 t .... . ....., . r ' ...
. . ..... , ..... ....: v .....•;~..:. ,,. 
. ·.. ~-r ~ 
> ·~··· ~ r 'f C ·' . . i !" :1 .;; .; n..;t r ~c.::.~ ,) :J a i :i , t"r·<~~,-·v~ ···.. t'rr.'·C(.'" ~~Jt 
' . ·-' ·t'·. :J• •· •:. 1°" •.•.··,'·.',.· ~---1.. ·. r· ·••·· c..··. £
~-··. .·.·..•·l.·

~::-\ ·-; ...... -; ·~ 1 
the 

bu~rrtta·····< 
Covv,E WAt-ch tl,e Notr-E Db..ltv1E CJ..A.VY1E. ov. o...-.e of oV~r­3 flA.+ p-Al1EIS-f....-.joy A G~""E.&.+ V1r"JE.A.I whilE c:hE-e:ri...-,ct the-I r.i:sh t-o victory­
.., .....•.··· ,,, 
, -,~:­
l .
:=:--~­
.3 :::~ 

NEIGHBORHOOD 
Friday, September 7, 2007 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Offensive line steps up intensity in practice 
By CHRIS HINE Sporrs Editor 
Notre Dame's offensive line had 
the entire summer camp to pre­
pare for Georgia Tech's blitzing 
defense but gave up 19 tackles for 
loss and nine sacks. So, with only 
one week to prepare for No. 14 
Penn State, what does the Irish 
line have to do better this week? 
"We've got to be more physi­cal," sophomore guard Dan Wenger said. "We have to show up this time. We can't back down." 
In order to be more physical, the line has stepped up the inten­sity this week by simulating a game environment during prac­tice. 
"[We've beenJ playing harder, coming off faster, finishing plays, finishing until the whistle blows, chasing the ball, everything," right tackle Sam Young said. "[We've practicedJ everything that goes into a game, what you see in a game, not necessarily all the time in practice. You have to play practice like it's a game and that's what makes it more physical." 
Against Georgia Tech, Notre Dame started with the spread option with sophomore Demetrius Jones under center. This week, the Irish will return to a tradition­al offense under Weis with fresh­man Jimmy Clausen at quarter­back. But regardless of what offense the team runs, the line's preparation stays the same. 
"It's really not different," Young said. "We've been running passes all along, you know we've been running the same stuff all camp so basically the biggest thing is we really have to fine tune and perfect all the things that we did­n't do well last week. And it's not necessarily who's behind us because whoever's behind us is capable of leading us to a victory. It's about us up front, and we have to take our responsibility on our shoulders." 
Clausen will be making his first start Saturday against one of the most reputable defensive pro­grams in the country. But if you ask Young, there is only one thing the Irish have to do to help Clausen ease into the game. 
"Protect him. Block better, exe­cute better," Young said. "It's pretty simple." 
In order to protect Clausen, the Irish will have to do a better job picking up the blitz. Notre Dame had trouble contending with Georgia Tech's disguised blitz packages last week. This week should be no exception against the Nittany lions, who return two highly-touted linebackers in Sean Lee and Dan Connor. Fifth-year center John Sullivan said the Irish should be ready ifPenn State tries to emulate Georgia Tech. 
''That's up to the Penn State coaches," Sullivan said. "I know we'll be prepared for that. You know, if they feel that they have to change what they do just because it was successful for someone else, you know, I think that's a good sign for us." 
In order to protect against the rush, the Irish have worked this week to improve their communi­cation. Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis said last week that his team had to do a better job communi-

-
defense that returns multiple starters from a squad that allowed just over 14 points per game and finished seventh in the nation in rush defense. 
"It's going to be a harsh envi­ronment," Sullivan said. "If we are focused and focused in on the things we need to do individually and go out and execute, it should be no problem going out there." 
Contact Chris Hine .tt chine@nd.edu 

eating with each other -which could prove to be a tough task in front of an estimated 107,000 fans at Beaver Stadium. 
"But we practice for things like that and noise can be a factor," Sullivan said. "I don't expect it will be because I think we are prepared to handle that. Mainly we're the only ones that can affect the offensive line. There's nothing that 100,000 screaming fans in the stands can do to change the way we play." 
For Young, the best way to deal with the noise is to channel it into a positive. 
"Me personally, I like noise, I like the environment, and I think our offense really has to learn to feed off it," Young said. "We have to really work this week-execu­tion. knowing what the guy next to you is going to be doing ­because 110,000 people you're not going to hear that well so you have to be ready for that." 
The Irish will face a Penn State 

Morelli improves, ready for Notre Dame 
It was the offense that failed 
By KEN FOWLER 
the Nittany Lions each time: six 
Sports Writer 
points against the Buckeyes, 10 
against the Wolverines and 
The scene a year ago was a only three against Wisconsin. portent of things to come: Penn Morelli, now a senior, was State's offense sputtering in a efficient -21-for-33 for 189 loss to a top-25 team. yards and one touchdown ­
With just over 12 minutes left against Notre Dame, but he in regulation in the first meet­threw one interception and had ing between Notre Dame and a fumble returned for a score Penn State since the 1992 by Irish safety Tom Zbikowski. "Snow Bowl," former Irish tail­A season later, and with back Darius Walker scored on 107,000 fans expected to a 15-yard pass, and Notre "white out" Beaver Stadium, Dame took a 41-3 lead over the Penn State coach Joe Paterno Nittany Lions. The Penn State said he envisions a much dif­offense, though it would score ferent Anthony Morelli facing twice in the the Irish. waning minutes, So do the fans,
"Morelli is a much
never gave its who began defense a better quarterback camping outside chance. the stadium
than he was a year
Penn State entrances on 
ago at this time 
would recover Tuesday. from the loss going into his University rules and beat all the second game . ., prohibit stu­teams it was dents from quarterback than he was a ty. slew of running backs who are supposed to. But gathering out­year ago at this time going into Against Ohio State, Morelli competing for playing time. it would lose Joe Paterno side the stadium his second game -and we're threw three interceptions in 25 And even though Notre Dame three more Nittany Lions coach until Thursdays, playing home," Paterno said attempts and managed only in 2007 isn't Notre Dame in times, going 0-but Penn State during his weekly teleconfer­106 yards. He finished 19-of-35 2006, Saturday's game is a for-4 against its made an excep­ence. "That was a tough job for for 165 yards wHh no touch­chance for Morelli to make a biggest challenges of the year. tion for Notre Dame. him going out there last year, downs and an interception statement against a big-name 
First it was Notre Dame. And there are high expecta­to take a football team that against Wisconsin. team. Then Ohio State. Then tions. The No. 14 Nittany Lions was still shaky about a lot of The Michigan loss, however, ''I'm looking forward to it. It's Michigan. A.nd, finally, picked apart Florida things. was a different story. Morelli going to be a big game for us," .. Wisconsin. International last Saturday in a "I think we're a better foot­was 11-for-18 with 133 yards Morelli said after the win over 
In the four losses, there was 59-0 win at home. Even though ball team than we were a year halfway through the third Florida International. "We have one consistent problem, though the Golden Panthers finished 0-ago. I think Morelli is better, I quarter when he suffered a to take care of the football. We in different variations, for Penn 12 last season and have been think the wide-outs, the people concussion and was taken out have to take care of the little State: quarterback Anthony the dregs of the Football Bowl who you would hope would of the game with the Nittany things and the big things will Morelli. Subdivision (formerly Division make some plays. are further Lions trailing 10-3. take care of themselves. vVe 
The Nittany Lion defense was 1-A), Penn State looked sharp along. So I think we're in a lit­But that was a different year. have to get in the film room, at worst respectable all season for an opener. Morelli was tle better shape." The Nittany Lions lost running practice and work hard. We -the lone exception was the emblematie of that. He com­But the process has been a back Tony Hunt to the NFL have a big game ahead of us so Notre Dame loss. Penn State pleted 2 3-of-38 passes for a gradual one, with bumps along Draft, but they've added expe­we definitely have to prepare." surrendered 28 points to Ohio career-high 295 yards and the way. Specifically, bumps rience at wide receiver ­State, 17 to Michigan and 13 to three touchdowns. against three Big Ten teams, including juniors Deon Butler Contact Ken Fowler at Wisconsin. "Morelli is a much better all of whom were top-10 quali-and Jordan Norwood -and a kfowler I @nd.edu 

...
~--~-­
"' ­
.. 
' '
" .. .
' 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 7, 2007 
.· 

know no boundaries 
-!x,'"·---· 
•. •.
-o~. 
c' 
. "·. 
···························································•·············•·•··························•···········•·········································································································· 
( 

SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 9 AT 7 P.M. BROWNING CINEMA, DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
Introduced by Rev. John I. Jenkins, c.s.c., President 
and Bill Purcell, Center for Social Concerns 
For more information: Ticket Office 631.2800 performingarts.nd.edu 
This film is presented in collaboration with the Center for Social Concerns' 25th Anniversary Solidarity Film Series. 
······•··•·····••••··••·•••···•··••·•·•·•·•···•·•···•·•·•·••····•·•·•·••·••·•·•·•···•·•·•·•••••••·••·•••••·•·•·•·····•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·•·••···••·•·•·•·•·•········••····•·••••••••·••••·•·•·•·•••·•······•••••••·••·•· 
WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 
ADDITIONAL 2007 FALL SEMESTER EVENTS 
··•·······•·•·•••··•···•••··•······•••····••·•·•·············•·•······························································································································································ 
.. . 
El Norte From A Silk Cocoon Rebirth Of A Nation City of Men and All the Invisible Children September 27 September 29 October 3 City of God December 8 Join director Gregory Nava Join OJ Spooky October 4 Join director Katia Lund 
Join filmmakers Leandro Firmino and Luis Nascimento 
•I 
,) 
f*JUNIVERSITY OF 
~DEBARTOLO
~ 
~NOTRE DAME ~ PERFORMING ARlS CENTER 
• 
" "' 
'•J 






