----~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND, SMC grads manage debt well 

Albion: Work for goals, not money 
By MEGHAN WONS News Writer 
Mark Albion co-founded six start-ups, wrote a New York Times bestseller, taught at Harvard Business School and spoke both in front of the United Nations and with Mother Teresa but he told his audience at the Mendoza College of Business Tuesday night he was simply a fellow journeyman. 
A social entrepreneur and cofounder of Net Impact, a nationwide organization of graduate students and profes­sionals supporting responsi­ble business, Albion came to campus after Notre Dame's MBA Net Impact chapter invited him to participate in its annual Ethics Week. 
Albion urged students to work for more than a pay­check. find an occupation that makes them passionate and use it to impact the world. 
"What's your contribution going to be?" he said. "What are you going to do with your God-given life? That's the big question." 
Albion recalled the day that changed his perception of his career and put him on a "dif­ferent path." 
On June 5, 1986, Albion said, he was a Harvard busi-

see ALBION/page 4 
THE 



Engineers anticipate new hall 
By JOHN-PAUL WITT News Writer 
The $69.4 million Stinson­Remick Hall will house some of the most sophisticated equip­ment known to Notre Dame, College of Engineering officials said Tuesday. 
The new facilities, to be com­pleted in the next three years where the University Oub cur­rently stands, will allow for pioneering work in circuitry, particularly in the "clean room" -an advanced lab for constructing complex circuits, said Thomas Fuja, the chair of the department of electrical engineering. 
The clean room will contain air 20,000 times more pure than normal air, electrical engineering professor Gregory Snider said. 
"This will allow us to do computations with individual electrons, and construct at the nano level," Snider said. "This 
see BUILDING/page 6 



NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Pellchange could ease high costs 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
President Bush's administra­tion recently announced his 2008 budget will include a proposal to increase the maxi­mum value of Pell Grants by $550 to $4,600. For low­income students who want to attend Notre Dame but cannot afford the high tuition, these grants could help bridge the payment gap, said Director of Financial Aid Joe Russo. 
Russo is optimistic about the implications for Notre Dame and its peers should Bush's proposed budget be approved by Congress. 
"The good news of possibly improved Pel! Grant funding should serve as an encourag­ing signal to many applicants and result in increases in applications nationally," he said. 
Pell Grants, which do not need to be repaid, are designed to help low-income students pay for college. Students who receive these grants can use them at Notre Dame to lower the total cost of their tuition. 
"Any improvement in maxi­mum awards would result in increases in the amount of such aid to our Pell-eligible students and thus result in increases in need-based assis­tance for our undergraduates," Russo said. 
But many questions remain. 
While educators and policy analysts have lauded the pro­posed increase, many are con­cerned about how it will be funded, including professor 
see GRANTS/page 4 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
As indebted college stu­dents and recent post-gradu­ates nationwide struggle to fork over money for their credit card and student loan bills on time, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are taking a different route and paying them back in a fashion that's not only timely -it's "amazing," said an 
executive  at  Notre  Dame  
Federal  Credit  Union  
(NDFCU).  
Of the  300 Notre  Danie  

graduates who were paying 
back government-guaranteed student loans -according to the U.S. Department of Education's 2004 statistics (the most recent available) ­just one "defaulted," or was late on his payments. Statistics from 2003 show that Saint Mary's had a zero cohort default rate, meaning not one graduate paid her bill late. 
"All I can quote are num­bers, but that's exceptionally low," said Rick Burden, sen­ior vice president and chief lending officer at NDFCU ­where two-thirds to three-' fourths of incoming freshmen 
see LOANS/page 3 




Students celebrate Valentine's Day 
Steinbrenner said students 

By AMANDA GONZALES 
could have cut back their 
News Writer 
Valentine Day's errands by ordering last Friday to 
Cupid, flower shops and receive free personal deliv­young Notre Dame couples in ery. . love may feel warmth in their Despite these attractive hearts today -despite the promotions, Irish Gardens snow outside -thanks to faced competition from Valentine's Day. Pasquerilla West Hall resi­
Employees at. Irish dents and their popular $1 Gardens, a student-run carnation sale. florist, are inundated with Florists, however, will not requests and said February is be the only businesses to one of the shop's most lucra­bring in profits today. tive months. Local restaurants -includ­
Junior employee Laura ing LaSalle Grill and Steinbrenner said customers Tippecanoe Place -have continued to request the tra­been busy taking reservations ditional dozen red roses more for tonight, in some cases than any other arrangement three months in advance. in the Irish Gardens selection. Tippecanoe employee Katie 
Gillis said she expects nearly see CUPID/page 6 500 couples to eat at the 

,...---------------------~--­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Celebrating today 
"On the morning of 14 February 

1969, during a company-sized patrol in 
Quang Nam Province ... " 
The first time I read these words, 

Valentine's Day stopped being about 
buying my mom a 
heart-shaped choco-John-Paul Witt 
late container or 
exchanging notes 
News Wzre 

with pretty girls. 
Editor 
These lines open 

the Silver Star cita­
tion awarded to my uncle, James 
Patrick Witt, for his actions on 
Valentine's Day, 1969. 
This medal was awarded posthu­

mously. He succumbed to the wounds 
he suffered in combat 38 years ago. 
This letter is what I have of him, what 

I can touch and see. All else are ancient 
memories gleaned from once-soldiers 
over too much wine, too late at night. 
Read on: "the point element took the 

command post of a North Vietnamese 
Army company by surprise." 
The point element. My uncle. 
"Second lieutenant Witt ... while ini­

tiating an aggressive assault on the 
enemy bunker, received multiple 
wounds as he moved across the fire­
swept terrain ... Although painfully 
wounded, Second lieutenant Witt calm­
ly ... delivered explicit directions 
regarding the course of action to be fol­
lowed by his men." 
I never knew my uncle. In my home, 

he was always spoken of in quiet, 
hushed tones. 
"Your uncle Jim was a Marine," my 

father would say. 
Marine. Not "brave," not "a leader," 

but. Marine. As if no other word was 
necessary. 
But all I had of him was a sheafof 

paper bearing a red and gold seal, and 
a plaque of medals, for bravery and 
valor. 
I felt I was missing something. A part 

of my family. A part of me that runs 
through my veins. 
I don't know how my father bore it, 

every year. He would take me to a 
candy store on the 13th, and I would 
buy something for my mother. 
If I were him, I would still weep. 
As I grew in age and wisdom, I 

resolved to learn about my uncle, from 
the ones who knew him best. 
I traveled to Orlando for a reunion of 

the First Battalion, Seventh Marine 
Regiment. My uncle was part of Delta ·company. 
There, I met men who still bore the 

scars of the war that was consigned to 
history three decades ago. They live it 
every day. They weep in church, and 
drink in camaraderie. 
From them, I was able to paint a pic­

ture of my uncle that was more real 
than the words of the Commandant of 
the Marine Corps, or my parents' 
respectful silence. 
"He never asked anyone under his 

charge to do anything that he himself 
would not do," his men said. 
"It was my fault. I put Jim on point 

that day, because he was aggressive. It 
was my decision," said his captain. 
They told me about a man who cared about his men, was a good leader and a gallant soldier. 
I celebrate Valentine's Day, I weep as I write this, because "We Remember." Semper Fidelis. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside 

Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR VALENTINE'S DAY? 

Amanda Jaszkowski  Jordan DeiPalacio  Kevin Crowley  Melissa Cruz  Rick King  
sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Keenan  junior Alumni  sophomore Cavanaugh  senior off campus  
'Tm celebrating Valentine's Day March ro when I visit my boyfriend in  "Cure AIDS with my peers.  "Watching 'Lost. , What else?"  'Tm getting excited to watch the Mike Peterson Show at Legends Thursday. ,,  'Tm going to Hooters with the boys. That's where I spend every special  





Rome.,, 

Zoos give adults tour of love in the animal kingdom 
TAMPA, Fla. Genevieve Chandler has been visiting the Lowry Park Zoo since she was a kid, but the tour she got the other night was defi­nitely not the G-rated fare of her childhood. Among the things Chandler, 30, and her date learned on their "Wild at Heart" zoo tour: Male pigs have a unique corkscrew endowment and impressive, urn, 'out­put; manatees have orgies and don't really care if their partners are male or female; and a engagement ring from the condo he was working at apparently swallowed the evidence during a break from questioning at the police station -and it was caught on tape, police said Tuesday. 

Kenny Narron, 44, of Richlands, N.C., was 
. charged with theft and falsifying evidence. Doctors had to perform emergency surgery to get the 1.2-carat ring out. Narron was arraigned from his hospital bed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
male porcupine has only one four-hour window a year to mat.e -very carefully, of course. 
Valentine's Day is the time of year when zoos around the nation seek to woo a new adult audience with risque tours that couple champagne, chocolate-covered straw­berries and candlelight dining with impressive facts about how animals do the wild thing. 
House painter swallows diamond ring 
HOLLIS, N.H. -A house painter accused of taking a $7,000 diamond 

holiday.,, 
IN BRIEF 

Dale Recinella, a Notre Dame graduate, will speak today at 7 
p.m. in room c-103 of the Heshurgh Center about his career as a lay chaplain to pris­oners on death row. 
The student body presidential election run-off debate will take place at 7:30 p.m. today in the Main Lounge of LaFortune. 
The Ballroom Dance Club is hosting a Valentine's Day ball today from 8 p.m. to 10:30 in the LaFortune ball room. The eost is $4 for the night. 
The student body president run-off election will take place Thursday. Students can vote online between 8 a.m. and 8 
p.m. at the Judicial Council Web site or by clicking on a link in an e-mail from the Council. 
The men's basketball team will play Providence College Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Second City Comedy Tour will perform at Washington Hall at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30. Student tickets are $5 and are available at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Junior Parents Weekend will commence Friday with the Opening Gala and will end Sunday with the Closing Brunch. 
The men's lacrosse team will play Loyola College of Maryland Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH 25 HIGH 27 LOW 13 LOW 22 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a:: 
LLI 

:::c 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
....1 c( 
(.) 


0 

HIGH 23 HIGH 13 HIGH 14 HIGH 18
...I LOW 12 LOW 2 LOW 5 LOW 9 
Atlanta 43 I 40 Boston 34 I 22 Chicago 14 I 8 Denver 17 I 0 Houston 48 I 36 Los Angeles 67 I 46 Minneapolis 8 I -4 New York 37 I 26 Philadelphia 37 I 28 Phoenix 63 I 47 Seattle 49 I 39 St. Louis 21 I 13 Tampa 71 I 63 Washington 38 I 30 

Wednesday, February 14, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Con1n1ittee created to explore fund options 
BySONIARAO 
News Writer 
Members decided to create an ad hoc committee to explore the possibility of an endowment fund during the Council of Representatives (COR) meeting Tuesday in LaFortune. 
The endowment, which would be supported through the carry forward fund of the Student 
Union Board's hand for debt emer­
'They're being 

(SUB) budget, gencies.
responsible and so

could be invested "There's going to in an account [the carry forward be a time when The that would account] is Shirt is not as suc­acquire interest cessful as it's been
growing"

for student gov­[in the past]. There ernment. The was a time when it current carry for­Steve Friend sold only 40,000 ward fund has units," he said. 
SUB treasurer 

been used as a reservoir for funds student government groups do not spend and also as a safety net in case of debt prob­lems. 
"The groups don't always reach their budget. They're being responsible and so [the carry forward account] is grow­ing," SUB treasurer Steve Friend said. 
As of Jan. 31, he said, the carry forward account had $213,500, not including rev­enues from The Shirt or other student activities. Friend esti­mated the carry forward fund would hold around $221,000 once those revenues were added. 
Friend also mentioned "The Shirt Royalty Fund," which he described as a "rainy day fund" that currently holds $300,011. 
The fund only grows if The Shirt achieves record-high sales. Some of the money in the royalty fund could be put toward the student government endowment, Friend said. 
The money would then accu­mulate interest. 
Friend cautioned that though the carry forward and royalty funds have rapidly expanded over the past five or six years, it is still important to have money on 
Breen-Phillips 
senator Maris Braun moved for an ad hoc com­mittee to be formed for endow­ment explorations. SUB manager Patrick Vassel volunteered to lead the group, and student body president Lizzi Shappell said she would assist Vassel in research­ing investment possibilities. 
Hall President's Council co­chair Bryan Lowery said he dis­cussed the nuts and bolts of an endowment with Director of Accounting and Financial Services Jason Little. Lowry said an endowment fund would be possible for student government, "but we would have to go through Development if we wanted outside donors," he said. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 

Loans 
continued from page 1 

at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross set up accounts each year, according to Burden. 
"I guess the average person going to these schools is not ... well, not your average per­son," he said. "The self-disci­pline it takes to maintain aca­
demic stan­dards is reflec­tive of the indi­viduals."  "/guess the average person going to these  due to local stu­dents' self-disci­pline, Burden said, many stu­ 
As the super­ schools is not ...  dents also send  
visor of Perkins loan collection  well, not your  bills home to their parents so  
from  Notre  average person.  they're  careful  
Dame  gradu­ about their pur­ 
ates, Barbara Wardlow agrees. While Notre Dame  Rick Burden senior vice president NDFCU  chases. "The Linebacker probably isn't going to show up  

students' loans usually total more than $20,000, and debt occasionally blindsides them upon graduation, "our stu­dents are very good about paying back their loans," she said. 
Notre Dame's one-in-300 rate in 2004 translates to a .3 cohort default rate, lower than peer institutions such as Duke (.4), Georgetown (.5), Boston College (.9) and Northwestern (.9). 
It's their predecessors' near-spotless loan payback record that makes the board of directors at NDFCU feel comfortable granting credit cards to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents with no credit history. A student can receive up to a $1,000 credit card limit as a freshman or sophomore, $1,500 as a junior or senior and $2,000 as a graduate stu­dent. 
"It's unusual and frankly, kind of scary, when you think about it. When I first got here [about 13 years ago]. I thought the board of directors was nuts," Burden said. "College students have no money, generally, so how are they going to pay these bills back? 
"But in general, our stu­dents with credit cards proba­bly have a better pay record than our members." 
While that 
record is partly 
on that bill," he 
joked. 

Bad credit history occasion­ally occurs with incoming freshmen, though. Often they apply for credit cards they can't pay for as seniors in high school, Burden said, or they join a health club and don't pay the membership fees -prompting the club to notify the credit bureau. 
"It's rare, but it does hap­pen," Burden said, adding quickly that NDFCU would deny such students. "That shows we're not totally stu­pid." 
Nor is the University, which recognizes the staggering debt many graduates will face come graduation day. So it works to make students aware of and prepared for the money they'll owe after col­lege. 
The Career Center hosts a three-part Senior Transitions Course, now in its second year, which gives seniors a glimpse into the real world. Topics covered include devel­oping a career plan, netwnrk­ing with alumni, budgeting and investing. 
"If you graduate from Notre Dame and you owe $30,000, that's going to be a concern for you," said Father Joe Carey, a career advisor at the Center and an organizer for the course. "That's going to impact where you live, how much you can pay for rent, how much you spend on food. These sorts of things are big questions." 
The first leg of the series takes place tonight. 
The Financial Aid Office also warns seniors how much they will owe, how often, and in what size increments. They used to hold meetings, but now they forward this infor­mation online. Wardlow still encourages students to come in for an exit interview, where a financial aid representative can answer any questions a student might have. 
She also advises graduating seniors to keep in touch with their loan lenders, from noti­fying them of an address change to asking them for for­bearance if they know the money won't be available to pay back. 
"You should never ignore the billings and any corre­spondence you get from your lenders," she said. "It's very hard to clean up your credit once you get that black mark on it." 
And while Burden's job is to negotiate as many loans as he can, he admitted there are situations when credit isn't the right choice. 
"People borrow so much money nowadays," he said. "We shouldn't be in a hurry to get young people into debt." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

PI<1Media
Rdverlisin9/ 
1\ 

GET YOUR CAREER STARTED IN INDY 
GREAT COMPANIES IN THE INDIANAPOLIS AREA 
Hirons & Co. ····Young &Laramore ·· 

Roman Brand Group Weiss Communications" 'f·C"'··"-7''}~'''"''-,· --The Jackson Group ··· ~~·'·"'~· · Indiana Business Magazine Publicis ""'"-'"""""··-~ Quill .................................,,.................m 
........,,.,,.;,,;,,,.,,,,,,.,••,.,_..•,.««. 

Pearson McMahon Fletcher England The Indianapolis Star Borshoff Johnson Matthews WFYI-TV Hetrick Communications WISH-TV 
W RTZ -tv~-····
Coles Public Relations Avatarcommllnications Group WTHR-TV 
CONTACT: INotre Dame Students: ISaint Mary's Students: IHoly Cross Students.:· LoriAnn Edinborough at Mike Sanders at Tim Ryan at edinborough.1@ nd.edu ·· msanders@ saintmarys.edu tpryan@ hcc-nd.edu 
ln ,N 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 ~!J)v1 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 www.womenscarecenter.org 

Co-sponsored by the Saint Mary's College Office of Special Events, Center for Spirituality, and Justice Education Program. 
A humorous and challenging window on the world of Trappist monk Thomas Merton: solitary, celebrity, and ordinary man. 
February 15 7:30P.M. Little Theatre Purchase tickets at the 

Saint Mary's College box office or by calling (574) 284-4626. 
MoreauCenter.com 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 14, 2007 

Grants 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame's Department of Economics and Policy Studies. The Bush administration plans to draw federal funds away from other student aid pro­grams, including Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG). 
"The [proposed] increase in the Pell Grant may not offset the supplemental grant in all cases," Warlick said. "It's going to redirect monies they have allocated for low-income stu­dents, so there are going to be some winners and some los­ers." 
And relatively expensive schools like Notre Dame would likely see less of a benefit from any funding increase com­pared to less costly state uni­versities. 
"I think we'll be less likely to see the effects because it's such a small drop in the buck­et [relative to total tuition costs]," she said. 
With more of the burden placed on lenders, legislation to raise the Pell Grant maxi­mum may also harm higher­income students who take out loans to pay for college. 
"This is really reallocating from one set of people to another set of people rather than increasing the budget," Warlick said. "They're going to shift the burden from the low­income families onto the mid­dle-class families, and the price of borrowing is going to rise." 
But Warlick said an increase in funding for Pell Grants could still attract more high-quality, low-income applicants to Notre Dame, holding other variables constant. 
"A [funding] increase would actually reduce the net price [of attending Notre Dame] if the amount of other aid isn't altered," she said. "But you have to ask, is the increase in Pell Grants equal to or greater than the increase in tuition?" 
Warlick said the number of low-income students who apply to Notre Dame could increase as a result of an increase in the value of the Pell Grant, but only if their finan­cial aid policies compare favor­ably to other universities. 
"It's not only what the inter­nal action is at Notre Dame, but also how other universities respond to the Pell Grant," Warlick said. 
But these changes are con­tingent on the Pell Grant pro­posal passing through Congress. Policy watchdogs and educators agree that Bush's budget may fail to pass in its current form. It could be months or years before the fate of the Pell Grant, along with other federal government student aid programs, will be known. 
"What remains a matter of contention and uncertainty," Russo said, "is how the resources necessary to support these proposed awards would actually be funded." 
Warlick agreed, citing the recent impasse between President Bush and the Democratic Congress. 
"This President has an extremely low public approval rating, and I don't think [the Pell Grant proposal] is any less controversial than any­thing else he's proposed," Warlick said. "I don't think [the budget] is going to pass like this." 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 

lot of immigrant workers, whom she taught English and

Albion 
helped secure other jobs. continued from page I Albion called her "one of the 
first social entrepreneurs ... ness professor making a even though they dido't use seven-figure salary and words like that back then." preparing to buy his "first lle said he found out after trophy purchase, a black her recovery she had contin­Jaguar" -until he received ued working at the factory a distressing phone call from during her illness. his mother, announcing she Inspired by his mother's had cancer. passion for her job, Albion 
"It was the phone call from left his paycheck behind to hell," he said. "When I pursue other interests. called the doc-"In deciding tor, he told me to go down my that she had six own path, I
"The best time to
weeks. It was asked myself 
stage four can­make a change is four questions: cer." early on ... Don't Who are you? After Albion What do you
live a deferred life 
spent those six want'! What
plan."

weeks by his can you do? mother's side in Where are you resignation, the Mark Albion going?" Albion doctors per-said.
author

formed an He challenged 

LLOGG INSTITUTE 
Foreign Film Series 


Nowhere in Africa 
(2002) German and Swahili with English subtitles 
7 pm TONIGHT! Hesburgh Center Audrtorium 
Cosponsored by the Africa Working Group. 

kellogg.nd.edu/ events 
'EA.AilVLKci 

SUMMER LANGUAGE GRANTS 
UNDERGRADUATE COMPETITION TO CONTINUE FOREIGN LANGUAGE STUDY DURING THE SUMMER. 
Grants are designed to cover only a portion of program costs. 
For details and application fom1s, go to: 
http://www.nd.edu/-sumlang/ or 
Pick up applications from the Office of International Studies-(154 Hurley Building-Ph 1-5203) 
application deadline: Friday, MARCH 2, 2007 

Sponsored by the Office of International Studies, the College of Arts and Letters, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies & the Mendoza College of Business 
liked the opportu­nity to tell his 

"You need to
preadolescent self that it is integrity determine how you and passions that are going to should guide a 
measure success. " 
person's career decisions, not a search for profit. Mark Albion 
"Don't get really author good at what you don't want to do," 
initially con­cerned -but she clarified her answer. 
"My daughter said, 'You can't give your fame away, but you can give away your money.' I thought then, I must be doing 
He said he found a box of old short stories in a box in his attic he would try to sell for three to five cents when he was younger. "They were real classics like 'I Became the Demon,"' he said with a laugh. 
Although he loved writing, the young entrepreneurial Albion quickly discovered it wasn't very profitable and quit. 
He said he would have 
cess. 

"You need to determine how you are going to meas­ure success," Albion said. "My dad once asked me if I would rather be rich or famous. It took me 37 years to figure out those are the wrong options." 
Albion said he recently asked his daughter the same question and when she quickly said she would choose the money, he was 
Albion said. "The best time to make a change is early on ... Don't live a deferred life plan." 
In a time when people are easily replaced by computers or outsourced, Albion told students they needed to bring their personal spark to their jobs to really achieve sue-something right," he said. 
Albion will be on campus for the next few days and will facilitate a presentation at noon Thursday in Mendoza's Giovanni Commons that is free and open to the public. 
Contact Meghan Wons at 
mwons@nd.edu 

exploratory sur­gery to monitor the cancer's progress. Instead, they dis­covered she was "microscopi­cally clean, she was cancer free," Albion said. 
His mother managed a tex­tile factory and employed a 
audience mem­bers to ask these four ques­tions and said they should look back to their childhood aspirations. For Albion, a simple trip to the attic led to the right track to self-fulfill­ment. 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 CoMPllED FROtv\ TH f: OBSERVER'S WJ RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Six dead in Algeria bombings 
ALGIERS -A group linked to al-Qaida staged seven near-simultaneous bomb attacks Tuesday, targeting police in several towns east of Algiers and killing six people, officials said. 
Al-Qaida in Islamic North Africa-the new name for the Salafist Group for Call and Combat, known by its French acronym GSPC -rlaimed responsibility for the attacks in a telephone call to the Al-Jazeera television net­work and in a statement on the Internet. The group allied itself with al-Qaida last year, rais­ing the stakes in the region's fight against ter­rorism. 
The seven bombings, some of them car explosions, hit the Kabylie region east of Algiers between 4 a.m. and 10 a.m. Tuesday, the state news agency said. 
The apparently coordinated attacks sur­prised the North African country, which has steadily emerged from an Islamic insurgency that killed more than 150,000 people in the 1990s. While scattered violence by the GSPC continues, such carefully planned strikes are rare in today's Algeria, an ally in the U.S.-led war against terrorism. 
Belgian elite collaborated with Nazis 
BRUSSELS -A government-backed report released Tuesday blamed Belgian authorities and the ruling elite for collaborating with the Nazi persecution of Jews during World War II. 
Although Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt has already recognized the level of collabo­ration, the report was the first time it had been presented in such detail. 
"The Belgian authorities cooperated with the racial anti-Jewish policies during the occupation," and acted in a way "unworthy for a democracy," said the study. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

U.S. plans to forgive Liberia's debt 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration plans to forgive Liberia's $391 million debt to the United States, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice told an international con­ference on Tuesday. 
"We will cancel that debt, all of it," Rice said in a speech to a World Bank gathering of international development experts and delegates from at least 20 countries. 
With Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf seated nearby, Rice said the reduced debt burden should enable Liberia to devote more resources to reconstruction and devel­opment. 
The country's $3.7 billion overall debt is something that today's leadership and today's people of Liberia do not deserve, Rice said, a pointed reminder that it is a burden that authoritarian rulers of the past quarter century were responsible for. 
Tornado strikes New Orleans 
NEW ORLEANS -Eighteen months after Hurricane Katrina, Stella Chambers' modest red-brick house had finally been repaired, and she was waiting for one last utility hookup to move back in. But the 85-year-old woman never made it. 
A tornado tore through her neighborhood in the city's Gentilly neighborhood before daybreak Tuesday, flattening her house, rip­ping apart the front-yard FEMA trailer in which she was living, and killing her. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Students start nap club at IUSB 
SOUTH BEND -The idea of college students walking around campus with pillows and blankies seems funny, and the idea of a nap club at Indiana University South Bend did, indeed, start out as a joke. 
But students Michael Duttlinger and Joe Spencer, president and vice president, respec­tively, might have started something that could revolutionize the school. 
Science says napping can heighten creativity, boost memory and increase alertness. So stu­dents who nap potentially boost their GPAs, which could lead to better jobs. 
No joke. 
EGYPT 

Al-Zawahri: Bush a liar, gambler 
Audiotape calls for Muslim unity, claims U.S. is losing in Iraq and Afghanistan 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -Al-Qaida's No. 2 said President Bush was an alcoholic and a lying gambler who wagered on Iraq and lost, according to a new audiotape released Tuesda~ · 
Ayman al-Zawahri said in the tape that Bush has been forced to admit his failure in Iraq after he was "stubborn" and repeated the "lie, which he became addicted to, that he is win­ning" in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
"Bush suffers from an addictive personality, and was an alcoholic. I don't know his present condition ... but the one who exam­ines his personality finds that he is addicted to two other faults -lying and gambling," al-Zawahri said in the audiotape. 
Bush, who is now 60, has acknowledged he had a problem with drinking but gave up alcohol when he was 40 years old. 
The 41-minute audiotape could not immediately be authenticated but was seen by The Associated Press on a Web site commonly used by insurgent groups and carried the logo of the multimedia arm of al­Qaida, as-Sahab. 

The audio was accompa­nied by a video that showed a still picture of ai­Zawahri, apparently join Barnas, the Islamic troops to Iraq. Zawahri and featured an addressing the American Jihad or al-Qaida, but Al-Zawahri called what English translation of the people. rather, I'm asking them to he described as Bush' fail­audio at the bottom of the Al-Zawahri also said return to Islam, in order to ure in Iraq and the grow­screen. recent congressional elec­fight for the establishment ing Taliban resistance in 
Transcripts of the audio­tions in the United States of an Islamic state over all Afghanistan the "most tape were first released by that elected a majority of of Palestine and not for the important events" of the two U.S. groups that track Democrats would change establishment of a secular­past year. He also said "the extremist messages, the nothing. ist state which will please people cooperating with SITE Institute and the "The people chose you America," al-Zawahri said. the United States in lntelCenter. due to your opposition to He also warned of an Afghanistan and in Iraq 
On the tape, al-Zawahri Bush's policy in Iraq, but it escalating threat from the would be abandoned by said Bush has gone down appears that you are Taliban in Afghanistan and the Americans once they in history as one of the marching with him to the called on all Muslims to fail, the same way they did world's "most notorious same abyss," al-Zawahri strive for unity, "even if in Vietnam." liars." said of the Democrats they are Afghans, Persians, Muslims around the 
"So pay attention before according to the transcript. Turks or Kurds." world, he added, should go it's too late, and beware of He repeated an earlier It was the fourth mes­to "Afghanistan, Iraq, Bush's losing gambler's lie condemnation of the sage by Osama bin Laden's Algeria and Somalia, which claims that he, with Palestinian Fatah move­deputy since the beginning because your brothers the the corpses of your killed ment led by Mahmoud of the year. The last was Mujahedeen are in need of and limbs of your wound­Abbas for seeking to estab­on Jan. 22, when he men, money, materiel, ed, is spreading democracy lish a secular state. mocked Bush's plan to opinion, expertise and around the world," said a!-''I'm not asking them to send an additional 21,000 information." 

Deputy to oversee Chinese trade 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson is setting up a telephone hotline connecting him directly with the vice premier of China and naming a new deputy to oversee high level talks amid agita­tion in congressional quarters for a tougher line with Beijing on trade issues. 
Paulson's announcements came on the same day the U.S. government reported that the United States trade deficit set a record for a fifth consecutive year and the imbalance with China soared to the highest level ever for an individual country. 
Paulson said he understood there was growing pressure on the admin­istration to do something about the U.S.-China trade relationship but he said he believed that the high-level strategic dialogue he has created offers the best opportunity to achieve results. 
Alan Holmer, an executive of a pharmaceutical company and a for­mer trade official during the Reagan administration, was tapped to be Paulson's deputy in charge of the strategic dialogue talks. 
The first high-level talks were held in Beijing in December and Paulson said the second round would occur May 23-24 in Washington. 
Paulson is also scheduled to travel to China in early March, his third trip to China as Treasury secretary. He will give a speech in Shanghai urging the Chinese government to allow U.S. financial firms to operate more freely in the country. 
Holmer replaces Deborah Lehr, who quit after being in the job for just a few weeks. Paulson said that he would soon have a replacement as well for Timothy Adams, Treasury's undersecretary for inter­national affairs and a key architect of the administration's China poli­cies. Adams announced he was step­ping down earlier this month. 
.-----------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
GETUSC.COM JOINRED.COM 
The new addition will also play an important role in the advance­ment of the University's national prestige, Merz said. 
"Students in all Colleges want to graduate from a top-ranked uni­versity and this new building will contribute to that," Merz said. 
Planning for Stinson-Remick Hall began in 1994, and ftmdraising has gone on for the past five years. Construetion is expected to begin in November 2007, Batil said. 
Contact John-Paul Witt at jwittl@nd.edu 
Cupid 
continued from page 1 
restaurant tonight, and every woman will be greeted at the door with a long-stemmed red rose. 
At LaSalle Grill, which was completely booked for tonight more than a month ago, a spe­cial "Tastes of Love" Valentine's Day menu will be prepared for the evening. 
Another restaurant, Studebagels, capitalized on the holiday by making heart­shaped bagels. 
Freshman Michelle Ripple may visit one of these restau­rants tonight, but as she ven­tures into a classic Valentine's Day romance ritual -the blind date -she doesn't know her exact plans for the evening. 
"I arrived at my dorm to find a rose and an invitation to a private dinner with about five other couples, and those are all the details I know," she said with a smile. 
Ripple, however, was not the only one counting the hours before Valentine's Day. 
The staff at LeMans Hall set up multiple table in the front lobby anticipating the arrival of many bouquets and floral arrangements for its residents, something that surprised soph­omore Maggie McSorley. 
At Notre Dame, the Ballroom Dance Club will mark the occa­sion with a Valentine's Day dance tonight, but the group's excitement may not be shared by the entire community. 
More than 400 anti­Valentine's Day Facebook groups are available to cynics and lonely hearts, including the "Anti-Valentine's Day," "Boycott Valentine's Day" and "Valentine's Day Should Be Abolished" groups. 
Sophomore Ashleigh Cross joined the ranks of the dis­senters. 
"Valentine's Day is too com­mercialized and exclusive and if you don't have a certain someone to spend it with," she said. "It's not that fun." 
It may not be a cause for cel­ebration for Cross, but others may appreciate the historical significance of Valentine's Day. 
The holiday stemmed from three Catholic priests martyred on February 14. 
One of them, St. Valentine, defied Roman emperor Claudius II in the 3rd century by marrying young couples in secret. 
However, the happiest people today may not be the holiday's devotees, but the stockholders of the companies reaping the commercial benefits. 
Approximately 180 million roses and 36 millon heart­shaped candy boxes will be exchanged today, and profits associated with the holiday will near $14 billion, according to the History Channel. 
Contact Amanda Gonzales at agonzal8@nd.edu 


Building 
continued from page 1 
is research which will greatly increase the speed and efficiency of computers." 
But this type of research has the potential to create an impact beyond the performance of com­puters, engineering Ph.D. student Trevor Cickovski said. 
''I'm excited to use these facilities for research that has significant contributions to society," Ockovski said. "We'll potentially be able to work with nanotechnology as small as human cells, which has count­less medical applications." 
This level of research is not pos­sible in the College of Engineering's current home, Fitzpatrick Hall, interim College of Engineering Dean James Merz said. 

"Our clean room now isn't much cleaner than the hallway, because we don't have the proper ventila­tion technology in Fitzpatrick." Merz said. "Our current building wasn't designed to do the latest engineering research." 
But Stinson-Remick Hall will be able to serve these needs as it is set to inelude architectural features especially designed for an engi­neering facility, said Mark McCready, the chair of the chemi­cal engineering department. 
"The structure will be built stiffer to minimize the vibration of the building, which affects our work on the nano level," McCready said. "The site will also be grounded against electromagnetic interfer­ence, which could interfere with our instruments." 
He said experiments that don't requjre cutting-edge facilities will still be conducted in Fitzpatrick Hall. 
The new building will also con­tain practical features for students -including a 24-hour discussion lounge, a small cafeteria and a chapel -which the College of Engineering currently lacks, McCready said. 
The facility will provide new lab spaces for graduate students and faculty members -but with the new Engineering Learning Center, Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering department chair Stephen Batil said the building will be geared toward undergraduates. 
The learning center will occupy four times the instructional space currently available to undergradu­ate students. 
Stinson-Remiek will also contain more labs than there are current engineering faculty members, but the department chairs said they expected the new infrastructure additions would attract new schol­ars and professors to Notre Dame. 
"We're 20 years behind where we need to be on buildings," Batil said. "Every other major research university has had 10 times the building construction we've had in engineering." 
New facilities are necessary for Notre Dame's undergraduate and research engineering programs to remain competitive against rivals like Princeton and Purdue, he said. 
"If we want an engineering pro­gram like l>rinceton, f(>r example, we need to invest like they do," Batil said. 

U.S. Cellular@ gets me... even when it's not about me. 

· )RED
(*US.Cellular + fl.l 
MOTOROLA IS APROUD PARTNER OF (PRODUCT)RED'" 
U.S. CELLULAR IS ACONTRIBUTING PARTY TO (PRODUCT)RED'" 
A PORTION OF THE PROCEEDS FROM THIS PRODUCT GOES DIRECTLY TO THE GLOBAL FUND, TO HELP WOMEN AND CHILDREN AFFECTED BY HIV AND AIDS IN AFRICA. 
U.S. Cellular and Motorola will collectively make a $17 contribution on the sale of each red MOTORAZR phone to the Global Fund To Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 
: ~ ~.::.. :,)fit~Y ~ld Mf1t::~.:i.~ v.i~ ~\~~.{..!:;,-::];; :n.~:.t? ~t i 1 / :.xJ::.rt.Nr~.-~~ (I: :llU ~;-:;t· :.if :.rj{J; !U:.Hfi'."n:JPA~P ~i.,.·n.'t.:.~ ll'~: t.1kt::=:J ~:~n.1 ~; F:.--r.~~ :~jf)~·•. l~il-:._:1i."J.:~~~~ cnJ Vi%m. ~-/-?; ""-~·~~;.~:t.:-:fPt:::fb ~/t:d··::-:"J. f.t:l~~\U/;Hl :.r: 'l\w.~;.tr](;j(tJJ:firKI.rf.;J/~.~ fr1. m:r!:. !JJtf;:~ Fry pn:_:h'f .:nj ~~l~r~ft;t:l:f:·) trf: mt: ~../(ITOF-st....?f.l v om ..~-1 ~-~,··;;l{•tr<.t;i~:~·r-.::-.!m. F-:~c:.:N·~ Grxi ~:-: O::t!:..t..lit.:;·, ~...lOTG10:.;. t£:Cl f:~ ·-~~·1:.\:d i·f: :r;:t: ::\:~'"! r:qk··:~.,~\~ H ;!:~! ;_: ~ f.'me;t r:r:·j fl<Kier:t'lf-: i ~f~.:~.:.·:i cthor f·t:..YJu:::t) .-ntD-':·,ice :c:r:!':"J:J:"~: :tr-. ~'!'qntf of tn::W r[:GO!)C!'t_.:.j :)r'.•nQt::;. ;{:) M;torc~:ll:1:' :?.)J/ ,(l.~ 1>'l:i!>f·:&.1~t:O. :iffer ,·n::,:: =,·t?·: '!'t-\' ·;'~~-:'! y,_:ew;; 'i:'Jfi::'!.!!i!:.::m an f;lin:.' $'.~0 0:":: ~:;-t:J ~~'iJ!liH. ;.~ ~.¥'JCJj :.ii.Jh:<:.~:r:t:.~·t:: ::l;t~fl,l 'r; 1.: 11'1; ~.Jrr:!fl!"'rt:(il k\~. (.;r(:.:J ~;f-9'0':1;! r::,:'J.:Jff:-:'1 :t::'Kl B(:!~<rft:i)n 10.~ ~t/;r:h:YJ {jif;(::J<.!). i~ff.. ::~~.n.Nrt'~1~•:i. fNi.;~<tt1t: [/ll1tTJ~:.~ fl!'!d ir.:.v.-.:-:..· ..l,i.'{."=f ~,~:: \:~:.r:t R~.:;~~U~;~r.f.J H~:.-·~.~..,.(~·; ~t;~~ ·.q.:pi(-:::.':, ~·t K-; ff.;t ~.~. !;;.~ 
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 



Dow 

12,654.85 +102.30

}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,369 134 903 2,655,220,173 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  +0.37  +0.16  43.86  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  +0.84  + 1.21  144.66  
ONYXPHARMINC(ONXX)  +96.98  +1.87  26.02  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +7.74  +0.19  29.03  
Treasuries  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.21  +0.0 I 0  4.804  
13-WEEK BILL  +0.1 0  +0.005  5.020  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.31  +0.0 IS  4.886  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.23  +0.0 I I  4.796  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.25  59.06  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  + 1.20  668.50  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.55  106.58  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  121.2250  
EURO  0.7666  
POUND  0.5134  
CANADIAN$  1.1676  

IN BRIEF 
U.S. centers target chronic fatigue 
ATLANTA -The television spot shows a 40-year-old woman, in slow motion, as her family and co-workers rush by over the course of a day. It ends with her sitting alone, amid the remnants of a birthday party. 
"The worst part isn't even that everyone thinks the problem's in my head," a female voice intones. "The worst part of chronic fatigue syndrome is missing my life." 
The spot is the centerpiece of a remark­able $4.5 million public awareness cam­paign bankrolled by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It's remarkable, in part, because of the role advocacy and politics played in creating it. 
Chronic fatigue syndrome is not conta­gious or life-threatening, and medical skeptics continue to question its merits as a focus for public health. But the money is being spent, in part, thanks to strategic lobbying and congressional interest. 
It is not the only example, or the most successful. In 2000, the March of Dimes lobbied Congress to create a center on birth defects within the CDC. In December, advocates -including Autism Speaks, an effective fundraising organization founded by General Electric Co. Vice Chairman Bob Wright -were credited with passage of a bill that targeted nearly $1 billion over five years to research that condition. 

Developer Mills ends Brookfield deal 
WASHINGTON -Mall developer The Mills Corp. said Tuesday it now favors a $1.6 billion offer from Simon Property Group Inc. and hedge fund Farallon Capital Management LLC-a deal that tops an earlier takeover agreement Mills made with Brookfield Asset Management Inc. 
Chevy Chase, Md.-based Mills said its board of directors concluded that the Simon-Farallon deal, at $24 per share, is "superior" to Brookfield's pro­posed $21-per-share deal, valued at $1.35 billion. The board authorized Mills to end the Brookfield deal. 
Mills said in a statement that it will give Toronto-based Brookfield three days to top its previous offer, however, before it breaks the origi­nal agreement, signed Jan. 17. The company said it "is ready and willing to negotiate such an amendment" with Brookfield. 


THE OBSERVER 










USINESS 
page 7 

Jury finds Walgreens not guilty 
Unanimous verdict ends $2.5 million civil lawsuit over racial discrimination 
Associated Press 
RENO -A jury Tuesday 

cleared Walgreen Co. of 
racial discrimination 
alleged in a $2.5 million 
civil lawsuit brought by 
four black Texas men who 
say they were wronged in 
a confrontation at a Reno 
drug store four years ago. 
The six-woman, two­

man jury in Washoe 
County District Court 
deliberated less than an 
hour after listening to 
seven days of testimony 
The unanimous verdict 

capped a dramatic trial 
that saw the judge repeat­
edly admonish both legal 
teams and the lead plain­
tiff, Bruce Johnson, 44, of 
Houston, taken from the 
courthouse by ambulance 
last week when he suf­
fered an asthma attack 
after aggressive cross­
examination. 
In their lawsuit, the four 

men claimed that a photo 
lab clerk shouted a racial 
slur, slammed a door and 
denied them service after 
they complained about the 
quality of their photo­
graphs at the downtown 
Reno store in February 
2003. 
Walgreens' lawyers 

acknowledged the clerk 
slammed a door and 
walked off the job but 
denied the clerk uttered lenge some rulings "that he told the jury. "Please let the jury before they began 
the n-word and main­kept out a lot of informa­Walgreens know there is deliberations that in order 
tained the incident was a tion that I think should no more harmful word to award damages to the 
case of poor customer have gone to the jury with such history and men they must prove they 
service absent any racial about what Walgreens meaning for an entire suffered "monetarily com­
bias. knew" about the clerk group of people." pensable physical or emo­
"Obviously, we're accused of the miscon­But a lawyer for the tional injuries" as a result 
pleased with the verdict," duct. company, Clark Vellis, said of Walgreens engaging in 
said Howard Rosenblum, a Silverberg said in closing the four men were "pro­"extreme and outrageous 
lawyer for Walgreens. arguments Tuesday morn­fessional victims" looking conduct considered in a 
"We take allegations ing that the men deserved to "turn justice into civilized society to be atro­
such as this very serious­millions but would accept money." He urged the cious and utterly intolera­
ly," he said. "Walgreens just $1 as justice served. jurors to base their verdict ble." 
has said all along we don't "It was wrong for on facts, "not sympathy or That conduct does not 
tolerate discrimination of Walgreens to treat these inflammatory statements include such things as 
any sort.... It's good to see men differently for one about the Ku Klux Klan." insults, threats, indigna­
the system work." reason and one reason "Every time somebody tion or petty trivialities, 
A lawyer for the plain­only -the color of their has a bad experience, you she said. 
tiffs said they would skin," Silverberg said. can't sue. Every time Johnson, a gospel singer, 
appeal the case to the "These men stood up somebody does something said pursuit of justice in 
Nevada Supreme Court. against the 14th largest you don't like, you can't the case became his call­
"We're not done," Ian company in the U.S. for sue and try to turn it into ing and he launched a Silverberg told The four years to let money," Vellis said in his Web site, stopalldiscrimi­Associated Press. He said Walgreens know they closing argument. nation.com, to help others the appeal would chal-were not going to take it," Judge Janet Berry told facing a similar plight. 


Judge: Zyprexa papers confidential 
Though he labeled Berenson's the judge wrote while granting a
Associated Press conduct "reprehensible," the judge permanent injunction. 
NEW YORK -A federal judge has said his final order doesn't apply to The judge said his final order, 
stopped further disclosure of confi­him. though, didn't apply to the newspa­
dential documents that became the Berenson wrote a series of articles per or Web sites 
basis last year for a series of critical in late 2006 saying that the "No newspaper or Web site is 
stories in The New York Times about Indianapolis-based drug manufac­directed to do anything or to refrain 
the antipsychotic drug Zyprexa. turer had downplayed Zyprexa's from doing anything," he wrote. "No 
Ruling Tuesday in federal court in risks and marketed it for unap­person is being enjoined from 
Brooklyn, U.S. District Judge Jack B. proved uses, charges Lilly has expressing an opinion or writing 
Weinstein found that Times reporter denied. The documents also turned about the documents." 
Alex Berenson conspired with an up on Web sites before the judge Instead, the injunction bars 
Alaska-based lawyer, James granted the company's request for a Gottstein, Egilman and six other 
Gottstein, to obtain and illegally dis­preliminary injunction. people from further distributing 
tribute the internal documents from The reporter was deeply involved copies of the documents. It also 
Eli Lilly and Co., the maker of in a scheme to subvert the sealing orders them to turn over any papers 
Zyprexa. The judge had sealed the order by having Gottstein subpoena still in their possession to a special 
material while a settlement in a con­the documents from Dr. David master overseeing evidence in the 
sumer lawsuit was pursued. Egilman, an expert for the plaintiffs, case. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
The lntkptmdmt, Daily N~apn Sertlin.g Nom Dnme arrd Saittt Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CoNTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4 543 sporrs.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

Top 10 w-orst Valentine's Day gifts to give a girl this year 
Valentine's Day is here once again. Many of you will spend this evening with your Valentine "same-side" dining at the dining hall, or if your boyfriend is lucky enough to have borrowed a roomie's car, enjoy­ing the oh-so-roman­tic atmosphere of Chili's, or perhaps even The Vine. If you are like me, however, you are most likely to be found pigging out on the box ofchoco­lates your mom sent you while watching "The Notebook" until your tear ducts run dry, alone in your room. Yet if you do fmd yourself single this Valentine's Day, fear not, for over the years I have dis­covered that on Valentine's Day, girl­friends are left unsatisfied, while their boyfriends are left in the doghouse because they cannot live up to their girl­friend's "unrealistic" expectations. That does not sound like "the Holiday of Love" to me. But being a girl myself, I understand a woman's expectations on Valentine's Day: they are not that high. Therefore, I have compiled a list of the Top Ten Worst Valentine's Day Gifts to Give a Girl this Year. This way, the fellas will know how not to end up in the dog­house, and unless I've missed a bad gift or two, the ladies will finally have a happy Valentine's Day. So men, read up, 

Katie Palmitier 
A Word to the lt'ise 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
and ladies ... you can thank me later. 
10. Anything that looks like it might have been purchased at a gas station­Sure, we all have a soft spot in our heart for last-minute spontaneity, but two packs of Big Hed and a Zippo lighter isn't exactly what we have in mind. 
9. Stale eandy-Candy is as much a part of Valentine's Day as the color red. That said, when we open up a box of choeolates and find three pieces miss­ing, two pieces cracked open in search of the caramel filled, and almost break a tooth on one of the remaining pieces, we're going to assume that you are sim­ply re-gifting the candy that you're ex­girlfriend gave you last year. 
8. Dinner on the cheap -Guys, Valentine's Day is not the time to call your girlfriend and say, "I know we had reservations at La Salle Grill, but I just found a ton of change in my car, and I could really go for some quarter dogs tonight." You may be thinking, "What guy would ever say that?" Well, the same thought just crossed my mind, but then I remembered I spent last year's Valentine's Day in the Huddle ... 
7. A Facebook gift-We all know you get one free gift to give. And while a lit­tle picture of a lava lamp or a bar of soap may appear to be the key to your lover's heart, trust me, it's not. 
6. A serenade -An exception will be made if your boyfriend can croon like Frank Sinatra. However, for the rest of us, if your guy shows up at your door dressed as Cupid and tries to belt out "My Funny Valentine," it's most likely going to end awkwardly for everyone involved. 
5. A membership to the local gym­There is a fairly good chance that you will end up in the doghouse if you use Valentine's Day as an opportunity to gently suggest that your Valentine could stand to lose a few pounds before spring break. 
4. A Lasercat-Unless your girl­friend's name is Dr. Scientist, a Lasercat should not be your Valentine's Day gift of choice, because after all, some will use Lasercats for good, and some will use them for evil ... 
3. A vacuum cleaner-Believe it or not, trying to pass cleaning supplies off as an acceptable gift will not result in us volunteering to come over and clean your dorm room on a weekly basis. 
2. An invitation to come over and watch "24" with your roommates-It's not that we don't like your friends. Really, they're great guys. It's just that we don't want to spend Valentine's Day in a crowded dorm room watching Jack Bauer bite someone in the neck while saving the world one hour at a time. 
1. Step one: Cut a hole in a box. Step two ... 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and ·objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike GiUoon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishtd Monday rhrougb ~except during exam and vacnion periods. A subscription ro The Observer is $100 for one aadcmic year. $55 [Qr one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Sl!nd address contct:ions t-o: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Nolre Dame P.O.Boxn9 

and additional nulling_ offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc:pame.IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member-of the A.tisociat«<. Ptes5. All R:pmduction righn are rcscrvttl. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics 
Kaitlynn Riely Jeff Albert Marcela Sports Berrios Chris Khorey 
Jennifer Metz Fran Tolan 
Emma Driscoll Amy Dixon Viewpoint Scene Kara King Sean Sweany Tae Andrews 
® 

GRAMMY~ 

~ 


GRAMM\ 
® 

GRAMMY~ 

~ 


GRA"N 


OBSERVER POLL 
What was the most important factor in your vote for student body president? 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
fE:\ @ ® G 

1111~ fe€L...S, GRAMMY~ GRA 
GReAT AFT€R. OUR OWN Go\l€RI\JMeNT 
-ANP We
ATrAc~eD u'··· ~ 
WeRe RAPeD 
® 
AT A ~ACRO~~e GRAMMY~ 
@ 





QUOTE OF THE DAY 
SubmitaLetterI 
"Nothing takes the taste out ofpeanut butter quite like unrequited love." 
to tbe Editor at 1 
Charles M. Schulz cartoonist 
.. www.ndsmcobserver.com ~ 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
From 'We need to talk,' the dialogue continues 
Proud to be from Saint Mary's 
I wrote an article about the Notre Dame football team in 2005 saying that I was proud of their sportsmanship. If I would have known it would have been used against me, I would have kept my mouth shut. 
I am a fourth generation Saint Mary's student, and that is some­thing I am proud of. I am proud to say that when I graduate with a chemistry degree, it will be from a nationally accredited program. I am proud to say that I know my physical chemistry teacher so well that I would gladly give up my football tickets to keep that close bond alive. Saint Mary's is more than being able to reap the perks of Notre Dame. I love the idea that I'll never step into a class that is over 30 people. I know my teachers to the point where I have been invited to their houses for dinner. I always feel that my voice will be heard. 
This may not be every Saint Mary's woman's case, but I know it is the majority. We're not all here for the football games or to be managers or to be in the marching band. Students can do that at any university. We are here for the education and environment we know Saint Mary's can provide us. Besides, if Notre Dame students are just using Saint Mary's for the education classes, O'Laughlin, and Semester Around the World, what is that guy doing in nurs­ing? And who was that in the calculus three course? And I'm pret­ty sure no girl here bench presses 300 pounds. There is a road connecting the two schools. They do not have to be under the same name for all students to take full advantage of the opportunities both schools have to offer. 
Lastly, go Kansas State football. 
Christine Herdman junior LeMans Hall Feb. 13 
'Severing all ties' not the answer 
I graduated from Saint Mary's in 2005 and was a news writer for The Observer. Please don't kill me, girls (hear me out), but I think Jonathan Klingler's column ("Saint Mary's -We need to talk," Feb. 13) was a pretty good column. At least, it was well-written, well thought-out and not entirely one-sided. However, here are my opin­ions. · 
This issue is a matter of deep frustration for me and the majority of the Saint Mary's population. It's a struggle to legitimize our SMC-ness when, in fact, we do ass(')ciate ourselves so strongly with Notre Dame in many ways. I can't think of college without thinking of football, Notre Dame dorm/house parties, ski team (majority Notre Dame students), volunteering, eating in the Notre Dame dining hall; hell, outside of class I must have spent the majority of my college life across the street or with Notre Dame students. Even now I am attacked by the Notre Dame compari­son. 
We are supposed to justify why we are allowed these "rights" to "their" traditions, when we clearly did not get accepted or graduate from the same school. Well, true, Saint Mary's didn't agree to the terms of their merger. We want to hold on to our own identity. That's fme. But Saint Mary's also has to realize that it has to partly embrace the identity it has in Notre Dame as well. I think the label "Separate and Proud" opens the door to criticism and backlash, seeing as we enjoy so much of the Notre Dame culture. 
I'm proud to have been a Saint Mary's student. It was exactly what I wanted: my major, small classes, an excellent education. But can you imagine life without the school across the street? Some girls can't, and those girls transferred or found another school. But for those who thrive in the atmosphere that exists, they shouldn't be forced to "choose" one or the other. What is need­ed is not separate identities; Notre Dame and Saint Mary's need balance and an understanding. 
I don't know why I'm practically writing an edi­torial right now, but I'd hate to see us all rise up in revolt to throw rotten tomatoes across the street. It shouldn't have to come to that. If Saint Mary's is to remain separate, which it should, it needs to focus on its own unique strengths and not go head to head with the powerhouse that provides its students with so much opportunity or try to separate themselves even more. This shouldn't be a competition. 
So, I guess in all fairness, I appreciate opinions like this because the issue is one that won't go away and deserves addressing. I don't think it's a personal issue that Klingler has with Saint Mary's girls, but you know I'd say the same thing he did if Notre Dame was being hypocritical (taking pride in being separate yet clinging on to other traditions). I hope that, in the end, Saint Mary's will not be considered as tag-alongs, or as riding on the coat tails of Notre Dame, because we all know it's so much more than that. And all of our friends at Notre Dame would hopefully say the same thing. 
Anne Mahoney alumna Class of 2005 Feb. 13 

Saint Mary's alliance beneficial to both sides 
Notre Dame, it's your turn to listen. 
First and foremost, we understand why you feel taken advantage of by the stu­dents of Saint Mary's; however, we were under the impression that the Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross community hold a mutual relationship. You have not walked in the shoes of a Saint Mary's stu­dent-you have not seen how many of us have been mistreated while on the campus of "your" university for the sole reason that we are Saint Mary's students; you have not seen that although we participate in "your" clubs and activities, our partici­pation is limited because we are Saint Mary's students; you have not seen how hurt we were when our own sister school referred to us as a parasite of "your" uni­versity because we are Saint Mary's stu­dents. 
We support your sports, your publica­tions, your clubs and activities, your class­rooms, your traditions and heritage, and overall, your suc~ess. We give you the respect that we feel you deserve becaus'e you are a group of intelligent and hard­working college students. We smile with pride as we say, "I go to Saint Mary's, the school across the street from the University of Notre Dame." We love being a part of the community of Saint Mary's, Notre Dame and Holy Cross, and while many of you may think that we only want to be a part of your university because we "couldn't get in to Notre Dame," you could not be more wrong. 
We respect and honor you because the founders of both our colleges had a com­mon goal to educate men and women in a way in which they could learn to work and grow together -that is not the case today. Yes, we are given the opportunity to take classes at Notre Dame, but the number of students who actually t.ake classes is few. We are so busy with our own rigorous schedule and activities that it is very diffi­cult to find time or the opportunity to do so. 
While you disapprove of us taking classes across the street, we actually encourage you, Jonathan Klingler, to take full advan­tage of our classes, facilities and clubs. Our professors love to see new faces, hear new perspectives and teach anyone who is willing to put forth a great amount of effort. 
As far as our ability to purchase football tickets, we do not attend football games to see Brady Quinn and guys in tight l.mi­forms; we go because we have a genuine love for football. We know the players, the positions, the opponents, and some of us even know speCific plays. We wear head­to-toe apparel and we cheer as loud as we can. We ask you -the "best student body in the country" -would you rather have enthusiastic sports fans cheering in your student section, or mediocre fans who con­verse during the entire game? (Side note: Last season I was in section 63, the very last row in the student section, but I was too preoccupied cheering and doing push­ups to notice.) 
Saint Mary's students have a fond respect for the University and, in turn, we deserve the same. Our student body lead­ers use campaigns that exclaim, "Separate and Proud," because they realize we deserve a place that genuinely appreciates our intelligence as well as the contribu­tions we make to the College. If we are not receiving the same respect across the street why should we remain loyal when we are given the ultimatum, "choose whether [you] want to be 'separate and proud' or a part of Notre Dame." 
As much as we respect you, Notre Dame, we respect ourselves even m_ore to stand up for our dignity and our competence ... even if that means pulling away from something we love. 
Jessica Howle junior 
• Holy Cross Hall Feb. 13 
Klingler's column unfounded, unresearched 
This is in response to the unbiased and well-informed article writ­ten by Jonathan Klingler ("Saint Mary's-we need to talk," Feb. 13). I first wanted to thank Klingler for his intelligent analysis of the relationship between our two schools. 
Being a student at Saint Mary's, I was completely unaware of how much we were taking from the University, and I'd like to apologize for that. After all, students at Notre Dame certainly can't use our dining hall, our gym, participate in our activities, or join any of our clubs. That's obvious! And clearly the Notre Dame football ticket system must be rigged since SMC students get the better seats, despite paying more. So there is no way it could possibly be done randomly as we are all told. The students from Notre Dame that we Saint Mary's women see around campus must be illusions and not ­real people. They certainly wouldn't bother to participate in our Rome study abroad program and others, appear in our plays, and take classes here. I won't even bother mentioning that Klingler's own dorm, Keenan, must bring itself down by hosting its largest event, The Keenan Revue, on Saint Mary's campus. 
All that being said, I'd also like to thank Klingler for insulting an entire campus by using his poorly researched "facts," of which very few were correct, and clearly biased opinion. The elitist outlook he expressed is the kind of mindset that not only opposes the good rela­tionship our two schools have, but encourages more stereotyping of women here at Saint Mary's and perpetuates the silent rivalry between the women at both schools. 
More than that, though, I pity him. I pity Klingler because by writ­ing off an entire school he is missing out on around 1.500 opportuni­ties which he now undoubtedly misses out on of his own free will. This isn't referring to dates or "hook-ups" as I'm sure many are thinking. These opportunities are in getting to know and understand the women of Saint Mary's, and, in so doing, understanding better what makes our school "separate and proud" while still holding on to the traditions that created us. By saying that Saint Mary's needs to either sever all ties with the University or merge completely, Klingler forgets that he would be destroying a huge part of what makes the three schools in Notre Dame, Ind. so unique. His ridicu­lous accusations and unfair assumptions would destroy part of the identity that not only makes us the No. 1 Women's College in the Midwest (a fact which he failed to mention in Tuesday's article), but also mak~s his school the "top-20 undergraduate institution" it is. 
Caitlin Morrison sophomore Holy Cross Hall Feb. 13 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, Febru_ary 14, 2007 

TEN SONGS FOR THE ROMANTICALLY INCLINED 
Whether you're planning on celebrating this Valentine's Day by bringing sexy back or just engaging in some hardcore hand-hold­ing, it never hurts and can help in a lot of ways to have some mood-setting musical ambience as you spend some quality time with your significant other. Just whatever you do, resist the urge to emulate Justin Timberlake and his three-step plan for romantic gift giving. Cutting holes in boxes should be left to the professionals. Instead, here are some tunes to throw on the old LovePod and help turn your campus pad into a "Love Shack." 
"All My Life" -K-CI and JoJo 
Shades of middle school, anyone? Gentlemen, remember those awkward days of middle school dances, desperately trying to avoid eye contact with your date while simultaneously keeping your hands from sliding down from the small of her back while also leaving room for 
VALENTINE'S DAY UNO the Holy Spirit betwixt the two of you? This Valentine's Day, hearken back to that era of dance-ending slow songs. Of these, without a doubt, K-CI and Despite the chill of subzero JoJo's masterpiece remains the defining example of an era. Slow­of snow on the ground, dancing is optional. figurative (if not literal) oasis 
perma-cloud oppression ­"Crash" -Dave Matthews Band couples and "Ring by Spring," it This song was practically made for pulling off the old "yawn that the art of dating, even on a 
and stretch" routine. Just try to resist the urge to pull out a February 14th, would be lost. lighter and start singing along. prisingly enough, creative and 
scious Domers over the years have "Let's Get It On"-Marvin Gaye an impressive variety of date-like Depending on your position in your relationship, this one is you and your sweetie can enjoy 
either for the somewhat less-than-serious or for the very serious. Day on campus. Either way, a little Marvin is great for at least a laugh or two, or Given the holiday in question, perhaps something more, DuLac or no DuLac. that the romantic-minded 
begin their evening with an "Truly Madly Deeply" -Savage Garden a similar token of affection. ~wu""'" Again dipping back into the well of middle school-esque pop­sweatpants-clad, ball :an-w1~arm 
culture, Savage Garden's intense use of adverbs and nature­gal, LaFortune can meet all of themed lyrics ("I wanna stand with you on a mountain I I wanna date needs. The basement's Irish bathe with you in the sea") go a long way towards planting the a variety of flower arrangements, seed of passionate romance between you and your special person. ing a unique mix of your date's 
at the Huddle can make even the "My Girl" -The Temptations and considerate. This is a good one to use if you're going for the cute and sweet When asked the question "What 
approach. Used in conjunction with a scenic stroll around the most young adults would spring to lakes and some liberal use of Flex Points at Starbucks, your movie. At Notre Dame, the ""'v""llJJLL~ would-be significant other won't know what hit them. They defi­evening with these options are nitely will not be able to resist the "temptation." The default dining location 
and indeed, the token "dining "L.O.V.E." -Frank Sinatra of Notre Dame's young couples. It just doesn't get much more classy than Mr. Sinatra, does it? laden oak panels of ~outh or the 
Feel free to throw on this classic if you're taking your lady to a North, the dining halls allow for classy venue for a candlelit dinner, such as escorting your date mum immediate impact on your arm in arm to Flank Steak night at North Dining Hall. Those with slightly more 
ing to one of several vu--.,u·u~'"" "You're Beautiful" -James Blunt Greenfields or even Reekers. Seems crazy, doesn't it? Yet the proof of this straightforward sports-influenced tastes, and 
track by the appropriately named Mr. Blunt lies in the pudding. with a slightly more international Despite its somewhat stalkerish lyrics and JB 's ridiculous falsetto, a date funded by Flex Points, kids. his results can't be denied·-after recording this smash hit, Blunt The more financially went on to date the professionally hot Sports Illustrated swimsuit ture off-campus for a model Petra Nemcova. Please don't try to match him pitch-for­surrounding towns provide uv••uw•l'l pitch, however, as that will only end badly for you. well-known chains and 
dents often include the Olive "Melt With You" -Modern English and the ever-classy Chocolate Cafe This '80s-sounding track is a great feel-good jam and the per­When it comes to entertainment, 
fect song to pop in the old player as you and your lover defrost with a usually lengthy list of after braving campus hazards such as frozen tundra and broken events and SUB movies are always gas mains. As Modern English sings, "the future's open wide" for including PEMCo's "Ragtime" and you if you play this gem. of Our Fathers." For those wishing 
possible in recent temperatures, "You Look Wonderful Tonight" -Eric Clapton the Huddle's film selection takes In addition to just plain being something nice to say to your What makes a Notre Dame 
Valentine's Day date, this Clapton classic was made for intimate tie touches that only Domers moments. You could say it with candy and superhero-themed around Saint Joe's and Saint valentines, but sometimes you just have to trust in Eric C's sooth­cliche for those with a Notre Dame ing melodies and soulful guitar strums. temperature is below freezing, it's 
spend some time with that special "Unchained Melody" -The Righteous Brothers Capping off the stroll with a trip You're probably thinking this one is the black sheep of the fami­classic, with most students 
ly here, but give it a try. This old-school doo-wop has survived the area's many candles. And with the test of time and has allowed multiple generations of V-Day ever-watchful eye, the Notre Dame Casanovas to "get righteous" with their lucky ladies. sparkle to the Day. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu Con.tact Analise Lipari at rrlilrJa.riC4 The views expressed in this column are those of the author and The views expressed in this not necessarily those of The Observer. necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
'' 

' .I 



Tae Andrews 
Assistant Scene Editor 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
page 11 

THE DOME 
er and ever-increasing amounts PS bring Notre Dame students a he drudgery of South Bend's e's Day. In this culture of steady ht seem to the casual observer 
like wer, and sur­
nee-con­eome up with :tivities that 
Valentine's 
. would hope ould opt to of flowers or 
for the 
Analise Lipari

Jomer guy or 
last minute Assistant ardens offers Scene Editor ,nd formulat­)rite candies 
ziest among us look thoughtful 
ould you do on a typical date?" 
he default option of dinner and a ties of enjoying a romantic ly endless. 
be one of the two dining halls, 
ate" is a popular option for many tether you opt for the tradition­, re modern and contemporary 
ximum food selection with mini­llet. .ated tastes might think of head­taurants, including Legends, ds is perfect for those with more field's otl'ers a different selection air. Nothing says "romance" like 
~d among us may even opt to ven­y dinner, and South Bend and its short of a virtual Mecca of both aurants. Popular choices for stu­
. the Irish pub Fiddler's Hearth n downtown South Bend. 
most weekends provide students .s for under $10. Plays, dorm iable options, with recent events st weekend's SUB movie "Flags 
o walk as few extra yards as 
ting a romantic comedy from thing more than a student !D. ruly unique, however, are the lit­
know and understand. Walking lakes, for example, may be 
background, but even when the till a default and timeless way to omeone. 
o the Grotto is also another ND 
to say a prayer and light one of Mary atop the Dome lending an tradition is sure to add a special 
nd.edu n are those ofthe author and not 
BREAK-UP 

SONGS 
TEN SONGS FOR SOLITARY SINGLES 
I know what you're thinking. You're sitting in your dorm room, play­ing Halo if you happen to be a guy, or doing whatever it is that girls do in their free time (playing with Barbies?). Meanwhile, you're looking wistfully out your window at the merry couples frolicking in quad snow, wishing that you weren't a victim of Notre Dame's estranged gender relations and had a special person to share Valentine's Day with. Well fear not, for the friendly folks here at the Observer Scene Section have com-~ 
piled the perfect playlist for you to take your mind .· . 
off of your V-day blues. On a day renamed by some 
as Singles Awareness Day, there's no need for you to . ;;'I ;;. 
stay sad-get glad! Or mad, depending on how you 
like to cope with your failures regarding the oppo­
site gender. Either way, here are some tunes to keep 
that chin up. Who needs love, anyway? 

Tae Andrews 

"Complicated"-Avril Lavigne 
As a teeny-bopper wannabe-rock star, Avril Assistant Lavigne is clearly the heir apparent to angry female Scene Editor artists such as Alanis Morisette, poised and ready in the wings to take over the title of "Most Disgruntled Female Star on the Planet." This heartfelt track goes into depth about the complexities of trying to reconcile adolescent romance with the social challenges of being cool. 
"You Are So Last Summer" -Taking Back Sunday 
Nothing says, "this relationship is over and I'm in no way bitter at all" than using some valley-girl speak to tell off your ex. Using such lyrics as "You could slit my throat I And with my one last gasping breath I'd apologize for bleeding on your shoes," this song will be sure to keep that tail droopy, Eeyore. Remember, you can't spell "mope" without "e-m-o." 
"Ain't No Sunshine" -Bill Withers 
This track by the serendipitously-named Bill Withers will let you feel right at home as you wither and waste away in your dorm room. Interestingly enough, "Ain't No Sunshine" could also be a fitting com­ment to describe the current fresh-air situation here on campus. Seasonal Affective Disorder? Singles Awareness Day? Coincidence? Probably not. Either way, you're SAD. 
"My Paper Heart" -The All-American Rejects 
Feeling insecure in your relationship? Time to embrace some emo. Take refuge with these Rejects, who not only revel in their exalted loser status, but feel compelled enough to share their lack of luck in love with the rest of the free world. 
"Let Her Cry" -Hootie and the Blowfish 
Sometimes the best way to get over a painful breakup is to take it out on the next person who has the misfortune of crossing paths with you. So here's to letting her down hard, gentlemen. 
"Jude Law and a Semester Abroad"-Brand New 
Girlfriend studying abroad? Take comfort by celebrating your inse­curities with this song, in which college-aged frat boys wax poetic about the pain of their unrequited love from overseas ex-girlfriends. 
"Layia" -Eric Clapton 
Despite your Facebook stalking and awkward forays on the quad, does that special someone in your life rebuff your every advance? Enter "Layla," Eric Clapton's song about the most famously ruthless female of all time. So the next time you find that your unicorn has "got you on your knees," feel a sense of compatriotism with Mr. Clapton. 
"I Want You To Want Me" -Cheap Trick 
This one's pretty straightforward, but unlike the kill-yourself ethos of the emo genre, the song manages to stay fairly upbeat with a hip, old-school rock sentiment. Play this track if you're trying to say, "I like you, but I'm not desperate." 
"Respect" -Aretha Franklin 
The anthem of scorned women everywhere, this classic simultane­ously allows women to stand up for themselves while expressing female solidarity, much as the Spice Girls did several decades later with their hit, "If You Wanna Be My Lover." If you're looking for a little added backbone, feel free to throw this one on and feel better about yourself. 
"Cry Me A River" -Justin Timberlake 
Perhaps nothing speaks more about unreturl).ed romance than the poppy sensibilities of a former boy band head honcho. Best of all, lis­tening to the high-pitched mourning of JT will allow you to bust out some sweet choreography to Timbaland's unique beats. As the saying goes, cry yourself a river, then build a bridge and get over it. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not 
necessarily those of The Observer. 

'MISS SUNSHINE,' THE 'LITTLE' FILM THAT COULD 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Editor 

Editor's Note: This is the third in a five­part series on the 2007 Oscar nominees for Best Picture. 
"Little Miss Sunshine" is the Little Movie That Could, a small film that flew under the radar upon its initial release, but gradually gained steam to become this year's dark horse Best Picture nomi­nee. 
There seems to be one every year ­the film whose very nomination is a bit perplexing, who seems overmatched and undermanned in the furious race for cin­ema's biggest prize. "Little Miss Sunshine" garnered a nod over bigger and more visible films like "Dreamgirls" (the leader of the pack in terms of pure numbers, with eight nods) and "Children of Men." 
For some reason, the Academy really likes to throw in one of these kinds of films every year. Consider some of the Best Picture nominees over the past decade: "Chocolat" (2000). "In the Bedroom" (2001). "The Cider House Rules" (1999). "Elizabeth" (1998), and "The Full Monty" (1997). None of these films had the clout and marketing power of the bigger studio productions and each was doomed almost from the start to be an also-ran. 
So why, without fail, does the Academy nominate a film that has almost no chance of winning? Well, history has proven that these kinds of films actually do have a slim chance of winning. The appeal with a film like "Little Miss Sunshine," which isn't being marketed as hard as some of the bigger pictures in the race (including the no-show "Dreamgirls") is that it allows voters to "discover" it on their own without being told to like it. It's the same kind of appeal that drove the last two Best Picture win­ners, Paul Haggis' "Crash" and Clint Eastwood's "Million Dollar Baby," respectively. Neither of those two films had much Oscar buzz in the early going ("Crash" was even released in the sum­mer, an almost definite sign that it was­n't being considered for the awards sea­son), but the buzz gradually gained momentum and hit its apex on Oscar night -before any backlash could befall it. 
Those two wins indicate that there's something of a shift in mentaiity -the "Miramax Marketing Machine," which so succe·ssfuily used snob appeal to drive "The English Patient" (1996) and "Shakespeare in Love" to Best Picture wins, has come up empty in the past few years. Oversaturation of the last two Scorsese pies, "Gangs of New York" (2002) and "The Aviator" (2004), led to a backlash that cost the films (and some say Scorsese as well) come Oscar night. 
Unlike the Best Actor and Best Actress races, which seem to be sewn up well before Oscar night, there really aren't very many guarantees in the Best Picture race. Upsets happen, and with startling frequency. Neither "Crash" nor "Million Dollar Baby" nor "Shakespeare in Love" were the favorites walking in the door, and it seemed almost inconceivable at the time that they would topple the jug-gernauts that were "Brokeback Mountain," "The Aviator" and "Saving Private Ryan," respectively. 

If "Little Miss Sunshine" wins the Best Picture Oscar on February 25, it will indeed be an upset, but perhaps not as big an upset as people will make it. With no clear frontrunner, it's entirely possible that "The Departed" and "Babel" will split the vote, allowing a smaller fllm like "Little Miss Sunshine" to slip through the cracks and take home the top prize. 
Is it probable? No. But it wouldn't be the first time that an upstart fllm came from left field to be named the Best Picture. Just ask Clint Eastwood or Paul Haggis. 
Contact BriaJ) Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
ECLECTIC CAST GAINS CRITICAL ACCLAIM 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 

"Little Miss Sunshine" stole the hearts of millions with its quirky humor about a, dysfunctional family riding across the country in an aged, yellow VW Bus. While the film itself represents some of the best of American art-house cinema, the cast is composed of Hollywood vet­erans, staples of comedy and newcom­ers whose stars are rising. Alan Arkin, Steve Carell and Abigail Breslin fill these labels and headline the cast of this impressive riff on pre-teen beauty pageants. 
Alan Arkin 
The multi-talented Alan Arkin has acted, directed and composed literature and music for longer than most of the rest of the cast has been able to say "Oscar." He starred in films such as "Catch-22" and "Edward Scissorhands" and even made an appearance on the children's staple "Sesame Street" in the early 1970s. He is nominated for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actor due to his outstanding performance as the heroin-addicted Grandpa in "Little Miss Sunshine." However, this is not the first time acting accolades have come his way. 

In his first screen appearance as Lt. Rozanov in the 1966 film "The Russians are Coming, the Russians are Coming," Arkin became one of only five men to be nominated for Best Actor in their debut performance. He went on to star as Bill in the Tim Burton classic "Edward Scissorhands," and played George Aaronow in the film adaptation of David Mamet's Pulitzer Prize winning stage play "Glengarry Glen Ross." With this resume, Arkin was perhaps the most highly regarded actor in "Little Miss Sunshine." 
Steve €arell 
Most know this rising star as Michael Scott, the boss on the American version of "The Office." His goofy antics have graced films such as "Bruce Almighty" and "Anchorman." But in "Little Miss Sunshine," he took a page out of "Bruce" co-star Jim Carrey's book and took on a more serious, dramatic role as the gay Proust scholar, Uncle Frank. Although funny at times, this role allowed Carell the dramatic space to explore a character more complex than any of his previous roles. 
With his breakout role in "The Office," Carell won a Golden Globe for the Best Performance by an Actor in a TV Series Musical or Comedy in 2006 and was nominated for the same cate­gory in 2007. He was also nominated for an Emmy in the equivalent category in 2006. After getting his start as a cor­respondent on "The Daily Show" and working with comedic greats like Jim Carrey and Will Ferrell, Carell has at last found his own niche where he can thrive. 
Abigail Breslin 
For her portrayal of Olive Hoover in "Little Miss Sunshine," 10-year-old Abigail Breslin has become the fourth youngest actress to be nominated for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. She earlier appeared in films such as Mel Gibson's "Signs" and "The Princess Diaries 2." Even at such a young age, Breslin has earned the respect of fellow actors such as Arkin and Greg Kinnear for her work in "Little Miss Sunshine." Although this rising star does not yet have many credits-to her name, she will be an actress to watch in the coming years. 
Arkin, Carell and Breslin anchor this cast and give the strongest performanc­es in "Little Miss Sunshine," but the other actors, including Greg Kinnear, Toni Collette and Paul Dana also do admirable jobs. Together, they combine to form the engine which has propelled "Little Miss Sunshine" to the brink of Oscar glory. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@ndedu 
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15 AT 7:30 PM LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
TICKETS: $.16. $30 FACUlTY/STAFF. $30 SENIORS. AND $15 ALL STlJDFNTS 
PERLMAN/SCHMIDT/ BAILEY TRIO 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 AT 8 PM 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL 
$30,$25 faculty/staff/seniors, and $15 all students 
Legends of Notre Dame and the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center have created a fantastic package that includes dinner at Legends and a ticket to the Perlman/Schmidt/Bailey Trio performance. Tickets for the package are $38 (a 25% savings on performance tickets and 40% savings on dinner). Your coupon for dinner will be held with your ticket at the ticket office and needs to be picked up before your 6PM dinner reservation at Legends. 
FEMALE HIP-HOP BALLET COMPANY INTERPRETS STRAVINSKY 
TUESDAY, MARCH 7 AT 7:30 PM WEDNESDAY, MARCH 7 AT 7:30 PM DEClO MAINSTAGE THEATRE I STUDENT TICKETS: $15 
BROWNING 
CINEMA 
Unknown (2006) Screenwriter Matthew Waynee (NO '95) is scheduled to be present Directed by Simon Brand NR, 98 minutes Thu, Feb 1 5 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Baraka (1992) Directed by Ron Fricke PG, 96 minutes Fri, Feb 1 6 at 7 pm 
Fast Food Nation (2006) Films with (an environmental) Conscience Directed by Richard Linklater R, 116 minutes Fri, Feb 1 6 at 1 0 pm Sat, Feb 1 7 at 1 0 pm 
Rashomon (1950) PAC Classic 1 00 Directed by Akira Kurosawa PG-13, 88 minutes Japanese language with English subtitles Sat, Feb 1 7 at 3 pm 
Our Daily Bread (2005) Films with (an environmental) Conscience Directed by Nikolaus Geyrhalter NR, 92 minutes Arabic and German language with English subtitles Sat, Feb 1 7 at 7 pm 
Time of the WoH (2003) Films with (an environmental) Conscience Directed by Michael Haneke R, 110 Minutes French language with English subtitles Sun, Feb 18 at 4 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
NBA 

Wade scores 35 to lead Miami over Portland 
12-point fourth-quarter lead Defending champs before recovering to beat the Chicago Bulls Tuesday night. 
head into All Star The victory was the 28th for Toronto, giving the Raptors onebreak with .500 record more win than all of last sea­
son. 

-Associated Press 
Bosh finished with 25 points MIAMI-For the Miami Heat, and 14 rebounds for the this was a night of comebacks. Raptors, who ended a 15-game 
First, coach Pat Riley said losing streak against the Bulls he'II return after missing six stretching back to Dec. 6, 2002. weeks because of knee and hip Andrea Bargnani added 22 surgeries. Then Dwyane Wade points for Toronto. shook off a bruised left shoulder In the closing seconds, and outscored Portland by him­Chicago's Tyrus Thomas self in the final quarter. blocked a layup attempt by T.J. 
Now, the Heat's long trip back Ford but Bosh rebounded and to .500 is complete, too. Wade was fouled by Thomas before had 35 points and the Heat beat hitting both free throws. Portland 104-85 on Tuesday Ben Gordon, whose three­night, giving Miami seven wins point play with 12.8 seconds left in eight games entering the All­had given the Bulls a 111-110 Star break. lead and capped a 13-0 run, put 
''I'm just glad we won. We've up a jumper that was short at gotten to the point we kept talk­the buzzer. ing about," said Heat interim The Raptors, winners of nine coach Ron Rothstein, who went of their last 11, went ahead by 13-9 as Riley's replacement and eight points early in the fourth helped the team recover from quarter when Jose Calderon being six games under .500 on converted a three-point play Jan. 27. "Now this is our and moments later fed Bosh for launching pad for after the a basket that made it 94-86. break." Finding holes in the Chicago 
Wade had 16 of his points in defense, Calderon made three the final quarter, one more than straight Toronto baskets to the Trail Blazers managed as a increase the margin to 12 with team, and almost single-hand­about 6 minutes remaining. edly decided things with three Coming off a seven-game road straight baskets in an 88-sec­trip, the Bulls got 30 points ond span early in the period. from Luol Deng and 26 from 
Miami led 73-70 entering the Gordon. fourth and the game was still in Chris Duhon's 3-pointer with doubt when Juan Dixon hit a 3-1:27 to go closed the deficit to pointer with 9:14 left, but five and after two Toronto miss­Wade's three baskets pushed es, Duhon connected again from the lead to 85-75 -the Heat's the corner, another 3-pointer biggest at that point -with that made it 110-108 with 35 straight time. "It was a tough second-half deficit to beat the Nowitzki added two free throws 
· 7:46 remaining. Miami would seconds remaining. night with three of their top Milwaukee Bucks Tuesday night of his own for the final margin. lead by as many as 21 in the Bosh's pass went off Anthony four not out there. It was pretty for their eighth straight win. final minutes. Parker's hands and out of much a throw away game. They The Mavericks, with the NBA's Grizzlies 108, Hornets 104 
"He showed why he is one of bounds with 21.1 seconds to go battled and did everything they best record at 43-9, outscored Hakim Warrick scored 15 the best players in the league," and the Bulls had a final could. It's impossible to be very the Bucks 28-11 in the fourth points, including six straight in Portland's Joel Przybilla said. chance. successful with that many peo­quarter as Milwaukee self­a key stretch late in the fourth "He just took over. They showed Gordon drove the lane and hit ple out." destructed with six turnovers quarter, and grabbed 12 why they are the world a bank shot as he was fouled, The Spurs only needed 18 and failed to hit a field goal in rebounds to lead the Memphis champs." tying the game with 12.8 sec­minutes to take control of the the final 7:05. Grizzlies to a victory over the 
Zach Randolph had 17 points onds left. His free throw gave game. They used a 12-4 run at Dallas took its first lead of the New Orleans Hornets on and six rebounds for Portland, the Bulls a short-lived lead. the end of the first quarter to game, 93-92, with 1:04 to play Tuesday night. and Jarrett Jack added 16 take a four-point lead and then on Nowitzki's layup after the Mike Miller scored 22 points points for the Trail Blazers, who Spurs 107, Nets 82 took advantage of 13 straight Mavericks got a third chance to lead Memphis. had a modest two-game win­Beating the New Jersey Nets misses by New Jersey at the after a pair of offensive Chucky Atkins added 19, ning streak snapped. has never been a problem for start of the second quarter to rebounds. Rudy Gay had 18, and Junior 
• Portland was only 4-for-13 the San Antonio Spurs. push the advantage to 24. Milwaukee's Ruben Patterson, Harrington and Pau Gasol 11 from the floor in the first 10 With Jason Kidd and two "We're trying to get better as who finished with 20 points, each. The win was the Grizzlies' minutes of the fmal quarter and other starters out of the lineup, a team," Duncan said after the tied it at 93 by hitting the sec­first against a team in the wound up shooting 42 percent this time it wasn't even much of Spurs avoided tying their sea­ond of two free throws, but Southwest Division. No team for the game -compared with a game. son-high three-game losing Nowitzki, who finished with has ever gone winless in the 56 percent by Miami, which Tim Duncan scored seven of streak with their third win in eight assists, drove and found division. narrowly missed matching a his 21 points in a 20-0 San eight games. "Consistency has­Jason Terry for a 16-foot Tyson Chandler had 17 points franchise record by blocking 14 Antonio spurt to start the sec­n't been there. As fun as it was, jumper that put Dallas ahead and a franchise record-tying 23 shots, and forced 17 turnovers ond quarter and the Spurs ran that's the way we need to play 95-93 with 34.9 seconds left. rebounds for New Orleans, that led to 27 points. away from the injury-ravaged all the time." With a chance to tie, the which snapped its three-game Nets on Tuesday night. Bucks missed yet another shot, winning streak. Desmond Raptors 112, Bulls 111 "The Nets are in a bad way, Mavericks 99, Bucks 93 with Charlie Bell misfiring on Mason scored 23 points and 
Chris Bosh sank two free injury-wise" coach Gregg Dirk Nowitzki had 38 points an 18-footer. The Mavericks got David West had 22 to lead the throws with 2.1 seconds left Popovich said after the Spurs and 11 rebounds and the Dallas the rebound, and Jerry Hornets. Jannero Pargo added and the Toronto Raptors blew a beat the Nets for the eighth Mavericks overcame a 16-point Stackhouse hit two free throws. 11. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rbe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

andersonNDrentals.com OFF CAMPUS HOUSING. BUM-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Clare-PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­BACAHOUSES offers you the stu-The day I fell in love with you was ONE WHO IS? FoR SALE Luxury townhome,walk to ND. dent big savings for 1,2 or 3 yr. Do not go it alone. one of the best days of my life. You do not have to be alone. lease. Super clean. Visit our web We want to help. 
2001 MERCURY GRAND MAR-3or4 bed/3.5 bath. site and compare us to the competi-If you or someone you love needs It was the day you came over and 
QUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT lion. Call Cosimo 277-1875. confidential support or assistance, burnt popcorn. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline 
CONDITION. 51,000 MILES. ONE 07-08,08-09. $600/Bed/mo. After we fell asleep on the couch at 1-800-No-ABORT or visit our 
OWNER,$6,500. CALL 243-5454. Leases available for 2007-08: 3,4,5 please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, together, I woke for just a second, website at 574-360-2569. bdrrn,3 bath homes,frpls,2-car long enough to see you were still www.lifecall.org garages. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-at 1-7819. squeezing me. FoR RENT BETTER HOMES,BETTER 683-5038. mw -happy valentines day mon AREAS,BETTER DEALS. For more information, That night, it was snowing badly petit kitty! House available for 2007-2008. when you left. BlueGoldRentals.com PERSONAL visit our web site at All I could think about was you get-Willpower guy, Very Large, ling home safely to Mama and I've been in love with you ever Close to Campus, Newly renovated home for rent, 3 COMMON SENSE COMPUTER http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Papa T. since I first saw you in action. You bedrooms, 2 baths, close to repair,clean-up,reload, data back-nant.shtrnl Clare, I will always be your man. are always on my rnind. Just Renovated. ND/SMC. up. Will you be my valentine??? Available now and for 07-08. Student discount. 1.5 mi. from ND or see our bi-weekly ad in The I love you! Happy Valentine's Day All rny love, Contact MacSwain@gmail.com Inquire @574-289-7791. 728 E. Colfax 574-217-8851 Observer. Bebe! Love Tim Keating 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's \VIRE sERVICEs page 15 
NASCAR 

NCAA Hockey USCHO.com/CSTV Top 20 
team  record points previous  
1  NOTRE DAME  24·5·3  765  1  
2  Minnesota  23·5·3  756  2  
3  New Hampshire  22·5·1  750  3  
4  St. Cloud Stale  18·5·5  685  4  
5  Maine  19·8·2  589  7  
6  Michigan Slate  18·8·3  583  6  
7  Boston University  15·5·8  554  8  
8  Denver  20·11-3  501  5  
g  Clarkson  19·7·4  498  10  
10  North Dakota  16·11·3  420  11  
11  Michigan  21·10·1  409  9  
12  Miami (OH)  21·10·4  403  12  
13  Boston College  16·10·1  312  15  
14  Colorado College  16·11-3  286  13  
15  Sl.lawrence  17·11·2  251  16  
16  Vermont  15·11-4  193  14  
17  Niagara  17·10·3  119  18  
18  Cornell  12·9·4  106  20  
19  Massachusetts  13-10·5  73  17  
20  Quinnipiac  14·10·5  49  19  

NCAA Hockey CCHA Conference Standings 
conference overall 
team record record 

1 NOTRE DAME 18·3·3 24-5·3 2 Miami(OH) 15-7·4 20-10·4 3 Michigan 16·7-1 21-10·1 4 Michigan State 14·6·3. 18•8·3 51 Nebraska-Omaha 10·10·4 13-13·8 
Ohio Stale 10·10·4 12-13·5 7 Western Michigan 11·12·1 14-15·1 8 Lake Superior 9·12·3 15-14-3 9 Alaska 7·12·5 9·15·6 10 Northern Michigan 9·16·1 12•20·2 11 Ferris Slate 6·15-2 9-19·3 12 Bowling Green 4·19-1 6-24·2 
NCAA Women's Basketball Big East Conference Standings 
conference overall 
team record record 

1 Connecticut 11-0 22-2 2t louisville 8·3 22·3 Marquette 8·3 20·4 
Rutgers 8·3 15·7 51 Pittsburgh 7-4 19·5 South Florida 7-4 17-7 NOTRE DAME 7-4 16-8 81 Seton Hall 7·5 15·8 West Virginia 7·5 16·9 10 DePaul 5·7 15-10 11 Cincinnati 4·7 13·10 121 Providence 3·8 13·11 
St.John's 3·8 1-15 14 Syracuse 2·9 8·16 15 Georgetown 2·10 12-13 16 Villanova 1·10 Hf 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Ohio State at Penn State 7 p.m., ESPN 
Maryland at North Carolina State 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Duke at Boston College 9 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Chicago at Pittsburgh 7:30 p.m., CSN 


Associated Press 
DAYfONA BEACH, Fla. ­NASCAR vowed last sum­mer to crack down on cheaters, pledging to toughen penalties in a sport where bending the rules is as common as banging bumpers. 
Officials made good on that promise Tuesday. 
NASCAR suspended the crew chiefs for Matt Kenseth, Kasey Kahne, Scott Riggs and Elliott Sadler and docked all four drivers points before the season-opening Daytona 500 its strongest statement to date on cheating. 
All four cars failed quali­fying inspection, and a fifth, Michael Waltrip's startup Toyota Camry, faces additional penalties that could be even more severe. 

"It'_s obvious that we've ramped up our penalties and we're going to get peo­ple's attention," competi­tion director Robin Pemberton said. "We're going to grab this one by the horns." 
Robbie Reiser, crew chief for Kenseth, and Kenny Francis, crew chief for Kahne, were suspended four races. Rodney Childers, crew chief for Riggs, and Josh Brown, crew chief for Sadler, were suspended two races. 
Kahne, Riggs and Sadler 
IN BRIEF 

Barber ends NFL career, set to 
join NBC's 'Today' Show 

NEW YORK -Former NFL running back and new "Today" show corre­spondent Tiki Barber said his offsea­son work at Fox News Channel made him recognize he had a passion for a career outside of sports. 
Barber also said his problems with New York Giants head coach Tom Coughlin had "started to take its toll on me." 
The just-retired NFL running back was formally introduced as an NBC Universal employee Tuesday. He'll con­tribute news and human interest sto­ries to "Today," and he'll be an analyst on NBC's Sunday highlight show "Football Night in America" in the fall. 
He spurned offers from Fox and ABC/Disney to take the NBC job. "My dream has always been to be on the "Today" show," Barber said. 
Barber, 31, retired as a Pro Bowl running back, scoring a touchdown in the NFL all-star game last weekend. 
are teammates at Evernham Motorsports. Kenseth, the 2003 series champion and runner-up last season, drives for Roush Racing. 
All four crew chiefs can appeal, a process that could allow them to work the Great American Race. If they do and the commit· tee cannot schedule a hearing before Sunday's race, they would be allowed to participate. 
But Roush Racing already has a replacement for Reiser, and said the 500 will be the first race he has missed since the team's inception in 1999 -a stretch of 255 races. 
Reiser and Francis may 
Allen?. Qkur chosen to play in 
NBA: i\11-Star Game 
NEW YORK-Seattle's Ray Allen and Utah's Mehmet Okur were cho­sen Tuesday by commissioner David Stern as injury replacements for the All-Star game. 
With Steve Nash (shoulder) and Allen Iverson (ankle) both pulling out of Sunday's game in Las Vegas, the Western Conference was in need of a guard. Allen is seventh in the league with 26.9 points per game. 
Okur's clutch late-game play has helped Utah keep rolling despite the absence of Carlos Boozer, who was chosen for the All-Star game but also was forced to pull out because of a hairline fracture in his leg. That had left the Jazz, whose 34-17 record is third-best in the league, without a player in Sunday's game. 
Allen is headed to his fourth straight All-Star game and seventh overall. Okur is a first-time selec­tion 
not appeal because delay­ing the suspension could cause them to miss the debut of the Car of Tomorrow at Bristol Motor Speedway in March. 
In toughening its penal­ties, NASCAR made the unprecedented move of taking points away before the season has even start­ed. Kahne and Kenseth were docked 50 points apiece, while Riggs and· Sadler lost 25 each. 
Reiser and Francis also were fined $50,000 each, while Childers and Brown were fined $25,000 each. 
All four drivers will start the season with negative points a move that most likely infuriated the team. 
Illino}s !J~sk~tb~ll playerssustain IDJUries 10 crash 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill.-Brian Carlwell, one of two Illinois basketball players injured when their car went ofT the road and slammed into a tree on Monday night, is improving and could move into a regular hospital room soon, according to a University of Illinois spokesperson. 
Carlwell is expected to move out of intensive care on Tuesday night. He suffered a severe concussion in the single-car accident, according to Illinois spokesperson Kent Brown. 
Teammate Jamar Smith, who was driving, had a concussion as well. He was treated and released and, according to reports, should be fine physically. 
Illinois coach Bruce Weber spent the night in the hospital with Carlwell, a 6-foot-11 freshman cen­ter. 
"We just hope and pray Brian is going to be OK," Weber said. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles prepare for Albion 
Conference foes to square offagain after overtime battle last month 
By DAN COOPER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's will look to avenge its Jan. 17 overtime loss to Albion at 7:30 tonight at the Angela Athletic Center. 
Since that loss, the Belles are 5-1 and have worked their way to third in the MIAA with a 10-11 overall record and a 9-5 league mark. 
Albion, which is riding a two game winning streak, is 13-9 and 8-6, respectively. 
"We definitely have our hands full. They are a good team and they're on a roll," Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. "We're going to try to win the boards and limit their second chance opportu­nities." 
In its last meeting with Saint Mary's, Albion had a balanced offensive attack that showcased four double­digit scoring efforts. Three starters had 11 or more points, including junior for­ward Jessica Babcock, who scored 19. Sophomore for­ward Kati Till added 14 points off the bench. 
The Britons out-rebounded the Belles and shot a higher percentage from the floor en route to a 72-69 victory. 
"Babcock's a lot like [Belles guard Alison] Kessler. She will always get her points. We need to keep her below her average and limit the rest of the team," Henley said. 
Kessler had one of her best 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish get set to take on trio of ranked teains 

games on the season in the loss to the Britons. She was 12-of-22 from the floor with 31 points, four steals and three assists. Senior guard Bridget Lipke had a solid game with 12 points and 10 assists and freshman for­ward Anna Kammrath pulled down a game-high 12 rebounds. 
Albion has continued its winning ways since the last meeting, and the Belles had already matured by the time they first faced Albion. The Belles had a strong, balanced performance in their last game against Albion so the "we've improved s-ince then" pep talk that has worked for Henley all year does not apply. 
Regardless, Henley said Saint Mary's should enter this game with confidence knowing it played AI bion close in their last meeting and this time it has home court advantage. 
"We haven't played well our last two games and we need to get back on track," she said. "It will be nice to have a game at home because we have played well at home all year." 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper 1 @nd.edu 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 

No. 2 Notre Dame hosts No. 23 Michigan to kick off a tough three-match home stand today at the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 4 p.m. 
"Michigan is always a good team to play because you know they're going to play hard and fair," Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said. "It should be a really good match. They're undefeated and they beat Vanderbilt, Oregon, and 
Washington,  which  are  all  
quality teams."  
Michigan  senior  Jenny  

Kuehn, a fifth-year transfer from Tulane, leads the Wolverines with a spotless dual-match record this season. 
"[KuehnJ has a lot of experi­ence," Louderback said. "She played No. 1 and No. 2 singles at Tulane, and they were a top-20 team when she was there." 
After Michigan, No. 7 North Carolina {9-2) and No. 20 Wake Forest (4-0) will travel to South Bend for matches on Friday and Sunday, respective­ly. The Irish (6-1) are accus­tomed to playing highly ranked teams in a short time span. Two weeks ago at the ITA National Team Indoor Tournament, Notre Dame knocked off No. 13 Clemson, No. 10 Baylor and No. 6 Northwestern in consecutive days before falling to No. 3 Georgia Tech in the finals. 
"[The experience at the ITA] is really going to help, espe­cially against Michigan and Wake Forest," Louderback said. "They're just going through the tough part of their schedule now and they haven't gone through what we have, but North Carolina has." 

A key factor in Notre Dame's success has been its ability to capture the doubles point at the beginning of every match. The only time this season the Irish failed to capture the dou­bles point was in their loss against Georgia Tech. 
But even if Notre Dame does start the match ahead 1-0, Louderback says the Irish still have to remain cautious. 
"The thing that'll be interest­ing with Michigan is that they're 3-0, but they haven't won the doubles point yet," Louderback said. "So they struggle in the doubles but then they've come out and at least won four singles match­es." 
On the singles side, Irish freshman Cosmina Ciobanu has won all seven of her sin­gles matches this season while Catrina Thompson has gone 5­
2. No. 31 Colleen Rielley will try to halt a three-match los­ing streak against the Wolverines. 
"We've just had her hit a lot of balls. She just needs her confidence back. She's just had some tight matches and played pretty well," Louderback said. "The more she plays at the top of our lineup and gets more experience, she'II be fine." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
ASPIRE I I 
SUMMER 
SU111tnEr aT 
GeOrGETOWn 
UniVeRSITY 
G
et ahead by enrolling in Summer School 2007 at Georgetown University. Choose from over 300 courses and learn from the world's foremost faculty. Network and enjoy exclusive Washington access available only to Georgetown University students. 
You've had enough ordinary summer breaks. This year, aspire higher. 
Enroll in Summer School 2007 at Georgetown University. Visit summerschool.georgetown.edu or call 202.687.8700 
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
==============================================================~ 
embolism, in which an artery in the lung becomes blocked.
Lawsuit 
The scan also ruled that out, 
however. 
"There was no evidence Weis, who is seeking that this leak was present on unspecified damages, could Saturday at all," Dailey said. testify Wednesday. He and his Weis removed his own wife, Maura, sat in the front breathing tube at 9 p.m. row Tuesday. Mone said Saturday, Dailey pointed out. Patriots quarterback Tom Jennifer Wilson, an inten­Brady, who visited Weis in sive care nurse who was the hospital, also could testify assigned to care for Weis, this week. testified she eventually 
In a gastric bypass, an egg­became concerned there was sized pouch in the upper internal bleeding. She con­stomach is created by sta­sulted with a different doctor 
continued from page 20 
pling it off from  Sunday to order  
the rest of the  the  "barium  
organ and then  swallow"  test,  
connected to the small intes­tine. The most  "He spent days at death 's door."  which occurred at 3 p.m. that day. A leak was  
dangerous com­ detected,  and  
plication  is  Michael Mone  surgery  was  
leakage  from  Weis' attorney  conducted  two  

any of the con­nections. In Weis' case, the connection between the pouch and the small intestine leaked. 
Mone claimed Bodin failed to conduct a diagnostic test in which the patient swallows a solution that radiologists track to find leaks. He said that by Saturday morning, Weis was showing "classic signs" of internal bleeding. 
"He should have intervened at that point," Mone said. "He chose not to operate. It was not going to correct itself." 
But Dailey said a CT scan of Weis on Saturday showed no evidence of a leak. He said doctors were concerned that Weis' breathing problems may have been a pulmonary hours later. 
"He spent days 
at death's door," 
Mone said of Weis' condition after the sec­ond surgery. 
Five years later, Weis still suffers nerve damage in his legs as a result, Mone said. 
Weis became interested in the surgery after learning that AI Raker, weatherman of NBC's "Today" show, had gastric bypass surgery in 2002. The American Society for Bariatric Surgery esti­mates more than 177,000 Americans had weight-loss surgery in 2006, up from 47,000 in 2001. 
Five to 10 percent of patients suffer major compli­cations, Dailey said, and about 1 in 200 die. 
FACULTY/STUDENTS 
Brand New Dublin Village Townhomes for Rent Across from St. Mary's -behind Perkins 3 or 4 BR units available, 3 1/2 baths, 2-car attatched garage 
call Linda @ 708-460-5500 
to take great swimming on our history," Welsh said. "It's part." important not to rest on our
Revenge 
The Irish will likely rely on a laurels though. We want to do 
continued from page 20 combination of youth and it again." 
experience in their quest to In addition to its experienced Irish coach Tim Welsh said. take home their swimmers and "We know we have to chal­third consecu-divers, Notre Dame lenge for the meet, and we tive Big East will need strong
"We have a lot of
find that a pretty motivating title. performances out
freshmen in key
experience." Notre Dame of many team 
Judging by their record, has nine swim­positions." members making defeating the Mountaineers mers and divers their first appear­will be an arduous task. West who have gar­ance for the Irish
Tim Welsh 
Virginia has left opponents in nered all-BIG at the Big East
Irish coach 
its wake on its way to a 13-0 EAST accolades Championships, 
dual meet record and a  first­ at past Big East  
place finish in the Maryland  Championships.  
Invitational. It is worth noting,  Leading the way for the Irish  
however, that Notre Dame is  will be junior Jay Vanden Berg  
the  only  ranked  team  the  - the two-time defending Big  
Mountaineers have faced this  East champion in the 1,650­ 
season.  yard freestyle  as well as the  
"West Virginia  is  a  very  2005 Big East champion in the  
strong team,"  Welsh  said.  500-yard freestyle. Senior co­ 
"They sprint very  captain  Tim  
well. Four of their  Kegelman  will 

"West Virginia is a
five relays are also look to excellent, and very strong team. replicate past they have the top success at the
They sprint very 
seed in almost all Big East
well."
of the races this Championships. weekend. Kegelman, a 
"We have more Tim Welsh nine-time all-Big depth [than West East performer,
Irish coach 
Virginia] in some won the 100­events, especially yard fly, 200­in the middle and long dis­yard fly and the 200-yard IM tance freestyle and diving in 2005. events. If we compile a lead in "[Our past success] certainly those events, we might be able gives us some history and to hold them off, but it's going some confidence based on that 
Eleventh 
continued from page 20 
Nixon said. "We have a lot to look forward to in addition to the Big East." 
Such confidence should not be mistaken for a lack of respect for the 11 teams who will be trying to break Notre Dame's strangle­hold on the Big East Championships, Nixon said. 
"I feel like every year there's always some team that's gunning to take us down," senior Jessica Stephens said. "When you're on top, you always have to watch out because there's some team trying to knock you down." 
When asked who she expected that team to be this year, Stephens selected No. 22 Rutgers -an unsurprising pick given that the Scarlet Knights have fin­ished as the runner-up to Notre Dame in five of the previous seven Big East Championships. 
This season, Rutgers has com­piled a dual meet record of 6-1. The only blemish on the Scarlet Knights' dual meet resume came at the hands of No. 15 Penn State who defeated them 195­105 Jan. 20. 
The other team that could pose a threat to Notre Dame is West Virginia. Although the Irish defeated the Mountaineers earli­er this season 22~50-147.50 at the Shamrock Invitational, Nixon said West Virginia is a rapidly improving squad. 
"The West Virginia coach has done a great job recruiting since he took over two years ago," Nixon said of Mountaineers coach Sergio Gomez. "I don't know if they have the depth to compete with us, but they're up and coming." 
While the Mountaineers are a young team on the rise, the Irish are an experienced team full of confidence from previous suc­cess at the Big East Championship. Notre Dame will be led by senior captain Katie Carroll, a three-time NCAA tour-and Notre Dame's 
freshmen have been up to the challenge so far this season. 
Andrew Deters (1,650-yard freestyle), John Lytle (1 00­yard freestyle) and MacKenzie LeBlanc (200-yard fly) all hold the fastest team times in their respective events. Welsh described the role these swim­mers would play this weekend as pivotal. 
"We have a lot of freshmen in key positions," Welsh said. "We just want our freshmen to do what we want all our other guys to do, something we've been working towards all sea­son, and that's swim lifetime bests." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
nament qualifier. In her three trips to the Big East Championship, Carroll has amassed 11 Big East titles and 21 Big East honors. She was the named the Big East Championships' most outstand­ing swimmer in 2004. 
In addition to Carroll, the Irish will lean on the experience of junior Caroline Johnson, an eight-time Big East champion, senior Julia Quinn, the champion in the 200 breaststroke at the 2006 Championships, and soph­omore Christa Riggins, an all-Big East performer in five events her freshman year. 
"I think it's crucial, and I think it's a big part of how much suc­cess we've had," Nixon said, referring to her team's past suc­cess at the Big East Championships. "It gives you a lot of confidence in what you're doing, and it helps you know what it takes to win." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Turtle Creek Apart01ent Ho01es 
THE Place to be at NO!! Join us at the Clubhouse on February 14th for a 
Valentine's Day Open House 
From 10 am to 6 pm! All Current & Future Residents are Invited to Dip into a BUFFET of 
CHOCOLATE GOODIES TREATS, OHMY! 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 46637 Ph 574-272-8124 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
Nova 
continued from page 20 

D'Amico, who had totaled just eight points her last five games and was riding a three-game streak without a field goal, bounced back with 15 points in 18 minutes. 
On the defensive end, Notre Dame forced 20 turnovers, resulting in 22 Irish points. It was the 18th time in 25 games that Notre Dame has forced 20 or more turnovers. 
"We did a good job of get­ting turnovers and turning those into points at the other end," McGraw said. "Our transition offense is where we were able to break the game open," 
Villanova had no such defensive prowess. The· Irish turned the ball over only 8 times, a season low. 
Notre Dame led 34-25 at the half, and Allen had scored 15 of her 25 points on 7 -of-1 0 shooting 
"I thought we executed well, especially on the offen­sive end of the floor," McGraw said. 
In the second half, Villanova closed the gap, at one point trailing by 3. Forwards Stacie Witman and Jackie Adamshick, who led the Wildcats with 16 points each, combined for 12 quick points in the first five min­utes after the break. 
But after that point, the Irish steadily increased their lead, due in part to their abil­ity to get to the free throw line. Notre Dame made 10-of­14 free throws, while Villanova finished 4-of-6. 
Irish freshman Ashley Barlow started her second consecutive game and scored 15 points. Although the fresh­man did not make a field goal until 12 minutes into the sec­ond half, McGraw said Barlow's defense and stamina during her 38 minutes on the floor was a big part of the win. Barlow was also 5-for-7 from the charity stripe. 
For the second consecutive game, the Irish had four players in double figures. Senior guard Breona Gray rounded out the group, scor­ing 10 points and sinking both 3-pointers she attempt­ed. 

TRACK AND fiELD 

Piane sends runners to Windsor to i111prove 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Practice makes perfect. 

At least that's what Irish coach Joe Piane was thinking when he decided to send com­petitors to the Windsor Team Challenge Saturday. Even though the Irish did not quali­fy any additional competitors for the Big East champi­onships, which start this weekend, they improved their times in a competitive atmos­phere. 
"We had a couple of per­formances improve, like Jose [Genao] and Domenique Manning in the 60 [meter dash]," assistant coach John Millar said. "But in the most part it was more of a meet that we were using to prepare for this weekend and just give them a chance to compete away from the Loftus Center." 
The Irish women excelled once again in the sprints, tak­ing the top three spots in the 60-meter and 300-meter runs. In the 60, senior Maryann Erigha won the event, fol­lowed by juniors Brienne Davis and Manning. Freshman Joanna Schultz placed first for the Irish in the 300 with sen­ior Okechi Ogbuokiri and jun­ior Crysta Swayzer taking the second and third spots. 
Manning also took first in the 60 meters, while the Irish women won the 800-meter relay. 
"Overall for the women, the ones that competed here ran pretty well. And most of them ran pretty close to their sea­sonal best," Millar said. "But they ran better than last year at the same time so I felt real­ly good about that." 
On the men's side, the Irish were equally impressive. Genao set a seasonal best mark Saturday in the 60 meters while senior Jordan Powell set his own personal best in the 300 meters. 
The Irish won the 600-meter in convincing fashion, with juniors Austin Wechter and Robert Kueny taking first and second, respectively. 
Even though no one from the limited Irish squad qualified for the Big East champi­onships, the Irish still consid­ered the weekend a success. Going into the tournament, Piane said the main goal was to taper some of the runs for qualified runners in order to give them a little extra prepa­ration for the conference meet this weekend. This meant many of the races Notre Dame competed in, such as the 300­meter sprint and the 800­meter relay, are not Big East events. Millar also said the main goal was to help get the team ready for the Big East. 
"It was mainly a group of sprinters and quarter-miters and that sort of thing," Millar said. "But I think overall it was successful from the stand­point of preparing them for the conference meet and just getting one last competitive opportunity." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Notre Dame was choosy but effective with its outside shooting, making 3-of-5 on the night. Villanova, by con­trast, took 19 3-pointers and made only four. 
Notre Dame improved to 17-8 overall and 8-4 in the Big East. The win was the second conference road win for the Irish this season. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

WE'RE ANTI-ANTIBIOTICS 
(BUT PRO-CHICKEN). 
That's why we're serving naturally raised chicken. 
In fact, the chicken and pork we serve in South Bend are free of antibiotics and added growth hormones, fed a vegetarian diet and raised humanely. We think meat raised this way, naturally, tastes better. 
Serving naturally raised chicken is another step in our ongoing Food With Integrity journey -bringing you the best ingredients from the best sources. 
C~ipotle 
-SERVING NATURALLY RAISED CHICKEN IN SOUTH BEND ­
MEXICAN GRill 
1::' 
·~: MAIN & DOUGLAS ~· 
~ ~ 

Wednesday, February 14, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROISSANTWORLD 
So, WHAI" t>ID "fOU C:tE.T HE. F"'"­VAI..E..r4'TaNE.S t>Po'{? 
BLAcK DoG 


KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Nancy of "Access

1 Green course 
Hollywood"6 Nascar's 
38 "What wasGordon 

do?" 10 "Hey, you!" 
39 Port town on 14 Sao 
the English 15 Et 
Channel 

16 Bluesy James 40 Do, for example 
17 Item for William 41 Occupation with Tell 
an unsavory reputation

18 Already in France? 
43 It should be low on a diamond

19 Sauce thickener 44 Cry coming up
20 Souvenir, say 
to a barn 23 "Star Trek" fig. 
45 Long, long time 24 Holed up 
46 "Holy" one 25 Get comfortably 
48 Off-roader, forclose 

short 28 Have a bug 
49 Fall back 29 Cries of disgust 
52 2002 Bond film 31 A.C. stat 
56 Big maker of 32 Dessert with notebooks dark streaks 
58 Like some 36 Dark genre advice 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
0\.t ... 01-\ l 
I CcA...n...oN-r ue.-r 'lou AN'f T\-HN (:I S E.CAU$E. OF T\.tE 
C::tA.S 

,59 Symptom for an auto mechanic 
60 Stridex target 61 Book before ' Nehemiah 
62 Terra 63 Some are odd 64 Per 
65 Dimethyl _ (aerosol propellant) 
DOWN 1 Sudden burst 2 Name likely to 
come first in a class roll call 
3 Lies in wait 4 Body lotion ingredient 
5 Slalom alternative 6 World-weary 7 K-6: Abbr. a Vanuatu neighbor 9 Wedding planner 10 Rosie of "Fearless" 
11. Kind of romance 12 Early Beatie 
Sutcliffe 13 Weigh down 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
lS ~\S KINt> Of' l...li"-E. WHE.N '(OU fO(Z...C::ttST 'To P\C.\C.. ME.. UP FRoM WO~)C"... S\::CAUSE. of"" ~e. l...\ e P.A. P...'j f LOOO ?' 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
LIAMMORAN 
WILLSHORTZ 

30 Sacred image:  39 Nice's region  49 Head of  
Var.  41 Put into words  costume design  
32 "Haystacks" painter  42 One of Alcott's "little women"  50 Butter up? 51 One way to play  
33 Really go for  44 The "vey" in "oy  53 The Soup_  
34 Inhibitor  vey"  54 Shrek, for one  
35 "Bye"  47 Ferris wheels  55 Canine part  
36 Duel time,  and such  56 Bad beginning?  
maybe  48 Starters  57 Green prefix  

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JmJWID)1IE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, Soup, pot roast andone letter to each square, 

fresh baked breadto form four ordinary words. 
JYTET 

1 rJ [] 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
CNATH 
j 
1 
ri
tTAYRRM I 

E:NJOYEO BY L-OVE:­
IIJ 

BIROS ON 
www.jumble.com 

VAL-E:NTINE:'S DAY. 
LETEBE ± 


Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

A "r I I I II J" rI I xJ 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: GROUP PERKY LIQUID THRESH Answer: When the tipsy sailor was saved from falling overboard, he was -HIGH AND DRY 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kelly Hu, 38; Peter Gabriel, 56; Stockard Channing, 62; George Segal, 72 
Happy Birthday: Taking a chance or trying to get away with something will only end up in disaster. Ifyou are straightforward, you will get so much further ahead. Positive action is what will be required this year so rid yourself ofany negativity you've been harboring. Your numbers are 8, 13, 16, 23, 29, 41 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You can develop good relationships with people who can offer you stability in your work and your position in society. Travel. entertainment and developing an interest will all turn out better than expected***** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Emotional upset will cloud your day ifyou give in to negativity. Ignore what isn't working out for you and talk to the people who can help you. Keep things in perspective. ** GEMINI (May 21-,June 20): Everything you are trying to get off the ground will be up in the air today. Don't expect family or close friends to bail you out. Stick to the jobs you know that you can do alone. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You'll find yourself in a prime position when it comes to work, projects or money matters. The more you do to engage in something a little different, the more excited you will become about the possibilities that are ahead ofyou. * * * * LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's OK to be serious about money and making more of it". You don't always have to be the one who entertains everyone. Focus on how you can get ahead professionally, financially and personally. * * * VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Love and romance are looking very positive: A creative idea will catch your attention and lead you in an unusual direction. A partnership may appear to be shaky but once you talk matters through, you will realize you have a great connection. *** . . LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get involved in an activity you haven't tried before. You will enjoy the people you meet and the benefits of learning something new. Love may not tum out the way you expect. A career change will challenge you in a good way.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your time and effort into a creative dream. A new romantic opportunity may confuse you. Consider changing your personal life in order to pursue a new interest. A learning experience is in the stars. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): People who can offer you knowledge, insight and the cold hard facts will come into your life if you get involved in an activity or event that interests you. Travel --whether a short or long distance --will be eye­opening. * * * * * CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Greater involvement with social activities or people who interest you creatively will pay off in the ideas and opportunities that surface. Someone you meet through work will show interest in you. Be careful not to believe everything you hear. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Confusion and second-guessing will leave you in an awkward position. A problem while traveling or dealing with someone who doesn't agree with you will escalate. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look on the bright side of life and things will start to turn in your favor. You will have to deal with a partner who is probably a little confused in his or her way ofthinking. Showing what you mean rather then describing what you mean will bring better results. ** * 
Birthday Baby: You are quick to change your mind and always looking for new interests. You are a dreamer and an entertainer and you always put a lot ofenergy into whatever you pursue. You have drive, will power and backbone. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 

21 Tee off 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 22 Windows credit card, 1-800-814-5554. forerunner 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 26 Handy crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,00027 More refined 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).28 Experienced 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 29 Islamic decree solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
--------------------~-­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, February 14, 2007 
page 20 
NO SWIMMING 

Big East splash 
Men's squad looks to 1 0-time defending avenge loss to West champ women want Virginia, take title yet another crown 
By G~G ARBOGAST By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer Sports Writer 
When No. 19 Notre Dame Entering the Big East takes to the pool today in East Championships, No. 19 Notre Meadow, N.Y. for the start of Dame brings the confidence of a the Big East Championships, it 10-time defending champion. will enter as the two-time The Irish will be swimming for defending champion -just a Big East record 11th consecu­don't tell that to the Irish. tive conference title beginning 
A loss to No. 17 West this morning in East Meadow, Virginia earlier this season at N.Y. -something never before the Shamrock Invitational accomplished in any sport in Big bruised Notre Dame's image East history. Coach Carrie Nixon as the top team in the Big and her team, however, have East, and it left the Irish feel­even higher goals in mind. ing they have something to "We keep our sights set on the prove. NCAA Tournament, and setting 
"The result of losing to WVU our sights high helps us to turned us from defending a improve and stay motivated," title to challenging for one," Nixon said. "We have a lot to 
see REVENGE/page 17 see ELEVENTH/ page 17 

FooTBALL 

Lawyers give opening statelllents in Weis suit 
Coach alleges botched surgery; defense denies carelessness by doctors 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Doctors failed to recognize life-threatening complications after Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis' gas­tric bypass surgery, allowing him to bleed internally for more than a day, his lawyer said Tuesday at the start of the coach's malpractice trial. 
Weis had the surgery in June 2002 while he was offensive coordinator for the New England Patriots. He weighed 350 pounds and has said he wanted a permanent solution to years of weight problems, both for his family's well being and to improve his chances of becoming a head coach. 
Weis alleges that Massachusetts General Hospital surgeons Charles Ferguson and Richard Hodin acted negligently and left Weis 


so close to death that he received the Roman Catholic sacrament of last rites. 
The doctors maintain they did nothing wrong. 
Weis had difficulty breathing in the early morning a day after his June 14 surgery, his lawyer, Michael Mone, said in an opening statement in Suffolk Superior Court. On June 16, doctors performed a much more invasive surgery to fix problems caused by the ini­tial procedure. 
"For more than 30 hours, Mr. Weis continued to bleed," Mone said. 
Ferguson performed the sur­gery on a Friday, then left for the weekend. Hodin was charged with caring for Ferguson's patients while the doctor was gone, and per­formed the follow-up surgery on a Sunday. 
William J. Dailey Jr., an attorney for the doctors, told jurors the doctors acted appro­priately and that Weis was believed to be in good condi­tion the morning of the second procedure. 
"There was no carelessness," Dailey said. "Unfortunately, Mr. Weis experienced one of the complications that is known to exist." 
see LAWSUIT/page 17 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish win fourth straight 
ND forces 20 Villanova turnovers, cruises to 75-58 road victory 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
A tough defensive per­formance and strong play by center Melissa D'Amico and guard Charel Allen led Notre Dame to its fourth straight win, 75-58 at Villanova Tuesday. 
"It's always a difficult place to play, at Villanova," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said during her post-game press conference. "We were fortunate to come out with a victory tonight." 
The Irish started out hot, taking a 6-0 lead, but the Wildcats battled back to lead the game 11-8. 
That would be the last lead they would have. 
Jump-started by an Allen 3-pointer, Notre Dame went on an 11-point run and never looked back. 
Allen came out firing, scoring 13 of her 25 points in the first eight minutes of the game. She also took ­and made -the only Irish 3-point attempt of the first half. 
"I thought Charel Allen played an exceptional game tonight," McGraw said. 
see NOVA/page 18 


TRACK AND FIElD 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS
SMC BASKETBAll 
NBANASCAR NBA 

w 
c.:» 
Heat 104 RaHtors 112

Michiifn at

z Runners improve 
Notre arne 

Four crew chiefs are 
Trail Blazers 85 
Bu Is 111
The Belles look to suspended for Sunday's Two Chris Bosh freetheir times before Big Dwyane Wade scoresavenge overtime loss to
:3 

= 
East meet at the 
Today, 4 p.m. 

throws with 2.1 seconds Windsor Invitational. 
Albion at home today. 
Daytona 500. 
35 in Miami's win over 
The No. 2 Irish take 
Portland. 

give Toronto the victory. 
=: cc 

on the No. 23 Wolverines. 
en 
page 14page 14page 18 
page 16 
page 15page 16 
' . 








