
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
60 NDFCU members affected by scam 
Credit union president: Fraudulent e-mails tracked to Netherlands, source's identity unknown 
information to the after receiving one or more e­password, Ditchcreek said. 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Netherlands, Ditchcreek said. . mails from an unknown scam­. After the NDFCU learned of 
Associate News Editor 
The scammers may never be mer masquerading as the these e-mails Friday, a warn­
found, he said. NDFCU. ing was posted on the credit · 
More than 60 Notre Dame "Unfortunately in these Ditchcreek said the first union's homepage. Federal Credit Union {NDFCU) cases, it's almost impossible to wave of e-mails asked users to "If you have received an e­accounts may have been com­track down the criminals, click on a link and fill out a mail message that appears to promised as a result of a multi­especially at the international survey for the NDFCU. A pop­have originated from Notre part e-mail scam Friday, level," Ditchcreek said. "Nine up window asked them to enter Dame Federal Credit Union NDFCU President Leo out of 10 times you'll never dis­their member number and telling you that 'your access Ditchcreek said Tuesday. cover the identity of the fraud­password. has been limited' or asking you 
The NDFCU information sters, and that's very frustrat­· A different e-mail informed to participate in a survey, technology (IT) team tracked ing for the law enforcers and members their online access to please do not click on any links the origin of the fraudulent e­the victims, but sadly, it would their accounts had been limit­that ask for your personal mails -which rerouted users cost too much to launch a ed until they reviewed and information," the warning said. to a counterfeit NDFCU Web search abroad." confirmed their information. A Late Friday, a second wave of site that asked for their debit Over 60 NDFCU members link on the e-mail directed fraudulent e-mails capitalized card numbers and security have contacted the credit them to a site where they could codes. among other sensitive union to freeze their accounts enter their user name and see NDFCU/page 6 

ND ad focuses on research, service 
New TV commercial airs during Georgia Tech game, features University's Haiti Program 
that highlighted several Notre 
By THERESA CIVANTOS 
Dame students and their vari­News Writer 
ous fights for human rights. 
The commercial concluded 
Notre Dame's new commer­with a student asking the view­cial aired on NBC Saturday er, "What would you fight for?" during the Georgia Tech foot­The two-minute spot only ball game, trumpeting the aired once during the game. It University's research initiatives was the first of seven spots in Haiti. that will air during halftime of 
The ad opened with two min­Notre Dame home games this utes of footage of striking fall. Each spot focuses on a dif­poverty in the Haitian capital, ferent aspect of Notre Dame Port-Au-Prince. The segment humanitarian research initia­featured victims of elephantia­tives, said Associate Vice sis, a disfiguring disease that President for Marketing Todd causes swelling in the extremi­Woodward. The same 30-sec­ties, and highlighted Notre ond spot will follow all seven Dame's research initiatives ads. aimed at fighting the deadly "This ad shows that Notre disease. 
Next came a 30-second spot see AD/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Legends evacuated for gas leak 
Construction crew causes pipe rupture 
! 
1 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 

A construction crew acciden­tally struck a gas pipe approxi­mately 200 yards from the Mendoza College of Business Tuesday. said Rich Jacobs. general manager of nearby Legends of Notre Dame. 
More than 20 people in the restaurant and its adjacent parking lots were evacuated around 1:20 p.m., Jacobs said. 
A news release said the line was capped around 2:20 p.m. But Jacobs said he and his staff weren't allowed to reen­ter Legends until 3 p.m. 
Notre Dame Security/Police Director Phil Johnson did not return phone calls Tuesday. But Jacobs said he didn't think there were any injuries. 
Two accidental gas leaks already occurred earlier this year. 
On Feb. 13, seven buildings on campus -including DeBartolo Hall and Decio Hall -were evacuated after a leak. One month later, on March 26, a construction crew working 
•

on St. Joseph's Drive south of • the Center for Social Concerns 1 caused the rupture of another ~ gas line. 
1 
j 

Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
i 


Brown, Braun embrace year ahead 
President, vice president welcome student involvement against ordinance 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
Student body president Liz Brown and vice president Maris Braun have had a busy last few weeks -and it's only going to get busier. 
Since the end of July, Brown and Braun have been voicing concerns and negoti­ating compromises regard­ing an ordinance proposed by the South Bend Common Council to control large par­ties off campus. 
"I came back, ready to go, maybe because we already had the ordinance moving forward," Brown said. "But 
see BROWN/page 6 


l 
I


SMC prepares for I j beatification trip 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's will join the Congregation of the Holy Cross in celebrating the beati­fication of the order's founder, Father Basil Moreau, on Sept. 15 in Le Mans, France. 
The official letter from the four Holy Cross congregation leaders -Sister Joy O'Grady, Father Hugh Cleary, Sister Mary Kay Kinberger and Sister Kesta Occident -said the congregation will honor Moreau for the whole year. 
"Through Basil Moreau's legacy, we are called to a rad­ical identification to Christ, and to cultivate in our own lives union of hearts and zeal for the mission," the letter said. 
Pope Benedict XVI approved Moreau's next step toward sainthood on April 28, 2006. Pope John Paul II venerated Moreau on April 12, 2003 for the miraculous cures attrib­uted to him. 
Members of the Saint Mary's community will be present at the ceremonies, including stu­dents, faculty members and administrators. 
Saint Mary's senior Haley Nickell will be the only stu­dent the College will sponsor 
see MOREAU/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
King of Troy 
Freshman ladies: Looking for your 

future husband? 
Look no further than Michael Troy. 
I know what you might be thinking. 

Who is Michael Troy? 
Asking such a 

question is only Katie Peralta 
forgivable 
because young 
Miehael has 
News Wzre

graeed the Notre 
Editor

Dame campus 
with his presence 
for a mere 14 
days. This spectacular young lad 
hails from Charlotte, N. C., also my 
hometown. 
Our fathers played high school football together and have been best friends ever since. Vacationing, din­ing and partying together have been commonplace among the Troys and Peraltas for as long as I can remem­ber. 
Even at a young age, Michael 
proved wise beyond his years. I 
recall fondly one football weekend 
when Michael and his father came to 
visit my family when we still lived 
hero in South Bend. 
His fascination with Notre Dame 
and its football tradition was 
matehnd only by his superior intel­
lectual curiosity. Michael proceeded 
one evening to teach me how to play 
all of our eomputer games, including 
my personal favorite, Rollercoaster 
Tycoon. 
Michael's genius only grew in high school, as he fullill1~d his passion for physies when he joined Science Olympiad. Now Michael is not only a left-side-of-the-brain kind of guy. 
lie also made all the young ladies of' Charlotte Catholic swoon as a striking tenor in the mixed choral group. lie even shook his groove thing in the school musical. 
Before I knew it, my childhood friend was already looking at col­leges. lie knew all along that he belonged right here under the Dome. 
Nonetheless, my young friend visit­ed me at school, and the minute he set foot on campus, his sparkling blue eyes lit up and he began show­ing his parents around. 
I invited him to attend my astrono­my class, and Michael once again shocked the ladies in the class as he participated actively, proving to be more knowledgeable about super­novae and spaee-time than most peo­ple in the elass. 
Michael's line intellect intimidated college kids even as a high schooler. So you must be thinking that this guy cannot possibly be any better. 
Wrong. 
Young Michael is a certified life­guard and was a stand out on the high school state swim team (his disheveled, chlorine-bleached blond hair docs something to a girl I can­not explain). Michael also has his boater's license and a passion for exploring the uncharted romantic waters of tlul South Carolina coast. 
Tired of the monotony of campus life? Michael can show you a whole new world. 
I>awgs of Alumni llall, look out. You've got some tough competition on your hands this year. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser!Jer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publicarion and srrives for the highesr srandards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please comacr us ar 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT KIND OF MUSIC WOULD YOU MAKE IF YOU WERE AN ARTIST, AND WHY? 




Jarett DeAngelis  Kim Schlesinger  Roosevelt Kelley  Mallory Jacobs  Maggie Culhane  
grad student offcampus  freshman Lewis  senior offcampus  junior Lewis  junior McGlinn  
"lndie rock and ,,roll for me.  "Rock music, because it is my favorite. ,,  "Hip hop, because it's the poetry ofurban  "R&B, because itfeeds my soul.,,  "Bach's fugue, because it's like an Escher  

culture.,, 
Cops: Nude driver's conduct distracting 
ANGOlA, Ind. -A naked man driving along the Indiana Toll Road was arrest­ed and charged because his lewd conduct distracted other motorisl<>, police said. 
The 37-year-old Chicago man was traveling east to Ohio to visit his mother, police said. He was nude and had petroleum jelly on his hands when a state trooper pulled him over about 10 miles from the Ohio line Wednesday, police said. 
The man, who told police he was comfortable driving in the nude, was charged with misdemeanor indecent 



Atlanta 92 I 68 Boston 73 I 56 Chicago 88 I 67 Denver 89 I 61 Houston 91 I 76 Los Angeles 82 I 67 Minneapolis 90 I 63 New York 80 I 64 Philadelphia 82 I 64 Phoenix 102 I 88 Seattle 73 I 56 St. Louis 88 I 56 Tampa 92 I 75 Washington 86 I 64 
exposure, punishable by up to a year in jail. 
The trooper, AI Martinez, a four-year veteran of the Indiana State Police, said he walked up to the passenger side of the SUV and saw that the man had dropped a T­shirt across his midsection. Other motorists had called police about the driver, with several calls from truckers who could see into the front seat of the SUV. 
Convicted peeper sues to get pom back 
SAN RAFAEL, Calif. -A man recently jailed for secretly videotaping a woman and a teenage girl has sued a police department for the return of his massive porn collection taken during the investigation. 

Dennis Saunders, 59, filed suit against San Rafael police in Marin County Superior Court after the department refused to give back some 500 pornographic movies and 250 magazines his lawyer described as unrelat­ed to the peeping case. 
"There's absolutely no legal foundation for them with­holding perfectly legal adult­oriented material," Tiburon attorney Jon Rankin said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
drawing of music. ,, 
IN BRIEF 

The Suite museum will show "Between Figurative and Abstract," paintings by Gao Xingjan, today at 10 a.m. Admission is free. 
The  Snite  Museum  will  
show  "The  Camera  and  
Rainbow;  Color  in  

Photography" today. Admission is free. 
The public Policy Lecture Series will hold "Latino immi­grants in America: Our Past and our Future today at 4:30 
p.m. in 220 McKenna Hall. President and general council of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, John Trasvina will speak. 
The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center will hold screen­ings of the film "Dying to Live" Thursday at 7 and 10 
p.m. Director Dan Groody will be present for discussion. Admission is $3. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team will play the College of Charleston in the Shamrock Invitational Friday at 7 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame men's soccer team will play Rhode Island Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
The Show will take place Friday at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center. OK Go and Lupe Fiasco will headline the con­cert. Tickets are on sale in the LaFortune Box Office for $10. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

80 75 58 48 
HIGH LOW 
DUSTIN MENNELLA!The Observer 

Junior Lourdes Long, left, and sophomore Colleen Kelly speak at the first meeting of hall environmental commissioners Tuesday at the Center for Social Concerns. 
OFFBEAT 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

..... 
~ 

(.) 






0 
HIGH 90 HIGH 87
..J 
LOW 68 LOW 68 
83 63 

HIGH 90 LOW 68 
HIGH LOW 


Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
COR 


Students may form coalition for town relations 
Representatives discuss multi-school, community leaders council to work on student-resident communication 
Brown said.  COR members decided that  it is viewed as an important  treatment from the SBPD.  
By JOHN TIERNEY  She will meet again with city  Reish's plan would not provide  start.  "Student safety isn't a huge  
News Writer  leaders Thursday to discuss the  for enough con­ "We  need  to  priority for the South Bend  
committee's membership. The  sistency in the  bring community  Police, no more so than for a  
In its first meeting of the year, the Council of Representatives  coalition, Brown said, may not be restricted to Notre Dame stu­ student repre­sentation, but  "We need to bring  members and students together  normal person," Student Union Board (SUB) manager Phil Ross  
(COR), an advisory group to stu­ dents.  Brown  did  community members  on a more consis­ said.  
dent body president Liz Brown, concentrated its efforts on improving relations between  "Obviously, I would like to see Saint Mary's, !USB and Holy Cross students represented as  acknowledge that "it is a good idea to have a  and students together on a more consistent  tent basis, rather than just at 2 o'clock in the  Encounters with crime are "a way of life for many South Bend residents," Brown said.  
University students and the  well," she said.  separate  body  basis, rather than  morning,  when  However, student government  
South Bend community.  It is unknown which parties ­ between the uni­ just at 2  o'clock in the  somebody's  director of communications Will  
Brown updated COH members on her latest initiatives to com­bat the city's proposed ordinance  students, Common Council, SBPD or residents -will form and lead the proposed commit­ versities," leav­ing the door open for a four­ morning, when somebody's caught up  caught up in problems," Brown said.  Kearney believes there is a "massive misappropriation of judicial and police forces" in the  
that would requirP students who  tee.  school student  in problems."  Braun  hopes  city.  
live off campus to file a permit  Brown pid ask if "we should  council.  that the coalition  "Having nine or 10 cops in a  
with the city 10 days in advance to host parties wherP more than  single out Notre Dame as being the leader on this," but the COR  While the coalition would  Liz Brown  will not become just another  yard for one girl [who had received an alcohol citationI  
25 people could be drinking  members did not come to a con­ be  new  to  the  student body president  venue for discus­ doesn't seem valid at all," he  
alcohol.  clusion regarding a Notre Dame­ Notre Dame and  sion, but a start­ said.  
She announced the likely cre­ led student delegation.  South Bend com­ ing  place  for  To help students stay safe,  
ation of a community relations  Student body vice president  munities, similar organizations  action.  Braun suggested University-run  
coalition  that  would  bring  Maris Braun said students "need  have  been  established  at  "We talk a lot. We would pre­ educational programs for stu­ 
togPther leaders from the stu­ someone who conducts them­ Michigan State University and  fer to move to more concrete  dents who move  off campus,  
dPnt body, the city's Common  selves professionally" to sit on  the University of Rhode Island.  programs," she said.  teaching them about cautionary  
Council, the University faculty,  the committee, regardless of the  Braun said that Rhode Island  The council also addressed  measures they can take to avoid  
Notre Dame Security/Police and  sehoul he or she attends.  saw complaints against off-cam­ issues of off-campus student  break-ins.  
the  South  Bend  Police  Junior class president Bob  pus students decline by 39 per­ safety in the wake of the Aug. 21  COR plans  on  further dis­ 
Department (SBPD).  Reish proposed a group that  cent in the coalition's first year,  shootings at Club 23  on Notre  cussing community relations  
Various city leaders proposed  would include students from all  which she called "pretty impres­ Dame Avenue, where two stu­ issues next week along with foot­ 
the creation of the coalition at a  four institutions and elect differ­ sive."  dents were shot and wounded.  ball ticket lottery procedures.  
Friday meeting to "pursue differ­ ent representatives to attend  Though the coalition is not  Despite the incident, many  
ent avenues to address the prob­ coalition meetings and present  regarded as a final solution to  COR members agreed students  Contact John Tierney at  
lems of disorderly students,"  student perspectives.  community relations' problems,  should not expect preferential  jtierney@nd.edu  

University of Notre Dame Annual Drinking Water Quality Report 2006 Consumer Confidence Report 
The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act require each public water supply to produce a water quality report titled. the Consumer Confidence Report (CCR). Following is the University's annual report for the 2006 calendar year. 
The University's water system is a privately owned public water supply operated by the Utilities Department. The University's system provides water to the University community and the nearby C.S.C. properties. Questions regarding the system or sampling results can be directed to Paul Kempf, Director of Utilities, 102 Facilities Building, Notre Dame, IN 46556, phone 574.631.6594 or Erin Hafner, General Safety Specialist, Risk Management and Safety, 636 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556, phone 574.631.5037. 
There are currently six wells serving the water system, all located on the campus proper. The water is drawn from deep aquifers surrounded by substantial clay barriers that serve to protect the groundwater supply. We do not believe that our source is vulnerable to contamination. We are also taking steps to ensure that our water source does not become contaminated through our Wellhead Protection Program. This program assists in defining where the water supply comes from and methods to protect the aquifers from potential contamination. 
The sources of drinking water (both tap water and bottled) include rivers, lakes, streams, ponds, reservoirs, springs and wells. As ·water travels over the surface of the land or through the ground, it dissolves naturally-occurring minerals and, in some cases, radioactive material, and can pick up substances resulting from animal and human activity. 
Drinking water, including bottled water, may reasonably be expected to contain at least small amounts of some contaminants. The presence of contaminants does not necessarily indicate the water poses a health risk. More information about contaminants and potential health affects can be obtained by calling the Environmental Protection · Agency's (EPA) Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1.800.426.4791) or at the EPNs website at www.epa.gov/safewater. 
Contaminants that might be expected to be in source water (untreated water) include: 
• 
Microbial contaminants, such as viruses and bacteria, which may come from sewage treatment plants, septic systems, agricultural livestock operations and wildlife. 

• 
Inorganic contaminants, such as salts and metals, which can be naturally-occurring or result from urban stormwater runoff, industrial or domestic wastewater discharges, oil, pesticides and herbicides. 

• 
Organic chemical contaminants, including synthetic and volatile organic chemicals, which are by-products of industrial processes and petroleum production or can come from gas stations, urban stormwater runoff, and septic systems. 

• 
Radioactive contaminants, which can be naturally-occurring or are the result of oil and gas production and mining activities. 


Some people may be more vulnerable to contaminants in drinking water than the general population. Persons with cancer undergoing chemotherapy, persons who have undergone organ transplants, persons with HIV/AIDS or other immune system disorders, some elderly and infants can be particularly susceptible. These people should seek advice about drinking water from their health care providers. EPA/CDC guidelines on appropriate means to lessen the risk of infection from Cryptosporidium and microbial contaminants are available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1.800.426.4791) or at the EPA's website at www.epa.gov/safewater. 
Infants and young children are typically more vulnerable to lead in drinking water than the general population. In general, if you flush your could tap until the water gets as cold as it is going to get, you will have eliminated the potential metal contamination. Additional information is available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1.800.426.4791) or at the EPA's website at www.epa.gov/safewater. 
We have tested for over 150 parameters regulated by the EPA and the State of Indiana. Included in these tests were metals, volatile organics, pesticides, herbicides, synthetic organic chemicals and cyanide. 
Water Quality Data 

The table below lists the EPA's regulated and unregulated contaminants detected in the University's drinking water. All of the contaminants are below allowable levels. 
Not included in the table are the more than 150 other contaminants including pesticides, herbicides, metals, synthetic organic chemicals, volatile organic chemicals and others which were tested and not detected. 
Regulated at Point of Entry (Well) 


Substance Source of Contamination 
L.....§~!i'.~.m.w..ernL ... 
Definitions 


MCL: Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL). The highest level of a contaminant allowed in drinking water. MCLG: Maximum Contaminant Level Goal (MCLG). The level of a contaminant at which there is no known or expected health risk. ppm: parts per million. ppb: parts per billion. 90th Percentile: 90% of the samples were below the number listed. pCi/L: picocuries per liter. Since 1993, the University has been granted a Standardized Monitoring Framework (SMF 1), monitoring waiver. Due to the high quality of the water, the monitoring frequencies are significantly reduced. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
Two ND students named lSI honors fellows 
Institute places senior Brian Boyd, junior Rachel Miller among the nation's 50 'most talented undergraduates' 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame senior Brian Boyd, a philosophy major from G!HJrgntown, Texas, and junior Haehel Miller, a politi­cal seinnee and theology major from St. Louis, recent­ly were awarded prestigious Honors Fnllowships from the lntercollegiatn Studies Institute (lSI). 
Namnd among only 50 of "the nation's most talented undergraduates" selected from schools ineluding Harvard, Stanford and Yale Universities for 2007, Boyd 

and Miller attended an lSI summer conference in Quebec City, Canada, titled "Law in the Western Tradition: Common, Constitutional, Natural, and Divine," at which they explored questions of con­temporary politics, natural justice, natural law and natu­ral rights. They engaged in high-level, one-on-one debate and discussion with elite fac­ulty who teach in the human­ities and social sciences. 
Boyd and Miller, who both have earned Dean's List hon­ors in each semester of their 
several other Holy Cross con­gregations, helped plan the
Moreau 

events for the upcoming eere­continued from page 1 monies. "A general planning com­to attend. More than a dozen mittee for all the congrega­submitted essays to apply for tions [of the Holy Cross! met the position of student ambas­throughout the year," Schultz 
sador, according to Sister said. Hose Ann Schultz, vice presi­The opening of the beatif'i­dent for mis-eation celebra­
sion and one of tion will take the Saint "It is a graced place in Mary's dele­Laigne-en­
moment in our 
gates to the Belin, France 
common heritage as a
events. -Moreau's "I was Saint Mary's College birthplace, she brought up in a said.
community and is an
strongly On Sept. 15,
opportunity for us to
Catholic family the Mass and and I thought learn more about this rites of beatifi­it would be an cation will be
holy man whose 
amazing held in Le
vision for education
opportunity to Mans. Bishop see something was absolutely Jacques Faivre like this," of Le Mans will 
remarkable." 
Nickell said. preside, and The College Cardinal Jose 
is sponsoring Sister Rose Ann Schultz Saraiva Niekell, mathe­vice president for mission Martins, pre­matics profes­fect of the sor Joanne Vatican 
college careers, will partici­pate in a yearlong program designed to enhance their undergraduate education at Notre Dame. It will include an lSI Career Development Seminar and continuing direction from their faculty mentors through online dis­cussions. 
The mentors also will pro­vide insight on internships, job opportunities, graduate and professional programs and related issues, and the students each will receive large collections of free books and journals. 
Ad 
continued from page 1 
Dame is Catholic without overtly saying 'Catholic,"' Woodward said. "We hope that a viewer would watch it for 30, 40 seconds before knowing it was a Notre Dame ad." 
That more subtle approach to religion is a signilicant shift from two years ago, when the University aired its "Candle" ad, featuring a girl in church who later receives an accept­ance letter from the University and looks to the sky in prayer. 
The ad fueled debate among students and alumni who found the religious message more narrow than welcoming. 
Last year's ad, on the other hand, was much less divisive. The spot used variations on the "Play Like a Champion Today" signs and showcased aceomplished Notre Dame 
Boyd, the executive editor of the Irish Hover, an inde­pendent student publication, also is involved in Sustained Dialogue, a student group dedicated to improving race relations on campus, and serves on the advisory board for Notre Dame Magazine. Last spring, he studied in Home at the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas (commonly called the Angelicum) and plans to pursue graduate studies in philosophy. 
Miller, also an editor of the Irish Hover, spent the sum­mer serving at Maggie's Place, a hospitality home for troubled pregnant women in Phoenix, as part of a Summer Service Learning Project through Notre Dame's Alumni Association and Center for Social Concerns. She is a member of Notre Dame Saint Mary's Hight to Life and Pi Sigma AI ph a, the political science honor society. 
Founded in 1953, lSI works to identify the best and the brightest college students and to nurture in these future leaders the American ideal of ordered liberty. 

alumni in different 'fields. ship." 
The new commercial, Stavinoha said the portrayal Woodward said, has drawn of the University's work in widespread positive feedback. developing countries brought 
"It's not like  out  Notre  
any other col­ Dame's commit­ 
lege  ad,"  he  ment  to  both  
said. Georgia Tech's ad,  "This ad shows that Notre Dame is  service research. "At  and Notre  
which  aired  Catholic without  Dame,  our  
next to Notre Dame's, fea­tured a robot­ overtly saying 'Catholic."'  Catholic identity and commitment to service are  
ic arm playing  very much unit­ 
the  school's  Todd Woodward  ed ....  A Notre  
victory march. Senior TylerStavinoha and  associate vice president for marketing  Dame education is about more than sitting on  
Father  campus reading  
Thomas Streit,  books,"  said  
director of the  Stavinoha, who  

University's Haiti Program, spent eight weeks working in narrated most of the ad, the Haiti Program. which can be viewed at "Notre Dame uses academ­nd.edu. ics to make a difference in 
"Notre Dame is not afraid to people's lives," he said. be different, to be unique ... to help change the world," Streit told The Observer. Contact Theresa Civantos at "That's how you show leader-tcivanto@nd.edu 
Snow and Director of Donor Helations Addie Cashore to attend the ceremonies in France as Saint Mary's ambassadors. 
College President Carol Ann Mooney, her husband, George Efta, Schultz and other fac­


Every member of the delega­tion had to submit an essay application to take part in the eolebrations. 
The group will leave Sept. 12 and will return on the fol­lowing Tuesday. 
Upon their return, Nickell and the other attendees will present their experiences to the sehool. In November, they will travel to Chicago to pres­ent to the Chicago Club of Saint Mary's. 
Niekell said she was excited about attending the beatilica­tion given Moreau's contribu­tions to Saint Mary's. 
"It is such a big deal because if it wasn't for Father Moreau, we wouldn't be here today," she said. "It's really oxciting." 
Saint Mary's, along with 

Congregation for the Causes of tiHl Saints, will represent Pope Benedict XVI and will present the papal decree, sig­nifying Moreau as blessed, Schultz said • 
"Beatification recognizes Basil Moreau's commitment 
INTERRACE FORUM 
ulty and staff "/The beatification] is to holiness, 
members will expressed in
such a big deal because 
also attend. his desire to 
More than 130 ifit wasn't for Father serve people 
people serving Moreau. we wouldn't be wherever in ministries there was a
here today. It's really 
sponsored by need,". she the Sisters of exciting." said. the Holy Cross On Sept. 16, will attend, a Mass of
Haley Nickell 
Schultz said. thanksgiving
Saint Mary's senior 
will be cele­

brated at the Cathedral of St. Julian. Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, former archbishop of Washington D.C., will preside, Schultz said. 
She called the event a mile­stone for the Holy Cross com­munity. • 
"It is a graced moment in our common heritage as a Saint Mary's College commu­nity and is an opportunity for us to learn more about this holy man whose vision for education was absolutely remarkable," she said. "Moreau's vision has inspired members of this college to carry on his enduring mission of education." 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO I @saintmarys.edu 
'/1 PIECE OF THE PL!ZZLE: LIFE AT ND" 
SEPTEMBER 12, 2007 5:30P.M. COMO STUDENT LOL1NGE 
Join us as we begin the new academic year with a discussion of identity 
and finding our place not only here at Notre Dame, but in the world. 
RSVP: Friday, September 7 by 5:00p.m. 631-6841 or msps@nd.edu 
INHI\1\.'\CI· F<lR ll.\1 
Phom:: .S74-6) l-h841 E-mail: msp~(q•nd,(•du 


Recycle The 








ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 5; 2007 COMPILED FROJ'v1 TI--IE OBSERVER'S W1RE SERV1CES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Jamaican PM will not concede 
KINGSTON-Jamaica's first female prime minister faced pressure to concede defeat Tuesday as officials began a fmal tally of bal­lots from an election praised by international observers as "professional and transparent." 
With her party apparently suffering a razor-thin defeat in Monday's vote, Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller refused to give up, saying the final count-expected to take about two days -could shift enough close races for her People's National Party to win. 
Preliminary returns gave the opposition Jamaica Labor Party 31 of the 60 seats in the House of Representatives -a margin just large enough to end the governing party's nearly 20 years in power. 
Police detonate old WWII bombs 
BEHLIN-The earth shakes briefly in Berlin's Mittelheide city park, and a cloud of rain­soaked dirt rises over the ferns in the woods. Police have just detonated a football-sized anti­tank grenade from World War II. 
More than 60 years after the war's end, removing unexploded bombs, grenades and artillery shells remains a full-time task for police and private companies all over Germany. 
It's an occurrence so common that police explosives experts Thomas Mehlhorn and Joerg Neumann can joke about their delicate job as they sift warm pieces of shrapnel from wet dirt reeking of sulfur. 
In Berlin, an average of 900 explosive cleanup operations take place each year. Of these, about 100 unexploded bombs are deemed too danger­ous for removal -a job for "sprengmeister," explosives experts like Mehlhorn and Neumann, who blow them up on site. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Rich adventurer missing in Nevada 
RENO -Millionaire adventurer Steve Fossett, who has cheated death time and again in his successful pursuit of aviation records, was missing Tuesday after taking off in a sin­gle-engine plane the day before to scout loca­tions for a land-speed record, officials said. 
Teams searched a broad swath of rugged ter­rain in western Nevada near the ranch where he took off. but searchers had little to go on because he apparently didn't file a flight plan, a Federal Aviation Administration spokesman said. 
"They are working on some leads, but they don't know where he is right now," FAA spokesman Ian Gregor said. 
Fossett, the first person to circle the world solo in a balloon, was seeking places for an upcoming attempt to break the land speed record in a car, said Paul Charles, a spokesman for Sir Richard Branson, the U.K. billionaire who has financed many of Fossett's adventures. 

Deaths, doctor fatigue unrelated 
PHILADELPHIA-Cutting the grueling work hours of doctors-in-training had little effect on reducing patient deaths, according to two large studies. 
Death rates dropped in one group of patients in veterans' hospitals but not in three other groups, the researchers reported. 
The results come from what the authors describe as the largest and most comprehen­sive national look at work-hour restrictions, which were implemented four years ago in an effort to reduce medical errors by tired physi­cians. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Manhole murderer sentenced 
SOUTH BEND -A homeless man who pleaded guilty to murdering four other homeless men whose bodies were dumped in manholes was sentenced Tuesday to 65 years in prison. 
Daniel J. Sharp, 55, of South Bend in May pleaded to four counts of murder in the slayings of Michael S. "Shan" Nolen, Michael W. Lawson, Jason Coates, and Brian Talboom. Their bodies were found inside two South Bend manholes over four days in January. 
Prosecutors said the killings were carried out with the help of another homeless man, Randy Lee Reeder, 51, and were sparked by a dispute over a space heater. 
IRAQ 

Commander: Next four months crucial 
Lieutenant General Odierno calls for more evaluation before reducing U.S. presence in Iraq 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -The No. 2 
U.S. commander in Iraq said Tuesday that the next three to four months will be cru­cial in determining whether the United States can start to withdraw troops from Iraq without sacrificing security gains since the troop buildup began early this year. 
Lt. Gen. Raymond Odierno said the number of attacks in August fell to their lowest level in more than a year, although he gave no figures. Odierno insisted that overall violence was declining -a sign that the buildup ordered by President Bush was working. 
"I think the next three to four months are critical," Odierno told reporters. "I think that if we can continue to do what we are doing, we'll get to such a level where we think we can do it with less troops." 
Bush himself raised the possibility of a reduction in the 160,000-strong U.S. force during his surprise visit Monday to al-Asad Air Base in Anbar province, where Sunni Arab sheiks have been turning against al-Qaida in Iraq. 
Bush said U.S. Ambassador Ryan Crocker and the top commander gade" allies -an apparent president and resist before by unknown gunmen Gen. David Petraeus "tell me response to the burgeoning Democratic calls to begin in east Baghdad. if the kind of success we are revolt against the terror bringing the troops home as The eight were traveling now seeing continues, it will movement. soon as possible. to a training session out of be possible to maintain the "These battalions, with U.S. officials acknowledge town when they were same level of security with God's help, will perform privately they have not abducted. Relatives identi­fewer American forces." their duties in· an excellent turned the corner in restor­fied their bullet-riddled bod­
Crocker and Petraeus will manner during the month of ing security, even as they ies in a hospital, ministry report to Congress next Ramadan and the enemies insist that trends are favor­spokesman Aziz al-Shamari week on security and politi­of God will suffer a lot," the able. Last month, civilian said. cal progress since Bush dis­statement said, referring to deaths across Iraq rose to at In Mosul, 225 miles north­patched 30,000 extra troops the Islamic season of fasting least 1,809, the second high­west of Baghdad, gunmen to Iraq to curb sectarian that begins in about two est monthly total this year, ambushed a car in the city warfare. Petraeus is expect­weeks. according to figures com­center Tuesday, killing three ed to point to a dramatic Odierno said U.S. forces piled by The Associated men and a woman, police decline in violence in Anbar were alert to the possibility Press. Brig. Gen. Abdul-Karim al­province thanks to a grass­of increased attacks during At least 42 people were Jubouri said. roots revolt against al­Ramadan but in the run-up killed or found dead across Despite some improve­Qaida. to the holy month "violence the country Tuesday, ments in security, Iraqi 
On Tuesday, an al-Qaida has been going down." according to police reports. politicians have made little front group announced on The optimistic tone of The Electricity Ministry progress in reaching power­an Islamist Web site that it recent U.S. statements announced Tuesday that sharing agreements among was forming new suicide appears aimed at persuad­eight of its engineers and Shiites, Sunnis and Kurds ­battalions to strike at the ing moderate Republicans in technicians were kidnapped considered essential to last­Americans and their "rene-Congress to stand by the and murdered the day ing peace. 


Budget director faces challenges 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Former Rep. Jim Nussle, President Bush's choice for budget director, is likely to find him­self in the middle of! a series of fights with the Democratic-controlled Congress. 
Foremost among the challenges facing the Iowa Republican ­expected to be confirmed by the Senate on Tuesday -is a glut of unfinished spending bills. Other budget battles between the adminis­tration and congressional Democrats include extending farm subsidies and a popular health insurance program for the poor, and renewing more than 40 expiring tax cuts. 
The Oct. 1 beginning of the 2008 budget year is looming, and the Senate has passed just one of 12 bills to fund the agency budgets that Congress is required to pass each year. 
Veto threats hang over most of the bills and a long and contentious fall budget season is expected. It's com­monly assumed that whichever bills are vetoed or not even passed by the Senate will be bundled into a multi­bill "omnibus" measure. 
Some Democrats questioned whether Nussle-who gained a rep­utation as a partisan unpopular dur­ing eight terms in the House -is the right choice to be Bush's point man in budget talks with Democrats. At some point, it will take backroom talks to produce a deal on the unfin­ished appropriations bills. 
But Bush has staked out a hard line in his public statements so far, vow­ing to veto spending bills that exceed his $933 billion "cap" on the one­third of the federal budget dished out by the appropriations committees each year. Democrats exceeded Bush's appropriations limits by about $23 billion in drawing up their budg­et plans. 
However, the Senate on Tuesday took up a bill providing $64.7 billion in discretionary budget funding for veterans' programs and military base construction. Bush has not threat­ened to veto that bill -funding polit­ically sacrosanct veterans medical programs -even though it's $4 bil­lion higher than his request. 
------~---~­
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
NDFCU 
continued from page 1 
on tho warning and tho mem­bers' fear by telling them the eredit union had noticed "one or morn unsuccessful attnmpts to log in to your Online Banking Account on 08/31/2007 from a foreign II' address." 

Tho e-mail -from an address that appt~arnd to users as alert@ndfcu.org-told users to sign in to the credit union's soeurn server by clicking on the attadwd link and review their accounts. The link directed them to a non-NDFCU Web site desigrwd to look exactly like the Nl>FCU homepage, but it lacked the warning. 
The crHdit union's IT staff tnu:kod the e-mails and the Web site to the Netherlands Saturday, Ditchcreek said. but it was unable to contact the illngitimatt~ site's service providers abroad during tho woeknnd. The Web sitn was shut down Monday morning afttw tho credit union was able to rnport it to the serviee providnr. l>itchcrnek said. 
By Monday morning, howev­tw, morn than 60 customers had viewed the site and entered their banking information. l>itehernok said at least five customers who gave the seam­rnnrs their debit and credit eard information were facing trans­actions that added up to more than $2,000. 
These costs, however, would not fall on the customers, Ditehereek said. 
"Besides the costs of reissuing more than 60 debit cards ­which is fairly nominal -the credit union will also have to absorb those couple of thou­sands of dollars," he said. "Thankfully, the losses are not as large as they could be, but it's still money that we will lose to this hoax. But of course the member doesn't take the finan­cial loss in these cases." 
Ditehcreek said the scammers may have used the information they obtained from the credit union members to fabricate ATM cards and withdraw the cash abroad. 
lie said he did not have an estimate of the total loss the NDFCU would have to absorb, because he expected more cus­tomers would contact the credit union in the coming days. He encouraged customers to rnview their accounts and transaction and report any sus­picious activity immediately. 
Senior Zaeh Labrecque was among the students who received the second-wave e­mail and gave his debit card number, security code and expiration date to the fraud­sters. 
"I checked my e-mail Saturday morning and didn't stop to think too much about it," he said. "But as soon as I hit 'Enter' I realized banks don't need to ask for this infor­mation because they already have it." 
He immediately tried to con­tact the NDFCU to put a red llag on his debit card -but he was told that couldn't happen since the card wasn't physically stolen. He also tried to freeze the account but that was not possible either since it was a football Saturday and Labor Day weekend, and the credit union branches were closed. 
Labrecque said he preferred to transfer all the money in his NIWCU account to a different bank rather than wait until Monday to freeze the funds. 
"I know how these scams work," he said. "I noticed the different URL and the strange nature of the information requests a minute too late, but I was definitively surprised to see how difficult it was for me to block the account." 
Ditchcreek said the NDFCU's priority during the weekend was shutting off the illegitimate Web site. 
He said he did not know how the fraudsters obtained the e­mail list, but the customers who liled reports to the credit union Monday were not all students. 
"We don't know what e-mail list was used or how they got it, but it wasn't just students," he said. "The general public, members and non-members alike, also received the e­mails." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

BELGIUM 
Scientologists 111ight stand trial 
Church expected to face criminal charges for fraud, extortion scandals 
Associated Press 
BHUSSELS -A Belgian pros11cutor on Tuesday rec­ommended that the U.S.­basnd Church of Scientology stand trial for fraud and extortion, following a 10­year investigation that eon­eluded the group should be labeled a criminal organiza­tion. 
Scientology said it would fight the criminal charges recommended by investigat­ing prosecutor Jean-Claude Van 1\spnn, who said that up to 12 unidentified people should face charges. 
Van Espen's probe also con­cluded that Scientology's Brussels-based Europe office and its Belgian missions con­ducted unlawful practices in medicine, violated privacy laws and used illegal busi­nnss contracts, said Lieve l'nllens. a spokeswoman at the Federal ProsP.cutors O!Tic:e. 
"They also face charges of IH~ing ... a criminal organiza­tion." l'ellens sai.d in a tele­phorw intPrview. 
An administrative court will decidP whether to press dt a r g ~~ s a g a i n s l t h n Scientologists. 
In a statnmnnl, Seinntology's Europe ol"l'ien a(', e u s e d tlw p r 0 s (1 c u t 0 r 0 r h o u n d i n g tlw o r g a n i z a t. i o n and said it would contnst thn charges. 
"For the last I0 ynars, tlw prosncutor has been usin·g tlH• nwdia. trying to damage tlw reputation of the Church of Scientology and not being able to put a case in court." Scientology said. "As a eon-
sequence, this created a cli­mate of intolerance and dis­crimination" in Belgium. 

It added that the prosecu­tor's recommendations sug­gested Scientology was guilty even before a court could hear the charges, making it "difficult for the Church of Scientology to recover and properly defend (itself) before the court." 
Scientology has been active in Belgium for nearly three decades. In 2003, it opened an international office near the headquarters of the European Union to lobby for its right to be recognized as an official religious group. a status it does not enjoy in Belgium. 
A Belgian parliamentary committee report in 1997 labeled Scientology a sect and investigations were launched into the group's finances and practices, such as the personality tests con­ducted on new members. 
Investigators have spent the past decade trying to determine how far Scientology went in recruit­ing converts after numerous complaints were filed with police by ex-members alleg­ing they'd been the victims of intimidation and extortion. 
Justice officials seizPd financial records. correspon­dnnen, bank statnmonts and othnr papers in their decade­long probe to track the now of money to Scientology. Police also raided the offices of several consultaney firms linked to the Church of Scientology. 
l'ellens said that prosecu­tors expect Scientology to mount a strong legal chal­lenge to the charges at a court hearing, which could come in the next two to three months. She acknowledged that could delay the case for years. 

Belgium, Germany and other European countries have been criticized by the State Department for labeling Scientology as a cult or sect and enacting laws to restrict its operations. 
The German government considers Scientology a com­mercia! enterprise that takes advantage of vulnerable peo­ple. 
In Washington, the State Department said that if Belgian authorities "have evi­dence that individuals violat­ed Belgian law, they should take appropriate legal steps consistent with Belgium's international obligations to protect freedom of thought, conscience and religion." 
"We would, however, oppose any effort to stigma­tize an entire group based solely upon reglious beliefs and would be concerned over infringement of any individ­ual's rights because of reli­gious affiliation," the State Department spokesman's office said. 
The Los Angeles-based Church of Scientology, which is seeking to expand in Europe and be rncognized as a legitimate religion, teaches that tPehnology ean expand the mind and help solve problems. The church. found­ed in 1954, counts actors Tom Cruise and John Travolta among its 10 million members. 
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 


Brown 
continued from page 1 
I'm totally ready for the year." 

At last week's Student Senate meeting, the first of the year, she announced two new initiatives -a student guest meal exchange pro­gram and the ability to use Domer Dollars in the Stadium and the Joyce Center. 
"The great thing about this was that we set the tone from the first Senate meeting, not only for Maris and !chief executive assistant! Sheena lPlamoottill and I, but also for our senators and all our com­mittees," Brown said. "They all know that we can accom­plish a lot, and hopefully we are setting the bar high, and we won't disappoint." 
Brown hopes th"at momen­tum will last. 
"We've set some high stan­dards for ourselves from the beginning, but especially in the last couple weeks," she said. 
Brown and Braun began 

researching "We've set some high that has been and making transformed
standards for 
phone calls into a calendar 
after they ourselves from the for the month. 
heard about beginning, but Nearly every the proposed day of
especially in the last 
ordinance, September is 
even as they couple weeks. " filled with completed meeting times summer related to a
Liz Brown 
internships. student gov­
student body president 
The ordinance 
caused con­
cern among students, espe­
cially those living ofT campus, 
because it would require resi­
dents of boarding houses ­
defined as residences in 
which two or more unrelated 
people live -to file a permit 
with the city 10 days before 
hosting a gathering at which 
more than 25 people would 
have access to alcohol. 
Brown said her goal with the ordinance has been to eliminate the permit registra­tion process for parties. At the Senate meeting last Wednesday and in a letter to the editor published in The Observer, she cautioned stu­dents to behave respectfully off campus so the Common Council could not use rowdy student partying as an impe­tus to move the ordinance forward. 
After the first weekend of the semester passed without any major disturbances, Brown said she is confident she will achieve her goal. She also wants to develop a com­munity relations coalition so city, University and student representatives can discuss problems as they arise. 
But reaching this point, Braun said, has required a "month of solid \\;'Ork." 
Brown agreed. 
"We were kind of lucky it happened before school start­ed ... ," she said. "This is what we were able to focus on prior to coming back to school. It was definitely a joint efl'ort that took up a lot of our time." 
Brown said their quick response to the proposed ordinance sent a dear mes­sage that student governm<mt ean accomplish big things. 
"I saw a lot of comments Iposted on ndnation.corn and faeebook.com regarding tlw proposed ordinance]. like 'don't rely on student govern­ment, you have to take mat­ters into your own hands,"' Brown said. "It was great to be able to respond to that ­not directly, with any sort of comments, but to be able to use our actions to say well, actually, you can depend on us to get some stuff done for you. Obviously we have our limits, but there are definitely things that we ean accom­plish." 
Heaction to· the acceptance of Domer Dollars in the Stadium and the guest exchange meal program in the dining halls has been pos­itive, Braun said. During the Georgia Tech game last week­end, she said she overhcmrd students who had forgotten eash and were pleased to remember they could usn Domer Dollars to purchase drinks and food at the stadi­um. 
Now that the school year has started, Brown and Braun will have to balance their class schedules and per­sonal lives with the demands of their student government jobs. They sat down with The Observer Tuesday in the stu­dent govnrnmPnt oflien on thn second 11oor of LaFortune, in front of a white board 
ernment issue. 
Brown and 
Braun said they are ready to 
tackle the initiatives they 
have planned, plus anything 
else that might come up. 
"Once you kind of get into the groove of things, and learn how things run, then it's not overwhelming," Braun said. "It's just a lot of fun ... that's what makes it enjoy­able, and that's what makes it fun to work on initiatives, because we've got a great office environment." 
Brown's experience as chief executive assistant last ynar, she said, has helped her administration accomplish significant goals -and respond to unforeseen issues -since she and Braun took office April 1. 
"I knew what kind of avenues to take when certain problems arise or when cer­tain initiatives need to be pursued," she said. 
One avenue she has used. especially when working on the proposed ordinance, has been Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman, Brown said. She said she and Poorman have been in regular communica­tion regarding the steps the University should take regarding the ordinance. 
The ordinance, and the larger topic of community relations, will be ·~ major focus for student government this year, Braun said. But the pair will also focus on improving student lifn and achieving its platform goals. 
Brown said her Snnate committees have alrnady begun to tackle their initia­tives for the year. Thn launch of the student government Web site -tentativnly sched­uled for sometinw in the next two weeks -will servn as an online forum to answer stu­dent needs, Braun said. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 

13,448.86 +91.12 

Up: &mH: 8-cDI"!lt: 
t.t:4 's 1J•t 



5&9500 1,4&-9.42 +15.43 FTSE 100 (lol.ldon} -6,37-6..&::! +-61.ffi 

COMF'Ar4Y '!."DC.HA.;>JG E ~GAI;>J p R.IC-E 
sao oc? 8-ca:?J.ors (SPY)  +-1.01  +-1.-'19  1-'19.00  
f'O'i~c8.SHM!.CS (Q QQQ)  +-1.6S  +-0.fl1  -'19.G:"i  
SU~I 1'-lJ::!.OSYS I~IC (JAVA)  +-2.61  +-0.1-'1  5.50  
HOI'-lc Ocf'OT ~IC (HO)  -5.o9  -1.95  36.)S  


10-YCA8. ~IOTC  +-0.-'loS  +-0.021  -'1.55fl  
D-Wc8( 8ILL  +-7.21  +-0.290  -'1.2fl0  
30-YCA8. 80~10  +-0.17  +-O.ooa  -'l.fl39  
5-YCA8. mrc  +-O ..M  +-0.011  -'1.262  


+-1D-'I 75.0fl +-9 .oSO 691.50 
LIGHT G!.LOc ($/'t.ll:ll.) 
GOLO ($fTr<l"J' al.) f'OR!( 8J.:LLICS ( O!!flts,lll:l.) 

+-0D3 90.-'13 

YC~I 116 .3fl00 CURD 0.7351 f'OU~IO 0.-'1%7 CMIAOWI $ 1D501 
IN BRIEF 

Auto companies report mixed sales 
DETROIT -Chrysler LLC, Toyota Motor Corp. and Ford Motor Co. each reported sales declines last month, but General Motors Corp., Nissan Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co. surprised industry analysts Tuesday by show­ing increases, despite the declining U.S. auto market. 
Toyota's 2.8 percent sales drop, Ford's 14.4 percent decline and Chrysler's 6.1 percent decrease were symptoms of what analysts said would be a slumping U.S. auto market due to high gasoline prices, rising mortgage payments and turmoil in the financial mar­kets. 
Ford's drop allowed Toyota to take the No. 2 slot in U.S. auto sales from Ford for August and for the first eight months of the year. 
But GM. led by increased pickup truck sales, showed an increase of 6.1 percent, while Nissan Motor Co. reported its sales increased 
6.3 percent for August and Honda Motor Co. reported a 4.7 percent increase. 
iPhones sold unofficially in China 
BEIJING -The iPhone can be bought in China. even though Apple Inc. isn't selling it there and the gadget doesn't function properly despite costing twice as much as in the United States. 
Enthusiasts willing to pay 8,800 yuan ($1,170) can buy the iPhone at electronics markets in Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Guangzhou, the computer and electronics newspaper Dian Nao Bao reported in its Monday editions. 
In the United States, the combination cell phone-iPod media player can be had for as lit­tle as $499. The Chinese version can make calls and send text messages, but it can't receive calls. The voicemail function also does­n't work. 
Apple is currently selling the iPhone only in the United States, where it's restricted to AT&T Inc.'s cellular network. Last month, hackers successfully unlocked the device so it could be used on other carriers. 
Apple spokesman Natalie Kerris said Tuesday the company was not aware of specif­ic reports of its phones being sold in China but said the sales were not authorized. 


~----------­
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Mattei expands Chinese toy recall 
Popular children's products containing lead paint, small parts potentially hazardous 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Mattei Inc., whose reputation has been battered by two high­profile toy recalls this sum­mer, will announce on Wednesday the recall of a third batch of Chinese­made toys because they may contain excessive amounts of lead paint, The Associated Press has learned. 
The latest recall by the world's largest toy maker will be for a Fisher-Price toy and accessories to a Barbie playset and involves several hundred thousand units, according to two per­sons briefed by Mattei executives who asked for anonymity because the company has not yet for­mally announced the action. It could not be learned whether the toys were made in different Chinese factories. 
Mattei officials did not immediately return phone calls on Tuesday. 
Mattei's last recall, announced on Aug. 14, covered about 19 million toys worldwide. They included Chinese-made toys that either had exces­sive amounts of lead paint or had small magnets that could easily be swallowed by children. 

On Aug. 1, Mattei's Fisher-Price division said it was recalling 1.5 million Robert Eckert, chairman also said Tuesday it was made in China due to preschool toys featuring and CEO of El Segundo, considering a possible excessive levels of lead in characters such as Dora Calif.-based Mattei, warned investigation of whether some black watercolor the Explorer, Big Bird and at a press conference last Mattei notified authorities paints. Elmo because of lead paint. month that there may be as quickly as it should have In June, toy maker RC2 That action included more recalls of tainted toys in connection with the Aug. Corp. voluntarily recalled 967,000 toys sold in the as the company steps up its 14 recall. 1.5 million wooden railroad United ..States between May investigations into its With more than 80 per­toys and set parts from its and August. Chinese factories and cent of toys sold worldwide Thomas & Friends Wooden 
Lead can cause brain retests products. made in China, toy sellers Railway product line. The damage when ingested by Still, the latest action are nervous that shoppers company said that the sur­young children. Under cur­would be yet another blow will shy away from their face paint on certain toys rent regulations, children's to Mattei, which had culti­products in this year's criti­and parts made in China products found to have vated an image of tightly cal holiday season. between January 2005 and more than .06 percent lead controlHng production in Late last month, Toys "R" April 2006 contain lead, accessible to users are sub­China. The Consumer Us announced it was recall­affecting 26 components ject to a recall. Product Safety Commission ing thousands of art sets and 23 retailers. 

Wall Street extends summer rebound 
Associated Press vent credit troubles from hurting the In recent weeks, more difficult 
.national economy -which investors access to credit has made it harder 
NEW YORK-Wall Street extended believed hinted at the Fed's willing­for consumers and businesses to bor­its rebound from the big summer ness to lower rates. row, raising fears that tighter access slump Tuesday after dips in manufac­When investors returned from the to money will hurt the economy. turing growth and construction long weekend, the Institute for Supply The Dow Jones industrial average spending raised investors' hopes for Management said the manufacturing rose 91.12, or 0.68 percent, to an interest rate cut. sector expanded more slowly in 13,448.86. The blue-chip index is 
The market also got a boost as August than in July, and the about 4 percent below its July 19 investors bought technology stocks Commerce Department said construc­record close of 14,000.41, but about viewed as bargains after being bat­tion activity fell in July by 0.4 per­4. 7 percent above its summer closing tered during last month's selloff. Tech cent. Wall Street was pleased that the low of 12,845.78 reached Aug. 16. and telecom are still seeing takeover snapshots were neither too weak nor The biggest gainer among the 30 activity despite credit concerns, and too strong -suggesting the economy Dow companies was General Motors furthermore, demand for computers, isn't falling apart, but that the Fed Corp., which rose $1.18, or 3.8 per­cell phones and other such products will be inclined to cut the benchmark cent, to $31.92 after reporting a sur­appears strong. federal funds rate when it meets prising increase in August sales. 
Though Tuesday's economic data Sept. 18, after more than a year of Broader stock indicators also came in a bit slower than anticipated, holding rates steady. advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500 the market built on the sharp gains it "We haven't had anything happen index added 15.43, or 1.05 percent, made Friday. Ahead of Labor Day to change that outlook," said Arthur to 1,489.42, and the technology-dom­weekend, Federal Reserve Chairman Hogan, chief market analyst at inated Nasdaq composite index Ben Bernanke said the central bank Jefferies & Co. "Everything still points surged 33.88, or 1.30 percent, to stood ready to "act as needed" to pre-to a Fed that could lower rates." 2,630.24. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 5, 2007 


Join us 



UBS Firmwide Presentation 
The Investment Bank is one of the world's leading investment banking and securities firms, providing a full spectrum of services to corporate and institutional clients, governments and financial intermediaries. 
Date: September 10, 2007 Time: 6:30PM-8:30PM Venue: CCE-McKenna Hall-Room 100 
Business Area: Investment Banking -Chicago Office Resume Drop Deadline: September 12, 2007 It starts with you: www.ubs.com/graduates UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its ~orkplace. (M/F/DN) 
Wealth Global Asset Investment Management Management Bank 

.*UBS 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Five-lllan lllob trial a-waits jury's verdict 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Jurors in Chicago's biggest mob trial in years began deliberating the fate of five defendants Tuesday in a case described by defense attorneys as built on the testimony of "a walking piece of deception." 
Prosecutors said the testimo­ny of mob hit man Nicholas Calabrese -who linked four of the five men to a murder scene -matched up with physical evidence at the scene and with recorded jailhouse conversations with one of the defendants. 
Jurors also heard from more than 100 witnesses, listened to hours of secretly recorded audio tapes, and saw dozens of photos of crime scenes, vic­tims and suspected members 
of the Outfit.  as  the city's  
organized  crime  family  is  
known.  

Jurors left at 2 p.m. Tuesday, despite indicating last week that they planned to work from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. The office of U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel gave no expla­nation for the early departure. 
The defendants are all in their 60s or 70s, and one alternated between using a cane and wheelehair in court. They are accused by prosecu­tors of nngaging in a racket­eering conspiracy, detailed in a 43-page indietment, that ineluded illegal gambling, extortion, loan sharking and 18 murders between 1970 and 1986. 
The men on trial are reputed mobster Joseph "Joey the Clown" Lombardo, 78; convict­ed loan shark Frank Calabrese Sr., 70; convicted jewel thief Paul Sehiro, 70; reputed mob boss James Marcello, 65; and retired Chicago policeman Anthony Doyle, 62. If convict­ed, all but Doyle could face life in prison. 
Defense attorneys attacked the case as one built largely on the testimony of Nicholas Calabrese Frank Calabrese's brother-who the defense said admitted lying to authorities in the past and was only cooperating with the gov­ernment now to escape the death penalty. 
Defense attorney Joseph Lopez labeled Nicholas Calabrese a "grim reaper," a "walking piece of deception" and a man who would "shoot you in the head over a cold ravioli." 
Prosecutors said Nicholas Calabrese's testimony matched up with stories that his broth­er told his son Frank Calabrese Jr. while in prison. The younger man secretly wore a wire for the govern­ment. 
Nicholas Calabrese linked all the defendants except Doyle to a murder scene. Doyle is not aceused of killing anyone, but he is eharged with being part of a raeketeering conspiraey that inducted murder. 
Michigan pushes up Its primaries 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Michigan officially crashed the early pri­mary party on Tuesday, setting up showdowns with both politi­cal parties and likely pushing the presidential nomination calendar doser to 2007. 
Gov. Jennifer Granholm signed a bill moving both of Michigan's presidential primaries to Jan. 15. Michigan's move threatens to set off a chain reaction that could force Iowa and New Hampshire to reschedule their contests even earlier than anticipated, perhaps in the first week in January or even December 2007. 
"While political maneuvering will no doubt continue, our move to January 15 is final," Granholm said in a statement. 
The national parties have tried to impose discipline on the rogue states. On the Republican side, states that schedule contests before Feb. 5 risk losing half their delegates to next summer's convention, though some are banking that whoever wins the GOP nomination will eventually restore the delegates. 
Democrats have experienced similar problems, but party offi­cials hoped they had stopped the mad dash to move up by threat­ening to strip Florida of all its convention delegates for sched­uling a primary on Jan. 29 and by convincing the major Democratic candidates to cam­paign only in the party-approved early states. 
Michigan, in moving up its pri­mary, faces a similar penalty from the Democratic National Committee. 
Tuesday was the deadline for states to submit to the Republican National Committee the dates and formats of their primaries or caucuses. It might not turn out to be much of a deadline because some states are continuing to joekey for ear­lier votes. 
Michigan was among at least seven states signaling their intention to flout Republican rules by scheduling presidential primaries or caucuses before Feb. 5. 
New Hampshire, initially scheduled to hold its primary Jan. 22, did not submit a date because it is waiting to see when others schedule their votes, said David Scanlan, New Hampshire's deputy secretary of state. State law requires New Hampshire to hold its primary at least seven days before any other primary. 
Iowa scheduled its caucuses for Jan. 14 and South Carolina set its GOP primary for Jan. 19. But both reserved the right to reschedule if they are leapfrogged. Wyoming plans to hold county conventions to choose delegates on Jan. 5, and Nevada scheduled caucuses for Jan. 19, party officials said. 
South Carolina GOP Chairman Katon Dawson said he won't hes­itate to move the vote even earli­er if another Southern state jumps ahead -regardless of how many delegates South Carolina loses. 
AUSTRALIA 

Bush visits Iraq war ally 
Prime Minister Howard continues to show support for the U.S. 
Associated Press 
SYDNEY -President Bush briefed one of his few remaining staunch war allies, telling Australian Prime Minister John Howard Wednesday about his Iraq visit and his conviction that the U.S. troop buildup is working. 
The two leaders exchanged pleasantries before talks at the Commonwealth Parliament Offices within sight of Sydney Harbor. "You told me it was beautiful," the president observed. 
Bush was spending much of Wednesday with Howard ahead of a 21-nation Asia­Pacific summit later in the week. Bush was also to meet with Australian troops. 
His visit was expected to be accompanied by a series of protests by groups unhappy with the summit's pro-busi­ness agenda, the Iraq war and the Howard govern­ment's support for it. But demonstrations were light on Tuesday -before Bush's nighttime arrival in this heav­ily fortified city. 
Australia participated in the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq in 2003 and still has about 1,600 troops in and around the country, 550 of them in combat roles. Yet the war remains unpopular here, and Howard faces an aggressive challenge in elections expect­ed to be called within three months. 
Polls show Howard, in office for 11 years, trailing 
opposition leader Kevin Rudd, who has promised to pull combat troops out of Iraq if he wins. Howard has refused to set a deadline. 
The president has urged coalition partners to make decisions based on conditions on the ground rather than internal politics. He has voiced strong support for Howard, calling him "a man of steel." Howard has been equally effusive about Bush. Still, Bush meets Rudd on Thursday. 
Howard is the last leader among the major original "coalition of the willing" part­ners still serving. Among those who paid a political price for standing with Bush on the war are former Prime Ministers Tony Blair of Britain, Silvio Berlusconi of Italy and Jose Maria Aznar of Spain. 
En route to Australia, Bush made an unannounced stop in Iraq, meeting Monday with Iraqi government and Sunni tribal leaders, U.S. troops and their commanders at a military base in the heart of Anbar province, 120 miles west of Baghdad and once rife with Sunni insurgents. He was joined by his war cabi­net. 
Bush emphasized his confi­dence in the current strategy, and raised the possibility of 
U.S. troop cuts if violence continues to ease. The presi­dent ordered U.S. troop levels increased this year by about 30,000 to a total of 160,000. 
But he also reiterated his 


STUDENTS 
belief that troop-level deci­sions must be based on condi­tions on the ground and rec­ommendations from military commanders. He was expect­ed to repeat this stance in his conversations with Howard. 
After Bush's comments in Iraq and the withdrawal of British troops from Basra in southern Iraq, Howard told reporters he did not envision any reduction in Australian combat troops. "We don't intend to pull our battle groups out of southern Iraq. We see it continuing to do very valuable work," he said. 
As host of the Pacific Rim forum, Howard has put reaching a consensus decla­ration on dimate change and curbing global warming high on the agenda. 
Bush was expected to push for a new climate change deal more to his liking, and to try to advance his trade agen­da, which includes restarting stalled global trade liberal­ization talks and seeking a longer-term Asia-Pacific free trade zone. 
Bush's trip was intended to show he's not neglecting the region, and he has a busy schedule of one-on-one meet­ings with Asia-Paeific leaders on the sidelines of the APEC forum. He'll sit down with Chinese President Hu Jintao, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Japanese Prime Minister Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, South Korean President Roh Moo-hyun and Indonesian President Bambang Yudhoyono. 

Transportation Services will be offering two Driver Training Sessions in September. 
If you have not attended a Driver Training session conducted by Transportation Services, and you plan on driving a University owned, leased, or rented vehicle, you must attend a Driver Training session BEFORE you operate a vehicle. 
Sessions will be held on Sunday, September 9th and September 16th, at 7:00pm in Room 102 of Debartolo Hall. 
The session will last approximately 30 minutes. Please bring your drivers license and a pen 
Transportation Services rents vehicles to students, faculty, and staff who are in need of transportation while on official University business. See our website at: transportation.nd.edu 
If you .have any questions on the Driver Training sessions or the Motor Pool you may contact Transportation Services at 631-6467 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
A return to non-interventionism 
1'0. !lox 779. Notre Oame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining llall, Notre Oame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEI' Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
A~s·1; MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily 
Ass·1; MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
N~ EmToR: Karen l"mgley 
Vmwi'OINT EormR: Joey King 

SPORTS EDITOR.~: Chris Khorey 
Chris !line Sc.F.NF. EDn·oR: Tao Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PIIOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
All DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly C;ronli 
CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) GJI-6900 observad((I>nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4141 obsme@lnd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
{574) 631-4.~24 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 6.31-532.3 ohsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @'nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

{574) 631-4'i43 spons.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4140 scene.I@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prinr and online by the students ofthe Llnivt·rsity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contt'nt, including advcniscments, is nm gowrncd by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse adwrtiscmcnts based on content. 
The news is reponed as accuratdy and objectivrly as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rh<." majority ofchc Edicor in Chic!; Managing Ediror, A~siswnt Managing Editors and department editors. Comnll'ntarics, letters and columns present the vitws of rhe amhors and nor necessarily those ofThe ()bservcr. 
Vitwpoinr space is available to all readers. The free 
George Washington rightly sits atop most people's list of "great" Presidents. Not only was he critical to the success of the American Revolution and the subsequent founding of the United States of America, ho also 
Mark Poyar
managed as President to keep the fragile young Actual republic out of Common Sense European trou­bles. France was in the midst of a revolution which resulted in a grueling and bloody war with England and others. Washington realized that avoiding such bloodbaths was essential to the future prosperity of the United States. It was with this intent that the President published his letter to the American people at the conclusion of his second term in oflice. 
Washington's Farewell Address became the guiding document for American foreign policy for the next 100 years. "The great rule of conduct for us," he wrote, "in regard to domes­tic nations, is in extending our commer­cial n1lations, to have with them as little political connection as possible." He believed that European nations had fun­dameiltally diiTerent interests which were "essentially foreign to [America's] concerns," and caused them to engage in frequont wars. Consequently, it would be foolish to tin America's prospority to these nations. Alliances with these nations would merely make the European problems America's problems -problems that Americans sought to leave by coming to America. By only intervening whm1 America's security is directly threatened, America would "avoid the necessity of those overgrown military establishments which ... are inauspicious to liberty, and which are to be regarded as particularly hostile to republican liberty." 
Washington's call for non-interven­tionism was largely heeded by his suc­cessors. Thomas Jefl'erson famously said at his inaugural address in 1801 that America should follow a policy of "peace, commerce, and honest friend­ship with all nations" and have "entan­gling alliances with none." Similarly, James Monroe stated that "in the wars of the European powers ... we have never taken part, nor does it comport with our policy, to do so." America would only take up arms and make alliances when "our rights are invaded, or seriously menaced that we resent injuries, or make preparations for our defense." John Quincy Adams said 

"America does not go abroad in search 
of monsters to destroy. She is the well­
wisher to the freedom and independ­
ence of all. She is the champion only of 
her own." 

America outright abandoned its non­intervention foreign policy that had served it so well shortly after World War II. It waged largely inefl'eetive wars halfway around the globe in countries that Americans had barely ever heard of. It propped up corrupt governments, both financially and militarily, that were more concerned about their own power (and thus were more receptive to American influence) than the welfare of their own people. Wars were fought with little regard to the survival of the civilian populations. This military and financial intervention in the internal afl'airs of countries around the world earned America the resentment of mil­lions. While these wars might have seemed like good ideas at the time, his­tory tells us that occupation, whether for the "good" of the occupied country or not, tends to turn the local populace against the occupiers. The same can be said for other diplomatic tactics such as embargoes, as well as financial and mil­itary support for a country's enemy. 
The fact is that there is no surefire way to prevent another terrorist attack. There is no chance that a man who is willing to blow himself up to slaughter dozens of innocent victims can be held at bay indefinitely. In order to combat terrorism, particularly terrorism stem­ming from the Middle East, the only strategy that will yield results in the long run is to reduce the motivation of the terrorists to attack America. Therefore, the most prudent question is: what motivates the terrorists to attack America and what can America do to reduce that motivation? 
A popular delusion endorsed by the Bush administration is that the terror­ists hate us because "they hate our free­dom." According to this theory, the ter­rorists hate us beeause we have adem­ocratic form of government and other rights. While some in the Middle East might not like that I am allowed to go to Las Vegas to gamble, this is hardly rea­son enough to motivate a terrorist attack. Indeed, a Zolby poll released in 2002 showed that the majority of Kuwait public looked favorably upon our freedom and democracy, but 88% disagreed with our policies in the Middle East. This was roughly the same throughout the rest of the Middle East. 
The hijackers of Sopt. 11 didn't fly 
planes into the World Trado Cent«~r 
because we have McDonalds and 
women can vote. 
The Middle East is rife with Ameriean inlluence and has been for the last fifty years. When Muslims complain about America, it usually isn't that they object to our freedom. It's that they object to our inflwmce and presence in the Middle East. In his first video after the September 11th attacks, Osama bin Laden told the world that "I swear to God that America will not live in peace before all the army of infidels depart the land of the prophet Muhammad." Our continued military pn1s1mce in nearly every Muslim country is certainly not helping matters particularly when many Muslims in the region (wrongly) associate Christian presence in the Middle East as another Crusade. It's because we support Israel unilaterally, who many in the region view as a mor­tal enemy, both financially and militari­ly. The United States gave Israel much of its military technology, which has been used on Muslims in the past (and more recently in the short war with Lebanon). It's because we caused half a million Iraqi deaths with the US led embargo on Iraq and then declared the deaths were "worth it." It's because over 50,000 Iraqi eivilians have already died in the War in Iraq. In short, it's because we've been meddling in things that we have no business meddling in. Our interference, as even the US gov­ernment has conceded, has only increased the resentment of Muslims around the world and increases the motivation to attack America. 
P.J O'Hourke once wrote in his classic Parliament of Whoms tll~t ''whatever it is that the government does, sensible Americans would prefer that the gov­ernment do it to somebody else. This is the idea behind fon~ign policy." The problem is that America needs to stop doing "it" to someone else. Interventionism got America into this crisis, but a return to the non-interven­tionism of the Founding Fathers is the only long-term solution to the terrorist threat. 
Mark Poyar is a junior finance major and vice president of the College Libertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. Ile can be contacted at mpoyar@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 

expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY Marcela Berrios Fran Tolan Jonn Metz Michael Bryan Mandi Stirone Scene Is it safe to live off campus? Dan Jacobs Tae Andrews 
"Whatever you are, be a good one. " 

Katie Peralta Graphics Viewpoint Madeline N ies Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Abraham Lincoln Kara King American president 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Katrina frotn a distance 
"Indifference, to me, is the epitome of evil. 
The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. The opposite of beauty is not ugliness, it's indifference. The opposite of faith is not heresy, it's indifference. And the opposite of life is not death, but indifference between life and death. " 
-Elie Wiesel, Oct. 27, 1986 

On August 29, 2005, Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans and por­tions of the Gulf Coast from Texas through Alabama. In New Orleans, the storm caused three major levees to break, resulting in much more death and destruction. More than 1,500 peo­ple perished in Louisiana alone, with 238 additional deaths in Mississippi. New Orleans itself was well described by the novelist John Updike, who wrote, "A major American city was depopulated with a suddenness and thoroughness war itself could not sur­pass." 
How can one now remember this tragedy without cliches or platitudes? And what can one say now without making empty promises? 
One year ago, a New Orleans native, and Notre Dame student, wrote in The Observer: 
"Those who survived the storm are still struggling to make it through each day. I feel like we have all seen and heard the news stories of the devastat­ing effects of Hurricane Katrina, but somehow we have grown complacent. Somehow we feel like it is not our problem. Somehow we feel like we are too far away to make a difference." (Looking back on Katrina anniversary, Aug. 30, 2006) 
Consider these words: "complacen­cy," "it is not our problem," "we feel like we are too far away to make a dif­ference." Is this not exactly what Elie Wiesel meant? Does this writer not describe the same indifference, identi­fied by Wiesel, which has shrouded the great political tragedies of our time ­the Holocaust. poverty, inequality, exploitation of the weak, wars with no purpose other than national or person­al egotism? 
Katrina intimidates us not only because of the scope of its destruction, but also because it demands of us that, if we are true to what we profess, we must give this catastrophe our atten­tion and care. It demands that we pull ourselves out of ourselves, in the sense that we may have to change our priori­ties from what once seemed comfort­able and certain. Katrina was, if any­thing, a great disrupter of plans. 
Katrina threatens us also because we see how quickly "rationality" dissolves in the face of tragedy. For each death, there must be hundreds of other lives disrupted, threatened with ruin, and perhaps permanently scarred with emotional and physical injuries. 
Finally, Katrina challenges us. The reconstruction of the Gulf Coast com­munities will require decades of work. The work will require almost every professional skill one can imagine. And the restoration will not be completed in convenient packages of accomplish­ment. There will be failures, false starts, and other disappointments. Indeed, the resistance of Katrina and its aftermath to simple solutions may be a key to why we are tempted by indifference. 
Notre Dame is in a position to pro­vide not only help, but leadership. It has great resources of professional skills. It has often committed sustained service to causes ignored by momen­tary public enthusiasm. I suggest this second anniversary be marked by the establishment of a permanent Notre Dame Katrina Project, with physical locations both on campus and in the Gulf Coast communities. As last year's writer observed, "Those who survived the storm are still struggling to make it through each day." 
Kent Hull adjunct associate professor oflaw Aug24 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

u WIRE 

Drinking age cannot be regulated by laws 
If you've walked around campus the day of an LSU football game, you've seen how Louisianians feel about alcohol. Kegs, coolers and shots are consumed in all directions, as Tiger fans get liquored up before the game. This will be my third Eric . season of LSU foot­
Freeman, Jr
ball as a student, and I'm still not 21. 

I turn 21 just 12 Louisiana days after Mardi State Daily Gras next year --but Reveille I'm not bitter. Many people think I would be a little more enraged, but it's not as if I can't get alcohol in New Orleans-it's just the principle of the thing. If every bar, liquor store and restaurant all of a sudden decided to enforce the drinking age, I'd be out of luck. But The Big Easy is known as such for many reasons, one of them being the ease with which underage New Orleanians can acquire alcohol. The age law has long since become obsolete. 
According to the National Institute of Health, the National Minimum Drinking Age Act of 1984 is the law concerning underage drinking. While not specifically mandating an age limit, it requires a 10 percent decrease in federal highway fund­ing for states that don't enforce the mini­mum drinking age of 21, forcing states into submission. Barring certain excep­tions, it is illegal for me to purchase alco­hol in the United States and most Middle Eastern countries like Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, and Iran. In the rest of the civi­lized world, the minimum drinking age varies from 16 to 20. 
I can vote for my president, my governor and my mayor, but I can't have a drink. I can be shipped to Iraq to fight for my country (i.e. going to kill people), and I can have a drink in Baghdad, but I can't have a drink in America. I can smoke ciga­rettes, which have been all but proven to give me and the people around me lung cancer, but I can't have a drink. 
Historically, preventing people from drinking basn't gone as smoothly as peo­ple initially hoped. In colonial America, alcohol was considered a gift from God, but abuse of this gift came from the Devil. As Paul Aaron and David Musto astutely observed in "Alcohol and Public Policy: Beyond The Shadow of Prohibition," "Drink itself was not looked upon as cul­pable, any more than food deserved blame for the sin of gluttony. Excess was a per­sonal indiscretion." In the 10 years lead­ing up to Prohibition in the 1920s, alcohol consumption was actually on the decline. When the 18th Amendment illegalized alcohol, crime went up, became organized and infiltrated many government offices looking to become corrupt. When the 21st Amendment ended Prohibition, alcohol bootleggers found themselves out of work, as alcohol was re-legalized. 

According to its Web site, Mothers Against Drunk Driving claims credit for increasing the drinking age to 21. In 2005, on the 21st anniversary of the passing of the National Minimum Drinking Age Act, Glynn Birch, the first male president of MADD, said, "because ofthe 21law, underage drinking deaths have been cut from 8,000 annually in the 1980s to 6,000 per year today," according to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. I in no way dis­agree with the message that MADD puts out: drinking and driving is fatal. 
But how the organization arrived at "21" remains controversial. A quick look on the organization's website provides a test on how alcohol affects the brain. "Apparently on studies using animals, young brains are vulnerable to dangerous effects of alcohol, especially on learning and memory function." I'm not sure if ani­mals can drive, but if they can, they had better remain under the legal limit. 
Many people advocate the lowering of the national drinking age to 18, most notably the National Youth Rights Association, a non-profit organization ded­icated to fighting for the civil rights and liberties of young people. According to its Web site, they believe American youth alcohol policy "should recognize the inevitability of alcohol consumption among youth and seek to reduce the harm of that alcohol use, rather than unrealisti­cally try to keep young people from drink­ing at all." 
Underage drinking doesn't end with a law. It isn't curbed by police officers or bouncers at nightclubs. Like everything else in this country, we need to practice proper education and responsibility, and it comes from our teachers and our parents. Youths should be educated on the effects of alcohol from within the family, not from a sign that reads "We ID Under 21." If parents had better control over the actions of their children, there would be no need for a minimum drinking age. I don't drink to get drunk, but I'm not going to pretend I haven't before. I understand drinking can be great, but it can also be deadly. Instead of perpetuating the hypocrisy of the 21 drinking age, we need to better inform teens about the effects of alcohol so they can make an educated decision for themselves. 
Be careful, be responsible, but at the same time, laissez les bons temps rouler. Let the good times roll. 
' 
This article first appeared in the Sept. 4 edition ofThe Daily Reveille, the daily newspaper at Louisiana State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily The Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
Cubicle Comedy Craze Cc 
The Off~ 

THE lAUGHS KEEP ON ROLLING IN "THE OFFICE: SEASON THREE" 
By CHRIS McGRADY Assistant to the Scene Editor 

The third season of "The Office" is right in line with the previous two: irreverent, random and com­pletely hilarious. 
In the third helping of the Americanized version of the pop­ular British show, Michael Scott (Steve Carell) is back and more ridiculous than ever, flitting through the show with the same kind of politically incorrect banter that has made him one of the most popular characters on tele­vision. 
For the half a dozen people in America who have yet to catch at least part of the show, "The Office" follows the exploits of a team of employees at Dunder­Miffiin, a local paper supply com­pany in Scranton, Pa. Scott is the hapless leader of the bunch, a caricature of every known fault in every boss across the country. He's inappropri­ate, clueless and sion. Largely avoiding the slap­one of the show's most entertain­stick humor that many situational ing characters, and his constant comedies rely on, battles with "The Office" instead Dwight for ere ates the type of Season Three picks Michael's atten­awkward humor that up where the second tion create some most anyone can of the best
season left off. 

helpless, all at the Seasons One and Two of the best of the sea­same time. His established "The son. In Michael's right hand man is attempts to welcome
Office" as one of the
Dwight K. the new employees, Schrute, played most intelligent he once again creates by Rainn Wilson. shows on television. a number of awk­relate to and is filmed in a mockumentary style. What sets the show apart from other sitcoms is its dialogue. In fact, members of the cast have written many of the episodes and the talent shows. i . 
Season Three picks up where the second season left off. The first episode is one of the funniest, where one of the office employees comes out as a homosexual. Not surprisingly, Michael does not handle the situation well -creat­ing a hilarious number of situa­tions. Meanwhile, Jim has trans­ferred to a {\ew office and a new set of characters joins the show, which keeps things fresh. 
Midway through the season, the two offices merge. This episode, 
thoughtfully dubbed 
"The Merger," is one 

Jim Halpert (John Krasinski) is the most normal of the male charac­ters in the show, and plays a sar­castic salesman. Halpert is paired with Pam Beasley (Jenna Fischer), the lead lady on the series. 
Seasons One and Two estab­lished "The Office" as one of the most intelligent shows on televi­
ward and hilarious 
situations. By the end of the day, only two employees from the outside branch remain, and Michael is clueless as to why. 
Employee Andy Bernard, played by Ed Helms, is a major addition to the show. The former glee club singer and Cornell grad (you can bet he won't let you forget it) is 
episodes of the 
season. Other high points are the episodes "The Coup," "The Initiation," "Booze Cruise" and the doubly long sea­son finale, "A Benihana Christmas." .,.) . "llllW 
The only problem with the sho~ is that Michael is almost too absurd. In Seasons One and Two, Michael's humor was more subtle, and relied on sarcasm and awk­ward situations. In Season Three, Michael is more "in-your-face," and this goes over with mixed results. 
Fortunately, even his down moments are hilarious. Overall, Michael Scott is still the character that everyone will love -if not for his hilarious personality, then for his dead-on portrayal of the typical office boss. Any person who has worked in an office will have an appreciation for just how realistic some of Michael's actions are. 
The third edition of "The Office" is just as stellar as the first two. Quick hitting, poignant and impressively written, the third season is amazingly well done and fully exhibits why "The Office" remains one of' the best and most watched shows on tele­vision. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
page 13 
;. 
-'"·<~,

i.. ~-." ~~~.<ftk:'~ 

·~ , ; r /~',;}~ 
'• ""' 

tinues on .. 
ce 

OBSERVER GRAPHIC I Madeline Nies 

0UNDER MIFFLINITES AWAIT "THE OFFICE" CONVENTION 

By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Attention all Dunderheads: You are officially invited to the first-ever "The Office" Convention in Scranton, Pellll., Oct. 26-28. That's right-after only three aired seasons ofthe Emmy-award winning comedy, an entire conven­tion will be devoted to NBC's "The Office." 
"The Office" fan ba..<;e may not yet be up to "Star Trek" -like propor­tions, but it's large and dedicated ~nough to convince the City of Scranton, the Lackawanna County Convention and Visitors Bureau and the Greater Scranton Chamber of Commerce that a convention unit­ing Dunderheads from all over the country L<; a good idea. Ifthey host it, they will come -especially when there are promises of cast appear­ances. 
To many, a convention may seem like too much too soon, but "The Office" fan base is unique from that ofany other series on television. It's not only loyal but also online. An understanding ofthe way "The Office" uses the Internet is essential to explaining why the convention is taking place and why fans are guaranteed to flock to the Electric City in October. 
When a few cast members of "The Office" decided to create MySpace blogs in 2005, they didn't imagine the response they would receive. After all, they did it simply because the computers on "The Office" set were actually hooked up to the Internet and they had to do something to pa..<;s the time as they sat in the background during scenes. So they began accepting mend requests, respond­ing to questions, reading comments and blogging about the show, their lives and each other. 
They did what no other television cast had done before. Instead ofrelying on television appearances and maga­zine interviews, they removed the third parties and revealed their on-set and off-screen lives directly to the fans. They interacted with fans from the early stages of the series and broke down all barriers of celebrity. These truly Wflre real, normal people who just happened to 

Cassie Belek 
Assistant Scene Editor 
have extraordinary comedic talent and still shop at Target. 
The cast's way offighting off boredom worked. Jelllla Fischer (Pam) has the most popular blog by far with more than 100,000 MySpace mends. Real life best mend Angela Kinsey (Angela) has around 40,000 MySpace mends. The two often mention each other in blogs and offer as much behind-the-scenes information as they can. Fischer even gives away promotional samples she col­lects from Hollywood functions and offers a particularly in-depth post about how to make it in Hollywood. 
Other cast members with MySpace sites include Brian Baumgartner (Kevin), B.J. Novak (Ryan), Kate Flannery (Meredith) and Craig Robinson (Daryl). Even Mindy Kaling (Kelly) has a blog called "Things I've Bought That I Love" on Blogspot.com where she unleashes her shop­ping obsession and details her favorite purchases. 
Not only do cast members interact with fans through blogs, but they also maintain dose ties with administra­tors ofthe series' fansites. Perhaps the best fansite is OfficeTally.com, which nabbed an exclusive post-Emmy nomination interview with Fischer, who shUillled formal interviews to speak with the Web site first. 
It is this interaction between the cast and its fans that unites "The Office" fan base and makes it so strong. Because ofthe Internet, relationships with the stars of "The Office" aren't necessarily one-sided. The fans and the cast are more closely collllected than fans and casts of any other show. 
Because ofthese relationships, a convention to bring everyone together isn't as extreme an idea as it could be. Who wouldn't want to attend the convention kick-off at the Radisson on that Friday or Office Olympics on that Saturday? 
There's even a Dundee award presentation on Sunday. Additionally, several cast members have reassured they are doing everything they can to attend. 
Are Dunderheads the new Trekkies? Probably not. Will the streets ofScranton be littered with Dwight and Angela look-a-likes come October? Most definitely. Dunderheads are as loyal to "The Office" as Dwight is to Michael, and the series has the Internet to thank for it. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Cassie BeZek at cbelek@nd.edu 
;~ 





THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
l1fleA.«.el ) 
Is your favorite line "That's what she said"? DO Is Sbarros your favorite pizza joint? D D Have you ever had the song "Mambo No.5" set as your ringtone? D D Do you tell your friends to "shut it" when they annoy you? DO 
Do you have extensive martial arts training listed on your resume?" D Have you ever saved a coworker's life with pepper spray? D Are you the proud possessor of a purple belt? D Do you own a bobblehead doll of yourself? DD 

) 


Is your favorite flavor of yogurt mixed berry? D D Have you ever been engaged for more than three years? D D Do you have a lifetime ban from Chili's? D D Do you have a long-running crush on a coworker? D D Is your favorite computer game FreeCell? D D 

:. 

Do you enjoy placing coworkers' desktop items into jello as a joke? D D Are you in love with your receptionist? D D Have you ever been nicknamed "Big Tuna"? D D Are you a good basketball player? D D Is ham-and-cheese your favorite type of sandwich? D D 
Has your boss ever had a man crush on you? D D Has another coworker ever hazed you on the job? DO Have you ever caused a fire at work? D D Are you highly ambitious? D D Would you like to own your own business some day? DO Do you find yourself doing busy work for your boss? D D 


page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
MLB 


Beckett outduels Halladay as Red Sox take out Blue Jays 
Garland holds Tigers to one run in White Sox win; Flores' late heroics lead Nationals past Marlins in ninth inning 
Coming ofT a start against the innings as the Chicago White
A..sociated Press 

Yankees in which he allowed a Sox beat the Detroit Tigers on 
BOSTON -Josh Beckett won career high 13 hits, Beckett Tuesday night. his major league-leading 17th gave up three runs on five hits Garland (9-10) ran his career game and rookie Jacoby in eight innings, striking out record to 13-6 against the 
Jillsbury had three hits, helping seven and walking two. Tigers, who began the day six 
the Boston Hed Sox beat Hoy The AL East-leading Red Sox, games back of Cleveland in the llalladay and the Toronto Blue who began the day seven AL Central and 2 112 games Jays 5-3 on Tuesday night. games ahead of the Yankees, behind New York in the wild­
Ellsbury homered after Coco have won four in a row and card race. Garland allowed one Crisp barely beat out the relay improved to a major league­run and struck out four without to stay out of a double play and best 84-55. walking a batter. 
avoid the third out in the fourth Halladay (14-7) allowed five Ehren Wasserman and Matt inning. Ellsbury, who also runs on nine hits in eight Thornton pitched a scoreless 
tripled and singled in the game, innings, walking two and strik­eighth, and Bobby Jenks hit the next pitch from I lalladay ing out seven. worked the ninth for his 37th into tho Toronto bullpen to give Halladay pitched his major save in 42 chances. 
the Hml Sox a 3-0 lead. league-leading seventh com­It didn't come without a little .Julio l.ugo and Dustin Pedroia plete game. lie has pitched live bit of drama. followed with back-to-hack consecutive complete games, After retiring 53 of his previ­doubles to make it 4-0. Beckett but won just one of them. ous 55 batters, Jenks gave up a 
( 17-61 gave up a three-run Needing just a double for the two-out walk to Brandon Inge homer to Matt Stairs in the cyele, Ellsbury was left in the and a single to pinch hitter lil"th, but retired the last eight on-deck circle when Crisp lined Sean Casey before striking out batters he faced before out to right in the eighth. Curtis Granderson with runners .Jonathan PapPibon pitched the on the corners to end it. ninth for his 33rd save. White Sox 3, Tigers 1. The last-place White Sox Kevin Youkilis hit a solo Josh Fields and Alex Cintron improved to 9-4 against Detroit homered, and Jon Garland this season. the second, but Hamon his second game in 18 starts.
homer in the eighth to make it scattered seven hits over seven With two out in the third, Santiago grounded out to end lie has one win since May 29. 
5-:~. 

Fields lined Jeremy the inning. Guillen doubled With the score tied at 2-2, Bonderman's first pitch over with one out in the fourth, but llanlny Hamirez singled with the left-eenterl'ield fence. his Garland retired Rodriguez and one out in t h H fifth o1'1' 18th homer of the year, to give Thames on groundouts. Washington starter Shawn Hill Chicago a 1-0 lead. to PXtl'nd his hitting streak to 
Paul Konerko singled in the Nationals 4, Marlins 3 12 games. Hamircz stole sec­sixth before Cintron's homer Jesus Flores' two-run. ninth­ond, advarH:ed to third on chased Bonderman and made it inning double gave the Alfredo Amezaga's stolen base 3-0. Cintron's first home run of Washington Nationals a win and scored on Cabrera's single. the season eame on a 3-1 pitch, over the Florida Marlins on The only players younger than which he lined just over the Tuesday night. Cabrera to achieve 500 RBis right-field fence. With the Nationals trailing 3-were Mel Ott and Ted Williams. 
Zach Miner replaced 2 in the ninth inning, Dmitri Entering 2007, Willis had a Bonderman (11-8), who Young led off with a walk off career record of 58-39 and he allowed three runs and seven Kevin Gregg (0-5). With one started the season 5-1. hits in 5 1-3 innings, walking out, Wily Mo Pena singled to Entering Tuesday, he had gone two and striking out three. third and pinch-runner Ryan 3-13. In 7 1-3 innings, he 
Miner threw 3 2-3 innings of Langerhans advanced to third. allowed two runs and eight scoreless relief to keep the After Ronnie Belliard popped to hits. Tigers close. first, Flores doubled to the left­He struck out five and 
Detroit broke up Garland's field corner, scoring walked two. shutout in the sixth on Guillen's Langerhans and Pena. Willis reluctantly left the run-scoring single, which put It was Gregg's third blown game with one out in the runners on first and third with save of the year. eighth. After pinch-hitter Tony one out. But Garland got Ivan A fifth-inning single gave Batista led off with a long fly Rodriguez to foul out and Miguel Cabrera his SOOth out to left, Nook Logan doubled fanned Marcus Thames to end career RBI and the Marlins a 3-and Felipe Lopez reached on an the inning. 2 lead. Cabrera became the infield single with Logan hold­
Garland had already worked third-youngest player in major­ing at second. When manager out of two early inning jams. league history to reach 500 Fredi Gonzalez came to remove 
Singles by Rodriguez and RBis. him, Willis hopped around and Inge gave the Tigers runners on Flores' hit spoiled Dontrelle pounded his glove, hoping to first and second with two out in Willis' opportunity to win just stay in. 



The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES -needed for southside elementary school. Located near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St. $35/per game. Call athletic director at 574-291-4200. 
Tutor for Calculus 3. Fee nego­tiable. Call 574-276-8299. 
Friendly smiling servers needed. Full or part time openings. If you are friendly and smiling, we will train you. Some cook positions available too. Apply in person 52285 US 31 N South Bend. Damons Grill eoe 
Varsity Clubs of America is looking for part time bartenders. Must have night and weekend availability. Apply at 3800 N. Main St., Mishawaka. 574-277-0500. 

FoR SALE 
Condo For Sale 2 br twnhse w sun­room great SB neighborhood $93.000 call 269-445-2765. 
FOR SALE-4BR, 2.5 Bath, 2800 SF Fin bsmt. 3 mi to ND. $217,500 243-1953 
2 bdrm/1 bath condo. Nice area. 4 miles from campus. $74,900. Call Meredith, Milligan Real Estate 220-9817. 
FoR RENT 
Furn. apt., sleeps 4 maybe 6. ND home games. Right next to ND. 574-273-3030 ask for Pat. 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
House for rent. Walk to Campus. 3bdr. Washer/dryer, Landlord does yardwork. $750/mo. 
574-250-1266. 
Bed & Breakfast lodging w/alum family for ND home games. Great rates & nice accommodations. 
574-243-2628. 
Furnished house for rent. 15 min. to ND. 2BR, 6 acres 1/4 mile to lake. Game wkends or whole year. Students welcome. 
574-288-2726. 

1 or 2 bdrrn. apt. Quiet neighbor­hood. 1 mi to ND. Laundry included. $400/mo. Call574-532-8718. 
Homes for 08-09. 4-6 bedrooms. Walk to NO. 574-876-7341. For Football weekends,cal/574-532-1408. 
FOOTBALL HOUSE -3 bedroom home, 5 blocks from campus for rent on football weekends, JPW, Graduation. Operated as a weekend rental. Great alternative to stupid hotel prices on those weekends. www.notredameliving.com 
or call Alex 212-418-6937. 
TICKETS 

WANTED­NO FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP/ 574-251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 
ALL HOME GAMES. 
574-232-0964. 
www. victorytickets.com 
ND tickets for sale. 
Best Prices. 
574-288-2726. 
PERSONAL 
LASER CREATIONS Unique Products Thru Laser Technology. Laser etched logo gifts, signs, award plaques, name tags, rubber stamps, glass etching, etc. Call Jack 574-273-8662or email: lasercr@ comcast.net 
Looking for barber or anyone with haircutting experience, need haircut very badly. Call Chris S 630-862-8225. 
Babysitting: CollegeSitter.com is a new site which connects ND student babysitters with area families. Student sitters looking for babysitting work should visit 
CollegeSitter.com/studen!l to fill out their FREE profile. 
Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn Cash and Go Free. 
Call for group discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! 
Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. 800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
If you're robbing a bank and your pants fall down, I think it's okay to laugh and to let the hostages laugh too, because, come on, life is funny 

~­


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 CoMPILED FROivt THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 

NCAA Football Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  previous  
1  usc (59)  1-0  1  
2  LSU (5)  1-0  2  
3  West Virginia (1)  1-0  3  
4  Florida  1-0  6  
5  Oklahoma  1-0  8  
5  Wisconsin  1-0  7  
7  Texas  1-0  4  
8  Louisville  1-0  10  
9  Virginia Tech  1-0  9  
10  California  1-0  12  
11  Georgia  1-0  13  
12  Ohio State  1-0  11  
13  UCLA  1-0  14  
14  Penn State  1-0  17  
15  Rutgers  1-0  16  
16  Nebraska  1-0  20  
17  Auburn  1-0  18  
18  Arkansas  1-0  21  
19  TCU  1-0  22  
20  Hawaii  1-0  23  
21  Georgia Tech  1-0  NR  
22  Boise State  1-0  24  
23  TexasA&M  1-0  25  
24  Tennessee  0-1  15  
25  Clemson  1-0  NR  

NCAA Football USA Today/Coaches' Top 25 
team record previous 
1 usc (59) 1·0 1 2 lSU (5) 1·0 2 3 Florida 1·0 3 4 West Virginia 1-0 6 5 Wisconsin 1·0 7 5 Oklahoma 1-0 8 7 Texas 1-0 4 8 louisville 1·0 11 9 Virginia Tech 1-0 9 10 California 1·0 12 11 Ohio State 1·0 10 12 Georgia 1·0 13 13 Aubum 1·0 14 14 UClA 1·0 17 
15 Penn State 1·0 18 16 Rutgers 1·0 16 17 Nebraska 1·0 19 18 Arkansas 1-0 20 19 TCU 1·0 22 20 Boise State 1-0 23 21 Georgia Tech 1·0 NR 22 Hawaii 1·0 24 23 TexasA&M 1·0 25 24 Tennessee 0-1 15 25 Boston College 1-0 NR 
MLB Wild Card Standings American League 
team record GB 
New York 77-62 Seattle 74-63 2 Detroit 73-64 3 
National League 
team record GB 
Arizona 76-63 Los Angeles 72-65 3 Philadelphia 72-65 3 Colorado 71-66 4 
around the dial 
TENNIS 

U.S. Open Quarterfinals 11 a.m., USA 7 p.m., USA 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
LINCOLN -Nebraska coach Bill Callahan has been given a new, five-year contract for $1.75 million a year. 
It will run through Jan. 31, 2012. Callahan's old contract was to run through 2008. 
Callahan is 23-15 in four seasons with the Cornhuskers, winning the Big 12 North championship last year. 
"In terms of what he's done for the program, he has certainly met or exceeded my expectations at this juncture," athletic director Steve Pederson said Tuesday. 

The 51-year-old Callahan signed a six-year contract paying him $1.5 million a season when he was hired in January 2004. 
Under the new contract, Callahan can earn $425,000 in bonuses annu­ally for winning division, conference and national championships, Pederson said Tuesday. 
"I have said on numerous occasions that we want coach Callahan to be the coach at Nebraska for a long time," Pederson said. "This commitment to Bill and his staff is a result of our belief that all the right ingredients are in place for long-term success. Bill has assembled a top-notch staff, and they are recruiting out­standing young men. He also has set a very high standard for discipline, integrity and work ethic that makes us proud as Nebraskans." 
Terms were reached last week and Callahan signed the contract Tuesday. 
Callahan remains the fourth-highest paid coach in the Big 12 behind Oklahoma's Bob Stoops ($3.45 million), Texas' Mack Brown ($2.91 million) and Texas A&M's Dennis Franchione ($2.01 million). 
Callahan said he doesn't worry about where his compensation ranks. 
"I never got into coaching for all these things," he said. "I coach because I enjoy coaching. I've never looked at coaching as about money, about the next job. I always did the best job I could in the situation I was in, and things always worked out better for myself and my family." 
Callahan thanked Pederson and UNL Chancellor Harvey Perlman for the new deal. 
"It reflects greatly on our football staff," Callahan said. "I wanted to be here, and I am committed to being at Nebraska." 
"We've always said it's not exclusively a question of wins and losses, but the trend is moving in the right direction," Perlman said. 
IN BRIEF 
Body of father of Magicguari:l Jameer Nelson found 
WILMINGTON, Del. -Authorities pulled a body from the Delaware River on Saturday and there is a "strong likelihood" it is the missing father of Orlando Magic star Jameer Nelson, police said. 
Floyd "Pete" Nelson, 57, an employ­ee at a tugboat company, was last seen Thursday working in a dry dock area in the Philadelphia suburb of Chester, Pa. Divers and trained dogs searched the river all day Friday but the search was suspended around 4 p.m. 
Police in Delaware said a boater called 911 on Saturday after spotting the body of a black male floating in the river near Fox Point Park in Wilmington. The body was recovered around 2 p.m. 
Th~tre was a "strong likelihood" that the body was Floyd Nelson's but police were unable to confirm it, said Delaware State Police spokesman Sgt. Joshua A. Bushweller. 

AmericanJ!YIDnasts assured 
of spot in lfeijing 
STUTTGART, Germany -Some called it failure. The Americans called it fuel. 
A year after their gymnastics debacle in Denmark, the U.S. men enjoyed an incredible comeback in Deutschland. The performance not only assured them one of 12 spots in the Beijing Olympics but got them thinking about more imme­diate goals -like maybe taking a bronze medal from these world championships. 
Most of the outward signs lead­ing to Tuesday's success in quali­fying said it was. But after finish­ing fourth, short only of world­beaters China and Japan and revved-up host Germany, it was clear the Americans are nothing like that beleaguered squad that finished a dismal 13th in 2006. 
"It still eats at me," said Jonathan Horton. 
Colts receiver Wayne ready 
to face hometown"Saints 
INDIANAPOLIS -Reggie Wayne is a lifelong fan of his hometown New Orleans Saints. 
Those loyalties are on hold this week though, as his Indianapolis Colts begin their Super Bowl defense Thursday against the Saints in a nationally televised game. 
"Whenever you play against your hometown, you want to go out there and you want to put that extra (effort) into it," the Pro Bowl wide receiver said earlier this week. "So for my family, my friends, and for the people (in New Orleans) who may have heard of me, but don't know me, it's going to be a big game." 
As for his family and close friends who still live in the New Orleans area, he says they'll be cheering for the Colts. 
"They better be. I'm paying their bills, too," he joked. 

page 18 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 5, 2007 

FALLCAREER EXRQ ~007 
JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 
* * 

September 191 2007 4:00 pni-8:00 pt11 
How to Prepare for the Career Fair 
1. Compose a resume that markets your background and skills 
• 
Visit The Career Center in 248 Flanner Hall during walk-in hours from I -4:45 pm daily for a 15 minutes resume review 

• 
Stop by "Resume on the Run" every Tuesday in September 


Preparing for the Fall Career Expo Workshops 

A&L Majors: 

Wednesday, September 5, 8:15-9:15pm in 114 Flanner Hall Monday, September I 0, 6:00 -7:00 pm in G-20 Flanner Hall 

Business Majors: 

Tuesday, September II, 5:00-6:00pm in G-20 Flanncr Hall 

Grad Students: 

Friday, September 7, 12:00-1:00pm in 114 Flanner Hall 
from 11 :30 am -1 :30 pm in the Dooley Room, LaFortune 


Utilize GoiRISH to find out more about the 
2. Prepare, Prepare, Prepare 

companies, industries, and positions? 
• 
Attend a "Preparing for the Career Fair" workshop 

• 
Determine your objectives f()r attending To view all companies that are attending the Fall Career Expo: 

• 
Review the list of companies attending the fair on Go!RISH 


1. Login to GofRISH and your "Top I0" list of companies to visit 2. Click on Events Tab 
• Review the position descriptions on GoiRISH 3. Click on Fall Career Expo Tab to view participating em­• Visit company websites and review mission statements, an­ployers and general posting information 
nual reports, and new products or services To view job postings:
• 
Develop and refine networking, relationship-building skills 

• 
Develop your "Thirty Second Message" I. Login to GofRISH 


2. Click on GoiRISH Jobs • Hello, l'm..(introduce yourselt~ your year and major, and 3. In the "Keywords" search, enter FCE07 interest in industry/career field) 
• Your company is..( demonstrate knowledge of company) 

Conduct company and industry research 
• 
I'm interested because ..( explain your interest in company) 

• 
I can ..(match your skills with their needs) 


The Vault Online Career Library 
3. What to do the day of the fair https://careercenter2.nd.edulcslibrary.php 
• Contains insider company infom1ation, advice, and career • At the fair: management services. Includes an extensive selection of 
• 
Dress in business attire and bring several copies ofyour 

career, industry, and employer guides and articles. resume in a portfolio/folder to Gate 3 of the Joyce Center 

• 
Scan your ID when you enter CareerSearch 

• 
Review the map of employer booths and take a bag for https://careercenter2.nd.edulcslibrary.php "giveaways" • Provides access to a networking database of over 2 mil­

• 
Be proactive by approaching employers lion companies nationwide. Search for information on a 

• 
Speak with both young alums and experienced particular company, industry, or location using a variety of search options. 

representatives 

• 
Demonstrate confidence and enthusiasm in delivering 


Factiva -Company news, financial information, and more
your "Thirty Second Message" http://www.library.nd.edu
• Ask the representative how to sign up for an interview • Click on F(i.e. "After reviewing your company information and the • Select Factiva position, I am interested in speaking with you or one of • Once in Factiva, select the Companies/Markets-Com­your colleagues further. How can I obtain a slot on your pany Quick Search tab interview schedule at The Career Center?") 
• Click on Company• Obtain the representative's business card • Type in the name 
4. Following the fair 
Market Insight-Contains excellent industry infonnation 
• If you obtain an interview: http://www.library.nd.edu 
• Prepare by researching the company, it's indus­• Click on M and Select Market Insight 
try, it's competitors, and the job or internship • Once within Market Insight, select Industry from the top description on Go!RISH 
tool bar 

• 
Review The Career Center's online Interviewing • From the pull down menu, click approptiate industry and Guide and be sure to practice sample interview­select Go! ing questions 

• 
If you have a web cam, practice interviewing using the online "Interview Stream" at http:// Visit the new Career Center website careercenter.nd.edu/for-undergrads/resumes­



for more information on writing your resume, preparing for an
cover-letters-interview 

interview, and much more:

• Within 3 days of the fair, send an email thank-you to the 

http://careercenter.nd.edu

recruiters with companies of interest from which you col­lected business cards 
The Career Center 

page 19 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
u.s. OPEN 


Djokovic advances to U.S. Open quarterfinals 
match," he said. "First-time with eight major titles; Renin 
Associated Press 
experience that I got a point in has won six. . 
NEW YORK -Put it this way: that way. It was an important Also at night: No. 2 Rafael A weary Novak Djokovic was point." Nadal faced No. 15 David Ferrer. relieved to pocket a victory That got Djokovic to 5-4, and The Nadal-Ferrer winner was to Tuesday. he held a match point at 6-5. meet No. 20 Juan Ignacio Chela, 
The No. 3-seeded Djokovic Monaco saved that with a serv­who got past Stanislas reached the U.S. Open quarterfi­ice winner, and eventually won Wawrinka in five sets. nals for the first time by beating that set. But Djokovic grabbed a Like Djokovic, Chela reached No. 23 Juan Monaco 7-5, 7-6 (2), 3-0 lead in the fourth set and his first U.S. Open quarterfinal. 6-7 (6), 6-1 in a match that wound up winning in 3 hours, Moya, however, has been there included the unusual sight of 53 minutes. before _ although not since Monaco losing a point because a A couple of hours earlier, 1998. ball fell out of his shorts. Djokovic was flat on the court, "Still beating these young 
"I went nuts! I was cursing at his face resting on a white towel, guys," Moya said. "I feel, like, 20 me, I was yelling at my pants," his back being massaged by a years old." Monaco said. trainer. A few feet away, another And Moya, a former No. 1 who 
Monaco was serving while trainer was attending to won the 1998 French Open, was ahead 5-3 in the third-set Monaco, who wanted his right fresh right down the very end. tiebreaker when the players set­elbow examined and his right ' On his second match point, both tled into an extended baseline ankle taped after a nasty fall players wound up at the net, exchange. As Monaco whipped a while diving for a shot in the trading reflex volleys until Moya shot, an extra yellow ball he had second set. delivered a cross-court back­tucked away in case of a fault Djokovic held up better down bander that curled in to end it. popped out of his pocket _ the the stretch, though, and he now Moya rolled on his back and second time it happened during faces No. 17 Carlos Moya. The hopped up, arms raised. the match. He stopped playing, 31-year-old Moya is the oldest "It was the best point of the 
dropped his racket, doubled man still in the tournament, and match," Moya said. "I was a bit over and screamed, knowing the player he beat 7-5, 6-2, 6-7 tired, a bit nervous." what was coming. (5), 6-4 in the fourth round It didn't show a bit against 
"Hight away I knew I lost that Tuesday, 19-year-old Ernests Gulbis, who went 4-2 at the point. It's very weird," Monaco Gulbis of Latvia, was the majors and 0-10 at every other said. "That sort of thing cannot youngest left. tournament in 2007. deceiving, and that certainly the most important point of all, happen twice in the same The Djokovic-Monaco More often than not, it was was the case in Chela's victory the last one, with his 69th match." marathon delayed the start of Gulbis who blinked first on over Wawrinka. unforced error, 20 more than 
Chair umpire Jake Garner had the night session and the most lengthy points. Moya served Consider these numbers: Chela accumulated. no choice. anticipated match of the day: spectacularly, facing only one Wawrinka won more points As Chela walked to the net, "By rule," he announced, "he Serena Williams against Justine break point all match. He (145-142), produced far more smiling a wide smile, Wawrinka 
loses the point." Renin in a third consecutive earned 16 break points on clean winners (65-29) and even took everything out on his poor Djokovic gladly took it. Grand Slam quarterfmal. Gulbis' serve, converting five. broke serve more often (8-7). racket, violently cracking it "I never had this situation in Williams leads active players They say statistics can be But it was Wawrinka who lost twice on the court. 


MLB 
Clemens injury not serious, expects to pitch again this year 
stuff," Torre said. ''I'm think­appearance. He is eighth on
Associated Press 

ing that he's going to pitch, the career wins list at 354 and 
NEW YORK Roger and I'm not looking too far second on the strikeouts list at Clemens walked onto the field, down the road for that to hap­4,668, and he was brought in dressed in full pinstripes, and pen, either." to provide leadership and sta­stood alongside his New York Clemens wouldn't reveal bility to a staff decimated by Yankees' teammates behind exactly what the MRI exam injuries early in the season. home plate for a team photo showed. The 45-year-old right­''I'm committed here. I'm not Tuesday. He hopes to rejoin hander, now in running out on them in games soon. his 24th major these guys now," 
The Rocket will have a corti­league season, Clemens said. sone shot Wednesday on his is known for his "Until I can't do
'Tm pushing my body

ailing right elbow and is confi­physical and it any more, I'm dent he will be able to pitch mental tough-until it starts going to contin­again this season. But he also ness. pushing back.,, ue to push for­hinted that the injury is more "I kind of ward." serious than the diagnosis of know what it He hasn't had
Roger Clemens 

"inflammation" in his right says. I know many arm prob­elbow that was announced by what the guy Yankees pitcher lems since the team. read for me at shoulder sur­
Clemens' start was cut short home," Clemens gery to repair after four innings Monday in said. "He's torn cartilage in New York's 7-1 loss to Seattle, going to tell you something a August 1985. For much of his and he had an MRI exam after little lesser, probably." career, his most serious the game. He thought the Clemens couldn't say injuries were to his groin. He elbow problem stemmed from whether the injury would said during his last three a blister on his foot that require surgery at the end of starts, by the second inning caused him to alter his the season. Asked whether it "my foot's been on fire. It's mechanics. was his most serious arm been bleeding." 
The seven-time Cy Young injury since a shoulder opera­"When I have leg problems, Award winner never before tion 22 years ago, he respond­I'm in trouble," he said. "I still has had a cortisone shot to his ed: 'Til be able to answer that feel that my mind is strong arm. He will fly to Houston and in a month, maybe." enough to deal with my shoul­be examined by Astros team ''I'm pushing my body until it der and elbow, that I can still physician Dr. Thomas starts pushing back. It's push­be effective." Mehlhoff. While the Yankees ing back a little bit," he said. Mussina had a 17.69 ERA in said a shot was possible, "The muscles and everything his last three starts before he Clemens said he will have one. else are just basically shutting was replaced in the rotation 
''I'm very optimistic. Even if down and trying to grab a hold last weekend by Ian Kennedy, it takes multiple sessions, I'm of my arm." who beat Tampa Bay in his willing to deal with that," The Rocket rejoined the major league debut. Mussina Clemens said. Yankees on June 9, a little then allowed two runs and 
Manager Joe Torre said Mike more than a month after he seven hits over 3 2-3 innings Mussina will take Clemens' agreed to a one-year contract in relief ofClemens on Monday turn this weekend at Kansas worth $28,000,022. Because -the first regular-season City. For now, Torre is expect­he joined the team in midsea­relief appearance of Mussina's ing Clemens will miss just one son, his prorated salary is big league career. turn. $17,442,637. "I thought his stuff was a lot 
"The elbow seems to be fine Clemens is 6-6 with a 4.45 better than we've seen in his as far as all the structural ERA in 16 starts and one relief last three starts," Torre said. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
U.S. OPEN TENNIS 

Henin downs overmatched Serena in two sets 
Williams might not be fully recovered from left thumb injury 
Associat.,d Press 

NEW YOHK -Maybe Serena Williams wasn't as healthy as she said. Maybe she wasn't as match-tested as she really needed to be. 
This much is certain: When it wmes to playing Justine llenin at (;rand Slams this year, Williams has been overmatched every time. 
Finding all the right anglns and hanging tough on long ral­lins, llenin beat Williams 7-6 I:-H. (,-1 Tuesday night to reach the U.S. Open snmilinals. They have met in the quarterlinals at three consecutive majors. and I lenin is 3-0. 
Asked if she c:ould nxplain what went wrong, a sullen Williams replied: "No. I can't. I'm sorry. Any more qLteS­tions'!" 
"Sho made a lot or lucky shots." Williams said a moment later. a whitn baseball cap pullnd low ovor her eyes, "and I madn a lot or errors." 
So while tho formerly No. 1­ranknd Williams is the active leader among women with eight Grand Slam titles and will stay on that number, current No. l I lenin will have a chance to get her seventh major. 
"Playing Serena is really exciting for me," Ilenin said after compiling a 30-17 edge in winners. "I was really happy about the second set. I played much more aggressive." 
!lenin's next opponent could be another Williams: Serena's older sister, Venus, faces No. 3 Jelena Jankovic in the quarter­finals Wednesday night. Not much question for whom Henin 
will be rooting -she's 1-7 
against Venus Williams, 7-0 
against Jankovic. 
Henin beat the younger Williams at the French Open en route to her fourth title in five years there, and again at Wimbledon. 
"I got a lot of confidence in 
Paris and London," Henin said. 
Their matchup at Wimbledon in July didn't feature Williams at her absolute best: She could barely hit backhands after spraining her left thumb and hurting her left calf in the pre­vious round. Because of the thumb, Williams withdrew from every event she was scheduled to play in the 1 1/2 months between Wimbledon and the 
U.S. Open. 
"I don't think that affected me," she said. "I don't think it did. Maybe it did." 
She arrived at Flushing Mfladows full of confidence, as usual, and said she didn't need tuneup tournaments to get ready. While Williams' thumb appnared finn, and thnre were no obvious injuries, her father said Sunday that she was deal­ing with other physical prob­lmns -and doing a "marvelous job of hiding it." 
Hegardless, Tuesday's match featured brilliant play by both past U.S. Open champions, from stinging serves to big groundstrokes to touch volleys. Ilenin was far better at the net, winning 11 of 14 points when she pressed forward, while Williams was only 5-for-14. 
Mostly, though, the differ­ence-maker was Henin's ability to steer Williams this way and that along the baseline until the Belgian could find an opening for her smooth backhand or a well-placed forehand. Repeatedly, especially in the second set, Henin wrong-footed Williams to end a point. 
The first set was much closer and of much higher quality. Henin broke in the opening game by ending a tight net exchange with a forehand vol­ley, and she served for the opening set at 5-4. 

But Williams buckled down to break back right there with a backhand return winner down the line and a loud, "Come on!" The tiebreaker began with a 23-stroke point in which Williams made two great defen-

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Man charged in Porter murder case 
Ex-Villanova star 
was trying to trade 
drugs, money for sex 
-
ST. PAUL, Minn. -Former Villanova star Howard Porter was trying to trade money and erack cocaine for sex with a prostitute when he was beaten to death, according to murder charges filed Tuesday against a St. Paul man. 
Porter, 58, died May 26, a week aftnr he was found uneon­seious in a Minneapolis alley. 
Hashad Arthur Haleigh, 29, was charged Tuesday with sec­ond-dngrnn murder. Haleigh was originally arrested in early June, but was released without being charged. lie had bmm in custody on an unrelated charge of flee­ing police since Aug. 16 before he was charged in Porter's death Tuesday. 
According to the criminal complaint filed in Ramsey County District Court, Porter aeeompanied a prostitute he had pieked up on the street to her apartment for a "date." The woman, Tonya Evette Johnson, told police four masked men rushed into her apartment, threw her to the floor and demanded drugs and money. 
Johnson told police the four men beat Porter "real bad, God real bad" and that "there was blood everywhere," the com­plaint quoted her as saying. Police said they found blood spattered throughout the house. 
The woman told police Haleigh and another man she knew as "Snake Eyes" had been at her apartment earlier that evening. Haleigh admitted to police he had been there with "Snake Eyes," but denied that Porter had been there when he was. 
Porter disappeared the night of May 18 after leaving his St. Paul home. He was found in Minneapolis the next morning, without identification and badly injured. Authorities didn't know at the time that the assault vic­tim brought to the hospital was Porter, and he remained hospi­talized until he died. His car was found in St. Paul. 
According to the complaint, Haleigh told someone who had made a series of calls from the Hamsey County Workhouse to Johnson's address in late May that Porter had "rushed" him and "didn't go along with the program." Raleigh allegedly said in those calls that he robbed Porter because he needed money, but that Johnson had come up with the idea. Calls by workhouse inmates are routine­ly recorded. 
Porter was a standout at Villanova, leading the Wildcats to the 1971 NCAA championship game and was selected out­standing player of the tourna­ment despite the Wildcats' loss to UCLA in the final. But he wa:; stripped of his award and the team's accomplishments were wiped from the record books after it was learned he had begun dealing with an agent before the season ended. 
Porter was drafted 32nd over­all by the Chicago Bulls in 1971 and played seven professional seasons including stints with Detroit and New York but never achieved the success he had in college. 
He became addicted to drugs and estranged himself from his school and former teammates, but turned his life around. He came to Minnesota for drug treatment, decided to stay and became a probation officer for Ramsey County in 1995. He returned to VIllanova when the school retired his No. 54 jersey in 1997. 
sive plays before swatting a backhand passing winner down the line. 
"I really got nervous at that time," Henin said, "and I knew every point was important." 
She showed it, delivering a 105 mph ace to go up 4-2, fol­lowed by a forehand winner she punctuated with a yell of "Allez!" Williams seemed deflated and dumped a fore­hand into the net to end the set. 
"It's kind of like she had no energy. No get-up-and-go," said Williams' mother and coach, Oracene Price. "Tennis is a head game, sometimes. Your head tells you to do something, but you can't." 
Price rested a cheek on a hand, barely able to watch, as Henin took control right away in the second set, breaking for a 2-0 lead, and that was that, pretty much. 
MLB 

Despite success, Cubs are still on the market 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Five months after Tribune Co. announced plans to sell the Chicago Cubs, the first-place ballclub is making much more noise on the field than its corporate owners have been about the slow-moving sale process. 
But whether the Cubs make the playoffs or even manage to capture their first World Series in 99 years, an emerg­ing lineup of deep-pocketed bidders has put Tribune in strong position to net a record sale price for the franchise. 
Tribune put the team and historic Wrigley Field on the block in April, saying it would sell the team after the season and intended to do so by the end of the year. 
But its bankers have yet to send out detailed financial information to prospective bidders and are not expect­ed to do so until mid­September, jeopardizing that timetable. 
A source familiar with the sale process said there's no chance of the sale being com­
pleted this year, with a more realistic target now baseball's opening day in spring 2008. The source, who declined to be identified out of concern of disrupting the process, said "five or six legitimate groups" have emerged as would-be buyers, but declined to give details. 
Tribune, which is in the process of going private in an $8.2 billion buyout being led by real estate magnate Sam Zell, isn't talking about dates, names or numbers. A spokesman for the media con­glomerate, Gary Weitman, said the company doesn't want the process to be a dis­traction to the season. 
"We'd like to get the sale done as soon as possible after the baseball season ends," Weitman said. "But I can't and wouldn't predict what the timing will be." 
Currently, the Cubs are clinging to a slim -and rare -lead in the National League Central Division and trying to get to the World Series for the first time since 1945. They haven't won one since 1908. 

-------------------~--------------------­
-
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

NCAA FOOTBALL 



Michigan falls out of Top 25 
VVolverines drop farther in AP poll than any team-ever 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Thud! 
The linal fallout from a dis­astrous opening weekend for Michigan camP. Tuesday, when the Wolverines dropped all the way out of The Associated Press Top 25, an unprecedent­ed fall from No. 5 to unranked. 
Sinee the AP poll expanded to 25 teams in 1989, no team has taken a bigger tumble in one week. 
After an opening college football weekend filled with blowouts and highlighted by Appalachian State's stunning 34-32 upset of Michigan at the Big House, there was little notable movement in the Top 25 other than the Wolverines. 
Southern California was voted No. 1 by the media panel, but the Trojans lost some support. USC received 62 first-place votes in the presea­son poll. A lackluster 38-10 victory over Idaho led to the Trojans dropping to 59 first­place votes. 
No. 2 LSU picked up those first-place votes, receiving five·. No. 3 West Virginia received one first-place vote, the same as it did in the preseason. 
No. 4 Florida and No. 5 Wisconsin moved up two spots. Oklahoma, tied for fifth, moved up three spots. 
No. 7 Texas 'fell three spots 
after slogging through a 21-13 
home victory over Arkansas 
State. 
No. 9 Virginia Tech held its place and plays at LSU on Saturday. 
No. 10 California moved up 
two spots after a 45-31 victory 
over Tennessee. The 
Volunteers dropped eight spots 
to No. 23. 
Florida State also fell out of 
the rankings. The Seminoles 
were 19th heading into their 
season opener at Clemson and 
lost 24-18 in the Bowden BowL 
Clemson moved into the rankings at No. 25 and Georgia Tech also moved into the Top 25. The Yellow Jackets were 21st after winning at Notre Dame 33-3. 
As for Michigan, the Wolverines became the first ranked team from Division I-A, now known as the Bowl Subdivision, to lose to a team from 1-AA, now known as the Championship Subdivision. 
"It hurts because you don't like losing," Michigan line­backer Chris Graham said Monday. "But how far can you hold your head down? I'm not holding my head down at alL You've got to move on for­ward." 
Michigan received 39 points from the media voters in the Top 25, including a 16th place vote by Wayne Phillips from The Greenville {Tenn.) Sun. · 
"I still think Michigan has a good football team," he said. "I think they're worthy of being ranked. They may prove me wrong." 
Phillips said he gave Michigan some leeway because he's very familiar with Appalachian State, the two­time defending I-AA champi­ons. 
"They're a pretty darn good football team," he said. "If Michigan had lost to some of the other patsies some of the big teams played I could see 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September lOth, at 4:15p.m. tn the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 
dropping them out." 
Appalachian State is not eli­gible for the AP Top 25, which only ranks Bowl Subdivision teams. The Wolverines host Oregon on Saturday. 
Before Michigan's fall, Notre Dame held the ignominious record for largest drop in the rankings in the Top 25-era. The Fighting Irish dropped 16 spots -from No. 9 to No. 25 -after losing to Northwestern 17-15 on Sept. 3, 1995. 
Texas dropped 15 spots in 1997, going from ninth to 24th after a 66-3 loss to UCLA in September 1997. Louisville also fell 15 spots -11th to unranked -in September 2005 after losing to South Florida. 
The highest ranked team to fall from the poll after one loss was No. 2 Oklahoma in 1959, when the AP was ranking the top 20 teams. 

PGA TouR 
Lefty vvill skip next playoff tournan1ent 

round at the Deutsche Bank Championship in Norton, Mass. 
Associated Press 
LEMONT, Ill. -Phil Mickelson can be impulsive and unpre­dictable, reckless and rash, but always a topic of conversation. He is capable of making people turn their heads one minute and shake their heads the next. 
He's like that on the golf course, too. 
Mickelson left everyone scratch­ing their heads during an 18-hour mystery tour in which he beat Tiger Woods in a riveting battle outside Boston; used a national tel­evision interview to air his com­plaints about PGA Tour commis­sioner Tim Finchem; showed up in Chicago for a corporate outing; and withdrew from the BMW Championship by saying he wasn't trying to send a message. 
ISSA's ANNUAL WELCOME/ WELCOME BACK PICNIC 
All international students and their host families are invited to welcome in the new academic year. 
Friday, September 071h@ 5:30pm 
Holy Cross Field (across from the Grotto) (Rain location: Stepan Center) 

Contact ISSA at 631-3825 with any questions. 
Event sponsored by International Student Services & Activities 

"This decision was not an easy one to make," Mickelson said in a statement. 
It was even tougher to interpret. 
Mickelson had no intention of playing a third straight week in the PGA Tour Playoffs even before he teed it up Friday at the Deutsche Bank Championship, with Woods and Vijay Singh at his side. 
Perhaps one reason was his pal­try record at Cog Hill, where he has never cracked the top 25 in 10 starts. Maybe he was starting to feel fatigued, knowing that a full schedule through the Presidents Cup would mean seven tourna­ments in nine weeks. Or he could have wanted to join Woods and Ernie Els by skipping one playoff event. 
All of those reasons would have been acceptable. 
Anyone who thinks this FedEx Cup fmale isn't working because one player stays home hasn't been paying attention. These "playoffs" are bringing together a great col­lection of players and producing exciting golf. 

Opener 
continued from page 24 
way that we have shown we can. If we need to change anything, we'll sort that out as we go along." 
The match will be the Belles' home opener, and MacKenzie said she looks forward to the comfortable atmosphere. 
"We're definitely looking for­ward to playing on our field," MacKenzie said. "It will be nice not to have to get on a bus, and the players will be totally ecstatic to play in front of some friendly faces. The preseason can kind of drag on, so it's good to finally be in game mode and to be playing at home." 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
Slovakia 
continued from page 24 

tnam dnfeatnd Swcdcm 99-57 in the gold-modal game. 
Lcchlitner was one of 37 high sc:hool and mllngiate players invit­ed to try out for the team in Colorado Springs, Colo. The 16 players that remained after cuts travnlod to Washington, D.C. for two-a-day practices. There, more cut'i wore made to linalizo the 12­pnrson rostor. . 
Whon many students hear oT Bratislava, they onvision tho war­torn eastnrn EuropBan capital with the lucrative exchange rate l'natured in the 2004 !'ilm "Eurotrip." But Lechlitnnr was plmL'iantly surpris1~d with hnr sur­roundings during the loam's stay. 
"It was a J.,troat experinnee, defi­nitely a lot of diflfmmt things that I wasn't really used to," said Lnehlitner. who wrote a blog about hnr limn in Bratislava that can be read on und.com. "The people, the food, everything. We got a tour of downtown and everything -it was really nice. I guess I didn't really know what to expect, but it ended up being really nice." 
While there, Lechlitner and her teammates, along with the Slovakian team, were treatnd to dinner at the U.S. ambassador's residence in Bratislava. 
"Just being in the ambassador's house wa'i really nice," Lechlitner said. "lie had a pool table upstairs and we all got to hang out, and he had a really nice view over Bratislava off hi'> balcoriy. He wa'i a really nice guy; he made every­one feel right at home...He was really down to earth." 
The U . .S. team stayed in the same hotel as the other teams, )()s­toring interaction and trading between the players, Lechlitner said. She came away with an Australian shirt, Slovakian and Brazilian jerseys, game shorts from Spain and Lithuania and warm-up shirts from Spain. 
The hotel, along with the team's curfew, also fostered boredom, Lechlitner said. Late one night, Lechlitner and her teammates, in searGh of entertainment, tried to throw old apples from Lechlitner's third-floor balcony to a dumpster across the street. They thought nothing of it until later, when a Slovakian policeman showed up at her teammate's door asking for her passport. 
"I was laughing," Lechlitner said. "I felt really bad because I thought it was hilarious." 
Team officials sorted out the incident with the police, but reper­cussions came at the subsequent team meeting, where the team got a scolding from the coaches. 
'Tm glad it happened, because 
it  was  a  good story to  tell,"  
Lechlitner said.  
The competing teams  were  

friendly with one another off the court, Lechlitner said, but during the games, things could get ugly. Contact is much more prevalent in the international game, she said, and foreign officials were far less likely to call fouls than their American counterparl'i. 
"You'll be driving to the ba'iket, and in the U.S. they'll call like a hand check or a blocking foul, but you know, overseas they just let everything go," Lechlitner said. "That was a lot of fun, getting to play a little more, get away with a couple more holds and stuff. I have to change my game a little bit when I come back and play fi>r Notre Dame, because 1'11 get callnd for a lot of fouls." 
While Lechlitner's leadership role on the U.S. team diJTered from her usual role as a scorer for the Irish, Notre Dame coach Mu!Tet McGraw believes the change will benefit her. 
"I think it's going to be really great to play with that level of players and then to 0 back some of that expmience," McGraw said last week. "It really helped her kind of run the team." 
The U.S. team, coached by DePaul head coach Doug Bruno, easily took the gold medal. Other than a 7 4-66 win over Spain, the smallest margin of victory was 19 poinl'i. 
Lechlitner averaged 4.6 points and 1.4 assisL'i per game. In a sec­ond-round gamn against Slovakia, Lechlitner had eight points, five assists, four steals and four rebounds. Against Korea, she put up 14 point'> and hit 10 of 10 free throws, setting two tournament records. 
Standing on the podium to accept the gold medal was a moment Lechlitner will always cherish, she said. 
"You watch the Olympics, you always see the U.S. team standing up on the podium, listening to the national anthem, and you'm like, 'llfly, that's us,"' Lechlitner said. "You dream about that as a kid. and there I was experieneing my dream. It was an amazing feel­ing." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Clausen 
continued from page 24 

oiTenso, rushing 12 times for 2S yards and complnting one of' his thrno passes for four yards. 
Jones also eoughed up two fumbles before getting pulled from the game at the end of thn second quarter. 
Sharpley replacod Jones, completing 10 of' 13 passes for 92 yards, but was sacked snvon times. 
Clausen saw his first colle­giatn adion at the end of the loss to the Yellow Jackets, completing four of six passes f'or 34 yards. 
Notes: 
+This weekend, Clausen will become the eighth freshman to start at quarterback for Notre Dame since 1951. The most recent was Brady Quinn, who made his first start in a 23-10 loss to Purdue in 2003. 
+Irish freshman quarter­backs are 6-1 in their first starts since 1951. Ralph Gugliemi beat North Carolina in 1951, Blair Kiel beat Miami in 1980, Steve Beuerlein beat Colorado in 1983, Kent Graham beat Boston College in 1987, Paul Pailla beat Purdue in 1991, and Matt LoVecchio beat Stanford in 2000. 
+Clausen's start in the sec­ond game of the year marks the earliest in a season a freshman has started at quar­terback for the Irish. Quinn, Pailla, Beuerlein and Kiel were all previously tied for the quickest, starting the fourth game of the season. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Bulldogs 
continued from page 24 
first in league play, but the team moved to 4-1 overall. The Belles, meanwhile, dropped to 1-3 overall. 
Sophomore outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski and fresh­man outside hitter Jacee Watson finished with 11 and 10 kills, respectively, but got little help from their Saint Mary's teammates. 
The Belles were dominated by the Bulldogs at the net, manag­ing only four blocks to Adrian's 10. 
Saint Mary's will be back in action Thursday when the team visits Hope College. The Belles will take on lliram in the Ohio Tournament Saturday. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 


JOIN THE WOMEN'S BOXING CLUB 







GET IN SHAPE! 
Learn the fundamentals ot boxing and ioin us lor an informational meeting Thursdav, September &th at&:30 u.m in the JACC boxing room 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

DEUCES MANOR 


CROSSWORD 
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
1HAT :&X:.=.to.tiral.s:r 'II("lFI:J (t6b~ hy H..ori .>:nn••• "'"'"I ~"Ilk>< ~rim 
........ 
..,"?"I '0:,( ....:: :--",: • ...-.-,-. 
.•..,. "'~• 'I ! ... • '\:-. _. ·'~~ ;1. W"oi!OJ 
. I . -<,~ , I .,J , 
........... r... ~~·...... :' 
:~-.1' ~ • I 
y --~.,_;t./.:"1
0 
'I .o:J:o;r.o.~i:-.
(-·~·• ••• ). r;;;_
' 
.. -..;_~..·· -~· ~{"
.-.... _. ...( 
~~----~ ., .-..l·r: 
.-' "-.: \. ...... ..oor: .:.­....... ~ I • i~ _;.-.::­< 
f-Y.NJ .:JMI"(}"" lj-... .-:tY:-~ql ~ I)") l'ilnn lj.,.. "'IJll"b;,.. tl!"t=;lo'.~Qt; ~ ,:;o ~WI._.,.jlj-... .w-:.-...... ~-.. 
-:A~-.; lo'.toW: I)"]I Y.IIT l)lo'/,1 H;)sg"{ Jo(~Sf-DA ;<=L~JffiY 

63 Jlllllllll)e>OS'e o,>.llllioR mllteri...'? 
6o.l. End of the <r.ro:teo 68 l'l111rro...J i)let 69 Some we [).rtcl) 
70'N'!A>I'IIIll{.l 71 I'LL. inos:igr~lll 721 Ml'rOOI"rtrlll 
nllll'lle> 73 Preo!llllre> ro fie 
Ill {.IIlii) 
.,_,., 
1 __ FrKIIlrjos: 2 1>lit or 2n<~ e.g. 3 Pllll1ieos: ro"' 
OOitrlllct 
o.l. Pmoh il)e>OS:, e.g. S P.let)lo Pwk 
mi<klb nllll'lle 6 F111n'll erdo~re 7 Gclder) 
pwooh~te 
reoei•ter, mllfJA>ec Abbr. 
8 Actor J~llilll 9 Roni>olU« of 
oool<leory 10 Col. ~rros:e 11 Ternilo: oR!llr­
t~rr)e><l-llll) ... yo!il: 
12 Ar-.igone'os:fml)e>r 13 'Nhlllt you llllll>' 18 Sllll~~lter in 
bMeollllll 22'Neo5terntreollty grp. 
~~"123Cod::r"le'jos: 
Illbode :-t:~::+.:~:.t 2 S A potl )e> owytool 26 Sm..,A>ir<los:' de>S'tirH'IIiOI) 30 SorYie CFE C oflici...os: o:+:::F.:+:::-E-f:t-:+:t::ol 31 __ Sr~ml d tl)e> fo.rrnieos: 
WILLSHORTZ 


JUMBLE 
J _fJ.i>;i~.f_L~ 
~.lr"t=;iTI'loll1.li<;olj-...::;,.. ~ r .~II~ r.o~-...l.;l:l:o;t" I)") ·•·~r.·h ,.,.~ w~ I)") l'ilnn ~ r 'lrtlr~ o,>..-:fi~ 
~l);filt>Jj,:; I.••I"JI:,Iqo,:;: 
.tol"t=;lo'.l'l: 
HOROSCOPE 


D I I 
.ltO:~S 
'/IIW: lj-....1:.-:ok"'t" 1:W~ 'tl lo'.h;n 1-...l.,...:oq.-1 lo'.4tj) tj-... wIY_./ -HS "FOL08J" 
EUGENIA LAST 
lnD:r-.-..s:.cr::r.r a.r TJIII8~ E:..:."'"'tolo x,,.,....J! ..... ~. Io.... *1>:-1... ~. :F.Iilo: ..Fio11Zi1o ::o:o, n,,.., w"~"'"' ~ 
!Lttrey]l:i.tlo<l .. :l< o--......:::ti·~· .,..,_1-oin;[r fll·l ...,-t... •lio~ -roll inti... pi<bo... nolliltl....,.1..-f tlo .. )'"WI<-'no.,.• :."'""•h•>ul-1 r,. .. ...,. .. .,. ;[!41: ,_1,.-lno·l.. "'"" :.'""'• 
lif-o. y;,,., ,.,,r,._ .-ll.!S. !'1. ~. :!(1, ~~ 
.-\1".-.s (I'.E...do :2l........ ocil l:l'): Y,,,,.. ~t pl.,.ot-1..-f <f"f""'"o:bllit"Jo ,... .,...,.. ,....._,.ll>"ll!l.. 
..-fit. :F.Iix. o.-iu;[i! .. fll•l <>Oiflo1111i<>fi ~>tot -lo-ottfoc-oo. :."'"'"' 1,.-oli.J;o .,., ~~-. :J :.""'' 
lo ...... l» ~ '1'"f<«Jrol oc ·:."<odo: ·:.oillo->~•-:.""'''"":11'...,. ,.,.,.. ·klo"T;~• fl>l <f"t->,.;li.,.IL 
(1.,. it.-..1.,., ... ol-.t>"IU 
T.-'LIJJ".lJS(.-\jocil :;,)l,~2(1):Do-u't 141: ·:Jiuot ~~-Nt:J•"'t> j'">llft«o1 ·1-oin;[r·:Jiull: 
:.'""' ·:..... or:. Adoflooto 1» ,......, .. ,.,.,.. io'1'"«to1nt dno;J~o• iu :."'"'"' rrf.. ;, '1'"1""'""11:. F.,..,,_ 
->II ·:."<odo:o :."«1£ l..roltlo fll•ltl,. f"...,.pl .. fll•l t-ot.olloo"ll: ·kt.,.•l «I j'">IL ~ ,...,.. 
1Jim',[J'.(I(J',E..:y2J....Iion• :;,)): 'Troll: .. o1.--...lli·, .. ...,... .....:~,.,. ·:....:lo:. plo"T;~ ,..1 :."'"'"' f"""'• 
..ouroll>ll..ri->o.-li£-•· J1-:."'"" ,.., .. ,.,;1', .. fl>l -oci;[liniol io 11 .. "."NL)' :."'"" """f<.,.' :.'""'" 
llo«o~ot.. :."'"" ·:.oill ;[!41: 11 ..1'-"-.-.:lo: :.'"'' ,,_1 1» lo:ow:J ·:..! ..... :."'"" •1>1101. x..,..,.. i• 
1->-olo:n~ ·.-:1 ~-o-1. ~ ,...,.. 
G'tJ'KEJ:. (.fun• :21-J"o•:y 2.1-)::F.[....,. "'' Cf.o.rt. ,,.l .... k.oo....,., ......-ulh .,. ........ , 
,,....,.. ,_,,_,.., ... J'iu.-il:.o l>illlo:• o1.1ol•->di1~ «It .it'f"'"'o"""" oCo"lll roll r,. .. ·lo-1 .. 1»·~ :S:"t.fi 
:.--ot•~ iJI=i..-.wl-ow nu·lli~tu ~ th .. oc-~n~llint.a 1>-ti•li!l ......1 .. iu~:-tb.:aL :::. .. t.w 
XZ0 (.JHI:y28 ....... o;,.2-::9:0.:. ·:Jiorot :.'"''<:flo I» h-olt ->lltt<•. L-.....d:io~ ·:,il:lo liloo­
,,;,.1...1t"""f"l .. ·:.oill 1...-.11» u...:,fl:i... ol•lif"• F""'"',.;r,.1 .. 1..-a ootllto<:'"'"'" ... "''in­
.... tio~ ,,...., f"O<oj....::t ·:.oillo ;[!....U.: io<»h1to .,..r,..o,..;bo. *•...,.. 
~.A (S.orK.. 28-0<:t. ~Fro II «ot roll 11 .. •~:-of-• flo·l'l'-oll.,.·:, :."'"'"';,,,,.a,.. Jt-,.,.,... lloio~ '1'1".....,. I» r,. .. I»> ~.,..,; • ..., -oc "'"'-""''*'.., it po:.,.r,.rol,li' i.o. A dofl~ .. ·:.oill r,.., 1'-=-o.-1 "f""'' :."'""if :."'"" -lo-oit ,......, .. iti'"''"".!f. I..·...,;, .,., 11 ...;,.... 5 ......,, 
:131U0ror:K) (O<:t. 28-l.r....... :21): ...,....,. ,....._,.ll>"ll!l.. « ·:JI.-J...: ..,.,_ :."'"'"' ·:"9 ·:.oillo­.,.,11: f"«l·lto:io;[r->< t-=-lioo..riu" J1.:i,.. I» ~ ... "'""""";,." o1.1olo,....,. :."'"'"' llo«o;[rhbo h-1.~­
SA'ff.T.-\J".II'S r;r.r...... 2.1--D..::.. :21): 'Tii• i•n-ot tlo .. ,,,.. .,. l>lllo: .. .,., o1.dnl .. ,~ .. :."'"" ,..,.,.ttlilo:<ol:.-I» ·:.oioL Yoto l.v.. l» r,. .. 11,.1oi-ot ..r,.,....,,.,.. 11 .. .,.,,. ·:Jio .. ......... _ jn·l!l·,,.,.or: fll·l•~ iutlo .. ~..,.,.1. ~ • ...,.. 
c.-o.J'"l'..I:Or:J'.f (D.c.. n.r..o.l:l'): :r.,.,....,.,.. ,.....,. u.. tlo ....... :."'"'"' r,..,.t io-1» ill: 
h..-.t. .... ~roll:.-·:..! ..... ~>t,.i,.,.• ->< ...lo><:oU->onl f"'"'"'it>o .-<»oooo<o,..l. '11 ..... ;.. 
,,.,.,..., ..,.,,.,;,;[! ""''• ·:mr ~ ,...,.. 
AQ"IJ.-\J".II'S(~u.2(L.Jioh.l.$): Yo-n ·:.oill .1;....,.._... llont ,,_ t...,.~ .. u-1 :.'"'' llno :.'"''n""t tl...o~lot. Adofltolo I» b:"J ,...,....tloio~ ..,;1',.. -oc t...,..,.,t...,oo·k.o1.j'">lllooVIo ·:.oill r,. .. ,.,~..t1oL !!>......,, 
rE>lS\.S IJ'•b... lj.J,bdo 2(1):Au.,.,..ti.,.,,.. po:.,.r,.l.,., ·:.oillo o1.f"o"lll:lo...:.,.. ,.,.,...;, .. 
·:.oillo ·:Ji,..,, :."'""h ....... .,. iolhl:-·:.oill "'of""" 'Troll:io~ ""'"'""..-f .l.,.,...,oli-c: n-Lo ·:.oill r,.., 
doroll ... ~i·~· Uur'.....,._, ;,..,.,. ...... lilotl:.o 1» .1 .......1->t ro~.,.,~ 11 .. ·:mr !:! '"'"'' 
:l<i<llo<l.,,_>lzy: Yo-u.-lllf<"'lid>oi>l.., -l-,;,,..1 fl>l o1.lilll .. l,it •b,r,.MaL Yo-u,_ 
•:.oillt'ool, ln-l·:."<odo:illl!l' ...,.,.; . ...., pl~ol ,..1 io~ioo..ri·, ... Yo-n .1.,. n-ot lilo: .. MIII·L-o:io.,o. 
Sco:lli"O..:.:.:.. Vib ~~: ....rr.......W........,m_M-}001, .r:~.....u~r ""~ 
""nr.ooll:oo!i.n~ 
... 

~. 
'VioS>Si d'm:e" operill 
Fi-:, for oe;hort F-ed I~IKIIll'j. o::fbe.n 
o.l. Not j~r>lit queo>S'tion S E•.tideor~ d lllllin 6 S.:..-s:o g IlKIeo 7Pillrt1dlll 
o~:~....-ky <r.K:~teo l>'j So.l.-l'i:Ko>S>G 
D. c. clool<: 
~I){) 
AdYiiMI Bobby 
\'A)o dreo:.teod the 
I>L S.A. urr:br 
Ji'lll'llj>' Cm:er 
1 Uvnor<~ 
'Mth S3-I'I:K OoS>G, rJCteod OOI'IIe><~ g~rp, i) brief 
o3ei~'os:pen 
32 __-chef (l<itcl) el ) !¥2) 
33 ,t'os: ·~llO<~ -­b~ll>ineoos:os:" 
35 Piokos: cff, 111os:"' 
P"'" 37 ProllOQ."' fig. 38 r.li<klleo of the 
q~K:Iteo 
o.I.1Tilll<leo~>os: 
o.l.o.l. Sl~"'~d friglt 
o.I.S __ fllk 
o.I.9"Cheoeros:" cl)lllh'ld« 
S 1 8Meollllll eoxeoo 
B~KI • 
S 3 S eoeo 2&I'I:KOoS>G 
So.!. Speolllkeor d the 
WK:iteo 
56 Get)«... on Chi)eoos:eo metHI!'r 
57 Ceobb fired in 2007 S8P... eo :,-ellow D111r~oe;h cl)e>eoos:eo 
61 Ribbed, lil<leo 
oor<~roy 
~;.E!~E-1~ 
Ra:Do II:.> !!II l!f'lt> ~ l'l,;'llior)... O)ioken 
P.lo. 36 lNr(l to oorte>S>G :XI Some b litter ieos: 
o.I.O F\rt irto ll!Ction 
o.l. 1 Fimlytieos: (to) 
o.I.2Shwed~ 
o.l.3 'North b~bkeos: 
o.l.6 ~reom)'os: lllll)d 
"'7 P.lllloR« eos:oolpclogist 
o.l.8 RoJKii«or ~rrr:l 
SO Lor)~me Elton John ,... )'!A 
52 C~>'os: lllllrtl)e>r SS 8ellll) on-os:oreoeon 59 Reoordfor loiter •.tie...Jil"(l 
60 AnlltorYIKlllll 01111 ..... 
62Golden (>li'ei)K>r) 
6S"'Ne I<:J)o...J dMrm" cl)lllnn'!A 
66 Sort of: &rift.: 
67Pro __ ~or no...J) 
For lllrH;•.veros:, 011111 1-000-28:5-:56:56, ~ 1. 20 "' rYimrte", or, '.\rth Ill oreod~ 0111r<~ 1-800-814-SSS.al. Arm.r ... ~rb-s:oriptior~ we lll'illlillllbb for tl)e beo!it of &rrr:l111y orooS>G".vordG fromtl)e IIll >lit SO yMroe;:: 1-888-7-AcROSS. Q)ine ~rbos:oriptioroG: Todllrjos: puzzle Ill rod more 11)1111) 2,000 lllll>lit I:OO.rz:zleos:, rt,timeos:. 001'11/orooS>G".vor<k: (~9.9:5 "' yew). Shwe tipoe;:: rt,timeos:. OOIYI~:oo.rz:zleofonrm. CrooS>G".vor<k: for yo~ II"(! os:cl•Jeroe;:: l)~meoG.oomAewr)il"(lb:o.vor<k:. 


THE OBSERVER 





PORTS
Wednesday, September 5, 2007 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Weis names Clausen starter for PSU 
pletely healthy until "late last

Freshman will take 
week" and was therefore not spot under center an option to start in Notre 
Dame's 33-3 loss to the Yellowafter Week 1 debacle Jackets last Saturday. 
Weis also said Clausen was 
the No. 1 quarterback after
By CHRIS KHOREY 
spring practice, but fell to a
Sports Editor 
"distant third" during the late 
summer due to the injury. 

Freshman .Jimmy Clausen Clausen participated in all will start at quarterback practices, but was limited in Saturday for Notre Dame the number and distance of against Penn State. Irish head passes he could throw, the coach Charlie coach said. w 0 s Although Weis announced "/ think he's ready wouldn't rule out Tuesday, end­playing sophomore
to run the offense. If
ing specula-Demetrius Jones or
I didn't think he was
tion about junior Evan who will ready, I wouldn't Sharpley again at occupy tho some point this
have done this." 
startnr's role season, he said throe days Clausen is getting af'ter tlw Charlie Weis the vast majority of ol'f'ense man­Irish coach repetitions with the aged only first team in prac­three points tice. in a dismal loss to Georgia "This evaluation process Tnl'h. was one that went from the 
"I think he's ready to run spring to this point right now," t.hn tll'f'Pnsn," Wnis said of tho the coach said. ''I'm not going young signal caller. "If I didn't to play musical quarterbacks." think he was ready, I wouldn't Jones got the starting nod have donn this." against Georgia Tech and ran 
Wtlis said Clausen. who had an ineffective spread option Observer surgory on his elbow after spring praetices, wasn't com-see CLAUSEN/page 22 
Irish freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen gets set to pass during Notre Dame's 33-3 loss to Georgia Tech Saturday. Clausen will make his first collegiate start against Penn State this weekend. 

SMC SOCCER 

Belles prepare for home opener against Manchester 
build even more momentum spent making sure we've got should be able to contribute right MacKenzie said her team doesBy CHRIS DOYEN before its conference schedule everyone where we want them," away." not plan to adjust its defensive 
Sports Writer 

kicks oil' Sept. 22. Belles coach Caryn MacKenzie Manchester is 1-1 after losing strategy -at least not yet. 
Saint Mary's hosts Manchester said. "It provides an opportunity to Oberlin College and defeating "Any time someone can score 
The Bellos got oil' to a hot start this afternoon in the first of live for players to challenge for roles Tri-State University last weekend. four goals in a game, you're in the season-oponing Case games before the onset of league or to work hard to keep the spots In Sunday's victory over Tri-State, going to want to pay attention," Wnstern Invitational last week­play. The team hopes to develop a they had last year if they're the Spartans scored seven goals MacKenzie said. "But we're just nnd. notching victories over Case sense of chemistry before taking returning players. We have a on 25 shots on goal. Sophomore going to play team defense the Wnstern Heserve and Lawrence on its MIM foes. good group of returning players forward Paige Koomler scored Univorsity. The team now looks to "These first three weeks are and also some newcomers that four goals in the contest, but see OPENER/page 21 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
-
Guard plays in World Championships 
Lechlitner played for U.S. Under-19 tearn in Bratislava 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

Melissa l.et'hlitner, like many otlwr Notre Damn studnnLo.;, spent part of her summer studying abroad in Europe. 
Lnchlitnnr's classroom. however, was a basketball anma. and ht~r toachnr was the head coach of DePaul's wonwn's basketball team. 
Lnehlitner, a sophomore guard on Notre Dame's women's basket­ball tnam, competed in the FIBA UliJ World Championships in Bratislava, Slovakia, from July 26 to Aug. 5, where the U.S. women's 
see SLOVAKIA/page 22 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Bulldogs 
squeak by 


volleyers 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Wrirer 
The Belles faltered in their first conference matchup Tuesday night, losing to Adrian 30-25, 30-28, 30-11. 
Junior outside hitter Lueie Smith led the way for the Bulldogs, tallying eight kills for the host squad. Junior outside hitter Jenny Carlson hammered home seven kills and came up with four blocks in a solid all­around effort. 
The triumph was Adrian's 
see BULLDOGS/page 22 







