
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 41: ISSUE 96 FRIDAY, MARCH 2, 2007 

Play faces const~nt changes at ND 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 
As this year's production of "The Vagina Monologues" ­which is being staged off campus for the first time in the event's six-year history at Notre Dame -draws to a close, it's unclear how the performance will play out next year. 
This year marked the sec­ond time the College V-Day Campaign made an exception for Notre Dame. 
For the more than 600 American colleges and uni­versities performing Eve Ensler's "Vagina Monologues" as part of the Campaign, two requirements are asked: that the play be performed on campus, and that proceeds from ticket sales go to local charities. Notre Dame's production had followed those two guidelines and was even one of the lead­ing schools in its fundraising efforts, according to V-Day's Media and Communications Advisor, Susan Swan -until last year. 
Following last spring's maelstrom over academic freedom and Catholic charac­ter at Notre Dame, University President Father John Jenkins determined the "Monologues" deserved a place on campus, but solely as an academic event. He said the play could be per­formed in an academic set­ting -for example, a class­room -if it refrained from selling tickets. 
Swan said V-Day made an exception last year and allowed students to perform the play without charging the audience because the organi­
see PLAY/page 6 

Saint Mary's chooses 2007-08 class boards 
By MANDl STIRONE News Wrtier 
After the Saint Mary's class elec­tions experienced multiple delays due to technical difficulties, the votes were cast Wednesday and the results announced Thursday. 
Sophomores Jenny Antonelli, Taryn Pabst, Jessica Kusak and Katie Putz will lead the Class of 2009, the only class with more than one ticket running. Antonelli­Pabst picked up 58.6 percent of the votes. 
The other ticket, led by sopho­more Sarah Voss, received 40.5 percent of votes. 
The Oass of 2010 will be led by freshmen Camille Gebert, Emily Young, Jennie Hiatt and Caitlin O'Brien, who received 72 percent of their peers' votes. Juniors Colleen Kielty, Erin Hogan, Elizabeth Bush and Shawn Redington, who received 68.2 per­cent of the votes, will head the senior class next year. 
A full 31.8 percent of juniors voted "abstain," however. Among freshmen, 28 percent of students voted abstain. However, the two­ticket sophomore race saw just 
0.9 percent of the class choose the abstain option. 
All the winning tickets expressed their happiness with the high degree of student partici­pation in this year's elections as well as their anticipation for the coming year. 
"We are very excited to be able to represent and serve our junior class," said Antonelli, the new jun­ior class president. "We're lookll).g forward to planning events and activities that will not only benefit the junior class but also the rest of the students." 
Putz, the new junior class secre­tary, echoed Antonelli's words and said the technical difficulties that delayed the elections two days weren't as discouraging as Saint Mary's students may have initially thought. 
''I'm really excited about it," Putz said. "It's going to be a lot of fun year next year. Even though there were delays in voting it allowed us to work together as an 

Class council elections decided 
Schmidt-Lakusta ticket to lead Class of 2010 in sophomore year 
By EVA BINDA News Writer 
The Oass of 2010 voted Thursday in a run-off election between two ticket.:; competing for the class coun­cil and elected freshman Grant Schmidt to be the next sophomore class president. 
The Schmidt-Lakusta-Kyrouac­lluang ticket won 576-or 56.3 per­cent -of the electorate's votes. Its competing ticket, Mathews-Adsit­McDonald-Rose, fell short with 385 votes, or 37.6 percent of the votes. The remaining six percent of the vot­ers abstained. 
Judicial Council president Liz Kozlow was pleased with voter turnout among the freshman class, which was "comparable to the pri­mary [election)." 
see SCHMIDT/page 6 


executive board and showed us that we can work with the Class of 2009 when unexpected situations 

arise." 
The rest of Antonelli's cabinet also shared this enthusiasm and confidence as they prepared to settle into their new roles. 
"I think that our entire ticket was very excited to get the oppor­tunity to work for our class," said Pabst, the new junior class vice president. ''I'm very happy that all hard work paid off .... We'd like to bring our class closer together and create more class unity next year." 
Even the other ticket running for junior board said they enjoyed the race. 
see ELECTIONS/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



Students 
•


queshon new rule 
College defends on campus requirement 
By KELLY MEEHAN and KATIE KOHLER News Writers 
Last week's announcement that Saint Mary's would institute a six­semester residency requirement for all students beginning with the Oass of 2011 hao:; left the campus com­munity questioning the College's decision. 
Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson told the Board of Governance on Feb. 20 the decision was made after several meetings of the President's cabinet-an adviso­ry council of eight high-ranking members of the administration, including College President Carol Ann Mooney and Acting Vice President Jill Vihtelic. 
Johnson told The Observer Thursday the decision "is a clarifica­tion of the residency requirement and [is] consistent with the mission statement of the College." 
While according to the Saint Mary's Web site, 81 percent of the College's 1,500 students currently live on campus, Johnson said the new requirement would further advance the "residential" objectives outlined in the College's mission statement, which says "Saint Mary's College is a Catholic, residential, women's college in the liberal arts tradition." 
Johnson also pointed "to a large body of national research that shows that students living on cam­pus are more engaged in ar.ademic 
see REACTION/page 4 


Mooney kicks off SMC 
diversity conference 
By MAGGIE DUNN News Writer 
College President Carol Ann Mooney helped kick off the Student Diversity Board's (SOB) second annual Diverse Students' . Leadership Conference (DSLC) Thursday night with an address 
outlining her VISIOn for diversity at Saint Mary's and the chal­lenges stu­dent.:; will have to face before it becomes a reality. 

"When Mooney became presi­dent three years ago," Mooney said, "I knew that diversity was one of the areas I wanted to address inunediately." 

She said she wanted to tackle the theme for four basic reasons, including the fact that "diversity is absolutely necessary to the aca­demic excellence which Saint Mary's is committed to." 
Mooney said diversity is academ­ically important because it gives way to a variety of viewpoints in the classroom and everyday dis­cussions, "and that variety helps each of us grow to a better under­standing of ourselves and of our world." 
Her second reason for trying to lead Saint Mary's in the direction pf ethnic diversity, she said, is that it's the right thing to do. 
"Saint Mary's as a Catholic insti­tution is committed to social jus­
see MOONEY/page 4 
page 2 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 2, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT T. \1. SHOW DO YOU WATCH EVERY WEEK? 
I'll 

llliss it 
I'll miss college. 
Wherever I am next year, I won't have season football tickets, I won't spend Friday nights at The Backer and I won't get away with sleeping until 11 a.m. on a 






Wednesday. But of everything about my four years at Notre Dame, the thing I'll miss most ends today, when I turn over the reins of The Observer. 

For me, college  Mike Gilloon  
was this paper.  
It's where I  
learned to write,  Editor in Chief  
where I learned  
to ask questions  
and where I  

learned that spending hours in the office is all worth it when you see the fmished product. 
It's gratifying to walk through Stanford Hall and see an Interhall story I wrote taped on someone's door, or see a kid reading my football pre­diction on a sunny autumn Friday. 
It's exciting to have your work ­good or bad-distributed to 10,000 people, live days a week. 
It's amazing when dozens of people sacrillce to get that story -and so many others -into print. 
From our secretary/office manager/caretaker Shirley, to our driver Jack, to the students who work every night, nothing could have hap­pened over the last 12 months without their dedication. 
I never thought I'd be in charge of these 200 or so kids that work at The Observer when I came to Notre Dame. 
The reason I walked over to South Dining Hall and laid out a few pages during the spring of 2004 was simple -I wanted to get in the press box. I didn't care about the paper itself. I just wanted to weasel my way onto the Notre Dame football beat and follow the team whose logo peppered the margins of my seventh grade math notebook. 
But after four years at The Observer, I leave with much more than memo­ries of Michigan Stadium's press box and its meager halftime spread. 
I've stayed up all night listening to the Stones with my best friends, all the while editing articles about stu­dent government, business lectures and Board of Trustees meetings. I've walked into the office at 10 a.m. and heard angry voicemails about a comic strip. I've spent Sunday afternoons critiquing story budgets. 
And I don't regret one thing. 
One of the most satisfying parts of my job was reading the occasional e­mail from some guy from the Class of '79 who wants to know how the Dillon Interhall team will play this fall. I have no idea if the Big Red will be any good, but I do know that The Observer connects Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and everyone who cares about our schools. 
It's the medium where our opinions are voiced, our thoughts are heard and our stories are told. That's why it matters. And that's why I'll miss it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at 
mgilloon@nd.edu 

a:: 
UJ :::1: 
~ 
UJ 

(f3: 
.... 
<t 
(.) 0 


HIGH 35 HIGH 30 HIGH 30 HIGH 33 HIGH 40 HIGH 40
..... 
LOW 23 LOW 18 LOW 22 LOW 20 LOW 33 LOW 35 
CORRECTIONS 
The article "Hurley learned to fence at 'dinner"' in che Feb. 28 edition ofThe Observer inaccurately stated chat Irish freshman fencer Kelley Hurley reached che No. 2 spot in che world rankings last year. In fact, she reached No. 2 in the nation, not the world. 

Atlanta 60 146 Boston 39 129 Chicago 33 I 28 Denver 32 I 14 Houston 7 4 I 45 Los Angeles 69 I 45 Minneapolis 27 I 23 New York 50 139 Philadelphia 55 I 40 Phoenix 68 I 40 Seattle 47 I 37 St. Louis 43 I 30 Tampa 78 I 67 Washington 65 I 42 


Jonathan Lee  Jean Nguyen  Claire Maulit  Sharon Lam  Aldrich Anderson  
freshman.  junior  junior  sophomore  freshman  
Keenan  McGlinn  Welsh Family  Pasquerilla East  Stanford  
"My own secret  "College  "Naruto. "  "Everyday  "If only the  
,,T.V. show.  Gameday- Italian on the  Special Report  
does that count  Food Network."  with Brit Hume  

as a T.V. show? Because it should." 

Italian teacher allegedly cuts boy's tongue 
ROME -A novice teacher in Milan is under criminal investigation for allegedly using scissors to cut the tongue of a second-grader for talking in class, Italian news agencies said Thursday. The 7-year-old boy, who has not been pub­licly identified, needed six stitches in his tongue from the Feb. 20 incident, said Piero Porciani, a lawyer for the child's parents, a Tunisian couple. 
The teacher, 22, was being investigated for suspected voluntary harm of the boy, the ANSA news agency said. 
The office of Milan prose­cutQr Marco Ghezzi said he wasn't there and couldn't give out any information about an investigation. 
Porciani told The Associated Press by tele­phone from Milan that the teacher has been suspended from the school while the incident is investigated. 
U-Haul full of dogs and cats seized 
GAHBEHVILLE, Calif. -A woman found driving a U­llaul truck with 33 cats and thre<1 dogs inside daimed she was rescuing the animals. The Humboldt County Sheriff's Department found the animals living in an inhu­mane environment after serving a warrant Wednesday to search the truck following complaints about the condition the pets were living in. 
A veterinarian determined the overall health of the ani­mals was good, but most needed some sort of medical treatment. Four of the cats were in late-term prngnancy. 
Charges against the woman, who was not imme­diately identilied, were being sought through the district attorney's oflice. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
was 24/7, I'd never come to class. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Mendoza School of Business will host the lecture "Climate Change, an Uncertain Future" today at 
10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. Dr. Patrick Minnis from the NASA Langley Research Center will speak about global warming as part of the Ten Years Hence Lecture Series. 
Stations of the Cross will be held at 7:15 tonight in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Stations will continue every Friday evening during Lent. 
The Department of Film, Television and Theatre pres­ents Agatha Christie's "The Mousetrap" on the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7:30 tonight. The show will continue until Sunday. Evening performanc­es are at 7:30 and the Sunday matinee is at 2:30 p.m. Ticket prices are $12 for the general public, $10 for senior citizens, ND faculty and staff and $8 for students. 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra will perform tonight at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Ticket are $6 for the general public, $5 for faculty and staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for students. 
Finals for Bengal Bouts will be held Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. Proceeds will go to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
Friday, March 2, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Mcintosh to speak at diversity conference 
By MANDl STIRONE 
News Writer 
Peggy Mcintosh, associate director of Wellesley College's Center for Women, will deliver two different lectures Saturday before the Diverse Students' Leadership Conference at Saint Mary's draws to an end, tackling questions of racial dialogue and white supremacy. 
Kim Hodges, student body president-elect, vice president of the Student Diversity Board and chair of the Diverse Students' Leadership Conference, said organizers chose Mcintosh because she "really exemplifies what it means to be culturally compe­tent." 
Mcintosh is very personable and willing to work with stu­dents, Hodges said, and her talks will help propel the con­ference toward its goal of "trying to supply people with the tools to operate in the real world after college." 
Mcintosh has taught at col­leges and universities across the country, as well as at Durham University in England, according to Wellesley's Web site. She is the co-director and founder of the Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity (S.E.E.D.) Project, an initiative that strives to help teachers pro­vide their students with a more culturally balanced cur­riculum. 
Mcintosh is also the co­founder of the Rocky Mountain Woman's Institute, a consulting editor to Sage: A Scholarly Journal on Black Women and has received the Klingstein Award for Distinguished Educational Leadership from Columbia Teacher's College, according to the S.E.E.D. Web site. 
Hodges said she hoped Mcintosh would instill some of her expertise and social con­sciousness in the minds of Saint Mary's student<;. 
"It's really important to notice the skin you live in and the difference between you and someone who is nothing like you," Hodges said. "I have a dream about the way cam­pus should be, how it should look, and how students should be educated. I'm proud to be a Saint Mary's woman." 
Mcintosh will speak at the Carroll Auditorium Saturday. She will start at 1:30 p.m. with a talk entitled "Deriving Racial Understanding From Our Own Experiences," and then she will deliver the con­ference's keynote address, "How I Came to See I Had White Privilege and What I'm Learning I Can Do With It," at 4:15p.m. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Reps to participate in city sutntnit 
By KATHLEEN McDONNELL 
News Writer 

Members of Notre Dame's student government will drive to downtown South Bend today to discuss commu­nity relations with student represen­tatives from four other institutions, city leaders and business owners. 
The conference is the first of its kind, bringing together more than 40 confirmed participants who have never had an opportunity to meet in a single venue, student body presi­dent Lizzi Shappell said. 
Shappell said she hopes the event will lead to more positive discussions and strides that could change the reactive relationship between stu­dents and community members to a proactive one. 
"Coming in the last month of my administration, I'm pleased to leave this," Shappell said. ''I'm hoping it builds momentum for the future of community relations. [I hope to see] less of a relationship of tension and focus more on building and strengthening ties." 
Like Shappell, Senate Community Relations committee chair and event coordinator Josh Pasquesi said he hopes today's summit spurs changes in the University's approach toward the community -which is currently focuses solely on protection of stu­dent interests, he said. 
The creation of the Community Relations committee two years ago, Pasquesi said, stemmed from stu­dent leaders' concerns regarding the effects of the city's amended disor­derly house ordinance on students residing off campus. 
This year, he said, the Notre Dame representatives were seeking dia-Iogue unselfishly. 
"We come here with no issue or agenda," Pasquesi said. "This is just to build relationships -it's not because of a law we don't like." 
The Notre Dame delegation will include a few members from the current administration -including Shappell, vice president Bill Andrichik and Pasquesi -and members from the recently elected admini'itration, including next year's student body president Liz Brown and chief executive assistant Sheena Plamootil. Representatives from stu­dent governments at Saint Mary's, Holy Cross, Indiana University South Bend and Bethel College will also attend the summit. 
The dialogue -which will include small break out sessions, a large group discussion and a networking lunch -is scheduled to address four. areas of discussion, Shappell said. 
Building on last fall's successful freshman bus tour of South Bend, one subject for brainstorming will be how to better present the city to newly arrived freshmen, as well as ways in which this initial introduc­tion could potentially improve stu­dent attitudes toward the communi­ty. 
The conference will also continue to develop the concept of a good neighbor and member of the com­munity, instead of a temporary resi­dent. It will also try to generate ideas to improv~ general communi­cation between local communities and universities. 
The final initiative will deal with increasing student involvement in the community beyond the tradition­al community service aspects to show students what else South Bend has to offer. 

"It's a stereotype we fight here," Pasquesi said, "that South Bend is just a good place to go tutor kids in impoverished schools." 
Instead, the spotlight will be on the possibilities of increasing student involvement in internships and pro­fessional opportunities. · The response from the community has been "very positive," Pasquesi said. The number of people slated to attend is higher than he initially anticipated. 
Representatives from the mayor's office in South Bend and Mishawaka, the community develop­ment office of the city of Mishawaka, the South Bend Common Council and the South Bend Legal Department will be present. 
Mikki Dobski Shidler, director of communications and special proj­ects for the mayor's office of South Bend, said she wants to show stu­dents that there is more to the area than Grape Road. 
Her goals for the discussion include promoting better community relations and asking college students about actions they can take to help them become engaged in the com­munity more easily. 
A number of representatives from Young People Against Poverty -a group of professionals in South Bend who will add the perspective of socially conscious business profes­sionals to the table -will also attend. 
"We think they'll make a bridge between the college students and more traditional leaders," Shappell said. 
Contact Kathleen McDonnell at kmcdonn3@nd.edu 

.. y ., ..•,. . ·Ct1 • P' ·i··r··w I· :.•!. :~ .:l ·:~· ·.··. I ff fl1 " -;·· '! ·]·" ' ..... ''l "'II"~-·' 1' T n"~ tt' 'I
"~,.;..._ 1··•111 11.; Jt~t. Jill~: ··~!l m. :I;;;J .tt; J'l.t.IH!.ssi~;hl,_ s >.t , ,, ,a.: I.X.ttlL:s.o.;. or l~ ~,.·~1)(;·._: t;,.. ..~.· .n::tr.J.:: :L.t m1~..; r illl1 ~Hfl~lll!llhnl'i 'It! lht:· ll:i:i'HI ifi'H::u:l :1nd :.-.::1.;,:1;! lt!illl nf:· !he (n:•.;;l,\ !(:;Ml i.:lii!S.:'i :1Y\ Ut;tl~:IRHI:C 1~;_·J ;l[t4Hi% '!A 11t1 !h:t,: 
. ~ ~ 
1'11\KS:ix:;cr.~\'J.."' ilft}}!i..::;~ltHs .• thcllf jl<lr..::·nls, lu~h :'1J.'illti%1i ~;..cr:~'>l!flt'l~:~ ;:,snd ;ihmttH ut ;:kn ns:a,g;rh.:...J t!L'{)~·i;&JJhic ar~o.;;t 
l{~7~r,.::•JP.\Ihd;l. H;S !WI!.;:Ii!H~iJ' &;''\ 1'-''US!'dJ p!m1rm1~L trz.;rl ~:I :ii!d i;Om.m lll)!t;;;JllHfl \\ l!hm th~,:; eL;<JFJ ~tpfttki; ilf(J~l, 'k~·.;~ --~..;·~·!"!... i•l 'If 'II'!'·! ,~:··<.·.,·;,,I·~· '1. t' •·• '''i ' ,.!· •·t· t't·:··~.1• _,.,,k, 'I• ''!'-·,;; ''•iii. I , .•"]!A··,..iiil·.' '·:~ .,.. !..1,,_ .., '".·1 .: ''t l''ilfl•ll" ~' 1,1 'll ,. ··:·.·.,·.· ,·,.,.,...,,fi."l 'It·I• "if.li '*'"'" "' ,. i:'f!i•·•·.;;; i ,,..., ..-• .. ,,.,..'!''~' i ,.,_.
li;-.-.'!1....-""k.-~---' ..:s ~o.. .. ~ ~ 1!\.:.-'b:~u-01:a-a \,,., ..~ ..... ~~ _. ,--"*"·'"'-~~ ... ,_ i::.,. .. »..Gt..-..:::a.-,.i "-''t--·-,,,.u~--,....~ ,,-.. ~== '%--.l>t< .· II" ... ~,:saal~-,~ .. -i -·-l-:¥>1'·· 1e \ ~ '% _..~._,..,,., ... -:..ta.-.--·--..·.·-~ ~...""' .u......;,:,., 
·' ..,_ II" 
.•, ....... '' ,. . . .· .M' ..... i ·I· ::·····j '"··· • ·•• •· ~-~· .....,.•.. ,5,, ::'·· I ·•· i ', .. , R •· .• , . ~li: ..., I ( • ' ·.-1' ' II
i l hlt"hf.;, I !{lif ~.:.u g. h.. ,;i ••, ·~ ..... ·~ To I .. .Y>,:i, II', ,q ,..,., tnu .. t~ I'll hill~ lh OEJ rt llll•·hlll r tF~IJt:tK·~ Hi! S~:·m'i±Sb vuil he s!Jilllflh llt,.::fcrr~.-..1) 

;'''' ..l. 1..1. ·jl·. J .,,.• ·•.;: ·~hl''n 1, I t)il'-'~''•''•·.;;·~ 'I l'!··:¥,;;···'·1··•1t~·~ ~ ·.;,. t~ r·•_i'i_...-,•.,.,, ::~n.,A .,;;·!·· "'ii'll'' ~." ·j··•.,,Jlj·!ll: ,,,... !: t•. •~'iii.}!: ,,,jl '''~·!·'!•: ·•'·!· ·~-~,jf ~·:·i.,• ..L·,·· ·ig l*f~· :lr
10'k i" ~ i\. ::!.ui:.~i" ,;:::'?$,f."»-·-· l.«<i •..i r. _..... -~-~~ .... -~------· a Mhs-.1 ...... "'ll· :·i .,_.__ ti.·~'-' ,r-·-~ ,.,. ....... ::>:<-31-l...$i.J ··-·'·.·. &.:-·~. -~~: U:d ~'"* USI § ,' "B~ <~ -.•. :$·. l[.-9;: I l!.-1--~· ·........ ~. .,"'1'-''J. i al-iit. ""-.., ":$ ~-... l9-~ 
f\:....n!J~.:~ I hurrH~ 
I:s'"~:t1t:a~ i;jllm lrlli£::; ln(:lttth: '<1f'<1t1~7 (~t•nlil'lUIIJC'iliti..:J.rt, ;;;111d i.Yf~•Lfi ll.~thtJtli.il ;-;l1! t.._, cnllmL;:'-!ia.:'i-.In~, d!plr•rt1<!1..:1• a! 1d i~ii.: vr1 llm~rn:·:-:" !>!..) \%"!11 k fN)I'i~ ltc~ur:io, n:tch.ul !!:..,;!.! nuu:t~' •:v•~.:mr;jf!:S ~md S.H!ltJJJTt) F!lilflHJlgs 

Ple;:sse -cosnplete tlte on-line a1Jplir~ttion •~C htt1):/ljobs.nd.edu to be considered. Recjuisition: # 020070065 
.-------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 2, 2007 
junior because she thought separat­ment, and said the admL'isions staff nity or disciplinary problem they if the decision had tied her to the ing her personal life from her aca­reviewed and supporl'i the rnquire­may be dismissed from the resi­c,ampus for three years against her
Reaction 
continued from page 1 
me." 
This theory is. supported by the National Survey of Student Engagement, Johnson said, and not rooted in her opinions. 
And while she stressed the deci­sion will not affect current students, many members of the Saint Mary's community immediately worried about the regulation's effects on the College's future. 
Junior Castle Point resident Becca Rosswurm said living off campus allowed her to separate school from residence life. 
"School feels like a job," Rosswurrn said. "Going home makes you feel like you relax." 
She chose to live off campus as a 

"" 
demic life would help her organize her time and workload more effec­tively. 
"It takes a lot of freedom," she said. "living off campus is a better lifestyle for some people." 
Rosswurm said she thinks living off campus brings new experienc.es and said she believes prospective students should have the choice to live off campus whenever they choose -a loss of personal liberty she believes will deter incoming stu­dents form choosing Saint Mary's before a state school. 
"I think a lot of prospectives will choose the state school because they can live off campus with friends," she said. 
Johnson said she did not believe this decision would have any adverse effects on College enroll­ment. 
The Admissions office did not return Observer phone calls Thursday. 
Ac; Saint Mary's begins to prepare for the new requirement, tho depart­ment of Residence life will ready to handle the demands of a potential increase in the campus population. 
Director of Residenc.,e Life Michelle Russell said her office "won't need to make any changes in room selection because or the new residency requirement," but said it may need to open the previously dosed floors in McCandless and Hegina llallc; to accommodate additional residents. Russell also said the residency requirement will not alter the clause in the Student Handbook that stipu­lates, "If studenlc; are found to be a significant disruption to the commu­dence halls." 
The only foreseeable impact of the new mgulation, Russell said, is an increa'ied number of students living in residence halls -fostering a "largor community and an opportu­nity for students to get to know more people and build stronger relation­ships by living together for three years." 
Junior Sarah D'Angelo decided to move off because she teaches at a local high school for her secondary education minor, and residing closer to the school fit her needs and her schedule more appropriately. 
"I think it's just more convenient and it's nice to have my own time," she said. "It also feels more like home." 
She does not support the change and said she would have been upset 
will. 
"I personally don't agree with it," D'Angelo said. "Students should have a choice of what they want to do. Some people just don't like the dorms and choose to live off campus to get a break from that.'' 
Prior to this decision, there weren't any residency requirements at Saint Mary's. 
The new residency program will make exceptions for transfer, abroad and local students. Those who per­manently reside within a 30-mile radius and choose to live at home will not be subjected to the require­ments. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu and Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Elections 
continued from page 1 
"I think that the other ticket worked extremely hard and they did a great job and they really deserve it," said Voss, who was running for junior class presi­dent. Her running mate, sopho­more Sarah Dalton, declined to comment Thursday. 
The freshman ticket, however, openly celebrated its victory. Gebert, next year's sophomore class president, said she looked forward to collaborating with her running mates and peers. 
''I'm really excited to be lead­ing our class next year," Gebert said. "We have a bunch of new ideas to bring the Class of 2010 closer together and a bunch of new things to bring to campus, and I'm just looking forward to starting the year off with getting everyone involved." 
The rising sophomores said they will work to increase stu­dent involvement in class activi­ties. 
"What I'm looking ferward to most is more class participation from everyone and more exciting events and stuff like that," said Hiatt, Gebert's running mate. 
Similarly, the new senior class officers said they were ready for a fun year to end their time at Saint Mary's. 
"The elections went smoothly and the four of us are excited for another year, for plans we are putting together plans for Senior Dads Weekend, Senior Week and several other events to take place next year," said Bush, the next senior class secretary. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Mooney 
continued from page 1 
tice," she said, and in a country that has a history ofinequality and repression, "!me of the most ellec­tive ways to change that is through education." 
On a pragmatic level, Mooney said U.S. demographics are changing at an incredible pace. Not long from now, she said, the percentage of Caucasian students graduating from high school in all areas of the country will be the minority, as other ethnicities become increasingly active in the educational and cultural arenas. 
"If Saint Mary's is not already serving a large spectrum of the population, we will be left in the dust," she said. 
In order to get Saint Mary's clos­er to its goal of ethnic integration throughout the College, Mooney said the College adopted a new hiring policy last year. 
The policy's ultimate goal is to create a diverse pool of qualified job applicant'>. A search commit­tee L'i appointed the task of finding these diverse candidates and doc­umenting its recruiting efforts. 
Mooney said the College is searching for a coordinator for multicultural recruitment, whose job "will be the coordination of our various efforts, bringing greater diversity to our student body, mak­ing sure we are working as effec­tively and efficiently as possible." 
In line with Mooney's goals for diversity on campus, the Board of Trustees met lac;t week and gave the College approval to move for­ward with its attempt to become a Posse Partner school. 
She said the Posse Partner foun­dation, which was founded in 1989, recruits students from inner city public high schools who exhibit great leadership skills. 
Out of thousands of students, the foundation uses a dynamic assessment process to determine the top 20 "leaders." The partner school and foundation then collab­orate to select 10 students to attend as a group, or a "posse," to one of the partner schools. Mooney said the high schools these students come from have graduation rates above 90 per­cent. 
"It would he yet another effort to help advance the diversity at Saint Mary's and a culture that recognizes how important and valuable every member in this community is, the multiple contri­butions that everyone has to make to the education of everyone else," she said. 
Contact Maggie Dunn at mdunnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 



.~;') 
0t.l\~,<<l>t.d;.~.. 
ft:>r 1he 
Sttldent Le~t(lersllip A\,l~trcls 

s~'!,!,_d,:'.'i'1'1°'••, '!,>t'j' ••;•;:'i(>PHjYo'fl ) t··t·" i'Vi;'!'j'l•i~j··q'~ .. ,!,.!'' -.nlf'l! i]
S; \. ~ •. ~ •.•.• lt,i., -:::! ~ t ... . t ~;;,; -~~ ~ ~ 1\.c.. "\;:.. ,~«·-:.,. ~ ~ ·. )(' ~ "i •'• . \.. ~-. "'-, .... , ;~ ~ . :::· ,. -~ ~ ~ i ~ l. ~ :~ . ~ '• ~ ., 

•·t..··:-J'-:··,,•f!;f.,:J!,•... II .,-r •. <,l... !!f!· .. !l ·.,.~,-·.1···• ,··,, ... ,. !•·'•,:1 ''t~<l'jf)li·'"' 1··~1·,. 1 ~!·, ..,. rh·1r
~-. "&. --~ . ! ' ' "tt<--~A "x I\.. '·'·' ' ' , (.· . ~ -... .... •., f ..-1 t .... § ., ."'' .. . . "'· ,. • ..-..... ..:-• .{ ~ . ~ < • j I a: ..., 


It \I!U .,,~,-; .. I~ n' Hl,~t'Hhrh.. ' 1 :~tudtnt. pk.t"-L ,,·,nnpkt~L th.' !onn ,rl: 
http://sao~nd.edu 














ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 2, 2007 CotvtPH.ED FR01\t THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SfRVtCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bomb targets Shiite cleric in Baghdad 
BAGHDAD-Aroadside bomb exploded Thursday alongside the convoy of a prominent Shiite cleric whose high-level political ties have made him the target of past assassination attempts. The imam was not injured, but sever­al bodyguards were wounded. 
The attack against Jalal Eddin al-Sagheer came on one of Baghdad's quietest days in months -with one reported car bombing and one fatality. 
U.S. and Iraqi forces also neared agreement to expand the Baghdad securi-ty sweep into the Shiite stronghold of Sadr City. Such a move would test the willingness of the powerful Mahdi Army militia to grant its American foes access to all parts of Baghdad under its control. 
The relative lull in violence offered authorities a rare breather after periods of almost hour-by­hour bombings and mortar strikes by suspected Sunn.i insurgents. 
U.S. plans anti-missile radar base 
BRUSSELS -The director of the U.S. Missile Defense Agency said Thursday that Washington wants to base an anti-missile radar in the Caucasus, a move that could provoke a further rift with Russia. 
Lt. Gen. Henry A. Obering declined to specify which country the long-range radar could be installed in, but noted that "it would be very use­ful for the anti-missile system." 
Speaking on a stop at NATO headquarters in ~3russels, he said "~e would like to place a radar m ... the Caucasus. 
The United States has said the planned defens­es would not be aimed at H.ussia, and are intend­ed to defend against missile attacks from coun­tries such as Iran. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Tornadoes in Alabama kill 18 
ENTERPRISE, Ala. -Apparent tornadoes ripped through Alabama and killed at least 18 people Thursday, including 15 at a high school where students became pinned under debris when a roof collapsed, state ofiicials said. 
As night fell, crews dug through piles of rub­ble beneath portable lights at Enterprise High School, looking for other victims. 
"The number could very well increase as the search effort continues through the night," state emergency management spokeswoman Yasamie Richardson said. 
Army fires Walter Reed general 
WASHINGTON -The Army on Thursday fired the general in charge of Walter Reed Army Medical Center, saying he was the wrong person to fix embarrassing failures in the treatment of war-injured soldiers that have soiled the institu­tion's reputation as a first-class hospital. 
Less than a »'eek after Defense Secretary Hobert Gates visited Walter Reed and said those responsible would be "held accountable," the Army announced it had relieved Maj. Gen. George W. Weightman of command. He is a physician who had headed the hospital for only six months. 
In a brief announcement. the Army said serv­ice leaders had "lost trust and confidence" in Weightman's leadership abilities "to address needed solutions for soldier outpatient care." It said the decision to fire him was made by Army Secretary Francis J. Harvey. 

LOCAL NEWS 
McRobbie named IU president 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana University's trustees turned to trusted administrator Michael McH.obbie to become the school's new president, hoping he'll quiet the faculty unrest that trou­bled Adam Herbert's four years in oflice. 
McRobbie's promotion from being the top aca­demic officer ofiU's Bloomington campus makes him the first university president hired from within in more than 30 years. The trustees votnd unanimously Thursday to approve hiring McH.obbie. 
Trustee Sue Talbot, who led the presidential search committee, said finding a president with the background to manage the university's ,. diverse programs was paramount. 
CHINA 
Farmer contracts bird flu in Fujian 
WHO says Indonesia vaccine dispute unresolved; UN to help in Myanmar outbreak 
Associated Press  
BEIJING  -China report­ 
ed  a  new human case of  
bird flu  on Thursday, and  
the  World  Health  
Organization  disputed  
Indonesia's t:laim that the  
two were dose to resolving  
a  dispute  over  sharing  
virus samples that could be  
used to develop a commer­ 
cial vaccine.  
Also Thursday, officials  
in  Myanmar  said  the  
United  Nations  has  
pledged assistance in cop­ 
ing with an outbreak dis­ 
covered on a poultry farm  
on  the outskirts  of its  
largest city, Yangon.  
The human infection in  
China  occurred  in  the  
coastal  province  of  
Fujian, where  a  42!-year­ 
old farmer surnamed Li  
was diagnosed on Feb. 18  
after he developed a fever  
and began coughing, the  
official  Xinhua  News  
Agency said.  
It  was  the mainland's  
first human  case  of bird  
flu since Jan. 10, when  
the government said a 3 7­ 
year-old farmer in Anhui  
province in eastern China  
had contracted bird flu  
but had recovered.  
Xinhua said tests by the AP  
provincial disease control A chicken vendor waits for customers at a market in Beijing. The Chinese Centers for  
and  prevention  center Disease Control announced the first case of bird flu since Jan. 10 Thursday.  
showed that Li had been  
infected with the H5N1  was  expected to  arrive  to  make  vaccines  too  and  pullets, killing 68  
virus strain, and that the  Thursday,  after  which  expensive for developing  birds.  Another  1,292  
Chinese  Centers  for  "Indonesia will  resume  nations.  birds were  deemed  sus­ 
Disease  Control  and  sending as soon  as  possi­ Several countries  are  ceptible  to  the disease  
Prevention had confirmed  ble" samples of the bird  developing vaccines to  and destroyed.  
the result on Feb. 27.  flu  virus  to  the  U.N.  protect  against H5N1,  In  Vietnam,  officials  
The report did not say  health body.  which has been responsi­ said  the  avian flu  has  
whether  the  farmer  However,  WHO  ble  for  at  least  167  resurfaced in the south­ 
worked with poultry,  or  spokesman  Dick  human deaths worldwide,  ern  Mekong  Delta  
whether infected birds  Thompson  told  The  more  than one-third of  province of Vinh Long,  
were found, but said she  Associated Press that no  them in Indonesia.  just days after  an  out­ 
had "made contact with  such  deal  had  been  Meanwhile, Tang Zang  break was reported in the  
dead fowl."  cemented. He said that  Ping, the U.N. Food and  northern  part  of  the  
The  virus  remains  the letter was still under  Agriculture Organization  country.  
essentially an animal dis­ discussion.  representative  in  About 50 unvaccinated  
ease, but experts fear it  It was  hoped that such  Myanmar, said the agency  ducks died  at a  farm in  
may mutate into  a  form  a  deal would resolve  a  was assisting in isolation  Tra  On  District  on  
easily  spreadable  standoff between WHO  of poultry farms, disinfec­ February 25,  and  test  
between humans, trigger­ and  Indonesia,  which  tion and culling of birds  results released Thursday  
ing a pandemic.  triggered a storm of criti­ after H5N1  was detected  showed they were  infect­ 
In  Indonesia,  Health  cism last month by with­ in  a  western suburb of  ed with the H5N1 s'train  
Minister  Siti  Fadilah  holding  virus  samples  Yangon.  of bird f'lu,  said Nguyen  
Supari said  a  guarantee  because it worried that  Myanmar officials say  Ba Thanh, director of the  
letter from WHO Director  large  drug  companies  the latest outbreak has  Mekong regional animal  
General Margaret Chan  would use its 115N1 strain  affected chickens, ducks  health center.  


Democrats form new plan for Iraq 
Associated Press standards and reports to Congress each. in an interview Thursday. 
time. Moran, a member of the House com­
WASHINGTON -House Democratic The proposal is the latest attempt by mittee that oversees military spending, leaders have coalesced around legisla­Democrats to resolve deep divisions said the plan was discussed in a closed­tion that would require troops to come within the party on how far to go to door meeting of committee Democrats home from Iraq within six months if scale back U.S. involvement in Iraq. on Thursday. that country's leaders fail to meet Rep. James Moran said the latest ver­Brendan Daly, a spokesman for promises to help reduce violence there, sion has the support of party leadership House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, 0-Calif., party officials said Thursday. and said he believes it is final and has declined to confirm the details and or 
The plan would retain a Democratic the best chance at attracting broad say whether Pelosi backs the plan. But proposal prohibiting the deployment to support. he said: "We havn said we want to Iraq of troops with insufficient rest or "We're going to report out" a war make sure our troops have all the training or who already have served spending bill "that's responsive to the training and equipment they need and there for more than a year. Under the will of the voters last November and that the Iraqi government must meet plan, such troops could only be sent to brings our troops home as soon and the benchmarks President Bush Iraq if President Bush waives those safely as possible," Moran, D-Va., said endorsed." 
~-.--------· --­
Friday, March 2, 2007 
! page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
·Play 
continued from page 1 
zation appreciated the passion and "empowered" disposition of Notre Dame "Monologues" organizers. 
But for the two charities to which Notre Dame's "Vagina Monologues" had been con­tributing, the South Bend YWCA and the S-0-S Rape Crisis Center, this came as unwelcome news. 
"I would say we have a seri­ous budget deficit in our domestic violence program, and yet we see the number of clients we're serving grow by leaps and bounds," said YWCA director Linda Baechle. "We have to scramble to cover the program ... we count on the revenue stream [from Notre Dame's "Vagina Monologues"] and then it's a challenge to find replacement money." 
Organizers were able to charge for tickets again this year when they did not receive the sponsorship they needed from academic departments to perform on campus, again 

SchiDidt 
continued from page 1 
Approximately 1,024 freshmen voted Thursday in the run-off,· while 1,053 participated in the original election. 
Schmidt, who won 44.6 percent of votes in the first round of the elections, said he planned his involvement in Notre Dame's stu­dent government while he was still in high school. 
"Before coming to Notre Dame, there were several areas that I really looked at -spiritual, aca­demic, tradition, athletics," he said. "My [high school] counselor and I talked about the extracur­ricular activities I wanted to par­ticipate in -student government was one of them." 
In order to give his classmates what they want from a class pres­ident, Schmidt said he plans to collect more feedback from his constituents and improve student involvement in the council's deci­sion-making processes. 
"Everyone here was a leader in high school." Schmidt said. "It's important to me to not make every single decision alone as president, but to make decisions together with the rest of the coun­cil and the class." 
Schmidt also said he and his cabinet were developing an appli­cation and a' system to better involve any students interested in formal council participation. 
"The first thing we have to get going is getting people involved," he said. "There's formal ways of doing it. We're excited to get more specific feedback." 
Schmidt thanked his peers for participating in the election and said he believes "it is an honor to represent all the people here at Notre Dame from such diverse backgrounds." 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 232-8444 

prompting the V-Day officials 
to grant them an exception. 
But off campus is just where the Cardinal Newman Society .(CNS), a non-profit group dedi­cated to preserving the Catholic identity in Catholic institutions of higher educa­tion, says "The Vagina Monologues" belongs. 
Each fall, the CNS targets Catholic schools where the play is scheduled to be per­formed, and sends them pack­ages -complete with scripts of the play, excerpts from Catholic catechisms, Pope John Paul II's encyclical on "Love and Responsibility," statements from Fort Wayne-South Bend Bishop John D'An~y and other Catholic documents to bring to light the contrasting nature of the play and the Catholic read­ings. 
"Academic freedom, the way it was taught to me, is the free­dom to teach what's right, not the freedom to teach what you want," said Marc Perrington, CNS outreach director. "And, .academic freedom only realis­tically applies to the academic part of life, not the soeial part of life. If you bring academic: freedom into the soeial part of life, what's to stop Catholic schools from having pro-abor­tion groups on campus, that may be antithetical to Catholic teaehing?" 


Perrington was quick to note that of the about 12,000 lines of text in the eopy of "The Vagina Monologues" he owns, only approximately 150 deal with violenee against women. 
"The base nature of the play, of the acts described in the play, really don't have any kind of academic basis. They're not improving academic life on campus," he said. "You hear from the V-Day organization and from the people that put it on, 'We're bringing awareness about violenee against women ... but it's not." 
This year's "Monologues" director, junior Sarah Muscarella, still believes the play educates the community -and in a way "Loyal Daughters" could not address. 
"'The Vagina Monologues' taekle issues that people at Notre Dame have never experi­enced," said Muscarella, who plays a Bosnian vietim of gang rape in this year's production. 
"It's just another perspec­tive," she said. "I think it's important for Notre Dame kids to look at experirmces of peo­ple that aren't like them. We're all so similar on this campus and have very similar experi­ences.... I think it's important to explore other things." 
But for the play to stick to the V-Day Campaign's objec­tives and two stipulations ­execution in a venue on cam­pus and the donation of' ticket proceeds to eharitable institu­tions Assistant Vice President for News and Information Dennis Brown said Jenkins would have to be involved. 
"I would think that if organ­izers presented a case to Father Jenkins-he's obvious­ly a reasonable man who demonstrated last year that he nstens -he would certainly listen," Brown said. "Whether that would change his position, I can't say." 
While rumors have suggested Notre Dame was opposed to contributing to the local YWCA because the national YWCA identifies itself as pro-choice, Brown said those claims are absolutely false. 

Ticket sales are prohibited, Brown said, as a result of the administrators' decision to change the status of "Monologues" from a theatri­cal production. to an academic event. 
"When something is present­ed in an academic setting," he said, "there is not an admis­sion eharge, or pass-the-hat, however funds might be col­lected." 
Gender Studies and history professor Gail Bederman agreed and said while she per­sonally supports the YWCA, she would neyer bring in "so­and-so from Yale University" to raise funds. 
'That's not what we do,"-she said. "It's not my job to raise money; it's my job to teach his­tory." 
The University's policy dis­tmssed Muscarella, however. 
"It just confuses me," she said, "because I feel like giving charity is the one thing Notre Dame knows how to do." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 


"· ..., r· ., ' ..... , .... !. ...
4~ ~Jd(t: lH d.~~ 
..~ ll.·. t.. ~·...·...' 

IH
~ 1.1. 
pi·· •. ' .l'i
l.! !! s{! 
l.;;.N,kinv.. l{t.fi ;11 !IH1I~\.alt~d .. St'! "i!'P tlu!l er!l.~' • ~~rnkiiPJ 'lltJ~h j\t'rp·,1e
~."" . .. . 1. ~ ·~ ., :c.-;:e: • ~ ~ .,,.. ~· • ., •• ., If ~~~ ~ · ' ;:;, ·=·· =·· 1 t. · . 
\1u~tl\e lr~~,lunen !Jf :..uphtl~·nrHe lhii1 i~ ahl,~--h1 dtl l1ghl ffkHH1!~·1 iabcrr anti Vii)r~! t~u!\,i·d(~ 
Ir.. cr ~..:\\Ctt, S.Lind ;;i 1,: \ii! I!·~ :iikl ;t I'!:;.' ft:i ~mprl"\'i) !Dl! \\l v, hv ~~\Hi \\t:·uld t\c ~t ~.~~.~at t:anditbte fm rile inrent~hq: hv lhn'•.t.bv, 

Tut·tle Creek AJlartment HfJmes 
Join us at the Cliubhouse on Wednesday., March t" for a 
"';Break 84 Break" Open House 
Dcliciotls Gf)()DIES & Treats 
Enter Our Drawing for: 
S50 (;in (.~crtificatt' 1o lloulihnn 's 1-Pod Shunle $25 (;ift f:ertificate for J... T'uncs 

1710 Turtle Creek Drive
t.QU":i. ~••::::<!J'Mtot•:> ,;)f'l"()lll1'i.i'~JI1"f' 

South Bend1 IN 46637 
Ph 574-272~8124 

Friday, March 2, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 


12,234.34 -34.29

}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,3 I 2 I 3 2 1,931 3,874,912,414 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR (QQQQ)  -0.46  -0.20  43.13  
!SHARE RUS 2000 (IWM)  +1.00  +0.78  78.83  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.36  -0.27  19.59  
S&P DEP RECEIPTS (SPY)  -1.30  -0.42  140.5 I  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.13  +0.006  4.556  
13-WEEK BILL  -0.1 0  -0.005  4.990  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.0 I +0.0 I 0  4.679  
5-YEAR NOTE  -0.07 -0.003  4.500  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.25  62.00  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -7.40  665.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.00  104.10  
Excho  Rates  
YEN  117.6400  
EURO  0.7582  
POUND  0.5106  
CANADIAN$  1.1722  

IN BRIEF 
Baltimore man arrested for fraud 
BALTIMORE -A man who already served prison time for mail fraud has been indicted in a scheme that bilked more than 900 investors, including Hurricane Katrina victims, out of $8 million, the U.S. attorney's office said Thursday. 
David McDowell Robinson, 56, of Baltimore was arrested Thursday, a day after a federal grand jury indicted him on wire and mail fraud charges. 
Robinson served nearly nine years in federal prison for mail fraud arising from three differ­ent schemes and was released in April 2003. Prosecutors allege that he launched a new company, Liberty Trade International Inc., the next year and began scamming investors again. 
The company solicited investments of up to $10,000 and promised returns of up to 30 per­cent, saying it would provide short-term "gap financing" to homebuyers or to people refi­nancing their homes to generate the returns. 
Among his alleged victims were residents of the Mississippi Gulf Coast who endured Hurricane Katrina. The indictment says that he sent an employee to Gulfport, Miss., in January 2006, to make a presentation about Liberty Trade, and that the_ company received about $80,000 in investments. 

Stocks stage comeback after report 
NEW YORK -A still skittish Wall Street staged a comeback Thursday, with the Dow Jones industrials erasing a 209-point drop after an upbeat assessment of manufacturing activity eased some worries about a flagging U:S. econ­omy. 
The blue chip index nudged into positive ter­ritory in midafternoon, then fluctuated in a nar­row range. Several hours earlier, the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index made its first foray into the plus column. 
Investors. relieved that manufacturing is still expanding, bought some of the stocks pum­meled in Tuesday's drop that sliced 416 points ofl' the Dow. Fears about the U.S. economy con­tributed to that plunge, and a halfhearted rebound on Wednesday followed soothing words from Federal Heserve Chairman Ben Bernanke. 



THE ()BSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 

U.S. housing cooldown continues 
Federal agency: Bellweather home costs rise at tempered rate during fourth quarter 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 
rate of increase in U.S. 
home prices remained 
steady in the fourth quarter 
of 2006, extending the 
slowing trend that began 
earlier in the year, federal 
regulators reported 
Thursday. 
The figures released by 
the Office of Federal 
Housing Enterprise 
Oversight, the agency that 
oversees the big mortgage­
finance companies Fannie 
Mae and Freddie Mac, pro­
vided yet another indication 
of the slowdown in the 
once-booming housing mar­
ket. 
Average home prices rose 
1.12 percent in the October­December period, com­pared with 3.03 percent in the fourth quarter of 2005, the report showed. Over the year, house prices increased by 5.9 percent­a marked slowdown from the 13.2 percent jump in 2005. Still, the report noted, home prices continued to grow faster than prices of other goods and services. 
"These data show that, on 
the whole, (home) prices 
are still rising, albeit at a 
much slower pace," OFI-IEO 
Director James B. Lockhart 
said in a statement. "This 

suggests that house-price November and December. where half sell for more and Oregon 03.5 percent). 
appreciation is, for now, The Commerce and half for less -dropped The states with the lowest 
more in line with historical Department reported to $239,800 in January, rates were Michigan (-0.4 
norms." "thursday that construction down 2.1 percent from percent), Massachusetts 
The agency said that in activity fell sharply in January 2006, the (0.5 percent), Ohio (1 per­
the second half of 2006, January as the housing Commerce Department said cent), Indiana (2.3 percent) 
continued stren·gth in the industry continued to suffer. Wednesday. and Minnesota (2.5 per­
economy and declining The weakness in construc­The OFHEO fourth-quar­cent). 
interest rates for borrowers tion was led by a 1.8 per­ter report, based on data The metropolitan areas 
prevented a more severe cent plunge in spending on from Fannie Mae and with the highest year-to­
fall in the housing market. home building-the 10th Freddie Mac on repeat year rates of increase were 
In the fourth quarter, consecutive fall in residen­sales and refinancings of Bend, Ore. (21.4 percent), 
though sharper price drops tial construction. single-family homes, also Wenatchee, Wash. (20.9 
occurred locally, "no state Sales of new homes plum­found that: percent) and Provo-Orem, 
had average price declines meted by 16.6 percent in Home prices increased by Utah (19.9 percent). Those 
of as much as one percent," January from the previous the strongest rates from with the lowest were 
said OFHEO's chief econo­month, the steepest decline 2005's fourth quarter in Kokomo, Ind. (-5.3 percent), 
mist, Patrick Lawler. since January 1994. As Utah (17.6 percent), Santa Barbara-Santa 
The fourth-quarter figure sales cooled, so did home Wyoming (14.3 percent), Maria-Goleta, Calif. ( -4.2 is derived from an average prices. The median sales Idaho . (14 percent), percent) and Jackson, Mich. of home prices in October, price, of a new home -Washington (13. 7 percent) (-3.9 percent). 


Group recommends Medicare cuts 
Associated Press for where they might fmd some of the Republicans were prepared for the 
WASHINGTON -Democrat..<; looking money. Medicare Payment Advisory for money to pay for health care priori­Rep. Frank Pallone, chairman of the Commission's recommendation, which ties renewed their focus on insurers House Energy and Commerce subcom­mirrored a recommendation it made two Thursday. mittee on health, said the report con­years ago. But this time, Democrats are 
A commission that advises Congress firms his belief that the private insurers more inclined to go along with the rec­told lawmakers that Medicare spends are overpaid. Pallone, 0-N.J., said he ommendation than Republicans were. about 12 percent more for care adminis­want..<; to steer those overpayments into The private insurance component of tered through private insurers than other health programs. Medicare, known as Medicare when the same care is provided through "The reason they wem paid that extra Advantage, "is fast becoming the prover­traditional Medicare. amount is because of their relationship bial low-hanging fruit. As someone who 
The commission recommended elimi­with the Republicans," Pallone said. "It's has represented fruit growers let me nating that gap, which would save about a special-interest advantage that was warn you: low-hanging fruit tends to be $65 billion over five years, according to given to them because of their relation­the least ripe and the most sour," Hep. the Congressional Budget Oilicn. ship with the Republican majority. Dave Camp said during a conwessionaJ 
Democrats arc looking to oxparid a There's no other rationale for it." hearing Thursday. program that offers health insurance to The chairman of the Senate Finance Camp, H-Mich., said cutting the pay­poor children. They will aJso need to find Committee, Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., ments means older people and the dis­a way to avoid cutting payment..<; to doc­has said he would look at payments to abled would lose benefits that are now tors, which are scheduled to drop by insurers for possible savings. "The report subsidized by the federal government. In about 10 percent next year. confirms that it's a place we need to other cases, Medicare participants in 
The commission is nonpartisan, but its look," said Carol Guthrie, his spokes­rural areas would not have any access to report gives thl;l Democrat..<; a road map woman. a managed care program. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, March 2, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Thl! bulependmt, Daily Newspttper Serving Nom Dmnt! aud Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gotrumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtadcr SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63I-7471 
FAX 
(574) 63I-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63I-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 63I-4542 

l • MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63I-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 63I-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.I@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 63I-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc. I @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
.SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gi!loon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 59') 2-4000) is published Monday through Fru:lay except during exam and vacarion period&. A ~prion ro Tht-Observer ~ $100 for one academic yr.:tr; $55 for one smtesu:r. 
The Observer is published ac:-POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addrc!SS oorrc:cdOtl$ to: Notre Dame. IN 46556..0779 The Observer Periodkal postage paid at Not« Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional milling offices-. Q.24Soudt Dining Hall 
Notre Dame.lN 46556-0n9 
The Observer is ,a member ofthe Mociatcd Press. All ttproduction rights are reserved. 

New housing policy problematic 
No one likes being told how to live his or her life -espn­cially during thn four fleeting college years geared largely toward self-discovery. 
So the Saint Mary's administration's recent dncision to require incoming students to livn on campus for six semes­ters will undoubtedly create problems for Uw entire College community. 
For an institution that boasts S1 pen:ent of its 1,500 stu­dents living on campus, the need to implement such restric­tions has confused much of the community. 
counts. 

College President Carol Ann Mooney said she wants to increase enrollment by 15 percfmt with the incoming Class of 2011. Whiln Saint Mary's oflieials said this six-semester resi­dency rnquirnmnnt will not affect the admissions yield, they rn ight be in for a surprise. 
When current students care ·enough to protest a decision that does not directly affect them, the uproar is a strong indication of problems on the horizon, and students are the 
strongest opponents or advocates of campus
O 
Tl

Administrators said the requirement will policy.
os'erver 

help fulfill the College's mission statement as Most Saint Mary's students are highly satis­well as increase students' academic engage­find with campus life, but that appreciation will
Editorial

ment. dwindle wh~m the new requirement becomes 
But that logic is faulty. While students on campus are physically closer to academic resources, the decision to be motivated belongs to the studnnt alone. There arc pressures to proerastinate, party and skip class both in LeMans Hall and at Lafayette Apartmnnts. 
Furthermore, the College's decision to implement thn requirement without student input threatens the relationship between studflnts and administrators. 
The Saint Mary's Board of Trustees includes a studnnt member and places students on faculty hiring eornmittees, but has failed to include valuable student input where it 
practice. Mandatory on-campus student resi­dency may further fulfill Saint Mary's mission statement, but l'oreing housing choices will frustrate students and scare off some top applicants. The reasoning behind the requirement dons not takn into account the needs and wants of the stu­dent body, but erases one of the few elements of choice that remains in tho College's already eonsnrvative residency rules.· 
Saint Mary's must further examine the potential implica­tions of tlw residency n~quirement and consider who will really benefit from the change-students, or administrators. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL Marcela Berrios Chris Khorey Liz Harter Greg Arbogast 
'vVhich event interests you more? 
Becky Hogan Amy Dixon Viewpoint Scene 
a. Bengal Bouts 
Kara King Analise Lipari 
b. Zbikowski's upcoming charity fight 

Graphics c. Indifferent Tom Hanculak 
lltis poll is based on the re&ult of 485 
votes at http://www.nd~n!Cobserver.com/ 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
a.

%of votes #of vol.es 41% 197 

"No one is useless in this world who lightens the burdens ofanother. " 
46% 225 
13% 63 
Charles Dickens English novelist 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Friday, March 2, 2007 page 9 
Praying for religious temperance and peace 
"For those who hate, that they may learn to love." What a perfect prayer that should be said not only at every Catholic Mass but also at every prayer service throughout the world. It judges 
not by how much a sinner may hate ­from outright jihad rage to the soft big­otry of low expec­tations -but rather demands a dialogue from all humanity through 


the purest uncondi-Gary Caruso tional tolerance embodied by an Capitol even temperament. Comments It simply instructs all of us to allow our Karma to run over dogma. 
Temperament walks hand-in-hand with tolerance and humor. Only the wisest can step back to listen to out­landish or even personally insulting propositions without automatically dis­missing them. Recognizing our innate human imperfections, the wisest among us massage dogma to expose reality. What a wonderful discovery the newly found Gospel of Judas can become. Turning our stagnant doctrine of the most historically known traitor into the most beloved loyalist is an exciting possibility that this writer, for one, is eager to embrace. 
Religion rests not on the infallibility of prophets or leaders with roman numerals after their names who over the millennia chose their personal 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
interpretations, but on the tenets of truth, charity, acceptance and love. A Jerry Falwell, Pat Robertson or Kenneth Tilton restrict us through their narrow interpretations of the word. Those who believe the verbatim interpretation of the written word rather than living the spirit of the word cheat themselves by restricting themselves through the literal word. 
Nowhere was a more classic example of intemperance on display than at Notre Dame last week. The throng of irate Letters to the Editor of this news­paper expressed offense at the reli­gious levity of a cartoon in the Feb. 23 edition of The Observer. The cartoon, "Black Dog," shows Jesus at the last supper instructing his disciples to eat his body and drink his blood. Peter mutters, "That's really gross"-exact­ly the sentiment any child or unedu­cated fisherman of 2,000 years ago would most likely utter. Jesus replies, "Listen, which one of us is God here?" 
The silly outrage expressed suppos­edly over the sanctity of the Eucharist belies credulity. Protesters take the lit­eral word (preciously what Peter does of Christ's words in the cartoon) as offense. Such accusations of blasphe­my by this newspaper over this light hearted tongue-in-cheek cartoon ranks a notch below the fervor Muslims exhibit over perceived verbal blas­phemies throughout the past few years. The sad fact remains that such forms of overreaction can become as indistinguishable as acts of evil. 
This Sunday evening, at the height of Lent, the next Christian outrage will begin. The Discovery Channel presents a controversial documentary entitled, "The Lost Tomb of Jesus." It purports to examine a tomb, originally found 27 years ago but dismissed by close­minded traditionalists, that contains the remains of several people thought to be an extended family. Saundra Scham, archeologist at the Catholic University of America, admitted recently that mainstream archeologists discounted the tomb's relationship to Jesus almost immediately after it was found decades ago. 
Produced by Titanic filmmaker James Cameron and Simcha Jocobivici, the documentary examines one of nearly 900 tomb sites in the Talpiyot district of Jerusalem. In 1980, children playing in construction debris of their basement, found an opening and wiggled down into the space beneath where they found 10 ossuar­ies with bones in them. Six had inscriptions on them. 
In 1st century Palestine it was cus­tomary to bury people of means in wrapped linen and spices, let the flesh decay, and eventually place the bones in. a stone ossuary, which literally means "bone-box." When archeolo­gists examined these 10 boxes, the debate began about the meaning of the find. The bones were subsequently buried, but today remaining fragments of the bones in the unwashed boxes have been reexamined using DNA test­ing. 
The producers of the documentary present the totality of the artifacts and inscriptions in a compelling way. Their theory rests on statistics to argue the likelihood that this exact set of names compared with the New Testament would only match Jesus-beginning with 50,000 possibilities and eliminat­ing name combinations until only one remains. 
It ties names like Jesus son of Joseph, Mary, Yose, Yehuda bar Yeshua and Mariamne e mara ­"Miriamne the master" whom some say was Mary of Magdala's real name (Miriamne, the same term as Maranatha "Come, oh Lord [mara]" in 1 Corinthians 16:22). . 
Lent certainly resurrects personal lessons for Catholics. Does it matter if Jesus was married if we can step past that and live the spirit of his teach­ings? Does it matter if this tomb still contains the remains of Jesus of Nazareth if Christians loved rather than hated others? This writer would gladly tuck dogma in a back pocket to achieve that goal. How far are you willing to go? Now that is a Lenten meditation for the ages. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs dirEXtor in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hot­tline@aol. com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Withdrawing troops not solution 
An immediate or rapid withdrawal of American troops from Iraq is not the answer to our nation's problems, contrary to the beliefs held by many politicians. Removing our troops from the embattled country would leave Iraq's fragile government and its people in shambles, empower our terrorist enemies, and ultimately compromise our national secu­rity. There has been a lot of one-sided political rhetoric ·about the immediate benefits of removing our troops from harms way. Yet, there has been little discussion about the con­sequences of withdrawal. 
It is not the insurgents that will defeat our soldiers overseas; it is the degradation of our political will at home that endangers our chances for success. Losing the political willpow­er to continue the fight against terrorism absolutely endangers our security worldwide and domestically. By removing our troops, we endanger the fragile, two-year-old demo­cratic government of Iraq, almost ensuring its eventual overthrow in the future. The ter­rorists will then have accomplished the one thing that has always eluded them, the cre­ation of an Islamic state. This state would become the new terrorist safe haven. Iraq would be used as an instrument to recruit and train terrorist fighters for global opera­tions. Fromthere, terrorism would grow until we were no longer fighting it in foreign countries against a few, but rather in our own backyards against many. 
Upon addressing our nations own insurgency almost 170 years ago, President Lincoln said, "If destruction be our lot, we must be its author and finisher."This threat from with­in is as real today as it was then and the costs of defeat are just as severe. We must acknowledge the consequences of defeat in Iraq, not run away from them in lieu of imme­diate, short term political gain. Adversity is the trial of principle. As Americans, we must let it be known that we will stand and fight for what is right. If we truly believe in the val­ues our founding fathers died to give us, then we must fight against the repressive nature of terrorism no matter where it chooses to hide. Our principles are strong and ifwe can find an ounce of the conviction that our founding fathers had, we will win in Iraq. 
James Matthew Hughey 
senior 
O'Neill Hall Mar. 1 
SublJDi·t a Ll Itekr 



to, tbei E ~',tor a.t 
wW'\f'.t.rn;dsJrfli;e 
,~f\t~f..,.e<2:rn 
Sympathy for allergy sufferers 
The article "Conflict arises over pets in dormitories" (Feb. 28) is outrageous. The idea that dormitories would value the option of get­ting a "dorm pet" over that of retaining their residents is not only appalling but against the very nature of the dorm system that Notre Dame promotes. 
"The Notre Dame family" of dorms is supposed to be an answer to the fraternities and sororities common to campuses nationwide. This system is intended to nurture relationships between residents. By allowing students to live together for three or more years, dorm resi­dents learn to live independent of their families while developing new lifelong bonds, expanding their extended family to include the Notre Dame community. However, it appears that when choosing between a pet and a son or daughter, the Notre Dame community is putting the child out in the yard. 
This is the impression I got from Wednesday's article. While not quite as dramatic, this pet situation would be the equivalent of remov­ing all the ramps from around the dorm and replacing them with stairs on the basis of aesthetic appeal. When a wheelchair-bound rl:)si­dent comes to the new stair and asks why he can't get in, he is turned away because the rector/rectress and the rest of the dorm like the stairs more than they like the handicapped person. 
I am sad to admit that this happened on our campus and outraged that more wasn't done to help Catherine Wetten, Lauren Carr.and Jacqueline Collins. Allergies are a significant issue, and while not nec­essarily as debilitating as a physical handicap, they have no cure and can make you miserable on a daily basis. The fact that this occurs in dorms specifically targeted for allergy sufferers is even worse. If hav­ing a dog is as large of a benefit as the Pasquerilla East rectress sug­gests it is, then there should be designated dorms with pets in which animal loving students can elect to live. 
In my mind, there is no question that the dog should be removed from Pasquerilla Hall immediately. Even if the Office of Residence Life and Housing does not act (which it should), the rectress and residents of Pasquerilla East should do so of their own prerogative. Any faculty or student who feels differently is valuing the presence of an animal over that of a brother or sister in the Notre Dame family. That this is even an issue suggests that the University's commitment to th.e "Notre Dame Family" needs to be seriously reexamined. 
Patrick Wolohan 
senior 
O'Neill Hall 
Mar.! 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Friday, March 2, 2007 
lsc~~ol 
Perseverance is the key to campus courtship 
Young love really can't be predicted. It might be a look, a word or even a touch that sets it off. Whatever it is, the love bug can strike at any time. In the aftermath fol­lowing Valentine's Day, I've noticed that there seems to be more furi­ous handholding, awk­wardly shared dining hall meals and a rise in long-distance phone bills (for those of us nursing a long-dis­tance relationship). Indeed, the Cupid­heavy holiday strikes us in very different ways. The recent love phenomenon has got me thinking about the different styles of courtship around campus and their effec­tiveness. This will be told as ifthe object of your desire is female, because that's where my "expertise" lies (word to the wise­take the term "expertise" very, very lightly). 
Method 1: The "Stare Down" 

Ordinarily this method is employed dur­ing classes or meetings, but it can also work in the dining hall or any other setting involving long periods .of close proximity. First, find the object of your desire and sit within "striking distance" (a.k.a., line of sight). Then, begin the stare down. Focus your gaze directly on her eyes. Imagine dates, wedding bells, even marriage. Creepy? Yes. Will it work? Probably not. Hint: If he or she looks up at you, quickly dart your eyes away. This is key. 

Continue this method until the object of 
your staring begins conversation, which is 
likely to go something like this. 
The Crush: "Why are you staring at 
?"
me. 

The Crushee: "Because you're nice to ·look at." 
Crush: "You're crazy." 

Initiating conversation is half the battle. 
Method 2: The "Endearingly Awkward" 
Usually, this takes a certain kind of per­son to pull ofT. but with the right practice, anyone can use this method eflectively. Whenever you talk to the girl you are interested in, stumble on your words. Spill milk on your shirt. Walk with her to her dorm and trip while talking with her. If' you are fortunate enough to be invited to her room, quickly sean the surroundings for something to break that won't be too expensive -a cheap desk lainp will work well-and break it. This does two things -one, it will be nearly impossible f(>r her to be uncomfortable because you're appar­ently such a klutz, and two, it will give you the opportunity to buy her nice prosents, like a new lamp. Double points! 
Method 3: The "Sit Back and Wait" 
This route is the most time consuming, with average returns seen in approximate­~y a year. If you meet a girl you like, do nice things for her. Bring her coll'ee at work, help her with anything you can, and just generally try to be a nice guy. Write sappy away messages about her, and when she asks who they're for, tell her, "Urn ... no one in particular." Never tell her that whenever she walks into a room, you freak out and start sweating. Try to think about her as much as possible without ever telling her how you feel, and under no cir­cumstances should you tell her you like her. Over time, you'lllike her so much you won't be able to stand it, and if' and when she realizes you're crazy about her and reciprocates the feelings, it'll simply be awesome. If she doesn't like you, you can keep doing what you're doing and rename it friendship so you don't feel so pathetic. 

Some people may find the above methods effective, and others may not. The truth is, thern really isn't one tried and true way to attract a lady-friend, so it's best to just for­get the Valentine's Day fallout and let things go naturally. 
And just so you know, Home Depot has a sale on desk lamps this week ... but no pressure. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgrad1@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
DVD REVIEW 

He-Man, She-Ra shine in latest DVD releases 
By ERIN MCGINN Assistant Scene Editor 

Everyone has their favorite 80s cartoon hero -whether it was the Ninja Turtles, the Thundereats, or even Voltron. It was also hard not to love the famed brother-sis~ ter team of He-Man and She-Ra. 
Airing from 1983-86 (and for several years afterward in syndication), "He-Man and the Masters of the Universe" and "She­Ra: Princess of Power" were popular with kids due to their likeable characters and action sequences, and parents liked the morals at each episode's end. There were also toy lines developed for each show. 
"He-Man and the Masters of the Universe" follows the adventures of Prince Adam on the planet of Eternia. Adam is able to turn into the superhero He-Man because of the magical powers of his sword, a legendary gift from the Sorceress. His foe is the notorious Skeletor, who repeatedly attempts to defeat He-Man and take control of the kingdom. He-Man is aided by his tiger, Battlecat, as well as a select group of others, like Man-At-Arms, who are aware of his dual identity. 

er. The documen­taries bring back many of the writers, actors and creators, and it is interesting, both for fans of the series as well as for fans of cartoons in general, to see how everything is brought together. 
The "She-Ha" sets 
"She-Ha: Princess of Power" is essentially a female version of "He-Man." Princess Adora is Adam's twin sister who was stolen at birth by the evil Hordak and taken to the planet Etheria. Adam!He-Man l(mnd her at the request of the Sorceress and she was given her magical sword, which allows her to turn into She-Ha, the Princess of Power. She fights on the side of the Rebellion that is trying to overthrow Hordak and his Horde forces that retain control of Etheria. 
Currently, all but one season of the shows are out on DVD. All the DVD sets are in gorgeous packaging, and it is obvi­ous that a great deal of time and care went into putting the sets together. When all of the sets are positionod noxt to each other on a shelf, the bindings depict lie-Man scenes. Each box set includes over 30 episodes, and each is loadod with special features. 
Each individual "Ho-Man" box set comes with two.documontaries (created especially for each set), collectible "art cards," several episode commentary tracks and episode-lenhrt.h storyboards, as well as various smaller features like char­acter profiles or trivia facts that difl'er with each set. They also include full scripts 
accessible by comput­each include much of the same as the "lie­Man" seL<>, just with less in terms of num­bers (for example, one documentary on each instead of two). Where the "She-Ra" sets have the most content is the DVD-HOM section, which includes items like oditions of the original comic books, scripts and col­oring books. 

Both "She-Ra" and "He-Man" also each have a "Best of' title that gathers their top five to 10 episodes. This is great for casual fans, or even for those just introduced to the series. The "Best of She-Ra" title even contains the full-length movie, "The Secret of the Sword," which details the origin of She-Ha. 
Fans of the series will love the quality of the DVD sets, as they certainly do justice to any and all nostalgic memories. The car­toons have that sort of corny quality that most 80s shows had, but they are still enjoyable and often times quite funny. If anything, the transformation sequences alone are worth the purchase. What little kid growing up in the late 80s didn't run around holding up a plastic sword, yelling, "I have the power!" 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
l 
I 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 2, 2007 
ND will face its Demons in Big East tourney 
Irish have to improve three-point defense 
With a week left in the regu­lar season, the Irish controlled their ow.n destiny. They were securely set in sec­ond place in the conference, with a two­game lead and two games to play. With contests against No. 21 Rutgers Feb. 24 and two days

later at Jay Fitzpatrick DePaul-a 
team the Irish had Sports Writer already 

beaten-it seemed like they would be a lock for one of four first-round byes in the Big East tourna­ment. 
Then things went very wrong, very fast. 
Notre Dame was dominated in the next two games -both losses -and slipped to sev­enth in the conference, adding an extra game in their quest for a Big East title. 
So what happened? The Irish couldn't defend. At 

least, they had a hard time of One of the most important will face none other than it. In the two losses, Notre factors in DePaul's perform­DePauL With a season split Dame suffered back-to-hack ance Wednesday was the play already, a neutral court will double-digit losses for the first of forward Caprice Smith, who decide the series between the time this season. More impor­scored 22 two teams. tantly, the Irish gave up an points on 8-of-The Irish inordinate amount of 3-point­12 shooting to have been ers during the season-ending go along with "I think we lost the last able to be skid. eight rebounds. successful in 
two games because of
"I think we lost the last two Smith pres­spite of their 
our inability to guard
games because of our inability ents a unique defense to guard the 3-point line," , problem for the the 3-point line." throughout Notre Dame coach Muffet Irish because the season McGraw said. "And the per­she can play because of'
Muffet McGraw 
centage that they're shooting strong in the the team's
Irish coach 
· is good because they're so post and out on potent open." the perimeter. offense. The In their 76-60 loss to In DePaul's win Irish aver­Rutgers, the Irish 3-point over the Irish, Smith was able aged 71 points per game in defense was completely inef­to find her way outside to the regular season and 71.4 fective, with the Scarlet make 2-of-5 three-pointers, against conference foes. The Knights sinking troubling Notre main reason Notre Dame has­more than half Dame's post remained successful through­their attempts players. out the season has been the
"We have to get our
from long dis­"She scored a play of the team's leading tance. The Irish posts comfortable on lot of different scorer -Charel Allen. Allen were even the perimeter and ways when we has been crucial to the team's worse in the played [at success this season, register­
that's our biggest
second half DePaul]," ing 17 points and 6.4
problem right now. " 
against the McGraw said. rebounds per game to keep Rutgers, which "We have to get the team competitive through­made 4-of-5 Muffet McGraw our posts com­out Big East play. threes. fortable on the But Notre Dame's late sea­
Irish coach 
The Irish perimeter and son struggles proved that were just as that's our when Charel struggles, the bad against biggest problem Irish follow. DePaul, which made half of its right now." Against the Blue Demons, threes against Notre Dame's So tomorrow when the Irish Allen became desperate from porous 3-point defense. begin their tournament, they the floor, shooting only 33 per­cent with a paltry 10 points. 
She also struggled during 
Notre Dame's only other. 
multi-game losing streak, a 
three-game span from Jan. 23 
to Jan. 31. The junior shot a 
combined 15-of-55 with just 
14 points per game during the 
skein. 
In order to win this week­
end, the Irish must improve 
their defense. 
All season McGraw has rec­
ognized the problem the 3­
point defense faces, and has 
spent this week at practice 
trying to correct it. 
"We're kind of hoping to give UIJ. more twos than threes," McGraw said. "I would rather have more twos than threes. [DePaul) scored eleven threes and if they were all twos it's a whole different game." 
But even if the Irish do man­age to step their defense and shut down the Blue Demons, they'll still have to face 2-seed Rutgers Sunday. 
Still, no time will be better than Saturday for the Irish to confront their demons. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd. edu 

First round is rematch between Notre Datne, DePaul 
Dame is looking to find a way "She was a problem whether
Blue Demons won in 

to slow DePaul's outside she was screening or steppingfinal game Monday shooting. back," she said. "Whoever 
"We're going to fix [our 3-guarded her couldn't guard point defense] today," Irish her on the perimeter." coach Muffet McGraw said Irish freshman center Erica
By BILL BRINK 

before practice Wednesday. Williamson, one of the players
Sports Writer 

DePaul had success shooting charged with guarding Smith, over Notre Dame's defense, agreed with McGraw's assess­
Heading into the conference sinking 11-of-22 from 3-point ment. tournament was not the time land. In response, Notre Dame "Being a post player, our girl the Irish wanted to lose two hopes to find a way to put bet­that we're guarding, she's straight games by double fig­ter pressure on DePaul's going to be setting all the ures. But the 7-seed Irish perimeter players. Forward sereens," she said. have a chance to make Caprice Smith and guards The players also hope to amends in the first round of Jenna Rubino and Missy improve communication and the Big East, where they face Mitidiero had success from see it as vital if the Irish are 10-seed DePaul again three-point range against going to slow DePaul's outside Saturday at 6 p.m. Notre Dame. Smith hit 2-of-5 shot. 
In its last game against attempts from behind the arc, "We have a lot of switch-off's DePaul Monday, Notre Dame Rubino was 3-of-5, and where we left someone open," was out-rebounded, got itself Mitidiero made 3-of-7. Williamson said. "We were in early foul trouble and con­McGraw said the inside-out­going to switeh, but we did­sistently gave up open looks side versatility of Smith threw n't." from beyond the arc. In order the biggest wrench into the Because the DnPaul game to effectively counter the Blue Irish defense during their last unveiled the team's wnakness Demon offensive attack, Notre meeting. in dramatie fashion, Notre 
Dame has watehed extensive film on that one eontest. The defensive struggles, however, have plagued the Irish all sea­paint, rebounding hasn't ham­second half of the game. The son. pered the Irish in the second Irish shot 77.8 percent from 
"We've been working on half of the season but caused the line in the first half but defensive concepts that we've them problems against the only made 10-of-18 attempts been working on all season Blue Demons. Williamson in in the second half. but have just been a major particular felt she needed If Notre Dame beats 10-seed problem for us," guard improvement. DePaul Saturday, they go on to Melissa Lechlitner said. "I didn't have a very good faee 2-seed Rutgers, who 
DePaul entnrs the contest rebounding game against earned a first-round bye. Last connecting on 34.5 percent of DePaul, so for me that's going season, the 10-seed Irish its 3-point shots. To limit the to be a big thing," Williamson defeated South Florida 73-66 Blue Demon efl'nctiveness, said. to start the tournament but Notre Dame looks to put more Notre Dame hopes to hinder lost in the second round to pmssure on their shooters and DePaul's offense and allow its eventual conference champion keep them from getting open own offense to get rolling. Connecticut. looks at the basket. Guard Ashley Barlow scored They have their work cut 
"Our zone is really good; our 21 points, sank three 3-point­out for them, but the Irish man-to-man needs a lot of ers and had eight rebounds know what they need to fix work," McGraw said. "We did­Monday. Guard Charel Allen and how to fix it. n't play a lot of zone against scored only 10 points on and "We've just got to be out DePaul -it was a lot of man­was hamper~d by early foul there talking," Williamson to-man, so that was more of a trouble Monday, but has been said. "Communication and communication problem." consistent on offense all sea­rebounding. That's what we 
DePaul out-rebounded Notn1 son, averaging 17 points per gotta do, and come home with Dame 44-33 in their last game. a'W.'" meeting. With Williamson, Notre Dame's free-throw center Melissa D'Amieo and shooting, which has been stel­Contact Bill Brink at forward Crystal Erwin in the lar all season, suffered in the wbrink@nd.edu 


.. ' . " ... 
.. . 

Friday, March 2, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 

Freshman contributions crucial to Irish success 
By BILL BRINK Sporrs Writer 
Still in their practice gear, guard Melissa Lechlitner and center Erica Williamson left a film session and headed to lift. But this film study was far from ordinary. 
The team was required to watch a cautionary video about gambling in preparation for the upcoming NCAA Tournament. The video advised against par­ticipating in bracket pools for fear of violating NCAA regula­tions and losing eligibility. 
Things sure have changed since high school for the fresh­men. 
"It was lovely," Lechlitner said, laughing. "Very informa­tive." 
The loss of that popular pas­time isn't the only change. Lechlitner, Williamson and guard Ashley Barlow gave the Irish a significant jump-start this season and played with a great deal of maturity. Playing against top competition in the athletic Big East, all three adjusted well to the collegiate level of play. 
"It's a lot what I expected," Lechlitner said. "The game is faster, people are stronger, and coming in as a point guard means specifically there's a lot to learn." 
Williamson agreed that the pace of play increased. 
"In high school you walk it up the court every time," she said. "I didn't get challenged as much in a lot of regular-season games. It's hard going in an out every day every single game there's someone who's either as tall as you or bigger than you or probably stronger than you." 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw made no secret of the fact that the three would see a lot of playing time this season. The players were made aware of their roles early, as well as the high expectations they needed to live up to. 
"You don't get better sitting on the bench," McGraw said. "So they got a lot of valuable playing time right off the bat." 
The freshmen "have made great use of their time. Barlow is second on the team in scor­ing and third in rebounding, averaging 10.8 points and 5.3 rebounds per game. Lechlitner averages 6.3 points per game, and Williamson scores 6.1 points and. is second on the team with 5.5 boards per game. 
"At the beginning of the sea­son, she told us, 'OK, you're really good at this, do this,"' Williamson said of McGraw. ''I've always been more of a defensive player, even through­out high school. That's my role and my job is to rebound and play defense." 
Lechlitner finds herself in a new situation this season. A starter her entire life, she has never come off the bench before. Although a new experi­ence, Lechlitner works with it as best she can. 
"I wasn't really used to it, so it .was hard to be seventh, eighth man," she said. "It defi­nitely makes you work harder. You have to focus a little more, because when you come in you can't make any mistakes. 

"You've got to be aware of what's going on to the game. You have to be a spark out­there and make a contribu­tion." 
All three contributed right from the start, averaging at least 15 minutes per game in the first half of the season and were often in the game for more than 20. Barlow made the most immediate impact on offense, scoring 19 points in Notre Dame's 85-81 overtime win over Bowling Green Nov. 13. 
Even with the strong start, the freshmen have consistently improved in both their physical play and sense of the game as the season wore on. Barlow developed a knack for finding the ball, be it on a rebound, loose ball or steal. Lechlitner has grown into the point guard position well and understands­the schemes that the team employs. 
Lechlitner said the most improved aspect of her play is her mental awareness -"run­ning the offense, knowing where all your teammates are supposed to be, knowing every position." 
Williamson had the aid of an upperclassmen center, junior Melissa D'Amico, to tutor her in collegiate post play. 
"Mel pulled me under her wing at the beginning of the year; she's definitely been a big guidance," Williamson said. "She tells me what to do, and how to help out my game." 
The steady improvement was attributed to the tolerant atti­tude of the coaching staff and the learning environment they 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer Guard Ashley Barlow, center, is part of Notre Dame's freshman trio with guard Melissa Lechlitner and center Erica Williamson. 
created. 
"Our coaches have been real­ly great at just pulling us aside," Williamson said. "When we're running something on offense and we do it wrong, they pull us aside and instead of saying, 'OK, you're wrong,' they say, 'This is what you did wrong, this is what you've needed to do.' It's so much more of a learning process." 
After Williamson said she could not pinpoint her most improved feature, she turned to bystanders for help. After some second opinions from team­mates, she settled on her con­ditioning. 
"Over the summer, it wasn't where it needed to be," she said. "Then Tony [Holinski], our strength and conditioning coach, really busted me into shape." 
, Barlow, Williamson and Lechlitner will face another new experience in the form of the Big East tournament, which starts for the Ir~sh on Saturday. McGraw and the rest of the team hope the young guns can continue their productivity and help drive the Irish deep into the postseason. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
' .r:,•.. ~..,..,., J ·."";'Jot. 


Friday, March 2, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 4 
Allen leads Notre Dame with focused demeanor 
so we all know each other." Moffet McGraw began reeruit­
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Growing up without any real ing Allen. Sports Writer 
basketball idols at home, Allen "I liked that she was crafty said that her first basketball -she r.ould do things with the Whenever Irish guard role models were the oldor ball, just really read the Charel Allen steps on the players in the league and her dofense well," McGraw said. court, she's always focused. teams' coaches. "She could score a lot of dif"­She calmly exudes confi­Despite her humble begin­f"eront ways, she could hamlin dence, and she is never rattled nings in Monessen, she soon tho ball, she could pass. Sho by the score, the fans or any began to thrive in high school was, I thought, a very talented other aspect of the game. basketball. She finished with player r.oming out or high 
But that's just 3,110 points in school." because of how her high school Clmrel Allen signod a lottor she was brought "I liked that she career the of intent to play at Notr1~ up. was crafty -she fifth highest in Damn bocausc of its strengths 
"I was always Pennsylvania both on tho court and in tho
could do things
taught to be women's basknt­classroom. In faet, Allen said humble. I guess with the ball, just ball history. Allnn that this r.ombination was talking, like com­really read the also averaged 6.1 morn important than purely municating, points, 10.5 tho school's baskotball pro­
defense well. " 
that's nothing," rebounds, 5.0 gram. she said. "But I assists and 6.4 "I don't really rnmnmbnr was always Muffet McGraw steals per ganw watching them thai much taught to be Irish coach during her four bncausn I didn't watch co lingo humble during years at basketball that much until my the games. The Monessen II igh snnior ynar, and by that timn I games will speak· for them­School. had eommittnd," sho said. selves." "I loved high school," sho "But what drew mn to Notro 
So far this season Allen's said. "I was a point guard. I Dame was tho balan1:e calm personality has been an did a lot. I did jump balls. My between academies and ath­integral part of the team's senior year, we only lost thren le-tics. You have tho host of unexpected success. On a games total. We won the sec­both worlds." team that was picked to finish tion·and the regional." 11th in the conference and But Allen was nut the only South Bend bound lost one of its top returning one who loved her high school Allen joined the Irish in players -guard Lindsay career. Allen was consistnntly 2004 as a true freshman and Schrader to injury -Allen rewarded for madn an imnw­has been able to keep the her abilities diatn impact on team anoat en route to a 19-throughout her t h e sq u ad o IT
"But I was always
win season. · career, and was the bench. In
taught to be humble
But Allen's clutch basketball n a m e d her eollegiatn play began long before her Associated during the games. debut against junior campaign with the Press Player of Illinois Statn,
The games will speak 
Irish. She's been playing this the Year twice AII P n c a m n o IT
for themselves. " 
way her entire life. (2003, 2004) the bnneh, and was three-adding 14 points Home grown talent time Associated Charel Allen and a team-high Allen grew up in Monessen, Pross first team six rnbounds
Irish guard 
a small town in western All-state from against the Pennsylvania, where she 2002-04. Hedbird. began playing basketball dur­With Allen During her ing the third grade in the leading the team, Monessen freshman season, AIIPn eon­Monessen midget league. had an incredibly sueeessf"ul timwd to excel in her transi­
The midget league was a four-year stretch, compiling a tion from high school to eol­way to teach young athletes in 100-19 record during her four lnge, scoring 8.5 a night and the town about basketball, years. But the most important averaging 4.8 rebounds in preparing them for playing in win for Allen during high confnnmee play on her way to the more competitive middle school was in her freshman being named to the Big Hast school and eventually high season when her team won All-freshman team. school teams. the state championship -a 'I didn't think I was going to 
Allen had little experience game in which she set a fresh­play, so whenever I steppnd on before entering the league. man postseason record with the floor my freshmen year I 
"I didn't know much about 39 points in the final gmm~. was just like in awe beeaus1~ I basketball at the time," she Toward the her stellar high never thought I eould play as said. ''I'm from a small town. school career, Irish coach a freshmen," Allen said. 


Unfortunately for Allen, she nxperieneed a d1wastating krwe injury in the final game or lwr freshman year in the NCAA Tournament during a second-round loss to Arizona State. 
"I thought ICharell had a grnat freshmen year ... and thn injury really S!)t hor back," McCraw said. "It took her a wholn year to rneovor from that." 
Last season for the Irish, Allnn was unabln to take a major part in tho oiTnnse bncause of the lasting nfTects of lwr knee injury. Allnn con­tinued to come off the bnneh for Notrn Damn, contributing 
8.5 points and 4.3 rebounds per game as the Irish sixth man. 
Allen slowly worked lwr way up through thn linnup and made the first start or hnr earnnr Jan. 17,-2006, against Dnl'aul, scoring l'ive points in tho 78-75 Irish win. 
Even though DePaul was hnr first start, it was by no moans her best game, as Allen notched 14 performances in doubln-digits. On Jan. 10, Allnn played a carenr-high 38 minutes against Marquette, ineluding a gamn-saving thrne-pointer with 2:2:~ remaining that sent tho game into overtime en route to a 67­65 Irish win. 
Arter her sophomore year, Notre Dame program experi­enced a major shakeup, with multiple players -including guard Meghan Duffy and for­ward -graduating. Even more problems arosn when guard Lindsey Schrader torn her ACL during a practice tweeks b1~fore. the 2006-07 season tipped ofT, leaving the Irish without a dominant pres­ence. Allen stood up to the challenge. 
"I just had to step up and be ready to play like I did in high school." 

A star is born 
season, and immediately demonstrated the impact she could have when given free range to play. 
Allen has been an almost constant presence on the court for the Irish this season, playing 33 minutes per game while scoring a team-high 17 points overall and 19.3 points an outing in the Big East. 
Allen was instrumental in the team's offense during the regular season, leading Notre Dame in scoring in 18 of its 29 games. But her importance to the team have come not only in her own level of play, but also in the way in which she is able to help lead the t1mm by example. 
"I don't say much on the court, and hopefully the underclassmen would look at me and think that I lead by example," Allen said. 
Even though Allen is such a quiet player on the court, McGraw feels that it is impor­tant to have a balance of emo­tional and steady personalities on a roster in order to keep r.omposure. 
'Players can have a lot of emotion, and players can have that steady demeanor, and she's more on that steady demeanor side," McGraw said. It's great at the end of games because she never gets rat­tled." 
But Allen refuses to let this recent success inflate her ego. On the inside, she is still the same humble person just play­ing the game she loves. 
Throughout the game, Allen maintains a constant level of focus, keeping her composed throughout the game. 
"That's how I play from the start of the game," she said. "I mean it's the same way I try not to get nervous before the game because it's just a game. I just have a different jersey on. 
·"It's just a game I've been playing all my life." 

Irish guard Charel Allen drives the lane against Rutgers guard Epiphanny Prince during Notre Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
Allen became the full-time 

Dame's 76-60 loss to Rutgers Saturday. Allen leads the Irish in scoring with 17 points per game. jfitzpaS@nd.edu
starter at the beginning of this 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Friday, March 2, 2007 
page 11 
BAFTAs, Cesars question Oscar omissions 
Increased internationalism highlights Academy's shortcomings 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assistant Scene Editor 
The Oscars are over and the red car­pet has been rolled up. The stars have gone home to polish the statuettes they've won, or possibly to drown their sorrows. 
To many people, Oscar night is the only night that matters when it comes to awards for film. Sure, TNT may show the Screen Actors Guild (or SAG) awards-actors voting for actors­and it's a quaint practice, but it doesn't offer the grandeur or the splendor of Oscar night and thus doesn't really matter. 
What about the Golden Globes, for that matter? Many have heard of them, but who votes on them? And what makes them different than the Oscars? Do they even matter?. 
Hollywood may only have one night with Oscar, but it sure gets around when it comes to awards shows·-and this isn't even getting into the European (and other North American) film festivals that rarely influence what goes on in Hollywood. 
There are awards determined by academies, such as the Academy for Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), the Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA). which organizes the 

These groups include film professionals and journalists who vote on the various awards. The granddaddy of them all is arguably the Oscars, the ceremony organized by AMPAS. However, other awards tend to get overlooked in the face of such stiff competition for attention. 
This year's British Academy Film Awards, presented by BAFTA, looked similar to the Oscars in terms of nomi­nees. However, the winners were somewhat different. While "The Departed" -an American film not only in financing but also in theme -won the Oscar for Best Picture, "The Queen" found such success at the BAFTAs. 
It doesn't take a Panavision camera technician to figure out that British audiences, and more importantly, British film professionals, will like "The Queen" more. Perhaps "like" is the wrong word here -what I mean to say is that a film like "The Departed" strikes a chord with American audi­ences, with its tale of immigrant com­
munities and gang­
sters, two icons of 
Golden Globes, the British American cultural
Other awards tend to
Academy of Film and lore.
get overlooked in the 
Television Arts (BAFTA), Granted, the British and the Academie des face ofsuch have their share of Arts et Techniques du gangster pictures, but a
stiffcompetition
Cinema of France. film about the current
for attention. 
monarch at one of the 
lowest points of her 
career is something that Americans just don't quite under­stand. 
My point, then, is that without the BAFTA Awards, "The Queen" may have gone down as that movie where Helen Mirren did a fine job portraying some monarch across the ocean. However, it got the recognition it deserved. 
Did I think it was the best picture of the year? No -but then again, I'm not British either. 
The national academy mentioned above is the Academie des Arts et Techniques du Cinema -the French equivalent to the AMPAS. The Cesar Awards occur every year and award the best of not only French cinema, but that of the EU as well. The Best Picture winner this year was the film "Lady Chatterley," directed by Pascale Ferran and based on a D.H. Lawrence novel. I doubt that many people have heard of this film in the U.S., but it is garnering recognition of the national cinema academy in a country that takes its films more seriously than maybe any other. 
What makes this festival 
The ceremonies have 
so important is its insis­Notably, last year's tence on the recognition of their place, but more Foreign Language up-and-coming filmmak­Oscar winner was
international 

ers. Director Gela from South Africa ­
recognition would be a
Babluani, who visited it's about time that Notre Dame last weekend welcome change in the America and Europe with his debut film "13 took their strangle­
Oscar race. 

American movies, as an American film has taken this award for the last six years -the most recent being this year's "Little Miss Sunshine," which beat the Mexican film "Babel," the Spanish "Volver," the British "The Queen," and, due to its late release in Europe, "Brokeback Mountain." I think American and Frenyh audiences might get along better if they simply sat down and watched some movies together. 
All in all, while a broader audience might watch the Oscars, the other national academies and film festivals still take pride in the films that they both award and represent. 
It may be quite some time before a film in a non-English language will be awarded the Best Picture Oscar, and, in a way, this is fair -the Oscars repre­sent an American Academy. However, if the AMPAS holds itself up as the gold standard in film awards, it should rec­ognize that perhaps the best film if the year may not be in English. 
The largest film festival in Africa just opened Sunday in the capitol of Burkina Faso, Ouagadougou. Called the Panafrican Film and Television Festival of Ouagadougou, this festival promises to bring many African films to the fore > -but only in Africa. The winners in this festival may find some recognition in the Francophone world, as many of the films are in French; however, they garner little support even in the 
American art-house 
circuits. 

Tzameti," was nominated for the Best First Work Cesar, and his brother, the lead actor, was nominated for the Most Promising Actor Cesar. This film may not have even gotten recognition from the U.S. were it not for this award ceremony. Babluani is now remaking the film in the States, and it is slated for a 2008 release. 
What is most interesting about the Cesar Awards for Americans is the placement of American films into the foreign film award category. American cinema is so used to dominating the world film industry that placement in a foreign film category seems alien. 
However, the French do seem to love hold off of cinema. 
Until audiences and critics alike can sit down, watch movies together and realize that cinema has a power to communicate unlike any other artistic medium, the awards cer­emonies will mean little more than industry self-congratulation. 
The ceremonies have their place, but more international recognition would be a welcome change in the Oscars race. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel @nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

Helen Mirren stars in Stephen Frears' 2006 film, "The Queen," which recently won top honors at the BAFTA awards over Martin Scorsese's "The Departed." 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 2, 2007 
NHL 

Crosby nets only shootout goal to beat Rangers 
Upshall scores with 9.9 seconds left in overtime to lift Flyers to victory, dampen playoff prospects for Bruins 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -The New York Rangers' potent power play is suddenly producing goals for and against the desperate team. 
Pittsburgh erased a two-goal deficit with back-to-back short­handed goals by NHL leader Jordan Staal and Colby Armstrong, and forced over­time with defenseman Sergei Gonchar's goal with six minutes left in regulation. 
That set the stage for Sidney Crosby to give the Penguins a 4-3 shootout victory over the Rangers on Thursday night. 
"We got some big plays, espe­cially in the penalty kills," Crosby said of the Penguins, who killed three of four power plays and netted two goals of their own. 
Crosby won it with just his second shootout goal in 10 tries. The 19-year-old phenom was the last of six shooters and he squeezed a drive between Henrik Lundqvist's pads. 
Lundqvist was sharp for the first two periods, making 18 saves after a shutout in his last outing. But he was touched for three goals on 13 shots in the final frame of regulation in his 19th consecutive start. 
Marc-Andre Fleury made 32 saves in his second straight strong outing following a benching. He then turned aside Michael Nylander, Jaromir Jagr and Petr Prucha in the shootout. Nylander and Jagr had both scored in regulation for the Rangers, 2-3-2 in their past seven, as they try to stay in the Eastern Conference playoff race. 

Jagr nearly scored in the shootout, but fell to 0-for-4 this season when Fleury stopped him with his pads. The Hangers captain was roundly criticized for declining to take part in the tiebreaker against New Jersey on Feb. 22 when New York lost. 
With injuries to Brendan Shanahan and Martin Straka, Jagr needed to be in the Rangers' first three shooters 
"I would do anything for this team to win," Jagr said. "I did­n't feel very comfortable doing that ... I knew other guys were better than me. Now I had no choice to go. I wanted to go. I knew I was going to go." 
Bl"air Betts scored his first power-play goal since Oct. 14, 2003, to give the Rangers a 3-2 lead, but Lundqvist _ who made 30 saves_ couldn't protect it. 
He made a key error when he left the crease to block a dump­in by Pittsburgh. Armstrong got to the loose puck and banked it 
AP 



off Lundqvist. goal by scoring a pair for DiPietro had too much room to "Mine was just lucky," Boston, and defenseman Zdeno cover to get back in time." Armstrong said. Char a had his 1Oth of the sea­The Islanders were cruising 
Betts appeared to bail out the son. to a 2-0 victory with less than 3 Rangers after they blew the Martin Biron, acquired from minutes left in the game when lead. He pinballed a shot Buffalo on Tuesday for a sec­Jay McClernent and Petr through traffic past Fleury at ond-round pick in the 2007 Cajanek scored in a 38-second 4:43, 58 seconds after draft, made 34 saves in his span to force overtime. Curtis Armstrong tied it during team­Flyers' debut. He made a right Sanford picked up the win by mate Evgeni Malkin's penalty. pad save on Petr Tenkrat's stopping 25 shots. 
clean breakaway bid with just Smyth, acquired from Flyers 4, Bruins 3 under 15 minutes to play. Edmonton on Tuesday, assisted 
With a few more performam~­"We have a young team that on Mike Sillinger's first-period es like this, the Bruins will be makes a lot of mistakes, but goal, and played a key role in in the same mode as the Flyers we're learning," Biron said. "It Marc-Andre Bergeron's second­-winding down the season. was a big stop for this team." period score. After the goal was 
Scottie Upshall scored with Upshall, sent in on a partial knocked off its moorings, Smyth 
9.9 seconds left in overtime breakaway on a pass from Sami used his skate to put it back in Thursday night to lift the Kapanen, slipped around place just be fore Bergeron's Philadelphia Flyers to a win defenseman Andrew l'erence shot deflected in. over the Boston Bruins, who got before shirting to his backhand "I was nervous and excited in 51 saves from Tim Thomas. and putting the puck behind the same breath," Smyth said. 
"Totally ridiculous. Thomas for the game-winner. "I was waiting for the Canadian Unacceptable," Boston coach "It was a hightlight-reel play," anthem to be played." Dave Lewis said. "It's some­Flyers coach John Stevens said DiPietro stopped 36 shots, but thing that drives you nuts as a of the goal for a team that's had took the penalty at the end of coach, knowing the situation, few great moments. regulation that led to the over­the standings and who we're time goal. playing." Blues 3, Islanders 2 DiPietro leads all NHL goalies 
The Bruins, 13th in the The Blues were less than per­with 22 penalty minutes. lie Eastern Conference -seven fect guests as the Islanders chose not to meet with the points behind eighth-place began the Ryan Smyth era. media after the game. Montreal for the final playoff Lee Stempniak's power-play The overtime point leaves the spot -looked like a team that's goal 25 seconds into overtime Islanders in sole possession of about to complete its second gave St. Louis a come-from­seventh place in the Eastern straight season without a post­behind victory over New York Conference, one point behind season appearance. on Thursday night in Smyth's Atlanta and one point ahead of 
"We're still in the hunt and debut !ln Long Island. Montreal. New York ended a we've got to play a lot harder to Stempniak had an open shot seven-game horne stand with a get ourselves in that position," from the left circle off a pass 5-2-0 mark, with the last five of Lewis said. from Eric Brewer and beat Rick those games decided by one 
Joni Pitkanen, R.J. Umberger DiPietro to the far corner to goal. and Mike Richards had the give the Blues their sixth win in "It's a valuable point," Flyers' goals. Philade"lphia seven games (6-1-0). Sillinger said. "But for the last snapped a five-game losing "It's a really good win for us," few games, we've had a two­streak. Stempniak said. "Eric made a goal lead and let other teams 
Mark Mowers ended his great fake and drew the goalie tie it up. We have to correct stretch of 27 games without a out, and slid it over to me. that, and do it quickly.'' 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

FoR SALE FoR RENT PERSONAL 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-Mulan: Great Disney movie or Five Guaranteed Season ONE WHO IS? You do not have to greatest Disney movie? Predictions: be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-Predicted number of people who 1) The Cubs will not win the World 
SOUTH BEND-$124,900 1715 andersonNDrentals.com UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do BOO-No-ABORT or will read my swimming article: 0 Series Sunnymede Avenue OPEN HOUSE not go it alone. If you or someone visit our website at 2) Barry Bonds will spontaneously March 4, 2-4:00 p.m. Minutes to BETTER HOMES,BETTER you love needs confidential support www.lifecall.org Great Couples in History: combust ND! 3 BR-2 BA; whirlpool tub; built-AREAS,BETTER DEALS. or assistance, please call Sr. Sue 3) I will not learn how to pronounce in microwave, dishwasher, finished BlueGoldRentals.com Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more Helena: Tempt not 2 much the 1) Sonny and Cher Daisuke Matsuzaka bsmt FR. fireplace; HW floors; AC, information, visit our web site at hatred of my spirit. D. 2) Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky 4) The Cubs will not win the World gas heat; wtr softener. Great family Now leasing for 2007/8. Great http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-3) Chris Gill and Courtney Rains Series neighborhood! houses close to campus. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad ND basketball will be a 5 seed in 5) David Eckstein will be caught for 574-288-9655. Anlanproperties@ comcast.net in The Observer. the NCAA tournament Opening Day= 1 month away doing steroids 
.--------------------------------, 
AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 2, 2007 Colv\PI LED FROM THE ()BSERVE·R'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
NBA Standings 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic Division 
team record pet. GB 
Toronto 32-26 .552 New Jersey 23·30 .433 4 New York 26·33 .441 6.5 Philadelphia 20·38 .345 12 Boston 15·42 .263 16.5 
Eastern Conference, Central Division 
team record pet. GB 
Detroit 36-19 .655 Cleveland 33-24 .579 4 Chicago 33-27 .550 5.5 Indiana 29-27 .518 7.5 Milwaukee 21-37 .362 16.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast Division 
team record pet. GB 
Washington 31-25 .554 Miami 28-29 .491 3.5 Orlando 28·31 .475 4.5 CharloHe 22-36 .379 10 Atlanta 22·36 .379 10 
Western Conference, Northwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
Utah 38-19 .667 Denver 28-28 .500 9.5 Minnesota 26-31 .456 12 Portland 24-34 .414 14.5 Seattle 22-35 .386 16 
Western Conference, Southwest Division 
team record pet. GB 
Dallas 48-9 .842 San Antonio 39-18 .684 9 Houston 35-22 .614 13 NO/Oklahoma City 28-30 .483 20;5 Memphis 15-44 .254 34 
Western Conference, Pacific Division 
team record pet. GB 
Phoenix 44·14 .759 LA lakers 33-2~ .569 11 LA Clippers 28·29 .491 15.5 Golden Slate 26·33 .441 18.5 Sacramento 25·32 .439 18.5 
NCAA Tennis Fila/ITA Ranklngs 

Men's Women's 
team team 
Georgia 1 Stanford Ohio State 2 NOTRE DAME Virginia 3 Georgia Tech Mississippi 4 Florida Baylor 5 North Carolina UCLA 6 Northwestern Illinois 7 California Pepperdine 8 usc NOTRE DAME 9 Miami Florida State 10 William & Mary Oklahoma State 11 Duke Florida 12 Clemson usc 13 Baylor Duke -14 vcu Washington 15 UCLA 

around the dial 
NHL 

Blackhawks at Redwings 
7:30 p.m., CSN 
NBA 
Pistons at Heat 8 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

LAKE FOREST, Ill. -Lovie Smith walked into the conference room and took a seat at the center of the dais, which seemed fit­ting, considering he was in the middle of a storm the past few weeks. 
To his left was team president Ted Phillips. To his right, general manager Jerry Angelo. And in front of Smith was the security he craved. 
Less than a month after reaching the Super Bowl, the Chicago Bears resolved 
, a major issue Wednesday night when they agreed on an extension with Smith that runs through 2011. 
They also locked in Angelo through 2013. 
Smith said Thursday he had no doubts the Chicago Bears would give him the contract extension he wanted, so he never envi­sioned himself coaching elsewhere despite numer­ous reports to the con­trary, including one from his agent. 
"As late as down at the combine (last week) I thought I made it clear that I thought it would get done, that I hoped it would get done," Smith said. 
The lowest paid coach in the NFL last season at $1.35 million, Smith would have earned $1.45 million in the final season of a four-year contract. Instead, he'll earn $23.45 million over the next five years an average of about $4.7 million per season, the Chicago Tribune reported. 
The process wasn't easy. Smith and team presi­dent Phillips met Wednesday at Balas Hall and the deal was announced that night. It was a sharp turnaround, considering Smith's agent Frank Bauer said a week earlier the talks had stalled and that his client would likely leave when his contract expired after the 2007 season. And the negotiations did little to boost the image of a fran­

chise that is perceived to be stingy. 
"We did take a beating," Phillips said. "Maybe short term we took a little dam­age. I don't think long_ term we did because I know how we operate, internally.... There's no leftover hard feelings, whatsoever." 
Phillips said he made an offer to Smith before the playoffs that was rejected, and the sides agreed to wait until afterward. Phillips came back with "a substantially increased offer" two days after the Super Bowl. 
"I never thought it was contentious," Phillips said. 
IN BRIEF 

San Die!!o to honor Gwynn Los An!!eles makes bid for Ex-Dallas Cowboy helps out 
with staTue 2016 Ofympics teammate, donates kidney 
SAN DIEGO -Tony Gwynn already LOS ANGELES -A sunny winter DALLAS -Ron Springs and has a street named in his honor out­day and a slickly produced film wel­Everson Walls will always share a side Petco Park, and on July 21 the comed the U.S. Olympic Committee's bond forged over their years as Padres plan to unveil a statue of the evaluation committee Thursday dur­teammates on the Dallas Cowboys. Hall of Farner-elect. ing a two-day visit to decide whether That's nothing compared to their 
The unveiling will be part of Los Angeles will be the U.S. candidate newest link the kidney Walls donat­"Tribute to Tony Weekend," the final to host the 2016 Summer Games. ed to Springs. home weekend before Gwynn is The group spent its first day clois­Springs and Walls were recover­inducted into the Hall of Fame on tered inside a meeting room on the ing at Medical City Hospital on July 29. The statue will most likely UCLA campus watching presentations Thursday, a day after the transplant be placed in the "Park at the Park," from the local organizing committee operation _ the first between two a grassy area beyond the center field on 14 themes involved in the bid. former U.S. professional athletes. fence that's open year-round. Later, the evaluators went on a "That's brotherly love," Springs 
"It's fitting that the first statue at walking tour of the campus, which told The Associated Press in Petco Park bear his likeness," chief would be home to the athletes' village, December. "It's something you can't executive officer Sandy Alderson and watched a 3 1/2-minute Disney­explain, but something that I will said. "l-Ie represents everything that produced film promoting Los Angeles' always think about every day for is positive about the San Diego virtues that featured Gov. Arnold the rest of my life." Padres and Major League Baseball." Schwarzenegger, Hollywood celebri­The former football stars and 
The Padres moved to Petco Park in ties and the city's landmarks. their doctors are scheduled to hold 2004, three seasons after Gwynn "I ordered another sunny day in the a news conference Friday. The play­retired. His No. 19 was retired in middle of winter," Mayor Antonio ers hope they can inspire others to 2004 and is displayed atop the bat­Villaraigosa boasted to reporters become organ donors by sharing ter's eye in center field. before previewing the film. their story. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Virginia moves into first in ACC with victory 
Drake tops Evan.sville 101-96 in opening round of MVC tourney; Ingram scores 20 as Toledo beats Ball State 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. ­Revenge was sweet for Virginia in its rematch against No. 21 Virginia Tech, and if the weekend goes well, it could lead to a championship, too. 
Sean Singletary scored 17 points and the Cavaliers beat the Hokies 69-56 on Thursday night to move into first place in the Atlantic Coast Conference with one game Jeft in the regular season. 
The Cavaliers (20-8, 11-4), picked to finish eighth in the preseason, finished 8-0 in league play at their new John Paul Jones Arena and moved a half-game ahead of No. 8 North Carolina. 
The Tar Heels played later at Georgia Tech, a.nd four teams could go into the weekend with a chance to emerge the champion. The Hokies and Boston College are both 10-5 and play on Sunday, after Virginia has a quick turn­around game, finishing a Wake Forest on Saturday afternoon. 
"It means we've come a long way," Singletary said of the opportunity few thought Virginia could achieve. "If we can get this win Saturday, it will just be icing on the cake." 
This one might have been the cake, coming just 18 days after the Hokies manhandled Virginia for 40 minutes in Blacksburg, winning 84-57 behind stout defense and exceptional shooting. 
But the Hokies (20-9, 10-5), who host Clemson on Sunday, "just didn't play well, plain and simple," an angry coach Seth Greenberg said. Even after a 13-0 run gave them a brief first-half lead, they let Virginia answer with a 16-3 burst and never got closer than five again. 
"They didn't compete at the level you need to compete at," Greenberg said of his team. 
J.R. Heynolds and Mamadi Diane added 13 points each for the Cavaliers. Jason Cain had eight points and nine rebounds and helped on one of the Cavalinrs bnst defensive games this year. 
"Today the key was just playing hard and playing defense more than anything," said Diane, who had managed just 10 points total in his last tl1ree games. "The offense just came." 
Coach Dave Leitao said he shied away from the revenge angle in taklking to his team and anyone else that would listen this week, but "obviously it lived in their mindset, it lived in their spirit and they brought in a very workmanlike atmosphere today," he said. 
Zabian Dowdell led the Hokies with 17 points, while Deron Washington and A.D. Vassallo, who each had 22 in Blacksburg, finished with 9 and 3, respectively. The Hokies shot 36 percent 
Virginia Tech got as close as 59-52 with 4:25 to play, but Diane hit an 18-footer and Singletary added two free throws with 3:51 to play, rebuilding the Cavaliers com­fort zone. 
The Hokies had scored seven straight early in the second 
half to dose to within 43-38, but Singletary scornd on a drive and Diane hit the nrst or his two 3-pointers in a span of 55 seconds. The sncond helped 
·offset four quiek points by the Ilokies, and when Singletary followed it with his own 3­pointer and two free throws, Virginia led 56-42 with 11 minutes remaining. 
The llokies got no closer than seven thnrnafter. Greenberg bristlnd when it 

Is God Calling You? 
Come Explore tl1e Co11gregation of Hol)r Cross ~ 
Priests and Brothers 
\Vith an e\rening.' of ]Jraver and conversation 
'-' 

•. \Vtth Holy Cross religious and other disccrnirtg n1erl 
Blessed Brother Andre, C.S.C.. 
Di:t-,ners 
Friday March 2nd 
Pn·~.t·tH inr; Ou. 
I ) i ~;.n -rni :nt.~ n 
\';_ot .:illtHI 
,., .... , .. ,, (:..~! .... ~.~~;'; \'( t•: · t I t•. q ~ . , ' ~Hi (.~ d ~ t 
voc:.11 i~ >1). 1 Hl.cd u 
?
• 


was suggested the contribu­tions from Diane and others were a surprise, even though Singletary and Heynolds are always the focus of other teams on defense. 
"Those guys are ACC play­ers. You guys want to trash them all the time like it's a two-headed monster. It's not a two-headed monster. Those other guys contribute and put them in position to win game. We wanted to guard those guys; we didn't do a good job. That's just the way it is." 
Virginia led 36-28 after a first half that was essnntially three runs. 
Th£1 Cavaliers led 19-8 after hitting four :1-pointers in the first seven minutes, then made only 2 of their nnxt 13 shots. Dowdell scored six in a 13-0 run that gave the llokies a 21­19 lead with 6:48 lcf't. Virginia then got it back together and used a 16-3 burst to regain control. 
Drake 101, Evansville 96 
Klayton Korver hit a :1-point­flr with 47 seconds left in over­time to lead Drake past Evansville in the opening round of tlw Missouri Valley Conference Tournament on Thursday. 
Ninth-seeded Drake (17-14) advances to face top-seeded Southern Illinois (25-5) in a 
quarterf'inal-round  game  
Friday at noon.  
The Bulldogs set a  tourna­ 

ment record by making 15 3­pointers. Wichita State held the previous mark of 14 set on March 3, 2003. Drakn sank 15-ol'-27 from beyond the are. 
The combined 197 points were the most seored in MVC To u rna men t pI a y s i n e e tlw tournanwnt moved to St. Louis in 1(J91. 
Froshman Josh Young led Drake with 2:1 points. 
Matt Webster pacnd eighth­seeded Evansvillo ( 14-171 with a game-high 29 points. 
Drake hit nine of its first 10 three-pointnrs on tlw way to a 51-47 lead at half. Evansville rallied from an eight-point second-hall' ddicit and had a chance to win tlw game in reg­ulation. But Webster, a 73.5 percent free-throw shooter, missed two foul shots with 5 seconds left in the second half and the game tied 88-88. . The Bulldogs scored the first four points of the extra period and never trailed. Korver, who finished with 18 points, also sank two foul shots with 9 sec­onds left to put Drake up 101­96. 
Six different Drake players hit 3-pointers and five players scored in double figures. Nick Grant had 16 points, AI Stewart had 15 points and Ajay Calvin added 14 for the Bulldogs. 
Jason Holsinger scored 26 points for Evansville. 
The Bulldogs built an 80-72 lead with 6:45 left on a 3­pointer by Stewart. But Evansville charged back to take an 88-86 lead on a basket by Shy Ely with 1:20 to go. Grant tied the game for Drake on a slam dunk with 37 sec­onds left. 
Drake, in the middle of its first winning season since the 1986-87 team went 17-14. lost twice to Southern Illinois, 59­54 and 72-62, during the regu­lar season. 
Toledo 71, Ball State 61 
Justin Ingram seored 20 points to lead hot-shooting Toledo to a win over Ball State Thursday night. 
The Hockets (17-11. 13-2 Mid-American Conference) shot 22-for-40-55 percent­from the floor, but only 62 per­cent on free throws. hitting 18 of 28 attempts. 
Anthony Newnll's jumper pulled the Cardinals (9-20, 5­1 0) to 48-45 with 11:33 to play, but Ingram rosponded with two :)-pointers to start a 13-2 run that give the Hoekets a 61-47 lead with CJ:0:1 to play. 
Ball State got  no  closer than  
eight points the  rest of the  
way.  

Skip Mills had 21 points for Ball State and Newell added 17 points and 10 rebounds. Kashif Payne and Florentino Valencia nach seornd 12 points for Toledo and Knonta Howell had 10. 
r--------------------:------,--,---------------­
Friday, March 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish take on two top-25 opponents 
One surnrrwr ofyour time CiHl <.hange tht:' !lie pfQ!i wnderprtvi~eged child, O.ri~ti¢n ltppalachiMJ: Pri!}IKt is re<nJltifi'1J penpl<~ to volvntetr at their eastern K~nhKky surrHllft Gun~&>: Camp coun~elors'" Medical personnel lifeguards •Arts &crafts instructors For mere information, or to volunteeft contact us at volunttf!r:ti'thrisapp.org or 1·800-755-5J22.* 0Ji%'11Htifl!1 hrqmt fA1y 19 ilf!C t.Jtnp-, Hill thFJJ9h ;\vi~' 1t Mus! bt 18ytJ*"~ ul .1gr G! n!rlrr No vrit•1 wilm!tt•tf tx}!!,:in~t~· N-yuiri'd Christian Appalachian Project Volunteer Program 4192 North 11\!d!:IE·rnr'i$ Road· ML '.1 ('Hlw·~. KV 40456 www.,ch ristianapp.org  

•t r I 8tnVJht for the TommvZ9 FotmdatiG<n, Hrnnnah and fnends, Mak~s·A·VJish FrHmd<Jti(:rt, and Cystic Fibrosis. AU procttods no to th~~se orgun.ilations_ 10 BOUTS 7:30 P. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA Doors open at 6:30 For Ticket Info CaU  

By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
No. 2 Notre Dame will face two more top-25 teams this weekend as the Irish take on No. 23 Texas i\&M and No, 19 Texas at the Eck Tennis Center. 
Notre Dame (10-1) enters the weekend riding a five-match win­ning streak and has a chance to extend its 25-match home win­ning streak today against the Aggies. Texas A&M (1 0-1) rolls into South Bend playing its best tennis in recent memory, 
The Aggies broke into the top­25 for the first time in two years this week and carry an eight­match winning streak into today's match. Last season, the Irish barely nipped Texas A&M, 4-3, in College Station, Texas. 
"They're a group that competes really well," Notre Dame coach Jay Louderback said. "They have a feisty team. It'll be a tough match." 
Louderback said he expects to see some familiar faces from last year's close game. 
"They have mostly everyone back from last year, plus they have a freshman [No. 35 Elze Potgieter] that's playing in their top three," be said. "They're a lit­tle better than they were last year," 
The Aggies also feature No, 65 senior Arina Lubinsky and senior Sarah Foster, who owns a 10-1 dual match record to lead Texas 
A&M. 
The Longhorns will try their luck against the Irish Saturday. Last week, Texas dropped two tight matches against No. 9 Miami (4-3) and No. 3 Florida (5­2) 
"They're a talented team:· Louderback said. "They have very good doubles teams, too. I think winning doubles is going to be really important." 
Since Notre Dame lost the dou­bles point against No. 4 North Carolina two weeks ago, Louderback shifted the emphasis in practice from singles to dou­bles work. · 
"We've been working on the kids doing a little more poaching, crossing, and being a little more aggressive than we have been the past couple of weeks," he said. 
No. 5 Christian and Catrina Thompson lead the Irish on the doubles side, while No, 16 Catrina Thompson and freshman Cosmina Ciobanu lead the Irish in singles. Ciobanu will try to keep her perfect 11-0 dual match record alive. Sophomore Kelcy Tefft, who is 7-1 in dual match play, has won her last six match­es, 
''I've been really happy," Louderback said. "We've played great singles all year long. I think we'll keep it up because we've been competing really welt" 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
NO SOFTBALL 
ND looks to bounce back in Jacksonville 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Defending Big East champion Notre Dame will look to return to its winning form in Florida this weekend, playing five games in the Jacksonville Tournament after a tough start to the season. 
The Irish (4-6) will begin the tournament today with a matchup against Virginia. The Cavaliers have a 7-9 record after going 2-4 in the Palm Springs Classic last weekend. Notre Dame has never lost to Virginia in four all-time meet­ings. 
On Saturday the Irish will face off against host Jacksonville (3­
12) in a doubleheader. The Dolphins enter the tournament with losses in 10 of their last 11 games. 
Notre Dame will end the tour­nament Sunday with a double­header against No. 13 Michigan. The Wolverines {14-1) have put together a 12-game winning streak, the last of those wins giving coach Carol Hutchins her 1,OOOth career victory. 
The Irish will have to find a way to hit Michigan pitchers Lorilyn Wilson and Nikki Nemitz. Wilson enters the tour­nament with an 8-1 record and 
0. 70 ERA, and Nemitz is 6-0 this season with a L51 ERA 
The Irish played in the Palm Beach Classic last weekend, going 2-3. The team played two very competitive games early, but lost 7-3 to No. 9 Oklahoma and 7-5 to No. 19 California. The loss to California was Notre Dame's fourth in a row to the Golden Bears. 
Against UNLV, the Irish rallied with two outs in the seventh to tie the game on a single from Linda Kohan. Junior Katie Laing singled home Carissa Jaquish in extra innings to give Notre Dame a much needed 4-3 win. 
In the next game against Cal­State Fullerton, the Irish fell 2-0 despite a complete game four­hitter by senior Kenya Fuemmeler. Titans' pitcher Candice Baker threw a three-hit shutout for the win. 
The Irish wrapped up the tournament with a 3-1 win over Ole Miss. Kohan had another stellar performance in the game, hitting a two-RBI single in the fifth for the decisive runs. 
Senior Stephanie Brown has led the Irish offensively this sea­son, hitting .455 and leading the Big East in hits. The captain went 11-for-18 with five runs scored and three stolen b~ses in the Palm Springs tournament. 
The other Irish standout so far has been sophomore pitcher Brittney Bargar. Bargar picked up the win in both Notre Dame wins in Palm Springs. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 2, 2007 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Squad looks to qualify for NCAAs at Loftus 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
After delivering one of the' top performances in the coun­try during the Big East con­ference meets, the Irish still have work left to do this sea­son as they head into the Alex Wilson Invitational today at the Loftus Center. 
The tournament, which begins tonight at 5 and resumes Saturday at 10 a.m., will feature some of the best competition in the country. 
"You have to be approved by the NCAA, so there's only about four or five meets worth their salt." Irish coach Joe Piane said. "It's going to be a fantastic meet and we have people coming in from across the globe." 
Piane said the ultimate goal of the Alex Wilson Invitational is to qualify as many people as possible in the NCAA Championship in Fayetteville, Ark., March 9 and 10. In order to qualify for the NCAA Tournament, a competitor must be in the top-15 finish­ers in his event. 
"But just to get someone to the NCAAs is amazing," Piane said. "You're in the top one percent of your event in the country." 
After the Big East tourna­ment Notre Dame has six ath­letes qualified for the NCAA Tournament -all of whom run in distance events. Currently, Notre Dame has two qualifiers in the men's mile, one in the men's half­mile, one in the men's 5,000­meter and two in the women's 

5,000. But even with six runners qualified, Piane wants more. 
"The purpose of this meet is a last chance opportunity to get people qualified for the NCAAs," Piano said. "So we're not running a lot of people. We're running people we feel that they havn an opportuni­ty." 
Notre Dame will be running more distance rumwrs on the men's side, including junior Adam Currie in the 800-mnter and sophomore Patrick Smyth in the 3,000-meter. The Irish men will also run a distance medley, a race done in four parts with a 1,200-meter por­tion followed by 400 motors, 800 meters, and then 1 .(>00 meters. 
Senior sprinters Maryann Erigha and Okochi Ogbuokiri highlight the womnn's side. Sophomore Molly Huddle and senior Amy Kohlmeier will also run this weekend in the 5,000-meter race. 
Despite the emphasis on the distance events for Notre Dame this season, Piano still feels that his team is well bal­anced between distance, sprints and lield events. 
"We 'vo historically had pretty good distance -any­where from the 800 on upward -for decades, and we'll continue," Piane said. "But it's not as if we're just a distance school. We have Maryann and Okechi running. and some very good quarter­milers and we have a chancl) at the mile relay." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
FENCING 

After finishing second in 2006, Irish want win 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Editor 
Even though Notre Dame isn't in a fencing conference, the Irish will host the presti­gious Midwest Fencing Conference Championships Saturday and Sunday. 
The annual event is a team and individual competition, with the varsity fencers com­peting in five-touch bouts in the team competition and preliminary rounds of the individual action, and 15­touch bouts as they approach the finals. 
Though there is no Midwest Conference, the event is open to varsity teams, club teams and top private schools and fencers in the region. 
"It's prestigious and it's a little bit different because it's open not only to colle­giate fencers," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "This is tougher, a little bit, because we are competing against those who we have never met." 
For the varsity teams, there will be a nine-bout title match in each weapon for 

, ' 
' 
each gender. In 2006, Ohio State took first in every cate­gory except women's foil, which Northwestern won. 
Notre Dame finished sec­ond in all six disciplines. 
On the individual side, then-freshman Emilie Prot captured the women's foil title, while current senior sabreists Valerie Providenza and Patriek Ghattas and jun­ior epeeist Greg Howard took second in their events. 
Prot's victory was just the sixth Irish championship at the annual event for a fresh­man. . 
A new face is hoping to earn Notre Dame its seventh victory for newcomers at the event. 
Irish freshman epeeist Kelley Hurley brings her 51­4 record and extremely com­petitive nature into the com­petition. 
"I really, really don't want to lose a bout," Hurley said. "And I don't want any ol' my teammates to lose a bout." 
The action starts at 8 a.m. Saturday and Sunday in the Joyce Center Pieldhouse. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Sc: I I C) I..;\ tv\ l JSIc:()IllJ!v'\ 
Kit:< i~ tt: 'r: r..'d. \\t 1'0.1 '\l !.\Y \ 1:\Rt H ~~-21'E)7 
: .! ;. ··, I., ;,. :. ·· '> •••• i; \ ··h ''·· ;1 I! \• 
~ 
• ""' ' 1,'" ~·· ~~ ( t "' .'. 
;·· \ t~ t ~-.ft. _F. r <.~~.l --~.>
".;UJ I{! LH\11 
,••"• ,,• :T 1.!-.. ,,,• ~ 0 ., ~ 
~~< n ...>:E ~?!:::-~ ..... ~· Vl! .,.,_ 


HIGHER COSTS FOR HIGHER EDUCATION! 
;'\or.rc HitiHf' h·d('ral <·n·di~ llltfon nth·r" rt)iiU\ np(h lib 1u .t-...-...ht \OU \til h tlw fm;mnn:!-~ nf ~.our r•duc;1t ion;~ I go;tls. 
\\'o~· •.llh·r i vd~·r.nl StaHm.;.m l.oan·,. h·dt•n!l PLUS Loan~. <!iiH~ I t·d.¢·tui ( :o11"cdid~tHnn l.oun...... Plu;,, in.• oH('f dhn.>UIH'> fnr .;~u1~tl1htHc p;t!'Hil•tt(, ;ts \\ t•l! ;J', fnr goml p;!:\ rtWDI hishHV OH ;d1 n( uu1 :·,JudPm !aJ<m product"~ 
Friday, March 2, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

Coffee at the Como 

Tuesdayr March 6 7:30p.m.-9:30p.m" 316 Coleman-Morse 
b~ (M~· t~-r-:tri.( ~='t#'#~ Qn.. ~th:~-r, l~t:l h.::U:i:tJ~~ t::~tm~~x~. <itt~ WJm tH~t~i: fJ~%kf.. 1t.m~ 1-~$t~S. h'1'f:t" \tif$~11N~ t;} ~1 r~/~«'.1\)~ ytr-tth"i $~ !~"'0 (iv.M~ 



·rhc ()f11ce of Student ;\ffairs is nov~.r accepting nnrninations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
( ·andidatcs ntust he senicws \Vhf) cxcn1p Iif:y the qualities f(Jr \\'h1ch I)cnnj·' J\l1oorc \Vas kno\\rn~ including 11crson.a~ intcgrit\r and character,
~ l ~ • 
connnitrncnt t.o Notre l.)anH:~~c and \\-Tititlg abilitv. J
~ 

c·an'-Hd::ltcs lTHJV be non1inatcd bv f~tcultv~ staff. 
~ ~ ~ . 
or fcUo\\' students. 
For a numination t()rrn. pk•asc visit our \'\:-cbsite ~l1: 
~~tl!:/!f:!~~·!'~-ed u 
Top Ten 
continued from page 20 
and a 16-6 victory over Colgate. The Irish dropped the last two matches to the Big Red by an 11-10 tally in 2005 and a 9-6 score last season. 
Irish junior goaltender Joey Kemp is particularly excited about his third time playing the Big Red. 
"It has· been close the last couple of years," Kemp said. "[Cornell] is a really good team. They are good all over the field -they have a great offense, defense and goalie. This year we hope to finally close the gap and come out on top." 
Cornell attack David Mitchell is one of the return­ing senior stars that Notre Dame needs to guard well when he is trying to score. 
"He is a great crease guy and finisher," Kemp said of Mitchell. "He is one guy that is hard to stop, but our defense is doing well. We have played well altogether the last couple games." 
Along with Mitchell, the Big Red also return three other 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
Northwestern senior Kristen Kjellman, last year's Tewaaraton Trophy winner as the best player in women's lacrosse, notched' a game-high six goals. Sophomore Hilary Bowen also added three goals and three assists in the win. 
The Irish were led by soph­omore Jillian Byers, who netted three goals. Irish jun­ior Caitlin McKinney and senior Lena Zentgraf also contributed two goals each. 
The Wildcats out-shot the Irish 21-11 in the first half, 34-21 for the game. 
"When we play a team like Northwestern you have to bring it for sixty minutes," Coyne said. "Especially defensively, we weren't ready to go, and we didn't have twelve people bringing 
All-America honorees from last season -goaltender Matt McMonagle, midfielder Max Seibald and defenseman Mitch Belisle. 
The Big Red scoring this year has been led by two play­ers•who have an impressive 11 points each after two games. Cornell's Eric Pittard has netted seven goals to go along with four assists while John Glynn has six goals and a team-high five assists. 
Notre Dame senior midfield­er Lucius Polk said the Irish wasted no time in preparing for their opponent. 
"We watched film [of Cornell] on the bus ride back from the Penn State game," Polk said. "A lot of top teams that were above Cornell lost last week, so that will place [the Big Red] at a higher rank­ing." 
Senior attack Brian Hubschmann and junior mid­fielder Michael Podgajny lead Notre Dame with five goals apiece. Freshman attack Will Yeatman leads the Irish in assists; he has three feeds to compliment his three goals for 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
it for sixty minutes." 
The Irish will look to rebound Sunday with a match on the road against -., No. 16 Cornell (1-1). The Big Red will be looking for revenge from last year's NCAA Tournament, when Notre Dame eliminated the team in the first round with a 16-8 thumping. 
Cornell started its season with a tough 11-10 overtime loss to Rutgers, and quickly recovered with a 19-7 win over Colgate. 
"We just have to go into the Cornell game putting this loss behind us," Coyne said. "We know they're coming off a loss as well and looking to beat a highly_ ranked team." 
The Irish will look to stop Cornell junior Courtney Farrell, an All-Ivy League player who led the Big Red in points last year with 52. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
-



page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 2, 2007 
Rutgers 
continued from page 20 
Saturday's outcome, the game represents their final shot at a big victory. 
"Their fans always support them whether they're up or down," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said. ''I'm surprised that their record is their record given their personnel. They can guard you -they've just had trouble scoring. 
"This is their Big East tourna­ment, NCAA Tournament all in one. It's a !nationally televised] game, senior day. We're certain­ly going to get a great effort out of them." 
Brey said he will not shield his players from the score of the Syracuse game, which begins two hours before Notre Dame's. 
"I think I'd let them know. They're going to announce it probably at the arena anyway," he said. "But for us, it's going to be: Continue to play well and show some Big East tournament habits before it starts." 

Hutgers dropped its last three games to St. John's, Connecticut and Villanova. The Irish own a four-game winning streak and have held their opponents to 
67.3 points per game during th1~ stretch. 
"We've changed up and played a little bit of man, little bit of zone. We've been really good in our half-court ·man-to-man, especially at keeping people out the lane the last couple of games and I think that's impor­tant against Hutgers," !key said. "They arc a driving, slashing, get to the offensive board team. They're not the best shooting team. So if we can make them take jump shots over us that would be good." 
Offensively, Notre Dame is clicking on all cylinders. The Irish shot a combined 58 per­cent from three-point range in 
their wins over Cincinnati (Feb. 1 S) and DnPaul (Feb. 20), respm:tively, while frnshman big man Lukn llarangody nettnd 22 points against Marquette last Saturday. 
"Certainly always want to involve Luke llarangody and get him low-post touches, that's good for us," Br11y said. "Wn want to run and just havn that attack frame of mind we've had the last four games." 
Despite its rncnnt pnrformane­p,s, Notre Dame still wnars the albatross of a 2-!i road confer­ence record. 
"You can't sleep on tlwm.... We're going to treat them like they're the No. I team in the conference. It's a road game. We're going to go at them hard. It's a big game for them, so it's going to be tough," Irish guard Tory Jackson said. "They call [the Louis Brown Hutgers Athletic Centnrl 'The HAC' A lot of upperclassmen talk about it being a tough plaen to play." 

Forward J .H. Inman leads Tip-off is scheduled for 4. Hutgers with 12.1 points and 7.3 ESPN will televise the game. rebounds per game. Guard Marquis Webb (10 points per game) is the only other Scarlet Contact Chris Hine at Knight averaging double figures. chine@nd.edu 
Offense 
continued from page 20 
guys start doing it, it'll spread to everyone." 
One of the reasons for Notre Dame's problems this year is the schedule. All of the teams the Irish have faced so far are from warm climates, which means they've had more outdoor practice and, in some cases, many more games. 
That won't be the case this weekend as Notre Dame takes on Iowa and Nebraska, two northern schools facing similar limitations on their outdoor practice time. 
The Cornhuskers, who face Notre Dame Saturday, are 5-2 this season. They are led by shortstop Thad Weber, who is hitting .389 this year 
The Hawkeyes, who the Irish play Sunday, are 1-1 after splitting a pair of games with Arkansas­Pine Bluff to open their season last Friday and Saturday. Iowa was led by shortstop Jason White, who went 3-for-6 at the plate and scored two runs in the series. 
But before the Irish can play their northern brethren, they have a fmal tough southern game to play today -against Stetson, the host of this weekend's round-robin. 
The Hatters are 9-3, including two wins over former Notre Dame 

-


Irish left-hander Wade Korpi delivers to the plate during Notre Dame's 2-1 win over Purdue on April 25, 2006. 
coach Paul Mainieri and LSU. Despite Stetson's success this year, Schrage said if the Irish can put the ball in play, they should be able to score some runs. 
"Stetson is not a good fielding team," he said. "They kick the ball around a little bit." 
Even ifthis isn't the weekend his squad gets its season on track, Schrage is still confident it will start playing well before the Big East season begins after spring break. 
"Once we start playing midweek games along with the Friday, Saturday, Sunday games, we'll get in a little bit of a groove," he said. 

Notre Dame will head to Florida over the break for seven games in seven days, and then move into a five-games-a-week routine for the rest of the sea<>on. Tho Irish opnn their conference slate March 23 against South Florida at Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
TltAC:K AlJ!X WILSCJN INVITATl()NAI~ 
l:o [ \1.!-ll , . .,..1·1 l !f.\(') ~.[) 5··00JHJ:
l'\ ' l'ft I\ -...{_. w r"! L ~!.. . , . .. .T'f~ 
S.A·r* MAl{(:H 3Rn (tP 10:00AM 
Fl ~N·c··"'IN(."
~. ··" . . .J 
#8 'M···· ~' T·:}''. NI ~
'<·
. l:.N S · ~N .S 

Diving 
continued from page 20 
pate in the NCAA Championships. 
Much of the credit for the recent success of Bulfin, Stoner and the entire diving program is due to Caiming Xie. After last mDnth's Big East championship, Xie, who coaches both the men and women, was named the Men's Big East diving coach of the year for the second consecutive season. 
"lie's a phenomenal diving coach, and he is one of the best in the country -if not the best," Irish women's coach Carrie Nixon said. "The thing he does best is to take a diver with good fun­damentals and turn them into a great diver." 
On the women's side, there will be nine NCAA spots available -the top three finishers in the one-meter diving, the top 'four in the three-meter diving and the· top two in platform diving. Nixon said Notre Dame will send junior Tara Hyer and freshmen Natalie Stitt and Tiftany Hobak to attempt to obtain one of the nine NCAA bids. 
Both Ilyer and Stitt are coming off of all-Big East performances at the confer­ence championships. llyer finished third in the three­meter diving with 247.80 points, and Stitt also picked up a third-place finish with 
246.50 points in one-meter diving. Robak just missed achieving All-Big East status as she placed fourth and seventh, respectively, in three and one-meter diving. 
Of the three Irish divers, only Hyer enters this week­end's meet with any prior experience. In 2006, Hyer was the only Notre Dame diver to compete in the Zone C diving meet, failing to qualify for the NCAA Championships in any event. 
"Zone C is a very strong zone," Nixon said. "The Big Ten teams are very talented, and the upper-tier divers are phenomenal. Still, if our divers do their b!)st and have a magical moment, they have a shot at making it." 
The number of NCAA spots up for grabs is based upon Zone C divers' performances at the 2006 NCAA Championships. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
#2 Wt)MEN's TENNIS 
FtUDA)·'~ ~1A.RCH 2Nt) (ty .:)!00PM vs. TEX,i\S A&M SAt I.; IU}/\'t'., l\.1/dZ(:lll 3RD (/3) lO!OO:\h~ 
\ ··s·· ··1·..,.,.. X • ;;:· 
~ ~-.. ·'-:. ~ . .:l"'L;' 

~~' -· -t::: m::a: Ill>~ ('!~-~ ~·;,:·»~~"*::n( & 

\..(l)N()t\". l\.·1.!\~"'CI·J 5. TLJ ({J) 4·.·00PM
J'V-~ "'-I . , .• I ' • .. ~\ ., . ~ I .. 
'\!S W.fi ~I 11N· .....].. ,.)N
'· • •''"h. . 1 • l~ . l l 
.. 

Friday, March 2, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
All..€.. --n.I.E..R..e: ANi Al..~\bH"\, Q u 'Q:.. QuE-<;."Ttt:.-lS.~ E.\IE:fl-.'{ ON E. 'fEAH • 'fOU. . 1..E:rs ~c..---n.t-e 
II'I.I-0~\I.:JH,-1 ' H \ • I ~ TA'I'.E.. L\P ~0'\ OF' 'jOLIR. ME. So \NE. CAN A\..L FR\(:Jblr-J' L.E..A.\JE. 
A\...9-E.Ab'l 5o :Sf'E£.<:1-\ \$ A\..... SI.Al-1. &.AI-\, 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJtJJWJID)11E.
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KNACS 
(IJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
ff~fwl I ItRYSLIG j 
WHAT HE: U5E:D ON A RAINY DAY.
J rr I I 
www.jumble.com 


PHARIS± 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer: rI I JrI I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: PANIC SLANT GEYSER WIZARD Answer: At the end of the day, the plumber's new helper said the work was-"DRAINING" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jensen Ackles, 29; Nik Kershaw, 49; Ron Howard, 53; Harry Belafonte, 80 
Happy Birthday: Avoid exaggeration in all aspects of your life. This is a year to stick to the facts and take on what you know you are capable of doing. It's not a risk-taking year but you can certainly get ahead if you are cautious. Your numbers are 2, 17, 20, 23, 36, 42 
BLAcK DoG 
KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
"-''{ Ebi.AI-\ 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

LIAMMORAN 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Karen M. Tracey 
34 Joint 40 Like some 51 Abbas I, II and assemblies consonant stops Ill 
35 Busts a gut 43 Flock member 53 Wife of Shiva, 36 First opera to 45 Store, in a way in Hinduism premiere at 46 Word of 55 Toll unit London's Savoy 
emphasis 58 ''The Puzzle
Theatre, 1882 

47 Eye libidinously Palace" org. 37 Rather close 
49 Some 59 One of the 38 Parent's stern lampshade Ewings on order shades "Dallas" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
60 Moving vehicles 
61 Wagner opera setting 
62 One side in the Battle of Thermopylae 
63 Drill command 
DOWN 1 Music style that often includes 
an accordion 2 "Terrible" czar 3 Longtime TV 
role for Danson 4 Generator 
output: Abbr. 5 Partner of all 6 Specialty 7 Weathers 8 National car 
care chain 
9 _particle 1 0 Switch letters 11 Trinidadian, e.g. 
12 The Barsetshire novels novelist 
13 Doing very well moneywise 
14 Sure thing 
18 Popular caramel candy 
23 Dealers' requests 
25 Browbeating 
28 George of old vaudeville 
29 "Marne" director of stage and screen 
32 Biblical verb 

ARIES (March 21-April19): Travel or be prepared to make a move if it will benefit you financially, professionally or personally. Romance is on the rise so make your current relationship better, connect with someone from your past or meet someone new. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't trust whal others tell you: Find out for yourself and follow what you feel is best for you. Children or elders in your family may lead you down the wrong path. Consider your own interests first. 2 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You can make some new rules or alterations at home that will make your life easier and bring greater comfort. A real estate deal is looking good. An idea you once had can be put into play now. 4 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may feel restricted by the people you have to deal with today. Do your own research if you aren't getting enough information from others. An older relative will shed some light on a dilemma. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be in a passionale, creative mood, so whether you spend your time romancing someone or working on a project you thoroughly enjoy, the outcome should be to your liking. Don't let someone less enthusiastic burst your bubble. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone may be keeping a secret from you that could affect your future. Don't take time off or slow down when there is so much on the line. The more you can do to secure your position or to simplify your life, the better. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Just when you think you know what you want, you will be tempted by what someone else has or does. So, go for it. Put on a smile and forge into new territory. Your charm will be all it takes. 4 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone will stand in your way or you will take a route that will lead to delays. Resign yourself to the fact you can only do so much. Keep things simple and, at the end of the day, you will have achieved what you set out to do. 2 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be tempted to take off for an adventure. You will feel trapped if you aren't allowed to do as you please. Don't exaggerate a situation or your capabilities. A romantic evening should be scheduled in. 5 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may want to restructure some of your relationships. It may be time to turo the tables and stop doing for those who aren't capable of giving hack in return. You have to make changes in order to move ahead. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): It's time to tidy up. Anything that is no longer of any use should be thrown oul or given away. You need to make room for more knowledge, possessions and friends if you want to grow and prosper. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Put your energy where it counts. Work and money should be your prime target. This is a great day to go for an interview, apply for a job or talk to your boss about a raise or a project you want to pursue. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are passionate about whatever you do and a humanitarian, delving into what wiH help the world around you. You are aggressive, intuitive and an ideas person. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenialast.comfor confidential consultations 
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Plot device in some science fiction 
9 Expedient 
15 Saint born in Newark, N.J. 
16 Modern site of an ancient Egyptian capital 
17 Fictional character who says "I have measured out my life with coffee spoons" 
19 Nuevo 
20 Cardio choice 
21 _ Lacs, Minn. 
22 Discoveries in AI Hirschfeld drawings 
24 Off the market 
26 Whammy 
27 Rack holder 28 Merry 
30 Spawn 31 It's a free country 33 Descend, in 
mountaineering 35 Movie buff: Var. 38 1993 Peace 
co-Nobelist 39 Night sticks? 40 Western party 41 Computer key 42 Homer's home 44 One of the 
Bush brothers 48 Word with legal or lower 50 Home of the Hmong 51 Part of a French 
toast 52 Pan 54 Thomas of the 
N.B.A. 56 Flagstaff-to-Tucson dir. 57 Early Jesuit 




THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, March 2, 2007 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Playing for a day off 
Irish seek to end road troubles, secure first­-round bye in Big East 
By CHRIS HINE Sporrs Writer 
No. 17/21 Notre Dame can clinch a bye in the first round of the Big East tournament with a win in its final regular season game at Rutgers Saturday. 
The Irish (22-6, 10-5 Big East) own the tiebreaker over Syracuse (21-8, 10-5) thanks to their 103-91 victory over the Orange Jan. 30. A Notre Dame win or a Syracuse loss to Villanova Saturday ensures the Irish a Thursday tip-off at Madison Square Garden. 
For the Scarlet Knights (1 0­18, 3-12). who will miss the 12­team cutoff for the Big East tournament regardless of 
see RUTGERS/page 18 


ND SWIMMING 
NCAA Championship slots at stake for ND 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
With the NCAA spots for swimming events already filled. Notre Dame will send both its men and women divers to Ann Arbor this weekend to compete in the Zone C Diving Championships with a chance to qualify for the national meet. 
The Zone C meet will span 

the course of the weekend with the one-meter competi­tion on Friday, the three­meter on Saturday and plat­form diving on Sunday. 
On the men's side, 41 divers will compete for seven available NCAA slots -the top three finishers in the one-meter diving, the top three finishers in the three-meter diving, and the first-place finisher in plat­form diving. If a single diver occupies more than one of 
BASEBALL 
Irish return to Florida for Stetson Invitational 
Schrage and Co. look to improve struggling offense this weekend 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
After starting 2-4 against a slate of purely southern opponents, Notre Dame will facp, two northern schools. Nebraska and Iowa. as well as the hosts in the Stetson Invitational this weekend in Deland, Fla. 
The Irish have struggled out of the gate this season, winning just one game in each of the previous two weekends. Notre Dame has scored just 24 runs in six games this season, with 15 of those com­ing in the season opener against Texas State. 
"We're going through some growing pains, but we're trying to keep the guys positive,'' Irish coach Dave Schrage said. "We're just going to keep te11.ching and trying not to let them gp,t dis(:ouraged." 
Notre Dame is hitting just .228 as a team this season and has stranded 48 runners on base. One of the few bright spoL<; this season at the plate has been piteher/frrst baseman Mike Dury. Dury is hit­ting .364 so far this sna.o:;on and is yet to allow a rw1 in three innings on the mound. 
But Schrage said he feels that success like Dury's will get the Irish back on traek as the season progresses. 
'Tve always believed hitting is contagious," he said. "Once a few 
see OFFENSE/page 18 
page 20 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Offensive onslaught downsND 
By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 
Northwestern proved why it is the top-ranked team in the nation Thursday, defeat­ing No.5 Notre Dame 18-10 at the Loftus Center. 
The two-time defending national champion Wildcats (2-1) struck early and often. taking a 12-4 lead into the half. The Irish (2-1) were unable to slow down Northwestern's offensive attack, especially fast-break opportunities. 
"Northwestern has a lot of spend in transition," Irish coaeh Tracy Coyne said. "They have a lot of offensive threats, and those people capitalized on our defense." 
Notre Dame looked to be gaining momentum late in the second half, scoring three straight goals to decrease the Wildcat lead to 15-9. But Northwestern put together two long posses­sions that ended in goals that crushed any hope of a comeback. 
Offensively. the Irish were hounded by a fast and deter­
mined  Wildcat  defense.  
Notre  Dame  established  
many  opportunities  on  

offense, but it seemed every time tho Irish scored and wore gaining momentum. the Wildcats responded with quick goals. Northwestern goalie Abby Bangser had several key saves, prevent­ing any hope for an Irish run. 
see WILDCATS/page 17 

these spots, then the next­place finisher will qualify for the NCAA Championships. 
Vying for one of the sevnn available slots will be soph­omore Michael Bulfin, jun­ior Sam Stoner and junior Steven Crowe. 
In 2006, both Bulfin and Stoner competed in the Zone C diving meet with successful results. Stoner finished 10th in the one­meter diving, while Bulfin placed ninth and fourth in tho one and thren-meter diving, respectivnly. 
Bulfin's fourth-plaen finish in the three-meter dive qualified him for the NCAA Championships. At the championships, Bulfin fin­ished 18th and 27th in the three and one-meter diving, respectively, and he became only the third member of the Irish program to partici­
see DIVING/page 18 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Top-10 teams to clash in NY 
Cornell and its 35­10 goal differential await Notre Dame 
By PAT O'BRIEN Spurts Writer 
No. 8 Notre Damn takes on its toughest challenge of' the ynar when it travflls to llnwlett, N.Y.. to play pow­erhouse No. 4 Cornell Saturday. 
The Irish (2-0) are fresh orr of' an 11-8 vietory against Penn State and look to start 3-0 for t.hn first timo since 2003. Cornell (2­
0) dominatlld its first two matches of the year with a 19-4 win over Binghamton 
see TOP TEN/page 17 


Irish attack Will Yeatman sprints up the field during Notre Dame's 9-7 Win over Loyola (Md.) Feb. 17. 
_j 





