----------------------------------------~-----------­


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
An updated 'Loyal Daughters' to add 'sons' 
Production to open next week with new director, writer, stories 
Washington Hall, was writ­ality are not single-gender
ByJENN METZ 
ten by senior Sarah Van issues," Van Mill said. "No 
Assistant News Editor 
Mill, who conducted inter­reconciliation can happen views to create new materi­when we're only talking 
This year's production of al to add to last year's col­about women." "Loyal Daughters," now lection of skits and mono­O'Donoghue stressed the called "Loyal Daughters and logues. importance of examining Sons," will examine issues "We changed the name to these issues from both male of sexuality and sexual get more men involved," and female points of view. assault from both sides of Van Mill said. "Why should "We're trying to paint a the story when it opens next they go see 'Loyal picture in as honest a way week, director Megan_ Daughters'? It's about as possible," she said. O'Donoghue said. women ... well, that's reason Van Mill said the male and 
"The title has changed, alone to go." female perspectives should and that's really indicative The two hope the change help drive the message of the overall feeling of the will create more dialogue home that these are issues production," she said. about the issues of sexuality both sexes should be con­
"Loyal Daughters and and sexual assault on cam­cerned about, "especially 
Sons," which runs Monday pus. 
through Friday in "Sexual violence and sexu-see DAUGHTERS/page 6 
Alwnni Association takes online prayer requests 
Weekly candle-lighting service brings 'the Grotto to the people' 
ing at the Grotto. The Web site is updated everyBy GENE NOONE "We asked ourselves how is it weekday with a new prayer,
News Writer 
that we could bring the Grotto to gospel reading and video titled 
the people," Sullivan said. "We "Sacred Spaces of Notre Dame," 
More than 3,500 members of decided to be the feet for the peo­which highlights a particular place the extended Notre Dame commu­ple and go to the Grotto for them." of worship on campus. nity have prayed at the Grotto in The Web site began through Perhaps the most innovative the past 10 months without ever Sullivan's department in the section of the Web site is the stepping foot on campus. They've Alumni Association, the recently Grotto r.Bquest page, where people made these visits through online ereated Service and Spirituality can send requests to have their prayer requests courtesy of division. prayers said at the Grotto. pray.nd.ndu. "We wanted to think of new On Thursdays, a representative 
Kathleen Sullivan, the senior ways to spread spirituality to from the Alumni Association takes director of Service and Spirituality alumni across the world," she the electronic prayer requests to for the Alumni Association, said said.· the Grotto and prays. Marian the Web site began as an Alumni Under the leadership of Sullivan, Appleton, an admini'itrative assis­Association initiative to connect pray.nd.edu launched last tant for the Alumni Association, graduates with one of the school's February. Since then, the site has most spiritual traditions -pray-received more than 50,000 hit'>. see PRAYERS/page 4 
ROTC units observe Veterans Day 
Father Hesburgh will speak at annual ceremony at Stonehenge 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Cadel'i from all four branches of the Notre Dame HOTC program will join forces today for their annual Veterans Day ceremony to honor the nation's fallen veterans. 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh will spnak at the ceremony, which will bngin at 4:30 p.m. at the Clarke Memorial Fountain, more com­monly known as Stonehenge. lt will bn preceded by a 24-hour vigil knpt over the memorial by cadel'i. 
"All four serviens will stand guard at the Clarke Memorial in respnet to the veterans and those 
see VETERANS/page 4 Glass."



By KATLYN SMITH Although bystanders are not legal­
News Writer 
ly responsible, Qlcy have the obliga­
tion to recognize suffering and plights 
Atrocities like the Holoc,aust cannot as human beings, Verdeja said. This be reduced to perpetrators and vic­indifference and inaction occurs tims, genocide scholar Ernesto when one "decides to close one's eyes Verdeja said at Saint Mary's to what's going on in the world." Thursday. In terms of the Holocaust, the 
Moral bystanders play a large role extermination of six million people in the "most heinous crimes of resulted from a relatively small num­human history," said Verdeja, a gov­ber of legal perpetrators compared ernment professor at Wesleyan to the extensive group of moral University. "Through their inaction, bystanders who failed to recognize these bystanders facilitated the the humanity of the victim<; and who crimes, although they did not have facilitated genocide. he said. dirt on their hands." Verdeja said the atrocity in Darfur 
Verdeja spoke at an event hosted mirrors 20th-century genocides in by Saint Mary's Center for Women's Rwanda, Bosnia and the Congo. The Intercultural Leadership to com­professor encouraged possible solu­memorate the 69th anniversary of Kristalhmcht, the "Night of Broken see GENOCIDE/page 4 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, November 9, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A Sadie 
•
surprise 

Today is the anniversary of the first­ever Sadie llawkins Day Dance at Morris llarvey College in 1938. A dance to which, traditionally, girls ask boys. 
Now. I've 
Liz Harter 

been at a sin­
gle-sex educa­
tional facility News Production for seven years. Editor 
It's an amazing atmosphere 
but, like all things, it has its perks and 
its drawbac:ks. 
Sadie llawkins Day is one of its draw­backs -if only because every day is Sadin llawkins Day when it comes to finding dates to dances, formals and events. 
Sadie llawkins Day has been on the books since 1937 wlwn AI Capp ran a 'Lil' Abner' eomie strip in which Sadie llawkins, tlw unattradive daughter of llekzebiah llawkins, one of the resi­dents of the town of Dogpat<:h, partid­pated in the town's first-ever race where girls pursued the town's bache­lors in hopes of literally eatehing a hus­band. 
If a girl were to drag one of the bach­elors across the finish line by the end of the nu:e, that man would then have to marry the girl. 
The overwhelming positive feedback that Capp received from the eomie was so groat that lw deddnd to run the strip annually in Ni1vnmber. 
Them is scHne contention as to whetlwr Sadie llawkins Day actually occurs on Nov. 9, as some say that it occurs on Nov. I:~. and others say that it is Nov. 17. 
Capp actually weighed in on the con­troversy in 1952, saying that it had become his responsibility to put Sadie llawkins Day in the comic strip annual­ly. 
"It doesn't happen on any set day in November," Capp said. "It happens on the day I say it happens." 
Thc1refore, I can choose which one of these days I would like to celebrate the holiday. And because I'm writing the Inside Column for today, I choose today. 
Since 1938, many schools and organ­izations have held Sadie Hawkins dances. 
Unfortunately, my single-sex institu­tions were not two of them. 
I have always wanted to adually par­tic:ipate in Sadie llawkins Day but have never had an event to ask a guy to. 
That is not the case this year. 

This year, Sadie llawkins Day and the Saint Mary's junior formal fall relative­ly close to each other. Close enough that I can actually partieipate in the day's events since it J.,rives a fair amount of warning to make plans for the dance. 
So I'm going to do it. I'm going to get c:aught up in the spir­it of the day. 
No, I'm not going to go out and lind myself a bachelor to drag across a fin­ish line and form him to marry me. Instead, I'm going to do one of the gut­sinst things I've ever done in my life. 
Ilopef'ully I don't face plant after sky diving from a plane and taking a chance with this one.... But Matt of' thn saxophones, will you go with me to the Saint Mary's junior formal? 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Uz 1/arter at eharteO I @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

l )ue 10 reporting errors, rhc Nov. 8 article tided "Band members plan trip abroad" contained errors. Katie Putz docs nm play saxophone. She will be playing rhe hass clar­incnt in ( :hina and Japan. The marching band will nor be traveling; it is the Norre Dame concerr bands. The Observer regrcrs these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE KARAOKE SONG AND WHY? 


Gun rules. .. exercise your full range of vocal talents. ,, 


47 35 

38 25 


57 47 



62 HIGH 50 LOW 
,!3 


IN BRIEF 

The 2007 MRA Diversity Conference will take place today from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. Punam Mathur, the senior vice president for corporate diversity and community afi'airs for MGM Mirage, will be the keynote speaker. lie will speak at 6 p.m. in Hoom F of North Dining Hall. More information about the c:onli~r­ence can be found at http://www.nd.edu/-mba/divnr sityeonf'erenco/agendas.html 
As part of the Boardroom Insights lecture snries, Paul Orfalea, formnr Kinko's chief executive officer will speak in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business today at 10:40 a.m. 
The women's volleyball team will play Cincinnati today at 4 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Admission is free. 
The Glee Club will pnrl'orrn its fall concert today at 8:30 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $:l for studnnts. 
A Bright Room Called Day will be performnd Tuesday through Friday at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday, Nov. 1S at 2:30 
p.m. and 7:30 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theater in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $12 for the general public, $10 for faculty, staff and seniors and $8 for students. For tick­ets, call the !WAC ticket ollice at 574-631-2800 or visit per­formingarts.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section ofTlze Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

Nick DiMascio Danny Deveny Nick Andert Rob Bowen Jeff Tisak 
sophomore sophomore sophomore junior junior Stanford Morrissey Siegfried Sarin Sarin 
'"You've Lost '"/Want it That '"Bohemian "Any Disney '"Living on a That Loving Way,· because it Rhapsody,' song./ Prayer.' I hear it Feeling,' makes me feel because it shouldn't have all the time at because Top naughty." allows you to to explain. .. practice." 

VANESSA GEMPIS/ The Observer The Chinese Culture Society performs a fan dance at Thursday's presentation of Asian Allure: 2007 at Washington Hall. 
OFFBEAT 

N.Y. chocolate dessert costs $25,000 
NEW YOHK-This is one rich cup of haute choco­late: A New York eatery is ofl'ering a $25,000 dessert bulging with top-grade cocoa, edible gold and shavings of a luxury truflle. 
The Frrrozen Haute Chocolate was declared the most expensive dessert in the world on Wednesday by Guinness World Hecords. 
The dessert is a frozen, slushy mix of cocoas from 14 countries, milk and 5 grams of 24-carat gold topped with whip cream and shavings from a La Madeline au TruiTie. 
It is served in a goblet with a band of gold deco­rated with 1 carat of dia­monds and served with a golden spoon diners can take home. 
Church finds 67 bullet holes in steeple 
McMINNVILLE, Tenn. ­The renovation of an old church has revealed darn­age expected more in a war zone. The landmark steeple of First Presbyterian Church is pocked with 67 bullet holes. 
"After we found the first couple, I thought it was funny, but then we saw so many I started counting," contractor Dennis Dockum said. "We caulked up 67 holes." 
Hesidents speculating on where the holes came from have several scenarios. 

The church was rebuilt in 1878 after the original burned during the Civil War, so the holes could have been in the wood when the steeple was con­structed. Or maybe police added some while shooting at pigeons said to have infested the steeple at one time. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 

..... 
<C 
0 

Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Le Cercle fran~ais 
celebrates culture 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
Le Cercle frant;ais, Notre Dame's student French club. hosted a series of events in honor of National French Week or La somaine du frant;ais, this week. 
It was started seven years ago by the American Association of Teachers of French. (AATF) to foster an appreciation for French culture in schools and communitios, according to the AATF Web site. 
Le Cerele's events followed the nationally-coordinated themes as designated by the AATF. Thny began Monday with a French food giveaway in LaFortune Student Center. The dub offered popular French foods such as baguettes, brie and croissants to students pass­ing through LaFortune. 
On Tuesday, elub members passed out French phrases and facts on handouts in LaFortune. Le Cercln met that evening at Beckers for "Mardi Cafe," when1 dub members enjoyed Fronch conversation. 
The club's president, senior Amanda Bode, said she was pleasnd with the turnout of these events. especially with the notion of raising student awanmcss of French culture and National French Week. 
Thursday night the club sponsored a performance by singer Tangi Colombe!, along with the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and the Arts and Letters Beyond the Classroom Initiative. Students and faculty gathered in LaFortune ball­room to attend Colombel's cabaret-style show. 
The French-native performed an array of comedic songs about romance, Paris, several sad songs and a French rendi­tion of "I Did It My Way." 
During the show's intermis­sion, Colombe! walked around the ballroom and spoke with several faculty members. He activnly engaged the audience and encouraged participation and dancing. 
Bode credited French profes­sor Catherine Perry for recruit­ing Colombe!, who currently lives in Florida, to perform. 
National French Week will conclude with an international dance party called "Eurodance" at Legends tonight at midnight. Le Cercle collaborated with the Italian Club to host the event. 
Le Cercle officer Pia Mauro said the two cultural clubs' work together on the event "was really perfect timing." 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 
FirstYear Board wins 'Karaoke Idol' 
Senior Quarters Campaign holds scholarship charity event 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 
As part of their "Senior Quarters Campaign," members of Saint Mary's Class of 2008 held "Karaoke Idol," their version of "American Idol." Thursday to raise money for future scholar­ships. 
Audience members were encouraged to donate quartors in baskets that were passed around the Vander Vennet Theatre, while they listened to six karaoke renditions of hits by groups like the Backstreet Boys. 
The "celebrity" judges for the event were College President Carol Mooney, professor Stacy Davis and business professor Jerry McElroy. 
Acts that performed included members of the First Year Board, the Residence Hall Association and groups of students called the "Dancing Queens," the "Disco Rollers," "Fetch" and the "OG." 
While listening to the Residence Hall Association's ver­sion of "I Want It That Way," Davis said she "felt the emotion ... it was spiritual." 
After hearing the "OG" per­form "No Scrubs," Mooney said jokingly, "Saint Mary's does not have an Alma Mater that we sing all together, but I think that should be it." 
While the judges tabulated their scores, the members of the Senior Quarters Campaign got everyone in the room on their 

First Year Board members Kristen Chemma, Katie Brown, and class vice president Laurel Jayors celebrate their victory in SMC's Karaoke Idols after singing the Backstreet Boys' "Backstreet's Back." 
feet for a packed theater rendi­tion of"We Are Family". 
"Idol" winners, First Year Board members Kristen Chemma, Katie Brown and class vice president Laurel Jayors who sang "Backstreet's Back," won a gift certificate to Garfield's Pub. 
"The Disco Rollers" took sec­ond after singing "I Will Survive," and "Fetch" came in third place after their rendition of "Come On Over Baby." They won free games of bowling and free pizza, respectively. 
Beth McKevitt, who coordinat­ed the event, thanked everyone for coming. 
"Your quarters are inadver­tently affecting future studenl<> as it helps fund scholarships," she said. 
She also reminded the room that the total amount of donated quarters is added on to the "alumnae giving" total. 
Freshman Molly Pavela said she was surprised freshmen won but said the night "was hysteri­cal" and that she would come back next year. 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
GURLEY LEEP 

2008 SUBARU 

TRIBECA 
:'J !'.o\SSf.!\Gff< 

$298PER MONTH LEASE/ 36 MONTHS 
•IIHS Top Salety Pick' $2,597.00 Down Payment • All-Wheel Drive standard $0 Security Deposit • Vehicle Dynamics Control (VDC) $0 Acquisition Fee with Traction Control 
$298 First Month's Lease Payment • 256-hp 3.6-liter Subaru 
$2,895 Total Due at Lease Signing Boxer engine '/. '~-.~ l:H't<: 
·IIHS Highest possible cr.uh test ratings 
•All-Wheel Drive standard ·173-hp Subaru Boxer engine 
• 4-wheel disc brakes with ABS 
$199 PER MONTH LEASE! 36 MONTHS 
$1,501 Down Paymenl $0 Security Oepol-il $0 Acquisition Fee $199 First Mooth's Lease Paymeot 
$1,700 Toial Due at Leas:e-Signing 
award-•'lnmnQ small SUV' 
• All.Wheel Drive standard 
•173-hp Subaru Boxer engine • 4-wheel ABS 

$199 PER MONTH LEASEi 24MONTHS 
$2.101 Down Paymeot 
SO Security Deposit 
$0 Acquisition Fee 
$199 first Month':Slease Paymeoi 
$2,300 Total Due at leas~ Signing 
i!·h:le' 8ff) 
.,,..·('·"'"'!.1'<;">'"") 
oU'TBACK 
•5-Star highe>l government crash test rating:­
•All-Wheel Drive •tandord 
•
6 standard airbags 

•
4-wheel disc brakes with ASS 


$219 PER MONTH LEASEi 36MONTHS 
$1,766 Down Payment 
$0 Set;urity Deposil 
$0 Acquisition Fee 
$?.19 First Mooth's Leas• Paymaot 
$1,985 Total Dw~ at Lease Signing 


'Top Safety Pick inc1L1des lhe 2008 Trit-eca. 'GovernmMt frontal and siae crash rests arc part of 11:-e Nalin~a; H~ghway Traffic Safely Atiminislrat.on (NHTSA) New Car A,ssessmenl Program. See salercar.gov for more detaiL Subaru Tnteca and Outback are registe~ed trademarks. Leases oased on 10,000 rmles per year plus lax, litle.lt~•nsa and doc. Ret."'"' to dealer. Wrth qualrfieo cred1t. Olle!S ""ll"" November 30. 2007. 

Friday, November 9, 2007
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Prayers 
continued from page 1 

ofllm goes to the Grotto on behalf' 
of' those who submit rnqunsts. 
"Whnn we visit the Grotto e v e r y Thursday, we pray and relight the Alumni Association's Green Candln, which was madP spedf'i­eally for the 
p r a y e ~ requests, Appleton said. "We also accept 

mqunst<; to light a separatl\ can­dle fi1r those who ask." 
The servien is available to any alumni, family or friends of the University frnn of chargn. Thostl 
Genocide 
continued from page 1 

tions through pressurn on congress­
men, active participation in org<mi­
:tlttion<; working to stop gemx:ide <md 
divesting from Pmnomie im;titutions 
that do bu<;innss with Sudanese gov­
nrnrmmt. 

In addition to the pownr of the 
pursn, "it b imperativn to educate 
oursdvns so we don't end up in situ­
ations whnrn we dehumanize oth­
ers," Verdtja said. 

Verd1ja al<;o addrns.'illd the UniiN.I 
Nation<;' J><L'>l rnspon'iiJS to gnnocidn. 

()f\.tm, nati•mal intemst<; tJfSeeurity 
Council rnemb!Jrs prevent coherent 
nm1rts and intervention. China's 
mm;sive nmnomie b!Jom call<; fi1r a 
dwap tmergy soun:e. A'> a nJSult, it<; 
investment in Darfur's oil nconomy 
and other African countrins farili­
taiJJS thtlSP vioiPnt militias. he said. 

<:hina h<L'> ve1J1ed and pnwented 
the p<L'i.'Ktge of' UN m:tion targeting 
the ethnic cleansing in the sub­
Sahanm country. 

Gmodd!' L<; defined <L<; the "iniJmt 
IJJ dtJStroy rarial. ethnic. rnli1-,rious or 
national groups." Com;nqutmtly. pa'>t 
atrodtins have not bonn denmed 
gmltK:idtlS, he said. 

IAKlking to the futun1, Vnrdtja said 
tl1e U.S. govemmmt i'i not likdy IJJ 
intensify action against thn 
KhartJJum goven1ment. 

"We have lost our credibility and leveragP in plams sueh <L'> Darfi.Ir," hn said. Taking aetion "would be S!lllll <L'i imperial pn~ssurn aga.in'it a Mm;lim country." 
If the situation in Iraq became 
genocide, Vnrdeja questioned 
whnther tlw U.S. would maintain a 
troop pmsnnr.1•. 

Verdeja is currently authoring a 
btKJk. 

Saint Mary's history professor 
David Stefandc bt1gan tl1e evening 
witl1 thn hi'"iiJlfy btlhind Kri'itallmu:ht. 
St.llfimcic said tho sh<K:k of World War I triggnmd a S!Jan:h ti1r a scapn­goat and the necessity to dnfine a Gorman identity. llitler's "Mein Kampf' was seen as a proplwtie solution. t:alling for tim removal of "subhumans." he said. The Nazi propaganda campaign found its caU'i11 wlwn a JnwL'ih student living in Paris learned of his parent's dt~portation fhnn Gem1m1y, mard1Pd into a Cem1m1 Pmh<L'i.'>Y and shot a S!_Jt:rPtary. 
Soon af'tnrward, the "Night of' Broken Glass" began "organized, spont<m!lotl'i rioL<;" witl1 th!l ramp<Ult dPstruetion of JewL'ih homns, busi­nessns and synagogues, Stofandc said. 
Th!l di'iiU'i.'iion fiJIIow<ld a St:reen­ing of tho llolocaust film, "Lifo Is Beautiful." It took plaee in Carroll AudiiJJrium. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmithO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

of positive requested
"When we visit the Grotto 
feedback stipend is $10, and the Mass every Thursday, we pray from peoplP takes place within three months and relight the Alumni who feel as of the request. if thfly're Although the Web site is fairly
Association's Green 
back at the new, Sullivan said, she's "not Candle, which was made Grotto really surprised" by its popularity. specifically for the prayer bPcause "People who are at Notre Dame they know or who used to be here are so
requests." 
we'ro down connected to their faith," she thero for said. Kathleen Sullivan them," Sullivan said the Web site will senior director of service and Sullivan be redesigned in December to said. add a more extnnsive archive of
spirituality 
"Most praynrs and videos, an HSS feed
Alumni Association 
who submit prayers have the tion. Having someone go to the option of staying anonymous. But Grotto for them seems to help if they provide a name and e-mail them with these problems in a address, the Alumni Association tangible way." will reply to their request with a The Web site also accepts noll~ confirming their visit. requests for Ma<>ses given by Holy 
"We've Cross priests for those who are 
gotten a lot deceased or for special inten­
tions. The Mass 

often people and the capability to access the will ask us site by cell phone. 
to pray for their family and For more information, visit 
friends," she added. "There are a pray.nd.edu 
lot of mquests concerning hnalth 
issues, jobs, kids, people nearing Contact Gene Noone at 
death and people facing acidic-enoone@nd.edu 
*us.Cellular 

free trial offer valid for new subscribers only. Oedit card or PayPal information required. ff you cancel your membership anytime before the end of your free 30 days, you will not be charged. After 30 days, continue using Napater To $14.95 per month. An active subscription is required to play tracks downloaded and transferred to your phone from Napsler To Go. Offer expires 12131/08. C 200Z Napster logos are mgistered trademarks of Naps1er, UC. 
Veterans 
continued from page 1 

who have paid the ultimate price and made the ultimate sacrifice," 
said Lt. Col. Liiwen Braue, assistant professor of anro­space studies. 
The 24-hour vigil, which began at 4 p.m. Thursday, is divid­ed into half-hour shif'L'i. Four cadets, one from eaeh branch of the ROTC program, will man each 

shift. A total of' 152 eadets are scheduled to participate in the vigil. 
Today's ceremony will bn lnd by the Air Force HOTC and will begin with an invocation in mmnory of veterans of pa'it and prnsent wars. Father Peter Hoeca, the Basilica rector and the campus military 
u.s Cerulr' introcb:es the 

MOTOROKR'"-a phone n MP3 player in one~ stylish plug-and-play form. ll comes with•••ything you need to gat started right out ci the boa.lllllr.g with • 30-o., FREE Nlipster To Go 1rill. Which ..... 
t. .....,.IIUiic 
k)JGWa.s. 
U.S. CAIIullr IS~ ...._you....._~ 

"We need to take said. 
responsibility for The ceremony will last approxi­
our inconsistencies 
lately." utes and will eon­elude with a benediction
Lt. Col. Lowen Braue 
delivered by
assistant professor 
Hocca. 

aerospace studies 
The Veterans 
chaplain, will lead the invocation. Leaders from the non: program and !Iesburgh, the ceremony's guest speaker, will be introduced following the ceremony. 
The cerPmony will also featum 
a playing of 'Taps" to "remember our fallen heroes," Braue 
Day ceremony is 
an annual non: tradition at Notrn Dame. In case of rain, it will be moved from the Clarke Memorial to the Carey Auditorium in the llesburgh Library and will bngin at the same time. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 9, 2007 CoMPILED FROA,1 THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ancient piece of bible discovered 
JERUSALEM -For six decades, Sam Sabbagh carried a good luck charm -a parchment he found on the floor of a burned synagogue. 
Turns out that parchment likely is more than 1,000 years old, a fragment of the most authoritative manuscript of the Hebrew Bible. His family plans to present it to a Jerusalem institute next week, offi­cials said Thursday. 
The parchment, about "the size of a credit card," is believed to be part of the Aleppo Codex manuscript of the Hebrew Bible, said Michael Glatzer, academic sec­retary of the Yad Ben Zvi institute. 
It contains verses from the Book of Exodus describing the plagues in Egypt, including the words of Moses to Pharaoh, "Let my people go, that they may serve me." 
North Korea thanks U.S. for naval aid 
SEOUL -North Korea expressed rare gratitude Thursday for U.S. help in ending a high-seas standoff with Somali pirates, a sign of warming ties between the longtime foes fostered by progress on Pyongyang's nuclear disarmament. 
The U.S. Navy's aid to North Korean sailors last week was unprecedented in the half century of hostility between the Cold War enemies, according to the Naval Historical Center in Washington. 
The North's Korean Central News Agency hailed the maritime collaboration as a "symbol of cooperation" between the two countries "in the struggle against terror­ism." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Officer guilty of drug trafficking 
BOSTON -A third Boston police officer pleaded guilty Thursday to drug trafficking charges for protecting truckloads of cocaine during an FBI sting operation. 
Roberto Pulido, 42, entered the plea follow­ing two days of damaging testimony at his fed­eral trial. 
Authorities said Pulido was the ringleader of a group of three officers who received thou­sands of dollars from men they believed were drug dealers, but were actually undercover FBI agents. The officers escorted two truck­loads of cocaine into Boston in 2006. They were arrested in July 2006 in Miami, where they went to collect $35,000 for protecting a drug shipment a month earlier. 
California sues U.S. government 
SACRAMENTO -California sued the feder­al government on Thursday to force a decision about whether the state can impose the nation's first greenhouse gas emission stan­dards for cars and light trucks. 
More than a dozen other states are poised to follow California's lead if it is granted the waiver from federal law, presenting a chal­lenge to automakers who would have to adapt to a patchwork of regulations. 
The state's lawsuit against the Environmental Protection Agency, filed in U.S. District Court in Washington, D.C., was expect­ed after Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vowed last spring to take legal action. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Store destroys merchandise 
MICHIGAN CITY -Women's apparel com­pany Liz Claiborne Inc. was destroying all the merchandise at a northern Indiana out­let store where an infected employee came to work. 
The company closed its Liz Claiborne Outlet Store at Lighthouse Place on Saturday after the ill employee arrived for work. 
Company spokeswoman Dana Stambaugh said Thursday test results for the employee were negative for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, a drug-resistant germ. 
The company said it was taking necessary precautions by disinfecting the store and destroying the merchandise and replacing it. The store is scheduled to reopen on Nov. 16. 
PAKISTAN 

M usharraf to hold delayed elections 
Military leader bows to U.S. pressure, but continues to arrest political foes 
Associated Press 

ISLAMABAD President Gen. Pervez Musharraf yielded to pres­sure from the United States on Thursday and said Pakistan will hold parliamentary elections by mid-February, just a month later than originally planned. 
But the military leader showed no sign of letting up on his political foes, reportedly arresting more than 800 supporters of opposition leader Benazir Bhutto before dawn in an effort to head off a major anti-government demon­stration set for Friday. 
The White House hailed its ally's election pledge, but Bhutto denounced his announcement as "vague" and demanded Musharraf give up his second post as army chief within a week. She said the mass protest would go ahead despite warnings it could be tar­geted by suicide bombers. 
Bhutto is leader of Pakistan's biggest party and her decision to join in anti-government protests was another blow for Musharraf, who has seen his popularity slide this year amid growing resent­ment of military rule and increasing violence by linked militants. "We think it is a good Chaudhry Shujaat Islamic militants. President Bush, who thing that President Hussain. 
In a fourth day of counts the Pakistani leader Musharraf has clarified Critics contend protests against the gener­as a key ally in the war the election date for the Musharraf suspended the al's imposition of emer­with extremist groups, Pakistani people," said a constitution, blacked out gency rule over the week­personally got involved statement from the Bush dozens of TV news chan­end, lawyers rallied peace­Wednesday, telling administration, which has nels and ousted independ­fully in Islamabad, while Musharraf in a phone con­been pressing him to ent-minded judges to demonstrators clashed versation that "the United return the country to civil­maintain his own grip on with police in the border States wants you to have ian government. power, which he seized city of Peshawar. the elections as scheduled Despite that pressure, with a 1999 coup. 
Musharraf has been and take your uniform Pakistani officials denied His emergency decree under increasing pressure off." Musharraf's election deci­came as the Supreme to quickly hold elections Some Pakistani officials sion was made because of Court was expected to rule and resign as army com­had said earlier the elec­the American demands or on the legality of his re­mander since he suspend­tion could be delayed by the spreading anger election as president last ed the constitution up to a year, but among Pakistanis frustrat­month in a vote by legisla­Saturday. He said emer­Musharraf went on state­ed by military rule. tors. Opponents say it was gency measures were run TV to announce the "The government takes unconstitutional for him to needed to calm political ballot would "be held decision itself and there is be a presidential candidate instability he claims is before Feb. 15." He wore a no internal or external because he also holds the hampering the fight with blue business suit rather pressure on it," said the powerful post of army Taliban and al-Qaida-than his general's uniform. ruling party's president, chief. 

Oil leak stretches along California coast 
Associated Press tower supporting the bridge contaminants, said Coast Guard 
Wednesday morning in dense fog. Petty Officer 3rd Class Melissa 
SAN FRANCISCO -Oil leaking The accident caused no structural Hauck. from a cargo ship that struck the damage to the span, officials said, Crews aboard two helicopters San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge but the vessel's hull suffered a surveyed the damage as eight skim­has spread throughout the bay and large gash. The ship has since mers sucked up the oil on the bay is threatening a majestic stretch of anchored in the bay. and ocean. Teams also walked the the California coastline, the Coast "By our guidelines it is a medium­shoreline assessing and scooping Guard said Thursday. sized spill. But in the San Francisco up the oil, authorities said. 
A hazy film of oil surrounded Bay Area, that is a big deal," said Some 8,000 gallons of fuel was Alcatraz Island, and the plume Coast Guard Capt. William Uberti, recovered, and the Coast Guard extended well north and south of captain of the Port of San Francisco said it had placed 18,000 feet of the Golden Gate Bridge. The heavy and the chief federal officer head­booms by Thursday morning. fuel has closed at least eight beach­ing up the investigation and "We can't stop everything, but es. About a half-dozen birds were response. "This is a very environ­we're going to do our best," Uberti spotted alive and coated in oil, mentally sensitive area, so it's of said. During his own survey aboard which has been washing up as far great concern." a boat, Uberti said he had observed as 40 miles north of San Francisco. The petroleum was bunker fuel -"a sheen with small little globules 
About 58,000 gallons of oil spilled a heavy fuel that is the residue -something that's not too difficult from the ship when it struck a from oil refining and contains many to clean up." 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 9, 2007 
Daughters" rehearsals last year while doing ethno­
Daughters 

graphic research for her continued from page 1 thesis. After asking last 
year's author Emily when men are the perpetra­Weisbecker for an interview, tors." she was surprised by getting 
"You can't expect women asked a question herself. to not make mistakes in "She asked me if I was judgment that leave them interested [in taking over] 
susceptible  to  ...  I  still  tell  
rape,"  she  her 'I'm not so  
said. "This idea or victim blaming, you  "We want to represent the  sure why you chose me," she said.  
can't  do  that  interviews that we  This  is  Van  
by the pure definition or the word."  got, but this is also about getting a  Mill's "first bout of cre­ative writing."  
Sixty percent  holistic play ... ifone  "I'm  nervous  
of the material used in this year's show  of last year's skits or monologues had a  to have some­thing I've writ­ten be seen by  
has been  car­ very important topic  others  ...  hope­ 
ried over from last year, and Van Mill's new  to address, we kept it in."  fully they will go and see," she said.  
round of inter- The pair said  
views  was  Sarah Van Mill  the  cast  and  
used for the othnr skits and monologues.  writer "Loyal Daughters  crew have been very com­mitted to the  
"We  want  to  and Sons"  production.  
represent the  "Everyone  
intnrviews that  involved feels  

we got, but this is also strongly about this and has about gntting a holistic play their own story. This is an ... if onn of last year's skits avenue for these things to or monologuns had a very be expressed," {)'Donoghue important topic to address, said. "I hope to work toward wn kopt it in," she said. providing ... some kind of 
The interviews, healing." ()'Donoghue said. helped the The production of "Loyal pair realize "thern were a Daughters and Sons," is not lot more male stories out a substitute for "The Vagina th11rn that n11nded to be Monologues," which created given just as controversy m u e h w •~ i g h t." over its place And so, "Loyal on campus, Daughters and ()'Donoghue
"This directly 
Sons" will con­said.
addresses issues of
tain mal •~ "This directly monologues. violence against addresses "These are issues of vio­
women exclusively
based on the lence against
pertinent to Notre
true stories or women excl u­Notre Dame Dame." sively perti­students com­nent to Notre ing to terms Dame," she
Megan O'Donoghue 
with sex on said.
director
eampus, The two have Catholie val­received a lot
"Loyal Daughters ues, homosex­and Sons" of support u a _I i t y, :: s. he while under­
sa1d. We re taking this nxamining production. snxual assault from all lev­"I thought I'd have to fight els and in all different the man ... but we've been ways. given the green light com­
The roughly 30-member pletely," ()'Donoghue said. east eontains representa­Van Mill said she hopes tives from all undergradu­people will see the play ate elasses at Notre Dame. "because nobody cares until T h •~ y h a v e s p e n t a b o u t a they get hurt, and I think month and a half working this is a way to drive it 
o n t lw s h ow, home. If ()'Donoghue nobody talks, said. they don't 
"Tlwy an~ all know how
"/think it's important 
aetors. No one many are is doing their for two reasons. Rape being hurt." own story," "This is a
does happen here, 
shn said. play that has a
and we don't really 
"Wn only big influence havo one day talk about it. " here, and 
() r t ·~ c h 11 i Ga I whether stu­rohnarsal dents are
Megan O'Donoghue 
hut the actors aware of it or
director 
arn ready, it not, they could 
"Loyal Daughters 
should got be listening to wPll." Van Mill and Sons" the story of said. their best 
This is both friend," 0')) on o g hue's ()'Donoghue and Van Mill's first time said. "If we are going to be hning involvnd with "Loyal this Notre Dame community J>aughtnrs." that supports itself, this is a 
"I got involved primarily prime way for us to do lweausn Madison Liddy, who that." directed last year, asked mn The performances will be to takn over for her," hold at S p.m. Tickets are O'Donoghtw said. on sale for $5 at the 
"I think it's important for LaFortune Box OITie1~. two rnasons. Bape dons hap­FemininP Voice will be pen hPJ"P, and wn don't n~al­holding parwls after Monday ly talk about it. That's prob­and Tuesday's shows. Van ll'matir. If this is a way to Mill said. fix lhal problPm, we have to do it." slw said. Contact Jcnn Metz at 
Van Mill WPnt to "Loyal jmetz@nd.edu 

835 Notre Dame Avenue 
Only 3 blocks from campus 
2 Bedroom Apartments 
Spacious 1,100 sq. ft. Units 
Off-Street Parking 
On-Site Laundry 
Free Internet 
Central Air 

These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 
(57 4) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 
IN HONOR OF BLESSED BASIL MOREAU 
Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross 
The story of Basil Moreau, the recently beatified founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross, comes to life in this updated edition of his biography. 
ISB~: 97Rl5947li.B6/lS6 pal(c'S with ~-page photo in~c11/ $15.95 
l'rladioitt's gentle and respectful s~}·le brings Ft: Moreau to life in a tmyfmt' others ofhis biograpbers have. and I hope this neu· edition receit!IJS ttide reading 
FATHER JOHN JENKINS, C.S.C. President, the University of ~otrc Dame 
Macl:'oin's bioxmfi~~· ofBasi!.ttoreau is a reminder ofhou• tbe cro.~:1· u:as tml'en into the u•ho!e clotb tl'bich u•as tbe.Jimnder:s 
life. 1/Jis story as told kv MacHoin is mot·e them history; it is 
sustenance.Jor our continuingjourne_)'fromfaith to hope, uoe/1 U'ortb readin,~ a{l.ain. 
BROTHER RICHARD B. GILMAN, C.S.C. Prcside11t. lloly Cross College 
Aprogressive educator u:ho aimed to rel'ifalize religion through wider diffitsiOlll?lknou!/edge. Moreau u•as committed to Ibe 

excellent profe.l~~·ional preparation r!lflo(}' Cross./(u:ul(v. That 
Prayer i~· tbe key ofheaz,en. l'f"ith it, the 
commit111ent has hom e:xcellent.Jiwit. /;'1-'er;•one i11Ho(}' Cross just person opens up all the treasures of minisll:J' sbould read this book. heaven where the soulma)' drau• its ease. 
CAROL ANN MOONEY, J.D. -BASIL MOREAU (1799-1873) President. Saint Mary's Colle~((' 
····-··-··----·--·------------·---------------·-·-·---------------·--·---­
To read more about Basil Moreau visit our website at \Vww.avemariapress.com 
Available from your bookstore, Hammes Notre Dome bookstore. or from 
ave maria press I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
www.ovemariapress.com I Ph: 800-282-1865 ave maria press• A Ministry of the Indiana Provi!!ce ol Holy Cross 
A ~ 
J...t~y,odc.•: AIJ20Y070!WI 
4]/ 
Write News. Call 631-5323. 
Friday, November 9, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,266.29 -33.73
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,623 78 1,752 1,189,699,722 
AMEX 2,485.41 -14$8 NASDAQ 2,696.00 -52.76 NYSE 9,877.47 S&P 500 1,474.77 -0.85 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,771.57 (),()() FTSE 100 'London~ 6,381.90 -3.20 

COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
CITIGROUP INC (C) -1.53 -0.51 32.90 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.51 -0.75 147.16 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -3.04 -1.62 51.73 FINANCIAL SEL SPDR (XLF) +1.03 +0.31 30.37 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.41 -0.061 4.273 13-WEEK BILL -2.38 -0.080 3.280 30-YEAR BOND -0.13 -0.006 4.662 5-YEAR NOTE -0.099 -0.099 3.802 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.91 95.46 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.00 837.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.90 83.85 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 112.65 EURO 0.6814 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9355 BRITISH POUND 0.4745 
IN BRIEF Mortgage rates lowest in five months 
WA'"iHINGTON-Rates on 30-year mortgages fell for the third straight week, dropping to the lowest level in five months. 
Freddie Mac, the mortgage company, report­ed Thursday that 30-year, fixed-rate mortgages dipped to 6.24 percent this week, down from 
6.26 percent last week. 
It was the third straight weekly decline after rates hit 6.40 percent. Analysts attributed the decreases to mounting evidence that the econo­my is starting to slow. 
"Reports of weaker consumer spending in September and a decline in manufacturing activity in October kept mortgages at bay this week," said Frank Nothaft, chief economist at Freddie Mac. 
The Federal Reserve last week cut a key interest rate by a quarter-part, marking the sec­ond rate reduction in the past six weeks. Fed officials, however, disappointed investors by sig­naling that there may not be further rate cuts, given their worries about higher inflation from surging energy prices and a weaker dollar. 
Investors choose gold over dollar 
NEW YORK -Gold prices rose for the fifth day in a row Thursday to their highest level in more than 27 years, as investors again turned to the precious metal as an alternative to the plunging U.S. dollar. 
The dollar fell versus the euro and the British pound after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said U.S. economic growth would stay sluggish for the next few months. 
Infinity Futures senior trader Larry Young said there could be a short-term pullback in gold from recent highs. but he is betting it will rise to $1.000 an ounce. The dollar does not appear headed for recovery anytime soon, and demand from gold buyers and investors remains strong. 
"The gold bugs have always been there, but the chorus is getting louder," Young said. 
Gold for December delivery rose $4 to settle at $837.50 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange, its highest close since 1980. 
Bernanke's comments. meanwhile, also put a damper on oil's climb toward $100 a barrel. 


THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

High oil rates will cause inflation 
Bernanke predicts slow economic growth, but expects rebound by mid-2008 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke said Thursday that eco­nomic growth will slow noticeably in coming months while surging oil costs will raise inflation pressures. But he said the economy is nowhere close to the stagflation night­mare of the 1970s and he predicted an economic rebound by mid-2008. 
Testifying before the Joint Economic Committee, Bernanke acknowledged a host of problems facing the econ­omy, from a deeper-than­expected housing slump to a lingering credit crunch and now sharply rising oil prices and a falling value of the dollar, both of which increase inflation threats. 
Bernanke stressed that the central bank, which has cut a key interest rate twice over the past two months, was closely watching developments and would be prepared to respond as needed. However, he stressed that the central bank believes economic risks are rough­ly balanced at present between the threat of weaker growth and high­giants including That decline followed a such as stocks and bonds. er inflation. General Motors, Citicorp 360.92-point plunge on But many analysts said 
That was the stance the and Merrill Lynch-have Wednesday, which had they were still looking for Fed took last week when announced huge losses in been the third drop of the central bank to cut it trimmed its federal recent days. more than 350 points in rates again in December funds rate, the interest "The stock market had the past month. or January, because they banks charge each other, been hoping that the Fed Economists said believe the economy will by a quarter-point to 4.5 chairman would hold out Bernanke's noncommittal have slowed so much by percent following a bolder some promise of another tone on further rate cuts that time that the Fed will half-point cut in rate cut but instead, he could have been influ­need to boost activity. September. emphasized the risks of enced by worries about a "Bernanke may not 
The Fed sent a clear inflation," said David sharp plunge in the value have his finger on the signal that last week's Jones, chief economist at of the dollar against other easing trigger, but he like­rate cut may be all that is DMJ Advisors. currencies, a fall that has ly won't hesitate to needed to deal with the After falling by as much accelerated since the Fed squeeze again if ... the economy's problems, a as 200 points, the Dow began cutting rates. economy weakens more disclosure that sent finan­Jones industrial average Lower U.S. interest rates than anticipated," said cial markets into a slump closed out another diffi­make foreigners less Sal Guatieri, senior econ­that has deepened as a cult trading session down interested in holding dol­omist at BMO Capital number of corporate 33.73 points at 13,266.29. lar-denominated assets Markets. 

Sales suggest slow holiday spending 
Associated Press 

Linens 'n Things in Milwaukee this Shopping Centers-UBS tally at week. stores open at least a year, consid­NEW YORK -At this point, there It was weak across many sectors ered a key indicator of a retailer's may not be much retailers can do in October, from mall-based appar­health, rose 1.6 percent in October. to salvage the holiday season. And el stores like Limited Brands Inc. to That was below the original 2.5 it hasn't even officially started. department stores like J.C. Penney percent forecast and marked the 
They've pulled out a slew of Co. Even the world's largest retail­slowest October pace since 1995. tricks already, from deep discounts er, Wal-Mart Stores Inc., posted It was also under the 2.2 percent to early shopping hours, to little sales below expectations despite average growth rate for retailers' avail. October showed the slowest heavy discounting. fiscal year, which begins in monthly sales growth in 12 years, The few standouts were ware­February. retailers reported Thursday. house club operators such as Mild weather accounted for some 
Higher gas prices, rising heating Costco Wholesale Corp. and BJ's of the slower growth. People tend fuel costs, tightening credit, lower Wholesale Club Inc. as consumers to hold off buying winter clothing home values and dangerous toys sought out lower prices than even until they must. Michael P. Niemira, have sapped the confidence of discounters offered. chief economist at ICSC, estimated American consumers and it all may "This is an extremely turbulent that warmer than average fall tem­add up to the slowest holiday shop­time," said Janet Hoffman, manag­peratures depressed sales results ping season in five years. ing partner of the North American by about 0. 75 percentage point. 
"We've been trying to tighten up, retail division of the consulting firm But a balmy fall is only a small have some discipline and get it Accenture. "We are going to see a part of retailers' woes, which seem under control," said Janet Grau, lot of price reductions." to be mounting with Christmas only who was shopping for items at a The International Council of sev.en weeks away. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 9, 2007 
RussiA 

Court rules that czar, fa111ily vvere not political victi111s 
Says execution of Nicholas II in 1918 by Bolsheviks was premeditated murder, not revolutionary reaction 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -Hussia's highest court on Thursday refused to recognize the exeeut1~d last czar Nicholas II and his family as vic­tims of political repression -a ruling Kremlin critics said was dietated by the government's reluctance to condemn the bloodiest chapters of the coun­try's Communist past. 
The Supreme Court uphflld repeated rulings by lower courts and prosecutors that the 1918 slaying of the czar, his wife and their five children by a Bolshevik firing squad was premeditated murder, not a politieal reprisal, said German Lukyanov, a lawyer for the royal family's descen­dants. 
"This is an illegal decision," Lukyanov told The Associated Press. "It states that the Bolsheviks did not violate the rights and freedoms of the czar and his family by locking them up and then executing them." 
Nicholas II abdicated in 1917 as revolutionary fervor swept Hussia, and he and his family were detained. The czar, his wife Alexandra and their son and four daughters were fatally shot on July 17, 1918, in a basement room of a merchant's house where they were held in the Ural Mountains city ofYekaterinburg. 
Prosncutors have consistently rel'usnd a petition by descen­dants of the royal family to rec­ognize the killings as political, and a Moscow court earlier this year declined to order them to do so. After its latest decision, in September, the Prosecutor General's Ollice said an investi­gation found that no court or "extrajudicial body" had issued any sort of execution or repres­sion order ahead of the killings. 
The remains of Nicholas, the empress Alexandra and three of their daughters were unearthed in Yekaterinburg in 1991, while the Soviet Union was collapsing. After genetic tests convjnced forensics experts of their authenticity, the remains were buried in 1998 in a cathedral in the imperial capital of St. Petersburg. This summer, arche­ologists found what they say are likely the remains of Crown Prince Alexei, the 13-year-old Romanov dynasty heir, and his sister Maria. 
The Russian Orthodox Church canonized Nicholas and his fam­ily in 2000. 
But descendants have been seeking their "rehabilitation" ­recognition that they were vic­tims of political repression by the country's Communist-era authorities. Many of the people who were shot or sent to prison camps under Soviet rule have been rehabilitated, exonerating them of the crimes they were accused of at the time. 
Human rights activists said the ruling fit in with what they said was reluctance by President Vladimir Putin and his govern­ment to confront Russia's Soviet past. 
Putin, who has stressed the need for patriotism and pride, has restored Soviet-era symbols, such as the music for the nation­al anthem, and said Western portrayals of the Soviet era were too negative. 
Declaring Nicholas a political victim "would be same as recog­nizing that the history of our state is based on violence and crime," said Arseny Roginsky, a historian and member or the human rights group Memorial. 
Roginsky said a document showing that the execution of the czar's family had been ordered by the Bolshevik authority in Yekaterinburg could be found in statn archives. In a further indication of political motives, he said, the slayings were carried out to prevent Nicholas from becoming a sym­bol of resistance against Bolshevism. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 


• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 



OPEN noon to six Tuesdar through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Plug in to the NDPrayerCast! C-M 
Campus Ministry  
Free iTtmes subscription for reflective listt'llillg 011 your iPod.  
il"'ll)))))  Type "udprayercast" on the iTu11es searcll engint!, -or -log onto www.ndprayercast.org  
M www.ndprayercast.org  Hear it here this week: Rev. Lou de!Fra, c.s.c. Songs of the NO Folk Choir • psalms • homilies • prayers • meditative music  



Saint 1\tiary's College 1pternational Education '''eek (IE"') 
·~· 

Center tor \Vomen~ s InterCultural Leadership Events November 12th -16th 
~Ionday-.Sovember 12 C\X1.L Fellow Panel ~lother Pauline Room~ Libr:uy  'Vednesday-="oveuabe:r 14. IEW Speech "Representing Your Country  Friday·-November 16 Overcoming Global Poverty Conference Room D) Student Center  
U:OO -1:00 pm  Abroad"  U:O{I -1:00 p.m.  
''Ho:;,-C\"1:11. P'ei.Jo.:;.:. AddrE<s: Int!illUtlo!Ul. Ed.uc-.tionm. the Cu::lDO!tt"  hv Dr. Brian Flora ·>'  ~O:mcmi.:tlg Globll Po'7&tj-: :u globn­ultionfr.e ptctian o.r th:: solut:iont TI:E  
'.:till be p!E;ented ~ C\\1L fello:t.T  Stapleton Lounge, Le Mans Hall, 12:00-1:00 pm  nrultr pmel., .lei l:l:. ?me ~~Iodenta:.,rozh Qui P!Eiilill~Er; ue: 2.~ fullming:  
Intercultural Learning Showcase Stapl~ton, Le ~:Ians 6:00-S:OOpm  Careers. in International Diplomacy Yamier \~ennet 'Ihe::ater. Sn:u:lmt Cent& 4:.30-5:.30 pm Guest Speaker Dr. B lim Flora  Edrth ll~.:~, :;:"i! lV~ ~f t!l~ t:.Xlit Sll E~ !f Gb~sl F!.«1~$~~;t ~,... r:n~9= M.ac Bd=:e:r, ~ ~.:'XGO';; :n:i ~~ ;r,..;s .3sii!~ • A11tr·flw:'1) Strs:IJ!!: iJ~ (:.:,;:~;::·,. Jarr MeElroy, :.-m.-s11,.--\:W""I4' M.ay .-\= K.acied.:i, Iltr_tS!lt~fG~hfis:.!A:JtJ•  
Stud? 1tz:o:!d n:1llma:-: pn:~enntinn on  J~UfFsll'ff:_~  
tl:ar in~E.mJ.llOtUl uui m.ta:culruru l=u:n­ Study Abroad Fait'  
mg EO.'ftoelO::.. -~ :.tude:nt:. u:e:welcane  Student Center ;\t:tium  
to 1ttend. lhe IntE:reclnml Le1.l:l1i.ng Slvx­c<.:e U1d 5.nd outmen: .iboot cv:n.. ~tuds:lt tt:rrel .§tlllt: fur :tud~ 1b.ro<:d.  5:30-7:00pm. m.eHcr/Y~M i"rog:nm Sumr.&liei· ·r·rt::~.gnrn;s  
~\>lmd1tcrr merui.mce fcr: ill :::<}86-0'"'  F.~Itzl;· Ckv.  
C\\1I., :rudent ,grmt!ecJ?l!illt:; nld ;ru­ F.t=a:!!:~, -~•truia Em:a:bx  
dam •.U:.l:tng tc• 1ppt." fix 2. .Y...()B-09.  .ll..~·:tb, IJ:~lmd H;:J;a.>  
(~ r:rr:-8 g.rmt  D.rio:r, :f.tZ&ct':~ Elio:J:Zlm Sm=er Illl::~b:u:!k. Au;= EU &w.~~• ll::t=±.:p s~~,s:p.x lLztil.& Art :& 3f4ln  
.f=:n::o::: ~..u :x:.m.=.:x:::. ;....:::::tt: .:..W••..:.: h'z:;:. ~:t.a.=.=:v"? :i.:.. ~:-:.: * :..;m:c:r~~~:  li=i2i, !:n±s!. 5=:m Seriile ~·::r.azrh Stl:rl!e• n: 5.::1l:>fe  
LT~v~~--;..,--r;  5ol:tl:.Am~J.  

e:...!,.,..v:~~t ~ ..l!'4.Q.n.t: C=:= h: 1!.":.== I i:r.:~-r.:·:.. T= Tr.=<-,.~ '\~:a, -r-:.:.. ==:: :z·:..-.:=-: .:r:: :-:= ~:
+0 

t.::a:a.:n..;. ·===r i:z: =.t:·= -~:-~~--0:;-=~~=­
~=:f.z;: =tW"·:ci:s=~A of P::...;.=z. k=:-.I~= l.=i·""'s:::. ·"""" E<=:>.:"SJ 
Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Lavish spending practices plunge Oral Roberts into debt 
University engulfed in scandal after lawsuit reveals evangelists were dipping into endowment fund for personal expenses 
Associated Press 
TULSA. Okla. -A Beverly Hills house and country club member­ship. Vacations in Palm Springs and the South Seas. A closet as big as an apartment, stuffed with hundreds of pairs of shoes, suits, dresses and golf shoes. 
People with close ties to TV evangelist Oral Roberts and his son, Richard, say they witnessed such extravagances years before a recent lawsuit accusing them of lavish spending engulfed the min­isters and their debt-ridden uni­versity in scandal. 
Harry McNevin said in a recent interview that he quit the Board of Regents at Oral Roberts University in disgust in 1987 after it became clear that the Robertses were dipping into the school's endowment fund for their personal use. 
"We were dealing in millions," he said. 
The luxurious ways of some of America's top evangelists have come under scrutiny on various fronts recently. Iowa Sen. Chuck Grassley announced a Senate investigation this week into whether six celebrity preachers violated their organizations' tax­exempt status by living lavishly on the backs of small donors. 
The Robertses are not among the six. But those targeted include three members of the ORU Board of Regents: Creflo Dollar, Kenneth Copeland and Benny Hinn. 
In her 1983 memoir, "Ashes to Gold," Richard Roberts' first wife, Patti, documented the jet-set lifestyle: a blue Mercedes as a Christmas gift for Richard, a Jaguar for her, Italian suits and Palm Beach vacations. 
"We lived like characters in a novel or a made-for-TV movie about the beautiful people and I reveled in it," she wrote. "Having made a truce, albeit an uneasy one, with my conscience over the source of our wealth, I proceeded to enjoy its prerogatives with total abandon." 
Richard Roberts, who is paid $228,000 a year as university president, has taken a leave of absence pending an investigation. 
But he disputed the recent alle­gations of overspending, which are contained in a wrongful-dis­
Wallace's shooter released 
Associated Press 
HAGERSTOWN, Md. -After 35 years in prison, the man who shot and paralyzed Alabama Gov. George Wallace during his racially charged 1972 presiden­tial campaign is scheduled to be released Friday into a society more diverse and more restric­tive on guns. 
The state's automated victim­notification system sent e-mails announcing the impending release of Arthur H. Bremer, 57. 
Wallace, a fiery segregationist during the 1960s, was wounded on May 15, 1972, during a cam­paign stop in Laurel, Md. He abandoned his bid for the Democratic nomination, spent the rest of his life in a wheel­chair and died in 1998. 
Bremer, a former Milwaukee busboy and janitor, was convict­ed of attempted murder and sentenced to 53 years. He has been held at the medium-securi­ty Maryland Correctional Institution near Hagerstown, about 70 miles from Baltimore, since 1979, earning his manda­tory release through good behavior and by working in prison. 
Bremer's diary, found in a landfill in 1980, made it clear he was motivated by a desire for attention, not a political agenda. He had also stalked President Nixon. 
A prison system spokesman declined to say where Bremer would go once he got out. The head of the state's parole com­mission has said there will be restrictions on Bremer's activi­ties, including a requirement to avoid political candidates and events. 
"My father forgave him and my family has forgiven him. That's consistent with God's law," George Wallace Jr. said in Montgomery, Ala. But he added: "Then there is man's law. I doubt the punishment has fit the crime." 
Peggy Wallace Kennedy, the governor's daughter, said of Bremer: "I think he's getting out 17 years too early." 
The Alabama governor made his famous "stand in the school­house door" in 1963, decrying the enrollment of two black stu­dents at the all-white University of Alabama in a standoff against the Justice Department and the National Guard. 
By 1972, he had tempered his racist rhetoric and adopted a more subtle approach, denounc­ing federal courts over the forced busing of children to integrate schools and pledging to restore "law and order," a phrase sometimes regarded as a coded appeal to white racists. 
But Wallace recanted his seg­regationist stand later in his career and won his final term with the help of black votes. The kind of fiery racial rhetoric he employed is history. And a black man is one of the leading candi­dates for the presidential nomi­nation in 2008. 
In another measure of how things have changed, the 1993 Brady Bill, named for the White House press secretary wounded in a 1981 assassination attempt on President Reagan, requires background checks to prevent felons and mentally ill people 
from buying guns.  
Four  months  before  the  
attempt  on  Wallace's  life,  
Bremer  was  arrested  and  

underwent a psychiatric evalua­tion after firing bullets into a ceiling at a shooting range, and was fined for disorderly con­duct. 
missal lawsuit filed by three for­mer ORU professors, and said he pays personal expenses out of his pocket. 
Interviewed on a flight aboard the university's leased Hawker 700 jet to a recent TV interview in New York, Roberts said the lawsuit amounts to "a personal character attack." 
"There are people in the world who are against ministries," he said. "I think people are not hop­ing there's a Christian university in Tulsa." 
The university declined com­ment on McNevin's accusation that endowment funds were tapped for personal spending. Endowments are supposed to be for major projects, not day-to-day operating expenses. The princi­pal in an endowment is typically left untouched, and only the earnings are spent. 
Oral Roberts University is more than $50 million in debt, its cam­pus -dominated by a 60-foot bronze sculpture of praying hands -is starting to look shab­by, and a long-promised student center remains in limbo. 
University officials blame the debt on lack of major donors and the cost of maintenance on the 44-year-old, 5,700-student cam­pus. Two more crippling blows came in the closing of ORU's law school and the City of Faith, a $250 million attempt by Oral Roberts in the late 1970s to build a great medical center and research institute. The City of Faith closed in 1991. 

AKgel Nails Spa 
Litttited tittte offers for students: 10% off with 11 Full Service. 
A is for Ara: 
The ABCs of Notre Dame Football 

This hardcover children's alphabet book on the proud history and tradition of Notre Dame football is the perfect Christmas gift for the young fan. Available exclusively at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. To get your copy, visit the bookstore or order by phone: 574-631-6316. 
Written by Sean Callahan* Published by Eddy Street Press www.aisforara.com • Officially licensed by the University of Notre Dame 

English majors choose careers in any field that values the ability to read, write, and analyze with intelligence and subtlety. Some go on to graduate study in literature leading to careers in academia; others choose professions such as law, education, medicine, publishing, business, social work, professional writing, library science, journalism, and public relations. 
Drop-in orientation sessions available during the week of November 12-15! 
Monday, November 12 8:30-9:00,9:30-12:00 and 1:00-2:00 
Tuesday, November 13 9:00-10:30,11:00-11:30, and 1:00-2:30 
Wednesday, November 14 8:30-9:00,9:30-10:00, 10:30-11:00, 11:30-12:00, and 1:00-3:00 
Thursday, November 15 10:00-11:00, 1:00-2:30,3:30-4:30 
For more information, or other meeting times to declare the major, contact: The Department of English; 356 O'Shaughnessy Hall Karmen Duke, Administrative Assistant: kduke@nd.edu or 631-7226 http://english.nd.edu/Undergraduate/ 

page I 0 The Observer + NEWS Friday, November 9, 2007 
More Chinese toys recalled 
Popular Aqua Dots toy contains chemical that converts to date rape drug 
Associated Press 
A mother said Thursday she knew something was terribly wrong when her 20-month-old son began to stumble and started vomiting. lie had just ingested a popular toy that contains a chemical that turns into a powerful "date rape" drug when eaten. 
It was the latest Chinese­
made toy pull1~d from shelves 
in North America. 
Shelby Esses, 30, said her son Jacob fnll and went limp arter getting into his older sis­ter's Aqua Dots set, which was recalled Wednesday by the Consumer Product Safety Com mission. 
"That's when wn knew what he had mtten and that things wore pretty bad," she told ABC's "Cood Morning America." 
Aqua Dots, a highly popular holiday toy sold by Australia­based Moose Enterprises, are beads that can bn arranged into designs and fusnd whnn sprayed with water. The toy was pu IIPd from shnlves in North American and Australia artnr scientists found t.hey con­tain a dwmical that eonvnrts into t.hP so-called date rape drug wtwn natnn. Two children in thn U.S. and three in Australia wen~ hospitalized arter swallowing the beads. 

Scientists say a chemical coating on the beads can metabolize into the drug gamma hydroxy butyrate. When eaten, the compound ­made from common and easily available ingredients -can induce unconsciousness, seizures, drowsiness, coma and death. 
Dr. Matt Jaeger, of Arkansas Childn~n·s llospital, treated Jacob and said he was very worried wlwn he saw him. 
"It was prntty dramatic," he told ABC. "lie was unconscious in this coma for about six hours. And then over the course of just a few minutes, went from being completely aslnnp to wide awake and playin~. like nothing ever hap­pened. 
Before tlw toddler was releasnd from tho hospital, his military pilot father crawled around his Jacksonville home, near Little Rock, making sure every Aqua Dot was gone. Buying the toy, popular this Christmas season, turned into a 48-hour "horror" for the tod­dler and his family, they said. 
Meanwhile, toy sets seized in Hong Kong were being tested Thursday, a customs official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because of policy. If the tests come back positive for the chemical, suppliers in I long Kong could face a year in jail and fines of $12,877, she said. 
A spokeswoman for the CPSC said Thursday that parents should keep the toy out of chil­dren's' hands. 
"If a child ingests them the glue turns into a toxic sub­stance and it's very serious," Julie Vallese, a spokeswoman for the CPSC, said on CBS' "Early Show." "We want par­ents very much to heed this warning. 
Vallese said two U.S. children had fallPn into "comatose" conditions from the Aqua Dots. Tlw children have since recov­ered, she said. 
In Australia, the toys were ordnred off store shelves Tuesday when officials learned that a 2-ynar-old boy and a 10­year-old girl were hospitalized after swallowing the beads. A 19-month-old toddler also was being treated. 
China's toy industry came under closer scrutiny earlier this year when Mattei Inc. recalled more than 21 million Chinese-made toys worldwide. Products including Barbie doll accessories and toy cars were pulled off shelves because of concerns about lead paint or tiny detachable magnets that could be swallowed. 
Aqua Dots, which are called Bindeez in Australia, were named toy of the year at an industry function in that coun­try. 
Hetailer Toys "R" Us Inc. said it issued a "stop sale" on the entire Spin Master Aqua Dots product line Tuesday in its North American stores and on its Web site. "We understand that Spin Master and U.S. reg-ulatory authorities are investi­gating this product and we have asked Spin Master to fully explain what it believes hap­pened," it said. 

Toys "R" Us also pulled the toys in Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia after officials in Australia ordered them off shelves. 
A company spokeswoman for Moose Enterprises' Hong Kong office said the production of the toy was outsourced to a mainland Chinese factory. She refused to elaborate and referred all further requests for comment to the company's head office in Australia. 
"Our Hong Kong office is only responsible for operations such as logistics and shipping arrangements, we don't have any firsthand information," the employee, who would only give her surname, Lo, told The Associated Press. 
Moose Enterprises said Bindeez and Aqua Dots are made at the same factory, which is in Shenzhen in south­ern Guangdong province. Last week, the government announced an export ban on more than 700 toy factories in the region because of shoddy products. 
The company said the prod­uct is distributed in 40 coun­tries. 
The toys were supposed to use 1 ,5-pentanediol, a nontox­ic compound found in glue, but instead contained the harmful 1 ,4-butanediol, which is widely used in cleaners and plastics. 
The Food and Drug Administration in 1999 declared the chemical a Class I Health Hazard, meaning it can cause life-threatening harm. 
President suffers first veto override of terin 
Bush said legislation had unnecessary parts 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -President 
Bush suffered the first veto 
override of his seven-year-old 
presidency Thursday as the 
Senate enacted a $23 billion 
water resources bill despite 
his protest that it was filled 
with unnecessary projects. 

The 79-14 vote included 34 Republicans who defied the president. Enactment was a foregone conclusion, but it still marked a milestone for a president who spent his first six years with a much friend­lier Congress controlled by his Republican Party. 
Now he confronts a more hostile, Democratic-controlled legislature, and Thursday's vote showed that most of the Republicans will defy him on spending matters dear to their political careers. 
Bush's spokeswoman por­trayed the issue as a divide between a budget-conseious president and a big-spending Congress. 
"The president is standing up for the taxpayers," Whitn House press secretary Dana Perino said. "No one is sur­prised that this veto is overrid­den. We understand that members of Congress are going to support the projects in their districts. Budgeting is about making choices and defining priorities -it doesn't mean you can have every­thing. This bill doesn't make the difficult choices; it says we can fund every idea out there. That's not a responsible way to budget." 
The bill funds hundreds of 
Army Corps of Engineers proj­
ects, such as dams, sewage 
plants and beach restoration, 
that are important to local 
communities and their repre­
sentatives. It also includes 
money for the hurricane-hit 
Gulf Coast and for Florida 
Everglades restoration e11"orts. 
The House voted 361-54 to override the veto Tuesday. Both votes easily exceeded the two-thirds majority needed in each chamber to negate a presidential veto. 
The last such veto override happened when Congress dealt President Clinton the second of his two overrides in February 1998. 
Bush vetoed no bills during his first live years in omen. lie has since vetoed a stem cell research bill twice, an Iraq spending bill that set guide­lines for troop withdrawals, and a children's health insur­ance bill. llousn and Srmate Republicans managed to sus­tain those vetoes. 
But they broke ranks on the Water l~esourcns Development Act, or WHI>A, which Bush vetoed on Nov. 2, ealling it too Hxpensive. Thirty-four Bepublieans voted with the 43 Democrats and two independ­ents to override the veto. Two Democrats, Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Huss Feingold of Wisconsin, voted with 12 Republicans to sustain Bush's veto. 
His supporters have noted that the Army Corps has a backlog of $58 billion worth of projects and an annual budget of about $2 billion to address them. 

Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Man testifies in Simpson case 
Memorabilia dealer alleges O.J. stole collector items from hotel room 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS-One of two mem­orabilia dealers allegedly robbed by O.J. Simpson testified Thursday that the former football star burst into a hotel room with a handful of other men, including 
one wielding a gun, and carried off hundreds of collec­tors items. 
Bruce Fromong said he had expect­ed to meet with an anonymous buyer on Sept. 13, when Simpson arrived and shouted that the items belonged to him. 
"O.J. was screaming, 'This is all my s---. This all belongs to me. You 
stole this from me. Let's pack up. Let's get out of here,"' Fromong said. 
Simpson, 60. and two co-defen­dants are charged with robbery, kidnapping and other offenses. Thursday's hearing wa.<; to deter­mine whether there is sufficient evidence to take them to trial. 
Fromong, who testified he has known Simpson since the early 1990s, said the confrontation last­ed no more than five or six min­utes and ended with the group stu fling hundreds of items into pil­lowcases and leaving the Palace Station hotel-casino. 
Fromong said some of the items had nothing to do with Simpson at the courthouse in a black Hummer, surrounded by a contin­gent of lawyers and about a dozen uniformed officers. He did not stop to talk or make eye contact as he made his way into the build­ing and through a metal detector. 
In Simpson's mind, according to a close friend, the Las Vegas charges are rooted in the former football star being acquitted in the 1994 slayings of his wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ronald Goldman. 
"He believes he's being tried for that now," said Tom Scotto, 45, a North Miami Beach, Fla., auto body shop owner. 
"He's taking this serious. It is serious," said Scotto, who traveled from Florida with Simpson and sat in a courtroom gallery with about 50 spectators. Among them was Simpson's older sister, Mattie Shirley Simpson, Baker, 64, of Elk Grove, Calif. 
Simpson has maintained that he wanted to retrieve items he knew had been stolen from him, includ­ing the suit he wore the day he was acquitted of murder in Los Angeles. 
Simpson and co-defendants Clarence "C.J." Stewart and Charles Ehrlich face 12 charges, including kidnapping, armed rob­bery, assault with a deadly weapon, conspiracy and coercion. 
A kidnapping conviction could result in a sentence of life in prison with the possibility of parole. An armed robbery convic­tion could mean mandatory prison time. 
Marine not allovved to speak at hearings 
Debate on detainee treatment continues 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A Marine Corps lawyer told a House sub­committee Thursday the Pentagon blocked him from tes­tifying that harsh interrogation methods tripped up his prosecu­tion of a suspected terrorist. 
The accusation came as the debate over detainee treatment continued to affect Michael Mukasey's nomination as attor­ney general, with lawmakers struggling to come to a decision on when a confirmation vote would be scheduled. 
"The Department of Defense has decided I cannot testify," Marine Lt. Col. V. Stuart Couch wrote to House Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers, D-Mich. "Please be advised that I am willing to testi­fy before the subcommittee in the event I am allowed to do 
so." 
Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said Couch has worked on several detainee cases that are still pending. 
"In order to safeguard against potentially compromising a case that is still pending it is depart­ment practice not to have prose­cutors testify in an open hear­ing," Whitman said. 
The chair intended for Couch stayed empty during proceed­ings by the House subcommittee on the Constitution into the effectiveness of so-called water­boarding and other severe inter­rogation techniques in eliciting information that might help stop would-be terrorist attacks. 
Subcommittee Chairman Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., noted Couch had made speeches and had his story published in The Wall Street Journal. 
"These are not state secrets," Nadler said of Couch's account. "It is disgraceful that the admin­istration would allow Colonel Couch to make after-dinner speeches about the subject mat­ter, to talk at length to the press about the subject matter, but (be) prohibited from testifying before a duly constituted com­mittee of the Congress." 
It was the latest development in an increasingly bitter debate over whether certain harsh interrogation methods should be outlawed in all circumstances. Waterboarding, which makes the subject think he's drowning, is banned by domestic law and international treaties. 
But those policies don't cover the use of the technique by CIA personnel, and the administra­tion won't say whether it has allowed the agency's employees to use it against terror detainees. 
The question nearly toppled Mukasey's nomination after he refused repeatedly to say whether it allowed the agency's employees to use it against sus­pected terrorist<;. 
but were lithographs of football great Joe Montana and items signed by baseball stars Duke Snider and Pete Rose that he thought he could sell. 
At one point, as everything was being packed up, Fromong said he told Simpson: "O.J., those are 
"O.J. was screaming, 'This is all my s---. This all belongs to me. You stole this from me. Let's pack up. Let's get out of here." 
Bruce Fromong memorabilia dealer 
my Joe Montana lithos. 
"I said, 'O.J., that's my stuff. That doesn't have anything to do with any­thing." 
Throughout the confronta­tion, Fromong said, one man pointed a gun at his face and told him at one point: "I'll shoot your a--." 

During his cross-examination, Simpson attorney Gabriel Grasso attempted to show that Fromong planned to profit from the con­frontation, asking him if he called the television show "Inside Edition" before contacting police. 
"Nine-one-one was already being called," he said. 
Grasso also noted that in his statement to police Fromong said Simpson had told the others: "Get my .... Leave the other stuff alone." 
Fromong was the first of eight witnesses prosecutors expected to call. The hearing was to continue Friday. 
On Thursday, Simpson arrived 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, November 9, 2007 
================================================================================== 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie lhnna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
A~s"I; MANA<;ING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily A~s·1; MANA<;!NG EI>ITOI\: Mary Kate Malone 
NEws Ennuru Karen l•mgley 
Vlf.WI'OINT EDITOI\: Joey King 
SroRrS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris Hinc SCENE EDI'l'OI\: 'lae Andrews 
SAINT MAllY's EmTOR: Katie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOI\: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'Il!CS EDITOR: Madclinc Nies 
AI>VI\RTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

AD DESIGN MANAGf:R: Kdly Gronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADM!NISTRATOI\: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6'>27 ADVERTISING ('574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631 -IJ542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) (,j 1-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS 0ESK ('i74) 631-5323 obsnews.l @ud.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 6.31-5303 vkwpoint.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-454.3 sporrs.l@ud.cdu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 s.:ene.J<i''nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
~rnc.l<"'nd.t·du 

PHOTO DESK (574) 6.~1-8767 obsphoto@nd.cdu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
lHE 

0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Obscrwr is the independent, daily newspaper published in print .md online by the students of the llniwrsity of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's Collq~e. Edirorial content, including adveniscmmts, is not governed by policies ofrhc administration of either institution. The Obst·rver reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on conrcm. 
Tlw nt'WS is ~ported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt•d editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Fdiror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assist;tnt Managing Editors and department editors. Comnwntaries, lcncrs and columns present the vit'WS of the authors and not nt·ccssarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vit'Wpoinr space is available to all readers. The free t'Xprcssion ofall opinions through krrcrs is t•ncoumgcd. Lcrrers to rhe Editor must be signed and must include wntact inliJrmarion. 
(ji«:JtiOriJ rrxarding Obsrrver polici(S shott!d be dire.ted to Editor in CbiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'11u· Oh'lt'tvt'f (ll$11S '\t)C) l-4000) i• pullhshr~l Muml11y rltrnu~ hi..b.y t:X~·~t d11n11~ uant and Vi\''l&rion pttlt~l». A Nh'iCI'tpriouJO'llrr Ol»crv~r i• $100 fnr one .u;:.rdtmk yc;1r: SS$ fur nne ~emM''' 
fhc Ohlfrv(r i$ publidleJ ~~ t'<)STMASTER Ol~ Svuth Dining H•U Sc:nd .1Jdlt.Sil <:Cirrtetions to Nurre P11mr.lN ·16-')")6-0n? ThcUb~rvtt l'criuJic.U pcl*ligC paid at Norrc Dame: P.O. Box 779 .md i!clditwn"l m.1iling oftk:d. 02'\ South Dining H.i.ll 
Nutr< Do~mc, IN 46$Sf)·On9 
·nu~· ( )Nc:tvcr is a mrmbn nlthc !woci.ucJ flr~~o.\, AH ttpnKluo:ion nt(hrs all:" ~rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kaitlynn Riely Chris Hine Jenn Metz Bill Brink Madeline Buckely Meaghan Veselik Graphics Scene 
Julie Grisanti Michelle Fordice Viewpoint Kara King 
Senator's plan, actions against student government purpose 
Senator Jim Lockwood's plan to force the student body presi­dent to report on the meetings of the Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) is wise. It promotes full communica­tion. increased awareness and transparnncy for the newly formPd group, which asks representatives from area colleges and the city to advise the South Bend Common Council on neighborhood concerns related to the colleges. 
But Lockwood's idea to give the Senate the power to dictate what the president can say -and even the ability to censure the president's words-is as terrible as the first plan is good. 
Lockwood's expressed desire to minimize the role of the presidency, including a plan to fi)rce the president to read statements by the 
OBSERVER 
summer discussions over the party permit ordinance, Brown, as presidm1t, acted as a capable and professional representa­tive of the student body. When she took tlw initiative, it lwlped fundamentally change the ordinance from a draconian nwas­ure into something much more accnptable. /\nd she was open about the process, meetings and ideas. 
Meanwhile, Lockwood sent an e-mail to his dorm that he "and another senator" WMe working on a plan to reshape stu­dent government, remove a certain amount of power from the office of the president and redistribute it among the student representatives. Tlwre can bn merit to this plan. but not when a senator goes about it in the way Lockwood did. He told his residents he had a "mas-
Student Senate to the CCAC when the senators tor plan" but did not want to say any more for "fear disagree with the president, eliminates the of alerting" those at whom the plan was dirncted.
Editorial
united front and effective energy that Notre Dame needs in a student leader. Without Liz Brown's unquestioned leadership this summer, ofl'-campus students would likely be worried about filing per­mits for parties a week and a half ahead of time. If she had to worry about what senators thought of her every word choice -and the throat of public humiliation if she had to explain that other representatives disagreed with her -she might not have succeeded. If South Bend officials knew she was con­trolled so tightly by other students, it would have minimized the respect they oll'ored her. Lockwood's plan would make stu­dents less able to present a clear, powerful voice in public 
d1~bates. 

Worse, Lockwood devised his plan in a way that mocks transparency and openness in student government. During The question is obvious: Why should we shift 
pow~r from tlw executive to tho representatives 
when the latter are going about plans to rnmake student government in secret and the former is representing our interests well and in public? 
The senator latnr sent a second e-mail out to Siegfried, com­plaining, among other things, that Tho Observer made it look like he had an "ulterior motive" to the resolution to force the president to report on the CCAC's meetings. It may have appeared that way only because he did have an ulterior motive. It was dear in Lockwood's first e-mail that he was going to use the initial amendment-harm loss by itself-as a first step to curtailing the powers of the prnsidoncy. 
That plan may be dmnoeratie, but Lockwood's methods wore anything but. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"J do not feel obliged to believe that the same God who has endowed us with sense, reason and intellect has intended us to forgo their use. " 
Galileo Galllei Italian astronomer 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, November 9, 2007 page 13 
'Indispenceable': Why Spencer rocks 'The Hills' 
There is an injustice in our society today that has been perpetuated for far too long. Are we talking about the tragedy in Darfur? No. Are we talking about the war in Iraq? No. Are we talk­ing about the Jena 6? A little, but most­ly we're talking about the biased, unfair and absolute­ly ridiculous criti­cism directed toward Spencer Pratt: The greatest character in reality television history; nay, television histo­ry; nay, history. 
Many babes around campus will tell you that Spencer is a big mean jerk. But what has he done wrong? Take sea­son two Spencer, for example. He con­stantly had to defend himself, like when he took a bunch of Playboy mod­els out to Area when Heidi was sup­posed to be out of town and proceeded to hit on them with promises of naked picnics and other scandalous soirees. But it went no further than promises. Through it all, Spencer's main defense was that he was trying to be a good boyfriend, which he truly has been. Look at his history. Spencer has more money than he knows what to do with and in a town like Los Angeles, he has spent years living the life of a playboy with innumerable babes literally throw­ing themselves at him. As the saying goes, a leopard can't change his spots. Spencer, if he wanted to, could go out every night and bring home any girl he wanted to with that perfect bone struc­ture. If he didn't really want to be with Heidi, why would he even be going through the trouble of destroying every relationship she has ever had with any­body she has ever cared about? Heidi sucks, we all know this. Yet Spencer, staying true to his selfless, benevolent and altruistic character, bought her a ring, bought the two of them a house, constantly calls her a princess or angel and lavishes her with countless gifts, like that hot new Chane! bag he got her for her 21st birthday. He was also smart enough to know that when Heidi said she didn't want to move in with him that she really meant that she did want to move in with him and he bought the house anyway. What sort of villain would go to such great lengths to ensure that no Californian has to suffer the pain of dating a girl who stinks as bad as Heidi? 

People will say a lot of cruel things about Spencer, but they are all untrue. They'll say he hasn't driven every plot line on the Hills. But he has. They will say he doesn't have a chiseled jaw line and striking Greco-Roman features. But he does. They might say that he isn't always smiling and laughing. But he is (see picture). People may say he doesn't have infinite money. But he does. They might say that he told his parents he was getting married. But he didn't. Others would claim that his Spiderman Halloween costume didn't whoop butt. But it did. Some people might even go so far as to insinuate that he goes tan­ning. And he might, but that doesn't detract from how awesome he is. Some may say that this list went on far too long. And it did ... not! 
Spencer is a man's man. When an evil-doer like the male receptionist at Brent Bolthouse Promotions attempts to critique Heidi's style of dress, he owns the guy with a verbal assault unlike anything this world has ever seen. The receptionist even attacks Spencer phys­ically, but our hero is too smart to let his emotions get the best of him. He coolly reminds the assailant that he is committing assault (bro) and laughs in triumphant victory as his nemesis retreats through oncoming traffic. Spencer clearly deserves his own spin­off reality TV show. With more lines than Jason and an extra phone for his homeboys, there is an endless supply of mischief that he could get into. We sub­mit to you, our readers, a simple request. Before you jump to conclusions and unfair judgments toward Spencer, think twice. He has brought so much joy into the lives of so many people over the past year and a half. We should all take a moment to take him for being the person that he is. People may think that this is the end of this column, and it is. 
Kessler and 00. is a non-profit pharmaceutical organization in search ofa cure for male pattern baldness. Rick Loesing, Pat Canna, Dave Ferron, Ces Knee and Matt Lisowski contributed to this column. They can be contacted at kesslerand@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Offering a welcoming home for all 
Recently, a group of male students were seen on campus wearing T-shirts proclaiming, "Gay? Go to Hell." In her Letter to Editor ("No right to judge gay students," Nov. 5), Cinthya Mabee calls on the Notre Dame family to exercise good-will towards fellow students and refrain from using harsh and painful words to condemn the gay community on campus. 
In her discussion with the men wearing the shirts, Mabee reports that the men "didn't want groups like the Core Council to be part of the organizations on this campus because they promoted intercourse between homosex­uals." This description of the Core Council is thoroughly false and completely miscon­strued. According to our Statement of Purpose, the Core Council "acts as a resource to the Vice President for Student Affairs in identifying the ongoing needs of gay, lesbian and bisexual students, and assists in imple­menting campus-wide educational program­ming on gay and lesbian issues." Through campus education programs (CommUnity and Network), community events such as a recep­tion for First Year Students, the Green Room and Coffee at the Como, through sponsorship of National Coming Out Day and Solidarity Sunday, as well as collaborative programs like StaND Against Hate Week, the Core Council is actively engaged in engendering a more wel­coming and inclusive environment on campus for gay, lesbian and bisexual students. 
This mission, however, will never be suc­cessful without the support of the entire Notre Dame community, regardless of their sexual orientation. We applaud Mabee and others like her who are willing to stand up for the inclusion of all members of the Notre Dame family. As a university community we are called to support one another in mutual love and respect. It is not our place to judge others -sentiments echoed by the Vatican's leading moral theologians. In a letter to the Bishops, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith boldly stated that "it is deplorable that homo­sexual persons have been and are the object of violent malice in speech or in action 00. The intrinsic dignity of each person must always be respected in word, in action and in law" (Letter to the Bishops of the Catholic Church on the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons, 1986.) Notre Dame's Board of Trustees also voiced its solidarity with the gay, lesbian and bisexual community on campus in the Spirit of Inclusion: We value gay and lesbian mem­bers of this community as we value all mem­bers of this community. We condemn harass­ment of any kind, and University policies pro­scribe it. We consciously create an environ­ment of mutual respect, hospitality and warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish. 
Notre Dame has made considerable strides in supporting its gay, lesbian and bisexual community but we still have many challenges ahead of us in meeting the current needs of this diverse community. We invite all mem­bers of campus, especially our heterosexual allies (supporters), to join in the mission of the Core Council. There are many ways to be involved: By serving on the Council (we are currently accepting applications); supporting and attending programs sponsored by the Council and its coalition partners; or, most importantly, by being in solidarity with stu­dents who identify as gay, lesbian, bisexual or same-sex-attracted in both word and deed in everyday life. We warmly welcome the sup­port of our fellow students, professors, staff, administrators and alumni and challenge all members of the Notre Dame family to take an active role in ending discrimination and pro­moting understanding at Our Lady's University. 
Mel Bautista Sr. Susan Dunn Rev. Joseph Carey, CSC Jennifer Mackay Gunn Gary Hotze Maureen Lafferty Jacki Larson Brad Mattan Heather Rakoczy Gina Torres Grant Van Eaton Eddie Velazquez III Core Council Nov. 8 

Help secure football's future 
Fellow students: 

This football season has been a rough one so far. However, we, as students, have a chance to have an impact on the Notre Dame program for years to come. This weekend, a key member of our No. 1 recruiting class in the nation, Omar Hunter, will be visiting Notre Dame. Hunter is one of the top defensive tackles in the nation and would be a valuable member of future Notre Dame football teams. He has already verbally committed to Notre Dame, but as we know from past years, nothing is set in stone. Previously, we have done a few chants for players on their official visits to Notre Dame. Last year, Armando Allen responded posi­tively to the chanting of his name at a pep rally. Last Friday, Cyrus Gray responded well to the chanting of his name at the pep rally. 
This weekend, it would be nice to do something for Hunter to make him feel wanted by the Notre Dame student body. During the media timeout, following the first quarter, I propose we begin a chant. The chant will go as follows: "We want Omar! We want Omarl" We will start the chant in the senior section and the rest of the student section will join in. Start spreading the word to all your friends. Let's make sure Hunter can hear it and that he knows how much we want him to come to Notre Dame. 
Go Irish! Beat Falcons! 
Patrick McGowan 
senwr 
off campus Nov. 8 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Friday, November 9, 2007 
ESCUEDA 

By MICHELLE FORDICE AssistaiH Scene Editor 

For being a lilm about war, there is very little battle in "Hescue Dawn." Then~ is also very little rah-rah patriotism. But there is fierce loyalty to country and self as the characters light to survive and h~t the next day be a free one. Directed by Werner Herzog, "Hescun Dawn" captivates the audience with its story about the ways humanity reacts to imprison­ment. 
"lhlscue Dawn" is based on U.S. Navy pilot Dieter Dengler's experi­<mcn as a prisoner of war in Laos in 196fJ, before the U.S. was even mc­ognizing its military operations in the area. Dengler was a German 
Rescue Dawn Director: Werner Herzog 
Starring: Christian Bale, Steve Zahn, 
Jeremy Davies 

By JAMES COSTA Assistant Scene Ediwr 
Tlwre are masons why certain artists are considered enduring and classic, and as tlwy agfl, continuo to produce matnrial that allrads mainstream listen­ers. Neil Young's newest album, "Chrome Dreams II," makes-it clear why lw is still eonsidered one of the preemi­nent rock artists. It is a record that is as 
Chrome Dreams II 
Neil Young Label: Reprise Recommended Tracks: "EverAfter," "Ordinary People" 

A RAW STORY OF HUMAN CAPABILITY 
immigrant to the U.S. whose desire to fly originated from the most unlikely of places: He was fired upon by Allied lighters while a child in the Black Forest region of Germany. 
Decades later, after he was shot down over the Ho Chi Minh Trail, tortured and interrogated, Dengler was brought to a prison camp where he met several other captives. Instead of waiting for rescue, Dengler encouraged his fellow cap­tives to help him stage an escape. But for all their planning, only Dengler and his friend Lt. Duane Martin made it out of the camp. Martin was killed in an ambush, so only Dengler was rescued. Herzog developed the more fictional take of the story, "Hescue Dawn," from his own documentary "Little Dieter 
Needs to Fly," which filmed Dengler himself telling the story. 
While it may be the "fictional" ver­sion, "Rescue Dawn" is as raw and real as can be. As with the majori­ty of his films, Herzog does not hesitate to fling his cast and crew into the most remote locations. The jun­gle of Vietnam and 
rough as it is relined, and as poignant as it is feroeious. 
The record's name is a nod to "Chrome Dreams," the unreleased record from the late 1970s that has now been established as the likely source of Young dassics such as "Powderlinger" and "Like a Hurricane." Though the original was never released, Young's use of the II in the title signals to fans that he is back in elassic Neil Young form. Arter a string of concept albums like 
"Greendale," the charging 
Neil Young is stronger than he has been in almost 20 years. 
The album focuses on the nature of love and life. Songs like "Beautiful Bluebird," "Shining Light" and "Ever After" are sweet, almost melancholic tributes to the loves of his life. More subtle in these songs is Young's aware­ness of his own mortality and the prospect of grow­ing old. "Ever After" has perhaps the most simply affecting lyrics of the Laos is its own character, a prison that is both sufTocating and stunning. And the film is not an adventure story. There arc no battles. No one wins. Few even survive. Instead, it is a vivid depiction of character. Human dignity and depravity tear at each other throughout the tale. The characters, whether they are prison­ers or guards, are all faulty and seared. Even Dengler, for all his heroism, is not per-
one of the greatest actors of his gen­eration and he does not fail to deliv­er with his performance of Dengler, wrapping the man's confidence and will to survive into every moment. Steve Zahn surprises the audience by breaking out of his usually comedic roles to portray the heartbreaking Martin, beautifully evolving the char­acter from a weak and somewhat ashamed prisoner into a man that, while still broken, is touched with hope. Jeremy Davies' presentation of the hopeless Gene, forever shying away and hoping for someone to come and rescue him, simultaneous­

album, reading "I love to see you smilin' effect with help from members of his old I And hear your voice so fair I And in the bands -the Stray Gators, the Bluenotes ever after I I know you're always there." and Crazy Horse. Young's ability to ere­It is uncluttered, classic and enduring ate a new sound with musicians that he music -some of the best Young has spent years, even decades with is exeit­
ever made.  ------------­ ing  to  hear  and  
The rousing harder songs on  and the  By creating new music  reminds listeners of the history of the  
record are arguably its highlight, with an almost frightening dis­play of musical emo­tion funneled into  and bringing new energy to his recordings. Young has crafted a brilliant and  music. Young has always said he wishes to eon­tinue forging new paths and new direc­ 
songs like "OrdinaryPeople," "Spirit Road," "Dirty Old Man," and "No Hidden Path." "Ordinary People" in  focused record that speaks to the complexities of the human condition.  tions with his music. lie is not a fan of farewell tours or gn~atest hits tours. Hather, his desire to  

particular is stunning. The highlight of the album, it unrolls over 18 minutes in a collection of stories about downtrodden people struggling to make a living. With its accounts of everyone from drug lords to boxers to homeless factory workers to rieh corporate men like Lee laeocca, it is one of the most powerful pieces of rock and roll. 
While the record is as fresh as Young has sounded in years, he achieves the 
always create rather 
than rehash has allowed him to stay far more important and vital than artists rolegatnd to nostal­gic rock and roll history. By creating new music and bringing new energy to his recordings, Young has crafted a bril­liant and focused rneord that spnaks to the eomplexities of the human condition. It is truly marvnlous and worth a listnn. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, November 9, 2007 page 15 

The WGA, The Strike, and You 
By ANALISE LIPARI 

Assistant Scene Editor 
Picture a world with no more televi­sion. Nothing but reruns during prime­time hours. No new episodes of "30 Roek," "Ugly Betty" or "CSI" posted online. Letterman, Colbert and Conan sitting at home on a Tuesday night. 
Unthinkable, right? 

Wrong. On Monday at 12:01 am, the 
'Writers Guild of America {or WGA) ceased contract negotiations and official­ly went on strike. Picket lines are now a eommon occurrence on the streets of Los Angeles and New York, with stars like Sally Field, Tina Fey and Eva Longoria joining the demonstrations. The WGA is lighting for a list of demands that includes compensation for Web content, further residuals from DVD and video­
--·cassette releases and a stronger say in productions on the CW and MyNetwork TV. Shows like "Two and a Half Men," "Desperate Housewives" and "The New Adventures of Old Christine" have already shut down production indefinite­ly, with more shows likely to follow if the strike continues. If this all seems like a confusing hulla­baloo. let's take a step back. There's a lot more to the disagreements than some kind of battle between the WGA and the Allianee of Motion Picture and Television Producers (AMPTP), and much of the connict comes down to how exactly ­and how much-writers are actually paid. With the rapid development of online media and its increasing relation­ship with television-when was the last time you watched "Lost" when it origi­nally aired on ABC? -writers have been left somewhat in the cold. One of the main demands of the WGA addresses such "non-traditional media," and how they might be compensated for what is, in reality, their work. In the summer of 2006, for example, NBC.com exclusively featured a series of webisodes based on "The Office." These mini-episodes followed the adventures of the Dunder-Milllin accountants -Kevin, Phyllis et al -and were written by Paul Lieberstein and Michael Schur, two of the show's regular seasonal writers. But neither writer received compensation for his work on the webisodos. despite win­ning NBC a Daytime Emmy for them. It's these kinds of instances that keep the WGA pushing hard for residuals for online content to be included in their new contracts. Notably, "The Office" has also shut down production until further notice. While the writers and the WGA are at tho forefront of the issue, the strike is having an extended ripple effect on the television and entertainment business as a whole. If a show shuts down produc­
tion because its writers stage a walkout, the actors, directors, stage crew and staff are also out of work. While keeping this in mind may not be the writers' main goal, the entertainment community seems conscious of the impact the strike could have on its livelihood and on the entire industry. Still, actors-including the entire cast of "Grey's Anatomy," as well as creator Shonda Hhimes -and a number of show-runners (the writer-pro­ducer-creator figures who run any given TV show) are joining the picket lines in support of the WGA. 
"There is not one person out here who doesn't lose in a strike, and there is not one show-runner who is actually going to gain anything," Steve Levitan, produc­er of Fox's "Back to You," said in a recent article on EW.com. "We are all going to lose, no matter what happens. The minute we lose a week's production, we lost and will never regain that. Past generations have made a sacrifice for us, and now it's our turn to make a sacrifice for future generations." 
Sacrifices are all well and good, but what does the strike mean for the com­mon viewer like you and me? In the short term, late-night talk shows have already switched to indefinite reruns, and it's likely that the major networks will follow suit with most of their pro­gramming. As for the rest of the season, only those episodes that have been com­pleted pre-strike can air. While some shows, like "The Simpsons" and CW's "Everybody Hates Chris," have almost full seasons in the can, others -like "The Office," whose last completed episode will air next week -are stuck with what they've got. In the near future, viewers will also see an increase in reali­ty television, as writers on shows like "American Idol" or "The Hills" are non­union and thus unaffected by the strike. 
The last WGA strike in .1988 cost the industry approximately $500 million and lasted 22 weeks. If the current strike continues through November sweeps and into next year, as some insiders have predicted, we may see an even bigger impact on the TV we watch every day. Writers shouldn't have to go uncompen­sated for their work as the online format keeps growing, especially when network Web sites stream their episodes with commercial content. With high visibility and media coverage -even 2008 Democratic presidential candidates John Edwards, Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton have expressed support for the strike-the WGA is poised to have its voice heard. It's up to both parties to keep their integrity and lind a common ground. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd. edu 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Top ten things to do during the writers strike_, 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The last writers strike in 1988 endured for 22 weeks, but it is 
· : unclear how long the 2007 strike will continue. While we at Scene certainly do not want to see the strike go on for weeks and weeks, we've come up with some ways to occupy your time until your favorite shows return. 
1. 
Pray at the Grotto more often. Light a candle that FOX can convince Monica Lewinsky to return and host another sea­son of "Mr. Personality." 

2. 
Make your own TV show. Better yet, make it a Notre Dame soap opera involving freshman roommates with split personalities and mysterious disappearances during a routine dorm fire drill. 

3. 
Take up knitting. It's a hobby you can carry over either when the strike ends or when you have babies -whichever comes first. 

4. 
Finally catch up on all those series you've been wanting to watch, but never had the time or motivation: "Friday Night Lights," "30 Hock," "The Wire" and please already, "Freaks and Geeks" and "Arrested Development." 


5. Devote the same amount of time to your studies as you did to watching television. See your grades go up faster than those of a kid on "Hooked on Phonics." _ 
6. 
Just watch all those "America's Next Top Model" marathons on VH1 because, really, what other television is there? 

7. 
Join a campus publication -just not "Scholastic" or "The Irish Hover." 

8. 
Learn all the words to the "Notre Dame Victory March"­not just the chorus, but that beginning part too. It's really about time you pretend like you go to this school. 


9. Start a dorm-wide letter­
writing campaign to the Alliance .--· ­of Motion Picture & Television -­Producers asking them to justly compensate writers for all of their work. Death threats are not necessary since you need to worry about finals and not prison. 
10. Curl up into the fetal posi­tion and cry. Who knows when this strike will be over, and you're really not emotionally stable enough to handle that. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Shows that have shut down production: 
"The Office" (NBC) 
"Desperate Housewives" (ABC) 
"Carpoolers" (ABC) 
"The Big Bang Theory" (CBS) 
"Two and a Half Men" (CBS} 
"Rules of Engagement" (CBS) 
"The New Adventures of Old Christine" (CBS) 
"Back to You" (FOX) 
"Til Death" (FOX) 
"Everybody Hates Chris" (CW) 
Note: Does not include late-night talk shows 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 9, 2007 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL SEMIFINALS 
Keenan's run game poses challenge to Ramblers 
No. 2 seed Siegfried one step away from the Stadium; Green Wave look for revenge against top-seed Stanford 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI and 
PETER REISENAUR 
Sports Writers 

Al'lnr a narrow 6-0 victory over Zahm in the quarterfi­nals, No. 2 send Siegfried hopes to reach Notre Dame Stadium when the Hamblers take on No. 3 seed Keenan on Sunday at 2 p.m. at Hiehle Field. 
The Hamblers (3-0-1) avenged a wnnk-three tie with thn Habid Bats with thnir victory last Sunday. The vietory, however: left senior eaptain Tom Martin a little nervous. 
"It was definitely nice for us to be abln to get past that one blemish on our record," Martin said. "But we really didn't fnnl likn we played to our potnntial. We made lots of mental errors, and there are lots of' things we need to improve on." 
Thn "mnntal errors" to which Martin rnfnrs include snvnral dropped passes against Zahm -including a wnll-designed f'lea-flicker that could have gone for a touchdown -and a muffed punt in the first half that gavn Zahm its best starting 
field position of the contest. 
After the win, Martin admits, the team realized that it needed a lot of prac­tice if it was going to beat the Knights. Keenan's power­ful rushing attack led the Knights to a 21-14 overtime vietory over Morrissey in the quarterfinals. 
Thanks to junior running back Alex Gonzalez and sen­ior fullback Joe Pappas, the Keenan running game racked up well over 200 yards against the Manor dtlfense. Martin said Siegfried focused on stopping Keenan's ground game in practice this week. 
"[We're hoping that! we can force them to pass a lit­tle more," he said. "We have a pretty strong secondary that few teams have been able to do anything against during the season." 
Offensively, the Hamblers will look to use their running game early to open up the l'ield as the game goes on, a task that Martin also admits will be a challenge. 
"Our line is going to have to come out hard," he said. "We struggled against Zahm first half'. We're going to have to be very physical. Hopefully the run will open 
up some passing, but with the_ir size and speed on defense we'll have to come out [strong]." 
Fisher vs. Stanford 

Fisher will try to avenge last year's playoff loss to Stanford and take down the Grifl'ins on Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Both teams pulled off dra­matic wins last week to make it to the semifinals. Stanford won in overtime against Dillon last week on a fourth­down play that gave the Griffins the winning touch­down, while Fisher won 14-7 against St. Ed's, showcasing its offensive skills. 
Stanford had an anemic offense last week against Dillon, but captain Hob Hut was confident Stanford can change that this week. 
"We need to establish our run game early, and although we struggled a bit in the passing game, I believe that our receivers will bounce back," Huth said. 
Ile believed that as long as his team stays disciplined, they have a good chance at winning against Fisher. 
"I want all of our guys to come out, fly around, and get to the ball," lluth said. "If we come out and hit while remaining discipline, we can beat anyone." 
Fisher picked up numerous long third downs against St. Ed's last week because of the Stedsmen's undisciplined 

play. Stanford's defense, which was able to hold Dillon to one field goal last week, will be a greater test. 
Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu and Peter Reisenaur at preisena@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL SEMIFINALS 
Chaos and Finest meet for third time this season 
was its best of the season. Junior game would be tenaeity, espe­freshman quarterback Emily regular season. One of thoseBy MIKE GOTIMER and quarterback Katie Dunn threw cially on the defensive side of the Murphy and freshman receiver losses eame earlier in the yearJOHN WHITTY for two touchdowns and ran for ball. Kelly Weber. against Welsh Family. The
Sporrs Writers 

another last week in the win. "This week, we're looking to Whirlwinds beat the Purple 
The Cavanaugh defense was stay aggressive on the line to Welsh Family vs. Weasels 6-0 in their first meeting 
Cavanaugh and Farley each equally impressive. It constantly keep pressure on their quarter­Pasquerilla West and the upcoming game looks to have a win against the other this pressuwd the opposing quarter­back," Holfs said. "This week is Welsh Family looks to keep its be a similar, hard-fought game. season. And in the third back and shut down opposing going to be a hard-fought game, winning streak and its stadium Both teams have tough defens­matehup, Sunday at 2 p.m. on receivers. The def(mse yielded a but we're an aggressive team, so dreams alive as the Whirlwinds es with the capability to shut Hinhln Field, the victor wins not late touchdown that accounted we should be able to hold our take on last year's defending opponents down. The key for only thn serins but a trip to the for Pangborn's only points of the own." champion Pasquerilla West at 1 Welsh Family will be to get in an ehampionship. game. The Farley defense is led by its p.m. on Sunday at Riehle Field. offensive rhythm, and if junior 
Thn Chaos upset No. 3 seed Farley eomes into this week's strong secondary, featuring sen­While the Whirlwinds shut out quarterback Jenni Gargula ean Pangborn last week. game fresh off an upset of its iors Anna Pursley and Kim Lyons 14-0 in the first round of continue her offensive domi­
"We're coming otT a pretty big own, as the Finest took down Crehan at safety and sophomore the playolTs, the Purple Weasels nance, the Whirlwinds will be win and our bnst game of the previously undefeated Walsh in Caity Shepherd at cornerback. In barely squeaked by I toward 13-tough to stop. season," Cavanaugh senior cap­the quarterfinals, thanks in part addition, junior linebacker 12. The Purple Weasels will look to tain Tarah Brown said. "We're to a safety. Brighid McGann has a few inter­The Whirlwinds have been on fix some of their mistakes in exe­pnaking at the right time, and "Our team did great last week ceptions, and freshman Alek a roll all season, racking up a 6-cution from the dose game with hopefully our momentum will against Walsh," Farley captain Koryzno has eontributed a few 0 record -ineluding four Howard to try to return to the earry alI the way through the Jenny Holfs said. "They were saeks, shutouts. stadium. stadium." undefeated, and we knew we Like Cavanaugh, Farley also Pasquerilla West, on the other 
Last week, Cavanaugh was had to step it up to beat them, had its best offensive game of the hand, came in with some new Contact Mike Gotimer at impressive on both sides of the and we did just that." season last week. The Farley faces but maintained its winning mgotimer@nd.edu and John ball. Its 1X-point performance Holt's believed the key to the ofl'ense is led by Rolfs at reeeiver, ways with a 4-2 record in the Whitty at jwhitty@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office. 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. A1 classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Brick ranch w/walkout LL, gourmet  Dome Home for sale or  If you or someone you  
WANTED  kitchen.vaulted ceilings. Park-like street. Close to NO. 574-217-1557  FoR RENT  rent, quiet wooded area. http://j.zock.home.comcast.net  PERSONAL  care about has been sexually assaulted,  
Tatiana.  visit  
Looking for a playful. kind and  2BR/2bath condo for rent at  GRADSTUDENTS/PROFESSORS:  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  
responsible person to watch my  Your path to paradise.  Jamison Residential  Rent this immaculate 2-3 BR home  shtml  
two children (6 & 10 yrs.)  144 feet riverfront  (Ivy Court).  w/fresh paint, new carpeting & 2-car  
in my home occasionally.  surrounded by nature.  Available for  garage only 5 minutes from Notre  Do not go it alone.  PREGNANT OR  
Please call Jill574-288-7118.  Spotless ranch.  jan-may or june-aug  Dame. $895.00/month. Call574­ KNOW SOMEONE  
574-217-1557  or both. Perfect for young  360-8240.  If you or someone you love needs  WHO IS?  
FoR SALE  Tatiana. Call me for a list of properties near  couple or visiting prof. contact Mike: 507-326-7044 or  TICKETS  confidential support or assistance,  You do not have to be alone.  
FSB0-6.2 miles to ND­ NO. 574-217-1557 Tatiana.  mikec@cbatty.com  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1­ 
Colonial2story home 4bdr 2-1/2  WANTED-NO FOOTBALL TIX.  7819.  We want to help.  
baths close to schools county tax  Gorgeous 3 bdr. 2 bath  Blue & Gold Homes  PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570  
many xtrs. 574-291-2899  totally updated Victorian home on  now showing 08-09 & 09-10.  For more information, visit our web  Call our 24 hour  
historic W. Washington St. down­ Bluegoldrentals.com  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  confidential hotline at  
Awesome riverfront new construc­ town South Bend. Architect owner. 1  Blue & Gold Homes  ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964.  site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart  
tion 12 min. to NO. 4bdr,4bath, mar­ block from Tippecanoe Place.  2nd semester sale.  www.victorytickets.com  1-800-No Abort or  
ble,ceramics,h/w floors,  $125,000.  $200 P/S just off campus '  ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi- visit our web site at www.lifecall.org  
Jacuzzi,deck,walkout LL. 574-217­ Call Bob 574.315.6902.  alumni owned".  NO tickets for sale. Best Prices.  
1557 Tatiana  MLS#224252  Bluegoldrentals.com  574-288-2726.  weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  Hi I  
j Iii •• '•".._t  




OUND THE NATION 
Friday, November 9, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVERs WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NFL AFC East 

team  record  perc.  streak  last five  
New England  9-0  1.000  W9  5·0  
Buffalo  4-4  .500  W3  4·1  
NY Jets  1-8  .111  '  6L  0·5  
Miami  0·8  .000  8L  0·5  
AFC Nort h  
team  record  perc.  streak  last five  
Pittsburgh  6·2  .750  2W  3·2  
Cleveland  5·3  .625  3W  4·1  
Baltimore  4-4  .500  2L  2·3  
Cinncinnatti  2·6  .250  2L  1·4  

AFC South 

team record perc . streak last five 
Indianapolis 7·1 .875 1L 4·1 Tennessee 6-2 .750 3W 4·1 Jacksonville 5·3 .625 1L 3·2 Houston H .444 1W 2·3 
AFCWest 

team record perc. streak last five 
Kansas City 4-4 .500 1L 3-2 San Diego 4-4 .500 1l 3-2 Denver 3-5 .375 2l 1·4 Oakland 2-6 .250 4l 1·4 
NFC East 

team record perc. streak last five 
Dallas 7-1 .875 2W 4·1 NY Giants 6-2 .750 6W 5·0 Washington 5-3 .625 1W 3·2 Philadelphia 3-5 .375 1L 2·3 
NFC North 

team record perc . streak last five 
Green Bay 7·1 •875 3W 4·1 .750 3W 4-1
Detroit 6·2 
Minnesota 3·5 

.375 1W 2·3 Chicago 3·5 .375 1L 2·3 
NFC South 

team record perc. streak last five 
Tampa Bay 5·4 .556 1W 2·3 Carolina 4-4 .500 2L 2·3 New Orleans 4-4 .500 4W 4·1 Atlanta 2·6 .250 1W 2·3 
NFC West 

team record perc. streak last five 
Seallle 4-4 .500 1L 2-3 Arizona 3·5 .375 3l 2-3 San Francisco 2·6 .250 6L 0·5 St. Louis 0·8 .000 8l 0·5 
NCAA Men's Basketball Preseason Coaches' Poll 
team last yr. previous 
1 North Carolina 31-7 5 2 UCLA 30-6 3 3 Memphis 33-4 7 4 Kansas 33·5 5 5 Georgetown 30-7 4 6 Louisville 24-10 20 7 Tennessee 24-11 18 8 Michigan State 23-12 NR 9 Indiana 21-11 NR 10 Washington Stale 26-8 17 11 Duke 22-11 NR 12 Marquette 24-10 NR 13 Oregon 29·8 8 14T Gonzaga 23-11 NR 
g
14T TexasA&M 27-7 

around the dial 
NBA 
Nuggets at Wizards 8 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA fOOTBALL Rutgers at Army 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 


Associated Press 

LONDON, Ontario ­Former NHL MVP Eric Lindros retired Thursday in his hometown, ending a career derailed by a series of concussions and other injuries. 
The 6-foot-4. 240­pound power forward had 372 goals, 865 points and 1,398 penalty minutes in 760 games for Philadelphia, Toronto, the New York Rangers and Dallas. 
He won the Hart Trophy as league MVP in 1995 and was part of the Canadian Olympic team that won gold in 2002. He also won silver for Canada in 1992. 
IN BRIEF 

State of Larry Johnson's foot 
in flux 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Running back Larry Johnson's injured right foot "has made significant improve­ment," the Kansas City Chiefs said Thursday. 
Johnson, who rushed for more than 1, 7 50 yards each of the past two years, was injured in the fourth quarter last week of Kansas City's 33-22 loss to Green Bay. Coaches have said he would almost certainly not play this Sunday against Denver. 
A Denver television station reported earlier this week that Johnson has a broken foot and is out for the year. The Chiefs have insisted all they know is he has a mid-foot sprain and will probably not play this Sunday. 
A news release by the Chiefs said Johnson had "less swelling and pain in his injured right foot." 
The 34-year-old center made it through 13 sea­sons despite the concus­sions and other injuries that eventually limited his playing time. The injuries restricted him to an average of only 58 games a season, but he was an impact player when healthy. 
Lindros was a free agent and hadn't played this season. He's expect­ed to join the staff of the NHL Players' Association. 
Lindros also donated approximately $5 million to the London (Ontario) Health Sciences Foundation, where Lindros was treated dur­ing his career. 
"My decision to retire from professional hockey is something that I have been considering for some time, and did not come easily," Lindros said. "I will miss the day­to-day activity of being a member of a team, and the camaraderie that I developed with my team­mates will never be for­gotten. 
"I played with the best, I played against the best -it was a blast. It really truly was," he said. "I enjoyed myself immense­!y. " 
Lindros helped lead the Flyers to the 1997 Stanley Cup Finals, but his once-tight relation­ship with general manag-
MLB base coaches to wear 
head protection next season 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Baseball wants to prevent another tragic accident like the one that killed Mike Coolbaugh. 
General managers decided Thursday that first-and third-base coaches will wear some sort of head protection next season, a move that came four months after Coolbaugh was struck in the neck by a line drive during a minor league game. 
Coolbaugh, a former major league player, was a coach for the Colorado Rockies' Double-A team in Tulsa when he died July 22. He had been hit by a liner as he stood in the first-base coach's box dur­ing a Texas League game at Arkansas. 
Some major league coaches responded by wearing helmets the rest of the season. 
er Bob Clarke. Lindros said Clarke was his childhood hero -began to unravel by the end of the 1990s. Clarke had a problem dealing with Lindros' meddlesome parents -his father, Carl, was his agent ­and it slowly deteriorat­ed over the years. 
The boiling point came when Lindros criticized the team's medical staff for failing to diagnose his second concussion of the 1999-2000 season. Clarke then stripped him of his captaincy, and the star was ostracized from the team until he returned for Games 6 and 7 of the conference finals against the Devils. 

Eleven free agents questioned 
bysteroids investigation 
ORLANDO, Fla. -No more than 11 players from this year's free-agent class were asked to speak with George Mitchell as part of his investigation into performance-enhancing drugs in base­ball, a union official told agents this week. 
Michael Weiner, the union's general counsel, made the statement Wednesday to agents attending a meet­ing in New York, two people with knowl­edge of the session said, speaking on condition of anonymity because the remarks were intended to remain pri­vate. 
The Boston Globe's Web site Thursday afternoon reported agents were told at the meeting that 11 current free-agent players are named in Mitchell's report, but Weiner said the union didn't know whether any names would be included, those with knowledge of the meeting told The Associated Press. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
~Rays': New name, new unis 
Tampa Bay shortens name, changes colors 
A.-.ociated Press 
ST. PETEHSBUHG, Fla. -The Tampa Bay D~vil Hays arc gone. 
Trying to reinvent itself, the penmnial last-place team om­dally shortened its nickname to simply "Hays" during a celebra­tion that brought a crowd of about 7,000 to a downtown park Thursday night. 
New team colors and uni­forms also were unveiled d ur­ing a fashion show featuring eurrenl players, as well as manager Joe Maddon, senior advisor Don Zimmer and for­mer Tampa Bay stars Wade Boggs and Fred McGriff as models. 
Navy blue and light blue have rnplacnd green and black as the primary colors. Tlw dub's new logo, as well as the horne and road uniforms for next season, feature the word "Hays" in navy blue lettnring with a light blue shadow. 
Team oflicials and local fans have routinely rnfnrrnd to the dub as "Hays" for much of the expansion team's existence, however it wasn't until Stuart Sternberg took over as prindpal owner two years ago that con­sideration as given an actual name change. 
"I think this gives us as an organization an id1mtity," 
Sternberg said, noting that many of the team's employees have joined the elub since he took control from former man­aging general partner Vince Naimoli. 
"We were tied to the past, and the past wasn't necessarily something we wanted to be known for. Nobody's running from it or hiding from it, and we're proud of certain aspects of it, but this is something the organization was able to really 
put their arms around. I hope and expect the fans who come out will see it as a new begin­ning." 
Sternberg said the team began with more than 1,000 sugges­tions for a new name and whit­tled the list down to about 80. 
Hays was the 
"We were tied to the past, and the past wasn't necessarily something we wanted to be known for. ,, 
Stuart Sternberg principal owner Tampa Bay Rays 
owner's l'irst ehoice, however the organization considered others like Cannons, Stars, Wave and Dukes before settling on Hays and developing a logo featuring a bright yellow sun­burst. 
"We strayed a little bit. But after looking at everything, it was pretty elear that this was the one," Sternberg said. 
Carl Crawford. Scott Kazmir, Hocco Baldelli, B.J. Upton, Delmon Young. Edwin Jackson and AI Reyes were among the players modeling the uniforms. The evening was capped by a concert featuring actor Kevin Costner and his band, Modern West. 
Sternberg said he actually had hoped to have the new nickname, team colors and uni­forms ready for last season. He's happy he didn't rush and wind up with a final product he didn't like. 
"I think it worked out well 
this way because I feel really conl'ident that the team's performance on the field next year is going to take a very giant step for­ward," the owner said. 
The team did­n't abandon every aspect of the uniforms worn for the 
franchise's first 10 seasons. 

An updated Devil Rays patch is on the left sleeve of the new jerseys. The club also will con­tinue to operate a popular touch tank filled with cownose rays during games at Tropieana Field. 
''I'm still a nostalgic sort of guy," Sternberg said. "And while I don't want to look back to the past, I think the region should be proud of having a major league baseball team and 
Friday, November 9, 2007 
NHL 

Zubrus' two goals put New Jersey over Flyers 
Associated Press 

NEWARK, N.J. -The New Jersey Devils followed their worst loss of the season with one of their best efforts. 
Veteran Dainius Zubrus scored his first two goals of the season and rookie Hodney Pelley got the first of his career in a three-goal flurry to help New Jersey beat the Philadelphia Flyers 4-1 on Thursday night. 
"We responded in the right way," Devils coach Brent Sutter said. "There was a lot of emo­tion tonight on our end. I thought we were mentally strong the whole game." 
After Monday night's 5-0 thrashing at the hands of Pittsburgh, Sutter put players through grueling practices Tuesday and Wednesday. lie has not been shy about publidy criti­cizing players in the season's early weeks as the defending Atlantic Division champions limped to a 5-7-2 record. 
For one night at least, the tough love worked. 
Playing like the Devils of old, New Jersey choked off Philadelphia's attack and out­shot the Flyers 39-14. Martin Brodeur was barely tested by the Flyers, who were playing the final game of an eight-game road trip. 
"We came out flat from the get-go," said Flyers defenseman Mike Hiehards. "They turned the puck over a lot with their forechecking and we didn't match their intnnsity. We didn't have our legs out thorn, but you have. to ,b?,ttle through that and we d1dn t. 
New Jersey signed Zubrus in July to help fill the void cmated by Scott Gomez' departure to the New York Rangers, but the 11-year veteran had managed only six assists in the first 14 games. 
While Sutter praised Zubrus' work ethic, the effort wasn't translating into goals until Thursday. 
"Obviously it hurl<; your confi­dence a little bit and it's in the back of your mind, but you know the goals are going to eome," Zubrus said. "Playing in thn h~ague li1r 11 yoars, you just try to bring a consistent efl'ort every night and not get too high or too low." 
Zubrus and Brian Gionta scored within 18 seconds of each other in the first period after spotting Philadelphia a 1-0 lead, and Zubrus scornd late in the period to give New Jersey a 3-11ead. 
The struggling Devils enternd the game having won just two of their last eight games, but found their offensive rhythm and equaled their combined goals for the last thrBe games with Pellny's score. 

Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Boras campaigns for Rodriguez at GM meetings 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO. Fla. -Alex Rodriguez is prepared to meet and greet. 
Agent Scott Boras used this week's general managers' meetings to give teams his sales pitch for A-Rod and was pleased with how it went. 
"With regard to Alex, we got some very clear direction from clubs as to where their interest is," Boras said Thursday after the four-day session ended. 
Given that Rodriguez termi­nated a record $252 million, 10-year contract to seek even greater riches, this won't be a deal signed off on at the GM level. 
"I fully expect that with this type of player, that the owner will want to sit down and talk with him," Boras said. 
When the New York Yankees asked for a meeting before Rodriguez opted out, Boras told them they'd have to make a $350 million offer just to speak with Rodriguez. 
The Los Angeles Angels said they're interested in A-Rod, who appears likely to win his third AL MVP award this month. Other possible suitors, such as the Boston Red Sox, Los Angeles Dodgers and New York Mets, are taking a more wait-and-see approach with their public comments. 
The players' union said 


Thursday it was concerned next season, a move that came with "reports stating that the four months after Mike commissioner is attempting to Coolbaugh was killed by a line influence the market for at drive while coaching first base least one player," and a person in a Double-A game. familiar with the union's state­"There was a sentiment that ment said the player in ques­as a concept this was a good tion was Rodriguez. The per­idea," said Joe Garagiola Jr., son spoke on the condition of senior vice president for base­anonymity because the state­ball operations in the commis­ment didn't refer to A-Rod by sioner's office. name. GMs will decide on the exact 
Rob Manfred, executive vice form of protection when they president of labor relations in meet next month at the winter the commissioner's office, meetings. denied that there was any "We're going to come back in improper conduct. Nashville with some options: 
There was only one trade at liners. hard caps, helmets the meetings: The Philadelphia without flaps, helmets with Phillies acquired closer Brad flaps," Garagiola said. Lidge and infielder Eric New Dodgers third base Bruntlett from coach Larry Houston on Bowa under­Wednesday night stands the
"!fully expect that 
for outfielder decision.
with this type of
Michael Bourn, "They're just pitcher Geoff player, that the trying to take Geary and minor safety meas­
owner will want to
league third ures," Bowa
sit down and talk
baseman Mike said. "l prefer Costanzo. with him." to wear an But other deals insert. With an are percolating at ear flap, I
Scott Boras
various levels. would definite­
Rodriguez's agent 
Florida dangled ly think it All-Star third would be a hin­baseman Miguel drance, it Cabrera, who interests the would get in the way." Yankees and perhaps the The more interesting action Angels and Dodgers. at these meetings occurs in the 
Several teams would want lobbies, lounges, hallways and two-time AL Cy Young Award suites, where GMs talk with winner Johan Santana, but the each other and agents. Minnesota Twins say he's not Yankees GM Brian Cashman, available and they're trying to needing to replace Rodriguez work out an extension before at third, has interest in he can become a free agent Cabrera and Joe Crede of the after the 2008 Chicago White season. If he Sox. But with becomes avail­the start of able in a few "You can ,t wait spring training weeks, the Mets around too long in more than likely would be three months
this marketplace. ,,
interested. away, he does­
"I don't think n't expect to fill people are wait­Omar Minaya the spot soon. ing for some­Mets general manager Cashman said thing to happen. the meetings You can't wait had a "pre­around too long dictable feel." in this marketplace," Mets gen­"Sometimes it will take more eral manager Omar Minaya time for us to be willing to do said. certain things that we're 
Before leaving town, GMs unwilling to do, or vice versa, decided base coaches will wear to match up with somebody some sort of head protection else and kind of get them inter­
ested in other aspects from 
their initial offer," he said. 
Cashman received repeated inquiries about young pitchers Phil Hughes, Joba Chamberlain and Ian Kennedy, all of whom could be in the Yankees' rota­tion next year. Cashman called pitching "the keys to the king­dom" -and it wasn't a refer­ence to nearby Disney World. 
"I understand why people are asking. I'd ask," he said. "For the most part, we're going to try to stay the course and build around our young pitching as we move forward. But talk is cheap. Actions speak louder than words, so let's see where I'm standing come February." 
Assessing the one trade made by division rival Philadelphia, Minaya thought the deal "makes them a better team already." He said the Mets could have gotten involved in trying to acquire Lidge but "the price for us at the time was a little bit too rich." 
He did have one desire for the marketplace. 

"I'd like to see a lot of guys, free agents, go to the American League, if possible," he said. "Forget the Phillies-the more guys that go to the American League, the better." 

Friday, November 9, 2007
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
ND SWIMMING 
ll\!1. Hl., I J
IVI"I"''','I
**

Wo111en look for second straight dual111eet vvin 
Men in search of first victory at Pittsburgh 
iron out some of the things
By CHRIS DOYEN 

we 'vp, been working on in 
Sports Writer 
practice," Nixon said. 
After falling to the 
Wh•m a team is as success­Boilermakers, the men will ful as thn defending Big East join the women on the trip champion Notre Dame and try to grab their elusive women were last snason, it's first win. natural for other teams to The men currently stand at jump at the 0-3 after ch a n e e to b11 a t experiencing thnm. "/ think we always tough losses 
The Irish will to USC,
have a big bullseye 
face onn such Purdue and 
on our foreheads 
Big East foe Texas A&M. today when they going into a Sophomore head to Big East meet." John Lytle 
Pittsburgh to swam impres­try and pick up sively last 
Carrie Nixon
their sPcond weekend, straight dual Irish women's coach picking up a meet win. second-place 

"I think we finish in the always have a big bullseye 200-yard freestyle, and he on our foreheads going into will have to do more of the a Big East meet." Irish coach same if the Irish can notch Carrie Nixon said. "!Big East their l'irst victory of the year. opponnntsl will always bring Like the Panthers women, their 'A' ganw, so it's impor­the men have looked impres­tant that we make a state­sive in defeating St. nwnt this weekend and send Bonaventure, Syracuse and rippl~;s through the confer­Cincinnati soundly. Pnce. Irish men's head coach Tim 
The women (1-2) have Welsh sees added signifi­received contri-cance this butions from weekend experienced b e c a u s e
"This is a chance for 
swimmers and Pittsburgh has 
us to really work on
divP.I's, especial­proven to be a ly senior our races and iron consistent 
\' • .I 

'0' UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
2008-2009 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS will be available on-line and in the 
Office ofStudent ~ffairs 
316 Main Building beginning Monday, November 12,2007 Through Friday, January 19, 2008 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE FOR DOWNLOADI.NG AND PRI.NTING AT: OSA.ND.EDlJ OR OSA.ND.EDlJ/,JOIN_HALL_STAFF/RA.SHTML 
Caroline Johnson and junior Christa Higgins, in their first three meets. Freshmen Katie Casey, Sam Maxwell, Lauren Sylvester and 
out some of the things we've been working on in practice. " 
Carrie Nixon Irish women's coach 
performer in the Big East. 
"Pittsburgh is a very wor­thy oppo­nent," Welsh said. "They have been team champi­ons in the Big 

Arnywren East many times, and they 
Miller have added youthful depth to the Irish roster, and they all played a big role in last week's win over Purdue. The Irish will take on a 
have been wonderful hosts to us in the past." 
The Irish defeated the Panthers last year 172-126. Lytle and fellow sophomores 
Panthers squad that has posted thrnn dominant vietories over 
s t 
Bonaventure, Syracuse and Cincinnati in its first lhren mnnts ol' this season. Lik!~ lhn Irish, Pittsburgh has sueenednd due 
"One of these streaks is going to continue. and we certainly feel we have a chance to win the meet. " 
Tim Welsh Irish men's coach 
Ross Moore and Mackenzie LeBlanc had first-place fin­ishes against the Panthers last year. 
Notre Dame comes into the meet against Pittsburgh in a much different position than it was a year 

to solid performances from experienced swimmers eou­plnd with a wealth of new talent. 
Last year, Notre Dame beat thn Panthers 188-112 at the Holt's Aquatie Centnr, while Johnson, junior Claire llutchinson and sophomore diver Natalie Stitt turned in winning performances. 
The women's schedule gots a littln mnatier following this rnent, and Nixon wants to make sure the Irish are run­ning on all cylinders as soon as possible. 
"This is a chance for us to really work on our races and ago. Last season, the win over the Panthers moved Notre Dame's record to 4-0, which was the best start for the men since the 1992-93 campaign. This time, howev­er, the Irish will try to notch one in the win column, while Pittsburgh will look to get its fourth-straight victory. 
"Something is going to give tomorrow," Welsh said. "One of these streaks is going to continue, and we certainly feel wn have a chance to win the meet." 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
;~~~A r!:::HE N~~~<!J)--­
e 

Unmistakably Italian·\ Unbelievably Good 
oy Italian classics and contemporary creations in a comfortable, casual setting. 
CATERING 
Catering for et'et:,}' occasion 
www. PapaVinosCatering.com 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Mishawaka (574) 271-1692 
www.PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 

Write sp 
Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NBA 
Chicago pulls out first win 
Thomas has double-double; Wallace scores 36 points in Pistons' loss 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO-The push and the extra motivation the struggling Chicago Bulls needed came from the team that eliminated them from the playoffs last spring. 
After a surprising 0-4 start, Chicago beat the Detroit Pistons 97-93 on Thursday night, riding 19 points and 14 rebounds from Tyrus Thomas for that elusive first victory. 
"It just feels a lot better. We got a quality win over one of the best teams in the league" said Chicago's Kirk Hinrich, who had 14 assists. "Now we've got to play better basketball and be more consistent." 
The Bulls had to overcome a 36-point night from Rasheed Wallace-his most in a Pistons' uniform -to send Detroit to its first loss after opening with three wins. 
No one could stop Wallace's assortment of shots -post-ups on the inside, 3-pointers from the perimeter -although he missed two key shots in the final minute. 
"Regardless of my game, it ended in an 'L,"' Wallace said. ''I'm old school so it didn't mat­ter what I did, the team lost the game." 
Luol Deng added 17 points and Ben Gordon had 16 for the Bulls. 
Richard Hamilton scored 18 points for the Pistons, who elim­inated the Bulls in six games in the Eastern Conference semifi­nals last spring. 
"Hopefully getting a win· against a good team like Detroit will give us some confidence," Gordon said, relieved that the early losing streak is finally over. "It was definitely a bur­den." 
Hamilton drove the lane for a sweeping basket as the shot clock went off, cutting the Bulls lead to 94-93 with 1:35 to play. After the teams traded turnovers, Chicago's Joe Smith missed a jumper and the Pistons had a chance to retake the lead. But Wallace's short bank shot wouldn't stay in and the Bulls rebounded with 33 seconds to go. 
Gordon then made the first of two free throws after being fouled by Hamilton to give the· Bulls a 95-93 lead with 26 sec­onds remaining. 
After a timeout, Wallace's turnaround attempt over Thomas hit the rim and came off with 13 seconds to go. 
"This was a hard one to lose," Wallace said. "The shots I got down the stretch couldn't have felt better. You're just going to 
17340 McErlain Street 
1 mile from NO on Juday Creek with a bridge going to your own island. 3 bedroom all brick ranch, 2 full baths, 2 fireplaces, cathedral ceiling in kitchen with skylights &built in wine cooler. Park-like theme, quiet neighborhood with only 9 homes, all appliances included. Call Lea Spencer at (574) 232-2880 

NBA -won't return to Seattle if ,Sonics leave 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX -NBA commis­sioner David Stern warned Thursday that if the SuperSonics leave Seattle he sees no way the league would ever return to the city. 
''I'd love to find a way to keep the team there," he said, "because if the team moves, there's not going to be another team there, not in any con­ceivable future plan that I could envision, and that would be too bad." 
At a news conference fol­lowing his announcement that the 2009 All-Star game would be held in Phoenix, Stern criti­cized the city of Seattle and the Washington legislature for its handling of the issue of funding a replacement for Key Arena. 
Stern repeated earlier criti­cism of the mayor and city council for promoting a meas­ure, overwhelmingly passed by voters, that requires any funds to help build an arena earn money at the same rate as a treasury bill. 
Thatmeasure simply means there is no way city money would ever be used on an arena project, Stern said. 
He also lamented that the state legislature refused to even consider continuing a tax that helped fund Seattle's baseball and football stadi­urns. 
"To have the speaker of the house say well, they just spend too much money on salaries anyway, so we need it for other things," Stern said, casts aspersions on the whole league's operations. "We get the message. Hopefully, maybe cooler heads will pre­vail." 
He was referring to a remark by House Speaker Frank Chopp last February when funding for a new arena in the Seattle suburb of Renton was proposed. 
"They ought to get their own fmancial house in order when their payroll is over $50 mil­lion for, what is it, 10 players? I think that's a little ridicu­lous," Chopp said at the time. "They need to get their own financial house in order and if they did, they wouldn't have to ask for public help." 
Stern's comments were much tougher than the ones he made last June, when he said he believed the issue was "just going to work itself out." 
SuperSonics owner Clay Bennett told the NBA last Friday that he plans to move the team to Oklahoma City. When that move would occur depends on outcome of litiga­tion with the city over the franchise's Key Arena lease. The lease calls for the team to play in Seattle through the 2009-10 season, but Bennett wants out sooner. 
As the issue becomes more and more contentious, Stern said he hopes "that a white knight that hasn't existed before, somebody who has a building plan of how to keep the team there, will step for­ward." 
Tilt~ .... a,nce 

<r)Ji¢ ofthe nlQ~t h.ila~;iqus plays ever \vdttpn ,
-. ··~· . 
Directed by Mark Abram·Copenhaver .Costumes designed by Melissa 8. Bialko Scenery andlighting designed by Michaela Duffy 
little Theatre 

Friday( November 16 at 7:30P.M. Sunday, November 18 at 2:30P.M. & 7:30P.M. 


Proprietors Warren & Linda
ceo's 
Rellitaurant 
9irsl On'ffinaf:'Ai:za in .7omn! 
Since t951 

SpociaU:dng in tlalian Entrees 
Tues.· Thurs.: 5:00 P,\1· 11:00 PM Fri. • Sat; 5;00 PM • 1:00 A!•A 537 North St louis ~ South Bern:!, lN .574-233·2464 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 9, 2007 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
NCAAbids on the line at Great Lak~s Regional 
Irish will race lOk for first time this season 

By CHRIS DOYEN Sport.< Wrirl'r 
Tho Notre Damn men and 

womon will try to socurn spots 
in tho NCAA Championships 
with strong porformances 
Saturday at tlw Croat Lakes 
Hegional Mont in Bloomington, 
Ind. 
For thn rnnn. who captured fourth in tho Big East rnent, junior Patrick Smyth and sen­ior .lakn Watson will look to fol­low up thnir all-Big East por­formancos from two weeks ago. 
In last year's regional moot, 

Smyth finishnd eighth ovorall, 
while Watson placed 40th on 
th(1 individual leadorboard. 
Smyth has run at the front of 
tho pack all year long, and he 
will load tho Irish again this 
wnnkond against some stilT 
eom petition. 
Asidn from No. 22 Notre 

Damn. throe ranked teams will 
compote in tlw meet: No. 4 
Wisconsin, No. 23 Michigan 
and No. :{0 Ohio Stato. 
Wisconsin has dominatnd this nvnnt since regional meets began in 1972. The Badgers won their sixth straight Great l.akns title and their 22nd over­all last ynar. They have quali­fied for the NCAA Championships in all :{5 years tho regional moots have been hold. 
Either Irish team ean guaran­toe itself a spot in the NCAA field with a top-two finish on Saturday. The first two finish­ers from each rngion autornati­cltlly qualify, and 13 at-largo bids are distributed al'ter the regional rnnets. 
lload eoaeh Joe Piane strnssed tho need to grab one of those two positions. 
"It's phenomenally impor­tant," he said. "This is the first time we've run 10 kilometers all year, but it's what we've been training for. If you don't run well in this competition, then there is no NCAAs." 
l.ast year, the Irish men did just that, finishing second in a 31-team l'ield to lock up an automatic hid for the snv(mth time in eight seasons. They will attempt to makP it eight out of nirw on Saturday, employing a little bit of stratngy along tho way. 
"Wn'rn going to run relatively conservativn early." said Piane. "And we'll try to make sure we ean dose well in tlw last 2 kilo­motors." 
On tho wornnn's side, fresh­man Marissa Trneeo and soph­ornorn Lindsey Fnrguson will lead the way. Ferguson is corn­ing off her all-Big East per­forrnanee in Notre DamH's sixth-place finish two weeks ago. 
The women's region also boasts sornn top-level teams: No. S Miehigan State, No. 9 Michigan and No. 23 Wisconsin. 
Last year, the Irish women placed fifth out of 30 teams and did not receive a bid to the NCAA Championships. 
Both the men's 1Ok and women's 6k raees will take placn on Indiana University's rolling. wooded golf course. The men's race is set to begin at 10 a.m .. while the women will take off at 11:15. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
Tawny Lake Villa For Sale: -3 Bed, 2 Bath, Detached Villa -New in '05, 1500 sq. feet -Huge Backyard, 3 Season Porch Prudential One Kim Vergon 
(574) 235-7024 
M 
NHL 

Rangers down Pittsburgh 
Avery draws key penalty? scores first multipoint game of season 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Sean Avery's stiek caught up with his mouth, making the notorious agitator that much tougher for the Pittsburgh Penguins to tolerate. 
Avery goaded 20-year NliL veteran Gary Hoberts into a four-minute penalty that led to a goal, and posted his first multipoint game of the season in the New York Hangers' 4-2 victory over the Penguins on Thursday night. 
Playing for the fourth time since returning from a 10­garne absenee due to a shoul­der injury, Avery slapped home a power-play goal -his first tally this season -9:40 into the second period to give the Rangers a 3-1 lead. 
''I'm kind of used to the unnerving part, so getting the first (goal) out of the way I think was bigger," Avery said. "I definitely think teams want me to do poorly, they probably want me to get hurt, and want me to take pBnalties and gen­erally not play well. 
"That's part of the thing that motivates me." 
His annoyance of Roberts, who has 432 NHL goals, creat­ed a long power play that pro­dueed Michal Hozsival's powBr­play goal that put the Hangers ahead for good late in the first. 
"The young guys, they're a little dumb. They don't really know what's going on half the time," Avery said. "So a guy like that, they take it a little bit more of an insult after you dis-

Prudential 



L 

MidWest 
AIR liNK 
Air Charter Service 
From South Bend 
to your Hometown 
'or the Holidays
Home~~ 

Call 219-465-2104 
for an Air Charter Quote 

respect them and all they've done for the game and how great they are." 
Avery's offense along with Brandon Dubinsky's first NIIL goal paeed New York's best scoring output sinee opening night. 
"Juggernaut," Hangers coach Tom Renney said. "The guys were saying that on the bcneh. It was a huge night for us." 
Scott Gi>mez netted his fourth, scoring ofT an assist from Avery, and helped set up Hozsival's goal for the Hangers. New York won its fifth straight at home and snapped a run of four straight two-goal games. 
"The other guys scoring the goals are more relieved than I am," said llenrik Lundqvist, who made 26 saves, ''I'm just trying to do my job." 
New York, which started the season with a 5-2 win over Florida, seored more than two goals for the third time in 12 games, but have six victories in eight games. The Hangers, 8-2 at home and 0-5-1 away from Madison Square Garden, will open a four-game road trip Saturday in Toronto. 
Sergei Gom~har got the first puek past l.undqvist, bringing the Penguins into a 1-1 tie in the first. Pittsburgh captain Sidney Crosby narnnd his 15th assist to extnnd his earnnr-best point str11ak to 15 games. Evgeni Malkin was eredited with the second helper, the 16th this season, his ninth straight game with a point. 
Mark Heeehi added a pownr­play goal 4:22 into the third, with Dubinsky in the box, to cut the delieit to 4-2. 
Pittsburgh outshot New York 14-7 in the l'inal frame but couldn't get any closer. 
"Too little, too late," Crosby said. 

Own a Piece of ND History Commemorating the 35th Anniversary of ND Coeducation 
At www.thankingfatherted.com www.amazon.com and on campus at The Notre Dame Bookstore 
THEN 

I.9i2 • NJ)ulldergraduutewf;mm~f NOW recruitit~~!, poster 
.zan,...--ND U:Ome11 CJasJ and Studrml (rlru,•nzmmt Officm 
$11'1.95
$16.95 

$10 from the sale ofeach poster willbe donated to ND Gender Relatiom Cmter 
In Bookstores Nationwide September 4th From Andrews McMeel Publishing 
Thanking
Father Ted 


Thclty-Flve Yc•ts oUo/olte Dame Cocdue.tion 

Tha.nkinu f11thrr Ti:J ft'r1W1htion 
. •d 
Ann There~~;-O.Hil\ J111lmer. J-,,illvr 
ND alumnae and ND celebrities thank Father Tedfor the gift of coeducation anddiscuss the impact oftheir ND educations. 
Profits ben~fit The Thanking Father 1M Scholarship Fund 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundation 
For more informiltion, go to www.1'hankingFather'Ied.com 
Notre Dame WVmen ~ Connect 
Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish seek tourney bid in final garrtes of season 
Team faces Cincinnati and Louisville at home 

By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame {11-12, 7-5 Big East) is tied for fifth in the Big East, and while it hasn't clinched a spot in the league's eight-team tournament, its two final foes of the regular season, Cincinnati (17 -9, 8-4) and No. 17 Louisville (19-4, 12-0) have already secured 
two invitations. '7 think we,re our prospective The final eight definitely going to and gave us a teams may not little bit of 
use the momentum
be determined hope. [The until the last from last weekend winsl made us games of the to help us for this have a really 
regular season strong week of
weekend.,,
have been practice." played on The Bearcats Sunday. Megan Fesl will be led by 
Implications of Irish outside hitter junior middle 
Georgetown and South Florida, are captained by sen­ior Adrianna Stasiuk, who leads the team in service aces and is second in kills. Fesl said her team hopes to ride its recent wave of success to another victory. 
"I think we're definitely going to use the momentum from last weekend to help us for this weekend," Fesl said. "Those two wins changed 
their final two games remain huge for the Irish. Notre Dame plays Cincinnati today at 4 
p.m. in the Joyce Center and hosts Louisville at 2 p.m. Sunday. 
"WP try to treat every match we play as the most important one. but I really do think that these are probably matches that are thn most important matehes of the season," soph­omore outside hitter Megan Fesl said. "They are crucial to the rest of our season." 
Notre Dame took on the Bearcats twice last season in Cincinnati, and the last match-up was a 3-2 decision in favor of Notre Dame in the first round of the Big East tournament. The first match was a lopsided 3-0 win in favor of the Bearcats. 
This year, however, Cincinnati has been streaky. It has won its last three match­es, but before that they dropped five in a row. And before that skid, the Bearcats were victorious in seven straight outcomes. 
The Irish, coming off of home victories over blocker Jessie 
Nevittm, who has recorded 350 kills and 124 blocks this season and looks to place herself on the first team all-Big East for the third year in a row. 
Louisville has dominated the last two seasons in the Big East. The Cardinals not only won the Big East champi­onship over Notre Dame last season by a final of 3-2. they defeated the Irish in the regu­lar season in Louisville as well by a tally of 3-0. 
This year, they have won all their Big East matches, with only four of them by the score of 3-1 -the other eight were all shutouts. This weekend's matches will be the final home games for Notre Dame this season. 
"Hopefully we will have great crowds both days. I'm pretty confident that a lot of people know about our [matches]." Fesl said. "I think that having a huge, loud gym full of Irish fans is really going to help us." 
Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL HOURS 
FRIDAY Restaurant: 11 :00 am -Midnight Pub: 11:00 am -2:00 am 
SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00am Midnight Pub: 8:00 am -2:00am 
574.631.2582 www.legendsofnotredame.org 

...... ··~.. 
NowLeasingFor2008-2009 
• 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 1,160 square feet 
• 
Large balcony and cathedral ceilings 

• 
Washer/dryer, dishwasher, central air conditioning 

• 
Walking distance t~ campus 



CHECKING 
iliat'ff mafe fOtt cheer/ 
Open a Notre Dmnclicdcral Credit Union Checking Account today and we)ll treatyou to an awesmne 1ailgate Party Package, including chair, un1hrella, cooler, scat cushion, and football. 
Plus,\VC'II enter your nan1c in a drawing for of four portable, football grills. 
And ifthats not enough, vou'll also receive: 
·' 
• FREE Check<i 

CeMvu:de witft .¥uL! 
Join us after the pep rally for food, drinks, and live music. Return on Saturday to cheer on the Irish and celebrate with friends and fans! 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 9, 2007 
Lineup 
continued from page 28 
snason for the Irish. The only spot up lilr grabs in the preseason was the position battle for center betwoen sophomore Erica Williamson and senior Melissa D'Amko. Me<;raw said going into the presnason games that she was ovaluating the two centers based on a variety of categories, includ­ing rebounds, effort, defense, pw;sing and scoring. 
"I think Erica had just a little advantage in every category," McGraw said. "So I think she earned the spot." 
Even though D'Amico lost her starting position from last sea-;on, McGraw said she will remain an important part of the team's ommsn coming oil' the bench. She added that the beneh is an impor­tant part of the team's strength. 

"I just think it makes us stronger and harder to defend when you keep getting good oft' the beneh," she said. 
The Irish also have one other center in the mix, just not lor the starting job freshman Devereaux Peters. McGraw said at this point she is not entertaining the idea that Peters will be a starter but liked her versatility. 
"I like her at the center right now, she's doing a lot of good things in there. But she ean play on the perimeter," MeGraw said. "So she just needs to get comfort­able in one spot, so we pieked the center because it is easier." 
Peters, who L-; one of the team's top defenders, notehed five blocks in the Hillsdale win. 
"She's a little quicker defensively so she can get to balls. She's a quick jumper; she can get oil' her feet and block some shots," McGraw said. "It changes our defense completely. We go from maybe a little more conservative to a team that ean take some risks because the team knows that Devereaux is behind them to block the shot should they get beat." 
In the backcourt, seniors Tulyah Gaines and Charel Allen return and sophomore Ashley Barlow earned the starting job after being named to the all-freshman Big East team. 
The team also returns junior lindsay Schrader, who sat out last season with a knee injury. McGraw said that not only is she back in the lineup, but she is at least as good as she was her fresh­man year -especially in the way she distributes the ball. 
"I couldn't be happier with her game right now, and the thing I am really excited about right now is her passing," McGraw said. "ller assists have been tremen­dous; she has just thrown in some spectaeular passes ... If she can pass like that all year long, we are going to be a tough team to guard." 
The HedHawks counter Notre Dame's four-guard set with a three-out, two-in set led by guards Amanda Jackson and Jenna Sehone -the team's two leading scorers last year. Jaekson had 
17.2 points per game with 4.7 rebounds, while Sehone had 11.8 points and 4.5 assists a game. 
"They're guards are outstand­ing. Jaekson is their best player, and she's going to be really hard for us to guard," MeGraw said. "They're really good three-point shooters, they are going to put the ball on the floor, and they are just strong on the perimeter." 
MeGraw said she doesn't know yet how she will defend Sehone and Jaekson or whether she will go with her standard five or a big­ger lineup. 
"So we've got to decide what we're going to do with that, if lindsay is going to have to guard the bigger kid, or if we are going to be able to play our normal defense," she said. 
Notes: 

+Gaines remains questionable for Friday's game after spraining her right elbow in the second half against llillsday Monday. Gaines was hit in the lane on a layup attempt and fell hard on her arm. If Gaines cannot start, McGraw said sophomore Melissa Leehlitner will start. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gray, six other runners head to Regional meet 
Saturday at Calvin College in strong since Championships, so I Bauters expects her team to mate -we are a family."
By MATT GAMBER 

Grand Hapids, Mich. The top two believe she is ready to have an improve on last year's 20th­And this family has continued 
Sports Wrircr 

teams in the 36-team field will awesome raee," coach Jackie place finish at the regional meet, to support one another, even advanee, as will an at-largo Bauters said. and both Bauters and Gray after most of the Belles' runners 
After a fourth-plan~ tt~am lin­team and the seven highest fin­Though Saturday could be knows that if the Belles do, it have seen their seasons end. ish at the Oct. 27 MIAA ishing individuals not on one of Gray's final race with Saint won't be just because of the "It's amazing to havn girls still Championships ensured this sea­the advancing squads. Mary's, she has refused to plaee seven girls competing tomorrow. eoming to praetice that don't son would be tlw best in school Gray, who placed second over­any added pressure on herself. "This team is speeial," Bauters have to. I think it shows their history. s1wen Saint Mary's run­all at the MlAA Championship, "It eould be my last eollege said. "They eame together as a dedication to and their support ners will now shift thnir focus to represents the Belles' best cross eountry race, but it's defi­unit at camp, and their eohesive­of this team," Gray said. "But individual goals heading into ehanee to qualify for the Division nitely not my last race," said ness is one of the main ingredi­really, while only nine women Saturday's Division Ill Hegionals. III Championships, held Nov. 23 Gray, a two-time ali-MIM per­ents for this season's sueeess. are allowed to travel with the 
Seniors Megan Gray and at St. Olaf"s in Northfield, Minn. former. "That's one of tho great­Every day they push each other, tnam to Calvin on Saturday, it's Olnnka Bilyk, junior Caitlin Last year. Gray beeame the est things about this sprirt: It hold eaeh other accountable and taken this rmtire tnam to gnt us Brodmerknl, sophomore Megan Belles' first-1wer national qualifi­never has to end. So as far as encourage each other to be the there." McClowry, and frnshnwn Sam er after l'inishing 10th at having my baek against the wall, best they ean be. And, if they Wiezorek, Catie Salyer and Hngionals. I'd say no. I just want to run. need it, they are always there as Contact Matt Gamber at Claire McVey will all eompete "Mogan has eontinued to look Hun and feel strong." a shoulder to lean on for a team-mgamber@nd.edu 
I:Go IRISH 
JPW 2008 
FEBRUARY 15, 16, 17, 2008 
TICKET APPLICATIONS HAVE BEEN MAILED 
TO THE PARENTS OF CURRENT JUNIORS, AS WELL AS SENIORS WHO WERE ABROAD LAST SPRING. PLEASE CHECK WITH YOUR PARENTS TO MAKE SURE THEY HAVE RECEIVED A TICKET APPLICATION. 
TICKET APPLICATIONS CAN ALSO BE PRINTED FROM THE JPW WEBSITE: www.nd.edu/-jpw 
TICKET APPLICATIONS ARE DUE: MONDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2007 
Please contact the JPW Executive Committee with any questions you may have: 
Email: jpw@nd.edu Phone: 631-6028 

Area Rug Repair

C'arved and lnlayed 
Floorcloths
Bordered 
Tapestry 
Wearable & Other 
!looked/Prodding 
Fiber Arts 

indianarugco.com

,\ u 
r~ 
.~ -~ N, ·~ ~-­

AREARUGS 
574.233.7312

1217 N. Merrifield Mishawaka, IN 46545 

Junior Parents Weekend ... 300A LaFortune Student Center 
~ 

,_L j\, IO<~O a.m.-12 noon 12 noon-5 p.rn. Palais Royal~ B.sllroom 211 N. Mh:higan St., South Bc:nd 105 W, Colf:u. .'\Yt-., South Bend 
Df'llu Bridal lJrunc:hJ;ut!Jre-, n dehciou.~ n~t• Jkllu Bridal Ev<·nl and S_tylt· Slwtl· ojjerfo 
chumf'X1gtle brunrh undo prt'l'lt'W oj u;t!dcling c•IJtrythingfo~ }'our ~/JP.n"al d'.lJ mcludmg .f!vll.' mu~t .. havelook~ and lrt•nds {t1r tlu• uamn. slwwsot 1:80J~.m. tmd .'.~:.~10 /J.ni.,.fOud Tirke~.fi>r thi!i m>e11t al.so includt' tlu• alld beveru,l!,~ taoetit1f: and lhf lutrsl 
Ilridul 1-:vt·ni 8.: S.t.Jlt! SfuJU'. m wP.drling ·'!VIe. 
Ti<*et.> $30 ill ad"'"'"" onjy ~yNooemba 13. TickeL' $5 in advanc<'..$10 at the door 
Purcha.,e lickeL' at the Morris Box Office 57-1 -2.35-9190 or onlirw ol 
www. bellabridalevent .com 
----------------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
The 2007 Red Storm come to Notre Dame as the No. 3 seed
St. John's 
continued from page 28 
you want to finish as the top team in your league," Clark said. "Your next goal is to win the [Big East! tournament, and your final goal is to win the NCAA Tournament." 
Beating St. John's might also help Notre Dame advance 
toward that ultimate goal. Much like con­ference tourna­ments for col­lege basket­ball, NCAA Tournament seeding for soccer rests partly on the outcome of conference tournament games. 
"Every game you win now will boost your HPI (ratings 

"St. John's is always Clark said. "St. one ofthe most John's is always one of the most
talented teams in the 
talented teams
Big East, and they in the Big East, have a storied history. and they have a 
storied history.
It's got all the 
It's got all themakings ofa makings of a fantastic game." fantastic game." One advan­tage the Irish
Bobby Clark 
will be able to 
Irish coach 
count on is the 
percentage index) and hope­fully your seeding," Clark said. "If you can win a few games in the Big East or win the Big East, you could be looking at a top-four seed [in the NCAA Tournament], but we have to take it one game at a time." 
Before the Irish can think about a top-four NCAA tour­nament seed, they'll have to advance past the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament ­something they've been unable to do the past two sea­sons. In 2005, the Irish were knocked out by St. John's in the quarterfinals round. That match was the last time the squads faced off. 

in the Big East's Red Division, and St. John's earned the right to play Notre Dame after defeating Seton Hall 3-2 in penalty kicks on Wednesday. 
On offense, St. John's (9-6-5, 6-3-2 Big East) boasts a bal­anced attack: Four players have scored three or more goals this season and none have more than four goals. 
"They have a 
pile of very tal­
ented players," 
familiar grass 
of Alumni Field. Notre Dame earned the right to host a quarterfinals game thanks to its No. 2 seed in the tournament. Notre Dame's Big East tournament losses have both come on the road in the past two seasons, and Clark recognizes the benefit of play­ing at home. 
"Statistically, around the world, the home team wins more often than not," Clark said. "It's a familiarity. From our team's consideration, it lets them settle down a bit, especially when the last three games have been on the road." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 9, 2007 
Hoyas 
continued from page 28 
likn a championship gamfl this S!Htson anyways. so it's not really much of a rhangn," frnshman dd'nndPr .Julin Sclwidlnr said. 
Sclwidlnr and tlw rnst of thn frnshmnn arP part of an Irish program that is formidable in tlw Big Hast tournanwnt. In thn snmil'inals alonP, Notrn Damn is 10-1-0, awrages :{.9 goals p11r ganw and allows 
0.27 goals JH'r ganw. The Irish takn I 1.:{ shots 
o n go a I IH' r 
also causH Notre Dame prob­lems. 
After losing to Louisville at home to Hnd the regular sHa­son, Georgetown defeated Connecticut in the quarterfi­nals to advance. Wells eon­vnrtnd a penalty kick late in the seeond half to givfl the lloyas the 1-0 victory. 
Notre Damn nxtcndnd its win stn~ak to II when it del'nated Hutg!~rs 2-0 Sunday. Hanks had a penalty-kick goal, her IMh in postsPason play, and a rorrwr-kick assist in the game. llanks passed 2005 graduate Katin Thorlakson to earn the sehool record for postseason 
ganw and allow "We need to take it goals. 
I.7 per gamP on The streak
like every other 
dnfnnsn. and success .I un ior for-game and just put against ward Knrri everything on Ceorgetown 
llanks has night havfl not aiTnct­
the line." 
goals and six ml tlw way thH assists in I I Big team approach­l~ast tourna­Julie Scheidler es the game. lll n n t ga m 11 s . Irish defender Focusing only 
and senior for­ward/mid finldnr Amanda Cinalli has night goals and two assists i n I 7 g a nw s. S P n i o r ken pPr l.aurnn Karas is 4-0-0 with a 
0.22 goals against avnragn in tlw Big East tournanwnt. 
S t iII. Irish ('.oar h Handy Waldrum cautionPd against taking thn ganw lightly. 
"Looking hark at tlw vid!~o. 

thny  had  a  eouplP  of good  
chances  early  against,"  
Waldrum  said.  "Thny  arn  

much improV!Hl; tlwy'rn wnll coadwd. It's not going to lw an nasy one at this point." 
Freshman midfiPldnr Ingrid Wnlls loads tlw lloyas with six goals and I:{ assists. 
"I think [Wnllsl will probably hn thn Big l~ast rookie of the y!1ar," Waldrum said. "Shn's a girl we rncruitNI: unfortunate­ly wn didn't havP nnough scholarship monny for her." 
Wells could givn the Irish troubl!~. Waldrum said. 
.. sh e • s k i n d 0 f t IH~ key t0 th!lir team," lw said. "Shn's somebody wn've got to pay attnntion to." 
Waldrum said sophomore forward Toni Marin lludson, who "has sonw pace" and sen­ior midlielder Sara .Jordan will 
Scott 
continued from page 28 
If injurins dictate it, Scott eould still S!~n llw floor this sna­son. Brey said. But if tlw Irish stay healthy, lw would like to prnsnrvn an extra yPar of nligi­bility for Scott. 
Thn otlwr fn~shnwn on Notrn Damn's rostPr -guard Ty l'rol'litt, forward Tyrorw Nash. forward Tim Abromaitis, and walk-on guard Tom Kopko ­will n~main artivP, BrPy said. 
Brny said he considered pre­snrving a yPar of eligibility l'or Abromaitis, but d!~cidnd to ktHlp on the lloyas is 
"kind of more 

just assumnd," Sdwidler said. 
"We all know that we n!wd to takn care of business and focus on our l'irst gamn," Scheidlflr said. 
At this point, SehnidlAr said, the Irish need to rmnember what llwy prioritiznd this sea­son: the next game. 
"We nned to take it like every otlwr game and just put evnrything on tho line," Sdwidlnr said. "I think as long as we play our game nobody can rnally stop us." 
Notes: 
+ .Junior Brittany Boek and snnior Ashley .Jones arfl undnr consider:ation for Acadmnic All-America honors. Both werP named first-team Academic All-District players by the College Sports Information DirActors of Anwrica. 
The group also awarded sen­ior Susan Pinnick and sopho­mortl Amanda Clark sHcond­team Academic All-Distriet honors. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
him a<:tiv11 bneause of his abili­ty to shoot outside. 
"Beeause Abromaitis is Ia good shooter[, and with what WP lost lin guards Colin Falls and Hussell Carter[. we're still trying to find how to replace that. I think he needs to stay in tlw mix," Brey said. 
The Irish defeated St. Ambrose last Friday and St. Edward's Wednesday in two nxhibition games to kiek off their season. Their next ganw is against I.ong Island on Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. in thH .Joycn Cnnter. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
Write Sport~~ 
bntact-Chris 
~ . .. .f~ 
at chine@nd. 
~-· ~-
MiaiDi 
continued from page 28 

"A year ago [against Boston CollHge I, with all the VHteran players. it was pretty easy to stHp into the systems." 
Notre Dame lost eight play­ers last season, and this yHar it has freshmHn and sopho­mores up and down the lilw­up. It swept its first series last weekend at home against Lakn Superior State but split in naeh of tlw thrne weekends prior. The power play has flw~tuated from good to down­right awful, and lirws and defensive pairings are being mixnd up nvery game. 
Enter the RedI lawks, 

Miami has sole eontrol of the CCII;\ and thn top spot in the nation, and its closest margin of victory camn in its last game whHn it came from bPhind to defeat Northnrn Michigan :{-2. 
Nathan Davis, Miami's lead­ing scorer from last season, has playHd in only o1w game this season, but that hasn't slowed down the RedHawk offense, which is first in the nation with an average of five goals a game. .Jackson said he believes Miami is holding Davis back with what he thinks is a shoulder separa­tion in order to err on the safe side. 
"It isn't really public as far as his health," .Jackson said. "So it's really difficult to say. I would expect to see him." 
Expect to see Irish junior .Jordan Pearce in net for Notre Dame tonight as .Jackson said the goalie, who is second in the nation in minutes played, will get the start. Last Saturday night against Lako Superior State, freshman Brad Phillips started. but he didn't make the trip this wenkend due to the flu. Sophomor(J goalin Tom O'Brien could sec time Saturday, .Jackson said. 
"You rwver know," he said. "Never say never." 
This week was the first time this season that the Irish haw1 had a full week of practice. In their first four weeks, they were loaded with mid-week games, which significantly reduced their chance to teach their systems well to the younger players. 
"It improved some parts of our game -our forccheeking 
and faeeorr situations," Jackson said about the full week. "You can never spend enough time working on spe­cial teams." 
The Irish oJ'I'ense, which started to gel last weekend when several lines wern shak­en up, must push the puck to the front of t.lw net to gtlt thn prime scoring chances that will beat the Hedllawks goalie tandem of Charlie El'f'ingnr and Jeff Zatkoff, .Iaekson said. 
"We can't ov11n1xtend our­sPlves because they havn a great transition game," .hu~kson said. "Wn'rc going to havn be rnally disciplinnd with the puck." 
The series against the nation's top tmtnr eomns two weeks furthnr into the season than last year's upset of Boston College. But if it camn thrPe months from now, it wouldn't make a difference to .Jackson. 
"Every weekend is impor­tant," he said. "I don't look at this any diffnrently then Ferris State or Lake Superior State. It's morn a matter of us work­ing to gnt bnttnr nvery W!lek." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 


BI'UDENT ACTIVmE8
BAD 
IAD.ND.EDU 

Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

DEUCES MANOR 
6-E T 'EM ON 

TH~"'" RuN wb.' R.E. (ri)I>JI'JA 
Go, C7h, G-o, G-o-' 

AND wE AJI:£N'T G-eNNA 
STDP UNTIL WE. G-V OIIE.R 
THAT (rOAL Lii'JE-! A.NI> 
DotJ'T F-oR<TE.T; 1"\EN­Tot:>AY IS. TH.E:.. I>Ay WE.'R.E:.. 6-oNNA W//11/ 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

CROSSWORD 
Across 35 What a future American might

Doesn't sit well take: Abbr. 
16 Class in which 36 Didn't paw 
various schools are discussed 37 _grecque 
17 One way to 40 Balloon solve problems attachment 
18 Pacer maker: 41 Object in a Abbr. Monet painting 
19 Red sky, 42 Member of Ia perhaps famille immediate
20 "_ dispraise my lord ...": 45 Floors Juliet 
46 Frauen, across 21 Expert in ancient 
the border: Abbr. law 
4 7 Least spotted 24 City on the 49 Front wheel Natchez Trace divergence 
26 Not backing, in 51 Hacker's cry of the backwoods success 
27 Lengthens, old-52 Something style needed for your 31 Retiree's 
sake? 

coverage? 56 Gouge, say 
32 Basis for a suit 57 Daydreaming, e.g.
33 "30 Rock" creator 62 Completely gone 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

63 Records of interest to real estate agents 
Down Distillation location 2 Suffix with cream 3 Encouraging 
remark 4 Predatory critter 5 Large accounts? 6 Place for jets 7 1968 folk album 8 Bit of moonshine 9 Adolescent 
outburst 10 Louis Armstrong's "Oh He Ramble" 11 Initials of a 
noted "Wizard" 12 Go downhill 13 No follower 14 Drive along 
leisurely 15 Firmly establish 21 Like some shifts 22 Occasional 
clashers 23 Dakota tongue 25 to be 28 Rather informal? 29 Help set up 
chairs for? 30 French study, e.g. 34 Take many courses 36 They're against each other 37 Relating to heraldry 38 Place 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Harvey Estes 

39 Kind of producer: 44 Lois Lane player 53 Iraq's ......... Ali Abbr. Durance and Shrine 40 It may contain others 54 Grant _ tear gas 55 Business class, 
481t may be briefly
41 Emphatic wrapped in a turndown bun 58 Hearing aids, for short
42 Curly-haired 

50 Astrologer with "Peanuts" 
59 Now in

the character 60 R.S.V.P.
autobiography 43 20th-dynasty "Answer in the 
component ruler Sky" 61 D.C. United org. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 


by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
THE: Re:YE:W:RS SHUNNE:D THE: TE:e:TOTAL-E:R BE:CAUSE: HE::--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

~l!JJMJJJ~JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VOIPT 
(l] [J 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KAHIK 
j

rJ r [) 
CEADAR 
(l] 
b
www.jumble.com 

J I I I J 
A: (II I I I J " [II I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: CLOTH PUDGY VANISH BEAUTY Answer: When she played the role of a secretary, the starlet was -''TYPE" CAST 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRmES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jack Osbourne, 22; Tara Reid, 32; Parker Posey, 39; Bonnie Raitt, 58 
Happy Birthday: Muster up some renewed enthusiasm for something you want to pursue. Changes at home or to your home will bring great results and a better outlook on life. Be careful not to go over budget. Take time to get to know the people with whom you surround yourself. Your numbers are 7, 12, 26, 29, 35, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take action but stay calm. Getting upset or angry will not get you the results you want. Be direct but not pushy and focus on what you can do to improve your situation. 3 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Choices must be made. Someone will question you and this may cause confusion. Try to stick to your original plan and you will not make a mistake. Don't let all the chaos slow down progress. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll f'Ind love in the strangest places. It will be easy to interest someone with your dazzling conversation and your spiffy way of putting yourself together. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can write your own ticket today. An emo­
tional issue can be dealt with and some social gains can be made if you network. Take action and you will get results. 5 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): It's time to take another look at your personal and resi­dential situation and make the alterations that will make your life better. A love problem will crop up if you are not honest. Tell all or face complaints. 2 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Ifsomeone at home complains, do something about it. An opportunity to sign up for a trip or something pleasurable should help to al­leviate the stress you've been feeling. Stop being so hard on yourself. 3 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll find it difficult to deal with emotional matters. Someone you think you can trust may not tell you everything, to spare your feel­ings. Put some time and effort into a hobby or something you enjoy doing. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can keep a secret but someone you know probably can't, so don't share your thoughts. The estimate you receive about a repair job will escalate, costing more than you expect. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): No one will fully understand what you are going through. Your confusion, coupled with temptation will leave you at odds. Don't instigate change. Sit still for a moment and rejuvenate. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A new game plari can be put into play. With your business savvy and your ability to make money, you have nothing to worry about and everything to gain with your own small business or investing in some­thing with potential. Money and love are heading your way. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have to speak on behalf of others if 
you want to finish what you start or close a deal. Moving forward isn't hard if 
you follow proper procedure. 2 stars 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Whatever you've got your heart set on, go after it wholeheartedly. You can come out on top ifyou act fast and follow through. Love is in the picture if you pay attention to someone you are attracted to. 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You tend to change your mind a lot. You are a master at fmding solutions, alternatives or developing unique ideas. You are outgoing and love to 
work and play equally hard. 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 9, 2007 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Odds in their favor 
Numbers on NO's side headed into Big East tournament sernifinals 
By BILL BRINK Spons Writer 
Notrn Damn has to like its prospects in Morgantown, W.Va., wlwrn it will play c;norgdown today in thn Big East tournanwnt sPmifinals. 
Tlw Irish lead tho all-time snrins against tlw lloyas 13-1­
0. In those ganws. Notn~ Dame ( 14-4-1) sr.orPd R2 goals, while c;norgetown (14-6-0) has just s1wnn. Notre Damn is 11-0 in eonl'ernnee play this season, while c;eorgetown is just 6-5. And tho Irish beat Georgetown 3-0 on Oet. 12. 
Jior the freshmen that play regularly. the pressure of their eon ferenee win streak aeeus­tomed them to the demands of the postseason. 
"It's <infinitely exciting, but we've been taking every game 
see HOYAS/page 26 


MEN's SoccER 

Irish host St. John's in quarters 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 

Every team enters a season with certain goals, but few have a rnalistic chance to accomplish them. Notre Dame is onn of the few. 
This weekend, the Irish will take an important step in accomplishing one o.f their three main goals for the sea­son -winning the Big East tournament. 
After cheeking off the first goal on their list by finishing in a tie for first place in the Big East regular season, the No. 9 Irish will try to take another step toward their sec­ond goal of winning the Big East tournament when they take on St. John's this Sunday at 1 p.m. in the quarterfinals at Alumni Field. 
"When you start any season, 
see ST. JOHN'S/page 25 
HOCKEY 

leers hungry for upset against No.1 Miallli 

-

QUENTIN STENGER/The Observer Irish right wing Ryan Thang controls the puck during Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Lake Superior State on Nov. 2. 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame wPnt into No. 1 Boston Collegn's house in OctoiH'r of last snason and slaughtnrfHI the l~agles 7-1 with a team pirknd to 11nish no higlwr than thn middle of t.hn 1:onfnrPnre. 
Tlw Boston Collngn bnat­down ignitnd tlw Irish, who rockntnd to No. I in tlw coun­try two-and-a-half months latnr and won tlw CCI lA rng­ular season and playoff championships latnr that ynar. And now No. 13 Notrn 

Damn (h-3, 4-1 CCIIAJ is look­ing at a similar situation. 
Thn Irish will play No. 1 Miami (R-0, 6-0 CCIIAJ tonight in the Hndllawks' new Stnvn Cady Arena in the first of a two-game series that will pit a talented, but young, Notre Damn squad against the top team in the nation, whose lnading scorer from last season has played in only onn game this year. 
"We're just now starting to get whore we want to be, but I'm not sure we're there yet," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
see MIAMI/page 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Scott to sit out freshman year 
By CHRIS HINE Sporrs Editor 

Coach Mike Broy announced Thursday he will preserve a ynar of eligibility for freshman Carleton Seott by not playing him this season. 
All NCAA athletes. onee thny Pntcr eollcgc, have live years to complete four years of partiei­pation in a sport. A sixth year can also be granted to athletes based on extenuating circum­stances. 
Scott's ability to obtain a Jifth year will be dependent upon approval 
from Notre Dame's Faculty Board of Athletics, w h i c h means he must be in good aca­


d e m i c Scott standing when he applies for the firth year. 
Brey said tlw extra year will give the 6-foot-7 Scott morn time to develop this season lwhind the thrnn big men eur­rently ahead of him -sopho­more Luke llarangody, senior Hob Kurz and junior Luke Zeller. 
"I think that's best for him in getting strongnr, and it's always a good deeision academically," Brey said. "lin can still practieP every day against lllarangody, Kurz, and Zellnrl." 
see SCOTT/page 26 
ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McGra-w fills holes in lineup for NIT 
ByJAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports Editor 

After dominating two preseason opponents in exhibition games, Notrn Dame Jinally starl<; il<; sna­
.<;on with the Preseason NIT 
against Miami of Ohio tonight at 9 
p.m. 

Notre Dame left the preseason with only onn main question mark left in its gameplan -defense. Irish mach Mufl'et McGraw said she was disappointed with it in their second preseason game Monday against llillsdaln. This week, McGraw said her team wont back to basies and placed mom of an emphasis on individ­ual defense. 
One of tho questions that was answered is who will start this 
see LINEUP/page 24 



page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 9, 2007 
Irish look to avenge first-round tourney loss 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Zeller heads Dovvn Under in search of higher purpose 
WU VUE/The ObseiVer 
Irish junior forward Luke Zeller posts up during Notre Dame's 109-53 exhibition win over St. Ambrose Friday at the Joyce Center. Zeller played in an eight-game tour of Australia in August. 
Irish big nzan makes summer trip with Athletes zn Action 
By FRAN TOLAN 
Sports Writer 
Irish junior forward Luke Zeller travelnd to Australia with tlw Athletes in Aetion (AlA) team in August to take on several Australian profes­sional teams in an eight­game tour. 
The AlA squad was com­prised of' I 0 college players focused on improving tlwir play against top-tier compe­tition. 
But for Zeller. the trip was about much more than work­ing on his game or even spending time on the Australian beaches. Zeller said his primary reason for !wading Down Under was to grow spiritually. 
"The first priority in my life is having God first," Zeller said. "II was) being called to something greater, some­thing above just playing for your coaeh or teammates." 

AlA was founded in 1966 in order to "build on soeiety's great love of sports and uti­lize the platform given to the athlntes to reach tlw world for .Jesus Christ," according to its Web site. 
It was the second straight summer that Zeller partici­pated in the program. But Zeller said this trip trumped his 2006 journey to Taiwan. 
"!Australia! was amazing, thn bnst trip I've ever been on," Zeller said. "Last year I went to Taiwan. and learning Chinese was just a mess." 
While in Australia, Zeller 

and his teammates visited a juvenile detention center, attended church services regularly and shared stories about the impact of God on their lives. In his diary of the trip, the Indiana native repeatedly thanked his read­ers for thnir prayers. 
Zellnr said the religious aspect of' the trip helped him and his teammates l'orm bonds greater than those holding most teammates together. 
"To have guys that had the same !spiritual! focus over there was a great environ­ment to be in," Zeller said. "Playing for the Lord is something that's a greater purpose than just to play to win." 
But Zeller's focus on spiri­tual development certainly did not prevent him from also growing as a basketball player. During the eight­game tour. Zeller averaged 
11.3 points and 6.6 rebounds per game. 
"Playing against guys that are better-experienced helped out a lot," Zeller said. "Playing against guys who have been playing pro ball since they were 18 -and now they're 35 -was just a great experience." 
In the AlA team's final con­test, a 93-87 loss to the Sydney Kings of Australia's National Basketball League, Znller scored 16 points and grabbed 11 rebounds. 
Despite his busy basketball and religious schedule, Zeller sometimes managed to be a tourist. 
In his diary, Zeller described a day the team spent at "the most beautiful beach" he had ever seen. lie also detailed his struggles of 
Last March, Notre Dame trudged ofl' the court after a frus­trating and stunning loss to Winthrop in tlu~ first round of the NCAA Tournanwnt. 
The post-
game locker room was like a funer­al parlor, with players anSWIWing 
n~porters 
questions in hushed tonns. An exciting sea­son that had seen a msurgnnce oflrish bas­ketball had ~~onw to an abrupt end. 
Kyle McAiarnny wasn't with the tmun that day and hadn't been with it since his suspension for the season in mid-January. The most he eould do was watch his team's agony on television. 
But that's the gn~at thing about sports. A fi~w months go by and you get to start all over. It's tlw dawn of' a new season, and Notrn Dame is back on the eourt, rnady to use last ynar's momentum to get back to the NCAA Tournament_: and this time win a few games once they gnt tlu~re. 
Guards Colin Falls and Hussnll Carter have departed, and with them went nearly 30 points per game and the dukh perform­ances fans grnw to expect from both of them. 


But much of this l!~am's nucle­us is still intact, with seven play­ers who saw the court that day against Winthrop. 
In addition, the Irish will fea­ture a refocused and rededicated McAiarnny, committed to show­ing that Notre Damn basketball can be a player not only in the Big East. but also nationally. 
Falls' coaeh-on-the-lloor lnad­ership and Carter's crowd­pumping enthusiasm will be missed. but the Irish have two players ready to step into those roles. Lone senior and captain Hob Kurz is a floor leader, directing trallic within coaeh Mike Brey's scheme. Meanwhile, sophomorn point guard Tory Jackson's infectious smile and love for the game reflect onto his teammates. 
It is alrnady evident that this team has chemistry. They sup­ported McAiarney through his ordeal, then weleomed him b<u:k this summer. They hang out oil' the court and spend extra time together on it perfecting their skills. During scrimmages, they know where there teammates are and aren't reluctant to pass the ball. 
That chemistry makes for a fun team to watch. The Irish will go up and down the floor, swing the ball around the perimeter quickly and cut to the basket when they see an opening. And unlike past Notre Dame squads that relied on the 3-pointer, the 
2007-08 team can drive to the 
basket and finish. To cap it ofT, 

the Irish have won 20 straight at 
home. 

orcourse, there are still ques­tions. Junior Hyan Ayers will become a full-time starter at small forward, and he's going to need to show more aggressive­ness. Sophomore forward Luke llarangody will return from his thumb injury sometime in the coming week, but will it continue to nag him throughout the sea­son? 
Finally, the Irish play a weak non-conference schedule, with only a game against Kansas State at Madison Square Garden and a potential match-up with Georgia Tech -in the Paradise 
Jam tournament in the Virgin 
Islands-as real tests. Will this 
hurt them come the Big East 
conference season or NCAA 
tournament selection time? 

Possibly not, but last year Clemson started out 1 7-0 thanks to a weak schedule and ended up falling apart and not making the Big Dance. 
But as long as Notre Dame wins consistently, none of that will matter. And this is a motivat­ed team that knows it can win and win big. They have fun together and love playing the game. 
Last season represented a big step for this program, but its ending left a sour taste in the players' mouths. They've been chomping at the bit to get back 

1 Il/07/07 11/12107 11/16-11/19 11/19/07 11/24/07 11126/07 12101107 12104/07 12108/07 12122/07 12/29/07 12131/07 01/03/08 0 l/05/08 01112108 0 l/15/08 01/19/08 0 l/26/08 01/31108 02/02/0~ , 02/06/08 02/09/08 02/13/08 02/17108 02.121/08 02124/08 02/28/08 03/02/08 0.3/05ro8 03/08/08 03/J2-03il5 03/20!08 

on the court, and now that time has come. It's November again, and the post-Winthrop mourning is over. 
It's time for Irish basketball to Contact Chris Khorey at take the next step. ckhorey@nd. edu 
St. Ambrose (Iowa) 
St. Edward's (Texas) 
Long Island 
Paradise Jam Tournament 
Final Round 
Youngstown State 
Colgate Eastern Michign Kansas State Northern Illinois 
San Francisco 
Brown 
North Florida West Virginia Connecticut 
Marquette 
Cincinnati 
Georgetown 
Villanova 
Providence 
DePaul 
Seton Hall 
Marquette 
Connecticut 
Rutgers 
Pittsburgh 
Syracuse 
Louisville , ,'-.,., ~ , -, 
DePaul 
St. John's 
South Florida 
BIG EASTChampil~lip 
NCAA Joyce Center Joyce Center Joyce Center 
U.S. Virgin Islands Charlotte Amalie Joyce Center Joyce Center Joyce Center New York, N.Y. Joyce Center Joyce Center Joyce Center Joyce Center Joyce Ceq,ter Joyce Ceater Milwaukee:, Wis. 
Joy~r 

Wash~,n.c. 
Philadclpbia. Pa.. Joyee Center Joyce Center 

learning to use a boomerang financed by people -friends and adjusting to Australian and family -just people who vocabulary. helped out along the way," 
Zeller also said he bought Zeller said. gifts for all the donors that Zeller said he was grateful allowed him to participate in for the opportunity to make the AlA program. this trip and said he hopes to 
"[The trip] was completely embark on more just like it. 
"!Serving God) is something I love and it's what I want to do with my life," Zeller said. "That's where my heart's at." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
The black jersey 
A timely visit from Mike Brey persuaded Kyle McAlarney to return to Notre Dame this season 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Editor 
Late last January, Irish coach Mike Brey flew to Staten Island to visit an angry, lonely and con­fused Kyle McAlarney, who, just days earlier. was suspended after his arrest on charges of marijuana possession. 
McAlarney said he was angry with himself and his punish­ment. lonely because he was missing an opportunity to have a speeial season with his team­

mates, and con-December,
"Oh, man, I think I 
fused about McAlarney had at St. John's, and right away, he whether to was as close as to summon the gathered his belongings and spend his future anyone could get to courage to go began a long, solitary drive at Notre Dame into Brey's office back to New York, stopping in
transferring. , 
or elsewhere. and tell him Cincinnati to visit family. 
"Oh. man, I what happened. "As soon as I got suspended, I think I was as Kyle McAiarney "I didn't know packed my bags, got in the car close as anyone Irish guard what to expect," and I left," McAlarney said. 
could get to transferring," 
McAlarney said. "I called Coach Brey and told 
him I was thinking about trans­ferring. That was when I was home. I only had a certain win­dow to decide if I was going to 
transfer and a lot of schools jumped on board, and I was as close as you could get to trans­ferring. I had visits set up." 
But those visits wouldn't be necessary. 
Brey used a lot of words dur­ing his visit to persuade McAlarney to come back, but it was one gesture that left the biggest impression. 
"I think he sold the deal on my mother, actually," MeAlarney said. "lie brought my black jer­sey. lie just took it out of his bag as a little recruiting tool that he uses. lie took the jersey out of the bag, put it on the table and walked out the door. He left the jersey there, and the jersey's still at my house and my mom will wear it. At that time, I was closer to transferring than I was if he didn't come visit." 
In the end, McAlarney decided to stay with the coach who refused to abandon him during his troubles. 
"For him to just fly in like that, I thought about that that night. I don't think too many coaches would do that," McAlarney said. "Coach Brey is just such a great guy. Besides all the things he does on the court for me and helps me grow as a player each day, for him to just "No matter what anybody said show that he cares that much or what anybody did, I still felt about his players is just huge. I alone, so alone, me against had a great relationship with everybody in the arena," my high school coach and no McAlarney said. "But my team­matter what team I'm on, I mates just included me in things want to have a good relation­like going out to eat. Little ship with my coach. That's the things like that really helped me kind of player I am. go through it." 
"So, for him to do that, how can I play somewhere else when Sorting things out we have such a great relation­The University made its deci­ship?" sion on Jan. 23 to suspend 
McAlarney for the rest of the Waiting is the hardest part spring semester, and therefore, The day after the rest of the season. his arrest in McAlarney received the news while the team was on the road 
McAlarney said. "That ride was very emotional. I 
"So I didn't have was by myself. It was kind of 
any expectations relieving in a way. When you go as to what he was going to say, for a long drive like that, you but I think he was as good as get in these kind of modes and any coach could ever be in that you contemplate everything, kind of situation. He was as and I think that drive actually helpful as possible and we start­helped me come back to school ed talking right away about because that drive helped me what we can do to fix it." think everything through." 
After his arrest, but before the But once he was home, University's McAlarney was Office of not so sure he Residence Life was going to passed down its "No matter what come back to the r u I i n g , Irish -until
anybody said or what
McAlarney still Brey's visit. 
anybody did, I still 
practiced with "Once he came the team, but felt alone, so alone, to visit, laid the was suspended jersey down, I
me against everybody 
indefinitely from think it started to
in the arena.,
games. That, he become fresher said, was the in my mind how hardest part of Kyle McAiarney good this place the process. is," McAlarney
Irish guard 
Observer File Photo 

Irish point guard Kyle McAiarney dribbles upcourt in Notre Dame's 9045 win over Winston-Salem State on Nov. 29, 2006. 
time I was home, so having him Tournament and, eventually, so there, he's a character." did McAlarney's wait to get back 
Joking about his arrest helped on campus. He enrolled in sum­McAlarney get through those mer sessions at Notre Dame in days away from his teammates. late May and began working Notre Dame would go on to with his teammates again. He grab fourth place in the Big East played in his first game for the and earn a berth in the NCAA Irish since last season in Notre Tournament without him. Dame's 109-53 thumping of St. 
"It gave us more motivation Ambrose on Nov. 2, scoring 11 that we were points and hand­one man down," ing out five Ayers said. "But assists. we were going "It's awesome," to play like he "I had chills when he Brey said. "I had was still on the chills when he
was announced in the 
team. He was was announced
starting lineup the
cheering for us, in the starting and gave us other night., lineup the other support." night. I had chills But the team's on my arm and
Mike Brey
success was bit­the back of my
Irish coach 
tersweet for neck because it's McAlarney. With a great story. I'm every broadcast so proud of him." of a Notre Dame Ask Brey or game came a reminder of his any of McAlarney's teammates mistake. Even a brief mention of how it feels to have him back, his arrest by the announcers and a smile lights up their faces brought back a flood of emo­before they answer the ques­tions that tortured him and tion. Nobody feigns enthusiasm, made the games unwatchable. and that means a lot to 
"They would always bring it McAlarney. up," McAlarney said. "Then, ''I'm so close with these guys when they bring it up, every­and if anything happened to thing just kind of revisits my them like it happened to me, I mind. You know, it's like, here it think I would react the same is again . . . I would be lying if I way if they came back to said it wasn't hard watching school," McAlarney said. them have success without me. McAlarney said going through At the same time, they are like the pain of being away humbled my brothers so I was happy for him as a person and made him them in a way, but at the same glad he had friends and family time, I would've loved to be that understood his situation there. and stuck by him. McAlarney 
"There were a lot of games could have left this incident that I just wouldn't watch. I behind him forever and moved would let my mother just tell me on to another school, but he after the game what happened. came back for a chance to play It's just hard, and it would only for a coach and teammates who make me upset and angry and I never left his side. did everything I could not to "I was close as you get to bring myself to that point. .transferring," McAlarney said. There's something in the back "And no one was going to blame of your mind that's telling you, 'I me, but there was something don't want them to win,' but it inside of me saying, 'Go back."' was great to see them win all For all his days of pain and those games and make the indecision, all it took was a Tournament." black jersey to remind him of 
what he would have left Back in the groove behind. 
Notre Dame's season ended with a loss to Winthrop in the Contact Chris Hine at first round of the NCAA chine@nd.edu 
"I came to practice every day and, I'd go up to [Brey's] office everyday and ask him if I could play the next game and I would never know the answer and every time he was just like, 'no,"' McAlarney said. "Coming out of this tunnel in street clothes and having to sit on the end of the bench and watch my team play the first couple games of the Big East season, it was so hard." 
McAlarney watched Notre Dame have success early in the Big East, but his inability to play and the uncertainty of his future caused him pain. 

Observer File Photo Irish point guard Kyle McAiarney looks to pass during Notre Dame's 74-50 win over The Citadel on Nov. 19,2006. 
said. 
During the 

days after he was suspended, McAlarney had lim­ited contact with his teammates, and most of them had no idea how close he was to transfer­ring. 
"We didn't know until we talked about it when he got back," said junior forward Ryan Ayers, McAlariley's roommate. ''I'm just so glad he's back." 
McAlarney stayed in contact with teammates through the Internet, phone and text mes­saging, but it was another four months until he could rejoin them on campus, and nearly 10 months until he could suit up to play again. To keep himself in shape, McAlarney had his own workout routine and had the key to his high school gym any­time he wanted to practice. He attended class at the College of Staten Island, and was even inspired to change his major to American Studies with a focus in history after taking a class about World War II. 
While at home, McAlarney spent time with his best friend from grade school, Antonio Betalia, who happened to be going through a similar situa­tion at the time -he had just been expelled from Saint John Fisher University. Betalia is now in the Navy. 
"I got suspended and a week later he gets thrown out of [school]," McAlarney said. "He's a character, but he's in the Navy now. I give a lot of credit to him for being in the Navy because he got thrown out of school and didn't have any direction in his life. He was home the whole 
Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 4 
Jackson credits his family for leadership skills 
deeeasnd grandparents.
Point guard wears 
"I kind of look at them," Biblical tattoo in Jackson said. "They passed it down to me. So, I was a leaderhonor ofgrandfather whnn I was young. On elemen­tary teams, I was the captain when I came out. I aspire to be a
By CHRIS HINE groat leader from them." 
Sports Editor 
At Notre Dame, Jackson's leadership skills were put to the Even though his grandfatlwr, test immediately. During .Jon .Jones. passed away 11 years Jackson's freshman campaign, ago, sophomore guard Tory Brey put Jackson in the starting .liu:kson will always take a pieee lineup after the University sus­of advice Jon gave him wherever pended starting junior guard lw goes. Kyle McAlarney for the spring Jackson has his grandfathnr's semester because of his arres-t favorite Bible verse -1 for marijuana possession in Corinthians 4:2 -tattooed on December. Jaekson entered the his ehnst: "Now it is of course lineup with guard Colin Falls required of stewards that they and Russell Carter, Notre be found trustworthy." Dame's two leading scorers, and 
Over the past year, Jaekson had to make sure both players beeame a trustworthy steward got their chances to score. for this Irish. lie earned the "Having players like that ­trust of his teammates and they're great players and either eoaehes and beeame, along with one of them, they both want the senior forward Hob Kurz, one of ball," Jackson said. "But they the lmtders of this year's squad. can't both shoot at the same 
"Even though he's still only a time, so I took the blame for a sophomore, there's nobody in lot of it. That was just me the elasses ahead of him that beeause I was a leader. So if I Brey said Jackson was a solid Square Garden by storm, scor­mom after that and I was frus­he's not afraid to get on or ehal­can take the blame, everyone defender from the moment he ing the next seven points with a trated, but she helped me lenge," Irish coach Mike Brey else, they can transition and it arrived on campus but that his dizzying array of reverse lay-ups bounce back. said. ''That's a healthy thing. lie makes it easier for everybody offensive game took more time to help the Irish tie the score. " ... That's the Mecca of bas­is unbelievably respected and else. Once I take the blame, I to develop. By the end of last But even after Carter's three­ketball, New York. Just playing has earntid that." know what to do with it. I brush season, Jackson developed into point attempt to win the game on that stage, getting out there 
Whether he's running the it ofT." a dangerous weapon thanks to missed, Jackson kept the heart­with them lights, man, it's like offense, communicating on Brey said Jackson made it his his ability to penetrate and score breaking loss in perspective -you're playing on a stage. The defnnse or picking up a team­duty to take responsibility when in the face of multiple tall thanks to his family. adrenaline is always going. I mate, Jackson is constantly talk­Carter and Falls weren't happy defenders. "After that performance and want to get back there and I ing, eonstantly trying to make with what was happening on the Jackson's offensive develop­we lost in the Big East tourna­want to win." his team bnttnr. For .laekson, it court, and that had a calming ment culminated during Notre men,t, I thought about my grand­Jackson has three more sea­all eomes with the territory of efl'eet on the team. Dame's 84-82 loss to Final Four­parents and my mom at that sons to lead the Irish back to being a "natural-born leader." "It was always [Jackson's! bound Georgetown during the time," Jackson said. "They New York and -with a little That's a trait he developed fault; even if it wasn't, it was semifinals of the Big East tour­always tell me to pray before the inspiration -beyond. undnr the guidance of his moth­always his fault," Brey said. nament on March 9. With Notre game. And I always wonder why nr -"tho leader of almost "That's how good a diplomat he Dame trailing 76-69 late in the we lose sometimes, but you can't Contact Chris Hine at nvnrything in church" -and is." game, Jackson took Madison win every game. I called my chine@nd.edu 

Fall 2007 Schedule "" 
~ 

Experience an intimate discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging lo.. faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues ofour times. 
~ 

9/01-Georgia Tech ~ 
~
~· 

"Why is Goethe's Faust the Greatest Work ofGerman Literature?" Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor ofArts and Letters 
"Theological But Not Religious: ~~~ <U
15J. 9/22-Michigan State "Health Care Reforms: An Economist's Assessment"The Case ofJohn Milton'' William Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor ofEconomics ..._J 
~<... 10/B-Boston College "Global Ireland: From Celtic Twilight to Celtic Tiger" Luke Gibbons, Donald R. Keough Family Professor ofIrish Studies 
t1.~ 10/20-USC "Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam"Stephen Fallon Asma Afsaruddin, Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies 
Professor and Chairperson, t1 11/03-Navy 
"Cops, Protest, and Rioting'' . ::... Program ofLiberal Studies Daniel Myers, Director of Research and Faculty Development, Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, Professor ofSociology 
t1 11/10-Air Force "'Theological But Not Religious: 'Ihe Case ofJohn Milton'' Stephen Fallon, Professor and Chairperson, Program of Liberal Studies 
tl 11/17-Duke
11:00 a.m. "Words and Music, Music and Words: 'Jhe Songs of Franz Schubert" Susan Youens, ].W. Van Gorkom Professor of Music
Saturday, November 10, 2007 
3-1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annenberg Auditorium,
Annenberg Auditorium, 
Snite Museum ofArt (unless otherwise noted). Snite Museum ofArt For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

, ·.... ·. :.. . . >:..:·:~· ::· ::·_\~::~i-J. . ·· :~~~Wf: .. 
on the support of his co2lche~cand,Jeammates. 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 9, 2007 
COMMENTARY 
Weis' career more 
than just this year 
the rnaetion fans had on the radio, Internet and the Viewpoint sec­tion of The Observer the past few wneks. 
Tho old football cliche says that a quarterback needs to have short memory to bn sue­enssful. If Irish quartnrbacks Jimmy Clausen and Evan Sharpley need help developing a short memory, maybe they should turn to the erowd at Notm Dame Stadium and ask for help. 
Some of the same fans that speculated how many champi­onships Weis would win during his tenure now "boo" him dur­ing tlw "1Rl2 Overture." Humans, especially fickle Notre Dame fans, are very good at forgetting the past and losing context in the face of a present crisis. What happnm~d last year and two years ago doesn't seem to matter to them. 
Yes, the team is 1-8, there's no getting around it. Weis has admitted he hasn't done a good job this season and that's a con­sensus right now among even his staunchest supporters. Some of Notre Dame's enemies also prndicted this could be a same pattern: 
"What have 

you done for me in the past six months, you [expletive followed by name of 
player or coach]." 
Now why this kid only cared about the last six months, I'll never know, and I didn't bother to ask him. Maybe this was the full capacity of' his inebriated brain and he couldn't remem­ber beyond last Valentine's Day. 
But six months, or even the last three months is not the cor­rect time frame to judge Weis' impact on Notre Dame. He made Notre Dame fans believe again, and maybe that's part of the reason why 1-8 is so hard to take.. When signing day rolls around and the recruits sign their letters of intent, you'll remember why Weis is still at Notre Dame. Soon, the thankful fan of 2009 will look back on that dejected fan of 2007 and say, "What the hell were you thinking?" 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily of The Observer. 

-Persons without authorization arc not permitted on the field -No cans or glass bottles are permitted in the stadium -The use of intoxicating substances is strictly prohibited -Throwing objects in the stands or onto the field is prohibited -Please, do not bring stadium chairs, seat backs or other oversized or 
noise-producing items into the stadium -Limited usc of cameras, portable/handheld televisions and portable radios is permitted -In accordance with a St. Joseph County ordinance, there will be no smoking 
allowed in any part of Notre Dame Stadium -All persons arr. subject to search, which includes clothing, jackets, bags and purses (Violators arc subject to ejection from the stadium and may have future ticket privileges 
2007 Irish opponents 

Last week This week (5-4) L, 3-27,Va. Tech at Duke 
• 
(7-3) W, 26-19, Purdue at Temple 
(8-2) W, 28-24, MSU at Wisconsin
t·~=~ 

L, 24-28, Mich. at Purdue 
L, 19-26, Penn St. vs. Mich. State 
L, 27-34, Arizona vs. Arizona St. 
L, 17-27, FSU at Maryland (7-2) w, 24-3, osu. at California (5-4) W, 46-44, ND at North Texas W, 30-10, Army at Notre Dame L, 10-47, Clemson vs. Georgia Tech L, 9-27, Wash. vs. Wash. State 
' s 


Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurcl Estates Lodge has hotel rooms at reasonableratesfur upcomif\'1 NDfOotball weekends.) 

Take yourself back to Novmnbnr 2004. You remnm­bnr, whnn all the kids were (regrottably) getting "crunk" thanks to Usher and Lil' John, everyonn and 
their mom was quoting "Napoleon l>ynamitn," and Notre Dame had a nwdioero football tnam. 
Imagine a 


dejeeted  Chris Hlne  
Notrn Dame  
fan from  Sports Editor  
2007 travel­ 
ing baek in  

time to tell you that the University would lim Tyrone Willingham at the end of the season, Charlie Weis would replace him and lead the team to two BCS Bowl appearances, recruit as well as anyone in the country, and have one bad sea­son. 
You probably would've looklld at this dejoeted 2007 fan and said, "Why are you sad? I'd give up my kids if Notre down year for the Irish. 
"Three years ago, you could see it coming," USC coach Pete Carroll said after the Trojans defeatnd the Irish 38-0 on Oct. 
20. "They had all the juniors that played and started and they had a really good team and they played all the seniors the next year. They were fortu­nate to keep a few of those guys around that could have left. It's just all about recruiting, and if you're able to restock, but that's hard to recover from all of those losses from those expe­rienced players." 
This statement is almost more remarkable for what Carroll didn't say than for what he did. Carroll had an opportunity to kick Weis when he was down and say Weis was doing a terri­ble job, but he didn't. He knew it would be hard for Notre Dame to succeed once Quinn and Co. left. Still, some fans couldn't care less that Weis is trying to fix Notre Dame's lack of depth by recruiting well ­they want to see results now. 
During the Georgia Tech game, I stood in the student 
Dame could IfIrish quarterbacks section by a 
be that suc­dearly drunk­
Jimmy Clausen and
cessful again." en undergrad­Well, maybe Evan Sharley need uate who kept you wouldn't help developing a short yelling obscen­give up your ities at the
memory, maybe they
kids, but I players and can't be so Weis. Each
should turn to the crowd sum of that at Notre Dame Stadium obscenity fol­after judging lowed the 
and ask for help. 
.---------­
Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
There when he needed them 
After Robert Hughes' brother was killed last week, his coaches and teammates rushed to his side 

and he was always a level so all I could do when I scoredBy JAY FITZPATRICK ahead of me telling me I had to this one this game, I just went
Associate Sports Editor 
get bigger, faster and stronger. back and related to [Michigan 
We were always working on State] when that happened." 
Three years ago, Irish run­different things and doing dif­ning back Robert Hughes was ferent stuff. Yeah, he basically Tragedy strikes in a relay race in a rodeo with trained me." On Oct. 29, Chicago police his brother Earl "Tony" Coming out of high school, found the body of Earl "Tony" Hughes. Tony lost his footing Robert was one of the top play­Hughes near the neighborhood on his horse and started to fall. ers nationally, of Lockwood. So Robert rode up to Tony, and according to He was shot Tony jumped onto Robert's most recruiting in the head by horse. lists. He was one an unknown 
"The whole idea of me saving of 11 Irish "Since it happened, assailant, but my brother and us being signees on the nothing has been police speculat­together on the horse and him ESPN top-150 ed that the inci­
normal."
not being hurt or anything; that and was ranked dent was was one moment that I'll never 96th overall, because of a forget," Robert Hughes said at good enough for Robert Hughes woman. a news conference Tuesday. the 15th best Irish running back "Since it hap-
That was how close Robert running back, pened, nothing and Tony were. That is what according to The has been nor­Robert lost. Sporting News. mal," Hughes 
When Tony Hughes was mur­Hughes said. ''I'm just dered last week in Chicago, entered Notre Dame this fall in moving forward and whatever Robert lost more than a broth­an already packed running comes, I'm taking it one step at er. lie lost a trainer. ba~k corps, along with fresh­a time." 
lie lost a mentor. man Armando Allen, sopho­Irish coach Charlie Weis said lin lost a best friend. more James Aldridge and sen­when Hughes' mother called to iors Travis Thomas and Junior tell Weis about the murder, she A normal life Jabbie. Weis said Hughes' role wanted the coaches to break Hobert Hughes was a domi­is to be the team's power back, the news to Robert. Weis called nant running back in high and that he runs hard in in Mike Haywood (Hughes' school. between the position coach), Rob Ianello As a freshman, tackles. (the person who recruited he ran for 1 ,000 "I just felt like he was Hughes had Hughes) and Corwin Brown yards and then his biggest game (Weis' "Chicago specialist") to
looking down on me 
matched that this season break the news to Hughes.
[on Saturday}, and I
with 1,034 yards against "It was pretty traumatic the next season. knew wherever he is, Michigan State because that was his best Hughes had his he is smiling down when he had six friend," Haywood said. breakout season carries for 33 Haywood said telling Hughes 
and saying
as a junior, yards and a about his brother was one of when he had congratulations." touchdown. His the most difficult things he has 1,920 yards with family was in had to do as a coach, but that 19 touchdowns. the stands for Hughes has done a good job of
Robert Hughes
Hughes played that game, and slowly accepting the reality.
Irish running back
both ways that Tony was able "It's one of those things that season and to see his little you've probably never experi­notched 71 tackles with five brother score his first colle­enced as a coach before, but sacks as Hubbard High School's giate touchdown -something you just learn how to deal with starting nose tackle. that helped Robert last week it," Haywood said. "He's 
Hughes said he and Tony against Navy, when he scored becoming stronger everyday, were both running backs in his second touchdown. and he talks about his feelings high school and that his older "I just felt like he was looking a little more often. He's getting brother would always push him down on me [on Saturday], and back into the main stream of to improve. I knew wherever he is, he is things right now." 
"Yeah, a lot of times it was smiling and saying congratula­Hughes said losing Tony was just going to the park, running tions," Hughes said. "He was at especially traumatic because of through the park, throwing the the Michigan State game when their relationship. 
brother," he said. "He pushed "health issues" in the 1990s. me and taught me everything I Weis has been one of the know as far as growing up. As most supportive members of a young guy playing peewee the staff since the murder. He ball, we always worked out drove Hughes to Chicago together. He was such a moti­Thursday night to talk with the vator for my life and what I player's family and offer conso­stand for today." lation. He also jumped through 
After he learned the news, NCAA hoops to get two buses to 
Hughes said he  take any players  
mostly felt con­ that wanted to  
fused. "So much stuff on my mind the past couple of  "A lot ofstuffran through my mind. I have just been trying  g-o to Tony's funeral there. "It showed me how much he  
days when I got the information of what hap­ to get back into the swing of things. ,,  cared about all his players on his team. It was  
pened," he said.  real huge for me  
"A lot of stuff  Robert Hughes  to  just talk  to  
ran through my mind. I have just  Irish running back  him and express the way I was  
been trying to  feeling," Hughes  
get back into the  said.  

swing of things. I try to turn to Hughes returned to practice my family because I know every day last week, using the that's what [Tony] would have game as an escape from reality. wanted." The culmination of that escape 
was his three-yard touchdown Robert's two families run against Navy. 
One of the reasons Robert "It was really huge for me Hughes has been able to cope and my family, especially com­with this tragedy is because of ing off the loss of my brother," the support of his family in Hughes said. "Me getting back Chicago and his teammates here and scoring a touchdown and coaches at Notre Dame. was pretty big. It was my moth­
"Being around the coaches er's birthday so it kind of made and the players was a huge dif­her day a little bit." ference-maker for me and After the run, Hughes gave keeping my mind off everything the ball to Weis so that it could that was going on back home," go to his family, who was also Hughes said. "It allowed me to at the game to get away from get active and run around and reality for a while. release some of the pain and "Before the game, I asked my pressure that I felt." mom if she was coming so I 
Hughes has relied extensively could put her on my ticket on the other members of the request. She said she needed to football team, who never hesi­come and wanted to come," he tated to give him anything he said. "So it was a good trip to needed. get out of Chicago and to come 
Hughes has had teammates here and see the game and get with him at any time he has the whole Notre Dame atmos­needed outside of classes and phere." practice, including staying up Without his family at Notre with him in his dorm room Dame, Hughes said he would until he was able to get some not have been able to recover sleep, Haywood said. from this tragedy. 
Haywood also said Hughes "Everyone here stands for has been in his office after goodness," he said. "Especially most practices just to talk. when guys like this go through Haywood has been supportive situations like this." of the freshman, giving him advice from his experience of Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at losing two brothers -both to jfitzpa5@nd.edu 

DAN COOPER!The Observer 

football," Hughes said. "He was I scored my first touchdown, "Everything that I stand for Irish running back Robert Hughes runs during warmups before Notre a running back in high school, and I seen how happy he was today was because of my Dame's 31-14 loss to Michigan State on Sept. 22. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 9, 2007 
HEADT 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

......' 
Charlie Wels head coach 

Charlie Weis Third season at Notre Dame. career record: 
20-14 

at Notre Dame: 
20-14 

against AFA: 
1-0 
Roster 

Notre Dame 2007 Schedule 
Sept. 1 Sept. 8 Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 

GA.TECH-L at Penn State-L at Michigan-L MICH.ST.-L atPurdue-L atUCLA-W BC-L USC-L NAVY-L AIR FORCE DUKE at Stanford 
Quarterbuk t'B
I! 

l6Thomu l3 Sharpley 7 Cia..,... 4tSChWopp 
34AWridgo 32 Schmidt 
WR 
18Kamara 
19Wesut 










TE LT RG c f..G RT 89 <Siri.on nn-n 5501-78SUHuVUI 77 Turltovk:h 74VOuna 84 YClllman 701Wmir» $1 Wenaer 67 Borncllderfw S5 OI!Cn 7SDever 
OLB OLB 901ijin si"smilh 56 Neall 53 Richardocm 
. 
. 
. 

f.DE NT RDE 
9

98l.aws 96Kuntz 94Br0WD 'l\ • 93 Mullen 95WillliUilli or 5'1 Stephenaon Jr. 
!! ss 
!!£!!
l1Bruton 9Zbikowakl 20Lambert 28Mc0uthy 6 Honing 8 McNoil No. 
I 
2 
4 
5 
h 
7 8 9 II 12 
13 
14 15 1o 17 18 
1Y 
20 21 22 2..1 23 24 25 2o 27 28 29 29 30 31 32 33 
34 
35 35 
3h 
37 31! 39 39 40 41 42 43 43 44 45 45 47 4R 49 
50 
51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 61 63 67 
h9 
70 71 
72 
73 74 75 76 77 78 80 R2 83 
84 
85 89 
YO 
91 92 93 94 95 % 97 98 
Name 
IJ.f. llord 
Dc1rrin Walls 
Gary Gray 
Armando Allen 
Rely llt.•rring 
Jimmy Cl.tu,.,•n 
Ral'shtm McNeil 
Tom Zbikowski 
David Grimt.'!'o 
D.urin BrclAA 
Evan Sh,trplt•y 
Br,1ndon Wctlk.er 
IA•o Ferrint.• 
Ju•tinGillt•tt 
Gt>t,ffn.•y Price 
Duval Kam.ua 
Gt.•orge Wt·~t 
Tt·rrail l.ambt•rt 
Barry Gallup Jr. 
AmhmSt' Wotx:lt.•n 
Golden Tatt• 
W. David Willidms Lt·onard Gordon 
Munir Prin~..·t• 
Travis Thomas 
David Bruton 
Kylt• McCarthy 
Jashaad Gaim>s 
jakt• Richardvillt• 
I 1.1rrisun Smith 
S<•rgio Brown 
Luke Schmidt 
Roht·rt llu~hes 
Jamt•s Aldrki~e 
Nate Whit.lker 
KPvinSmith 
Dcx Cur<• 
junior jabhit• 
Wadt• lc1ms 
Ryan Burkh.trt 
Kevin Brooks 
Maurice Crum, Jr. 
Scott Smith 
Kevin Washington 
Eric Maust 
John Lt.•onis 
As.1ph S•:hw.1pp 
Mikt.•Anello 
Kris Pattt.•rson 
Aaron Nagt'l 
Stcvt.• Quinn 
Toryan Smith 
Stevt.• Paskorz Dan Wenger joe BrnckmHton Morrire Richardson 
Anthony Vt.•rna.,;li.t 
ErkOISt•n Kerry Neal Dwillht Stt•phenson 
Brian Smith 
Chris Stt.•wart 
j.j. jan'Cn )dfTi•ak 
Tom Bcmcndt~rfcr 
Nt•il K<•nnedy 
MilttRomirw 
Bartley Wehh 
Paul l>unCim 
Matt C.uuft·l 
Sam YnunK Taylor Dt•vcr Andrew Nuss Mkh.1l'l Turkovich John Sulliv,m 
Hich(1rd Jackson 
Robby Parris 
Mike Rclgont• Will Yeatman Sclm Vos 
john C.ulson john Ryan 
Emeka Nw;mkwu 
Dt•rrl'il l!,md Paddy Mullen 
justin Hrown 
l.mWiliams 
Pat Kuntz 
Kallen Wade 
Trevor l.aws 

Pos. HI. WI. YR WR tJ-1 196 )R DB t>-1 lBO so DB 5-11 180 FR RB '-10 190 FR DB 5-10 197 )R QB 6-3 207 FR DB tJ-0 187 so Dll t>-0 207 SR WR 5-10 177 )R Qll t>-1 lllll SR QB t>-2 216 )R K t>-3 197 FR DB t>-0 189 SR QB 5-11 180 SR p t>-3 208 SR WR tJ-5 222 FR WR 5-10 197 so DB 5-11 191 SR WR 5-11 185 so CH 5-11 196 SR WR 5-11 188 FR DB 5-9 173 SR DB 5-11 194 so DB 5-10 184 so RB t>-0 216 SR DB t>-2 207 JR DB 6-1 207 JR DB tJ-0 203 so WR t>-1 180 SR DB 6-2 205 FR DB 6-2 196 so RB t>-3 248 so RB 5-11 238 FR RB tJ-0 222 so K 5-9 165 FR LB 5-8 200 JR RB t>-1 220 so RB 5-11 205 SR DB 5-9 183 SR K 5-11 196 so TE tJ-2 241 )R LB t>-0 230 SR LB tJ-4 235 JR l.B t>-1 241 )R I' 5-10 177 so DB 5-9 169 JR FB t>-0 261 JR DB 5-10 180 )R WR 5-11 185 JR LB 6-1 229 FR LB 6-2 2..11 JR LB 6-1 245 so LB tJ-2 2..15 FR 
0!. tJ-4 287 so LB t>-2 240 SR LB 6-2 244 so LB t>-3 234 SR OL tJ-4 303 so LB t>-2 245 FR DL t>-2 272 SR LB t>-3 233 FR OL t>-5 339 so LS t>-3 242 SR OL t>-5 300 )R OL b-5 285 )R [)[. 5-11 266 SR 0!. t>-5 279 FR OL 6-6 305 so OL t>-7 308 JR OL t>-5 295 so OL t>-8 310 so OL t>-5 289 FR DL t>-5 292 FR OL 6-h 301 )R OL 6-4 303 SR WR t>-3 204 so WR tJ-4 209 so TE t>-5 2..'l0 FR TE t>-6 204 so WR 5-10 199 so TE 6-6 255 SR I.B t>-5 253 so Dl. tJ-4 283 FR DL tJ-3 287 JR DL 6-5 290 so DL 6-3 261 SR DL t>-2 300 FR DL b-3 285 JR DL t>-5 257 so DL t>-1 296 SR 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
1.&.1 
::E 
c:( 
Q 
1.&.1 
a: 
..... 
0 
z 
1.&.1 
(.)
a: 
& 
a: 
Ci 

Charlie Weis' poor in­game coaching cost the Irish dearly against Navy. In less than a cal­endar year, he has gone from genius to on the hot seat. His team must  Either Evan Sharpley or Jimmy Clausen may start for the Irish. and both might see the field. Neither has been particu­larly effective this season, throwing six touchdown  Notre Dame had by far its best rushing output of the season last week against an outmanned Navy front. James Aldridge and Armando Allen com­ Notre Dame was able to get yards through the air agaisnt Navy, but not nearly as many as it should have been able given the Midshipmen's defensive struggles in  
show improvement over the next three games to have momentum for next year.  passes and eight inter­ceptions between them, while leading one of the nation's worst offenses.  bined for over 200 yards, and Travis Thomas scored three touchdowns.  previous games. Duval Kamara is emerging as a go-to receiver for the Irish.  
Troy Calhoun took over a program that had lost at least seven games in each of the past three years and he has led them to a 7-3 record in his first season,  Sean Carney has been running Air Force's option offense for years. This season, he is aver­aging 40 yards rushing and 120 yards through  The Air Force front is severely undersized and has been pushed around by several teams this season, although it is not nearly as bad as Navy's.  Air Force has had a solid defense against the pass this year, allowing around 200 yards per game against very pass­happy opposition. The  
although the Falcons have not played any teams from BCS conferences yet this year.  the air per game. He distributes the ball well and makes quick deci­sions on option plays.  The Falcons switched to a 3-4 defense when Calhoun took over, and it is just now gelling.  Falcons have intercept­ed 14 passes this sea­son, including six by Carson Bird.  
Calhoun has the confi­dence of the players, stu­dents and fans at his  Carney is experi­enced and plays his role in Air Force's  Notre Dame's running game was solid against Navy, but Air Force rep­ If Notre Dame could­n't take advantage of Navy's secondary,  
alma mater. Weis has lost the confidence of the players, students and fans at his. Calhoun's team is hot, while Weis'  offense to perfection -and he is his team's unquestioned leader on the field. Clausen and Sharpley have been  resents a step up in E~~,,.,h  things seem pretty hopeless for the Irish passing game. Air Force isn't the best secondary Notre Dame has faced,  
team is reeling. Weis needs to think less an·d lead more.  inconsistent at best and completely ineffec­tive at worst.  have played. lias the running game turned the corner or not?  but it should be enough to shut down the Irish through the air.  


Chris Khorey 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame is in the dumps, and Air This week's game will be very similar to last Force is ready for a victory. The Irish week's. Both teams will run the ball effectively defense actually played quite well last week, and the number of possessions will be limited. holding a proficient Navy attack to only Late in the game, Notre Dame will tic the score
Irish 

three touchdowns. But that performance is at 28, then force the Falcons to punt for one of unlikely to be enough against the Falcons, the first times all day. A gutsy Tom Zbikowski whose defense will hold the Irish offense in punt return will put the Irish in good field posi­
experts 

check better than the Midshipmen did. Just tion and thi<> time, with the clock winding down, another bad Saturday for Notre Dame. Charlie Weis will kick the field goal. 
ANAL SCORE: Air Force 24, ANAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Notre Dame 21 Air Force 28 



Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Air Force 
Falcons

HEAD 
Record: 7-3 
Air Force Academy Falcons 

RB QWI1'lerl>8dul FB 1500.. 5Cal'lley 21 wliiiams · 42Stephens 14Smitb 2$Newell 
WR 81 Quintana 7Rool 



TE RT RG 88 Dekker 79 wliiiams 69Monis 85 Madsen 74 Mon"'n 67Weeks 
Air Force 2007 Schedule  
Sept. 1 S.C.STATE -W Sept. 8 atUtah-W Sept. 13 TCU-W Sept. 22 atBYU-L Sept. 29 atNavy-L Oct. 6 UNLV-W Oct. 13 at Colo. State-W Oct. 20 WYOMING-W Oct. 25 at New Mexico-L Nov. 3 ARMY-W Nov.10 at Notre Dame Nov.17 San Diego State  



LB LB 9 Rabold ··,~ 31 Honnesaey 

DE 
NT 93Garland 56 Marvin 9~ Poul""n 76.Lanton 

FS ss ll Gl8imtnl 34Th0111l11 :23 Kltclloff 29Hyder 



FALCONS RUSHING FALCONS PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
The Irish have strug­gled defending the run this year, allowing almost 200 yards per game. The Notre Dame front seven is undersized and has been bitten by the injury  Notre Dame's pass defense has been its strength this season, although Matt Ryan and Mark Sanchez had good days against the Irish. Notre Dame's defensive  The Irish special teams have suffered massive breakdowns at times this season. Against Navy, Charlie Weis has so little confi­dence in his kickers that  The Irish are 1-8 and suffered a heart­breaking loss to a team they hadn't lost to in 43 years last week. It can hardly get any worse. but what is  
bug. Nose guard Pat Kuntz is not expected to play after suffering an injury against Navy.  backs will need to improve their tackling to help out against the option.  he passed up what would have been a game-winning 43 yard field goal.  left to motivate this team? At this point they're just playing out the season.  
The Falcons have one of the best rushing attacks in the nation, although it pales in comparison to Navy's. Air Force will try to get the ball to the corner with Chad Hall as the wide man on the option. The Irish strugglBd to cover the pitch man last week.  Carney is a better passer than Kaipo-Noa Kaheaku-Enhada, and the Falcons pass more often than the Midshipmen. Notre Dame was burned by play action last week, including for the winning touchdown in overtime.  Chad Hall returns both kicks and punts for the Falcons and, while is dangerous, he has yet to return either one for a touchdown this season. Kicker Ryan Harrison is 14-for-22 this year on field goals, including 8­for-1 0 inside 40 yards.  Air Force is 7-3 under its new coach and is confident in its scheme. The Falcons haven't beaten Notre Dame since 1996, but they have come close, losing in overtime in 2000 and falling by just a touch­down in 2002.  
Air Force's offense is slightly different than Navy's, but it still poses many of the same chal­lenges. Notre Dame strug­gled to cover the outside  A\f:~orce's ,~~§.§~pg game::·Will prob~ly be a non"factoiinthiS ·~. Either Notre'·D~t:nEl'·Witl sbui it iiowp, .ox: .. t~e' Palc1Jij'S·\viill'r&:elyi})e!in  Against Boston College, it was a bad punt snap. Against USC, it was a blocker on a punt return getting hit by the ball for fumble.  This game is a chance for the Falcons to show on national television that they have turned around under Calhoun. Meanwhile, Notre  
option last week, and Hall has the speed to take advantage unless the Irish improve dramatically.  ,third ai)J;lJ~ng? --..' ori _both. Air Fore~ migh'¥ try w~nnd suc~~stvith play aeti®. as Nl'V}i'ldid.  Last week, it was a lack of reliable placekicking: What will go wrong next for Irish special teams?  Dame's season was lost weeks ago and there is little left to motivate the Irish.  

AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Troy Calhoun First season at Air Force. career record: 7-3 at AFA: 7-3 against Notre Dame: 0-0 


Roster  
No.  N arne  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I  ChadHall  WR  5-8  180  SR  
2  Carson Bird  DB  5-11  190  SR  
3  Nathan Smith  DB  5-10  190  SR  
4  julian Madrid  LB  6-1  220  SR  
5  Shaun Carney  QB  5-10  190  SR  
6  Kevin Rivers  DB  6-0  195  )R  
7  Mark Root  WR  6-2  195  SR  
8  Reggie Rembert  CB  5-7  190  FR  
8  Eric Herbort  QB  5-11  185  so  
9  john Rabold  LB  6-4  235  SR  
10  Devin Hart  WR  5-9  170  JR  
11  Bobby Giannini  DB  6-2  210  SR  
12  Mike Moffett  WR  5-11  195  SR  
13  Ryan Harrison  K  6-1  190  JR  
14  Shea Smith  QB  5-11  190  JR  
15  jim Ollis  RB  5-11  200  SR  
16  Matt Davis  WR  5-11  185  }R  
17  Kip McCarthy  RB  5-10  200  SR  
18  Davon Ford  RB  5-9  180  so  
18  Will McAngus  QB  6-1  190  FR  
19  Ty Paffett  WR  5-11  180  JR  
20  DanHill  LB  6-1  230  so  
21  ryan Williams  FB  5-9  210'  SR  
22  Brenton Byrd  RB  5-10  190  so  
23  Aaron Kirchoff  DB  6-1  205  JR  
24  Chad Smith  RB  5-10  190  SR  
25  Todd Newell  FB  5-10  210  JR  
26  Spencer Armstrong  WR  6-1  195  JR  
27  Trey Eaton  WR  6-2  195  jR  
28  Dal Shealy  WR  6-2  195  JR  
29  Luke Hyder  DB  5-11  195  JR  
30  Luke Yeager  DB  6-0  195  JR  
· 31  Patrick hennessey  LB  6-2  215  FR  
32  Hunter Altman  LB  6-0  215  JR  
33  Drew Folwer  LB  6-2  240  SR  
34  Chris Thomas  DB  5-11  205  so  
35  Chamberlain HemdonLB  6-4  230  so  
36  Andre Morris  LB  6-3  230  FR  
37  Tony Norman  DB  5-11  205  SR  
38  Kevin Van Hook  RB  5-8  175  so  
39  Garrett Rybak  DB  5-11  180  SR  
40  Scott Peeples  FB  5-10  225  SR  
41  William Keuchler  LB  6-0  200  FR  
42  Savier Stephens  RB  5-11  190  FR  
43  Jus tin Moore  FB  5-11  215  so  
44  Boston McClain  DB  6-0  205  JR  
45  jon Falgout  LB  6-0  230  so  
46  Eric Collins  DB  5-8  170  FR  
47  Reinhold Leicht  LB  6-0  230  so  
48  Brandon Reeves  LB  6-1  230  so  
49  Ryan Gnzales  DL  6-3  300  so  
50  Scott Howley  DL  6-0  205  JR  
51  Aaron Shaneor  LB  6-1  235  SR  
52  Austin Randle  LB  5-11  230  SR  
53  Ken Lamendola  LB  6-3  230  FR  
54  Blaine Hainbach  LB  6-1  230  FR  
55  Clayton Bryant  LB  6-1  205  so  
56  jared Marvin  DL  5-11  265  jR  
57  Nick Charles •  OL  6-4  285  so  
59  john Dolan  DL  6-1  210  so  
60  Chris Campbell  OL  6-3  270  so  
61  Andrew Anderson  OL  6-3  240  so  
62  Peter Lusk  OL  6-3  275  so  
63  Andrew Pipes  OL  6-1  265  JR  
64  Blaine Guenther  OL  6-2  270  SR  
65  Michael Hampton  OL  6-2  275  so  
66  Ben Leung  OL  6-3  286  FR  
67  Tyler Weeks  OL  6-1  270  JR  
68  Kyle Knight  OL  6-1  275  so  
69  Caleb Morris  OL  6-2  285  SR  
70  Matt Markling  OL  6-6  270  FR  
71  Austin Fallin  OL  6-2  275  so  
72  Richard Meldrum  OL  6-3  285  so  
73  Dan Holder  OL  6-6  275  SR  
74  Chris Monson  OL  6-4  265  SR  
75  Anthony Schelstrate  OL  6-5  280  so  
76  Stephen Larson  DL  6-1  240  JR  
77  Bryce Waller  OL  6-4  300  so  
78  Rick Ricketts  DL  6-3  260  FR  
79  Keith Williams  DL  6-6  275  JR  
80  Anthony Hemphill  WR  6-2  195  so  
81  Sean Quintana  WR  6-2  205  so  
82  Michale Krogh  TE  6-3  240  SR  
83  Kyle Halderman  WR  5-11  175  FR  
84  Steve Shaffer  TE  6-4  230  FR  
85  Kieth Madsen  TE  6-3  230  JR  
86  Chris Evans  TE  6-2  245  SR  
87  josh Cousins  WR  6-0  200  so  
88  Travis Dekker  TE  6-4  245  JR  
91  Ryan Kemp  DL  6-5  255  JR  
92  Myles Morales  DL  6-3  250  so  
92  Chad Gross  K  6-2  175  FR  
93  Ben Garland  DL  6-5  270  so  
94  Zack Bell  K  6-2  180  FR  
95  Jake Paulson  DL  6-5  265  JR  
96  Adam Page  DL  6-1  255  so  
97  josh Clayton  DL  6-4  265  SR  
98  Brandon Geyer  P  6-4  200  so  
99  Garrett Gilbertson  DL  6-4  250  JR  

z 
0 
-t
::c 
m 
c 
l>
s: 
m 




Chris Hlne 

Sports Editor 






A·r Em~os LAKJ!5 

625 Dublin Drive Mishawaka. IN 46545 www.epconcommunities.com 
Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Brown feels part of ~something special' 
would judge his "learning curve." Not for Brown. 
Despite 1-8 record, 
Brown, who switched Notre "I love our players," he said. Dame's defense from a 4-3 to a 3-''I'll take my players any day.
coach wants to be 
4 personnel package, offered a And what I have to do, I have tonowhere but ND blunt response. coach better. That's probably the "It's like this: We're 1-8 right biggest thing .... So whoever we 
now, and we've given up far too have, that's the right personnel." 
By KEN FOWLER 
many points," Brown said And then there was Brown's 
Sports Writer 
Wednesday after analysis of last practice. "That's Saturday's game Corwin Brown doesn't appear how I look at it." against Navy.
"It's like this: We're 
to bn the kind of man who likes to Notre Dame T h e hide things, not even his feelings. surrendered at I -8 right now, and Midshipmen A week ago, Notre Dame's first­least 30 points in entered with a
we've given up far too
year defensive coordinator began its flrst five games top-20 scoring
many points.''
to cry during his speech at the this season and offense but Joyce Center pep rally. lie was again in its last managed only saying how an acquaintance two. A large part Corwin Brown three offensive wanted to get on his case about of that, however, 
Irish defensive coordinator touchdowns in 
Notre Dame's troubles this sea­can be attributed regulation son. As the Irish were dealing to the ineffective against Notre with the apparent murder of Earl Irish offense. Dame. "Tony" Hughes, the brother of Notre Dame is last in the nation, But there were also the long freshman tailback Robert Hughes, averaging 208.4 yards per game. drives, the third-down conver­Brown said The Irish, who sions and the missed tackles. he realized dominated Most important to Brown was that "every­time of posses­the fmal score. one wants ''I'll take my players any sion in Charlie "We didn't keep them from 
to be part day. And what I have to do, I Weis' first two scoring enough, even with the of some­years as head three touchdowns," Brown said.
have to coach better. That's 
thing spe­coach, have "Because the only thing that cial." probably the biggest thing. had the ball for matters is, at the end of regula­"Being ... So whoever we have, five minutes tion, that we have more points 
part of less per game than they do." 
that's the. right personnel." 
something than their But isn't it good that a team special"­opponents; averaging 36.9 points per game a team Corwin Brown only seven scored only 22 on offense in four whose play­Irish defensive coordinator teams have quarters? ers rallied been worse. "No silver lining," Brown said. around one That, com­"Because if they had scored five of their own -got Brown choked bined with previous lackluster touchdowns and we would have up. recruiting classes and what many won, I would have felt good 
Days after Notre Dame's first expected to be a bumpy transition about winning." loss to Navy in 44 years, Brown from one scheme to another, could once again played it straight. offer a strong explanation for the Contact Ken Fowler at Notre Dame defensive coordinator Corwin Brown instructs players at 
A reporter asked Brown how he Irish defensive woes. kfowler 1 @nd.edu practice on Aug. 28. Brown is in his first year with the Irish. 

Calhoun brings success back to alma mater 
winningest coach in service his experience at his last job -Weis said. is fitting the Irish into the By CHRIS KHOREY academy history retired and offensive coordinator of the On the other side of the ball, Falcon's schedule, which Sports Editor the Academy hired one of its Houston Texans. Calhoun and new defensive already includes commitments own to replace him. Air Force has increased its coordinator Tim DeRuyter have to play eight Mountain West It's not easy to replace a leg­Calhoun, a 1989 Air Force passing output by 20 yards per completely overhauled the Conference games as well as end. graduate, is the first alumnus game and its total offense by Falcons Army and 
But that's exactly what Troy to ever coach the Falcons -nearly 70 yards this year. defensive Navy. Calhoun is attempting to do and in his first season, he has Notre Dame head coach plan. Air "At the after replacing Fisher DeBerry already reversed the team's Charlie Weis said he has been F o r c e Air Fo"rce
"These are guys that no place
as head football coach at the fortunes. Air Force is 7-3 this impressed by how the Falcons switched to Academy, Air Force Academy. DeBerry season and already has its have used formations to con­a 3-4 is too big for them and no we have eoached the Falcons for 23 sea­most wins in a season since fuse defenses this year. scheme place are they above. That's only two sons, amassing a 169-107-1 2003. "With one personnel group, this year games a
the character ofthe young
record and winning 14 The Falcons still run the for example, they have three and have year that 
men and women ofthe Air 
Commander-In -Chief Trophies. option, as they did under different formations to run an been much we get to But after three straight years DeBerry, but Calhoun has option," he said. m o r e Force Academy. " choose," with at least seven losses, the opened up the offense, using One player who has benefited aggressive. he said. from Calhoun's new offense is " L a s t "The other
Troy Calhoun
wide receiver Chad Hall. Hall is year they ten are all Air Force's leading rusher and weren't Falcons coach set for us." receiver this year with 112 using this T h i s yards on the ground per game 3 4 year, the and 46 through the air. scheme," Falcons 
"They're finding more ways Weis said. "They've turned into used those slots to play South to get the ball in his hands," a big blitz team, which wasn't Carolina State and make the Weis said. "Last year, he was really the case last year." trip to South Bend -the first primarily just a running back Air Force is not on any future time Air Force has visited that would get the ball. Now Notre Dame schedules, but Notre Dame Stadium since they're Calhoun 2000. using him said he Calhoun said his players there, and would like won't be intimidated by their a lot of to see the first trip to Notre Dame. times he's "I think this game is a natural series con­"It's a great place, but it's at wide tinue dur­one of those places where you
for us. We need to go out and
receiver." ing his get there and you realize its 
But even play schools that are tenure in five yards between each of the with the completely committed to Colorado solid lines," he said. new wrin­Springs. Calhoun said the reason his
educating young people." 
k I e s , "I think players won't be intimidated is Calhoun's this game's one that attracted him to the play call­Troy Calhoun a natural Academy in the first place. ing still Falcons coach for us," he "These are guys that no place respects said. "We is too big for them and no place Air Force need to go are they above," Calhoun said. tradition. out and "That's the character of the T h e p l a y young men and women of the Falcons average nearly 300 schools that are completely Air Force Academy." yards on the ground per game. committed to educating young

Air Force coach Troy Calhoun instructs his team during prac­"They have a lot of confi­people." Contact Chris Khorey at tice. Calhoun is 7-3 in his first season in Colorado Springs. dence in their running game," The problem, Calhoun said, ckhorey@nd.edu 
Friday, November 9, 2007 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 8 
. 
•
• ­
. 
~ 
~ ~ 
•• ~ • ~ • 
•
•
•
•
• 
•
. ­





