
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 27 WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER3. 2007 

SUB takes big loss on Purdue lottery 
Only half of raffle winners claim tickets 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
Tlw Student Union Board (SUB) was unable to sell 58 studnnt football tickets to Notre Dame's game Saturday at Purdue, according to SUB manager Phil Hoss--making the 33­19 loss against the Boilermakers also the biggest loss SUB has expe­rienced on a football ticket sale in recent years. 
SUB originally offered the Purdue tickets for sale through a lottery held Sept. 12, in which there were 196 winners who were eli­gible to purchase two tick­
ets each. Of the 196 lottery winners. however, about half were claimed before the Sept. 24 deadline. 
The remaining tickets were then made available for sale to the general stu­dent body, SUB director of publicity Laura Fox said. 
For the Michigan game, the first away game ticket sale this year, SUB sold the entirety of its 196 ticket allotment. All 98 winners of the initial lottery claimed their tickets, who were each allowed to pur­chase two tickets. 
After only half' of the lot­tery winners claimed their 
see PURDUE/page 4 


Entrepreneurs vie for prizes, investors 
Gigot contest encourages, rewards innovation 
tive ventures and their respec­tive business plans. 
Since 1999, the yearlong com­petition has drawn students from every college and major to submit pioneering, financially­realizable projects and helped them to produee a business pro­posal they can submit to investors, Daniel Buckenmeyer, the Center's associate director, said Tuesday. 
"Students can come up with ideas that may seem crazy at first, but in reality they may be the next YouTube, and this com­petition allows them to build a tool that will tell them whether or not this thing can succeed in 
see ENTERPRISE/page 6 


By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Facebook began as a Harvard student's idea --and today the social network is a business val­ued at nearly $1 billion. 
The next great idea could be under construetion right now -­and the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies' busi­ness plan competition could be the tool that helps it become a reality. 
The Center's annual contest awards more than $40,000 in prizes to teams of students, alumni and University employ­ees that can present to potential investors promising and innova-
SMC connects students, leaders 
Senator Bayh's regional director reflects on career, emphasizes internships 
By MANDl STIRONE News Writer 
The l'irst ever Leadership Luncheon at Saint Mary's took place Monday when a regional director to U.S. Senator Evan Bayh led a roundtable discussion. 
Julie Vuckovich. regional direc­tor in the office of Sen. Bayh, spoke to 10 to 15 people about leadership, exploring its political and social aspects. 
Vuekovich explained how she became involved in politics. She took a job with the Urban Coalition, which led her to beeome involved with community communication. and she transi­
see LUNCH/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
COR 
Freshman fills vacant position 
Parliamentarian makes sure constitution obeyed 
By JOHN TIERNEY News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) approved Tyler "T.J." Smith as parliamentarian at its meeting Tuesday. Smith fills a position that, though writ­ten into the student union constitution, was previously vacant. 
Smith, a freshman from Knott Hall, has assisted in his dorm's programming events, such as the Knott Rodeo, since coming to Notre Dame. In high school, he participated in student government and served as the vice president of Model United Nations. 
Smith "enjoys the techni­cal and rule-based parts of government," judicial coun­cil president Ashley Weiss said in her nomination let­ter to the members of COR, in support of Smith. 
As parliamentarian, Smith is responsible for ensuring that all rules are followed at all student government meetings. 
During a period in which COR members could pose questions to Smith, student body vice president Maris 
see RULES/page 4 


Annual W"alk raises funds to fight poverty 
College attendance low at nationwide event 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Only five members of the Saint Mary's social work club participated in the annual Communities Responding to Overcome Poverty (CROP) walk Sunday at Howard Park. But despite the low atten­dance this year, the students that participated in the event said they were happy to have been there. 
The walk, sponsored by the Christian World Service, was one of hundreds that will occur across the country throughout October to raise money for local hunger-fight­ing agencies and internation­
al poverty relief organiza­tions. 
"[The walk] is a wonderful example of the South Bend community's dedication to the awareness of social justice issues and commitment to the elimination of social injus­tices," social work club presi­dent Connie Adams said. 
The walk not only benefits international agencies com­bating hunger and poverty, but also the local South Bend community. 
"Twenty-five percent of the money collected [by the CROP walk] stays in our communi­ty," said Carrie Call, the direc­tor of the Office for Civic and 
see CROP/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Noslim pickings here 
Perhaps the gmatest joy of being a Notrn Dame student is knowing that one day you'll get to usn your degree to do something spectacular in th1~ real world. 
Then senior year arrives and James Costa the options pile up like snow on a mountaintop. Assistant 
The fact that 

Scene Editor 
there are so many possibili­ties is both exciting and daunting. Most seniors at this point pretty much know whether they'll be con­tinuing on the path of higher learn­ing or venturing out into a world far removed from the libraries and labs of academia. 
r 
It's this idea of branching out that causns such anxious thought and frazzlnd conversation at any num­ber of the local South Bend water­
ing holns on any night of the week.
' 
Maybe you want to do service. That's great. But where to bngin? 
You could teach with the ACE program or Teach For Ameriea. Or are the struggling third-world pop­ulations of the world constantly calling out in the back of your mind for hnlp and aid? Peace Corps could be just the right fit. 
And these are just three of the many service options available to graduating Domers. 
So the dnsnrts of Africa or a ram­bunctious elassroom of sixth graders in the Bronx just aren't exactly what you have in mind? That's entirely fair. 
Aftor all. most would agree that falling deep into debt for the oppor­tunity of studying beneath the watchful gaze of Our Lady is service enough for awhile. 
If you're smart with numbers and an intelligent communicator, a gig with an investment bank or a spot in a business leadership program might be appealing with all their promises of fat paychecks and uppnr-management exposure in the first few years out of school. 
But do these look dull and bor­ing? 
There's always consulting. where it is possible to work with a wide variety of clients and businesses. After a few years as a consultant, it's not too tough to find a job in one of the industries to which you previously acted as an expert con­sultant. 
But then you'd be in the same ideological jam you found yourself in when you turned down the job with GE to stalk the halls of Bain. 
Or maybe all this seems like it's just not worth the effort. Well, there's always mom and dad's couch and the aceompanying privi­lege of overhearing mom constantly reaflirming her friends that yes, her dear son or daughter is "find­ing" himself or herself and will soon be the great success we all expeeted after watching the little rascal graduate with NHS honors four years ago. 
Or maybe you'll end up doing something no one ever would guess. We'll see. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Oct. 2 issue, the tirle of Emerson Spartz's book should have read, "What Will Happen in Harry Poncr 7: Who Lives, Who Dies, Who Falls in Love. and How Will rhe Adventure Finally End." The Observer regrets this error. 
.--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU LIKE NOTRE DAME TO BRING TO CAMPUS AS A SPEAKER? 

John Yerkes  Dan Reid  Danny Franco  John Crowder  Chrissy Klauer  Laura McMenamin  
sophomore Knott  sophomore Knott  sophomore Knott  junior Zahm  freshman Pasquerilla East  freshman Pasquerilla East  
"Obama. He's the new thing in politics, and I  "Nelson, Willie."  "Captain Falcon from Smash Bros. "  "Danny Franco's momma.  "'The Office.' Dwight is my homie for life. "  "Dane Cook. "  




hear he's a good speaker. ,, 


MARK MANLEY!The Observer Sophomore Pam Johnson, far left, and junior Jake Skrabacz, members of the Notre Dame Swing club, dance Tuesday night at the Knute Rockne Memorial Gym. 
OFFBEAT 
Spiders, scorpions found In Manila mail 
MANILA, Philippines ­The package from Hong Kong looked innocent enough, marked "personal clothing." But when customs offieials opened it, they were stunned to see about 300 live scorpions and spiders. 
The scorpions and spiders -which included tarantulas -were paeked in nets. bot­tles and transparent plastic boxes, concealed under clothes, newspapers report­ed Wednesday. 
"The scorpions almost bit the examiner," Nelson Ebio, a port collector at the Central Mail Exchange Center, told the Philippine Daily Inquirer. It was the first time the post office had encountered such poisonous mail, he said. 

The Philippine Star daily quoted Ebio as saying the paekage arrived from Hong Kong on Monday, but it was not dear who sent it or why, though some speculated they could have been intended for a collector of the creatures. 
Man uses adult store's cuffs In robbery 
FERNDALE. Mich. -A parolee faces charges of rob­bing a lingerie and adult novelties store after locking up a clerk with a pair of off-the-shelf handcuffs. 
Police in the Detroit sub­urb of Ferndale say the clerk triggered a holdup alarm after seeing the masked sus­pect enter the Priscilla's store shortly after noon Monday. The man announced a robbery, led the woman into a back room and handcuffed her to a stor­age shelf. 
The clerk got to a phone and called poliee. who were waiting for the man as he walked out the back door. Officers said they recovered $213 in cash. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


IN BRIEF 

There will be a workshop titled "Interviewing for the Academic Job Market" today from 4 to 
5:15 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo Hall. Registration is needed. Panelists will eoneentrate on issues related to Science and Engineering stu­dents. 
Notre Dame men's soccer will play Michigan tonight at 7 p.m. at Alumni Fie1d. 
There will be an Eastern Orthodox Prayer Service tonight as part of the Prayer From Around the World series. The service will be at R p.m. in 330 Coleman-Morse. 
The Feast of St. F.-ancis Mass will be held Thursday at 5:15 
p.m. at Alumni Hall chapel. The Mass is sponsored by the Orestes Brownson Council. 
A conference on "Knowledge and Religious Identity: Institutions of Higher Learning in Judaism, Christianity, Islam and Beyond" will take place all day Friday at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Black Cultural Arts Council is holding auditions for its annual talent show, Black Images 2007. The auditions are Monday, Oct. R and Tuesday, Oct. 9 from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. in LaFortune Gold Room. All tal­ents are welcome to audition. 
Army ROTC will host its annu­al Firm Fit Challenge Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. The thri­ahtlon will kiek off outside Lyons Hall. Proceeds will benefit the Wounded Warriors Project. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

85 55 


HIGH LOW 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: LLI :::z::: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( (.) 



70 52 


85 63 

HIGH LOW 
0 
HIGH 75
...I 
LOW 57 

Wednesday, October 3, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Geoscience professor's 
Irish WWII neutrality exalllined 

vvork top-10 lllost cited 
Government's stance did nothing to shelter people from effects of war 
the Irish government, an Irish on the Irish peo­"In a sense, w h i I e 
the field of geosciences for 
seholar said in a lecture ple, despite their neutrality was not American 
the period 1997 to 2006. 
Tuesday. neutrality. propaganda 
Thomson Scientific, a

peace, but war

Clair Wills, a professor of "The Irish accused 
division of the Thomson 
Irish Literature at Queen underwent severe with both Ireland of 
Corp. published the rank­
Mary's College at the austerity measures sides." "cowardice," 
ings of the most cited insti­
University of London, spoke without the satis­Wills said. 
tutions, authors and jour­
about her book, "That Neutral faction of fight­Despite 
nals in a recent edition of
Clair Wills 

Ireland: A Cultural History of ing," Wills said. these charges 
Science Watch. Data from 
Ireland during the Second The battle Queen Mary's College against 
224 journals and more than 
World War" in Planner Hall. between Germany professor of Irish Ireland, 
150,000 papers were ana­
Ireland's neutral stance dur­and Britain was " w h a t 
lyzed and used to determine
literature 

By THERESA CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Ireland's neutral stance dur­ing World War II did not keep the Irish people from experi­encing the effects of the war, despite media censorship by not peace, but war with both sides," Wills said of the peo­ple's mixed feelings about Ireland's decision to not pick a side in the conflict. 

Wills followed this observa­tion with a discussion of the harsh wartime measures imposed work in the College of Engineering, he serves as a concurrent professor in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry. 
A fellow of the Mineralogical Society of America (MSA), Burns also is a member of the American Chemical Society and the Materials Research Society and serves as vice president of the Mineralogical Association of Canada. 
He has received numerous awards throughout his career, including the Winthrop Spencer Gold Medal for Outstanding Achievement in Geological Sciences, the Hawley Medal and the Young Scientists Medal of the Mineralogical Association of Canada, the Mineralogical Society of America Award and the Donath Medal as the out­standing young scientist from the Geological Society of America. 
Burns was graduated from the University of New Brunswick and earned his master's degree in geology from the University of Western Ontario and his doctorate in geology from the University of Manitoba. 
The most cited author in the survey was the University of Manitoba's Frank C. Hawthorne. who was Burns' di_ssertation adviser. 
ing World War II, she said, was very controversial at the time. "In a sense, neutrality was 
both visible and 
tangible northwest 
of Ireland, Wills said, creating a major problem for the Irish government as it tried to censor war news. Officials could not prevent corpses of German and British soldiers from washing up on the Irish coast. "As many as 10 or 15 bodies washed up each day," Wills said. Faced with such hard evidence of the war's destruction and its repercussions, the Irish spent the dura­tion of the conflict in "a really detailed and complex public dis­course" on how to handle and approach the events around them, she said. Eventually, Ireland resolved to follow Catholic social teach­
ing throughout the entire neu­trality experience, "focusing on justice with compassion," Wills said. 
Wills noted the importance of propaganda during the war. British propaganda referred to the Irish "betrayal" 
Special to The Observer 
Peter C. Burns, chair and Henry J. Massman Professor of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has been named one of the top 10 most cited authors in 
remained in 
Ireland was pride in having pulled it off, in resisting Allied pressure," Wills said. 
But the propaganda didn't just come from the Allies, she said. 
The Irish government used censorship during the war to try to make neutrality popular. Wills referenced a series of memos among top-ranking Irish government officials at the time which emphasized the need for the press to "talk about other neutral states, keep up morale, tell the Irish how the Pope is really pleased with [Ireland] for being neu­tral." 
Despite these efforts, neu­trality created "a deep awk­wardness for the Irish people over not having taken part in the war," which still exists today. 
the rankings. Burns, with 1,330 citations in the past decade, ranks seventh. He is one of just three researchers from a U.S. institution (Stanford University and University of California, Berkeley, are the others) represented on the list. 
Burns' research encom­passes environmental min­eralogy and crystallogra­phy, mineral crystal struc­tures and crystal chem­istry, mineral structural energetics, mineral parage­nesis and nuclear waste disposal. 
A faculty member since 1997, Burns has served as department chair since 2002. In addition to his 
Contact Theresa Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 




page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 3, 2007 

Purdue 
continued from page 1 

Purdue tiekets, SUB e-mailed students Sept. 24 to announce the sale of the renllllning half at the LaFortune Box Orriee. 
On Sept. 27, just two days bnfore the game, SUB sent the student body a second e­mail, reminding them there were sti II Purdue tickets cost $65 for students, while tickets for the Michigan game cost $60. 
Based on The Observer's calculations, SUB lost approximately $3,770 more on the Purdue ticket lottery and sale than it does on a typical away-game ticket distribution, possibly bring­ing the total losses up to as much as $5,000. 
And with the team's con­tinued losing streak, it is unclear how much stu­
available for "We will dents will purchase. choose to
continue
Saturday's purchase
to make every
game at Purdue tickets at marks the effort possible to future lotter­biggest loss on ies and travel
provide as many
unsold football to away
tickets for the
tickds since a games. ganw at Navy a student away game Josh Berlo, few years ago, the director
lotteries." 
when approxi­of the Ticket mately 100 tiek­Ofl'ice, said ets weren't pur­Josh Berlo the Irish's chasPd, Hoss Ticket Office director performance 
said. At a meeting of the Council 
0 f Heprnsnntatives on Sp,pt. II. Hoss said SUB loses about $1 ,000 on Pach ticht lottery and sale it holds -even wlwn all tickets are sold ­dun to fees that must be paid to tiH1 box ol'fice and to l.ngends, which hosts the lot­teries. 
Wlwn not all of the tickets are sold. SUB's loss increas­ns as it must absorb the dif­ferenee betwnen the cost of the total numbnr of tickets allotted to studnnts and the revenue the actual sales brought in. 
For the Purdue game, 3Y2 were allotted but only 334 were sold to students, Hoss said. 
SUB buys away tickf1ts from tlw tickPt of'f'ice at facn valun and sl'lls them to stu­dnnts for tlw same price. 
Ticknts to tlw Purdue game 

Lunch 
continued from page 1 
tiorwd to working for a con­grnssman. 
Slw spoke of the importance of fnndback and community involvPnwnt in government. 
"You are the government," slw said. "It's your voice. You are tlw leader." 
Studt~nts asked for advice about earner goals in politics and soda! work. 
"It's difficult when you answer a phone, and you really disagree with the person on the other line," she said. 
The answer for that is to lis­ten and pass on the person's opinion to their representive, she said. 
She ended the discussion by telling her listeners how impor­tant it is for them to "be con­nected" with the eommunity. 
"All you have to do is step out of that little comfort zone," she said. 
This was the first in a series of Leadership l.unchnons ­events which could occur as frnqtwntly as once nvery two wonks, said Sarita Fritzler, tho nvnnt's organiznr. 
"Tlw main goal for l.nadnrship Luncheons is for studPnts at Saint Mary's to intPrart with women in tho community," Fritzlnr said. 
Tlw id11a for thn Leadership l.undwons originated this sum­nwr from disrussions betwenn will not affect 
his office's 
efforts to 

make away game tickets available to students, and he hopes they will continue to show their support to the team by pur­chasing them. 
"We will continue to make every effort possible to pro­vide as many tickets for the student away game lotter­ies," Bnrlo said. 
SUB will host a lottery Friday for the rights to exchange student tiekets for general admission tickets for thn USC homo game Oct. 20. 
Hoss said 750 students will bo able to exehange their tickets after winning the lot­tery and paying the Athletic Ticket Office the $31 differ­enen between the cost of a student ticket and a general admission tieket. 
Contact John Tierney at tierney.16@nd.edu 
Fritzler and Bonnie Bazata, associate director of The Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership ICWII.). 
The luncheons, which Fritzler called a "collaborative effort," are sponsored by CWIL and the Board of Governance. 
"It's opnn to everyone, and if they have suggestions for who they want to see, just let us know," Fritzler said. 
Other speakers will include Kathy Schneider of St. Margaret's House and Marchell Wesaw, a Potawatomi lawyer and Harvard graduate. 
Bazata got the speakers by generating a list of women in the community that would pro­vide insight to students and then found ways to connect them to the students, Fritzler said. 
The guests, all women, are targeted to speeific groups on eampus, Fritzler said. 
"The purpose is for students to understand dill'erent women from the South Bend communi­ty," she said. 
Future Jp,ctures will focus on law. business and women's issues, she said. The main idea ovfwall is social justice, "all of our tlwmes are around that," she said. 
The talks could also be valu­abln venues for students to net­work and obtain internships, Fritzlnr said. 
Contact Mandi Stirone at astiroO I @saintmarys.edu 
CROP 
continued from page 1 
Soeial Events (OCSE). 
Money raised at this year's event will benefit the Food Bank of Northern Indiana, the St. Vincent de Paul food pantry, Hope Rescue Mission 
and  La  Casa  de  Amistad,  
among  other  local  food  
pantries.  

Saint Mary's has been send­ing students to the CROP walk for the last eight years, includJ ing 15 students in 2006, Call said. 
The goal for this year, she said, was to send at least 20 students. but sehedule con­flicts made that figure unat­tainable. Call said the other benefit walk scheduled for this week -Thursday's Light the Night walk. will take place on Saint Mary's campus. The event will raise money for the Luekemia and Lymphoma Society. 
Moreover, the College is also sending the "Belles Brigade" to the Making Strides Against Breast Cancer walk in down­town South Bend Saturday. 
The option to attend the other walks might have con­tributed to this year's low attendance at the CHOP walk, Call said. 
"The number of students from Saint Mary's walking this year is low compared to previ­ous years," Call said. "[Those other two walks are] pulling in many of the volunteers who might have done the CHOP walk." 
Other groups, however, were able to send larger delega­tions. St. Joseph's Jligh School's Helping Other People Endure (II.O.P.E.) charity organization sent a group of almost 100 students to the CHOP walk, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
To boost Saint Mary's partici­pation in the event, the OCSE was hoping to increase the College's CHOP donation to $400, up from last year's $350 contribution. Final figures weren't available, since dona­tions for the event can still be made, said Jayne Fogle, direc­tor of the Educational Learning-Tree and CHOP walk campus liaison. 
"[The CHOP walk's goal] this year is to earn $5,000 over last year's total in order to receive a $5,000 matching grant," Fogle said. 
The walk raised more than $32,000 last year, aceording to the Tribune. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO I @saintmarys.edu 

Rules 
continued from page 1 
Braun, who is also respon­sible for running Senate meetings, asked, "Are you prepared to baby-sit me for one hour on Wednesday nights beeause my meetings are a train wreck?" 
Smith said he was "so prepared." 
He was less enthusiastic, however, about student government director of communications Will Kearney's suggestion "to use physical foree to keep Maris and !student body president] Liz [Brown I in line." 
"I don't know about phys-
Both schools will be in session during the Jan. 7­13 trip. Applications are available online at ace.nd.edu and are due Oct. 19, he said. Tho trip is open to all students. 
Fresh faces 

Approximately 12 fresh­men applied for Senate committees this fall, according to student body ehief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil. 
Around 50 freshmen attended the "Student Government 101" recruiting session. con members were impressed with these num­bers. 
Contact John Tierney at jtiernel@nd.edu 

ieal foree," Smith said. Smith was approved to 
the position Parliamentarian mously.  of unani­ 
ACE speaker  

Christopher Broughton, an on-campus recruiter for the Alliance for Catholic Edueation (ACE), spoke at the con meeting to promote applications for the pro­gram, whieh places gradu­ates in under-resoureed Catholic schools for a two­year period as teachers. 
Broughton also urged COR members to promote ACE's service trip over winter break to New Orleans and Biloxi, Miss, to work with two schools affected by Hurrieane Katrina. 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 CoMPILED rROA-1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Korean leaders meet for rare summit 
SEOUL, South Korea -The first summit between the divided Koreas in seven years opened Tuesday to rapturous cheers from hundreds of thousands of North Koreans, but their leader gave the visiting South Korean president a chillier reception. 
The words ''I'm glad to meet you" were apparently the only ones North Korean leader Kim Jong II uttered to South Korean President Rob Moo-hyun during their first encounter in the North's capital Pyongyang -a 12-minute welcoming ceremony to launch the three-day summit. The two did not have substantive talks. 
This week's summit is only the second time leaders of the North and South have met since the Korean peninsula was divided after World War II. 
Brown to reduce British troops in Iraq 
BASHA. Iraq -Prime Minister Gordon Brown announced Tuesday that he was slashing the remaining British contingent in Iraq by nearly 20 percent. A beleaguered Iraqi leader said his own forces would be ready to take up the slack in the eountry's oil-rich southernmost province in two months. 
Brown's one-day, unannounced swing through Iraq eomes as U.S. military officials are eonC<1rnPd that the reduced British pres­ence in tlw south could open security gaps along key supply and transit routes to Kuwait. 
The roadways are a vital lifeline for U.S. forces. And everything that the Americans can't fly out of the eountry when they even­tually leave must make the long and poten­tially dangerous road journey to Kuwait through Basra provinee. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Explosion traps five dam workers 
GEOHGETOWN, Colo. -A chemical explosion and fire at a hydroelectric gen­erating plant outside this mountain town trapped five workers in a water tunnel about 1,000 feet below ground. 
All fivo were alive and were communi­cating with rescuers, Clear Creek County Emergency Director Kathleen Gaubatz said. 
It was not clear whether the workers were hurt. Crews were rappelling down a 55-d<1gnw incline to reach the them. 
Gaubatz said epoxy paint had exploded but the structural integrity of the dam was not corn promised. 
The Cabin Creek Station plant, owned by Xcel Energy, is about 30 miles west of Dnnver. 
Mother charged for child drownings 
CLEVELAND -A woman on Tuesday was charged in the bathtub drowning deaths of her two young daughters, and was being lwld in jail on suieide watch. 
City prosecutors filed two counts of aggravated murder against Amber Hill, 22, after a eoronnr ruled the deaths of the girls, ages 4 and 2, wen1 homicides. 
Hill had no documented history of neglecting the girls, but had herself been the virtim of abuse by their father, Jamie Cintron. according to authorities and court records. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Lab tech accused of biting patient 
INDIANAPOLIS -A former lab technician f'acns a battery charge after she was aecusnd of biting a 3-year-old boy's shoulder during a blood test. 
Anne Mc(;Jorthon, 53, of Indianapolis could f';u:n six months to thme years in prison if' she's CllllVidnd. 
Tlw boy's mother, Faith Buntin. said she took lwr son Victor to St. Vinrnnt Hospital in Indianapolis on Sept. 21 bc<:ause of' nH:ent rPcalls of' toys involving lead. Slw said the work­er later idPntilied as McG!orthon put lwr mouth on Virtor's shoulder whiln rnstraining him so anotlwr lab worker could draw the blood. 
Wildfires growingmore intense, aggressive 
Firefighters say they are less likely to risk their lives saving unprotected homes from fires 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY ­Fueled by drought and development, wildfires in the West are getting big­ger and more aggressive, creating conditions so dangerous that fire bosses are increasingly reluctant to risk lives saving houses -particularly if the own­ers have done nothing to protect their property. 
From Southern California to Montana, seven firefighters have died this year battling blazes that have destroyed more than 400 houses, a dramatic increase from last year. 
The firefighters' job has been made more haz­ardous by an onslaught of houses and vacation cab­ins being built across the rugged West -some of them inside national forests. An estimated 8.6 million houses have been built within 30 miles of a national forest since 1982. 

"There's the frustration of knowing these people aren't taking care of their home. and why do we have to do it?" said John Watson, a Fairfield, Mont., firefighting contractor who uses a 750-gallon fire engine to protect remote houses. "I've asked them, Smurthwaite, a U.S. "We at least seem to be than 1 1/2 times last 'Do you understand the Bureau of Land having larger and more year's total of 263, federal danger?' There isn't a Management spokesman intense fires," said U.S. statistics show. California, whole lot that needs to be and former firefighter. Forest Service fire as usual, has the biggest done to mitigate the Now, "we will not ask a researcher Jack Cohen in toll, with 338 houses threat, but they won't do fire crew in a dangerous Missoula, Mont. burned so far this year. it. They say: 'I'd rather fire to defend a structure So far this year, wild­From the West Coast to have my cabin burn down that has not taken precau­fires have consumed 8.2 a few Plains states, 26 with the trees than have tionary steps. That's defi­million acres nationwide, million houses -40 per­you eut some down."' nitely a change." an area larger than cent of the housing stuck 
Fire eommanders say Wildfires have always Maryland, and most of it -are in forests or they are more likely to naturally swept the land­in the West, according to perched on the edge of walk away from houses scape, but seientists say the National Interagency flammable wildlands, without a buffer zone, they are becoming more Fire Center in Boise. That aceording to Volker C. whieh can be as simple as catastrophic. There is lit­figure is fast approaching Radeloff, a professor of raking debris from around tle dispute that the wild­last year's record of 9.9 forest ecology at the a house and leaving a bed fires are being fueled by a million acres, and the fire University of Wisconsin at of gravel at the founda­hotter weather, a years­season can last through Madison. tion, or putting metal long drought, the spread November in many parts "There's more at stake," roofs on their homes of weeds that burn like of the West. particularly Radeloff said. "Everybody instead of flammable oily rags and the buildup in fire-prone Southern loves to live close to the wood shakes. of forest debris from California. wildlands and the houses 
Until recently, firefight­decades in which fires By Sept. 26, wildfires are getting dispersed, ers "saluted and went out were routinely sup­had destroyed 409 houses making them harder to and did it," said Don pressed. across the West, more defend." 

AFGHANISTAN 

Suicide bombing kills 12 on Kabul bus 
Associated Press children. entered the bus, then a woman with 
"One woman was holding a baby in two children. then the guy wearing 
KABUL, Afghanistan -A suicide her arms, and they were both killed," the chador entered, and then a big bomber boarded a police bus just Saqi said. "Half of the woman's face boom," said Gul. after a woman and her two children was blown off." The seats in the front of the bus got on, setting off a blast Tuesday that At least 12 people were killed, said were covered in blood and small body blew the roof ofT the bus and killed at Ahmad Zia Aftali, chief of Kabul's mil­parts, and a reporter at the scenn said least 12 people, including several chil­itary hospital. he thought there would be few sur­dren. officials and witnesses said. One witness told Afghan investiga­vivors among people sitting there. 
The explosion -the seeond such tors hn thinks a man wearing a pakul Several peopl1~ waiting at the bus attack in Kabul in four days -came -an Afghan hat commonly worn in stop suspectnd the bomber of having at a bus stop serving civilians and the country's north -and a shawl explosives because he IPt one policP polil'l'. around thP uppPr half of his body bus go by without boarding it. said 
Ahmad Saqi, a 20-year-old mechan­called a chador snt ofl' the explosion. Saqi and anotlwr shop owner, A,pnal ic, said he helped put sewn people in Amin Gul said he first saw several Khan. vehides for runs to the hospital, and police board the bus, followPd by the Ttwsday's Pxplosion is the third that sev<~ral of those people had no bomber. attack in four months against polii'.P legs. lie said he saw at least four dead "When the bus came, an old man or army buses. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
Enterprise 
continued from page 1 
thn markntplacP," Bw:knnrnnynr 
said. "H.'s a n•al world lnstlwd for 
st.udnnL'i." 
Tlw !:ompPLition's judgns arn 
not prof'nssors or Univnrsit.y 
administrators but rallwr ouL'iidn 
businnssnwn who volunt.nnr t.hnir 
Limn to thn CPnt<•r through t.hn 
lrishAngnls Iwlwork. 
Thn nnlwork brings lognllwr 
Noln~ Danw alumni who havn 
entrnprmwurial nxpnrinnee and 
share thn Cnnt<~r·s ndueat.ional 
mission of fostering nnt.reprn­
nnurship in students through 
education and tnamwork. 
"It is through lrishAngnls that 
wn are able to lind the speaknrs 
that come to campus throughout 
thn year to teach the students 
how to put together a business 
plan," Buckenmeyer said. "And 
they rnvinw every singln business 
plan that g~ts produced in this 
competition." 
lie said by putting the studenL<;' work in the hands of lrishAngnls judges ratlwr than professors, thn Cnntnr is drawing a dear line betwnen the elassroom and the rnal marketplaee. 
"The people that look at the businnss plan aren't grading grammar. They are looking at thnm from a pure, real-world businnss perspeetive and saying 'Would this thing sell?' And that's really the value of tlw compnti­lion," Buekenmeynr said. "Students will know the market.­placn value or their invention or their vnnturn." 
Last ynar. approximately SO tnams nntered the compntition with nothing but an idea and a gennral proposal to realize it. About 40 teams made it to thn 1wxt round, wlwre tlwy aetually had to producn a full-lnnJ..,rth busi­ness plan. 
And the Cigot Center walked the dill'nrent tnams through this process. 
With training sessions and workshops spread throughout llw acadnmic ynar, thn Center t.nadws studnnL'i how to prnparn nac:h snc:tion of their husinnss plans. from rneognizing a good idna t.o umlerstanding tho target customnr to locating funding for llw projnet. 
BesidPs lrishAngnls, the NAS­DA<) l·:durational Foundation and l'aloAilo Software lwlp the Gigot Cm1ter prPpan• tlw lnams fiw t.hn linal round or thn eompot.it.ion, wlwrn t.lwy will pitch llwir ven­turn to a panel of seasmwd nntrn­prPiwurs. 
1-:<u:h lPam working on a busi­ness plan, Buekenmoyer said, will bP partnen•d with a mentor from t.lw lrishAngels network that will contribute his profes­sional expertis1~ to the projoet. 
"One of the teams from sevnral yoars ago continued to work with its mentor from the business plan comp!~tit.ion tWilll after winning it. Their mentor helped them launch the business, and the team adually hirnd il'i mentor as the company's CEO," Buekenmeynr said. 
That company, Bntter World Books. is now an established soeial nnterprise that colleets usnd books and resells them to collect money for under­rnsourcmllitnracy programs. 
"They an~ one of the top book sellers in tlw Internet right now, shipping out about 7,000 books nvory day," he said. 
And Better World Books isn't the only success story that has como out of the Gigot business plan competition. 
Onn of last year's finalist teams will gnl on-air time during NBC's broadcast of the USC gamn as lim Notre Dame "What would you light for'?" eommereial will fea­ture its invention, a patented 

device that lu~lps blind competi­
t.ivn swimmers know when they 
arn nmrhing t.hn pool's walls. 
Annie Sawicki, a swimming coach at the Joycn CPnter, said she wanted to lind a way to help blind swimmPrs work their way bark and forth across the pool's lanns without dnpnnding on a sighted counterpart to tnll tlwm wlwn llwy're approaching the Pdge. 
Thn projnet, now callnd Adapt Tap. has aii·eady gamnrr1d tho altnntion of ABC. ESI'N and NBC Sports. 
"I truly feel that NBC Sports capturnd what we continue to try to do, whieh is light against all odds to help our fellow Iblind I studenL'i out here at Notre Dame as they were very challenged in our facilities," Sawicki said. 
Blind Notre Dame students James Fetter and Ashley Nashlnana.s, as well as other stu­dents and professors, helped Sawicki develop the business plan fi>r the Gigot eompntition, an Bxpnrience she remembers fond­ly. 
"Every step we were given more mentors and Irish Angels. Everyonfl had more points and more was developed," she said. 
Adapt Tap is currently seeking funding to test its three proto­types with 20 subjects aeross the Midwest. Sawicki said she hopes the product will be ready for launch before the 2008 Olympics kiek oil'. 
And Sawieki's entrepreneurial venture isn't the only one helping make lives better. 
One of last year's winning busi­ness plans, PFNC -which stands for "Pur Fin. Nuestra Casa" (Spanish for "Finally, a home of our own") -sought to improve the living arrangements of Latin Ameriean immigrants in the areas around Juarez, Mexico, and El Paso. Texas. 
"Wn have seen the poverty that these people live in, and have always wanted to find a way to hnlp." said senior Pablo Nava. onn of the members of the PFNC tnam. 
PFNC approaches established corporations in the Juarez/EI Paso armts and works with them to build affordable housing for imm igrant.s using abandoned shipping and trucking eontainers from across the nation. 
A year aftnr winning onn of the eompnlition's two top prizes. Nava and his team mnmbnrs are still developing PFNC, using many of the contacts he made during his run with the 


~~)' >I~' '~~ 
~;d ~ <.... ' f.T!'1 
"",~>til"; II
..... '""1'" ")«.
0
~ A'«~ ~ "'"' 
~
. 

European Studies Program, and CESP returnees on 
Thursday, October 4th and Tuesday, October 30th 5:30PM -120 DeBartolo Hall 
Application Deadline is November 15, 2007 
"The !Gigot] eompetition was a lot of hard work, a lot of late nights, and absolutely worth every last seeond," he said. "It forced us to answer many dilli­eult questions that we had not considered, and it forced us to put on paper what we had in our heads. It was also great to have such tlstablished business people evaluating our idea, from across the nation, and offering very valuablo input." 
Besidos PFNC, the other win­ning learn last year was Solar Shade, a team that impressnd the judges with its high-end inven­tion. 
Snnior Will MeLeod says he came up with the idea in physics class, while he was learning about polarizers. 
"I had heard of a product called 'Smart Windows' that tints from dear to black on eommand, and I thought, 'I know how they do that,· but then I looked it up. and it turns out they did it an enlirnly diflcnmt way," McLeod said. 
And in that way, he and his teammatns wrote a business plan around their own "Smart Window." 
"SolarShadc, now callnd Lono LLC, just got a grant to help develop our tnehnology to a morn manufacturable produet," ho said. "We are in talks with a Nanotech firm to start making a first round product, and we're pushing ahead with the long slow patent process." 
But though there's still work to be done, McLeod says he's proud 

THE HENRY LUCE FOUNDATION 
of his t1~am's product, which can lint from nearly completely dear to mirrored. They hope to sell licenses to skylight and BV win­dow manufaclurnrs, which may be intPresl.nd in t.hn product. 
lie said he met BV manufadur­nrs through the Gigot Center, and he encouraged students to lake advantage of their snrviees. "even if you don't know anything about business." 
"If you have tho pationee to seek out tho hnlp-and they put it right t.hnm in front of you in this program -you can do it," McLood said. "Look at us lnngi­nnersj. We boat MBA's, Ph.D's and !-,'Tad studnnL<;." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 

{If, When it's the §@[fi)@~(ID[J§[fi)O~W prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an excltlng1·yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 2, 2007. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end ofMay, 2008) an NO degree? No east-Asia experience? For more infonnation, contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 
FROM &OLDEN DOM£TO &OLDEN DACHL 
The Central European Studies Program in Innsbruck, Austria 
• 
Immersion in German language and culture 

• 
Acadeinic year and semester options 

• 
An opportunity for exposure to Central European Issues 

• 
A great location from which to access Eastern and Western Europe 


INFORMATION SESSION 
with Dr. Gernot 0. Guertler, Director of the Central 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 14,047.31 -40.24
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,882 114 1,352 3,101,904,912 
AMEX 2,401,17 ~iit:t.2~ai 
NASDAQ 2,747.11 +6.12 NYSE 10~ 174K§;t,,,,,Aiili&""S,~ S&P 500 1,546.63 -0.41 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17,046.78 ·0.00'1 FTSE 100 (London) 6,500.40 -5.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.14 -0.21 154.09 
POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +0.02 +0.01 52.01 
WALGREEN CO (WAG) -0.20 -0.08 40.08 
CITIGROUP INC (C) +0.29 +0.14 47.86 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -0.61 +0.028 4.529 
13-WEEK BILL +1.45 +0.055 3.850 
30-YEAR BOND -0.42 -0.020 4.778 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.78 -0.033 4.203 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.19 80.05 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -17.80 736.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.55 86.88 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 115.7200 
EURO 0.7065 
CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9991 
BRITISH POUND 0.4898 
IN BRIEF Stocks mixed following Monday rally 
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended mixed Tuesday, selling ofT large companies' stocks but buying up those of smaller companies as investors cashed in gains from Monday's big rally and poked around for new bargains. 
It was a somewhat unusual day of trading ­normally, the major stock indexes closely track one another, but Tuesday, the Dow Jones indus­trials closed with a moderate loss while the Nasdaq composite index had a moderate gain. Given the market's quick, sharp rebound from August's credit market squeeze and stock sellofT, it was to be expected that investors would pause to adjust their portfolios as the fourth quarter gets under way. 
Wall Street was only slightly fazed by the National Association of Realtors' report Tuesday that its seasonally adjusted index of pending sales lor existing homes fell 6.5 percent in August from July and 21.5 percent from a year ago. The data suggest sales of existing homes will proba­bly keep declining in the coming months -bad news for the economy, but good news for those hoping for another interest rate cut. 
Buyout offer reduced for student lender 
WASHINGTON -After a group of investors reduced its cash offer for Sallie Mae by 17 per­cent on Tuesday, the nation's largest student lender insisted that the buyers honor their origi­nal $25 billion deal. 
The investor group, which is led by private equity firm J.C. Flowers & Co. and includes Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase, said the student-loan legislation signed into law by President Bush, and weaker economic condi­tions, made the $60-a-share price negotiated in April unacceptable. 
The group sent its revised offer to the board of the company, formally called SLM Corp., say­ing that $50 a share now "appropriately and fairly reflects the new economic and legislative environment that faces the company." 
Under the new offer, which is worth about $21 billion in cash, Sallie Mae has the potential to receive an additional payment of more than $7 a share if the company performs on track with its own projections. It could receive an extra $10 a share if the company exceeds those expectations. 

Record companies attack file sharing 
Capital, Warner Bros., Sony BMG beginfirst civil copyright claims trial against Minnesota woman 
Associated Press 
DULUTH, Minn.-The nation's largest record com­panies took their fight against illegal downloads to court for the first time Tuesday, targeting a Minnesota woman they say improperly shared nearly 2,000 songs online. 
Jennifer Pariser, head of litigation and antipiracy at Sony BMG, portrayed the federal copyright trial as a fight for survival. 
"It is imperative for Sony BMG to combat this prob­lem," Pariser, lead attorney for a coalition of music com­panies, said in her opening statement in the civil trial. "If we don't, we have no busi­ness anymore." 
Jammie Thomas, a 30­year-old mother of two from Brainerd, Minn., told reporters outside the court­room that she was "inno­cent." 
Thomas said that instead of paying a settlement to the record companies she had spent the same amount on her attorney's retainer. 

"I refuse to be bullied," she said. The trial was expected to last just a few days. Record companies includ­I'J" ing Capitol Records Inc. and Jammie Thomas, a 30-year-old mother of two, speaks to reporters with her lawyer after Warner Bros. Records Inc. 
record labels accused her of sharing music files illegally. 
as well as Sony BMG, accuse Thomas of making 1, 702 ftles. The record companies papers. songs available on her Thomas, who works for claim that on Feb. 21, 2005, Music downloads, both Kazaa file-sharing account the Department of Natural online investigators at legal and illegal, have damp­in 2005 without permission. Resources of the Mille Lacs SafeNet Inc., found 1, 702 ened sales of recorded music In court, they will try to Band of Ojibwe, is at risk for ftles shared under what they in recent years. In 2001, the prove Thomas shared 25 a judgment of more than said was a Kazaa account industry persuaded a federal specific songs in violation of $1.2 million. The recording being used by Thomas. The judge to shut down Napster, copyrights the companies association is seeking dam­songs included Swedish which made copyrighted hold. ages set under federal law, death metal band Opeth, music available on its own 
Thomas's computer hard of $750 to $30,000 for each German industrial group computers. Since Napster drive will be a key to the copyright violation. VNV Nation and American reopened, it has charged case. She says she replaced A recording industry group rock band Chevelle. users for music. it after she had some com­says record companies have "This individual was dis­The me-sharing programs puter problems in 2005. The brought more than 26,000 tributing these audio files for that emerged to take record companies say she actions against people for free over the Internet under Napster's place point users was trying to cover her downloads that violated the username to files available on a variety tracks after they sent her copyrights, with most of the 'tereastarr@KaZaA' to poten­of computers and servers, messages saying she was defendants settling by paying tially millions of other KaZaA instead of leading to files in a illegally distributing their a few thousand dollars. users," according to court single location. 
Ford auto sales plummet in September 
Associated Press Overall U.S. sales were down 3 per­into other categories," Ballew said. 
cent from last September, according to Still, he said high energy prices and 
DETROIT -Weakness in the hous­Autodata Corp. a slump in important markets like ing market and flagging consumer General Motors Corp. said sales California and Florida will continue to confidence made September another were flat compared with last hurt the industry through the fourth tough month for the auto industry, September, despite a month of difficult quarter. although General Motors, Honda and labor negotiations and a two-day Erich Merkle, vice president of auto Nissan bucked the trend with hot-sell­strike by the United Auto Workers industry forecasting for consulting ing new vehicles, according to U.S. union. GM produced 30,000 fewer company IRN Inc. in Grand Rapids, sales figures released Tuesday. vehicles because of the strike, but the said it will take months for the rate 
Ford Motor Co.'s U.S. sales plum­walkout had no impact on sales and cut to trickle down to average con­meted 21 percent for the month, GM's production schedule is sumers. largely due to a 62 percent reduction unchanged, said GM's top sales ana­"These are pretty weak numbers in sales to rental car companies. lyst, Paul Ballew. and this is indicative of the overall Toyota Motor Corp. posted a 4 percent Ballew said the Federal Reserve's weakness we've seen in the economy," decline but still outpaced Ford for the interest rate cut in the middle of Merkle said. month and for the January-September September didn't have an immediate GM's car sales were down 4 percent period, continuing its drive to replace impact on sales but helped calm the while truck sales were up 4 percent on Ford as the nation's No. 2 automaker market and ensure that the tightening the strength of the Chevrolet Silverado in sales after GM. Toyota had sold mortgage market won't affect automo­and other new pickups. GM also got a 28,654 more vehicles than Ford as of tive credit. boost from new crossovers like the the end of September. Chrysler LLC "For us as an industry, we support Buick Enclave and the new Cadillac also was down 5 percent for the and applaud the Fed's move because CTS sedan, which posted a 73 percent month. we cannot have the spillover effects sales increase for the month. 
.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 8 
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Iraq needs decentralized government 
1~0. Box 779, Nmr< Dame, IN 465'56 024 South Pining H.tll, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CIIIEI' Maddie IIanna 

MANA<;ING EDITOR 8!/SINESS MANA<;ER Ken Fowler Kyle Wes1 
A.~s·1~ MANA<;IN<; Eunun: Kyle Cassity A.~S'I~ MIINAGING EDITOR: Mary Kat<' Malone 
Ntws EI>ITOR: Karen Langley 
VII'WI•OINT EI>ITOil: Joey King 
SJ>oltTs Eurrons: Chris Khurey Chris Hine ScENI'. EDITOR: 'he Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Karie Kohler 

PIIOTO Enrron: Dusrin Menndla 
GIIAI'lliCS EDITOR: Maddine Nies 
ADVERI'ISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

AI> lh,\IGN MANAGER: Kelly (;ronli CONTIIOll.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@lnJ.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 6:i 1-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.odu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.11-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsn<·ws.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphom@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper publish<·d in print and online by dw smdems ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial conrem. including adverrisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either insrirurion. The om.,rver reserves the righr to refuse advertisemenrs b-dSCd on conrem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represem the opinion of the majority ofrhc Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Edirors and departmem editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present dte views of the aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough lerters is encouraged. l.errcrs to rhe Ediror must be signed and musr include con<aa inforrnarion. 
Qurstiom "f',llrding Obsmm-policirs should be dirmrd to Editor in ChiifMaddir Hamill. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

rhc Ohser..-cr (LISPS S'>9 .!....000) u. puhluhal Munday duough Frida}' CXCCP£ durinl\ ~""' o~ru.l v-.rc.uitm pcriod.t ~ .rubkt~privn m The CJh.cJveriN$11)1) fvror1c acadtomk. ~.n. S"i"i lor out k'mwcr. 
·ntc Ot.rvcr " puhlllhctJ ar: POSTMASTER 024 Snuch Dutln~ ! l.tll Send 11cldh'U uma:timu lO: N111rc: Danw, IN 465S{,..(I77'J 11u: Oh.<~ervc1 f'ctwcikaJ !llrii.IKC J>.llJ .&1 Nturr [lalllC' P.Q. 1\.t.: ]79 And .uldirwn.d m~iln~ ulftt.n. Ol-4 Sourh Dh~!flK Ifall 
Nmrc: Dame, IN 465YHJ779 
Thr Oh.crvcr i• .-•ncmbc-r Hf tht 1\...,l('l.llcd l't~. All rcpnKiucrinn rit,d11.\ .;arc rCII('rv~l. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Scene Marcela Berrios Tae Andrews 
Mandi Stirone Viewpoint 
Dan Jaeobs Bethany 
Graphics Whitfield 
Madeline Nies Sports Jay Fitzpatrick Michael Bryan Sam Werner 

Even Ray Charles could probably see that the violence in Iraq has reached epic proportions. Barely a day goes by without multiple reports of bombings in crowded places, rocket attacks on mosques, abduc­tions and disap­Mark Poyar pnarancns of Iraqi civilians and gener­
Actual
al mayhem. 

Common Sense 
Estimates of' Iraqi civilian df1aths due to vioiPnce since 2003 range anywhere from 50.000 to the hundreds of thou­sands. Aceording to a poll conductNJ by the Opinion Research Business in 2007. one out of four Iraqis has had a family member murdered. In Baghdad where the U.S. presence is the most concentrated, one in four said they had a family member kidnapped and OJH~ in three said a family member has fled abroad. Iraq is hardly peaceful. 
While people can and should argue about the wisdom and justif1cation of the U.S.-Icd invasion of Iraq, the fact n~mains that the U.S. is there and Iraq is truly a war-torn country. This is a fact and no amount of complaining that the U.S. should not be in Iraq in tlw first place will change it. Consequently, the U.S. should be ask­ing what it can do to help decrease the bloodshed. Particularly, it should focus on what type of government for Iraq is most likely to stem the violence. To do so, we must first look at what moti­vates the violence in the first place. 
Iraq is a large and diverse country. As of 2006, Iraq had a population of nearly 27 million people. Ethnically, Arabs make up about 75 percent of the population, Kurds make up about 15 percent and Assyrians, Iraqi Turkmen and others make up the remaining five percent. Nearly all of Iraq (97 percent) is Muslim. Of those, just over 60 per­cent are Shi'ite and fewer than 40 per­cent are Sunni. These religious denom­inations are also associated with dif­ferent ethnicities which make the mat­ter even more complicated. Shi'ites are comprised mostly of Arabs, Turkmen 
and Faili Kurds, while Sunnis are also 
composed of Arabs, Turkmen, and 
Shali school Kurds. 
From an American perspective, what is particularly confusing is that much of the violence in Iraq isn't a result of' conflicts between American troops and thosP opposed to their presence; most of the violence is due to in!ighting bPtween diff'erent Iraqi f'aetions, whether religious or ethnic. It seems odd at llrst that citizens of tho samn country who have lived alongside each other f'or so many years would start to attack each other, but a few quiek facts about the relations between the groups explains much of' it. 
Saddam Hussein and his ruling Baath Party heavily f'avored the Sunnis at the expense of the Shi'ites and Kurds, even though the Sunnis made up at most 40 pereent of' the popula­tion. He gave Sunnis high positions in his government and kept the Sunni minority J1rmly in power, cspceially economically. Consequently, many Sunnis hailed Hussein as their leader and those not in power (the Shi'ite and Kurds) resented those in power (the Sunnis). In addition, Hussein had a well-publicized tendency to "erack down" on Shi'ite and Kurdish dissi­dents. In 1988, for example, Saddam began a campaign to exterminate the Kurdish people living in Northern Iraq, killing between 50,000 and 100,000. Just after the Gulf War, he killed between 60,000 and 130,000 rebel­lious Shi'ites. Incidents such as these caused tension between the faetions in Iraq and are now overflowing in the form of violence between different sects. In particular, the formerly­oppressed Shi'ites blame the Sunnis for decades of oppression. They are fighting for control of the newly creat­ed government. 
As Charles Rice pointed out last week ("Assyrian suffering overlooked in Iraq," Sept. 26), the U.S. government is trying to force all the factions under the same powerful central democratic government rather than allow the sep­arate groups to govern thmnselves. The problem is that in a dnmoc-.racy where the central government is pow­nrf'ul, the majority f'rcqunntly tramples on the rights of tlw minority. As Bien showed, those now in power arc abus­ing the Assyrians b11eause the Assyrians don't hav11 the numbers to do anything about it. Giving tlw major­ity (tho Shi'ites) tlw powor through the central governmnnt over the rest of the population. (i.e. the Sunnis) when tlw Shi'ites want revengo f'or their opprns­sion at the hands of' tho Sunnis, is a reeipe f'or disastPr. Such a poli1:y will only lead to furthnr violence and con­flict botween groups. 
The solution is to create a republic like the one that tho Constitution creat­ed: a federalist system of government. Nearly all of the powor remained at tlu1 statn level, rather than the f'nderal level. The federal government's powers were limited and defined. Consequently, tlw states wore able to govern themsnlves largely without interference. Power rnsidnd at the local level -Americans not living in Virginia held virtually no power over those living in Virginia. In Iraq. because most local populations are of the same ethnicity or religion, each community would be mostly free to govern itself without interference from the majority via the central govern­ment. Sunnis would govern Sunnis at the local level, Shi'ites would govern Shi'ites, Kurds would govorn Kurds. Shi'ites would have very little power over Sunnis. II' each faction has little power over the other factions, there is little incentive to continue the fighting. A federalist system worked for the US and can work for Iraq. 
Mark Poyar is a junior finance major and vice president ofthe College Libertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. He can be contacted at mpoyar@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obsemer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Denunciation of beauty standards ill-founded 
I was initially heartened to read Greg Yatrola's column ("Anorexia and the devil," Oct. 2) decrying the pernicious beauty standards our popular culture foists upon women. But I have to dis­agree profoundly with the basis he gives for his denunciations. 
While Yatrola does point out the harm these standards do to women, this is not the central complaint of his piece. Rather, the real problem he sees with beauty standards is that they're not his stan­dards. Rather than judging women by how well they live up to the standards set by Maxim and Cosmo, he believes we should be judging women by how well they live up to the standards set by Greg Yatarola. 
It's true that Yatrola does not say this in so many words. He pretends to be speak­ing for (straight) "men generally" and a simplistic, biologically deterministic account of attraction. But women's bod­ies do not belong to men, whether those bodies are to be admired as attractive objects from afar, used for sex or used for procreation. Women's bodies belong to women, and it's up to women to decide what they will do with their bodies. 
Yatrola is no more entitled to decide the standards by which women are to be judged than are the editors of Maxim and Cosmo. Standards of beauty -any stan­dards of beauty, whether those of Maxim or those of Greg Yatrola-used to dis­criminate between acceptable and unac­ceptable women are objectifying and per­nicious. The only terms on which a women's body should be judged arc her own. 
Dan Hicks graduare srudenr off campus Oct 2 
OBSERVER POLL 
How many Heisman Trophies will Golden Tate win? 1, 2, 3 or 4? 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To find a fault is easy; to do better 
may be difficult." 
Plutarch Greek biographer 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Disputing facts about the Irish language 
Irish language holds strong 
In her letter to the editor ("Irish lan­guage a relic of the past," Oct. 1), Sara Falvey claims that the Irish Language is spoken by few and is a "relic." Recently, I travelled to Ireland and spent several days on an island, Inis Oirr, where the working language was clearly Irish. The island's name is always spelled the Irish way (except in tourist information, for ease of pronunciation by those unfamiliar with the language), and most signs-not just road signs, but also commemorative markers ­are as well. The mass I attended was entirely in Irish. 
Additionally, I encountered a large group of children from other parts of the country who were sent there to getimmersed in the language. Perhaps in parts of Ireland English is the dominant language, but in other areas, Irish holds strong, and there are efforts underway to spread its use. 
Jackson Bangs freshman Stanford Hall Oct.! 
Misinformation about Irish language insulting · 
As two young members of the substantial Irish speaking community living and working on the Notre Dame campus, we have been left with no choice but to take issue with Sarah Falvey's letter ("Irish language a relic of the past," Oct. 1). She must first be congratulated on having succeeded in fit­ting such a vast amount of misinformation into such a short piece. 
Her theory that Irish language signposts are some sort of stunt promoting cultural tourism is ridiculous. All road sig­nage in Irish-speaking areas is in Irish alone, a fact which serves to confuse tourists rather than entertain them. Outside of the Irish-speaking areas, they are in both Irish and English. 
The amount of Irish medium schools is increasing all the time. Parents and students are voting with their feet and as a result Gaelscoileanna (Irish medium education) cannot cope, such is the demand for places in Irish medium schools. 
With regard to learning Irish being akin to learning any other foreign language taught in schools; each child begins learning Irish in their first year of school and continues to do so throughout primary and secondary level. This is not an option, this is compulsory. Irish is treated the same in schools as the other official language of the state, English. Both are academic subjects. Other foreign languages need not be taught until students reach high school. 
Flavey poses the question, "Who's left to resurrect the Irish language?" This implication that the language is dead and in need of resurrection is simply~not true and, quite frankly, it is personally insulting. Any aspect of modern life can be dis­cussed and enjoyed through Irish. There is an Irish language version of "South Park" currently in the making and the lan­guage is easily spotted on web sites like Facebook and Bebo. These would not typically be seen by sociolinguists as char­acteristics of a "relic of the past." 
We now wish to lay this matter to rest once and for all. Irish is not, nor will she be, dying any time soon. For us to be relegated to the ranks of linguistic antiquity by anyone whose knowledge of Irish life or culture is based on a semester spent living with three Irish girls in Dublin is unacceptable. For anyone to presume to have gained an understanding of Ireland's complex linguistic make-up after such a limited ephemeral fling with Joycean fly-by nets is, putting it quite simply, taking the proverbial piss. 
In light of the recent ignorance shown by some of Notre Dame's students in relation to language matters in general, perhaps the University might consider instigating a program in socio-linguistics. 
Muireann Ni Bheaglaoich Peadar 0 Muircheartaigh graduate students offcampus Oct. 2 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Deportation not solution for ex-Nazi 
For an elite task force of Nazi-hunters, World War II refuses to die. Since 1979 the "Office of Special Investigation" has stripped 
U.S. citizenship from 108 ex-Nazis, and now, it can claim one more. Paul Henss, an 85­year-old man from Atlanta, Ga., will be deported and sent to face charges in Germany for his role in the Holocaust. But for anyone watching the case closely, it is clear that time spent hunting dying Nazis like Henss could be put to more constructive pur­poses. 
As a young man, Paul Henss joined the Hitler Youth in 1934 and later volunteered to fight in the Waffen SS, Germany's elite com­bat organization. He fought in battles with the most infamous, decorated German divi­sion of the war, the first SS Panzer Division. On leave from his division, Henss spent two months patrolling the outer fences of Dachau and Buchenwald with a guard dog. Today, it's those two months that make Paul Henss a wanted man. 
Before we rush to deport a senior citizen for his role in one' of history's greatest atroci­ties, let's be clear about exactly what he did. Dachau and Buchenwald were concentration camps -not extermination camps -where prisoners were exploited for slave labor. As an exterior guard, Henss had little contact with victims, especially since his leave from the front lasted only two months. If he were a high-ranking officer or a camp commandant, his deportation would be much deserved, but this is not the case. 
For those who disagree and believe Henss is just as culpable as a high-ranking officer, the question remains -what would deporta­tion actually achieve? While any level of involvement in the Holocaust is appalling, deportation is not the best way to punish Henss. No matter how minor his role may have been, he did lie about his two month duty in order to enter the U.S. in 1955. Instead of deportation, which achieves noth­ing, Henss should be required to travel to the National Holocaust Museum in Washington D.C., at his own expense, to host a public lec­ture on his role in the Holocaust. This kind of event not only forces Henss to confront his past, but also offers the opportunity for oth­ers to hear how a perpetrator of history's most infamous atrocity fell under the spell of a twisted, murderous ideology. 
No one is asking Nazi-hunters to stop hunt­ing aging Nazis in hiding, but we do need to start demanding'more constructive solutions. 
Greg Wagman 
senior 
Keough Hall Oct. I 

Liberal radio limited by low popularity 
After reading Andrea Laidman's "Hosting Ignorance," (Oct. 1), I came away fairly certain that Laidman is ignorant of how the free market really works. She claims conservative talk radio dominates the airwaves, quoting figures from the Center for American Progress. Having never heard of this group, I decided to do some research on them. 
I found out that I actually agree wholeheartedly with a statement of their "About Us" section that seems to apply to this debate. They say, "As pro­gressives we believe that America should be a country of boundless oppor­tunity -where all people can better themselves through education, hard work, and the freedom to pursue their dreams." 
Freedom, though, seems to be what Laidman finds as the problem in the 
U.S. radio market. She claims that the conservative leanings of widely syndi­cated radio hosts are due to "structural imbalances and not popular demand." She also later quotes the Center saying that "the relaxation of ownership rules have tipped the scales against localism." So here we have a situation where free­dom is not what we want-apparently allowing more free choice somehow "tips the scales." 
Corporations, including those in radio, are driven by profits. In radio, that means advertising dollars, and advertis­ing revenue is driven by ratings. Ultimately, it is the listeners who decide what they listen to, and apparently they like listening to the content on the air, because Laidman says that "90 percent of Americans age 12 or over tune into radio programs each week." Laidman says that "Radio outlets like NPR demonstrate that longer stories can facilitate in-depth discussion of contro­versial issues through thoughtful, well­reasoned arguments, inquiry and inter­views." 
If NPR is what people want to listen to, what is really in "popular demand," then why don't they dominate the rat­ings? It is on the air -it's just that there is not much demand for this kind programming. Air America Radio, a group that also describes itself as "pro­gressive," was founded in March 2004 to provide an avenue for left wing radio. In our free market, they were allowed to do this. They were also allowed to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy a little more than 30 months later, because they had few listeners and no money. 
Laidman seems to believe that access to radio outlets is what limits liberal radio -this has been proven to be inaccurate by the lack of success of NPR and Air America. Americans have shown that we do not want to listen to left wing radio. I am glad that we are free to listen to whatever we want. I find it ironic that many "progressives," who claim to be champions of free speech, selectively back this freedom when they agree with what is said. 
Brian DuffY junior Morrissey Manor Oct. I 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page I 0 
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
REVIEW: HALO 3 FINISHES THE FIGHT 
By DAMON JASON Scene Writer 
Halo 3's single player campaign starts where its predecessor left off. Master Chief is pursuing the Prophet of Truth to stop him from activating the "sacred rings,'' which would destroy everything in the universe. 
Many fans were disappointed with this difl11anger ending of Halo 2. as well as
• 
the repetitive level design, and Bungie's decision to have Master Chief's story take a backseat to what was happening within the internal ranks of the Covenant. All of these issues are addressed this time around, and make for a very solid and engrossing campaign. 
If Halo 3's single player campaign can be faulted for anything it would be for being too short. The single player mode is only nine levels and lasts a little more than 10 hours on the normal difficulty. Veteran Halo players should play the cam­paign on a harder difficulty, because the default difficulty is simply too easy. 
This is not to say the campaign is not 
·· fun. While there are certain sections of the game where backtracking is neces­sary, this is kept to a minimum. The action is solely on Master Chief and his marines. From the start of the game, the action picks up almost instantaneously. The single player campaign is so engross­ing that it is very hard to put the con­troller down once you start. 
Tired of playing alone? You can play through any of the nine campaign levels via system link or ·over Xbox Live. This adds a level of replay that was not avail­able on previous iterations of the game. 
The final chapter or the Halo trilogy has benefited from the added graphical prowess of the Xbox 360. Everything is beautifully done. All of the in-game envi­ronments look simply amazing, and the attention to detail deserves much praise. Surfaees such as the armor of cortain 
Halo 3 
Developer: Bungie Platform: XBox 360 

vehicles show rellections in real time. The water physics are simply beautiful -the developers even took refraction into account. 
The multiplayer has essentially carried this title since it was released. In the past, there have been many issues with weapon balance, ranging from certain weapons being too powerful to .every map having a limited number of "power weapons." Everything has been tweaked to make for a much more balanced multiplayer game. 
Speaking or weapons, Bungie has creat­ed quite a few new additions. Of tlwse new weapons, the Spiker is probably the most balanced. 
A surefire soon-to-be favorite is the Gravity Hammer, which is essentially a large hammer that can take vehicles out of commission, so you can imagino what it can do to your opponents. There are even some tweaks to old weapons. It's no longer embarrassing to dio at the hands of a Needler because its damage has been upped significantly. 
The multiplayer maps are just plain run. Tl).ere are 11 maps right now, but there will be more offered later as download­able content. Bungie has attempted to make sure that these maps never get old by offering a sort or map editor, called Forge. While you can't alter the actual layout of the maps, you can change the location of vehides, weapons, spawn point and others. 
The multiplayer for Halo 3 is so good that it will keep players occupied until Butigie's next project. Many players will enjoy the new Saved Films mode. which allows you to save replays of your favorite in game moments. While this has been popular in sports titles for some time, it's relatively new for console shooters. 
Microsoft has also added a mode called File Share, in which you can upload your favorite videos to Xbox Live to share with the world. By default,. everyone is given 25 MB of space, although you can pur­chase more space if' desired. 
Bungie could have shippod 
Halo 3 with just the multi­player mode and the game would still have been impressive. Considering that you get the superb multi­player, the excellent single player campaign and a bevy of other features, Halo 3 is oaslly the most solid and complete game available for any console on the market today. 
Contact Damon Jason at djason@nd.edu 
FoLLOW THE STORY So FAR 
By DAMON JASON Scene Writer 
The first game of Mkrosoft's im popular trilogy is ealled Halo: Co Evolved. The premise of the game is the human race has been in a deead long battlo with the Covenant, which is collective group of various alien specie The CovPnant is waging holy war desires to wipe out the human race. 
Following a devastating attack by Covenant on the stronghold planet Heach, only one ship, the Pillar of Autu escapes by making a blind jump. lloweve this jump lands them in dose proximity a Covenant artifaet. This artifact is an ficially built ring called llalo, which is ha itable and planetary in size. Built by ancient race called thn Forerunners. unbeknownst to both the humans and Covenant. llalo was a weapon of ineredi bin power. 
As the Autumn came under attack, of the last surviving SPARTAN-II super diers was activatod and charged with guarding Cortana, the shipboard AI. was Spartan 117, known more com as the Master Chief. 
With Cortana's assistance, the M Chief and thn surviving marines rallied fight the ovnrwholming Covenant resis ance on the ring's surface, and raced unlock the secrets of llal As the story unfolds, it is revealed that Covenant belilwed that by aetivating ring a "divin11 wind" would be relnas and would cleanse tho universe of lwrp This ring was one of sPven installatio Contrary to the Covenant's belinfs, t rings were a final solution against a so awful that the Forerunners who the ring thought killing an (1ntirn was the only solution. 
This threat is the Flood, whic:h is a sitie life form that is both intnlligen pow1Hful. Humans and Covenant were infected and assimilatPd into ranks. In or·der to stop this threat, th Chief, much to the chagrin of th Covenant. blows up the reactor core or Pillar of Autumn, thereby destroying t ring instead or activating it. Master Ch knows this is just the beginning of fight. 
Halo 2 capitalizes on the sucecss of predecessor. The story this time is betwe11n the Master ChiM and an E (one of the Covenant's many races) mander. This Elite commander was ingly sentPrH:ed to death for failing to p vent Halo's destruetion. llowPvor, h secretly ordBred by the Cov11nant's II Prophets to take Covenant's sacn1d manti 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
page 11 

of the Arbiter. which is essentially a sym­bol for "blade of the Prophet's will." The role of the Arbiter is expected to be a death sentence as well. 
The story begins with Master Chief reeeiving awards for his work on Halo. However, the ceremony is cut short due to a Covenant invasion. 
Master Chief is charged with stopping the Covenant strike on Earth. Meanwhile, the Arbiter was tasked with assassinating a "heretic" (as labeled by the Prophets) Elite spreading "lies" about the true pur­pose of the sacred rings. After completing his mission, the Arbiter starts to question his loyalties to the Covenant. 
The stories of Master Chief and the Arbiter converge with the release of the Flood from Delta Halo, a second installa­tion built by the Forerunners. 
Things get convoluted when mysterious Flood creature called the Gravemind manipulates both the Arbiter and Master Chief because they all have a "common" goal: To prevent the rings from being acti­vated. Gravemind sends the Arbiter and 
. Master Chief in separate directions to pre* ·· .vent The High Prophets from activating Delta Halo. 
Master Chief goes to the Covenant city called Iligh Charity, an immense space sta­tion. and pursues the remaining Prophets. During his mission, he finds himself.in the middle of a Covenant civil war between the Brutes and the Elites (who were the former protectors of the Prophets). 
After capturing a Covenant ship, the Flood arrives at the city and begins infect­ing the population. The only remaining High Prophet, Truth, escapes on a ship located in the core of lligh Charity. The Mastnr Chief stows away on board and leaves Cortana behind in order to destroy Delta Halo and High Charity if th¢ Brute eaptain Tartarus aetivates the ring. 
The Arbiter, with the help of fellow Elites and human marines. manages to stop the ring from being activated. However, the unexpected shutdown causes the ring to send a signal out to the other remaining Halos, sending them all into a "standby" mode so they can be remotely activated from the Ark, which is a device that can aetivate all of the remaining rings, 
Meanwhile, thn ship that Master Chief is stowed away on approaches Earth. The game ends with the Chief being questioned by one of Earth's patrol services regarding what he is doing aboard the ship. The ChiHf' answers by stating, "Sir, flnishing this light, sir." 
Contact Damon Jason at 
dja.~on@nd.edu 
-
By lAURA MILLER 
Scene Writer 

On Saturday, the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center held a screen­ing of the D.W. Griffith's 1915 film, "Birth of a Nation." It was the flrst seg­ment of a three-part series presented by the DPAC that was intended to con­textualize this controversial mm. 
The title is well known, and is infa­mous for its horrendously racist con­tent. The film is split into two parts, the first focusing on the Civil War and the second on Reconstruction. Both parts feature the interaction of two families, the Camerons and the 
Stonemans, who rep­resent families of the South and North, respectively. The first part of the film is somewhat pedantic to the modern day viewer -not really illuminat­ing or surprising in any particular respect. But as the t1Im launch­es into its second part, a markedly different picture comes into view. The film's posi­tion on Reconstruction becomes evident when a more obvious racist mentality comes into play. 
The film's intent evolves into a recruit-
uses recordings of his own

"Rebirth of a Nation" 
music along with pic­tures, film and graphics DJ Spooky to ask the viewer to consider important and 
Wednesday, October 3 difllcult questions. His performance on Wednesday, entitled
8:00pm 
"Rebirth of a Nation," is an innovative remix of

Declo Mainstage Theatre 
D.W. Griffith's original 1915 film. Using his tal­
in the DPAC 

ents as OJ and artist, DJ Spooky will attempt Tickets: $15 to create a response to Griffith's film from the 
faculty/staff/seniors film itself -an enor­mous feat, given the nature of the movie.
$10 students 
DJ Spooky relies on 

ment technique for the Ku Klux Klan. It characterizes the post-war years as ones that were rife with persecution of whites and upheaval of the white-dem­ocratic standard followed by the insti­tution of an uneducated black anarchy. 
Terms such as the "Aryan birthright" emerge, attempting to unite whites against blacks in a new racial war. 
From a cinematographic perspective, the lengthy film was a masterpiece of its time. It had a large budget and excellent scenes and special effects. From a social and political perspective, the film twisted the events of Heconstruction into a fabricated histo­ry that served to recruit KKK members and dehumanize African-Americans. 
Due to the obvious offensive nature of the content, the Performing Arts Center has framed the film as part of a three­part series. On Tuesday night, there was a panel presentation that sought to gain a variety of perspectives from a cross-section of academic areas such as the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre, Africana Studies and the Center for Social Concerns. Paul Miller, also known as OJ Spooky, will be per­forming Wednesday to wrap up the series. 
OJ Spooky is an artist who melds a variety of disciplines in order to address a wide span of controversial 
social issues. He 

his disc jockey skills to manipulate the "variables" of the film through intercuts. The manipulation of these new cuts will elicit new meaning from the original work. 
Other articles and samplings of Spooky's multimedia presentations can be found on his Web site at www.djspooky.com. DJ Spooky will be performing his "Hebirth of a Nation" at 8 p.m. tonight on the Deeio Mainstage Theater in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Contact Laura Miller at wahdooda@gmail.com 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
MLB 

Powerful offenses collide 
Phillies, Rockies look for big bats to make statements in hitters' ballparks 
Associated l'ress 
PIIIL/\DELPIIIA-Pitchers beware: Two potnnt offenses plus two hitter-friendly ball­parks could equal a slugfest. 
Tho Philadelphia Phillies and Colorado Hoekies got to this point mainly because of their hitting. And, they'll need to kenp swinging to advance. 
c;ame I of this NL first-round series is WednBsday at Citizens Bank Park, th11 East Coast ver­sion of Coors Field. Both teams are sending thnir aces to the mound -Cole llamels (15-5) for the Phillies and Jell" Franeis 

-(17-9) for the Hockies. But it'll be thn hitters gntting most of the attention. Philly has Jimmy Hollins, Chase Utley, Hyan lloward, Pat Burrell and Aaron Howand. Colorado brings Matt llolliday, Todd llelton. (;arn~tt Atkins, Brad llawpe and Troy Tulowitzki. /\II these guys can flat-out hit no matter where they play. lfowever, many often find themselves explaining why it's easier to have success at homn. Balls hav11 bnen flying out in Philly since the Bank opened in 2004. The dimensions are rather standard, 329-330 feet down the lines, 37 4 to Jell-cen­ter and 401 to straightaway center. But for some r11ason. there's far more homers hit thew than at tlw old Veterans Stadium. Perhaps the op(\n-air outfield allows the wind to play too much a factor. Maybe tlw pownr-allnys aren't deep enough. Whatever th11 ease, it plays small. "Tiw ball S!H1JJIS to carry more," Hollins said. "Maybe it just looks small, so people feel a little strong11r. Maybe piteh­nrs mak(~ a lot of rnistakns bn(:ausn the park gets in their lwad. It could b11 a number of things, but you still have to hit t.hn ball out of the ballpark. I've always said when you hit a hall and it's a home run. it doesn't matter whern you are playing. If you hit it here 10 rows deep, that's out of any other ballpark." There's a much easier expla­nation for all the scoring at Coors. Blame it on the high altitude. Balls dry out in the thin, arid air, making them slicker and harder to grip. Thnm's also less air resistance, causing breaking balls to nat-
CLASSIFIEDS 

ten out and change-ups to stay up in the zone. 
llome run totals have decreased significantly at Coors over the past decade ­sevoral years ago, the Rockies installed a humidor to store baseballs and control their moisture. Still, it remains the best park to hit in. 
Batters had a .286 average in Colorado this season, high­est in the majors. It was sec­ond in runs at 874 and ninth in homers at 1R5. Meanwhile, the Bank led the majors with 241 homnrs and was third in runs at 871. Batters hit .277 in I'hilly. 
"Hngardless of where you play, you still have to get it and hit it," lloward said. "Sometimes the wind may be blowing in at a field that's con­sidered to play large and if you hit in the air, it might go out. You still have to hit it. You still havn to put a good swing on it for it to go." 
Iloward ean hit them out of the Grand Canyon. He had 24 of his 47 homers on the road. Hollins and Burrell each had 30 homers. Hollins had 12 on the road and Burrell 14. 
But a few of Colorado's slug­gers had far better power numbers at Coors. Holliday hit 25 of his 36 homers at home. 
liawpe's home-away ratio was 19-10 and Tulowitzki's 15-9. 
"It's changed," Hockies man­ager Clint II urdle said of the Hockies' park. "The elevation is not going to change, but the ballpark is not as much hitter­friendly as it used to be. It plays out much diiTerent than it has in the past." 
Since the Bank opened in 2004, it ranks third in homers with 903. Coors is eighth in that span at 744. 
But, the .294 batting average in Colorado over the past four years is by far the highest. Kansas City's Kauffman Stadium is second at .279. 
"They have thin air and long deep gaps, so balls fall in and it's the complete opposite here," Hollins said. "We have no gaps, but you hit it over somebody's head and it's going to go out. If you don't have pitchers that can pitch to the ballpark, you can find yourself in a lot of high-run games." 
As the weather cools down, balls obviously travel less. That was clear in Philadelphia's weekend series against Washington. 
"Howard hit two balls against the Nationals that he absolutely crushed that were only three rows deep," Howand said. 
Attention on A-Rod as Yankees face Indians 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Everywhere 
Alex Hodriguez went, the lenses 
were on him. 

When he took batting practice, 
the cameras clicked. In the club­
house, so many mini-cams 'l'\'ant­
ed to capture his words and 
image that he had to move away 
from his locker to the center of 
the room. 

Not that he had much to say, just a collection of cliches so old that he probably chuckled to himself as he said them. He's made a concentrated ell"ort since spring training not to reveal his thinking, to focus on the field. 
And who could blame him? 
Why concentrate on his past 
postseason performances? JIe is 
4-for-41 (.098) with no HBis in 
his last 12 playoft" games and hit­
less in his last 15 postseason at­
bats with runners in scoring 
position. His own failures are a 
big reason baseball's best player 
has never reached the World 
Series. 

When the Yankees were elimi­
nated during each of his first 
three seasons in New York, A­
Hod was the top target in the 
blame game. Chances are, the 
fate of the pinstripes this 
October will turn on his per­
formance starting Thursday in 
the first-round series against 
Cleveland. 

"I think his mind-set definitely changed," Johnny Damon said. "He was always out trying to please people, try to do, say the right things." 
A-Hod cut down his appear­ances in the media and increased 'em on the leader board. 
Hodriguez hit 54 homers and had 156 HBis this season, an onslaught likely to earn him his third AL MVP award. From the seventh inning on, he batted .349. Yankees captain Derek Jeter said he'd never seen an offensive performance like it. 
New York fizzled to a 21-29 start. llad Hodriguez not hit 14 home runs in April, the Yankees could have been about 15-35. 
"I don't think we would have made the playoffs if it wasn't for him," Andy Pettitte said. "Without him, I don't think we would have really had a shot down here at the end." 
These could be Hodriguez's final games in New York. Since his very first day at spring train­ing, he's been asked about that opt-out clause, the one that allows him to bolt the final three seasons of his record $252 mil­
lion, 10-year contract and seek 
even more money in the free­
agent market. 

lie's avoided talk about that~ 
he doesn't have to make a deci­
sion until the 1Oth day after the 
World Series ends. Before then, 
the Yankees might come to him 
with an extension oll"er. 

But that's too far ahead. What 
matters now is tlw next game, 
the next pitch. lie doesn't want 
to think about last ynar's four­
game exit against Dntroit. 

"This is probably the most comfortable he's been in the time he's been hern, in my esti­mation," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "lie just seems like he's had more fun this year, even during games, whore at other times you could see him grinding out a little bit too much." 
Torre talks to A-Hod a lot. In 
describing the team's most-dis­
sected psyche, Torre sounds 
more guidance counselor than 
manager. 

"I think he sort of internalizPd a lot last year and in doing that, I think he really built up a lot of baggage," Torre said. "lie's tried to be a lot of things to a lot of people, and this year I think he spent a lot more time just trying to help himself." 
Can't argue with the results. Rodriguez especially f(~asted on Indians pitchers, gobbling them up like a kid eating Milano cook­ies. He was 8-for-24 with 13 RBis as the Yankees swept the six-game, regular-season series, and six of his hits were home runs. 
lie thinks his attitude played as big a part as his improved mechanics at the plate. 
"Coming into spring training, it seems like yesterday, I said that I was in a good placn," Rodriguez said. 
What did that entail? 

"I lave an opportunity to laugh at myself," he said. "I haven't done that too much over the last three years, and this year I kind of laughed at myself along with all my teammates at me all the time." 
lie almost always is at the ball­park early. Torrn says Hodriguez is mor11 aware of things around him than other players. 
Rodriguez was interested in Yankees history, wondering where his RBI total ranked among Ruth, Gehrig and DiMaggio (A-Hod was 1Oth) and why in the early days of Yankee Stadium, the RBI totals were so high (the center-field fence was 490 feet from the plate through 1936). 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 2 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST & FOUND 
LOST: Light blue pencil case that says "Le Petite Prince' on it. Call or text Tara at 517-927-4193. 

FoR RENT 
LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non­smoking, Private Baths. Full Breakfasts. 
Houses for rent for 2008-09: 3·9 bedroom homes close to campus. 
Call Bill574-532-1896. 
WEEKEND HOME RENTALS. Two 
beautiful homes in NE Neighborhood available to rent for football weekends, JPW, Graduation and other ND events. Located just three short blocks from campus, these homes are perfect for families or friends looking to share accommodations for the weekend. Each sleeps 8-10 people. For more infonnation, please con­tact langmeyer64@comcast.net or mowhelan@ sbcglobal.net or call 57 4-289-3968. 
Lodging for football games Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations. Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts. 
FoR SALE 

Moving on with my life Moving in with yours. Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of the dome Sleep in one of three su~es Taste the city water. It is sweet New. New Everything You can have it for some bling Not too bad for $345 thousand Call Jan Lazzara on her band 574-233-6141. 
Call me for a list of properties near ND. 574-217-1557 Tatiana 
TICKETS 

WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 57 4-251-1570 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. www. victorytickets.com 
ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. 
57 4-288-2726. 
Buying BC/USC tix. 
574-277-1659. 

Football tickets. Post-surgery facul­ty member cannot use tickets. Two 
(2) available for all remaining home games. Phone 574-232-07 43. 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit 
http:l/osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape. shtml UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. ff you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more infonnation, visit our website at: http:l/osa.nd.edu/departmentslpreg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
Wakim needs to stop smuggling drugs and start taking daily showers 
Beware of baby pandas. Although they seem so cute and cuddly, they can be quite vicious when provoked 
I miss Bob Barker. A lot. 


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 Co1v1PILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 13 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

team  record  perc.  last 10  GB  
Boston  96-66  .593  6-4  
New York  94-68  .580  6-4  2.0  
Toronto  83-79  .512  6-4  13.0  
Baltimore  69-93  .426  4-6  27.0  
Tampa Bay  66-96  .407  3-7  30.0  

American League Central 
team record perc . last 10 GB 
Cleveland 96-66 .593 6·4 Detroit 88-74 .543 5·5 8.0 Minnesota 79-83 .488 4-6 17.0 Chicago 72·90 .444 6·4 24.0 Kansas City 69-93 .426 3-7 27.0 
American League West 

team record perc . last 10 GB 
Los Angeles 94·68 .580 4-6 Seattle 88·74 .543 7-3 6.0 Oakland 76-86 .469 2-8 18.0 Texas 75-87 .463 5-5 19.0 
National League East 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Philadelphia 89-73 .549 7·3 New York 88-74 .543 4-6 1.0 Atlanta 84-78 .519 5-5 5.0 Washington 73-89 .451 5-5 16.0 Florida 71-91 .438 6-4 18.0 
National League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB 
Chicago 85·77 .525 6·4 Milwaukee 83·79 .512 5·5 2.0 St. Louis 78-84 .481 7-3 7.0 Houston 73·89 .451 7-3 12.0 Cincinnati 72-90 .444 3-7 13.0 Pittsburgh 68·94 .420 2-8 17.0 
National League West 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
Arizona 90·72 .556 5-5 
Colorado 90-73 .552 9-1 0.5 San Diego 89-74 .546 4-6 1.5 los Angeles 82-80 .506 3·1 8.0 San Francisco 71-91 .438 4-6 19.0 
Big East Men's Soccer Standings (Blue Division) .. 
team league overall 
6"1~2··
NOTRE DAME 4-0-1 
Connecticut 4·1·0 9-1·0 
Providence 2-1-1 5-3-1 West Virginia 2-2-0 6-3·0 Seton Hall 1-3·0 4-6·0 Marquette 1·4·0 2·6-1 Georgetown 1·4-0 . 2~7-0 Pittsburgh 0-3-1 l'-7·2 
around the dial 
MLB PLAYOFFS Colorado at Philadelphia 3 p.m., TBS Los Angeles at Boston 6 p.m., TBS Chicago at Arizona 10 p.m., TBS 
NBA 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -In an end to a salacious three-week trial, a jury ordered the owners of the New York Knicks to pay $11.6 million to a former team executive who endured crude insults and unwanted advances from coach Isiah Thomas. 
The jury of four women and three men found Thomas and Madison Square Garden sexually harassed Anucha Browne Sanders, but it decided only MSG and chairman James Dolan should pay for harassing and firing Browne Sanders from her $260,000-a-year job out of spite. 
The result: The Garden owes $6 million for con­doning a hostile work envi­ronment and $2.6 million for retaliation. Dolan owes $3 million. Though Thomas is off the hook for any damages, he leaves the case with a tarnished image. 

Outside court, a beaming Browne Sanders insisted her victory was more about sending a message than the money. 
"What I did here, I did for every working woman in America," she said. "And that includes every­one who gets up and goes to work in the morning, everyone working in a cor­porate environment." 
Earlier, Thomas, who led Indiana to the 1981 NCAA championship and coached the Pacers during 2000­03, emerged from the fed­eral courthouse in lower Manhattan with his trade­mark smile but flashed anger as he reasserted his innocence amid a crush of reporters and cameras. 
''I'm extremely disap­pointed that the jury did not see the facts in this case," he said. "I will appeal this, and I remain confident in the man that I am and what I stand for and the family that I have." 
MSG said it will appeal, also denying wrongdoing in a case widely viewed as a public relations disaster for a franchise struggling to regain credibility. The team hasn't won a playoff game since Thomas was signed as president in December 2003 and has wasted millions this decade on a series of free­agent busts. 
The verdict also amounts to another blemish on the resume of Thomas, a two­time NBA champion whose post-playing career has been marked by one fail­ure after another. 
NBA spokesman Tim Frank said the league's policies "do not encompass civil litigation." 
Jurors, who needed roughly two days to decide on the allegations but only about an hour to deter­mine damages, declined to talk about the verdict. 
IN BRIEF 

Pena wins AL comeback NASCAR finalizing deal with Former p~ter ~ntenced to player of the year Nationwidelnsur.ance seven years m pnson 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. -One sea­NEW YORK -NASCAR was finaliz­GREELEY, Colo. Former son after being released by three ing a deal Tuesday night with Northern Colorado backup punter teams, Carlos Pena put together the Nationwide Insurance to sponsor its Mitch Cozad was sentenced to seven best performance in Tampa Bay Devil No. 2 series beginning in 2008, The years in prison Tuesday for stabbing Rays history and was chosen Tuesday Associated Press has learned. a rival in what prosecutors said was as Major League Baseball's AL come­Nationwide will replace Anheuser­a brutal attempt to take over the back player of the year. Busch, which has sponsored the sec­starter's role. 
The 28-year-old slugger batted a ond-tier Busch Series for 26 seasons "Clearly, this was deliberate to hurt career-best .282 with a club-record but said earlier this year it would end him, and you succeeded," Weld 46 home runs and 121 RBis after its entitlement deal at the conclusion County District Judge Marcelo joining the Devil Rays in spring train­of this season. Kopcow told Cozad as he announced ing as a non-roster invitee. The deal with Nationwide is esti­the sentence. 
"I knew in my heart it was going to mated to be seven years at $10 mil­"The goal is to not ruin your life," be a great season ... but I went lion a year, according to a person Kopcow said. "I would like you to beyond what I envisioned," Pena said. familiar with the negotiations who succeed in your life." 
Last year, he homered once in 18 requested anonymity because the Prosecutors said Cozad ambushed games for Boston and spent most of deal had yet to be completed. A-B starting punter Rafael Mendoza on the season in Triple-A with the Red was paying roughly the same amount, the night of Sept. 11, 2006. Mendoza Sox and New York Yankees. He hit 27 and NASCAR initially had sought an was left with a deep gash in his kick­homers and drove in 82 runs for increase in the price of the series. ing leg but later returned to the team. Detroit in 2004, but slipped to 18 But despite a flurry of early suitors, Cozad was convicted in August of homers and 44 RBis the following NASCAR was unable to secure spon­second-degree assault but acquitted season and was released by the sorship in a search that has stretched of the more serious charge of Tigers in March 2006. nearly 10 months. attempted first-degree murder. 
page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
MLB 

Playoff tested Beckett, Lackey to start Game 1 
Red Sox, Angels will open tonight at 6:30 
Associated Press 

BOSTON -Josh Beckett was just 23 the last time he pitched in the postsnason. eoming back on thn~n days' rest to shut mit the New York Yankees and elinch the World Series for Florida. 
John Lackey was a 24-year­old rookie when he won Came 7 of the 2002 Series for the Angels. 
The two big-game vnterans will start things oil' in Game l of their !\1. division series on Wednesday when the East champion Boston HPd Sox play West champion Los Angeles. With Beckett facing Lackey in the opener. the only suro bet is that they won't be crumbling under tlw pr~>ssure. 
"lie's been in these big games just like I have, and done extrnnwly well," Lackey said. "I mean, throwing a shutout to win a World SPries. it doesn't get much better than that. I le's obviously got great stuiT and it's going to bt1 a great challenge for us. I'm going to have to pitch Wl'll to give our guys a ehancn." 
Now 27. Beckett was the MVP of the '03 Series after beating the Yankees in the Game 6 finale. !\!ready flush with eonli­denc.e, he grew stubborn in his suc1:ess and became convinced that his best pitch in every situ­ation was to blow his fastball by tlw hitter. 
That resulted in some rough starts last year -his first in 

Boston -and a whopping 36 
home runs allowed, along with 
a 5.01 EHA. 
"You learn a lot through fail­urn and through succeeding,'' Beckett said after the Red Sox worked out at Fenway Park on the day before the playofT open­er. "!\s you get older, obviously, you're still learning. But I think you learn a lot of crudal things along thn way. But I don't think anybody will ever consider their learning process completed in this game." 
Mixing in his curveball and changeup more this season, he became the majors' first 20­gamn winner in two years. lie also rnached a career high with 194 strikeouts while topping 200 innings and cutting his homer total to 17. 
"We've seen a young guy work so hard and mature so much, and he became the guy that we really needed him to bncome," Boston manager Tnrry Francona said. "Every good tnam has guys like that ­whern you say, 'This is our guy, and go get 'em.' 
"!\nd he'll respond to adversi­ty, and he competes. He's got a lot of different weapons. !\nd you IHJnd that, because we're playing a good team." 
!\nd facing a piteher who's every hit thP. bulldog as Beckett. 
Although Lackey was smiling and joking around at Tuesday's workout -Beckett was all seowl -Angels manager Mike Scioseia knows that, onee the gamn starts, his ace is plenty snrious. In Lackey's mind, a visit to the mound is the open­ing bid in a negotiation. 
"Anytime he comes out of the game, he's upset. He wants 10 more pitches or 15 more pitch­es," Scioseia said. "This guy's one of the best competitors I've been around in 30-plus years. ... He's channeled his emotions into something that's positive out there to get to the next piteh. 

"lie had the ability to get to the big leagues, but to do it under the most powerful of mieroscopes, the playoffs, the pennant raee, whatever the sit­uation might be. Obviously his success in the playofl's in piteh­ing Game 7 of a World Series shows the confidence we have in him.'' 
Lackey, 28, set career highs this season with 19 wins, a 3.01 EHA, 224 innings and a 3.44 strikeout-to-walk ratio. 
But heading into the series against Boston. he will be draw­ing upon his playofT experienee. In addition to the five games he pitched in '02, Laekey also made three starts in the 2005 playoffs when the Angels knoeked out the Yankees in the first round before losing to the Chieago White Sox in the AL championship series. 
No game was as big as the World Series elineher, when he allowed one run in live innings to lead the Angels to a 4-1 vie­tory over the San Francisco Giants. 
"I was a rookie, I was coming up with a lot of veterans. I was just hoping to contribute at that point," Lackey said. "I was pret­ty mueh a two-piteh pitcher that year. I've got more options these days. If one thing is not working, I've got a few more things in my bag I can go to.'' 
MLB 

Mets' Randolph vvill return despite collapse 

The Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business and The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"What Really Matters: Service, Leadership, People and Values" 
John Pepper Retired Chairman and CEO Procter & Gamble 
Thursday, October 4, 2007 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Mets manager Willie Handolph sported a new, dean-shaven look as he walk11d past rows of empty lockers in Nnw York's dubhous11. 
"It's not a good time to be rec­ognized in this town," he joked. ·:11oping to ~.lip by and dodge a lnw daggnrs. 
Handolph dodgnd one Tunsday, two days aftnr his team eomplet­nd an enormous collapse. General manager Omar Minaya announced Handolph will be back with the club next ynar, nnding speculation that he might bn lirnd despite getting a contract nxtension biJiiJnJ this season. 
"I do bnlinve that Willie is going to continue to work hard," Minaya said. "I do believe that Willie's passion for winning is there." 
New York Wfmt 5-12 down the stretch, squandering iL'> big lead in the NL East and missing the playoffs entirely. The Mets beeame the first major league team that failnd to finish in first place after owning a lead of seven games or more with 17 remaining. New York, which had that margin on Sept. 12, also matched the largest lead blown in September. 
"It just hurts right now," 

Handolph said. "It's been tough slenping the last eouple of nights, trying to come to grips with what's happ1-1ned.'' 
The Mets were tied for first with the Phillies heading into the limtl three games of the season, and Handolph remained confi­dnnt that his dub would pull it out. New York lost 7-4 to Florida on Friday night, falling one back of Philadelphia, but bouneed back with a 13-0 vietory Saturday to move into a tie again. 
Yet that was all washed away with an 8-1 loss Sunday that indudnd Florida's seven-run first inning against Tom Glavine, and 10 runners left on base by the Mots. 
"I've always been associated with winning and it hurts deep down inside, it really hurts to be associated with this type of col­lapse," Handolph said. "That's not why we play the game and there's no way in the world that I thought we'd be in this position right now talking about this." 
Handolph, who grew up in Brooklyn, replaced !\rt Howe as New York's manager in 2004. The Mets went 83-79 the follow­ing year and 97-65 last season, matching the Yankees for the bnst record in the major leagues. They lost to St. Louis in Game 7 of the NL championship series. 
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

-
JOIN THE CONVERSAT~ON 
Monday, t r 
JOYCE CENTER, 3:00 to 5:00p.m. ' 
Free admission. No classes will be held during this period. 
For those unable to attend, a live video stream of the Forum will be available at forum.nd.edu. Moderator I Distinguished Panelists 





Mr. Ray Suarez The Honorable His Eminence The Honorable The Honorable Sr. Correspondent, Louis J. Barletta Roger Cardinal Mel R. Martinez Janet A. Napolitano The NewsHour Mayor, Mahony, D.D. U.S. Senator, Governor, with Jim Lehrer Hazleton, Pa. Archbishop of Florida Arizona 
Los Angeles 
For more information go to forum.nd.edu. 

NOTRE DAME FORUM 
page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 3, 2007 

know no : boundaries 
WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 
-

DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Next World View Film, Coming in December: All the Invisible Children • December 8 • Director Katia Lund to discuss her film 
r;;:F,llJNIVERSJTY OF 

""~w D E B A R T 0 l 0 
WNOTRE DAME .(("(<:,!'' PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Office of the President 
--~------~­
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
torching the Farley defense for huge gains. However, sen­ior defensive back Anna Pursley came up with an interception, and it looked like Farley was going to drive down the field to tie the game. 
New freshman staring quar­terback Emily Murphy com-
Ducks 
continued from page 20 
Cavanaugh a first and goal on the 10-yard line with plenty of time on the clock. Sophomore receiver Sarah Cline caught the go-ahead touchdown pass to put the Chaos on top again, 13-8. 
"Elisa Suarez and Sarah Van Mill made some excellent plays, and Katie Dunn really maintained composure on our second touchdown drive," Martini said. "She really helped keep the team focused and the intensity high." 
The Ducks' took over the ball with one last chance to score and a minute and a half on the clock. Cavanaugh's usually strong defense was unable to cover the Howard receivers, and Bishop was able to create a drive with rapid-fire passes to Robinson and sophomore co-captain Mary Jenkins. With four sec­onds left in the game, Hobinson caught the ball in the end zone to win the game, 14-13. ~ 
"Our final touchdown drive, and the fact that we never gave up, shows how intense and passionate we all are for Howard football," Jenkins said. "Last year, we won only one game and struggled to find eight players for the games. This year we have twelve, but we finally made the playoffs." 
Junior co-captain Kate Sylvia was thrilled to have defeated a large, powerhouse team like Cavanaugh. 
"We may be small, but Howard's got a big ol' heart," she said. 
Walsh 12, Farley 0 
Walsh has established itself as the team to beat, defeating Farley's Finest 12-0 and extending their winning streak to five games. 
Both the offense, led by sen­ior quarterback Mary Claire Sullivan, and the defense, lead by senior Julie Campbell, established control of the game and came out with another efficient victory. 
Early on, however, Farley looked as if it might pull out an upset, driving down the field into the red zone multi­ple times. Some key plays in the secondary by Campbell and an interception junior Meghan Soriano staved off the Finest and held them score­less in the first half. 
The Walsh offensive squad looked a little out of sync early. The Farley secondary pressed the receivers hard and the line forced Sullivan to rush her throws. However, after Soriano's interception, Sullivan and sophomore receiver Sierra Smith led the Wild Women down the field, the drive culminating in a last-second touchdown pass to freshman Lindsey Schanzer. 
"With basically the whole dorm showing up to support us during wild week, it really fired our team up," Smith said. "We all pitched in, and the victory was a real team effort." 
Walsh picked up in the sec­ond half where it left off, with the Sullivan-Smith connection 
pleted multi­ple passes to  "Last year, we won only  sion ended in a punt,  
junior captain Jenny Rolfs, and the Finest marched  one game and struggled to find eight players for the games. This year we  McGlinn sen­ior captain Taryn Lewis intercepted  
down field. once  the Yet, again,  have twelve, but we made the playoffs. "  Pasquerilla East freshman quarterback  
they stalled in the red zone,  Mary Jenkins  Caitlin Lynch to set up her  
turning ball over  the on  Howard co-captain  team in good field position.  
downs.  Sophomore  
On the ensu­ running back  

ing drive the Wild Women Tina Noronha punched the went down the field like a ball in for the first score, but well-oiled machine. Sullivan the Shamrocks failed to con­chewed up yards on the vert on the extra point, mak­ground and fired passes to ing the score 6-0. Smith and senior captain "We had an excellent offen­Marie Brenner. On fourth sive drive. Our offensive line down in the Farley red zone, played really well," Noronha Sullivan threw a touch pass to said. a wide-open Brenner in the But it was the only time end zone to seal the victory. McGlinn would see the end­Coach J.J. Rees was fired up zone on the day. after the game. The Pyros responded with a 
"I'm really happy with the quick drive down the field. way we played -Farley was Freshman running back Jess a tough squad and put up a Leiferman ran the ball in for fight," Rees said. "But in the the score, and Lynch convert­end, it just wasn't enough. We ed the extra point on a pass to plan on going undefeated, and senior Caroline Nally to put then going all the way to the the Pyros ahead. Stadium." After forcing the Shamrocks 
Both the Finest and the Wild to punt, Lynch wasted no time Women made the playoffs and in driving back down the field will be playing in the Position for another score. She con­nected with Nally for the score but failed to convert the extra point, extending the lead to 13-6. 
"It was a perfect pass that I was able to take advantage of," Nally said. 
McGlinn once again started off the second half strong, forcing a three-and-out, but were unable to convert on fourth down, giving the ball back to the Pyros. 
Lewis gave the Shamrocks a chance to comeback after intercepting Lynch the follow­ing drive, but McGlinn turned the ball over on downs. 
The Pyros next drive result­ed in another touchdown pass from Lynch to Nally, extend­ing the lead to 19-6. 
McGlinn coach Jeff Paramore said his team will be much better next year. 
"We had the youngest team in the league, but we also had the most fun," he said. "We were a lot better as time went on, and I expect to surprise 
-
some people next year." 
Pasquerilla East hopes the win puts them back into play­off contention. 
"I am really proud of our team. Maybe we will be able to sneak into the playoffs," coach Spencer Longhofer said. 
The Pyros finally have something to celebrate. 
"The offensive line and wide receivers played great today. I am taking them all out to din­ner," Lynch said. 
Contact Meghan McMahon at mmcmaho2@nd.edu, Patrick Stynes at pstynes@nd.edu and Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
round this Sunday. 
Pasquerilla East 19, McGlinn 6 
The Pyros were on fire Tuesday night, pulling off a 19-6 victory over McGlinn to earn their first win of the year in the battle of the winless. 
After their 
first posses­

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Saint Mary's ends seven-game losing streak to Bulldogs 
back. But after a strong effort by breaking its losing streak against showed. [Sasgen] had her from that win along with theBy SAMANTHA LEONARD both teams and multiple lead the Bulldogs. strongest offensive game yet. She momentum of that win into our 
Spans Writer 
changes throughout the game, The Belles team leader was also really pulled out some Hope match. We started the sec­
the Bulldogs (11-7, 8-2 MIAA) sophomore outside hitter Lorna strong serves when the team ond half of our season off right, 
In Saint Mary's season opener came out on top 30-28. Slupczynski who had a career­needed it most." but we have got to keep our Sept. 4, the Belles lost to Adrian Game three was an even high and match-best 27 kills to Another standout was junior focus on the here and now -one in straight games -extending tougher match for the Belles. The go along with her match-high 19 middle blocker Kaela Hellmann, match at a time to achieve our the Bulldogs streak to seven con­Belles and Bulldogs were neck digs in the win. who tallied up the third double­goals." secutive wins over the Belles. and neck the entire game, but Freshman middle blocker double effort of the night with 13 The timing of the win may pro­That streak was broken Tuesday multiple errors by the Belles gave Andrea Sasgen gave a stand-out kills and 13 digs. Junior middle vide dividends later in the season when Saint Mary's beat Adrian in Adrian its second game at 32-34. performance as well with 13 blocker Cathy Kurczak and with playoff implications arising. live hard-fought games. With two losses in a row, it kills, 16 digs and a team-high freshman outside hitter Jacee "This was a really big win for 
"Tonight it all really just came seemed the Belles were going to three service aces, while her sen­Watson also contributed 15 and us, and it couldn't have come at a together," senior Amanda David fall to their conference foe again. ior counterpart setter David had 10 kills, respectively, in the win. better time," David said. "We said. "We have been having some Saint Mary's, however, kicked in a season-best 65 assists and 14 "I was incredibly happy with struggled a little with our serving really good practices this past the intensity. digs. their play tonight," Schroeder­but the team came together and week, and it really showed in They started the game with six Head coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said. "They really executed overcame it. If we can keep this tonight's game." unanswered points and never Biek was glad to see Sasgen and well. I felt like every member of up we will really challenge some 
The Belles (7-10, 4-5 MIAA) lost that lead, taking game four David begin to come together. our team came to compete teams in the second half of our took game one easily 30-24, but 30-22. "Andrea [Sasgen] and Amanda tonight." season." could not keep momentum going Saint Mary's also dominated [David] have had their struggles Although she was excited and The Belles take on the third­into game two. the match's final game, begin­connecting this season on the glad for the win, Schroeder-Biek ranked team in the MIAA confer­
Bulldogs outside hitter Lindsey ning with five unanswered quick attacks," she said. :But is ready for the next conference ence, Hope, Thursday at 7 p.m. Eshelman had multiple kills at points. Adrian fought hard, but they just started putting in some match Thursday against Hope. in the Angela Athletic Facility. the Belles' feet to give Adrian an could not catch Saint Mary's. The extra time together, and even "As wonderful as this win was, early lead. After getting down 6-Belles finished the game with a though it has not been much it is over," she said. "We now Contact Samantha Leonard at 13, the Belles began to rally 15-8 score, sealing the win and extra time yet, the improvement only carry the confidence gained slenoaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
~==============~ 


-
Fortner 
continued from page 20 
Damn r11eord of 20c), first set by .1111'f Connell at the I 99H Marshall Invitational and matclwd by Cole lsban in 2007 at thn Bordor Olympi<:s. 
Fortn11r and Virginia's (;rng Carlin f'inislwd fiv11 strokes baek of Spartan nwdalist Hyan Brnhm (72-64-61)1, whose final round hi) put him at five-under for tlw tournamPnl. Fort.nnr's prnvious lu1st tournamnnt seorP was 212 at last ynar's Triumph at Pauma VallPy, whnr11 hn fin­islwd fourth. 
Otlwr top NotrP Damn finish­Prs ineludod junior Josh Sandman, who finislwd in a tin for I !ith. Sandman fin~d a oJw­ovnr 71 in thP third round for a thrnn-round total of 217 (S11VI1n-OVI'r). 
Snvnral Irish golfPrs that did not. start but compnt11d as indi­viduals wnrP among NotrP Dame's top pnrformers. Sophonwn• KyiP Willis tied for night.nPnt.h at H-ovnr, the best finish of his Irish earner. 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
however. Irish roach Bobby Clark fools his team still has room for irnprovnnwnt.. 
"Wn've gotten close Ito playing a full game of good soccer! in a few of the gamns," Clark said. "We're piecing it together, and wn try to take something away from naeh gamn and take it to the next game. We still have room to grow." 
One devPlopnwnt that may lwlp Notre Dame find their host form will bP. the impend­ing roturn of several injured players. Sophomore midfield­er Michael Thomas, out with a broken jaw since the UCLA game Aug. 31. will visit the doctor today and will play tonight if he roceives clear­ance. 
Sophomore forward Tamba Samba may also make his 

-
first appearance of the sea­son tonight against Michigan. ;\ foot injury has kept Samba out of the lineup. 

"There's certainly a possi­bility of both !Samba and Thomas! playing, and it would be a tremendous boost if they did," Clark said. "The thing with Tamba is his fit­ness as he wasn't able to do anything for three to four Freshmen Tyler Hock and Jeff Clwn also shot scores of 10 and 11 over to finish in the top 40. 
Finishing third among the Irish starters was senior Greg Hodgnrs, who tied for 50th with a scorP. of 16-over. Fellow sen­ior l~ddie Peckels tied for 52nd at IC)-over, and sophomore Carl Santos-Ocampo rounded out tlw Notre Dame starters with a total of 30-over. 
Othnr Irish playnrs competing as individuals included fresh­man Connor Alan-Lee, senior Mike King, sophomore Olavo Batista. and freshman Dustin Zhang. Alan-Lee finished strong with a 71 in the third round, giving him a 15-ovnr total. 
King and Batista tied for 56th with seorns of 236, 21-over. Zhang's final round H 1 put him in 69th place with a score of :H-owr. 
The Irish will be right baek in action this wtwknnd, traveling to Durham, North Carolina to com pntn in the Coca-Cola Duke (;olf Classic October 7-8. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
wonks. lin won't be able to go C)() minutes, but he may bo abln to give us some minutes tonight." 
While Notrn Dame has rein­forcements on the way in Thomas and Samba, the Irish lineup continues to be altered by other injuries. Senior forward Kurt Martin will have to miss some time due to an ankle injury he re­aggravated this past Friday against Cincinnati. Senior defender Kyle Dagan also left Friday night's game with an injury. 
"The nice thing with the injuries has been that we've been able to get some younger players involved, whieh is great because down the line it's only going to make us deeper and stronger," Clark said. 
Tonight's game will be the seventh meeting between Notre Dame and Michigan, with the Irish holding a 5-0-1 edge in the all-time series. The last meeting took place last year in Ann Arbor with Notre Dame winning 2-0 on two goals from senior for­ward Joseph Lapira. 
Tonight's game starts at 7 p.m., and it will be televised live on Comcast Local (Michigan). 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
Clausen 
continued from page 20 
ther wa..s per!eet," Weis said. 
When Sharpley entered the game, the Irish trailed 26-(>, but two touchdown passes by the junior brought the scorn to 2(>-19 before a game-clinching touch­down by Purdue. 
Wnis said that while Clausen is still going to be the starter if he's healthy enough. Notre Dame is fortunate to have two quarter­backs with game exporienee. 
"They both have done a very good job progressing and running the tnam," he said. 
Combined. Sharpley and Clausen threw for 377 yards against the Boilermakers, over 200 more yards than the Irish had passed for in any other game this year. 
Weis said the improvement was partially because he made the quarterbacks practice without play calling wristbands all last week. 
"Last week was a turning point with both of them going from calling plays to running plays," Weis said. ''They did a lot better job of running the offense in praetice." 
Weis said without the wrist­bands, Sharpley and Clausen had to foeus on the play being called. 
"It put a lot of pressure on them." he said. 'They didn't have the security blanket where you say, 'number three' and they just read it. They're not calling a play, they're just reading the play." 
Getting rid of the wristbands also took away a distraction li'Jr the signal callers as the team approached the line of scrim­magn. 
"Sometimes you'll see them go to the line of scrimmage and they'rn looking at the wristband again," Wnis said. "It's like, 'wait, what was that play again?"' 
Both quartnrbacks wore wrist­bands during the game against the Boilermakers. 
Injured players may return 

WeL<> said junior wide receiver David Grimes and sophomore offensive guard Dan Wenger are both "50/50" for the UCLA game. Grimes was. injured against Purdue, while Wenger has not played since the Michigan game Sept. 15. 
Maust takes over punting 

Sophomore Erie Maust handled Notre Dame's punting Saturday against Purdue instead of fifth­year senior C.JColl' Prien, and Weis 
said  Maust will  start  again  
against UClA  
Maust  kicked  three  times  

against the Boilermakers, aver­aging 44 yards pnr punt. 
Changing depth chart 

In addition to Maust, several other players moved up on the official Irish depth chart. Sophomore James Aldridge was moved to first string running back, with fil'th-year snnior Travis Thomas, snnior Junior Jabbie, and Ji·eshman Armando Allon all sharing the No. 2 spot. 
Offensive guard Matt Carufel and defensive end Dwight Stephenson were also ollicially moved into starting roles. The original starters in those posi­tions, Wenger and senior Justin Brown, are injured. 

Kickers get live practice 

Aftnr missing one extra point, botching another and having a field goal blocked, placekiekers Brandon Walker and Nate Whitaker practiend against a live rush Tuesday. Both were solid inside 30 yards, but both also had u!-{ly misses from beyond that dis­tance. 
Thn Irish also worked on othor aroas of spndal toams at full spoed and in full pads Tuesday, induding field goal blocking and punt coverage. 
Stewart back on the field 

After missing last Thursday's practicc1 and not making the trip to West Lafayett1~ Saturday amid rumors that hn was thinking of transfPrring, sophomorn ollimsiv1~ lineman Chris Stnwart was back on the practice fidd Tuesday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


COLLEGE NIGHTS 
TUESDAY & THURSDAY 9PM-12AM 
INCLUDING SHOES! 
per person 
5419 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, IN 
(574) 243-bowl 
Now OPEN•••• MICHIANA'S ONLY INDOOR BLACK LIGHT MINI GOLF! 

Wednesday, October 3, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 ­
MICHAEL MIKUSKA
BLACK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

All Rights Reserved.  
tCUCHIP I J I www.jumble.comtFYLLAT jJ rx  [) 1 1  

A: A 

.. rI I I I J' rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: JOKER MOURN CHALET OMELET Answer: What the server accessed on his 
computer -THE "MENU" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Aywni Hamasaki, 29; Kelly Ripa, 37; Lor­raine Bracco, 53; Donna Karan. 59 
Happy Birthday: This is a great year for you to expand your interests and make over­due changes. Use your creative mind to push for a more satisfying and fruitful future. Your numbers are 6, 14, 33, 36, 39,43 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't mince words or think you can talk your way around situations you want to aYoid. Ar2:uments will break out and resoh·in2 issues will be impossible. 2 stars -­
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can get to the bottom of things if you are persis­tent and refuse to take no for an answer. Emotional matters can be resolved and havin2 fun with friends, children and older, experienced individuals will prove to be enlight-­ening. 4 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Pnt yourself in a position that allows you to learn and expand your skills and knowledge. A creative idea you have can be turned into a lucra­tive venture. Someone from your past is likely to dismpt your world. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't be shy when you have so much to offer. Look at the possibilities and make changes for a better, more interesting future. A change is overdue, so don't procrastinate. Your ideas will be backed if you voice them. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love, romance, having fun and meeting people who can change your life are all up for grabs today. If you see someone who interests you, cast your fate to the wind and jump in with both feet. 4 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful what you say. You have the right idea but someone may try to steal your thunder and take credit for your hard work, plans or ideas. You have to take control if you want to come out on top. 2 stars 
LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Travel, adventure and excitement shonld part of your day. You will have a dear picture of \\'hat others think of you and whether or not you can get ahead pursuing what you are doing. 5 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Now is the time to launch, present and take what you want to do and run with it. You can convince others to back you or buy into what you are doing. 3 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Emotional matters will surface, leaving you a little on edge and feeling uncertain about what to do next. Store any advice you're given so that you can utilize it when you feel you can make it work for you. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Not everything will be out in the open. You'll have to read between the lines. Approach money deals with caution if someone is coming on too strong. An opportunity to make a professional move will be to your advantage. 5 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Collect an old debt or pay off something that has been hanging over your head. Now is the time to make a few personal changes that will boost your confidence or help you get into a better position. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make changes at home. Real estate, renovations or in­vesting in something you believe in should all pay off. A love connection looks posi­tive and taking care of any minor health or personal issues will tum out welL 5 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are entertaining, emotional. sensitive and inventive. You are a dreamer, a planner and a very loyal companion and friend. You are powerfnl, helpful and a dedicated ClUSader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astmadvice.comfor ftm, eugenia/ast.com for cmifidenlial consultations 
-

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER
TASTES LIKE fAILURE 

CROSSWORD 
Across 32 Hockey position Lovers' scrap 
35 Paris Metro 5 Nanki-Poo's station next to a father music center 
11 Cabinet dept. 36 Shout from the 14 Samovars phone 15 Artillery unit 
39 Resident of 

member 
Medina 16 Some eggs 
42 'Pea 

17 McGarrett's TV 43 Type size
catchphrase 19 Unit of RAM 
4 7 Cause of odd 20 Father figure? 
weather 21 By way of 
49 Wrap up

22 600-homer club member 51 _de plume 23 Alights 
52 Chevy truck 

24 Question for a slogan, once 
hitchhiker 55 John of London
26 Giant in Cooperstown 57 Ward (off) 27 Eggs, in labs 
58 Sellout sign 

29 Biblical landing 59 World Cup chant 
spot 30 Putting a toe in 60 Italian diminutive the water, say suffix 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

61 Singles bar repertoire (and a hint to 17-. 24-, 36-and 52­Across) 
63 Make darts, say 64 Cry after "Psst!" 65 For fear that 66 Farm brooder 67 Casually add 68 Pseudocultured 
Down Side story 2 Apportion, as 
costs 3 Rubs oil on 4 Clicked one's 
tongue 5 Ones minding the store: Abbr. 6 Birth control 
option, briefly 7 Scalawag 8 _Hall, Diane 
Keaton role 9 "Gracias" 
response 1oCortes's prize 11 Tall wardrobe 12 Succeeds in a 
big way 13 Yachting event 18 "Happy 
Motoring" brand 22 Top-notch, to a 
Brit 24 Innocents 25 Suffix with buck 28 Bugs on a 
highway 
WILLSHORTZ 


34 Rosetta stone language  celebrity 44 Chanter 45 Least ruffled  56 Hyams of 1920s­'30s films 59 Shop window  
37 Yothers of "Family Ties"  46 General pardon 48 ''Twelfth Nighf'  sign 61 Word with boss or bull  
38 Kobe cash  lover  62 New England  
39 Me-first  50 Secluded valley  state sch.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JUMBLE 
JJWJ)OO[ID)1JK 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RUJOR 
± 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
SYTUM ± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
WHAT TI* KNIFE: THROWE:R WORE: ON STAGE:. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

-
r-----------------­
-
--~ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, October 3, 2007 
page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Status unknown 
Weis said Clausen will start at UCLA ifready 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor 

-
Freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen will start Saturday against UCLA if lw is hnalthy enough. Notrn Dame head coach Charlie Wnis said in his press mn­(i~rnncn Tuesday. 
Clausen was in full pads for Ttwsday's praetiee and is dnarml to play. But whether he will be recovernd Pnough from thn undis­dosnd injury hn sullim~d against Purdw• to take the field alwad of' junior I~van Sharpley is up in the air. 
"''m not. I 00 percnnt sum what ,Jimmy's going to look like," Wnis said. 'Trn going to have to son on tlw fidd Iat practkel how it goes." 
Clausen played most of' the first thn~n quarters against the Boilnrmaknrs Saturday, complet­ing l R-ol'-26 passes fi:>r 169 yards, with a touchdown and an intnr­cnption. lie was spelled by Sharpley altnr taking a big hit dur­ing the third quarter. Sharpley carne in and completed 16-of-26 throws for 20S yards with two touchdowns and one intnrception in slightly mom than a quarter of' action. 
"Last week. both quarterbacks did a lot ol' good things, but nei­
sec CLAUSEN/page 18 


MEN'S GOLF 

Teatn takes eighth in Classic 
'By MICHAEL BRYAN Sports Writer 

Notre Damn Jinished in a tie 
for eighth in the second 
Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf 
Classic Tuesday. shooting a 
total of 298 in the limti round. 
The Irish (289-295-29S) ended the tournament at 42­over par, tied with San Dit~go. Notre Dame stood in third place out of twelve teams aftnr the first round, but fell to sixth aftt~r a 16-over sewnd day. No. 25 Michigan Statn (285-274­
288) took first, leading all three rounds in an impressive 14-stroke victory. 
Tied for seeond were No. 16 Lamar University and Arkansas with scores of 861 (14-over). Virginia and Baylor rounded out the top five, shoot­ing totals of 868 and 870 respectively. 
Sophomore Doug Fortner was Notre Dame's best golfer this weekend, tinishing tied for second place individually. Fortner (68-72-70) linished the tournament at even-par, and his 54 hole total of 210 was just one stroke off the Notre 
see FORTNER/page 18 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish prepare for Michigan 
NO 5-0 in Big East for first time since 1997 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

Al'tnr starting its Big East season 5-0 l'or tlw first timn since J<J<J7, No.3 Notre Damn will takn a brnak from eonferPnce play tonight whon No. 19 Michigan comes to Alumni Finld. 
T h n W o I v n r in e.s (8-1 -I ) come to South Bend in the wakn of their first loss of tho snason -a 3-2 ovnrtimn dnl'oat by Indiana. Before its loss to the Hoosiers, howev­nr, Michigan had run off nino straight games without a dnfnat. and Irish eoach Bobby Clark expects a stern tnst froin tlw Wolverines.
.... "They'rn the bnst Big Ten tnam I've seen." Clark said. "They transition well. They have some very good attack­ing players, and they're good on sot pinces. Thny'rn a good side, but w ~~'II be ready for them." The biggest ehallnnge for Notre Dame will be stopping the. potent Michigan offense. The Irish defense, which has four shutouts on the snason 

and a goals-against average of 0.74, will have to contend with a Wolverine offense that has yet to be shutout while averaging 2.62 goals per game this season. 
Notn~ Dame, which holds a 6-1-2 overall record, is cur­rently in the midst of a seven-game unbeaten streak, with their last loss coming at the hands of No. 18 Maryland 3-0 on Sept. 2. During their streak, Notre Dame is 5-0-2. Despite their impressive record as of late, 
see CLARKIpage 18 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Howard edges Chaos, Walsh defeats Farley 
By MEGHAN McMAHON, 
PATRICK STYNES and JARED 
)EDICK 
Sports Writers 

Howard (2-2-1) scored a last-minute touehdown to defe'at Cavanaugh 14-13 Tuesday, narrowly escaping defeat and seeuring a spot in the Blue Division playoffs. 
"It was a heart-breaking loss." Cavanaugh senior een­ter Jill Martini said. "I don't think anyone saw it coming." 
Both the Chaos, now 2-3, and Ducks eame out strong on defense. Howard junior Laura Giezeman intercepted a pass by Cavanaugh junior quarter­back Katie Dunn. The Ducks offense, however, was unable to capitalize on their great field position. 
Cavanaugh held the Ducks to less than 20 yards in the first half. 
The Cavanaugh offense struck first, scoring a touch­down on the last drive of the half. Senior Elisa Suarez and junior Sarah Van Mill caught Dunn's passes for a combined gain of 55 yards, bringing up first and goal for the Chaos. 

Dunn then complnted an S­yard pass to Van Mill for the touchdown and converted to Suarez to end the half leading 7-0. 
Howard's first drive of the second half ended abruptly with an interception by fresh­man Mary Kate Howard. but Giezeman and the DLJcks answered baek with another interception to launch Howard's first touchdown drive. 
Freshman quarterback Kayla Bishop complPted a pass to freshman reeeiver Kaitlin Hobinson for the touchdown. The Dueks then made a gutsy deeision to go for the two-pqint conversion, despite having lost to Walsh earlier this season bncausn of missed extra points. Howard eonverted and took the lead, making the seore 8-7. 
With Jess than six minutes left in the game, thE~ Chaos knew they had to aet quiekly. 
Unable to f'ind open receivers, Dunn took ofT run­ning. She rushed for 40 yards on the first play, and then fif­teen on the next, to give 
see DUCKS/page 17 







