
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Fonner Irish president speaks at ND 
Immigration presents challenges and opportunities to national identity, Robinson says 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
The increase in the number ol' immigrants coming to Ireland and the decline in emigration from Ireland pres­ents "new and complex chal­lenges to the Irish identity," said Mary Robinson, former president of Ireland and U.N. High Commissioner for I Iuman Rights. 
Hobinson was the keynote speaker Sunday evening in Washington Hall for "Race and Immigration in the New Ireland," a conference hosted by Notre Dame's Keough­Naughton Institute for Irish Studies. 
University President Father John Jenkins welcomed Robinson and noted Notre Dame's "deep affinity with Ireland and all things Irish." Immigration, the issue debat­ed in an American context at last week's Notre Dame Forum, is a topic Ireland is also discussing, Jenkins said. 
"Ireland, which has so long been a land of emigrants, is now becoming a land of immigrants," he said. 
For a country "steeped in the inevitability of emigra­tion," the new demographics of the modern Ireland are "both a huge challenge and a great opportunity," Robinson said. 
According to population and migration estimates, between April 2005 and April 2006, [86,900 people immigrated into Ireland,] Robinson said. The number of emigrants in the same time period was 17,000, resulting in a net migration influx of 69,900. 

The immigrants are making Ireland a younger country, Robinson said, and they are bringing different heritages into Ireland, from countries like Poland and Lithuania. 
Robinson now lives in New York but said she has wit­nessed the impact of the influx of peoples into Ireland. When visiting County Mayo, the part of Ireland she is 
see ROBINSON/page 4 


KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer Mary Robinson, fonner president of Ireland, speaks about immigration Sunday night. 


University promotes Ph.D. programs 
ND officials take steps to help encourage more students to pursue advanced degrees 
HlGHEST DEGBU D0'1~:-UE EARNED, ND U.NDEBO.RADS 
PIRST PROFESSIONAL (J.D., M.D.) 
22~. 

MASTERS 
BACHELOR'S 
37% 
35"/o 

JARED WAFER/Observer Graphic 
By BRIAN MCKENZIE News Writer 
Prompted by the fact that only five to six percent of Notre Dame undergraduates pursue doctor­ates after graduation, the University is taking steps to encourage more students to take advantage of research opportuni­ties. 
The ratio, measured by the Office of Institutional Research, is lower than those at Notre Dame's peer institutions. 
At his Sept. 11 faculty address, University President Father John Jenkins noted that between 10 and 15 percent of students at Notre Dame's peer institutions continue to Ph.D. status. 

"One very important avenue to intellectual leadership is to earn a Ph.D. -the terminal degree in most fields," he said. 
Studies have shown that, com­pared to students at peer institu­tions, Notre Dame students are less likely to eventually obtain a Ph.D., said Dennis Jacobs, Associate Provost for Undergraduate Studies. 
Notre Dame students are also less likely to say in polls taken dur­ing senior and freshmen year that they wanted to pursue Ph.D.s., Jacobs said. 
see DOCTORATE/page 4 
------------. 

NDSMCOBSERYER.COM 

Professor analyzes 
• 


econormcs 
Givens looks at effects ofimmigration, racism 
By NICHOLAS BOCK News Writer 
Luke Gibbons, the Donald 
R. Keough Professor of Irish Studies said Ireland's rate of immigration in the 20th cen­tury was tied to the percep­tion of a "Celtic Twilight" ­a stagnant Irish economy. 
He alluded to two theories explaining this claim before a crowded auditorium at the Snite Museum Saturday night. 
"Some scholars claim that the social climate in Ireland is due to the blase assump­tion that the Irish cannot be racist," Gibbons said. 
He summarized their argu­ment by asking, "How can [the Irish] be racist? We are the original immigrants." 
Other scholars believe that racism in Ireland is fervent. Gibbons argued that the social reality falls some­where between the two theo­ries. "Celtic Tiger," "Twilight's" counterpart, is Ireland's current economic status, characterized by a significant economic upsurge. 
In the early 1990s, unem­ployment was at a steady 17 percent in Ireland; but by 1999, it had dropped to four percent, Gibbons said. He attributed increased migra­
see IRELAND/page 4 

Losing record drives down sales, enthusiam 
Single Boston College game seats go for as low as $20 
By MARCELA BERRIOS Associate News Editor 
Four minutes before kickoff Saturday, a scalper outside Notre Dame Stadium sold a ticket for the Boston College game for $20, 
"I never thought I'd see the day when a ticket to see the Fighting Irish at Notre Dame Stadium wouldn't sell for more than $20," said the scalper, who askPd to remain anonymous. "Especially for a game like Boston College. It's such a big rivalry. I jw;t can't believe it." 
Scalpers interviewed for this story spoke on the condition of anonymity, because the Notre Dame ticket office prohibits the resale of football tickets, above face value. 
An individual ticket for Saturday's game had a lace value of$62, but in the hours leading up to the 
see SCALPING/page 4 


Seniors' marshmallow fights thwarted by NDSP, ushers 
ByTAEANDREWS 
News Writer 

In recent years, Notre Dame seniors turned the student section into a flurry of flying confections during halftime marshmallow fights. Now, the debate over the seemingly innocuous bite-sized treats rages on off the field and out of the stadi­um. 
Since 2002, Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) and stadium security have cracked down on marshmallow fights because some of the marsh­mallows, when embedded with coin or rocks, have made their way onto the field or caused injury. 
"It's not so much marshmallow throwing, but throwing in general [that concerns us]," Coordinator of Stadium Personnel Cappy Gagnon 
see SENIORS/page 4 

---------------------------~ ~ ~--­
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Time to get out of here 
Yeah, I said it. It's time for nw to 

graduate. When I think about that 
month of May in that year of 2001{, 
I feel two things: Part of me wants 
to get out of here, and the other 
part of me 
wants four Christian Sagardla more years to experience 
Systems

things again. 
Adminisrtator

It's not that I 
haven't enjoyed 
myself here; on the contrary, these 
have been the best four years of 
my life. I'm just ready to move on. 
Senioritis has kicked in. I don't 

know why, but things that never 
annoyed me before now do. 
Freshmen are more obnoxious, 
dorm life has beeome cramped and 
my engineering elasses haven't 
gotten any easier. But, for those 
complaints, I sne things around me 
that I will miss dearly: friends still 
being up at 3 a.m. to ehat with. 
sitting in the student section for 
football games, pep rallies, all­
nighters in Fitzpatrick, and mid­
night eof'fee breaks in LaFortune. 
I remember back in high school, IH1ing a senior, wanting to gradu­ate and go to eollnge. By the spring of that year. I had bnen accepted to Notrn Damn and other schools and had secured my future. My workload was easy, and I coasted through the end of high school. Now, I'm fighting an uphill battle rathnr than dashing through. The work hasn't gotten easier, just more enjoyable. Hather than plow­ing through areane mathematical equations. I'm designing and building things. I'm creating, rather than caleulating. The math is there. but now I see the end result. Working through a dil'feren­tial equation takes on a whole new meaning when you realize why you're doing it in the first place. 
When I get into the "real world," my degree will be put to good use (if I ean find a job, naturally). I'm ready to get out there, ready to leave this behind and ready for the new day. I used to think that life ended at age 22 and graduation, but my perspective has drastically changed. There's a whole new world out there, one waiting to be discovered and changed by us, the future generation. 
I figure I should give some words of advice to those who will listen before I leave. Don't get your knickers in a twist at everything. Laugh a little, get offended a little and don't take everything too seri­ously. We're all human, and no one is perfect. Eat pizza late at night, and find time to enjoy a good cup of espresso (Italy makes the best). Learn something that you wouldn't find regularly among your academ­ic studies. Drive off-road. And never forget, sometimes it's good to color outside the lines. I mean it. 
And if I've offended anyone read­ing this column, I've done my job correctly. Cheers! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
Contact Christian Sagardia at csagardi@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due 10 a reporting error, in Friday's article, "Faculty, students debate immigration," the name Amy Meyers was misspelled as Amy Meyer. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 15, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU THINK SHOULD START AT QUARTERBACK AND WHY? 



Leonard Giannone  Amy Winik  Jackie Doherty  
junior Dillon  sophomore Farley  sophomore PW  
"Michael Wakim. He is the reigning Co-Recflag  "Darrin Bragg likes to get his ,wiggles on.  "Tom Zbikowski. He doesn't know it, but we're  

football champion team's quarterback." 
OFFBEAT 
Thief takes food, not valuables 
APPLETON, Wis.-This thief apparently had quite the appetite. 
Appleton police received a call Wednesday of a burglary -not of valuables but of food. 
the burglar apparently entered the unlocked apart­ment and walked away with a pizza, six eggs, a can of beef ravioli, a can of peaches and one chicken-and-broc­coli Hot Pocket, authorities said. 
The crime apparently occurred between 8:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m., the police report said. 
TODAY 

_. 
<1: 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 58
...I 
LOW 37 




Kyle Carter Jill Mazur Blair Chemidlin 
junior junior freshman 
O'Neill Welsh Family Lyons 
'The real no. "/ don't even "/ miss Brady. " 12, Zack know who our Frasier. Call quarterback is. , 
him upfrom Connecticuit because he's the man. , 


getting married because he's a Spartan. 
Police had no immediate suspects. 
'Copper Chopper' returned in one piece 
Fayetteville, Ark. -The "Copper Chopper" is back home after being mistaken for trash. 
The motorcycle, made by workers at a Cabot heating and air company, was reported stolen from the Bikes, Blues & BBQ festival in Fayetteville this week. 
Employees built the motor­cycle with copper tubing, tubing insulation, a refriger­ant drum, a blower motor, refrigerant gauges, nut driv­ers, two squirrel cage blower housings and sheet metal. 
The motorcycle was picked up by someone who was told everything left behind was trash. Moore Heat and Air paid a $200 reward for the motorcycle, which won the creative contest at the motor­cycle festival. 
'Tm just glad that someone took it because it was cool and not just for the copper," employee Sherry Mash said. "With so much copper theft going on these days, we were afraid that it had been scrapped for the copper and we would never see it again." 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

IN BRIEF 
The lecture "Evening of Space Science/Astronomy at Jordan Hall," will take place tonight at 7::{0 in the Digital Visualization Theater and Jordan Hall Observatory. The talk will feature research done by NASA and astrophysieists at Notre Dame. The event is free and open to the public. 
New swim lesson registra­tion will be held Tuesday at S a.m. in the Rolfs Sports Hecreation Center. 
There will be a seminar titled "Microscale Power Generation and Propulsion: It's Not the Same as Big Devices Made Smaller" Tuesday at :{:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. Paul D. Ronncy, a professor of aero­space and mechanical engi­neering at USC and former astronaut will present. 
The play "The Kings of Kilburn High Road" will be performed Tuesday at 8 
p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, Decio Mainstage Theatre. Student tickets are $10. 
The Notre Dame men's soccer team will play Indiana University Wednesday at 7 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Poet Michael Anania will present Wednesday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Gold Room of North Dining Hall. Anania will read from his latest work, Heat Lines. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 


HIGH LOW 
HIGH 62 LOW 43 


HIGH LOW 

Monday, October 15, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Keck Center battles inflatntnation 
Researchers look at side effects of disease as serious killers 
Special to The Observer 
Everyone knows that inflamma­tion signals infection or injury, like smoke docs a fm~. But researchers have learned that it can be an underlying cause of disease as well. 
Chronic inflamma­tion has been linked to cancer in the colon, asthma in the airways and athero­


sclerosis in the arteries, Castellino setting the stage for heart attacks and strokes. And a major killer called sepsis is nothing less than inflam­mation run amok. 
"I can think of no disease that dons not involve inflammation," said Francis J. Castellino, director of the Notre Dame's W.M. Keck CentPr for Transgene Research. 
It's also hard to imagine a rnsearch center better equipped and staffed to sort out the inner workings of inflammation than the Keck Center. 
Located in Raclin-Carmichael Hall, the center is a world-class facility focused on the study of proteins involved in inflammation and the related process of hemo­stasis, the body's way of balancing blood flow and clotting. 
Research into blood proteins has been growing steadily more sophisticated at Notre Dame for more three decades under Castellino's direction, spurred by technological advances that have made it possible to study the structure and function of hemo­stasis-related proteins in ever more detail. 
But two relatively recent mile­stones have really helped. 
In 2004, Keck Center scientists were awarded $9 million in grants from the National Institutes of Ilcalth to study inflammation in sepsis, the genetics of colon can­cer and the role of homeostasis following artery damage. 
Then, in 2005, the center joined the Indiana University School of Medicine-South Bend as primary occupants of Raclin-Carmichael Hall, the new academic building just outside the University's main gate on Notre Dame Avenue. 
The Keck Center's move to Raclin-Carmichael Hall consoli­dated an operation that had been spread over nine spaces in four campus buildings, assistant direc­tor Melanie DeFord said. That's created a more cohesive work atmosphere for the center's staff of 35 scientists, technicians and students. The center's new labs, besides being about 20 percent larger overall, employ an impres­sive array of state-of-the-art equipment, like a laser knife so precise it can cut out individual colon cancer cells for genetic analysis. 
None of it would be possible, however, without the mice that live in the basement. 
A colony of 6,000 specially engi­neered, transgenic mice is the engine that drives the flow of dis­coveries from the Keck Center. Expert<; at the center have created more than 50 different strains of mice, with each strain having its own strategically chosen gene alterations. 
Because genes are templates for production of proteins, adding or subtracting them from the genome produces mice that have excesses or deficiencies of the blood proteins that Keck scientists want to study, Castellino explained. 
Studying proteins in live animals is a huge advance over the tech­nology available to Castellino when he began studying blood proteins in the early 1970s. Back then, researchers had to tediously extract the selected protein from blood, he says. Experiments involved mixing two different pro­teins in test tubes to see the reac­tion. 
"But when you alter a gene in an intact animal, you're looking at everything [in a living system], starting with, 'Does it live for long?' " Castellino explained. 
The care, feeding and breeding of these special mice, who reside in about 1,500 cages, is itself a big operation requiring special techni­cal expertise and upwards of $150,000 a year to cover costs. 
"We have five or six people working downstairs on the colony alone," Castellino says. 
The breeding pairs in the colony .are giving birth to about 1,000 "pups" each month, DeFord said. 

OIT security team receives award 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame's information security awareness team has received an Award of Excellence from the Special Interest Group on University and College Computing Services (SIGUCCS). Comprised of a cross-cam­pus advisory group of staff and faculty from the Offices of Information Technologies and Public Affairs and Communication, the team was honored in the general service campaign materials category. 
SIGUCCS is an association of professionals that sup­ports and manages the diverse aspects of informa­tion technology services in higher education institu­tions. In honoring Notre Dame, the group praised the University's well-rounded and team-oriented approach, stating: "Each strategy was executed pro­fessionally and used innova­
tive concepts to garner interest. The training mod­ule was phenomenal: nicely scripted, exceptional con­tent, and very effectively produced." 
"That SIGUCCS would honor us with this award is a compliment to the tremen­dous talent brought to an important University initia­tive by members of each group, and is symbolic of a broader spirit of community that makes Notre Dame such a special place," said Notre Dame Chief Information Officer Gordon Wishon. 
Notre Dame's security awareness program is a campus-wide effort to assist University faculty and staff to manage sensitive infor­mation through communica­tion and training. The University launched the first phase of the program this past spring through a series of e-mail announcements, campus postcard mailings and a new Web site. 

The Kings of ilburn igh Road 
By Jimmy Murphy 
Tuesday, October 16 and Wednesday, October 17 
8:00 p.m. Decio Theater 
To celebrate the conference, I/ Race and Immigration in the New Ireland;' the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies will host two performances of Jimmy Murphy's The Kings ofthe Kilburn High Road in the Decio Theater of the DeBartolo Center for the Perforrning Arts on Tuesday, October 16th and Wednesday, October 17th at 8:00.1n this highly acclaimed play, agroup of friends take ahilarious and tragic look back on their lives as they gather in apub twenty-five years after they left their homes in Ireland to make their fortunes in England. The play is the work of Arambe Productions/ aprofessional Irish theater company led by director and performance artist Bisi Adigun, who currently has a version of The Playboy ofthe Western World running in the Abbey Theatre, Dublin. 
For more information call the Box Office at 631 ..2800. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 15, 2007 
Robinson 
continued from page 1 
lhlln, she picked up a copy of the local newspaper. 
"I was really amazed, but also I think pleasantly surprisnd, to see that it carries a page every week in Polish. because there is that demand," she said. 
But, she noted, migration into Ireland, and the slowing of emi­J.,'I'ation, ha..'i caused challnnges for the country. Robinson described a report written by Mayo Intercultural 
"It makes us more
Action, a group "It makes us that aimed to excitingly vibrant, in more excitingly create a profile vibrant, in being
being the people who 
of immigrants. the people who
used to go, and who
identify their used to go, and nends and iden­now receive people, who now receive tify the needs of people, and who
and who have a sense 
service have a sense or an
ofIrish destiny." 
providers help­Irish destiny," ing the newly Robinson said. immigrated. Mary Robinson "And I think it's 
The report wonderful."
former president of 
cited problems Robinson also
Ireland
with integration, racism, ethnic intolerance, school availability and health care. 
!roland's government has taken steps to work against racism against immigrants to Ireland, Hobinson said. The government launched the "National Action Plan" in 2005. The European Union, with its European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, also oversees Ireland's actions against radsm, she said. 
"There is stocktaking within lrnland and also at the Europnan Union level," she said. 
Hobinson praised tlw confer­ence Notrn Dame is hosting this week. She said it is an opportunity to gathnr exports at a location rmnoved from Ireland to con­structively diseuss and J.,rive advice as to how the eountry ean move li>rward while living up to its his­tory. 
"That history lisl of a people who had to leave our country and find a futun~ elsewhere," Hobinson said. "I low do we trnat those that are in the same posi­tion now'?" 
Unli>rtunately, Hobinson said, many immigranL'i to Ireland are the victims of' racism. She recounted a meeting she had with a group of' about 30 women of African background who were liv­ing in Ireland. 
"I realized that, on an almost daily basis, they were suffering different kinds or racism," Hobinson said. 
One teenager told her she was frequently told by Irish to go back to her own country. 
An audience member asked Hobinson how Ireland should bal­ance a desire to preserve culture with the realization that culture does change over time. 
Hobinson said that immigration 
will not make 
Ireland "less 
Irish." 
commented on the 
current debate in 
the United States about immigration. 
"I've actually been quite shocked, being based in New York the last five years, at the increas­ingly harsh language in the dis­course on migration in this coun­try," she said. 
In years past, Robinson said, she believed the United States had a more admirable system of poli­cies toward immigrants than Europe did. Now, she said, she disagrees with the labeling of a group of immigrants as "illegals," comparing it to the description of children born out of wedlock as "illegitimate." 
You don't call human beings illegitimate or illegal," she said. "They are human beings." 
There must be more concern about implicit racism through lan­guage, Hobinson said, drawing applause from the audience. 
Hobinson became the United Nations High Commissioner for !Iuman HighL'i after her presiden­cy and held the position until 2002. 
The "Hace and Immigration in the New Ireland" conference will continue through Wednesday. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

"I definitely think enthusiasm is down because we haven't
Seniors 

done as well as in past years," continued from page 1 senior Caitlin Soule said. 
Reinstating the marshmallow said in a Sept. 20, 2005 Observer fights, she said, might reinvigo­article. "We can't tolerate it." rate student interest and boost 
"It escalated when people sagging spirits. started putting substances in the "I think it would help by giving marshmallows to make them go students something fun to look farther," Gagnon said at the forward to," she said. "I definite­time. "It ended up hurting other ly miss the tradition. I thought it people, so we've drawn the line looked like a lot of fun." at throwing things." In the past, seniors attempted 
NDSP has effectively skewered to avoid NDSP and get around the marshmallow practice, caus­the ban -often unsuccessfully ing a dearth of mallows and the -by concealing the marshmal­
death of a tradi­ low packages in  
tion.  The  so­ their  shirt- 
called  "It escalated when  sleeves  and  
"Marshmallow Curtain" has since descended  people started putting substances in  under their coats. NDSP consid­ 
due  to  tighter  the marshmallows to  ers possession of  
enforcement. In this football season, which  make them go farther."  concealed marshmallows grounds for con­ 
many consider  fiscating  the  
Notre Dame's worst ever, stu­dent morale has  Bussell Gagnon coordinator of stadium  offending stu­dent's ticket booklet, denying  
suffered as the  them admission  
losses pile up,  for  all  subse­ 

particularly among seniors who quent football games. do not have the luxury of retain­"Of course I miss the marsh­ing additional years of eligibility mallow tradition," off-campus to watch horne games from the senior Jordy Brooks said. When student section. asked if she would consider par-
Scalping 
continued from page 1 

kickoff, scalpers saw the selling price range between $20 and $40 -a reality they attributed to the team's substandard performance this season. 
"Some people don't even want to pay $40 for a $60 ticket because Notre Dame isn't having a good year and the fans have lost interest in the games," one scalper said. 
He said in previous seasons he set a price -usually above face value -and if buyers found it too high, he would simply turn them away knowing someone else would willingly pay that amount. This sea'ion, he said, the value of the tickets has decreased so much that scalpers are often scrambling for buyers and slashing their prices to sell the seats at any cost. 
"This isn't a seller's market any­more. It's a buyer's market," he said. 
The Oct. 6 win at UClA -the first one this year -was not enough to return to the scalpers the upper hand in ticket resales. another scalper said. 
"I thought maybe after beating UClA the value of tickets would go up a little bit, but they're selling lor $40 at best," he said. "It's just the same as with the MSU game." 
He said most of his buyers were Boston College fans, who may have only agreed to his prices because, after making the Massachusetis-to-lndiana trip, the $40 cost wa..'i nominal. 
"For them, the tickets were worth more because they carne from far away just for the game and their team i'i ranked high," he said. 
l-Ie sold most of his individual tickets for $40 and pairs of adja­cent seats for $100, he said. And his were some of the more prof­itable resale transactions Saturday. 
"At this point, I'm just trying to ticipating in a mallow battle, Brooks replied: "I haven't as of yet because I haven't been a sen­ior [prior to this year], but I have eonsidernd it this year and will continue to do so." Brooks also cited "the possibility of getting kicked out of the game for the rest of the season" as the pri­mary deterrent to her launching mallows. 
Off-campus senior Sarah Corral, who describes herself as "pro-marshmallow," said the marshmallow fight is "absolute­ly" a tradition worth keeping and plans on participating in poten­tial marshmallow fights in upcoming home games. 
At a school that prides iL'ielf on tradition, the debate over whether or not to wage marsh­mallow fights rages on, regard­less of consequences. 
Soule said future potential for mallow action remains promis­ing, ban or no ban. "I think there's a better chance for games that it's colder," she said, "because people wear jackets and have more opportunities to pack marshmallows." 
"Now that we're finally seniors I feel that we should continue that tradition." 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
get rid of these tickeL'i. Even if it's just for $20 to 25 apiece," another scalper said. "It's such a contrast from last year, when even after the game had already started you could sell tickets for more than face value. Tiekets were going for ridiculous prices then." 
Ile said he sold a set of two con­tiguous seal'> for Saturday's game for $50, a commodity that could have easily had a price tag of $150 to $160 la'it year, depending on Notre Dame's opponent. 
Though ticket scalping is not illegal in the state of Indiana, the Notre Dame ticket resale policy says the athletic department dons not condone the practice of reselling Notre Dame tickets above face value, unless it is for a University-approved l'undraising purpose. Violators could be denied ticket privileges for a number of years or permanently, the Athletic Department Web site said. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
Ireland 
continued from page 1 
lion to Ireland correlated with this drop in unnmploy­ment. 
"The influx of foreign nation­als strengtherwd 
ty ... Gibbons concluded by stressing the importance of remembering the past ­what he dubbed an "ethics of memory. "To din is one thing, but to be forgotten is to die again." Gibbons said the Irish stud­ies depart­
employment "To die is one thing, ment at Notre rates and over­Dame helps
but to be forgotten is
all productivity students to of' the Irish to die again. " "construct a economy, he deep bedrock said. Curn~ntly, of Irish histo­
Luke Gibbons 
these "foreign ry. This 
professor of Irish studies bed r c k. he
nationals" make 0 
up 14percentof 
the Irish popu­
lation and have 

registered morn than 200 languages in Ireland. 
"Irishmen have responded to this increase of' social migration and lower unem­ployment levels by claiming. a high moral ground with rllgards to racism." Gibbons said. 
lie stated the Irish have a desire to "reject their previ­ous image of a third world country.... People don't like to be reminded of their [pre­vious! destitution and pover­
hopes, will give us a 
"preview or 
future multiethnic Ireland." 
Sophomore Chris Schaal was impressed by Gibbons' "distinctly Irish humor." 
"The lecture helped me realize how much immigra­tion is still going on today." 
This was the third lecture in the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies conference. The conference continues until Wednesday. 
Contact Nicholas Bock at nbock@nd.edu 
Doctorate 
continued from page 1 

"Somehow we are attracting a dillimmt profile of student to Notre Dame," he said. 
Jaeobs said 20 percent of under­graduates went on to earn a pro­fessional masters, 13 percent a law degree and seven percent a healtl1-related advanced degrees. 
Jacobs said two main character­istics distinguished students that went on to earn doctorates from students that earm~d other post­brraduate degrees. Notre Dame's future Ph.D. students were three times as likely to have participated in undergraduate research than students who obtained other advanced degrees. 
Also, faculty members, rather than friends or family, usually played the biggest role in inlluenc­ing the studnnt to pursue a Ph.D. 
As a result, Notre Dame has fos­tered opportunities to research alongside a faculty mentor. Keir Lieber, a professor in political sci­ence, said new options for under­graduates to research and serve as research assistants would encourage more students to con­sider grad school. The Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program and compet­itive grants from the Nanovic and Kellogg Institutes offnr those opportunities, Jacobs said. 
Notre Dame students am capa­ble to go on to get tl1eir Ph.D., but the numbers do not show it yet, said Roberta Jordan, assistant director for the Office of Undergraduate Fellowships. 
"NO students are very qualified, very competitive, sometimes more so than they believe," Jord<m said. 
She is concerned, however, that Notre Dame studenL'i are at a di'i­advantagc for eompetitiVI~ awards such a<; Fulbright Probrram granL'>, an international educational pro­gram sponson~d by the federal government !or graduate student'> and professionals. 
"Notre Dame students are pre­sented with thesn msearch oppor­tunities much later [than students] at other universities," she said. "[Competing] undergraduate stu­dents might have three or four such opportunities when ours have one or two." 
Learning methodologies and approaches were particularly important to understanding the "orientation for inquiry" in fields such as the social and biological sciences. Jacobs said. He stressed, however, that "research" encom­passed a "wide variety or scholarly 
and creative endeavors, rather 
tl1an ju'it working in a lab." 
Paul McDowell, an associate proliJssional spedalist in French, recognized the importance of learning research skills to prepare studen1.s f(>r higher nducation. 
"When I hear from studenL'i at graduate school, topic one is usu­ally the amount of research skills that they are expeeted to acquirn," he said. 
"Notre Damn is doing a good job o!Ii~ring, at lna'it to thoSI~ that aro interested, the opportunity to acquire those skills. In my 16 years tem:hing here, I've dnlinitely seen an increa'ie -if not a dra­matic one -in studenL'i mulling over grad school." 
Noriko llanabusa. an associat<' professional spedali'it in Japanese, pn~dieted that more students would pursue postgraduate oppor­tunities in Japanese because a move towards an honors program in the Department of East A'iian Languages and Cultures would encourage students to "become rnally successful researchers." She also said increasing numbers of student<; studying in Japan would improve their ability to pursue graduate degrees in Japanese. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at Brian.L.McKenzie.l2@nd.edu 


ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October 15, 2007 C01\1PJLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
French mercenary dies at age 78 
PARIS -Bob Denard, a mercenary who staged coups, battled communism and fought for French interests and his own across Africa for more than three decades, has died, his sister said Sunday. He was 78. 
Denard died Saturday in the Paris area, said his sister, GPorgette Garnier. She declined to say how he died, but he had suffered from Alzheimer's disease and cardiovascular prob­lems. 
A fervent anti-communist who had worked for several dictators and monarchs, Denard was among a group of postcolonial French mercenar­ies known as "les afTreux" -the horrible ones. IIn daimed he had the backing of Paris, but was never given ollicial support. 
Car bomb kills 18 on Muslim holiday 
BAGIIDAD -A bomb in a parked car struck worshippers heading to a Shiite mosque Sunday in Baghdad, killing at least nine peo­ple as Iraqis celPbrated a Muslim holiday, while the death toll rose to 18 in a coordinated suicide truck bombing and ambush north of the capital. 
Helatives and rescue workers pulled bodies from under piles of concrete bricks and rubble in the Sunni eity of Samarra, where a suicide truck bomber detonated his explosives late Saturday. Guards had opened fire before he could roach the targeted police headquarters. 
Gunmen drovn up and fought with police immediately after the blast, which .tore through nearby buildings. At least 18 people w1~n1 killed and 27 wounded, police said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Texas students found safe in cave 
AUSTIN -A group of college students who didn't emerge for more than a day from a cave they were exploring have been found safe, an emergency worker said Sunday. 
The two women and one man were found in a 500-foot-long crawl space about the width of a sewer pipe, said Frank Urias, division commander of Austin-Travis County emergency medical services. They are expected to be pulled from the cave in a few hours. 
"The victims are uninjured, our crews are safe; it doesn't get any better than this," Urias said. 
The three University of Texas students had gone into a narrow passage near Austin called Airman's Cave on Saturday morning and told friends to call for help if they weren't back by midnight, said Austin Fire Department Lt. Matt Cox. 
Homeless man set on fire in his sleep 
NEW YORK -A homeless man torched out­side a church where he had bedded down for the night has died from his injuries, police said Saturday. 
Felix Najera suffered burns to 40 percent of his body after being set on fire while sleeping in front of Bethany Christian Church in East Harlem, police said. He died Oct. 9. 
Israel Torres, 29, of the Bronx, was charged with attempted murder and assault in the Oct. 5 attack, police said. He pleaded not guilty at his arraignment Oct. 8 and was held without bail. 
Charges against Torres have not been upgraded since Najera's death, police said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana lawmakers split on decision 
EVANSVILLE -The Daniels administra­tion and some Hepublican state senators disagrp,e on whether the Legislaturp,'s con­sent is still needed for the northernmost section of Interstate 69 extension. 
That split over interpretation of the 2006 Major Moves law is illustrated in the argu­ments in a lawsuit filed against the state by opponents of the highway project. 
Sen. Patricia Miller, R-Indianapolis, added provisions to the Major MovP.s bill that restricted the state from building the section of 1-69 that would connect with I­465 through Perry Township in southern Marion County without legislative approval. 
IRAQ 

Baghdad wants Blackwater out 
American diplomats seeking a resolution, wondering how to replace security firm 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -U.S. and Iraqi officials are nP.gotiat­ing Baghdad's demand that security company Blackwater USA be expelled from the country within six months, and American diplomats appear to be working on how to till the security gap if the company is phased out. 
The talks about Blackwater's future in Iraq flow from recommendations in an Iraqi government report on the incident Sept. 16 when, Iraqi officials determinP.d, Blackwater guards opened fire without provocation in Baghdad's Nisoor Square and killed 17 Iraqi citizens. 
The Iraqi investigators issued five recommenda­tions to the government of Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki, which has since sent them to the U.S. Embassy as demands for action. 
Point No. 2 in the report says: 
"The Iraqi government should demand that the United States stops using the services of Blackwater in Iraq within six months and replace it with a new, more disciplined organization that would be answerable to Iraqi laws." 

Sami al-Askari, a top aide official who would allow use incident and several others. Blackwater guards had to al-Maliki, said that point of his name, others said In an interview to be killed 21 other Iraqi citizens in the Iraqi list of demands information they gave was broadcast Monday on PBS, and wounded 27 in a total of was nonnegotiable. too sensitive. Charlie Rose asked seven previous incidents, 
"I believe the government Al-Askari said the Blackwater chief Erik Prince including a shooting by a has been clear. There have Americans have been told about the issue. drunk Blackwater employee been attacks on the lives of that another demand, "We'll do what wp,'re told after a 2006 Christmas Iraqi citizens on the part of Blackwater payment of $8 and, you know, make the party. Congress is investigat­that company (Blackwater). million in compensation for transition as smooth as pos­ing whether the government It must be expelled. The each victim, was negotiable. sible," Prince said. relies too heavily on private government has given six "With the investigations A Shiite lawmaker who contractors who fall outside months for its expulsion and and reviews ongoing, it sits on parliament's security the military courts martial it's left to the U.S. Embassy would be clearly prematurP. and defense committee said system. to determine with to say that any definitive al-Maliki has complained While the Blackwater Blackwater when to termi­determinations have been that the United States name may be removed from natP. the contract. The made about the futurP. of thP. embassy had not briefed the security operations sur­American administration Blackwater contract," a sen­Iraqis on what was learned rounding U.S. diplomats in must find another compa­ior U.S. official in Baghdad when Blackwater guards Iraq, American officials and ny," he told AP. said. were questioned. members of the security 
In talks between Another diplomat, speak­He said two Iraqi security community in Baghdad said American diplomats and the ing privately, said he did not officials were briefly allowed the company's men and al-Maliki government, al­see how the State to sit in as observers on two other assets in Iraq would Askari said, the U.S. side Department could insist on questioning sessions of the likely be taken over by one was not "insisting on keeping Blackwater in place Blackwater guards. of the many security compa­BlackwatP.r staying." He was given how "tainted" it had The Iraqi government nies currently working in the only Iraqi or American become after the Sept. 16 investigative report said Iraq. 

GOP staffers advised to get iininunized 
cial with the House Committee on tracks at all. But the implication was
Associated Press 

Homeland Security suggested that enough to draw a snarky complaint 
staff aides get immunizations before from Republican Rep. Robin Hayes, 
RALEIGH -It got the GOP's visiting health facilities at Alabama's whose district includes Lowp,'s Motor engines revving -a Democratic offi­Talladega Superspeedway and North Speedway. cial suggesting staffers get immu­Carolina's Lowe's Motor Speedway, "I have never heard of immuniza­nized for several diseases before where the Bank of America 500 was tions for domestic travel, and ... I feel heading south from Washington and run Saturday. compelled to ask why the heck the into the Red State wilds of NASCAR In an e-mail, a staffer who works committee feels that immunizations country to conduct research at a pair for committee chairman Rep. Bennie are needed to travel to my home­of races. Thompson, D-Miss., noted an "unusu­town," wrote Hayes. 
The reaction on both sides illus­al need for whomever attending to be Thompson responded to Hayes that trates just how valuable candidates vaccinated against hepatitis A and B," such immunizations are "arP. recom­for elected office consider the votes of as well as "the morP. normal things -mended for public safety profession­NASCAR fans who pack grandstands tetanus, diphtheria, and of course, als working in areas such as hospi­by the thousands every weekend and seasonal influenza." tals, holding areas and similar loca­the donations of business leaders who The note didn't explain why the tions." But the staffers were only spend millions to sponsor the sport. committee saw such concern. It didn't scheduled to visit a few health care 
It started last month, when an offi-mention NASCAR or the races at the facilities -not work at them. 

w----------------------------------~~-­
page 6 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 15, 2007 
Federal government to review boot camp death 
Authorities announce they will investigate acquittal of seven guards, nurse in manslaughter case 
Associated Press 
PANAMA CITY, Fla. -Seven former juvenile boot camp guards and a nurse had barnly processed an all-white jury's decision to acquit them in a black teenager's death before federal authorities announeed they would wview the case. 
Since jurors on Friday acquit­ted them of manslaughter charges. federal prosecutors likely would have to try anothor tactic, such as seeking an indiet­mcnt alleging obstruction of jus­tice. legal experts said. 
"It's too early to say that the final chapter has been written with respect to the criminal jus­tice system in this ease," said Kendall Coffey, a former U.S. 
Bush argues against protectionist policies 
Associated Press 
WASfiiNGTON -Alarmed by slipping support for free trade even among Hepublicans, President Bush is arguing that protectionism will cut Americans out of ehances for more -and bet­ter-jobs. 
Bush has launched a blitz on behalf of pending free trade pacts with four nations. He continued the push Saturday in his weekly radio address. 
"Morn exports support bet­ter and high­er-paying jobs," the 
president said. "More exports job-training "And to keep support better and programs. And our economy we arc provid­
higher-paying jobs." 
expanding, wt~ ing strong sup­need to keep port for expanding George Bush America's com­trade." President munity col­
llis radio address fol­lowed a speech on trade he delivered Friday in Miami. Bush also granted interviews this week to business-oriented news organizations. 
Sinee Democrats took con­trol of Congress in January, it has not approved any free trade agreements that the administration has negotiated, and it has allowed Bush's authority to negotiate future deals under expedited proce­dures to expire. 
Before law­makers now 
trade will help
"Expanding trade 
are agree­our economy ments with will help our economy grow," Bush Peru and grow. said. "So I call Panama, con­on Congress to sidered likely act quickly and
George Bush 
to pass, and get these with Colombia President agreements to 
and South Korea, both seen as pre­earious. Tht~ deal with Colombia is in trouble over human rights issues and there is strong opposition to tlw South Korea agreement beeause of barriers erected by Seoul to keep out U.S. autos ami benf. 
The administration already has reaehnd agremnent with Democrats to include tougher language on protecting work-my desk." 
After spend­
ing Friday in Florida talking trade and rais­ing money for the Republican Party, Bush flew to Texas for a weekend stay at his ranch. He travels Monday to Rogers, Ark., for a speech on the budget and to Memphis to raise money to help Sen. Lamar Alexander, H-Tenn., in his re-11lection bid. The presi­dent returns to Washington Monday evening. 
leges, where 
people of any 
age can go to learn new skills for a better, high-paying career." 
lie said the deals would level the playing field for American businesses and farmers, many of which now face high tariffs on exported products while other coun­tries enjoy relatively open aceess to U.S. markets. And he argued that freer trade with allies serves "Ameriea's seeurity and moral interests" 
around the 
globe. 
"Expanding 
er rights and the environ­ment. But crities say five con­secutive years of record U.S. trade deficits have played a major role in the loss of more than 3 million manufacturing jobs since Bush took office in 2001. 
"I know many Americans feel uneasy about new compe­tition and worry that trade will eost jobs," Bush said. "So the federal government is pro­viding substantial funding for trade adjustment assistance that helps Americans make the transition from one job to the next. We are working to improve federal 
attorney in Miami. 
Florida civil rights leaders called for federal charges hours after a jury took 90 minutes to exonerate the eight in state cotirt in the death of Martin Lee Anderson, 14. 
By Friday evening, officials from the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington and the 
U.S. Attorney's Office in Tallahassee announced they were reviewing the state's pros­ecution. 
Anderson died Jan. 6, 2006, a day after being hit and kicked by the guards as the nurse watched after he collapsed while running laps. The 3D­minute confrontation was video­taped. 
The altercation drew protests in the state capital and marked the end of Florida's system of juvenile boot camps. 

Defense attorneys argued that the camp workers were using accepted tactics and that the boy died because of a pre-exist­ing medical condition. 
Coffey said state prosecutors might have laid a foundation for their federal counterparts to seek an obstruction charge by grilling the eight about inconsis­tencies and omissions in their written accounts of the last con­scious moments of Anderson's life when they testified last week. 
But lawyer Bob Sombathy, who represented ex-guard Patrick Garrett, said he doubted a federal prosecution would be 
D 

successful. Sombathy said the state trial showed the medical findings are on the side of the defendants. 
"With a 90-minute verdict after a three-week trial (in the state case), it would be the same result," he said. 
Ashley Benedik, defense attor­ney for nurse Kristin Schmidt, said the federal government might not bring charges. 
"To a certain extent there was more at stake for the state, there was more of a public out­cry," she said. 
At a vigil in the impoverished neighborhood where Anderson grew up, community leaders appealed for calm in the wake of the verdict, which they said was affected by Circuit Judge Michael Overstreet's decision to hold the trial in Panama City, where the boot camp was locat­ed. 
"This is not the end of it. We can take it to a higher court and I hope it will be taken to a high­er court," said Panama City Commissioner Jonathan Wilson. 
Laurie Levenson, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, said she was not sur­prised the guards were acquit­ted by a "hometown jury." Nor would it surprise her if the fed­eral government stepp11d in, she said. 
"This is the very type of case you would expect the Justice Department to take a very close look at, just like the Hodney King ease," Levenson said. 

MY DORM WINDOW WITH MY HEAD nLTED 45 DEGREES TO GET RECEPTION. 
U.S. Cellular* offers you a 30·Day Network Trial that gives you the space and the freedom to make sure your phone works where you want to use it and not just where you're forced to use it. 

U.S. Cellular is wireless where you matter most!" 
j.US.Cellular 
getusc.com 1·888·BUY·USCC 
Kyocera Strobe 
Monday, October 15, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 14,093.08 +77.96
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 

2,008 125 1,224 2,791,893,335 
AMEX 


NASDAQ 2,80S.6R +33.48 NYSE 10,30.•..··.1.·... 14.9 4a.'6.24 S&P 500 1,561.80 +7.39 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 17,36$.40 +~1:23 FTSE 100 (London) 6,730.70 +6.20 
1\F 

COMPANY 0kCHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) +0.55 +0.86 156.33 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) +1.65 +0.87 53.53 E M C CP (EMC) +0.26 +0.06 22.81 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) -0.84 -0.03 3.54 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.60 +0.028 4.687 13-WEEK BILL +1.87 +0.075 4.080 30-YEAR BOND +0.45 +0.022 4.905 5-YEAR NOTE +0.94 +0.041 4.413 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.61 83.69 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.90 753.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.48 85.70 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 117.60 EURO 0.7058 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9735 BRITISH POUND 0.4916 
IN BRIEF 
FDA to launch drug research center 
WASIIINGTON -The Food and Drug Administration is moving with unprecedented speed to launch a drug research center to be paid for by companies it regulates. 
The goal of the Heagan-Udall Foundation, approved by Congress and signed into law late last month. is to streamline and improve the development of drugs and medical devices, a goal long sought by regulators and the biggest players in the industry, such as Merck & Co., Pfizer Inc., Wyeth, GlaxoSmithKline PLC, and Johnson & Johnson. 
At a time when the FDA's reputation has been battered by perceptions that it is lax on some safety issues and too cozy with drug makers, consumer advocates say the loosely defined partnership increases the agency's vulnerability to industry clout despite its promise of groundbreaking success. It's an ambitious undertaking that puts regulators and companies in a relationship unlike that of any other industry. 
Senators push to create disaster fund 
WASIIINGTON -Senators from the Plains states are trying to persuade colleagues to create a permanent disaster fund for farmers despite objections from some farm state senators, envi­ronmentalists and the White House. 
Proponents have found a way to include $5 bil­lion in the Senate's version of the farm bill to reimburse growers for weather-related crop loss­es. 
While politically popular in Plains states, the issue is troubling to some environmental and farm groups that would like the money for other needs. 
"The real issue here is what is the govern­ment's responsibility?" said Ken Cook. head of the Environmental Working Group. an advocacy group that has opposed the aid. "You are squeez­ing out the opportunity to invest in other things." 
Cook says the money would go to drought­prone states, such as the Dakotas and Montana, that already get millions in farm subsidies. 
The chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Sen. Max Baucus of Montana, wrote the disaster legislation. It was approved by his committee Oct. 4 to be part of the farm bill. 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Group criticizes Pink campaign 
Some say 'cause marketing' unethically benefitting companies, charities 
Associated Press 
MOUNT LAUREL, N.J.­October used to be shroud­ed in black and orange, but in recent years, pink has nudged into the palette. 
It seems just about every product you can buy ­from Indianapolis Colts mini-helmets to M&M can­dies, from Avaya phone faceplates to Yoplait yogurt -is available in pink, or at least pink packaging, as part of a promotion to raise awareness and money for breast cancer research. 
The companies say the "cause marketing" cam­paigns do good for the world -and they're not bad for sales, either. 
It may sound like an idea that's hard to argue with, but all the pink has some people seeing red. 
"Pink Ribbons, Inc.," a book published last year by Samantha King, a professor at Queen's University in Ontario, found fault with the way corporate sponsorship has put the emphasis in finding a cure rather than figuring out why the cancer rate is so high. · 

And for five years now, the San Francisco-based group Breast Cancer Action, which bills itself as the "bad girls of breast cancer," has been running an anti-pink product campaign called "Think Before You Pink." and best-known efforts in gives its profits to various focused a lot of attention 
The group's executive the world of "cause market­causes. that you could motivate con­director, Barbara Brenner, a ing," where companies The first blockbuster sumers by appealing to the breast cancer survivor who team up with charities with cause marketing campaign best in them," said David never wears a pink ribbon the aim of bringing in more came in 1983, when Hessekiel, president of herself, says that in many money for both. American Express Co. Cause Marketing Forum, a cases corporate images get Apple Inc. sells red iPods announced it would con­Rye, N.Y., company that what she calls a "pinkwash" as part of the big (PROD­tribute money to restoring puts on workshops about while the cause gets nomi­UCT) RED effort of the Ellis Island and the Statue cause marketing. nal donations. Global Fund to Fight AIDS, of Liberty based on how In 1982, the Dallas-based 
"Awareness, we don't Tuberculosis and Malaria much its customers foundation now known as need any more of," she said. and Build-A-Bear Workshop charged. Susan G. Kamen for the "We have plenty of aware­Inc. sells a stuffed giraffe Applications for the card Cure began trying to get ness. The question is what whose proceeds support the spiked, card use peaked, attention for breast cancer, we do now." World Wildlife Federation. and $1.7 million was raised. a deadly and common dis­
The pink sales campaigns Then, there's Newman's And corporate America ease that wasn't much are probably the biggest Own, the food company that had a new sales pitch. "It talked about. 

Google thrives without pricey ads 
fuel Coogle's search engine while leav­accumulated a cash hoard that now
Associated Press 

ing plenty of profit to keep sharehold­stands at $12.5 billion. 
ers happy and lift the company's stock The Mountain View-based company 
SAN FRANCISCO -Like a gourmet ever higher. believes its austere approach will chef who rarely eats out, Google Inc. Some marketing experts view become more common as major feeds advertising services to hordes of Google as the archetype of an advertisers learn to deploy technology other businesses while skimping on its Internet-driven age that has made it to target consumers. own marketing. possible for startups like YouTube, "We are at an inflection point that 
The recipe has been extremely fruit­MySpace and Facebook to permeate could radically change the way mar­ful. While the Internet search leader pop culture with little or no advertis­keting is done," said David Lawee, has sold more than $30 billion in ing. who became Coogle's marketing chief advertising since 2001, Google has That's a change from the dot-com a year ago. become a household name without boom era in 1999 and 2000 when More than 300.000 advertisers buying expensive ad campaigns on tel­Internet entrepreneurs went broke already rely on Coogle's online mar­evision or radio or in print. paying for Super Bowl ads and other keting platform, which primarily 
"It's almost as if they have this cul­theatrics in a mostly fruitless effort to shows text-based ads on the search tural allergy to advertising," said Mark stand out from 'the rest of the crowd. engine's results pages and other online Hughes, author of "Buzzmarketing," a Google co-founders Larry Page and destinations. book about unconventional ways to Sergey Brin were among the first to Google tries to deliver those ads to build a brand. "It has been an advan­break that free-spending mold, decid­the people who are most likely to be tage because it has helped keep them ing that advertising didn't make a lot interested in the messages, making an cool. They have zigged while everyone of sense for a company that started educated guess based on the words else has been zagging." out 1998 with just $100,000 before used in a search request as well as 
This advertising aversion has freed raising $25 million in venture capital a information gathered about visitors' up money for engineers, computing year later. But they have remained past preferences and Web surfmg pat­hardware and other resources that marketing misers even as Google terns. 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, October 15, 2007 



~Amy's no ugly betty.* pW C • tVI© [h)~ 
The Finn now playing on Channel 2. 
*connectedthinking 
C 2007 PrlcewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, the PricewaterhouseCoopers global network or other member firms of the network, each of which Is a separate and Independent legal entity. •connectedthinking Is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Monday, October 15, 2007 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 


MYANMAR 
Regime ravages environment 
Military government exploits wildlife and forests for a quick profit 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK-Truckloads of illegal timber cross the Myanmar border to sawmills in China, while markets along the Thai border openly sell bear paws, tiger skins and elephant tusks. 
Further inland, the repressive military regime plans to dam one of Asia's purest rivers, and allows gold and gem mines to tear up hillsides and pollute groundwater for quick cash. 
Myanmar has become notori­ous in the region for ignoring international and its own envi­ronmental laws in a single-mind­ed effort to make the money that environmentalist<; say helps keep the regime in power. 
"They may have laws on the books but they mean extremely little," said Sean Turnell, an expert on the Myanmar economy with Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia. "I would say environmental considerations mean zero to them. It wouldn't even enter their heads." 
After decades of self-imposed isolation, the junta in the late 1980s began courting foreign investors with offers of stakes in gem mines, forest tracts and hydroelectric projects. Foreign investment allowed the regime to double its military to 400,000 sol­diers while offering neighbors like China and Thailand access to cheap raw materials and energy to feed their growing economies. 
A Myanmar government spokesman did not respond to a request for comment on its envi­ronmental record. Chinese gov­ernment officials could not be reached for comment and Thailand denied its investment in Myanmar contributes to the country's environmental destruc­tion. 
llardest hit in the rush to devel­op the country formerly named Burma have been its rivers and forests, environmentalists say. 
Over the past decade, they say, two dozen dams have either been built or are scheduled to be built mostly with the help of Chinese and Thai firms. They accuse the government of uprooting tens of thousands of villagers to make way for the dams to provide elec­tricity mostly to Thailand and China. 
Among the planned dams are at least five on the Salween, which rises in Tibet and is con­sidered one of Southeast Asia's last untamed rivers. A frrst dam is also planned on the Irrawaddy, which activists fear will result in the forced relocation of 10,000 villagers and the decimation of its Chinese frrms as well as regional military commanders and ethnic guerrilla groups, it said. 
The borders along China and Thailand also are host to mas­sive, unregulated markets that sell everything from illicit gems to animal parts. At the Tachileik market on the Thai border and Mong La market on the Chinese border, vendors openly sell tiger and leopard skins, bear paws, ivory and live turtles. 
The markets are filled with Western tourists looking for sou­venirs and Asia businessmen supplying traditional medicine and food markets in China and other Asian coun­tries, activists 
shoreside fishing "They may have laws said. 
communities. "Given the high
on the books but they 
"This region is demand and one of the mean extremely extent of the trade world's biodiver­little.'' in Myanmar, sity hot spots," many species will said Naw La of be lost," said Chris 
Sean Turnell 
the Kachin Shepherd, a sen­Development Macquarie University ior program offi­Networking professor cer for conserva­
Group, a coali­tion of environ­mental groups watching Myanmar. "If this dam is built on the Irrawaddy, the fish popula­tions will decrease. A lot of peo­ple will be suffering because their livelihoods will disappear." 
Along Myanmar's border with China, illegally felled timber is transported to China, according the Britain-based group Global Witness. From there, it becomes flooring and furniture for European and American homes. 
Global Witness said most of the logging takes place in an area described as "very possibly the most biodiverse, rich, temperate area on earth," home to red pan­das, leopards and tigers. 
About 95 percent of Myanmar's total timber exports to China are illegal, Global Witness said, cost­ing its treasury $250 million a year. Much of the profits go to tion group Traffic. 
"Rhinos in Myanmar are probably already extinct due to trade. Tigers are on a huge decline. Elephants are in huge decline. The list goes on and on." 
Even the few environmental success stories in Myanmar seem to have a dark side. 
The junta in 2001 created the world's largest tiger reserve in Hukaung Valley with help and funding from the U.S.-based Wildlife Conservation Society. It contains as many as 150 tigers ­about a third of the total in Myanmar. 
But the Kachin group says the junta has allowed widespread gold mining in the reserve. Three gold mines are polluting the rivers through the valley with mercury, cyanide and other chemicals, the group said in a report released this year. 

CUBA 
Castro talks to Chavez in first live appearance 
Associated Press 
HAVANA -Fidel Castro made his first live appear­ance on Cuban airwaves since falling ill 14 months ago, sounding lucid and in good humor as he exchanged praise and jokes Sunday with the Venezuelan president. 
Castro's telephone call to a television and radio pro­gram came minutes after visiting Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez aired a new videotape of their weekend meeting in which he sang revolution­ary hymns to Castro and called him "father of all revolutionaries." 
"I am very touched when you sing about Che," Castro told Chavez during his hour-long call to Chavez's "Alo, Presidente!" program -referring to revolution­ary icon Ernesto "Che" Guevara, to whom the pro­gram was dedicated. 
"There is electricity in 
the air, 'There is electricity men together, Chavez said, but provided
in the air." 
obviously no details pleased with about the ail­
Hugo Chavez 
Castro's call. ing C·uban Castro, who Venezuelan president leader's 
Saturday afternoon, Chavez also gave Castro a painting he said he made while imprisoned in the early 1990s after leading a failed coup. 
The dark-colored painting showed the bars of his cell and a night scene beyond, with a full red moon and a guard tower in the dis­tance. 
Castro told him he needed to sign his work. "No one knows the merit that this has, that you did this!" 
Cuban state television was broadcasting Chavez's program live from Santa Clara, where the commu­nist government last week commemorated the 40th anniversary of Guevara's death. 
Chavez toured the muse­um below the towering statue of Guevara, which also contains a mausoleum housing Guevara's remains. 
Earlier Sunday, Cuban 
state media 
released two 
new official 
photos of the 

has not appeared in public since falling ill in July 2006, made his last live media appearance in February with a phone call to Chavez's radio program broadcast from Venezuela. But there was a half-hour delay before that program was broadcast in Cuba. 
On the videotape, report­edly made during a meeting of more than four hours health. 
In both the 
video and the 

photographs, Castro wore the red, white and blue track suit that has become his typical dress during hi(> convalescence. Both men sat in bamboo chairs at an undisclosed location. Although Castro looks older and his gray beard has thinned consid­erably, he appears lucid and animated as he thumbs through a copy of Guevara's "Bolivian Diary" and the pair discuss the revolution­ary's life and legacy. 
Both men seemed mindful that the leadership of Latin America's left is being passed from one generation to another, with Chavez calling Castro "the father of all revolutionaries in this America" in the video. 
"Our father, who is in the water, earth and air," Chavez said in an almost religious tone that evoked the "Lord's Prayer." 
"You will never die," Chavez told Castro. "You remain forever on this con­tinent and with these nations, and this revolution .... is more alive today than ever, and Fidel, you know it. we will take charge of continuing to fan the flame." 
The last official image of Castro was a photograph released late last month, showing him looking more robust than in some past pictures as he stood and greeted Angolan President Angolan President Jose Eduardo DosSantos. 
Chavez has visited the 81­year-old Castro several times since the Cuban leader underwent emer­gency intestinal surgery in late July 2006 and ceded authority to his younger brother Haul. 
I~ I~ Y il t•I~ilNI~ l~ftll I~ Ill~ I~ 
INTERESTED IN BEING A PILOT? 
Then do something about it. A U.S. MARINE CORPS AVIATOR will be giving FREE ORIENTATION FLIGHTS Tuesday, Oct. 16, at the Corporate Wings .Building at the South .Bend Airport. 
No obligation incurred. 
Get in the cockpit of the PIPER NAVAJO (TWIN ENGINE TURBO CHARGED, AIRSPEED 205 MPH, ALL WEATHER RADAR EQUIPPED AIRCRAFT} and see if you have the skills required to eam a GUARANTEED AVIATION OPTION as a MARINE CORPS OFFICER. 
CALL 15T LIEUTENANT ERIC CRECELIUS OR GUNNERY SERGEANT CLAYTON AND RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY 
Call Toll Fr·ee J-877-299-9397 

Fly these with us on the 16m ... 
lsJ' T,ieutenant Eric Crecelius 
MARINE CORPS OFFJCER SELECTION OFFICER 134 West State Stri!Ct, Suite "C'' West Lalilyettc. IN 47'XJ6 (765) 743-8359 i 8762 Email: l.!reccliusepr~!Jmarmcs.usmc.mtl 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 15, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Guns for hire 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556. 024 Suuth Dining Hall, Notr<: Dame, IN 46556 
El>lTOil IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken rowlcr Kyle West 
A~s·1: MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily Ass·1: MANA<;JNG EDrron: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Kart'n Langley 
VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EmTOR.\: Chris Khorey Chris !line SCF.NE EmTOR: 'lite Andrews 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Katie Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 
An DF.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Gronli CoNTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
• fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 6J l-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@)nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.J @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
ossERVERONL/Nf 
www.ndsmcobservar.com 
POLICIES The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Collt-ge. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, .Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, bters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. Vit-wpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Quctions rrgttrding Observ"'polici~ should b~ directed to Editor in ChiifMaddie Hanna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'fhc Oh~rvrt (USPS ~99 2-4000) i& puhlid1cd Munday rl~tt>ugh FridJy cw:pr durmG exam and va~."arinn r~ritxh. Asuhstr1ptiun tn Th~ OIH~:rver i~ $100 fur 111tc: ~ct~lt"mk yc:lf; SS!S fur unc tc:mc1h:r. 
1'hc Obkrvcr U puhliahcd .-r; POSTMASTER 014 Sv111h Dining H.tll Send .1ddrm corrmion1 to: Nout! O;unc. IN 4MS6--0n? ·n,cObscrvcr Periodi<:al poii"SC p.1.id 11 Norfl' Dame­P.O.tlnxn9 and addirion.tl mailing off'~ea. 024 Smnh Dining l·LIJI 
Notre Donne, IN 465'iCHln9 
Tiu: O!lM:tver i~ ~member ofdtc iulochued PrC!i!o. AU rcpro<lu~rimt riWu~ Arc rc~rved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Katie Kohler Dan Murphy Joe McMahon Lorenzo Reyes Katie Peralta Griffin Dassatti 
Graphics Scene 
Jared Wafer Tae Andrews 
Viewpoint 
Lianna 
Brauweiler 
Great Britain's decision last week to 
cut their troops in Iraq in half by 
spring raises questions about the 
composition of forces on the ground 
in Iraq. 
The United 
Andrea
Kingdom will 
Laid man 
decrease their deployment from High Sounding 5,000 to 2,500 in the Words coming months, with the possibility of future reductions throughout 2008. 
This move emphasizes again the role of outsourcing and contracting in the Iraq war: Private security guards now make up the second largest "force" in Iraq, and the British reduc­tions only further cement the central­ity of security firms. 
The Pentagon estimates there are 60 private security firms with as many as 25,000 employees in Iraq (this is in addition to 100,000 civilian contractors working to rebuild the nation l. 
Last Thursday, Defense Secretary Robert Gates defended the decision of British officials to remove half of the 5,000 British troops in Iraq by spring. Gates, speaking in London, said that Britain remained "America's closest ally" and portrayed the British deci­sion as a "joint agreement" with full consent and support of the U.S. He said the troop reduction and plans for the future size and role of British troops had been "closely worked out" with Gen. David Petraeus, the senior American commander in Iraq. 
When announcing the halving of troops to the House of Commons last week, British Prime Minister Gordon Brown left open the possibility that all British soldiers might leave Iraq by the end of 2008. 
This possibility of continuing reduc­tions or the complete withdrawal of British troops was not addressed by Gates in London. 
As British troops are sent home from Iraq and their number drops to 2,500, it is possible that the next year could see a single security firm with more troops on the ground than any nation besides the United States. 
The current dominant firm in Iraq is Blackwater, a company that, according to an Oct. 1 report released by the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has seen 

incredible growth since the start of 
the war. 

The report stated: "Blackwater's government contracts have grown exponentially during the Bush Administration, particularly since the start of the war in Iraq. Blackwater went from having government con­tracts worth less than a million dol­lars in 2001 to contracts worth more than half a billion dollars in 2006." 
In June 2004, Blackwater was authorized to have about 500 staff in Iraq. That number doubled in their 2006 contract with the State Department. The Dept. also simulta­neously authorized two other compa­nies, Triple Canopy and DynCorp, contracts to provide security in Iraq. 
Blackwater, now the focus of inves­tigations in both Baghdad and Washington following questions about civilian deaths in a Sept. 16 incident, leads firms in personnel on the ground. According to CEO Erik Prince, they maintain 1,000 operators in Iraq, primarily engaged in guard­ing U.S. diplomats. Triple Canopy has about 250 security guards in Iraq; DynCorp has just over 150. 
It seems commercial mercenaries have become, at least numerically, our largest ally in the war in Iraq. 
What does this say about the readi­ness of our non-hired allies-many of whom have already withdrawn troops, or, like the UK, begun major reduction plans -to continue to flght in Iraq? 
How will the US continue to sustain a war that is straining forces in Iraq and separating soldiers from their families for overly extended periods? 
Moreover, what do these numbers say about the character of our war in Iraq? The United States has been against the use of mercenaries since the Revolutionary War, when the British used 30,000 German Hessians to try to stop American forces. 
By spring, there will be 2,500 British troops in Iraq, and about 1,500 privately-hired mercenary forces from Blackwater, Triple Canopy and DynCorp alone. 
The Pentagon's increasing reliance on outsourcing military functions in Iraq raises important questions about accountability and the chain of com­mand. These privatn guards are with­out the direction of the U.S. military, yet in 2004, an order signed by American officials exempted US per­sonnel -including private security ­from Iraqi law. 
The Sept. 1(> incident that left 17 Iraqi civilians dmtd has outraged the public and the government in Baghdad. The Iraqi govnrnnwnt has demanded that the company be banned from operating in their coun­try. Iraqi officials have stressed that in addition to the Sept. 16 shooting, Blackwater employens have been involved in six other episodes under invnstigation -all contributing to the civilian death count in Iraq. 
The Iraqi government is also pro­posing a measure that would overturn the Ameriean order exempting Western private security companies. 
The measure holds the companies and their personnel accountable when Iraqi law is breached and civil­ians are injured or killed by unneces­sary shooting and violence. 
The events following the Sept. 16 shooting indicate that the presence of private security l'irms like Blackwater is not making Iraq safer, but is serv­ing instead to counteract progress made by the U.S. military and our diplomatic relations with the Iraqi government and its people. 
It is unclear how the current ques­tions over the Sept. 16 incident and the greater debate over the authority, regulation and accountability of pri­vate security forces in Iraq will be resolved. But as governments contin­ue to pull out of Iraq and security on the ground does not improve, evi­denced by increases in private securi­ty contracts, these issues must become a priority in the White House, the Pentagon and the State Department. 
Andrea Laidman is a senior politi­cal science and peace studies major. Her column's title recalls advice given to John Adams by his wife, Abigail: "We have too many high sounding words, and too few actions that corre­spond with them." She can be con­tacted at alaidman@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observe~: 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Apologies for BC fans' poor behavior 
Dear Notre Dame Marching Band, 

As a Boston College student and so-called "Superfan," I would like to take this opportunity to apologize on behalf of Superfans everywhere to you, the band members, who were rudely showered with trash and food while playing in the stands during the second half of Saturday's game. I was sitting adjacent to the student section and was absolutely appalled by the classless actions of my fellow students. Again, I apologize to all the marching band members, fans, and everyone in attendance who was witness to this poor behavior. 
Notre Dame football fans, for the majority of the time I was on your campus, you were welcoming and acted respect­fully to me and my Boston College brethren, and your passion for the game is unflinching. I hope that as my Eagles continue to enjoy success, that we will conduct ourselves more like champions in the future. 
Thank you for having us at your fine institution and I hope for a great game next year at The Heights. 
Chad Johnson senior Boston College Oct. 14 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Who should be the starting "You have been warned against 
quarterback? letting the golden hours slip by.
Yes, but some ofthem are golden
only because we let them slip by. " Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. James Barrie novelist
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, October 15, 2007 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Arrogance about Boston College out of line 
Elitist attitude disappointing 
I am writing mainly in response to Matthew Quering's Oct. 11 letter ("More than football"), but on a broader scale: to anyone who is of the mindset that Boston College is below Notre Dame in any way, whether it's football or academ­ies. 
To say that Boston College is "inferior to us aeross the board" on the basis that "many students there applied here and weren't aeeepted" is one of the most arrogant attitudes I've heard or seen written. All I ean say to your notion that Notre Dame's history, stature and tradi­tion is somehow superior to any other institution is this: Get otT your high four horsemen. As a transfer student to Notre Dame in my sophomore year, I was one of those "students that applied here but wnren't aceepted," and it disappoints me to find that part of the Notre Dame eom­munity that I live with, go to dass with and call home apparently looks down on me as "inferior," or at least they did for the one year that I wasn't accepted here. 
Yes, it might be true that many Catholie universities across the country have a high percentage of students who applied to Notre Dame but were not cho­sen for admission. While this might eome as a wake up call to some Notre Dame students, this does not doom them to eertain failure. President Lyndon Johnson, Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas and the current mayor of Chicago, Richard M. Daly, are just a few examples of the countless number of people who attended Catholic universi­ties that aren't Notre Dame. Our own President, Father John Jenkins, attended Creighton for a time, but it would be impolite to say he was "inferior" for going to a "lesser sehool," wouldn't it? As a student who attended a Catholic university not named Notre Dame for a time, I looked at Notre Dame students as what I aspired to be, not as people who were superior to me 
US News and World Report eurrently puts Notre Dame at No. 19 on its list of top national universities. Regardless of how aecurate these ra:nkings are, if you want to say Notre Dame is the best and all other institutions are inferior, that's fine. Just be prepared to put your nose to the grindstone until Notre Dame is No. 1 in every category and in every facet of this institution. Until then, take a step baek, and realize that aeademic commu­nities like Notre Dame build off other institutions and we don't prosper by believing ourselves to be superior to oth­ers. 
Instead we should (and do) work together with other Catholie universities, including (gasp) Boston College. Both Notre Dame and Boston College are exceptional aeademie and athletic insti­tutions that deserve the respect of those that graduate from their hallowed halls. 
John Witty sophomore Stanford Hall Oct. 11 

Don't be too prideful 
After reading Matt Quering and Andrew Cheeeas letters ("More than football," Oct. 11, "Act like we've been there before," Oct. 11), I hope the arrogant and elitist attitudes they express are not represen­tative of the greater Notre Dame student body. There's nothing wrong with having pride in Notre Dame, both the football team and the University, but Matt and Andrew: You're taking it too far. Have you ever met any Michigan fans? That's who you sound like. We're not Miehigan. So stop it! 
Class, humility, and respect are inherent qualities of a Notre Dame team. Believe it or not, these things aetually can coexist with school spirit and winning football games. When it comes to respect, Boston College has earned it. Based on the season thus far, BC has a far bet­ter football team than Notre Dame does. Boston College is also an excellent academie institution, and while it may be true that many of its students were rejected admission to Notre Dame, I've met enough brilliant transfer students to know that our admissions department doesn't always get things right. 
When it comes to the debate over rushing the field, I honestly don't understand how Notre Dame's aeademic superiority to Boston College is even relevant. By Matt and Andrew's Iogie, we shouldn't rush the field against USC, LSU, or Florida (if we were ever to play the latter two at home) because they are inferior academic institu­tions. I guess I'll look for you on the field after Duke, Matt. 
Lastly, why are we even debating whether to rush the field any­way? Running onto the field after a victory should be a spontaneous expression of celebration eontingent upon the eourse the game has taken, not a planned event. If we take Matt Ryan out in the first quarter and win the game by two touehdowns, I wouldn't be so eager to rush the field. But if we kick a game-winning field goal as the eloek runs out, I'd storm the field without hesitation, even if we were playing an 18th ranked Boston College team instead of a fourth ranked team. 
Patrick Moore junior Morrissey Manor Oct. 11 

'Tastes Like Failure' a failure 
I am writing in light of the reeent "Tastes Like slutty and cheap. Let me take this opportunity to and backgrounds, and then perhaps re-examine Failure" comic strip that was unfortunately pub­say that this joke can easily be proved wrong. why they chose to publish that comie strip. I hope lished on Oet. 10. I know you are probably getting In eaeh of my classes, when we are encouraged to that every letter you and they receive in response flooded with letters regarding the subject, whieh, I debate and discuss (bear in mind most of us are to that heinous eomie "tastes like failure" because must say, I am proud of. freshmen), there is no hesitation in sharing our that's all they should taste, and they should be 
What I am not proud of, however, are the two stu­opinion, analyzing a pieee of literature or debating ashamed of themselves if they are proud of this dents who took it upon themselves to publish such on the best way to solve a calculus equation. l have failure. Give Saint Mary's the reeognition the an insulting article. As I'm sure you may know, as a only been at this sehool for two months, and I must school, faeulty and students deserve. Saint Mary's student, I feel the need to defend this say that I have no idea how the stupid, slutty wonderful school. This is an establishment full of stereotype got started. Katie Shea smart, independent, strong-willed, intelligent and Perhaps the writers of "Tastes Like Failure" freshman intellectual women. We are well aware of the long­should spend a week on the Saint Mary's campus, Regina Hall standing joke that Saint Mary's women are stupid, talk to a multitude of students from different years Ocr. 13 
Hypocrisy not helping Saint Mary's iinage 
As I rode the beloved Transpo Shuttle this weekend, I heard it referenced many times with a fun little play on words: "Oh the Sluttle's late again." I love the shuttle, and am thankful for the free transportation that is provided to us, and more importantly, I get a real kiek out of pulling the cord when it's time to get off at my destination. 
Any weekend night, you can see individuals waiting at the designated stops dressed to impress (or not), who eagerly anticipate the shuttle's arrival for their designated dorms on either campus. We're loud and erazy girls just look­ing for some fun, so the ride is pure entertainment. Let's face it, it's an all around great time. This is college. Embrace it. 
A great proportion of students (both male and female) utilize the shuttle. I will be the first to admit that I have been known to use the preferred slang name, and it's pretty apparent that others use it as well. Why is it such a big deal if other students use those words, or play on other aspects of this idea? By making "sluttle" a common term in our collegiate weekend voeabulary, it leads others to assume we are fine with references of "sleaziness" and other assoeiated negative terminology. 
Really, in short, stop being hypoerites, ladies of Saint Mary's! Sometimes we bring it on ourselves. The Observer cartoons are meant to be eomieal. If any­thing, they should highlight the artistic and creative abilities of our student eommunity. These comics range on a variety of subjeets and take a fun poke at just about everyone. As your mother probably told you, "Sticks and stones can break your bones but words can never hurt you." There are more important things to be focusing our energy on, including recycling, saving Darfur, or even supporting our football team. 
Let's stop bringing negativity on ourselves, and then maybe things can change. Words and references do not define character-actions define ehar­acter. If we are the strong, independent women of Saint Mary's that we claim to be, our characters should exemplify that and no words, no matter how insulting, should shake the foundation of our character. So, this weekend, get all jazzed up, use the "sluttle" and learn to take things with a grain of salt. 
Maribeth Yingling junior Le Mans Hall Oct. 14 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Monday, October 15, 2007 
On Thursday morning, the students 
of Notre Dame woke up to something 
quite unfamiliar: A temperature of 
below 60 degrees. Ironically, it is the 
middle of October, where such temper­
atures are usually 
expected. This year, 
however, Notre Kaitlin Spillane 
Dame has enjoyed 
(or abhorred, 
depending on what Scene Writer 
kind of person you 
are) record-high 80 
and 90 degree weather well into 
autumn. 
Flip-flops, skirts, shorts, and tank 
tops havfl been worn well beyond the 
time they were expected to be retired 
into the recesses of our closets. On 
North and South quads, resourceful 
female students were able to accom­
plish both homework and tanning at 
the same time even into the late days 
of September. And those who live in the 
wonderful dorms without air condition­
ing were griping and comparing their 
rooms to ovens right up until last week. 
But now. it appears the reality of South Bend weather has caught up to us. 
To be sure, the newfound coolness 
has its benefits. Hesidtmts of older 
dorms no longer have to blow fuses in 
that this is not the end of the road. Yet if this were true, there would be no rea­son to release a greatest hits record af'ter only three full studio releases. 
Upon buying the record, it feels almost obnoxious to pick up a CD titled, "Exile on Mainstream" and realizing the obvious pun on the Rolling Stones' "Exile on Main Street" album. Further cemented in the minds of listeners is the idea that MB20 is quite content to forever be the lesser version of another band and another sound. 
The new disc of songs carries no tune particularly original or groundbreak­ing. All six tracks could have been stuck onto one of the band's three earlier their rooms because so many fans are blasting. A leisurely walk across cam­pus no longer results in a sweat equiv­alent to that gained by running live laps around a track. And truly, Notre Dame is at its most beautiful on a crisp fall day. 

The disadvantage of this suddenly cool weather is just that-it is SUD­DEN. Waking up to a cold rainy day after weeks of sunshine with boots up to her knees and an oversized jacket, said: "It's only October! Where do you go from there?" Is it true that our extra-long summer weather has now made us too eold too easily? 
Perhaps it is the promise of what comes AFTEH the fall that makes us want to bundle up with live layers and tug on those winter boots. Come 
November and 

and heat is discomfit­ing. Moreover, though the temperature these  Perhaps it is the promise ofwhat comes AFTER the  Decmnber, we here at Notre Dame will be treated to harsh winds,  
past few days has not  fall that makes us want  freezing rains. and,  
been THAT cold, in comparison to 90 degrees, 45 feels like freezing.  to bundle up with five layers and tug on those winter boots.  very likely, snow. So for now, hard as it may be, let us appreeiate tlw eool winds and the  
The change in garb  40 degree mornings.  
of' the student body  Let us not take for  

relleets the suddenness of the chango granted the beauty of tho Notrn Dame in weather. Ugg boots, North Faces, campus before all tho leaves fall off' the pea coats, and scarves have already trees and our psychotic squirrel frinnds made an appearance on campus go into hibernation. (though a few toughened souls still Let us embrace tho fall-lweause, continue to wear merely shorts and T­lin ally, it has arrived. shirts). 
Many students on their way to a The views expressed in .C.,'cene and morning class look more like they are 1/eard are those of the autlwr and not on their way to an Arctie trek than to necessarily those (lThe Observer. anthropology in the llesburgh Library. Contact Kaitlin Spillane at A fellow student, after observing a girl kspillan@nd.edu 
JARED WAFER I Observer Graphic 

and slightly too poppy. The lyrics don't contain the powerful and personal effect that Matchbox's most enduring songs did, instead opting for the exag­
Thomas' voice shine, the songs sound cluttered and  Most hardcore MB2o fans  geratedly extreme words, "Waking up  
force Thomas to sing above the clamor. It's busy music and it's just not that good.  will say they love the new stuff They'll say the band is turning new corners  at the start of the end of' the world/ But it's feeling just like every other morning  
Most hardcore MB20 fans will say they love the new stuff. They'll say the band is turning new cor­ and reaching new heights. But the thing is, the bandjust isn't getting  before/ Now I won­der what my life is gonna mean when it's gone." We all  
ners and reaching new heights. But the thing is,  any better.  know Thomas and friends can't really  
the band just isn't getting  be serious with this  

any better. After a few years off and stuff. It's all just a little too much. Thomas' solo success in the rear-vi1~w One of the few highlights out of the mirror, it seems stuck right back in new songs is the album elosor "Can't 2000. Let You Go." Blending olmnents of' old 
Little of the raw energy and excite­and new Matchbox into a rnusieal rnali­ment felt in 1996's "Yourself or ty that actually feels likn it's making Someone Like You" is apparent in the something new. the song is a plnasure six new tracks released with Exile, to hear. Interestingly, it also serves to while the songs would at best be con­rescue a six-song elise that would other­sidered mediocre if found on the band's wise be way too easy to pan. 2000 album "Mad Season." Thn band plans to tour this winter in 
The band's first single on "Exile" is support of "Exih~." You should go with the catchy pseudo-anthem "llow 1-'ar the hopes that thny'll play musie the We've Come." It isn't bad. The song has way they used to, with the emotion that a little bit of the anger and emotion so they never should have lost. dearly associated with vintage Matchbox, except that it's overproduced Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 

By JAMES COSTA 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Matchbox Twenty is back. 

The band that sold about 40 million records since 1996 and piled up quite the laundry list of hits such as "Hoal World." "3 A.M.," "Bent," "If You're <ionn" and "Back 2 Good" has released a two disc package. It features a fresh set of six new songs on one disc and an I 1-track greatest hits disc with on the other. 
Many fans had immediate n~snrva­tions af'tnr !waring about the two disc idea. For one thing, the band maintains 
Exile on Mainstream 
Matchbox Twenty Released by: Atlantic 
Recommended Tracks: "How Far We've Come," "Can't Let You Go" 

;@!.. 
~·f: 
,·. 
releases and no one would have noticed. 
For the first time in tho band's history, Hob Thomas is not the only person writing the songs. Instead, all writing credit is given to Matchbox Twenty as a band, with Thomas receiving no singular acknowledgment. At first, this seems like an interesting eon­cept. Then, the songs start playing and it's pretty e!Har that perhaps the whole "shar­ing responsibility" song-writ­ing philosophy of the band was a bad idea. 

~-----~---~~-~--------------------------------------------------------­
NSIDER 
OTHE Monday, October 15, 2007 BSERVER Boston College 27, Notre Dame 14 


Soaring eagles 
Turkovich's holding penalty nullifies touchdown, halts Irish comeback bid 
rise, and that arrow is point­By CHRIS DOYEN ing straight up for him." 

Sports Writer 
After the touchdown, the 
Irish were flagged for an 

Notre Dame's offense and excessive celebration penalty special teams failed to move that forced the Irish to kick off the ball against Boston from their own 15-yard line. College, costing the Irish the "I don't think the referees field position battle and, ulti­were too upset when the team mately, the game. that was on the field was par­
The Irish defense held its tying," Weis said. "It's when own against one of the top the other guys came on the teams in the country, but fifth­field and got involved in it. year quarterback Matt Ryan And I don't blame the officials led the Eagles to four touch­for calling it. We need to do a downs -including three that better job of controlling our­began on the Irish 11-yard selves, and you know, that one line, 41-yard line and 29-yard falls on me." line -en route to a 27-14 vic­The penalty further hurt the tory. Irish field position because the 
Hyan finished 32-of-49 pass­ensuing kickoff only went to ing with two touchdowns and the Eagles 38 -which was an interception, easily out­Weis' intention. But Eagles dueling the Irish quarterback fullback Brad Newman took 
duo of Jimmy Clausen and the kick to the Irish 44. Evan Sharpley. "We sky-kicked it thinking 
Clausen and Sharpley com­we were going to kick it to bined to complete only 18-of-their up back, which is who 49 passes (36. 7 percent), and we kicked it to, and then we'd Clausen threw two intercep­be able to get the ball on tions, including a back-break­about the 40 yard line," Weis er on the first offensive play of said. "But now the kid catches the second half for the Irish. the ball, makes a couple guys Clausen was so ineffective that miss, gets an extra, whatever, Irish coach Charlie Weis 15, 20 yards, whatever he got. benched him after he threw an If he catches the ball we're interception to Eagles defen­now on the minus-40, you sive back Tyronne Pruitt at the would have considered it a beginning of the second half. successful play." 
"I told [Clausen] I'd give him Boston College took the the first drive of the second short field and turned it into half to see what he had, and six points on a 13-yard touch­he came up and threw that down pass from Hyan to wide 
early pick," Weis said. "I just receiver Kevin Challenger to felt at that time a fresh Evan go back up by two scores. was the way to go. He gave us "It was huge to come back a spark and came out and and score especially after you made some plays." throw an interception and it 
Notre Dame's inability to goes for six. You want to come 
generate a consistent offense back out and keep fighting pressured the Irish defense, and we went down and did led Notre Dame on a seven­Parris and Smith's touch­said. "It was the perfect play which suffered as a result of that," Hyan said. "The guys play, 79-yard touchdown drive downs brought the Irish within call, but that's just an unfortu­Boston College's short fields stepped up and Kevin that took only 59 seconds. one score before the excessive nate event that happens some­throughout the game. Challenger on that touchdown Sharpley was 4-of-7 on the celebration penalty. times." 
The Irish defense allowed pass had phenomenal timing drive for 64 yards. The Eagles Down two scores, the Irish Sharpley said that even only one touchdown on an on his route and then made a defense helped the drive along appeared to convert a third though the penalty is difficult, Eagles drive that began in guy miss and just did a great with a roughing the passer down on Sharpley's scramble he still understands that Boston College territory, and job." penalty that turned a 3rd and and desparation pass to tight things like that are part of the that came on the first drive of Special teams play also hurt 10 into a 1st down. Sharpley end John Carlson, but an offi­game. the game. On the other pos­the Irish in the field position connected with Parris twice, cial replay overturned the call, "That's football," Sharpley sessions, the Irish defense battle when punter Geoff Price including a 28-yard gain on giving the Irish fourth-and-one said. "It's disappointing when forced five punts and three bent down to pick up a bad third down and a 19-yard on the Boston College 13. Weis you have success and then it's failed fourth down conver­snap from long snapper J. J. touchdown pass. Parris -who called a play-action fake that taken away from you. Those sions, and it blocked a field Jansen and let his knee touch got more playing time as a worked well, and Sharpley things happen, though." goal. the ground, downing him at result of the injury to David found Parris open in the end After the game, Sharpley 
The Eagles also threw one the Irish 42-yard line. Grimes -was targeted more zone again. said that he did not care about intnrception on a drive that "That's uncharacteristic of frequently with Sharpley in But the play was voided by a any personnel questions and started in their own territory. J .J. because I'd say he's easily the game, but Parris warned holding penalty on guard that the team only had one Hyan threw a pass that Irish hull's eyed when it comes to against reading too much into Michael Turkovich, and the thing on his mind. linebacker Brian Smith picked snapping," Weis said. that. Irish failed to convert the "We want to win," he said. off. taking it 25 yards for a The Irish did have some "When [Sharpley] was in, I ensuing fourth down try. "That's all anybody wants this touchdown -cutting Boston highlights in the loss, mostly was open," Parris said. "A Parris said the emotions year. I think that's the most College's lead to 20-14. coming in the third quarter. quarterback change doesn't after the play were very diffi­frustrating part right now." 
"Brian Smith is going to be a Even though the Irish never affect how everyone else cult. very, very good football play­had the field position advan­plays. It's not really a good or "I went from the highest Contact Chris Doyen at er," Wcis said. "He's on the tage the Eagles had, Sharpley bad thing." high to the lowest low," Parris cdoyen@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Andre Callender 

The Eagles running back was a force in the passing and running games, rushing for 90 yards, receiving for 9I yards and scoring three touchdowns. 
stat of the game 
5 
Consecutive times the Irish have lost to Boston College. The last time Notre Dame beat the Eagles was Nov. I I, 2000 at Notre Dame. 

play of the game 
Michael Turkovich's holding penalty 
On a fourth-and-one for Notre Dame at the Boston College IJ-yard line negated an Evan Sharpley touchdown pass to Robby Parris that cut the score to 27-20. 
quote of the game 
"It's good to see that we're still trying to go for it as opposed to just totally taking a dive the other way .. " 
Trevor Laws Irish defensive end 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 15, 2007 
report card 
quarterbacks: Clausnn and Sharpley 

C-
eombirwd for 18-of-49 passing lilr 
only 195 yards, one touchdown -by 
Sharpley-and two interceptions­both by Clausen. 
8 
running backs: Aldridge started strong but sat out most of the game injured. Allen, llughes and Thomas did well in 
rnlid pkking up blitzes. Schwapp had 
the best game of his career. 

D 
receivers: The receiv1~rs droppnd five passns Saturday and often failed to lind spa1:n. Parris had a good day with 94 
yards, but Kamara and West did not do nnough to make up for Grimes' injury. 

C-
offensive line: The line continued to show signs of improvement, giving both quarterbacks time in the pocket, 
but sull'ered from needless flags and another bad snap out of the shotgun. 

8 
defensive line: Kuntz and Laws had ~-,rreat games again. Laws blocked a field goal, and Kuntz defleded his 
seventh pass of the season while get­
ting at least some pressurn on Hyan. 

8-
linebackers: Crum basically sat out, but Brockington, Smith and Neal elevated their games in support-inducting 
Smith's first touchdown. Vnrnaglia and Hyan mntinun to struggle. 
defensive backs: The semndary had it<> worst gmne so lar, but against thf1 oost

C+opposing quarterback it has laced. Ryan's completion percentage is mL'ileading oocause ofthn screens the 1\agles ran. 
special teams: Zbikowski and Allen had some good returns, but anotherD+missed.field goal, poor kicko~·s and 
Jansen s bad snap cost the lnsh 
crudal field position 
coaching: Notre Dame did not come out 

c 
ready for Ulis game, but adjustment<; 
kept it dose. WeL'i pulled Oausen for 
Sharpley in the second haJJ: while Brown righ!A~ Um rush deiimse. 


2.07 
overall: Notre Damo had its chancos throughout the game, but mistakes from the players and the coaches kept the upset just out of reach. 
adding up the numbers 

Yards Boston College lost on 15 penalties. 
131 

The Irish had 7 infractions lor 64 yards. 
2 Sacks Notre Dame allowed Saturday. The Irish have allowed an NCAA-worst 34 sacks for 243 yards this season. 
Field goals Notre Dame has made on seven 
4 

attempts. Freshman Brandon Walker is 4-for­6and Sophomore Nate Whittaker is 0-lor-1. 
21 •16 
Time ol possession for Boston 
• College in the second hall. The Irish held the ball for 8:44. 

Notre Dame's ranking in pass defense so far this season, out of 119 Football Bowl 
14 

Subdivision teams. 
225 Rushing yards Notre Dame has gained this season on 220 carries, including sacks. 
Pass breakups from Irish nose tackle Pat 
1 

Kuntz. Kuntz has seven on the season. 
1 Plays Notre Dame ran from the shotgun. Irish center John Sullivan snapped the ball over quarterback Jimmy Clausen's head. 
Boston College did almost every­thing it could to lose Saturday's game. Notre Dame did a little more. 
The Eagles did their part to cre­ate another historic game in the upset-laden 
rivalry between Notre Dame and Boston College by committing 15 penalties and squandering multiple scoring opportunities. An upset, how­

ever, requires Chris Hine more than a sub-par per­
Sports Editor 
formance from the favored team. The underdog must perform above expectations. Unfortunately, for Notre Dame, it had another game typical of its season. The offense did not develop a running game, freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen struggled and the defense gave up 459 yards. 
But even with all that, Boston College let the Irish stick around. 
The Eagles quickly drove down the field in their first drive to take a 6-0 lead and were on their way to more points when College field goal attempt.·The Irish managed to get a couple of first downs before inevitably punting. 

Then came a play so improbable and demoralizing, not even the most pessimistic Irish fan could fathom this happening. Irish punter Geoff Price put his knee on the ground to receive a low snap on the punt. The referees correctly ruled him down and Boston College took over on Notre Dame's 42-yard line. I've never seen a play like this in 20 years of watching football, so I called my dad with 38 more years of football under his belt to see if he ever saw something like that. He said he did, though I doubt it, because he tends to forget things these days. 
At this point, Notre Dame and Boston College were jockeying for field position. That play alone cost the Irish about 50 yards of field position. Naturally, Boston College scored in eight plays on the short­ened field to go up 13-0 
In another Irish mistake, Boston College linebacker Tony Pruitt intercepted Clausen to set up an 11-yard Eagles scoring drive. 
Down 20-0, an upset seemed unlikely for the Irish, but Boston 
College wasn't fin­
ished trying to give 
the game away. A 

Boston College roughing-the-pass­
Most ofthe key mis­
coach Jeff er penalty aided
takes the Irish made
Jagodzinski decided Notre Dame's first to go for it on against Boston College scoring drive. A few fourth-and-nine plays later, Irish
had nothing to do with
from the 24-yard freshman Bryan
the struggles Notre 

line. The Irish Smith intercepted defense held and Dame has had this sea­Eagles quarterback Notre Dame gained Matt Ryan and
son. These were easily
some momentum returned it for a
avoidable mistakes. 
with the stop. 
In an upset, the offense would come right on the field, seize that momentum and put points on the board. By doing this, the underdog has itself and its fans thinking, "I ley, we can beat these guys." Notre Dame, however, went three-and-out on the following drive. Thoughts of an upset were put to bed until later in the first half when Irish defensive end Trevor Laws blocked a Boston touchdown to pull 
the Irish within a 
touchdown. The 

upset was within reach. Notre Dame could finally pay back Boston College for ruining its national title runs in 1993 and 2002. The fans knew it and the players knew it. 
The Irish had all the momentum -but for only about ten seconds. Amid the delirium following the touchdown, a buzz-killing yellow flag appeared. The penalty was 
excessive celebration on the Irish 
and would be enforced on the kick­
off. A play that seemed like a turn­
ing point for Notre Dame quickly 
turned into a turning point for 
Boston College. 
"You know, that was really big. 
That penalty was really big there 
... ," Boston College coach Jnff 
Jagodzinski said. "l mean, that was 
big. That was real big for us." 
The Irish had tho game in their grasp, but were too busy celebrat­ing to notice it. 
The Eagles took advantage of' the fantastic field position Notre Dame gave them, again, and scored a touchdown to put the game out of reach. 
Notre Dame's last glimmer of hope came in the fourth quarter, when Evan Sharpley found receiver Robbie Parris in the end zone on a fourth-and-one play action pass, but a holding penalty on Notre Dame quickly ended the dream of a late Irish comeback. 
Most of the key mistakes the Irish made against Boston College had nothing to do with. the struggles Notre Dame has had this season. These were easily avoidable mis­takes. 
Ifthere's a better snap on the punt, maybe Boston College doesn't score its second touchdown. 
If Clausen looks off the defenders before his interception, maybe there is no pick. 
If Notre Dame controlled its emo­tions following Smith's touchdown, maybe the defense can hold Boston College on a longer field. 
Given the way Boston College played Saturday, Notre Dame­even in a year when it started 1-5 -should have won this game. Boston College did not play like the No. 3 team in the country Saturday, but Notre Dame played like a 1-6 team. The Eagles tried to give the game away. 
The Irish just didn't want it. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu. 
~~~--------­

Monday, October 15, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Mental errors again plague Irish 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Down 27-14 to Boston College midway through the fourth quarter, Notre Dame quarterback Evan Sharpley connected with wide receiver Robby Parris on a fourth-and-one, play-action pass to pull within one score of the Eagles. 
But the play was called back because of a holding penalty by Irish junior offensive lineman Mike Turkovich. 
"That was a heartbreaking play," senior tight end John Carlson said. "To have a play like that called back when you have a little momentum going is heartbreak­ing." 
The infraction was just another in a long line of costly miscues by both teams. 
The game featured 22 total penalties, four turnovers, a missed Irish field goal, and an unsuccessful Boston College extra point. 
Turkovich's holding penalty was the last in a slew of momentum-changing penal­ties. 
After Notre Dame freshman linebacker Brian Smith returned an interception 25 yards for a touchdown to cut the Boston College lead to 20-14 with 8:52 remaining in the third quarter, the Irish were nagged for an excessive celebration penalty. The Irish were moved back 15 yards on the ensuing kickoff and the Eagles returned the ball to the Notre Dame 44-yard line. Boston College marched down the short field and scored to regain control of the game. 
''I'll blame me for that [penalty] because the bottom line is I'm responsi­ble for the discipline of our football team," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "We could sit there and [excuse] these guys going out there and being fired up. But the bottom line is it's my team and we got that penalty and [then] we kick off and they get the ball in plus territory, and that's their other tsecond-haln score." 
But the Irish had a chance to get close only because of Boston College's unforced errors. On the drive that was halted on Turkovich's penalty, the Eagles had a late hit personal foul after Irish receiver Robby Parris caught a pass on fourth down. The penalty moved the Irish to the Boston College 22-yard line and into posi-tion to move within one touchdown of the Eagles. 

The Eagles were also repeatedly called for false starts on offense. Boston College coach Jeff Jagodzinski said senior offen­sive lineman Gosder Cherilus committed the most infractions. 
"A lot of them were motion penalties," Jagodzinski said. "The crowd noise and everything [had an affect], and then [we] got out there he got anxious and jumped a few times." 
But the game's numerous mental errors were not confined to penalties. 
Midway through the second quarter, the Irish turned the ball over on downs when punter Geoff Price caught a poor snap and inadvertently touched his knee to the ground in doing so. 
"That was a huge play because a lot of times people want to blame the punter, but the ball [was] down and [he was] going to pick it up," Weis said." What are you going to do, just bend over and make sure you don't touch your knee on the ground? I think it's almost a natural instinct what Geoff did." 

In addition, after the Irish stopped Boston College's offense on the first pos­session of the second half, Irish freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen threw an interception on the first play of the ensu­ing drive. The Eagles ended up with the ball deep in Notre Dame's territory and needed just three plays to score. 
''I'd say [one of the] most disappointing things for me [was] us turning the ball over quickly in the third quarter and giv-· ing them the ball on the 11-yard line for a quick score," Weis said. 
Weis said his squad was hampered by such mistakes but also noted that his team did less to make up for them than Boston College did. 
"The bottom line is they won 27-14, and if I sit there and say, 'God, if we just would have been better on that snap or if we would have hit this one pass or we didn't get a penalty," Weis said. "But the thing is, we did." 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
•

scoring sumiDary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
BC  6  7  14  o  27  
Notre Dame  0  0  14  0  14  

First quarter Boston College 6, Notre Dame 0 
Andre Callender 7-yard run with 11:38 remain­ing (Aponavicius kick failed). Drive: 5 plays, 73 yards, 1:24 elapsed. 
Second quarter Boston Colege 13, Notre Dame 0 
Andre Callender 1-yard run with 1:32 remaining (Aponavicius kick). Drive: 8 plays, 41 yards, 4:43 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Boston College 20, Notre Dame 0 
Andre Callender 9-yard pass from Mall Ryan with 11:26 remaining (Aponavicius kick). Drive: 13 plays, 29 yards, 6:42 elapsed. 
Boston College 20, Notre Dame 7 
Robby Parris 19-yard pass from Evan Sharpley with 10:27 remaining (Walker kick). Drive: 7 plays, 79 yards, 0:59 elapsed. 
Boston College 20, Notre Dame 14 
Bryan Smith 25-yard interception return (Walker kick). Drive: 1 play, 25 yards, 0:00 elapsed 
Boston College 27, Notre Dame 14 
Kevin Challenger 13-yard pass from Mall Ryan (Aponavicious kick). Drive: 5 plays, 44 yards, 1:52 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

passing yards 

rushing yards 

Weis unsure of next week's starting QB 
Guard Carufel leaves team, university 
By CHRIS DOYEN Sports Writer 
Irish coach Charlie Weis said Sunday he hasn't determined a starting quarterback for Notre Dame's game against USC next Saturday. 
Junior Evan Sharpley has guided the offense better than freshman Jimmy Clausen in limited opportunities since an all-around woeful performance against Georgia Tech. But, Weis said, Sharpley has not per­formed as well as Clausen in practices. 
Clausen became the starter 
after Notre Dame's 33-3 loss to 
the Yellow Jackets on Sept. 1. 
When he announced Clausen as 
the starter. Weis said the touted 
freshman gave the team the 
best chance to win. Now, he's 
reevaluating the situation. 
"''ll let you know on Tuesday," Weis said Sunday. "That's the fairest answer I can give right now. 
"At this point, I've watched the game a couple times, but I haven't watched it with the offensive staff yet. So I don't do those things before we've gotten together. I'll certainly let you know where I am on Tuesday." 
Carufel leaves team 
Irish sophomore guard Matt Carufel has left the program and withdrawn from the University, Weis announced in an e-mail to media late Sunday. 
Carufel, a starting guard, had left the team for personal rea­sons last week. He traveled home to Forest Lake, Minn., where he mulled his future. 
On Sunday afternoon, Weis said he was planning on speak­ing to Carufel Sunday night and would announce what Carufel intended to do whenever it became clear. That happened sooner. rather than later. 
"I spoke via telephone with Matt Carufel Sunday evening and he informed me that he was going to leave the team and withdraw from the University of Notre Dame," Weis said in a statement. "I appreciate all Matt has done for Notre Dame and wish him nothing but the best." 
Career highs 
Notre Dame has completed nine passed for over 20 yards this season, and sophomore wide out Robby Parris has caught five of them. Parris fin­ished the game with two catch­es of over 20 yards -a 26-yard reception in the second quarter and a 28-yard grab in the third. 
Parris's 94 receiving yards was a career high, narrowly eclipsing the 93 yards he racked up against Purdue on Sept. 29. 
The sophomore also caught the first touchdown of his career on a 19-yard pass from Sharpley. 
"[Parris is] a smooth receiver that runs good routes, not a burner, but he runs good routes and he has good hands, and you can see that he'll be playing here for the next few years and just keeps on getting better and better," Weis said. "But he's a big target with good hand and runs good routes. He's the type of player that will always find a role on this team." 
Fresh Faces 
Guard Eric Olsen and wide receiver Duval Kamara each made their first career starts, becoming the 21st and 22nd players to make their first starts for the Irish in 2007. 
Kamara started because wide receiver David Grimes was injured, and Olsen started in place of Carufel. 
Injury bug 
Sophomore tailback James Aldridge recorded the 1OOth carry of his career before leav­ing the game with an unspeci­fied leg or foot injury. 

Weis said Aldridge left the locker room on his own power, without the aid of crutches, but would be further evaluated by team doctors. 
Aldridge carried five times for 17 yards. Freshmen Armando Allen and Robert Hughes received the bulk of carries after Aldridge was injured. 
Senior middle linebacker Maurice Crum, Jr., played only in brief spurts for the first 10 minutes of the game. Crum was suffering from turf toe since Notre Dame's win over UCLA a week ago and could not put suf­ficient pressure on his foot to operate at 100 percent. Weis said Sunday Crum is question­able for the USC game. 
PickS 

Irish linebacker Brian Smith became the fourth freshman to return an interception for a touchdown for Notre Dame and the first since Sept. 25, 1976, when Bobby Leopold returned an interception 57 yards for a touchdown during a 48-0 victo­ry over Northwestern. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 
return yards 

time of possession 

passing 

rushing  
Aldridge  5-17  Callender  23-90  
Allen  3-9  Whitworth  7-69  
Hughes  5-6  Ryan  3-10  

receiving 

Parris  4-94  Callender  10-91  
Carlson  4-29  Gunnell  7-37  
Allen  3-16  Megwa  5-56  
Schwapp  2-22  Purvis  5-52  
Kamara  2-19  Challenger  2-22  
Yeatman  1-7  Whitworth  1-18  

tackling 

Brockington  13  Herzlich  7  
Laws  11  Silva  6  
Bruton  6  IJunbar  6  
Zbikowski  6  Morris  4  
Wooden  5  Akins  3  
Vernaglia  5  Mclaughlin  3  
Kuntz  5  Ramella  3  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 15, 2007 

ERIC SALES!The ObseNer 
Incomplete comeback 


In a highly anticipated matchup with undefeated rival Boston College, Notre Dame fell behind early. Trailing 13-0 at halftime, the Irish had their chances and did not make use of them. Even worse, Notre Dame's oiTense and special teams failed to win the field posi­
tion battle, pinning the defense in its own territory again. Despite this, a touchdown pass from quarterback Evan Sharpley to wide receiver Hobbie Parris followed shortly by an interception from line­backer Bryan Smith returned for a touchdown cut the Eagles lead to six points. Boston College quarterback Matt Hyan responded to put the lead back to two scores, but Notre Dame did not give up. Sharpley drove the Irish down the field again, this time to a fourth­and-one on the Eagles 13. The Irish seemingly converted with a touchdown pass to Parris, but a holding penalty on guard Michael Turkovich and subsequent failed fourth-and-eleven put the game beyond Notre Dame's reach. 



Top left, Irish nose tackle Pat KI.Witz, left, and Tom Zbikowski, right, track down Eagles rumlng back L V. Whitworth. Top right, Irish linebacker Bryan Smith retums an lnten:eptlon. Mkkle, Irish .-.ebacker Joe ~tackles Whitworth. Bottom right, Irish quarterback Evan Sharpley rolls out of the pocket. Bottom left, Irish quarterback Jmmy Clausen passes. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------~------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, October 15, 2007 
page 13 
The words "cult classic" have an irresistibly eerie allure. 
These are the movies directed by such warped minds as Stanley Kubrick and Quentin Tarantino. They feature such bizarre ele­ments as time travel and ultra-violence. 
Caitlin Listro 

In classes and crowded rooms, 
Scene Writer 

even a whisper of the title of one of these lilms results in a llurry of excited quotes and know­ing laughter from the elect. 
At Notre Dame, cult classics don't enjoy the same pop culture popularity as at other schools. I cannot even count the number-of times I have mentioned Donnie Darko or Requiem for a Dream and rnceivnd blank stares in response 
Yet, these are the movies that I con­tinue to pop into my DVD player on quiet Saturday afternoons. They may nevflr reach as many eyes as Oscar­winning films, (though some of them have recflived critical acclaim.) but sornfl havfl been deeply pervasive nonethelnss. 
Why do these movies flngender such fierce loyalty from their fan base? Why do movies like "Fight Club" have the power to make me stay awake into thfl wee hours of the night discussing their brilliance'? 
The plots are typically disturbing and convoluted. and sometimes ridiculous, but thny exist for more than just enter­tainment or shock value. Yes, they are entertaining, and of course, they are shocking. Who would not be shocked and horrified to see the eyes of Alex DeLarge forced open by metal clamps in "A Clockwork Orange'?" 
Yet. bnrwath the thematic elements, thern arn philosophical commentaries on every subject from religion to life. For a fnw hours, they horrify you and urge you to peals of laughter. Then, they leavn you feeling disturbed, moved, contemplative, and ready to watch them again. 
Interested in delving into one of these bizarre unions of the horrific and the profound? Sample one of these classic films. Then you, too, can giggle con­spiratorially next time someone men­tions droogs or six-foot-tall bunny rab­bits. 
'A Clockwork Orange' 
The fall of night in this futuristic society brings with it gangs of vicious criminals who battle for dominance over a fearful nation. Alex DeLarge, a teenager who delights in violence, rape, and Beethoven, finds his criminal career cut short when the government catches him and subjects him to aver­sion therapy to destroy his sadistic ten­dencies. His treatment raises questions about the ethics of forcing people to do good. 
'Donnie Darko' 
Teenager Donnie Darko is quiet, awkward, and plagued by hallucina­tions of six-foot-tall bunny rabbits named Frank. As if high school was not complicated enough, Darko finds him­sp,lf immersed in a nightmarish Apocalypse as the world comes crash­ing down. Ilis journey to understand the collapse of the universe is a pro­found discussion of reality and sacri­fice. 
'Requiem for a Dream' 
Four different people struggle to reach their own visions of personal happiness through the use of drugs, and, in the process, are tossed into separate hells as their addictions con­sume them. The graphic portrayal of their individual implosions comments on the nature of human happiness, the severity of the pressures of everyday life. and the complete degradation and self-mutilation inherent in the drug subculture. 
'Boondock Saints' 
Two devoutly Catholic brothers, dis­gusted with the injustice of the legal system, arbitrate divine justice by killing the most corrupt criminals of South Boston's underbelly. Their mis­sion throws the F.B.I. agent covering their case into a personal moral strug­gle over the nature of good and evil. 

Photo courtesy of filmfestivals.com 
Jake Gyllenhaal's performance in "Donnie Darko" made him a cult hero. 
'Fight Club' 

Almost a philosophy text in the form of movie, "Fight Club" covers nearly every topic -from religion to human nature to love. The film follows the path of an ordinary man !'rom mun­dane white-collar businessman to co­founder of an underground network of boxing rings to participant in a nation­wide anti-establishment conspiracy ­all starting with just a few innocent bars of soap. 
The views expressed in Scene and Heard are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Listro at clistro@nd. edu 

Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Brad Pitt and Edward Norton square off in "Fight Club," an Vigilante flick "Boondock Saints" is an overwhelming instant cult classic. favorite here on campus at Notre Dame. 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 15, 2007 
NFL 
Chargers improve to .500 with win over Raiders 
LaDainian Tomlinson ties a career-high with four touchdowns; Eagles improve to 8-0 all-time over the Jets with 16-9 win 
chnering us." 

Associated Press 
The defending AFC West 

SAN DIE<;o -Lal>ainian champion Chargers (3-3) Tomlinson will never hate the n~bounded to .500 after their Oakland Haiders like Marty early season, three-game losing Sehottenhnimer did. lie's too strnak left everyone frustrated, laid-baek for somnthing like especially Tomlinson. The that. Chargers pulled into a tie atop 
At tho rate lw's going, though, the division with Kansas City. Tomlinson might never losn Two weeks earlier, fans merci­again to the Silver and Black. lessly booed thn Chargers and 
Tomlinson matdwd his career chanted Sehottenheirner's first high with four touehdowns, name during a 30-16 loss to the rushing for 198 yards on 24 Chiefs. earrins and loading the To think, the Chargers can Chargers to tlwir eighth straight bnat the Haiders without win over tlw Haiders, 28-14, on Sehottenheirnnr as their eoach. Sunday. Sehottenheimer, fired in 
Tomlinson seored on runs of February, despised the Haiders 3, 27, 13 and 41 yards to move and was 27-7 against them in into a tin with .Jim Brown for his t:arcer, ineluding the first fourth on tlw all-time rushing snvnn wins in the Chargers' tour.hdowns list with I 06. In tlw strnak. proeess. Tomlinson passml .John Norv Turner, who replaced Higgins. who had I 04. Sehottenheimnr, was !'ired by 
Tlw rnigning league MVI' thn J{aiders aftnr coaching them scored for tho final time with to a CJ-23 record in 2004-05. 
2:43 lnrt, thrilling the Haider­Turner said there was person­hating t:rowd. and silencing the al satisfaction in beating his old thousands of Oakland fans in employer, but that it was more the stadium. It was a simple oiT­important that the Chargers Lackle play that Tomlinson pulled to .500. broke to the outside. After rac­"We are getting better," ing into the end zone, he Turner said. dropped the ball and raised It was Tomlinson's eighth both arms in the air. career l 00-yard game against about it a couple of years ago," on Tomlinson's final run. ning back Brian Westbrook 
It was the third time L.T. the Raiders. During the winning cracked Turner, who was 0-4 "We said to each other, 'Let's said. rushed for four touchdowns in a streak, Tomlinson has rushed against Tomlinson and the finish the game right here,"' Donovan McNabb threw for game, and the fifth time overall for 1,142 yards and 12 touch­Chargers when he coaehed the Tomlinson said. "The offensive 278 yards, including a 75-yard that he's scored four times. downs, while also catching one Raiders. line was jacked up. That last touchdown pass to Kevin Curtis, Surprisingly, it was the first TD pass and throwing two. "l don't know, but l like it," offensive drive was beautiful. l and the Eagles' defense stopped time he scored four TI>s at Tomlinson can't explain his quarterback Philip Rivers said don't think you can script it bet­the Jets on fourth down with home. success against the Raiders. about Tomlinson's dominance of ter." just over 3 1/2 minutes remain­
"Thn last time we were hnre, "It's weird," he said. Oakland. "He was outstanding. San Diego took a 14-0 lead ing for a victory Sunday. they boond us," Tomlinson said. "If I would have known that, I He's really starting to get going. with 6:51 still to play in the first The Eagles (2-3) improved to "It was good to hear thnm would have done something Our offense is really starting to quarter. Tomlinson capped the 8-0 all-time against the Jets, 
get going. When we ean throw opening drive with a 3-yard and are 9-0 under Andy Heid in it in that 18-25 window and run leap over the pile, then scored games following bye weeks. the ball and be efficient, we can on a 27 -yard misdirection play "The most important thing is be pretty tough." after cornerback Drayton that we won the game," 
The Raiders (2-3) looked Florence intereepted Culpepper. McNabb said. "It's niee to look more like the team that went an The Raiders closed to 14-7 up at the scoreboard and see NFL-worst 2-14 last year than when linebacker Thomas you got a win." the one that was eoming off Howard intercepted a horribly It wasn't easy, though. Tlw consecutive wins. thrown pass by Hivers and Jets (1-5), wearing the uniforms 
Quarterback Daunte returned it 66 yards, highstep­of their previous incarnation, Culpepper, making his seeond ping the last 25 yards into the the New York Titans, had a start, was harassed all day, end zone ehanet~ to tie it but eamfl up which helped make the ofTense The piekoff came just three short when Sheldon Brown look horrible most of the after­plays after Shane Lechler got knocked away Chad noon. Culpepper was intercept­mixed up and ran a fake punt Pennington's pass in the end ed twice, lost a fumble and was even though the Haiders had zone intended for Lavnranues sacked six times. audibled away from it. lie was Coles. 
"We played the way bad stufl'ed for a four-yard loss. "I lined up in man coverage teams play," coach Lane Kiftin "Ten of 11 guys got it; ShanH and stayed with him," Brown said. "It's easy to see how the didn't," Kiffin said. said. "I thought he might take a game got out of hand. We were hard out, but he just kind of lucky it wasn't worse." Eagles 16, Jets 9 kept going. I just baeked up a 
San Diego's Shawne The Philadelphia Eagles faced bit, kind of opened up, and I Merriman had 2? sacks and fel­a New York Jets team wearing was able to be right there to low outside linebaeker Shaun throwback uniforms and look­make a play." Phillips had two saeks and ing for some new results. McNabb finished 22-of-35 and forced a fumble. Navy and gold or green and was saeked just three times, a 
Leading 21-14, the Chargers white, it didn't matter in the huge improvement from the 12 needed only six plays to move end. times he was taken down by the 85 yards for the final score. Of "Our personality shows when Giants in the Eagles' last game course, almost half of that came we win a football game," run-two weeks ago. 


The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Moving on with my life  Blue & Gold Homes Now Showing  Buyinll BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659.  IS YOUR DAD A RADIOLOGIST IN  
WANTED  Moving in with yours. Lake St. George is your new home With an almost view of  FOR RENT  2nd Semester & 08/09. 1-9 Bedrooms. bluegoldrentals.com  TICKETS  BOSTON? Looking for ND student s father who is a Radiologist  
CollagaGaar.com social, outgoing. Campus Rep wanted. Promoting  the dome Sleep in one of three suites Taste the city  Large house available for 2009­2010. Full renovations  TICKETS  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  in the Boston. MA area. This Dr. assisted my client  
www.collegegear.com 2 hrs before  water. It is sweat New. New  completed this year.  Do not go it alone. If  with CPR on an airplane  
each home game. $60 per hour. Go  Everything You can have it  Great location on  WANTED- you or someone you  on 3/15/07 departing  
to www.collegegear.com/reJ:!SI  for some bling Not too bad  E Marion. Large common areas, 5  ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE  love needs confidential  Detroit to So. Bend.  
tor $345 thousand Call  bathrooms. Also available:  HELP! 574-251-1570  support or assistance,  Family would like to  
FoR SALE  Jan Lazzara on her band  5bdrm 2 bath and 3bdrm 2 bath for 2008-2009.  FOR SALE:  please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For  extend thank you and ask questions, Please call Mark  
574-233-6141.  Contact MacSwain@ gmail.com  ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME  more information.  Matthes at 800-261-2305.  
ND Grad selling Granger home.  GAMES. 574-232-0964. www.victo­ visit our website at:  
Open, spacious & newer. 4 br. 4  Call me for a list of  Cozy 3 bedroom house, walk to  rytickets.com  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- If you or someone you care about  
bth. +finished basement. 3 car g.  properties near ND.  campus, washer/dryer, landlord  nant.shtml or see  has been sexually assaulted. visit  
Century 21 J1m Dunfee Realty. Call  574-217-1557  does the yardwork. $750/month. No  ND tickets tor sale. Best Prices.  our bi-weekly ad in  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape.  
nm 574-271-3440.  Tatiana  pets. No section 8. 574-250-1266.  574-288-2726.  THE OBSERVER.  shtml  




OUND THE NATION 
Monday, October 15, 2007 
BCS aug. 
.9416 .9200 .8906 .8400 .7623 .7432 .6833 .6831 .6624 .6369 .6298 .6000 .5170 .4724 .4352 .3818 .3373 .2841 .2290 .2244 .1953 .1799 .1192 .1052 .0783 

CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 


AP 

New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady, left, and Dallas Cowboys quarterback Tony Romo walk off the field after the Patriots beat the Cowboys 48-27 Sunday. Brady threw for 388 yards and five touchdowns in the win. 
Brady's 5 TDs help Pats beat Cowboys 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
NCAA Football BCS Top 10 
team 
Ohio State South Florida Boston College LSU Oklahom11 South Carolina Kentucky Arizona State West Virginia Oregon Virginia Tech California Kansas 
usc 
Florida Missouri Auburn Hawaii Virginia Georgia Tennessee Texas Cincinnati Texas Tech Michigan 
record 
7-0 6-0 7-0 6-1 6-1 6·1 6·1 7·0 5·1 5-1 6·1 5-1 6·0 5-1 4·2 5-1 5·2 7-0 6·1 5·2 4-2 5-2 6·1 6·1 5·2 
NCAA Football 
USA Today/Coaches' Poll 

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 9 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
9 
9 11 12 13 14 15 15 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
team 
Ohio State Boston College South Florida Oklahoma LSU Oregon West Virginia South Carolina Calilornia 
usc 
Virginia Tech Arizona State Kentucky Florida Kansas Hawaii Missouri Texas Auburn Georgia Texas Tech Tennessee Cincinnati Virginia Penn State 
record 
7-0 7-0 6-0 6-1 6·1 5-1 5·1 6-1 5·1 5·1 6·1 
7~0 
6·1 
4·2 
6-0 
1·0 
5·1 5-2 5-2 5·2 6-1 4-2 6-1 6-1 5-2 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 
team 
Ohio State South Florida Boston College Oklahoma LSU South Carolina Oregon Kentucky West Virginia California Virginia Tech Arizona State 
usc 
Florida 
Kansas 
Missouri 
Hawaii Auburn 
Texas Tennessee Georgia 
Texas Tech Cincinnati Michigan 
Kansas State 
record 
H 1).0 7·0 64 1).1 1).1 5·1 6·1 5-1 5-1 1).1 7·0 5·1 4-2 1).0 5·1 7-0 
5·2 5·2 
4-2 
5-2 6·1 6·1 5·2 4·2 
previous 
3 4 5 5 
1 
8 9 12 2 7 10 13 18 
1>14 20 16 
11 22 25 23 NR NR 17 NR NR 
previous 
3 5 4 6 1 
1 
9 
11 
8 2 12 14 10 13 20 
11 
16 22 23 25 24 NR 15 NR NR 

around the dial 
NFL 
Giants at Falcons 8:30p.m., ESPN 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas -Now the Dallas Cowboys know they're good enough to hang with the big boys in the AFC -just not yet ready to beat them. 
Especially not when Tom Brady plays like this. 
Brady threw a career­high five touchdown pass­es, with Dante Stallworth taking the final one 69 yards to break open a tight game early in the fourth quarter, as the New England Patriots won 48­27 on Sunday in a rare bat­tle of teams with 5-0 records. 
"We wanted to be one of the elite teams," Cowboys coach Wade Phillips said. 
"Obviously we're not." 

The Patriots (6-0) started strong and finished stronger, their sixth straight blowout win and their highest point total since scoring 50 against Indianapolis in 1984. Yet it wasn't as easy as the final score indicated. 
New England gave up its most points of the season and trailed in the second half for the first time this year. Brady was sacked as many times (3) as he'd been all season. 
Experience in big games had to be part of the differ­ence. Consider what the Patriots did on their final five drives after the Cowboys went ahead 24-21 early in the third quarter: 
IN BRIEF 
Reds hire Baker to replace
Mackanin as manager 
CINUNNATI -By hiring Dusty Baker as their next manager, the Cincinnati Reds have made a pronounced change in philosophy, turning to an outsider to run the team for the first time in 18 years. 
The last time they did it, they won a championship. 
The Reds confirmed on Sunday that Baker will become their next manager. Baker, who has a three-year deal, will be introduced at a news conference Monday in Cincinnati. 
"Dusty is extremely excited to join the Cincinnati Reds with its rich history, and looks forward to helping re-establish the legacy of the Big Red Machine," said his agent, Greg Genske. 
The move got the players' attention. Instead of promoting from within, the Reds went for someone with no ties to the organization. During his 14 seasons as manager, the 58-year-old Baker led San Francisco to the World Series and the Chicago Cubs to the playoffs. 

touchdown, field goal, touchdown, field goal, touchdown. The last one came with 19 seconds left, a 1-yard run by first-year running back Kyle Eckel that Brady celebrated with two huge fist pumps. 
Brady went 31-of-46 for 388 yards and did much of his early damage on third downs. His five TDs tied a franchise record and gave him an NFL record with at least three in each of the first six games of the sea­son -he has an NFL-best 21 this year. The league record is 49 by Peyton Manning. 
Having insisted all week this was just another regu­lar season game for them, Bill Belichick's players can now start looking forward to facing Indianapolis, the only other unbeaten team, in three weeks. 
Wes Welker caught 11 passes for a career-high 124 yards and two touch­downs, and Stallworth had 136 yards on seven catch­es. Moss turned six catches into 59 yards, his first a 6­yard touchdown. He also had a 43-yarder for a touchdown overturned on instant replay. Kyle Brady had the other TD grab. 
The Cowboys (5-l) were off to their best start since 1983 and were eager to see how they stacked up against the league's elite. They allowed the most points since Philadelphia scored 49 on Nov. 15, 2004. 

Gonzalez sets TD mark,
Chiefs beat Bengals 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -Tony Gonzalez caught his record-breaking 63rd touchdown pass much the way he caught the first 62 -stretching out his 6-foot-5 frame as high and as far as he could and pulling the ball down in traffic with soft, powerful hands. 
His 3-yard touchdown catch in the first quarter Sunday gave Gonzalez the NFL record for tight ends. Then the eight-time Pro Bowler caught Damon Huard's 26-yard scoring strike in the fourth quarter that proved the difference in Kansas City's 27-20 victory over the downward-spi­raling Cincinnati Bengals. 
"It wasn't the easiest (catch)," said a grinning Gonzalez, who broke the record of 62 TD catches by a tight end held by Shannon Sharpe. "I had to go get it. I was like, 'I'm not letting this one get away. I've been waiting a long time for it.'" 
Ochoa clinches second 
straight POY award 
PALM DESERT, Calif. -Lorena Ochoa enjoys life at the top, and she intends to stay there for a while. 
Ochoa clinched her second straight LPGA Tour player of the year award with a runaway victory Sunday in the Samsung World Championship. 
Successfully defending her title in the elite event, Ochoa crafted a dosing 6­under 66 in what began as a pressure­packed final round. The title was her seventh of the year and 16th overall. 
She finished at 18-under 270-four shots ahead of Mi Hyun Kim -and earned $250,000 to push her record total to $3,318,421. 
"After what happened in 2006, I thought it would be hard to improve, but here I am," said the smiling Ochoa, who won six times last year. 
Asked how she plans to remain No. 1, she said, "I always try to be one step ahead; not let any distractions get in the way, get in my practice and my rest." 
---------------------------------------------------~---~-----~-­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 15, 2007 
NFL 
Vikings top Bears behind game-winning FG 
Rookie Adrian Peterson gains 361 total yards in win; Packers edge Redskins with a late defensive touchdown 
Associated Jlress 
CIIICAGO -No mattnr whern or how Iw got the ball Sunday, Adrian Pntnrson seemed to find the opening in the Chicago Bears' defense. 
Through thn lirw. around the nnd, across tlw lil'ld with a split­snf:ond cutback and even on kickoff rnturns, tw made the Bmtrs miss. 
Peterson's rncord-sP.tting per­formance put the Minnesota Vikings in position for victory. one they secured Sunday when Hyan Longw•~ll kieked a career­long 55-yard field goal on the final play to bnat the Bears 34­31. 
"I just got eomfortable, more comfortable with the speed of the game," Peterson said after showeasing thn talnnt that made him thn first running baek taken in this year's draft. 
"I knew anything was possi­ble." 
With a blend of power and speed, the rookie from Oklahoma finished with 224 rushing yards on 20 carries and scomd on runs of 67, 73 and 35 yards. lie broke Chuek Fornman's dub-reeord of 200 yards rushing set against the Eaglns in 1976, and gained the most yards against the Bears in their 8R-year history. 
"We stunk. Wo played horri­ble," Bears defensive end Alex Brown said. "lie's a good player, but ... he shouldn't get that many yards." 
Peterson set up Longwell's 
game-winner by returning a kickoff 53 yards. His afternoon at Soldinr Field overshadowed a great orw from the Bears' Devin llestnr, who returned a punt 89 yards for a scoro and caught a game-tying 81-yard TD pass from Brian (;riese with 1:38 left. 
"It's kind of erazy," Peterson said. "Guys eome up to me and they say, 'Whon you got the ball it's kind of like holding your brnath.· I experience that when that guy (I lester) is on the field. I'm holding my breath knowing he can take it to the house any time he touches the ball." 
After the Griese-to-Hester con­nection tied it up, Peterson returned the ensuing kickoff to the Bears 38. 
Why did the Bears kick to Peterson after he'd run all over the field? 
"Of course, he's a big threat. They only needed a field goal," Bears coach Lovie Smith said. "We haven't gone into many games where we don't kick the ball to the player. We thought we would get good field position, and go from there." 
After Peterson was thrown for a 4-yard loss back to the 37 on third down, Longwell floated a kick that just cleared the cross­bar, setting off a Vikings celebra­tion at Soldier Field. 
"It was on line. I couldn't tell how far it eleared, but. I knew it wouldn't be much," Longwell said. 
Peterson's 35-yard TD run with 4: I 0 left put the Vikings (2­31 ahead 31-17, but the Bears (2-4) came back. 
Muhsin Muhammad caught. a 33-yard TD pass from Griese with 2:36 remaining. After the Vikings recovered an onside kick at the Bears 40, Chicago held and forced a punt, taking over at its 19 with 1 :53 to go. 
On second down, Griese dropped baek and lofted the long pass to Hester. The kick return specialist made a nice move and raced by Dwight Smith, catching the ball at. the 35 and completing the touchdown. 
Peterson's energizing runs came on a day when Tarvaris Jackson returned as Minnesota's quarterback after missing two games with a groin injury. He completed only 9 of 23 passes for 136 yards. 
Peterson went through the middle, made a fake, cut back to the left and ran away from the Bears secondary on the 73-yard score late in the third quarter. That put the Vikings up 21-14. 
Late in the first half, he stormed through a hole on the left side, broke the tackle of Bears safety Brandon McGowan, reversed his field and outran the Chicago defense to tie the game. 
"It's kind of a blur. The guys created a hole. I pressed the line of scrimmage and that cutback was there and it was a big gap." Peterson said. "And it was ofl" to the races." 
The Bears took a 14-7 lead early in the second quarter when Griese connected with Bernard Berrian for a 39-yard TD pass. It came open when 


AP VIkings place kicker Ryan Longwell kicks his game-winning field goal as time expires in a 34-31 win over the Bears Sunday. Longwell went 2-for-2 and established a new career long with the kick. 

Vikings cornerback Antoine Winfield slipped as Berrian made his move. 
Packers 17, Washington 14 
Cornerback Charles Woodson scooped up the ball -and lifted the spirits of the Green Bay Packers' suddenly sagging offense. 
Woodson's 57-yard fumble return in the third quarter gavo the Packers the go-ahead touch­down in a victory over the Washington Hedskins at soggy Lambeau Field on Sunday. 
"It was a big play today," Woodson said. "Hopefully, I hav•t many more to come." 
With Green Bay's previously top-ranked passing offense sput­tering and the Packers trailing 14-10 late in the third quarter, defensive lineman Corey Williams stripped Hedskins receiver Santana Moss on an end-around. Woodson picked up the ball and ran to the end zone. 
The Packers (5-1) won despite an off day from Brett Favre, who became the NFL's career inter­ception king with an errant pass picked off by Redskins safety Sean Taylor in the third quarter. 
"I could care less," Favre said. "We won the game. I'm glad it's over, just like the other records. We're 5-1, so it feels a lot better than having no picks and being 1-5." 
Despite Favre's off day -he was 19-of-37 for 188 yards and threw a second interception to Taylor in the fourth quarter ­the Packers recovered from their first loss of the season against Chieago last Sunday, regaining momentum as they head into their bye. 
Packers coach Mike McCarthy said the Hedskins were tho best team the Packers have played so far, but he still hasn't seen his young team play a complete game. 
"We feel good about being 5-1, but we're a team that needs to clean our house," McCarthy said. 
The Hedskins (3-2) bafl1ed a pass-happy NFC North offense for the second week in a row after beating Detroit., but offen­sive mistakes cost them on Sunday. Hedskins coach Joe Gibbs said his team's fumbles and dropped passes weren't acceptable, even in wet condi­tions. 
"Certainly that's no excuse for us," Gibbs said. "We're out in it, and we've got to make the catch­es." 
Between the fumble and a subsequent leg cramp, Moss apparently was so upset that he took himself out of the game. 
"I took myself out," Moss said. "Something wasn't feeling right with me, and why go out there and keep another guy from help­ing us win? There was (stuff"l going on and I wasn't making the plays that I should have been making." 
Gibbs didn't blame Moss for the loss. 
"You've got to look at that and say, 'That's something that just happened to us today,"' Gibbs said. 


Monday, October 15, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
Wild only team without a loss after a 2-0 win 
Ducks goalie Giguere's season debut spoiled with two allowed goals; Red Wings hand the Kings their fifth straight loss 

Minnesota's 5-0 start leaves In Game 4 of that series, the Wild as the NHL's only team Minnesota defenseman Kim without a loss, and puts them Johnsson suffered a head injury one victory away from matching when Brad May sucker­last season's squad for the fran­punched him during a skirmish off at 14:18 of the opening peri­rookie. penalties, totaling four minutes, chise's best winning streak from between two other players dur­od right after a faceoff, and Detroit backup Chris Osgood were their lowest of the season. the start of a season. Three of ing the final 2 minutes. May Nick Schultz took on Ducks made 27 saves in his 600th NHL "We got a lot of penalties; I the wins have been shutouts. received a match penalty and a playoff hero Ryan Getzlaf just start, and second of the season. have no idea why," Detroit 
Jacques Lemaire, the only subsequent three-game suspen­70 seconds later. "To come into another team's coach Mike Babcock said. head coach the Wild has ever sion. "I guess it was hyped before­building and your goalie makes "Then we had to kill penalties had, spent his entire 12-year "Everyone knew that they felt hand, and I guess it lived up to . some big saves, it gives you that and Ozzy did a good job. playing career with Montreal like some things happened last the hype," Rolston said. calming influence," said Kris Michael Cammalleri, the and never started a season bet­year they didn't like, and I'm "Obviously last year, the shot Draper, who scored in the sec­Kings' leading scorer with six, ter than 4-0 with the Canadiens pretty sure they had this game that Brad gave Johnsson we ond. "The previous games, we prevented the shutout with a -despite winning eight Stanley circled on the calendar," thought was a bit of a cheap kind of let a team get back into power-play goal at 1:44 of the Cups and scoring the Cup-win­O'Donnell said. "They played a shot. But tonight when Boogy it." third. ning goal twice. So he isn't sur­pretty solid game and physically lined up with them, Brad Leading by a goal in the third, Draper's boarding penalty prised to see the Ducks getting rose to the challenge, but we answered the bell and did what the Red Wings scored goals carried over from the second off to a 2-4-1 start. expected that from them after a tough guy does." less than 2 minutes apart to period, then Andreas Lilja went 
"When you win the Cup, that's last year's playoff." The main event came at 5:36 take a 4-1 lead. Tomas off for high-sticking, giving Los what happens," Lemaire said. Boogaard and Lemaire of the second between Holmstrom scored from the left Angeles a 5-on-3, which "They're having a slow start, refused to shake hands with the Boogaard and Parras, who won side at 5:39 on a pass from Cammalleri converted with a which is normal because of all Ducks at the end of the series, on a TKO. Zetterberg, who followed with slap shot from the left circle. they went through last year -and the bad blood spilled over "Everybody respects what his fourth goal of the season. After a scoreless first, Detroit and the short summer. But their into this game -as expected. George does. He stands up for Zetterberg stole the puck got goals from Pavel Datsyuk guys will get their minds on the "I wasn't here last year, but his teammates," O'Donnell said. while surrounded by three and Draper in the second. game and get back to where one of the things the guys were "Having guys like George and defenders, skated behind the Datsyuk's shot went through they should be, and they'll talking about was showing that Brad adds a lot of character to net and went top-shelf on Bernier's legs and dribbled probably finish first in the con­team that we weren't going to this team and lets the guys Bernier at 7:21. The Red Wings across the goal line as the rook­ference this year." be pushed around," Minnesota know that their backs are being are 2-0 on the road, having won ie reached back with his left 
Giguere, who recorded a fran­center Eric Belanger said. watched." at Chicago in overtime. glove in a futile attempt at the 
chise-record 36 victories last Boogaard and May squared Just seconds before that "If you have good confidence, puck. Zetterberg assisted 40 brawl, Boogaard knocked you make the right plays," seconds into the period. down Giguere as he went out Zetterberg said. "We have a lit­Draper scored on a short­to cut down the angle on tle more depth this year and handed backhander at 3:06. Stephane Veilleux -whose special teams are better." Bernier stopped 26 shots on point-blank wrist shot struck Detroit was whistled for six the 40th anniversary of the Ducks forward Mark Mowers penalties. The Kings' two minor Kings' first game. as he was skating across the crease behind his goalie. 
Red Wings 4, Ducks 1 
Maybe the Los Angeles Kings should return to London. 
Henrik Zetterberg had a goal and two assists and the Detroit Red Wings beat Los Angeles on Sunday night, sending the Kings to their fifth consecutive loss. 
They have just one win so far, beating the Stanley Cup champion Anaheim Ducks in the season-opener in London. The Kings' start is their worst since they were 1-6-0 to open the 1987-88 season, including five consecutive defeats. 
"I thought we were better tonight, but felt like it was the same story," Kings coach Marc Crawford said. "We made criti­cal mistakes at critical times of the game. 

The Red Wings. scored two goals each in the second and AP third periods against Jonathan Bernier, the Kings' 19-year-old 
AP Red Wings defenders Andreas Lija, center, and Dan Cleary try to clear the puck away from Kings left wing Kyle Calder in a 4-1 Red Wing victory Sunday. 

Wild defensemen Martin Skoula collides with Ducks right wing Corey Perry as they rach for the puck in a 2-0 Wild win Sunday. 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -The Minnesota Wild had plenty to prove Sunday night against the Anaheim Ducks, the team that knocked them out of the play­oil's last season and went on to win their first Stanley Cup title. 
Brian Holston and Mark Parrish scored second-period goals and Josh !-larding posted his third career shutout with a career-high 37 saves, leading the unbeaten Wild to a testy 2-0 victory. The loss spoiled the season-debut of goaltender Jean-Sebastien Giguere. 
"That's going to be the thing with us this year," Ducks defenseman Sean O'Donnell said. "When you win the Cup, every team we play -when we come to town or when they eome here -it's going to be their 'statement game.' We're kind of the measuring stick against other teams now. So I'm sure we're going to get every the other team's best effort every single time. We've just got to push ourselves and rise above that." 
season and 13 more in the play­offs, faced 25 shots. He sat out the first six games after under­going surgery on Aug. 6 for a sports hernia. 
Rolston scored on Minnesota's first shot of the second period, slapping the puck over Giguere's glove from the top of the right circle at the 2:04 mark. Parrish made it 2-0 at 
11:50 of the period. 
"I don't want to make too much of this win, but they're the Stanley Cup champions. So we'll keep that in mind and we'll try to keep getting better," Rolston said. "It was a chippy game and a hard-fought game. It was like a playoff hockey game." 
The Ducks (2-4-1) vanquished Minnesota in the first round last season. During the pregame stake leading up to the Game 5 clincher at Anaheim, Ducks enforcer George Parras scuffled with Minnesota counterpart Derek Boogaard after Boogaard skated past Chris Pranger at center ice and allegedly elbowed him in the back of the shoulder. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, October 15, 2007 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Indiana coach punished for NCAA violation 
Kelvin Sampson will not receive $500,000 raise after second offense in 17 months; team will lose one scholarship next season 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana coach Kelvin Sampson will not receive a $500,000 raise and his tmtm will Jose one scholarship for next season after violating NCAA-imposed sanctions on phone calls, the school announced Sunday. 
It's thn second time in 17 months Sampson has been penalized for improper phone calls. 
The NCAA banned him from ofT-campus recruiting for one year in May 2006 wlwn thn infractions committee ruled Sampson made 577 impermissi­ble calls from 2000 to 2004 whiln at Oklahoma. As part of the ptmalty, Sampson also was banned from participating in thrnn-way calls. 
School oflieials said that while NCAA rules allow eoaches to use three-way calling, the intmnal investigation showed Sampson violatml tlw punishment handnd down by tlw NCM. 
In a hastily arranged eonfm­enen call with reportnrs Sunday, Sampson said he unknowingly partidpatml in nine of 10 three­way calls a rnview found he was involved with during the 12­month pnriod he had been sanc­tioned. 
"It's very disappointing," Sampson said. "We've bnen dealing with sandions from May 25 to May 25, and when it was over, we were eonfidtmt that we had followed all of the rules other than one call. I was not aware thn three-way calls were thren-way calls othnr than one." 
Sampson said the call he was aware of was to dear up quos-
Lions from a recruit who had 
already committed himself to 
making an on-campus visit. 
One mport from the investiga­tion, which athletic director Rick GnHmspan said began in July, has already been turned over to the NCAA's infraetions commit­tee. A second, describing what school oflicials believe are sec­ondary violations for undocu­mented calls made from the homes of assistant coaches, is expected to be forwarded to the NCAA soon. 
Greenspan said assistant coach Hob SenderofT, whom Sampson said was responsible for patching through the three­way calls and whom school otli­cials determined made the majority of tlw improper calls, also will be pPnalized. 
SenderoiT will not receive a bonus or salary increase and will not be allowed to recruit ofT-campus or make recruiting calls through next July. 
"I am profoundly disappointed wn arn dealing with this matter as is coach Sampson," Greenspan said. "We hope these sanctions send a strong mes­
sag£~." 
Still, Senderoff"s job does not appear to be in immediate jeop­ardy since he is still coaching at practices and performing administrative duties. Sampson would not say whether addition­al action might be taken against Sendnroll' in the future. 
Sampson explained Senderoff was helping recruits reach Sampson, in part because Sampson's cell phone signal made it dil1icult. Hecruits then, Sampson said, would call back Snnderofl" seeking assistance. 


AP Indiana head coach Kelvin Sampson addresses the audience at Hoosier Hysteria Friday. 
That's when, Sampson said, was determined the school-the three-way calls occurred. imposed penalties were appro­
"I was allowed to text message priate. kids and a lot of times that's "This decision was not made how a kid would call," Sampson by the athletic director, but it said. "But a lot of times, because has been made with consider­of the area I lived in, the call able thought and it's a matter would not go through or show we will now move forward to up as missed calls. Because of the NCAA," Greenspan said. the restrictions we were under, I Sampson also acknowledged could not make any calls from after his hiring that he had May 25 to May 25 and I did not made mistakes at Oklahoma, make any calls." mistakes that he and his staff had learned from. 
A conciliatory Sampson again promised Sunday to follow all rules in the future. 
"I think we had mistakes of omission and commission, but I don't think there was any intent to circumvent the rules," Sampson said. "We have to fig­ure this out. We don't want to be 95 percent in compliance or 99 percent, we have to be 100 per­cent in compliance. 

But it is a black eye for an r:;;il•llll •••,...------------~~~:-1
Indiana program that took a risk when it hired Sampson in March 2006, while still under NCAA investigation. 
Sampson is also expected to help put the Hoosiers back on the national map this year after winning the recruiting fight for Indianapolis high schopl star Erie Gordon last year. Gordon, the state's 2007 Mr. Basketball winner, backed out of a commitment with Illinois last October and announced he would play for the I loosiers. 
Sampson said he and his staff dutifully tried to abide by the sanctions although it is now dear there were violations. 
"There was certainly no intent to think that we were above the law," he said. "The rules we broke were mistakes. ... It's not something that we were doing out front, purpose­fully." 
When Sampson was hired, Greenspan said that additional NCM infractions could lead to Sampson's firing. 
But Greenspan said Sunday that after consulting with uni­versity attorneys and school President Michael McHobbie it 

VOLVNTEER~ WANTED 
Do you want to make adifference in someone's life{ 
Holy Cross House is looking for energetic, outgoing volunteers to assist with and or lead activity groups for our retired priests and brothers. Do you have an hour aweek or couple hours amonth to share your time and talents with us! 
Then join us for our open house Thursday, October 18, from 9:00-11:00 A.M. or 3:30-5:30 P.M. 
Holy Cross is located on Douglas Road just west of Juniper. 
Come tour our house, enjoy refreshments and see the faces ofHoly Cross House. 
Ifyou have any questions please call Tricia at 631-3957. 
Thank you! 


Monday, October 15, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 

NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish fifth in Big East after one up, one dovvn 
By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
For the third weekend this season, the Irish went 1-1 against two competitive con­ference teams. 
The Irish first faced the Marquette. After defeating the Golden Eagles 3-1 in 2006, the Irish fell 3-1 (30­26, 20-30, 30-25, 31-29) Friday. 
"We ended up beating our­selves against 
Marquette," "We did not have the first game, senior captain enough intensity, and the Irish rallied 
Adrianna to win coach
we underestimated

Stasiuk said. Debbie Brown "We did not Marquette's ability." her 400th Notre 
have enough Dame victory. intensity, and The Irish
Adriana Stasiuk 

we underesti­attained a top
Irish outside hitter

m a t e d 
Marquette's ability." 
Despite the loss, outside hitter Stasiuk led the team, by recording her double-dou­ble of the season with 19 kills and 13 digs. The Irish won the hitting percentage battle at .247 to the Golden Eagles' .238. Sophomore outside and opposite hitters Serenity Phillips and Megan Fesl also recorded top-hitting scores. Phillips had 16 and Fesl attained 10. Senior setter Ashley Tarutis and sopho­more setter Jamel Nicholas led the offense with 29 and 23 assists, respectively. Leading the Irish defense with 15 digs was freshman defensive specialist Angela Puente. 
Abit ofIreland in· your own backyard. 
' s 
Just seconds from campus. With its many choice beverages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the -Areplace and lots ofbig screen TVs to watch all thegames. And we're open seven nights a week, too. 
(Waterfurd Estates Lodge has hotel rooms atreasonable ratesfur upcoming NDfuotball weekends.) 
To finish up the weekend's road trip, the Irish headed to Syracuse, where they domi­nated the Orange, earning a 3-1 (26-30, 31-29, 30-24, 30­
24) victory. 
"We decided that we were a team on a mission when we went into the match against Syracuse," Stasiuk said. "We decided that we were going to win, no questions asked, and the team really bonded together in a great match. It 
was a total team effort." After losing 
hitting percent­
age with .371. 
Junior middle blocker Justine Stremick led the team in kills with 18, while Stasiuk recorded 17. Tarutis also recorded season­high 58 assists, and Phillips and Fesl each had 13 kills. 
The Irish are 8-9 with a Big East record of 4-3. They are tied for fifth place with South Florida. 
"We have been up and down this season, but we all have strong faith in our abili­ty to finish successfully," Stasiuk said. 
The Irish will next host the DePaul Blue Demons Friday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Calvin topples Saint Mary's 
Belles fall to No. 1 Knights in close contest at Grand Rapids 
By MEGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's fell 2-0 to the No. 1 Calvin Saturday in the Knights' sixth conference game of the season in Grand Rapids, Mich. 
The loss dropped the Belles to 6-3-4 overall and 2-2-2 in the MIAA. The team dropped to fifth place in the confer­ence, while Calvin (1 0-3-1, 5­0-0 MIAA) remained in first place. 
The Knights wasted no time establishing their dominance in the match. Calvin defender Kellie Honderd tapped in a rebound to score her third goal of the season just over one minute into the match. Freshman midfielder Carly Prins was credited with the assist. 
The quick goal was all the stingy Calvin defense would need in the game, as they allowed only three shots over the next 89 minutes. The Belles' leading scorer, junior forwards Lauren Hinton, got loose for a shot four minutes into the game, but she missed wide to the left. Hinton also got off a shot during the 55th minute, but it was blocked by a Calvin defender before it reached the net. 
Whitney Fran added the third and final shot for the Saint Mary's offense, which has struggled to produce in the past few weeks. 
The shot total was the sec­ond lowest of the season for the Belles. Their lowest total was also against the Knights. The team was held to only one shot in a 0-0 draw in the conference opener for both clubs on Sept. 12. 
Senior goalkeeper Amy Mahoney made five saves in the first game to pick up the shutout. This time around Calvin was able to sneak a few of their seven shots past Mahoney for the win. 
Calvin midfielder Elizabeth Ribbens added an insurance goal with three minutes left in the game to bring the final score to 2-0. Junior Liz VanRees chipped a pass across the box to Ribbens who one-timed it past Mahoney for her seventh goal of the season. Ribbens is cur­rently second on the team in 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Ohio State novv No. 1 after LSU and Cal fall 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Ohio State has risen -all the way to No 1. 
A day after the top two teams in the AP Top 25 lost, the Buckeyes jumped two spots Sunday in the media poll and became the third school this season to hold the No. 1 rank­ing. 
"We've improved each week but we understand that the only poll that counts is the last one," Ohio State coach Jim Tressel said in a statement. 
The Buckeyes (7-0) beat Kent State 48-3 Saturday and have played only one team that's been in the rankings at any point this season. In a season in which 10 ranked teams have been beaten by unranked teams, just avoiding the upset bug has been enough for Ohio State. 
Ohio State was No. 1 last sea­son from preseason until the final poll, when the Buckeyes dropped to No. 2 after losing the BCS national championship game to Florida. 
An unpredictable season took a new twist Saturday when LSU, in its second week as No. 1, was upset 43-37 in triple overtime by Kentucky. A few hours later, California, poised goals scored behind Prins who has nine so far this sea­son. 

Saint Mary's struggled to keep possession of the ball throughout the game, often making careless fouls and failing to get past the Calvin defense. Coach Caryn Mackenzie tried to spark her team with frequent substitu­tions, but none of the combi­nations seemed to be work­ing for the Belles. 
Saint Mary's will look to regroup this week before taking on Tri-State Tuesday at 4 p.m. on the road in its second-to-last conference match of the regular season. 
Contact Meghan Veselik at mveselO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
to move up one spot to No. 1 with a victory, lost at home 31­28 to Oregon State. 
It was the first time in 11 years the Nos. 1 and 2 teams in the AP poll lost on the same day. 
The Buckeyes received 50 of a possible 65 first-place votes, and were not the only team to advance. South Florida, which had never been ranked before this season, moved up three spots to No. 2, leapfrogging No. 3 Boston College. 
The Bulls received 11 first­place votes after a 64-12 victo­ry over Central Florida. BC's warkmanlike 27-14 victory over Notre Dame helped get the Eagles one first-place votes. No. 4 Oklahoma and No. 5 LSU each received one first-place vote, as did No. 12 Arizona State. 
The last time six teams received first-place votes after the first month of the season was Nov. 25, 1990. 
The rest of the top 10 was No. 6 South Carolina, followed by Oregon, Kentucky, West Virginia and Cal, which slipped eight spots to No. 10. 
Virginia Tech was No. 11, fol­lowed by Arizona State and Southern California, which fell another three spots to No. 13. 

.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 15,.2007 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop after good start 
By SAMANTA LEONARD 
Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's went 2-2 at the Millikin Invitational in Deeatur, Ill. this weekend. The Belles won their first two matehes on Friday before dropping eontnsts with losses to Central Iowa and host school Millikin. 
Saint Mary's started the wnnknnd with a 3-0 win over Franklin College. The Bellns rHwer trailed in the mateh and eoasted to an easy vietory. .Junior middle blocker Kaela llnllmann led the team nino kills and 13 digs. llnllmann was later namnd to tho all­tournament team for her play during tlw WIH~knnd. 
Sophomorn outsidn hitter Lorna Slupezynski eontrihuted to tho win with night kills and seven digs before coming out early due to an injury. 
"Lorna Slupczynski was sidelined most of Saturday due to some reeurring shoulder and knee prob!Pms," Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek said. 
The Belles struggled to replaee her throughout the rest of the tournament. 
Saint Mary's was able to pick up their second sweep of the day in its night match against Fontbonne. The Belles played three tough games (30-23, 37­
35. 30-24) but were able to hold on in all of them to pick up the win. 
Jlp)Jmann was a leader again with her nine kills and 16 defensive digs. Junior mid­dle bloekf~r Cathy Kurezak helped the cause with 12 kills and a .444 hitting percflntage in tlw victory. Freshman mid­


KELLY HIGGINS!The Observer 

Junior outside hitter Lorna Slupczynski digs a ball during Saint Mary's 3-0 win over Alma Sept. 13 at home. 
die blocker Andrea Sasgen was a leader on both defense and offense adding 15 kills and four block assists and two solo blocks. 
Senior setter Amanda David dished out 48 assists. David also helped on the defensive side of the game with 11 digs, which gave David her eighth double-double on the season. 
The Belles did not fare as well in their second day against some more impressive competition. 
They started the day against No. 19 Central Iowa, and then finished the tournament against Millikin. The Dutch defeated Saint Mary's 30-14, 25-30, 30-18, 30-17. Although the Belles did pull out a win in game two. the Dutch held complete control of the other three games. 
Millikin also kept control of the Belles, defeating them in a three game sweep. The Big Blue defeated Saint Mary's :·HJ­17, 30-19. 30-24, never letting them into the game. 
Schroder-Biek  was  
impressed with  her teams  
effort overall.  

"I felt that they really playnd together well this weekend," she said. "Saturday, we defi­nitely struggled and that was frustrating. But ovf~rall. it was a good weeknnd. We did­n't have the same "stand out" every game, they all kind of took turns." 
The Belles, who are 9-14 overall, return to conference play this Tuesday when take on Albion at home. 
Contact Samanta Leonard sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Gray w-ins race, leads tea111 to third overall 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer 

If Saint Mary's performance in its final tune-up during Saturday's Manchester Invite was any indication, the Belles are right where they want to be heading into the MIAA Championship meet on Oct. 27. 
Senior Mogan Gray ran a per­sonal record 18:26 to capture the meet's individual title for the second consecutive year, winning an event for the second weekend she thrashed her previous per­sonal record -by 49 seeonds, to finish fourth for the team. Senior Olenka Bilyk rounded out the scoring for the Belles. 
"The day was great because across the board, all the hard work has paid off --for every­one," Bauters said, adding that but one runner achieved a sea­son or career personal record time. "The team was elated at the end of the meet, whieh is exactly the kind of feeling I want going into ehampionships. They know they can be sueeess­ful, and it eon­

in a row. As a "The day was great tinucs to be team, the Belles reaffirmed each
because across the 
finished third week."
board, all the hard
out of eight The Bolles will squads. work has paid off -now begin thnir 
"This weekend for everyone. " final push 
was huge," toward the coach Jaekie cham pi,Jnshi ps,
Jackie Bauthers 
Bauters said. where tlwy hope "Megan ran phe­Belles coach to fullill the ulti­
nomenal, and shn ran a very smart race. The pack went out quick and Megan played it smart, taking the lead just before the two-mile lmarkJ and was never passed again. What a great accomplishment, !winning! two years in a row." 
Strong finishes from fresh­man Sam Wieczorek and sopho­more Megan McClowry, both of 
whom  finished  the  race  in  
under  20  minutes  baeked  
Gray's performance.  

Junior Caitlin Brodmerkel had never placed among the Belles' top five in her career. but, as Bauters had predicted, mate goal of 
making this sea­
son the best in school history. To do so, Saint Mary's must finish fourth or betl!~r in the nine-team meet, which the Belles did at the Sept. 22 MIM Jamboree. 
"I am so proud of this team, and I couldn't bn more nxdted for their sueeesses," Bauters said. "The saying on the team has been 'I can. I will,' and I think that speaks volumes of where both this team and pro­gram are headed." 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


KELLY HIGGINS!The Observer 

Junior Kevin Veselik leans for the finish line during Notre Dame's victory at the National Catholic Championships Sept. 14. 
Polls 
continued from page 24 
inelusion in the next poll by finishing 15th in a field that featured nearly every team with championship aspira­tions. 
Stanford took first plaee with 102 points, followed by Florida State, Michigan State, Minnesota and Georgetown. Notre Dame lin­islwd with 393 points. 
Sophomore Lindsey Ferguson paeed the Irish, finishing the six-kilometer raee in 21:03. Shn plaeed :nth overall. Freshman 
Marissa Treece was hot on her heels, finishing in 21:07, 40th overall. 
Senior Ann Mazur (81st), sophomore Emily Wauford (104th), freshman Abby Higgins (131st), sophomore Beth Tacl (166th) and senior Amy Kohlmeier (199th) also ran l'or the Irish. 
The postseason begins for both teams in two weeks with the Big East Championships in Louisville, Ky. 
No members of the team wern available for comment­ing following the race. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu 

.........:;;;::::::::::::::::::::::;:....... ;;..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
.·~r-----.,.,------------...,.....,.....--------.-,.,=.......-...-------"""""\0 

INFORMATION SESSION 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17, 6:30 PM 202 DeBartolo 
Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students; pre-medical internships available Business and Engineering courses offered in Monterrey 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2007 
~.-~----------------------------~~--------~~ 
Monday, October 15, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Streak 
continued from page 24 
she headed a throw-in from Michelle Weissenhofer from the top of the penalty area into the left side of the net. 
"Brittany's great at playing the ball in the air," Waldrum said. "She gives us a great physical presence." 
Less than ten minutes after the break, sophomore midfield­er Courtney Rosen ripped a shot past Hoyas goalkeeper Jackie DesJardin into the right side of the net. Irish senior for­ward Susan Pinnick and junior forward Kerri Hanks picked up assists on the play. 
Bock gave the Irish one more insurance goal when she one­timed a pass from freshman forward Erica Iantorno past the helpless DesJardin. Iantorno and senior midfielder Ashley Jones, who initiated the play with a pass from the center of the field, earned an assist. 
Two Notre Dame keepers, ed one of those kicks late in the senior Lauren Karas and soph­first half. Hanks was tripped up omore Kelsey Lysander, com­in front of the Wildcats bench bined on the shutout, but nei­on the right sideline, and she ther had to make a save behind launched the ensuing free kick a squad that possessed the ball into the middle of the box. for the majority of the contest. There, Bock broke free of her 
defender to head the ball past Notre Dame 5, Villanova 0 Loyd en. Bock and freshman Rose "If teams want to play physi­Augustin each notched two cal, we are built to do that," 
goals  and  an  Waldrum said.  
assist as Notre Dame handed Villanova its  "Brittany's great at playing the ball in the  "I thought we responded very well to [the  
worst loss since  air. She gives us a  physical play]."  
1998 Sunday.  on  great physical ,  The scored  Irish on  
The  Irish  presence.  another  Bock  
scored  five  header  with  
times  on  Randy Waldrum  7:34 remaining  
Wildcats senior  Irish coach  in the first half.  

goalkeeper Jillian Loyden, last season's Big East goalkeep­er of the year. 
The first half was physical, as Villanova repeatedly fouled the Irish and surrendered free kicks just outside the Wildcats' penalty area. The Irish convert-Bock flicked a 
long pass from junior defender Elise Weber toward the net and Loyden appeared to grab it. But the ball slipped through her hands and trickled into the back of the net. 
But Villanova did not give in, notching six shots on goal in the first 20 minutes of the sec­ond half. The Wildcats had recorded just one shot in the entire first half, but got off 12 in the second. 
"Villanova always has good teams and they really put us to the test," Waldrum said. "Even being down 2-0, they never quit." 
Despite the Villanova pres­sure, the Irish defense and Karas kept their shutout intact. Karas has not yet surrendered a goal in seven Big East games this season. 
The Irish padded their lead with three goals in the final nine minutes of play. 
Senior midfielder Ashley Jones scored at the 81:20 mark, and Augustin tallied the final two scores to put the game out of Villanova's reach. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Lefty 
continued from page 24 
showed their youth against the Badgers, struggling in the opening stanza. Wisconsin fired the first nine shots of the game and out-shot the Irish 13-3 in the period. 
Senior left wing Josh Engel ended a 66-game scoring drought to put the Badgers on the board with just under five minutes left in the period. 
Senior linemate Matthew Ford fed a streaking Engel from the corner, and Engel fired a shot past Irish goal­tender Jordan Pearce for his first career goal. 
Pearce stood on his head in the first period making several big saves to keep the game in reach for the struggling Notre Dame offensive attack. 
The Irish looked sharper in the second period. Their speed forced Wisconsin to take four penalties, and senior captain Mark Van Guilder capitalized on one of the power plays. 
Two minutes into the period, freshman wing Ben Ryan worked the puck out of the cor­ner and hit Van Guilder in the left face-off circle. Van Guilder quickly fired a shot that snuck between the pads of Wisconsin's Shane Connelly to tie the score at one apiece. 
The teams remained tied until halfway through the final period when the Wisconsin offense caught fire and three more Badgers registered their first career goals. 
Sophomore Aaron Bendickson got things started when he ended a serum in front of the net by backhanding a shot past Pearce, breaking up the tie. Senior Davis Drewiske started the play with a blast from the point that found its way to the Irish crease. 
Drewiske's next shot from the point, three minutes later, also resulted in a goal when freshman Tom Gorowsky bat­ted in rebound after Pearce made the initial save. 
Freshman Kyle Turris fin­ished the scoring with a power­play goal with one minute remaining in the game. 
Turris, who was selected third overall in the 2007 NHL draft, had several other chances earlier in the game but was stoned by Pearce. 
The junior Irish goalie fin­ished with 23 saves. Connelly also had 23 in net for the Badgers. 
Wisconsin lost to Ohio State 3­2 in the tournament champi­onship game Saturday. 
Notre Dame 4, Mercyhurst 0 
Notre Dame bounced back from its season-opening loss with strong defense and two more goals from Van Guilder. 
Pearce picked up his third career shutout with 26 saves against the Flyers. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said last week that Notre Dame would rotate all three of their goaltenders for at least the first few weeks of the season until a strong No. 1 emerged, but Pearce made a solid case for the job with his play this weekend. 
The Irish offense also picked up its play, firing 36 shots in the game and burying two power­play goals. 
Mercyhurst goalie Ryan Zapoli kept his Flyers in the game through one period with 17 saves but couldn't hold off the swarming Notre Dame attack in the second. 
Van Guilder got things started with a power-play goal two min­utes into the period. Ryan once again found his center with a pass on the left side and the captain sniped the top left cor­ner with a wrist shot to break open the scoring. Van Guilder added his third goal of the weekend later in the third peri­od. 
Three minutes later, last year's 'little guy line' -made up of sophomores Kevin Deeth and Ryan Thang and junior Eric Condra -netted its first goal of the year. Condra sprung his two linemates on an odd-man rush, and Deeth flipped the puck to Thang. who finished for a 2-0 lead. 
Ryan picked up his second assist of the day feeding junior Garret Regan. Regan cut through the slot, picked up the pass, and faked to his backhand before beating Zapoli on the forehand to put the game out of reach for Mercyhurst. 
Notre Dame will play its first home game of the season Thursday night against Denver at 7:35. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME STlJDY ABROAD J>ROGRAM IN 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-9 
INFORMATION !\<U:I':TIN(; ABOFf STlll>\'ING l'OLITIC\1, SClENCE, ECONOMlCS. SOCIOLOGY AND HlSTORY IN PARIS 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17,2007 
5:30 PM 202 DBRT 
Applications d uc Novcntbcr 15, 2007 


WU YUE!The Observer 

Sophomore Stewart Carlin takes a penalty shot during the Blue-Gold game on Oct 6. The Gold team won the game 3-2. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 15, 2007 
Draw 
continued from page 24 

Tho Irish played their best soc­cer of the sea<;on in the first half but had nothing to show for it going into halftime. 
lluskies li1rward O'Brian White broke a seomless tin in the :~5th minute when he scored an unas­sistnd goal. White got the ball at midfinld, nutmegged an Irish defendnr and took ofT down the field. lie beat another defend1~r and Irish keeper Chris Cahill and buried a shot at a nearly impossi­ble angle for a 1-0 lead. 
"That O'Brian White kid, he was electric, he cut us cold with two dinit:al bits of work," Clark said. 
Connecticut added another one shortly afterwards when mid­fielder Euan I !olden got behind the Irish del(mse and bnat Cahill to the far post. 
"You go in 2-0 down, and you've dominated the gamn, and you're scratching your head; you say, 'What do we have to do?'" Clark said. 
Lapira got things started in the 52nd meeting by squeaking a 
ChaiDps 
continued from page 24 
In tho first 20 minutns, the Irish bombarded tho lluskies' box with pressure-rneord­ing six shots and two corner kieks. Connt~cticut could hard­ly get the ball past midl'ield. 
Although the Huskies found their lngs as the first 45 min­utes dragged on, Notro Dame linishod the first hall' with a 9­5 advantage in shots and 3-0 advantage in cornor kicks ­statistics that don't even do justice to Notre Dame's domi­naJH~o of Connecticut in the first half'. 
"We put on a dink, and we could have bnon up by two or threo goals (at halftinw(," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "Tho first 20 minutes wnr11 as wnll as wo'vo ever playnd." 
What was so remarkable about Notre Dame's pnrform­anen in the first half wasn't its dominance in possession, shots, corner kicks and just goneral offensive prnssure. The Irish routinely outplay their opponents in those ways. 
What stood out about the Irish's first-half performance was who they faced. Connocticut, for good reason, is the No. 1 toam in the coun­try, but an unknowing observ­er at Saturday's game would have walked away from the lirst half thinking Notre Dame was a better team. 
Dospite their performance in the first forty-live minutes, thorn was one problem for the Irish af'tor the first half-the scoreboard. 
The Huskies scored two quick-strike counterattacking goals both against the run o( play. Being down 2-0 at half­timo after outplaying the No. 1 penalty kick past Connecticut keeper Josh Ford's diving arms. 
"We were talking at halftime that, even though we were down 2-0, that was the b11st hall' of soc­cnr we'vp, played all year;" Lapira said. "We were confident, and we were just talking about taking it one goal at a time." 
Miller played a long ball toward the box and out of Lapira's reach, but last year's M.A.C IIermann Trophy winner hustlml to the ball and was fouled on the play by Connecticut defender Julius Jones forcing the penalty shot. 
"The third goal in the game was going to be very important," Clark said. "If they got it, it was going to b11 very dillieult; il' we got it. we were going to be right back into it, and that's what we did." 
Miller then knotted the game at two, boating Ford from six yard out in the 60th minute of the match. 
Less than five minutes later, Lapirc1 struck again. Irish junior Jack Traynor picked up a pass from Miller in the corner near thn nnd line. He sent a cross through the box, and Lapira hnadod it in to give Notre Dame il<; first load of the game. 
The lead, however, was short-
team in the country for the 
first half is enough to take the 
wind out of any team's sails. 
Not Notre Dame. 
.lust seven minutes into the second half, midlielder Hyan Miller put a little too much on a through ball for Joe Lapira, who was making a diagonal run into the 18-yard box. Instead of giving up on a ball that lluskies goalie Josh Ford was dearly going to reach first, Lapira exploded in an all-out sprint causing Connecticut defender Julius .lames to deliver a hockey-like eheek to l.apira. 
The result: a penalty kick 
for Lapira and new life for the 
Irish. 
Within fifteen minutes, it was the Connecticut who looked like a team without life, and Notre Dame was rid­ing a 3-2 advantage on the scoreboard. The Irish showed true resiliency, scoring three goals and recapturing the monwntum in only 20 min­utes. 
Although the Huskies came back to tie the game -again, tlwy're the No. 1 team in the country for a reason­Saturday afternoon was about the Irish. In a game that high­lighted Notre Dame's champi­onship caliber talent and men­tal makeup, the Irish received one more thing-confidence. 
"They're a genuine No. 1 team, and I think, if nothing else, (Saturday's game) con­vinced our guys we can play with anyone," Clark said. 
December should be very interesting. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd. edu 
lived. 
Huskies midfielder Mike Pezza split two defenders with a pass into the box, and Chukwudi Chijindu headed the ball past Cahill and into the corner of the net. 
"Their last goal was a classic goal as well, it was a great cross and a great header," Clark said. "I think we took so mueh out of ourselves getting back in the game that towards the end we looknd a little tired." 
The fatigued Irish held off any more of a comeback from the No. 1 Huskies but had trouble getting any type of ofl'ense going in the two overtime periods. 
Notre Dame remains two points behind Connecticut for first place in the Big East, and each team has four conference games remaining before the post­season tournament. 
"I think we learned a lot of les­sons," Lapira said. "Even though we're playing well we might con­cede a goal, and we got to keep our heads up, and that when we do concede a goal, we ean come back." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Annual Religion and Literat:ure Lect:ure 2007 
With the World at Heart: Reading Cormac McCarthy with Augustine and Heidegger 
Tuesday, October 16, at 4:30pm,210 Mckenna Hall 
Thomas Carlson Associate Professor of Reli.gious Studies University ofCalifornia, Santa Barbara 
This lecture will focus on Cormac McCarchy's novel The Road, which Professor Carlson describes as "a religious meditation on the essential interdependence-rather than the opposition-between genuine love and a living world." 


Want to cough, run a fever, have fatigue and feel miserable for 10-21 days this winter? Then DON'T get a flu shot! But ifyou'd like at least an 85% chance ofpreventing it, then wash your hands frequently, don't share eating or drinking utensils, 
and get the free flu vaccine!. 
Free Flu Shots 
TO 

Notre Dame students, faculty, staff, retirees & spouses of retirees 
(NO ID card and short sleeves REQUIRED) 
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, October 16, 17 and 18 
9am -4pm 

Joyce Center Concourse Enter Gate 1 
Offered by University Health Services a~d the Office of Human Resources. 
Ifyou have questions regarding the immunization, please email uhsrn@nd,edu. 

------------------------. 
Monday, October 15, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-

BLACK DoG 
AM Tl1E Jt.o.sA l"~lC.S llF ""T}Ir NOTRE. DAME .SII>t:WAL K.S, !'AitltEL.ING-ON TowAitl> fli!:EEI>o,.., 1'-N!> KNOC.1£.11J6 WHO STMJI> IN M'( 
DEUCES MANOR 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
NOT Y1E.LJ> MY R.lti+IT LK ON Tt\E RllrHT­Tt> ANY MAN oR. WoMI>N, Dit. C'l"ei.-IS:T I 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 


RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 


HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Down "Sure thing!" 2 Morsel for Dobbin 3 Overseer of govt. office bldgs. 4 Legendary 
sunken island 5 French cleric 6 Blinkers signal 
them 7 "My_" (dinner host's offer) 8 Levin who wrote "Rosemary's Baby" 9 Fish-and-chips fish 
10 Thingamajig 
11 Canada's capital 
12 Snake charmers' snakes 13 "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's 
Nest" author Ken 
18 Work units 
21 Preferred invitees 22 Carrier to Tel 
Aviv 23 Decrease 
gradually 24 Greek "I" 26 Have a home­
cooked meal, 
say • 27 "_ Fideles" 29 Salary recipient 
33 Painting surface 34 Enzyme ending 36 Like a good-
sounding piano 37 Emergency military transports 
WILLSHORTZ 
39 Penny like a bee" boxer 
48 Relative of the 40 Suffix with sandpiper 58 and wisdom marion 
49 Lubricated 
59 Bullring shout 
50 Emancipated
43 Stack in a kitchen cabinet 54 Regarding 60 Shade tree 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
JmJMLID11~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
YEDEK 
1 

rJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

I I [ I I
tCLITIE

J [] I I 
www.jumbte.com 
HINSIF 
I I I 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answ~rhere: TO" [II]" [IJ] 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: PROBE BUXOM RACIAL BROOCHSaturday's 
Answer: What the weaver left in his estate ­AN "HEIR" LOOM 
HOROSCOPE Fridays with Fran 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Stacy Keibler. 28; Ush.,r, 29; Natalie Maines, 33; Harry Anderson, 55 
Happy Birthday: Don't put your emphasis on !be wrong things. Perfection and a pas~ sioo for what you do should reign supreme. You will face daunting changes but, if you are quick to isolate tbe problem. you can tum anything negative into a positive. Your numbers are 5, 8, 19, 26, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21~April19): You are on a roll, so don't let anyone slow you down. A hidden matter may be revealed, allowing you to put a little more time, money and effort 
into something you want to pursue_ Someone you•ve known for a long time will intro­
duce you to something or someone new. 5 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An old lover or friend may want to partner witb you in some way. Travel to places yon haven't been in a long time. Don't underestimate some~ one who is trying to talk you into something. Keep your money in a safe place. 3 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Juoe 20): You may want to do things a little differently today but, as 
soon as you do, someone is bound to question or criticize you. Don't ruffle feathers or 
make uunecessary changes. Proble!DS will surface at home. Keep your tboughts to your­self. 2 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should forget about work and lhe pressure that goes along witb it and enjoy a little entertainment. A short trip will be eventfuL The people you meet and the activities you take part in will influence your life. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't get engaged in a no-win battle at home. You are better off getting out with friends. doing a little shopping or taking care of your own personal needs. Go over !be fine detail of a project you are going to present. 5 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You need to get away or enjoy !be people who support you !be most. Don't put up witb someone who doesn't respect your feelings. It may be time for a change or, at least, to make plans !bat will lead ro the improvement of your life and your future. 4 stars 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Participating in a community event will allow you to net­work and get help professionally. If you aren't happy witb your current position, con­sider your options. Remember: It's never good to burn bridges. 3 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have some great ideas. You may feel like taking it easy or socializing but, right now, it's important to develop or launch something you have been working on. An unusual change will come from a very unexpected source. 3 
..... 
stars 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): The less anyone knows about your personal busi­ness, the better. You may be tempted to travel but. before doing so, consider if your ab­sence will trouble or binder someone. If you've made a promise, don't break it. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Everything you do will make a difference to someone so don't stop short of doing all you can to help. Money, networking and partnerships should all take precedence over ignoring what's going on around you. What you do today will alter your future. 4 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't let emotional issues scare you. Face your prob­lems head-on and you will feel better. You will come np witb a viable solution to a fi~ nancial problem you have. Use your intelligence and skills properly. 2 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Think about bow you can turn something you've wanted to do into a reality. You can change your surroundings both professionally and person­ally if you feel you are missing out or !bat you have been in the same position for too long. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You have a strong sense of pride and justice. You are intense, driven and strive for perfection. You gravitate toward !be unusual. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroalivice.comfor fun, eugenia/ast.comjnr coll}identia/ consultations 
-
-

CROSSWORD 
Across Exercises sometimes done cross-legged 5 Basement's opposite 1 0 Place lor a ship to come in 14 Rightmost bridge position 15 Grand Canyon 
transport 16 Western native 17 Base for turkey 
stuffing, often 19 Wagering parlors, for short 20 Madison Square Garden is one 21 On_ (when 
challenged) 22 J. R. of "Dallas" 25 Leave furtively 28 Taoism founder 30 New Balance 
competitor 31 Opposed to 
32 They're seen at marble tournaments 
35 What the easiest path offers 41 Waiting to be mailed 
42 "O.G. Original Gangster" rapper 
43 Items in a "bank" 46 Off-course 48 Long-lasting 
housetop 51 Thrill 52 Appointed 53 Native of Tehran 55"_ cost you!" 56 Sob stories 61 Orange 
throwaway 62 Miserable 
weather 63 Cash drawer 64 This, to Tomas 65 Pal 66 Cherry 
throwaway 

-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, October 15, 2007 page 24 
MEN's SoccER 

Dazzling draw 
Lapira scores twice as team comes back to tie No. 1 UConn 
By DAN MURPHY A.sociate Spons Editor 
No. :3 Notre Dame and No. 1 Connneticut played to a 3-3 draw Saturday afternoon in what Irish coach Bobby Clark said was one ol' thn host eollege soccer games of tho season. 
"I think at tht~ end of the day thorn you had two teams worthy of being in an NCAA final. and I think that's all you can say," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. 
After falling behind 2-0 in the first half. the Irish started filling up thn net. They scored thren goals in lnss than 15 minutns to open up a 3-2 lead with just under :{0 minutes left in regula­tion.

-
Senior Joseph Lapira scored his third and fourth goals of the season to lead the offensive attack for Notrn Dame, and Ryan Miller pitchnd in with his team­leading fifth of the year. 
see DRAW/page 22 

-· 

After an impressive tie, Irish look poised for championship run 
Throughout the season, Notre Dame has been very clear about its goal -to reach the program's first-ever Final Four. 
Forget the Final Four. 
This team has every­thing it needs to bring home Notre 

Dame's Greg Arbogast first-ever 
national champion-Sports writer ship. • 
Saturday's match against No. 1 Connecticut could be consid­ered a tale of two halves, each one illuminating something special about the Irish. 
The first half was as impres­sive a half of soccer as Notre Dame has played this season. 
see CHAMPS/page 22 
N D CROSS COUNTRY 

Tean1s prepare for postseason with success in Terre Haute 
pointing performance at the North Carolina State and in 23:18 -placing him fifth (118th) and freshman Paul By CHRIS DOYEN 
Notre Dame Invitational, fin­Michigan, which had been overall on the individual Springer (240th) also repre­
Spons Writer ished 15th. ranked 10th and 18th, respec­leaderboard. He improved his sented the Irish in the varsity 
Going into the race, the men tively, finished third and time from the same meet at race. 
Thn men's and women's were ranked seventh in the fourth. UTEP, which had been the same course in 2006 by 30 After winning their first two teams both made powerful USTFCCA poll (which has no ranked 21st, won with 129 seconds. meets of the year, the Irish statements Saturday at the bearing on the selections of points. Notre Dame finished Senior Jake Watson finished women finished 12th at the Pre-National meet hosted by the NCAA Championship com­with 261 points. second for the Irish and 17th Notre Dame Invitational, Indiana State in T1~rre Haute. mittee). The team finished Leading the way for the Irish overall with a time of 23:43. which dropped them out of the In a meet that featured ahead of top-ranked Oregon, was junior Patrick Smyth, who Sophomore Jake Walker USTFCCA rankings. They national eontenders, the men No. 2 Wisconsin, No. 4 Iona, head coach Joe Piane had (47th), senior Brett Adams made a strong case for their finished fifth, while the No. 5 Stanford and No. 6 expected to do well. He fin­(93rd), freshman Dan Jackson women, coming off a disap-Oklahoma State. ished the eight-kilometer race (99th), senior Mike Popejoy see POLLS/page 20 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 

Big East win streak reaches six in a row 
Bock scores twice in both wins this weekend 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 
Irish junior forward Brittany

-
Bock. thH migning national play­or of thn week, scored a pair of goals in each of Notre Dame's wins this weekend -over Georgetown and Villanova. 
"[Boekl has been an All­American in her first two years, and she's having that kind of a season," Irish coaeh Handy Waldrum said. 
The victories ran Notre Dame's winning streak to six 
games and its conference unbeaten streak to 31 contests. 
"It was another great week­end for us," Waldrum said. "We're sitting pretty high in the Big East. I couldn't be more pleased." 
Notre Dame 3, Georgetown 0 
Georgetown had the first shot of the game Friday, but the Irish dominated the remainder of the contest. The lloyas did not reg­ister another shot -or any on goal -as the Irish kept the ball out of thPir defending third of the field for most of' the contest. 
Bock put the Irish on the board in the 21st minute when 
see STREAK/ page 21 
HOCKEY 

Irish split at Lefty Invite 
Pearce gets shutout after opening loss 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports Editor 
No. 8 Notre Dame opened its regular season this week­end by placing third in the Lefty McFadden Tournament in Dayton, Ohio. 
The Irish lost their first round game to No. 15 Wisconsin 4-1 but bounced back Saturday to take down Mercyhurst 4-0 and even their record at 1-1. 
Wisconsin 4, Notre Dame 1 
The inexperienced Irish 
see LEFTYIpage 21 






