

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 41: ISSUE 64 WEDNESDAY. JANUARY 17,2007 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Jenkins, ND representatives travel to Uganda 
Trip results from fall forum on global health 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Associate News Editor 
Four months after he lis­tened to three speakers·dis­cuss the global health crisis at the Notre Dame Forum, University President Father John Jenkins led a group of delegates to Uganda to see firsthand the village the University will partner with through the Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NDMDI). 
Notre Dame's commitment to helping the poor in Uganda grows directly out of its mis­sion as a Catholic university, Jenkins wrote in a.n online journal entry. 
The University delegation spent a week in Uganda meet-
see UGANDA/page 6 



Preventive action deters burglary 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
While several br'eak-ins occurred at student residences over the month-long winter break, it's not just luck that deterred more burglars, police said Tuesday. 
Sergeant Lee Ross of the South Bend Police Department Crime Prevention Unit said stu­dents' preventative measures caused a drop in burglaries at student residences from eight during the 2005-06 winter break to only three this year. 
Hoss said a record number of residents took part in the home watch program by alerting SBPD as to when their home or apartment would be vacant. 
"When students alert us that they will be gone ... they should get at least three [officer] patrol drive-bys each day," Ross said. 
Ross said it was crucial for students to inform the SBPD of their absence, because if they do not know the house is empty officers "might not go by the houses at all." 
Although Ross linked locked doors, closed blinds and func­tioning alarm systems to the decreased burglaries, not all students were immune to theft. 
Two of the three break-ins 
see ROBBERY/page 8 

Students enjoy New Orleans despite loss 
Observer The Irish Guard marches during the halftime performance at the Sugar Bowl against LSU Jan. 3 in New Orleans. The Irish lost 41-14. 
By BECKY HOGAN News Writer 
The Big Easy Sugar Bowl matchup against LSU was anything but easy for the Fighting Irish, who struggled against the No. 4 Tigers in a 41-14 loss. 
Despite doubts about how Notre Dame would perform on Jan. 3, stu­dents flocked to New Orleans to cheer on the Irish and take in the spirit of the city. 
"I think a lot of us were leery about how we were going to play just because [LSUl was such a highly' ranked team," said junior Holly Christianson. "I was hoping we were going to be able to pull through." 
The defeat was an NCAA-record ninth straight bowl game loss for the 
see FANS/page 6 

Nindye selected as project partner village 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Ediror 

After driving west from Uganda's capital city of Kampala for an hour and a half, Notre Dame leaders ­including University President Father John Jenkins ­arrived in the small village of Nindye on Jan. 9 to meet with local leaders and villagers about their· participation in the Millennium Village Project. 
Nestled in the Nkozi sub­county and Mpigi District of the small east African country, Nindye and its 5,000 villagers will serve as the geographic area that Notre Dame and Uganda Martyrs University will work with to "fight extreme poverty and to learn 
see NOMOI/page 4 
Volunteers aid during 
~holidays 
Students, alumni help rebuild New Orleans 
By ROHAN ANAND -News Writer 

It's been nearly 18 months since Hurricane Katrina wreaked havoc upon the Gulf Coast and New Orleans, but Notre Dame students who trav­eled to aid in the clean-up process still encountered the remnants of destruction in the ravaged city. 
The University's Gulf Coast Task Force, founded by junior Caity Schneeman, led a group of approximately 15 students to gut three homes and one school in two suburbs of the city, Lakeview and East New Orleans, from Dec. 29-Jan. 3. 
Sophomore Sean Hoskins returned to New Orleans this winter for his third time volun­teering for the task force and said he still felt that a great deal of restoration was needed. 
"After visiting so many times, you finally get the full effects of what's happening," he said, "and you feel compelled to return and see the damage. and how much work needs to be done." 
The Gulf Coast Task Force has sent hundreds of student volunteers to the Big Easy dur­ing the past year to help revive the city. But this time its trip did not receive any sponsorship from the Center of Social 
see SERVICE/page 4 

page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 





Beckhalll in the U.S. 
What's the first thing that comes to your mind when you hear the term "MIS"? 
The acronym for a medieval language studies program? An abbreviation for miles? Hopefully, last week's signing Greg Arbogast of David Beckham by the Los Angeles 
Sports
Galaxy for the sum 
Production
of $250 million over 
Editor
five years will enlighten the aver­age American that "MIS" in fact stands for Major League Soccer. . 
Yes, the U.S. has its own professional soccer league, and it has been doing quite all right for itself without spending the GDP of some countries on a global super­star. Expansion, soccer specific stadiums or stadium deals for eight of the league's 13 franchises and a new $100 million advertising deal with Adidas all point toward an economically stable and grow­ing sporting league. But these signs are not nearly enough to indicate that MLS will ever become relevant in the over­crowded American sporting market. 
Enter Beckham. 
Let's get one thing straight from the beginning. Signing David Beckham will not instantly turn MLS into a mainstream American sport competing with the likes of MLB, the NBA or the NFL. Nor will it unleash a migration of top European foot­balling talent towards America. Beckham will, however, give MLS the type of public­ity boost it has never previously enjoyed. 
Perhaps the most recognizable athlete in the world, Beckham garners a trail of headlines wherever he goes. After the Beckham signing was announced last Thursday, it became the headline story on ESPN.com in addition to a top story di<>­cussed on prominent shows such as Around the Hom and Pardon the Interruption. Even CNN felt compelled to cover the story, conducting a live inter­view with Beckham from Madrid. 
The attention created by the Beckham signing will manifest itself in many ways, including increased attendance, corpo­rate investment, merchandise sales, TV ratings and an international following. For a man who has reportedly been asked by Brad Pitt to give his son soccer lessons, Galaxy games may even become an A-list event. The most crucial effect of Beckham's signing, however, will be the increased interest in MIS of the common American sporting fan. 
There is a market for soccer in America. This past summer, the World Cup between the U.S. and Italy drew a 
5.2 overnight rating. To put that in per­spective, the NHL finals averaged around 
1.5 while the NBA finals averaged an 8.0 rating. The problem is that the current American soccer market demands top class soccer, and MIS's product is by no means first-rate. 
The increased interest of the common American sporting fan, like every other effect of the Beckham signing, will be short term, and ifMIS plans to truly capi­talize on the Beckham signing-to make itself relevant in the American sporting world-it must parlay the Beckham signing into a consistent improvement of MLS's on-field product. 
What Beckham has given MIS is an opportunity -a chance for soccer to finally become relevant in America. 
And MIS has 250 million reasons not to mess this up. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbo­gas@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 17, 2007 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST PART OF YOUR BREAK? 

Chantelle Bryant  Priscilla Do  Genevieve Dupuis  Danielle Keller  Steph Nienaber  Susie Skirtich  
freshman Pasquerilla West  freshman Pasquerilla West  sophomore . McGlinn  freshman Cavanaugh  sophomore Walsh  junior Holy Cross  
"Seeing my boyfriend. ''  "Sleeping infor , I 1.5 hours.  "My favorite part ofbreak was baking.a  'The Sugar Bowl."  "Waking up to my golden retriever. "  "Eating American food after being  


cake." 


KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer 
Members of the Notre Dame football team stand together and sing the Alma Mater at the Sugar Bowl in New Orleans Jan. 3. LSU defeated the Irish 41-14. Senior quar­terback Brady Quinn, far left, played his last game for Notre Dame. 
OFFBEAT 

waking him before his Santa Cruz cottage went up in flames. 
At 3:30 a.m. Bella woke Carcerano, a 32-year-old welder, with a combination of growling, whimpering and barking. 
"It was weird. I was sound asleep and she made noises I'd never heard before," Carcerano said. "I opened my eyes and it was just orange." 
The floor-to-ceiling wall heater in the 50-year-old, two-room cottage was on fire, and Carcerano rushed out in socks and pajamas just as the entire place went up in flames. 
Couple has unexpected triplets 

TUTTLE, N.D.-Lynette and Dusty Johnson expected to have another large baby, after their first two weighed more than 9 pounds. Instead of one large baby, they got three 
Triplets Marissa, Silas and Anna were born Nov. 14. A community benefit was held last Sunday to help with medical costs and living expenses. 
"It touches our hearts that (our neighbors) put other people's needs ahead of theirs," Dusty Johnson said. 
The Johnsons' oldest child, Christopher, now 3, weighed 
TODAY 
a:: 

more than 9 pounds at birth. His 1-year-old sister Abigail weighed 10 pounds, their mother said. 
Lynette gave birth to the triplets at home, and her midwife quickly prepared for a multiple birth after Marissa, the first of the three, was born and she realized more babies were on the way. 
Dog saves owner from fire 

SANTA CRUZ, Calif. -A savvy Labradoodle has one lucky owner. Firefighters said Bella, a mix of poodle and Labrador retriever, saved the life of her owner Matt Carcerano on Monday, 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

abroad." 
IN BRIEF 

The Snite Museum is hosting a new exhibit of 290 photos taken during the Vietnam War by photojournalists who died in the violence. The exhibit, titled "Requiem," will be on display at the museum from Jan. 4­March 4. Admission is free. 
An information session for students interested in running for student body president will be held today from 7 p.m.-8 in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. 
A lecture titled "Grand Challenges in Environmental Science and Engineering" will be held Thursday from 4 p.rn.­5 in 102 DeBartolo. 
Sophomore Emerson Spartz, the author and founder of the mugglenet.com and Ben Schoen, co-author and web­master of mugglenet.com, will be at I-iammes Notre Dame Bookstore today at 4:30 p.m to discuss and make predictions about J .K. Rawling's seventh Harry Potter Book, "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows." 
The Notre Dame Track and Field Indoor Opener will be held Friday at 5:30 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will play Syracuse Saturday at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will play South Florida Sunday at 1 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

23 14 
HIGH 

27 
LOW 

19 
IJ.I ::1: 
~ 
IJ.I 

~ 
.....
cs: 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 25

..... 
LOW 14 

15 4 


30 19 

25 12 


Wednesday, January 17, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
College loses, drops staff tnetnbers 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's Board of Governance (BOG) members discussed several changes to the College's staff that occurred over the semester break at their first meeting of the semester Monday night. 
Student body president Susan Mcllduff said two staff members have left Student Activities and Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson will start attending BOG meetings. 
Georgeanna Rosenbush, former director of the Office of Student Activities, helped BOG and attended meetings in past semesters, but she has retired due to medical needs, Mcllduff said. 
Frances Bruder's position as assis­tant director of Student Activities has been eliminated from the hierarchy in the Office of Student Activities, Mcllduff said. 
Johnson attended the meeting and promised the Board that all the events planned for this semester would still happen, despite the office shake-up. 
"Everything is under control," Johnson said. "We have lots of peo­ple volunteering to help us out [with the events]." 
She also said she wants to keep student government involved in the search process for a new director of Student Activities. 
"I want you to know that we aren't going to leave [BOG] out," Johnson said. 
In other BOG news: 

+ 
Saint Mary's is in the process of changing its e-mail.system. Students must switch to the new Zimbra Zmail system by Jan. 30. links and a five-minute overview can be found on the Saint Mary's @Home page. 

+ 
Heritage Week is Jan. 21 through Jan. 27. There will be events each day, culminating in the Heritage Week dinner Friday evening. 


+Plans have been finalized for the Saint Mary's Formal on Feb. 3. The event will take place at the Palais Royale in downtown South Bend from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. The theme is "All That Jazz," and tickets will be on sale starting today for $10 per per­son. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

ND 111ourns econo111ics professor 
Special to The Observer 
Denis A. Goulet, professor emer­itus of economics and policy stud­ies and William and Dorothy O'Neill Chair in Education for Justice at Notre Dame, died Dec. 26 at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in South Bend. He was 75 years old. 
Goulet, a native of Fall River, Mass., joined the Notre Dame fac­ulty in 1979. He earned bache­lor's and master's degrees in phi­losophy from St. Paul's College in 1956; a master's degree in social planning from IRFED in Paris in · 1960; and a doctoral degree in political science from the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil, in 1963. He married AnaMaria Reynaldo of Recife, Brazil, the fol­lowing year. 
A pioneer in the interdiscipli­nary study of development ethics, Goulet, who often described him­self as a "philosopher of develop­ment," conducted field research in Algeria, Lebanon, Brazil, Guinea­Bissau, Sri Lanka and Mexico. He wrote more than 160 articles and 11 books, including "The Cruel Choice: A New Concept in the Theory of Development," "The Uncertain Promise: Value Conflicts in Technology Transfer" and, most recently, "Development Ethics at Work: Explorations 1960-2002." At Notre Dame, in addition to holding the O'Neill Chair for Education for Justice, he was a faculty fellow of the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the Joan B. Kroc Institute for ·International Peace Studies, and the Nanovic Institute for European 





~~ i1ucr
011• $ OnePerVisit $ 
, Exp1res May 2007 :
.------------------------"':'., 
Gourmet Sandwiches, Salads &Soups 
:s s: 
Plus Fantastic FAIR TRADE Coffees 
I~ . 
I
~I 
Just aWalk from Campus Open Every Doy! 


~ I BUCK~

Edison Plaza, 1631 Edison Rd, 273-6216 I I. 
CREDIT & DEBIT CARDS ACCEPTED! :$ Ex~~::~~~i~~o1 $ : 
1.-.--·-··-·­


Corry Oul Available -·-·-·---~ 
Stt1dent ate Friday. Jat1u 



$ s: 

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Project to i111prove ND-town relations 
Studies. 

A much admired lecturer with an endearing weakness for puns and wordplay, Goulet was pro­foundly influenced by the writings and example of such intensely religious French intellectuals as. Charles de Foucauld, Simone Weil, and the "worker priests" of the last century. In his career, the "hunger and thirst for justice" exalted in Matthew's gospel found precise and compelling academic description. 
Goulet is survived by his wife, AnaMaria, their daughters, Andrea and Sinane; sons-in-law, Jed Esty of Champaign, Ill., and Eric Anderson of Chicago; four grandchildren; and two brothers, Bernard Goulet of Florida and Jean-Louis Goulet of New Hampshire.. 

BySONIARAO News Writer 

Improving town-gown relationships was the focus of the Council of Representatives (COR) meeting Tuesday night, as student body president Lizzi Shappell shared develop­ments in the upcoming Community Summit project. 
The Community Summit is an event that aims to pro-. voke thought and discussion about how to better foster a positive relationship between University students and members of the sur­rounding community. Set to take place in late February, it will include students from surrounding colleges and universities along with local government officials, Shappell said. 
"Basically [the goal is to] share ideas under the umbrella theme of how to better integrate college stu­dents into the South Bend and Mishawaka communi­ties," she said. 
Shappell presented three main discussion points for the Community Summit, which include creating "freshman initiatives" to get students involved in the community early, promoting student investment in the outside community and looking to the outside com­munity as a place for intern­ships and job opportunities. 
Members of the Mishawaka community have said they wished Notre Dame students knew there was "more to Mishawaka than just Grape Road," and that areas such as down­town Mishawaka would be explored more by students, said student body vice presi­dent Bill Andrichik. 
Several COR members put forth ideas about improving the relationship between college students and their surroundings, including making information avail­able to freshman students about some of the restau­rant and entertainment options in the surrounding area. 
In other COR news: 

+ Steve Cartwright, a member of VOICE, a student advisory board at the Center of Social Concerns (CSC), discussed the board's happenings and goals as part of the organization spotlight of the week. The organization acts as a liai­son between staff and stu­dents and tries to "better inform staff decisions as it concerns student opinion," he said. 
In addition, Cartwright said VOICE is focusing on marketing goals, including how to attract underrepre­sented students to the esc. 
"The most underrepre­sented student is the white male business student," he said. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 17, 2007 

Service 
continued from page 1 
Concerns (CSC). Because Notre Dame was scheduled to play LSU in the Sugar Bowl. the CSC felt that it was best for the group to coordinate with the Alumni Office instead, said Bill Purcell, assistant professional specialist for the esc. 
"Usually we give grants to the student volunteers to organize themselves," he said. "But since the Alumni Office was organiz­ing a lot of things because of the bowl game, working at similar sites with similar partners, it made sense for the task force to ally with them." 
The task force works with Catholic Charities, a subdivision of Operation Helping Hands that assists uninsured, elderly or dis­abled people in New Orleans. Relying completely on volun­teers, Catholic Charities assigns approximately 15 individuals per house, and provides them with instructions and tools to gut them for the homeowners. 

More than 30 alumni volun­teers teamed up with the task force to clear out St. Mary's of the Angels school in East New Orleans, a Catholic school for impoverished girls. 
"It was a lot of fun getting to work with the alumni," said senior Kyle Becker. "Though the first floor of the school was completely destroyed, ·we were able to clear out the entire sec­ond floor with an expanded group." 
Other Notre Dame students have also made their way down to New Orleans to volunteer. Hoskins and junior Radhika Deva spent eight weeks last summer gutting homes. Deva led a group this winter to gut homes in the West Bank area of the city. 
"We would simply go into these homes and remove any­thing imaginable belonging to the homeowners: food, couches, carpets, refrigerators, counter­tops, walls, nails, countertops, bathroom Sinks and tubs," Deva said. "Basically, anything that carried mold had to be cleared." 
After this process, the houses would still be intact so home­owners could rebuild their homes according to their own preferences and prevent the city government from seizing-the property. 

Deva's work did not go unrec­ognized. Kenneth Fitzpatrick, · head of Catholic Charities, nom­inated Deva for the Community Quarterback Award presented by the NFL'.s New Orleans Saints. She received a $1,000 grant and was invited to attend the Saints game against the Carolina Panthers. 
''It was just incredible to see the looks of gratitude on the faces of the homeowners," she said. "These people have been living in trailers for years trying to finance the gutting and rebuilding process, so it's very uplifting to assist them." 

But some of the other volun­teers were discouraged by the attitudes of some local New Orleans inhabitants and said that for "every good action, there came a negative response." 
"Though I'm optimistic about all of the effort that Catholic Charities is putting in, I'm not very positive about the future of the city," Hoskins said. "The French Quarter is completely revived, and tourists only see that. The local government, not Catholic Charities, should be lifting the city on its back." 
Becker also felt that traveling to New Orleans during a bowl game made the trip different for the volunteers from previous ones. 
"We realized ... that a lot of people thought we were down there just for the bowl game, and we were a little taken aback by that," he said. "We had spent almost 40 hours gut­ting houses, living in slums and we sponsored our own travel. We got to see what New Orleans really was about." 
But these circumstances haven't discouraged Hoskins, who is taking over the task force this semester while Schneeman studies abroad. He hopes to attract more volun­teers during spring break and over the summer. 
"Based on our experiences, we felt a whole spectrum of emotions," he said. "But aside from the politics, it's our aim this semester to help New Orleans get on a fast road to recovery like Mississippi has." 
Contact Rohan Anand at 
ranand@nd.edu 

The village, located 15 kilo­sustain themselves," Dowd said. opment, a student advisory meters from Lake Victoria, has said. "What we are part of here is council has been formed, Dowd

NDMDI 

a mix of religions present, with The saying "to pull them-a real learning experience," he said. Members will be sent out "probably selves up by their said. "It is really important for in pairs beginning in February
continued from page 1 

more than bootstraps," he us to monitor the change that to facilitate discussions in
"We went to learn about
the lessons that help us pro­50 percent said, is hard to takes place." dorms. mote human development b e i n g how the Millennium apply people who Such indicators would be if Additionally, in late March, more widely," Father Bob Catholic," do not have boot­children are staying in school, Dr. Johnson Nkuuhe, the
Village Project works, to
Dowd and Assistant Director of D o w d straps the if incomes are increasing and Uganda country coordinator of
visit villagers, to_ talk to
NDMDI Tim Lyden wrote in a said. basic tools to suc­if fewer people are suffering Millennium Village Project, and journal entry from Uganda. "I just the team. We have to ceed. Since many from malaria and AIDS/HIV David Siriri, the science coor­"We went to learn about how saw a lot adopt the posture of of the people in related deaths. dinator at Ruhiira, will visit 
the Millennium Village Project of rosaries Nindye are expe­"And if not, why not?" Dowd Notre Dame for about a week.
learners. That's what
works, to visit villagers, to talk out there," riencing extreme said. "Hopefully we can help to "It's important to give stu­to the team," Dowd, a Holy Dowd said learning lessons are all poverty, Dowd monitor change and point to dents ways to engage this topic Cross priest, said Tuesday. "We about the about. To promote human said it becomes the explanations for change or of human development without have to adopt the posture of group of the mission of lack of change." going to Uganda," he said.
solidarity, it's important 
learners. That's what learning villagers Millennium Notre Dame has given money Lyden will also head back to lessons are all about. To pro­gathered to listen and to learn." Viiiage Project to the Millennium Village Uganda in February for about mote human solidarity, it's under the and Notre Dame Promise Corporation, which a month, Dowd said, to help important to listen and to tree. "But to help get those will go into the implementation "iron out any of the details
Father Robert Dowd 
learn." I think it is people onto the of other projects. Today, there with Uganda Martyrs
NDMDI Director 
To learn "what Millennium important first step. are 11 Millennium Village University ... and to be a part Village Project is all about," that we be At the five-year Projects, The oldest is in west­of the baseline survey work Dowd said delegates visited a involved in an area that mark, there will be an assess­ern Kenya. that needs to go on in Nindye." clinic, a primary school and includes more than just ment, at which point -ideally To keep the Notre Dame attended a community meeting Catholics. We do our best to -the resources from the out­community active and aware of Contact Kate Antonacci at of more than 300 villagers serve all people. We are serv­side will be scaled back, Dowd issues related to human devel-kantonac@nd.edu 
under a tree in Nindye. 
"This gathering was certainly the highlight of our visit," Dowd wrote in a journal entry online. "We were warmly wel­comed with smiling faces and rhythmic clapping." 
At the gathering, the pro­ject's goals were discussed and members of the organizing committee "tried to make it very, very clear that this proj­ect is not about us swooping in and about us achieving goals," he said. 
"It's about the villages achieving goals. It's about empowerment and allowing them to be in control of the project," Dowd said. "The Millennium Village Project team will be facilitating and the villagers need to be driv­ing." 
Nindye was chosen to be the village Notre Dame supports in its Millennium Village Project by Ugandans and faculty at the Uganda Martyrs University, where much of the leadership team is based. 
"They chose the village, they formed a selection team," Dowd said. "We wouldn't know where to begin. Ugandans would know where to begin." 
Before visiting Nindye, Dowd and the rest of the Notre Dame group visited Ruhiira, a village in the Isingiro district of Uganda where a Millennium Village Project was launched in March. 
Dowd described Nindye vil­lagers as "very hardworking people," 20 percent of whom are involved in fishing. The remaining 80 percent work in agriculture, growing bananas, maize and corn. 

ing the Church and this is good for the Church." 
While to an extent, Notre Dame is serving the people of Nindye, Dowd said the idea that villagers will just be recip­ients should be dispelled. 
"They will be more than recipients -they will be set­ting priorities," he said. 
The people, Dowd said, will participate both physically and financially. 
"They pledge to contribute ­the villagers contribute in any way they can," he said. "At least 10 percent of the cost of a project is to be provided by the villagers themselves. It was as high as 20 to 25 percent in Ruhiira and that shows how enthusiastic they are." 
Notre Dame will help facili­tate and support progress by "providing expertise when requested if possible" and by providing students and faculty with the opportunity to do research in the village that promotes the goals of the proj­ect. 
The work that takes place in Nindye depends on the needs of the villagers and the priori­ties set by them. 
In Ruhiira, villagers decided the school needed repair, addi­tional classrooms, new latrines and a school lunch program. They also said the clinic need­ed better stocking, and better ways of accessing and purify­ing water needed to be devel­oped. 
"In Nindye, I imagine that the priorities will not be all that different -the challenges will be different," Dowd said. 
"The idea is to empower peo­ple, to give them the ability to 



REMINDER 
2007-2008 
RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
must be submitted by this Friday, .January 19, 2007 to the 
Office ofStudent Affairs 
316 Main Building 
Applications are available for downloading at: http://osa.nd.edu/ or hUP-:1/Qsa.nd.edu/hall-staff-opportunities/ra.shtml 



----------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
ORLD &NATION 


Wednesday, January 17, 2007 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Israeli army chief of staff resigns 
JERUSALEM, Israel-Israeli army command­er Lt. Gen. Dan Halutz, under fire for failures in last summer's war in Lebanon, has resigned, the Defense Ministry said early Wednesday. 
Halutz has been under pressure to step down since the end of the 34-day war, which failed in its goals of defeating the anti-Israel militant group Hezbollah and bringing home two cap­tured soldiers. 
Israeli launched a full-scale attack on Lebanese Hezbollah guerrillas after they seized the two men and killed three other soldiers in a cross-border raid July 12. 
Army Radio reported that Halutz sent his let­ter of resignation to Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, saying that he was taking responsibility for the outcome of the war. 
"For me the concept of responsibility is every­thing," Halutz wrote, according to Army Radio. 
Tours to be extended in Afghanistan 
KABUL, Afghanistan -The top U.S. com­mander in Afghanistan said Tuesday he wants to extend the combat tours of 1,200 soldiers amid rising violence, and Defense Secretary Robert Gates said he was "strongly inclined" to recom­mend a troop increase to President Bush if com­manders believe it is needed. 
Gates also said Pakistan must act to stem an increasing flow of Taliban fighters into Afghanistan as U.S. military officials cited new evidence that the Pakistani military, which has long-standing ties to the Taliban movement, has turned a blind eye to the incursions. 
The prospect of a troop increase in Afghanistan, at the same time Bush is ordering 21,500 more troops into Iraq, raises new ques­tions about the military's ability to sustain its war-fighting on two major fronts. There now are about 24,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Improbable Katrina survivor born 
COVINGTON, La. -Rescued from a great flood while he was just a frozen embryo in liquid nitrogen, a baby boy entered the world Tuesday and was named after the most famous flood survivor of them all, Noah. 
Noah Benton Markham -8 pounds, 6 1/2 ounces -was born to 32-year-old Rebekah Markham by Caesarean section after grow­ing from an embryo that nearly defrosted in a sweltering hospital during the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. 
"All babies are miracles. But we have some special miracles," said Wanda Stogner, a cousin of Markham's .. 
Hunter charged with racial murder 
MARINETTE, Wis -A white man was charged Tuesday with murdering a Hmong hunter in the woods in a slaying that rekin­dled racial tensions in Wisconsin and raised fears among Southeast Asian immigrants that the killing was payback. 
James Nichols, 28, shot and stabbed Cha Vang, 30, whose body was found Jan. 6 in a wildlife refuge near Green Bay where both were hunting squirrels, authorities said. 
District Attorney Brent DeBord gave no motive for the killing, which Yang's family said appeared to be racially motivated. 
Two years ago, a Hmong deer hunter shot six white hunters to death after being accused of trespassing in the Wisconsin woods. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Fear spreads after 4 homeless killed 
SOUTH BEND, Ind. -William Abrams never felt in danger sleeping on his bedroll in hidden alleyways or along one of the city's viaducts. That all changed last week. 
The discovery of the bodies of two home­less men in a manhole south of downtown on Jan. 9 made Abrams uneasy. The discovery three days later of two more dead homeless men in a manhole less than a block away scared him and others living on the .city's streets. 
"We don't know why these deaths took place. We don't know what was behind it," said Abrams. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WJRE SERVlCES page 5 
IRAQ 

Bombings kill65 at university 
U.N. says 34,000 civilians were killed last year, 142 Iraqis found dead Tuesday 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Twin car bombs tore through a lead­ing Baghdad university as students left classes Tuesday in the de.adliest attack in Iraq in nearly two months, and the United Nations reported 34,452 civilians were slain last year, nearly three times more than the government reported. 
A total of 142 Iraqis were killed or found dead Tuesday, in what app@ared to be a renewed campaign of Sunni insurgent violence against Shiite targets. The sharp uptick in deadly attacks coincided with the release of U.N. figures that showed an average of 94 civilians died each day in sectarian bloodshed in 2006. 
The blasts wrecked two small buses as students at Al-Mustansiriya University were lining up for the ride home at about 3:45 p.m., according to Taqi al­Moussawi, a university dean. At least 65 students died. 
The attackers stationed a man wearing a suicide belt in the expected path of flee­ing students to take even more lives, but he was spot­ted and shot by security nien before he could blow himself up, the dean said. 
"The only guilt of our martyred students is that north central Baghdad, a they pursued education. mostly Shiite area. The They belong to all religions, school ranks second among sects and ethnic groups," institutions of higher educa­said an angry al-Moussawi, tion in Iraq. Founded in himself a Shiite. "The ter­1963, it was named after rorists want to stop educa­one of the oldest Islamic tion....Those students had schools, established in the nothing to do with politics." 13th century during the 
After the explosions, a Ahbasid dynasty that ruled rescue worker and three the Muslim world. men in civilian clothes Thousands attend the uni­
..scrambled through the versity, known especially for 
debris to carry a charred its colleges of science, litera­
victim away in a sheet. ture and education. 
Firefighters in yellow hel­Prime Minister Nouri al­
mets examined the charred Maliki blamed the attack on 
wreckage of an bashed-in, "terrorists and Saddamists" 
overturned minivan. seeking revenge for 
The university's well­Monday's hanging of two of shaded campus occupies Saddam Hussein's top aides, several square blocks in convicted with him for the slaying of 148 Shiite men and boys after a 1982 assas­sination attempt in the northern town of Dujail. 

The violence Tuesday against Shiites may signal a campaign by Sunni insur­gents to shed as much blood as possible before the deployment of 21,500 more American troops. Most of the additional U.S. troops will be used to back up the Iraqi army in a security sweep to rid the capital of Sunni and Shiite gunmen. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, in Kuwait for a meeting with eight Arab nations to discuss ways to keep Iraq from slid­ing into civil war, sought to 
1 
I 
lower any expectations that the troop buildup would quickly pacify the country. 
"Violent people will always be able to kill inno­cent people," she said. "So even with the new security plan, with the will and capa­bility of the Iraqi govern­ment and with American forces to help reinforce Iraqi forces, there is still going to be violence." 
She said the U.N. civilian death figures differ from others. "But whatever the number of civilians who have died in Iraq -and there obviously are compet­ing numbers -but whatev­er the number is, it's too many," she said. 
Rescued boy glad to return home 
Associated Press 
KIRKWOOD, Mo. -Ben Ownby has spent a lot of time watching TV since he was rescued from a man accused of kidnapping him and another boy, but there's one face he's tired of seeing. 
"I've seen too much of me on there," he said. 
Ben was quiet and shy but appeared happy and well-adjusted Tuesday in an interview with The Associated Press at his home in the rural town of Beaufort, where he was kidnapped Jan. 8. Christmas decorations, including the tree, were still up, adding to the festive atmosphere inside the home. 
Ben, who has been asked by 
investigators and his parents to avoid discussing details of his cap­tivity, said it was great to be back with family. 
"It feels like I'm getting bruises from too many hugs," he said. 
Earlier Tuesday, in an interview on NBC-TV's "Today" show, Ben's mother recalled the words a police officer used to tell her they had recovered her son, who had been missing for four days: "We have 
h.
lm. " 

"And I said, 'We have who?' 'cause I thought he was talking about the bad guy," Doris Ownby said in a recorded interview broad­cast Tuesday on NBC-TV's "Today." 
Michael Devlin, a 41-year-old pizza shop employee who also held a job answering telephones at night at a funeral home, was being held in lieu of $1 million bail. He is charged in the kidnapping of 13­year-old Ben, but authorities also expect to charge him with abduct­ing Shawn Hornbeck, a 15-year-old abducted four years ago. 
Both boys were found Friday in Devlin's apartment in the St. Louis suburb of Kirkwood. 
Ben and his parents thanked Mitchell Hults, 15, a friend who helped authorities find him by identifying a small white pickup seen speeding away after Ben's abduction. The middle school where both Ben and Mitchell attend planned an assembly Tuesday to honor Mitchell. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 17, 2007 

Ginocchio said. "It was an stipend, he said. Over in the French Quarter, she did run into trouble with extremely harsh environment, While in New Orleans, the Bourbon Street was a hot spot pick-pocketers.
Fans 

which made it hard to get band visited Holy Cross High for many students who trav­"I was wearing a wristlet and through, but we just played School -the second establish­eled to New Orleans for the had my credit card and Notre
continued from page 1 

louder." ment founded by the Holy game. Dame ID stolen out of it while I Irish. The most disappointing part Cross priests "We got there was wearing it on my wrist," 
Christianson said the atmos­about the game, Ginocchio after Notre early Tuesday Christianson said. phere of the game changed said, was that the players Dame. The band 'The Ohio State fans and saw the Ginocchio said that he and drastically for the Irish in the seemed to "give up." donated instru­pep rally and other members of the band
last year were a lot
third quarter. Ginocchio, a trombone play­ments to the later went to were warned not to wear a lot 
"It was definitely a lot more er, is the third generation in school to help more respectful than Bourbon Street of Notre Dame gear around somber in his family to play at a rebuild its music the LSU fans. It was on Tuesday New Orleans by University the second Sugar Bowl. His program after night," staff and Louisiana police offi­
"We had so much an extremely harsh 
half," she grandfather played for Hurricane Christianson cers.
fun going down environment, which
said. West Virginia's band Katrina. said. "We saw "It was definitely an away Sophomore there. It was just in the 1951 Sugar "The entire made it hard to get everyone on game for us and a home game band mem­Bowl, and his parents high school came B o u r b o n for [LSU]," Ginocchio said. 
fun being with through, but we just
ber Tony played on the Notre to watch us prac­Street." Despite the loss of both the
Notre Dame kids played louder. " 
Ginocchio Dame Drum Line in tice the first day Cummings game and her cards, said the out ofthe school 1981. All three Sugar that we were in said it was Christianson thought the trip atmosphere Bowl games resulted New Orleans," Tony Ginocchio exciting to be to New Orleans was worth­
environment. It 

at the game in big losses for the Ginocchio said. sophomore band member in New Orleans while. 
was definitely a

was dismal Ginocchios' teams. "It was a power-in the days "We had so much fun going -much more blast." Nearly all of the 380 ful experience leading up to down there," Christianson so than last students in the band for the band." the game. said. "It was just fun being year's Fiesta played at the Sugar Seeing the destruction from "The atmosphere in the city with Notre Dame kids out of
Holly Christianson 

Bowl. Bowl, Ginocchio said. Hurricane Katrina was "eye­was great, and there was lots the school environment. It was
junior

"The Ohio The University paid opening," senior band member of entertainment and music." definitely a blast." State fans for airfare and hotel Grant Cummings said. Although she felt Notre Dame last year were a lot mo~:e rooms for all band members "The insides of buildings students were well received in Contact Becky Hogan at respectful than the LSU fans," and gave them each a $200 were completely decimated." New Orleans, Christianson said rhogan2@nd.edn 
Uganda 
continued from page 1 
ing with members of the Holy Cross community,· touring schools, and seeing a current Millennium Village and the vil­lage Notre Dame will sponsor. 
"This trip was a chance for some of us in the Notre Dame community to begin to under­stand the needs of a particular community in Uganda," 
Jenkins wrote. 
Jenkins was joined on the trip -which ran from Jan. 5 to Jan. 12 -by Executive Assistant to the President Frances Shavers, Associate Vice President for Marketing Communication T o d · d Woodward, NOMOI Director Father Bob 

Lyden, who visited Uganda earlier in the semester along with Dowd, said the trip was beneficial because it allowed Notre Dame representatives face-to-face contact with the Holy Cross priests and broth­ers, the Uganda Martyrs University (UMU) faculty and administration and the vil­lagers themselves. 
"The whole point [of the trip] was to see where we are going to be working and see the peo­ple we are working with," Lyden said. Reading reports 
"This trip was a chance for some of us in the Notre Dame community to begin to understand the needs ofa particular community in Uganda." 
Father John Jenkins University president 
about the country and the Millennium proj­ect cannot replace the value of personal con­tact, he said. 
"Only in talking to people face-to­face can you see that this is unlike so many projects that have failed," Lyden said. 
The trip also allowed Jenkins, the head of a uni­versity founded 
"It meant a lot to the Holy Cross priests and brothers in Africa to see that Notre Dame 
values  what's  going  on  in  
Africa," Lyden said.  
On  its  first  morning  in  

Uganda, the group attended a deaconate ordination for three African Holy Cross religious at St. Augustine Church in Kampala. The nearly three­hour Mass, Bone said, was "probably the most beautiful Mass I have ever been to." Most of the Mass was in English, but many of the songs were song in Luganda, she said. 
"It was a nice welcome, jumping into the culture," Bone said. 
Bone, a 2006-07 grant recip­ient in the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program (UROP), is conducting a research project titled "The Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative: Methods and Lessons." 
The next morning, the group went to a local Mass in Jinja, where it saw the source of the Nile River at Lake Victoria. 
Class of 2006 alumni Matt Young and Clay Allison, who are teaching in Uganda for a year and a half through Holy Cross and Notre Dame, showed the group around Lake View Secondary School and St. Jude's Primary School later on the second day. 

Bone said it was difficult to see the dismal conditions of the school facilities. 
"The latrines and the kitchen and the classrooms were these tiny dank dark rooms," Bone said. "I could not imagine kids actually learning there." 
The group traveled on Jan. 8 to Ruhiira, where a Millennium Village Project (MVP) had been running for 10 months. 
Visiting a site where the 

African girl she met in Ruhiira and UMU will join in the MVP. outside of their health care When the group drove into center. Nindye, approximately 300 vil­This girl and other Africans lagers had gathered to greet 
like her don't  the  delegation  
have the things  with handshakes  
we take for granted, but still manage to  "It meant a lot to the Holy Cross priests and  and applause, ShavBrs said. For most of the  
be  cheerful,  brothers in Africa to  5,000 villagers,  
Shavers said. The picture of this girl,  see that Notre Dame values what's going  this was the first time they had heard that Notre  
Shavers said,  on in Africa."  Dame would be  
. reminds her of  partnering with  
"their extreme generosity and  Tim Lyden  them, said.  Lyden  
warmth  and  NOMOI assistant director  Dr.  Johnson  

Dowd, NOMOI Assistant by the Congregation of the Director Tim Lyden, Africana Holy Cross, to embrace the ties Studies department chair to the large Holy Cross Richard Pierce and sophomore Congregation present in Tess Bone. Uganda, he said. 
Enroll in january and get FREE extra prep! 


MCAT" 
Double your MCAT prep for FREE-up to a $1749 value!' 
kapte>l.com/mcat 
1
GMAr 
Free GMAT Quiz Bank -a $199 value!' 
kaptest.corn/grnat 
LSAT' 

Two free hours of private tutoring -a $250 value!' 
kaptest.c.ornttsat 
GRE' 

Free GRE Quiz Bank -a $199 value!' 
kaptest.corn/gre 

Millennium Village had  "We really wanted to try and learn to understand  walls, but I think UMU is  
already impacted the community was helpful  more broadly the issues that affect the people of Uganda. That was very  of the mind­set that they intend to take it to the  
because showed  it the  much accomplished. "  next level," Lyden said.  
delegation one case in which  Frances Shavers  Professors at t h e  
the  program  executive assistant to the  University  
had been implemented  president  seem excit­ed, he said,  
and let them  and  have  

see the effect it had on peo­indicated that they are ready ples' daily lives, Shavers said. to help out the community. 
In her office in the Main Later that day, the Notre Building, Shavers has a picture Dame delegation drove to on her computer of a young Nindye, the village Notre Dame 
laughter that comes from people despite not having heat, as we have it right now, elec­tricity, computer access, a toi­let, running water and all of these things." · 
During the tour of the village and the education and health facilities, Bone said she noticed the people were happy even though the kids were running around shoeless, in rags, and one girl she saw had a distended belly. 
"You could visibly see the problems they were living among but you could also see the smiles on their faces," Bone said. "It was a very inter­esting dichotomy." 
On Jan. 9, the group met representatives of Uganda Martyrs University (UMU), the largest Catholic university in the country. UMU will partner with Notre Dame and the vil­lagers in the MVP. 
Lyden, who has now met with members of UMU five dif­ferent times, said he thinks this will be a long-term part­nership. 
"There's a stereotype of African universities as ivory towers that don't mix with the abject poverty that is some­times right outside their 
Nkuuhe, country 
coordinator of the Millennium Village Project in Uganda,. introduced the group and explained why it had come to Nindye. Nkuuhe encouraged the villagers to ask questions about the process, Shavers said, and they asked "tough questions." 
"They are willing to do the work and they realize that," she said. "They want nothing but to be a part of making their own dreams and plans come to fruition." 
The day after seeing the vil­lage for the first time, group members were able to process everything they had seen and the people they had met, Bone said. 
Some members of the group attended a lunch and a meet­ing Jan. 11 with the Uganda Episcopal Conference of Bishops. They talked about the challenges of Catholic educa­tion in the United States and Uganda and discussed Notre Dame's objectives in its involvement in the MVP, Lyden said. The four-hour meeting was an "open and free dia­logue," he said. 
The group concluded its Africa visit Friday with a trip to the Infectious Diseases Institute (101) at Makerere University, where it met with Dr. Miriam Opwonya, who vis­ited Notre Dame in September to speak at the global health forum. 
Shavers said the trip was successful in accomplishing the University's goal of explor­ing the problems facing the Nindye villagers. 
"We really wanted to try and learn to understand more broadly the issues that affect the people of Uganda," Shavers said. "That was very much accomplished." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 

Enroll in a Kaplan course before January 3t•t to take advantage of these special offers! 
Highertest scores guaranteed or 
your money back:·

1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com 
6PGA0030~Tesl n!lrtlt'::s a:-e ~egisl!>~d ttade!"!'!~rk ~f theif res(*.(li\la rm:wrs. t!':.h<t t'ltlm!J il1 ~n MCAT. GRF., GMAT, or t.SAf Cia$$recm, Claso ·15, Extreme. Adlll:l.lll"S:l!J Cmmoe. Premium On!ir1e CCltrst\. or 15-. 2.5-, or .?.5-:loUl' ;u!f.lrirv,J program in tha United Sm:;m;;, Puerw RK¥J, or Com<Kia b~~een .January i and Janua:y 3~. 20(17 Fret:! LSAT Tttlmi:tg must be r&:teemwj by Aprii i, 2007 MC.Il.T Mormg swo:mrts m~y f':':f,.W:at the Ciassmcm Course cniy. Cann~t be ctlmbined with any uti'!~:'~' offP.r, ff5bf-}!~. discount or prornotkm. ··corlf..lilior.s and r~:::strictioms apply. F'or comp~<~Z guaranlee ellgibi!ny rt!qulremen!t'. visit kaptest r:OO!!hsg. 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, January 17, 2007 
page 7 
Dow 

12,582.59 +26.51
}ones 

up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I ,663 121 1,651 2,599,548.630 


COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I 00 TR (QQQQ)  -0.07  -O.o3  45.28  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.77  +0.17  22.30  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  0.00  0.00  6.06  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.16  -0.05  31.16  
Treasuries  
10-YEAR NOTE  -0.42  -0.020  4.751  
13-WEEK BILL  0.00  0.000  4.955  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.35  -0.0 17  4.844  
5-YEARNOTE  -0.46  -0.022  4.737  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.78  51.21  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -1.00  625.90  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.83  91.70  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  120.8350  
EURO  0.7738  
POUND  0.5099  
CANADIAN$  1.1761  

IN BRIEF 

Workers, farmers protest free trade 
SEOUL, South Korea -Protesters slamming free trade negotiations between South Korea and the United States took to the streets Tuesday as officials pushed for breakthroughs on contentious issues that threaten to torpedo a deal. 
Shouting "Stop the Korea-U.S. FTA," a group estimated by police at 3,000 people held a peaceful sit-down protest on a Seoul thor­oughfare across town from the heavily guard­ed talks in a hotel. 
Protesters, including opposition lawmakers, cattle farmers, laborers, medical workers and students, later marched toward the negotia­tion site but were blocked by special police riot buses from approaching the hotel. 
About 50 demonstrators scuffied briefly with police but there were no injuries. 
Authorities have deployed about 15,000 riot police on the streets of the capital this week, many of them near the site of the negotiations, which, as during talks in Seoul in July, has turned into a virtual fortress. 
Demonstrations against the proposed deal dogged the previous two rounds in South Korea. The talks have drawn sometimes fierce resistance from farmers, laborers and even filmmakers who say free trade threatens their livelihoods. 
P.M. involved in bank investigation 
JERUSALEM, Israel -Police will open a criminal investigation Tuesday into Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert's role in the pri­vatization of an Israeli bank, the Justice Ministry said. 
The ministry said a preliminary investiga­tion raised allegations that in 2005, Olmert favored business associates as finance minis­ter during the sell-off of a controlling share of Bank Leumi, one of Israel's largest finan­cial institutions. 
If Olmert is indicted, he would have to step down, according to legal precedents. 
The Justice Ministry said the preliminary investigation of the allegations raised in a report by the state comptroller about the bank sale "led to the conclusion that a foun­dation of evidence has been built that would justify opening a criminal investigation." 
Citrus disaster hits California 
Prices for oranges, lemons, avocados expected to soar after record-low temperatures 
Associated Press 
FRESNO, Calif. Shoppers will feel the sting from a string of subfreez­ing nights in California's citrus groves and other farming areas, with prices for oranges, lemons, avo­cados and other produce poised to double or triple in coming weeks, accord­ing to industry officials. 
"We may adjust the prices as we discover the full extent of the damage next week, but for now, if you bought an orange at the supermarket for 50 cents, expect to pay a dol­lar to $1.49 for it," said Todd Steel, owner of Royal Vista Marketing, which sells California citrus to markets throughout the country. 
With the NFL playoffs in full swing, some fans may choose to go without two traditional favorites. 
"Avocados are expensive enough as it is," said Joseph Vasquez, a 32­year-old school teacher from Pasadena. "We may have to do without gua­camole for a while. And we may be drinking our Coronas without limes." 
Nearly every winter crop is affected by the freeze, from avocados to straw­berries to fresh-cut flow­ers, but it's the state's cit­rus crop that stands to ruined as much as three­selling 40-pound boxes of she said of the price. take the biggest economic quarters of the California oranges for $22 to $32, Damages from the cur­hit. California is the citrus crop, growers say; depending on the variety. rent freeze will likely sur­nation's No. 1 producer of the fruit is threatened That's up from $6 to $14 a pass those from a three­fresh citrus, growing whenever the mercury week earlier, and with the day cold snap in December about 86 percent of falls below 28 degrees. National Weather Service 1998 that destroyed 85 lemons and 21 percent of "Limited amounts were calling for at least one percent of California's cit­oranges sold in the U.S., harvested before the more night of frigid tem­rus crop, a loss valued at according to the California freeze, so it's not like the peratures in many areas, $700 million, state Farm Bureau. Florida pro­markets are going to dry prices could continue to Agriculture Secretary A.G. duces more oranges, but up suddenly," said Claire escalate. Kawamura said. those are mostly Smith, a spokeswoman for Some shoppers took The state also suffered a processed for orange Sunkist Growers Inc., a advantage of still-reason­deep freeze in 1990 -one juice. Los Angeles-based cooper­able prices Tuesday, as that completely wiped out 
More than 70 percent of ative owned by some many of the fruit on mar­the $1 billion crop. It took this season's oranges, 6,000 growers in ket shelves was picked growers two years to lemons and tangerines -California and Arizona. before the freeze. Shopper recover. nearly $1 billion worth of Still, the diminished sup­Lindsay Beamish, 29, was Labor leaders are also fruit -were still on the ply is bound to drive up surprised to see a 10-watching the weather trees as nighttime temper­prices, Smith said. Sunkist pound bag of oranges sell­closely. They estimate as atures in California's may import oranges and ing for $10 at a Vons many as 12,000 field Central Valley dipped into other fruit from South supermarket in Pasadena. workers and packing the low 20s and teens on Africa and other countries. "I might just have to get house employees could four straight nights begin­On Tuesday, a Visalia­10 pounds worth because lose their jobs for the ning Friday. The freeze based citrus broker was that's not going to last," remainder of the season. 

Dow at record high for a third day 
Associated Press conflicting views about the pace of sumer, but the Dow has been hurt as 
corporate earnings. The first wave of it struggles with the drop in big oil 
NEW YORK -Wall Street ended reports have already shown strength, companies." 
an erratic session mixed Tuesday with Intel Corp., Wells Fargo & Co. The Dow rose 26.51, or 0.21 per­
with the Dow Jones industrials and TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. cent, to 12,582.59. The index 
reaching a third straight record close posting robust results. reached a new trading high of 
despite concerns about corporate But the market was still uneasy 12,585.08 earlier in the session. 
profits and the impact of falling oil after profit warnings from companies Broader stock indicators were 
prices. including home builder Centex Corp. mixed. The Standard & Poor's 500 
The market struggled to digest a and software maker Symantec Corp. index was up 1.17, or 0.08 percent, 
drop in oil prices, which fell to a 19-"The markets have had a big run­at 1,431.90, and the Nasdaq compos­
month low near $51 a barrel on a up, and it is really trying to continue ite index fell 5.04, or 0.20 percent, to 
report that OPEC leader Saudi Arabia on a positive pace while also alleviat­2,497.78. 
said there may be no need for further ing some of the overbought charac­The bond market drew some sup­
production cuts. The statement pun­teristics before earnings really get port from a New York Federal 
ished shares of major oil and gaso­going," said Scott Fullman, director Reserve report that the pace of man­
line companies, though lower energy of investment strategy for Hapoalim ufacturing in its region reached its 
prices are a boon to consumers. Securities USA. "Lower oil has lowest level since the summer of 
Investors also tried to reconcile brought back confidence to the con-2005. 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, January 17, 2007 
Ailing Castro taking steps to stnooth transition of po-wer 
Havana officials deny reports that Cuban leader has cancer; repressed opposition remains silent, inactive 
Robbery 
continued from page 1 
occurred at Park Jefferson Apartments and the other was reported at 312 St. Peter Street, where Notre Dame sen­ior Jeff Manship did not share the good fortune of his fellow off-campus residents. 
Manship -who lost approxi­mately $400 worth of electron­ics -said he "was kind of expecting it to happen." 
The criminals broke through a first floor window and took a television and DVD player from Manship's second floor bed­room, along with stereo equip­ment and an Xbox from the first floor. 

"It [stinks] knowing that some random creep was in my bed­room," he said. 
Although Manship said he regrets having the only bed­room door without a function­ing lock, he is grateful that the criminals did not take more of their valuables. 
Manship blames the robbery partially on the lack of an acti­vated alarm system -some­thing landlord Mark Kramer said is key to deterring crimi­nals. 
Of the approximately 150 res­idences Kramer rents to stu­dents, he said there's been only one attempted and one success­ful break-in. 
"The attempted break-in was on Notre Dame Ave.," he said, "and they did not get anything because the police were there within two minutes." 
In addition to the SBPD, Kramer said he has a staff of off-duty police officers that patrols his residences during breaks. 
Both SBPD and Kramer encourage students to make it seem like someone is home even when the house is vacant. 
Many students made their homes seem "lived in" during break by leaving television sets and lights on, Kramer said. 
Ross said students should try to take their valuables home with them, even if it seems inconvenient. 

"If [students] just grab their laptop before they go, it will save them a lot of trouble," he said. 
Although students also had the option of storing boxed valuables in the Notre Dame Security/Police building as part of the ND Safe Lock program, this opportunity will not be available during spring or Easter breaks, said Assistant Director of NDSP Dave Chapman. 
Despite the lessened number of break-ins during winter break, off-campus residents must remain vigilant during the school year, Ross said. 
"There have been an average number of break-ins during the year," he said. "[Students] leave doors open and unlocked when everyone is here and then bur­glaries happen." 
The number of burglaries in the city of South Bend has also risen, Ross said, so students should not think they are immune from theft. 
Students should not stop set­ting alarms and locking doors, Kramer said. 
"I would like to see zero per­centage [of break-ins]," he said, "but obviously by our numbers [we] have done pretty well." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO I @saintmarys.edu 

Associated Press guests in recent months, a U.S. 
government official said Tuesday. 
WASHINGTON Cuban The official, who spoke on con­President Fidel Castro, ailing and dition of anonymity because of the out of sight, has been meeting sensitive situation with Cuba, with a trickle of international declined to say with whom Castro 
Want to work in TEXAS this summer? 
CAMP SWEENEY 
aresidential sports camp for children who have diabetes 
INTERVIEWS: 
Debartolo Hall -\Ved., Jan 3I st, 5:45-6:45 pm Joyce Center -Thurs., Feb 1st, 4-8 pm Flanner Hall -Fri., Feb 2nd, 9 am -5 pm I.NTERVIEWER: Skip Rigsby 940-768-8250 
rh'\ 907 E. LA SALLE AVE. 234·0363 
To prt.'-schedule interviews, email skipt·@campswecney.org by Friday, Jan 26th. 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 
was meeting. But the meetings, generally with visitors from Latin America, suggest he may be set­ting the stage for a transition of power that he hopes will protect the government he has built over four decades. 
In a review of global threats last week, National Intelligence Director John Negroponte said that Castro and his brother Haul, who has taken over as Cuba's temporary leader, are trying to create a "soft landing" during the transfer of control. 
"From the point of the United States policy, we don't want to see that happen," Negroponte said. "We want to see the prospects lor freedom in that country enhanced as a result of the transition" from Fidel Castro. 
Negroponte also said Castro's days "seem to be numbered," a view supported Tuesday by the 
U.S. government oflicial. That olli­cial said U.S. intelligence believes 


• 
Only a few apartments left for 2007-2008 

• 
2-bedroom, 2-bath with 1 ,250 square feet 

• 
Large balcony &cathedral ceilings 

• 
Washer/dryer, dishwasher, central air conditioning 

• 
Walking distance to campus Call Susan at 574-243-7530 or email us at stadiumclubcondos@sbcglobal.net 


that Castro is likely to die within a month or two, although analysts don't yet know the precise nature of his illness. 
That assessment narrowed the life-expectancy estimate of U.S. intelligence agencies, which previ­ously had said Castro was not expected to make it through the end of this year. 
The Spanish newspaper El Pais reported on Tuesday that Castro has had at least three failed oper­ations and is suffering complica­tions from an intestinal infection, leaving him with a "grave progno­sis." 
The reported rare details about his medical treatment, citing two unidentified sources from Madrid's Gregorio Maranon hospi­tal, which employs surgeon Jose Luis Garcia Sabrido. An expert in the digestive system, Sabrido flew to Cuba in December to treat Castro and returned insisting that the 80-year-old was recovering 
~!J)vJ 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 
www.womenscarecenter.org 
slowly from a serious operation. 

One of the journalists who wrote the article told The Associated Press that Sabrido was not one of the two sources. The journalist, Oriol Guell, said the sources were both doctors at the hospital, but he dedined to identifY them. 
A Cuban diplomat in Madrid said the El Pais report was false. "If anyone has to talk about Castro's illness, it's Havana," the diplomat said, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity because of offi­cial policy. 
U.S. officials will not disclose how they glean clues to Castro's health. But American spy agencies employ physicians who study images, public statements and other information coming out of Cuba and other countries. 
Some intelligence officials believe Castro is suffering from divertieular disease, which can cause bleeding in the lower intes­tine, especially in people over 60. Others believe that Castro has cancer of the stomach, the colon or perhaps the pancreas. 
Yet Cuban officials told a delega­tion of U.S. lawmakers visiting last month that Castro did not have cancer, and the Spanish doctor who came to check on him said the same. 
Havana's public position is that Castro is alive, healthy and will return to power, which U.S. ana­lysts di<;count. 
Negroponte said last week it is an open question whether Castro's death could trigger a popular demand for democratic change. 
"What is not known is whether people are holding back -maybe we're not seeing the kind of the ferment yet that one might expect to see once Mr. Castro has defini­tively departed. the scene," said Negroponte, who has been nomi­nated by President Bush to be deputy secretary of state. 
Pressed further by senators on whether the U.S. knows what to expect in Cuba, Negroponte added: "We don't know in large measure because it is a repressive society. They've repressed their opposition so severely over all these years, so people aren't exactly speaking up yet." 
Despite uncertainty about the future of Cuba, the island's Communist Party retains firm con­trol on the island. And the head of the Defense Intelligence Agency, Lt. Gen. Michael Maples, said Raul Castro probably will maintain power and stability after his older brother dies -"at least for the short term." 
"Raul Castro has widespread respect and support among Cuban military leaders who will be cru­cial in permanent government succession," Maples said in writ­ten testimony to the Senate Intelligence Committee. 


Wednesday, January 17, 2006 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
t 
Learn more about 
Marjon Walrod 
and tell us more 
about you. Visit 
pwc.com/bringit. 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 

*connectedthinking 

~· 2006 f>r~-~~ UP. All ~* ~~--~~~-~ tc ~~~os LlP ~ l::~ ~ <~ity >-'>Mti~ <It, M li>$ eo>~t ~-" tt»! 
Prt..~'l'atl!!!'l"~~ ~•liSWOfi< -o.· ~ m~ fimu <::.f ~ ~r..'ft_ ~-~ whi;,:.h *.:; ~~t~ ~d ;M!!!l:-~i ..,_~ i!i'lt<tv. •c-~t~~ ts ;.~ w~;i;t!f!'>."\N « """"-~'At~-x~~ uP 
!LIS}. ~ amt ;lM>'d ~ oo .1\f\ i\:K.-w"ltt.'e /ldi~Y, a.~£'~ Q:..~~ €~­

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 17, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 

Power to the people 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumuk.kala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDIIDR: Ken Fowler ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY'S EDIIDR: Kelly Meehan PHom EDITOR: Dustin Mennella GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly CONTROLLER: Kyle West WEB ADMINISTRAIDR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574)·631-7471FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the Univer.;ity ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe ;J.dministration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor mu5t be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gitluon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday dmmgh Friday oupt during -=m and vacation period&. A S\.lbscriprion ro The Obscrv~;:r is $100 for one aadcm.ic yew. $S5 for one ~~em~tcr. 
1kO~mr is published at:: POSTMASTER "024 South Dining Han &nd add.res& cortecdons to: Notre Dame. IN 46556.0779 Th<Oh«= Periodical postage paid ar Notte Dame P..O.Box779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrt Dame. IN 46556--0779 
The O~m:r is a mem.btr ofthe Aswcilu:ed Press. All ttpmduetion rights u-e reserved. 
"War is over". 

The American people, as well as the whole world. are longing to hear those three small words sung by John Lennon decades ago. Unfortunately, war is not over. Rather, it seems as if there is no end in sight. And with the President's recent surge of over 20,000 troops to the Middle East, a continued long war is in the forecast. The increase in troops has raised a lot of questions among the American people, Democrats in office, as well as several Republicans. Will the surge of troops be beneficial'? Can this war be won'? Will the Iraqis fulfill their promises made to us'? The more our senators and representatives ask ques­tions, the more accountable the admin­istration will be held. and the more representative the democracy in America will be. 
Props to Americans. The 2006 midterm elections proved to the Bush Administration that America was ready for a change and an end to the ongoing conflict in. Iraq, and proved that apathy in America is not as prevalent as previ­ously thought. Although Bush's anthem before the elections was that we are winning the war, Americans were not fooled. Democrats were elected and took control of the House and Senate, and a clear war plan and withdrawal of troops finally seemed tangible. 
However, just two months after the elections, progressive as well as frus­trated voters' hopes were crushed. Bush announced last week that he intends to send over 20,000 more troops to the Middle East. The President is either not up to date on current Gallup polls about his approval rating, or he has some ulterior motives. Needless to say, American citizens are concerned, and members of Congress 

Katie Palmitier 
A Word to 
the fiMse 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
from both parties have started to ques­tion the President's agenda. 
Bush's new proposal, his apparent ulterior motive, appears to be an effort to better his legacy, not the situation in Iraq. And because a re-election is of no concern for him, he can do whatever he wants to save the face of his wartime presidency. NBC's Meet the Press host Tim Hussert said after the Presiden.t's address. "Bush bet his presidency on the war in Iraq, and tonight he made that bet double or nothing." Bush's decision to go to Iraq has proved to be unsuccessful thus far, so he is now committing more troops, insisting that more troops will lead to victory. If the President's new plan fails, the public's poor opinion of him from here on out will most likely stay the same. Yet if Bush's new strategy does improve the situation in Iraq, public opinion of him and the war will also improve, and thus he will hold the legacy of being a suc­cessful wartime president. Bush has nothing to lose. 
Members of Congress, however, have their jobs on the line until the elections in 200R and cannot afford to make bets. Republicans have an exceptionally high number of seats up for re-election, and with America closely watching the government's war plan, the time is now for candidates to make their case. And luckily for us voters, our representa­tives are now starting to listen. Before now, our elected officials were too eon­corned with patriotism, party loyalty and re-election than the well-being of Americans and the rest of the world. In 2004, Hillary Clinton and John Kerry both supported the war out of fear of losing votes. Although they had doubts about the legitimacy of intelligence reports on weapons of mass destruction and were hesitant about breaking ties with the UN, they voted in accordance with the President to appear patriotic, thus saving their careers. On the other hand, high-ranking political leaders such as Tom Daschle were accused of being unpatriotic when questioning and opposing the President's plan, and as a result were not re-elected into office. While they have long been opposed to Bush's war plan but too chicken to aet, Democrats, as well as many Republicans, are now beginning to pub­licly oppose the President's new strate­gy. 
A recent USA Today/Gallup poll indi­cated that only 12 peree"nt of people polled want a troop increase. Although among the 78 percent of people who are frustrated and depressed about the recent call for more troops, I feel that we have reached a turning point for democracy in America. Elected officials are Jinally paying attention to the polls and listening to the voices of the people they represent, and therefore change is likely to oeeur. Bush's legacy, however, seems as though it has no chance for improvement. The more he acts in opposition to public opinion, the more his approval rating will plummet. Our senators' and representatives' approvals, however, will skyrocket. By being a true representative of the peo­ple and by staying true to their con­sciences on what is best for the United States, Congress has the opportunity to show America that our voices are being heard, and that our cares and concerns do matter. 
While "War is Over" is not yet the tune to America's new political rhythm, the song's following line, although often overlooked, holds the key to success: "War is over ... if you want it". The American people wanted it, as demon­strated by the midterm elections. Congress wants to satisfy and represent the wants of the American people. And hopefully soon Bush will too, and con­centrate more on what is best for America, not his legacy. 
Katie Palmitier is a sophomore political science major. She can be contacted at kpalmiti@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News  Sports  OBSERVER POLL  
Kaitlynn Riely  Chris Khorey  
Marcela Berrios  Dan Murphy  
Ryan Sydlik  Eric Retter  Do you think Father Jenkins'  
Viewpoint  Ken Fowler  trip to Uganda was important  
Kara King  for Notre Dame?  
Graphics  Scene  
Jeff Albert  Sean Sweany  Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m.  
at www.ndsmcobserver.com  


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
~~ ~ b . ~·•t· t·· tt 1.r
il ~u ·nu: a ··•• e.• 1er ''A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds." 
,to tbe Editor at 
Sir Francis Bacon English philosopher 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 



THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 17, 2007 page 11 
The .other side of the coin 
One of my favorite philosophers once said that man is a rational being. After taking an unfortunate interest in politics for over the last four years, I now believe a far more accurate statement: man is capable of 
Mark
thinking rationally, 
Poyar

but rationality is cho­sen, not automatic. Actual Perhaps the most Common Sense common mental error people make when making some sort of political claim is the refusal to examine what their support for a certain public policy necessarily implies. Support of minimum wage laws are a perfect exam­ple of this error in thinking. 
Minimum wage laws have been around for so long that most Americans instinctively accept, if not support, such laws. Many view them as an acceptable government policy in the "war on pover­ty." Democrats are especially notorious for recommending the increase of the minimum wage, although many Republicans also support its increase as · well. However, virtually none of these same people would disagree with the statement that a person owns himself; indeed, most of the supporters of the minimum wage also claim that a woman has a right to seek an abortion because she is the owner of her body. But the claim that a person owns himself and the claim that there should be a mini­mum wage are entirely incompatible, for one's support of the minimum wage nec­essarily implies that the person cannot also believe in self-ownership. Like the front side of a coin, the claim that there should be a minimum wage law is readi­ly apparent to all that witness it, but its unspoken rejection of self-ownership, like the back side of a coin, is not so obvious but implicit in the first claim. 
In order to see why it is impossible to simultaneously support both minimum wage laws and the axiom that you own yourself, it is necessary to see why accepting the idea of self-ownership automatically rules out support of the minimum wage. If it is true that mao owns himself and that ownership means the right of control over something, then he is free to do anything he wants with his own property (his person and posses­sions) except those actions that infringe on the right of others to do the same. This means that because man is the sole owner of his body, he is free to use it in any way he sees fit to support his life as long as those efforts do not infringe upon the rights of others. Murder, slavery, and rape are subsets of the same crime: taking control through the use of force of the body of another without the person's consent. All actions that violate a man's right of self-ownership are inherently wrong because they deprive the person of the right to control his own body. 
Because a man owns his own body and is thus free to use it in any way he wish­es, he has the right to agree to rent his body to a firm in exchange for money, goods, or services, or any sort of other compensation as long as both parties agree to it. Likewise, the owners of a firm have the right to rent the services of another in exchange for some mutually agreed upon form of compensation. Both parties to this contract have violat­ed no one's rights; it is the right of the worker to contract his labor out to oth­ers since he owns himself and it is the right of the owners of the firm to buy the labor of the worker using some form of compensation as long as the worker is not forced into the deal. 
Minimum wage laws necessarily vio­late a man's right of self-ownership because they deprive the person of the right to control his own body. Pretend that the government imposes a mini­mum wage of $10 per hour but I agree to work at In-N-Out Burger for $9 per hour, a rate at which the company agrees to pay me. I should be able to contract my labor out to any company at any compensation level that I wish as long as the company consents by virtue of the fact that I own myself and there­fore have the right to do with it what I please. Similarly, the owners of a firm have the right to buy the services of oth­ers at any rate which is acceptable to both parties by virtue of the fact that they own the firm. The minimum wage denies both employer and employees these rights. 
It comes down to this: if you support minimum wage laws, you can't also believe that you own yourself because a belief in self-ownership necessarily leads to a rejection of minimum wage laws; it is impossible to support both. If one denies self-ownership, all morality goes out the window, for there cannot be any consistent opposition to rape, murder, or slavery without the belief that actions which violate another's person are wrong. 
When making any political claim, make sure to not just look at the claim itself, but also the implications of the claim. Look at both sides of the coin. 
Mark Poyar is a junior finance major and vice president ofthe College Libertarians. Their website is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. He is currently studying abroad in England and can be contacted at mpoyar@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Deat~ penalty debate 
Norman Timberlake lives each day with the belief that he is being tortured by a machine. He thinks that this machine is trying to kill him in order to prevent word of its existence from spreading. This, he believes, is one of the two main reasons why the state of Indiana will be executing him this Friday at midnight 
Norman Timberlake is a sick, deluded man who perpetrated a terrible crime, shooting and killing Indiana State Trooper Michael E. Greene in 1993. However, his death will not bring healing, happiness or any improvement to our society. Instead we will all be left standing with the knowledge that the government killed someone who has been rendered harmless for over a decade. We will know that, on our behalf, they marched him down a hallway, strapped him to a gurney and injected him with chemicals that paralyzed his lungs and heart, killing him. This will be done for us because the government believes that this is what we want and that this is what is best for society. 
We at NO ASK will be sending a loud, clear message to Governor Mitch Daniels and the state of Indiana that we refuse to have Norman Timberlake's blood on our hands and death on our conscience. We will be standing outside of Michigan City Prison at the time of Timberlake's execution and we will make it known that we do not condone state-sponsored execution of criminals. We invite all who are interested to join us in our vigil and encourage every­one who may be interested in finding out more about this event to contact us as notredameask@gmail.com. 
We hope that you join us in ensuring that the upcoming execution is the last in the state of Indiana and working towards a more humane, fair and rational justice system. 
Will McAuliffe 
co-director of Notre Dame Against State Killing senior off campus Jan. 17 
Reflecting on the Notre Dam_e Ugandan Initiative 
U-WIRE 

Coloring in the lines 
Twenty years. That's a relatively long time to be walking the Earth. 
So I entered the time otherwise known as "the rest of my life" Friday. It was my birthday, and I've left my teenage self in the dust, wondering where the past year went as my new . twentysomething self begins Gma Beach 
to stretclrher legs and realize Ohio University
• that... . Post Nothing exciting happens when you turn 20. At all. Eighteen has its infinite possibilities and privileges associated with becoming an adult: voting, lottery tickets, cigarettes and porn. Just the prospect of leaving the perceived confines of childhood is enough to make the age thrilling. Nineteen is a little more of a stretch and a bit of a drive to test out the casinos and bars in Canada. The last year to revel in or resent being a teen..And now I've crossed the threshold and arrived in a strange sort of purgatory. I have no new privileges, and I can't even complain on my blog because with my new decade, I've kissed all rights to teen angst good­bye. I now have to face my problems without whining or sulking. I've missed my chance to dress all in black and have it be "just a phase." And although I'm not lamenting the passing of my angst, having that option was a nice last resort. On the upside, I will rest assured that I'll never be a tragic teenage mother, but I'll also never be a child protege, and should the desire to be a beauty queen arise, I'll have to go for the real deal. Miss Teen USA won't take my application. .And so, with my newfound sense of youth, I head­ed out to celebrate. That's when I felt particularly young. It'll be a whole year before I can go to the bars, which in this town seems like an important milestone. The emphasis on turning 21 is certainly a rite of passage for college students, but it also marks the end of anticipating birthdays. I might feel old, but I still have a big birthday ahead of me. I still have the feeling of eagerness, of something to look forward to. So even though it doesn't come with fancy bells and whistles, it has a certain optimism and excite­ment that is a hallmark of birthdays from two to 20. This might be the last year I have to be enthused about my next birthday. • 
I have the rest ofmy life to feel old. For the next 350 odd days, I'll consider myself 20 years young. 
This article first appeared in The Post, the daily paper ofOhio University., on January 16. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Notre Dame Millennium Development Initiative (NOMOI) truly is an unprecedented opportunity for the entire Notre Dame community to be involved in an amazing undertaking of such responsibility to "turn its talents in the classroom towards a cause that calls for realworld, global applications" as stated in the Dec. 6 Observer article "Ugandan initiative to provide aid, research." This bold Notre Dame initiative provides the unique potential to work "with" local institutions and villagers to address concrete "problems that are essen­tially the result of ignorance, indifference and injustice" according to NOMOI director Fr. Robert Dowd. The NOMOI has the potential to "contribute to human devel­opment," to serve as a wonderful model for other uni­versities, and Notre Dame has the "real ability to help." Even more importantly, the NOMOI has the unprece­dented potential of radically transforming and changing us at Notre Dame. · 
I pray that as the planning, mobilization, and imple­mentation of the NOMOI in Uganda continues to focus on specific and "various opportunities to help Africa," that we will continue to faithfully reflect and remain open to Africa helping us. An authentic relationship of solidarity and cooperation has the profound ability to challenge our relationships and understanding of the world, our education, our very selves, our faith, and even God. 
I pray that the Notre Dame Initiative devotes equal energy, time, talent, theological reflection, and prayer to genuinely allowing the Ugandans to help and change us. Ugandans have the real ability to transform us as well. With openness and mutual respect, I pray that the Notre Dame community will come to cherish the God given talents of the Ugandans, share in their world­view, celebrate in their deep sense of family and com­munity, experience African generosity and hospitality, and rejoice in the East African spirit of prayer and wor­ship to a loving God whose reign breaks forth in the world today. The NOMOI truly is a "first time" opportu­nity for an American university and a Catholic institu­tion to be truly "Universal" in its approach to global problems in which Africa might really help us 
Marty Roers grad student Dec. 8 




THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, January 17, 2007 
AWARDS SHOWS SPOTLIGHT 
Hollywood lauds its best at Golden Globes 
Annual awards show recognizes achievment in film and television 



"Lost" actors Daniel Dae Kim, left, Yunjin Kim, center, and Jorge Garcia walk the red carpet in Beverly Hills, Calif. before the Golden Globe Awards Show. 
Photo courtesy of hpfa.org Producer Laurence Mark, center, poses with the main cast of "Dreamgirls" after winning the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. 
By CASSIE BELEK 
Scene Writer 

When camera shutters hushed and nominees and friends polished off the last glasses of champagne, Monday night's Golden Globes were remem­bered for indicating the year's potential Oscar winners. 
While the Hollywood Foreign Press awards honors in both the film and tel­evision categories, television is melted by the heat of the Oscar race. The Globes may not be able to predict who will win the Emmy in the fall, but they can predict wins for the. upcoming Academy Awards -the most presti­gious honor in Hollywood. 
One guaranteed Oscar winner is the timeless Helen Mirren, who won both Best Actress in a Miniseries or TV Movie and Best Actress in a Motion Picture Drama for portraying Queen Elizabeth I and Queen Elizabeth II, respectively. 
The Best Actress race is clearly cemented, with Mirren's only competi­tion coming from Meryl Streep, nomi­nated as the Best Actress in Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for "The Devil Wears Prada." The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences tends to award dramatic performance~ over comedic ones, and with Streep's 13 nominations and two wins, it may be Mirren's year to shine. 
Despite Mirren's impending glory, Streep stole the evening with the best acceptance speech. No music cut off this acting powerhouse as she observed, "I think I've worked with everybody in the room," and compli­mented her fellow female nominees by saying, "I just want you to know, all of you, that this has been such a fun year to watch movies because of you gals, and it makes you want to cry with grat­itude, until next year." 
In fact, the year's best actress crop was rather ripe compared to recent years that struggled to find worthy nominees. Other females to shine dur­ing the evening included Jennifer Hudson, the "American Idol" reject turned movie star in "Dreamgirls" and America Ferrera, who has made ugly beautiful in ABC's new comedy "Ugly Betty." 
Hudson won Best Supporting Actress in a Motion Picture for her portrayal of diva Effie White in the musical inspired by the Supremes. In a tearful speech, the Hollywood newcomer expressed thanks in being welcomed to the Hollywood community and said, "You do not know how much this does for my confidence," only to realize her words made her sound just like her character Effie. 
Ferrera brought the audience to tears as she accepted her award for Best Actress in a Comedy TV Series. Looking anything but ugly in a beauti­ful purple gown she helped design, Ferrera said, "It's such an honor to play a role that I hear from young girls on a daily basis how it makes them feel worthy and lovable and that they have more to offer the world than they thought.;' "Ugly Betty" also won Best Musical 
Despite the lack ofon­

or Comedy TV Series in "Million Dollar Baby" two just its freshman year. screen scandal, the years ago. On the movies side, Upsets during the
Globes remain more 

Sacha Baron Cohen evening were few and far
fast-paced and even

won Best Actor in a between. The revenge win Motion Picture Musical more entertaining than of the night went to Hugh or Comedy for "Borat," Laurie of "House" for
the Academy Awards. 

and Forest Whitaker won Best Actor in a Motion Picture Drama for "The Last King of Scotland," beating Leonardo DiCaprio, who was twice-nominated in the category. Whitaker was literally speechless despite the critical acclaim that indicated his positive chances at taking home the Golden Globe that evening. 
"Dreamgirls" garnered two more 
awards with Eddie Murphy's win for Best Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture and the movie's win for Best Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. "Babel" won Best Motion Picture Drama without winning any other awards during the evening. 
In perhaps another Oscar prediction, Martin Scorsese won Best Director for "The Departed," beating Clint Eastwood's two nominations in the cat­egory. Scorsese is the Susan Lucci of the Academy Awards having never won an Oscar in his six nominations, but the Academy may finally be ready to give him his proper recognition especially since Eastwood already won the category for 
winning Best Actor in a 
Drama Series. Laurie beat FOX's "24" star Kiefer Sutherland who won the Emmy just a few months ago. In one of the worst snubs in recent Emmy history, Laurie was not even nominaied for his role despite having won last year's Golden Globe in the same category. 
Movie star-turned-television actor Alee Baldwin won Best Actor in a 
Musical or Comedy Series for his role in "30 Rock," beating last year's winner Steve Carell. 
In a show of strength, all four of NBC's leading men from its Thursday night comedy block -Baldwin, Carell, Jason Lee and Zach Braff-were nom­inated in the Best Actor category, demonstrating a major sign of improvement for the struggling net­work that is attempting to recreate Must See TV. 
On the drama side, Kyra Sedgwick won Best Actress for "The Closer" after losing to an on-nominated Mariska Hargitay at the Emmys, and primetime medical soap "Grey's Anatomy" took home the Best Drama TV Series despite being shut out in every acting category. 
Even with an open bar and bottles of champagne on every table, the evening continued without any drunken mishaps of Danny DeVito proportions. Annette Benning was never seen with­out a glass of champagne in her hand and Baron Cohen's co-star Ken Davitian was seen drinking directly from a bottle of wine after the man behind "Borat" relived the haunting memories of their nude wrestling match on stage. 
Prince failed to show to accept his award for Best Original Song for "Song of the Heart" from "Happy Feet," leav­ing presenter Justin Timberlake to fumble around before crouching down to Prince's height and accepting the award for him. 
Prince mysteriously appeared on camera later in the ceremony only to block the camera with his hand. However, presenters Hugh Grant and Drew Barrymore finally revealed that the musician had previously been stuck in traffic and then gave him the time to stand up and take a bow for receiving the award. 
Despite the lack of on-screen scandal, the Globes remain more fast-paced and even more entertaining than the Academy Awards. The Golden Globes are less predictable than the Oscars, which come at the end of Awards sea­son, and they offer a unique mix of movie and television stars not present at most other award shows. 
Oscar nominees will soon be announced, and· Globe winners are ensured of a nomination and in most cases, a win. As the first major award show of the season, the Globes set the tone for what is to come. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbelek@nd.edu 
courtesy 


NSIDER 
O
THE 

Wednesday, January 17, 2007 BSERVER LSU 41, Notre Dame 14 
Swamped. 
Explosive Tigers run, pass all over Irish in Sugar Bowl romp 


By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
NEW ORLEANS -Louisiana State's team buses rolled down Notre Dame Street on their way to practice at the Superdome every day leading up to the Sugar Bowl Jan. 3. When game time arrived, the No. 4 Tigers rolled over the No. 11 Irish in a 41-14 victory in front of a jubilant Louisiana crowd. 
After a competitive first half, LSU pounded Notre Dame in the second with suffocating defense and a persistent, efficient offense. The Irish trailed just 21-14 after two periods, but the Tigers defense bore down in the third and fourth quarters, and a flat Notre Dame team never showed signs of coming back. The result was a 333-to-30 advantage in sec­ond-half yards for the Tigers and a second straight BCS blowout loss for the Irish. 
"Obviously, it was a team effort," said Irish quarterback Brady Quinn after his final collegiate game. "We really weren't convert­ing on third down, making plays when we had the opportunity, and really, when you look at it, we weren't productive." 
Quinn finished his prolific career with his worst game in two seasons, completing just 15-of-35 attempts for 148 yards, two touch­downs and two interceptions. LSU's star quarterback, JaMarcus Russell, completed touchdown passes of 11 and 58 yards and ran for a 5-yard score en route to earning game MVP award. 

"I have great respect for their great quarterback, Brady Quinn," Tigers coach Les Miles said. "I just think I have the best quarterback in the country." 
Russell finished 21-of-34 for 332 yards, two touchdowns, one inter­ception and a fumble. 
Notre Dame gained only two first downs in the second half, including one on a pass interfer­ence penalty. After the first, the Irish went three-and-out; after the second, Quinn threw an intercep­tion on the following play. 
The turning point of the game was Russell's 58-yard pass to wide receiver Early Doucet with 1:40 remaining in the first half. With the game tied at 14, Doucet got to the Irish 5 and Russell ran the ball in for a score from a four-wide formation, one of LSU's common offensive themes for the night. 
"From ... that little two-minute touchdown they got right before halftime, for the rest of the game they really laid the wood on us," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. 
And even ifthe Irish offense was clicking, the Tigers made sure Notre Dame wouldn't have much time to make a comeback. LSU held the ball for more than 21 minutes in the second half. 
Notre Dame's defense was porous and its offense stagnant. The Tigers torched the Irish after time, and Quinn never found a rhythm passing. 
For the Tigers, any problems they had ceased after halftime. 
After two Colt David field goals, Russell threw a second 58-yarder, this time a touchdown, to fresh­man Brandon LaFell with 18 sec­onds left in the third quarter to extend the LSU lead to 34-14. On the first play after starting Irish cornerback Terrail Lambert col­lided with Notre Dame linebacker Maurice Crum and briefly left the game, Russell attacked the back­up corner, Irish freshman Darrin Walls. LaFell beat Walls deep, and safety help from Irish senior Chinedum Ndukwe arrived too late. 
"You just have to tip your caps to them because they came to play and we didn't," Ndukwe said. "They were throwing deep balls all over the place." 
Notre Dame's only strength on the night, its rushing attack, fell victim to an LSU lead that forced Weis to abandon the ground game and rely solely on the inefficient air attack. 

Irish tailback Darius Walker 
rushed 18 times for 125 yards in 
the first two quarters. He carried 
only four times for 3 yards after 
halftime. 
"ln the second half, I didn't get a 
chance to run the ball a lot 
because we were down," Walker 
said. "Naturally when you're 
behind, you really can't run the 
ball that much because you're try­
ing to score points. And then 
when you get down even further 
and further behind, you might as 
well forget about the running 
game because you need touch­
downs right away." 
While Notre Dame had-just one 
successful rushing half, the Tigers 
ran over the Irish all night, and 
the LSU ground attack wore down 
Notre Dame's defense in the sec­
ond half. Led by tailback Justin 
Vincent's 71 yards on just seven 
carries and Williams' 108 yards 
on 14 attempts, the Tigers aver­
aged 6.6 yards per rush. Williams 
capped the game's scoring with a 
20-yard touchdown run with 7:27 
left in the fourth quarter to give .LSU its decisive 41-14 advantage. 
Both Weis and Irish strong safe­ty Tom Zbikowski said LSU ran from four-wide formations more than the Irish were expecting. 
"They did a nice job of going in 
and out from spreading the field with three wide receivers to four wide receivers, and I think they called a nice game and put a lot of pressure on our defense," Weis said. 
Notre Dame started slow, gain­ing two first downs on its opening possession before a failed fake­punt run gave the ball the to LSU on the Irish 34. And the Tigers attacked immediately. Russell con­nected with Doucet for a 31-yard gain. Running back Keiland Williams ran for the score on the next play, and LSU had an early 7­0 lead. 
The Tigers then took a 14-0 lead on Russell's 11-yard strike to wide out Dwayne Bowe halfway through the first quarter. But Notre Dame responded with an eight-play, 80-yard drive that con­cluded with a 24-yard touchdown throw from Quinn to Irish sopho­more David Grimes. 
The Irish and Tigers exchanged punts and missed field goals until Quinn found Samardzija on the right side of the end zone for a 10­yard score, and momentum seemed to be back in favor of Notre Dame. ­
But Russell immediately struck with his bomb to Doucet, and the rout was on. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
player of the game 
JaMarcus Russell 
The Tigers quarterback was the game's unanimous MVP after picking apart the Irish secondary. 

stat of the game 
245 
Yards rushing LSU gained against the Irish defense. Notre Dame couldn't even slow the Tigers. 
play of the game 
Russell's 58-yard pass to Early Doucet 
The deep ball with two minutes left put LSU in position to go up at halftime and put the Irish away. 
quote of the game 

"Right now, we're just a nice, solid team. That won't cut it. We want to be an upper-echelon team." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 


page 2 

report card 
C-
quarterbacks: Quinn had his worst game since Charlie Weis took over the offense. He made one stupid decision that led to 
an interception and failed to connect with open receivers on crossing routes. 
running backs: Walker's 3-yard second 
A 
halfis misleading. The junior got just 
four carries after the half but made the 
most out of his first-half touches. He hit holes hard and showed explosiveness. 
receivers: Grimes made a good play on 
D 
his TD catch, but Samardzija committed 
a stupid taunting penalty and McKnight 
didn't make anything happen. The two seniors were disappointments. 
offensive line: Quinn had to scramble 
8-
at times, but Morton and Santucci 
pulled to perfection on running plays. 
Walker's tall total in the first half reflects this unit's efforts. 
C-
defensive line: After Landri left with an injury, LSU regularly dominated the Irish front four. The only positive of 
the night was Russell's fumble, which was as much a result of the corner blitz as it was of front-four pressure. 
D 
linebackers: Brockington and Thomas had a difficult time in pass coverage, 
and LSU's 6.6-yard rushing was a 
testament to this unit's inability to 
aid in rush defense. 

defensive backs: The Irish secondary
D+couldn't keep the LSU receivers in front of it. Russell lofted passes to his receivers and Ndukwe was beat long 
D 
D 

of the night wasn't in talent; it was in quality preparation.
1.70 

LSU was ready to go. The Irish looked lost. 
adding up the numbers 
Brady Quinn's completion percentage in the Sugar Bowl. The mark was his lowest 
43
since 2004. 

4 
Rushing attempts by Irish running back Darius Walker in the second half. Those were the final four 
carries of Walker's Notre Dame career. 

Number of points the Irish scored in the sec­
0 

ond hall. Notre Dame had not been shut out in a half all season prior to the Sugar Bowl. 
2 
Number of 58-yard passes lSU quarterback JaMarcus Russell threw in the game. Russell 
also completed a 31-yard throw. 

lSU's rushing average. The Tigers pounded the ball for 245 yards and 16 first downs on 
6.6 
the ground. 

Notre Dame's time of possession in the second hall. lSU ran 22 plays for 132 
yards and two field goals in its first two possessions after the break. 
8:43 
Yardage advantage the Tigers had over Notre Dame. The Irish gained just 291 

286 
yards to lSU's 577. 

Consecutive bowl losses for Notre Dame. Though not an official record, the streak is the longest in NCAA history. 
on multiple occasions. 

special teams: Even ifthe fake punt was a good call, it was poorly executed. Price punted fairly well, but Gioia ended his career with another missed field goal. 
coaching: It's Weis' job to prepare the offense for the toughest defenses. For the third time in as many chances this year, he failed. On defense, Rick Minter couldn't get the job done. But for the game, Minter was no worse than Weis. 
overall: The biggest disparity 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 17, 2007 

NEW ORLEANS-The Notre Dame fans have fled Bourbon Street. The Allstate banners have come down in the Superdome. And LSU has stopped scoring. (I think). 
It's now time to look at what · turned the Irish from confident underdogs into bags of Tiger Bait ready for use at the Baton Rouge zoo. 
They couldn't block, couldn't tackle and couldn't com­plete passes from one first-round draft pick to another. 
Barring the burst of life that shot Notre Dame back into the game in the second quarter of last Wednesday night's Sugar Bowl, the Darners were terrible. 
As usual, LSU was marvelous. The Tiger running backs raced over and around the Irish defense. LSU quar­terback JaMarcus Russell threw for 300 yards and a pair of touchdowns and used his almost-300-pound body to run for another score. 
The Tigers were the most talented team in New Orleans. There's no doubt about that. Russell must have been raised on another planet -he made former Steelers quarterback Terry Bradshaw (a bruiser himselO look like David Grimes during a FOX network promo. 
The LSU defensive line, led by All­America tackle Glenn Dorsey, pushed the Irish around like most experts expected. 
In the press box, the game's lop­sided outcome wasn't a shock. The 
-fact that Notre Dame played without any confidence with 30 minutes remaining was. All week in New Orleans, every press conference included a mention of Notre Dame's lack of speed and 

Mike Gilloon 
Sports Writer 

LSU's superior athleticism. LSU coach Les Miles did his best Lou Holtz impression, smiling and prais­ing Notre Dame's potential. Weis did his best Charlie Weis impression, scowling and scolding a reporter who asked how Notre Dame could stay "competitive" against the big, bad Tigers. 
"We didn't come here to be com­petitive," Weis snapped. "We came here to win the football game." 
They did? 
It would be hard for anyone watch­ing the Sugar Bowl's second half to think that Notre Dame thought it had a chance to win the game. 
There was no sense of urgency; no gang tackling; no realization that this was the last -and the biggest ­game of the season. 
Down 27-14 with four minutes left in the third quarter, Notre Dame had the ball and an opportunity to close within a touchdown. What hap­pened? The Irish offense-which everyone agreed was the team's best 
Against USC and LSU, the Irish had nothing to lose and everything to gain. They were the underdog with every reason to play with energy and intensity. But instead of playing like a team possessed, they played with all the energy and enthusiasm of a bye­week walk through on Cartier Field. 
It's the same lack of hunger and confidence that has hurt Notre Dame for the past several years. One of the biggest criticisms of former coach Tyrone Willingham was that the Irish were blown out every time they played more talented competition. Remember the Michigan (38-0), USC (45-14) and Florida State (37-0) loss­es in 2003? Besides an obvious upgrade on offense, it's hard to .say there was a huge difference between those defeats and recent losses to Ohio State, USC and LSU. 
In each one, Notre Dame acted as iflosing was inevitable. And in each one, Notre Dame played with less desire than its opponent. If anything, 
the underdog 
should have more 

weapon -couldn't desire. (See: Boise
Even Brady Quinn 
even convert a first State.)
couldn't keep the Irish 
down for the rest of Weis can sell the game. afloat. The toughest tickets. He can 
Even Brady Quinn woo recruits to
player on the field fought 
couldn't keep the South Bend. He 
to keep from breaking
Irish afloat. The can develop quar­toughest player on down during his terbacks and vast­the field fought to ly improve an
post-game interview. 
keep from breaking offense. But ques­
He's done all he can and
down during his tions remain about post-game inter­more this year. Ifthere is his ability to moti­view. He's d0ne all vate players for a
anyone to blame for the 
he can arid more crucial game.
loss, it's not him. All 
this year. If there is It's been two anyone to blame for signs point to Weis. years since the 
the loss, it's not him. 
All signs point to Weis. 
Notre Dame played flat in every big game this season. To be fair, throw the Michigan contest out of the equa­tion. The favored Irish were sur­prised by an underrated Wolverine squad. 
decade's second Return to Glory began. Has anything really changed? 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 


Wednesday, January 17, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
•

scoring summary 
Irish fire Minter after torching 
Report: NY Jets defensive backs coach to replace two-time coordinator 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
After surrendering 42 points to LSU in this month's Sugar Bowl, it appears the Irish are set to change defensive coordinators. 
The South Bend Tribune reported Jan. 13 that New York Jets defensive backs coach Corwin Brown will be named Notre Dame's defensive coor­

dinator, replacing the fired Rick Minter. 
The paper also reported that quar­terbacks coach Peter Vaas had been let go along with Minter, and that Notre Dame director of personnel development Ron Powlus will take over as quarterbacks coach. 
University officials declined to com­ment on the .reported coaching moves. 
This is not the first time that Notre 

Irish safety David Bruton catches Tigers receiver Early Doucet from behind duirng the fourth quarter of the Sugar Bowl. LSU had 332 yards passing. 
Dame coach Charlie Weis has worked with Brown. Weis was an assistant with New England when Brown was drafted by the Patriots out of the University of Michigan in 1993. The two both moved to the New York Jets in 1997 and worked together until 1999, when Brown joined the Detroit Lions. 
Brown joined the Jets in 2004 and was a holdover during the team's transition from head coaches Herman Edwards to Eric Mangini. 
Under Brown's tutelage in New York this season, Jets safety Kerry Rhodes developed into one of the AFC's pre­mier defensive backs. 
In his second year, Rhodes had 98 tackles -including 7 5 solo -in 16 regular season games, four intercep­tions and nine passes defended. In two years in the league, Rhodes has 203 tackles, six sacks and five inter­ceptions. 
As a unit, the Jets secondary sur­rendered 201.4 yards per game in 2006. A year earlier. the Brown-led unit was second in the NFL, allowing an AFC-loe 172.2 yards per game. 
Brown, 36, received a degree in English from Michigan in 1993 and first coached at Virginia, where he led the Cavaliers special teams. He is a graduate of Chicago's Julian High School, a Public League school on the city's south side. 
During his playing days in the NFL, Brown had three interceptions. Two came in his final season as a pro, while he had the other in 1998 with the Jets. In college Brown also had three picks -one in each of his final three seasons. 
This will be the first college coach­ing job for Powlus, a former Notre Dame quarterback. He will help coach Notre Dame freshman quarter­back Jimmy Clausen, who many ana­lysts say is the most hyped Irish recruit since Powlus arrived on cam­pus in the fall of 1993. 
Powlus finished his Notre Dame career with ·zo school records, includ­ing marks in total offense (7,479 yards), passing yards (7 ,602), com­pletions (558) and pass attempts 
(969) -all of which were broken by outgoing Irish quarterback Brady Quinn. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

' I 
.I
Notre Dame 7 7 0 0 14 LSU 14 7 13 7 41 I 
I 
First quarter LSU 7, Notre Dame 0 
Keiland Williams 3-yard run with 11:16 remaining. (Coli David kick) Drive: 2 plays, 34 yards, 0:49 elapsed 
LSU 14, Notre Dame 0 Dwayne Bowe 11-yard reception from JaMarcus Russell with 6:03 remaining. (David kick) Drive: 8 plays, 80 yards, 3:31 elapsed 
LSU 14, Notre Dame 7 David Grimes 24-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 1:26 remaining. (Carl Gioia kick) Drive: 8 plays, 80 yards, 4:37 elapsed 
Second quarter LSU 14, Notre Dame 14 
Jeff Samardzija 10-yard reception from Quinn with 2:25 remaining. (Gioia kick) Drive: 8 plays, 80 yards, 2:39 elapsed. 
LSU 21, Notre Dame 14 RussellS-yard run with 1:15 remaining. (David kick) Drive: 5 plays, 82 yards, 1:10 elapsed. 
Third quarter LSU 24, Notre Dame 14 
David 25-yard field goal with 9:34 remaining. 
Drive: 13 plays, 73 yards, 5:26 elapsed 
LSU 27, Notre Dame 14 
David 37-yard field goal with 3:48 remaining. 
Drive: 9 plays, 59 yards, 3:57 elapsed 
LSU 34, Notre Dame 14 
Brandon La Fell 58-yard pass from Russell with 
0:18 remaining. (David kick) Drive: 5 plays, 73 yards, 1:38 elapsed 
Fourth quarter LSU 41, Notre Dame 14 
Williams 20-yard run with 7:27 remaining. 
Drive: 9 plays, 76 yards, 4:11 elapsed 
statistics 
TOTAL YAROS 
291
. 

RUSHiNG YARDS 
-
PASSit>.IG YARDS 
-

Weis: Nine seniors apply for fifth year 
Landri does not return to game after injuring knee; field goal money goes to N.O. 
28:14 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

Nine Notre Dame seniors applied to the faculty board on athletics for a fifth year of eligibility, Irish coach Charlie Weis announced last week. 
If the faculty board accepts all nine, the key returners for the Irish will be standout tight end John Carlson, safe­ty Tom Zbikowski and center John Suliivan. 
Also applying for a fifth year were starting lineback­ers Travis Thomas and Joe Brockington, nickleback Ambrose Wooden, punter Geoff Price, defensive tackle Trevor Laws and reserve defensive lineman Dwight Stephenson, Jr. 
Carlson was one of three finalists for the Mackey Award in 2006, given annu­ally to the nation's best tight end. Despite missing the final two games of the regu­lar season, Carlson had 4 7 catches for 634 yards and four touchdowns. Before the season, he had just 13 receptions for 87 yards play­ing behind Anthony Fasano, now a member of the Dallas Cowboys. 
Though Zbikowski didn't have an interception, he fin­ished with 79 tackles, a 25­yard fumble recovery for a score and a 52-yard punt 
return touchdown. He  aver­ 
aged  9  yards  per  punt  
return.  

Sullivan started all but four games since his sopho­more season. He has played in 37 straight games for the Irish. 
. Though starting in the defensive backfield, Thomas saw action on offense, defense and on special teams. He had 13 carries for 81 yards -including a 43­yard scamper on a fake punt against Penn State -to go along with his 35 tackles. 
Price finished the season with 50 punts and an aver­age of 45.4 per boot. 
Laws had 62 tackles in the 2006-07 season, including 
9.5 for losses and 3.5 sacks. 
Laws also had an intercep­tion against USC. 
Landri injured in final game 
Irish senior defensive tack­le Derek Landri injured a knee in his final collegiate game and left the contest before halftime. 
"I don't know the severity of the knee," Weis said after the game. "But I know that they told me that they were going to bring him in and put an ice bag on him and that he was going to be returning to the game." 
Weis did not disclose fur­ther details and has not been available for comment since his post-game news confer­ence. 
Quinn finishes assault on record books 
Despite Irish quarterback Brady Quinn's 15-of-35 per­formance, the senior eclipsed several milestones in his final collegiate game. 
With his two touchdown passes, Quinn finished in a tie foro seventh all-time in 
Division 1-A with 95 scoring throws. What's more, Quinn finished with 11,762 passing yards to rank lOth all-time and 929 completions for 11th in Division I -A history. 
Money to charity 
The $10,000 earmarked for the Notre Dame general scholarship program as a result of Jay Specter's attempted field goal at half time was donated to Catholic Charities of New Orleans, University President Father John Jenkins said. 
Specter missed the 25-yard attempt. 
Price is right 
Price finished the game with four punts of 50 yards or longer and, in doing so, set a new school record for season punting average. 
It was the second time this season Price had three or more punts of at least 50 yards. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

rushes-yards comp-att-int punts-yards fumbles-lost penalties-yards first downs 
passing 

Quinn 15-35-2 Russell 21-34-1 
31-143 
15-35-1 5-237 0-0 4-40 
17 


Samardzija  8-59  Doucet  8-115  
McKnight  3-22  Bowe  5-78  
Walker  2-30  Davis  4-50  
Grimes  1-24  Vincent  2-19  
Carlson  1-13  LaFell  1-58  
tackles  

Ndukwe Zbikowski Crum Richardson Bruton Brockington Wooden 
rushing 
receiving 
37-245 21-34-1 
2-87 
2-1 
9-95 31 

Walker  · 22-128  Williams  14-108  
Aldridge  3-7  Vincent  12-71  
Quinn  3-6  Hester  3-25  

12 Jackson 
10 Landry 8 Dorsey 6 Highsmith 4 Francis 4 Beckwith 4 Hester 
6 
6 
5 5 5 4 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 17, 2007 

..._ 
Bayou bungle 
Before the game, Charlie Weis used his 
confrontational style to make a point how the Irish "didn't come here to be competitive." By the end of the night, Irish fans wished they would have done just that. Brady Quinn ended 
his career on a low note, and Weis explained how Notre Dame was only a "nice" team­not an elite one. A BCS blowout made that 
evident for the second straight year. 


Photos by FRANCESCA SETA and KELLY HIGGINS!The Observer Top left, Tigers cornerback Chevis Jackson wraps up Irish receiver Rhema McKnight. Top right, Notre Dame wide out Jeff Samardzija hauls in an 11-yard. touchdown pass. Bottom right, Irish cornerback Mike Richardson turns upfield after an interception in the end zone. Bottom right, Notre Dame running back Darius Walker sprints along the sideline for a chunk of his 128 yards. At middle, LSU running back Kelland Williams cuts back as a Tigers blocker stuffs Irish linebacker Travis Thomas. 

By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 
Robotic pirates have been singing it for 40 years-"Yo, ho, yo, ho, a pirate's life for me." The theme song from the popu­lar Disneyland attraction "Pirates of the Caribbean" is known worldwide for bestowing a "pirate's life" to its bard. This past summer, Walt Disney Pictures had a pirate's life at the box office and with the release of "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest" on DVD, it was a pirate's Christmas as well. 
The sequel to the hit 2003 film "Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the· Black Pearl" again took viewers on a whirlwind ride with Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) and crew across the high seas of the Caribbean. 
"Dead Man's Chest" picks up soon after the events of the first movie, with the arrest of the .soon to be wedded Will Turner (Orlando Bloom, "Kingdom of Heaven") and Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley, "King Arthur") on the charge of aiding Jack Sparrow. In what turns out to be an epic quest for their freedom, the two must work with sparrow to obtain the Dead Man's Chest from Davy 


Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest 
Widescreen Edition 
Walt Disney Pictures 

'Descent' finds acclaim at top of horror film list 
left to their own devices to find a new way out, only to discover that they are not alone in the caves. The confined spaces and darkness of the caves, as well as the terrifying creatures, lead to a constantly high level of horror. 
Of the cast, the movie focuses the most on Sarah (Shauna Macdonald) who, after recently suffering a family tragedy, is trying to get her life back together and Juno (Natalie Mendoza) who recklessly and purposefully led them into the wrong caves to try to bring the women closer together. 
When "The Descent" was released in America, it was not the same version that was shown to British audiences the year prior. The original, and albeit darker, ending was edited so that the film ended early, leaving a slightly happier version for American filmgo­ers. The unrated DVD release of the film is the original director's cut that was shown in Britain, which includes the longer and darker ending that was previously left out. 
The decision to change the ending for the American version became so con­troversial that the disc includes a fea­
turette in the spe­
By ERIN McGINN Assistant Scene Edi ror 
While the British excel at many things, creating excellent horror movies is far from the top of the list. Aside from several notable exceptions, British horror tends to be, quite frankly, not scary. Director Neil Marshall, however, is making great strides in reversing the fortune-of British horror. 
Coming off the 2002 success "Dog Soldiers," Marshall wrote and directed "The Descent," which was released to British audiences in 2005, and the summer of 2006 in the United States. "The Descent" not only ascended to the pinnacle of British horror, but was by far the best horror film of 2006. 
"The Descent" follows a close group 

of six adventuresome female friends 
who frequently take high-risk outdoor 
vacations together. This time, the 

women explore an isolated and previ­
ously unexplored cave system in the 
Appalachian mountains. 
After experiencing a cave-in they are cial features sec­tion entitled "DescENDING" in which tlie reason­ing for the change is examined. 

Also included in the special fea­tures are approxi­mately 20 minutes of deleted and extended scenes, a fairly humorous 
The Descent 
Unrated Widescreen Edition 
Lions Gate 

Jones (Bill Nighy, "Love Actually"), which controls the fates of dead souls. 
The plot is grand, and slightly confus­ing, but this is intentionally done with the knowledge that a third film, to be released in May 2007, will wrap up the numerous loose ends concocted in "Dead Man's Chest." 
Director Gore Verbinski ("The Weather Man") handles the enormous production, including its complex story, with a deft touch that balances action with softer moments akin to the first movie and ulti­mately gives a greatly entertaining film. 
Perhaps Verbinski's biggest accom­plishment is that he elicits even better performances from his actors than in the first "Pirates" film. Bl0om and Knightley cease being merely background charac­ters and become compelling, rounded people. Bill Nighy, whose movements were recorded and overlaid with a CGI figure, is delightful as Davy Jones, even though the character is completely com­puter animated. 
The movie, however, belongs to Johnny Depp and could just as easily be titled "The Captain Jack Sparrow story." Depp steals every scene he appears in, which is essentially the entire movie. His quirky, off-kilter style is more prominent 
and more pro­
nounced than in 
the first film, and this is what helps "Dead Man's Chest" accomplish a difficult feat -to exist as a sequel but rival the first film in a series in quality. 
The two-disc col­lector's edition DVD of this film has a treasure trove of special features and is a must have for even the most casual fan of the films. Numerous special features include in-depth featurettes on Jack Sparrow and the film's top-notch production design, which endured hurri­canes, tropical storms and budget prob­lems while filming the picture. 
An "Anatomy of a Legend" feature looks at the process behind creating the Davy Jones character, showing the tech­nology the filmakers used to bring the otherworldly creature to life. A very unique feature examines how Disneyland added the iconic characters of Sparrow and Captain Barbossa from the "Pirates" films to the original, 1966 Disneyland attraction. 
The video and sound of "Pirates" have an excellent transfer onto DVD, especial­
-
ly the Hans Zimmer score, which is as  
good as the first film's soundtrack. The  
incredibly lifelike CGI in the 1ilm ­ from  
Davy Jones and his otherworldly crew to the Kraken -are crisp and detailed  - 
even on the small screen.  
Amidst skepticism about its success  
potential and criticism of its length and  
twisted plot, "Pirates of the Caribbean - 
Dead Man's Chest" triumphed, becoming  
one of the most successful films of all  
time while delighting audiences and crit­ 
ics alike. As a middle film of a trilogy,  
"Dead Man's Chest" sets the stage well  ...  
for the third film, but ultimately suc­ 
ceeds because it can stand alone against  
its forebear as one of the best swash­ 
buckling films of all time.  

Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

Sarah (Shauna Macdonald) tries to escape to daylight after a caving expedition goes wrong in "The Descent." The horror film was one of the best in 2006. 
blooper reel, storyboard-to-scene com­parisons and an almos.t hour-long "making-of' featurette. 
The unrated DVD also has two great commentaries. The first features writer-director Marshall, along with several of the actresses who appeared in the film (Nora Jane Noone, Saskia Mulder, MyAnna Buring, Shauna McDonald and Alex Reid), and the sec­ond commentary features Marshall along with the film's production crew (producer Christian Colson, editor Jon Harris, assistant editor Tina Richardson and production designer Simon Bowles). 
Marshall aptly leads the way in both commentaries, guiding everyone 
through and giving the others a chance to speak as he reminisces with them and asks several questions. For obvious reasons the commentary track with the crew is more technical, while the one with the actresses is much more anec­dotal. 
"The Descent" excels at scaring view­ers both on the surface level -with monsteFs hiding in the dark -as well as delving deeper into more psycholog­ical fears. Without letting up for an instant, the movie manages to stay a thrilling ride from the beginning until the end. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 17, 2007 

NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Huskies fall to 2-3 in Big East with loss to Pitt 
D.f. White ties personal highs in points and rebounds as Indiana tops the Hawkeyes 71-64 in Big East showdown 
Associated Press inside. The Panthers made it 53-40 on 
PITTSBURGH No. 6 Mike Cook's driving layup with Pittsburgh pulled away midway 2:41 remaining, then spent most through the second half behind of the remaining time on the free Aaron Gray's strong inside play throw line as UConn fouled early and Ronald Ramon's perimeter in every Pitt possession to try to shooting, wearing down get the ball back. Connecticut in a typically rugged The Big East's two most suc­Big East rivalry game for a 63-54 cessful programs since 2001_ ­victory Tuesday night. no team is close to them in regu­
Gray, helped by an injury that lar season victories -are known kept UConn 's 7 -foot-3 Hasheem for their intense, physical styles. Thabeet out for most of the first This one was no different, as was half, had 22 points and 19 evident when Thabeet caught an rebounds. Ramon went 4-for-4 elbow from Gray above his eye from 3-point range while adding less than 2 minutes into the 17 points as the Panthers (17-2, game. 5-0) won their seventh straight. Thabeet was assisted to the They are the only team still locker room in obvious pain and unbeaten in conference play. didn't return late in the half. 
Gray missed by a rebound of With Thabeet out, Gray took becoming the first Pitt player advantage by getting 11 with as many as 20 points and rebounds by halftime. 20 rebounds in a game since Chris McNeal against Boston Indiana 71, Iowa 64 College in 1992. D .J. White tied career highs 
UConn (13-4, 2-3) lost for the with 23 points and 12 rebounds fourth time in six games mostly to lead the Indiana Hoosiers to a because of poor shooting -the victory over the Iowa Hawkeyes Huskies shot 35.6 percent-yet on Tuesday night. led 33-32 with 12 minutes Roderick Wilmont had 15 and six assists for Iowa (10-8, 2-rebounds. A dunk by Jason Cain gave remaining. points and Armon Bassett scored 2), which rallied from a 21-point Dwayne Collins scored a sea­Virginia a 50-30 lead with 2:45 
But the Huskies went scoreless 10 for the Hoosiers (13-4, 4-1 Big deficit in the second half to make son-high 24 points and added 13 left in the first half, but then the for 4 1/2 minutes shortly after Ten), who won their fourth the game close. rebounds as Miami (9-10, 2-3) Cavaliers self-destructed, turning that during a 7-0 Pitt run started straight conference game since a The Hoosiers, who improved to lost for the sixth time in eight the ball over on four straight by Levance Fields' 3-pointer. Jan. 2 loss at No. 7 Ohio State. 10-0 at Assembly Hall this sea­games, including an 85-63 loss possessions. The Terps scored Levon Kendall followed with a Adam Haluska, the Big Ten's son and snapped a four-game to No. 14 Duke on Sunday. He the last 13 points of the period, jumper from the wing, one of leading scorer entering the losing streak against Iowa, took was the only Hurricanes player with Vasquez making all of his only two baskets before he game, finished with 21 points charge early in the first half fol­to make more than half his shots eight first half points in 30 sec­fouled out, and Gray also scored and Tyler Smith added 17 points lowing Haluska's layup that put as they shot 28 percent in the onds. 
Iowa ahead 10-8. first half and fell behind 42-22 at 
... 
White's rebound and putback the break. Western Michigan 86, tied the score and sparked an Central Michigan 76 11-0 run by Indiana over the Virginia 103, Maryland 91 Joe Heitz scored 26 points to next seven minutes. Lance Mamadi Diane scored a lead Western Michigan to a victo­Stemler's 3-pointer gave the career-high 26 points and Sean ry over Central Michigan on I loosiers a 19-10 advantage with Singletary added 25 and seven Tuesday night. 
7:30 left. assists Tuesday night to lead Four starters reached double 
Indiana extended its lead to Virginia past Maryland, ending figures for the Broncos (7-10, 2-2 24-13 after White's basket with 6 the Cavaliers' three-game losing Mid-American), who won their minutes remaining, and the streak. sixth straight home game with Hoosiers went up 29-17 on Virginia (10-6, 2-2 Atlantic their highest point total of the Wilmont's 3-pointer to end the Coast Conference) blew a 20-season. half. point first half lead, allowing Giordan Watson led Central 
Wifmont made thme 3-pointers Maryland to close to within three Michigan (7-9, 2-2) with 19 and scored 11 points, and White early in th1) second half. points, 13 of them in the second added eight points and six But -the Cavs scored 12 half when the Chippewas saw a rebounds to lead Indiana in the straight to make it 70-55 with two-point lead evaporate into a first half. The Hawkeyes shot 32 9:50 remaining, and from there deficit of up to 15 points. ·percent from the field and com­the Terrapins (15-4, 1-3) couldn't David Kool added 15 points for mitted 10 turnovers before the get closer than eight. Western Michigan, Michael 
-
break. Mike Jones led Maryland with Redell scored 14 and Derek 18 points. Greivis Vazquez made Fracalossi 12. Reitz scored 10 of Boston College 82, Miami 63 five 3-pointers and scored 17. his points at the free-throw line. 
Sean Marshall scored Boston Ekene Ibekwe•also had 17 before The teams combined for 20 3­College's first nine points as the fouling out in the closing minute. point baskets, led by four each Eagles opened a 20-point half­Two free throws by lbekwe from Watson and Jordan Bitzer, time lead on Tuesday night and pulled the Terps to within 58-55 who added 15 points for Central coasted to a victory over Miami. with 14:36 to play. After Virginia Michigan. 
Marshall finished with 20 turned the ball over on a 10-sec­The Broncos used a 9-0 run points and Jared Dudley scored ond violation, Maryland also early in the second half, includ­18 for BC (13-4, 5-0 Atlantic turned it over and Jamil Tucker ing six straight points by Reitz, to Coast Conference), which won its hit his third 3-pointer in as many grab the lead for good and defeat fourth straight game since he tries for the Cavaliers. the Chippewas for the sixth time returned from a foot injury and Maryland turned the ball over in seven meetings. Western sixth in a row overall. Tyrese three more times and missed all Michigan made 57.1 percent of 
AP Hice had 16 points and a career­five of its shots over the next its shots in the second half as high 12 assists, and Shamari four-plus minutes, allowing Central Michigan's shooting Spears scored nine with 10 Virginia to rebuild its advantage. cooled to 38.5 percent. 
-. ­


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Welcome back to campus from your I enjoy long walks on the beach and House available for 2007-2008. Leases available for 2007-08: favorite campus newspaper candlelight dinners. Very Large, Close to Campus, 3,4,5 bdrm, 

PERSONAL  The Observer  If you are looking for a friend  FoR RENT  Just Renovated.  3 bath homes, frpls,  
Enjoy the second semester  and a good time give me a call.  Contact  2-car garages.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  413-244-2446  BLUE & GOLD HOMES, off-cam- Mac Swain@ gmail.com  Call574-232-4527  
not go it alone. If you or someone  Do you like pina coladas?  pus homes & weekend rentals.  or 269-683-5038.  
you love needs confidential support  Or getting caught in the rain?  I enjoy talking to anyone who will  Bluegoldrentals.com  Studio Apt.  
or assistance, please call Sr. Sue  If you're not into yoga,  listen to me. I have pretty much lost  Stove, Refrig, Heat.  Newly remodeled 3 and 4 bdrm  
Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  If you have a brain  all hope.  Leasing 2nd semester 2007. Also  Water, Sewage and  houses  
infonnation, visit our web site at  then you're the love I have looked  If you have a pulse  leasing 2007-08. Stadium Club  Trash service Incl.  available for sale/rent.  
http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­ for ...  give me a call.  Condominiums. Call Susan 574­ $350/mo.  Contact Meredith Allsop,  
nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad  Come with me  I'm begging you  243-7530 or email: stadiumclubcon­ 20 Min. to ND.  Milligan Real Estate  
in The Observer.  and escape  845 -729 -0367  dos@ sbcglobal.net  269-684-2268.  220-9817.  


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 17, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S \VIRE SERVICES page 15 
Men's Basketball Associated Press Top· 25 

around the dial 

AUSTRALIAN OPEN Early Round Play 4 p.m., ESPN2 Early Round Play 9 p.m., ESPN2 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL North Carolina at Clemson 7 p.m., ESPN Illinois at Minnesota 7 p.m., ESPN2 
WOMEN'S COU£GE BASKETBALL Indiana at Purdue 4:30 p.m., CSN 
NBA 
Lakers at Spurs 9 p.m., ESPN Bulls at Bucks 8 p.m., CSN 
NFL 


AP California head coach Jeff Tedford, right, leads his team out before a Sept. 9, 2006 game against Minnesota. Tedford agreed to an extension that will keep him at California through 2013. 
-'
Tedford extension valid through 2013 
Associated Press 

BERKELEY, Calif. ­California coach Jeff Tedford has agreed to a four-year contract exten­sion that will keep the two-time Pac-10 coach of the year with.the Golden Bears through 2013, The Associated Press learned Tuesday. 
The UC Board of Regents was scheduled to discuss the deal at a closed meet­ing Tuesday, and athletic department spokesman John Sudsbury said approval is expected Thursday. 
Tedford is 43-20 in five seasons, leading the Bears' longest sustained 
IN BRIEF 

Armstrong urges Iowans to 
support cancer research 
DES MOINES, Iowa -Lance Armstrong urged Iowans on Tuesday to support a presidential candidate who is dedicated to expanding cancer research. 
In a speech to 1,500 guests of the Greater Des Moines Partnership's annual dinner, the seven-time Tour de France champion described the power Iowa holds as the nation's leadoff state in the presidential nominating process. 
"The cancer question has to be asked, and it has to be on the agenda for the most powerful man in the world," Armstrong said. 
"This is a very important state for a lot of reasons, most notably for your position in the political calendar and your ability to be able to engage with the people who want to lead the free world," he said. 
Armstrong said his "new race" in life is finding a cure for a disease that kills 600,000 people a year. 
period of excellence in a half-century. He led Cal to a 10-3 record, a Pac-10 co-championship and a victory over Texas A&M in the Holiday Bowl in the just-completed season. 
With his offensive acu­men and impressive suc­cess at a relatively low­profile football school, Tedford annually appears on the coaching wish lists of big-school athletic directors and NFL general managers. This winter alone, he was linked him with openings at Alabama and with the Atlanta Falcons. 
But Tedford seems com­fortable at Cal, where he has transformed a once-
Crede signs one-year 
contract extension 
CHICAGO -Third baseman Joe Crede and the Chicago White Sox agreed Tuesday to a $4.94 million, one-year contract and avoided arbi­tration. 
The 28-year-old batted .283 last season with 30 home runs, 94 RBls and had a .978 fielding percentage in 150 games. 
The deadline for exchanging salary-arbitration figures was Tuesday, and there has been specu­lation that Crede's time with the White Sox might be nearing an end. He is eligible for free agency after the 2008 season. 
"We certainly have a track record of trying to lock up core guys prior to reaching free agency -the key thing being that we have Joe under control through the 2008 season, so it's not an immediate concern to address," assistant general manager Rick Hahn said. 
struggling program into a West Coast power with burgeoning fan support and new facilities on the way. 
The Bears have reached the top 10 in three straight seasons while appearing in four consecu­tive bowl games -win­ning three -for the first time in school history. Cal's share of the Pac-10 crown this season was its first conference title since 1975, and Tedford also has beaten archrival Stanford five straight times. 
After Tedford's 2004 club went 10-2 and reached a No. 4 national ranking, he received a 
Federer into third round of 
Australian Open 
MELBOURNE, Australia Defending champion Roger Federer advanced to the third round of the Australian Open with a 6-2, 6-3, 6-2 victory over Jonas Bjorkman on Wednesday. 
It was Federer's second lopsided win over Bjorkman in the last three Grand Slam tol)l"naments. He beat the 34-year-old Swede in straight sets in the Wimbledon semifinals last year as a warmup to beating Rafael Nadal in the fmal. 
Bjorkman relied on drops and some improvised shotmaking to work Federer around, but it rarely worked consistently in the match that lasted 1 hour, 35 minutes. 
Federer maintained his record of never dropping a set against Bjorkman. 
"Jonas is a great guy, he always puts up a good fight," said Federer, who is chasing a 1Oth Grand Slam title. 
five-year contract that will be worth $2 million per season if he collects a retention bonus for stay­ing the length of the deal. Financial terms of his pro­posed extension weren't immediately available, but should be public record when the deal is approved. 
Tedford is best known for his acumen in tutoring quarterbacks, both at Cal and during his time as an offensive coordinator at Oregon and Fresno State. The former Canadian Football League quarter­back has sent Trent Dilfer, David Carr, Akili Smith, Joey Harrington, A.J. Feeley, Kyle Boller and Aaron Rodgers to the NFL. 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
11 
18 19 20 
21 
22 23 24 25 
team 
Florida Wisconsin UCLA North Carolina Kansas Pittsburgh Ohio State TexasA&M Oregon Alabama Arizona Oklahoma State Air Force Duke Nevada LSU Memphis Butler Clemson NOTRE DAME Texas Tennessee Virginia Tech Marquette Kentucky 
Men's Basketball 
ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team 
Florida UCLA Wisconsin North Carolina Kansas Pittsburgh Ohio State TexasA&M Alabama Oregon Air Force Arizona Nevada Oklahoma Stale Butler Clemson Duke Memphis LSU NOTRE DAME Washington State Maryland Texas Tennessee .. Virginia Tech pH::·· 

Record points 
16·2 1761 1H 1722 15-1 1666 15-2 1552 15-2 1527 15·2 1396 16-2 1348 14-3 1310 15-2 1204 16·1 1139 14·2 997 13·3 894 15-2 786 17-1 758 14-3 699 16-1 658 12-4 642 13-3 620 15·2 508 17-1 466 15-2 4{14 13-3 295 13-4 250 15-4 185 14-3 168 
Record 
16-2 15-1 17-1 15-2 15·2 16-2 14-3 15-2 14-2 16-1 17-1 13-3 16-1 
15-2 15-2 17-1 14-3 13·3 12-4 15·2 15·3 
15~3 
13·3 13-4 13-4 


points 
764 738 714 683 631 
. 590 
=-~ ... 581 
{i\ilf~5fi3 >459 458 448 
435 
>392 


page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 2007 
NFL 
SMC SWIMMING 

Belles end two-year win drought
Gostkowski fills 
Saint Mary's beats Alma 130-103 to capture first conference victory
big shoes for Pats 
Dombkowski saw improve­been won by the same four 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ­Pressure rolled off Stephen Gostkowski's back as smoothly as the football flew off his foot and sent New England to anoth­er AFC championship game. 
Bill Belichick didn't hesitate to send Gostkowski out for the winning field goal at San Diego. The Patriots coach had done that so many times with Adam Vinatieri. 
And, just like Vinatieri, the cool rookie came through in a big playoff game. 
Gostkowski easily made his 31-yarder with 1:10 left Sunday, giving the Patriots a 24-21 win and stunning the favored Chargers in their home Sunday. The "k" in Gostkowski is as silent as the crowd, screaming for the Chargers throughout the game, fell when his kick sailed through the uprights. 
"He's doing great," Tom Brady said. "Cross your fingers, hope it lasts another week." 
The kick, as important as it was, was a prelude to an even bigger game Sunday -against Vinatieri and the Indianapolis Colts, with the winner going to the Super Bowl. Vinatieri's kicks already have won two of them for the Patriots, one on the final play of a 20-17 win over St. Louis in 2002, the other with 4

'­
seconds left in a 32-29 victory over Carolina in 2004. 
That's what Gostkowski had to follow when the Patriots chose him in the fourth round of the April draft, one mont_h after 
By BILL BRINK 

ment in two departments due swimmers, every member of 
Sports Writer 

Vinatieri ended 10 seasons in 
to the trip. the team has contributed. 
"They worked pretty hard," Freshmen Jackie Cattie took
New England by signing as a 
Lindsey Nelis, Sara he said. "They swam doubles fourth in the 500 freestyle,
free agent with the Colts. 

Niemann and Melissa eight of the ten days, and finishing 27 seconds ahead of
So far, so good for the 22­
Gerbeth each won two indi­even though their bodies are Alma's Kelly Marks. The fin­
year-old rookie. 

He's made all six of his field 
vidual races broken down, ish was not consequential in 
along with t h e i r the individual race, but very
goal attempts in the playoffs 
Saint Mary's endurance important in the scoring, says
after connecting on 12 of his 
two relay vic­increased Dombkowski.
last 14 in the regular season. 
"The sixteen bonded 
tories in the immensely." "This was her third event
His leg is stronger than 
as a team. You can
Belles' 130-The cama­of the day," he said. "It was
Vinatieri's and he even did 
103 victory tell they're a much raderie of the neck and neck, and she
something his predecessor 
over Alma team was also pulled it out in the end. It
never did in the playoffs. His 50­
different group." 
Saturday. oolstered. was her best time of the sea­
yard field goal that gave the 
Nelis won the "The sixteen son by twelve seconds. Even
Patriots a 3-0 lead over the 
200-meter Ryan Dombkowski bonded as a though it's fourth place, the
Chargers is the longest in the 
freestyle with a Belles coach t e a m , " team gains two points instead
team's postseason history. 

The distance didn't surprise 
time of 2:04.12 
and the 500­

his coach at Memphis, Tommy 
meter freestyle

West. But the accuracy took a 
in 5:38.19. Niemann won the
lot of hard work from the day he 
walked on to the college team 
50-meter freestyle in 27.08 
after receiving a baseball schol­
seconds and the 200-meter 
backstroke in 2:22.75.
arship. 

Gerbeth took the 1,000-meter
"When he came to Memphis, 
strong leg, no accuracy," West 
freestyle in 11:25.73 and the 
said Tuesday while on a recruit­
200 individual medley in 
ing trip in Alabama. "It was 
2:24.04. 

dangerous to stand on the other 
Saint Mary's relay teams 
also performed well, winning
side of the line. He made him­
both races. The 200-meter
self into the kind of kicker he 
is." 

medley relay team, consisting 
of Niemann, Jen Lebiedz,
Gostkowski's winning field 
Meredith Lierz, and Kelly
goal was his first since a 35­
Tighe, won with a time of
yarder with 6 seconds left gave 
2:04.93. The 200-meter
Memphis a 38-35 win at East 
freestyle relay, swum by
Carolina. The stage is much big­
ger now, but he considers every 
Gerbeth, Lierz, Nelis and 
Tighe, took first with a time
attempt a pressure kick. 

"If you can't handle pressure, 
of 1:50.40. 

you shouldn't be in the busi­
This meet was the team's 
first since a training trip to
ness," he said the day he was 
drafted. "You want to be able to 
Florida over Christmas 
Break, a 10-day excursion
kick that game-winning kick, 
attended by 16 swimmers.
because that's where people fall 
in love with you." 

Belles coach Ryan 
Dombkowski of one. If all swimmers win said. "You can little tiny battles, it makes a tell they're a difference in the long run. much different group as far Between fifth and sixth place 
as the team is concerned. They really supported 

-"You can't win them
each other at 

all until you win one,
Alma, and they push each and we'll take this other in prac­
one now.

tice. They've really come together as a Ryan Dombkowski unit." Belles coach 
Dombkowski was surprised at the results is a big battle, a swing of 26 points in the meet." 

This meet was also the first conference meet the Belles have won since the 2004-2005 season. 
"It shows recruits that Saint Mary's can be success­
in the Alma meet after a hard ful," Dombkowski said. "It training trip. makes a big difference 
"You don't usually see the toward the psyche of moving best times," he said. "They in the right direction. You knew they had the opportuni­can't win them all until you ty to win the meet, and heart win one, and we'll take this and determination won close one now." races." 
Although the majority of Contact Bill Brink at the races this season have wbrink@od.edu 
,-­
This word is way 0 ,.erpriced. 
iWWiHM.W~-d' awe ~~•~¥!@!$ rii• 'iN'*"' ,,f 

Shcillftl~:h;:~:~l~::::.,~;:~i~:= ~n~::::;l ~~~~~:i::• ==~~:::~:~ 
~', !'ilifficuh:ies,;, p!iittly qwing· tm the ~tuwnrw -~by Japan, f>littliy owing t!J the \'fhhfinl!;t. eBritish llnspector-Gene:talef {:tmMHht. 
;ays: 

his country (China] could be wen­the Go·rlern:ment provid~d with 11 
il .._~-~---.efor_eigner's pen_~ ·hil_e
__ -_·-_--~_r_:.'lK·e.·' .cy·,·f 
w_

fb~ bankruptcy pure and Sl:!U:ple. pt)litkal chaos, the Customs R.ev­\ast yeat exceeded all records by ~s siM'IittitJned by the Washington ~4t reveume to liquidate the whole bt iF w''lf!!ry tew years, leaving the ~tedfitr the Cinverntne:nr. The · · btid N> ft:tMt il GOo/Wrn~nt to 
If you didn't buy your textbooks at Half.com, you paid too much. Half.com has all the textbooks you need like chemistry, astronomy and history for a lot less. 
,----------------, 
FOR AliMITED TIME, SAVE AN ADDITIONAL $5 ON PURCHASES OF$50 OR MORE: SIMPlY USE THIS CODE: SAVEBIGNOW 
I 
. I 
~----------------; 



'$5 off promotiorr open to le<al U.S. reside~ts 18 y~ars of age or older who ore frrsHime buyers oo Mali. com. $5oft promotion good fnr !lrst-time purchase of $5D or mom. excluding ~hipping and ha"dliog, on Hall.com only. Limit one otter per user 10. and olier may not be oomtlinetlwith any other offer, coupoo or promotion, Voirt whero pmhihiled. taxed or mtricl.eri. Offer expires February 2B, 2007 at II :59,59pm PT. 

The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
-

By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
After a long period of training over winter break, the Notre Dame women's swimming team started 2007 with a second place finish at the Michigan Invitational in Ann Arbor last weekend. 
Meanwhile, the No. 16 men's team spent its winter break training in Boca Raton, Fla., 
then hit the road again to face off against Oakland and partici­pate in a four-team meet at Cleveland State. 
The Irish defeated Oakland 181-119 last Friday. Sophomore diver Michael Bulfin, freshman John Lytle, and freshman Ross Moore each posted two wins at the meet. 
Notre Dame then went on to defeat Cleveland State, Xavier, and Duquense in a quad meet Saturday. The three wins improved Notre Dame's their record to 8-0 this year in indi­vidual meets, their best start since the 1974-75 season. 
The No. 19 ranked women's team scored 1074 points in Ann Arbor, finishing behind No. 13 Indiana (1460.5 points), but ahead of No. 10 Michigan (1052.5). 
"This was great. It's always great to perform well in a big event like this," women's head coach Carrie Nixon said. 

THURSDAY AT 9:00 PM 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
Free movie. Free hot chocolate. 
Killer climate.. 

Notre Dame entered the final event of the meet, the 400-yard freestyle relay, with a small lead over the Wolverines. Even though Michigan managed to take the top spot in the event, the Irish scored better overall. The team of senior Katie Carroll, freshman Megan Farrell, senior Rebecca Grove, and sophomore Christa Riggins placed third in the event for the Irish while Notre Dame's four other relay teams finished fifth, sixth, ninth, and seventeenth respectively. 
"It's always great when you beat Michigan. They're huge rivals of ours," Nixon said. 
Carroll captured three events at the invitational by posting winning times in 200-yard but­terfly, 500-yard freestyle, and 200-yard individual medley. 
"It was self-assuring because this came off a training trip," Carroll said. "So, it's definitely good for the rest of the season." 
Fellow senior Julia Quinn swam a season's best time in the 200-breaststroke, while junior Caroline Johnson set a season best time in the 50-yard freestyle (23.57), good enough for third. She also placed sev­enth in the 100-freestyle while Rigging placed fifth in the same event. 
"Katie had a great meet," Nixon said. "Julia swam the breaststroke two seconds faster than at this time last year and the 50 and 100-freestyle were breakout swims for Caroline." 
After competing in last month's U.S. Open, the team spent most of winter break training in Honolulu. 
"The girls trained very hard. They have set themselves up for another championship season," Nixon said. "They're doing the little things well, playing to their strengths and capitalizing on other's weaknesses." 
The main purpose of the trip, Nixon and Carroll said, was to prepare for the Big East meet in February. 
"Mainly, we built up our endurance. Also, it was nice to get out of South Bend and into some nice weather," Carroll said. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Kessler gets award for stellar conference play 
Junior guard leads team to fourth place in MIAA standings 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
After a 1-6 start that included a four-game losing streak, Saint Mary's has gone 4-3 since Dec. 6. 
Since a 72-69 win over Anderson in their conference opener on Nov. 20, the Belles have defeated Adrian, Alma, Tri­state and Kalamazoo and lost to Hope, Olivet and Calvin en route to a 4-3 conference 
against Olivet on Jan. 4 were both MIAA season highs. Kessler shrugs it off as a side­effect of good basketball. 
"When the team's playing well, all the individual players play well," she said. 
The Belles are in position to make the conference tourna­ment, a goal that seemed dis­tant during the frustrating start. They are fresh of a 72-40 drubbing of Kalamazoo at home, a game in which four starters scored in double fig­ures. They will travel tonight to face an Albion team that has won two straight and also blew 
out Kalamazoo. 
The Britons are 
8-7, 3-4 in con­


record, good for 'Tm grateful for my ference play. Led fourth in the by senior guards
teammates as well. 
MIAA. Jessica Babcock,
It's a win for the 
A large factor who averages 
in this recent team, for everyone. ,, 12.7 points per upswing has been game, and Amy the play of junior Aemisegger, who
Alison Kessler 
guard Alison shoots 50 percent
Belles guard 
Kessler, who was from three-point 
named MIAA Player of the Week for the week of Dec. 31 to Jan. 6. During the three games that week, Kessler averaged 24 points and six assists per game. 
''I'm very grateful," Kessler said of the honor. "''m grateful for my teammates as well. It's a win for the team, for everyone." 
Although the honor is given to an individual player, Kessler credits her teammates. 
"They contribute in a lot of ways," she said. "They give me assists, set screens, and just talk and communicate." 
This season, as Kessler has gone, so have the Belles. She averages 21.4 points per game in wins and 17.6 points in losses. She leads the MIAA in scoring, averaging 19.1 points per game. Her 30 points and 13 foul shots 
range, the Britons average 

59.1 points per game. 
The game should be a close one, and the Belles, with a win .­and an Olivet loss, could jump to third in the MIAA standings. Saint Mary's is hitting its stride, scoring more points, shooting better and committing fewer turnovers than in the first half of the season. Kessler believes maturation has a large part to play in the surge. 
"We're maturing. We're a really young team," she said. "We're mostly freshmen and sophomores. We only have three upperclassmen. We're more mature now and are get­ting used to the physical play." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

page 18

-
Walker 
continued from page 24 
near future. Although disap­pointed, we wish him nothing but the best." 
While Walker will not gradu­ate this semester, he said he will be only four courses shy of earning a degree. His mother, Laverne, said the family dis­cussed the academic repercus­sions of the decision at length. 
"I told Coach Weis when we met with him, and all of the fans and anybody else that real­ly has that concern for Darius, as a mother and a parent, like I told Coach Weis, you do not have to worry about Darius Walker getting his college degree, because he will do that," she said. "I will see to that." 
The departing tailback and resident of O'Neil Hall added his own affirmation of the fact. 
"This isn't the last Notre Dame is going to see of me," he said. "You can tell O'Neill Hall that they can keep a dorm reserved for me for when I come back." 
Walker had consecutive 1,000-yard seasons after rush­ing for a program-record 786 yards as a freshman. In 2005, Walker totaled 1,196 yards rushing on a 4. 7 yards-per­attempt average. As a junior, Walker averaged 5 yards a carry and gained 1,267 yards on the ground. 
His most valuable assets for NFL teams, however, may be his soft hands. The native of Lawrenceville, Ga., was third on the team this season with 56 catches for 391 yards. He fin­ished his career with 109 receptions for 816 yards. 
Walker's final game at Notre Dame may have been his best. The 5-foot-10, 208-pounder ran for 128 yards on 22 carries against the vaunted LSU defense in the Sugar Bowl, including 125 yards in the first half. With Notre Dame trailing, the Irish abandoned the suc­cessful running attack and Walker got only four carries after halftime. 
Other running backs to enter the draft with a year of eligibili­ty remaining include Adrian Peterson of Oklahoma, Michael Bush of Louisville, Antonio 


The Observer + SPORTS 
Pittman of Ohio State and but said he was confident in his Marshawn Lynch of California. skills. 
With freshman running backs "I feel like I've been able to James Aldridge and Munir show what I can do -I can run Prince devel-the ball. catch oping -and the ball, block, 
coveted tail­back recruit Armando Allen  "/feel like rve been able to show what I  everything that a running back is supposed to do,"  
arriving  on  can do.''  the  media­ 
campus for the  friendly  foot­ 
spring semes­ter, Walker may have  Darius Walker former Irish running back  baller said, before adding a final laugh. "You  
faced  more of  really can't con- 
a challenge for  trol what hap­ 

the majority of carries in 2007. pens and what team you go to 
Walker has until today to as far as that is concerned withdraw his name from the unless you're one of the draft if he has second thoughts, Mannings." and he has not yet hired an agent. He wouldn't predict Contact Ken Fowler at where he would go in the draft, kfowlerl@nd.edu 

Observer File Photo 
Former Irish tailback Darius Walker scores his first career touchdown against Michigan Sept. 11, 2004. Walker ran for 3,249 yards and 23 touchdowns in his Notre Dame career. 
y unow. 
We want you to succeed, and all the signs say GO. That's why we've created an environment that's conducive to personal and professional growth and success. At Ernst &Young, we offer award-winning learning tools and arange of experiences, so that you keep moving ahead-from your very first day. So visit us on campus, or at ey.com;us;careers. 
FORTUNE$ 
100 BEST 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ 

Quality In Everything We Do 

' 
-
UBS Investment Banking Presentation 
At UBS, we believe in creating opportunities for every one of our employees to excel and realize their potential. As a leading financial firm with offices in over SO countries, UBS can offer the inspiration you need from all corners of the globe. After all, when you're inspired, we all succeed. 
Date: January 22, 2007 Time: 7.00 PM -9.00 PM Venue: Legends-Club Room 
It starts with you: www.ubs.com/graduates 
UBS is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity in its workplace. (M/F/DN) 
Wealth 

Management 

*UBS 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 2007 

Red Stor01 
continued from page 24 
said. "She was clicking." 
Allen's play also helped spark her teammates, including freshman guard Ashley Barlow, whose 3­pointer with 6:16 left in the half got the run started. 
"When [Allen] gets going, it gives everybody confi­dence," Barlow said. "We just gotta keep getting her the ball." 
During the first half, the Irish -who turned the ball over a season-low 10 times all game -gave the ball away just twice, compared 
to  St. John's 11  first-half  
turnovers.  
Still,  McGraw  was  not  

comfortable with Notre Dame's 44-34 halftime lead. 
"I was a little worried," McGraw said. "We were only up 10 ... [after] playing as good as we could play. I'm glad we were able to extend the lead [in the second half]." 
The Irish quickly began pulling away in the second half. Notre Dame made each of its first five 3-point attempts, including two each from Allen and Barlow ­who finished with 14 points -in a 15-5 run to start the half that extended the lead to 61:39 with 12:44 to go. After an 0-6 start from behind the arc, the Irish went on a 7-for-9 stretch that spanned halftime. 
"Normally we stop shoot­ing after [a bad start]," McGraw said. "We did a bet~ ter job in the second half against their zone moving the ball." 
The Irish also emphasized working the ball inside in the second half, and center Melissa D'Amico scored eight of her 10 points in the second half. D'Amico also finished with a career-high 11 rebounds, and tallied the third double-double of her career. 
USFA 
continued from page 24 
Columbus. 
Because of Ghattas' injury, he had limited success in December's USFA event in Richmond. The senior sabre struck in top form this weekend, though, posting a tie for third place. Ghattas finished behind only Mike Momtselidze of Ohio State and two-time Olympian Keeth Smart of New York City. 
"Patrick Ghattas is improving tremendously," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. "He made a great jump forward in a strong field, too. He's showing he should be taken seriously for the national team." 
Because of Ghattas' down­time, the strong showing was important for his Olympic hopes. Ghattas, who will be competing in Istanbul, Turkey, this weekend said he's glad to have a good tournament under his belt after the injury. 
"It's definitely nice to be back on top," he said. "It was a strong tournament -a lot of good fencers .... It's always frustrating coming to practice and, in my case, you can't 

I 
always go 100 percent." I On the women's side of the
1. 
discipline, Irish senior Valerie Providenza and junior Marie! Zagunis -both from Beaverton, Ore. -tied for third as well. 


"She had a size advan­tage," McGraw said. "In the second half we got it in a lit­tle more and she hit the boards harder." 
The Irish also clamped down on the Red Storm's field goal offense. After shooting 56.5 percent from the field in the first half, St. John's went just 9-for-24 from the field after halftime. Of its 31 second-half points, only 19 came from the field. 
"I think in the beginning we handled their pressure well, but their pressure wore us down," said St. 
John's head coach Kim Barnes Arico. 
For the game, the Irish outshot the Hed Storm 76-47 and outrebounded them 38­29. 
"I thought we shot the ball better and we really rebounded well," McGraw said. 
Note: 

+Freshman guard Melissa Lechlitner had a career-high nine assists. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 



The Development Phone Center would like to recognize the following "Businesses of the Month" for their support in our semi-annual incentive auction: 
Anthony Travel Blackthorn Golf Club Bonefish Grill Boracho Burrito Carriage House Casa Del Rio CJ's Pub College Football Hall of Fame Cosimo and Susie's "A Bit of Italv" Cragan's Irish Import Shop Fiddler's Hearth Giordano's Hacienda Mexican Restaurant Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Jersey Mike's Giant Subs John G. Shedd Aquarium Northern Indiana Commuter Transportation District Polito's Pizza Quality Dining/Chili's/Papa Vino's Siam Thai Restaurant The Field Museum Wings Etc. Yellow Cab ofMichiana Zolman Tire 
Thank you for making our auction a continued success. 
Bednarski praised the per­formances of both Zagunis and Providenza as examples of con­tinued excellence. Providenza won the NCAA title in her disci­pline as a freshman, and Zagunis captured Olympic gold before arriving at Notre Dame. Yet, Bednarski said, both have worked hard to continue improving, and the work paid off with the strong showings in Columbus. 
In the women's epee, Irish 
freshman Kelley Hurley took sixth at the competition, while senior Amy Orlando was No. 15 and sophomore Kimberlee Montoya finished No. 24. Bednarski noted Hurley's poten­tial and her development in her short time at Notre Dame. 
Hounding out the top Irish fin­ishers, sophomore Mark Kubik took 11th in men's foil. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 



• 

The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

continued from page 24 
2005-06 season. 
"It's still January and our whole focus is on Western Michigan right now," Jackson said. "If we start thinking about that we will get ourselves in trouble." 
The only loss of the break came in a Jan. 7 upset to the Colonials of Robert Morris University at the Joyce Center. After jumping out to a 2-0 lead, Notre Dame gave up four unan­swered goals to the Colonials, including three in the third period. · Center David Boguslawski led the way with a goal and an assist in Robert Morris' first victory over a ranked team in program histo­ry. 
"It was not having enough respect for our opponent. It is hard to get motivated for a non­conference opponent in January," Jackson said. "We just didn't prepare ourselves to play with the same level of intensity that we have." 
Notre Dame's four other wins 
were  over  conference  foes  
Michigan  and  Northern  
Michigan.  Seven  different  

skaters. scored for the Irish in a 7-3 toppling of the then-No. 7 Wolverines on the road. Garret Regan scored twice in the sec­ond meeting at the Joyce Center to lead the Irish to another win. 
After a two-week break, Notre Dame was able to keep its win streak going with two wins over Northern Michigan in another home-and-home series. The pair of victories capped off a perfect December for the Irish, who won all six of their contests in the month. 
During that span the team racked up four wins over ranked opponents while outscoring the opposition 24-12. Junior Mark Van Guilder led the team with five goals and is cur­rently tied for the season lead with freshman Ryan Thang at 13 apiece. Van Guilder is also third in points scored (25) behind freshman Kevin Deeth and Condra with 26 and 33, respectively. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


Bowling Green 


MOVED! 
UNIVERSITY 
llEALTH SERVICES 



• 
University Health Services 

• 
University Counseling Center 

• 
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 


have relocated -in the renovated student health center, 
SAINT LIAM HALL 
(located north ofthe Main Building behind Keenan and Stanford Halls, #1035 on the campus map) 
For information, please visit our web sites or call: 
University Health Services: www.uhs.nd.edu 631-7497 University Counseling Center: www.nd.edu/--ucc 631-7336 Office of Alcohol and Drug Education: www.nd.edu/--aldrug 631-7970 
.. 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 17, 2007 

Jamar Nutter cut the lead to Carter led all scorers with The Cardinals came into the team routed Army, the Irish 
six at 44-38. 19 points, while fellow senior game riding a five-game win­hoops squad did the same
Break 
continued from page 24 
Washington, D.C. on Jan 6. The victory also moved Notre Dame into a tie for second in the Big East with Syracuse. 
The Irish, now ranked twen­tieth, will go for their first win of the spring semester tonight against Villanova in_ Philadelphia. 
For Peoples, the Seton Hall game was his biggest contri­bution since arriving on cam­pus. ~The freshman point guard had been receiving more playing time in recent games in relief of starter and fellow freshman Tory Jackson. 
On Sunday, Peoples scored a career-high nine points in 1 9 minutes. Jackson scored four points in 36 minutes, adding five assists and four rebounds. , Jackson was thrust into the starting role against Stony Brook Dec. 30 after sopho­more Kyle McAlarney was arrested on charges of mari­juana possession Dec. 29 and suspended indefinitely. Peoples, who had only been seeing spot duty, suddenly became the second option at point guard. 
Both were also crucial in breaking Seton Hall's full court press, which the small, quick Pirates employed for much of the game. 
"They played old," Irish coach Mike Brey said of his young point guards' ability to break the press. "They were more like juniors out there." 
Sophomore forward Zach Hillesland also had his best game in an Irish uniform, scoring 12 points, grabbing 10 rebounds and coming two assists short of a triple double with eight. 
"It was a matter of finding open guys, knocking down shots, grabbing rebounds, and just doing the little things here and there," said Hillesland of his performance. 
Senior guard Russell Carter led all scorers with 24 points and had a double-double of his own with 10 rebounds. 
The Pirates led 9-5 early, but a 9-0 Irish run put Notre Dame ahead 14-9 with just under 14 minutes left in the first half. 
With the game tied at nine, senior Carter gave the Irish their first lead at 12-9 with a 3-pointer. Carter followed up his shot with a steal and out­let pass to Jackson for an easy layup, forcing a Seton Hall timeout. 
After Carter's outburst, Notre Dame kept the lead for the remainder of the first half, extending it to as many as 10. The Pirates, however, took some momentum into the locker room after a buzzer­beating NBA-range 3 by guard 

Seton Hall switched to the full court press immediately after the half, unsettling the Notre Dame offense and allowing the Pirates to pull within three. But six straight points by Irish junior forward Rob Kurz pushed the Irish lead back to nine at 50-41 with 16:17 left in the game. 
Notre Dame continued to extend the lead, pushing it to as many as 21 after Harangody's layup with just under 11 minutes left. 
The Irish lead was 17, at 77-60, when the Pirates made a run. Nutter hit a three and freshman guard Eugene Harvey had two consecutive steal-and-scores to cut the lead to 10. 
The Irish stopped the bleed­ing with two free throws from Peoples, but a free throw from junior forward Brian Lang and another layup by Harvey cut the lead to single digits at 79-70 with 3:44 remaining. 
At that point, however, the Pirates went cold, allowing the Irish to coast to the final margin. 
Senior guard Colin Falls played only 19 minutes and scored just four points due to the flu. 
"He should be fine by tomorrow," Brey said. "By four o'clock or so it should be out of his system, in time for practice." 
The win was Notre Dame's 13th straight at home this season. 
Notre Dame 61, West Virginia 58 
West Virginia forward Frank Young's shot last ditch effort with one second left fell short, giving Notre Dame its second Big East win of the year and handing the Mountaineers their first con­ference loss Jan. 9 at the Joyce Center. 
The Irish had built a com­fortable 55-45 lead with five minutes to play, but an 8-0 West Virginia run cut the lead to just two and brought back painful memories of last minute Notre Dame collapses in the 2005-06 season. 
But the Irish didn't fall apart. Freshman forward Luke Harangody hit two free throws to extend the lead to four, and, after a defensive stop, senior guard Russell Carter hit a juinp shot to put Notre Dame up six. 
A three pointer by Young brought the Mountaineers to within three and the West Virginia forward grabbed the rebound after Irish senior forward Rob Kurz missed the front end of a one-and-one. But Carter cut Young off and forced him to take an otT-bal­ance runner that fell well short of the rim as time expired. 
Colin Falls hit four 3s and totaled 14 points. 
Georgetown 66, Notre--Dame 48 
Georgetown jumped out to a 20-point first half lead and held Notre Dame to its lowest point total of the year in handing the Irish their first conference loss Jan. 6. 
The Hoyas dominated from the opening tip, taking an early 18-2 lead and never looking back. Georgetown center Roy Hibbert scored 18 points on 8-for-9 shooting. 
Carter led Notre Dame with 12 points. The Irish shot just 31 percent from the field, including 4-for-22 from behind the 3-point arc, while the Hoyas caught fire, con­necting on 57 percent of their shots and making 1 0 3s on 20 attempts. 
Notre Dame 78, Louisville 62 
Tory Jackson poured in 14 points in only his second career start as Notre Dame opened the Big East season with an easy home win over Louisville Jan 3. 
ning streak, but shot just 42 percent from the field and never really challenged the Irish. 
Notre Dame led 43-29 at halftime and coasted an easy victory. 
Notre Dame 95, Stony Brook 66 
In their first game without the suspended Kyle McAlarney, Notre Dame beat an overmatched Stony Brook team that won just four games last year on Dec. 3. 
Carter led the Irish with 22 points. 
Notre Dame 101, Rider 51 
Notre Dame hit triple digits for the first time this season Dec. 28 against Rider at the Joyce Center. Kurz led the Irish with 23 points and Harangody added 18. 
The game was the fourth straight road game for the Broncs, who shot just 31 per­cent. 
Notre Dame 88, Army 4 7 
One month and three days after the Notre Dame football Dec. 21. 
Notre Dame dominated the glass, out-rebounding the Cadets 45-22. Falls scored 24 points, hitting six 3s. 
Notre Dame 86, Portland 69 
Carter poured in 28 points as Notre Dame demolished Portland Dec. 19. The loss was the eighth straight for the Pilots, who shot 50 per­cent from the field but had no answer for Carter or Kurz, who had 23 points of his own. 
Notre Dame 94, Elon 63 
Notre Dame jumped out to a 10-0 lead and never looked back in an easy win over Elon Dec. 16. Notre Dame outrebounded the Phoenix 55-30. 
Carter once again led the 
Irish  in  scoring  with  21  
points.  
Notre  Dame  will  face  

Villanova tonight in Philadelphia. The Wildcats are 1-3 in Big East play. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Information Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residences Thursday, January 18, 7:30-8:30 p.m. 
OR 

Wednesday, January 24, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Fischer Com~unity Center 
Light refreshments served 
For further information visit http://osa.nd.edu/ 

THE OBSERVER 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the form on page 2 7 and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ___Zip___________ 


Wednesday, January 17, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 ­
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

U:> I c:rT!:> . \ 1-\ A...\£': 
'[CM. 
BLACK DoG 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 

LIAMMORAN 

WILLSHORTZ 

33 Feel regret for 43 Track 54 Part of a home foundation entertainment
35 Of the flock system
44 Singer DiFranco

36 Drudge on the 55 Leer atInternet 
46 Blows away 
56 Sport39 Genesis victim 

48 A mummy may 
59 Long-eared41 One of 12 have one beastpopes 49 Studio sign 60 1990's Indian42 English-born 50 Accumulated P.M.

centenarian actress Winwood 51 Purge 61 Prefix with bar 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 

~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, It sounds better to form four ordinary words. 
DEXUE 

( J I () 
©2007Tribune Media Services, Inc.
r;rr1)
tUNMIFF 
WHAT THE: PIANO

J I I () 
www~umble.rom 
PI..AYS< WORK£:0 ON. 

tREVOOD I 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

I J I II 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

Answer here: A"( I I I I I X I)" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's IJumbles: THYME FAMED SCRIBE BOYISH Answer: What he improved when he jogged-HIS MEMORY 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Mason Gamble, 19; Kate Moss, 31 Debbie Allen, 55; John Carpenter, 57 
Happy Birthday: You can fool just about anyone with your ability to sympathizt this year. You are very capable of doing just about anything by yourself. It wil be group effort that counts this year. so prepare to be patient, a teacher and < team player. Your numbers are 10, 14, 19, 22, 38,46 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Do your best and acquire success. Whoever i: causing you a problem will be shown up once and for all. Progressive and positivt action will be your best recourse. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may have trouble with authority ligures i you haven't done everything by the book. Educational pursuits may be interestinl but may also set you back financially. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If someone wants to set you up for a business 01 personal meeting, you must attend. Something good will unfold that can resul in making money. Don't pick up the tab or donate. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may not realize what someone expects o you. Ask questions and demand answers. You may not like what you hear, bu at least you'll know where you stand.** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You're the boss today, so act like one. The power play: you make will only make you more attractive to onlookers, especially if yot manage to make headway at the same time. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone may be waiting for a chance to catch ym off guard and ask you for a contribution. Be prepared to say no. Do somethin1 nice for yourself; you deserve it. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Today is all about relationships and how you handlt the people around you. As tough as it might get, remain consistent or you rna) end up looking foolish and losing control. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your energy into what you enjoy doing tht most. It could turn into something lucrative as weJI. You should be followin1 your heart and doing your own thing. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Today is about you and your friends anc doing things that will make you feel good about yourself. Love is in a high cycle so prepare to romance someone special. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): What you think and do may not thrill someont who means a lot to you. Explain your actions or compromise so that you car keep the peace. Gossip may cause a problem. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Join in and discuss all the ideas you have witt a friend you trust. A short trip will prove interesting and informative. Put you· plans in motion. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be considering changing your occupatior or looking for something new to do with your time. Be careful that someont doesn't mislead you or take advantage of you. *** 
Birthday Baby: You aren't afraid, nor will you back down. You will try anythin1 once and will not give up when others walk away. You are strong, steadfast anc courageous. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 One way to pay 7 "Maze! !" 
10 "_next?" 14 Illinois River city 15 "_ tu," aria 
sung by Renato 16 Disabled 17 Chessboard 
extremities 19 Suffix with 
corrupt 20 Tapped out 21 Grunt: Abbr. 22 Coal, essentially 24 Adventurous 
hero of old 27 Goodbyes 30 Temper, 
informally 31 Hip-hop subgenre 34 Einstein's birthplace 37 "Them!" bugs 
39 Simple rhyme scheme 40 Arctic explorer John 
41 Intruder in Mr. McGregor's garden 
45 $10 to $12 an hour, e.g. 
47 Sans intermission, maybe 
48 Some public transportation 52 The heebie­jeebies 53 Subsidy 
54 Question calling for an explanation 
57 Tease 
58 Continental connection ... and a hint to 17-, 24-, 31-, 41-and 

63 Baton Rouge sch. 64 Calif. barrio locale 65 Son of Aphrodite 66 Unexplained phenomenon 67 Take from the top 
DOWN 1 Popular MP3 
player 2 Prefix with -itis 3 Perfume name 4 "You here" 
(map notation) 5 Title for Isaac Newton 6 One pulling 
strings? 7 Extra inning 8 TV planet 9 Innards 
10 Fan sounds 11 Words to a 
good-looker 12 DuPont fiber 13 Blockage 
reliever 18 G.P.A. part: Abbr. 23 "What !" ("That's 
robbery!") 24 They're tapped 25 Sweater letters 26 Pull: Fr. 
21 Food thickener
28 Delany of "China Beach" 
-:::+-:+;,;.+:+.:1 29 Between-acts musical fare 
32 Perfume name 


-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Wednesday~ January 17, 2007 page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish win eight over break 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 
Jonathan Peoples dribbled through the Seton Hall full court press and saw Luke Harangody wide open under the basket. 
The freshman point guard hit his classmate with a per­fect pass for an easy layup to extend No. 22 Notre Dame's lead over the Pirates to 72-51 with 11 minutes remaining and allowed the Irish to cruise to a 88-76 win Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
For Notre Dame (15-2, 3-1 in the Big East), the win was its 14th in 15 games and ended a winter break during which the Irish went 8-1, los­ing only to Georgetown in 
see BREAK/page 22 


HOCKEY 

Sweep oflake Superior n1oves ND into first 
By DAN MURPHY Spons Writer 

With a sweep of Lake Superior State last weekend, Notre Dame moved in to sole possession of first place in the CCHA for the first time this sea­son. 
The Irish beat head coach Jeff Jackson's former team 4-3 in overtime Friday and 4-1 on Saturday night. 
Sophomore Erik Condra beat Laker goalie Jeff Jakaitis on the first shot of overtime to secure the first victory and added another goal Saturday as four different pla.yers scored to com­plete the two-game road sweep. 
"I have a lot of friends up there and so much of my histo­ry is up there, so I just wanted to go up there and be proud of our team," Jackson said. 
Senior goaltender Dave Brown made 31 saves in the second game -including 17 in the final stanza -to keep the Lakers at bay and secure Notre Dame's spot atop the confer­ence. 
The No. 3 Irish went 7-1 over Christmas break to improve their overall record to 19-4-1 and 13-2-1 in the conference. The 19 wins so far this season surpasses the total number of wins for Notre Dame in the past two years. The team was held to five wins in Dave Poulin's final year behind the bench and Jackson collected 13 in the 
see LSSU/page 21 
FOOTBALL 

Junior tailback Walker declares for NFL draft 

By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Notre Dame junior running back Darius Walker has decid­ed to run to greener pastures. 
The versatile tailback announced last week he would forego his senior season at Notre Dame and instead enter 

ND WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Storming the Johnnies 
Allen scores 31 points as Notre Dame blasts Red Storm, 83-65 
By ERIC RETTER Associate Sports Editor 
Charel Allen scored a career-high 31 as Notre Dame beat St. John's 83-65 Tuesday night at the Joyce Center. 
Allen was 14-for-19 from the floor, the highest field goal total for any Irish play­er since Katrina Gaither made 16 on Jan. 9, 1995. 
"My teammates were look­ing for me and my shots were falling," Allen said. "I wanted to be aggressive the whole 40 minutes this game. 

the NFL Draft. 
"I sat down, spoke with the folks and all of the people who have influenced me and have supported me and everything," Walker said. "Wrote down the pros and cons, all that type of thing, and just really feel like, you know, it's the right thing for me to do at this time. It's the right thing for me to go on 
Despite Allen's efforts, Notre Dame opened slowly, and the Red Storm held a slim lead for much of the early going behind 56.5 per­cent shooting from the floor. 
But after St. John's for­ward Tiina Sten's 3-pointer gave the Red Storm a 27-23 lead with 6:32 to play in the second half, the Irish offense took over the game. 
Notre Dame rattled off a season-best 19-0 ruo over the next 4:40 to take a 42­27 lead before Kia Wright's layup ended the Red Storm drought with 1:52 to play 'in the half. 
"I think it was mostly Charel [Allen, who had eight points during the stretchJ," Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
see RED STORM/page 20 
and to go to the NFL now rather than wait." 
While hoping to keep some things "private," Walker said he did not make a "blind move." 
"It's definitely something that I put time and research in, something that I feel is right," he said. 
"Darius Walker and his par-
ALLISON AMI:lHOSE:/The Observer Irish guard Charel Allen shoots in Notre Dame's 54-51 loss to Indiana Dec. 3. Allen scored 31 points Tuesday against St. John's. 
ents informed me of his intent to make himself eligible for the NFL Draft," Irish coach Charlie Weis said in a statement read to the media by Brian Hardin, Notre Dame director of football media relations. "He guaran­teed me that he would gradu­ate from Notre Dame in the 
see WALKER/page 18 
FENCING 

Tean1. tunes upatUSFA Cup events 
NCAA season begins this weekend with Notre Dame Duals 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 

The Notre Dame Duals and the beginning of the NCAA schedule arrive this Saturday for the Irish, but the squad spent the winter break fine­tuning its skills with individual competition. 
The Irish also returned to the path of team success last week at a USFA North American Cup event in Columbus, Ohio -and the team's top fencers hope that's the same path to follow to their Olympic dreams. 
Fencers accumulate points at USFA events, and the season's top point-collectors earn their spot at the Olympic trials. 
For the weekend, the top story for Notre Dame was the return to form of its top male fencer. 
Irish senior Patrick Ghattas tore his hamstring in a training camp in New York City last Aug. 22 but finally returned to his normal skill level and medaled in the competition in 
see USFNpage 20 
SMC SWIMMING

SMC BASKETBAll 
Nil SWIMMING 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
fOOTBAll 
LLI 
Saint Mary's 130
u 

Indiana 71 
LSU 41

Pittsbumh 63 
<~ 
z Belles junior guard 
The No. 19 women's 
Alma 103 

UConn 4 
Iowa 64 

Notre Dame 14 
Alison Kessler named 
team takes second in an 
The Belles earn their 

D.J. White has 23
The Panthers stay 
The Irish defense col­
:3 

invitational in Ann
MIAA Player of the 
first conference win 

points and 12 rebounds
unbeaten in Big East 
lapses in the second half 
c:s 
Week. 

Arbor, while the No. 16 
play with a win over the
since the 2004-05 sea-

as the Tigers run away
in Hoosiers' win. 
c:c 

men places first at a 
Huskies. 
with the Sugar Bowl. 
son. 

quad meet in Cleveland. 
page 16 

Irish Insider
page 17 
page 17 
page 14 
page 14
en = 
. ' .··o~-:' 







