
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Unusual exam schedule planned 
Divided study days accommodate latest possible semester start; no complaints reported 
By KAITLYNN RIELY Assistant News Editor 
For upperclassmen at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the exam sdwdule at each semester's end has been a constant -reading days Thursday through Sunday, and exams Monday through Friday. 
This year. dun to the late start­ing day for classes in August, there will be three reading days for Notrn Dame, and two for Saint Mary's. Exams for both schools will start Dec. 14, with testing on Friday and Saturday, then Monday through Wednesday. 
"It's an odd finish," said Harold Pace, the University registrar. 
The reason for the departure from the usual exam timetable dates back to the scheduling arrangements made in 1993, when Notre Dame's Academic 
-
Council approved the Perpetual Academic Calendar, Pace said. 
The rules of the calendar stated that the first class day in the fall semester would be on the fourth Tuesday in August, meaning dates ranging from Aug. 22 to Aug. 28. 
Every few years, as in 2001, 2007 and 2012, the fourth Tuesday of the month falls on Aug. 28. The Academic Council realized, Pace said, that if adjust­ments were not made to the final exam schedule in those years, then the last day of exams would be Dec. 21 and grades would be due Dec. 24, the day before Christmas. 
"We decided ... that in those years, we would trim a study day off, and try to get started on exams early, so students could 
see FINALS/page 4 

Contraceptives available for n1edical needs 
NO Health Services prescribes birth control for health reasons, not pregnancy prevention 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame students cannot receive birth control prescrip­tions or pills at llealth Services unless they demonstrate a med­ical -not contraceptive ­need for the medication. 
If a student comes in asking for birth control for the purpose of contraception. "we're not going to ask a lot of questions," said Ann Kleva, director of Univnrsity lleallh Services. 
"We'II say point blank. 'I'm sorry, wo don't supply those snrvices on campus because we abide by the teachings of the Church,"' she said. "We're not here to judge anybody. That's one avenue, one medical prac­tice that we just do not partici-· pate in." 
Health Services does not refer students to places off campus where birth control can be obtained. Kleva said it's very unlikely a student would not be able to find out the name of a location online, from friends or in a phonebook. 
"If they're definite that's what they want, I'm sure they'll find a provider on their own," she said. 
If a student has certain med­ical symptoms, however. birth control pills can be prescribed and provided at Health Services, Kleva said. Such sce­narios include patients with irregular or painful menstrual cycles, no menstrual cycle or abdominal pain. 
In these cases, physicians "can and will prescribe birth control after a complete exam and evaluation if there is justifi­able reason," she said. 
During such an exam, physi­cians will rule out other abnor­malities that could be causing abdominal pain, which could range from "a hot appendix to an ovarian pregnancy," she said. 
The hormones necessary to regulate cycles could be pack­aged in birth control, which Kleva said is "very effective" for that purpose. 
Whether the patient on birth control has or will have sex is a conversation that may happen between the doctor and a patient, Kleva said. Questions about sexual activity, like those about the patient's menstrual cycle, are "normal questions to ask a female" during an exam to rule out pregnancy, she said. 
Also, Health Services will fill prescriptions for birth control from home physicians if a patient brings in paperwork, she said, but the reason for the 
see HEALTH/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
BOG 
Cafe n1ay stay open past 10p.In. 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY News Writer 
The possibility of extending Student Center hours for the rest of the semester dominated discussion at the Board of Governance (BOG) meeting Monday night. 
Sarita Fritzler, chief of staff, reported to BOG members a conversation she had with Vice President for Student Affairs Karen Johnson about extending the hours of the Student Center, which is normally open until 1 0 p.m. 
Johnson said she is interested in extending the hours, Fritzler said. Johnson said she would be willing to keep the Student Center open until 2 a.m. during finals week. The Cyber Cafe may also remain open until 12 a.m., she said. 
Fritzler said Johnson pro­posed providing coffee from 12 
a.m. to 2 a.m. after the Cafe closes. 
If attendance is high during finals, the hours may be extended permanently, Fritzler said. 
BOG is encouraging students to use the Student Center to study. The Board is also open­ing the student government office for students during the late hours. 
Woman's Studies commission­
er Renee Woodward said sto­
ries are now being accepted for 
the upcoming series of mono­
logues about Saint Mary's. 
The committee is seeking 
see BOG/page 3 
ND, SMC students spread Christmas spirit 
Notre Dame celebrates season with themed events, light displays, holiday concerts 
By .JOSEPH McMAHON 
N~ws Writer 
!\s tlw wind swept remnants of the sea­son's first snowfall across the quads, stu­dents began to celebrate the Christmas season. !\II around campus. giant light displays an~ bning erected and Christmas­thorned events held, giving students something other than finals to think about. 
The Glne Club's annual Christmas con­certs, to be held Saturday at the De Bartolo PN!'orming Arts Center, are expected to be sold out. The all-male choral group gave students, faculty and 
see CONCERTI page 6 


Annual fundraising event at Saint Mary's to provide presents for local faJnilies 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
Saint Mary's students have the opportu­nity to help 12 families and 25 individuals by participating in holiday-themed events during the next week and a half. 
The annual 12 Days of Christmas event sponsored by the Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) will host fundraising events, with all money going to South Bend-area families that the College "adopted" for the holiday season. 
The event began Dec. 1 when students were asked to turn in gifts they had pur­chased for families and individuals 
see FUNDRAISER/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 4, 2007 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Can't buy n1e love? 
Ev<~ry day I hoar about another frinnd gntting a job of'f'nr or getting a nwdieal school interview or snnd­ing in a graduate sdwol application. Yet horn I am. a snnior Arts and l.nttnrs major who has not 
Julie Grisanti 
IWOn Updatnd 
her J'lisunHi. I 

Graphics Designer
fnPI physical­
ly sick at the 
vnry thought of a job intnrvinw. 

Whatnvnr shall I do? Companies 
are not banging on my door to hire 
me. It S<HHns as if there is no bright 
futuro in sight for someone like 
mysnlf. 

Instnad. I will try for the next bnst 
thing-mooching ofT of someone 
who does have a future. So suecess­
ful nwn of Notrn Damn. Iiston up. 
(And wonwn. if you want a super 
awnsonw friend to suppnrt for tho 
rest of your lil'n. knep reading). I 
<:ould lw the perfect orw for you. 

I can do laundry. Since I probably 
will not havn a job, I can do yours, 
too . .lust don't ask me to separate 
lights and darks... that's not how I 
roll. I am prdty good at folding and 
putting things on hang<~rs, so that's 
a plus. I also have learrwd some 

good laundry-rPiat<Hl life lessons, 
sur.h as rwvnr leaving your laundry 
basket liiHLttendnd lwcause sonw­
orw can steal it right in front of 

your fa<·n. True story. Can you tPII 
I'm still bittPr? 

I can rook you the best mnal Lean Cuisinn has to offnr. I also make a nwan plato of scrambled eggs on Saturday morning. Trust nw. They blow dining hall eggs out of tlw watnr. Sinen I will probably have a lot of free tinw on my hands dun to tho absence ol' a job, I <:an learn how to make all kinds of faney foods by watching tlw Food Nntwork. I'm fully prnparPd to kick it up a notch and usn exeiting spieos sueh as parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme. 
I like football. Who here doesn't? Evon lwttnr. I <u:tually understand it. Not only that. but I ean provide you with hours ol' entertainment (that's what she said) with my amazing sense of humor. I also know about all tho best YouTubn videos. (What else do you think I do while I'm not looking for a job?). 
If any of this sounds interesting to you. you ean look me up on Facnbook to make sure I am not some sort of weirdo. Maybe we can hang out sometime and talk about the future, such as where you are planning on living and what kind of benefits your company offers for pooplo who live in your house but am not relatml to you. 
Don't think I'm selfish. For any othnr females out there who are in rny position, I have a friend who just got a job that offers great bone­fits. IIis name is Nick. If you lind him, you might just get in his good graces by wishing him a happy birthday. I would just mooch off of him myself. but I want to share the wealth. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Julie Grisanti at jgrisant(sllnd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

I )ue to a reponing error, the l )ec. 3 nt'WS article "Pence blocks pan of DeBartolo quad" incorrecdy stared rhe cardinal directions associated with rhe fence. The lence surrounding the miliries work area is located to the west of DeBartolo Hall and east of Hesburgh C..emer. l )m· roan ediring error, the photograph accompanying the Dec 3 article "lravel supplements in-class fearning" was incorrectly attributed. The photo was provided courtesy of Mark Quaresima. The Observer regrets these error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU WANT FOR CHRISTMAS? 






Christine Walls  Cassie Hepp  Adam Steinbach  Heidi Rocha  Steven Yonsl  Caitlin Pulte  
junior Howard  freshman Welsh Family  sophomore Knott  junior Breen-Phillips  sophomore .'>'iegfried  freshman Welsh Family  
"Santa ending poverty on my behalf  "A North Face jacket."  "World pea ... who am I kidding? I need  "/really do want world peace.  "/just want everyone to remember my  "Cowboy boots. "  

an iPhone." Seriously." 

Man accused of stealing plane to impress 
LaPORTE, Ind. -A man accused of stealing a twin-engine plane and driving it down the taxi­way staged the stunt while he was drunk to impress his girlfriend, police said. 
Michael Santos, 38, was charged Friday with theft, criminal mischief and operating a vehicle after his driving privileges had previously been forfeited for life. 
Santos, who is being held in the LaPorte County Jail on $2,000 bond, is accused of driv­ing to the LaPorte Municipal Airport despite 
a lifetime ban on his driv­ing privileges. 
According to poliee reports, Santos was drunk when he took his girl­friend to the airport Sept. 9 to show her that he could fly a plane. They <:limbed into the plane and were beading down the taxiway when, Santos told police, flames began shooting from the left engine. 
He said he turned off all the switches and veered into a soybean field. 
Accused thief makes a costume change 
STOYSTOWN, Pa. ­Police said a Somerset County man fled a traffic stop, went home, shaved his mustache and ehanged his clothes, and reported the truck he was driving as stolen. 

Conemaugh Township police said they stopped Hobert Sadlon, 50, for a broken taillight on Thanksgiving night and he ran off. Later, the same officer went to Sadlon's home near Stoystown to investigate the reported theft. There, he found a just-shaven Sadlon in dif­ferent clothes. 
Sadlon is charged with drunken driving, escape and related charges. 
Information compiled by the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::r:::: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c:r: 
(.) 



31 15 

HIGH LOW 
0 

..... HIGH 30 HIGH 23 
LOW 23 LOW 18 
name. " 
IN BRIEF 
A voter registration drive will lm lu~ld tonight from 7 to I) p.m. in thn Dooley Hoom of LaFortune. Thn nvnnt is spon­sored by NI>Votes'OR and the Center for Soda[ Conenrns. 
Campus Ministry is hosting a eel<~bration of Our Lady of Guadelupe. Prayer snrviees held to obtain special graees are being lwld in St. Edward's Hall Chapel at <J p.m. each night through Sunday. Thn enlebration is cosponsored by the Institutn for Latino Studies, La Alianza and 01 A 
There will be NASDAQ train­ing sessions tomorrow from 6 
p.m. to 7::{0 p.m. in Eek Visitors' Center. The event is availabl<~ to students only. Wednesday's 
topic:  is  "Defining  Your  
Customer  Market  and  
Competition."  

The Take Ten program will sponsor loeal ehildren at the Hobinson Community Learning Center in a bookmark recogni­tion eMemony at 6 p.m. Thursday. Loeal school children who partieipated in the Take Tcm program will make bookmarks. The Hobinson Center is loeated at 921 North Eddy Street. 
The annual football banquet will be held Friday at 5:45 p.m. 
· in the Joyce Center Monogram Room. The featurnd speaker will be 1993 graduate Aaron Taylor. a two-year All-American Ofl'ensive Taekle and Lombardi Award winner. Tickets ean be purchased through the Notre Dame Ticket Office, 574-631­7356. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 



HIGH 37 LOW 22 

Tuesday, December 4, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Task force leaders discuss second-semester goals 
ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor  Relations, announced his plan to make recommendations to Student Affairs about ways to  said. Chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil and student  cuss environmental issues. Invitations "should be going out," she said. "This will be  Code. Braun said the committee has "similar ideas and more  
improve community relations.  body vice  president Maris  more formal."  programs" to  make it better  
Student body president Liz  The recommendations, "still  Braun, leaders of the other  Braun, chair of the Task  suited to organize events and  
Brown encouraged all task  in the brainstorming stage,"  two  task  Force  on  address  awareness  of the  
forces  to  make recommenda­ will  most  likely contain  a  forces,  also  Student  Honor Code.  
tions to the Office of Student Affairs requesting support for task force initiatives Monday at the last meeting of the  three-to five-year plan. he said. Gari said he is in discus­sions to produce a Notre  presented their groups' goals for next semester.  "We hope to improve gender relations for students from their  Development, said she met with the stu­dent co-chair  "[The initiative] more natu­rally fit with a committee under the provost's office than a task force on student devel­ 
Campus  Life  Council  this  Dame-specific version of the  Plamoottil,  start at Notre Dame."  of  the  opment," she said.  
semester.  "Good Neighbor Guide" pro­ the  chair  of  University  Next semester, Braun's task  
The reports should be deliv­ered if the task forces "feel it's appropriate," Brown said.  duced by the University of Virginia. South Bend Common Council members cited the  the Task Force on Campus Environment,  Maris Braun student body vice president  Code of Honor Committee to discuss pass­ force will focus on gender issues at Freshman Orientation activities.  
"Heports like that, if well  UVA guide during hearings  said the third  ing off respon­ "We hope to improve gender  
researched. would be  a  great  about the event permit ordi­ of a  series of  sibilities  of  relations for students from  
contribution  to  Student  nance  passed  earlier  this  three green summits will be  Honor Code-related topics  their start at Notre Dame,"  
Affairs," she said.  semester.  held early next semester.  from the task force  to  the  she said.  
Brown's  comment  came  Next  semester,  the  task  The summit will consist of a  committee. The task force had  
after Gus Gari. chair of the  force will focus on transporta­ dinner and small group  ses­ discussed holding an  aware­ Contact Jenn Metz at  
Task  Force  on  Community  tion to and from campus, Gari  sions of seven or eight to dis­ ness week about the Honors  jmetz@nd.edu  


BOG 
continued from page 1 
only stories about positive relationship experiences, she said. 
Student trustee Cate Cetta said the new Strategic Plan is finished. The plan details changes the administration hopes to enact during the next five years, she said. 
The students had an important voice in creating the plan, said Kim Hodges, student body president. 
"It's for us and by us," she said. 
The Residence .Hall Association (HilA) will sup­port a local family during the Christmas season, said Cassie Quaglia, RHA presi­dent. 
Each residence hall will sponsor one of the family's four children. Every student is asked to donate so the halls can buy the children presents, Quaglia said. 
The Office for Civil and Social Engagement is spon­soring the 12 Days of Christmas at SMC. There are different festivities every day. The Junior Board will sell candygrams Wednesday through Friday in the atrium of the Student Center. 
Quaglia said there will be a spoons tournament in Regina Hall from 6:30 to 8 p.m. Dec. 13. 
The freshman formal will be held Jan. 26, said Emma Hoffman, president of the Class of 2011. 
YOUR CATERING SOLUTION!U 
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 
FREEBIE$ (SUBS & CLUBS ONLY) 
Onion, lettuce. alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced 
cucumber. Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar, and oregano. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

54570 N.IRONWOOO DR. 1290 E. IRELAND 138 S. MICHIGAN 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
574.277.8500 574.291.1900 574.246.1020 574.968.4600 
SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND SOUTH BEND MISHAWAKA 
_,,VOUR MOM WANTS VOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOMN'S!'' © 
Observer. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
Finals 
continued from page 1 
take llrnir flights out before the 23rd." Pacn said. 
The last day of' da.ss1~s at Notre Damn this year is Dec. 11, and studenL'i will take exams Dm:. 14­15 and l>1w. 17-19. Hnading days, more commonly known as study days, will be I>Pc. 12-13 and Dee. 
)(). 
Saint Mary's studenl'i will f'ollow the sanw exam sdwduie, although li>r Saint Mary's, the last 

day of' class is "We've had comments Calendar rules Dm:. 12, a day were amended in
from faculty and 
later than at March 2006, he
upperclassmen
NotrP Dame. said. "Tlw exam saying that they kind Tlw rules for 
sdwdule is set by oflike the mixing of the fall semester 
Notre Damn and calendar now
study days and final 
wn li>llow it." said statn that the first Lorraine Kitrhrwr, exams days." day of' eiass will tim College's rng­always be the istrar. lilllrth TUI~sday in
Harold Pace
Kitdnwr said August except
University registrar
she has not pPr­whnn the fourth 
sonally !ward any complaint'> about the ehangns. "Thnn1 may bn some grumbling out them," slw said. 
Pace said he has also not heard any complaints f'rom students about the chango to the normal 11nal nxam schndule, or to tho rnduetion in tho number of' study days. 
"I think everyone's settled into the schedule nicely,'' he said. 
In tho fall of' 2001, the last time dassns startnd on Aug. 2H, caus­ing exams to go until Dee. 19, Pacn said he heard positive remarks about the exam timetabln. 
"Wn'vn had eommenl'i from fac­ulty and upperelassmen saying that thny kind of like the mixing of study days and linal exams days,'' he said. 
Junior Broek Stoffel said he liknd thn typical Monday through Friday nxam sdwdule hotter, but said it was OK to have the change f'or a smrwstnr. StoiTell has two nxams on Friday, onn on Saturday and onn on Tuesday. 
With a study day on Sunday and no nxams on Monday, he said he can put studying f'or his Tw\sday nxam oil' until he linishes his otlwr tlm~P tnsl'i. 
Frnshman Sandra Nazareth will bn taking her lirst set of exams as a Notre Dame student in a week and so she didn't know this nxam sehnduln is slightly out of the ordi­nary. 

Fundraiser 
continued from page 1 
through a giving trne-type sys­tnrn. Cil'ts must be turned in by l>nc. 12 to the Madelnva Faculty Lounge, Library Foyer, Student Center Atrium and 161 Hngina flail. 
StudPnts can still piek up slips f'rom various ol'fiees around campus that will con­tain a name, ago and girt ideas f'or tlw f'arnilies and individuals. 
Thn Cclllnge provides food and gifts in two ways -indi­viduals can piek up slips and pu rchas11 tlw girts thmnselves. or the oflic:n staff' takes money and buys gifts directly, said Carrie Call, dirnetor of' the OCSE. 
The Collngt\'s adopted fami­lies arn reeomnwnded through the Salvation Army, Title 1 sdwols and otlwr organizations that have tiPs to Saint Mary's, Call said. Tlw Mental llealth Coalition and Hnsourres f'or 1\nriching Adult Living SPrvicns of' South Bnnd (HEAL) rPeomnwmlPd tlw individuals. 
"Wp always knPp room f'or a 

Nazareth said she is not that worried about exams. but thought she preli\rrnd tho exam sehnduie the way it is this year. 
"If I had four days in a row to study liw live tcsl'>, I think I'd feel a little overwhelmed,'' she said. 
The regular exam schedule, with ltJUr study days and then live continuous days of finals, will be used at the end of' the spring semester. The split-up exam schedule in placn this fall will not be repeated in 2012, tho next time Aug. 2H is the f'ourth Tuesday of August, Pace said. 
The Perpntual 
Academic 

Tuesday is Aug. 2H. In years whern the fourth Tuesday is Aug. 2H, the first dass day will instead be the third Tunsday, Aug. 21. 
"We'll now begin the fall term on Aug. 21-27 to ensure that we won't have this type of finish again,'' Pace said .. 
This change will ensure four grouped study days followed by f'ivc exam days on Monday through Friday. 
But this year, students at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be taking their exams with fewer days dedicated to studying. 
Notre Dame senior Lauren Gulley said she'd rather have the fllf,>Uiar timetable. 
''I'm used to the old schedule," she said. "I kind of had my rou­tine down." 
Gulley has three exams to take -one Friday, one Monday and one Tuesday. In past semesters, with four study days, she could spend the lirst night watching a movie or going out with her friends. 
On Thursday and Friday of study days, exams seemed so far away, she said. 
Now, with only two study days before her first exams, she fore­sees some "cramming beeause you can't spread it out as much." 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
few f'amilies or individuals who are brought to us by internal rnferrals -people in need who work at Saint Mary's or arc related to the College in some way,'' Call said. 
Money will also be raised through events sueh as the lloliday Bazaar, whieh took place in the Studnnt Center atrium Monday. 
The Bazaar featured braefdets, dolls, jewelry, scarves and baked goods. 
The 12 Days of Christmas event will also include orna­ment decorating, Christmas eard-making for children in the c:ancer ward at Hiley Childrcns Hospital in Indianapolis and tho selling of eandy grams to buy girts for the f'amilies and individuals. 
"We also have a raffle f'or which you can buy tickets through this wenk and next," Cali said. "The drawings will be at the late night breakfast Ion Dne. 171. This ind udes things likP iTunes gift cards, munch money, lanl SMC stained glass mirror and an athletic jacket." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Health 
continued from page 1 
prescription has to be given. 
"We need a letter from the doctor's office faxed to us directly telling us why it was prescribed if in fact it was pre­scribed for non-contraceptive purposes,'' Kleva said. 
Prescriptions for birth control and othnr medications ean also be transferred f'rom the home pharmacist to the pharmacist at llealth Services, Kleva said. Only government-regulated medications, like nareoties, cannot cross state borders, she said. 
While Health Serviens does not direct students to sourecs to find birth control, patients will be dimeted to counseling serv­ices, Campus Ministry or Gender Helations Center if they have other questions, she said. 
"If they need help with a rela­tionship situation, [wei will show them where to get coun­seling,'' Kleva said. 
Notre Dame's practices in the prescription of birth control are similar to those at other Catholic institutions. 
Elaine Whetzel, administrator of the Health Center at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., said birth eontrol is provided if it is "med­ically necessary." 
"If the doetor orders the pre­scription, it is for medical con­ditions only,'' she said. 
Unlike at Notre Dame, the Health Center at Georgetown does not fill prescriptions from outside physicians. 
The Boston College Web site states its health services does not "provide materials for the purpose of preventing eonenp­tion" beeausc of "the moral val­ues that Boston College espous­es." The director and adminis­trators of Health Serviens at Boston College did not return Observer inquiries by the time of publication. 

Pregnancy 

At Notre Dame's lloalth Services, the stall' is eoneernnd primarily with supporting and protecting life, Klova said. 
If a woman bncomes preg­nant on campus, "we want to be supportive and o('f(~r care and guidance," she said. 
want a woman to feel ostra­cized. We will do anything to protnet these women." 
Gynecological care 
There are four physicians, two male and two f'omale, at llealth Serviens that are "board certified, all capable of per­forming lgyneeologieall 1~xams on campus,'' Kiewa said. 
P<~tients requesting gynecol­ogical earn can specify if they prefer a male or female physi­cian, she said. 
I Iealth Serviens does not olli~r formal elassns about snxually transmitted inf'eetions, but doc­tors are available to provide education and counseling on 

"Somntimcs that's a mispor­eeption. We are not here to  "We certainly don't want a woman to feel ostracized. "  the topic, Kleva said. lloalth Serviens also  
judge," Kleva  provides  a  
said.  Ann Kleva  nationally cir­ 
She said both  director  culated  
I Iealth Snrviees  broehurn from  
and the Office  University Health Services  the  American  

of' Student Affairs oll'er support for preg­nant women if they dceide to stay on eampus. 
"In the half dozen eases I've dealt with over the years, the girls have graduated on time," Kleva said. "They ean't live in the dorms, but there is family housing available. You'll lind that the whole dorm will become babysitters." 
Health Services offers free pregnancy tests that ean be given during an appointment or taken home anonymously, Kleva said. 
"We oll'er guidance and edu­cation,'' she said. "You have to look at how we all address the issues. [ ... )We certainly don't 
College llealth Association about symptoms and treatment options for vari­ous sexually transmitted infec­tions. 
"The first sentenec says the only true way to prevent the sprnad of these infections is to abstain from risky behavior," she said. 
Health Services keeps in stoek Gardisil, the vaccine for human papillomavirus, com­monly referred to as IIPV. The vaeeine is administered in a series of three injections over six months and may help guard against eervieal eancer. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

THURSDAY AND FRIDAY 





DECEMBER &·7 
IAM·lDPM 
• 20o/o* off Notre Dame logo gifts and apparel 
·Complimentary gift wrapping 
• Refreshments will be served 
*Discount only applies to in-store purchases with valid student ID, and excludes textbooks, software, computer hardware and class rings. See store for details. 

HAMMES -~ 
NOTRE DAME·~ 
BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndcatolog.com 
The Varsity Shop at the Joyce Center will also be honoring the student discount from 9am-5pm. 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, December 4, 2007 CoMPILED FROI'v1 TI--lE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.N. holds global warming talks 
BALl. Indonesia --Delegates and scientists from around the world opened the biggest-ever climate change conference Monday. urging rapid progress in building a new international pact by 2009 to combat global warming --or risk m:onomic and enviromnnntal disaster. 
Some 10,000 conferees, activists and journal­ists from nearly 190 eountries gathered on the rnsort island of Bali for two weeks of U.N.-lnd talks that follow a series of sdnntilic rnports this ynar coneluding that the world has the tn('hnology to slow global warming, but must ad immediately. 
Tlw Bali nweting will bP the lirst major eli­mate change confprence since former Vice l'wsident AI Gore --due to arrive next week-­and a U.N. scientific council won the Nobel Peace Priz11 in October for their environmental work. fuding the growing sense of urgp,ncy as irn-eaps melt, oceans rise and extreme weath­er inernases. 
British teacher pardoned in Sudan 
KI!AHTOUM. Sudan --A British teacher jailed for letting her students name a teddy bear Muhammad as part of a writing projm~t headed home Monday afu~r being pardoned --ending a case that Sf~t oil' an inLPrnational outcry and angetwl many moderatP Mw;lims. 
Tlw incident was the latest in a tense relation­ship betwnen the West and Sudanese President Omar ai-Bashir. an Islamic hard-liner who has benn accused by the United Nations of dragging his li1et on the deployment of pnacekeepnrs to the ('ountry's war-tom Darfur rngion. 
Gillian Gibbons. jailed li>r more than a week, was lrer.d after two Mw;lim members of Britain's I louse of Lords met with al-Bashir and the tnacher SPilt thn prnsident a statement saying she didn't mP<Ul to oflimd anyone with hr.r da'iS pn~ject. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

None charged in MySpace suicide 
ST. LOUIS --People who sent cruel Internet messages to a 13-year-old girl before she com­mittr.d suicide won't face criminal charges, a suburban St. Louis prosecutor announced Monday. 
St. Charles County prosecutor Jack Bana<> said that while he understands the public outrage over Megan Meier's death, he could not find statutes allowing him to charge anyone in the ea<>e. 
"We were certainly hopeful that there was going to be some sort of proseeution, but I'm cer­tainly not surprised," said Megan's mother, Tina Meinr. 

Evel Knievel settlement still pending 
LOS ANGELES--Of all the bones Eve! Knievel broke over the years, the costliest may have been the left arm of a PR man by the name of Shelly Saltman. 
Saltman won $12.75 million in damages against Knievel after the motorcycle daredevil attacked him with a baseball bat in 1977 in a rage over a book Saltman had written about the showman. 
With interest, the still-uncollected sum has grown to more than $100 million by Saltman's estimate, and he intends to try to collect it. 
"We are going hot and heavy after his estate," Saltman told The Associated Press af'ter Knievel died Friday at 69. "What he tried to do to me and how it hurt my family, I'm owed that." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Teen pleads guilty to sniper shootings 
BHOWNSTOWN. Ind. --A teenager pleaded guilty to rPdueed charges Monday in a series of Indiana highway sniper shootings that Jell one man dnad and another wounded. 
Zachariah Blanton. 18. of Gaston, had benn scheduled to stand trial next week on charges of murder. attPmptnd murder and criminal reekless­Iwss. lin pleaded t,ruilty in Jackson Cireuit Court to lesser charges of voluntary manslaughter with a deadly weapon 1md criminal rm:klnssm1ss. 
A judge must still approve Blanton's deal with prosecutors. Sentenc:ing is set for Dec. 27. and Blanton could receive anything bntwnen 20 years and 50 years in pri<>on. 


VENEZUELA 

Country chooses to stay democratic 
Voters narrowly defeat Chavez's constitutional referendum to move toward a socialist state 
Associated Press 
CAHACAS--Humbled by his first electoral defeat ever, President Hugo Chavez said Monday he may havn been too ambitious in asking vot­ers to let him stand indefi­nitely for re-election and endorse a huge leap to a socialist statn. 
"[ understand and accept that the proposal! made was quite profound and intense." he said after votp,rs narrowly rejected the sweeping consti­tutional reforms by 51 per­cent to 49 percent. 
Opposition activists were ecstatic as the results were announced shortly after midnight --with 88 percent of the vote counted. the trend was dP.clared irre­versible by elections couneil chief Tibisay Lucena. 
Some shed tears. Others began chanting: "And now he's going away!" 
Without the overhaul, Chavez will be barred from running again in 2012. 

Foes of the reform effort --induding Homan Catholic leaders, media freedom groups, human rights groups and prominent business leaders --said it would have granted Chavez unchecked power and imperiled basic rights. 
Chavez told reporters at the presidential palace that State Nicholas Burns also was just 56 percent. mounted earlier for a victory the outcome of Sunday's bal­said it was a victory for the The defeated reform pack­fete. loting had taught him that country's citizens who want age would have created new "It's difficult to accept this, "Venezuelan democracy is to prevent Chavez from hav­types of communal property, but Chavez has not aban­maturing." His respect for ing unchecked power. let Chavez handpick local doned us, he'll still be there the verdict, he asserted, "We felt that this referen­leaders under a redrawn for us," she said between proves he is a true demo­dum would make Chavez political map and suspended sobs. cratic leader. president for life, and that's civil liberties during extend­A close ally of Cuba's Fidel 
"From this moment on, not ever a welcome develop­ed states of emergency. Castro, Chavez has redistrib­let's be calm," he proposed, ment," Burns told reporters Other changes would have uted more oil wealth than asking for no more street in Singapore. "In a country shortened the workday from past Venezuelan leaders, violence like the clashes that that wants to be a democra~ eight hours to six, created a and also has aided Latin marred pre-vote protests. cy, the people spoke, and the social security fund for mil­American allies -including "There is no dictatorship people spoke for democracy lions of informal laborers Bolivia, Ecuador and here." and against unlimited and promoted communal Nicaragua --that have fol­
The White House took note power." councils where residents lowed Venezuela's turn to of Chavez's setback. Chavez, who was briefly decide how to spend govern­the left. 
"We eongratulate the peo­ousted in a failed 2002 coup, ment funds. "He is a man who feels for ple of Venezuela on their blamed the loss on low Nelly Hernandez, a 37-the people, a man who has election and their continued turnout among the very sup­year-old street vendor, cried suffered, a man who eomns desire to live in freedom and porters who re-elected him a as she wandered outside the from below," Carlos Orlando democracy," National year ago with 63 percent of presidential palace early Vega, a 47-year-old carpen­Security Council spokesman the vote. Monday amid broken beer ter's assistant, said outside a Gordon Johndroe said. Seven in 10 eligible voters bottles as government work­polling station in a Caracas 
U.S. Undersecretary of cast ballots then. This time it ers took apart a stage slum on Sunday. 

U.S. report reverses nuclear findings 
Associated Press turnaround from the previous intelli­States and Iran, which President 
gence assessment in 2005. Then, U.S. Bush has labeled part of an "axis of 
WASHINGTON --A new U.S. intelli­intelligence agencies believed Tehran evil," along with Iraq and North gence report concludes that Iran's was determined to develop a nuclear Korea. At an Oct. 17 news confer­nuclear weapons development pro­weapons capability and was continu­ence, Bush said, "If you're interested gram has benn halted since the fall of ing its weapons development pro­in avoiding World War Ifl. it seems 2003 because of international pres­gram. The new report concludes that like you ought to be interested in pre­sure --a stark contrast to the conclu­fran's decisions are rational and venting them Oran) from having the sions U.S. spy agencies drew just two pragmatic, and that Tehran is more knowledge necessary to make a years ago. susceptible to diplomatic and finan­nuclear weapon." 
The finding is part of a National cial pressure than previously thought. Hand Beers, who resigned from Intelligence Estimate on Iran that "Tehran's decision to halt its Bush's National Security Council just also cautions that Tehran continues nuclear weapons program suggests it before the Iraq war, said thP report to enrich uranium and still could is less determined to develop nuclear should derail any appetite for war on develop a bomb between 2010 and weapons than we have been judging the administration's part, and should 2015 if it decided to do so. since 2005," says the unclassified reinvigorate regional diplomacy. "The 
The conclusion that Iran's weapons summary of the secret report. new NIE throws cold water on the program was still frozen, through at The findings come at a time of esca­efforts of those urging military con­least mid-2007. represents a sharp lating tensions between the United frontation with Iran," he said. 
page 6 The Observer+ NEWS Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
Concert 
continued from page I 
area rnsidents a taste of what is to come Monday at the O'Shaughnessy Christmas tree lighting 1~11remony in the Great llall, singing traditional favorites such as "White Christmas" and "Carol of the Bells" in addition to some Spanish and Caribbean songs. Aeeording to Glee Club vice president, senior Fran McCormiek, Saturday's con­cert will include carols from around the world. 
All proceeds from this year's concert will go to the Center for tlw Homeless in South Bend. 
Club pn~sid!mt senior Peter Mueller stressed that the con­cert is an event for the whole community. 
"ll brings in a lot of pnopln from all over South Bend," he said. 
The concert, a blend of spir­itual. 1\thnic and seasonal musk. is an event that defines tlw Christmas season at Notre Dame, dub members said. 
"ll is a very focal event that sums up the attitude for the whole season," said vke pres­ident senior John Grothaus. "Studonts and toadwrs really ~~omn together, and families from tlw community have tra­ditions where they come to the concPrt every year. This is somnthing for tlw nntire cam­pus, not an event segregated by dorm." 
Ticknts will bH available at the door. For those that miss Saturday's concert, the Undertorws. an a cappella group composed of ten mem­lwrs of tlw (;ten Club, will per­form a Christmas concert llnc.l2 at Washington Hall. The show will include a mix of Christmas anthPrns and pop songs, Crothaus said. 
Tick11ts are available for $5 at tl1e l.aFortunP Box Ol"lk11. 
Associated p,..,., 
BOISI~. Idaho -A man who murdPrPd tlw family of two young siblings, thPn sexually abusPd t.hP ehildren before killing CIIH' of" tlll'm at a rPmOtP Montana rampsitP, ploadPd guilty Monday to fnd1\ral clwrgns that could h•ad to his nxnrul ion. 
.losPph J.:dward Duncan Ill did not makP a plna deal with prosnnrlors and Parlier pleaded 
"I will rontin­uo to accept that responsibility to thn death," he said. 
Duncan admittPd kidnapping Shasta Gronnn. tlwn S. and her 11-ynar-old brothnr, Dylan, sex­ually abusing tlwm and killing tlw boy. Shasta was r11seued about s1wen weeks after the 2005 abduction whon people spottPCI Duncan and the child at a restaurant. 
Duncan's guilty plnas to I 0 federal f'Pionies nwan that Shasta Groene will be spared having to testify at a trial. 
"For my family, w1~'re happy," Shasta's fathnr, Stove (;roorw. said by telephorw. "She dons not havn to testify in 

In addition to the Christmas concerts, residence halls across campus are spreading holiday cheer by holding char­ity events or decorating their buildings. A number of dorms, including Alumni, Welsh Family and Farley, are holding intra-dorm contests to see which sections can best deco­rate their hallways. 
"We have trains, giant inflatable snow men, Christmas trees, and tons of lights," said Alumni hall 
''As a Notre Dame 

president Matt homes, holding Kernan. "The student, we should be a canned food judging will drive, and buy­
very concerned about 

take place on ing presents for
doing service during 

Wednesday and a needy family. the entire cam­Christmas time." "As a Notre pus is invited Dame student, to come view we should be
James Toner 

the decorations very concerned

Keenan vice president 

on Friday." about doing 
Alumni will also hold the campus's only candlelight Christmas Mass on Dec. 16. The Mass is open to the entire campus. 
Other dorms are celebrating by holding events geared toward benefiting various charities. This Wednesday, lloward will celebrate lloward Halliday outside of LaFortune. Iloward residents will lead participants in singing carols, making s'mores, and drinking hot chocolate. The event will benefit Camp Kesem, a camp for children whose parents have been diagnosed with cancer, by selling T-shirts and encouraging donations. 
"We're excited beeause it's the first year Kesem is recog­nized as a student activity," said Iloward Halliday eo­chair, sophomore Lauren Miller-L1~rnon. "We want Kesem to become part of Notre Dame, so we deeidod this would be a good event because we can spread holi­day cheer and benefit a good cause." 
Several dorms have already lwld Christmas events. Carroll 
service during Christmas time," said Keenan vice president, junior James Toner. 
In addition to the service projects, Keenan residents have erected a giant light dis­play on the east side of their dorm featuring a snowman and the phrase, "Twas the Knight before Christmas." 
In order to mount the dis­play, hall residents construct­ed a frame with PVC pipe and then attached the lights with chicken wire. Residents had to worry about finding enough power outlets in order to pre­vent the strands from short­circuiting. 
"We were careful to only string four strands of lights together," Toner said. 
The project was a chance to bring the dorm closer together and boost holiday spirits, he said. 
"It's good because it involves the whole dorm; it's a celebra­tion with your dorm family," he said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Man pleads guilty to slayings 
guilty to stat<' "/ will continue to her 1:~-year-old charges. liP accept that son, Sladn told llw judgP Groene, were
responsibility to the
lw wants to bound and
death."

takn responsi­bludgeoned to bility for his death with a actions. Joseph Edward Duncan Ill hammer. 
this phase ol"this." 
Shasta and her father wen~ not in tlw courtroom Monday. They live in Coeur d'Aierw in a honw built for tlwrn through donations from tlw community. Duncan narliPr pleaded guilty in state rourt to kidnap­ping and murdt-ring otlwr members of the Gnwne family at tlwir homo in May 2005. Shasta and Dylan's mothor. Bn~nda Groene; lwr l"iarH~n. M a r k McKenzie; and 
Duncan was 

sentenced to lifo in prison without parole for kidnapping the three older vic­tims. The death penalty remains a possibility for the state murder counts; the judge defern~d imposing punishment on those counts to give federal prosecutors timn to pursue tlwir cas1\, which is centered on events in Montana after the children wem abducted. 
Wh i In it is The Associated Press' policy not to identify alleged victims of sexual assault in most eases, the search for Shasta and her brother was heavily publieiz1~d and thoir names are widely known. 
hall hosted the well-attended Carroll Christmas Friday. The event included a Christmas tree lighting ceremony, a cookie-baking contest, Christmas carols and an opportunity for photos with Santa Claus. 
On Sunday, Keenan Hall held its Reindeer Roast, a bar­becue held outside. As part of Reindeer Roast Week, Keenan residents will participate in service activities including caroling at sen­ior citizen 
Duncan was on the run from a child molostat.ion ehargn in Minnesota in May 2005 wlwn he drove past the Groene honw east of CoPur d'AIPne, spotting the d1ildron playing outside, court documents say. Duncan stalkPd the GrooTH~ family for snv1~ral days before attacking. 
Duncan took Shasta and Dylan and drove into the mountains near St. Hngis, Mont., where hP sexually abusPd tlwm for wenks bdore killing Dylan, doeurnonts say. 
Duncan vidnotaped tho abuse of Dylan befon1 shooting him with a sawod-ofl' shotgun. said Assistant U.S. Attornoy Tracy Whelan. 
Duncan has been quoted in court documents as saying he was trying to return Shasta to her father when ho and the lit­tle girl were spottnd in a Coeur d'Alene restaurant. 
Duncan faces the death penalty on three of the federal felonies: kidnapping resulting in death, sexual exploitation of' a child resulting in death, and using a firearm during and in relation to a crime of violence resulting in death. 
He also pleaded guilty to kid­napping, two counts of aggra­vated sexual abuse of' a minor, being a felon in possession or a firearm, transportation of' a stolen firearm, possession or an unrogistered firearm, and transportation of a stolen vehi­cle. 



Robertson to turn network over to son 
Christian Broadcasting Network's new chief executive determined to carry on father's work 
Associated Press 
The Rev. Pat Robertson said Monday that his son, Gordon, has succeeded him as chief executive of the Christian Broadcasting Network, the most recent shift to a younger generation of' leaders within major conservative Christian groups. 
Hobertson, 77, announced the transition on "The 700 Club," the Virginia-based net­work's flagship show. with Gordon, 49, on air with him. 
"I thought that some of this day-to-day operation was 
father, Lindsay said. "I don't see any evidence of that cur­rently. lie has been mueh more below the radar." 
Pat Hobertson founded CBN in 1960 with a tiny UIIF sta­tion in Portsmouth, Va. 
The network has grown to about 2,800 cmployens, pro­ducing programs in IJIJ lan­guages in more than 225 countries. The elder Hobertson also founded the service ministry Operation Blessing. ran unsuceessfully for the 198S Hepublican prns­idential nomination, founded the once-influ­ential Christian 
important to "The question is Coalition and pass down the made millions
whether Gordon will
line, especially of dollars to somebody a have the same kind of through busi­little more flair for the dramatic ness invest­adept at l"igur­ments.
and rhetorical
ing out the new The elder
flourish I as his
technologies Hobortson is coming at such father/." also known for a bewildering on-air commen­speed to all or tary that critics
J. Michael Lindsay 
us," the elder called offensive 
sociologist
Robertson said. and that many The network's Rice University evangelicals 
board of dirnc­tors voted over the weekend to name Gordon Hobertson the CEO immedi­ately. Pat Hobertson will still be chairman of CBN and will continue to appear with his son on "The 700 Club." lie will also rnmain prnsidont of Heg1mt University, which he founded. 
Gordon Hobertson said in a phone intnrview with Tho Associated Press that his father had knee replacnment surgery last spring and over the summer devoloped an irregular heartbeat that rnquired surgery. But he is "in remarkably good lwalth now." 
"I call him tho Iron Horse," Gordon Bobnrtson said. "lin donsn't havn any quit in him." 
Gordon Hobertson is among sovnral sons of major Christian lnaders who have reenntly lwnn chargnd with carrying o n t h n i r rat lu~ r s · work. 
The Rev. Franklin Graham, son of 89-year-old evangelist Billy Graham, became ehinf nxecutive of' tho Billy Graham Evangelistic Association sev­eral years ago. 
Whnn the Hnv. Jerry Falwnll died last May, his sons. .Jnrry Jr. and Jonathan, took leader­ship of their father's Virginia 
mogachureh and  tiH~  school  
ho  founded,  Liberty  
University.  

Last yoar, Hobert A. Schuller succeeded his father, Hobert fl. Schuller, as head of Crystal Cathedral and its min­istries in California, ineluding the popular "!lour of Power" televised services from the megachureh. 
J. Michael Lindsay, a sociol­ogist at Hice University and author of "Faith in the Halls of Power," noted that CBN faees significantly more com­petition now than when it started more than four decades ago and no longer has the dominant role it did in the 1970s and 'SOs. 
"The question is whother Gordon will have the same kind or nair for the dramatic and rhetorical llourish" as his 
considered an 
embarrass­

ment. lie once said that 
American agents should 
assassinate Vennzuelan 
President Hugo Chavez and 
suggested that the debilitating 
stroke suffered by Israeli 
Prim11 Minister Ariol Sharon 
was divine rntribution for his 
decision to withdraw from the 
Gaza Strip. 
Hobnrtson wound up apolo­gizing for both rnmarks. 
(;ordon Bobertson, who sharns his father's Pentncostal-styln faith, told the AI' that he and his fatlwr have difTerent styles, pointing to their approach to playing chess. 
"Dad likns the hold strikos and bold movns," lu• said. "I like looking at the end ganw, and I think it's good to do that." 
lin says he won't endorsn a prnsidnntial candidatn. 
l.ast month, his f'atllt'r barknd Hudy (;iuliani !'or tlw H~>publican nomination. despite thn f'ormnr Nnw York mayor's support for abortion rights and samn-snx mar­riage. Explaining his endorsn­mnnt. thP nldnr Hobertson said, "Tiw overriding issuP hef'on~ the Amoriean pnople is tho def"Pnso of our population from the bloodlust of Islamic terrorists." 
Gordon Bobertson, a gradu­atn of Yale University and Washington & Lee Law Sehool, was active in the Hepublican Party wlwn he practiced law. but said, "I lit­erally walked away from all that." llowBver, he said he ~.oes pla_n to sp~ak out on 
Issues of the day. 
"I think that's something ... that Christians have an obli­gation to do. I don't see myself shying away from that," he said. 
Gordon Hobnrtson spent live years in Manila as head of CBN's Asia operations hefm·n roturning to thn U.S. and working with his rathor. Ill~ plans to expand CBN min­istries ovorsnas through TV and the Wnb. 
Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 


Dow 13,314.57 -57.15
Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
2,345 971 971 3,306,114,713 

AMEX 2,351,55 -8.30 NASDAQ 2,637.13 -23.83 NYSE 9,811.86 ~44:99 S&P 500 1,472.42 -8.72 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,598.53 .,30.44 
FTSE 100 'London~ 6,386.60 -45.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -0.66 -0.98 147.68 POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.84 -0.43 50.88 E*TRADE FINL CORP (ETFC) -10.65 -0.49 4.11 COUNTRYWIDE FNL CP (CFC) -1.29 -0.14 10.68 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -1.94 -0.077 3.895 13-WEEK BILL -3.58 -0.110 2.960 30-YEAR BOND -1.11 -0.049 4.354 5-YEAR NOTE -3.80 -0.013 3.288 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.60 89.31 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +5.60 794.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.60 90.73 
Exchange Rates 

YEN 110.3150 EURO 0.6823 CANADIAN DOLLAR 1.0028 BRmSH POUND 0.4847 
IN BRIEF 
U.S. manufacturing continues to grow 
NEW YORK -U.S. manufacturing expanded in November as new orders and production improved, but weakness in employment suggested that industrial jobs may not be as plentiful in coming months. 
The Institute for Supply Management, a Tempe, Ariz.-based trade group, said Monday that its manufacturing index regis­tered 50.8 last month, down from 50.9 in October. A reading above 50 indicates growth; below that spells contraction. 
The November results, which marked the 1Oth consecutive monthly expansion. were slightly stronger than the 50.1 expected by analysts polled by Thomson/IFR Markets. 
"While other segments of the economy are struggling, manufacturing continues to grow due to continuing strength in new orders, and a recovery in production from last month," Norbert Ore, chairman of the institute's business survey committee, said in a statement. "Prices, driven higher by energy prices, are once again the major concern." 
Ford plans to offer full lineup in 2020 
DEAHBOHN, Mich. -Ford Motor Co. plans to offer a full line of vehicles, including trucks and sport utility vehicles, in 2020 despite tougher federal fuel economy regulations likely to take effect that year, Chief Executive Alan Mulally said Monday. 
The auto industry's fleet of new cars, sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and vans will have to average 35 miles per gallon in combined city and highway driving by 2020, according to the agreement that congressional negotiators announcod late Friday. That compares with the 2008 requirement of 27.5 mpg average for cars and 22.5 mpg for light trucks. It would be the first increase ordered by Congress in three decades. 
The commitment may be difficult for Ford, which doesn't have a single vehicle in its 2008 model year lineup that meets the new standards. 

THE OBSERVER 



USINESS 
page 7 

Home retailers join winter sales rush 
Businesses add holiday items in attempt to recover from slump in consumer spending 
Associated Press 
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. ­Amid the paint, power tools and 99-piece wreneh and ratehet sets, the aisles at Home Depot are filled this holiday season with wrapping paper, snow vil­lages and artificial Christmas trees. 
"I was a little surprised when I walked in," said Alice Yoder, of Charlotte, Home Depot circular in hand, as she scanned the holiday section for a pre-lit Christmas wreath adver­tised for $59.99. "I knew Home Depot had a huge selection of lights and trees, but the Santas, and other home decor, that I dido 't expect." 
The nation's beleaguered home retailers -stung by declining consumer confi­dence, slumping home sales, tighter credit stan­dards and rising fuel prices -are fighting hard to attract Yoder and others in a last-minute rush of customers to help make up for what's been a tough year. 
"Customers still want to 
feel good about their 
homes," said Craig 
Menear, executive viee 
president of merchandising 
for Home Depot. "We took 
a bigger swing in holiday 
items this year, because we 
know that when times are 

more difficult, consumers home heating prices and and unique merchandise, early, including The 
want to take care of their the mortgage rate eon­plus running special online Container Store and 
homes." cerns, shoppers anticipate promotions, along with the Design Within Reach, with 
Retailers generally cutting baek on many cate­traditional in store trim-a­direct mail and e-mail expect this holiday season gories, including home," tree wares. offers for affordable small to be a nail-biter, with said Wendy Liebmann, At Pottery Barn, stores items and unique larger most expeeting only small president of marketing are offering holiday deco­ones. gains in sales volumes consulting firm WSL rating classes and special At Home Depot's Web compared with last year. Strategic Retail. "It's a sea­shopping hours, and cus­site, customers can watch It's even worse for the son of mind-set over mat­tomers who attend receive comedian and actor Steve home retailers -con­ter, as shoppers feel very a complimentary Pottery Harvey talk about ways to sumers nationwide are unsettled about what the Barn design book. At Maey prepare their home for the forecast to spend only year-end will look like for Inc., a new product launch holidays, from floor instal­around $94 on home and them financially and emo­from Martha Stewart is lation to holiday decor. The holiday furnishings this tionally." designed to drive traffic to store's offering is backed season, down from last To compensate, home home departments that with a full marketing cam­year's $115, according to retailers -including didn't exist last holiday paign, complete with print Deloitte's annual holiday Macy's Inc., Crate & season. and electronic media, survey. Barrel, Home Depot and Other home retailers online and direct mail 
"With the rise of gas and others -offering both new started the holiday push advertising. 

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES 

OPEC debates a hike in oil production 
Associated Press Petroleum Exporting Countries will casts from both OPEC and the 
consider another 500,000-barrel-a­International Energy Agency. And a 
ABU DHABI -With oil prices day production boost in Abu Dhabi. half-a-million barrel OPEC produc­backing away from record levels Unnamed OPEC officials have told tion hike from last month is start­but nervous traders poised to bid Dow Jones an even higher 750,000 ing to kick in, alongside with them up, OPEC oil ministers will barrel-a-day hike could be in the expectations of increased output have a tough call Wednesday on cards. from the United Arab Emirates whether to crank up produetion. Oil prices tumbled in anticipation with the end of refinery mainte­
Up to a few days ago, the markets of such a move, along with fears for nance there. were betting that OPEC decision­the health of the U.S. economy, Such developments support argu­makers would opt to increase out­leaving prices down by nearly $10 ments by key OPEC ministers that put at their meeting in Abu Dhabi by Friday -the biggest correction the market is well-supplied and has in attempts to cool red-hot prices ever in nominal terms. been driven higher by speculation. that closed at a record $98.18 on Two days ahead of the OPEC Amid the mixed signals, ministers Nov. 23 before falling back. meeting, the price of light, sweet will want to tread earefully -they 
Comments from OPEC members crude for January delivery fell remember the disastrous fallout boosted such sentiment. Iraqi Oil $1.17 to $87.54 a barrel on the from their decision to raise output Minister Hussein al-Shahristani New York Mereantile Exchange, just before the 1997 Asian financial told Dow Jones Newswires last Also pressuring prices downward erisis only to see oil prices plummet week that the Organization of are reduced demand growth fore-from $20 to $12 a barrel. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT

page 8 Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
Abortion and gender 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEI' Maddie IIanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANA_GER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
A~Sl~ MANAGING EDITOR: Kyle Cassity AssT. MANAI;ING EmTOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NEWS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SroRTS EDITORS: Chris Khorey Chris lline ScENE EmToR: 'Jae Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Karie Kohler 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAI'IIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
AllVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez 

AD DESIGN MANAGF.It: Kdly (;ronli CONTROLLER: 'J'im Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 6.~ 1-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 6.H-6<JOO ohservad@nd.cdu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
()74) 6.31-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.31-4541 ohsme(a'nd.t•du 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 6.H-43l4 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

('\74) 631-5.323 obsncws.1 @nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vicwpoint.l@nd.l'du 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@1nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLIN£ 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

Til(" Observer is the indq>mdent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Coll<'g<'. Editorial content, including advertiscmmts, is not governed by policit·s of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on coment. 
The nl'ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Fdirors and department editors. ( :mnml'ntaric·s, lettl'rS and columns pre-sent the views of the authors and nor necessarily tlwse ofThe ( >bservcr. 
Vicwpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro th<· Editor must be signed and must include <:ontact iniOrntation. 
Qrmtiom "garding Obsrmrr polici~ should be dim·trd to Editor in ChiefMaddie llam1a. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

'lltC' ( lh..rrv.:t (US I''\ ''J<J l-41100) 11puhh•hctl Munday thmugh hi.lo~.y cxu:pr duru1h cum .unl Y,b"DIInn j'<tlo~. A lllih\oCnpuun tu 111c Oh!.crvct j, $100 lur 1111r JC.ltkmic 
~ar,'l,'\lillllfW'II'IIl<'"l'T 

!he ()h~rvct 11puhl•~hl:\l.n l'<l\1MA.\1'EI\ Ql-4 Sutllh Ilmmp: f lo~H Send ,Jcldrt'\.\ o;:orrcaiom 111. Nottr (l;unc.IN .1(,"i~6-0779 '11u: Oh..crvcr 
I'C'lino:JI,.Jl f"-'UJi~ f~id olf J'>.iuw: (),uuc ru l\uxniJ .unl.ui.JiuolftJI m.ulm~ nfli.;e Ul4 Smuh IJuun~ H.JI 
Num: I tuuc. IN 1M'ib·077'J 
Tl1c l)lltoCrw:r 11 llllr:Uibcr nl rhc -~XI~u:d l'rCJo.\. All IC'jllmlutiiiii\IIK1U\ ,tfc rrurvt.i 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kan~n Langley Dan Murphy Maurnon Mullen Greg Arbogast Nikki Taylor Meaghan Veselik Graphics Scene Malllludson Analise Lipari ViPwpoint 
Mic~heiiP Johnson 
"If men could get pmt-,rnant, abortion would be a sacrament," said Rosie O'Donnell. in one of her final displays of it-,rnorance and tastelnssness beli1re leaving the intnlleetual feast known as "The View" this pw;t summnr. What 
Greg

occa<;ioned that particu­
Yatarola

lar lit was the rncent 
Suprnme Court decision 
Dome and 

upholding a ban on an 
Domer 

especially impolite 
method of abortion. O'Donnell also drew 
ominous conclusions from the fact that the 
live justices in the majority were all 
Catholic men. But of eourse -they voted 
to permit the ban not because abortion 
isn't even vagudy hinted at in the 
Constitution, but because they'rn misogy­
nist Vatican robots! 
I'd seen that comment b«~forn. Back whc~n I wa<> an undergrad. the Viewpoint mtitor printed it once as the section's quote of the day. I'm not surn whom it was attrib­utnd to. I a<;sumed the point was valid, that the conflict in America over abortion is largdy a conflict betwenn men and women. Yes, I've always known women who wern dead-snt against it, and men who are very gratnful for it<; easy availability, but in many ways, subtle or not-so-subtle, our sodety reinforces the idea that the light against abortion is a matter of men telling women what to do. !laving bmm votHd "most gullible" in high school, I was always one to accept conventional wisdom. Besides. the women I'd known who'd most eagnrly expressed their opinion on the issue had been heavily on the pro-abortion side. 
So I was surprised by a Wa<>hington Times article back in July 2003 tillHd "Pro­[jfe Women Shift to Majority," by Grant Schulte. According to a survey conducted at the request of a pro-abortion advocacy group, 17 percent of American women think abortion should be illegal altogether. 34 percent more think it should be out­lawed except in cases of rape, incest or 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
mortal danger to the mother; these ca<;es account for about one percent of abortions performed in America. So a slim majority of American women would ban 99 percent of abortions. Strangely, tl1e New York Times, which claims to print "all the nnws that's fit to print," didn't report on the story. Then again, such a story must be deeply embarrassing to an outfit that consistently editorializes in favor of unlimited abortion accHss under the euphemism "women's right<>." New York Times Magazine did indi­rnctly cover the story, however, printing an extended diatribe by a feminist angernd by the survey results, telling her li.11low women to get their thumbs out of their mouths (her metaphor, not mine). 
A dilli:mmt survey conducted around the same time showed that men lean the other way, but by a larger margin, which makes the population as a whole slightly pro­choice. And according to tl10 keynote speaker at the statn Hally for Life two years ago. there's a similar dynamic here in Maryland -the public leans pro-choice, but the women lean pro-life. So it's true: ThP.re is a gnnder gap on abortion. But it's not very big, and it's oppositn to the one Hosie and the rest would have us believe. 
My first rnaetion to these result<> was that once again, women arn demonstrably morally superior to men. which is what I already believed anyway. Just look at a list of serious sins-anger, lust. greed, dishon­esty. drunkenness. Isn't it like decoding the Y-ehromosome? But the data in this CIL<;e dearly don't support such a broad general­ization of female superiority. It's not like women are overwhelmingly against abor­tion and men overwhelmingly for. Actually, I'm disappointed the gap's not bigger, see­ing how men have less problem with killing in general (animals, criminals, enemy eom­batants), are less fond of babies, and are more interested in promiscuity -and make no mistake, the right to abortion is ultimately about the ability to be promiscu­ous. Moreover, women know, in a way men never can, that "uterine content<>" (a 
favorite New York Times term filf "baby" I 
is a who, not a what. And if' you removH 
from the comparison those men who 
deeply oppose abortion and would ban it 
but who have bem1 so morally gelded that 
they sineernly believe they don't even hav1~ 
the right to tHII women not to destroy their 
ehildnm -the kind of' men, good-hearted 
but gutless, who let their wives keep their 
maiden names, and who say "We're preg­
nant"-then the gap shrinks oven mor«\ 
maybe even vanishes. 
What then are we to eonelude? Maybe just what Solzhenit<>yn wrote. The line sep­arating good from evil doesn't dividn one dass from another, one raw from another. Christians from non-Christians, or women from men. The linn between good and evil goes right down the middle of' every human heart. Yes, I'd still rather have the next passerby bP a woman, if I wern dying along the side of a road, and I'd rather be at the mercy of' someone raised in a Christian home than in San Frandsm. but goodness isn't a !'unction of genes or upbringing. The possibility of turning aside toward evil and nothingness was as rna! lilr Mother Ternsa as it is lin· me, insolitr as I haven't already done so. 
But I guess the lnsson muld just lw. don't listnn to Hosie O'Donnell and don't bPiieve everything in Viewpoint. And be nice to those poor fi~ministo;;-it must bn extrPmP­ly galling for them to n~ly on men filf their most chnrishnd right. Maybe that's why they're so mad'? Chnnrs, girls! 
Greg Yatarola graduated from Notre Dame in 1999. With the foresight ofcyni­cism, he suspects it:., just a matter oftim(' till science find.'> a wayfor men to get preg­nant. 1/e hopes he:., dead by then. While he's not, he can be reached at gregpy@hot­mail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Who deserves to face Ohio State in the BCS Championship game? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One should absorb the color oflife, but one should never remember lls details. Details are always vulgar." 
Oscar Wilde author 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Tuesday, December 4, 2007 page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Custodial staff deserves fair treatlllent 
When I was first hired at Notre Dame, I was ecstat­
ic. I felt that I had secured employment with a future. But four years later, l find myself disillusioned and disappointed. There are several issues I think the Univnrsity needs to address: The compensation pack­age for the custodial staff is shamefully lacking, we are over-worked and the University shows us little respect. 
The first area of concern is the salary and benefit package. People are usually impressed when I tell them I work at Notre Dame as it carries a certain prestige -along with the assumption that the salary would be adequate. Nothing could be further from the truth. After four years of employment, I have received a total salary increase of $.50 per hour. My wages are far less than the established federal pover­ty level for my family of five. As if this weren't diffi­cult enough, there is a hefty deductible from every paycheck for health insurance. Heaven help us if we become ill because there isn't enough money left to pay the co-pay for a doctor's visit. 
I am certainly willing to work hard for my salary, but the custodial staff at Notre Dame is fully over­worked. There is often more work than can be done in an eight-hour shift. There exists an inequality in job assignments, and if one employee calls in sick, it is up to the rest of us to take up the slack. Also, sev­eral employees have sustained job-related injuries and experienced other health issues as a result of their employment at Notre Dame, and they are often forced to return to work before they have fully recov­ered. 
Everybody needs to feel valued and appreciated, but the custodial staff at Notre Dame seems to receive little respect and recognition. The phrase, "The staff is the backbone of this university," has been tossed around for years, but I don't see that respect. For example, when the Jordan Hall of Science was dedicated, the custodial staff was told we needed to leave the building during these festivi­ties-after months of extra work assignments dur­ing the construction phase to get the building ready. There was no recognitio·n or respect shown for our extra hours of hard work. 
The custodial staff makes a contribution to this uni­versity that cannot be paralleled. This great institu­tion has a debt to us that needs to be paid. All we are asking for is a fair salary, a fair workload, and a little respect and appreciation. Is that asking too much? 
If you would like to help address these labor issues at Notre Dame, please send an email to the Campus Labor Action Project at ndlabor@gmail.com 
Donna Bromeling Building Services staff Dec. 3 

U-WIRE 
Alcohol orthodoxy goes unchallenged 
When is an adult not an adult? When it comes to alcohol, the answer is: "whenever those in charge feel like it." 
New laws passed by the state legislature went into effect earlier this month, now creating a new "crime" for under­age consumption of alcohol. Not content with simply mak­ing criminals out of anyone under 21 in Steve possession of alcohol, the legislature has Skutnik decided that the scourge of 18, 19 and 20-year-olds drinking now warrant North Carolina police to seek out and arrest anyone State underage with even a drop of alcohol on University their breath. The Technician 
Almost never is the question raised why underage adults consuming alcohol is such an epi­demic to be stamped out with prejudice-the idea is sim­ply taken as unchallenged orthodoxy. Why shouldn't underagfl adult<; be drinking? "Because it's the law." No further reasoning required. 
Despite the university theoretically being a place of free inquiry, almost never does one hear members of the administration questioning the wisdom of diverting scarce police resources to the end of harassing underage students 
getting a beer buzz. Even our own student leaders regular­
ly crow about the need to prevent the bane of underage 
drinking through education and enforcement-as ifthe 
notion of challenging the current age regime (and in par­
ticular, the law enforcement priorities that go with it) was 
completely off the table. 
Thus, one has to ask -are lawmakers, administrators 

and student leaders simply too petty or cowardly to actual­
ly question the wisdom of treating adults as children when 
it comes to alcohol, or do they actually buy into the com­
pletely asinine notion that a double-standard of adulthood 
somehow manages to single-handedly stave off a plague of 
social ills? 
Even ifone were to generously assume that prohibiting 

underage drinking was completely successful in its 
enforcement (an unlikely notion, given both the status quo 
and the history of prohibition), what harm do proponents 
propose they are preventing? If it's the consequence of · irresponsible drinking, why doesn't the current poli9y not 
simply time-shift this behavior a mere few years into the 
future? 
Of course, these same people will regularly trot out the 

condescending argument that adults under 21 are simply not responsible enough to handle alcohol-despite being responsible enough in the eyes of the law to handle the vote (a far more dangerous good in the wrong hands), own firearms, and be tried as an adult for their crimes. The irony is appalling. 
Meanwhile, underage adults can take comfort in the fact that while they are legally denied the refreshing taste of a cold one for the next few years, they can still enjoy the thrill of being sent out to fight and die in whatever third­world hellhole Uncle Sam decides to invade next. All for the sake of a country that would infantile them back home. 
Because until they begin to exercise one of the few rigl)ts they have as a legal adult-the right to vote for those who would change the current laws -this will be one of the few thrills the law will still allow. 
This article was originally published in the Dec. 3 edition ofthe Technician, the daily publication ofNorth Carolina State University. 
The views expressed in this article are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Grad school a choice, not a necessity 
A<i I sit at my desk this weekend, only a few weeks before final exams, I have literal­ly millions of voeabulary words, dates, times and places of dillfmmt event<> in U.S. history, Spanish phrases, math formulas and liter­ary devices flying mst-AI 
~~~~:~~~~~ t~: f~~ain. Eis~~r 
one solitary thought George prevails: "There has got Washington to be a better way!" University 
I looked at some of The G. W. my friends this week-Hatchet end who were killing themselves to learn and absorb every last piece of information possible, and then I looked at some of my friends who were at the movies and then out to dinner and then at parties. Ultimately we know that people who don't study for finals historically don't do well on them. These people probably won't get into great graduate schools straight out of college either. 
But what is so bad about that? 
All my life I have been conditioned to think that after high school comes college and after that comes some sort of graduate school, just the same as one moves from second to third grade without any questions asked. But now as ~ really am forced to examine my life and what I want to do with it, I have to ask myself: Why graduate school? 
There is an interesting social shift at play here. Twenty years ago the end all be all of education was simply a college degree. It was not uncommon for many to go to voca­tional schools right out of high school, never making it to college at all. Today many peo­ple think of a bachelor's degree as no better than a high school diploma and consider graduate school not a possibility, but a given. However, I contend that much can be done with a four-year undergraduate degree. 
There are plenty of professions that make money with no graduate schooling whatso­ever. IfI wanted to be a journalist, work on a political campaign, start my own company or any number of respectable professions I could begin within the next few years. 
Undoubtedly sometime in high school we were all shown that pie chart depicting the average salary of those with high school diplomas, those with bachelor's degrees and those with master's degrees. Those with a bachelor's, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, are supposed to make about $20,000 more per year than high school grads. Those with a master's are supposed to make another $10,-000 per year on top of that (averaging $62,000 per year). 
But let's be real here. One's motivation towards life, family background and work ethic have significantly more to do with your salary then does the number of years of college you completed. Sure, it is essen­tially impossible to be a doctor or a lawyer without going to medical or law school. But let's face it: We're not all cut out to be doc­tors or lawyers (no matter how many times our relatives tell us we are). 
While grad school does open the door to careers not available to those without those coveted master's degrees, think of all the opportunities wasted. Most obviously, the fact that you are in college another two to four years is time you are not making money. In fact, during that time you are most likely racking up some substantial debt currently coming close to averaging $100,000, according to U.S. News and World Report. And even if grad school is something you want to do, often times the job you can get out of college will pay for you to go back to school, since you will become a greater asset to their company. 
Maybe I'm just bitter because finals are upon us and tl1e stress of that coupled with the imminent holiday season is getting to me. Am I going to go to grad school? I don't even know yet. All I'm saying is that maybe it's not the logical next step after we gradu­ate from here. Maybe we should think about exploring the possibilities presented to us immediately following George Washington. Bill Gates didn't even go to col­lege, and look at him. All right, bad exam­ple. But you get my point. 
This article originally appeared in the Dec. 3 edition ofThe G. W Hatchet, the daily publication ofGeorge Washington University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 10 Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
Practice is only two hours a day, but what's lacking in time is easily made up in intensity. For tho first two weeks I went to bed so exhaust­

Down! With the strength I should­ed from the hundreds of sit-ups, n't have left. I slowly lower myself pushups. arm cirdns and endless cal­
4,000 people were left dead by the 1SO mph winds and enormous tidal waves. An estimated 5.S million wnrn homeless or displaeed, and the coun­try's eeonomic growth will likely takE~ quite a blow. 
down to tlw floor and back up again. isthenics that not even thE) worst 4X! Before either I or the sweat lion's roar ol' my roommate's snoring coursing ovnr my eyelids have a could keep me awake. 
chance to  Like the other  
recovor, it's back ... Down!  When one ofthe captains  novices, I've loarned to dread c~ertain exercis­ 
My arms piPad with mP now. 41J! Tlw sweat pours ol'l' my  bellows out "Six inches," you'd better say a quick "flail Mary" and  es. When one of the captains hollows· out "Six inches," you'd bet­ter say a quiek "llail  
l'<u~e. running for its life. Down! Why  keep praying that nobody drops his legs.  Mary" and keep pray­ing that nobody drops his legs. After that I'm  

dons my sweat taste salty'? SO! Thank God! I spring to my feet and look at the clock. I 
blink once or twice. This can't be right. only 4:4S ... I blink again. Tlw big hand hasn't moved. My head sags. Morn sweat escapes, cascading to tlw lloor. It's only been 1 S minutes. 
To be honost. I am not roally suro why I signed up for Bengal Bouts. PPrhaps I felt compelled to follow in my l'atlwr's footsteps-he partieipat­od in Bengal Bouts as a junior way back in 'X4. But he did insist that I not l'nnl compelled to do the same. Perhaps it was because, now that I'm 
21. I could sign my own form even il' my mother gave rm~ that sinister look ol' disapproval. But tlwn again, she signE~d the form anyway. Perhaps it was because, when a veteran stopped me at Activities Night and asked il' I wantod to tight, my man­hood felt a call to duty. Or maybe, as my unde insists-and this seems the most logical of all the explana­tions-I'm just stupid. 
And maybe I am 
not sure which is worse: hearing a captain yell "Get it bouncing" when tlwrc's still 15 min­utes left in practice, or being asked il' anyone knows a 
good joke while your mind so that
While you may not be able 
holding push-up someday you may position at the end to hit your professor or his nourish others. of a set. Nnither final with a right hook, I know that next usually ends very time I'm at prar­
know that your studies are
well. tie<\ feoling
strengthening your mind so
But for all this exhausted, bodily punishment, that someday you may clenehnd tightly in somotimes it's best tlw plank position 
nourish others. 
to examine the larg­and fighting tooth 
er pieturc. 

The motto of Bengal Bouts is "Strong bodiE~s light that weak bodies may be nourished." The words are valiant, the eause even morn so. Each year the fights raise tons of thousands of' dollars for the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. And this season, as much as any season beforo, Bangladesh needs the contri­bution. 
On Nov. 15, Bangladesh was rocked by a category 4 cyclone. More than 

and nail to keep my knees from touching the lloor, it's not any personal glory or thought of win­ning that will keep me up. 
I knciw what got me out ol' bed this morning. Maybe I'm not that stupid after all. 
The views expressed in this column are those q{ the author and not neces­sarily those qfThe Observer. 
Contact Mark Witte at mwitte@nd. edu 

At a Mass he gave Sunday in the Dillon llall ChapP!, Father Lou Dnl Fra strnssnd the importanec of find­ing ways in our futur·n or r.urrnnt endeavors to serve and help otlwrs. lie pointnd out that if we work only for oursnlves, we'll eventually run out of reasons to get out of bEld in thP morning. Now that linals an~ fast approaching with thn usual assault of papers, projects and all­nighters, Father Del Fra's words provide nnw incentive to keep light­ing. 
While you may not be able to hit your professor or his final with a right hook, know that your studios 
arc strnngtlwning 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
page 11 
Leerone a j{air to indle genr 
By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Scene Writer 
Lnerone is the latest indie-chick to come bantering across the music scene. She carries with her a bag of lyrical tricks just persuasive enough to conyince you her melodies aren't juvenile and 
winlds piano skills just subtle enough to trick you into thinking that you an~n't listening to Tori Amos Lite. 
Leerone would like you to belinve that she is the n~al deal. or maybe the next P.J. Harvey in sus­penders. ller appeal is in tlw weirdness, as most indie bands today have found: Instead of finding a 
niche, crcatn your own. Unfortunately, if nvnryone is doing it, it's no longer fun for us. tho listener. It is possible, though, to ignore the fact that Lecrone might be try­ing just a bit too hard to look like she isn't 
trying at all, and to simply enjoy hPr music. 
She would also like you to believe that her new album, "Imaginary Biograph ins." is every­thing you've been yearn­ing for and all the quirki­nnss you've been missing. And to a point. she's right. Though her music may 

Imaginary Biographies 
Leerone Label: Fussy Music Recommended Tracks: 'To Fill the Void" and "Care For Some Whiskey'' 

One of solo artist Leerone's clear Leerone's style is also influenced by influences is pianist Tori Amos. indie artists like P.J. Harvey. 
MATT HUDSON I Observer 

Her appeal is in the weirdness, as most indie bands today have found: Instead offinding a niche, create your own. 
To play this album and ignore it is hardly doing it justice -it's worthy ofat least one sitting. 
Globes/ I don't care what People maga­zine has to say about its top hats or the rhetoric of stardom," Lecrone sings, mak­ing you wonder if she's serious. Lyrics like this wander in and out of the album, moments so soft and terrific that it seems like you've drifted into a Vanessa Carlton album. She also provides the motivation that will have you swearing she's a "Riot Grrl" who's kept this album locked tight somewhere for .the past 15 years. 
The biggest draw in Lecrone's music is her lyries. "Plant, tend, pick and share the love you have/ Ingest the love you are 
given! Then, recycle and distribute again/ It's love, in motion ... Kinetic love," she sings. The melodies become subservient to her hopeful criticism of life today. The song "Junk/Peace of Mind" opens with a very low-key piano riff that meanders aimlessly until she begins to explain. "I don't care too much for Golden 
broken up by heartfelt observations and matter­of-fact whining. 
The music has moments of jarring clarity. "Care For Some Whiskey?" is an instant trip to some east­ern European bar with jabbing chords -and an accordion -that give every other beat a satisfy­
future. It's not radio music, because it's made for active listening. This also isn't music for the casual listen­er. 
To play this album and ignore it is hardly doing it justice -it's worthy of at least one sitting. Plus, it would make quite a gift for any musically inclined intel­lectual if you haven't a due what to give this Christmas. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

SCENE'S TOP VIDEO PICKS 

.Drama Prairie Dog 
An oldie but 

agoodie. 
Can you win on Oscar at 3 months old? Check this out for an 
. . .
1mpress1ve preem1e 

performance. 
Fashion nightmare + interpretive dance + Star Wars = awesome. 
·learn to romance your love with such classic pick-up lines as "What 

me is it?" 

never be able to break out of the indie roln it's so dearly slated for, it tends to jump politely bntween a reverent tribute to the great pioneer of female singer/songwriters, Tori Amos, and the irreverent disgust of the very audience­specific Dresden Dolls. Leerone has ing punctuation. Certain tracks could have been lifted straight from a failed Off-Broadway show, like "Bring It On," and others, like "Rosie Lee," are deceiv­ingly sweet with haunting lyrics. 
In its entirety, "Imaginary Biographies" is a strange excursion into indie-rock's 
Photo courtesy of art.com 
Photo courtesy of rocknpopcast.com 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
NBA 

Hawks end seven-game losing streak in Philly 
Despite missing Ford, Bosh and Bargnani, Raptors deal Bobcats their sixth-straight loss zn 98-79 victory 
high 2:{ points while Andre 
A.•.mdatcd l'reu 
Miller addnd 18 for the Sixnrs 
I'IIII.AI>HI.I'IIIA-Thn young, (5-12). who lost for tho 1Oth high-l'lying Atlanta llawks are Limn in the last 13 games. maturing rapidly. Andre Iguodala and Kyle 
Josh Smith scored 22 points, Korver s1:ored I I points each Marvin Williams and Josh whilo Hnggie Evans and Samuel Childn~ss hoth addPd I h and l>alombnrt both had 10 tlw llawks snappPd a sevon­wbounds. ganw losing stn~ak at "I thought it was kind of a llat l'hiladnlphia with an XX-7') vk­gamo in tlw beginning," Sixers tory ovnr tlw 7hPrs on Monday mach Maurice Chooks said. night. Philadnlphia was 2-of-11 from 
Jon Johnson scon~d 15 points 3-point range. Over the last and AI Ilorl'ord had 12 points throe gamns, the Sixers have hit and I;{ n~hounds for tho llawks just 5-ol'-37 3-pointers. inelud­( 7 -9), who last won at ing an 0-for-14 nfTort in last I' hi I ad 1d phi a o11 March 21, Friday's one-point win over 2()()]' Washington. 
Atlanta improved to 3-5 on "W1~'vo got to find a way to tlw road this snasor1 and 2X­put the ball in the hoop," I04 overall under coach Mike Korver said. "We're just not Woodson. able to got good shots." 
"When you'ro talking about The llawks led 66-62 after making tlw playoff's, it's very the third quarter and extended importa11t to win on the road," their lead to nino on several Woodso11 said. occasions. 
Thn llawks havP11't been in Atlanta led 79-72 before tho playoff's since the 191JX-99 Childress hit a 3-pointer from seaso11. the baseline and Johnson eon­
For now. it was a positivo step vnrted a three-point play for an just to win a road gamo in an 85-72 load with 1 :41 remain­arena where they have strug­ing. gled for sfwnral yPars. Woodson pointed to his team's 
"Sinct~ I've btH'n an Atlanta defense during the key 6-0 run. llawk, wn haven't won here in "We've been playing good field in the second quarter and who played, played well. The tory. thn~e ynars," Smith said. "It defense in the fourth quarters," scored 16 points, as the Sixers defense was good. We did the Depth was no problem for fnnls real good bocause it's a he said. "Tonight we made a overcame a seven-point deficit things we wanted to do." Toronto, who buried Charlotte tough place to play with a difli­stance in the third quarter and to take a 46-45 halftime lead. The same could not be said of by shooting 11-for-20 in the cult environment." it earriml over into the fourth." Smith's 3-pointer at the the Bobcats, who failed to over­first quarter. The Haptors led 
Wilfi1~ (;rnen scornd a s1mson-Green was 7-for-7 from the buzzer had given the Hawks a come poor shooting perform­16-4 midway through the first 24-17 lead after the first quar­ances by Haymond Felton (0-after Graham, making his first ter. for-8), Jason Hichardson (3-for-start of the season, threw down 
17) and Gerald Wallace (4-f'or-a one-handed dunk. Raptors 98, Bobcats 79 13). Delfino's 3-pointer as the 
Toronto's best players were "When that group is 7 -for-38, buzzer sounded to end the first out with injuries. It didn't seem then we don't have a chance," gave Toronto a 27-16 lead. to bother the Raptors. Charlotte coach Sam Vincent Charlottn has not led aftnr the 
Charlotte's best players could­said. "Our eore players, who first quarter in any game dur­n't shoot straight. It proved have to provide us with some ing its curwnt losing stn~ak. costly to the Bobcats. scoring punch, just couldn't get "We're digging ourselves into 
Kris llumphrics and Carlos it going. We don't have the the Grand Canyon right now Delfino both scored 17 points, depth for two or three of our and it's too much to come Joey Graham added 13 and the core guys to not perform." baek," Wallace said. Haptors shrugged oil' injuries to The Bobcats missed nine of' The Haptors began the second three top players to hand the their first 11 field goal attempts quarter with a 10-3 run and a Bobcats their sixth straight loss and were 12-for-43 (28 percent) tip-in by llumphries gave on Monday night. in the opening half. Toronto a 54-33 half'time lead. 
Toronto played without for­"I just had a bad game Toronto is 2-1 in the three wards Chris Bosh (strained tonight," said Richardson, who games it has played without groin) and Andrea Bargnani was 0-for-6 in the first half. Bosh, who leads the team with (hyper-extended left knee) and "Being one ol' the top guys on 18.8 points and 7.9 rebounds. guard T..J. Ford (left thumb). the team, I've got to show up Calderon said Toronto pulled 
It didn't matter to the every night, but nights like that together with its top trio on the Haptors, who got 12 points and are going to happen sometimes bench. nine assists from Jose Calderon where y1iu can't make a shot." "Without Andrea, without and double-digit scoring from Wallace scored 19 points and Chris and T..J., everybody plays five others to post their fourth rookie Jared Dudley had 16 together," Calderon said. straight home win. points and 10 rebounds for "Today, Kris llumphries and 
"The guys who needed to step Charlotte, which has lost the six Joey Graham had a good game. Slxers guard Willie Green goes for a layup during Atlanta's 88-up, stepped up," Haptors coach straight after a 6-4 start, the We need nverybody to win 79 win over Philadelphia on Monday. Sam Mitchell said. "The guys best in the team's four-year his-games." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit. all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


CYO CAMP RANCHO FRAMASA Female grad student with cat seeks Blue & Gold Homes now showing 5 bedroom house available now and If you or someone you care about SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS-people to rent a house with or a 08-09 & 09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com for next school year great location has been sexually assaulted, visit 
NOTICES HIRING NOW! Secure your summer room in group house. For spring Blue & Gold Homes 2nd semester 1 05 Marquette just off of Angela & http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrape. job I Camp Rancho Framasa is an semester and ideally through sum-sale. $200 P/S just off campus 31' 232-6964. shtml inclusive, residential camp, located mer. csarver1 @nd.edu "alumni owned". 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.$295.PER-in south central, Indiana, operated Bluegoldrentals.com PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­
SON/MO.GILLISRENTALS.COM.27 by the Catholic Youth Organization ONE WHO IS? You do not have to 2-6306 since 1946. Serving campers aged Walk to campus! Good neighbor-be alone. We want to help. Call our
PERSONAL

7 to 16 in various programs. We hood. 3 bedroom 1 bath. 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­
FoR RENT

offer a welcoming staff community Washer/dryer in basement. 800-No Abort or visit our web site at in a beautiful outdoor setting. Landlord does the yardwork. UNPLANNED PREGNANC¥? www.lifecall.org General Staff, Counselor Manager, ROOMMATE DRIVING YOU $750/mo. No pets. No Section 8.


WANTED 
Inclusive Programming, Ropes NUTS? WANT OUT OF THE Credit check and criminal back-Do not go it alone. HAPPY BIRTHDAY, MARY CLARE!! 
Course, Adventure and Health posi-DORMS? ground check required. 574-250-If you or someone you love needs WE LOVE YOU!I WINTER BREAK WORK $16.25 lions available. All positions start at 1266. confidential support or assistance, base-appt., flexible, no experience $240/week. Training is provided; GREAT house for rent available please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-irishsokker6fan needs anger man-needed, customer sales/service. start date May 31. 2008. Apply January 1st! 4 bed, 1 bath, 2 mi Duplex apt. for rent or sale. Each 7819. agement classes conditions apply, ages 18+, call online from ND & near new jogging trail, unit has newly remodeled 1-bdrm now, start after finals. may continue www.campranchoframasa.org garage, central A/C, basement, apt.,partially furnished, new every-For more information, visit our web-TOP STORY-Stanford B2 bas-during the spring, positions through Questions? contact Angi at 888-NICE! $1100/mo. 503-757-8125 or thing. Rent $400; sale $45,000. site at: http://osa.nd.edu/depart-ketball team predicted to win inter-the US. 574-273-3835, www.winter-988-2839, x25 or e-mail angi@cam-visit domerhomes.wetpaint.com for ments/pregnant.shtml or see our bi-hall title despite losing two best breakwork.com pranchoframasa.org info & pies. Call 574-233-1604. weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. players 




OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
NCAA Men's Hockey USCHO.com/CSTV Division I Poll 
team  record  prelJious  
1  Miami  13·1-0  1  
2  Colorado College  10-4-0  4  
3  Michigan  14·2-0  2  
4  Denver  10-4-0  3  
5  Michigan State  10·3-2  5  
6  NOTRE DAME  14-4·0  7  
7  North Dakota  7-5-1  8  
8  New Hampshire  8·3·1  6  
9  Clarkson  10·5-0  9  
10  Wisconsin  7·6·1  13  
11  Massachusetts  6·3·5  11  
12  Northeastern  7-4-1  16  
13  Harvard  6·2·1  15  
14  St. Cloud State  7-5·2  10  
15  Minnesota  8-7-1  14  
16  Minnesota-Duluth  6·5-3  12  
17  Boston College  5-4-5  19  
18  Bowling Green  8-4-0  NR  
19  Rensselaer  7·5-3  18  
20  Michigan Tech  6-7-1  20  

CCHA Conference Standings 
team conference overall 
1 NOTRE DAME 10-2-0 14-4-0 2 Miami 9-1-0 13-1-0 3 Michigan 9-1-0 14-2-0 4 Michigan State 6-2-0 10-3-2 5 Ferris State 6-4-0 7-6-1 6 Bowling Green 5-3-0 8-4-0 7 Northern Michigan 5-9-0 6·10·0 8 Nebraska-Omaha 4-7-1 5-7-1 9 Ohio State 2-8-0 4-11·1 10 Western Michigan 2-8-0 4·10·0 11 Alaska 1-6-1 1·8·1 12 Lake Superior 0-8-0 2-11·1 
NCAA Women's Soccer NSCAA/ adidas Poll 
team record previous 
1 UCLA 14-1-2 1 2 Texas A&M 16·2·1 2 3 U. of Portland 13-3·0 3 4 UNC 15-3-0 4 5 Stanford 13-2-3 5 6 Penn State 15-3-1 7 7 Virginia 11-3-4 6 8 Purdue 16-2-2 8 9 usc 13-2-2 11 10 Texas 13-3·3 12 11 NOTRE DAME 14-4·1 13 12 West Virginia 14-4-1 14 13 Georgia 15-2-2 17 14 Florida State 11-4·3 15 15 Tennessee 13-3·2 59 16 Santa Clara 11-5·3 16 17 Boston College 11-4·3 10 18 Wake Forest 11-5·3 18 19 California 12·5·0 19 20 San Diego 14-2·3 20 21 Florida 13-4·2 22 22 Oklahoma 12-5·2 25 23 Missouri 12-6·0 21 24 Connecticut 12-5·1 23 25 Brigham Young 14-3·2 24 
around the dial 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame vs. Kansas State 7 p.m., ESPN 
North Carolina at Pennsylvania 7 p.m., ESPN2 
CoMPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
MLB 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn.­Andy Pettitte decided to pitch for the New York Yankees in 2008 and put off retirement. 
Pettitte's agent, Randy Hendricks, said Monday that the 35-year-old left-bander had started telling team­mates on Sunday. Hendricks then informed Yankees gen­eral manager Brian Cashman of the news. 
Hendricks said Yankees captain Derek Jeter and catcher Jorge Posada had lobbied Pettitte to return, and the pitcher consulted his wife. 
"Players such as Jeter and Posada told him how much they needed him back, as did Brian Cashman and Joe Girardi," Hendricks said. "Andy decided this weekend that he didn't want to keep the Yankees on hold as they sought to determine their team for next year." 

The decision came as the Yankees set a Monday dead­line for the Minnesota Twins to decide whether they will trade them two-time AL Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana for pitcher Phil Hughes, center fielder Melky Cabrera and a midlevel prospect. 
Pettitte had declined a $16 million option last month, saying he needed more time, and Posada said last week that Pettitte was lean­ing toward retirement. The pitcher had said late in the 
IN BRIEF 
UCLA fires head football 
coach Dorrell 
LOS ANGELES -UCLA coach Karl Dorrell was fired Monday, a day after the Bruins accepted a bowl bid and two days after a loss to cross-town rival Southern California. 
Dorrell was let go despite leading the Bruins to a postseason game in each of his five seasons at UCLA, which had an outside chance to reach the Hose Bowl before its 24-7 defeat by USC over the weekend. 
The 43-year-old Dorrell, a former UCLA player who previously had not held a head coaching job, had a 35-27 record. 
The Bruins (6-61 will play BYU (1 0-2) in the Las Vegas Bowl on Dec. 22. UCLA athletic director Dan Guerrero said Dorrell will decide whether he wants to coach that game and, if not, defensive coordi­nator DoWayne Walker will serve as interim coach. 
season that it had become increasingly difficult to be away from his family during the season. 
Pettitte was 15-9 with a 
4.05 ERA this year in his return to the Yankees fol­lowing three seasons with his hometown Houston Astros. He went 11-3 after the All-Star break and was New York's most effective starter during the first­round playoff loss to Cleveland, pitching 6 1-3 scoreless innings in Game 2. 
New York had said it could wait until next month for Pettitte to make a deci­sion. Cashman said the $16 million option Pettitte declined was a standing oifer. 
All of the Yankees' major 
page 13 
free agents have now decid­ed to return, with Pettitte following Posada, third baseman Alex Rodriguez and closer Mariano Rivera. The only major change thus far as been replacing man­ager Joe Torre with Girardi. 
New York's projected rota­tion now includes Pettitte, Chien-Ming Wang, Mike Mussina, Hughes and Joba Chamberlain, with Ian Kennedy in reserve. But Yankees senior vice presi­dent Hank Steinbrenner said Sunday his preference was to make the deal for Santana, which would give New York a stronger ace as it competes to regain the AL East title from the World Series champion Boston Red Sox. 

Demsey back on PGA tour 
after 1 0-year absence 
WINTER GARDEN, Fla.-After a 1 0-year absence and two surgeries to remove a brain tumor the size of a golf ball, Todd Demsey finally made it back to the PGA Tour on Monday with perhaps the most significant round of his career. 
Demsey, a former NCAA champion and amateur teammate of Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson, closed with an 8-under 64 in the sixth and final round of Q-school to earn one of 26 full-exempt cards next year in the big leagues. 
Frank Lickliter II, who opened with consecutive 62s. completed a wire-to­wire week at Orange County National and ilnished as the medalist at 29­under 403. He won by four shots over Brett Humford of Australia. 
But the day belonged to Dcmsey. 35, who played bogey-free on the Crooked Cat course and was carried along by an amazing calm. 
Oilers top struggling Ducks 
to complete sweep 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Dustin Penner showed the struggling Anaheim Ducks what the defend­ing Stanley Cup ehampions are missing. 
Penner, allowed to go to Edmonton in the offseason, scored against his former team in the first period as the Oilers beat the Ducks 4-0 Sunday to complete a sweep of the teams' home-and-home series. 
It was Penner's second appear­ance in Anaheim after signing a five-vear, $21.5 million offer sheet with. the Oilers in August which tho Ducks refused to match. The second-year forward had 29 goals for the Ducks last season, second only to Teemu Solanne. 
Without Penner and Selanne, who is not playing while he con­templates retirement, the Dur.ks continue to search for consistent scoring. 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
NFL 
Vikings manage to right the ship 

After blowout loss to Packers, Minnesota has won three straight 
Associated l'ress 
I·:J>Jo:N I'H!\IHIE, Minn. -WIH'n thl' MinrH'sota Vikings trudged off tlw turf at l.amhPau FiPid last month following a :{4-0 rout at tlw hands of the Green Bay Parkers, tlwir season appean~d to be on thn brink of disaster. 
Tlwy wen~ :{-6 after bning thoroughly dominated by tlwir NJ:c North rivals, and lost star rookie 1\drian l'et.Prson to a k nPI' injury 
that many "You don't like to thrnn touch-thought would downs and two
play that way and it 
rrippll' an interceptions.
was not a happy
already strug­".Just getting gling ofTnnsn. locker room after that completions are 
"You don't big," Childress
game, nor should it 
I ike to play that said. "You kind
have been."
way and it was or undnresti­not a happy matfl that locker room Brad Childress sometimes, but aftPr that completions are
VIkings coach 
game, nor should it have hnen," Vikings coach Brad Childrnss said Monday. 
It was as grim as it could gnt. 
"I don't think anybody in that room was particularly happy with how they por­traynd themsnlves," Childress said. "It wasn't just the ol'f'nnsn. It wasn't just thn dnf'ensn or special teams. It was all of us. 1\nd when I say 'us,' I am talking about play­ers and coaches,." 
Three weeks later, Peterson is back on the field and the Vikings are steamrolling opponents in a way that has­n't bonn seen since Childrnss took ovnr as coach before last snason. 
The Vikings have outscored thn Haiders, Giants and Lions by a combined 112-49 in thrnn straight wins that have put them right bad in the thiek of the jumblnd NFC playoff ra1~e. 
llow have thny donn it'! 
Thny have kept their penal­tins down. thnir rushing yards up and gotten mueh lwttnr play at quarterback and in tlw secondary over thn last thnw weeks. 
"I just think we're focusing a lot more," said Chester Taylor, one half of the tHam's dynamic backfield duo. "We're playing four quarters and just not stepping on our own feet and making mis­takes that wn used to make in thn bnginning of the season. Wn'rn just coming along as a tnarn right now." 
With Peterson and Taylor, the Vikings have become a high-powHred offense by pounding the ball on the ground, a rare strategy in this day and age of spread offenses and empty back­fields. 
They an~ averaging nearly 36 yards per game more on the ground than the second­ranked .Jacksonville .Jaguars and have rushed for 105 f'irst downs this sHason. 
Now 2S games into the Childress tenure, the ofTen­
sive line has finally started to come together and is opening gaping holes for Peterson and Taylor, who are taking advan­tage of nxcellent downf'inld blocking by thn roceivnrs to break big gains. 
Tlw Vikings are averaging a leagun-IPading 5.6 yards pnr rush, thanks in part to Tarvaris Jackson's inereasi ng romJWtPncn at quarterback. 
I n h i s s tl eo n d s n as o n , .Jackson r.ompletHd just 21 passes in his l'irst two months, missing four games with injuries and looking ovnrwhnlmed when he was undnr een tflr. 
In the last three games, .ladson is 41-for-52 (7S.S 
percen tl for 
504 yards, 
big.... I think I 
said it back during training camp -the one thing you couldn't give Tarvaris was the turns, the experienee." 
On defense, the team's embattled secondary finally appHars to be eoming togeth­er as wnll. The Vikings have always been a top-flight defense against the run, but opposing quarterbacks have had little difficulty moving thH ball down the field through the air against the league's lowest-rated pass defensn. 
That has changed in the last two weeks. The Vikings intercepted Eli Manning four times -returning three for touchdowns -in a 41-17 vie­tory in the Meadowlands, then allowed just one touch­down to the high-flying Lions in a 42-10 win on Sunday at the Metrodome. 
"I think they are playing off each other very will, and I think we're doing some dif­ferent things in terms of dis­guising," Childress said. "I think thn guys on the back end are doing a great job of holding looks until the last moment, the linebackers the same way. 
In broader terms, it's a completely different atmos­phenl in the locker room now compared to the Monday after the Green Bay debaele. 
"We're more of a confident team than we were three weeks ago, but we also know where our focus needs to be," IinHbacker Chad Greenway said. 
With games remaining at San Franeisco (3-9), home against Chicago (5-7) and Washington (5-7) and at Denver (5-7). that newfound conl'idnnce appears to be jus­tilled. 
"I would say that nothing wins like winning,'' Childress said. "You build on it, whnthHr it is offense, defnnse or special teams and they all play off each other.... It's amazing how much that adds a little hop in your step." 
NFL 

Bush struggles in second season 
Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La. -There was a fumble that Heggie Bush was fortunate to recov­er. 
Thern were two short pass­es that slipped through his hands. 
Then there was the inaccu­rate, no-look toss on a botched trick play that may go down as the moment New Orleans truly blew its chance to get back into playof'f' con­tPntion. 
Y1~t. more than any of those, tiH~ imagns that seemed to symbolize Bush's difficult second season occurred off the field at the end of the Saints' 27-23 loss to Tampa Bay. 
Bush was walking toward tlw tunnel leading to the Louisiana SupHrdome locker room while what was initially called a fumble by Saints kick returner Lanen Moore was in the process of being overturned. Thern were 14 seconds left. and !wad coach Sean Payton had to run Bush down and angrily ordHr him baek to the bench. 

After the game, Bush sat in front of his locker for morn than a half hour, still in uni­2006 regular season -no form, with his hands on his one snickered when Bush head as he stared at the confidHntly predicted during floor. He declined to speak training camp that 2007 with reporters. would be his breakout sea­
On Monday, he was absent son. whiiH reporters were permit­After 12 games, it looks ted to talk with players in the more like a breakdown sea­locker room at the team's son. suburban training facility. Bush's numbers are not 
"Heggie is a great talent. bad, but far from spectacu­Heggie is one of the best ath­lar. He's scored six touch­letes I have ever seen, but downs, has 581 yards rush­that only gets you so far," ing and 417 yards receiving. quarterbaek Drew Brees His longest run so far has said. "Certain fundamentals been 22 yards and his and discipline to playing this longest reception 25. game -that is learned and The long, game-breaking that's not something that just plays Bush says he expects of happens immediately." himself haven't come this 
Were expectations of Bush season, unlike the big mis­too high? He won the takes he hoped to avoid. Heisman Trophy at Southern He's been lucky the Saints California, was the second have recovered most of his overall pick in the 2006 draft eight fumbles, ineluding a 
and  signed  a  punt  that  
contract worth  bounced away  
up to $62 mil­lion over six years. Yet. many players  "Reggie is one ofthe best athletes I have ever seen, but that  from him after hitting off his facemask dur­ing a win over  
who were vir­tually unstop­ only gets you so far.,,  .Jacksonville. His most  
pable during their amateur  Drew Brees  costly were  errors a lost  
days  have  Saints quarterback  fumble at the  

entered the NFL with a lot of hype, only to find that much of what worked in col­lege only got in them in trou­ble against stronger, faster, more disciplined NFL defend­ers. 
Bush seemed to be figuring that out, even overcoming it, during the latter half of his rookie season, which was defined primarily by three spectacular plays: A game­winning, 55-yard punt return for a touchdown against Tampa Bay; a screen pass that he turned into a weav­ing, 61-yard score at Dallas; and his 88-yard touchdown catch in the NFC eham pi­onship game at Chicago, a play he finished by high-step­ping and then somersaulting into the end zone. 
With those highlights in mind -not to mention his 1,307 yards running and receiving combined and his nine touchdowns during the Houston 1­

yard line in a loss to the Texans and the botched toss to Hnnderson on Sunday while the Saints were trying to protect a 23-20 lead in the final 3 minutes. 
Bush, who had trouble with the handoff. already was running past Henderson by the time he got a handle on it. He had to make a split­second decision: Keep the ball and eat a likely loss of yardage, or make the risky toss. 
Bush chose the latter. Henderson reached back behind him with one hand but could not pull it in. Tampa Bay ended up recov­ering on the Saints 37 to set up the go-ahead touchdown. 
Payton sought to del'lect criticism from Bush. The coaeh said initially and again on Monday that he put Bush in a risky situation. 
"There's a lot of risk in a play like that and your worst fear is realized when you don't handle the exchange or block it just how you want," Payton said. "It's my fault for putting us in that position in that point in the game." 
Speaking generally, howev­er, Payton did say Bush needs to improve in the areas of ball security and pass block­ing. 
There have been other off­field distraetions. Tho NC!\1\ and Pac-1 0 are still investi­gating whether Bush or his family received improper benefits from agents while he was still in college. Bush has said repeatedly he did noth­ing wrong and his lawyer has said the Bush's are simply being extorted by criminals. 
Bush is also named in a civil lawsuit filed by a fledg­ing marketing agent who claims to gave givnn the Bush family monny. Bush could lose his lleisman if he's found to have violated NCA!\ rules. 
Still, Bush has never been accused of anything illegal and his NFL career in New Orleans would not bn afTeet­ed. Furthermore, Bush has insisted that the ease has not distracted him on the field. 
Brees said Bush benefited as a rookie from the pres­ence of veteran running back Deuce McAllister, who went out for the rest of this season after a knee injury in Week 3. 
"Heggie is still a young player in this leaguH, and like I said, I think a young back absolutely needs mentoring in this league from a guy like Deuce," Brees said. "It has been tough because (McAllister) has been hurt and isn't here like he was last year for him. So that's tough and I think it is just lnarning how to be a profns­sional. 
"There's definitely a learn­ing curve, and keHp in mind the tremendous expectations for Heggie Bush from the moment he stepped l'oot in this league," Brees contin­ued. "So I think that every­one expeets him to go out and just be Superman all the time and that is not the case, Hspneially in this league." 

Tuesday, December 4, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
know no boundaries 


WORLD VIEW IS AN INITIATIVE FROM THE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT TO PROMOTE CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE ABOUT ISSUES OF RACE, CLASS, ETHNICITY, RELIGION, AND GENDER THROUGH THE ARTS. 

TICKETS: $3 FOR STUDENTS AND $5 FOR FACULTY/STAFF • TICKET OFFICE: 631.2800 • PERFORMINGARTS.ND.EDU 
Spring 2008 World View Events Miss Navajo • January 18 • Director Billy Luther will discuss his film Desert Bayou • February 22 • Director Aiex LeMay will discuss his film The Kite Runner • March 14 Blood Diamond • April 3 • Cosponsored with Center for Social Concerns 
~UNIVERSITY OF 

;;'#-<;r:, D E B A R T 0 L 0 
WNOTREDAME .~,.~ Ji PFRI'ORMING AWlS Cf.NrER Office of the President 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
NFL 
Tears and memories highlight Taylor's funeral 
Friends, family and former teammates gather to find closure and pay tribute to former Redskins safety 
Associated Press 
M I A M I -TIll' I i t t I n g i r I 

nnlnn~d llw big gymnasium in a strolll'r, aslnep and oblivious to tlw :{.000 pnopiP on hand to pay last rPspnds to hPr fat.hnr. Soan Taylor. 
J.atl'f". I X-month-old Jackin Taylor was widP awakP and running wind sprints past tlw hugP l'low<·r arrangPmPnls in front of tlw stagP. Wnaring a rPd dross, shP stood and applaudPd with tlw rPsl of t.hP audinnrn following tlw intro­duction of hPr fathpr's lPam. t.hn Washington 
"It's times like this 
IIPdskins. Shn last month. wavnd a milk that all (~r us struggle T lw Iis t o I' bolt.ll', surkPd to find meaning cnlebrilins in on a pari fiP r attPndance was
in life." 
Hlld Wl'nt Up long. Tlwy and down thP included more front row hug­Roger Goodell than two dozen ging grinving former
NFL commissioner 
rnlalivns. 
Thl'rn wnrn 

pl<•nty of I.Pars 
at Taylor's thrnn-hour funeral 
Monday, hut also ripplns of 
laughtPr and words of inspira­
1. i0 II. 
"Let Ill<' lwar you sr.rnam!" 

shouted t h n H" v. .I e s s <~ 
.Jackson, urging tlw audimH~I' 
to clwe r Ta y Io r · s nw m o r y. 
"Orw mon• tinw! This is a cel­
ebration!" 
The 24-yPar-old Taylor died 

last Tuesday. barPiy 24 hours 
after lw was shot in the bed­
room of his homn a few milns 
from where hn grnw up. 
l'oliee say lw was a vietim of a 
botched burglary, and four 
young nwn have been charged 
with unprmneditatnd murder. 
Three of the suspnets were transportnd from Lee County jail to Miami-Dade County jail Monday evening, said Janelle llall, a spokeswoman for Miami-Dade County jail. Charles Wardlow, 1X, Jason Mitchell. 19. and Venjah llunte. 20, were expected to appnar in court Tunsday morning, llall said. 
The fourth suspect, Erie Hivera. 17, would be processnd at a juvenile deten­tion center in Miami-Dade County, llall said. 
A lawyer for onn suspect said a lif'lh suspect was being sought. 
"It's limns like this that all 

of us struggl<~ to lind meaning 
i n I i f n." N F L 1: om mission e r 
Hoger Goodell told mourners. 
"Today my heart is broktm," said LaVar Arrington, wiping away tears as lw recalled his two years as Taylor's team­male with the Hedskins. "I'll get through it. We'll all get through it." 
Tho l'urwral sought elosun~ through prayPrs. tributes and gospel music. Onn singer ex p<HHI e d so rn u c h ern o ti on she collapsed into a chair upon leaving the stage and was carriNl away in it as tho service continued. 
l·:ulogiPs by family. friends a II d d ign itari es p raiSIHI Taylor's baby fan~. shy smile, kindrH•ss. warmth. faith and I'Xlraordinary athiPtic skills. 
"Many tinws God must havP looked down and said. 'Man, I madn a gl'f•at football player,"' l!edskins !"oach .fop Cibhs said. 
MidwPI Outar rncallnd thP start of his rwphnw's football !"arenr as a 6-yPar-old with 
the llomestead llurricanns. Young Sean was assigned No. 6(, and a place on the dnfen­sivn lirw. 
"lin asked me, 'Undn Miehanl, what do I do?' I told him. 'llit the guy with tho ball.' That's what hn did. ovm· and over," Outar said. 
Taylor grPw into a hard-hit­ting sai'Ply. IJ(~ hnlpPd tho Miami llurrinuws win the 200 I national ('harnpionship, became a l"irst-round NFL draft pick in 2004 and led the NFC in intnrc1~ptions this sea­son when a knee injury sidelined him 

llu rricanes now 
in tho NFL. 
among thorn 
l~dg<~rrin .James, Devin llest(~r and Jeremy Shockey. Forrnnr llurricanns coachns Larry Coker and Butd1 Davis sat in the front row, along with eur­rPnt coa1~h Handy Shannon. 
Mourners also included aetor Andy Garcia, whose niocn, .Jackie c;arcia, was Taylor's girlfriend and the rnothnr of' their (:hild; and O.J. Simpson. whose children attended the same high school as Taylor. 
Simpson expressed sympa­thy for the relatives of those arrested, as well as for Taylor. 
"It's horrible, not only for him, but for those other four families," Simpson said. "There arc four other lives that are gone." 
Videotaped tributes on large screens showed a sequence of bone-crunching hits and bro­ken-field runs by Taylor with the Hedskins, Hurricanes and Gulliver Preparatory in Miami. The final tribute closed with the words "We will miss you Sean" over a photo of him leaping across the goal line after an inter­
ception. 
The Hedskins organization filled an entire section of seats, with even their maseot present. The tnam t1ew down in a charter one day after an emotional 17-16 loss to Buffalo, and they play again Thursday. 
"Despite what happened yesterday, it doesn't matter now," defensive end Andre Carter said after the funeral. "We were happy to be here and be part of the service and to pay our respects." 
Gibbs' eulogy focused on faith. Be told the mourners Taylor became more spiritual as he matured after joining the team. 
"His life began to change," 

Gibbs said. "You saw thn way he loved Jackie and Jackie." 
Others also spoke of Taylor's transformation following the birth of his daughter. They addressed only indirectly his earlinr brushes with the law, which started with a 2001 fist fight and ineluded most recently a 2005 confrontation involving guns. 
There was pointed criticism for the way the media por­trayed Taylor's past in the wake of his violent death. 
"One of the things that l hope comes out of this tragedy is that the media get a small lesson in grace and humility," said Florida City mayor Otis Wallace, a friend of thn Taylor family. "For those who took the liberty or recklnssly spncu­laling that this young man's d(mth was eaused by the way hn lived, all l can say is they should be ashamed." 
The audience responded with a standing ovation. 
On the other sidn of the state, in Fort Myers, the four young men charged in Taylor's death sat in jail cells. Ed Griffith, a spokesman for the Miami-Dade County State Attorney's Office, said they could be in court as early as Tuesday morning. 
Hivera, Wardlow, Mitchell and Hunte face charges of unpremeditated murder, armed burglary and home invasion with a firearm or another deadly weapon. 

Best Value in Town Collle See Why.1 
,.. Incloor/ Outdoor Tennis anti Basketball ,.. Free Tanning ,.. Heated Pool ,.. Relaxing Jacuzzi ,.. Gated Co.m.m unity ,.. Co.m.m unity Business Center ,.. N~ Application Fees f~r Students ,.. Clase to everything___ far fro.m tu"Jinary! 
C2eve2and Hd_ South Bend, IN 46637 l574' 272-SLLO Fax: (574, 272-SLL4 "'""_cppj _com­


Tuesday, December 4, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 

Seniors 
continued from page 20 
'Alright, I guess I'll start hang­ing out with him."' 
The pair grew closer the next year when they shared a dorm room. 
"We had a pretty good time," Lapira said, "but I don't think Coach liked it too much." 
Irish coach Bobby Clark said the guys had a little too much fun living together and he had to pull in the reins a bit. 
"We were almost like evil twins. When we would get together we would just feed off each other," Yoshinaga said. "Since then we've toned it down a little bit." 
Clark agreed and said he has enjoyed watching both players progress as athletes and stu­dents during their four years. 
Lapira, Yoshinaga and the five other Irish seniors are now at the end of their careers with a chance to do something no Notre Dame team has done before -make it to the Final Four with a win over Wake Forest this weekend. 
The senior class has played a large part in getting Notre Dame to where it is now. 
"There is no question that the leadership has been one of the reasons that the team has done well," Clark said. "In a season there will always be hard times and setbacks and that's the time when you need strong leadership." 
Notre Dame (14-4-5) has not had many hard times or set­backs this year. However, it was a goal from Yoshinaga and a shutout from senior Chris Cahill that pulled the Irish out of a three-game winless streak in mid-October. 
Senior defender Ryan Miller said the success was due to a great work ethic in the off-sea­son. 
"If you were around in the spring, you would have seen how hard guys were working. I've never seen that in my four or five years here," Miller said. 
The group started working together the day after its quar­terfinal loss in last year's tour­nament to Virginia. 
"I think our team likes hang­ing around with one another. It's one of the nice things about this team," Clark said. "You don't need everybody on the team to be bosom buddies, but it is good that they get a good laugh together." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 

Irish nab second place in Invite 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame men's volleyball hosted seven teams from around the Midwest Saturday in the IrL'ih Invitational at Rolfs Athletic Center. The Irish reached the finals before falling to Indiana in a rematch of a game earlier in the day. 
The Hoosiers got their revenge in the championship match in three hard fought games, 25-21, 22-25,15-10. 
The very young Irish team, playing in its first tournament of the season, struggled to gain momentum going in the second and third games of its fifth match of the day, despite the outstanding play of senior Tim Goldsmith and sophomore Mike Nejedly. Notre Dame finished with a 4-1 record on the day. 
The Irish reached the fmals by defeating Ball State in two games in the semifinal, 25-20, 25-22. Senior outside hitter Dan Zibton and sophomore Alex Lewis led the offense, while sen­ior libero John Tibbie anchored the Irish defense. 
To reach the top bracket, the Irish knocked off the Hoosiers 25-20, 25-21 on what proved to be a showcase of young talent for Notre Dame. Freshman set­ter Mark landolo and right side hitter Jason Healy led the team to victory, including multiple assists from Healy while Iandolo was busy on defense. 

Notre Dame opened pool play against Grand Valley State-B in the first match of the day. While the Irish struggled at first, they hung on for the victory in three games, 25-20, 22-25, 15-12 with great defense from freshman Peter Balestracci and senior Frank Dax, who was playing in his last tournament with the team. Notre Dame also defeated Michigan State in two games, 25-17, 25-21, for the third victo­
. ry in pool play. The Irish fin­ished pool play in their home tournament 3-0 for the third straight time. 
Women's hockey 
The Irish traveled to Iowa this weekend to play the Quad City Blueliners for Notre Dame's sea­son-opening series. 
The weekend proved fairly successful overall. The Irish out­shot Quad Cities 26-15 on Saturday night, despite the unending line of penalties issued to both teams. 
The Blueliners' goalie kept them in the game as she saw lots of great shots from senior Kara Brennan, freshman Gillian Allsup and their linemates. Notre Dame lost the game 5-1 with its only goal coming in the third period scored by junior Amy Wilhelmy. Freshman Cassie Kral picked up the assist. 
On Sunday morning, the team's play was notably better. The Irish outshot the Blueliners 27-13 and got away with fewer penalties than the night before. 
In the first period, Notre Dame was down 1-0, but made an out­standing comeback throughout the second period. Junior Lauren Beuke scored an unas­sisted power play goal to open the period, which was followed shortly by an unassisted goal from sophomore Emily Chappell. Chappell assisted another goal scored by Beuke, putting the Irish ahead 3-1. 
The second period ended with another power play goal from Chappell. The Blueliners scored one last time, leaving the final score at 4-2 for the Irish. 
First year goalie Julia Gragtmans steadily improved over her first weekend of hock­ey. 
Dealing with a new coaching staff' and a new goaltender, first year coach Conor Brennan was proud of the team's performance and progress. 
"We definitely showed that it was our first game together on Saturday, but after the first peri­od it was all uphill for the rest of the weekend," he said. "By the looks of Sunday's game we should have a really strong sea­son." 
Defense 
continued from page 20 
said. "I think that's what got us going early, her in the mid­dle of the press creating havoc with Michigan. I think she's doing absolutely everything we could ask of in a point guard." 
Minutes later, guard Ashley Barlow came off the back line in the 2-3 zone to help with a double-team near the elbow. When the ball went into the corner, Barlow made it back in time to throw a hand in the shooter's face. 
"She's just so unafraid. She's fearless, she's relentless, she's determined, and she'll do any­thing, absolutely anything it Wolverines managed to inbound the ball past the press, and called out, "Fast break, fast break," as they ran down the floor. They ran the fast break, but center Melissa D'Amico stonewalled the charge and forced the drive underneath the basket by the baseline. By that time, Gaines had made her way back and forced Michigan into a set offense. 

The Irish use their quick­ness and athleticism on defense to set up their fast­break offense, guard Charel Allen said. "We like to rebound and run, and that's what we did on them," she said. 
With 13 minutes to play, Barlow intercepted a pass and fed it to guard Lindsay Schrader. Schrader penetrat­ed the lane before throwing a no-look pass behind her back to Gaines, who made an easy layup. 
Part of the reason why the Irish can play such a fast­paced athletic game is that they can sub often. 
"I think because of the depth we can sub more," McGraw said. "When someone looks tired, we can take them out and they can rest up a lit­tle bit before we put them back in. I think they play harder while they're in there. They play five or six minutes at a stretch because they know they can get out and rest." 
Notre Dame held Michigan to just 12 field goals and eight assists in the game anp forced 22 turnovers. McGraw, how­ever, said the defense can play better. 
"I think when we watch the film I think we'll see that we weren't as intense on the defensive end as we needed to be," she said. "I didn't think that our defense was as good as the score indicates." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink @nd.edu 

takes for us to win," McGraw said of Barlow. 
One minute after that, guard Melissa Lechlitner got her 5­foot-7 body up high enough to steal a cross-court pass. 
McGraw said that Lechlitner, who had four assists and two steals, made a major difference in the game. 
"It was a seamless transition from Tulyah going out, getting all those steals and making us go defensively, and then Lech came in and did pretty much the same thing," McGraw said. "She ran the team, she got some steals, she gave us energy." 
Notre Dame did not let up in the second half. Soon after the half began, Notre Dame again presented Michigan with a tight full-court press. The 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, December 4, 2007 
Weis 
continued from page 20 
thing to do, so Wf' did that." 
Aftnr Notre Dame's 21-14 win over Stanford in Palo Alto, Calif'.. on Nov. 24, Wois methodically traveled bcu:k to South Bend, moving intermit­tently l'rom west to nast, mak­ing recruiting visits along the way. Weis llnw from Arizona to Washington for the mnoting. 
Asked il' thnre was a final decision about his member­ship on thn commission Weis said: "It's moving in that direction." 
Haywood up for Houston job 
Notre Dame ofTnnsive coor­dinator Mik1~ Haywood. who is I' r o m llouston, has inter­vinwed l'or 

the vacant "Not that I'm a big fan of 
Univnrsity 
Ohio Stale or Georgia or
ol' Houston 
h o a d anyone else, but ifyou're coaching next in line and you don't 
job and is 
play, and the two teams
waiting to 
hear back ahead (~/'you lose, /think l'rorn tlw that you move up."school. "I think 
Charlie Weis 
that sonw­timns in the Irish coach 
1: 
o aching earousel, 

t. 
h o r e 's limos that guys gnt into a mix l'or a rna­son." Wnis said ol' Haywood. "And any tinw a job eomns opnn in your hometown where you know all thn high school coaches, and you know, havo ndationships with thorn, and you playnd high school football there, I think that that always hodns well l'or your ehance l'or success." 


W~~ is sai d h e is u n d e r t h f' improssion Haywood could rind out il' htl got tlw job as 
1mrly as this w1wknnd. 
Recruits coming to town 
Wf'is. who stressed that he will not analyze the season as a whole until he finishes a round ol' recruiting duties on Dec. 17, said he will host rnorB than a dozen recruits this weeknnd. Weis and the recruits will attend tho men's baskntball game against Northnrn Illinois Saturday, at whieh Mikn Brey's squad will try l'or a sdwol-record 25th consecutive home vietory. 
"Wn'ro going to go break this record on Saturday night, so wn'rn going to bn a part of that." Weis said. "We'ro root­ing l'or Coach Brey and the haskPthall tnam." 
Hear no evil ... 
Whnn askod about David Crimes' touehdown catch against Stanford that Big East ol'ficials ruiPd a completion on thn liPid but thn Pac-1 0 replay official ovnrturrwd, Wois was vagun and declinml to mention thn Pac-I 0 by nanw. 
"I think that we'vo had a vnry good ndationship with tlw Big East offirials this ynar s i nco WI~' VI' go rw to the Big l·:ast, and I think that they do a vory good job of' kn1~ping us informed on things that hap­pnn," Wnis said. "And we'll just kind of l1~ave it at that." 
Notn~ llarnn usPd Big East ofl'icials as thn l'inld rdnr11es f'or all its gamns this year. l'rnviously, tlw Irish playnd road ganrPs with Big Ton ol'fi­riating rr1•ws. 
More on coaches 
If WPis iniliati'S any rhangPs to his coaching staff, it will not be until February -after rncruits sign their national letters of intent. 
But Wnis did say hn would change the team's current spneial teams coaching para­digm, undnr which all coaches eontribute to different parts of tho operation. Notre Dame's kicking game struggled might­ily, along with its kickoff rnturn blocking. Its punt cov­erage, however, was a bright spot. 
"It has to be changed," Weis said. "I was not pleased with the way it went." 
BnforB ineluding the entire starr in the special teams operations, Brian Polian was the team's special teams coach. Although Polian offi­eially became the inside line­
backers coach this year, he often direct­ed special teams assignments on the side­lines. 
Weis did not rule out maintaining a rnultiple­coaeh spe­cial teams setup, but said he could envi­sion a sce­nario with a single spe­

cial teams coach "if' it were tlw right person." 
Musings on next season 
Notre Dame begins the 2008 season a week later than the NCAA's oiTieial opening day and has only one, instead of the possible two, idle wonks. But Weis said he was not con­cerned with that. 
"I mean. it's just when you're starting," Weis said. "It's just like anything else, the schedule is the way it is. We still have a bye wBek dur­ing the yPar. Would you rather have two bye weeks during the year? I think having one byB week, and ... to have a bye wonk right at the mid­point of the year I think is almost an ideal situation or the proper time to heal some bumps and bruises and give you a midseason evaluation point." 
Notre Dame has a week off aftnr its sixth of 12 games next season -between road contests with North Carolina and Washington. 
Weis sticks to BCS opinions 
Weis once again argued that teams should not jump in the polls over teams who do not play on a given weekend. 
Asknd about Louisiana State's vault up the Bowl Championship Series stand­ings and into the national title game, Wnis said he thought Georgia should have gotten one of' the two spots in the ganw after No. I Missouri and No. 2 Wnst Virginia lost Saturday. 
"I ended up voting Ohio Stat~~ I No . I 1 and Georgi a I No.I 2 b1~cause that's where they wen~ on thn line," Weis said. "They were 3 and 4. Not that I'm a big fan of Ohio Stato or Goorgia or anyone niSI\ but if' you're next in line and you don't play. and the two tnams ahead of you losn, I think that you move up. I just don't know how you get pnnalizf'd for not playing." 
Attention 

JUNIORS GOING ABROAD and DECEMBER GRADUATES interested in applying for a 
RHODES SCHOLARSHIP 
(for llvo_years o/gmr/JtrJie .rtudy at O:'Oford) 
MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIP 
(ji;r IJJ'O.YeaJ:r ofgratluate .rlut!Y in tbe United KiJ{~dom) 
MITCHELL SCHOLARSHIP 
(for one.year ojj!,radua/e st11dy in Ireland) 
FULBRIGHT GRANT/ETA 
(for o!lr.year ofresearch, .rtutfJ' or teaching Ii11gli.rh rmmnd thl' u•11rld) 


Come to an information meeting on 
Tuesday, December 4 @ Spm in 117 DeBartolo 
KSU 
continued from page 20 
East season begins after Christmas. 
"We ean make our name out here and let everyone know who we are," sophomore guard Tory Jackson said. 
The Irish have reeled off three wins in a row since los­ing back-to-hack games at the Paradise Jam in the Virgin Islands, but the Wildcats (5-2) represent a major step up in competition. 
"All these teams lwe'vB played! are good, but when you play Kansas State at the Garden, that's a different level," Notre Dame guard Kyle McAiarney said. "I think everyone's going to bring a higher energy to the game." 
The task of guarding Beasley will probably fall on Ayers or fellow Notre Dame small for­ward Zach Ilillesland. Both theoretically have the length and quickness to cover the 6­foot-1 0, 235-pounder. 
Whether they will actually be abln to stop him from scor­ing, however, is another mat­ter. Irish players said what is most important tonight is not whnther Beasley makes shots, but what happens after he misses them. 
"As long as we rebound and get efficient stops, we'll be good," Ayers said. 
Hebounding has been an Achilles heel for Notre Dame this season. The Irish were out-rebounded in both of their losses and only beat Eastern Michigan on the boards by two on Saturday. 
"When we rebound the ball well, we're great because we can got out in transition," MeAlarney said. "But some­times we forget to box out or don't do the little things." 
Tonight's game is a horne­coming for MeAlarney, who grew up in Staten Island. And since the junior missed last season's Big East tournament after being susp1mded, he said he can't wait to play in the Garden. 

"I'm nxcited to see somn familiar faces in tho crowd," he said. 
After a slow start to thn sea­son, McAlarney has rocketed up the Notre Dame seoring chart. In the last three games, he has averaged 23 points per game and is shooting 63 per­cent from behind the thrne point are. 
The Irish have scornd well on the inside as well. Forwards Luke llarangody and Hob Kurz are averaging a combined 31.2 points per game. 
But llarangody and Kurz will have to take on arguably the two best post players they've seen this year in Beasley and freshman Bill Walker. Walker (6-foot-6, 200 pounds) has added 10.8 points per game to Beasley's impressive statistics. 
On the perimeter, Kansas State is led by freshman Jacob Pullen, who is averaging 13.5 points per game and has hit 11 throe-pointers this year to lead the team. 
So far, the Wildcats' year has been similar to Notre Dame's. Kansas State opened the year with three straight wins against overmatched oppo­nents, tiHm suffered a disap­pointing loss to George Mason in the Old Spi1:e Classic in Lake Bwma Vista, Fla. The day after that loss, they struggled against Cnntral Florida before winning in ovnrtirni1. 
After an easy win over Hider, the Wildcats hosted Oregon in a non-conference showdown. The Ducks barely edged the Wildcats, X0-77. 
While Kansas Statn's athleti­cism presents a ehallengn Notre Damn has not seen yet this year, Jackson said the Irish are ready. 
"They've got great players, but we've got a groat team," he said. "That's going to be the difference." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

If you cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships ()ffice 105 ()'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlcrl@nd.edu 


r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, December 4, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 
Oh that's nothing. I have this friend who got super drunk and ended up running from the 
!&IJ!IIII•:=q~fp;:U~~~ct:";:ii,~Ve':':l11! police, they chased him and tried to tackle him hut he escaped to this roofop. They brought in the SWAT team and he st.u·tedyelling, "You'll take me alive!" 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
NO IT'S SO SOIGtN&-l! SOM6B0t>Y NeeDS TO PISS Pec>Pt-e OFF ~IN. DO A $il21P ON FAT CHICKS 8!l.ING­.S.WS$••• Olit .Jesus se1N&o tt.AY..• 
68 Site of Ali's Rumble in the Jungle 
69 Salon job 
70 Cuts and pastes 
71 TV awards 
Down Amniotic 2 Play about 
Capote 3 Put on TV 4 Manage, barely 5 Jacob's twin 6 G.l.'s helmet, 
slangily 7 Duke's sports org. 
8 "Read Across America" grp. 9 Guy's partner 
10 Primrose family member 11 Saroyan novel, with "The" 12 "It slipped my mind!" 13 Letterman lists 
181D on a dust jacket 22 Acknowledges 
nonverbally 23 PC glitch 24 "Wheel of 
Fortune" buy 
25 Hoops coach with the most N.C.AA Division I wins 
27 Playful mockery 
28 Rural event on horseback 29 Work out in the ring 
ASKeD F02 IT••• 
WILLSHORTZ 


Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld  
31 Commotion  42 Barnard grads  57 Wood-shaping  
34 Red Sox div.  45 Bled, like dyes  tool  
38 Old Dodge  46 "Deal or No  60 Suffered from  
39 Singer of the  Deal" network  61 Here, in Paris  
1962 hit "The Wanderer" 40 Guinness Book suffix  49 Fakes, as an injury 50 Weaponry  62 "I'm kidding!" 63 Deadeye's asset 64 Dryly amusing  
41 Tools for making  53 Leave alone  65 Nintendo's  
twisty cuts  54 "Beat it!"  Super_  

For answers, call 1·900·285·5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888· 7 ·ACROSS . 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2.000 
past puzzles, nytirnes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.corn/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.corn/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
JIWJWLID~LE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PROOD 

[ J I I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LALIV 
j

I I r I I tPEMEXT j
J I [ I I 
www.jumble.com 
I NORIPS ±
I I r ) 
Print answer here: 

"[IIIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: HANDY TAWNY REDUCE MYOPIC Answer: When the gangster went to prison, he became part of --THE "IN" CROWD 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Anna Chlumsky, 27; Daryl Hannah, 47; Ozey Osbourne, 59; Jean-Luc Godard, 77 
Happy Birthday: This can be a charmed year if you pay homage to the people in your life who matter. Your outgoing, worldly personality will cause people to look up to you--as long as you don't exaggerate about your capabilities. Stick to what you know and finish what you start. Unnecessary change will lead to uncer­tainty. Your numbers are 3, 14, 26, 28, 33, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Look for new ways to stimulate your mind or ex­perience new things. You will be a target for an argument with loved ones so spend very little time at home . .Discovery and development should be your intent. 3 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be careful where you put your cash and don't donate, lend or pay for others today. A problem with someone's overindulgence or overspending will arise. Focus on making money, getting a better job or even selling something you own. 3 stars GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): Love, emotional issues, having fun and scoping out possibilities for the future should be on your agenda. A physical change will bring in some compliments and boost your confidence. Nurture a relationship that means a lot to you. 5 stars CANCER (June 21-Joly 22): Pick and choose what's important to you and follow through. Don't let a love relationship stress you out to the point where you are unproductive. A change in your vocation will turn out better than you thought. 2 stars LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You should be preparing to do your thing and excel at whatever it is you want to pursue. Fun and games should be part of your plan. Mix business with pleasure. Your love life is looking pretty decent and the oppor­tunity to make a move is evident. 4 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You have to watch what you say. You will be taken the wrong way or will face opposition if you are too pushy. Uncertainty regarding partnerships may alarm you at first but, once you take a closer look, you will see the benefits more clearly. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can communicate but don't argue, even i( some­one tries to goad you into taking sides. Do your best to be the balance between those who don't agree. Your ability to be insightful and keep the peace will lead to your own advancement. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Someone may try to restrict your progress but, if you work quietly behind the scenes, you can get things done without drawing too 

.... 
much attention. Once you have completed what's necessary, it will be hard for anyone to stand io your way. 3 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take the initiative and create your own posi­tion. If you have to make extra cash, you can incorporate a service you have into a side enterprise. This is not the best time to discuss personal matters or to argue with anyone in authority. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't be fooled by your emotions. You may find yourself listening to poor advice. Do not get involved in a joint financial venture. Listen to the voice of experience, not what your heart is telling you. 2 stars AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can take care of financial, legal and health issues today. A new contract can be put in place and money should be coming your way. You will get all the help you need if you ask. 5 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will face opposition if you are too open about your intentions. Do something physically challenging and you will feel good and gain greater confidence. A new hobby can turn into a lucrative pastime. 3 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are bold and outspoken and grab attention easily. You are channing, delightful, love a thrill and seek adventure and excitement throughout life. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
-... 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Sorry, I tripped 

THIS C.AN HAPP£::N TO "MOO£::L-5." 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 1 Play place 6 Ballroom dance 
11 Chart-topper 14 Sign of spring 15 Mountaineer's 
tool 16 ET's ride 17 Play follower, 
usually 19 Unruly do 20 Amateurish 21"_economy is 
always beauty": Henry James 23 Buggy rider 26 Loofah. e.g. 30 1 08-card game 31 Start the pot 32 Pest control brand 33 Spoil 35 Bibliophile's suffix 36 Tipplers 37 Circulatory system flow 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
41 Singer _ P. Morgan 
43 Early 11th· century year 
44 Back at sea? 
47 Actress Chase of"Now, Voyager" 
48 For dieters 
51 Smidgen 
52 Shoot-'em-up 
figure 54 Harmony, briefly 55 Clobber, 
biblically 56 Computer that 
uses OS X 58 Director Lee 59 What the starts 
of 17·, 26·, 37· and 52-Across are 
66 Crib cry 67 Burger topper, maybe 
.:,-t.::;-:;;;-;~ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
ll.resday, December 4, 2007 
page 20 
FooTBALL 
Hailed by the Chief 
Weis invited to join disability commission 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writt'r 
C h a r I i n We is nw t w i t h l'rnsidnnt Bush, whom he callnd "thn Big Boss," on Nov. 2 1J to disnrss a possible appoint.nwnt to a White llouse commission for Americans with disabilities. 
Wnis revnalnd tlw menting during his sPasoH wrap-up rwws ronfnr1~nce Monday morning in tlw rnr.ruiti11g I0 lt II g n 0 f tlw (; lt g I in I Ill i11 0 /\thlntics Complex. 
"/\bout six months ago tho Whitn IJoust~ had sPnt a roprn­sPntativn out to mnPI. with niP," WPis said. "Tiwy havn a 
•· commission for pPopln with disahilitios in th1~ r.ountry that has 21 pnopiP on it. Thoy had sent a guy out to ask my wife and I -tlwy wanted to ask Ill!', hut on lwhalf of what wn do -wlwt.her I'd be intnrest­nd in lw in g on that com mis­sion. 
"Thny had askPd us if we would bn intPrestPd in having a littln visit with tlw Big Boss on Thursday. WE! thought that would probably be a good 
see WEIS/page 18 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish need to contain Beasley 

ND takes on K. State in crucial showdown 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Ediror 

Before Notre Dame even started watching film on Kansas Statn. the Irish knew who tlwy neednd to stop. 
Wildcats freshman forward Michael lkasley, who is aver­aging 25.7 points and 15.0 rebounds pnr game. is already considered a surelirn top pick in next sumnwr's NB/\ draft. 
"lie's bePn doing grnat. get­ting a doubln-double every game," Notre Dame forward Hyan Ayers said. "I think our defensive position will be vnry important against him." 
The contest with Kansas State tonight at 7 at Madison Square Gardtm in New York is the biggest gamn of the snason so far for the Irish (5-2). The game, whieh will bn tnlnvisnd live on ESPN, is Notrn Dame's last chance to defnat a "power" eonferenen tnam before the Big 
see KSU/page 18 

MEN'S SOCCER 
Senior class leads club to Elite 8 
Friends/zip of Lapira and Yoslzinaga creates success on the pitch 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sport' Ediror 
SPniors .losPph l.apira and /\IPx Yoshinaga havP hookPd up for big goals in Pach of Notrn l>anw's NCAA Tournanwnt wins so far this year. but that is nothing nnw for t.lw Irish. 
In t.lwir lirst Big l·:ast ganw frnshman yPar. both players found t.hPir way onto tlw scorn­rani. Yoshinaga had two goals
.. 
as Wt-11 as llw assist on l.apira's gatttP-wittrwr. 
"Wp had a bPl -wlwn lw scored I shaVt'd my lwad, whnn I S(:orPd IH• would shavn his lward," Yoshinaga said. "So I shavPd it bald and hP shav(~d t.lw Ill' a rd." 
Forty goals and I05 points lat.nr, l.apira's lward has grown in again, and Yoshinaga wnnt morn than two yPars without having to gPI. anotlwr haircut. 
In that tittw tht• pair dnvtd­
.. 
opPd dH•mistry on and ofT the linld that has lwlpPd IPad tlw Irish to a second straight quar­tnrf'inal appearancn in thn NC/\;\ Tournatllf'tlt. 
l.apir<L has raeknd up a tro­
phy easn full of awards high­
-lightnd by winning tlw M./\.C. 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
'D' carries team in Michigan victory 
Depth allows Irish to shut down Wolverines 
By BILL BRINK SportS Writer 
Mie.higan l1nad coaeh Kevin Borseth summarized Notre Damn's defensive prowess this season with onn snntnnee. 
"I just J'efd IikP a wounded fish in shark-infested watf'rs." Borsnth said arter Notrn Damn's def'nnsn shredded Michigan in its 77-4(, win ovnr the Wolverines Sunday. 
Borseth wrote ofT Mkhigan's of'fpnsivP stagnaney to laek of execution, but anyonn watch­ing could son a disparity betwenn his explanation and tho actual happnnings of the gamn. Tlw Irish prossed tlw Wolvorinns de11p in their zone, playnd tight defense on tho perinwtnr. and utiliznd doubln­teams of'foetivnly. 
Michigan had a size advan­tage over the Irish, most 
.notably in 6-foot-h center Krista Phillips. But what they laeked. and what Notre Dame has used to its advantage this season, were quickness and athleticism. Notre Dame got a hand or body in the way of numerous 
passes or shots in tlw ganw. Tlw Irish full-eourt prnss knpl Michigan in its zonn for nxtend­nd pPriods of t.imn, and when the Wolvf'rines did snt up its half-court offense, Notrn I>anw could doubln-tnam playnrs and still havn timn to gnt. hack in position aftnr a pass. 
The Irish altnrnatPd b!ltwemJ man-to-man and zorw dPfnnsP, something roach Muf'fnt MeGraw said lwlpnd k(wp tlw WolvPritH's guessing. 
"I think wn knpt tlwm ofT bal­ance a littln bit." McCraw said af'tnr tlw gamn. "Whnn WI' press wn likn to !'all back into the zonn. I like playing tlw zonn, I think wn'rn good at it. and I also likn the man-to-man. so I t hi n k i I' wn 1: a n ke11 p switching it on and ofT it will help kPop us a littlo bit mort' intensn." 
Onf' didn't havn to look hard to find oxamples. In the last five minutes of tho first half. guard Tulyah Gaines lunged to her left to knock a pass out of' bounds. 
"Def'nnsively, IGaines is) active, shn can steal," McGraw 
see DEFENSE/page 17 

IIPrmann ;\ward at thn end of his junior year. Yoshinaga missnd tlw majority of his jun­ior yPar with a broken eollar­borw, but was fourth on the tnam in points scored his frnshman season with 13. 
Nnithnr Lapint nor Yoshinaga remembers how 
tlwir friendship started, but it has grown throughout thnir four years at Notrn Dame. 
"I don't even remember. I think my mom took a liking to him," Yoshinaga said. "She said, 'I like that boy,' so I said, 
see SENIORS/page 17 






