
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Campus engages sexual violence issues 
Dialogue addresses prevention; nzen join activist efforts, groups 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Ediwr 
In recent years, campuc; dialogue has increasingly addrnssnd issues of sexual violence. This attention hac; grown throughout campus but has particularly drawn male aetivi'its, University officials and student leaders say. 
Student groups are calling with incmac;ing intensi­ty on both the men and women of Notre Dame to reduce the instances of sexual ac;sault -which all sources say occur much more often to members of the campus community than may be perceived. 
"We want to create a movement where we say, 'No, this ic; not OK. and we won't let thic; happen,"' said MichaPI HPdding, president of Men Against Violence. 
Though no more than two rapes have been report­ed to NDSP during any year in the last decade, 
see ASSAULT/page 8 

'Loyal' receives positive student feedback, draws large crowd 
By MARCELA BERRIOS 
Associate News Ediwr 
Onstage since Monday, "Loyal Daughters and Sons" will end its run in Washington Hall tonight after a weeklong effort to address sexuality and sexual assault at Notre Dame, from both the male and female perspectives. 
Thursday's audience of 337 was the largest the production has seen to date, and a similar turnout is expected tonight, according to junior Sarah Van Mill, one of the show's head writers. 
"Loyal Daughters and Sons" has been averaging about 200 people every night, she said. 
And the feedback from those hundreds of attendees -mainly students and faculty 
see LOYAL/page 9 
Islam and Christianity: brothers in faith 
Archbishop discusses compatibility of two religions, common ancestry, misconceptions 

By JOSH LEEUW News Writer 
The rift between Christianity and Islam can bP solved by find­ing a common ground in God and a sharPd ancestry, Archbishop Celestino Migliore, Permanent Observer of the I loly See to the Unit11d Nations, said Thursday. 
Migliore told a popular Middle Eac;tern story to illustrate the pic­ture Muslims and Christians have of each other. 
A man walks in the desert and sees a monster on the horizon, he said. As the man gets closer, he realizes it isn't a monster but a very ugly man. When he is right in front of the man, he sees it is his brother. 
"Muslims see Christians as monsters of the Crusades.... Christians see Muslims as mon­sters in a similar light," Migliore said. 
With both religions having ancient histories, rooted deeply in tradition, it is often said the reli­gions could not be compatible, the Archbishop said. 
"However, both religions con­tain elements that are compatible, but are just unaccepted because of misconceptions," Migliore said. Migliore addressed three points of convergence between Muslims and Christians, aspects both sects of believers share. 
see ISLAM/page 6 
JESS LEE/The Observer Archbishop Celestino Migliore, Permanent Observer of the Holy See to the United Nations, speaks on Christianity and Islam Thursday. 
Notre Dame delegation to attend vigil-protest 
School of the Americas Watch to hold solidarity events for those killed at the hands ofgraduates 

ByJENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
This weekend. 35 members of the Notre Dame community will drive to Fort Benning, Ga., to join thousands of people in the annual vigil-protest of the con­troversial School of the 
Americas  (SOA),  a  combat  
training  school  for  Latin  
American soldiers.  

Junior Michael Angulo organ­ized the Notre Dame trip, which includes undergraduates, grad­uate students, theology profes­sor Margie Pfeil and Liz McKenzie from the Center for Social Concerns. 
The delegation is joining tor­ture survivors, religious organi­zations and leaders, students. 
social movement leaders, "pup­petistas," (an informal group of puppeteers that denounce the SOA). presidential candidate Dennis Kucinich, and the Indigo Girls, among others. 
The School of the Americas Watch, a nonviolent grassroots advocacy movement, organized the vigil-protest, which will take place Nov. 16-18. The organiza­tion seeks solidarity with Latin Americans to close the SOA and to "change oppressive U.S. for­eign policy that institutes like the SOA represent," according to their Web site. 
"School of the Americas Watch has done an incredible job at networking between 
see VlGIL!page 6 

Cuba talk focuses on future 
Journalists: Government has several options 
By LINDSAY SENA 
News Writer 
Io::xperts di<>eu&sed Cuba's political system and their thoughts on the country's future, given the failing health of President Fidel Castro Thursday. 
The lecture, titled "Cuba from Inside," featured Hewlett Visiting Fellow and freelance journalist Cecilia Vaisman and former Havana bureau chief for the Chicago Tribune Gary Marx. 
'We don't believe he's mming baek to power," Vaisman said. The two said Cuba ha<; several options for its government in the future. 
The nation could adopt a "ChinaMetnam style/model" of gov­erning, which would improve living standards for Cubans while still maintaining a single-party system, Vaisman said. Or, she said, Cubans could stage a violent uprising for democracy, which is "extremely unlikely." 
"Qvil society is not strong enough to challenge the government," she said. 
Although there have been several positive changes since the 1990s, such as the legalization of the U.S. dollar and the opening of some Cuban sectors to tourism and invest­ment, there is still a growing inequal­ity between the rich and the poor, Marx said. 
'There is a gap between those with dollars and those without," he said, using the quinciiiera as an example of wealthy Cuban excess. 
see CUBA/page 4 
Friday, November 16, 2007

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Being super 
Everyone has thought about it. At least once or twice -what super pownr would you have if you could choosn anything? Or pnr­haps, if just given the choiee betwnnn flight or Dustin Mennella invisibility, which would 
Photo Editor 
you take? 
Only one 
dwice, and 
you are the only one in the world to 
have that power. 
With the price of gas today, who wouldn't chose 11ight? You could just zoom around whenever going somewhere, and as an added bonus, you could make a really good witch or wizard costume at Halloween. 
Of course the invisible power 
would have its advantages, too ­
excelhmt for pranks and escaping a 
tight situation, but ultimately I 
don't think it would be a useful 
power for good, just a temptation of 
the oppositn. 
Shoplil'ling would become simple, and from that one could easily snowball into bad things. Anyway, one would have trouble being a super hero with either of those powers, if that was the only one tlwy had. Unless you had super st.rongth, or a super hero team to back you up, of course. 

If I wuld chooso any power. it would he a dose dedsion bntween controlling tinH~ and eontrolling gravity. Tinw control would be both fun and useful. but the spnc.ific details would havn to bn worked out. If you went back in limo a day, what would happen to the rest of tlw world -would they also go hack'! Could you meet. your past self. or would there always bn only one of you? It could get confusing if a new copy of you was made every time you time-traveled. After a while, thero would be so many copies of you, you would definitely run out of clothes for all of your selves. And I suppose you could just stop timo and steal some from the store, but lwy, that's not proper conduet for someone posing as a super hero. 
According to an online quiz, I would be Superman. I wouldn't want to be Superman though­actually I wouldn't want to be many of the super heroes-tragedy seems to be one of the prerequisites for gaining powers. Spiderman's unde died, Superman's planet blew up, the X-men protect people who misunderstand them and countless other heroes have been exposed to toxic chemicals or radiation. I would imagine those must have been traumatic nxperiences. 

I gunss that's where their great sense of responsibility and virtue comes from. Evnn Aristotle sup­ported super herons (according to Wikipedia): "Tlwre are men so god­like. so exceptional, that they natu­rally, by right of their extraordinary gifts, transcend all moral judgment or eonstitutional eontrol: There is no law whieh embraees men of that calibre: They themselves are law." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact !Justin Mennella at dmenrwll@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives lor rhe highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please comacr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS YOUR FAVORITE CHILDHOOD SNACK, AND WHY? 



Jonathan Richardson 
grad student Fisher Grad 
"/like jlan, and mavi." 



Connie Jones  Charlandra Williams  latifah Cato  Steve Iwanski  
freshman Pangborn  freshman McGlinn  freshman Lewis  junior Alumni  
"Little Debbie's Zebra Cakes. "  "Goldfish, because they smiled at me,  "Flintstone s vitamins, they were just good. "  "Paint chips. "  


IN BRIEF 
"Loyal Daughters and Sons: Sexuality and Sexual Assault As Told by Notre Dame Students" will be performed at 8 tonight at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 and are available at the LaFortune Box OilieR 
As part of' International Education Week, them will bP a faculty panel discussing "Overcoming Global Poverty: Is Globalization the Problem or the Solution'?" in Conference Homo D of' the Saint Mary's Student Center, !'rom noon to 1 p.m. today. 
"A Bright Hoom Called Day" will be pnrl'ormed on the Dedo Main Stage in the DeBartolo Perlhnning Arts Center tonight, and Sunday at 7::~0 p.m. Ticket<> are $12 for the general public, $10 lor snniors, faculty and staff and $8 fhr students. 
The Notre Dame women's soc­cer team will play Loyola Chicago tonight at 7:30 on Alumni Field. 
Pangborn Hall is hosting Project Pumpkin Pie for the Hope Hescue Mission this Sunday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. in the F Wing of North Dining Hall. Sign up through your dorm presi­dent or contact mmiramon@nd.edu. 
The Black Cultural Arts Coundl is holding modeling try­outs for it<> annual fashion show Sunday from 7:30 to 9:30p.m. for any women interested. The men's tryouts will take place next Tuesday from 8 to 1 0 p.m.. Both tryouts will be held in Washington Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


and I liked the song. 


KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer 
Notre Dame quarterback Evan Sharpley, left, autographs a Saint Mary's "The Shirt" at the T-shlrt's unveiling in the Saint Mary's Student Center Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 
Boy, driving for dad, charged with DUI 
CLIO, Mieh. -A police officer checking on a truck that got stuck in the mud at a city park was startled to find a 13-year­old boy behind the wheel. The officer also was sur­prised that the boy appeared to be drunk. 
So did the teen's father, who was riding in the front seat. l-Ie told police that he had turned over the driving duties to his son because he'd had too much to drink. 
Open containers of beer and liquor were found in the vehicle, said Clio McLellan. 
Police  Chief  James  
TODAY  
a::  

"(The boy) even said he didn't want to drive because he was too drunk," McLellan told The Flint Journal for a story published Thursday. 
Open containers of beer and liquor were found in the vehicle, said Clio Police Chief James McLellan. 
Man allegedly uses stapler to rob store 
ASHLAND, Ky. -A man wearing a ski mask held up an eastern Kentucky ice cream store with a sta­pler, and briefly got away with $175. 
Police identified the sta­pier bandit as Gerald A. Rocchi, 32, who was arrested shortly after he allegedly flashed a chrome-plated stapler at an employee of The Ice Cream Shop in Ashland on Tuesday and demanded money. 

Ashland Police Capt. Don Petrella said he didn't know if R{)cchi planned to shoot staples at the shop's employees or use it as a blunt instrument if he did­n't get the cash. It didn't come to that because the employees handed over the cash, Petrella said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT GAME DAY SUNDAY 
1.&.1 
::1: 
1\ '\ " 
··'4 ,·:
1"·....·:
~ i --~:~: 

~:X---"~\}\} i':I
\:; .../·"CC'·Y 
"'S:.f "'C/
1.&.1 
~[ 
1...­
~( l~· 
~ ;..;;......

;: ~ 
_,.~ ­
..' .
...J 
~)lJ~ 

~ll*'
ct 
(,) 

...I 0 HIGH 45 HIGH 35 HIGH 46 HIGH 45 LOW 30 LOW 20 LOW 31 LOW 33 
Atlanta 54 I 32 Boston 43 I 42 Chicago 45 I 27 Denver 62 I 32 Houston 71 I 41 Los Angeles 75 I 55 Minneapolis 46 I 27 New York 49 I 37 Philadelphia 49 I 36 Phoenix 84 I 61 Seattle 53/ 46 St. Louis 55 I 30 Tampa 66 I 50 Washington 51 I 35 
Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Center offers 'mini grants' to study abroad 
Students seek funding to offset costs of international programs from part of CWIL's $30,000 available for year 
By KATIE KOHLER Saint Mary's Editor  their study abroad dream and enhance their intercultural learning," she said. "[The  Greece. She received a $960 grant to put toward the $3,400 cost.  "Independent grants are used for truly independent study supported by a faculty member  financial need can receive thousands of dollars towards an intensive intercultural expe­ 
recipients! really appreciated  "The  Greece  trip  is  an  and is not affiliated with any  rience which they would not  
Saint Mary's students con­ the  financial  support from  extraordinary experience with  study abroad institution," Yang  otherwise be able to afford,"  
cerned about the cost of study­ CWIL."  incredible teachers. Without  said. "This type of grant is  she said. "Even students with  
ing abroad for a semester or summer have the opportunity  Senior Sarah Didier received a grant from CWIL for the  the help of CWIL, there is no way I could have gone," she  merit-based and highly com­petitive."  little financial aid can receive money for worthy projects."  
to  receive  "mini  grants"  European Summer Study pro­ said.  The application procflss is  She said she hopes for the  
through the Lilly Endowment  gram last summer. She spent  Senior Kimberly Fugate had a  similar to other abroad pro­ continued success of the grant  
Fund  and  the  Center  for  four weeks traveling through  similar story. Fugate,  who  grams.  Recommendations,  program so more Saint Mary's  
Women's  InterCultural  France,  received  applications and good college  students  can  have positive  
Leadership (CWIL).  England,  $2,300  out  standing are required. In addi­ learning experiences abroad.  
More than $30,000 has been allotted to the grant program so far this year, said Siqin Yang, assistant direetor for  Scotland and Ireland. Didier was awarded  "There are no fully funded grants, both in order to spread the assistance to as  of $4,000 to study in Greece, said CWIL's sup­ tion, upon returning, students must write a reflection paper and present on their experi­ences. Attendance at the fol­ "The dedicated students who have taken advantage of this opportunity have found their additional investment well  
international and intercultural learning. On average, students whose grant proposals were approved  $2,500. Her total expens­es were close to $6,500.  many students as possible and because these experiences are ofgreat  port was the deciding factor in g o i n g  lowing year's Intercultural Learning Showcase is also required. Programs eligible for grants  rewarded by life-changing learning," she said. Meyer-Lee said she thinks the scale of grants offered at Saint  
last year received between $250 and $2,400, Yang said. "There are no fully funded grants. both in order to spread the assistance to as many stu­ The grant c o v e r e d roughly 40 percent of her total  educational value. It seems appropriate that students contribute what they can."  abroad. "In addi­tion to the [ C WI L] grant, I was  must be at least two weeks long and not contained within usual financial aid funding, Yang said. Though mostly upperclassmen apply, all stu­ Mary's is "highly unusual among colleges." "Some schools try to offer a little additional scholarship aid for study abroad through a  
dents as possible and because these experiences arc of great educational value," Yang said. "It seems appropriate that stu­dents contribute what they ean.,  cost, and she said she would not have been able to par­ticipate with­ Siqin Yang assistant director for international and intercultural learning  sponsored by my family as well as LaSalle Grill, who helped with  dents are eligible for the grants. While CWIL tries to accom­modate as many students as possible, its policy requires that no more than 75 percent of a  mandatory fee for all students, or alumni donations," Meyer­Lee said. "But Saint Mary's stu­dents are fortunate that Saint Mary's received substantial resources to start CWIL and  
Saint  Mary's  has  offered  out aid from  my food por­ trip's furiding can come from  earned a good share of those  
these grants since 2002. Since  CWIL. Didier and her sister  tion of the trip," Fugate said.  CWIL, said Elaine Meyer-Lee,  resources to directly fund stu­ 
then,  more than 50 students  both attended the program.  "It was absolutely worth it."  director  of the  Center  for  dents' international and inter­ 
have recflived grants to study  "My  parents  could  have  There  are  two  types  of  Women's  InterCultural  cultural learning."  
in  places  like  Brussels,  helped one of us out, but not  grants: student travel grants  Leadership.  CWIL  also  offers  faculty  
Bfllgium, Romfl, Italy and cities  both at the same time," she  and  independent  student  Meyer-Lee said the grants  grants. The two main cate­ 
in Argentina. The grants, Yang  said.  "We  each  received  grants.  benefit not only students but  gories are faculty research  
said, assist studflnts who  are  $2,500. Through this grant we  Student travel grants include  also  the  international  and  grants or conference atten­ 
wary about traveling abroad for linancial reasons.  ended up having an amazing summer."  semesters abroad and summer programs. Independent student  intercultural standards of the College.  dance grants, Meyer-Lee said.  
"The grants help students  Through CWIL, senior Kelly  grants, however,  are  much  "Saint Mary's is a rare college  Contact Katie Kohler at  
who have financial need realize  Fahey was able to travel to  more competitive.  where committed students with  kkohleO1@saintmarys.edu  

.. 
~: ~: 
i: 
i jj' 
:tt:·: :~ ·+ 

Friday, November 16, 2007 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Hanunocks sold to help Nicaraguan artisans 
By BRIAN McKENZIE 
News Writer 
Students looking to spruce up their dorm rooms and help Niearaguan artisans can pur­ehase hammock chairs today from Artisan Opportunities International, Inc. (AOI). 
Tho chairs are designed to !"it in a dorm room and are available in blue-and-white 
sans to determine how to reinvest the money," she said. 
"We personally spoke with th~-1 artisans and compared their greatest needs with what was most economically feasible. We wanted to have a sustainable, long-term effect on their lives," Tovar said. 
The group eventually decid­ed to provide materials to replace roofs, she said. 

and multi-col­ored. Students can also pur­chase larger, "matrimonial" hammocks, large enough for two adults, through the AOI's Web site. 
AOI is work­ing to improve living eonditions for artisans in Niearagua. 
"We can make a difTerPnce" in the lives of Niearaguan 
"It may seem like a small amount of money here but it can make a tremendous difference in the lives ofthese people. " 
Brian Brownschidle co-founder Artisan Opportunities International, Inc. 
"With a very small amount of money, we were able to re-roof all of our artisans' homes," Brownschidle said. 
Junior Christy Essay, another AOI member that wont to Nicaragua, said in the future, the organization plans to focus 

artisans, AOI co-founder sen­ior Brian Brownsehidle, said. "It may seem likP a small amount of money here but it can makP a tremendous dif­ference in the lives of these on education. 
"Our artisans live all over tho city, so it's a difficult issue," she said. "I think we'll end up. giving supplies or uniforms, but we don't 

Cuba 
continued from page 1 
"Cubans are spending thousand<> and thousands of dollars on these parties," he said. 
Additional down..'>ides to the eco­nomic reforms indude an increase in crimfl, prostitution and a growing bku:k market 
A<iide from alfeeting the ee..onomy, the Cuban government al'iO has con­trol over religion, the arts and the media. 

Cuba's constitution changed from atheist to secular in the 1990s, whieh enabled Catholics to practicn their faith freely. However, the gov­ernment still plaees strict limitation.<; 
on the Catholic Church, which is Cuba's largest independent institu­tion, Marx said. 
The Church does not have a.rnlSS to the media., ca.Imot build churches, schooL<> or seminaries, and cannot recruit priPsts from abroad. he said. 
In terms of the media, Marx said that due to a strong internal opposi­tion, there has been a "craekdown" on independentjoumali<>t<> <md di•;si­dents. 
"The opposition movement is thoroughly infiltrated," he said, emphm,mng that it i<> impossible to tell who is a real dis.<>ident and who is a ~;py, which has lead to "su<>pidon and mistrlllit" among Cuban<>. 
"Opposition is a nonlaetor in Cuba today," Marx said, as di'iSident<> are almost instantly imprisoned and, 


Solidarity Sunday 
November 18, 2007 
The Spirit ofInclusion .•.
STUDENTS 

upon rnlease, are obliged to leave the country. Vaisman and Marx said Cubans are, on the whole, fbarful of changn. 
"Propaganda in Cuba L<> just as effective a.<> propagm1da in Ameriea. . .. thn edueation !>)'Stem empha.<.,i?J~ mnformity," Marx said. 
Although thnre i<; a minor possibil­ity lor chang~) in Cuba, thn current situation d01)sn't "look like litl will change at all," Vai<>man said. 
The lncturn took place in the Hesburgh Cnnter for Intnmational Studies, and was a part of International Education Week, a joint initiative of the U.S. Department'> ofState and Education. 
Contact Lindsay Sena at lsena@nd.edu 
"Strangt~rs and Sojourners no longer" (Ephesians 2:19) 
people," he said. 
AOI's nl'forts have won the 2006 Student Opus Prize. affiliated with thP Opus Croup, a national real estatP development company that n~wards individuals for com­bining entrepreneurship with a f"ight against social injus­tice. It also won Cigot Center's Best Undergraduate Business Plan competition. 
Brownschidle said the mar­ket for artisans in Nicaragua is too small to provide them with living wages. AOI has hPlped the artisans sell abroad. All of the proceeds from tlw hammock chair sale will rP.turn to the artisans and their communities, he said. 
Sophomore Tina Tovar went on a trip to Nicaragua to help study how AOI proceeds could be spent most effectively. "We did a lot of research on the gn~atest needs of the arti-





Please 
recycle' The Observer. 
have any definite plans yet." Brownschidle said logistics 

''We value gay .-md lesbtfm members of this community as we value all members of this 
community'', "We consciously create an environment ofmutual respect, hospitality and 
issues are also difficult. Also, 
hn had to study solutions to 

warmth in which none are strangers and all may flourish" "We prize the uniqoeness of 
ensure that the proceeds 

all persons as Cod's cr~ewres, -'' -adopted by the f!.flkers ofthe University 1)11 Aueusr 17, I 997. 
madn a difference for the 
artisans. Brownshidle stressed that 

Please join the Notre Dame family in a weekend-long
the organization had two sep­arate components, maximiz­

spirit ofprayer and welcome. ing profit like a company, and maximizing social return like 
Copies ofthe entire statement ofthe Spirit oflndusion will be available
a charity. "But we're not a charity 

following ~II Masses on November 17-18, 2007. 
organization," Tovar said. "Since we're a small organi­zation, it wouldn't be sustain­able to keep giving food and water rather than something with a lasting impact." 
The chairs will be sold for $45 at the South Quad flag­pole from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. and Fieldhouse Mall from noon to 6 p.m. today. 
Contact Brian McKenzie at 
bmckenzi@nd.edu 

STude~T housi~9 does~'T haVe TO J.OOKJ.i~ ThiS! 


.:;radium {/icr<..o_ C!~':domi«t"um..J. 
• 
Great short-tenn rates stitl available for 2007-08 

• 
2008-2009 leases are filling up fast! • 2-bedroom, 2-bath with 1,200± square feet 

• 
Large balcony 

• 
Cathedral ceilings 


• 
Washer/dryer, dishwasher, central air conditioning 

• 
Walking distance to campus 

• 
Call or email for showing 



For more infonnation: Stadium Club Condominiums 
Managed by
18127 Bulla Road 
RcalU!a!.e
574-243-7530 
Managcmern 
Corporation

stadiumdut:xxJnl.nel • 
r---~---------------------------------------­



ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 16 2007 CoMPILED FROM T1··JE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVKES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Somalian pirate attacks on the rise 
MOMBA.SA-With one slain crew mate in the ship's freezer and Somali pirates threatening to kill his son, Capt. Xinshen Ung could think of only one thing to do: Threaten to throw himself into the shark-infested waters, calculating the pirates wouldn't want to lose the capk'1in. 
lie was right. Four pirates immediately rushed to keep him from jumping off the Taiwanese fishing vessel. 
"It was a test. I wanted to see how much the pirates valued me ... They know if the captain dies, they will get less ransom," the 47-year-old told The Associated Press, safe in Kenya on Wednesday after the U.S. Navy stepped in to win the relea..qe of the Ching Fong Hwa 168 and its surviving crew, including Ung's son. 
Ling's tale of seven months of captivity is frighteningly common off the lawless coast of war-ravaged Somalia, where piracy is on the increase. After releasing the ship and its crew on Nov. 5, the pirates got away with an unspeci­fied ransom paid by the ship's owner. 
Cyclone hits Bangladesh coast 
KIIULNA-A powerful cyclone packing 150 mph winds slammed into Bangladesh on Thursday night, fla~tening homes, toppling trees and power poles. and forcing hundreds of thou­sands of people to flee for shelters in this low­lying nation. 
Tropical Cyclone Sidr swept in from the Bay of Bengal, buffeting the southwestern coa..qtal areas within a 155-mile radius of its eye with heavy rain and storm surges predicted to reach 20 feet high. 
No casualties were immecliately reported, but rescue teams were on standby. 
Sidr's eye crossed the Khulna-Barisal coast near the Sundarbans mangrove forests, the Bangladesh Meteorological Department said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Mystery creature sighted in florida 
MACCLENNY -Whether the mystery crit­ter roaming northern Florida is an orang­utan, a "baby Bigfoot" or something else, wildlife officials think it might have a bit of Homer Simpson in it. 
After a bear hunter said an animal that could be an orangutan stole jelly doughnuts from him, a wildlife investigator has tried to use sweet treats to lure the creature into the op~m in Baker County. 
There have been several sightings of what witnesses have described as a "big orange ball of' f'ur," though oflicials have yet to con­firm it's an orangutan, said Karen Parker, a spokeswoman for the Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission. 

Tenants suspicious of police motive 
CIIICt\GO -Jacqueline Thompson has lived in the public housing projects for nearly half a century and can't remember evnr seeing this many police officers around before. 
From her third-floor window, she watch­es as they routinely pile out of squad cars, slap cuffs on young black men and take them away. Like other tenants, Thompson believes there's a simple explanation: money. 
She and others suspect police are has­sling tenants in a plot by City Hall to empty out the projects and redevelop the land. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man charged with illegal coyote sale 
KENNARD -A man charged with ship­ping coyotes to other states so they could be hunted in confined areas said the ani­mals were rarely harmed. 
Earl Hunt, 66, of Kennard, was arrested this week by Indiana Department of Natural Resources Conservation Officers and charged with multiple counts of ille­gally shipping wildlife. 
The DNR said Hunt sold coyotes trapped in Indiana for use in penned dog-running facilities in other states. Hunters use dogs to chase coyotes or foxes in the fenced-in areas. 
IRAQ 


Government seizes Sunni headquarters 
Hardline clerics group, accused ofsupporting al-Qaida, questions reasons behind evacuation 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -The Iraqi government seized the west Baghdad headquarters of a powerful Sunni Muslim group Wednesday, cordon­ing off the building and accusing the group of sup­porting al-Qaida, officials said. 
The Association of Muslim Scholars, a hard­line Sunni clerics group with links to insurgents, has its headquarters in the Um al-Qura mosque in the capital's Sunni-dominated Ghazaliyhah neighborhood. 
Iraqi security forces dis­patched by the Sunni Endowment, a government agency that cares for Sunni mosques and shrines, sur­rounded the mosque com­plex at 9 a.m. and demand­ed that the building be evacuated before noon, the association said in a state­ment posted on its Web site. 
Employees were told to remove all personal belong­ings and even haul out fur­niture, that troops said would be destroyed if left behind, it said. 
The group also operates a radio station from the mosque, and its transmis­sion was cut as well, the statement said. The final sounds on the air were of an announcer apologizing told reporters. existence in the mosque," ment said. to listeners and telling them "The association no the official said. A spokesman for the he was being forced from longer has a place here.... The association has long association, Mohammed the building, the group These headquarters now opposed the U.S. military Bahsar al-Faydhi, told The said. belong to the Sunni presence in Iraq and has Associated Press that he 
The head of the Sunni Endowment," he said. often been at odds with the believed the troops raiding Endowment held a news Earlier, another Sunni Shiite-backed government. the mosque were not gov­conference at the mosque Endowment oflicial said the The association spearhead­ernment forces but al­later Wednesday, accusing government had plans to ed the Sunni boycott of the Samarraie's personal the clerics' group of sup­renovate the Urn al-Qura January 2005 elections, guards. porting al-Qaida. mosque, which sits on gov­which fueled the insur­"We don't understand 
"The Association of ernment property. gency. why the Sunni Endowment Muslim Scholars has "We have nothing against Another statement posted acted this way," said al­regrettably been attacking the association ... and its on the association's Web Faydhi, who lives in any tribal awakening, members, but we have site said the group held ai­Jordan. resistance or worshippers plans to renovate the Samarraie himself respon­Some employees who whenever they form a force mosque and construct more sible for the safety of its were already inside the Urn to purge their neighbor­buildings inside," the offi­employees. al-Qura building when hoods of al-Qaida elements. cial said on condition of "The Association of forces arrived staged a sit­The association has always anonymity because he was Muslim Scholars condemns in, refusing to leave by the justified killing and assassi­not authorized to speak to this blatant assault. ... This noon deadline, the associa­nations carried out by al­media. was done for the benefit of tion said. Security forces Qaida," Ahmed Abdul­"However, this matter has many parties which see the were preventing any vehi­Ghafoor al-Samarraie, the been seen by the associa­association as an obstacle cles from entering the com­Sunni Endowment chief, tion as a threat to their to their projects," the state-pound, it said. 



Minister struggles with death penalty 
Associated Press the death penalty, but Hawke said it ually assaulted. allows for individual conscience. He "I don't think people can imagine the 
NEW HAVEN -It's not easy for described himself as an opponent of terror that went through the lives of Richard Hawke to support the death capital punishment, with some excep­these three women during the hours penalty. The retired Methodist minister tions for cases involving rape and chil­they were held hostage," Hawke said of knows that his church opposes capital dren. the July 23 attack. punishment. And he knows what scrip­Jennifer Hawke-Petit, 48, and her "Our kids weren't just shot," he added. ture says about forgiveness. daughters were held hostage for several "They were tortured and terrorized. I 
But when he looks at a photo of his hours before they were killed. llawke­couldn't get past that." daughter, Hawke remembers the intrud­Petit's husband, Dr. William Petit, was Hawke-Petit, who did not know her ers who strangled her and killed her two beaten but managed to escape the assailants, was taken to a bank during daughters last summer in their subur­house, which the attackers were the ordeal and forced to withdraw ban home. accused of setting on fire. $15,000. 
Hawke, 76, and his wife have strug­The young girls -Hayley, 17. and Two paroled burglars -Joshua gled with the issue, confiding in friends, Michaela, 11 -were tied to their beds Komisarjevsky, 27, of Cheshire, and searching the Bible and praying. I le said and died of smoke inhalation. Steven Hayes, 44, of Winsted -are he told a prosecutor: "These people had Investigators said gasoline was poured awaiting trial in the slayings. If convict­no right to continue to live in sodety." on and around them. Hawke-Petit and ed, the men could be executed by lethal 
The United Methodist Church opposes one of her daughters were allegedly sex-injection. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 16, 2007 
Vigil 
continued from page 1 
many groups dedicated to the dose of the SOA," Angulo said. 
The School is a Spanish-lan­guage training facility for nlite Latin American military and poliCI~ personnel. After contro­versy surrounding its reputation, t.he School was rnmtrned The Western llemisphern Institute f(Jr Security CoopPration (WIIINSEC) in 2001 after the signing of thn National I>efensl' Authorization Ad to "provide professional edu­cation and training to eligibl<~ persons of th1~ nations of tlw Western llemisplwre within the cont1~xt of tiH~ denHHTatic princi­ples set forth in the Charter of the Organization of American 
States,"  according  to  tlw  
Institute's Web sitl'.  
Graduates  of  the  School  

indude dictators Manuel Noriega and Omar Torrijos of Panama, II ugo Banznr Suan~z of Bolivia and Guillermo Hodriguez of 1\cuador, according to tlw School of tlw Anwricas Watrh Web site. 
"Part of what lthe United States isl helping and allowing to happen, by giving our bl1~ssing and training, is the military vio­lence happening in Central and South Am1~rica," Angulo said. 
This year's protest includes leetures. a Mass, concerts and a memorial funeral service, whkh includes a presentation at the gates of tlw School, where white crosses with the names of the thousands of those who have died dirnctly or indirectly at the hands of SOA graduates. 
"It is an insanely intense expe­rience," Angulo said. 
After spending 10 weeks in El Salvador this summer, Angulo witrwssed, first hand, how the violence of the country's dvil war am~cted families. 
"The government received money from the United States for military assistance," he said. 
Angulo's host brother was 


IslaiD 
continued from page 1 
"The first point is that we are all childrnn of Abraham ... the sec­ond point is that we are both monotheist-;, and the third point is that we have sacred books, the Bible and the Quran" explained Migliore. 
Migliore said Christians and Muslims have many things in common as human beings and are united by their relation to Abraham. Quoting a famous the­olo~-,rian, Migliore said: "The most important tree in the desert i<; the tree ofgenealogy." 
Migliorn citt~d the Vatkan II doc­ument, "Nostra Aetate," to explain how the Catholic Church regarded non-Christian religions, spm:ilkally the Muslims. 
"They [the Muslims). do not ;u:knowledge Jesus Christ as Cod," Migliore said, reading the document. 
"Nostra Aetate" states that. though Muslims do not rneognize Christ as (;od, they do honor (;od <L<; thn maknr of thn whole human race. They honor Mary as the Virgin Motlwr and th1~y also value moraJJif(~. 
lin disnrssed tlw irnportancn of Uw wol'ds "brotlwl'" and "nlligh­bor" to both religions and how both woJ'ds are usl'd frequently in rPiigious dialoguP. 
Miglion~ nmph<L<;iznd the impor­tance of tlw low of Cod and tlw lovn of neighbor and dis1:ussnd a Mus! i m docunwn t ti Lind. "A Common Word Bl'twnnn Us and You," which shows tlw respm:t and undPJ'standing lwtwnnn 

drafted to the army when he was 
16 and after fighting for "a cou­
ple of years," he immigrated, 
illegally, to the United States, 
where he joined a gang. 
"llis comfort is in weapons and 
violence. I attribute that to the 
fact he was in the army at a very 
young age," Angulo said. 
He saw a photo of his host brother and some friends from their time in the army and "they were smiling, with guns," he said. "I recognized imnwdiatPiy they were wearing American uniforms -green fatigues ­and guns that we sold them." 
This weekend's vigil-protest is "a lot more personal" for Angulo. 
"In the past, it was a lot more about the ideals of social justiee and what kind of muntry I want to be living in," he said. "It still is about that. but now it means mom." 
WIIINSEC's motto is "Paz, l.ibertad y Fraternidad" (Peace, Liberty and Brotherhood). According to its Web site, the Institute's mission includes "fos­tering mutual knowledge, trans­parency, confidence, and cooper­ation by promoting democratic values, respect for human rights and an understanding of U.S. customs and traditions." 
The Institute is succeeding in its mission, Angulo said. 
"The mission of any military institution where the United States is assisting other mili­taries is first and foremost fur­thering American interests in the region," he said. "This is historic, we're talking the Monroe Doctrine, where we say, 'Basically, this hemisphere is ours."' 
The pursuit of American inter­ests in Latin America has reper­cussions that touch the military, economy and immigration, Angulo said. 
"It's hard not to make the con­nection ... it's all right there," he said. "We need to recognize his­torically what's happening and work to stop future abuses." 
"Why are we against terrorism 
Christians and Muslims. 
Currently, close to 150 Muslim delegates have signed the docu­ment. Despite the effort, there is still a rift between the religions, Migliore said. 
"IfChri-;tians and Muslims want to find eommon ground . . . they must start with God," he said. He went on to discuss how all reli­gions, no matter what the denom­ination, have a form of the "gold­en rule." Migliore said every reli­gion should follow this rule, which is that people must love one another Migliore briefly discussed the spread of terrorism, and said extremist-; do not speak for reli­gions as a whole. 
"We must show [extremists] the same text<; they use for terrorism, tlet them know their actions] do not promote peace," he said. Migliore emphasized the impor­tance of love and peaceful dia­logue between religions. 
"These dialogues must be engaged in by believers, not by diplomat-;," Migliore said. 
Migliore spoke to a standing­room only crowd at the llesburgh Center f(Jr International Studies. 
llis speech was titled "Catholicism and Islam: Point-; of Convergence and Divergence, Encounter and Cooperation." University Pmsident Father John Jenkins thanked the Archbishop for coming and wekomed him to Notre Damn. 
A question and answnr session f(Jllownd the lecture. At the end of thn event. thn Archbishop wa-; pre­sented with 1-,rifb ofappmciation. 
Contact Josh Leeuw at jleeuw@hcc-nd.edu 
in some places, but we train ter­Defense facility. It occupies trip last year, Angulo was able to rorists in our own country?" he Ridgway Hall on the military secure $1,200 of funding from said. "Why is it okay when our reservation of Fort Benning. organizations such as Campus allies or people we train do it, The trip is organized through Ministry. when in reality, terrorism is the Progressive Student Alliance. never okay?" With help from sophomore Contact Jenn Metz at 
WIIINSEC is a Department of Jenna Knapp, who went on the jmetz@nd.edu 

The College of Arts and Letters Invites Faculty and Staff Nominations for the Sixth Annual Arts and Letters Award of Appreciation 

The College ofArts and Letters announces its sixth annual Award of Appreciation, to be conferred on an outstanding faculty or staff member from outside the College. 
The College invites nominations of faculty or staff employees whose work elsewhere, in other units or departments of the University, contributes immeasurably to the College ofArts and Letters and enriches its life in significant ways. 
A certificate and honorarium accompany this award. 
Please send or email a briefletter to the Committee describing the outstanding contributions your nominee has made to the life of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Arts and Letters Award ofAppreciation Committee c/o Cindy Swonger 100 O'Shaughnessy Hall cswonger@nd.edu 
Deadline Monday, November 26, 2007 

lJNIVERSITY OF 
N()TRE l)AME 
COt,l.EhE OF ARP:i .1\Nil Lt:·nt-:R.S 

Friday, November 16, 2007 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 13,110.05 -120.96
Jones 
Up:  Same:  Down:  Composite Volume:  
733  70  2,636  3,941,001,504  
AMEX  2.380"50  ~21!i!l1  
NASDAQ  2,618.51  -25.81  
NYSE  9;652,52  Tl56,63  
S&P 500  1,451.15  -19.43  

NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,396,30 ..imt :0:00 FTSE 100 (London) 6,359.60 -72.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE POWERSHARES (QQQQ) -0.54 -0.27 49.82 S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY) -1.44 -2.13 145.54 E*TRADE ANL CORP (ETFC) -1.44 -0.08 5.46 CITIGROUP INC (C) -4.05 -1.46 34.58 
Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE -2.58 -0.110 4.159 13-WEEK BILL -3.77 -0.125 3.190 30-YEAR BOND -1.52 -0.070 4.534 5-YEAR NOTE -3.87 -0.149 3.701 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.66 93.43 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -27.40 787.30 PORK BELllES (cents/lb.) +2.83 91.25 
Exchange Rates YEN 110.44 EURO 0.6843 CANADIAN DOLLAR 0.9865 BRITISH POUND 0.4889 
IN BRIEF 
Gold prices fall after recent peak 
NEW YORK-Gold prices tumbled Thursday as weaker energy prices and a slight rise in the U.S. dollar prompted investors to pull back from the safe-haven metal and book profits after months of sharp gains. 
The commodities markets moved broadly lower as the greenback gained strength, mak­ing prices appear more expensive to foreign buyers. Energy, metals and agricultural futures declined. 
Gold prices have become extremely volatile as the market wrestles with a correction fol­lowing the metal's climb to levels not seen since 1980. The big day-to-day moves of $20 to $30 an ounce seen this week should be expected, analysts say, after the price of gold ballooned $200 in fewer than three months. Although analysts described Thursday's move as partly technical in nature, a drop in energy prices and strength in the dollar added to the pressure. 
Hugh Hefner donates money to USC 
LOS ANGELES -Hugh Hefner has donated $2 million to the University of Southern California's School of Cinematic Arts. 
The money will fund a central exhibition space in the new headquarters of the school and an archival repository for student films and historic documents, the university said. 
The existing repository, which bears Hefner's name, holds more than eight decades of student films, including some by George Lucas. 
"I've always believed that following one's dreams is very important," Hefner said in a statement from USC. 
The 81-year-old Playboy founder has con­tributed millions of dollars to preserve films and fund cinema schools over the years. llefner gave $100,000 to USC in 1992 to create a course, Censorship in Cinema, and in 1995 he donated $1.5 million to endow the Hugh M. llefner Chair for the Study of American Film. total) 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Georgia drought hurts agriculture 
Farmers worry about competing with Atlanta, Florida for water; state enacts new restrictions 
Associated Press 
CAMILLA -Southwest Georgia is one of the most productive agricultural regions in Dixie, but you wouldn't know it from the soil under the corn, peanuts and cotton. It can be sandy, it can be pebbly, and it does­n't hold water very well. 
That begins to explain why irrigation is so vital around here -and why the mere suggestion that some of the region's water might be taken away fills folks with fear and resentment. 
With a historic drought gripping the Southeast, Georgia farmers are increasingly worried that their needs will be sacrificed to those of Atlanta -a city of runaway growth and seemingly unquenchable thirst -or water-guzzling Florida. 
"Atlanta needs to take a hard look at what's happen­ing in the metro area," said Bubba Johnson, a 68-year­old farmer who grows cot­ton and corn on a 500-acre plot. "There's going to be a heck of a battle if they try to come down here to get the water." 

The drought has forced much of the state to enact unprecedented watering restrictions, and legislative leaders want to build more state reservoirs. Some ­including Atlanta Mayor Shirley Franklin -have one competes for water," largest independently bring themselves to tell their also floated the idea of said Glenn Cox, a farmer in owned garden center, said greedy constituents com­transferring water to Camilla. "We just don't have vice president Wayne Juers. plaining about the low flows Atlanta from other places enough clout. There are "It caught us a little bit off in their toilets this week that via pipeline. more trees in this plot of guard. Homeowners started perhaps if they didn't have 
Franklin has not specifi­land than there are people turning on homeowners," six bathrooms, it might ease cally mentioned pumping in this county." Juers said. "And if youre the situation a bit. That water out of southwest The drought also has planting pansies out there, watering your lawn isn't as Georgia's Flint River or its forced a well-known Atlanta they think you're a crimi­important as watering tributaries, but the mere nursery to file for bankrupt­nal." crops. Or that their greedy possibility has stoked the cy in what is perhaps the In a recent editorial, overbuilding has taxed their long-standing tension first major corporate casual­Valdosta Daily Times lashed supplies of natural between the big city and the ty of the drought. out at Atlanta, accusing it of resources beyond their countryside. The dry conditions and a hogging water while farm­capabilities." 
"I don't want to throw a ban on outdoor watering ers watch their crops burn Between 1990 and 2000, brick at Atlanta. But I feel kept customers away from in the fields. Atlanta added more than 1 like we're getting squeezed Pike Nursery Holding, which Atlanta politicians, the million people and its water between entities as every-calls itself the nation's newspaper said, "can't use climbed 30 percent. 


Despite gas prices, travel continues 
A jump of 15 cents a gallon from Americans from reconnecting with
Associated Press current levels, already well above their loved ones." WASHINGTON -Gas prices near last year's average of $2.23, also Some 31.2 million motorists will record highs at a time of year when would surpass May's all-time record hit the road for Thanksgiving, a 1.3 they typically decline will not deter of $3.23 a gallon. percent increase from last year. drivers from hitting the road this Gas prices traditionally fall in the Another 4. 7 million will travel by Thanksgiving, AAA said Thursday. winter months as demand ebbs from air, and the remainder will go by The travel agency expects a summer highs, but oil prices flirting train, bus or other transportation. record 38.7 million Americans will with $100 a barrel and low fuel While travelers will be paying travel 50 miles or more from home stockpiles have reversed that trend more at the pump, hotels, airfares over the five days beginning Nov. this year. Still, demand for gasoline and car rental prices are mostly 
21. That is a 1.6 percent increase over the four weeks ending Nov. 9 declining this year, according to over last year. Roughly 80 percent of was 0.6 percent higher than a year AAA. Holiday hotel rates are down 3 those trips will be by car, and earlier, averaging more than 9.3 percent for AAA-Rated Three motorists will pay about 90 cents a million barrels a day, the Energy Diamond hotels and up a modest 1 gallon more for gas than they did Department said Thursday. percent at Two Diamond hotels. The last year. "This is the first time that we have average decrease in rental car 
Guy Caruso, chief of the Energy seen gas prices tipping over $3 a prices is 12 percent, and airline Department's statistical division, the gallon in November," Robert L. tickets are down about 7 percent. Energy Information Administration, Darbelnet, president and chief exec­Cheaper airfare or not, the airline predicted Wednesday that gasoline utive of AAA, said in a statement. industry this week urged holiday prices, now averaging $3.11 a gal­"But Thanksgiving is traditionally a travelers to get to the airport extra lon nationwide, will rise another 10 time for family gatherings, and early due to an expected 4 percent cents by December. higher gas will not discourage jump in passenger traffic. 
Friday, November 16, 2007 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
~-,rroups of men involved in differcmt soever. "Those other violations an~ just Notrn Dame may also play a roln in aetivitins -from Bengal Bout<> to Evnn if' tlJC survivor wern to have not imp!lrtant to u<; ifsomnom~ is the the h1~sil..ittion of somn survivors to
Assault 
tlm IJturgic.<Ll Choir -fi·amnd with continued from page 1 
a Dnpartrlllmt of Justien statistic 
about snxual <L'isault and the MAY sourcns nngagPd with tl1n topic say plndgn. sex ITi nws an~ of'tPn seriously The ntmpaign's nwssago is that urHinrrnportnd. Tlwy dt1~ as evi­"whatl'vnr you do, be a man against dmJce of nxtrPIIIP undnrrnporting violnnm," Corker said. 
U.S. I >npartnwnt of Justicn statistil~<; The group's pmsnntations at an tlmt hl'twPml 20 m1d 25 IJI~rmnt of annual Indiana conlimmce on sexu­wonwn will b1• rapi•d sornntimo dur­al violnncn prnvention has led to ing tlwir mllng~• C.ilfPfW. start-up mnn's organizations at 
I>Pspitn tlwsn statistics, student other schools in lhn statn -an lnadPJ"S and oflkials say incrmL-;PCI incrmL-;n Corker said L-; indimtivn of awarmwss and individual commit­a trend on campuses across the 
mnnb to n•ducing  nation.  
sexual <L<;sault can  Th11 traditional  
have a mal impact. "llopi~liJily, if any plan• could bt• lrnP  "We know it's a dramatically  soeial pownr ascribed to men sometimns  
of snxual violmu:n,  underreported  incrnases  the  
it could Ill~ a placP likn Notm Damn."  crime.  impact of activism,  their said  
said  Ann  Firth,  Ha.k1x:zy.  
Associatn  Yiee  Bill Kirk  "Some men can  
l'rnsident  for  associate vice president  only hnCLr dmlleng­ 
Stmhmt Aflh.irs.  Residence Life  ing messages like  

Campus dia­
log-ue about issuns 

of sexual assault 
luL<; bt~1m lilnnally gPneratnd witl1in 
tlw University's Committee on 

Sexual Assault l'rnwntion. a com­
mitten of representatives from 
throughout tlu• cmnpus community 

and the Gender Helations C1mtnr, 
among-otlwr vPnllllS. 
"Thorn is a ).,'TPatnr opnmwss to 
talking about thesn issues," Firth 

sa.id. 
Opnnnnss h<L<; im:rn<L<;nd particu­

larly among mnn on campus -a 
chm1gn that is critical. said Bill Kirk. 
Assoeiatn Yil:n President for 
Hesidnm:n I .iii~. 
Witl1 the va-;t majority of ollimsns 
PI~I"Jll~tratnd by men, tlm l'i'>im ran­
not lll1 rnsolvnd until mnn take own­

nrship of it. Kirk said. 
"ThL-; is not a womnn's L-;sue," he 

said. "ThL-; L'i a student-;' L-;sue." 
A small group of men engaged 

witl1 tlw l'i.'illl\ rmnn together in !~ill 
2005 under the titln Men Against 
Vioh~ncn. 
The group li>m1nd so that "stand­

up male role models on campus 
would hold otlmr men accountable 
to work for social change," said 
Ileather Hakoczy, director of the 
(;mdnr Helations Center. 
Mmnbnrship in Men Against Violence ha-; incrna-;nd nach year sinm it-; inception. ~-,rroup co-liJunder John Corker said. Th1~ group OIJilr­ales as a UL'ik lilren under t11n jurL-;­diction of thn Gender Helations Center whi111 awaiting confirmation ofdub statu-;. 
Corker, now an Admissions 

Counsdor, said mnn CLre finally join­
ing wom1m in addmssing a problnm 
that allilct-; everyone. 
"Mnn an~ really signing onto the issun, but it's undnr tlw lnadorship of wom1m." he said. "The lmtdnrship eontinuns to begin and nnd with women." 
Corknr dtPd tlw expansion of 

MAY and tlw work of Committne on 
Sexual Assault Prevention as evi­
dnncn of growing campus nngagt~­
nwnt with L<i.<>uns ofsoxual a<>sault. 
"We have gottPn to thn point whnrn thn cmnpus community mc­ognizllS this L-; a umgibh1 L<i.<;Un lwre at Notrn Damn." hn said. 
MAY focus11s it-; pfl'ort'i on nHm 

who rmuizn Sf1Xli<U1L'>SaUlt l'i a prob­
lmn but don't st~e the mlevcUJeP to 
tlmir livns. 
"Prob<LlJly thn bigg1lSt obstade wn am continually ovnrcoming is the mindst~t tlmt if I don't h;mn women and I'm not involwd in <L<;Sault or snxual assault, it's not something that al!i1cl-; mn," Cork1~r said. 
Any man with li•maln frinnds, a mothnr. sL<>tnrs, or any otlwr limuun in his lif(J I11111ds to rmuiz1~ tl10 signifi­C1UJCP of aetivnly addrm;sing st~xwLI <L<;saull, he said. 
"Evory h'11Y on tl1L-; 1:<unpus knows somnbtldy who has lll~nn a.lli~dnd by it." Corknr said. 
MAY's projeets have included drives lo encouragP m1Lie student-; to sign a pledgf~. Also, an annual spring posl.l~r campaign shows 
this from other 
mnn," she said. 
ThL-;, she said, L<; 
even tlw case lor some womnn. 
On Nov. 6, MAY brought cUJti-sex­
L-;m activist Jack-;on Katz to campus. 
Morn than 220 pnople -half of 
them mnn. luill' womnn -sat in the 
audinnen a<> Katz said men need to 
stand up against a culture that 
allows thn physical and psychologi­
cal subjm:tion ofwomen. 
"There <lfn very many pnoplo at 
Notrn Ilame who want to make a 
changn in t11e world," Hedding said, 
"and thoy Spimd a lot of time doing 
it. 
"Thb l'> an L<i.<;Ue that with just a 
little bit of elliJrt, speeifieally becom­
ing mom wx:a.l on the issue, we can 
see a lot ofchang11." 
According to U.S. Department of 
Ju<;tien datil provided by thn Gender 
Helations Center. one in four college 
women will be the victim of an 
attempted or completed sexual 
a<;.<;a.ult tl1L-; year, and one in six men 
will be sexually assaultnd during 
their lifetime. The data provided 
also found that nine of 10 women 
raped on college campu<>es do not 
rep!wt thn a'i.<;a.ult. 
During the period from 1996 to 
2006, 27 loreible sex ommst~s were 
mported to have ()(:curred on earn­
pus, according to information com­
pilod by NDSP in compliance with 
fodoral requirement<;. 
The reports for each yeCLr contain 
between zero and two reported 
rapes. 
"Anecdotally I can tell you, <L'i a rnctor, tlmt's not at all what's going on," Hakfx:zy said. "Hapn and snxual cL'i.<;ault clfP happening on our earn­pus." 
Though srnvivors of rape and sex­mLI a<;.-;ault CLre always giwm dl'if:re­tion about whether they press charg1~s or take any other course, Hakoczy said they can do a "trmnendous serviee" to others by rnp!wting tlw erime. 
With national statistics of sex crimes oeeurring on college cam­puses stl high, <UJd zero to two rapes mp!lrtl'd to have occurred at Notre Dmno each yeCLr, "you would get the stmse this L<; being covered up," Kirk said. "It a.bsolut.dy isn't." 
In addition to t.IJe many rea<;ons liJr which a survivor might choose not to report statL-;ties at all, the pub­lished statistics CLre also atleeted in that they only account !or offenses tlmt oecurrod on campus. 
Most sexual assault-; reported to Hesidenee Ule occurred oil' ca.mpu-;, he said. 
"We know it's a dramatically undemlp!Jrtnd crime," Kirk said. 
Survivors of sexual assault may hnsitate to report for a variety of rna'ifms, he said. Among thest~ may be tim influnnee of almhol or fil<lf of dbciplinary action for <my rules bro­ken. 
Both Kirk and Hakoczy empha­sized tlmt if someone report<; a snxu­<Ll a<;.<;a.ult, no disciplinary action will bt~ taken against the IJI~rson rnp!lrt­ing filr <my du Lac violations what-been drinking, breaking parietals victim of a erimn," Kirk said. n~port thP crime, Bakoezy sa.id. and having consensual sex bPi'orn "Obviously we would be eoncern11d "I think it's a guilt and shame being rapod, no disciplinary penalty pastorally, but in lenns of disciplin­which is eompletnly unneenssary would bt~ enacted if' he or shn wa<; to ing-absolutely not." rep!Hi tim rapl\ Hakoezy said. The Catholic environment of see ASSAULT/page 9 


IN HONOR OF BLESSED BASIL MOREAU Founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross 
1--------------------------------------·---­
The story of Basil Moreau. the recently beatilil'd founder of the Congrl'gation of lloly Cross, comes to life in this updated edition of his biography. 
ISBN: 9781 WFI13% I 256 pagt.,; with l'·page photo in;en I $15.9'i 
MacEoin :,· ReJtt!e and re.\jwctful style hrings Fr. Moreau to l(fe in a tl'lty.feu· others ofhis biographers baw. and I bojJe Ibis nell' edition t-ecei!'l!s tl'ide readiug 
FATHER JOHN JENKINS, C.S.C. 
President. the Lnh·ersity of '-iotrr Dame 
MacEoin :,· hiogmphy r![Basil Moreau is a reminder ofhou• the cross u·as wm•en into tbe u•lmle cloth wbich UYtS tbe.fhtmrler:5 l(fe. This story as told ~v MacEoin is more than history; it is sustenanceji.1r our conli11uingjoumeyfromj{lith to bope, u•e/1 worth reading agaiu. 
BROTHER RICHARD B. GILMAN, C.S.C. 
l'resident. lloly Cross College 
A progressit'l! educator who aimed to rel'italize religion tbrough wider d([/ilsion qj'kn01dedge, Moreau u.·as committed to tbe 
e.rcel!ent professional prepamtion r~f'llo(v Cro.\~\jaculty. That 
commitment has bom excellent.fruit. Everyone inllo(v Cross ministry sbou/d read this hook. 
CAROL ANN MOONEY, J.D. -BASIL MOREAU (1799-1873) !'resident. Saint Mary's College 
To read more about Basil Moreau visit our website at www.avemariapress.com 
A 
A...,oilab\e hom your boohtore, Homme'S. Notre Dame boohtare, or hom 
ave maria press I Notre Dame, IN 46556 
www.avemariapress.com I Ph: 800-2 82-1865 ave maria press· A Ministry of the Indiana Province of Holy Cross 

Cuisine an 

Book Your Holiday Parties Now Private Rooms for 6 to 250 people Lunch Hours: Monday-Friday IJ:00 a.m.-2:30p.m. Dinner Hours: Sunday-Thursday 5:00-10:00 p.m. and Friday & Saturday 5:00-11:00 p.m. Lounge Hours Daily: 4pm -always open late 
""'''"'" 211 W. Washington Street • South Bend, Indiana 46601 • 574·323-2120 
Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Assault 
continued from page 8 
and unfiJUndnd," she said. 
Some survivors wonder whether. as members of a eom­munity whose Catholic values dis­courage premarital sex, they can still be considered virgins, she said. 
"To equate a person who has been raped with someone who has ehosnn to have sexual inter­eoursn could not be more wrong," Rakoczy said. "Hape is a <Time." 
Any student found by the Oflice of Residence Ule to have mmmit­1.!1d such a <Time will be expelled from the University. he said. 
Such an expul'iion ha'i occurred at NotrP. DamP., he and Firth said. 
Kirk said the majority of sexual assaull'i he's seen report11d during 17 years in NotrH D;une adminis­tration sham a common factor ­the pmsence of alcohol. 
"We never want to say the vie­tim is in any way responsible for sP.xua1 a'isault," Kirk said. 
The use of alcohol eannot be seen a'i a eaus;u link with a situa­tion in which someonp, chooses to act criminally, Kirk said. But drinking ecm still inerea'ie risk. 
"If akohol lowers your inhibi­tions, it can put you in dangerous situations." he said. 
Akohol can act as "liquid courage," Kirk said. eausing "bmeding grounds" for sexual vio­lence and regretted sex. 
Thn U.S. Department of .lll'itice reporl'i that college studenl'i who get drunk at \na'it oncP. a week are 75 percent more likely to be sexu­ally victimized than othnr stu­dents, according to Gender Hnlations Cenwr records. 
The Committee on Sexual A'isault Prevention is eo-chairP.d by Bill Kirk, Associate Vice President f(Jr Residence Ute, and Ann Firth, Assoeiate Vice Prnsident fi>r StudP.nt Affairs. The committee includes representa­tives of the Oflices of Residence Life and Student Affairs, Notre Damn Sf1eurity/Police, tho Gender Rdations Cen1.!1r, the Saint Mary's Office of Residence Life, the Athletie Oflke. studenl'i, profes­sors and others. 
The committee's purpose is two­fold: To ensun1 resources arc in place for those who have experi­enced soxwu violence and to edu­cate the community about the reality of sexual violence and how it can be eliminated, Firth said. 
Evenl'i like this week's Sexual Assault Awareness Week are about "encouraging those who have been victimized to speak, seek support ;md come fiwward," Firth said. "That is a very impor­tant and healthy thing." 
Resources are available for all survivors of sexual assault, regardless of how long ago the incident occurred, she said. 
Some survivors are also unsure about whether what happened to them L'i sexual assault, she said. 
But if the ineident involved physical force, emotional abuse, the use of alcohol or any drug ­or if it just 1•1lt wrong -then the survivor should be talking to someone about it, Rakoczy said. 
When a student undergoes sex­ual assault, the first contact through the University is AssL'itant Dean in the College of Arl'i and Letters Ava Preacher, the University Victim Hesource Person. 
"If someone is in crisis or has experiencnd trauma, it can be dif­ficult to know where to start," Hakoezy said. 
Preacher provides rp.sources so that the survivor can. decide what choices he or she wishes to make, Rackoczy said. 
Preacher was not available for comment thi'i week. 
Notre Dame has a decentralized approach to rape and sexual assault services rather than a rape crisis center. Hesearch shows these are equally effective meth­ods, so long as protocols are fol­lowed, Hakoczy said. 
Resources available to students include S-0-S, the rape cri'iis cen­ter for St. Joseph County. Counseling and therapy arc avail­able at the University Counseling Center, and a confidential, on­campus support group is also available. 
Ava Preacher can be reached at 631-7728. University sexual assault resource information is available online at http://osa.nd.edu/departmentslrap e.shtml 
Contact Karen Langley at 
klanglel @nd.edu 


Loyal 
continued from page 1 

members -has been nothing short of "amazing. I haven't heard a single bad thing about the show," Van Mill said after Thursday's production. 
The reaction Van Mill has observed this year is consistent with the one last year's organ­izers noted. "Loyal Daughters and Sons" used 60 percent of the creative material that made up its predecessor, "Loyal Daughters." 
Van Mill and "The [new] title their will by the show's origi­explicitly shows men women. 
nal writer, then­The male 
are a part ofthis
senior Emily actor in the Weisbecker, con­issue, too." third sketch, ducted inter­Michael views with differ­McConnell,
Sarah Van Mill 
ent sexual poses the ques­
writer
assault victims tion of' a double last spring to "Loyal Daughters standard in the 
develop the new and Sons" sense that 
something both men and women need to be aware of." 
Three new sketches deal with the male view of sexuality and sexual violence at Notre Dame, including a scene where a male student defended his religiously motivated decision to abstain from having sex with his girlfriend dE1spite pressure from his friends to do the con­trary. 
The second new story fea­tures a homosexual student who is a victim of sexual assault at a party, while the third deals with men who are harassed or seduced against 

material includ­ed in this year's show. Some of those new sto­ries dealt particularly with the male view of the issue -a per­spective Van Mill and director Meghan O'Donoghue wanted to emphasize this year. 
They added the phrase "and Sons" to the original title because they didn't want to alienate men who might think the show is exclusively about women's issues and also because they think it's impor­tant to be open about the role of men in sexual assault cases. 
"The [new] title explicitly shows men are a part of this issue, too," Van Mill said. "And the only way these victims [of sexual violence I -and the entire Notre Dame community -can begin healing these wounds is by being vocal and honest about these issues. Sexual violence happens here, inside our bubble, and that's 
when men try 
to seduce women against their will, it's frowned upon more than when the roles are reversed. 
ln addition to these new sto­ries, "Loyal Daughters and Sons" reused some of the male-oriented material fea­tured in last year's production, which is what originally made then-freshman Kevin Stein want to participate in this year's show. 
"I went to the show last year and thought it was moving and effective in transmitting the message that sexual assault is real at Notre Dame and that it's something that concerns both men and women," Stein said. 
Now a sophomore and an actor in "Loyal Daughters and Sons," Stein said he thinks last year's show was already, in a way, "Loyal Daughters and Sons" because it did a good job presenting all the different people and angles that are affected by the issues. 



"Such a big part of last year's production was that it did include so many stories about men and how they see these issues, and that's why I became interested in joining the cast this year," he said. 
"Loyal Daughters" director, Madison Liddy, said she also thinks that even though last year's show lacked the "and Sons" phrase in its title, the scrjpt did not exclude men from the discussion. 
She said the decision to limit the title to women only was simply driven by the original mission of "Loyal Daughters," which was to give women a voice and a forum where they could discuss sexuality and sexual violence issues. 
And the show succeeded in doing that, she said. 

Liddy said she's noticed "words like 'rape' or 'sexual assault' are much more com­mon on campus now, whereas before last year's production, they were more taboo. 
"And now that Notre Dame has accepted the issue is real and that a discussion of it is needed, the next logical step is to include both genders in the debate, to reconcile them," Liddy said. 

Van Mill said she's noticed more and more all-male groups attending "Loyal Daughters and Sons." 
"You can usually tell if a guy is here simply because his girl­friend or his female friends dragged him," Van Mill said. "But there are a lot of groups of guys that just come to the show not because their girl­friend forced them, but rather because they've heard good things about it or they're just interested in the issue." 
Contact Marcela Berrios at aberrios@nd.edu 
The 351h Annual Saint Ma1y's College 
;ffiadrigal 

<!Chrisbnas ilinners 
Fri. and Sal, Nov. 30 and Dec. 1 at 7 P.M. Sal and Sun., Dec. 1 and Dec. 2 at 2 P.M. in Regina North Lounge 
Madrigal singers from Saint Mary's College, along with period instruments, jugglers, jesters and a Master of the House entertain royally during a feast fit for a king or queen! 
Adult tickets are$,.~ and $35, and $12 for children 12 and under. 
-~­
SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTI<E DAMI,, IN 
For tickets call (574) 284-4626. 
424 N. Frances Street 

4 and 5 Bedroom Townhomes 6 Blocks from Campus 2 Bathrooms Off-Street Parking Washer and Dryer Dishwasher Central Air Security System 
These apartments rent quickly. Call us today at: 



(574) 234-2436 
To view all of our properties, visit www.kramerhouses.com 

page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 16, 2007 
Simpson faces new trialfor robbery 
Case is not slam dunk, prosecutors aren't commenting on suit 
Associated Press 
lAS VI·:c;AS -A kidnapping and roblwry trial against 0 ..1. Simpson would givP his attor­rwys a chancP to knock holns in thP <TPdibility of dubious prosn­cut.ion witrwssPs. But it also would allow jurors to pass judg­mnnt. on a criminal caso Simpson walkNI away from. 
Though a judgP f(amd Pnough nvidnnr<' WPdrwsday for Simpson and two otlwr mnn to bn trind. thn four-day prelimi­nary !waring showPd thn casn to IH~ anything but a slam dunk. Prosnnrtors arpn't eomnwnting on tlwir case. in<~luding on wlwtlwr tlwy think it could bP bolstPrnd by jurors holding the unspokPn lwliPf that Simpson should haw bPPn convietnd 12 yPars ago of killing his wili~ and lwr frinnd. 
Mnmorahilia dnalnrs who havn long prolitPd from snlling Simpson coliPetibiPs claim tlwy wnrn virtimizPd in Snptembnr wlwn tlw fornwr football star and an odd raiding party tried to takP hark sports itmns and family hPirlooms lw claimnd wnrn stolnn from him. 
Orw dnah~r had to lw brought to court from jail. whnre he's snrving time for a probation violation in a donwstie violence casn. Tlw man who arrangnd the ill-fatnd mnnting at a Las Vegas casino hotel room testi­lind undPr a grant of immunity. 
Thnn thorn were the men who a<~companied Simpson, including two who said they packnd guns at his bnhest. One of thmn admittnd he ofl'ered to slant his testimony if' he was paid enough. 
.Justien of' the Peace Joe M. Bonavnnture round nnough evi­dence to go to trial, but said thnrn W<~re a numbnr of ques­tions raisnd about "bought" tes­timony and witnnssns who were portraynd as liars. pimps and con artists trying to make a quick buck oil' of' Simpson. 
"Much limn was sp<mt attack­ing tlw crndibility of witnesses," BonavnnturP said. "Tiwrn arn a numbnr of motivn and <TPdibili­ty issuns hnn~. llowovor, tlw ultimatn di'I.Prmination of the <TPdibility of' witrwssns should be ldt to a jury." 
W i II j urors · j u d g nw n t lw all'P('tPd by Simpson's acquittal in Uw 1994 slayings of Nieoln Brown Simpson and Honald (;oldman? 
.lody Armour. a law prof(~ssor at tlw UnivPrsitv of Southern California. said ·that cas«> will shadow any trial in Las Vegas. 

"ThP prospcution <~ould gam­hiP that a jury's judgnwnt may lw eloudPd by a dPsirl' to do justice writ larg<' ratlwr than f(u·.using on thn partkular f'acl-; of' t.lw particular rasP bdore tlwm," hP said. 
That would lw a smry propo­sition for co-d <>i'e nd ants ClarPnco "C..I." Stewart and Charles "CharliP" t·:hrlich. who may fear hPing SWPpt along in a campaign to convict Simpson. Kidnapping. tlw most snrious count. tlwy and Simpson fan~. 

carries a maximum lif'e sen­ 
tenn~.  
Within  minutes  af'ter  

BonavPnture's dPdsion, Stewart's lawyPr, Hobert Lw:herini, raisPd thn possibility that hP will rnovP to separat<~ his rliPnt's casP from Simpson's. 

Simpson attorney Yale (;;tlantPr said lw undPrstood I ,ur.lu•rini's concems. 
"You don't want to try your 




Jack Daniel's seized, could be dumped 

ease in front of' the camnras if' you don't have to," Galanter said. But lw added that in some eirdes. Simpson is "very well­revernd to this day." 
Severing the trials of Stewart and Ehrlich from Simpson could be complicated legally. And there remains the possibility that the pair could follow three other eo-defendants who decid­ed to testify against Simpson in hopes of receiving probation for their roles. 
And what of the chance that Simpson himself might seek a plea bargain? Out of the ques­tion, Galanter said. 
"Unless the D.A. gives us an outright dismissal, we will go to trial," he said. "Mr. Simpson is obviously very concerned. These charges are as serious as it gets. But he knows in his heart he is innocent of these charges." 
AI Lasso, a Las Vegas lawyer who followed the proceedings, said the preliminary hearing exposed weaknosses in the case that makns a trial unlik<~ly. 
"What are we to make of this group'! I don't think it's the samo case now that prosecutors thought going in. Now that we've heard their testimony, this case is ripe for a plea deal." 
Armour said the case "has that feel of a den of thievos," which hurts the prosecution "beeause only those who've admitted to being thieves are left to testify against others who're accused of being thieves." 
"A week or two ago, the pros­ecution seemed very invested in the case and confident in the strength of its ease," Armour said. 
"Now that it's been subjected to some serutiny and examina­tion, the prosecutors have to make the following judgment call: Are the ehances of success worth the expense and time and efl'ort of trying these defen­dants given the evidence that has come out?" 
The long legal road to trial continues Nov. 28 with arraign­ment and entry of pleas before a new judge. Motions will be filed and arguments heard for months before the search begins for a new jury -one that will pledge to be fair and impartial and put. aside every­thing they have heard about Simpson and his past. 
Associated Press 

NASIIVILLE, Tenn. -1-Inn~·s a sobering thought: Hundreds of bottles of Jack Daniel's whiskny, some of it almost 100 years old, may be uncernmoniously pournd down a drain beeausn authoritios suspeet it was being sold by sonwone without a license. 
Ortieials seized 2,400 bottlos late last month during warnhousn raids in Nashville and Lynehburg, the southern Tennessee town whem the whiskey is distilled. 
"Punish the person, not the whiskey," said an outraged Kyle MacDonald, 28, a Jaek Daniel's drinker from British Columbia who promotes the whiskey on his blog. "Jack never did anything wrong, and the whiskey itself' is innoeent." 
Investigators are also looking into whether some of' the bottlns had been stolen from the distill­ery. No one has bonn arrested. 
Authorities arn still determining how mueh of tho liquor will bP disposed of. and how mueh can be sold at auction. 
Tennessee law rnquin~s oflidals to destroy whiskey that mnnot bn sold [pgally in tho state. sueh as bottles designed l(n· sale oversPas and those with broken seals. 
"We'd pour it out." said DaniPlln Elks, exPeutive director of tlw Tenrwssee Alcoholic Bnveragn Commission. 
The estimated value of tho liquor is $1 million, possibly driv­en up by tlw value of the antique bottlns, which rangn from 3-litnr bottles to half-pinl-;. 
One seized bottln dates to 1914. with il-; seal unbroknn. Elks said it is worth $10,000 on tlw collectors marknt. lnv<~stigators an~ looking into wlwtlwr the liquor was being sold for the value of tiHl bottles rather than the whiskey. 
"Sonwono was making a great deal of profit," she said. 
Dept of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga 7 Litriocht na Gaeilgc 

Spring 2008 Course Otferings IRLL 1010 I: Beginning Irish I IRLL 10102: Beginning Irish II IRLL 20103: lntem1ediate Irish 
(Literature Courses) IRLL 20 I09: Celtic Heroic Literature (Prof. Fogarty) IRLL 20203: Advanced Readings in Irish Culture (Prof. McQuillan) IRLL 30110: The Hidden Ulster (Prof. 6 Doibhlin) IRLL 30306: Saints and Kings in Early Ireland (Prof. Fogarty) IRLL 30309: Great Irish Writers (Prof. McQuillan) IRLL 40HN: The West ofll·eland (Prof. Nie Dhiannada) IRLL 40309: Gender and Identity in Irish (Prof. Nic Dhiarmada) 
*Explore Irish 1/eritage 
*Learn about Ireland, its Languages and Culture 
*Satisf.v the Irish Studies Minor 
*Satisf)' the lrislz Language and Uterature Minor *Study abroad in Ireland! 

Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
ConAgra fixes flaws inpotpie plan 
Drill instructor gets 
USDA allows company to resume making product after salmonella scare 
6 months for abuse 
Stephanie Childs said the USDA 

Associated Press 
identified two areas of improve­

OMAHA. Neb. -The USDA ment at the plant that the com­allowed ConAgra Foods Inc. to pany addressed. resume making its Banquet and "Specifically, we improved the private label pot pies because record-keeping for how we the company corrected the flaws developed our cooking instruc­in its safety plan at its Missouri tions and improved our testing plant that inspectors found after for incoming ingredients per the the pins were linked to a salmo­USDA's request," Childs said. nella outbreak. "These measures were put in 
Those pot pies were recalled place prior to resuming produc­last month after hundreds of tion of our pot pies." poople who ate them became ill. The USDA informed ConAgra 
A spokeswoman for the about its concerns Oct. 23 in a 

Department of  formal  
Agriculture's Food Safety and  "Specifically, we improved  notice. The company  
Inspection Service said Thursday that ConAgra took  the record-keeping for how we developed our cooking instructions and  developed a plan, which the U S D A  
action to cor­rect the prob­lems inspectors found after the  improved our testing for incoming ingredients per the USDA's request."  approved on Nov. 8. U S D A inspectors  
Oct. 11 recall.  will check  
ConAgra announced Wednesday that it had resumed  Stephanie Childs ConAgra spokeswoman  on the reforms over the next 90  
making pot pies  days.  

at the Marshall, Mo., plant, and ConAgra did not mention the the company expects the pies to formal notice it received from return to stores sometime in the USDA in its news release January. Wednesday, but it did mention 
USDA spokeswoman Amanda working with the USDA to Eamich said details of the improve its safety plan. inspectors' findings at the plant ConAgra has not identified the would be released only through source of the salmonella in the a formal Freedom Of pot pies, but company officials Information Act request. have said they are confident the 
Eamich would say only that pies will be safe because of the there was a record-keeping changes that were made. problem and an issue with Childs said ConAgra is apply­ConAgra's Hazard Analysis ing the testing improvements Critical Control Point plan that made at its Missouri plant at spells out what the company every one of the company's does to ensure its products are plants where those changes safe. would apply. For example, 
ConAgra spokeswoman Childs said the company plans 

was read. Glass, "You need to send the instructor at the
ucts, and we have enhanced 
those measures for all suppli­

25, hugged his message that this is Marine Corps 
ers." 

parents. His moth­Recruit Depot
not tolerated. " 
Imported foods have generat­

er broke down in San Diego for 
ed headlines this year because 

tears in the court­less than a year 
of recalls involving contaminat­

room filed to Brent Sticker when the mis­
ed fish, chemically spiked pet 

capacity, mainly Marine Capt. treatment 
to use the more stringent testing plan for all of its ingredient sup­pliers. 
Childs said ConAgra won't identify its ingredient suppliers for the pot pies or any of its foods. And she would not say whether the company uses imported ingredients in its pot pies. 
"ConAgra Foods works with both domestic and international companies to source ingredients for all of its products," Childs said. "For both domestic and international suppliers, ConAgra Foods has put in place measures to ensure the safety of the ingre­dients that are used in our prod­

On Wednesday, Glass was found guilty of eight counts of cruelty and maltreatment, destruction of personal property, assault and violating orders on how to properly treat recruits.



jr:»~~A~HEN~~~®-----­
The jury deliberated two hours before handing down the sen­tence Thursday. 
$ 

Glass was accused of ordering 
Unmistakably Italian·\Unbelievably Good 
one recruit to jump headfirst into a trash can and then pushing him farther into the container. He is also accused of striking recruits 
Enjoy Italian classics and contemporary creations in a comfortable, casual setting. 
~..,., . 
. •: """' 
.~~
/Stb> 
5110 Edison Lakes Parkway 
, CATERING Mishawaka Catering for every occasion (574) 271-1692 
www. PapaVinosCaten ng. com 
www. PapaVinosltalianKitchen.com 

with a tent pole and a heavy flashlight. None of the recruits were seriously injured. 
During the courts-martial, wit­nesses testified Glass routinely stomped on recruits' toiletry kiLo:;, breaking razors and soap con­tainers inside, for minor infrac­tions like not displaying name tags properly. They also said Glass and another drill instructor would also line recruits up after meals and force them to down liters of water from their can­
teens. 
Glass had 
worked as a drill 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -A military jury on Thursday sentenced a Marine drill instructor to six months in the brig and gave him a bad-con­duct discharge for abusing 23 recruits. 
Sgt. Jerrod M. Glass also received a reduction in rank to private and pay forfeiture. He had faced a maximum sentence of 10 years of confinement. 
Former colleagues lined up to hug Glass and shake his hand after the verdict 
occurred. He 

was relieved of 
drill instructor duty in February. 
Glass' mother, Barbara Glass, said, "I still believe he did not do anything he was not instructed to do ... by his superiors. If it's denied, I know it's a bald-faced lie by the Marine Corps." 
Glass' father, Jerry Glass, tear­fully criticized the Marines' han­dling of the case. 
"I thought the Marine Corps stood for, 'Leave no man behind,"' he told reporters. "I think they had their head in the sand or they are not being honest with the public." 
Prior to the courts-martial, Glass had been an exemplary Marine, according to both the defense and prosecution. 
Pfc. Bradley Montgomery, 20, who was one of the recruits in Glass' platoon, said the sentence was too harsh. Montgomery testi­fied on behalf of the prosecution under orders. 
"This whole thing is ridiculous," he said. "Sgt. Glass thought of us as his own kids." 
Glass was one of three drill instructors charged with abusing recruits. Sgt. Robert C. Hankins and Sgt. Brian M. Wendel are fac­ing special courts-martial on sep­arate charges. A fourth instructor, Sgt. Joseph Villagomez, received administrative punishment. 
food ingredients, toxic tooth­paste and other products. 
ConAgra's stock gained 24 cents, or about 1 percent, to trade at $23.68 Thursday after­noon. 
Citigroup analyst David Driscoll said in a research note that he doesn't believe the pot pie recall will hurt ConAgra long-term. 
"We believe the favorable res­olution of ConAgra's Banquet salmonella issue eliminates a number of negative scenarios surrounding the stock," Driscoll said. The stock price will likely improve, he said, as ConAgra's restructuring plan moves for­ward. 
But the company still faces several lawsuits related to the recall, which was the second ConAgra recall this year because of salmonella. 
with Glass' sup­porters, including some of the recruits he was accused of abus­ing. 
Earlier, prosecutors recom­mended he spend two years in the brig and receive a bad-con­duct discharge. 
"You need to send the message this is not tolerated," Marine Capt. Brent Sticker told jurors. 
The instructor's attorney had asked jurors to take into account Glass's previous exemplary record and sentence him to 60 days of restricted duty and reduc­tion to a rank of their choice. 
"There's ways to deal with Sgt. Glass without throwing him out," Capt. Greg Jensen said. 
"This wasn't meaningless, senseless violence," Jensen said of the alleged abuse. "It was done with the intent to assist (recruits)." 
The Bistro features the freshest seafood, steaks a11d much more •••• 
Parisi's 2nd location Newest fine dining with a European flair located 1 mile from the stadium 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, November 16, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddie Hanna 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINES:S MANAGER Kenl;owler Kyle West 
AssT. MANI\GING EDITOR: Kyle Cassily AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Mary Kare Malone NEWS EDITOR: Karen !.111gley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris !line SCF.NF. EDITOR: 1:1c Andrl'ws SAINT MI\RY's EDITOR: Katie Kohil'r PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Menndla GRAPIIICS EDITOR: MaJdine Nics ADVERTISING MANAGER: Jessica Cortez An DF.~IGN MANAGER: Kdly Gronli CONTROI.l.ER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(~74) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6')27 
ADVERTISING 

Football: Raise your helmets 
Sophomore offensive lineman Sam Young walked to the over to that corner, and I look at the student body, especially northwest corner of Notre Dame Stadium last week after yet after you lose a game, and I can't believe they're all there. I another home loss and did something that has largely been for­really just can't belitwe they're all there," coach Charlie Weis gotten or ignornd by the football team this season. said Tuesday. 
lie raised his golden helmet in salute to the student section. But yet for all of Weis' admiration of student loyalty, why Young then turned to his teammates and urged them to do hasn't he stressed to his players the importanee of the hnlmnt the same. No one raised an arm. salute? lie spent four years in the student snetion. lie should 
In news eonl(mmees the past few weeks, reporters have fre­know. quently asked players and coaches what student The seniors and fifth-years know what it's like to support means to them. Every answer is the lose frnquently, but in the last two years tlwy know same: We apprnciate that the student<> still have what it's likn to win. Yet it took an underclassman
o8sEERVER 
our backs. in Young to recognize that even in delimt the team So why doesn't tht1 team perform this simple must show class and acknowledge the studtmts. 
Editorial
gesture of thanks to a student body that has sup­ported them throughout the worst season in school history? 
It's such a small thing-what in the past was a formality at the end of' every game. But to students, it's not small, it's not meaningless and it's not something they can ignore. 
It's about respect. After every loss, students have stood and cheered while the team trudges into the corner for the alma mater. It's their version of' the helmet raise, showing apprecia­tion for thnir dassmates' ell'orts on the field. But it goes unan­swered, and it's insulting. 
"All I know is at the end of the game, win or lost\ we walk 
Yes, for the past several seasons, the tnam raisPd 
its helmets after losses, but that was donn with the 
conliden1:e that next week would bring a victory. That is not tlw case this year, when each week has senmed more tenuous than tlw next. It would have been thn dillicult, but right thing to do all1H' every loss. The tnam, hownvnr, l'ailnd. 
But whetlwr the tnam loses Saturday to Dukn or wins and takes a stP.p f'orward toward next season, it can gain much by returning the respect the studt~nts have shown all s1mson. It takes one simple movmnnnt. 
Raise the helmets. 
('i74) 631-6900 ohsl'rvad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 63 I-454 I ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vil'wpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
()7 4) 631-4 'i43 sports. I @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

. rht· Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudcnts of the Univt•rsity ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorid! oontent, including advertisements, is nm gov.-rned by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on oontent. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chict: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. ComnH"ntari~-s. letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Ohsem·r. 
Vit'Wpoinr space is available to all readers. Thl' &t·e t•xprcssion ofall ~pinions through letters is enoouraged. Lt·tters to rhc Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
(j111!Stiow TYgarding Oburvrr policii!S should b~ directed to Editor in CbiefMrtddit fla11na. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 

'l11c Ot,'f'rvt•r (Wi.I'S '\1)1.) 2-4000) i•l•ul:lll•hcd MumL.y duough l"riJo~y ~cpt durillp; n~mllml v;lnuhmiYII•"-1• A MJb..Crtflliuuw ·nu· Ol'HK:mr i~ $100 fur unc-;u,;l;kuu~· v~ar: $1~ 1\•r uuc w:mutn-
The Ohllt(rver i~ ~mhli~tcJ ~~: l~JSTMASTE~ 1124 '\uwb Du1iUH Hall Smd Jddrc:.s ~;orrtctinn ... w: 
N••trco ll.unc, IN 4M'\6-077? TheOh\c:rvtr 
l'enudi..:JIJU!'I·•Kl' J)lml .u N{)f~ D.trnc 1~0. Bllxn9 .tnd addiunn,•l m"•ling ofike.. (}21 Scmrh llimng H.UI 
Nom U:ame, IN 16HM1779 

The ~)h.trwr 1' .1 mmttKt ot rhe-A.ocult&l flrCS-'1. 1\11 reprudtU:Iion 11~1\ .ue -ovut 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Jenn Metz Chris Iline Liz Harter Ken Fowler 
Madeline Buckley Matt Gamber Graphics Scene 
Julie Grisanti Michelle Fordice Viewpoint Kant King 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Win one for the seniors 
For us seniors, Notre Dame football in our lour years has been an emotional rollercoaster. We were together the first time we watched Notre Dame football as a student body, in stunned disbelief that we could lose to Brigham Young. We were together in Rock's House, or should I say on Hock's House, the following Saturday with a field-storming win over Michigan. We've sat through a cold, rainy, extra-point loss to Boston College, been called "Tiger Bait" God knows how many times, shook down thunder on 4th-and-9 and stood in the field in the endzone as just a few seconds were put back on the clock for USC in '05. But we've also weathered the cold and wind to see one of the greatest games at Michigan State, fallen all over each other at the end of UCLA, felt the adrenaline with a promise of a "nasty" football team and witnessed a gravity-defying jump on a "pass right" play that we later found out was bigger than everything Notre Dame football stands for. 
If I have learned anything from Notre Dame football in four years, it's that we never give up. If I can paraphrase a quote from Blue-Gray Sky, a team puts together a few good plays to make a good half, and two good halves to make a win. String a few of those wins together, and you have a win streak. String a few of those together, and you have a championship. String a few of those together, and you have domi­nance. But at the end of it all, it started with those few good plays, two good halves, and one good game. This sHason may be a loss, but one win can start us on a track that us seniors can look back upon and say, "I was thHre when it started." Send us out right. 
Go Irish, Beat Duke. Stanford, too. 
John Neiner semor off campus Nov. 15 
Observer Poll 

What are you more excited about? 
Notre Dame Basketball 349 Notre Dame Hockey 250 

~ 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Drr Boaestz sTEP PROGRij 
HE HAS THAT
HE WENT TO 
AOJA PROBLEM.~?___.A:...----J MEETING? 
WE THOUGHT IT WAS l.tJDER CONTROL BUT••• 

THE HEARINGS IN NEVADA WERE ABIG SETBACK AND NOW THERE'LL BE THE PRESSURE OF THE TRIAL ••• 
MY NAME IS SHULDIG AND I AM AN 0! TRIALAHOLIC. 
www.drybonesblog.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We are what we repeatedly do. " 
Aristotle Greek philosopher 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, November 16, 2007 page 13 
Democrats' language lacks rhetorical rhythm 
While the technical intricacies of lan­guages around the globe are similar, use of language to politically persuade oth­ers is a rhetorical art form. In politics, an argument must be persuasive, visual and memorable. Focus groups have taught poll­sters that a favor­able reaction begins with a con­vincing and mem­orable message. Presently, the Democratic leader­ship on Capitol Hill lacks the adeptness of language that former Republican Sp11aker Newt Gingrich could coin more than a decade ago when he wrestled away control of Congress. 
In all fairness to the Democrats, they arc not void of successful messages. Their "pay as you go" requirement for the budget mandates that any increase in federal spending must be offset within a balanced budget. But unlike Gingrich, Democrats are slow to create rhetorical phrases that better describe their actions and policies. 
Notable Hepublican wordsmiths Karl Hove and Karen Hughes are famous for parsing a single word such as "oil" to "energy," and "parents" to "moms and dads" to bntter solicit support. They helped the president clarify our run-up to the war in Iraq by describing Saddam Hussein as a "grave and gathering threat," not an outright threat. These Hepublican operatives were so skillful at their craft that they even recycled the intense fearful emotions elicited from "a! Qaeda" by proclaiming the existence of "a! Qaeda-like" forces. 


Democrats must remember that suc­cessful rhetoric defines the argument­or in their case, redefines established Republican messages. Last year, this writer managed the Democratic mes­sage delivery for a congressional race in a district that voted out its Republican incumbent. Our strategy focused on using words like "welfare" and "politi­cians," which elicited strong emotions from Republicans who had defined them decades ago. In our campaign, the Democrat could immediately relate to Republican voters by proposing that it was time to "take the Iraqi politicians off of American welfare" and let only Iraqis guard the Green Zone. That way, when "Iraq's politicians" put their own lives on the line, they would be more serious to politically compromise to form a govern­ment. 
Last week the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA), legisla­tion designed to protect workers from discrimination based on sexual orienta­tion. Liberal California Democrat and House Education and Labor Committee Chairman George Miller missed a chance to redefine "special rights" dur­ing the floor debate. Traditionally, con­servatives label any effort which they oppose that specifically addresses dis­crimination as a "special right," imply­ing that the public is somehow denied such extraordinary protections. Conservatives labeled the Equal Rights Amendment of the 1970s a "special right" for women, claiming that women are already covered like the rest of American men under the Constitution. In the 1990s, conservatives once again ignored the fact that a segment of socie­ty faced glass ceilings and unjustified incriminations by labeling anti-discrimi­nation laws based on sexual orientation a "special right." Once more they claimed that gays are covered like the rest of heterosexuals under the Constitution. 
Conservatives dug into their classic rhetorical bag for the ENDA legislation last week. Indiana Congressman Mark Souder claimed that ENDA "set up another class of discrimination, once again pitting sexual discrimination up against the right to practice religious liberty." Souder asserted that faith­based organizations with fidelity clauses against extramarital sex or one man-one woman marriage clauses had no "defense of marriage" in the bill to fol­low their missions. He argued that by not specifically indicating that current marriage laws apply under this legisla­tion, organizations which "have any kind of ministry goal and aren't a profoundly a Christian organization that falls under the very narrow definition of the last amendment, you're in deep trouble here." 
Miller countered that ENDA only pre­vents employers from firing a perfectly qualified employee based on sexual ori­entation. "In fact," Miller said, "I don't see anything anywhere in the text of ENDA that discusses extramarital sex, and I can't understand how Mr. Souder's come to this conclusion about extramar­ital sex. But the entire issue is just a diversion from what ENDA actually does." Astonishingly, Miller concluded that he would actually support the Souder amendment because it would not change the bill, citing sections of the leg­islation that specifically guaranteed existing state law. 
However, Miller missed the perfect opportunity to redefine the long-stand­ing conservative use of "special rights." He could have said to Souder that this was a time when Souder actually advo­cated a special right for something already protected under law. Miller should have emphasized that Souder's defense of marriage was no different than defending women in the 1970s and that a special right seems to be in the eye of the beholder. 
Trivial as the parsing of language may seem, its effects on the American public can determine which political philoso­phy and party governs our lives. As time passes, Democrats will become more skillful during this congressional ses­sion. For if they do not establish their rhetorical rhythm, a "mushroom cloud" of voter discontent will declare "mission accomplished" next year. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a communications strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
More to life than sex 
I'm writing in response to all the uproar over the "Gay? Go to Hell" shirts. especially Nikki Huiras's letter ("Re-evaluating 'teachings' on homosexuality," Nov. 15). First, let me being by saying that the people wearing these shirts were executing an abominable act. It's appalling that there are people on this campus who actually seek for another human being to be condemned to hell. The Church in its holy authori­ty does not even condemn people to hell, recognizing that God alone has that ability. We, as Christians, are called to love. Wishing that someone be damned for eternity, away from the loving embrace of God. is entirely contrary to what Christianity would ever hope to accomplish. 
After reading the responses to Mary Daly's excellent letter concern­ing the Church's teaching on homosexuality ("Campus, Catholicism, and homosexuality," Nov. 13), it became apparent to me that a deep misunderstanding is present among those who chastise the Church's position on the issue. It becomes very easy to separate a homosexual person from the homosexual acts when we realize that sexuality is not the quintessence of human joy. A human can live a completely fulfilling, actualized, and happy life without utilizing his sexuality. It is common to find those who believe that homosexual intercourse is acceptable, agreeing that masturbation and pornography are natural, even healthy, outlets of a person's sexuality. The contrary is true. Chastity breeds greater respect for oneself and others, especially those whom the person loves romantically. The Church recognizes this fact, which is precisely why priestly celibacy is such a facet of church life. Thus, the Church, through encouraging homosexuals to a life of celibacy, is working toward bringing them greater happiness, rather than denying them enjoyment. 
Additionally, I would like to point out that we are perfectly able to decide that actions are evil, but not people. Indeed, in every case when bad actions are present, we are called to have even greater mercy, forgiveness, and love for the person. Why else is the phrase "Hate the sin, not the sinner?" so familiar to us on a Catholic cam­pus? Indeed, in almost every circumstance, there are mitigating fac­tors diminishing the person's culpability. Nonetheless, we as Christians and as members of a functioning society have the ability and right to say that a particular action is against moral code. Without this ability, we could have no law. The moral relativism that questions our ability to decide that extra-marital sexual activity is wrong also, when consistently understood, would lead us to question our ability to say that theft, rape, and murder are wrong, if for no other reason than that the people committing these crimes feel ful­filled by doing them. 
Nathan Loyd junior Keough Hall Nov. 15 

Normalcy based on perception 
The vast majority of human beings are heterosexual. (Surprising, I know!) In fact, it is estimated that only three percent of the population are born homosexual. We are a minority, but we are not abnormal. 
Normality is a funny thing. Social norms are constructed by society, and those who adhere most closely to those norms run soci­ety. They are created by those in power and are used to sustain their dominance. That leaves us with a whole bunch of white, upper class, heterosexual men telling women not to vote, telling blacks not to go to school, and telling homosexuals that they should "Go to Hell." Homosexuality is uncommon. Rarity, however, does not imply that something is disordered. 
Homosexuality is a product of natural forces, both biological and social. Variation is a normal part of the natural world. It is a natural, normal variation. The Church made it abnormal only through its teachings. What all this means is that homosexuality is as normal as heterosexuality. It's just less com­mon. The only reason people think homosex­uality is bad is because society tells them it is. We call this social ideology "heteronor­mativity," a word that refers to the margin­alization and devaluing of the homosexual and homosocial experience. The Catholic Church reveals itself at a heteronormative institution when it perpetuates this myth that homosexuality is "deviant" and "disor-· dered." Heterosexuals are pretty much in charge of everything, in particular the gov­ernment and the Church. (But, not MTV!) Heterosexuals shape, construct and define what is normal and "ordered." The Catholic Church presupposes that the natural "order" of things is reproduction. They're heteronor­mative. The Church ignores that three per­cent of the population was created in God's image to have sex and fall in love with peo­ple of the same gender. Only if you ignore that many sexual practices are not intended for reproduction can you reduce the purpose of sexuality down to reproduction. 
The heterosexual patriarchy of the Church ignores minorities and oppresses them through its construction of normality. If the Church was run by a bunch of gay men, then the natural "order" of things might have been Project Runway on Wednesdays and 80's dance parties on Fridays. But, it wasn't. So instead the natural "order" of our society is that women don't get to be priests and that homosexuals are "disordered," at least from the myopic perspective of an archaic, inflexible religious institution. 
Dan Savage sophomore Vassar College Nov. 14 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 Friday, November 16, 2007 
By MICHELLE FORDICE Assistant Scene Ediwr 
It is ~~very f'oodie's favorite. It is instructional, entertaining, and eter­nally perky. It is what reminds you that to-din-for dishes really exist, even if you arc stuck in the middle of the smnestnr despairing over the din­ing hall. It is the Food Network. And you really begin to understand its brilliance when you're hungry. 
After capturing your attention with skilled chPI"s preparing mouth-watt~ring dish-
picked up saffron? Be wary of spices sold in grams, college student, and put it back right now. 
But who says you need to always bother with that whole actually cook­ing thing anyway? One afternoon my mother and I developed a severe craving for fish and chips after nip­ping past the Food Network. Did we mess around with all that hot oil? Of eourse not! We just let our other good friend Google save the day and locate us a restaurant in the area that served the dish we longed for and 
discovered one of' our 
favorite restaurants as 

os, the Food Network a result. offers thousands of Not into the instruc­
It is the Food

delicious recipes to try tional shows? The Food yoursPII". Network. And you Network splits its pro­Supplmnonted by its gramming into two sec­
really begin to

Wnb sit«~. whieh allows tions, "The Food
understand its

tho curious to soareh Network in the by ingrediont, tho brilliance when Kitchen" and "Food chanrwl inspires new Network Nighttime."
you're hungry.

and old cooks to try Hanging from cooking something difTornnt. competitions to behind­
By bringing profos­
sional r.lwfs out of 
.:r.,-· tlwir kitchPns and into viewers' homos, the Food Network offers a glancn into how good food r·eally can lw. It is astounding how some of' those chefs have achieved star status. Enwril Lagasse, one of the first Food Network stars whose catch phrase "BAM!" quickly intngrated itself into popular nrlture, has 10 award-win­ning rostaurants across the country. Bobby Flay's "Mosa Grill" concept has dnvPlopnd into restaurants, products and cookbooks. In addition to lwr Food Network cooking shows, Hachatd Hay has an Jimmy-award wining talk show on CBS. Nearly all of the dwf's have their own cook­books, and many developed their own lines of" kitchen supplies. Neverthnless. the rnal star is the food itsel r. or course, sometimes what looks easy on TV isn't always so. Hachael Hay has some excellent recipes, but very f'nw that are actually "30 minute meals," unless you too have a staff to do all of your <~utting and chopping. And some of thn ingredients these ehPf's can access arn not readily found in my grocery store, or within the capabilities of my wallet. Evnr 
the-scenes looks and 

reality shows. the evening programming includes favorites such as "Iron Chnf," "Dinner: Impossible," "Unwrapped," "$40 a Day," and "Aee of Cakes." The most famous is likely the original "Iron Chef," a Japanese show dubbed over in English. The show, which fea­tures chefs battling to create the best meal out of a surprise ingredient, is not only intriguing for the resulting dishes but also hilarious for the campy and eccentric feel. 
The Food Network does not look like it intends to stop expanding any time soon, either. In 2000. it launched Food Network Canada, with its own set of hosts and programs. In addition to marketing some of' the products of its personalities, depart­ment stores have begun to carry Food Network labeled kitchen supplies. 
But really, don't you want to watch just so that you can imagine eating it all? And now it even comes in HD. So, grab your E.V.O.O (extra-virgin olive oil, of' course), and kick it up a notch with the Food Network. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact MicheUe Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
Calling to mind 90s alt-roek groups like Blind Melon and the Cranbt~rries while still f(~eling as modern as bands likt~ MusP, the Portland. On~gon-based band Charmpartieles has ernatnd a eompnlling mix of strong !-,'1litar hooks and etlwreal vocals on iL<> first full-length album, "Alivn in the llot Spell." The band has only a handful of prior ndeases, and this one feels just right. Thern's something almost addictive about this album, and hopt{ully it isn't the 11L'>t Charmpartides creation to hit the Billboard charL<>. 
Originally, the Charmparticles lirwup centered on the harmonious pairing of singer/bassist Pamela Hooney and fellow vocalist Adam Wayne. With Wayrw's recent departure, however, Hoorwy's voeals are rounded out by drummer Nathaneal Merrill and guitarist Sarah Fitzgerald. Despite any linnup ehang«~s. the band's sound doesn't (bel uneven or shaky, and Hooney's vocals an~ morn than strong enough to carry the weight of each song. 
Tho album opens with "Black Braid," a track whose unassuming first notes ftwl more like a lullaby than anything else. Combined with Hooney's soft soprano, tlw slight Pleetroniea sound of "Black Braid" is dreamlike and seduetivn, an aestlwtie that continues in many of the album's otlwr tracks. With the first track, Charmpartidns is slowly drawing in its listeners for an hour-long ride through an alt-roek drmun­land. 
The second track. "Cold Plated Shot," keeps you guessing as it establishes the guitar style that defines mueh of tlw album: rock-type rills with an ofl"-the-bnat­en-musit:al-path fi~nl. The song's alternat­ing tone and sweeping vocals are juxta­posed against Fitzgerald's guitar work. 
Alive in the Hot Spel 

Charm particles Label: Terrestrial Records Recommended Tracks: "Black Plated Shot," "Relapse," "Ablation 

r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ INTERHALL INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2007 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
Rivalry renewed: Keenan, Stanford meet again 
By GRIFFIN DASSATTI 
Spnns Wrirer 
Sunday will bP thn BattiP for thP Chapd, not to mention the lnterhall ( :hmnpionship. 
No. I Sl~rl Sumfilfd uLkns on No. 3 snnd Kennan at 1::m p.m. in Notm I>amn Sutdium in a nmmlch of the last gamn of the regular season, whore St.;mlilrd beat K1~man 12-8. 
Ijving in thP S<Lilln building has crn­atnd a rivalry bntw1~m thn two ha.JL'l. Stanlim! se~ior captain Hob IIuth S<Lid tmt'lion hil'l hovnnrl around thn ( ;rillins this ymr. 
"Wn fi~\] likn (11\llpln have undnn\S­limatnd us tlmlllghout the Sl1a'lon," lluth said. "And that's bnnn a big motivator fill" us. No onn gives ll'l a d1m1m. so wn kind of play with that ehip on our shoulder. 1u1d it's worked to l11is point Kt\l~ncm's always vinw1rl us <L'l a little brotiJPr Sll wn want go out 11mrn mul give l11osn f..,'llys a tow,rh game." 
'"1\lugh" i'l enri<Linly one word that muld dnsrrib1~ Stanfi1rd's win over tho Knighl'l in tl1e rn~-,rular Sl1a'ion, a gmnn tlmtllul11 S<tid hnlpl~d hi'i te1un bol11 in tnnw; ofconfidmce iUid in the road to l11n duunpion'lhip gmnn. 
"Up until that point. we hadn't bmtnn IK1\111l<UJI in thn\1~ years, and getting 11mt \\<in Wil'l big filr tL<;," lluth S<tid. "l'lll'l it gave ll'l the one-seed in tl1P playolls, which h<L'> helplrl. So it tunurl out to b.! a pretty it11pllrlant winfiwus." 
llul11 S<Lid l11n ability of the Grilliit'l ddi~ll'i!! to fimd oil' Kllf!ncm's J111Wnrlul mnning at11tck Wll'l tl1n determining fitdor in 1111! win. 
Sophomon\ Pat Bunt'l, thn Knighl<;' mpuun, S<tid thn hK'l luL'i dictated thn practiens this pa'll week, with the team focusing on bolstering its already strong olli.\n'>ive line to make holes fi1r tlw thunder-and-lightning umdnm ofsenior fullback Joe Pappa<> and junior hallbiu:k Alex Gonzalez. 
While tho loss to their next-door rival did hurt, Burns also said his team's experience will give the Knights the all-important mental edge. Knnmm ha<; made the playoii'l in mu:h of the pa'lt three years, win­ning a d11unpion'ihip in 2004 and los­ing in the finals in 2005. 
Whiln there will be some nerves, Burns said, the extremely experi­enced juniors and seniors on the te~Ull will b.\ (',onfident tmd ealm. 
"!The upperda'lsimml have defi­nitely helped a lot," Burns said. "They'vn told ll'l what to OXplX:t They know what's going on this whole week tUJd thats a littln bit of <m edge [we havnl over SUU1fiJrd. The [under­dm;smnnl won't b.\ as Ulken up and 11my'll b.~ mady to play." 
On l1111 other side of the ball, Huth concPded a lack of experience, but al'lo said his tmun ha'l seen its fhlr share of pressun~ situations. One exmnpln Wil'l the play that won the Griflin'l 11wir first round game against 
Dillon. · Tntiling 3-0 <tiler thn Big Hed hit a finld goal in il'i first overtime pos ..
'iflS­

shm, lluth deeided to go for it on filllrth-1u1d-goal. The dl1fi<>ion worked out beautifully: Junior safety Dave Cosumzo stepplld in at quarterback to hit fh\Shman tight end Tom Smith fi1r the g<une-\\<inning touchdown. 
The mcent expl1rience in the "pres­sure-cooker" along with a good te1Uil attitude, lluth S1tid, should Ulk11 care of most of the nerves on the Griffin<;' sidelirm 
"Overall the team's pretty laid back," lluth S1tid. "I don't see a prob-Jem a<; fhr a<; being nervotL'l. For the seniors, it being tile last time putting on the pads \\<ill be a big [source ofl motivation. For everyone else, there \\<ill be motivation in the fact that you never know when you'll get back there. 'Ihere'll be jitters; I'd be lying if I S1tid there weren't any, but tlmy'll definitely be a more positive factor than a negative." 
In terms of game strategy, both teams have their idea<> frurly well-for­mulated from tl1e sea'l<m. Burns said m()!,i of the Knighb' suc.cess thi'l year stems from their def(msive prowess. He pointed to Kl1fman's 7-0 semilffial victory over Sieglhed a'i an exan1ple oftim def(m..<;e making thing; easy on the ollim'iC. 
The game was so dose early bec.atL<;<l the offem;e was a littlP slug­gish tllat !fdllle," he said. "[But] our dPfen..<;e wa'i playing so well we didn't think we ne{rled to take any big ri'lks on oll'en..<;<l. A lot of cmdit goes to the Siegfried ddiJn..<>e, too. 'lhey played a great gan1e." 
I Iutll S1tid the Grilliit'l are looking to stick to tl1e same plan from earlier in the year to beat Keenan -stop the run and f(m:e the opJXment into pass­ing situations. With that. in mind, Stanfbrd's pnu:tiees have focused on deaning up some coverage issues the coaches noticed in. the te1Ulls' first ml1flting. 
Other than that, the captain said hn'll b.~ looking to Costanzo (a former varsity walk-on), S1nith, senior receiv­er Matt Frankenfeld, and senior defensive end Matt Templemire to step up like they have all year. 
He added that a win over a te1Uil like KPenan will go beyond rivalry as something of a signature victory to cap off a perfect season for the Griffins. 
"Even before you get on the field and play them it's a rivalry betwl1fm the dorms," 1Jutl1 s1Lid. "We always have to hear about how they're tho better dorm and how they've been better than us b.1foro. .. .'lhey're kind of tile benchmark team on ca.mptL'l. They won !the championship myl freshman year 1U1d thny wnm in thn stadium lmy] sophomon1 ynar. They'm thn loam that's thn baromn­ter for where you're at as a pro­gr1Uil." 

Contact Griffin Dassatti at gdassatt@nd.edu 


Injuries force players to become coordinators 
a p1Lir of surgeries, one in May and defense and make decisions based Stanford senior cap11tin Hob Huth "We'll have to sen what KeenanBy MATT GAMBER one in August, to fix the damage. on what other teams ar1~ throwing called Loesing an a'lset to a team does," s1Lid Loosing, whose oUimsP 
Sporrs Wrircr 
Though he realized he'd be at us." that has lacked organization and got strong play from junior quar­unabln to suit up this fall, he "just For both rookie coaches, step­leadership in recent years but ha'l terback Brian Salvi and senior 11til­
When seniors Matt Gibson and wa<;n't ready to leave the guys [he] ping into the pressure-packed and been rejuvenated thanks to a back Tregg Duerson in thn win Hick Loosing undnrwfmt surgeries had splmt three years playing oft-criticized role certainly didn't strong group of senior leaders and over Kennan. 'Til have to talk to lhis sumnwr to repair ba<;ketball­with... hn srud. come without its challenges: name­Loesing's steady sideline presence. the offen..<>n aller the first snrins and rldatml lng injuries, they both Loosing starred at running back ly. an utter lack ofexperience. "It's a lot harder than people see what's looking good." thought tlwir lnterhall football and wa'l Stanfbrd's captain a year "Does Madden count?" Gibson realize to call plays in a game," Gibson's ommsivn philosophy \\<ill 1:arners werP ovnr. ago, but he torn his ACL in a pick­said with a laugh when asked Huth said. "You've got to have the remain the san1n a<> it ha<> all sea­
They wnrP right-SIJrt of. up game of hoops this summer and about his previous play-calling hi<>­situational awareness of where you son: Hun the fbotball. Juniors Alex 
Kmman's Gibson and Stanf(wd's underwent surgery shortly there­tory. "This is my first time calling are on the field and in the g1Ulle ... Gonzalez and Brett Wilps should Loosing havn both 1L'lsumnd the all­after. lie had an eye on this year's plays, and there's definitely been a then you have to get the right play­see plenty of action, as both important position of offensive roster. however, knowing it'd be "a huge learning curve. I've said call in. He had a bit of a slow start, Keenan running backs pllSP viable coordinator f'or their resp11ctive real solid team" of which he'd still you've got to have mistake-free but he's doing a real solid job for threal<; out ofthe backfield. tlmms and will square oil', albeit want to be a part. football; well, you've also got to us." "We're focused on what got us f'rom the sidelines. in the lnterhall "Last year, my impact was based have mistake-free coaching. I've While both Gibson and Loesing here, and that's running the ball championship on the line Sunday more on my actual performance," definitely made my mistakes this were forced to trade in their hel­and playing good defense," Gibson in the Stadium. Loosing srud. 'Tm relying now not year, but I'm getting better and the mets and shoulder pads for dip­said. "We like to eontrol tlw game 
Gibson torn a ligament in each on my physical ability to help the team's behind me, which helps a boards and headsets (make that on both sides of the ball, sustaining ankln playing lnterhall lbotball and team, but more on my intellectual lot." hand signals -it is still Interhall. drives on offense and holding Bookstorn Ba'lkntball and requirnd talents and my ability to see a Despite some early struggles, after all) before they may have te1Ulls on defense." 
Gibson and Loesing have each liked, they are now Jiving every So while the game plan is to found their groove; if tlley hadn't, Monday Morning Quarterback or approaeh tl1e eh1Ullpionship game their teams wouldn't still be play­NCAA '08 player's dream of calling just like any other, Gibson knows ing. Both contra<;ted their time on tl1eir own g1Uile -\\<ith real play­better. Having played center on the field to their new roles on the ers, in real time, and with real Keenan teams that made trips to sidelines. result.<;. the Stadium in hi'> first two years ­
"Now I have to see the big pic­"This isn't a video game," Gibson including a championship in his ture and focus on what's happen­said of what makes coaching a freshman snason-Gibson is look­ing with everyone on the ollfmse," "great but stressful" experience. ing to end his lnterhall career \\<ith Gibson said. "There's so many little "Every decision matters because what he calls "a return to normal­things you have to focus on that these are real peopln you're calling cy": in other words, rnclruming tim you don't even realize when you're plays fbr. I can't reset the game for title the Knights last won three in the heat of the game. When you all 24 ofmy players if I make a bad years ago. really sit back and watch, there's play call. One mi'ltake can Ulke you ''Them's no feeling like walking just so much going on that every out of the game. It's a pressure­out onto that fiold, whether it be a'l play can depend on one little packed situation, but I thrive on it." a player or now as a coach," thing." In Sunday's big game, both Gibson said. "It's really a great feel­
Loesing said he's becoming coaehes \\<ill liu:e emotions that \\<ill ing to still be involved with the "mor\.and more comfortnble every be running higher than ever g1Ulle and know that I cm1 still play week. before. Loesing's key will be to a role in the success of the team. I 
"Having played [for S11tnford], I avoid getting "flustered" when pre­wouldn't trade that li>r anything, already knew what had worked for sented with new looks from a except for maybe the ability to play us in the past and what our Keenan defense sure to make in this g1Ulle." strengths were," he said. "So that adjustments after the Griffins definitely has given me an insight topped the Knights 12-8 to close Contact Matt Gamber at into what kind ofplays to call." out the regular sea<;on. mgamber@nd.edu 
Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ INTERHALL INSIDER page 3 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Cavanaugh challenges dominant Welsh Fam 
By SAM WERNER Sports Wrirer 
Welsh Family and Cavanaugh took different routes to the Stadium, but both will enter Sunday's game with only one goal in mind. 
"Our season will be complete when we win," Welsh Family captain Kelly Bushelle said. 
"We're going to come out from the beginning and play with all we've got," Cavanaugh captain Lizzy Brown said. 
It may take all the Chaos have to defeat the top-seeded Whirlwinds, who are 8-0 this season and have throttled their previous three opponents by a combined score of 59-0. Bushelle, though, refused to focus on her team's impressive record. · 
"We're really proud of what wn've done," Bushelle said. "But we're not thinking about the past. We're just thinking about Cavanaugh on Sunday." 
The No. 6 seed Chaos have 
_already shown that they're capable of an upset, defeating No. 2 seed Pangborn 18-6 in the first round of the playoffs. They followed that performance with a 12-0 win over Farley in the semifinals. Brown was confi­dent her team won't be intimi­dated by the Whirlwinds. 
"You can only focus on the sP.eds so much," Brown said. "On Sunday at noon, records aren't going to matter. Whoever plays harder is going to come out with a win." 
The Chaos usually receive a strong performance from its defense, which has come up big in their first two playoff games. In the semifinals, Cavanaugh constantly forced Farley into fourth-and-long situations and forced several key turnovers, a trend it hopes to continue on Sunday. 
"Turnovers are absolutely essential to victory," Brown said. "We're going to be looking for interceptions and hopefully our great defensive line can get some big plays for negative yards." 
The Chaos defense will cer­tainly be tested against Welsh Family's offense, led by junior quarterback Jenny Gargula. Gargula has thrown four touch­down passes in the playoffs, despite playing with a torn bicep. Bushelle was reluctant to attribute her team's success to one side of the ball despite the fact that Welsh Family scored 21 points per game this season. 
"We've really worked well on everything, both offense and defense," Bushelle said. "I can't really pick out one thing that's been the reason for our suc­cess." 
Cavanaugh will be the first new opponent the Whirlwinds face in the playoffs after already defeating both Lyons and Pasquerilla West in the reg­ular season. Bushelle wasn't concerned about the lack of familiarity. 
"We're not really worried [that we haven't played them before]," Bushelle said. "They haven't played us either, so it goes both ways." 
The Chaos may not have seen Welsh Family's talented squad in person yet this season, but Brown certainly knows what her team is going up against on Sunday. 
"They've got a talented quar­terback and a number of great receivers," Brown said. "It's going to come down to getting acclimated after the first couple of plays and seeing what we can exploit." 
Since they have never played each other before, both cap­tains focused on the importance of making strategy changes during the game to take advan­tage of any holes in their oppo­nent's game plan. 
"We're not going to make huge adjustments," Bushelle said. "But the key is just seeing what Cavanaugh brings and exploiting their weaknesses." 
It may take both teams a while to settle in to the new atmosphere of Notre Dame Stadium before they can worry about strategy. No player on the Welsh Family team has ever played in the Stadium before. The senior class for Cavanaugh reached the Stadium in 2004, its freshman year, falling to Walsh in the finals. 
"Fortunately we were there in 2004," Brown said. "We know what it's like in the Stadium, so we're looking at it like just another game." 
Bushelle acknowledged her team's championship inexperi­ence, but did not think it would have an adverse effect on its chances Sunday. 
"Even though no one our team has played in the Stadium before, we'll definitely come out focused and ready," Bushelle 
said. Brown also emphasized the importance of a strong start to . gain momentum. 
"It's really going to start with coming out and playing hard in the first couple of minutes," Brown said. "It's going to be a 

By JARED }EDICK 
Sports Writer 
Cavanaugh coach Aidan Fitzgerald credits football with saving his life. 
"Had it not been for an injury I sustained while playing Interhall football, I would never have taken the CT scan that offered the first clue that I had stage II cancer," Fitzgerald said. 
Telling the girls about his strug­gle with testicular cancer two years ago was one of the most try­ing ordeals Fitzgerald has gone through. He had tried to keep the mood light. 
"But I realized that it was not a joke this time," said Fitzgeral«t. a sophomore. 
Almost a year later, having undergone two surgeries, nine 
weeks of chemotherapy, and hundreds of needles, Fitzgerald made his return to Notre Dame and to football. 
Now he is back on the sidelines of Cavanaugh, inspir­ing the Cinderella story of this sea­son. And Cavanaugh wants this victory for its coach and the team. Cavanaugh credits much of its success to Fitzgerald, its fered a torn left (non-throwing) bicep in a car accident over fall break. 

Gargula was driving with her boyfriend when the accident occurred. 
"My boyfriend was driving, 
"Had it not been for an injury I sustained while playing Interhall football, I never would have taken the CT scan that offered the first clue that I had stage II cancer." 
Aidan Fitzgerald Cavanaugh coach 
when all of a sudden another car ran a red light," Gargula said. "She hit our car, and in the impact I partially tore the bicep in my left arm." 
Gargula's first concern was for her safety and that of her boyfriend. But when the doctors told her that she had a torn bicep, she immediately began to worry if she could play 

coaching staff, and senior captain for her team the next week. Tarah Brown. "I could not move it at all, and I "Both the coaches and the cap-was in constant pain" Gargula 
tough, competitive game. We've all put in the work and are looking forward to Sunday." 
Kickoff is at noon Sunday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Coach's battle with cancer inspires players 
tains do a great job of reading our said. team -they always seem to But the day after, still in agony, know when to lighten the mood Gargula decided she was going to and when to step up the intensity play despite.the serious injury. at practice and during games," "I was not sure if I was going to 
senior center Jill  let  her  play,"  
Martini said. Welsh Fam  "The pain was worse  Welsh Fam coach Mike Kaiser said.  
dealt with some  sometimes than  "If I thought she  
adversity of its own this season. Welsh Family junior quarter­ otherRijustfocused on what I was doing, not on the arm. "  was in pain, I was going to pull her." Welsh Family  
back  Jenni  even  prepared  
Gargula, the Whirlwinds' playmaker, suf­ · G Jenm argula Welsh Family quarterback  back-up quarter­back senior Kelly Bushelle to play  

all week. 

"Everyone was pretty bummed. Nobody thought that I would be able to play," Gargul a said. 
When she unexpectedly started for the Whirlwinds in the first round of the playoffs. the morale boost was immediate. 
"I cannot say enough about Jenni," Kaiser said. 
Gargula played for most of the game, enduring intense pain in her left arm. 
"The pain was worse some­times than at others," Gargula said. "I just focused on what I was doing, not on the arm. I wanted to get a big enough lead so that I could rest at the end of the game." 
When asked why she endured the pain and risked further injury, Kaiser's answer was simple. 
"Her stubborn nature," he said. Gargula's answer to the same question was even simpler. "I hate to lose," she said. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
and for the better. "Gold Plated Shot" is 
probably the strongest song on "Alive in 
the llot Spt>ll," and it sels a solid tone for 
the rnst of the record. 
"Helapse," the fifth traek, is grounded in 
the band's alt-roek rools, again employing 
succossfully that stylistic blend of rock gui­
tar and swirling, othnreal vocals. The song 
dampens thn album's mood with an angri­
er feel -a sentiment that also carries 
. to the sixth song, "Battersea" -but 
way that allows the album to develop 
progress without being limitPd by its 
tropes. "Battersea" takes this devel­
further in il<> lyrics as well, leaving 
listener mournful as Hooney repeated­
sings, "So much wasted." 
The Jp,ngthy introduction on "Ablation ._,<""·'•ue" lets Fitzgerald impress the lis­with her best guitar work, showcas­how critical she is to the band's overall 
Other strong tracks include "The Quiet 
. " tho half-instrumental 11th track, 
Kohii," and the album's closing song, 
Sea of Okhotsk." with traces of Windsor 
the Derby. among other influences. 
The band began as a dill"erent group, 
>rive. when Wnynn was still a member. In 
me. the linoup "and namo evolved into the 
armpartides of today, which Rooney 
. to kePp in spite of Wayne's depar­
re. While "Alive in the Hot Spell" is 
a solid contribution to the music 
. Hoonny arknowlodges that climbing 
tho top hasn't always been easy. 
"Oh yeah. It's really easy to be starry­
when you·n~ 21," Hooney said in a 
reeont intervinw with Portland magazine 
Willamettn Wnnk, "and you'ro finally play­
ing a gig at that vmmn you always wanted 
to play. I remember thinking in the Drive 
days. 'Sonwone's gonna como along and 
sign us and everybody in the world is 
gonna love us.' Then, artnr the first eouple 
labnls don't call back, you go, 

'Oh. so this is what people worn talking about."' 
Hoonny and Co. ean easily set aside any l'nars with this latest n~lease. "Alive in the Hot Spnll" is an impressive first full-lenl-,>th album. and it's like­ly that industry insiders and easuallims alike will be calling baek Charmparticles for a while. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
By CHRIS MCGRADY Assistant Scene Editor 
When Barry Bonds hit his 756th home run on Aug. 7, a 435-foot blast off of Washington Nationals pitcher Mike Bacsik, he passed Hank Aaron as the all-time home run king. It struck me as a shame. Aaron was a model of humility, poise and courage, while Bonds is a big-headed and acidic slugger. It is even more of a shame now, as Barry Bonds was indicted Thursday for perjury and obstruction of justice charges. 
Bonds' home run title has always been just a touch fishy. He entered the Major Leagues at 6-foot-2 and 
about 185 pounds. By 2001, he weighed in at 228 and had gone from a fleet-footed base­stealer to a power­slugger, capable of sweeping any ball off the plate and into the stands. 
And now Bonds is not just a cheater, as he already was in the eyes of mil­lions of baseball fans who believe he took steroids. He is also a liar. In fact, the man who owns his record-setting home run ball said 
he wants to enter it into the hall of fame with a large asterisk drawn on it. If that happens, Bonds has said, he will never visit the Hall of Fame or have anything to do with the Cooperstown monument again. Fortunately for him, it looks like he won't have to worry about it. That is he won't unless the federal peniten­tiary has a field trip day. 
I think Bonds deserves a different brand of punishment though; jail just doesn't quite do it for me. I suggest the following alternatives. 
+He takes himself out of the run­ning for anything having to do with the Hall of Fame, and every one of his records and awards is taken away. He spends the rest of his days more than any other professional sports
Bonds bothers me more player. He lied to millions of people
than any other 
and fans. He lied to
professional sports 
children. He cheat­player. He lied to ed, and he knew he 
millions of people and cheated, and yet he 
still lied. It's a
fans. He lied to 
shame and he does­children. He cheated, n't deserve any of the success that
and he knew he 
baseball has
cheated, and yet 
brought him. Which 
he still lied. makes me think the best punishment is this: He should be 
removed from all 
the record books and history of baseball guides. His jerseys should be burned or thrown away. The media should never write another article about him again, and he can waste away in obscurity, where he belongs. 
I'm glad that Bonds is finally get­ting his. He has been indicted on four counts of perjury and one obstruc­tion of justice for telling a federal grand jury he did not knowingly use performance enhancing drugs. Our justice system is going to work. Unfortunately for Aaron, it's a few months too late. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu 
going door-to-door and apologizing to every pitcher he hit a juiced-up home run off. 
+It is a common belief that steroids can cause one's cranium to swell. So I would suggest a form of torture for Bonds. Nothing awful here, but this is my idea -he has to remain standing in one spot until he eventually collapses under the weight of his own swollen head. 
+He has to spend the rest of his life as the personal servant of each and every person who ever paid to see Bonds play. Need your car washed? Call Bonds. Back rub? Bonds is your man. 
Bonds bothers me 
MLB 

A-Rod's $350 million demand becomes $275 million deal 
10-year contract will include bonus for breaking career home run record 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 16, 2007 

Associated Press  the agreement with Rodriguez's agent, Scott Buras.  contacted Mallory, a friend who works in private wealth  
NEW  YOHK  Alex  Asked  whether  the  only  management in Goldman's Los  
Hodriguez and the New York  remaining details were putting  Angeles office. Rodriguez knew  
Yankees have agreed to the  the  deal  on'  paper,  the Yankees have a close rela­ 
outline of a  record $275 mil­ Steinbrenner responded: "pret­ tionship with the investment  
lion, 10-year contract, a  deal  ty much so."  bank. which was instrumental  
that potentially would allow  Boras wasn't a  part of the  in the launch of the team's YES  
him to earn millions more if he  negotiations,  in  which  Network.  
sets  the  career  home  run  Goldman  Sachs  managing  Mallory called Cardinale,  
record.  directors John Mallory and  who works in the merchant  
Tho amount of the guaran­ Gerald Cardinale conducted  banking section in New York  
teed money was revealed by a  shuttle diplomacy.  and helped finance the net­ 
person familiar with the nego­ "They were the go-betweens,  work. Cardinale in turn got in  
tiations who spoke Thursday  initially," Steinbrenner said.  touch with Yankees president  
on  condition  of anonymity  "That's how he reached out to  Randy Levine.  
becausn the deal hasn't been  us."  A-Hod  and  the  Yankees  
finalized. A-Hod and his wife  The Yankees were notified by  exchanged proposals via the  
mot Wndnesday in Tampa, Fla.,  Boras  on  Oct.  2X  that  bankers, and the deal gradual­ 
with brothers llal and llank  Hodriguez was opting out of  ly was framed in about a dozen  
Stninbrnnner. but the parame­ the final three seasons of his  telephone calls.  
ters of the agreement were set  $252 million, 1()-year contract  The sides still are working on  
in placn last wm~kend.  -the previous record  - and  putting together a  provision  
"Tho meeting was a final get­ becoming a  free agent. New  that would allow Rodriguez to  
tognther," Yankees senior vice  York maintained then that it no  share revenue created by his  
president llank Steinbrenner  longer would negotiate with A­ pursuit of the  career home  
said. "lin wanted to make sure  Hod because the decision elim­ record held by Barry Bonds,  
myself and my brother knew  inated a $21.3 million subsidy  who was indicted Thursday on  
that he  was sincere and seri­ from Texas that was negotiated  perjury  and  obstruction  
ous...  in the 2004 trade.  charges.  A-Rod  has  518  
The Yankees still must draft  About a  week later, A-Hod  homers, 244 shy of the mark.  
"The Yankees have never had  
a  player since Babe Ruth that  
really  had  a  100 percent  
chance" of setting the record.  
Steinbrenner said. "[Mickey]  
Mantle should have, but he had  
too many injuries. It's a histori­ 
cal achievement bonus more  
than it is an  incentive bonus. AP  
There ..is  no yearly incentive Alex Rodriguez salutes fans before Game 3 of the ALDS on Oct. 7.  
bonus. Rodriguez agreed to a 10-year contract with the Yankees Thursday.  
That provision must be draft­ 
ed carefully because of Major  capitalize on that achievement  "Nono of us are worth that  
League Hule 3 (b) (5). which  in  some  fashion," said Gene  much relativfl to 'real world'  
states  no  contract shall be  Orza, the union's chief operat­ salaries," the pitcher wrote on  
approved  "if it  contains  a  ing officer. "The ·devil will be in  his Web site. "But if someone  
bonus for playing, pitching or  the details. The minds of men  in the game was getting a con­ 
batting skill or if it provides for  and women in the sport should  tract that big, I am  not sure  
the payment of a bonus contin­ be able to figure this out."  you could argue it being Alex.  
gent on  the standing of the  Steinbrenner said Hodriguez  On th11 field this guy is the  
signing club at the end of the  was given bad advice by Boras  MVP-in-waiting every year, it  
championship season."  during the time before the  seems."  
Even with that, the commis­ decision to opt out.  Steinbrenner said he thinks  
sioner's office allowed the  "Boras did  a  lot of good  that had Rodriguez tested the  
Boston Heel Sox in 2003 to give  things for Alex through the  free-agent market, he would  
Curt Schilling a provision for a  years, and Alex knows that. I  have gotten a  morn  lucrative  
$2 million raise in a season fol­ mean, obviously, he's going to  contract and eited the interest  
lowing a World Series champi­ look to Scott's advice on every­ of the Los Angeles Dodgers, led  
onship. Boston won  the title  thing,"  Steinbrenner  said.  by  new  managnr .Jon Torre,  
the following year.  "That's not unusual today. It's  and perhaps other teams.  
The Yankees already have  not like he's the only one. And  "There are a few cynics who  
been  in  touch  with  Major  if an agent gets out of line or  say, 'Well, hn really couldn't  
League Baseball, and A-Rod's  makes  bad decisions,  then  get this thBre,'  "  Steinbrenner  
side contacted the players'  that's going to hurt the player.  said. "Trust me, he would have  
association.  And obviously, that's one of the  gotten probably  more.  lie is  
"Because he's generating  things that happened here."  making  a  sacrifice  to  be  a  
such enormous revenue poten­ Rodriguez still winds up with  Yankee, there's no question....  
AP  tial, both to the player and the  baseball's largest contract, a  He showed what was really in  
Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez laughs before Game 3 of  club, there should be some way  fact that got the attention of  his heart and what he really  
the ALDS on Oct. 7. Rodriguez Is set to return to New York.  for the player and the club to  Schilling.  wanted."  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 2 [).ln. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 
Looking for a playful. kind and responsible person to watch my two children (6 & 10 yrs.) in my home occasionally. Please call Jill 574­288-7118. 
Seeking part time nanny for our 3 children. 4 miles from campus. 2-6 pm daily. Email schedule availability &qualifications to twnanny­search@ 9mail.com 
FoR SALE 
FSB0-6.2 miles to NO-Colonial 2story home 4bdr 2-1/2 baths close to schools county tax many xtrs. 574-291-2899 3 bdrm/2 bath home for sale $95.000/for rent $900. 706 N. St. Louis. Contact Brad 574-220-8666. 
WALK TO NOTRE DAME -2 BD with forma/living and dining, large family room. 2 car garage. $89,900. 1221 Rosemary Lane. Century 21 Jim Dunfee. Call574-235-3707. 
Gorgeous 3 bdr. 2 bath totally updated Victorian home on historic 
W. Washington St. downtown South Bend. Architect owner, 1 block from Tippecanoe Place. $125,000. Call Bob 574-315-6902. MLS #224252. 
FoR RENT 
Blue &Gold Homes now showing 08-09 &09-10. Bluegoldrentals.com 
2BR/2bath condo for rent at Jamison Residential(lvy Court). Available for jan-may or june-aug or both. Perfect for young couple or visiting prof. contact Mike: 507-326­7044 or mikec@cbatty.com 
Blue &Gold Homes 2nd semester sale. $200 PiS just off campus 
"alumni owned'. Bluegoldrentals.com 
GRADSTUDENTS/PROFESSORS: Rent this immaculate 2-3 BR home w/fresh paint, new carpeting &2-car garage only 5 minutes from Notre Dame. $895.00/month. Call574­360-8240. 
TICKETS 

NO tickets for sale. Best Prices. 574-288-2726. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. www. victorytickets.com 
WANTED -ND FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love rieeds confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more information, visit our web­
·site at: http:1/osa. nd. edu/departments/preg­nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, visit http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. shtml 
PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME­ONE WHO IS? You do not have to be alone. We want to help. Call our 24 hour confidential hotline at 1­800-No Abort or visit our web site at www.lifecall.org 
Adopt: a young loving couple long to share their hearts and home with a newborn. Will provide endless love. Expenses paid. Call Eileen and Ed 1-800-718-6577. 
Henrick Lundqvist is the handsome reincarnation of Patrick Roy (pro­nounced "Wah"). 
Dear A-Rod, Welcome back. 
Hey Maria, When are we going to watch "The Office" together again? Love, -Hi no 
Bruce and Kate. Welcome to campus. It's a pleasure to have two wonderful people here with which to share a weekend. Though our football team may have a poor record, we still cheer loud. Won't you please join us in giving the Duke family members a warm welcome to campus before hoping for their destruction on the field. 
Siegfried Ultimate: 1-0. Easy win Thursday night. Next game in two weeks. We shall prevail. We shall prevail. 
Humanae Vitae. That's right. 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, November 16, 2007 
NFL AFC East 

team New England Buffalo N.Y. Jets Miami  record 9-0 5-4 1-8 0-9  perc. 1.000 .556 .111 .000  PF 355 143 159 176  PA 147 166 228 257  
AFC North  
team Pittsburgh Cleveland Baltimore Cincinnati  record 7-2 5-4 4-5 3-6  perc. .778 .556 .444 .333  PF 253 255 138 219  PA 126 264 178 251  
AFC South  
team Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston  record 7-2 6·3 6·3 4·5  perc. .778 .667 .667 .444  PF 265 183 178 203  PA 149 164 152 226  
AFC West  
team  record  per1~.  PF  PA  
San Diego Denver Kansas City Oakland  5-4 4-5 4-5 2-7  .556 .444 .444 .222  212 153 135 158  185 238 173 194  
NFC East  
team Dallas N.Y. Giants Washington Philadelphia  record 8-1 6-3 5-4 4-5  perc, .889 .667 .556 .444  PF 296 220 177 189  PA 195 190 193 180  
NFC North  
team Green Bay Detroit Chicago Minnesota  record 8·1 6·3 4·5 3·6  perc. .889 .667 .444 .333  PF 228 221 161 166  PA 142 216 187 188  
NFC South  
team Tampa Bay Carolina New Orleans Atlanta  record 5-4 4·5 4-5 3·6  perc. .556 .444 .444 .333  PF 164 150 202 135  PA 144 181 223 182  
NFC West  
team Seattle Arizona San Francisco St. Louis  record 5·4 4·5 2-7 1·8  perc. .556 .444 .222 .111  PF 191 188 104 136  PA 141 195 210 248  

NCAA Soccer Adidas National Rankings 
Men Women 

1 Connecticut 1 UCLA 2 Wake Forest 2 Texas A&M 3 Santa Clara 3 Portland 4 Virginia Tech 4 North Carolina 5 Brown 5 Stanford 6 SMU 6 Penn Slate 7 Creighton 7 Virginia 8 Boston College 8 Purdue 9 Indiana 9 Southern Cal 10 Tulsa 10 Texas 11 NOTRE DAME 11 NOTRE DAME 12 Saint Louis 12 West Virginia 13 UC Santa Barbara 13 Georgia 14 Northwestern 14 Florida State 15 Harvard 15 Tennessee 
around the dial 
NBA 
Rockets at Spurs 8 p.m., ESPN 

CoA1PlUD FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
MLB 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Barry Bonds, baseball's home run king, was indicted for per­jury and obstruction of jus­tice Thursday and could face prison instead of the Hall of Fame for telling a federal grand jury he did not know­ingly use performance­enhancing drugs. 
The indictment, culminat­ing a four-year investigation into steroid use by elite ath­letes, charged Bonds with four counts of perjury and one of obstruction of justice. If convicted, he could be sentenced to a maximum of 30 years in prison. 
Shortly after the indict­ment was handed up, Bonds' personal trainer, Greg Anderson, was ordered released after spending most of the past year in prison for refusing to testify against his longtime friend. 

"During the criminal investigation, evidence was obtained including positive tests for the presence of anabolic steroids and other performance enhancing substances for Bonds and other athletes," the indict­ment said. 
In August, when the 43­year-old Bonds passed Hank Aaron to become baseball's career home run leader, he flatly rejected any sugges­tion that this milestone was stained by steroids. 
"This record is not tainted 
IN BRIEF 

Padres' Peavy unanimous 
choice for NL Cy Young 
NEW YORK -Jake Peavy has been one of the best pitchers in the National League for years. This season, he pulled away from the pack. 
The San Diego Padres ace was an unanimous winner of the NL Cy Young Award on Thursday after leading the league in wins, ERA and strikeouts. 
"It was just one of those seasons where kind of everything came togeth­er," he said on a conference call. 
Peavy received all 32 first-place votes and finished with 160 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Arizona sinkerballer Brandon Webb, last year's winner, was a distant runner-up with 94 points. He was listed second on 31 ballots and third on one. 
"Obviously, I was elated. This is as big as it gets as far as individual awards," Peavy said. "Truly amazing. A very humbling day when you think about all my peers that take the mound every fifth day." 
at all. At all. Period," Bonds said. 
Bonds finished the year with 762 homers, seven more than Aaron, and is currently a free agent. In 2001, he set the season record with 73 home runs. 
Late in the season, the San Francisco Giants told the seven-time National League MVP they didn't want him back next year. 
Bonds could not immedi­ately be reached for com­ment. One of his attorneys, John Burris, didn't know of the indictment before being alerted by The Associated Press and said he would call Bonds to notify him. 
''I'm surprised," Burris said, "but there's been an 
page 17 
effort to get Barry for a long time. I'm curious what evi­dence they have now they didn't have before." 
Bonds' defense attorney, Mike Rains, declined com­ment because he hadn't seen a copy of the indict­ment. 
"However, it goes without saying that we look forward to rebutting these unsup­ported charges in court," Rains said. "We will no doubt have more specific comments in the very near future once we have had the opportunity to actually see this indictment that took so long to generate." 
Bonds is scheduled to appear in U.S. District Court in San Francisco on Dec. 7. 

Troubled 'Pacman' gets plea
deal in exchange for testimony 
LAS VEGAS -A judge accepted a plea deal Thursday reducing felony charges against suspended NFL player Adam "Pacman" Jones to a gross mis­demeanor that will get him probation in return for his testimony about a strip club triple shooting. 
The Tennessee Titans cornerback did not appear before Las Vegas Justice of the Peace Tony Abba tangelo, who accepted the written agreement and waived Jones' preliminary hearing on two felony coercion charges. 
Abbatangelo scheduled Jones to plead no contest Dec. 5 in state court to one charge of conspiracy to commit disorderly conduct. 
Jones will be sentenced later to one year of probation, Clark County prose­cutor Victoria Villegas said after a brief hearing. Two charges of coercion, a felony carrying a possible sentence of one to six years in prison, will be dropped. 
Williams welcomed back by
Dolphins, will practice Monday 
DAVIE, Ha. -Ricky Williams stood at a window in the Miami Dolphins' player lounge and watched the start of praetir,e as he chomped on an apple, so close to an NFL return he could taste it. 
Coach Cam Cameron decided Thursday to welcome Williams back, and he'Ll be on the field ~iarting with Monday's workout. His first game in nearly two years could come a week later, Nov. 26 at Pittsburgh. 
"He'll be a member of this team," C'.ameron said. "He's a Miami Dolphin." 
Again. 

Williams has tested positive for marijuana at least four times since the Dolphins acquired him in 2002. Miami's franchise­record playoff drought began that same year. 
But it's difficult to imagine how Williams could sabotage a team that's 0-9, and so the long, strange trip continues. Cameron said his players favored Williams' return from the suspension, and the 2002 NFL rushing champion embraced yet another fresh start 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 16, 2007 
NFL 

ND grad Grant finds home with Green Bay 
Tailback reminds his teannnates offornzer Packer Dorsey Levens 
Associated J>ress 
GHJ·:J<:N BAY-Bn·tt Favrn can't 
lwlp doing a double-take wlwn he 
looks at GrnPn Bay Packnrs run­
ning bark Hyan (;rcmt. 

Trun. Grant is a lilrmPr undrall­Pd fn~e agnnt who was sent to (;rnpn Bay by tlw New York GianLs just bdiwn tlw start of thn season -and thn Packers' lilurth choke to be their starting running back. 
But Favrn still sees liwmer team­mate Dorsey Lewns. It starls with tlw liut that Grant wears Levens' old jersey number, 

25. but there's more to it: the 6­lilOt-1 frame. the powerful running styli~. and even thf1 Notre Dame 1:onne1:tion. 
"The numbnr obviously is strik­ing from that standpoint," Favre said. "But he is a big, physical back, deceptivf1ly fast. lie kind of sneaks up on you. I think his role in our passing game can evolve into what Dorsey's role with us W1L'>. But he does rmnind me a lot of him." 
Packers coach Mike McCarthy sees it, too. 
"As far as their frame, tlwir his­tory. their background, as far as whnro he played eolll~ge, there arn a lot of' similarities," McCarthy said. "Brntt said it tl1e first week he W<L'> horn." 
Grant certainly appreeiates the comparisons to Levens, a key play­nr on thn Packers' playoll' teams of the late 1990s. 
llny, it beats being overlooked and injurnd for two years in New York. 
But at the same time, Grant doesn't think a pair of 1 00-yard rushing games should be enough to anoint him as the nnxt, wnll, anyone. 
"I know what Dorsey did here," Grant said. "He wa.s a great back, and what he accomplished was very big. So I definitely appreciate it. llon1~stly, I don't know if I'm dnsnrving of it." 
Deserving or not, Grant is the dosnst thing the Packers have to a rnliabln running baek right now. And as the weather takes a turn liw the worse at Lambeau Field, a revival of one of the lnague's worst running games would help the Packers position themselves for the playoffs. 
(irant says the running game is eoming around, even if he isn't willing to take the credit. 
"Brett's been playing great all season, and we fee~ like we're in the position to kind of build momentum to kind of take a little prnssure off him," Grant said. 
The Packers have been trying to lind a running back to help Favre out all season, without much suc­eess. 
Alter Ahman Green sibrned with llouston as a free agnnt, projected starter Vernand Mornncy hurt his knee in the first practice of train­ing camp and has been limited mostly to third-down duty this year. 
Second-round rookie Brandon Jackson started the first three games and sputtered, then hurt his shin. Seventh-round rookie DeShawn Wynn started the next four games and showed some abil­ity, but hurt his shoulder in the Packers' Oct. 29 game at Denver. 


Grant, who had carried the ball six times all season, replaced Wynn, carrying the ball 22 times for 104 yards against the Broncos' subpar run defense. Grant got his shot at starting in the Packers' next game at Kansas City, but gained only 55 yards on 29 carries. 
Then came Sunday's game against Minnesota, where Grant gained 119 yards on 25 carries and scored his first career touch­down against one of the league's best run defenses. 
"It's only really been three games," Grant said. "I don't look at it as success." 
But it's more than the Packers could have hoped for after sending a late-round 2008 draft pick to New York for Grant on Sept. 1. 
As an undralted free agent out of Notre Dame -Levens played at Notre Dame, too, before transfer­ring to Georgia Tech -Grant sigm~d with the Giants in 2005 and spent his first year on the practice squad. Grant then hurt his lumd in the ollseason and spent 2006 on injured resPrve. He calls his time in New York a learning experi­ence. 
"Especially being behind Tiki BarbPr, I learned a lot being with him every day on and off the field," Grant said. "It let me know that I was hungry, and I still loved the game." 


MLS 
Newco111er to league, D.C.'s Emilio captures MVP avvard 
by finding the net 20 times, win the award, following mid­
Associated Press 
the most in an MLS season fielder Christian Gomez last 
So much for the "Beckham since Carlos Ruiz scored 24 year. Emilio's superb season rule." The MVP of Major goals and Taylor Twellman has raised his profile on the League Soccer is a newcomer had 23 in 2002. Emilio international scene, but he who arrived without the fan­became the first player to win said he expects to return to fare. the goal-scoring title without United next season. 
D.C. United forward Luciano the benefit of a penalty kick. "I think so. I have a three­Emilio was honored Thursday Emilio helped lead United to year eontraet," Emilio said. as the league's top player, the league's best record in the "We speak next week about capping a season in which he regular season, but his pur­next season, but I don't have became the first 20-goal scor­suit of' the championship was a problem. I like Washington, er in live years in MIS hindered by a sprained ankle D.C. The tnam is a big team in 
"This is the best moment in that limited him in both the United States, and I think my career," Emilio said. games of' the club's first­I stay here." 
The 28-year-old Brazilian round playoff series loss to Emilio's biggest improve­finished ahead of Juan Pablo Chicago. ment over tho season wasn't Angel of the New York Red Emilio's route to MLS began on the field. When he signed Bulls and Cuauhtemoc Blanco in his nativf1 Brazil and went in January. he ~~onducted all of the Chicago Fire in voting through Mexico and of his interviews in Spanish by coaches, general man­Honduras. lie was playing for with a translator. On agers, players and media. Honduran club CD Olimpia Thursday, all of' his answers 
All three finalists were for­when discovered in 2004 by were in English. eign players new to the United technical director Dave "I learned a lot. I know my league, but Emilio was the Kasper. Kasper, now United's English is no very good, but I only one not signed under the general manager, pursued try to speak in the locknr new designated player rule -Emilio every year until tho room, with teammates," hn known as the "Bnekham rule" Brazilian felt ready to move to said with a smile. "I watch a after English superstar David the Unitnd States, in part lot l!.f TV. (ietting better every Beekham -that allows teams because he wanted the best day. to ignore the salary cap to lifestyle possible for his new­Emilio was the only finalist pursue up to two high-profile born daughter. to play the en tire season with players. "It's del'initely very rP.ward­his club. Angel, a Colombian 
"For me, it's vnry, very ing when you put the work striker, arrived from Aston important," Emilio said. "I am in," Kasper said. "First you Villa of tho English Premier surprised because have to got the player to League and l'inished with 19 Cuauhtemoc Blanco and Juan agree to and sign the eon­goals. llis debut with the HNI Pablo Angel are very good tract, but to fit in the way Bulls was delayed because of international players, and I Luciano has, both on and off' visa problems. am so happy." the field, and to be a pleasure Blaneo, a Mexican midlielder, 
When Emilio signed in to be around. and to have this didn't join the Fire until .July January after a three-year much success and impact, is a because of national team obliga­courtship by United, he imme­terrific accomplishment and tions. Chicago was 4-8-4 when diately stated his two top something we're very proud he arrived, but he led the team aims: win a championship and of.' to a 6-2-6 finish that snared the the goal-scoring title. Emilio is the second consec­final playoff berth on the last 
lie accomplished the latter utive D.C. United player to day of the regular season. 
Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Oregon's BCS chances, QB take a beating in Tucson 
Heisman candidate Dixon injures knee in first half of defeat 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. -The curse of No. 2 claimnd anothp,r vk­tim. 
Sncond-ranked Oregon lost Ileisman Trophy candidate Dnnnis Dixon to a knee injury and nnvnr reeovnrod in a :~4­24 upset by Arizona on Thursday night. 
Oregon (8-2, 5-2 Pae-1 0) beearnn the fifth No. 2 team to lose since Oct. 6. following USC, California. South Florida and Boston College. The Ducks' defeat could open the door for third-ranked Oklahoma in The Associated Press Top 25, and for No. 3 Kansas in the Bowl Championship Series stand­ings. 
Dixon, Oregon's gifted start­ing quarterback, hurt his left knnn in the first quarter, about 7 minutes al'ter he ran 39 yards for a touchdown. Dixon erumplnd to tlw turf without being touched and took Oregon's national champi­onship hopes with him. 
"My foot got planted in the ground, and my knee went the and threw an interception. lie froze the defense with a fake Arizona 15, Dixon's left knee 5:30 to play in the first half. other way," Dixon told ESPN carried twice for 34 yards. to Stewart, burst through a buckled as he wheeled to his Trailing 31-14 early in the toward the end of the game. Arizona quarterback Willie hole in the right side and ran left on an option play. Dixon third quarter, Oregon had a 
Antoine Cason returned a Tuitama completed 21 of 39 untouched to the end zone. Ed had sprained the same knee 13-yard touchdown run by punt 56 yards for a touchdown passes for 266 yards and two Dickson ran for the 2-point Nov. 3 against Arizona State, Stewart nullified on a holding and an interception 42 yards touchdowns, and was inter­conversion to put the Ducks and wore a brace against penalty against receiver for another score as the cepted once. Mike Thomas ahead 8-0. Arizona. Garren Strong. The Ducks set­Wildcats shook up the national caught two touchdown passes Oregon drove to the Arizona With older brother Ryan Leaf tled for a 34-yard field goal by title race on a cool night in the for the Wildcats. 4 on its next possession. Dixon watching, Leaf replaced Dixon Matt Evensen. desert. Red-clad students Oregon's Jonathan Stewart fired a pass that bounced off and completed his first pass. Oregon pulled within seven poured out of the grandstand carried 28 times for 131 yards. Derrick Jones' hands, and But Cason intercepted Leaf's on Andre Crenshaw's 2-yard as the Wildcats (5-6, 4-4) Early on, Oregon appeared safety Nate Ness grabbed the third throw and returned it 42 touchdown run with 7:53 to go ambushed a ranked team in to be on cruise control with deflection and ran it out to the yards for a touchdown to put in the game. Arizona Stadium for the fourth Dixon running its potent 45. the Wildcats ahead 17-11 early Arizona answered with an straight season under coach offense, which came in averag­Four plays later, the Wildcats in the second quarter. 11-play drive that ended in Mike Stoops. ing 42.8 points per game, fifth scored on a 34-yard pass from That started an Arizona ava­Jason Bondzio's 46-yard field 
Brady Leaf, who replaced in the nation. Tuitama to Thomas, cutting lanche. goal with 3:20 to go. Dixon. completed 22 of 46 The Ducks opened the game Oregon's lead to 8-7. Tuitama hit Thomas for a Oregon is the highest-ranked passes for 163 yards and with a brisk seven-play, 70-Then came the play that 46-yard score and Cason's 56-visitor to lose at Arizona since threw two interceptions. Dixon yard scoring drive. On fourth­altered the national title race. yard punt return put the the Wildcats knocked off No. 1 finishnd 5-of-8 for 62 yards, and-3 at the Arizona 39, Dixon On second and 7 at the Wildcats ahead 31-11 with Washington on Nov. 7, 1992. 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
Cover ND and SMC Sports. 
Call Chris at 631-4543. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 16, 2007 
NFL 

Peterson gives record jersey to Hall of Fame 

Uniform from game RB rushed for 296 yards to be preserved 
A..sodated l'rcs., 
I·:I>I~N I'IL\IHII·:. Minn. ­Adrian I'PIPrson handt~d in his uniform Thursday. 
MinnPsota's rPrord-sl'lting rookin running bark hasn't quitn giVI'n up on his promising t:arnnr·. t·onsidPring a knnn injury that will kPPp him oiT the finld at lnast for this WI'Pk. I'PIPrson. ratlwr. had a prnsnnt for thn Pro Football llall of Fanw. 

lin donatnd thP purpln No. 2S jnrsny and whitP pants lw worn narliPr this month whiiP rush­ing for an NFI.-rPrord 296 yards for tlw 
Vikings in a vic­

"You ju...,·t look for the 
tory ovPr thP 

future and expect
San l>iPgo Chargnrs. bigger things to come Tlw uniform 
and envision maybe one 
has bnPn guard­

day. God:<; will. that/
nd by tlw tPam 's Pquipmnnt staff will be in the 1/all of sinn~ tlw ganw 
Fame itse(f" 
on Nov. 4. Wlwn l'ntnrson said it was nnvPr 
Adrian Peterson washnd, .loP Vikings running back 
llorrigan. a rPp­rnsmltativn from thn llall of l:anw. fnignnd dis­gust as lw lwld tlw jersey next to him. llorrigan was hnadnd bark to Canton. Ohio, whnre thn shrinn to PntPrson's <u:com­plishnwnt was sdwduh~d to be on display starting Friday. 
"Thn magnitudn of what Adrian did on that day is rnally amazing. and you think about tlw fact that lw is a young rook­in and what that must mnan for tlw futun~." llorrigan said. 
l'ntnrson has nPvPr been to Canton himsnlf. but hn plans to visit soon with his family. 
"You just look for the future and expPrt biggnr things to t·omP. and 1•nvision rnaybn one day. Cod's will. that I will lw in llw II a II 0 f I; a IIW i t s(' I f' " 
Available exclusively at 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
or order by calling 
574-631-6316 

Tlw seventh overall draft piek out of Oklahoma had 1.036 yards rushing in the lirst half of tlw sPason bPfore tnaring the latnral collateral ligament in his right kntHl last wonk against tlw (;rnnn Bay Packers. That caused PPtPrson to fall ofl' paee to bn~ak l~ric l>icknrson's rook­in n~eord of l.SOS yards in 
I1JS:{. 

lin siglwd wlu•n the talk turrwd to tlw tinw he's spPnd­ing in thn training room. 
"Like all day, literally," Pntnrson said. 
lin rPfusnd, however, to t•xpress rngrl't that the injury will keep his season statisties from soaring as high as tlwy would have if he didn't get hurt. 
"It's not going to c:hange, so no rPason to hold your head down and pout about it," 
Peterson said. 
While  the  
Vikings  (3-61  
have  not  
dedared  a  

timotable for his return. they've prom­ised him baek this season despitn their essnntial elimi­nation from playoff con­tention. There's no rush, 

though, to c:ome back too soon for tho sake of records. "Just bPing smart about it," Peterson said. 
In return for his uniform, llorrigan gave Petnrson a black hat and gray shirt bnaring the llall's insignia. BPfore answer­ing questions from tho media about this honor. Pnterson proudly sot the hat on the podi­um in front of him. It looked like a get-well-soon gift, given his ntrrent status. 
But Petnrson didn't need to bn dwernd up. lin also learned Thursday that he currently leads his position in fan voting for the Pro Bowl. lie's sixth overall bnhind Brett Favre, Peyton Manning, Tom Brady, Bandy Moss and Tony Homo. 
CHECKING 
r#at'f!mafef!Ott rHeerl 
()pen a Notre Dan1e Federal Credit Union CheekingAccount todayand ·we'll treatyou to an awesome' lailgatc Party Package, including chair, mnbrclla, cooler, scat cushion, and football. 
Plus, we'll enteryour natne in adrawing for eoffour portable, football&rrills. 
And ifthat's not enough, you'll also receive: 
• FREE Checks 
• One FREE NSF H~e 

• FREE Online Bill Pmn1ent
_, 

1!4. NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
~'te fntJinbt111ts-lnatt&~ 

;74/631-8222. 800/522-6611 W\\W,ndfctJ.<)rg 
Depo\ft h.T!;~tnSepknd'.0r 21onrf 1\.\imlibtr 2{ lilt Dli:[r:t ffi:ptmlt o(1•!Ht til/An<: qutr~/ifJQJ)!d!iT~il~<lldhfi},· Pap\vgc, {rrHheck;, a11rffl..,.fiJil( /Mtn(il(. Dirf<.l Dcprd ;•••N' ;,.,,,, 'lh~t.>iralkwJ v! mur lfll:mbl·drip wrlkin mit\Mr nlr<f'!';lll~ ?1<:1 :. ·q...,, ,;n ni•li11~ dwcki11g um~wf rJI ;\<;!•c lJomc /."{' :.:' · . gtif/Ci}Cb w~~k~· )w_.i~~.:'t,..-;:_..:::.:A:.,....C~-:.! . wddig;bl<~i,rdrm•i~~. t NCUA ' 
1 -~-.....-~..·-~ ~'.::·-.: 
' 

Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Hart, Henne get last crack at OSU 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR -Mike Hart did not guarantee a win over Ohio State, a La Jim Harbaugh a cou­ple decades ago. 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr chose not to give him a chance to open his mouth when the week of hype kicked ofT. 
The star running back with shifty moves and loose lips was not among the players Carr made available for interviews, living up to a prediction Hart heard from a reporter. 
"He better let me come next Monday. It's the last one," Hart said last week. "He might not let me because I might say some­thing stupid." 
Such as? 
Guaranteeing a win over Notre Dame or referring to Michigan State as a little broth­er, as Hart did this year? 
Proclaiming things would be "different" if the Wolverines had a rematch with Ohio State, as Hart did last season, adding its defense wasn't "as good as peo­ple thought," after losing last year'! 
Yeah, something like that. 
Hart, Chad Henne and Jake Long turned down a chance to make money in the NFL this year, returning for their senior seasons in part for another shot at the Buckeyes. 
The trio's wait is almost over. 
No.7 Ohio State (10-1, 6-1 Big Ten) will match up with No. 23 Michigan (8-3, 6-1) Saturday in Ann Arbor with the outright Big Ten title at stake. 
For Hart, Henne and Long, their legacies will be on the line, too. 
They are arguably the best running back, quarterback and offensive tackle the Wolverines have ever had, quite an accom­plishment at college football's winningest program. 
But if they go 0-4 against the Buckeyes, it will add a perma­nent blemish on what is other­wise a flawless resume on and off the field. The trio is also 0-3 in bowl games. 
Long made the biggest gamble financially when he chose to come back because he likely would've been a top-five pick. 
The offensive tackle insisted a win wouldn't validate his deci­sion. 
"That's not what this game is about," he bristled. "This game is about this team, about this championship. It's not about me. I'm not even worried about that." 
In the preseason, however, Long agreed that it was fair to say the trio's legacy would be diminished without a win against Ohio State or a bowl opponent. 
"No matter what type of sea­son we have, people are going to look at what we do against Ohio State and our bowl opponent," Long said in August. 
While the trio's mark against the Buckeyes will always be remembered, each player has also accomplished a lot of things that can't be taken away. 
Hart is Michigan's career rushing leader with 4,867 yards, ranking fifth in Big Ten history, and has run for at least 100 yards in the eight games he has been healthy enough to start this season. A high-ankle sprain has sidelined him for about 3? 
games. 
Henne holds school records with 9,274 yards passing and 84 touchdown passes. He added to his lore last month by playing with a separated shoulder at Illinois, helping the Wolverines rally for a 27-17 win. The injury kept Henne off the field for much of last week's loss at Wisconsin and out of a game three weeks ago. 
Long was the first of five play­ers The Associated Press listed earlier this year as players wor­thy of Heisman Trophy consider­ation, but with no shot to win it. The 6-foot-7, 315-pound tackle has routinely punished defen­sive linemen and linebackers to pave the way for Hart, and it's difficult to recall a sack being his fault. 
Carr is quick to rave about the trio as players and people. 
"They've been everything a coach could want in a player and as a representative of this program on and off the field," he said. "When you look at three guys, all of whom could have left early to go on to the draft, and they all came back. To me, that speaks for the fact that they love their experience here. 
"They're all going to graduate. And they're all going to be very, very successful when they leave Michigan." 
Before Hart cut off any Ohio State-related questions last week, he did provide hint about how important it is to him to finally beat the Buckeyes. 
"Everyone knows already how bad I want to win that game," 
he said.  ''I'm going  to  give  
everything I've  got in  that  
game."  

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles tip off with new and old faces 

Belles guard Alison Kessler dribbles during Saint Mary's 71­
63 win over Albion on Feb. 14. 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's may have lost it<> all-time assist leader, Bridget Lipke, but it returns four starters and welcomes six freshmen for its season opener tonight against Wheaton College in the Wheaton College Tournament. 
Coming off one of the best sea­sons in school history, the Belles return senior shooting guard Alison Kessler, who last season became the seventh player in Saint Mary's history to score more than 1,000 points. Junior Erin Newsom, the team's third leading scorer and top rebound­er last season, will be on the court to help lead the Belles. The 
team is counting on both Kessler and Newsom to help with scor­
ing.  
Jordan  Cronin,  Becky  
Newsom,  Katie  Pappa,  
Stephanie  Parshall,  Grace  

Sawowski, and Uz Wade are the newest Belles on the court. Saint Mary's freshmen -forward Jordan Cronin, forward Becky Newsom, guard Katie Pappa, forward Stephanie Parshall, guard Grace Sawowski, and guard Liz Wade -come from four different states and six dif­ferent high schools. 
The Belles are ranked fourth in the preseason MIAA coaches' poll, their highest ranking ever. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mveselO1@saintmarys.edu 
Experience an intimate discussion vvith Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on some of the most pressing issues ofour times. 
~ 9/01-Georgia Tech "\V'hy is Goethe's Faust the Greatest Work ofGerman Lirerature?" Vittorio Hosie, Paul G. Kimball Professor ofArts and Letters 
~ 9/22-Michigan State
"Words and Music, Music and Words: "Health Care Reforms: An Economist's Assessmem" William Evans, Keough-Hesburgh Professor ofEmnomic~
The Songs of Franz Schubert" 
~ 10113-Boston College "Global Ireland: From Celtic Twil.ight to Celtic Tiger" Luke Gibbons, Donald R. Keough Family Professor ofirish Studies 
~ 10/20-USC ''Combating Extremism: Democratic Virtues and Pluralism in Islam'' Asma Msaruddin, Associate Professor of Arabic and Islamic Studies
Susan Youens 
~ 11103-Navy "Cops, Protest, and Rioting" \.
J.W. Van Gorkom Professor of Music 
Daniel Myers, Director of Research and Faculty Development, Joan B. Kroc "" Institute for International Peace Studies, Professor of Sociology ""\: 
~ 11/10-Air Force "Theological Bur Not Religious: The Case of.John Milton" Stephen Fallon, Professor and Chairperson, Program of Liberal Studies 
11:00 a.m. ~ 11117-Duke 
"Words and Music, Music and Words: The Songs of Franz Schubert''Saturday, Novetnber 17, 2007 Susan Youens, J.W. Van Gorkom Professor of Music 
Annenberg Auditoriun1, 3---1/2 hours before kickoff in the Annen berg Auditorium, Snite Museum of Art (unless otherwise noced).
Snite Museum of Art 
For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.nd.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
Fall 2007 Schedule 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 16, 2007 
NBA 

Phoenix outduels Chicago 112-102 
pulled away to win its fourth in a row, over the Ch ieago Bulls on Thursday night. 
Ifill's pnr­formaneo came on thn luwls of his 21-point el'l'ort against New York two nights narlinr. 
In bntwnnn. he l'lnw with 

his wif11 Tarnia by charter to tie it at 75 on Kirk llinrich's l'light to Chicago for an 16-footer with 21 seconds to appnaranen on Oprah. go in the period. Chicago took ''I'm starting to gnt my logs. a 7(>-75 lead when Tyrus 
Barbosa's final 3-pointer, on a kickout pass from Nash on a 

"I almost sat out the fastbreak, to give 
second half because I the Suns a 93-87 lead with 6 min­
wasn 't feeling right 
utes to play.

at all." 
The Suns shot out to a 15-6 lead and were up

Shawn Marion 
by 15 in the sec­

Suns forward 
ond quarter. 
But the Bulls 
l'inished the third 
with an 11-1 run Thomas made one of two free throws to start the fourth. 

There were four lead changes and five ties before Diaw's three-point play. 
Barbosa, who scored 16 in the second quarter, hit three straight 3s in an 11-3 spurt that put the Suns ahead 56-41 with 1:09 left. But Gordon sank a 3-pointer and Deng added a layup to cut it to 56­46 at halftime. 
Hill, who shot 7-for-8 in Phoenix's victory over New York on Tuesday, had 17 in the first half against Chicago, 11 in the second quarter. 
Five consecutive points by Marion, on a 3-pointer and a driving runner, gave Phoenix a 62-48 lead before the Bulls launched their rally. 
Signed as a free agent in the offseason, Hill has quickly acclimated to the Suns' ultra­uptempo style. lie had a fast­break layup on a half-court lob pass from Barbosa, the last of his six straight points that put Phoenix ahead 36-32. 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Reeling Irish hit 
road for tri -meet 
Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame will try to bounce back this weekend in a two-day meet against Northwestern and Wisconsin. The team suffered a heart­breaking 150-148 loss to Pittsburgh in its last dual meet on Nov. 9. 
The deciding race in that meet was the 200-yard relay, when Notre Dame's lead relay team was disqualified, and the Panthers captured the top three spots, securing the vie­tory. 
But despite their struggles in the relays against the Panthers, the Irish still found individual sueccss. Senior Caroline Johnson won two events -the 1 ()()-and 200­yard backstroke -while 

rn.,k.,givittg.. to-Jo u,t: 
1· Wafe-h fhc. p21v21cie.. 2-&-crt fvvk.c,
1 · 
3· T<>k.e.. nap 1-. Wori: on ~e-hoo/ app~ 5'. ~Y"o/1 ;., f~t pve-pl 

Enroll in November
.­

and save S125!' 
We're celebrating the Thanksgiving season by offering you $125 off our comprehensive courses for the GMAr, GRE, LSAf, MCAf, DAT, OAf, or PCAT.' Just enroll between November 19th and November 30"'! 
Classes Are Filling Quickly! 
Don't miss this chance to prep for less! Calll-800-KAP-TEST or visit kaptest.com to learn more. 
1-800-KAP-TEST I kaptest.com ll API AN J TEST PREP AND 
~ADMISSIONS 

•'<H:I!•J•o •~.......-,_~...-•If' •••uc_._<JOI',.Wl-~"-""""""*_..., ....... -.,.-.....-... P'""""""' ~~"'"*"'• '"" ~-~w.· ~'(..It'"'~ 
*""'r!lllr!)llr.;.o;.:--'l'~~f-.. "lM«<"'-;.;""'"""'.o~-~~ ..... ,_,_~.... ~~~~,,".I~MM'~""',... ... ~ 
-....... ~....,..._,.;.,..,.,.....,. 

I ~GO IRISH 
freshman Sam Maxwell cap­tured the 100-and 200-yard breaststroke. 
Notre Dame {1-3) swept the top three spots in the 1,000­freestyle and three-meter dive. Junior Claire Hutchinson captured the title in the 1,000-freestyle, junior Casey Wagner grabbed second and sophomore Lexie Shue placed third in the 1,000-freestylc. 
.Junior Laura Rings took !lrst in the thnw-meter dive, while her teammates fresh­man Heidi Grossman and sophomore Natalie Stitt took second and third, respective­ly. 
This weekend's ment marks the first· time the Irish have faced tho Badgnrs. The team's record against tho Wildcats is 3-4. 


Fabrication & Design Carved and lnlayed Bordered Tapestry !looked/Prodding 
indianarugco.com 

574.233.7312

1217 N. Merrifield Mishawaka, IN 46545 
Carpet Binding Area Rug Repair Floorcloths Wearable & Other Fiber Arts 
Associated Press 
PIIOI\NIX -The 3-pointcrs are falling for Leandro Barbosa, and his new team­mate (;rant Hill looks ever-so­eornfortable playing the Suns' styln. 
Barbosa scornd 25 points, including 5-of-7 on 3s, Hill added 24 points and Phoenix 
this to do that. We're in this to try to win the game." 
Diaw's three-point play with 
7:28 to go put Phoenix ahead for good, 88-85. The Bulls scored to get within one, then Marion's inside basket on a pass from Hill triggered a 9-0 run that put Phoenix in con­trol for good. 
The decisive spurt featured 
starting to turn the corner 
thnrn, and just lind a rhythm," 
lw said. "It's a proeoss, but I 
fenl good now and just want to 
knnp looking to get lwtter." 
Shawn Marion, who. scored 
II of his 21 points in thn l'inal 
six minutes. admittnd his 
nnrvns worn shook up a bit 
af'ter bning involvnd in a ear 
ac<:ident on his way to the 
arena. 

"I almost sat out the Sl1(:ond half bncausn I wasn't feeling right at all," Marion said. "It didn't hit me until af'terward that I was in a wreck before the gaml'. My team helped me, coach and everybody kept telling me to just take deep breaths and go out there and get it done." 
Boris Diaw had seven of his 
10 down the stretch in relief 

of Amare Stoudemire, who 
drew four fouls in a 3:18 
minute span of the fourth 

quarter. 
Steve Nash had 10 points and 15 assists for the Suns, and Stoudemire added 14 points. 
"We had our ups and downs a little bit," coach Mike I>' Antoni said. "Boris had a start that was bad, but he carne on and his fourth quar­ter was great. That's what we have to have." 
Nash had seven assists in 

the fourth quarter. 
"Steve came in and kind of 
regained control of the game 
for them," Chicago coach Scott 

Skiles said, "and we didn't 
have much of an answer for 
it." 

Ben Gordon scored 24 and Luol Deng had 23 for the Bulls, who rallied from 14 down in the third quarter to take the lead in the fourth. Chicago fell to 1-6 to start the season. 
"I thought we played hard, but toward the end of the game and throughout the game we made some bad deci­sions," Gordon said. "We've just got to shore some things up." 
At least this game was an improvement, said Skiles, whose toam was blown out at home by 30 points against Toronto in their last game, at home on Saturday. 
"There were stretches for longer time periods where we played a little bit higher-quali­ty basketball, that's for sure," Skiles said, "but we're not in 
Own a Piece of ND History Commemorating the 35th Anniversary of ND Coeducation 
At www.thankingfatherted.com www.amazon.com and on campus at The Notre Dame Bookstore 
THEN 

197Z-ND undtrgnuluau womm:r NOW rt<truiti11gpt1!tt'r 

20f1J-ND Wilmm Cla.u dfld Sttuitmt (;ffi)crnJ/Jt'llt (~fficen· 
S16.95
fr6.9f 

$wfrom the sale ofeach poster will be donated f1J ND Gender Relations Center 
In Bookstores Nationwide September 4th From Andrews McMeel Publishing 
Thanking
·· 


N D alumnae and ND celebrities thank Father 1edfor the gift£!{ roeducation and discu.r.r the impact oftheir ND educations. 
Profits bemfit The Thanking Father Ted Scholarship Fund 
The Thanking Father Ted Foundation 
For more infom1atio11, go to www. ThankingFatherTed.com 
Notre Dame Wbmen ~ Connect 
Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
ND tries to shake early-season funk 
By CHRIS DOYEN and 
ELLYN MICHALAK 
Sports Writers 
Notre Dame hopes to add one more win to their 1-3 dual meet record when they host Cleveland State tonight at Holfs Aquatic Center. 
Last weekend the No. 17 Irish 
captured their first dual meet of the season over Pittsburgh, 169­
131. The Irish squad captured eight individual victories and was led by soph­omores John Lytle and MacKenzie LeBlanc. 
and sophomore Ray Toomey to place first in 200-yard freestyle relay, while their teammates jun­ior Bill Bauman, junior Jeff Wood, freshman Thomas Van Volkenburg and senior Rob Seery took third in the relay. 
The Irish also dominated the 3­meter diving board -junior Michael Bulfin, senior Sam Stoner, and senior Steven Crowe fmished in the top three spots, 
"We're looking at respectively. The 
Irish earned their

{today] as a really 
fourth straight

important measuring win over the stick." Panthers and are now 4-4 in the series against
Tim Welsh 

Pittsburgh under Irish coach the coaching of Tim Welsh. During the 
LeBlanc took first in both the 2006-2007 season, the Irish 200-yard butterfly and the 500-moved their record to 8-0 after yard freestyle, while Lytle won defeating Cleveland State in a both the 50-and 100-yard­meet where they also faced frcestylc. Lytle also combined Duquesne and Xavier. The Irish with sophomore Andrew hope to be just as successful this Ilo!Tman, freshman Joshua Nosal time around. 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Interested in IRELAND? Want to study in IRELAND? Want to work in IRELAND? 
Infonnation meeting 
GREAT HALL, O'SHAG Tuesday, 27 Nov., 2007 8:00-9:00 pm 
The Viking's have had an impressive start this season, boasting a record of 5-l. Their sole loss came from Miami (Ohio). Tuesday, the Vikings took first place in Cleveland's City College meet. The team defeated both Baldwin-Wallace and Gannon to add two wins to their record. 
Cleveland State swam in the flrst dual meet ever held in the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
"It adds a sentimental aspect to the meet," Welsh said. 
This meet will serve as an indi­cator of where the Irish stand as the Ohio State Invitational on Dec. 1-2 draws near. 
"We're looking at [today] as a really important measuring stick," Welsh said. "And we haven't won a meet at home yet. Winning at home is something we want to do before much longer." 
The meet begins tonight at 6. 
Contact Chris Doyen at cdoyen@nd.edu and Ellyn Michalak at emichala@nd.edu 
Free Pizza 

Faculty will be available to answer your questions about courses in Irish Language and Literature and Irish Studies and about the MINOR IN IRISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE and the ML'VOR TN IRISH STUDIES. 
Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza Free Pizza 
Sponsored by the Department ofIrish Language and Literature and the Keough-Naughton Institute for Irish Studies 
,...... Q .. 

THIS WEEK IN ut~~.M• ~ 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish are smiling, but for how long? 

By ELLYN MICHALAK Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's successful flnal conference weekend put a smile on senior captain Adrianna Stasiuk's face, and Stasiuk hopes she's still smil­ing after the Irish face No. 5 seed Cincinnati today in the first round of the Big East tournament. 
"[Last] weekend had to have been my favorite [Notre Dame] weekend of all my four years," she said. "We are all so pleased with how we played and of how we fought against Cincinnati and Louisville." 
The Irish faced off against the Bearcats last Saturday. Senior setter Ashley Tarutis led the offense with six kills and 51 assists, and Notre Dame's outstanding defense earned a 3-1 victory (31-33, 30-23, 30-28, 30-20) that guaranteed the Irish entry into this year's league tourna­ment. 
"Our blocking was outstand­ing, and our scrappy defense kept the ball alive [during the Cincinnati match]," Stasiuk said. 
Last Sunday, Louisville made the trip to South Bend to com­pete against the Irish in front of 1,511 fans. The Irish domi­nated the match with 11 kills and 11 digs from Stasiuk and a match-hig\1 58 assists from Tarutis. Notre Dame beat Louisville 3-1 (30-28, 30-16, 25-30, 30-28). 
"We outworked our oppo­
nents and played intelligent­ly," sophomore outside hitter Megan Fesl said. "We really executed our game plan well and just had fun playing. I think the fun and excitement of each match really helped us the most." 
The weekend brought top awards for two Irish players. Fesl received player of the week honors from the Big East and freshman middle blocker Kellie Sciacca won her third rookie of the week recognition. Together the two swept the Big East honors for the week. 
This weekend, the Irish will travel to Marquette to begin competition in the Big East tournament against the Bearcats. Irish coach Debbie Brown and her players plan on improving their offensive tactics to defeat the Bearcats for the second time this sea­son, Fesl said. 
"This week in practice, we are focusing on making our side of the net better, and also on slowing down some of Cincinnati's plays that hurt us the flrst time around," Fesl said. 
The match begins at 11 a.m. today at Marquette. If the Irish beat Cincinnati, they will compete Saturday in the Big East semifinals. 
"We just have to focus on one match at a time," Stasiuk said. "We have to look at the improvements we can make to ensure our win." 
Contact Ellyn Michalak emichala@nd.edu 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 16, 2007 
HOCKEY 

ND begins grueling S-gan1e stretch 
By DAN MURPHY 
Associate Sports Editor 
No. I 0 Notre Dame kicks ofT a very busy holiday week tonight with a home game against Western Michigan at 7:35 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
Thn Irish will play a horne­and-home series with the Broncos this weekend, and a Tuesday night game against Bowling Grnen bdorn heading to Troy, N.Y., for the Hensselanr Iloliday Tournament. When all is said and done, the t11am will have played five games in a span of only nine days. 
''I'm a little nervous about it, but wn have the best strength couch in the country so I know we are in good shape physical­ly," Irish coach .lefT Jackson said. "We'll probably take a day oiT in the next week but we have to get through these first two games. These will bl' up-tempo games." 
Notrn Damn is already coming ofT of an emotionally draining weekend in Oxford, Ohio, where the Irish split a two-game series with No. 1 Miami on the road. 
"We'rn all excited to get back on track after a tough weekend against Miami," junior goal­tnnder Jordan Pearce said. "We saw a lot of positives and they kind of exploited some of our weaknesses, too." 
Pearct\ turned away 64 of 68 shots last weekend against the most potent ollense in the coun­try, with 40 goals in their first night games. 
"There was such a great crowd and atmosphere, it's tough to not get up for a game like that," Pearce said. 
Despite its 3-5 record, Western Miehigan has the potential to fill up the net. 
.Jackson described the Broncos 


QUENTIN STENGERfThe Observer Irish right wing Erik Condra scores a goal during Notre Dame's 4-1 win over Lake Superior State Nov. 2 in the Joyce Center. 
oiTense as "high-flying" and said his team needed to improve its forechecking to slow down the fast-paced attack. The speedy Broncos are led by playmaker Patriek Gallivan. The right wing has 10 assists and a goal eight games into his junior campaign. 
"He's a very skilled player. He's got great instincts, he thinks [through] the game extremely well," Jackson said. 
Gallivan is averaging 1.38 points per game, which is good enough for third in the CCHA behind Nebraska-Omaha's Bryan Marshall (1.57) and Michigan State's Tim Kennedy 
(1.5). 

The highest Notre Dame play­er on that list is junior right wing Erik Condra, with ten points through the first 11 games for the Irish. Four of those points have come as a part of the streak Notre Dame power­play. 
Notre Dame has been deadly at times with the man advan­tage, but at other times it has failed to produce. In last Saturday's loss to Miami, the Irish had two key powerplays early in the third period that could have tied the game, but the Irish failed to convert. 

"We've been all or nothing it seems like," Jackson said. "One of the keys is not losing our emo­tion. It's not a matter of how many powerplay goals we score, it's a matter of when we score them." 
Jackson said part of that will go away as the young unit gains experience on the ice. The Irish currently play four sophomores and a junior on their No. 1 pow­erplay line and two freshmen on the second unit. 
But the young Irish should get plenty of experience over the next nine days. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
NHL 

Reigning champs knock off Kings 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The defending Stanley Cup cham­pion Anaheim Ducks finally seem to be building up some steam. 
Corey Perry had two goals and an assist, and Chris Kunitz added three assists to lead the Ducks to a 6-3 win over the Los Angeles Kings on Thursday night. 
The victory, the Ducks' sec­ond over Los Angeles in three nights, gave them their first three-game winning streak of the season. 
"There's definitely some­thing building," Perry said. "When you start a streak, guys get more confidence and things start going your way. That's what we've got to keep working on -playing our game and keep playing the same way on the road as we do at home. 
"Everybody knows their role and everybody's doing their job. When you've got 23 guys on the same page, you're going to be successful. We're just starting to bond together now and starting to play a lit­tle bit better." 
Perry scored his first goal while fighting for position in front of the Kings' net, and the second in a quite different manner, on a breakaway. 
"You've got to go into those dirty areas, which are where a lot of goals are scored," he said of his second-period goal when he redirected a pass from Kunitz into the net. 
"So if you're getting in there and getting your nose dirty, you're going to get rewarded and some are going to go in ofT you." 
Kunitz set him up for his next goal when he made a long pass between defenders and Perry skated in alone to beat Jean-Sebastien Aubin. 
Aubin and Dueks counter­part Jean-Sebastien Ciguere each made 26 saves. 
Ryan Gntzlaf broke a 2-2 tie when he jammed the puck past the sprawling Aubin at 
2:08 of the third. The Kings' goalie blocked a shot by Perry, Kunitz took a couple of whacks at the puck ncar the left post, and it trickled across the crease to Getzlaf. The goal was his seventh. 
Brad May gave the Ducks a two-goal pad when he scored on a backhand in the crease at 
8:31 of the period. Anaheim made it 5-2 on Samuel Pahlsson's goal with 9:05 to play. 
After Patrick O'Sullivan scored the Kings' third goal, with 3:19 rema111mg, Anaheim's Hob Niedermayer capped the scoring with a long. bouncing shot into an empty net with 42 seconds remaining. 
Anaheim coach Handy Carlyle obviously was pleased with the win, saying, "It's a divisional foe and our biggest rival, so it's always nice to beat them. They've played us competitively ever since I've been coaching in Anaheim, so there's no easy ones. And by no means was this easy tonight." 


,"ill;,,-;,~,i:,dK' :t::"lm Ci'\MPl-tS SHCJPPE.S Plm:a :<:; (..-ltlt Slwlc :BII(I<'Is aHd :Bclwrf.H lf•r :Bu") ,f\Hgel ]\)ails Spa Hours; 1813 SoJ.~th Bend Avenue Monday--Saturday 10am-Bpm South Bend, :.JN 46637 Sunday 12pm-5pm (574) 271-4990 Limited time offers for shtdents: 10% off with Ll Full Service.  

 
FOOTBALL HOURS &Muude witlt .¥td,! FRIDAY Join us after the pep rally for food, Restaurant: 11:00 am · Midnight drinks, and live music. Return onPub: 11:00 am -2:00 am Saturday to cheer on the Irish and SATURDAY Restaurant: 8:00am -Midnight celebrate with friends and fans! Pub: 8:00 am -2:00am 574.631.2582 www.legendsofnotredame.org  


Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles head to Albion for conference 111eet 
Competition is first contest after event on Nov. 9 was postponed 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary's is 3-1 this sea­son, but it has yet to face a conference opponent in a dual meet. 
That ehanges tonight, when the Belles open their MIAA season at Albion. 
The Britons are 0-2 this sea­son. with losses to conference powers Calvin and Hope. 
Saint Mary's dominated two opponents the last time it swam competitively. In a tri­meet in Crawfordsville, Ind., 
the Belles defeated Rose­IIulman 183-44 and Illinois Wesleyan 157-72. 
Saint Mary's won eight of the 13 events that day, includ­ing two individual victories by freshman Casey Niezer. 
The Belles defeated Illinois Institution of Technology 7 4­31 and suffered their only defeat, 63-47 to Chicago, in a tri-meet at Chicago on Nov. 2. 
Saint Mary's was supposed to face Alma last week at the Rolfs Aquatic Center, but the meet was postponed. 
The Belles will play most of their conference schedule on the road over the next two and a half months before returning home to Rolfs for their final conference match on Feb. 1 against Kalamazoo. 
Storrs 
continued from page 28 
team's 1 7 goals and one assist this season. Highly-skilled sophomore Steffen Vroom joins Mangan up front. 
"They are a big team," Clark said. "They're good, they're physical, they're good in set pieces." 
Mangan and Vroom will not only have to deal with a stingy Notre Dame defense tonight, but also poor weather condi­tions. It rained all day Thursday in Connecticut and there is a chance for high winds and snow during the game. 
"Last Sunday [against St. John's] was windy, Georgetown was windy, Providence was windy," Clark said. 
"We've played in a lot of windy games, so if it's windy, we'll certainly be practiced in that." 
If the Irish get past DePaul tonight, they will take on the 
Tawny La e VI a For Sale: -3 Bed, 2 Bath, Detached Villa -New in '05, 

Prtldential
1500 sq. feet -Huge Backyard, 
One Realty

3 Season Porch Prudential One Kim Vergon 
(574) 235-7024 
Bead•• 
Best TaUgate Spot 
JF""___»·-:-:"•'""'~""..,;~,.-:_,"oc"·'c·~*'~~""""!i 
Open at Bam to kickoff the day! 
1803 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 46637 
574-247-9293 
The Importance · ofBe1ng 
winner of the Louisville/Connecticut game Sunday at noon to decide the championship. 
"I think this team is more than capable of winning the trophy, but we have to take it one game at a time," Clark said. 
"There's two games to be won. It's very easy if you say it quickly. but the reality of it is that the first hurdle will be very difficult and I don't want to look beyond that." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
()n~ t>fthe most hilarious plays ever written 
Direaedby 
MarkAbram·Copenhaver Costumes designed by Melissa B. Bialko Scenery andLighting designed by Michaela Ouffy 
J,i.tti~.Ih.~~.tr.e. 

Thursday, November 15 at 7:30P.M. Friday, November 16 at 7:30P.M. Sunday, November 18 at 2:30P.M. & 7:30P.M. 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 16, 2007 
Paradise 
continued from page 28 
about tlw long trip, but it won't ho nnarly as bad as Australia," he said. "My ankles won't bn swnllnd up likn balloons when wn land this timn." 
Notrn Damn { 1-0) will opPn tho tournamnnt against Monmouth tonight. Tho M u hawks an~ 0-2, but both lossns wore elosn and on the road. 
Thny lost 63-60 to Colgate on Nov. 9. Monmouth was down only onn and had the hall with seven seconds left. but guard Jhamar Youngblood had a shot for the load rim out. 
Two days latf~r. the Muhawks took on Big East member Seton Hall and had tho Pirates on the 
ropes before losing X9-X1  in  
ovnrtime.  
Monmouth  uses  a  

"Princeton-style" offense, which puts the center at the free throw linn and relies on him to make crisp passes to cutters and throe-point shoot­ors. Junior Dutch Gaitley has boon playing that role this sea­son for the Muhawks. 
The offense is hard to defend and 1: an n e u t r a I i z o Notre Dame's height advantage. But Brny said thn Irish also run Princeton-style plays and dnf1HHI against them every day in practko. 
Playing the Muhawks, Broy said. will provide the Irish with experience against the offense beforo they face it later in the season. 
"Wn're going to see Cnorgetown run that stuff," he said. 
If the Irish get by Monmouth, they will play Sunday against the winner of" Baylor and Wichita State. If Notre Dame losos, it will play Saturday against the loser of the Baylor­Wiehita State matchup. 
If tho Irish can win both of' those games, they will advance to the tournament champi­onship game on Monday. The likely opponnnt in that game is Georgia Tech or Winthrop. The Eagles eliminated the Irish from last season's NCAA Tournament. 
Also participating in the tournament this weekend are Charlotte and Illinois-Chicago. The 49ers will take on the Yellow Jackets in the first round, while the Flames will take on Winthrop. 
Notre Dame will play Monday regardless of its performance in the first two games of the tournament. Depending on how many games the Irish win, they will eithM play in the championship, third-place, firth-place or seventh-place game. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Tourney 
continued from page 28 

the Big East championship game. 
Irish coach Handy Waldrum said with both tP.ams as hot as they are, the game may come down to chanee. 
"It could be deeided on things like free kicks," Waldrum said. "Corner kicks, 
free kicks, throw-ins Those dead ball 
.situations can become extremely important in tight games." 
And then there are intan­gibles. 
"The other things [are I which team is going to come with the most heart and intensity," 

Hamblers have allowed only two goals. Waldrum said that. when facing sueh a tough defense, his team needs to control the ball and take advantage of any and all scor­ing opportunities -even those that may not appear to be the most promising. 
"We need to take advantage of half ehances that present them­selves," Waldrum said. "We've got to take the opportunity to shoot the ball. Sometimes we 
"It could be decided on things like free kicks. Corner kicks, free kicks. throw-ins -those dead ball situations can become extremely important in tight 
, 

games. 
Randy Waldrum Irish coach 
want to keep moving thB ball around until we get a perfect shot, and we miss opportuni­ties." 
Hamblers freshman keep­er Colleen Dougherty has a record of 12-4-1 with seven shutouts since cracking the starting lineup. She has allowed 
1.02 goals per 
Waldrum said. "Just that c:om­petitive fire and that edge ... you have." 
The winner of tonight's match will face either Illinois or Louisville -who play here tonight at 5 -on Alumni Field Sunday at 1 p.m. 
But the Irish aren't looking past Loyola. In the past four games, the 
game and has a . 784 save per­centage in 20 appearances. 
Dougherty and the Loyola defense will face an Irish offense that averages 2.46 goals on 17.6 shots per game. Junior forward Kerri llanks leads the Irish with 13 goals and 15 assists, and forward Brittany Bock has 12 goals of her own. Hanks has scored a point in 12 eonseeutive games. 
Loyola forward Cynthia Morote-Ariza leads the Hamblers with 17 goals and 43 points, both single-season school records. Ariza, the Horizon League player of the yoar, presents a challenge for thn Irish defense. 
"She is the real deal. She's having a grnat year," Waldrum said. "She's a dover, kind of a creative typo player. She's very good on the ball. She's dearly someone we're going to have to pay dose attention to." 
Notre Dame has won two NCAA championships, one in 1995 and the othor in 2004. The Irish are 32-3-0 in NCAA Tournament games played on Alumni Field. 
Notes: 
+ 
Senior Amanda Cinalli, Hanks, Bock and Elise Wnber made the initial ballot for the Missouri Athletic Club IIermann Trophy, presented annually to the nation's top player. The National Soccer Coaches Association will select 15 semifi­nalists. 

+ 
Sophomore defender IIaley Ford was able to practice this week after suffering a ham­string injury earlier this season. Waldrum was unsure of how much, if any, playing time she could see this weekend. 


Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
WNIT 
continued from page 28 
Oklahoma and the players that n~ally steppml up to come out and have a night like tonight," Maryland coach Brnnda Frese said after Maryland's win over Dnlawarn. "It's just how we're 
playing so f"luid and looking for each other. With all tlwsn weapons that we 
have  on  the  
team  and  no  
egos,  it's  a  

tremendous thing." 
Me<;raw said Notre Damn will havn troubiP matching up with the Terrapins dnfen­sivnly. Shn also said Maryland is 
an nvnn better team than the North Carolina squad that beat Notre Damn 60-!il in the sec­ond round of last season's NCAA Tournanwnt. 
"Tiwy have among thn bPst athlotns in the country," she said. "They have just great. great talent. So it will bn inter­esting wlwn we put our ganw plan togetlwr to see how we are going to guard tlwm." 
McGraw said that playing a toam at Maryland's level will be a good gauge for how prepared the Irish arn for the season. 
"Wn get to play a team that's really talented and we will come home from that game knowing where we stand at that time," she said. 
McGraw also stressed that this is only Notre Dame's third 

"As /told the team, a win in November is not going to gel us a free ride to the Final Four. And ifwe don't do what we want, we can always come back and work on it." 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
regular season game and that, even though upsetting a top­tier team on the road would be a conlidencc boost tlw Irish, win­ning is not essential for the team's growth. 
"And so it's an opportunity for us to see where we are, McGraw said. "As I told the team, a win in 
November is not going to get us a free ride to the Final Four. And if we don't do what we want, we can always come back and work on it. 
"I just think the opportunity is tremendous. We have absolutely no pressure on us to play." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

NOVEMBER 18, 2007 
An Exceptional E\ltfltfrrr Brides. 
~ 

12 noon-5p.m. Palais Royale Ballroom, 105 W. CoHaxAve., South Bend The 3rd onnual Bella Bridal Event and Style Show ojfor< e•t!;l'thir.~; _rou needfo~vour spuial d'}v includin;piy/.r .<hou~ at l,i/0 p.m. and 3:30p.m., j(>od and bet-erctge IClstingand t!.e /{lte>t in v-eddingstyle. Tickets$5 in advance, $10 allhe door 
Purchase ticket< ot the Murris Box Office 574-285-9190 or online at www. hellahridaleveat.com 
~~~ 

Go Cavanaugh Chaos! 

Good Luck Erin! From The Dolan Family 
Work for Sports. Call Chris at 631-4543. 

Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

HENRI ARNOLD

MICHAEL MIKUSKA JUMBLE
BLACK DoG 
MIKE ARGIRION 

IT NtlT ENDiJ6--I1 
THAT THE ~C..lJL.TY ~ CATHOL.IC..­W£ NEE:I> To MAKt THE FooTI3A/...L.­
TEAM M,.i.-CATHDL..IC. 
MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 
TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
SO MIS A"'D SOMe G>U'I'S \I.Jeli!.!S 
F012: TI-IAT FI2ST YeAR, TI-IINJC:tNG-ABOUT MOI/I~ INTO 
!SIISI?.YOI'J!S TH!Sl26 WOUt..D 86 t>U"'CA"' 1-!At..t.. "'!SXT Y!SA12:••• 
A"'TISOC.IAt.. MISFrTS WHO Dlt>"''T FUI-ICTIO"' IN TH!SI2 0t..D DOii!.M$••• AND F2!SSHM6N... 
140\..t> UP! WI~ YO\.I T>lc:>UGollT A&OUT TH!l iYP!l OF P!lOPt..fl WHO I<JOI.lt..t> T2ANSF612 TO 001-JCANT 
CROSSWORD 
AcrO&s 32 famously fussy Naviga11on 
pa1r of diners 

hazard 33 Any of las Trois 9 Coolness Moosquetaires 15 Way oil 34 Acts on a gut 16 Special delivmy? 
feft1ing? 

17 Mamedman 35 Gold rush who had long storyle!ler been a bachelor 36 Hardware store 
18 Many·a m011thly o!lerin.g chock writer 37 h1 the s(yle of: 19 Missing the Suffix 
point? 
:~a Fishing ooats 21 Gar bar 
39 Island republic 22 ww. ll agcy. 
40 23 Drawer unt!s? pheMmefl()!l 25 _ Genevieve (op1ical illusion} County, Mo. 
41 Uke most 26 Take off rMm~mals 
.29 When mpeated. 42 He wrote "A first a "funny Girt" sign of the song beginning of 
30 Utterance when underslanding is pointing to a the wish to die~ woman 
43 Top of some 31 Chi4i!f scales 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+*~+-~ 
"'f+~¥--Hii 

44 Chump 45 umv. olfetings 46 Not having as 
favorable a 
ptOgt'l(lsiS 
48 Maitl. maybe 53 Qui!flt craft 55 Dangerous 
l)!acas far correspoodonl:s 56 Bunny backer? 57 Where workers gather 58 Rism-s moot !11001 59 QB who was the 
1963 N,EL M.V.P. Down 
Five-lime U.S, ptesidentia1 candidate in the 
aa.rty 190Cs 
2 One making firm docisi{)ns 
3 f'iombm, ooce 4 Some a.thle!es shoot them 
5 Like many an 
heir apparent 6 Goes under 7 11 ever 
8 Ovsrdoos ii 
9 Not out of place 10 Importunes 11 Carnival fot!Qwer 
12 "Che!" title role 
player, 1009 13 Watch no~ 14 Alternative !hat 
should be foiiOW1:!d 20 Put uooel'? 
WILLSHORTZ 


RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 
OK, SO we'Ve D!SCID6D TO 8e THIS t>lJNCAp.j 1-!At..t.. AI-ITISOCIAt.. TOOt..S ••• ANY TI101JG.HTS 01-1 OUR MASCOT? 
Ut'ISCt&rn e these lolM Jwnties, one letter to each square, to lorm IO\,Ir ordinl;lry woras. 

NECKAR 


Now arrange the circled IE!Uers to form !he surpmm answe<, as
J I I J I 
suooesiad by 11".9 il!J~We carloon. 

Answer:(III) "[I I l I J" 
(Ani.i'WGrS kltriOrrt:Wi) 

Yesten:tay's IJ\lmbles: GAUOY COCOA SQUIRM BOLERO Answer: Although the mailer was obk•ng, the content 
was-~c~RGULAfl" 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Zena Grey, 19; Beverly D'Angelo, 56; Sam Waterston, 67; Petula Clark, 75 
Happy Birthday: This is a year to expand and to put all your fabulous ideas and projects on display, A change at home will push you in a direction outside your normal circle. This is a year of growth. Your numbers are 5, 22, 24, 29, 35, 48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll find out something that will change your 
opinion or influence your future. Uncertainty regarding your position or status 
may daunt you but you don't have to worry as long as you do your job. 2 stars 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can take a step in !be right direction by doing something that enhances your health, looks or attitude. Meeting people should be high on your list to broaden your horizons and build new friendships. 5 stars 
GEMINI (May 21-Jone 20): Don't take on more than you have to. Finish what you start but prepare to take a breather and rejuvenate. Someone may become dif­ficult or a burden. Protect yourself from negative people. 3 stars 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't get all worked up over nothing. Use your energy to be productive, especially if you are working on a creative project or planning a social activity. A challenge will get you motivated. 3 stars 
LEO (July 23-Aog. 22): You can pull off whatever it is you are trying to do. Social events will lead to love or enhance a relationship you are already in. A partuership will have more to offer you than you first realized. 3 stars 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can gel to the bottom of things today, espe­cially if they have to do with older or younger family members. Rather than ftxing everything for everyone, make others do for themselves, 5 stars 
LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't take what others say to heart. Don't let your in­securities get out of hand or lead you down a path you'll regret following. Focus on family, friends and neighbors. Your creative talent will be appreciated. 2 stars 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You've got more going for you than you think, so stop being so cautious or you will miss out on a stellar opportunity. Travel, make phone calls and let your thoughts and ideas be known. 4 stars 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov, 22-Dec, 21): You may have to go the extra mile to pull 
things off today but don't say you can do the impossible or brag about your abili­
ties or you could be in an awkward position late in the day. 3 stars 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't let emotions take over, causing you to 
misjudge a situation you are involved in. Money is heading in your direction and a passionate encounter appears to be in the works. Don't look for trouble. 3 stars 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Talks are not likely to bring you any closer to 
the truth. Instead, do your own investigating. A little help to a group will bring you some favorable recognition. 3 stars 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make a move, close a deal, settle a legal problem or invest and make some extra cash. You must be quick and clever and look for unusual ways to do so. A little will go a lot further than you think. 4 
stars 

Birthday Baby: You are quick to assess and take action. You choose the path that promises the most excitement, diversity and originality. You are determined and hardworking and stand behind your beliefs. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.comfor confidential 
consultations 


THAT SCRAMBLED 'NORD •3AME by H;;nn Arnold and Mi~-~ Arginon 
> 


P~~Wt 1Pf Lynn l•~l 
24The Chi­(1970s A &B group} 
26 *Pleasant dreams· 27 Seoo·sepamting 
gitmo 28 Past !}l'!me time? 29 U.S, air-lo-a& 
missile 

32 Navigation hazard 
36 "C'mon, do me this favor" 
38 Ofdainad 
42 PosHallban Afghan presioont 
45 Kind of scholarship 
47 Mrs. T umblad in "Halrsrmry" 49 Spanish hors d'oouvre 50 Competing 51 Strip 
52 Forum inliniwe 54 Commuters; choices: Abbt 

For answfns, can 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, i-000-814-555·t · Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswofds ($39.95 a year}. Sham tips: nytimes.comipuzzletorum. Crosswords for young solvers: nylimes,comlleaming.lxwords. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, November 16, 2007 page 28 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish host Loyola in first round of NCAA Tournament tonight 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
Notn~ Danw is 12-1 in its last 13 gamns, while Loyola­Chicago is 12-:~-1 since Sept. 21. 
Sonwthing has to give tonight when the Harnblnrs face the Irish on Alumni Field at 7:30 in the first round of the NCAA Tournament. 
Notre Dame (15-4-2) and Loyola have played four times, most rneently in 2003 when the Irish heat thn Harnblers 5-0, also in tlw "first round of the NCAA Tournament. Notre Dame has outseon~d Loyola 37­0 in the four-game snries. 
The Irish have now made their 15th consneutive NCAA Tournament and have playnd first-round games at home for the past 14 seasons. 
The confflrence championship games ended in penalty kicks for both teams. Loyola (14-8-1) will make its third NCAA Tournament appearance after winning the llorizon League title with a 3-2 PK victory over Milwaukee after playing to a 2­2 draw through regulation and the two overtime periods. 
Thn Irish fell 5-3 in penalty kicks to West Virginia after a 1­1 tie through 110 minutes in 
see TOURNEY/page 26 

Prime time 

At top, Irish midfielder Courtney Rosen fends off a Villanova defender. At right, Notre Dame defender Julie Scheidler swings at a seroice ball. 
• 
PHOTOS BY IAN GAVLIC 


MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Paradise? Morevvork trip for ND 
Players to get some sun, experience at island event 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sporrs Ediror 
Notre Dame is spnnding almost a full week in the Virgin Islands, hut Irish head coach Mikn Brcy isn't worried about his team losing focus. 
"Part of keeping them loose is having a little beach time," Bnly said. "All of a sudden you shoot a little better when you've been on the beach." 
Notre Dame will compete in the Paradise Jam tournament, hosted by The University of the Virgin Islands today through Monday on the island of St. Thomas. 
With three crucial games to play, Brey said, this trip is not a vaca­tion. 
"We have to be smart about when we prepare and focus," he said. 
The Irish flew to St. Thomas Wednesday. The six-hour plane trip was the longest Notre Dame is scheduled to take this season. But that didn't both junior forward Luke Zeller, who played with a travel team in Australia over the summer. 
"Some of the guys are worried 
see PARADISE/page 26 

ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Maryland awaits in WNIT sen1i 
Squad's third Big 
McGraw says No. 3 Terrapins will challenge Irish defensively 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Associate Sports EJitor 
Notre Dame has won every game this season in a blowout. Even when Irish coach MuiTet Me<;raw has said that her team did not play well. the Irish havn won by a wide mar­gin. 
But that is likely to change today when thn Irish take on No. 3 Maryland in College Park at 7 p.m. in the second round of the Preseason Women's National Invitation Tournament. 
Mdlraw allirmed Maryland's status as one of the top tnams in the country, and she already pnldiets a doep postseason run for the Terrapins. 
"I think that this is a great opportunity Ito play a team I that everybody, including myself, thinks will be in the Final Four," McGraw said. "I think they're one of the most talentnd tnams in the eountry. They'vn got depth, they've got size, they've got speed. They've really got everything that you need to get to the Final Four." 
Maryland has been just as dominant as the Irish early in the season-if not more so. In
.. 
the second round of the Preseason NIT, the Terrapins boat Delaware 91-43 and had four players in double ligures. Forward .lade Perry posted the game's only double-double with 11 points and 15 rebounds; forward Marissa Coleman had 16 points, guard Kristi Tolliver added 16 and 
East title in reach
reserve Ashleigh Newman net­
ted 18 points in the win. 
Maryland also beat then-No. 6 Oklahoma in the State Farm Tip-Off Classic 76-66. 
"That's what makes a dan­gerous team -to be able to see the success we had against 
see WNIT/page 26 

Lapira and Co. take on DePaul today; winner faces UConn or L'ville 
By DAN MURPHY Associate Sports EJitor 
The Irish will try to move one step closer to their third Big East tournament title tonight when they take on No. 19 DePaul in the semifinals at 5:30. 
If Notre Dame wins, the Irish will play in the champi­onship game on Sunday against either Louisville or Connecticut in Storrs, Conn. 
The Blue Demons (12-6-0) were the regular season win­ners of the Hed Division in the conference and No. 10 Notre Dame finished in a tie with Connecticut for first place in the Blue Division. 
"I think it speaks for itself when you're nationally ranked at the end of the sea­son, I think you've done pretty well. They had a wonderful 

year," Clark said. 
ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer 

Irish senior guard Charel Allen drives to the lane In Notre Dame's 
DePaul's season was high­
lighted by a 2-0 win over No.
78-59 win over Western Kentucky at the Joyce Center Tuesday. 

1 Connecticut and a win against St. John's on the road. The Blue Demons also beat Cincinnati at home to claim their first-ever Big East tour­nament win last Saturday. 
The Blue Demons joined the conference in 2006 and lost to Notre Dame in the opening round of last year's Big East tournament. 
"Last year DePaul was at the bottom of the league, now they're at the top," Clark said. "We're dealing with two dif­ferent teams, you certainly don't want to look back." 
If the Irish did look back, however, they would be pleased with the results. The two teams have facnd ol'f' 18 times in their history and Notre Dame has won all but one of the meetings, outscor­ing DePaul 89-4 in the series. 

But as Clark said, this year is different. The Blue Demons allowed only 12 goals in 18 games this season, including 11 shutouts, ten from senior goalkeeper Brian Visser. 
Sophomore forward Alex Mangan has led DePaul on offense, with seven of the 
see STORRS/page 25 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2007 
COMMENTARY 
Adversity never stopped seniors 
Snvnntnen scholarship foot­

ball players arrived at Notre 
Damn in the fall of' 2004. 
Only seven arn still on the 
rostnr. 
The Class 
of 200S has 
snen attrition 
is nvery way 
ima~inable. 
Somn play­ers had bad luck --like linnbacknr Abdel Banda, who sull"nrnd a carenr-nnd­ing injury. 
Some deddnd playing varsity football wouldn't bn part of thnir Notre Dame experience after all -like John Kadous and Stanford lnterhall star Tregg Duerson. 
Some were upset about the coaching change or lack of playing time --like running back Justin Hoskins (now at Central Michigan), quartnrback David Wolke (now at Western Kentucky). defensive lineman Brandon Nicolas (now at Colorado) and wide receiver Chris Vaughn (now at Louisville). 
And one--running back Darius Walker--opted for an NFL paycheck over his senior season in South Bend. 
But even without most of the players they met at Frosh-0, the Class of 2008 has found a way to succeed. They helped thn Irish to thrne bowl gamns in their time on campus, induding two of the BCS variety. And they havn donn their best to hold thn team to~ether during this disastrous 1-IJ season. 
And now, alon~ with th1~ir walk-on brethren and the nine lirth-ynar seniors, seven recruitml scholarship seniors-­Maurin~ Crum, Justin Brown, Terrail Lambert. Leo Ferrine, Junior .Jabbie, I>arrin Bra~~ and Anthony Verna~lia--will play possibly their final ~ame at Notrn Dame Stadium. !All seven arn eligible for firth years.) 
Thosn snven havn seen class­mates lnave the team, but they stuck it out. They have endured ridicule from fans who called them "not talented enough," but they never lashed out in the media. Some of thorn have struggled to get on· the bench, but they never stoppnd work­ing. 
Through the bi~~est wins and the most crushing losses, thosn seven have remained focused on tho goal they originally sot out to rnach --to bring Notre Damn back to the elite. For two years, the Irish were back in tlw top 20, thanks in part to them. And while this season 


has fallen apart, they continue 
to try to lead the youn~er play­
ers, trying to ensure the pro­
gram's future. 
For the nine fifth-year sen­iors, the story is different. They arrived at a Notre Dame that saw a bright future ahead after Tyrone Willingham's 10-3 first season. Their classmates indude£V.ll-America receiver Jell" Samardzija and first-round quarterback Brady Quinn. 
After BCS bowls in their jun­ior and senior seasons, this group-John Carlson, Travis Thomas, John Sullivan, Trevor Laws, Tom Zbikowski, Dwight Stephenson, Joe Brockington, Ambrose Wooden and Geofl" Price -all decided to return for one more year. 
Obviously, this season has not gone as planned, but they have all played with heart and tried to lead despite the losses. They are part of the greatest Notre Dame class since the Holtz era, and their contributions will not be forgotten, even in the dark­est hour of Irish football. 
And it's important to remem­ber the rest of the senior class -the walk-ons. They joined the team not for a shot at the NFL, but for the camaraderie of their teammates and the chance to wear a gold helmet. 
Their best memories aren't scoring a touchdown or making a sack in a big game, but rather when they put on their green jersey before USC in 2005 or when they intercepted a Quinn pass in practice--or even just playing catch on the field in front of 80,000 people. 
They have majors like engi­nnnring and pm-professional, but they still lind time to learn tlw oppmwnt's playbook every week to help prepare their teammates. 
Saturday will almost certainly be their last game at Notre Dame Stadium. If they're lucky, they'll be able to get into the ~arne for a play or two. Even if they're not. they'll be excited to bn out there with their friends one last time. 
It's been a long season. But win or lose, all of the seniors will probably linger on the field for a few extra seconds, rnmembering the good times they had there. 
They've been through a lot at Notre Dame, and they've han­dled it all with graee and dass. 
And for that, they deserve a hand. 
The views in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obsen1er. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd. edu. 

-Persons without authorization arc not permitted on the field -No cans or glass bottles arc permitted in the stadium -The usc uf intoxicating substances is strictly prohibited -Throwing objects in the stands or onto the field is prohibited 
-Please~ Jo not bring stadium chairs. seat backs ur other oversi7.ed or noist·-producing items into the stadium 
-Limited usc of cameras, portable/handheld televisions and portable radios is permitted -In accordance with a St. Joseph County ordinance, there will be no smoking allowed in any part of Notre Dame Stadium -All persons arc subject to search, which includes clothing, jackets, bags and purses 
(Violators arc subject to ejection from the stadium a.nd may have future ticket privileges 
2007 Iri~h opponents 
(6-4)  Last week W, 41-24, Duke  This week vs North Carolina  
(8-3)  W, 31-0, Temple  at Michigan State  
L, 21-37, Wise.  vs Ohio State  
W, 48-31, Purdue  vs Penn State  
L, 31-48, MSU  at Indiana  
L, 20-24, ASU  vs Oregon  
L, 35-42, Md.  at Clemson  
W, 24-17, Cal  Idle  
W, 74-62, N. Tex.  vs. N. Illinois  
W, 41-24, ND L,24-41,(;a. Tech L, 17-33, WSU  vs San Diego St. at Notre Dame Idle  


' s 

Just seconds from campus. With its many choice ~eve rages, hearty food and lively conversation, Brigid's is the place to be. Plus there's live music on weekends, overstuffed leather chairs to cozy up by the flreplace and lots ofbigscreen TVs to watch all thegarnes. And we're open seven night-; a week, too. 
(WaterfDrcl Estates l.rx:lge has hotel rooms at n--asonable rates fur upt.'Omif1t\ NO football wr--ekends.) 
~--­

Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
JOHN CARLSON 
Chip off the old block 
Carlson reflects on his father's influence, a tough senior season, and a future beyond Notre Dame 


ERIC SALESffhe Observer 

Irish senior tight end John Carlson makes a fiv&-yard touchdown grab from freshman quarterback Jimmy Clausen during the 33-19 Irish loss at Purdue on Sept. 29. Carlson finished the game with five catches. 
tennis coach at Litchfield. was when he was my head 
By CHRIS HINE Through his father, Carlson coach and that was his job," 
Sports Editor developed his ability in all Carlson said. "As a father, he 
three sports and developed did his best to let me follow my 
Notre Dame tight end John into an all-state basketball and own interests and not force Carlson has played in two BCS football player and an all-con­anything on me." bowl games, was a finalist for ference tennis player. While his father provided the Mackey Award last season, "I was exposed to [sports] at Carlson with every opportunity and is a likely NFL prospect. a very young age, going to to become a better athlete, his 
But for all his athletic practice and sit-brothers pro­accomplishments, few are as ting on the vided the inspi­special to Carlson as the state bench at ration. Alex title he, his brother Alex, and games," Carlson Carlson was a
"By far, my freshman 
his father, John Sr., won said. "That kind pretty good ath­
year, my first
together in basketball during of piqued my lete in his own Carlson's freshman year at interest at a very semester was the right, making Litchfield High School in young age and it the basketball
most difficult 
Minnesota. provided me an team as an
time here." 
Carlson was the starting cen­opportunity to eighth grader ter, Alex, a senior at the time, get in the gym and the tennis was the starting point guard whenever I John Carlson team as a sev­and John Sr. was the coach of wanted, get in enth grader.
Irish tight end 
the 30-0 Litchfield Dragons, the weight room "He was defi­who captured the Minnesota whenever I nitely someone Class 2A state title in 2000. wanted." I aspired to be 
Immediately after claiming While some like and the title, the Carlson clan met fathers who are coaches by because of our body types, we at mid-court and embraced trade take an overly hands-on played different positions, but each othflr in cp,Jebration of approach and pressure their as a competitor, as a football, their rare, Disney-like accom­children to become the best at basketball, tennis player, he plishmflnt -and it was an their sport, Carlson Sr. was was definitely a role model I embracfl Carlson will never never like that with his son, aspire to be like," Carlson forget. Carlson said. said. 
"It was one of He never the greatest forced his son Becoming a star moments of my "!My father} provided to do anything Carlson was highly athletic career me with every he didn't want acclaimed in all three sports. so far and it to do, but if He even played on the basket­
opportunity
always will be," John wanted to ball team at Notre Dame in his Carlson said. athletically, that I attend a basket­freshman season before he "We have a pic­asked for ... but he ball camp in decided to concentrate on foot­lure of the three Pittsburgh or go ball. But it was three years
never forced anything 
of us hugging at to a football before Carlson became the mid-court and on me. camp. Carlson star that he is today. nven if I didn't Sr. made sure In his freshman year, Carlson have that pic­his son was redshirted, and for someone
John Carlson 
turn, l"d always there. who grew up constantly play­
Irish tight end
haVP that image "When I was ing sports, a year without get­in my mind. It younger, he did ting playing time in any sport was really special." everything wanted to do," was tough to take. 
But even when things Carlson said. "He provided me "By far, my freshman year, weren't going so well for with every opportunity athleti­my first semester, was the Carlson. his family was there cally, that I asked for ... but he most difficult time here," and continues to be there for never forced anything on me. Carlson said. "You're away him. It was always everything I from home for the first time. 
wanted to do and he just facili­It's going from the high school The path to Notre Dame tated that." to the college game. J came in 
Aside from his duties as a But when Carlson Sr. was undersized. I was 225 pounds, highly successful basketball coaching Carlson in a sport, way undersized, and it's prac­coach, Carlson Sr. was also the things were a little bit differ­ticing everyday and not getting was tough." teammates have responded to 
Through that difficult first this year's adversity. year, Carlson's family was "This team as a whole, going there to offer advice and help through everything we've gone him persevere. through this year, we've never 
"They just pushed me to given up," Carlson said. "We 
keep  working  continue  to  
hard and do my  work hard and  
best," Carlson  we  haven't  
said. "That's kind of been a common theme,  "This team as a whole, through  turned on each other. We showed a lot of  
do your best. If you've done everything you can do, you  everything we've gone through this year, we've never given up.  pride, a lot of character and a lot of resolve. It makes me proud  
can't  worry  to be  a  part of  
about the results." Carlson first  John Carlson Irish tight end  this team, a part of this University."  
saw the field his  With  his  
sophomore sea- career at Notre  
son  on  special  Dame winding  

teams and as a back-up tight down, Carlson said he hasn't end. During his junior season, had time to look back and he backed up current Dallas evaluate what his years at Cowboys tight end Anthony Notre Dame have taught him. Fasano. Carlson caught his But he said friend and fellow first touchdown that season in fifth-year senior, center John a 49-28 Notre Dame win at Sullivan, could tell you how Purdue on Oct. 1, 2005. he's changed as a person. 
Last season, Carlson broke Sullivan said Carlson has out and garnered national grown up just like the rest of attention for his athleticism the upperclassmen on the and versatility at tight end. In team. but it hasn't changed the Notre Dame's home-opening kind of person he is. 41-17 win over Penn State on "Well, you know he came in Sept. 9, 2006, Carlson had six and he's a small town guy and catches for 98 yards. Over the he's been exposed to a little course of the season, Carlson bigger area.... But I think he's helped ease the pressure on matured just like the rest of us receivers Rhema McKnight have," Sullivan said. "He's def­and Jeff Samardzija by becom­initely more vocal than when ing a reliable target for the he first came in. I don't know Irish in the middle of the field. what that's due to, but he's 
An injury sidelined Carlson definitely more vocal. He's just for Notre Dame's final two reg­matured a lot as a football ular season contests, but player and a person. I don't Carlson came back for Notre know what else to say about Dame's 41-14 loss in the Sugar him, he's just a great guy." Bowl to LSU. Headed into the final home 
He then decided to use his game of his career, Carlson is final year of eligibility, return­focused on beating Duke, but ing to the Irish and putting off once the game is over, it will plans to enter the NFL Draft. be hard to hold back how he This season hasn't gone the feels. way Carlson or any Irish fan "I know when that clock hoped it would. But being a winds down, it'll really be an captain of a 1-9 team still car­emotional time for me," ries tremendous responsibility Carlson said. -keeping the team from ruin­ing itself from within -and Contact Chris Hine at Carlson is proud of the way his chine@nd.edu 

ALLISON AMBROSEffhe Observer 

offensive coordinator for the ent. to play in the games, adjusting Irish tight end John Carlson secures the ball before taking a hit from football team and is still the "The only time he pushed me to academic and college life. It Michigan safety Jamar Adams during Notre Dane's 380 loss on Sept. 15. 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2007 
MAURICE CRUM 
LB's legacy intact whether he stays or goes 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Ediror 
Wlwl.lwr lw dPddes to end his carPPr at NotJ·p Damn al'tnr this sPason or rwxt se<Lr.;on. linobacknr Maurice Crurn has alrnady IP!l a lngacy at NotrP l>anw that will bn hard to rPplacP. 
(:rum IPd ti!P tt~am in tackles last. snwmn with 100 and hm; succnnd­Pd both undPr Hick Mintnr's 4-3 dl'f'pnsive schPmn and Corwin Brown :{-4 JWrsonnPI srlwnw. 
AsidP li·om his contributions on thP liPid, Crum W<L<; voi.Pd captain by his I.Pammatns prior to this sea­son and IHL<; hdpPd hold his tmun togPI.Iwr during a I-1J sn<L<;Oll that would SPP otlwr programs implodn. 
Crum's fathPr, Maurin~ Sr., who was an ;\II-Anwri<'a linl'lmcknr at tlw Miami. told Tlw ObsPrVPr in Octolwr that his son plannnd to apply ((w a filth yPar of t~ligihility­but Cnrm himsl'lf has yot to say whntlwr lw wilt SPPk a firth yoar. 
As J(w this smLr.;on. Irish titns own a debt of gratitudt~ to Crum for Notn~ l>anw's only win this smLr.;on, a 20-h victory owr UCI A on Oct. 6. 
Crurn had a night to rmnmnbnr against tlw Bruins -lw rm~ordod stwtm tacklns, orw sack, roeovnrnd two fumbiPs. grabbnd two intnr­t:Pptions and scornd a touchdown in Notn• lhtmP's first win of tlw SPlL<;on. 
"It was a dream," Crum said. "IThat gmrwl W<Lr.; liko what pnople drnam about, snoing and making plays. It's somnthing that will be in 
my !wart filrevnr." But it took a muple of years lc1r that drnam to bncome reality. 
Crum was an all-state line­backnr at Tampa Bay TP.ch High School in Florida. Even though ((lOtball is in his blood, Crum said it still n~quired eonsistm1t hard work -oven at a young age -to become a star athlet1~. 
"It's bonn a stnady promss since I was born basi­cally," Crum said. 
Crum's father, however, gave him the advice he needed to get through that tough first ynar. 
"For the most part I kept in eon­tact with my dad and he kept telling me, 'Don't worry. Your time will eome. And make the most of it when you get it,"' Crum said. 
Crum said his passion for foot­ball has only grown in four ynars. 
"One thing l'vH lnarned about 
mysnlf is that I'm 
more emotional 


"You know, being "The fans. the than I thought I a young kid and was and I realized
students, us as a 
learning to bt~ that I really, rmlly 
team, the coaching 
compntitive, and love football with as I got older I stajJ'-nobody all my heart," startml learning quits regardless (~{ Crurn said. "That's todmique and so the mason I'm so
what's happening." 
it's ba.r.;il'ally bnl'n mnotional:" 
a st.-ady pr01~ess." After two Wlwn lw Maurice Crum straight seasons arriVPd at Notro capped by BCS
Irish linebacker 
Damn, Crum ((nmd out that hn had to knPp dnveloping if he was going to st~n the linld. lle was n~d­shirted rn~shman ynar, and that. ho said, was hardor to tako than a 1-lJ n~cord tllis soason. 
"This Sfntson is hard, but it's always harder when you don't play," Crum said. "At least this year, you're out there and you havo a chance to try but wlwn you'n• on the sidelines and you're not playing -it's hard. I mflan, you come from high sc:hool being tho guy and you always feeling like you have a chance to make a play, but again it's hard. I think that's the toughflst part though is just watching." 
Bowl appear­

ances, Crum lmtrrwd a valuable lesson this sna­son about his teammatns and the Univnrsity that he'JJ take with him next year -whether or not he rnturns to Notre Dame. 
"I think the one positive that I've seen through this season that Notrn Dame is really a family," Crum said. "The fans, the stu­denlr.;, us as a team, the coaching stall'-nobody quilr.; regardless of what's happening, whether we're winning or losing. Everyone here has each other's back. We're a family." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
JUSTIN BROWN 
Faith keeps Brown positive during struggles 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Editor  that any negative can be turned into a positive has kept a smile on his face.  me going is my own will and my faith in God. I just try to make every day better."  time of his career that year in the season opener against Pittsburgh. He played in all  is a Film, Television and Theatre major and wants to go into TV advertising. But  
"God will not put anything  Brown played only one year  12  games  that  season,  he has the option of a  fifth  
"What  doesn't  kill  you  on  you  more  than you  can  of  organized  football  at  including making one start.  year at Notre Dame.  
makes you stronger."  bear," he said.  Bishop  MeN a mara  High  The next season, Brown got  "That's an  option we'll dis­ 
That motto is what's gotten  And while Brown's faith has  School in Forestville, Md. But  his  first  cuss  after  
.Justin  Brown through thick  been  tested  during Notre  after he made 65 tackles, had  career  sack  the  sea- 
and thin. The 6-foot-3, 261-pound defHnsive lineman has been  Dame's 1-9 season, he said he is a better man for having gone through it.  nine sacks and recovered three fumbles his senior year, recruiters came calling - against Navy -and then got another  "Going through adversity builds  son, he said. Justin  
through ups and downs in his career at Notre Dame. But his faith in God and bnlief  "You have to take it as a lP.arning experience," he said. "The thing that keeps  including some from Tyrone Willingham's staff at Notre Dame. Brown committed to Notre  one against Air Force. But after 2006, Irish  character. The past is the past. You can't change it."  Brown said he would like to pur­sun a  
Damn  ovnr  Boston College  defensive  career  in  
and Connecticut.  coordinator  Justin Brown  football  
"It was a good blend of aea­demics and a chance to win a  Hick Minter was fired and  Irish defensive lineman  aftHr Notre Dame, but  
national championship," he  Brown had to  if  that  
said. "I liked the coaching  get  to  know  doesn't  
staff when I got recruited."  his third defensivfl coordina­ work out, he has  a  portfolio  
But  that  coaching  staff  tor in four ynars  - Corwin  of films from  his major to  
wouldn't be around for long.  Brown.  show to  potential employers.  
Al'ter 2004's 6-5 regular sea­ The  new  coordinator  lie has  even  made  a  silent  
son  in  which Brown didn't  brought a  3-4 defensive per­ film.  
play and spP.nt most of his  sonnnl package that changed  "It  was  about a  girl and  a  
time "kind of  Justin  guy," he said. "The guy  was  
in  awe  of  Brown's roll  cheating on  the girl and she  
everything around me,"  "The thing that keeps me  dramatical­ly. Although  found thn phone number in his pocket. She got prntty  
Willingham was fired. "When he got fired, it  going is my own will and my faith in God. Ijust try to make every day better. "  he remained a defensive end, the senior has  mad. "It's nasy to show anger, so it wasn't that. bad." But while it's easy for  
was  a  sur­ focus  more  .Justin  Brown to show anger  
prise  more  Justin Brown  on  keeping  on  film,  his positivn outlook  
than t h i  n  any­g , "  Irish defensive lineman  offensive linemen of'!'  has allowed him to keep from getting too angry over real  
Brown said.  linP.backers  life  - nven  a  football  season  
Charlie  than on eon­ as bad a this one.  
Weis  replaced Willingham  taining the outside Pdge.  "Going through adversity  
and sud..denly,  Brown said,  But he said the adjustment  builds charactnr," he said.  
"everything was different."  hasn't been too stressful.  "The past is tlw  past. You  
"It was  like being  a  fresh­ "After having to  adjust so  can't change it."  
JENNIFER KANG!The Observer  man  again for another year."  many times, it  was  a  prP-tty  
Irish defensive end Justin Brown ta ckles Nittany Uons wide receiver  he said.  easy adjustment," he said.  Contact Chris Khorey at  
Deon Butler during Notre Dame's 3 1-10 loss on Sept. 8.  Brown saw the first playing  Off the field, Justin Brown  ckhorey@nd.edu  

Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
TOM ZBIKOWSKI 
The will to win 
Whether on thefootball field or in the boxing ring, Zbikowski makes sure to givefull effort 

impressive as his performance be fighting through all the off the field -as a professional tough times and do whatever it boxer. Zbikowski, who had takes to get on the winning fought for years and was a sign," Zbikowski said. Golden Gloves boxer, squared The only thing that tempers off against Robert Bell, a self­the losses is having the support proclaimed Ohio State fan, in of his teammates. Madison Square Garden. Porty­"It's obviously not fun losing, nine seconds after the opening but there is a great group of bell chimed, guys in there Zbikowski then that makes it 
chimed Bell, "My legacy? A better," sending the port­Zbikowski said.
playmaker, that no
ly boxer to the "It helps to have mat as a victim matter what the guys like that." of a technical circumstances were. Zbikowski k n o c k o u t . was famously
was always playing
Zbikowski's box­roommates with ing career may hard and giving it former All­seem like an out­roo percent." American wide let for his stress, receiver Jeff but it's anything Samardzija. As
Tom Zbikowski
but that. one of the nine 
"I've been Irish safety holdovPrs in the [boxing! for so fifth-year class, long, it's just Zbikowski has part of my life. It's not going had to beeomP close to the out there and hitting a bag and youngPr players, something just having fun," Zbikowski that hasn't been dif'ficult. said. "There's nothing like "It is like a second generation stepping in a ring and knowing of' friends," Zbikowski said. you're about to get in a fight." From his humbling begin­
The attributes of a boxer -nings as a non-playing fresh­stamina, courage and strength man to beeoming a team cap­-served Zbikowski well on the tain and All-American candi­football lield as he entered his date, Zbikowski's eareer has senior year as a preseason traveled full-circle. Irish fans third-team All-American on a may remember him for differ­team picked as a national ent reasons -watching him championship contender. While streak up the field on the way KATE FENLON!The Observer the season didn't end the way to another punt return, laying Irish senior strong safety Tom Zbikowski tackles USC running back Staton Johnson during the 38-0 he hoped, Zbikowski came up a bone-crushing hit in the sec­Notre Dame loss on Oct. 20 at Notre Dame Stadium. Zbikowski finished the day with 10 tackles. with a solid year, finishing ondary or patrolling the side­third on the team with 79 tack­lines as an oddly-haired "When you're not playing, ply being a role player that the les and returning a punt for a enforcer -but one recurrent
By CHRIS HINE AND even though you have a role on coaches simply plugged into touchdown. theme is his role as one of theCHRIS MCGRADY the team, whether it's scout the defensive starting lineup. But his weight was somewhat most exciting and electric play­
Sports Writers 
team or anything else, you just He hoped to stand out on the higher than it should have been ers in recent Notre Dame histo­don't feel like you are really field -and that is just what he -because of boxing -and he ry. And how does he wants his 
Irish safety Tom Zbikowski part of the team," Zbikowski did. was looking for a return to legacy to be remembered? has had many memorable said. "It's because After a few form in 2007. "My legacy?" Zbikowski said. moments in his career: sport­you can't help out solid games, Zbikowski's decision to come "A playmaker, that no matter ing the "Mohawk" in 2006, at all. That was including a five­back for his fifth year has obvi­what the circumstances were,
"I would do anything
scoring on a punt return during the hardest tackle perform­ously not gone as he planned, was always playing hard and Notre Dame's 34-31 loss to USC thing." to get on the field ance against with the Irish sporting a 1-9 giving it 100 percent." in 2005 and the Michigan State Zbikowski even any way I could." BYU in his first record going into his final "grab-and-go" fumble recovery thought about collegiate start, home game. Despite the Contact Chris Hine at in 2004 when Zbikowski pried transferring dur­Zbikowski had record, Zbikowski is here to chine@nd.edu and
Tom Zbikowski
the ball from the hands of ing the summer the first of win, make no mistake about it. Chris McGrady at Spartans running back Jason but ultimately Irish safety many game­"I hate losing. I'm still going cmcgradl@nd.edu Teague and returned it for a ended up back at changing per-touchdown. the program. formances on 
When one thinks of Though his Sept. 18, 2004. Zbikowski's legacy, these are hopes were momentarily Zbikowski broke onto the the rceolleetions that will come grounded by not playing, he national stage with the force of to mind. !lis career had both never lost his drive to succeed. a sledgehammer, creating a highs and lows, but one thing "I was motivated. I would fumble and returning it 75 that nnver changnd was his will work out by myself or with yards for a touchdown. He to win. other players who were red­added a team-high nine tackles 
Zbikowski was a star prep shirted," Zbikowski said. "I and intercepted a pass. Just as player at Buffalo Grove lligh would do anything to get on the he did after ripping the ball School in the field any from Teague, Zbikowski took suburbs of way I his opportunity and ran with it, Chicago as a could." never pausing to look back. 
"When you go back to take
quartPrbaek and After a In 2005, Zbikowski lived up safety. llo was a punt, you're tired from year of to high expectations. He namnd thn the defensive series. You h a r d returned two interceptions and (;atoradP player w o r k , two punts for touchdowns and
have 2 I guys in front of
of thP year for things was fourth on the team in taek­Illinois and was you, and ifyou muffit or quickly les. His biggest punt return was a USA Today drop it, there's 8o,ooo began to a 60-yard zig-zagging touch­high srhool All­look up down strike to go up 21-14
people watching you. They
Am ori <~an . II n for the against then-No. I USC. 
PntorPd NotrP all have their eyes on you. hard-hit­When asked to describe the Damn as a high­But once you catch it, your ting safety adrenaline rush he gets from ly rPgarded with a returning punts, Zbikowski is
mindjust goes blank. You
rneruit, rnady to nose for almost at a loss for words. brnak out as a just react. " big plays. "When you go back to take a contributor. During punt, you're tired from the That's wlwn his sopho­dnfensive series. You havn 21
Tom Zbikowski 
things ground to more sea­guys in ~ontofyou. and ifyou
Irish safety 
a halt. son, hn muff it or drop it, there's 
Zbikowski sat f o u n d 80,000 people watching you. out his freshman himself on They all have their eyes on sPason. As his first collegiate the field for the first timn and you," Zbikowski said, "But once yPar worn on. hn found himsnlf startnd all 12 games. Not onn you r.atrh it, your mind just struggling with his roln on the to scttln for mediocrity, goes blank. You just rnaet." Irish safety Tom Zbikowski returns a punt during Notre Dame's 27­tParn. Zbikowski was unsatisfied sim-llis play on the finld was as 14 loss to Boston College on Oct. 14. 

page 6 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2007 
TERRAIL lAMBERT 
Lambert still remembers 2006 highlight 
By KEN FOWLER 
.~pnns Writer 
TPrTail l.amlll'rt was improv­ing. but tiH•n Mirhigan supPr­star rP<'PiVI'r Mario Manningham ramP to NotrP l>anH• Stadium and showed up tlw 1•nlirP Irish dPI'PnsP. 
It was thP third gamP of l.amlwrt's junior sPason, 200(), and it was a humbling ~~xpnri­lmcn. 
A WPPk latPr, l.ambPrt becanw a star. 
N o t r n I> am o n n to r1~ d tlw fourth quartPr trailing Michigan Stall' by 16 points in East l.ansing. Mich. A soason of hopn appnarPd ready to turn into a Simson of falsi~ nxpnctations. 
ThPn t.lw Irish defensn had its say. Notrl' l>anw found itsnlf down by four with less than thrnn minutPs loft wlwn Lambnrt intnreepted Drew Stan ton's pass and seampl'rl'd 27 yards for a touchdown and a thmn-point lead. 
Two minutes latM, Lambert snaled tho deal with an al:robat­ic intPrcPption on a tippPd dPs­pPration pass on the right sidn­linP. 
"It n~ally didn't sink in unlil maybe a coupiP of days af'tor." l.ambnrt said. "It's a really nuphorir nxpPriPnee. 
"I just rPmnmlwr running with thn ball in my hands. It just likn magically appearl'd in my hands." Lamlwrt added with a laugh. "And I'm running down the sidelirws. I can't hear the crowd. I 1:an 't lwar anything, but I could havP lward a pin drop. It's rrazy. I had my lwart pumping on my way to the l'nd zonP." 
Sincl' the final two gami'S or last SPason, hownwr. it's bnPn a 

tough ridn. 
T h (' 
nleven lossns in 12 games is wnigh­ing on tlw team, ineluding Lambert. 
So what dons thn snnior ­who has a fifth ynar of eligibility 
Still, many of the starters on tho 2004 squad were critical in LambPrt's development. "Orw I bondl'd with most quick­ly was probably Freddie Parrish.... lin took me under his wing, showed me the ins 
"I just remember running with the ball in my hands. It just like magically appeared in my hands. And I'm running down the sidelines. I can't hear the crowd, I can't hear anything, but I could have heard a pin drop." 
Terrail Lambert Irish cornerback 
n~maining-want from what eould be his final gamn in Notre Damn Stadium? 
"First and formnost, ending thn season on a good notn," Lambert said. "Individually and eolleetivnly, wn want to leavn with a good tastn in our mouths." 
Collnetively, the Irish pass dd'nnsn has improvnd in 2007. Notrn Damn is No. 5 nationally in pass defense when measured in yards per game. In tnrms of pass el'lieiency dnfense, the Irish an~ 46th in thn eountry. 
Even if not great, that's a far cry from the porous Irish sne­ondary of' Lambert's freshman sl'ason. 
and outs," Lambnrt said. 
Parrish, who transferred to Stephen F. Austin, played in 21 games with the Irish 
and  had  24  
tackles.  
Another  one  

of Lambert's role modnls was Dwight Ellick, a senior in Lambert's freshman sea­son. 

Now, Lambl'rt is working with a corps of younger defensive baeks. Sophomore Darrin Walls is starting opposite Lambert, and freshman Gary Gray and sophomores Haeshon McNnil and Munir Prince are working their way into thn playing rota­tion. 
So Lambert spends a lot of time teaching, if not always explicitly. Still. that doesn't mean he can't have some fun. 
"Pretty much just enjoying the ride," Lambert said of his final games of the season, "trying to take everything as it comes." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
DWIGHT STEPHENSON, JR. 
Stephenson returns to seize 'opportunity' 
By GREG ARBOGAST  School of Business in hand, but he had some unfinished  It also didn't hurt that Stephenson would be counted  appreciated his opportunity this season to make a signifi­ formance. Stephenson delivered his  
Sports Writer  business on the football field.  on  to  play  a  much  more  cant contribution.  own  dance  routine before  
"Any time you get an oppor­ prominent role in his fifth  "It's been  a  real football  pairing up with Kuntz while  
Taking a  firth year wasn't a  tunity to play at Notre Dame,  and final season for the Irish.  experience," Stephenson said.  Laws freestyled  to the song  
dil'ficult deeision for Dwight  you take it," Stephenson said.  During his first four years,  "Running out  "Jump  on  
Stllphnnson, Jr.  "I saw the fifth year as a way  the Florida native made more  of the tunnel  It."  
Arter four years at Notre  to  finish  my  Notre  Dame  position changes than starts,  to  play  a  "We knew  
Dame, degrnn  Stephenson had a from the Mendoza  career, it."  so  I didn't hesitate at  rotating from linebacker to defensive end to defensive tackle.  game is dif­ferent than running out  "Running out ofthe tunnel to play a game is different  we had to do some­thing to go  
When new defensive coordi­nator Corwin Brown and his 3-4 defense arrived at Notre Dame, howevnr, Stephenson  of the tunnel to cheer on your team­mates. To  than running out ofthe tunnel to cheer on your teammates. "  down in history," Stephenson said. "We  
was switched back to defen­ play has mul­ didn't know  
sivn end and had a chance to compete for the starting job. "I didn't have a set role  tiplied my football expe­rience, my  Dwight Stephenson, Jr. Irish defensive lineman  if it would be hit or miss, and  
coming back," Stephenson  Notre  Dame  we  were  a  
said. "They didn't promise  experience,  little  nerv­ 
anything, but one  thing I've  and  my  col­ ous  nobody  
learned from day  one  is that  lege experience.  It's made  would like it.  
you  keep working  no  matter  evnrything better."  "IHaghib 'Hoeket'  Ismail!  
what. If you start something,  Stephenson's best perform­ spoke before us, and wn were  
you finish it."  ance  came  against  UCLA  looking at each other like  
Stephenson has made the  whPn he recordnd thren tack­ whatever happnns, happens.  
most of his opportunity this  Ins and two tackles-for-loss as  We just wont into it, and tlwy  
season  both  part of' domi­ liked it. It was a fun time. We  
on thn  and off football  "Any time you get an  nating per­formance by  just wanted laugh."  to  makn people  
field. Stephenson has played in all 1 0 games  opportunity to play at Notre Dame, you take it. I saw the fifth year as a  the Irish defense. Stephenson's most memo­ Whnn asked what it would takn to usn his saek darH:ns in a real game, Stnplwnson said it would have to bn a memo­ 
this season, starting four. lie has l"ll co r d e d 3 3  way to finish my Notre Dame career, so I didn't hesistate to take it. "  rable perform­ance, however, may not havn come on the  rable performance. "About four sacks," hn said. "You can't do it on two because it's expnetnd, and it's  
taekles.  14  f"inld  this  sea­ ddinitely expneted  on  one  
solo. to go along with 4.5 tackles  Dwight Stephenson, Jr. Irish defensive lineman  son. During thn Boston Collnge pnp  saek, but thrne you're having defPilSP."  or four and fun as a  
for  loss and  r  a  I  y  ,  What  better  way  for  
onP  sack.  Stephenson  StPphnnson  to  finish  what  
Arter appnaring in only sevnn  paired up with fnllow  del'l~ll­ lw's started at Notre l>anw.  
PHIL HUDELSON/The ObseiVer  games and n~eording just orw  sivn lirwmnn Trnvor Laws and  
Defensive lineman Dwight Step henson, Jr. goes through drills  tackle during his first four  Pat Kuntz to plnase tlw crowd  Contact Greg Arbogast at  
at practice Sept. 19.  sPasons,  Stephenson  has  with  a  rousing dance pnr­ garbogas@nd.edu  


Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
TRAVIS THOMAS 
The long and winding road 
Thomas plays offense, defense, special teams while remaining a leader at every position 
KELLY HIGGINSfThe 

Irish senior running back Travis Thomas turns the corner for a one-yard touchdown run with the help of tight end John Carlson's block on Michigan State's SirDarean Adams during Notre Dame's Sept. 22 loss. 
"I've done the same thing for Michigan, freshman DariusBy CHRIS KHOREY my whole football career, going Walker ran for 115 yards.
Sports Editor 
back to Little League, Pop Thomas found himself buried 
Warner. high school," Thomas on the depth chart again. He 
lt had been a good day for said. finished 2004 with only 25 car­Travis Thomas. Thomas' career at Notre ries and 25 yards. 
He had scored three touch­Dame began in 2003, but with The problem, Thomas said, downs already and his team, future pros Julius was that he which had struggled so much in Jones and Ryan struggled adapt­falling to a 1-7 record, had a Grant ahead of ing to the speed chance to pull out a victory. him at running of the college 
Notre Dame was trailing was back, he didn't game.
"Whatever hat I need 
46-44 to Navy in triple overtime see any action as "It was a
to wear, I'll do it." 
and Thomas had just hulled, a freshman learning experi­slipped and dived his way into under coach ence for me," he the end zone to bring the Irish T y r o n e Travis Thomas said. "I needed to within two points. Willingham. to learn to be a
Irish running back 
And now coach Charlie Weis "Coach told me college back." was calling his number again. there would be a The next year, 
Thomas lined up behind full­great opportunity Charlie Weis back Asaph Schwapp, took the to play, but that took over for hand off from quarterback Evan was before we Willingham as Sharpley and immediately knew Julius was coming back coach and gave Thomas anoth­found himself face to face with for his fifth year," Thomas said. er shot. three Midshipmen defenders. Jones, who had missed all of "When Coach Weis came in, 
Thomas couldn't escape them the 2002 season due to academ­he gave everyone a clean slate," and was tackled well short of ic trouble, returned to the Irish Thomas said. "I tried to work the goal line. The Irish lost. that year and rushed for 1 ,268 hard and make a good impres­
The emotional roller coaster yards. Meanwhile, Thomas red­sion." that Thomas went through that shirted. Then a junior, Thomas was day was a microcosm of the Although he didn't get to play, Notre Dame's second-leading running back's career at Notre Thomas said he was happy rusher, gaining 248 yards and Dame -a career that included Jones returned. He said he scoring five touchdowns in his starting opportu-learned a lot new role as the "power back" nities and posi­from the older for the Irish. 
"One ofthe things I 
tion changes, player. Thomas also had one of the touchdowns and learned from [former "One of the most memorable moments of fumbles, big teammate Julius things I learned his career in 2005 -early in wins and heart­from him is to the showdown between No. 9
Jones] is to
breaking losses. continuously Notre Dame and No. 1 USC, he 
But Irish coach continuously work work hard, scored a 16-yard touchdown to Charlie Weis said hard, whether in good whether in good tie the score at 7-7. Thomas has times or bad," But after that season,
times or bad." 
never let any­Thomas said. Thomas' career took another thing get him The next year, twist. Weis asked him to switch down. even Travis Thomas Grant was to linebacker to help shore up something as Irish running back injured in fall the team's porous defense. frustrating as the practice, and Thomas at first was reluctant. loss to Navy.. Thomas got his "I was pretty shocked when 
"I don't think Travis is going first opportunity at playing he asked me," he said. "I to sit there and take the blame time. thought about it, I didn't make on his shoulders," Weis said. It didn't go well. the decision right away. I had "lie ran the ball as hard as you In Notre Dame's season open­had a pretty decent spring could run it." er against BYU, Thomas carried game, and I thought things 
Through it all, Thomas has the ball six times, gaining only were going to go well on offense been the consummate team­two yards. He also fumbled the next season." mate. lie said that that has twice. But in a move that showed his always been his attitude -even "Obviously, it wasn't my best team-first attitude, Thomas linebacker. ning back in this, his fifth sea­
"I thought it would be a good son. But all did not go as decision to show my athleti­planned. cism," Thomas said. "Looking Thomas started the season back. I think I learned a lot opener, but when he lost seven more about the game." yards on six carries in a 33-3 
Partially because of that atti­loss to Georgia Tech, he found 
tude, Weis made  himself on  the  
Thomas a cap­tain for the 2006  "We made it through  bench. But even as he  
season.  a I -9 record . ... [ljf  watched  loss  
Thomas' year on defense was a mixed bag. He made 35 tackles,  you've been through something like this, it will help you with a  after loss from the sidelines. Thomas rnmainnd a  
but the effort came for a unit  lot ofother things."  leader, taking his position as a snc­ 
that more  gave than  up ~~3  Travis Thomas  ond-year captain seriously.  
points per game,  Irish running back  "It's been diffi­ 
including 44 and  cult,"  he  said.  
41  to  USC and  "But I think it's  

LSU, respectively, in the last helped our character. I think it's two games of the season. made us bntter pnople." 
"I was undersized," Thomas Against Navy, Thomas' rollnr said. "But one of the things I coaster ride seemed on the used to my advantage was my upswing again. lie seared three speed." touchdowns on his first three 
Thomas also got to carry the carries against the Midshipmen. ball that year. He played run­And while he couldn't get into ning back in short yardage situ­the end zone on the two-point ations, gaining 81 yards on 13 conversion, Weis said no one on carries and scoring two touch­the team has blamed Thomas downs. for the loss. 
Thomas said that playing both ''I'm sure if the line of scrim­ways required him to be "in the mage was going the other way," best shape of my life." Weis said, "I think Travis would 
"We ran a lot more than we have gotten in the end zone." had in the past," he said. "It Thomas said he wants to pur­really paid off. I could do a lot sue football after the season of things and not be too tired." ends, but after that, he wants to 
Against Penn State that year, get into management consulting Weis called his number on a and eventually own a consulting fake punt, and Thomas took it firm. 43 yards. He scored on a hel­"I want to be my own boss met-crunching, one-yard plunge eventually," he said. a few plays later. Whether it's in football or not, 
The special teams play repre­Thomas said he will use the les­sented another element of sons he's learned as an Irish Thomas' team-first attitude. football player for the rest of his Since the beginning of his life. career, he has always been "We made it through a record more than willing to do the of 1-9," he said. "Nothing in life thankless jobs of wedge busting, is going to be easy. There's punt protection and kick-return going to be a lot of hard times. blocking. But if you've been though some­
"Whatever hat I need to wear, thing like this, it will help you I'll do it," he said. with a lot of other things." 
After Walker left for the NFL last winter, Thomas was in con­Contact Chris Khorey at tention to be the starting run-ckhorey@nd.edu 
KELLY HIGGINSfThe 

going back to his elementary performance," he said. agreed to make the switch and Irish ruming back Travis Thomas acknowledges the crowd on his way school days. The next week against ended up starting at outside into the end zone during Notre Dame's Sept. 22 loss to Michigan State. 


page 8 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November I6, 2007 
ANTHONY VERNAGLIA 
So. Cal native knows ND was right choice 

ON SITE SALES OFFICE OPEN 
574_,252_,2427
SAT:1 Oam-12pm SUN:1 Oam-2pm 
NDCONDOS.COM 
By C{e{and Homes
Move In Now 
I Senior outside linebacker Anthony Vernaglla stares down the competition during Notre Dame's 41-241oss to Air Force on Nov.10. 
Senior OLB left his Trojan roots to play and learn in Indiana 
By FRAN TOLAN Sporrs Wrirer 
Irish outside linebacker Anthony Vernaglia is unsure about why hn came to Notre Dame, but he sure is glad he did. 
"I don't know how I ended up here -not in a bad sense but in general, I have no idea," Vernaglia said. 
Coming out of Orange Lutheran High School in south­ern California, Vernaglia was recruited by several major col­leges and almost committed to USC. But after seeing Notre Dame, Vernaglia had a hunch that the school was the right place for him. 
"I don't know how or why II came hen1J but out of nowhere I did," Vernaglia said. "Maybn it had something to do with the aeadmnics but as for exactly how or why I have no idea." 
I>evoloping an enmity for Notre Dame's rival USC was one of the first dif'licultios Vernaglia encountered. 
"I almost went there, so it was pretty hard to turn around and hate them," he said. 
Vernaglia was definitely unsure about the road that lay ahead for him as he entered 
Notre Dame. In high school, he except for the Indiana weather. played a slew of positions "Every time it snows and including wide receiver, safety rains, I have a lot of regrets," and linebacker. But he didn't Vernaglia joked. know what role he would fill for On one of the occasions that the Irish. he did brave thn elements, 
As a freshman, Vernaglia was Vernaglia met his current girl­
listed  as  a  friend.  
reserve safety and did not see action on the field. But bel"ore his sophomore year, he moved to linebacker.  "I don't know how I ended up here -not in a bad sense but in general. I have no idea."  "I drovn her to a party and somnone asknd if wn wern togother and we weren't," VPrnaglia said.  
"I  was recruit­ "But  it  just  
ed as a recniver by some schools, but I played a lot  Anthony Vernaglia Irish linebacker  worknd out." And thn eli­mate has not  

of things," Vernaglia said. "]Switching positions] wasn't my decision, but I guess it worknd bPst for the team." 
In his lirst year as a full-time linebacker. Vernaglia played live games as a reserve. logging 
14:55 of playing limn. 
Tho next season, in whkh tl111 Irish went !J-3, he played in eight games before injuring his knee. Vernaglia said it was dif­ficult to watch his teammates from tho sidelines but still enjoyed Notre Dame's great soason. 
"After I shredded my kn1w, I still got to go [to the Fiesta BowlJ," he said. "I didn't get to play which stunk, but I got to go which was sweet." 
Off the field, Vernaglia said his time at Notre Dame has been all he had hoped for ­
prevented tllP 

California native from taking advantage or the countlnss opportunities Notm Damn provides. The busi­ness major alrt\ady has plans to open a clothing company and got his MBA from Notre Danw. Afterward, hn said hn might finally !wad to USC f'or law school. 
Even though his f'uture has always bonn blurry, Vnrnaglia is nagnr to sen what awaits him al'tl\r graduation. 
"]Notre Dame is] dnfinitely different than what I had planned, but I'm happy about it," he said. ''I'm definitely happy I nndnd up lwre; leaving with this gwat dngree is amaz­ing. I'm exeitnd." · 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 

Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 9 
JOE BROCKINGTON 
Playing the waiting game 
After going nearlyfour years before making his first start, Brockington never looks back 

State College, Pa., to play "Since I've been here, I've against Penn State -the team played three different defenses he grew up watching. and played two different posi­
"It's always good to go back tions," he said. "I definitely and play football that you grew think that when it comes to up and also play playing at the against guys that next lPvel it you played makes me a little against in high ''The interaction that more mar­school," he said. ketable because
you have with other 
"It's always good they've seen me
students is different 
to go back home, play at the weak but it's unfortu­than at other schools. side and they've 
nate that we All through college I also seen me 
lost. I have yet to play in the mid­
haven't [roomed! with 
go back home dle." 
since then, so a football player. " B u t I'm sure I'll Brockington is catch it from a still realistic
Joe Brockington 
couple of Penn about playing on
Irish linebacker 
State fans." Sundays and 
During Notre said that if he Dame's 27-14 isn't drafted or loss to Boston College on Oct. signed as a free agent, he will 13, Crum was injured early in "go back to normal life." the game and Brockington Normal life for Brockington stepped up with 13 tackles (1 0 will either be law school or an solo) in the loss. Even though he internship at Notre Dame in the was integral in athletic depart­taking over for ment, in a pro­Crum as the "... [W]hen it comes to gram designed linebackers' to help people
playing at the next
leader, become athletic PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer Brockington said directors.
level, it makes me a Irish senior linebacker Joe Brockington prepares to put a hit on a Navy ballcarrier on Nov. 3. it was just busi­little more Brockington Through 10 games, Brockington is second on the team to Trevor Laws with 92 tackles (45 solo). ness as usual. said the most
marketable because 
"Mo and I -important thing
they've seen me [at
combination of academics and major I could find in arts and all last year and he will take withBy JAY FITZPATRICK the coaching staff that was in letters," Brockington said of his even this year -different positions]. " him is not the 
Associate Sports Editor 
place at the time," Brockington decision. we both make games played on said. "It was a more of a deci­But despite the hard work the calls on the field or the
Joe Brockington 
On Sept. 30, 2006, Notre sion my family and I made Brockington exerted on the field defense and get lessons learned
Irish linebacker 
Dame's starting defense took together; my family felt it was and in the classroom, he feels people lined up," in the class-the field against Purdue with the best opportunity for me." the most important part of his he said. "It's not room, but the one key addition -outside line­Another major influence in time at Notre Dame was making like its some-people he backer Joe Brockington, who Brockington's friends outside thing that week or that game encountered. made his first career start for decision was of football -when he went down that was "The people that I actually the Irish after nearly four years whether he "Now I look back on people he might new for me. I've always been met here, the friends that I on the roster. would get to play not have met at doing it." made here just because the
[dorm life] and it
"It was my coming out game. Penn State -the another univer­In the classroom, Brockington people that actually go to
helped build some
There are some games I played favorite team of sity. is taking two computer elasses school here kind of grew up in in last year and this year that I many of his relationships that I "The interac­and a music class to continue to a different situation than I enjoyed because I thought I friends and tion that you prepare him for life after col­did," Brockington said of his
will have for the rest 
played pretty well in," neighbors. have with other lege. He said that his dream is favorite experience at Notre
ofmy life."
Brockington said. "Overall, in· "I know a students is dif­to play in the NFL and that he Dame. "It was good because I my college career, I think that's bunch of people ferent than at plans to declare for April's learned some things from it because it sort of sums it all that said I should Joe Brockington other schools," draft. them and they learned some up." go to Penn State he said. "All Brockington said that he things from me."
Irish linebacker 
Brockington has started every or else I wasn't through college thinks he has an advantage in game since -in both former good enough to I haven't the draft because of the many Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at defensive coordinator Rick play college football," [roomed] with a football player. roles he has played in college. jfitzpaS@nd.edu Minter's 4-3 defense and cur­Brockington said. "It was defi­It's helped me meet some new rent defensive coordinator nitely something I looked at people. Now I look back on Corwin Brown's 3-4. when I was looking at schools [dorm life] and it helped build 
Brockington's journey to so I can show everyone in my some relationships that I will Notre Dame began in central area that I can play college have for the rest of my life." Pennsylvania, where his mother football." Brockington decided last fall niisnd him and his sister on her Brockington sat out his fresh­to use his extra season of eligi­own. man year, missing his second bility and return to the Irish for 
"She worked two jobs pretty consecutive season. a fifth season. much since I was "It was tough. "At the end of the day my horn -support-I was practicing family and I decided it was the ed my sister and so I had that best decision for us," he said. I by herself," type of aspect During his fifth season,
"We've had hard 
Brockington said still there. I was Brockington has developed into
times but [my mother] 
or his mother. still practicing, one of the leaders on the Irish "We've had hard definitely got an still doing some defense. In Brown's 3-4, times but she A-plus in the whole things," he said. Brockington bulked up and definitely got an "It was definitely joined senior captain Maurice
mothering thing." 
A-plus in the tough, it was Crum as the two inside line­whole mothering hard to deal backers. Brown said that thing because Joe Brockington with, but talking Brockington has easily made her two kids are with my family the transition to the 3-4
Irish linebacker 
pretty success­they helped me because he is a smart player ful." get through it." who understands the game. 
While in high Brockington Brockington played some out­school at Palmyra (Pa.) lligh continued to work both on and side and inside linebacker last School, Brockington was a ofT the field. He entered school season, and he said that the standout football player, rush­as a business major and spent transition has not been too diffi­ing for 1,046 yards and regis­his sophomore year in the cult. tering 110 tackles during his Mendoza College of Business "The biggest thing for me to junior season. Even though he before switching to become an adjust was being the weak side was sidelined by a shoulder American Studies major with a backer to being front side and injury in his senior year, minor in computer applicatio"ns. having to deal with more blocks Brockington was recruited by "I decided on American and things like that," sehools in the Big East, ACC and Studies because the elasses they Brockington said. Big Ten, as well .as Notre Dame. let you take were just more One of the highlights this sea­Irish linebacker Joe Brockington brings down Georgia Tech run­
"[Picking Notre Dame) was a interesting than any other son was Notre Dame's trip to ning back Tashard Choice during the 33-3 Irish loss on Sept. 1. 


page 10 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2007 
MICHAEL PLANALP 
Walk-on plans to put good hands to use 
Tight end will attend medical school to be a surgeo11 next year 
By DAN MURPHY Associ.ue Spon' hlitor 
For thP first half of his lifn. 
MichaPI l'lanalp's idna of foot­
hall inrludPd shin guards and 
rornPr kil'ks. l'lanalp was 
raisPd in Virginia Watnr. a 
small town about :w milns 
wnsl of London. J·:ngland. 
"I rwv<~r n~ally watclwd foot­ball until I movnd ha<~k lwro. just bdon~ high school. That's w lw n I 
Planalp came to South Bend with no plans to continue his football career but could not stay away from the game for long. 
l'lanalp's first time on the finld at Notre Damn Stadium came during his freshman year whiln playing for the Knott int<~rhall team. The .Juggnrknotts lost a hoart­brPaknr in ovPrtime to Konnan in llw championship game that ynar. 
Shortly af'tnrward. Planalp dncidnd that he would try to walk on to tlw toam. lie decid­nd tho thrill of playing for the Irish was worth tho time com­milnwnt and hard work he 
was going to 

slartPd pI a yin g football."  "You get to go out and play everyay with a gold  have to put in. "You get to go out and play  
lw said. l'lanalp and his family  helmet on. I've loved Notre Dame football my whole life. so that's  evoryday with a gold helmet on." Planalp said. "I've loved  
rnovnd to Cincinnati.  just really cool. "  Notre football  Dame my  
Ohio. w h<~ rn h~~  Michael Planalp  whole life, so that's just really  
startnd  Irish tight end  cool."  
pI a yin g  For  the  past  
football for  three  years.  

Wyoming High School. Thn 6-Planalp has balanced practice foot-4, 250-pound sonior limo with the work load of a playnd on tho ol'f'ensivo line student heading to medical during his high school career school. bdorn switching to tight end at Whon all is said and done, Notro Dame. Planalp hopes to be a surgeon 
"I wasn't always the great and is currently applying to playor that a lot of the guys on medical schools to take the our tnam are," Planalp said. next step. His top choices 

Notre Dame senior tight end Michael Planalp stretches with the team prior to Notre Dame's 41-24 loss to Air Force on Nov. 10. Planalp was born and raised in England but moved to Ohio before high school. 
include Stanford, Planalp has also padded his walk-on, you're not a stud on Northwestern and Cincinnati. resume with internships over the team. You get to kind of 
His work on the football lield the past couple of summers. experience knowing your role, has helped him off the field as lie worked with ophthalmolo­going there day in and day out well. At a recent interview gists in Cincinnati and at the and doing what's best for the with Cincinnati, the interview­University of Michigan to help team. not always making the er was also a player in college with resnar<:h on retinal big difference, but you know and helped to give him an degeneration. your roln is important," he instant conneetion. Planalp believes that his said. "I think that's pretty 
"lie said it reinforced his experience as a walk-on will much what the medical earner knowledge of me. lie under­also help him keep his nose to is going to be, up until you stands how much time it takes the grindstone while trying to make a name for yourself." up," Planalp said. "It was real­make a name for himself in the ly nice being able to talk to medical world. Contact Dan Murphy at him about that." "It helps you because being a dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Now Open 






------------------~---------­
Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 11 
JOHN SULLIVAN 
Never look back 
Fifth-year center John Sullivan tells his teammates-and himself-to focus on the next game 

1 TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 
Irish center John Sullivan prepares to snap the ball during Notre Dame's 31-10 win over Stanford on Oct. 7, 2006. Sullivan chose to remain at Notre Dame for a fifth year. 
look back, no matter what . That year, Sullivan's senior
By BILL BRINK 
happened the previous week." season, Greenwich went 12-1­
Sports Wrirer 
1 and reached the Connecticut Finding his home Class LL title game. Sullivan 
Considering the publicity Sullivan filled his life with said he got many of the char­that Notre Dame's all-time sports. In addition to football, acteristics he values in himself worst 1-9 season has received, Sullivan played water polo and from his high school coaches. it seemed odd that the record rugby at Greenwich High "They taught me a lot about was not on the tip of John School in the game," Sullivan's tongue. Greenwich, Sullivan said. 
The fifth-year senior center Conn. He had a "They taught
"You don't look back, 
brought up the record when 138-6 record me even more discussing his pride in the as a heavy­no matter what importantly team, then hesitated and dou­weight about how you
happened the 
ble-checked the number of wrestler and have to care
previous week. " 
losses with Notre Dame direc­won the state about your tor of football media relations championship teammates, you Brian Hardin before continu­in his sopho­John Sullivan have to care ing. more, junior about the game
Irish center 
''I'm proud of this team. and and senior and you have to one of the main reasons is that years. He also play with a pas­we're 1-9 and the team will placed seventh sion. I learned never quit," Sullivan said. "You and earned All-America hon­that from them." have to admire a group of guys ors at the 2003 national Sullivan considered Miami, that go out there and fight wrestling championships. Michigan, North Carolina and every time." Wrestling, he said, contained Boston College in addition to 
But that's who Sullivan is. some skills analogous to foot­Notre Dame and was the No. 3 Records don't mean much to ball. center of his class, according him. h11 said. "Having good feet is impor­to rivals.com. What convinced 
''I'm focused on one game at tant in both sports, balance, him to join the Irish, he said, a time: the next game." he intensity las wellJ," Sullivan was a self-imposed conundrum said. "I don't look back at what said. "The training require­that stumped him. thn n~cord is." ments for wrestling forced you "I asked the question, 'How 
It is this attitude that helped to suffer a lot, so it builds could I say no to Notre Dame?' Sullivan start 43 mental tough­And ultimately I couldn't games, including ness." answer that question, there­31 straight, of Sullivan fore I had to come," Sullivan his collegial<~ ''I'm proud of this excelled, how­said. "It's a great mix of aca­career. It led the team, and one of the ever, in football. demics and athletics, a great coaches to select A prep school tradition, a rich, storied pro­
main reasons is that 
him as a team All-American gram, and I wanted to be a captain. But we're 1-9 and the and Gatorade part of that for the rest of my maybe most team will never quit.,, Player of the life." importantly, it Year, Sullivan helped Sullivan started at cen­Not done yet
John Sullivan 
guide Notre ter in his soph­Once at Notre Dame, Dame's young, Irish center omore, junior Sullivan had the chance to i nexperie need and senior sea­play with a veteran group of offensive line. sons. He also lineman that included Bob "Keep focusing on the next played nose guard on defense, Morton, Dan Santucci and 
could rely on each other a lot," you." Sullivan said. "We know how Offensive line coach John each guy on that line played Latina said Sullivan sets an and what to expect from him. example for the younger line­That was a great group, and I men, demonstrating how to was proud to be a part of it." focus and improve in the face 
During his sophomore sea­of criticism. son. Sullivan started all 12 "Basically. he's told them games at center. l-Ie started and showed them how to go eight as a junior and all 13 out and work every day no games in 2006. matter what people say, no 
Sullivan could have entered matter what people talk about, the NFL draft along with the to keep focused on the task at 
rest  of  his  hand," Latina  
linemates,  said.  "Keep  
but  instead  blinders on in  
chose to return for a lifth year. "I wasn't done here at  "Being a leader isn't just a vocal thing. You have to lead by example, with your actions. That's why  terms of, there's only one way to get better, and that's to  
Notre Dame. I wasn't ready to  I'm trying to play as hard as I can."  go out there and work." Sullivan's  
leave  the  methods  of  
school."  John Sullivan  instruction  
Sullivan said. "I hadn't  Irish center  and tion  motiva­are not  
graduated  the  tamest,  
yet. I thought  Latina said.  
that  my  "l-Ie's a fiery  

future could wait another year. guy. You expect that kind of I think I've become a much demeanor about him," Latina better football player." said. "He is what he is. And I 
Sullivan and sophomore respect him and I admire him tackle Sam Young suddenly and I think he's an outstanding became the only linemen with player." any meaningful game experi­That personality comes with ence. leading, Sullivan said. 
During practice on Aug. 23, "As a fifth-year guy, I'm head coach Charlie Weis looked upon to be a leader for announced in front of the team this team," Sullivan said. and media that Sullivan would "Being a leader isn't just a become the team's fifth cap­vocal thing. You have to lead tain. Sullivan was grateful for by example, with your actions. the honor, but said it didn't That's why I'm trying to play alter his approach to the as hard as I can." game. Sullivan said staying for a 
"I didn't feel my role fifth year will benefit his changed that much as I was future. As for life after foot­trying to be a leader anyway, ball, he said he has no idea but I was very appreciative what's in store. He's once that they saw me in that light," again focusing on the task at Sullivan said. "Being a captain, hand. you feel like you have to do the With a slight grin on his face, right thing all the time. That's he said, "Hopefully football really one of your goals any­won't end anytime soon." way, but it just puts a little more emphasis on the fact that Contact Bill Brink at the younger guys look up to wbrink@nd.edu 

KATE FENLON/The Observer 

game," Sullivan told his line­where he had 20 tackles for a Ryan Harris. Irish center John Sullivan blocks Nittany Lion linebacker Sean Lee mates this season. "You don't loss and 12 sacks in 2002. "We had great chemistry. We during Notre Dame's 31-10 loss to Penn State on Sept. 8. 
page 12 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
Record: 1-9 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Charlie Weis Third season at Notre Dame. career record: 
20-15 

at Notre Dame: 
20-15 
against Duke: 
0-0 


Roster 

No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I  D.). llurd  WR  1>-I  190  JR  
2  I>" rrin Walls  DB  6-1  IHO  SO  
Cary l;ray  DB  5-11  IHO  Fl{  
Armandtl Allen  RB  5-10  !YO  FR  
6  R.ty IIPrrin~  DR  5-10  197  )R  
7  Jimmy C!,lUst'n  QB  6-3  207  FR  
H  R.wshon MrNt.•il  IJB  6-0  IR7  SO  
9  Tom Zbikowski  DB  6-0 .  207  SR  
II  D.wid Grim<''  WR  5-10  177  JR  
12  Darrin Br.1AA  Qll  h-1  IHH  SR  
13  Ev;m Sh.trplcy  QB  6-2  21h  )R  
14  Br.mdun Walkt•r  K  6-3  197  FR  
IS  Lt.•o h•rrim•  DB  6-0  189  SR  
lh  justin Gillett  QB  5-11  180  SR  
17  Gt..•offn•y Prke  P  6-3  208  SR  
IH  l>uv.tl Kam.tra  WR  6-5  222  fR  
l'J  G£•orge Wt.•st  WR  5-10  llJ7  so  
20  "1\.•rr.til l.arhbt•rt  DB  5-11  191  SR  
21  ll.trry Callup jr  WI~  5-1 t  IH5  SO  
22  Ambmst• WtxKlen  CB  5-11  IY6  SR  
2..1  Culdm Tatt•  WR  5-11  lHH  FR  
2..1  W. David Williams  DB  5-9  173  SR  
24  l.t.•onard Gordon  DB  5-11  194  so  
25  Munir Prin(t.'  DB  5-10  IH4  SO  
26  TrrlViS Thumcl!-1  RB  6-0  216  51~  
27  David Bn1tun  DB  6-2  207  )R  
2H  Kylt· Mc<.:.uthy  DB  6-1  207  )R  
29  jasht1ad Gaint.•s  DB  6-0  203  so  
29  jakt• Rich<~rdvillt•  WR  h-1  IHO  SR  
30  !Iarrison Smith  DB  6-2  205  FR  
31  Scr~iu Brown  DR  6-2  1%  so  
32  l.ukt• S<.·hmidt  Rll  6-3  24H  SO  
33  Rubt·rt llu~hcs  RB  5-11  2..18  FR  
:14  j.tmt•s Aldrid~c  RB  6-0  222  so  
35  Natt• Whit.lkt•r  K  5-9  loS  FR  
35  Kt·vin Smith  L.B  5-8  200  JR  
3h  llt•x Cure  RB  6-1  220  so  
37  Junior jahhit•  RB  5-11  205  SR  
38  W<~dc l•m•  DB  5-9  Ul3  SR  
3q  Ryan Burkh.ut  K  5-11  196  so  
:Jl.J  Kt.•vin Bmok~  TE  6-2  241  JR  
40  M.Hirict.• Crum, Jr.  LB  6-0  230  SR  
41  Scutt Smith  LH  h-4  235  JR  
42  Kwin Washington  l.B  6-1  241  JR  
4J  Eric M.lUst  P  5-10  177  so  
43  John lA•nnis  DB  5-Y  16Y  JR  
44  A>olph Schwapp  fB  6-0  2ol  JR  
4o  Mikt• Am•llo  IJH  5-10  IHO  JR  
45  Kris P<lttcrson  WR  5-11  185  JR  
47  A.tron Nagt•l  LB  6-1  22Y  FR  
4H  Stl'Vl' Quinn  LB  6-2  231  )R  
4Y  li>ry.m Smith  LB  6-1  245  so  
50  Stl'Vl' p,,:;.korz  LB  6-2  235  FR  
51  [),m Wcn~t·r  01.  o-4  2H7  SO  
52  )tx• Bro<.·kington  LH  6-2  240  SR  
53  Morrin• Rkh.trdson  LB  6-2  244  so  
54  Anthony Vt•maglia  I.R  6-3  234  SR  
55  Eric Olsm  01.  6-4  303  so  
56  Kt•rry Ne,1l  I.H  6-2  245  FR  
57  Dwight Stt•pht•nson  DL  6-2  272  SR  
58  Uri.m Smith  I.B  6-3  2.1.1  FR  
59  Chris Stt•w.trt  OL  6-5  339  so  
hi  ).). j.mS<•n  LS  1>-3  242  SR  
6.1  l<'ff lisak  OL  6-5  306  JR  
67  Tom Hl'mcmlL•rfl•r  OL  6-5  285  )R  
hY  Nt·il Kt·nm•dy  IlL  5-11  266  SR  
70  Matt l~omin<'  OL  6-5  279  FR  
71  H.trtley Webh  01.  6-h  305  so  
72  Paul Dunc<1n  OL  6-7  308  )R  
73  M.ttt l'aruft•l  01.  6-5  2YS  SO  
74  Sam Yuung  OL  6-H  310  SO  
75  T,,ylor Dt.•vt•r  OL  6-5  2H9  FR  
76  Andrew Nulls  DL  6-5  292  rR  
77  Mkh.wl Turkovich  OL  6-6  301  JR  
78  john Sullivan  OL  1>-4  303  SR  
HO  Rich.trd ),lCkstm  WR  6-3  204  so  
H2  Robby l'.trris  WR  6-4  20'1  so  
HJ  Mikt• Ra~o~om·  TE  6-5  2..10  FR  
H4  Will Yt•atm.m  TE  6-6  264  so  
H5  S.1m y,,s  WR  5-10  199  so  
HlJ  john Carlson  TF  6-6  2..'i5  SR  
YO  john Rvan  l.ll  6-5  253  so  
Yl  Emt•k,,· Nw.mkwu  DL  6-4  2H3  FR  
lJ2  Dt•m•ll IJ,md  IlL  6-3  2H7  JR  
Y3  Paddy Mullt•n  DL  6-5  2YO  SO  
94  justin llrnwn  DL  6-3  261  SR  
95  lan Wiliams  Dl.  6-2  300  FR  
90  Poll Kuntz  IlL  6-3  285  )R  
Y7  K.tllen W,Jdt•  IlL  6-5  257  so  
9H  Tn•vor l .•tws  [)I.  6-l  2%  SR  

-----------------------, 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2007 
HEADT 
Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Notre Dame 2007 Schedule 
WR 
t8i8mara 
Sept. 1 Sept. 8 Sept. 15 Sept. 22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 20 Nov. 3 Nov. 10 Nov. 17 Nov. 24 


or l!IW..t 

GA.TECH-L at Penn State-L at Michigan-L MICH.ST.-L atPurdue-L atUCLA-W BC-L USC-L NAVY-L AIRFORCE-L DUKE at Stanford 
44 
32Sdunuk 

Wll ltGri..... · or¥ll'ar..V. 

OIJI sa"S;;;ilb 
5'.1~. 
a
•" .. 
I 

COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
LLI 
:iE <1: Q 
LLI 0::: t­
o 
z 

In his lirst two years in South Bend, Charlie Weis took his team to two BCS bows and looked like a genius. But poor fundamentals and baflling game-day deci­sions have fans wonder­ing ­where did the old Charlie Weis disappear to'!  Jimmy Clausen returned the starting linnup against Air Force and played much better than he had previ­ously this sea'ion, complet­ing 22-of'-40 passes for more than 240 yards and three touchdowns. His numbers would have been even better if' not for dropped pa'ises.  Notre Dame was incon­sistent on the ground against Air Foree, but after the Irish fell behind they had to pass on every down to try to eateh back up. Even though the last two weeks have been bet­ter, the Irish arn nowhere near where the need to bn.  Clausen looked much better last week, but Irish wide receivers killed drives with way too many dropped passes. Freshman Duval Kamara is expected to play Saturday after sitting out last week because or academic issues.  
Duke football has always been second Iiddle to the bask1~tball t1mm in Durham, but under Roof', the team has hit new lows. In four years, he is 6-43  Thaddeus Lewis has been one of the lone bright spots for the Blue Devils this season. He has completed 55 percent of his passes for 19 touch­ Duke has not been able to stop anyone from running the ball, giving up 176.9 yards per game on the ground. Last week, Georgia Tech  Duke's pass defense has been awful this year. The Blue Devils are giv­ing up morn than 260 yards pnr game through the air. They do have 21  
and has sum~red through a 16 game losing streak, induding a winless sea<>on in 2006.  downs and 10 intercep­tions. He is averaging more than 200 yards per game through the air.  rolled up 259 yards rushing behind 173 from running baek Tashard Choice.  sacks this season and could give tlw porous Irish offensive line trou­ble in pass protection.  
Lewis has played well d~:J;p;jl~t·; tli ~-tea.ru 's strugglti,, ~b,Js aeasoi).  Notre Dame hasn't bmm able to run the ball and Duke hasn't been able to  Notre Dame's passing game looked better last week, but it has been  
ClaUSt'.ll has]Jfl!'O incon­sistept, although ,,~p do(• ~~~~on ~('  stop the run. Aftnr this g~Jll~~ both teams will p~pbfibly\~~el b~~r about  horrnndous all year. Duke has a dneent pass rush. andwi{'tlJausen  
up~WI-rt til~~ Lewis' GOJIS . . Yt:J;(:l@UCe ~ll t.:&!L Jn~...m•,'!fis  tli~ir '· 0 'rushing offense/deftms£1'; but how much will be due to  isn't given time he can't b~ effective. On thP other hand, tho Blue  
team is more comfort­able with him.  ineompetenee by the other side?  Devils' secondary has struggled this season.  




Chris Khorey 
Sports Editor 



Ken Fowler 

Sports Writer 
Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 13 

HEAD 
Duke Blue Devils 
RB FB ll Boyette nKJ.a 
Duke
20 Boyle 4Hani• 
2007 Schedule 
WR 
81 Wrillhf 

S.Hu:lly 
I 
Sept. 1 
. 
Sept. 8 

Sept. 15 Sept.22 Sept. 29 Oct. 6 Oct. 13 Oct. 27 Nov. 3 

55 Radloff 
Nov. 10 


Nov. 17 Nov. 24 

BLUE DEVILS BLUE DEVILS 
SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLESRUSHING PASSING 
z 
0 
.... 
::c 
ITI 
c 
>
s: 
ITI 
c 
c: 
;:s::: ITI 

Tlw Irish have strug­ Notre Dame's pass  The Irish special  The Irish are 1-9  
gled defending the run  defense has been its  teams have suffered  and have lost to serv­ 
this year, allowing more  strength this season,  massive breakdowns at  ice academies in con­ 
than 200 yards per game.  although Matt Ryan  times this season.  secutive weeks for the  
Thn Notre Dame front  and Mark Sanchez had  Against Navy two weeks  first time since World  
snvnn is undersized and  good days against the  ago, Charlie Weis had so  War II. It is senior day,  
has been bitten by the  Irish. Notre Dame was  little confidence in his  but is that enough to  
injury bug. Nose guard  also burned by  kickers that he passed  motivate a team whose  
Pat Kuntz is not expP-ctcd  bootlegs and play  up what would have  season has already  
to play after sull'cring an  action against both  been a game-winning  been counted a failure  
injury against Air Force.  Navy and Air Force.  43-yard field goal.  for weeks?  
Thn Blue Devils havn  Lewis has passed  Duke can't find a  Duke is 1-9, but that's  
not been able to run the  decently this season, but  placekicker. Three  improvement. Last year  
ball on anyone this year.  he has been inconsistent  players are listed on  at this time they were 0­ 
Fivn tailbacks have  and is prone to throwing  their depth chart, and  10. If they win this  
startnd this season, but  crucial interceptions.  they are a combined 3­ game, they can tell their  
only two are averaging  The Blue Devils' leading  for-7 on field goals this  grandchildren about the  
morn than three yards  receiver is Jomar Wright,  season. Jabari Marshall  time they beat Notre  
pnr carry. The offensive  who has 43 catches for  has returned a kickoff  Dame. This game will  
linn is undersized, espc­ 497 yards and three  for a touchdown this  make their season, if not  
(~ially on the left side.  touchdowns.  season.  their careers.  

 
After facing two prolific option attacks, Notre Dame is probably happy to face an !-formation team. But pven though Duke L<> the worst rushing team the frish have faef'd, them's still no guarantee that Notre Dame will stop thnm.  N  Neither team has any confidence in its place­kickers, both teams have ~'\'What dangerous ,Il\~P lln,!-:t bqtq pu;g­hftv6i;~a~t66 ~u~fl e '* extyeri-enee, Between the Irish and Blue Devils, special teams is about as even as it gets.  

UCONN-L at VIrginia-L at N'western-W atNavy-L atMiami-L WAKE-L VATECH-L at Florida St-L CLEMSON-L GA.TECH-L at Notre Dame at North Carolina 


Duke 
Blue Devils Record: 1-9 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Ted Roof Fourth season at Duke. career record: 
6-43 
at Duke: 
6-43 


against Notre Ted Roof Dame: 0-0 head coach 
Roster  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  WI.  YR  
I  jabari Marshal  DB  5-11  200  JR  
2  Tielor Robinson  FB  5-11  245  Sr  
3  Vince Oghobasse  DL  6-6  310  so  
4  Clifford Harris  FB  5-10  220  jR  
5  Rapheael Chestnut  WR  6-2  190  JR  
6  Marcus jones  LB  6-3  220'  JR  
7  Leon Wright  DB  5-9  165  so  
8  Abraham Kromah  LB  6-1  210  so  
9  Thaddeus Lewis  QB  6-2  190  so  
10  Matt Pridemore  DB  5-11  185  FR  
12  Marvin Marcelin  DB  6-2  185  so  
13  ZackAsack  QB  6-4  200  so  
14  Mike Cappetto  QB  6-5  210  FR  
15  Eron Riley  Wr  6-3  200  JR  
16  Chris Rwabukwamba CB  6-0  175  so  
17  Sheldon Bell  WR  6-4  200  so  
!8  Jeremy Ringlield  WR  6-5  210  so  
19  Kris Stubbs  DB  6-1  185  JR  
20  justiin Boyle  RB  6-1  215  SR  
21  Re'quan Boyette  RB  5-10  210  JR  
22  Brandon King  TE  6-2  260  so  
23  Catron Gainey  DB  6-2  205  so  
24  Glenn Williams  DB  5-10  185  JR  
25  Tony jackson  DB  5-10  185  FR  
26  joe Surgan  K  6-4  210  jR  
27  Chris Davis  DB  6-0  205  SR  
28  Adrian Aye-Darko  DB  6-2  210  jR  
29  Eddie Morgan  DB  6-0  185  FR  
30  Colin Jones  DB  5-10  186  FR  
31  Vincent Rev  LB  6-0  255  so  
32  Cameron J~nes  RB  5-10  185  FR  
33  Alfred Williams  LB  6-2  250  JR  
34  Michael Tauiliili  LB  5-11  180  ]R  
35  Tim Ball  LB  6-1  225  jR  
36  Philip Lamela  DB  5-8  185  ]R  
37  Rodney Ezzard  DB  5-11  180  ]R  
38  Evalio Harrell  DB  5-9  170  SR  
39  Adam Banks  LB  6-4  230  FR  
40  Ronnie Drummer  RB  5-9  185  SR  
41  ErilcsReks  DL  6-5  225  FR  
42  Kinney Rucker  DL  6-2  300  so  
44  Justin Wilkerson  DL  6-3  245  FR  
45  Charles Robinson  LB  6-2  214  JR  
46  Trevor Dixon  FB  6-1  220  FR  
47  Nick Maggio  p  6-5  190  FR  
48  Andrew Holoman  LB  6-2  225  so  
49  Kevin Jones  p  6-3  185  so  
50  Tyler Rice  DL  6-3  245  so  
53  Sam Poggi  LB  6-2  220  FR  
54  Greg Akinbiyi  LB  6-2  250  JR  
55  Ryan Radloff  DL  6-4  260  so  
56  Damian Thornton  LB  6-1  235  FR  
57  Paul Thornton  LB  6-1  235  FR  
58  Casey Hales  LS  6-0  204  SR  
60  Zach Maurides  OL  6-6  290  SR  
61  Rob Schirmann  OL  6-5  285  JR  
62  Bryan Morgan  OL  6-3  255  FR  
63  Chris Shannon  OL  6-5  300  FR  
65  Jeffrey Cowart  OL  6-5  310  so  
66  Pontus Bondeson  DL  6-6  275  so  
67  Mitchell Lederman  OL  6-8  320  so  
68  Matt Rumsey  OL  6-4  285  SR  
70  Fred Roland  OL  6-8  310  JR  
71  jon Needham  OL  6-7  305  FR  
72  Garrett Mason  OL  6-5  300  SR  
73  Marcus Lind  OL  6-5  300  so  
74  Cameron Goldberg  OL  6-6  280  ]R  
75  Robert Drum  OL  6-6  285  so  
76  justin Freeman  OL  6-1  290  JR  
77  jarrod Holt  OL  6-6  260  FR  
78  Ben Loebner  OL  6-9  315  so  
79  Kyle Hills  OL  6-6  260  FR  
80  Nick Stefanow  TE  6-5  235  SR  
81  jomar Wright  WR  6-1  200  SR  
82  Ryan Wood  WR  6-1  190  ]R  
83  Austin Kelly  WR  6-3  195  FR  
84  Patrick Bailey  DL  6-4  235  SR  
85  james Brooks  WR  6-3  185  JR  
86  josh Trezvant  WR  5-1 I  175  FR  
87  Brett Huffman  TE  6-5  245  so  
88  Danny Parker  TE  6-5  225  FR  
89  GarrettUtt  TE  6-4  225  FR  
90  Patrick Egboh  DL  6-4  250  so  
91  Ayanga Okpokowuruk DL  6-4  255  so  
92  Ifreke Okpokowuruk  DL  6-1  285  so  
93  Charlie Hatcher  Dl  6-3  275  FR  
94  john Phillips  WR  6-3  190  so  
95  Brandon Harper  DL  6-3  320  so  
97  Clifford Respress  DL  6-4  275  JR  
98  Greg Meyers  K  5-8  150  SR  
99  Wesley Oglesby  DL  6-6  250  so  


Notre Dame finally gets off the schnide this 
Duke is one of the few teams as bad as, if not week. The offense has shown signs of life the worse than, Notre Dame this season. The two past two weeks, albeit against two acade­have comparably terrible offenses, but Notre mics, but it's still a step up from the begin­Dame's defense could be the difference maker. 
Irish

ning of the season. And luckily for Notre Duke has the No. 98 defense in the nation, Dame's defense, Duke doesn't run the option. meaning that even Notre Dame's offense should With this being senior day, I can't see Zibby, be able to do somthing productive. Clausen con­Laws, Carlson, ete. leaving Notre Dame tinues to play like he did in the second half 

experts
Stadium without one last win. Jay Fitzpatrick against Air Force and gets his first home win. Chris Hine FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Associate FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24, Sports Editor Duke 14 Sports Editor Duke 13 
'• 'lk:--'--~ 
•t,. 


page 14 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 16, 2007 
JUNIOR JABBIE 

Jabbie turned to past Irish standouts for help 
nwr Irish back. Darius Walker in his junior season.
After solid showing in 

about what to expect in the Jabbie spent a year at the llun 
future. Walker told him to knep School of Princeton in New
Blue-Gold game, RB 

working hard and good things .IHrsey as a post-graduate bef(wnearned playing time would happen. coming to Notre Dame in 2003. .labbie. who had snen action on There he was named an All-prop spncial teams his junior yoar. running back by the Trnnton
By DAN MURPHY worknd hard and became a situ­Times after rushing for 1,200

A"ociall' Spons Ediror 

ational back for tho Notre Damn yards and scoring 1 X touch­
ofli~nse with appoarancns in ninn downs. 
l~ntnring tlw BluP-Cold Canw ol' I 0 games so far this ynar. lin Befim~ the llun School, Jabbin last spring. NotrP Damn's starting has carrind thn ball night timns graduated from Sayreville War running hack spot was still up in l'or a total or 21 yards, including Memorial Iligh School, the same tiJP air. With a stabiP full or young four carrios during thn sncond alma mater ol' f(mner Irish line­taiPni.Pd ba!'kS. it SPPIIIPd that hall' I'OmPhack ol' thn team's :n­backer Brandon lloyte. CharliP WPis had mon• than IIJ loss to Purdue on Sept. 29. "When I was getting recruited Pnough options. "FvPrybody was put in when he told me to just keep working 
WPis. lwwPwr. had to add orw tlwy were needed." he said. "I hard and that I would be success­ruorn to thP list al'tt~r snnior was morn of a third down kind of ful." Jabbie said. .lunior .labbiP ruslwd for X7 back. but we all had our own The pair knew each other long yards on I:~ attPIII pts to Inad tlw packages fin· dilfnnmt situations." befor1~ high school. The family Cold squad to Jabbie said friends met playing youth sports 
a. I 0-(, win . evnryday at prac­long before coming to South .Jahhin's JH'r­tice was a com­Bend.
"Hverybody was put in
l'ormancP was petition with the "lie was always one or the good far and away when they were needed. otlwr backs and athletes, so it was pretty eool to tiH' lwst ol' tlw I was more ofa third that tlw frinndly end up at the same school as gnmn, almost contnst hnlpP£1 him," Jabbie said.
down kind (~{back. but
doubling tlw make him and lloyte took the young baek 
we all had our own
yardagP ol' all the rnst of his under his wing when he f'irst tlw oth P r packages for d{/j(Jrent teammatns better arrived in South Bend, inviting hacks com­runnnrs this ynar. him over to his house and remi­
situations." 
hirJPd. Jabbie was niscing about their childhoods to 
"I rPalizPd recruited by help make Jabbit~ feel morn com­tlwn· was Junior Jabbie Notw Damn as a fortable in his new surroundings. going to bn an Irish running back dnf'ensive back Jabbie, who is in the Mnndoza opportunity and was listed at College of Business, said hn still l'or a lot ol' that position on isn't sure what he wants to whnn running hal'ks to play bncausn no tlw depth chart for his first two he graduates and is just concen­onn n~ally had any nxpnrinncn," seasons. Iff~ had expt~rienee in trating on football at this point. .labbin said. the backfkld as a running back 
Af'tnr tlw spring ganw, .labbin in high school and dm:ided to give Contact Dan Murphy at talknd to his good friend, and filr-tlw oflimsive side of the ball a try dmurphy6@nd.edu 
ili}{ti ,&t ':' ,c,,.,'{;; r·J,:i ';,j•; 
< ~. 
DATE: 
TIME: 
LOCATION: 

We look forward to seeing yout 
The Siemens Competition in Math, Science and Technology is the nation's premiere math and science research competition for high school students. The Siemens Foundation provides nearly $2 million in college scholarships and awards each year for talented high school students in the United States. By supporting outstanding students today, and recognizing the teachers and schools that inspire their excellence, the Foundation helps nurture tomorrow's scientists and engineers. 
www.siemens-foundation.org SIEMENS 


Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 15 
AMBROSE WOODEN 
Mr. Sunshine 
Ambrose Wooden has kept an optimistic outlook on life throughout his career at Notre Dame 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
l~ven when Ambrose Wooden is having a bad day, you'll nnver know it. 
Tho fifth-year snnior corner­back will walk down tlw quad with a smile on his face (Wery day. That's just who hn is. 
"Wiwn I walk around cam­pus. l don't know who's hav­ing a bad day. I just smile and nod at thPm." Wooden says as tlw dimplns on his facn come to lifo. "I don't know who they urn. but l thought to myself, l just try to bn an inspiration." 
That Woodnn has such a nwntality may be inspiration on its own. lie eamf1 to Notre Dame from Tlw Gilman School in Baltimore as a wide receiv­er. Aftnr sitting out his fresh­man year as a reserve wide out. he moved to cornerback as a sophomore. He startf1d all 12 of Notre Dame's games as a junior and made SportsCenter and Sports Illustrated when Matt Lninart's fourth-down pass to Dwayne Jarrntt snuck past his outstretr,hnd arm in No. 1 USC's 34-31 last-second win over the No. 9 Irish on Oct. 15, 2005. 
The next season, a knee injury limited his time at starting cornerback and forced him into a nickel-back role. Now, sophomore Darrin Walls has gotten the starting than you have right now," he game." of his career at Notre Dame graduated in May from the nod over Wooden. says. " ... You've got kids going For his career, Wooden has Stadium. Mendoza College of Business 
But Wooden just keeps on off fighting in wars, you've got made 116 tackles and inter­"It's definitely hitting me," as a finance major with a plugging, smiling all the all types of stuff going on cepted two passes. Wooden says.. "While things 3.834 grade-point average in while. around the world. Whereas, He will get nostalgic, still aren't going the way we'd his final undergraduate 
"I always think that some­this is, it's a game. Yeah, it though, as the final seconds of like them to ... I'm still happy semester. 
body has something worse means a lot, but it's still just a the Duke game mark the end being here. It's still just a As a fifth-year athlete, blessing being here and play­Wooden is enrolled in three ing for coach Weis and for this classes -including Human university. It's been great." Ethology, the University's 
When this largest class in season ends, history, and a Wooden will directed read­
"You've got kids going 
have a couple ings course on of options for offfighting in wars, the principles his future. of charity.
you've got all types of 
He's going to ''I'm not in
stuffgoing on around
try to make an class all day NFL roster, the world. Whereas, this like most kids but he's also­but I'm staying
is, it's a game. Yeah, it 
in his fifth busy," Wooden 
means a lot, but it's still 
round of inter­says. "!The views with just a game. " NFL'sl definite-. Goldman ly a dream of Sachs. Wooden mine, but I
Ambrose Wooden 
eventually have another
Irish cornerback 
wants to dream. I didn't become a go to school trader for one for four years of the world's largest invest­for nothing. And I want to ment banks. make sure I have that oppor­
"Every Sunday, I'm leaving tunity." out of hf1re after meetings and And while his four years I'm flying into New York by 12 have been good, he'll proba­o'clock Monday morning and bly be on campus sonw time interview all day and I'm back again soon. Monday night or Tuesday 'Til definitely be bar,k. This morning for workouts and place is speeial," Wooden practice." says. "You've been here for 
Wooden also plans to inter­four or five years. This has view with Credit Suisse, and been a part of your life. You he is considering participating don't just go home." in Teach For America. 
Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden chases after USC wide receiver Vidal Hazelton during Notre Dame's That work ethic is not Contact Ken Fowler at 38-0 loss to the Trojans on Oct. 27 at Notre Dame Stadium. unusual for Wooden, who kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Please recycle The Observer. 
Friday, November 16, 2007 

page 16 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
JAKE RICHARDVILLE 

Interhall champ goes varsity as receiver 
his dorm's lnterhall team. But turns out that they really did­one defense, or scoring a Hichardville plans on going to
After missing cut as 

in the spring of his freshman n't need any specialists at the touchdown in practice, thosp, medical school somewhnre in punter, walking on year, Bichardville realized he time, so I was cut from the are the the MidwP.st. 
wanted to play more than just team. I was devastated, but at moments I'll "The ending at wide out pays off a dorm sport. the same time I was motivated never forget," "The ending ofthis of this sP.ason is "After playing lnterhall, I to work harder and learn a Hichardville bittnrswP.ot for
season is bittersweet 
had the new position," Hichardville said. mn," he said.
By ELLYN MICHALAK 

for me. I'm looking
urge to 
said. "I think "I'm looking
Sporrs Wri rer 

increase the Arter leading Zahm to the playing foot­forward to the next forward to thP. r.ompPtition championship in the fall of his ball is thP. next portion of
portion ofmy life." 
Crowing up in Fort Wayne, level and sophomore year, Richardville best thing my lifn. I'm Ind., .lah Hirhardville's l"irst take the decided to try out again -that has ever nxcited to go love was baseball. next step," this time at a different posi­happP.ned to Jake Richardville into the medical 
WhiiP lw was offered Bidwrdvillc tion. me, because I wide receiver f"inld right now, Division II scholarships for his said. "I "I trainP.d all year, came was able to and I'm rPady nl"fo r t s i n t h c sport. wanted to back to tryouts one yp,ar later learn a new. to serve others Bidutrdvilln ultimately deeid­sec if I as a wide receiver and was type of work ethic, time man­in my profession for tlw rest
Richardville

nd to cornn to Notre Dame could make fortunate en.~lllgh to mako the agement and the ability to of my life." lweause of academies. the team because Notre Dame t e a m , sprP.ad myself Hiehardvilln has had 
AftPr Hirhardvillc was seri­football is different from Richardville out and work trP.mendous academic and ously injurPd in practice every other program around said. efficiently in athletic success ovnr the past bnforn his thn country Playing for "/ think playing both the four years, and he attributP.s eighth grade because of its Notre Dame football is the best·thing classroom his accomplishments to his footba II sea-"After playing lnterhall. I tradition." for two and on the family.
that has ever happened
In the spring years has football "I love my parents. I love my
s0 n' h ·~ had the urge to increase to me ... " 
couldn't con-of 2005, provided field." four brothnrs. I couldn't have vince his the competition level and Richardville Hiehardville Despite two a better support group," pan~nts to let take the next step." tried out for with many Jake Rlchardville mP.mory-filled Richardville said, "I think my him play the Irish var­memorable years on the family friends and my faith
wide receiver 
football until sity team as a moments. As team, have really enablP.d me to
Jake Richardville 
his senior punter. a walk-on, Hichardvi lin enjoy this expnrienen morn 
wide receiver 
ynar of high "I thought he takes is ready for than anything I ever could school. Once that trying out prido in doing his part to help the next chapter of his life. have imagined." he was out as a specialist the team's defense. After he graduates in the l"rom under their roof, would give me the best oppor­"Whether it be getting a spring with a degree in pre­Contact Ellyn Michalak Hichardville decided to join tunity to make the team. It l"irst down against our number professional science, emichala@nd.edu 

MIKE TALERICO 
Talerico adjusts to life as a walk-on tight end 
in both players to make it back that you were on the team," vail, no matter the odds. strong arm -but only occasion­By TAE ANDREWS on that field -and not as Talerico said. "You just kinda "I honestly have gone through ally. One time he threw the ball 
Sports Writer 
lnterhall players.-kept getting told to show up." every week this year thinking we across the field," Talerico said. Gillett said, 'Why not try to From there, Talerico had to were going to win," Talerico "A<> the ball was let go, he said, 
During his freshman year, Mike walk on with new coaching?"' make two new adjustments: said. "All my non-football friends 'Get there.' He wasn't sure it had Talerico played lntP.rhall li1otball Talerico recalled. "So we went to learning how to play tight end, think I'm crazy, like 'Do you enough juice. Everybody heard for Knott Hall with his buddy the first tryouts, and I was really and learning how to play football think you can win this season?' it. But it got there. So needless to Justin Gillett. The Juggerknotts nervous. I think I hyperventilated at Division I speed. As an offen­And I'm like, 'Yeah.' I always say, we have a lot of fun and jokerumbled all the way inside Notre during stretching." sive lineman in high school, he believe in our game plan. We around." Damn Stadium that year, but After exhausting regimens of concerned himself primarily with worked hard in practice. A pre-professional major,thP.y lost thnir championship plyometrics and what Talerico blocking schemes. As a tight end, "I feel like over the past three Talerico plans on becoming a game to Kennan in overtime on a calls "devil work" -body weight Talerico had to learn how to read years we've worked harder in doctor one day. Besides his best missed nxtra point. exercisP.s such as endless coverages and run pass routes -practice this season than we friend Gillett, he counts fellow 
Talerico and (;illett loft the pushups and sit-ups -the two at a quick pace. have ever, and so it's really frus­walk-ons Nick Possley, Brandon Stadium in defeat that day, but successfully walked on the team. "The adjustment from high trating to see all that effort and Erickson and William David the loss ignitml a burning drive "They never really told you school to college, everyone's just then not have the usual results Williams as some of his closest 
hitting that much harder, faster," we've gotten. It's easy to get cronies on the team. Talerico said. "The first spring down. I hate the feeling when we lie still recalls the epic and was really hard, but after that walk in the locker room after devastating home Joss against you just get tucked into it. games, it's just horrible. I can't USC in 2005 as the single most Everything slows down, as they even describe it." mmnorable nxperiP.nce of his say, cliehed, but it happens." Despite mounting criticism earner. 
Talerico said Irish tight ends from the naysayers, Talerico said "We eame baek in and changed such as Anthony Fasano, Marcus Weis continup,s to kP.ep a good our jerseys, and Hhema Freeman and current starter attitude. McKnight said, 'I got something John Carlson played a huge role "He jokes around a lot during for you guys,"' Talerico said. in helping him make the transi­our stretching," Talerico said. "And we all had our green jer­tion. "I le'll walk around, and he'll give seys laid out. If it wasn't a hyped 
"They were just really great people a hard time. I le's a very game already, then this was guys, really helpful," Talerico entertaining character, and lw ridiculous. We all WP.nt down the said. "They were there to help always inserts humor, or tries to. tunnP.I and some of' us p1wked you if you had any questions. It's always a lot of fun. I le's defi­out and tlw erowd saw us, and Carlson played a big brother role nitely a tough coach, whatP.ver just hearing the roar of the when I walked on, so I'd say he's he wants to get out of' you guys crowd -it's giving me goose­a guy I'm pretty dose to. He defi­he'll let us know if he doesn't bumps right now. Just running nitely made you feel like one of think we have it. So he's pretty out thore and hearing it-it was the guys, so the transition went on the ball in terms of what lw just dP.afP.ning. okay." wants to got out of us that week." "Just warming up, I throw the 
After the successes of the past Talerico himself said he's had a ball around with Justin Gillett two years, this season was a jar­few fun moments even amid the and Nick Posslny and just playing ring transition for Talerico and negativity surrounding this sea­cateh on the field in front of company. son, The self-deprecating big 80,000 peoph~ warming up, it's a 
"It definitely has been a lesson man said that watching scout pretty once-in-a-lifetirl1!~ thing in humility, trials and tribulations film produces funny moments every time it happens." as [Charlie Weis] would say," because of the blunders playp,rs Talerico said. make. lie mentioned one 
Irish tight end Mike Talerico concentrates during warm-ups He remains steadfast in his moment in particular. Contact Tae Andrews at before last Saturday's 41-24 loss to Air Force. belief that Notro Dame will pre-"Justin Gillett, he has a great, tandrew1 @nd.edu 
Please 

Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 17 
TREVOR LAws 
Goittg out in style 
Defensive end returned for a fifth year, becoming a vocal leader on and off the football field 
season. 
By JAY FITZPATRICK 
In football, Laws made consis­Associate Sports Editor 
tent appearances on various foot­
ball recruiting lists, and was 
Last season. Trevor Laws was named an ESPN .eom and USA part of an all-senior defensive Today prep All-American. Laws linn for Notre Dame as a defen­was rated the No. 2 defensive sive taekle. But after taekle taekle in the country his senior f)p,rnk Landri and ends Vietor season and earned .Gatorade Abiamiri and Chris Frome gradu­player of the year honors in atnd, Laws was the only experi­Minnesota. enced defensive lineman on When eolleges came to recruit Notre Dame's roster who could Laws, he knew that he wanted to rdurn f(lr a fifth year. go to a Big Ten sehool so that he 
Laws took that fifth year to try could be elose to home; Notre to improve his play on a solid Dame wasn't on his initial list. t<1arn. but instead has been onn of "I wasn't always a Notre Dame tlw top players on one of thn fan, and when I first got the letter worst teams in thn nation. to eome here I didn't know if that 
But he wouldn't trade it in for was the right decision for me," anything. he said. 
"If could go baek in tirno, I But when he sat down and would make tlw exa<t same deci­thought about it, Laws decided sion because I've had great that Notre Dame's combination of monwnts with my good friends athletics and academies -he herP," lw said. was a member of the National 
llonor Sodety in high sehool ­life before Weis made it a good plaee to go. 
I ,aws eame out of Apple Valley When Laws entered the High Sehool in Apple Valley, University, he played his first two Minn., as one of the top recruits seasons under eoaeh Tyrone from Minnesota -even though Willingham. He did not get on the his team was field as a fresh­


nevor one of the man and fin­
best in the state. "Ifcould go back ished his sopho­culture shock but you get used to should even take the fifth year. down the line and saw all the "Apple Valley in time, I would more season it fast," Laws said. "And [defen­But he said that he has a lot of new faces and knew that it was lligh Sehool was a with 17 tackles, sive line] coach [Jappy] Oliver friends in the flfth-year class, and up to me to help teach these guys 
make the exact same 
great plaee. We two pass break­has been a great position coach, they decided to play one more how to play football," Laws said.
decision because I've 
were never really ups and a forced it's been great having him with year together. "At flrst it was tough with guys that good, but we had great moments fumble. me." "In the end, we decided it learning their positions and played hard every W h e n Laws took immediate advan­would be the best for all of us to everything and learning how to
with my goodfriends
game," he said. Willingham was tage of the new system, earning a come back and play another year play, but now it's a point in the
here."

Laws played on flred on Nov. 30, starting job as a defensive tackle at Notre Dame, another year for season where guys are playing both sides of the 2004, Laws said in his junior season. Laws started each other and also at the same great football and I don't have to ball in high sehool Trevor Laws he was shocked. all 12 games on the defensive time elevate ourselves in the say anything anymore." as a versatile line­"It was tough; line but netted only 33 tackles draft for next year," he said. Laws said that he expected the 
Irish defensive end 
man on offense I dido 't see it and 1 1/2 sacks. Still, when Corwin Brown came team to struggle because of the and as a tackle on coming at all. Even though Laws had relative­in and brought his 3-4 personnel losses on the ofl'ensive side of the dnfense -although he made his Coming to Notre Dame you think ly modest numbers, his coaches defense, everything changed for ball but never would have name as a defensive standout. you're going to be with this guy still saw the potential he had to Laws. thought the team could have 
As a senior. Laws had 87 tack­you're whole eareer and then he be a top-tier defensive player. been this bad. Moreover, he said les. 11 saeks. Before that, he had gets fired," he said. "So it's tough, "Even when I first got here I Elder statesman that his solid season -98 tack­R5 tackles, 10 sacks and 25 tack­but lcoaeh Charlie] Weis eame in have always thought that Trevor Laws has been one of the play­les, two sacks, two fumble recov­les for loss as a junior -enough and we had sueh a successful was a great technician. I really ers most affected by the new eries and five pass breakups ­to make him a first team all-state year and thought this was going have," Oliver said. defensive seheme. Laws said that eannot overshadow the team's selection. to be great so that made it easier. Oliver also said that Laws has he sees himself as more of a performance. 
But in high school, football may But it's always tough losing some been relentless -especially this defensive tackle in a 4-3, but had "I will never feel good about not have been Laws' best sport. of your eoaehes." season -in trying to make a big to make the adjustment to play­this season, but maybe in the lin finished his high school play on every down. ing end. future it will be easier to look wrestling eareer as a three-time Becoming a star "The one thing I've tried to do To prepare for the change, back on myself and see the posi­all-American with a 142-5 When Weis took over, Laws is get him to trust his instincts, Laws said, he lost some weight tives," Laws said. "But I will record, induding an undefeated said, it took some adjusting to the because Trevor has great and did drills to increase his never be OK with the way we 49-0 campaign as tho top-rankf)d new eoach 's personality. instincts," Oliver said. "And a lot speed and mobility because he played," he said. super-heavyweight in his junior "It was definitely a little bit of of players do not trust them; they would have more room to work But one of the toughest parts of 
get a feel for it, but that's what with on the end. being the lone senior on such a it's all about. If you sense some­Weis said that even though young defensive line has been thing, trust your instincts and go Laws is listed as an end, he has focusing on this season's final play." played every position on the line four games -his last at Notre 
Weis said that Laws reminds this season -something that will Dame. him of a lot of the great defensive help him at the next level. "Some people are saying 'I'm tackles he faced as an ofl'ensive "He's played both inside and looking forward to next year, this coordinator for the New England outside both left and right this is the beginning of next year,' or Patriots. year so what he's something like 
"l-Ie's a very disruptive inside really done is he's that and I don't player because he's not only elevated his sta­"Even when I first want to think short but he's powerful and quiek tus," Weis said. "He got here I have about it that off' the ball and the schemes of can play left defen­way," Laws
always thought that
the teams that we were coaching sive tackle, right said. "The way had a lot more of the two-gap defensive tackle, Trevor was a great I do think about type players," Weis said. "He's left end or right technician. I really it sometimes is definitely more a prototypical 4-3 end. So he's really just helping
have."

inside defensive lineman. There's helped himself, younger guys a whole bunch that he reminds rather than get because it is my me of -those pain in the butts pigeonholed at just Jappy Oliver team and that are always in the backfield." one spot." Irish defensive line coach they're going to 
Laws played well in 2006 But the biggest be playing next alongside· fellow seniors change was not year for my Abiamiri, Landri and Frome. He from tackle to end, but in becom­sehool, so just helping them had 62 tackles, 3 1/2 sacks, 9 1/2 ing one of the leaders on the along and playing hard these last tackles for loss and a forced fum­field. four games." ble. This year's Irish defensive line 
But things all changed this sea­is filled with young, inexperi­Editor's note: This article origi­son since his teammates on the enced players -except for Laws nally ran in the Nov. 2 issue of line all left -and so did defen­and nose tackle Pat Kuntz -so The Observer. sive coordinator Riek Minter. Laws took it on himself to be the 
One of the most important deci­leader of that group. Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at sions for Laws was whether he "During spring ball ... I looked jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
-

page 18 Friday, November 16, 2007 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
GEOFF PRICE 

Price gets back lost job with hard work 
Punter would like to try skills at next level 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Wri1~r 
It was tlw wnPk of (;noll' Prien's tilth gamP of his tilth year. And lw got pm;spd on Uw dPpth r.hart. 
Irish roa('h Charlin Wnis announcPd that sophomore punt«>r l·:ric Maust would take ovnr t.lw punting dutiPs liw Notn• I>amn allPr Prien got oll'to a wobbly start no onn saw coming. 
Tlw gradual«> with a dngrnP in linanco lhnn llurst. Tnxas. was a mPmbPr of tlu~ pn•spason wat('h list I( w thP Hay ( ;uy Award allnr finish­ing 21)()(, in thP top I0 nationally liw punting awragP. And that mnw in his first season n•placing vntnran puntnr and pla('PkickPr 1> ..1. l.'itzpatri('k. 
But PrirP was inronsistnnt in Notn• l>anw's first li1ur ganws this snason, and WPis was ready to makn a swit('h. 
"I mnu• into U1i-; war with a lot of high nxpnctations.-both mysPif and a lot of ouL-;idP pmssurn was on nw," Pri('P said. "... I don't w<mt to say it atli~dPd mP; mayf:>l~ it did SUb­mnsdousfy btwausn I knew I just nPndnd to go out UlPre and do a job cu1d if I did it. thos.~ typns of things would come. UnliJrtunatdy it didn't happen mul it was a vnry htmlbling nxpnrinncn. It's sonwthing Umt you nnver as an athlntn over wm1t to go Ummgh." 
But he did -1md he hllllncnd back immndiatdy. 
Wnis rnleased the d1~pth chart with Prien at No. 2 the Tuesday bnforn the Purdtw game. Maust puntnd three times against the Boilorrnaknrs. but Price took it in stricto, so to spPa.k. 
"It W<L<.; tough, but I've benn hnrn so long and my mum~·s hl)lm snmnd on thn dnpth chart fill" so long. Not to say that I'm used to it," lw said. 
Tlw fifth-year s1mior had three straight strong practices the nnxt wonk <md won bal'.k tlm starting job by thn time thP UClA gamn woek­nnd roiiPd around. 
Pri('n proved his worth. lin puntPd ni1w timns in P<L-;adnna liw an avor­agn of 40.3 yards but a morn impn•ssiw thrPn kkks that wound up insidP the Bruins' 20. 
"I think that this is just anotlwr monwnt in my earner that shows thn advnrsity and what I have to go through," Prien said. "It's jll'it a situ­ation wlwre you have to push through <md ovnrconm. And I think I was l'ortunat11 just to go back to b<L<.;il:s." 
Prif:p's success in 2()()(, canm ti·om just that. IIn praetil:nd shortPning his stridns by placing a town! in front of him in the summer after Notrn l>anw's loss to Ohio State in tlw Finsta Bowl. That propnlled him to thn top of many charl'i of the best senior punters. But 2()()7 has bmm morn ol'a challenge. 
"The ynar be!hrn was just such a gnmt ynar. Everything iliat eould go right did go right," Priee said of the 2006 season. "I know them were occa'>ional battles, but lor ilie most part it wa'> a great seac;on. It was a 1-,rreat sea'ion all around." 
Price punted 50 times in 2006 with a 45.4-yard average, six touch­backs and 12 kicks that ended up inside the opponent's 20-yard line. This season, he has 54 punts. a 41.9-yard average, 11 inside 20 <Uld only two touchbacks. 
Though hi'i average is down, Price is happy with his lower touchbaeks and the team's spot at No. 15 nationally in net punting -which nw<L'iurns not only where the punt l<mds but also how lhr it L'> rnturned, thus accounting liw hang time. 
"Even though I've started oil'slow­ly, this is one U1ing when• I ean lnarn whnn1 I've ovnreomn, I've kept pushing up," Price said. " ... I've ]parnnd how to dna] with tlw down cu1d I've pushed through it and kept going." 
And he still sees the bright side ol' his decision to como back liw a filth year. even if hL-; NFL prospect.-; have not improved. 
"Me coming to Notre Dame was not just about playing time. I mme to Notre Dame because il's Notre Dmnn <uul iliere wnrn otlwr tl1ings I wanted to accomplish even more than just football --getting a degree, getting a well-rounded education <Uld so li>rili." 
But he hopPs his playing days aren't over. 
"I would like to potentially try the next level," Price said. "If I make it, I make it, that's groat. But I want to just-for self justification-to say that I tried. I would like to try." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


J.J. JANSEN 

Jansen not one for publicity, likes anonymity 
"I don't like to see my name As a freshman, Jansen did is clear when he reflects on football and school, he taught
By LORENZO REYES 

out there. It's nice not to not see any action as a reserve his career. me to put forth my full effort 
Sports Wrilcr 

worry about it. I'd rather have long snapper. The following What was his proudest indi­and do everything with the credit go to the great kick­year, the Phoenix, Ariz., native vidual moment at Notre respect." Being a long snapper is a lot ers on our team. I pride myself started the last seven games of Dame? Coming from a tight-knit like being a referee. when they do well, and hurt the season, replacing Dan "That's a tough question," family, Jansen is not afraid to 
If a long snapper is doing his for them when they do poorly. Hickey as the long snapper on Jansen said. "I would say my share every aspect of his life job correctly, no one will ever I'm just very comfortable with punts and field goals. As a proudest moment was when with his father. know who he is. But one mis­who I am. Sometimes I actual­starter in his sophomore year, Geoff [Price] broke the all­"I turn to him to ask ques­take will define his career. ly think the anonymity makes he was perfect on all 71 time record tions about 
Irish senior long snapper playing more enjoyable." snaps. in a season anything," 
J.J. Jansen wouldn't have it But whether or not he'll As a junior, Jansen was the for punting Jansen said. any other way. admit it, Jansen has made only long snapper who played average. It "/ try to be even keeled "When I'm 
"For the most part, I'm com­major contributions to Notre for the Irish, once again !law­r e a I I y with each snap, just relax not meeting fortable with it," Jansen said. Dame. lessly snapping on 115 showed all my own
and have fun while I'm 
attempts throughout the sea­the hard expectations,
out there."
son for place kicker Carl Gioia work we put he is a great and punter Geoff Price. into our sounding Coming into his senior sea­efforts." board to talk
J.J. Jansen 
son, Jansen was widely con­Jansen things out. I
Irish long snapper 
sidered one of the nation's derived don't have to most accurate and consistent much of his hide anything long snappers. The one blun­demeanor, from him. It's der in his Notre Dame career work ethic and success from easy to turn to him when I came this season against his father, Hiek Jansen, who need some honest advice." Boston College when he he considers one of the pri­Once Jansen graduates, he snapped the ball low. That mary models in his life. wants to continun playing causPd Price to field the snap "My dad inspires me the football l'or as long as he can, with his knee most," Jansen and hopes to land a spot in the on the ground, said. "I look NFL as a long snapper. which marked up to him to "I'm excited to see what the play dead. "/ don't like to see my model my life happens," Janson said. ''I'm 
J a n s e n in all aspects, going to play it by ear, but my
name out there. It's nice 
attributes his be it football, first goal is del'initnly tlw 
not to have to worry
solid long snap academics or NFL." success rate to about it." relationships." Whether Jansen makes it to focus, relax­Of all the the next levnl. he ean be sure ation and self­J.J. Jansen lessons Hick his father will be thnre by his confidence. Jansen taught side, making surn he maxi­
Irish long snapper 
"I try to treat his son, the mizes his potential. everything as senior long "He showed me that I should one play at a s n a p p e r never quit on anything, time," Jansen remembers regardless of how bad it was said. "I try to be even keeled one in particular. at the time," Jansen said. "It with each snap, just relax and "The most important life les­was never an option." have fun while I'm out there." son he taught me was to work 
Jansen's sel!less and humble hard at everything I do," Contact Lorenzo Reyes at sense of his accomplishments Jansen said. "With friends, lreyes@nd.edu 
-


Friday, November 16, 2007 page 19
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
BRANDON ERICKSON 
Wide outworks through brokenbones, tough losses 

callod back around midnight, "Hp,'s quiet for the most
Despite a painfulfoot, 
Wnis told her that Brandon part," Erickson said. "lie yells had sul"l'erc~d one or the worst, a little bit, but not too much.
Erickson remained 
if' not the worst, injury he had lie doesn't make rash judg­dedicated to his team ever seen. ments. lie kind of holds back, "My mom freaked," Erickson takes it all in. then he'll watch said. "Even though Weis told the l'ilm and give you his cri­
By TAE ANDREWS 
her I was OK, and her and my tique at practice the next
Sports Wrirer 
dad drovn up here to see me day." the next day." Over the past three years, 
Brandon l·:rir.kson knows Not one to lay around idle, Erickson has seen Weis' excit­hospitals. Maybe that's why lw Erickson left the hospital the ing reinvigoration of the Notre wants to work in one someday. morning after his surgery and Dame football program from 
The walk-on wide reeniver went to class. Irritated that the inside. One part of that and pre-prol"nssional major Erickson had left the hospital means learning a lot from from Marlboro, N.J .. suffered so soon, Weis called him and coaches who demand a lot. a bad ankle break in practice ordered him to go to the inllr­"They'll get on you about after a c~ollision with running mary for the weekend. The stupid stuff sometimes," baek Travis Thomas following ankle continues to bother Erickson said. "If there's real­last year's Georgia Tnch game. Erickson today. ly nothing to yell at you for. 
Irish wide receiver Brandon Erickson stretches before Notre Dame's
"Travis hit me on a crossing "It hurt a lot, still hurts, they always lind something to 
41-24 loss to Air Force on Nov. 10.
route, spun me the other actually," Erickson said. "I got yell at you for. Obviously, you way," Erickson said. two screws and a plate in never can be perfect, so they 
As soon as Erickson suffered there." make sure you know that." throws so fast. I mean, he's iors and walk-ons Nick the break, team trainers Despite the hard knocks, Having coaches with such a accurate, and he can put it Possley, Mike Talerico and rushed him to the hospital, broken bones and new hard­perfectionist work ethic has wherever. Wherever you want Justin Gillett among his best and he underwent surgery. As ware, there's no keeping him convinced Erickson that the him to, he can put it, but if friends on the team, plus the trainers attended to him, off the team. After playing future of Notre Dame football you're not ready for it, it will quarterback Darrin Bragg. Erickson recalls literally football in high school, remains bright, despite the definitely hurt you." Despite all the losing in one telling them to turn his man­Erickson realized during his team's abysmal record this Having made a full recovery of Notre Dame's worst seasons gled leg bar.k around. "Clearly, freshman year that he could­season. from the ankle injury, in history, Erickson said he's that was impossible," he said, n't be happy watching from "It's gonna be a good pro­Erickson continues to face still having a good time "but I didn't want to undergo the stands. gram," he said. "They're good risks on the field and in prac­because of the bonds he has surgery at all." "I just kind of missed the coaches. They know what tice, but he says he does it for with those friends. 
Given that Erickson didn't game a lot," he said. "I tried they're doing." the friends he's made during "You're still having fun. have time to even eall his par­to walk on and Weis came in Another part of playing wide his time on the team. you're still playing with the ents and let them know what at the same time with a new receiver during the recent "It's just cool to go out there same guys, having a good had happoned, fellow New walk-on class, you know, he Irish resurgence meant being with all the seniors every day, time," he said. "It's kind of .!Prsey nativo and coach was doing everything new, so on the receiving end of former all the guys I've been here something... you stick to it. You Charlin Weis ealled Erickson's he took a couple of us.... It quarterback Brady Quinn's with for a couple years, and don't want to quit at anything mother and loft her a message worked out well for me." bullet-like passes. just go out and have a good you do, ever, so stick to it." saying that Brandon was OK Erickson said the real Weis "You know, honestly, the time," he said. "Because with­but had been injured in prac­is very different from the first time I came in from high out them, it wouldn't be fun. It tice. brash, outspoken image many school I almost broke my fin­wouldn't be worth it." Contact Tae Andrews at 
When Erickson's mother people have of him. gers," Erickson said. "He Erickson counts fellow sen-tandrew1@nd.edu 
NICK POSSLEY 
Receiver, ROTC member does double-duty 
had received earlier from the After learning just two days coaches and players, leaders Possley has since made the By MATT GAMBER thousands gathered in the in advance that he was slated and followers, and I'm filling traveling squad and has seen Sports Writer Joyce Center. to address the both roles, special teams action in several 
"My dad just texted me one crowd, a nerv­which has games for the Irish during the 
Three hours after becoming word: 'Unbelievable,"' said ous Possley "I didn't want my been as valu­past two seasons. the first walk-on in recent Possley, a senior wide receiver prepared a dad taking pictures; I able as any­"Somebody must have put in memory to speak at a pre-game and Navy ROTC member whom speech in thing I could've a good word for me at some
just wanted him to 
pep rally, Nick Possley read a coach Charlie Weis asked to which he gotten just point along the way," Possley text message that struck him speak at the Navy pep rally on would recog­enjoy it. It was fun, from ROTC." said of how his role increased. even more than the ovation he Nov. 2. nize his fellow and I'll never Possley, an "I had to catch a break, every­walk-ons, all-area wide body does, but if you work hard
forget it. " 

praise the receiver as a and you're ready to capitalize Navy tradi-senior at on it, good things will happen."
Nick Possley 

tions, and even Wheaton­And, Possley hopes, they will throw in "a lit­wide receiver Warrenville continue to happen in his post­tle bit of self-South High graduate career. He will travel deprecating School, said he to Washington, D.C., later this humor" for good measure. had "no intention month seeking What he didn't do, however, to play football in approval to was tell his family about it. college," but ''I've been so attend nuclear "I knew Iseveral relatives] watching a sea­power school in
fortunate to play and 
were coming, so I figured I'd son from the preparation for
be a part of this
surprise them," said Possley, a stands changed a career in sub­Wheaton, Ill., native. "I didn't his mind. Possley team." marines. want my dad taking pictures; I began attending Hegardless of just wanted him to enjoy it. It off-season work­Nick Possley What his future was fun, and I'll never forget outs in the spring wide receiver holds, Possley it." of his freshman will look back 
Possley's public speaking year, eventually on his times at debut marked the culmination securing a place on the roster. Notre Dame, especially those of more than "As long as we spent with the football team, three years of were abl!l to with both pride and apprecia­balancing not hang around and tion. In fact, he's already begun
"As long as we 
only daily foot­not hurt each to do so. 
were able to hang
ball workouts other, [we walk­''I've been so fortunate to and academic around and not hurt ons] were good play and be a part of this commitments, each other, /we to go," Possley team," Possley said. "This has but also the said. "The main made me realize, more than
walk-ons] were good
rigors of the thing was I just anything, that sports are some­Navy ROTC to go." missed being on thing I love and always want to program. a team, being a be a part of. I wasn't happy
Nick Possley 

"ROTC has part of a group of when I wasn't part of a sport, been really wide receiver guys and having and this has been very fulfilling accommodat-that special bond me. I don't regret anything, and ing, letting me that you get, at I'd definitely do it all over get out of most everything," loast for me, from playing a again." 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 

Possley said. "Football, in turn. sport. I couldn't find that any­Notre Dame senior receiver Nick Possley, right, works with fel­has sPrved as a lot of IPader­where p)se, so I llgurnd I'd give Contact Matt Gamber at low wide out Golden Tate in practice on Oct. 4. ship ~raining. I'm observing it a shot." mgamber@nd.edu 
Friday, November 16, 2007

page 20 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
WADE lAMS 

Med school looms after football career 

Senior defensive back learned to balance time between class, football 
By FRAN TOLAN Spans Wrirer 

Irish reserve dnfensive back Wade lams has never taken the lield on a Notre Dame football Saturday. lie has playml on the "look" squad every week during practice for four ynars, simulat­ing the defnnses of upcoming Irish opponnnts. So of course lams wondnrs what life would be like had he not chosen to walk onto thn tnam as a fresh­man. 
"It would be VPry dif'f'ieult tomorrow to go back and start it all OV(~r again," lams said. "But you nnver want to quit." 
lams, a senior biology major, said he has not even had pre­ly learn to manage your time." 
Despite the difTiculties of being a walk-on, lams said, he would not have had his best friends and memories if not for football. 
Some of his closest friends an~ 
f(dlow walk-on defensive backs. Jams said his favorite teammates are reserve defen­sive backs William David Williams, Mike Anello and John Lnonis. lie also lives with a former Irish 
walk-on,  Alvin  
Heynolds,  at  tlw  
Clover  Hidgn  
Apartmnnts.  

lams also said his favorite time at 
f'nrn~d sehedul­"Everybody going to And lams. a ing wlwn decid­Mishawaka
med school is trying 
ing his elasses native, has seen 
to get the 'thing' on
during some of' his share of Irish his semesters at their resume. Mine football ganws. Notre Damn. IIis father. a I<JS I
is football. " 
"Some semes­Notrn Damn ters we've had graduate, played preferred sched­Wade lams baseball for the uling and some Irish defensive back Irish and fre­we haven't," quently reeeives lams said. tickets from tlw "Senwsters whnn Wl~ don't. Monogram Club. walk-ons are allowed to miss "I came to a lot of Notre Dame some meetings. But you definite-football games ... so my whole family loves Notre Dame," lams said. "Every week, those tickets are spoken for." 
And even though his family eonws every week to see him on the sidelines, he frequently returns home. lams said he 
nnjoys going

"It would be very 
back to Penn

d{/]icult tomorrow lligh School in 
to go back and start Granger whnre hn
it all over again, but 
starrnd both 

you never want 
football and 

to quit." baseball -to sen his younger brotlwr's foot­
Wade lams 
ball gamns.

Irish defensive back 
This season, 

Notre Dame was the 2005 ganw against USC. "That was the most Plnetric l'v<' ever seen campus," lams 
said. "It  was  awnsomn  that  
wneknnd.  just  
amazing."  

Irish coach 
Charlie WPis awarded lams a scholarship for tlw senior's dedieation to tlw Irish. And that extra m OIH~Y eould be useful, as lams plans to head to mndical sdwol after graduation. lams said lw knows his time at Notre Danw has prn­pan~d him wnll for his futuro education. And lw hopes it will mak<~ it easier for him to stand out among aspiring doctors. 
"Everybody going to med school is trying to get the 'thing' on their rnsunw," lams said. "Mine is football." 
And judging from his work ethic with the Irish. lams has earned any advantage that lw ean get. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
NEIL KENNEDY 

Irish lineman draws inspiration from parents 
three years on the team. And I went the wrong way on a to keep in touch with his Corby's on a Tuesday night.By JARED ]EDICK 
yet his experience of being stunt," Kennedy said. younger sister Maureen, who "I go home, I go eat, and Sporrs Wrircr 
part of the team and part of "[Former Irish defensive coor­is in college, start home­Notre Dame tradition has left dinator] Rick Minter was in and his younger work. That is Dedication and hard work an indelible mark on the sen­my facemask just screaming brother Phillip, it," Kennedy
"It was probably the 
define the character of nose ior. at me." who is back at s a i d taekln Neil Kennedy. And it all starts with the first But the perseverance that is Kennedy's alma loneliest I have ever "Sometimes it A walk-on since his sopho­play he ever partieipated in second-nature to Kennedy mater, Brophy is only 11:30
felt among 8o,ooo 
more year. Kennedy has during practice. pushed him to the culmination Prep, in !when I get to
people. There are only
played in only one game in his "It was a goal-line play, and of his football career as a jun­Phoenix. bed I. some­ior when he played against Kennedy's 2 2 people on times it is three Army on Irish senior day in workload is sub­or four o'cloek
the field. " 
2006. stantial: lie is a in the morn­"It was probably the loneli­mechanical ing."
Neil Kennedy 
est I have ever felt among engineering Kennedy's 80,000 people," Kennedy said. major despite Irish defensive lineman hard work has "There are only 22 people on the huge time paid ofT, how-the field." commitment the ever, as he 
Kennedy, who came from a football tnam demands. expects to graduate on time humble background in "I get more sleep than most and has landed a job with Phoenix, said his mom and people think," Kennedy joked. Stryker Endoscopy in San dad are his The key to .Jose, Calif. herons in balancing The relationships Kennedy life. football and has formed as a part of t.he
"My dad is one ofmy
"My dad is schoolwork, team are some of the most one of my biggest influences in foot­KP-nnndy important expnrinnces that he biggest influ­said. is using takes away from his four
ball. lie played football all 
encns in a day plan­years hern. lin ermlits his girl­
the way through and went
football. II(~ ner. friend, Sarah Lavnlln, and fPI­played foot­on to junior college. My "I litP-rally Iow football player and ball all the seheduln out mechanical engi llPIH" .I ust in
mom works two or three 
way through every hour Gillott as being kny to his sw:­
jobs putting us three kids 
and went on and minute eess. 
to junior col­through Catholic high of each day," "l(;illntt and II spn1Hl about 
I e g e , " he said. 18 hours a day tognther,"
school and Catholic 
Ke II II e d y The vast KPnnedy said.
college. She works her 
said. "My amount of As the final game of his mom works butt off." t i Ill (1 earner approaches, KPnnPdy two or thnw required to is drawn hack into his work­jobs putting suceeed in man-likn approach to his lif'P
Neil Kennedy 
us three kids his eiHleav­and his tPam.
Irish defensive lineman 
through urs has made "All you can do it conw bark Catholic high KPnnedy's tlw IH:xt day and gPt work­school and Notre Danw ing." KPnnPdy said. "That is Catholie eollngo. She works Pxpnrinncn dif'fprent from all you can do." her butt ofT." most of' his classmates and 
llis dose-knit family is teammates. lin's nevnr bnPn to Contact Jared Jedick at important to Kemwdy; lw tries Fnvnr on a Thursday night or jjedick@nd.edu
-

Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 21 


LEO FERRINE 
Cornerback adjusts to cut in playing time 
Dame throughout high school. Bend.
By GREG ARBOGAST 
After not playing in 2004, his Ferrine said that academics 
Sports Writer 
first year in South Bend, Perrine played a large part in his attrac­looked ready to assume a bigger tion to Notre Dame, and the New Syracuse quarterback Perry role starting his Jersey native has Paterson dropped back, surveyed second year. In appreciated his
"We didn't come in
tho /iold and fired a pass to the 2005, Perrine classes as a Film, lPf"t flat. Leo Ferrine was ready. played in all 12 with a lot of Television and The rod-shirt freshman corner­games, started Theatre major. 
expectations, and we
back cut in front of the wide against Purdue "Academically, roerdver, and Fnrrine returned and recorded 22 proved a lot ofpeople [my time here] the pass for a 16-yard touch­tackles (17 solo) wrong. " helped me meet down. on the season. a lot of different "Everything happened so fast, "In terms of people, people
Leo Ferrine 

you don't even realize you're individual stuff I've met in the 
Irish cornerback 
doing it," Fnrrine said. "All I and team stuff. television and rPmemlwr is my teammatns that was. the best film industry," jumping on me and then going to year," Ferrine Perrine said. tlw sidnline and being congratu­said. "We didn't come in with a "Hopefully, I want to go home to lated by my position coach and lot of expectations, and we the New York metropolitan area dnfnnsiw coordinator. That was proved a lot of people wrong." and just get into the film industry my rod-shirt freshman year, so I But Ferrine's career did not there. was likn, 'If I can do this now, I continue on an upward trajectory "I want to be on television, like can do it for a after the Fox Sports and that, but it has to lot of years to 2005 season. start small at first. It doesn't mat­cmne."' "You have to do A combina­ter at first, but [I want to be on 
Unfortunately everything for yourselfin tion of a nag­television] at the end." for Ferrinn, that ging ham­Working through tough times
college. Live by yourself
play against string injury at Notre Dame, Perrine said, Syracuse in Get around by yourself and competi­made him grow up. 2005 was less a You got to be a real man tion from "I came in the youngest in my sign of things to younger play­family, so I came in thinking I'd
to go into the world and I 
come than a ers has limit­get whatever I want, just keep temporary high learned that in college." ed the cor­asking and people will give you in a Notre Dame nerback to what you want," Perrine said. career that has action in only "You have to do everything for 
Leo Ferrine 
soon numerous 15 games yourself in college. live by your­
Irish cornerback 
ups and downs. over the past self. Get around by yourself. You 
Even though two seasons. got to be a real man to go into lw was forced to switch high Although his Notre Dame expe­the world, and I learned that in schools before his senior year, rience may not have gone as college." causing many universities to lose planned on the football field, recruiting contact with him, Perrine has benefited in other Contact Greg Arbogast at Ferrine was tracked by Notre ways during his time in South garbogas@nd.edu 

ons whom Irish coach Charlie  Williams worked throughout  size and they say, 'You on  America provides students  
By JAY FITZPATRICK  Weis awarded scholarships  his high school career and  Notre Dame football team,  who just got out of school to  
Associate Sports Editor  this fall.  freshman year to get on the  what?'" Williams-said. "So just  really help out, to help kids  
"It was such an honor, not  football team -a goal he has  being there and working that  who don't really have the  
This summer, William David  necessarily for the money, but  had his whole life.  hard and seeing that I could  same opportunities that we  
Williams received a scholar­ more so for what it what it  Williams attended Millbrook  impress [Weis] the way that I  have, don't have the same  
ship to play football at Notre  meant for me -kind of like  High School in Raleigh, N.C.,  did.... Its amazing."  resources, and they need that  
Dame. The thing is, he's been  vindication for everything I've  where he was a standout on  Williams said that when one  one influence."  
on the team for three years.  been through," Williams said.  the football team. He was  of the physical trainers told  Williams said that one of the  
Williams, long snapper J. J.  "Not saying that other things  named to the academic all­ him he was on the team, he  biggest reasons he has such a  
Jansen, cornerback Wade  didn't pay out, but it felt like,  conference teams in football  could not put into words that  passion for others is because  
lams and guard Thomas  'Man, everything I'm doing is  twice and four times in track.  feeling because it was so emo­ of the influence his mother - 
Bemenderfer were four walk- really paying off."'  During his senior season,  tional.  Antoinette Bailey Williams.  
Williams was captain of the  "It's hard to put into words,  He said that she was a huge  
Millbrook football team.  but I'd say exhilarating," he  part of his life when he was  
Williams said his coaches at  said. "It shows me that I made  growing up. She was a con­ 
Millbrook wanted him to look  the right decision to try out for  stant presence at all of his  
at going to some Division III  the Notre Dame football team  athletic events and "always  
schools, but Williams always  and that I have what it takes  had cupcakes for the mom's  
had higher aspirations for  to be on the Notre Dame foot­ club," Williams said.  
himself.  ball team."  "It's kind of tough because  
"I knew that I had the aca­ Williams, who is a business  she really is disabl~d so she  
demic qualifications to go to a  major and had a GPA of 3.893  can't really work," he said.  
place like Notre Dame, but I  during the 2006-07 school  "She really is just a homemak­ 
always wanted to go some­ year, said that being a football  er, but that is a job within  
where were football was a  player is just one aspect of his  itself and she always does it to  
mainstay at the university and  life at Notre Dame.  the best of her abilities.  
also I could be well rounded in  "The rigors of being at Notre  People think of money being  
spirituality and academics as  Dame are already tough, but  attached to a job, but I think  
well," he said.  it's the passion that I have  that's one of the best jobs a  
Williams tried out for the  inside of me to always try to  person can do."  
Irish during the spring of"his  be the best I can be at any­ But at Notre Dame, Williams  
freshman year after playing a  thing I put my mind to and I  said, he has always felt like he  
year of Interhall football for  wasn't going to let my aca­ was part of a larger communi­ 
Alumni Hall.  demics slide for football or  ty that always has nothing but  
He checked every day with  anything," he said.  respect for everyone involved.  
the football office to make  Williams said this passion  "!Notre Dame isl one of the  
sure of the details for walk-on  will lead him away from col­ best colleges to go to if you  
tryouts in the spring. And  lege -and football -after  really want to find out who  
when tryouts started, Williams  graduation and into the Teach  you really are and want to dis­ 
knew he had finally reached  for America program.  cover more about yourself,"  
his dream.  Williams hopes to be a part of  he said. "The people here  
Irish coach Charlie Weis,  the program's Oakland chap­ come to respect you. If you go  
then in his first spring prac­ ter.  out and you work your hard­ 
tices, called Williams' number  "I want to go into the work  est, they will come to respect  
as one of the top performers  force for a little while to find  you."  
QUENTIN STENGER!fhe Observer  in the walk-on tryouts.  more about myself, lind what  
Irish cornerback William David Williams backpedals during  "Sometimes people look at  kind of work I want to get  Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at  
Notre Dame's practice on Nov. 14.  my height, they look at my  into," he said. "And Teach for  jfitzpa5@nd.edu  

WILLIAM DAVID WILLIAMS 
Defensive back defies odds, earns scholarship 
~~------~~~­
page 22 Friday, November 16, 2007
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
DARRIN BRAGG 

Fron1 Hollywood to House That Rock Built: Bragg returns 
QB was asked to rejoin team during studio internship at Fox 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Five months ago. Darr·in Bragg wasn't on Notre Dame's football t(~am. Now lw's the third-string quartnrbaek. Over the sumnwr, tlw snnior f'ilm. tlllevision and theater major was an intern at 20th Century Fox under Exneutive Vi(:o l'rnsidnnt of l'roduetion .lim Sharp. Thorn. he workod on Fox hit shows likn "Bones" and "llousn." 
"Prntty mueh nvery day I walked in and hn lot mn do whatnvnr I want," Bragg said. "And whatnver I want, wlwrnPvnr I wanted to go in the eom pany. I got to do." 
Bragg said lw was on a tolevi­sion sPl whnn Notrn Dame Direetor of Football Opnrations Chad Klunder ealled him in .July and asknd him if he would rnturn to tlw Irish. 
"I was in the middle of work and they said. 'We need you to eome baek and play quartnr­baek,"' Bragg said. "And I'm lik(~ 'OK, sure.' Why not? What am I going to say, no'!" 
Bmgg said he was unsure if the eall was true sinen lw had only quit th(1 team two months before he was asked to eome back. 
"I called them back, and I was shocked," he said. "I called [quarterbacks] coach IHonl l'owlus and a couple of other eoaches to make sure they weren't pulling my chain," Bragg said. "I was like, 'Heally'! Are you sure'!'"For Bragg, the truth marked the end of a wide drde. 
Former !wad coach Tyrone Willingham recruited Bragg as a quarterback out of Bellarminn l'rnp in San Jose, Cali!'. But when Willingham was !'ired after the 2004 season, new lwad coach Charlie Weis moved Bragg to wide receiver. 
"I always wanted the ball every time the quarterback dropped baek. I always thought, 'I'm open,' even if I was cov­nrnd," Bragg said. "[Being a quarterback! helped out playing receiver because you knew if there was a hot lrnadl or some­thing you knew what to do." 
Bragg did not see any time as a wide receiver in his two sea­sons at that position and decid­ed in May that he would leave the team. Bragg t.hought he was treated somewhat unfairly as a receiver before he left the team. 

"I was frustrated because I really wasn't sure how to play the position," Bragg said. "It's just great to be back playing quarterback, something I'm comfortable with." 
Now, he's not only comfort­able he's also important. When Bragg left the team, Jimmy Clausen, Evan Sharpley, Demetrius Jones and Zach Frazer all were ahead of him on the depth chart. 

By Notre Dame's game against Purdue in September, Bragg was a snap away from entering the game with Clausen out because of an injury. 
"This year of all years has dHiinitely been kind of a high­light because I've been 'that guy.' It's like, 'What if that guy gets hurt? Demetrius trans­ferr·ed, Zach transferred.' I'm like, 'Yeah, I guess I'd go in next,"' Bragg said. "There was certain points where I was like, 'Yeah;, I should probably get ready. 
Bragg also said that his emo­tions haven't changed much since he returned to the team, but that things will probably change this week for his final home game as a Notre Dame student. 
"I think it will be much morn important for the last home game, suiting up instead of being in the stands watching it, so I'm really glad I came back just for that last game," Bragg said. 
Bragg's football career might end, but the film and theatre major has his plans set for after graduation -and they involve Los Angeles. 
"I know I'm going to move to L.A., but I'm not sure what I'm going to do yet," Bragg said. ''I'll probably be a starving actor for the first 6, 10, 20 years, whatever. But it's some­thing you love, you've got to do it." 

And he'll be coming back to Notre Dame every now and then to watch his former teammates. "''ll probably come back next year, dude. I want to come back soon enough where I know guys on the team," Bragg said, before harnessing his thespian side to imitate an old man. "I 
don't want to eome back 20 years from now and be like, 'Back in my day, I was the third­string quarterback in 2007." 
Editor's note: A previous ver­sion of this article appeared in the Oct. 5, 2007 edition of The Observer. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 

By LORENZO REYES  make his way through college life as a freshman normally  coaching change and coach Weis came in, word of mouth spread  proud." Although many players are in  pens. I just want to feel good walking oil' the field for that last  
Sports Writer  would.  that there were going to be open  awe of walking through the tun­ time," Gillett said.  
Then, one of his closest friends  tryouts. One of my good buddies,  nel for the first time, Gillett cele­ After he graduates, the engi­ 
In 2004, freshman quarter­ urged him to try for a walk on  John  Lyons,  brates  neering major is looking to find  
baek Justin Gillett of Knott Hall  spot to the football team for  who  took  a  t  h  e  a job but would like to relax a  
was quickly turning some heads  Notre Dame.  year off was  "There were a lot oftimes  moments  bit beforehand.  
in interhall football. After lead­ing his dorm to several victories and eflieient passing perform­ "I didn't think I would ever play football," Gillett said. "Playing in Knott was a fun  planning on walking on and talked me  when the workload was intense, and I had to devote  with his team­mates as  ''I'm looking forward to kick­ing back for a little while," Gillett said. "Eventually though,  
am~es,  (iillett was just trying to  experience. Once there was the  into it, so it was an easy transition." Gillett made  hours to playing football and academics, but the support group ofguys doing the same  the most memo­r a b I n part of  I want a job within engineering." Although Gillett one day plans on being successful, he notes that he has other priorities as  
the team his sophomore  thing kept me going."  t h n experi­ well. "Football was a big part of my  
year as a reserve quar­terback, and  Justin Gillett Irish quarterback  ence. "I had neve r  life,·as was school and friend­ships," he said. "But sometimes, you just have to take time out  
although  he  been  in  and give the ladies what they  
has  never  front  of  want."  
participated in any game action,  so many people," Gillett said. "It  With humor aside, in whichev­ 
he has contributed to the Irish  was great. It was a little diiTer­ er path Gillett pursues, the one  
pro!,tram in practices.  ent, though, because I knew I  lesson he ean take with him  
The one aspect of the entire  wasn't going to play. Thn fun  from his time at Notre Dame  
process Gillett embraces is the  part is hanging with your boys  was the work ethic involved with  
frifmdships he has created and  on  the  the team.  
sustained on the team.  field dur­ "The  num­ 
"My family and friends were rooting for me," Gillett said. "The guys who had my back were those that I was walking  ing the games." As his career  "The friendships ­that's what makes it worthwhile. We all shared a common goal,  ber one thing I can takn is the work ethic," Gillntt  
on with. The friendships -that's what makes it worthwhile. We all shared a common goal, and achieving it with those peo­ winds down, Gillett i s n ' t  and achieving it with those people was the most rewarding part."  said. "Thorn were a lot of times wlwn the workload  
ple  was the most rewarding  nearly as  was  intense.  
part.'' Gillett's effort hasn't gone unnoticed by his family mem­ c o n -corned with get­ Justin Gillett Irish quarterback  and I had to devote hours to playing  
bers, and the walk-on senior is  ting sub- football  and  
content with the joy and pride  stantial  academies.  
he gives them.  playing time as much as he is  but the support group of guys  
"It's nice to sen how proud my  with winning games.  doing the samo thing kept me  
family is of me," Gillett said.  ''I'm not concerned about get­ going."  
VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer  "They see the glitz and glamour  ting snaps to  end the game  
Irish quarterback Justin Gillett  throws a pass during warmups  of the whole thing, and that's  against Duke or anything like  Contact Lorenzo Reyes at  
before the loss to Air Force on S aturday.  what really makes me the most  that. It depends on what hap­ lreyes@nd.edu  

JUSTIN GILLETT 

Inter hall star joins team as QB at friend's urging 
~--------------------------------------------------------------~--------------­
Friday, November 16, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 23 
Crunching the numbers 
AVERAGE PER GAME 
Duke points scored 
NO points scored 
Duke points allowed NO points allowed 

Duke rush yards NO rush yards 

Duke rushing allowed NO rushing allowed 

Duke pass yards NO pass yards 

Duke passing allowed NO passing allowed 

Saturday Pick 'ent 
Khorey Hine Fowler Fitzpatrick 
Record: (131-56) (140-47) (140-47) (142-45) 
No. 1 LSU at Ole Miss LSU LSU Ole Miss LSU 
Iowa State at No. 3 Kansas Kansas Kansas Kansas Kansas w 
No. 4 Oklahoma at Texas Tech Okla. Okla. Okla. Okla. No. 5 Missouri at Kansas State Mizzou Mizzou KSU Mizzou No. 6 WVU at No. 22 Cincinnati wvu wvu Cincy wvu No.7 Ohio State at No. 21 Michigan osu Mich. Mich. osu No. 23 Kentucky at No. 9 Georgia UK Ga. UK UK Miami at No. 10 Virginia Tech Va Tech Va Tech Va Tech Va Tech Florida Atlantic at No. 12 Florida UF UF UF UF No. 17 BC at No. 15 Clemson BC BC BC Clemson No. 16 Hawaii at Nevada Hawaii Hawaii Hawaii Hawaii Idaho at No. 18 Boise State BSU BSU BSU BSU Northwestern at No. 19 Illinois Illinois Illinois Illinois Illinois Vanderbilt at No. 20 Tennessee UT UT UT UT Syracuse at No. 24 Connecticut UConn UConn UConn UConn No. 25 Wisconsin at Minnesota Wise. Wise. Wise. Wise. 
*l Jpset sp-=cial in bold 
-
.-> 


-





