
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marjs 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 69 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 24,2007 
University suspends McAiarney 
Irish point guard to miss spring, summer semesters following December possession charge 
Brey thought he was dressing were as surprised as I am, they football team for a parietals vio­
By BOB GRIFFIN 
Kyle ... tonight for the St. John's were shocked." lation.. In early 2002, football 
News Writer 
game," Janice McAlarney said. Senior Associate Athletics players Lorenzo Crawford, "I have not spoken to Coach Director John Heisler told The Justin Smith, Donald Dykes and 
Notre Dame basketball player Brey [since the decision was Observer Tuesday he was Abram Elam were dismissed Kyle McAlarney was suspended made]. He's 
unable to comment. Notre Dame from the University following for the spring and summer 16 miles sports information director accusations of raping a female semesters Monday and is cur­away from Bernie Cafarelli said she could Notre Dame student in an off­rently on his way home to me right now not comment due to privacy campus house. Later in 2002, Staten Island, N.Y., his mother with the laws. Irish running back Julius Jones said in a phone interview team, and Brey cannot comment on the was suspended for academic Tuesday afternoon with The he's where situation either, Cafarelli said. delinquency. Observer. he has to be. McAlarney, who was pulled Since McAlarney is suspended 
Janice McAlarney said her son I don't blame over during a routine traffic for the spring and summer -a sophomore who was basketball in -..""""""""'-"-"" stop near campus early in the semesters, not dismissed ­charged with possession of mar­this at all. I McAiarney morning on Dec. 29, is at least which under the University's ijuana Dec. 29 -was not dis­think he was the seventh Notre Dame athlete disciplinary handbook, du Lac, missed from the University, but caught way off guard also. to face suspension or dismissal means permanent expulsion ­the news of a two-semester sus­"The athletic department and in the past eight years. he will have the opportunity to pension came as a shock. [Notre Dame Athletics Director] In 1999, Irish tailback Tony 
"[Notre Dame] coach [Mike] Dr. [Kevin] White told me they Driver was suspended from the see MCALARNEY/page 4 
Students, professors evaluate Bush address 
· State of the Union reaffirms Iraq troop increase, generates debate nationwide, on campus 
ByJOHN TIERNEY and KAITLYNN RIELY News Writers 
U.S. President George W. Bush's State of the Union address Tuesday night came at a time when his approval rat­ings are low and Republicans and Democrats alike are ques­tioning his recently announced plan to send more than 20,000 new troops to Iraq. 
Bush reiterated his optimism about his recent decision to deploy more troops to Iraq as he appeared before the joint session of Congress and mil­lions of Americans looked on ­among those Notre Dame stu­
see PRESIDENT/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Tvvo tickets face off in SMC race 
Davis-Kennedy first pair to be eliminated 
By KELLY MEEHAN Saint Mary's Editor 
The Annie Davis-Courtney Kennedy ticket was the first elim­inated Tuesday from the three­way race for the helm of Saint Mary's student government. 
While that pair clinched 24 per­cent of the vote, the Colleen Ferreira-Jenny Antonelli and Kim Hodges-Kelly Payne tickets are competing in the runoff election that began at 12:01 this morning and will end at 11:59 tonight. Percentages will not come into play during the runoff calcula­tions -meaning the pair with the most votes wins. 
With approximately 35 percent of the student body voting, Ferreira-Antonelli received 38.3 percent of the vote-a mere 1.9 percent more than Hodges­Payne, at 36.4 percent. The nar­row lead, candidates said, makes the opportunity to campaign for the runoff more valuable than ever. 
''I'm optimistic that we'll get more voters," Hodges said. "I think our biggest draw is the open forum meetings where stu­dents will be able to voice con­cerns, comments and what's in their hearts." 
While Hodges and Payne announced their promises and catered to voters with free cook­ies outside Noble Family Dining Hall Tuesday, Ferreira-Antonelli did not let their lead overlook the need to continue their campaign. 
"[Being the top vote-getters] makes us feel that we are com-
see ELECTION/page 6 

Coalition reexamines Lunch Fast program 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
It has been more than 30 years since the World Hunger Coalition {WHC) began to con­front Notre Dame students with the stark realities of mal­nutrition in some of the poor­est nations on earth. 
Now, after watching partici­pation slacken in its signature Wednesday Lunch Fast pro­gram, the Coalition is prepar­ing to renew its commitments to feeding the hungry and rais­ing awareness by encouraging student involvement in new ways. 
"We do our best to fight hunger," said the group's pres­ident, junior Jessica Pillarella. "One of the best things about us is that we steer clear of the politics ... I think anyone can agree that feeding the hungry is a good thing." 
The WHC's primary activity on campus is the Wednesday Lunch Fast, in which students pledge to donate one meal per week from their meal plans. The money from the unused lunch is then given to the WHC, which forwards it to organiza­tions dedicated to stamping out hunger. 
"The Wednesday Lunch Fast, for a low semester, it brings in $8,000," Pillarella said. "For a great semester we'll bring in 
see HUNGER/page 4 


'W~st Wing' actor visits College 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
Renowned actor, playwright, author and producer Anna Deavere Smith, known for her roles in "The West Wing," "The Practice," "Philadelphia" and "The Americ­
an President," is a featured guest lecturer of the Saint Mary's com­munication and perform­ance studies department 

this week. Smith 
The College prepared for Smith's arrival by introducing her work to the community -it hosted a free screening of the film "Twilight Los Angeles," based on Smith's Obie award-winning one­woman play, at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday night in Vander Vennet Theater. 
As a theatre major, senior Rachel Sokolowski said she has especially looked forward to Smith's visit. 
"After graduation [theatre majors] have a huge variety of options, and it's definitely excit­ing to see someone who's taken herself so far in her field," she said. "It's very inspiring to have her come and share her thoughts." 
Smith will present a series of lectures open to the public over a three-day period. Assistant professor of communication and performance studies Colleen Fitzpatrick said Smith's first presentation, "The Art of Listening," will be targeted toward tbeatre majors. 

"Smith will be working with the theatre students and actu­ally running an interactive class with them," she said. "I think it will be a great experi­ence for the students and will really give Smith the opportu­nity to engage with our stu­dents." 
Fitzpatrick also said Smith will be having lunch exclusively with the students of the theatre department. 
Theatre department chair John Pauley said he hopes Smith's visit will "open stu­dents' eyes to think about pos­sibilities they might not have thought about," especially those considering a career in the performance arts. 
see ACTOR/page 4 

-----------------. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

ESP 111e 
Apple has once again excited gadget geeks and businessmen alike by unveil­ing the iPhone, which, in his demo of the new product, Apple CEO Steve Jobs so eloquently described as "cool" and "awesome." 
Jeff Albert 
Watching the keynote demo on Apple's Web site 
Graphics
got me thinking 
Editor
about the way the 
transfer of infor­
mation is constantly being revolution­
ized. 
Chad Hurley and Steve Chen, the cre­ators ofYouTube, gave the world a new outlet for conveying information (whether viewers find it relevant or ridiculous). But beyond the simple con­veying of information, I am consistently struck by how quickly the knowledge of a particular video can spread, especially at a place like a college campus (think: "OMG-shoes."). 
Since people seem to be taking it upon themselves to use these contrivances to establish communities, small or large, where they can interact with like-mind­ed individuals, it seems more than likely that product designers will actually put the establishment of these communities at the forefront of their future designs. Virgin America has designed an in-flight entertainment system that, among other things, would allow passengers to email/SMSfmstant message among themselves, creating an airborne com­munity. 
With the arrival of Web 2.0 (which encourages community and user-gener­ated content), and talk of Web 3.0 (a "Semantic Web"), a man by the name of Seth Godin has proposed a Web4, where the network would take initiative based on the way a person uses the Internet. It's a smarter Internet that takes into account how a person has previously behaved online, and proposes the best way to go about any particular internet task. 
It would perform autonomous search­es that could benefit you (for example, just as you're about to order the latest TV-on-DVD boxed set, Web4 steps in and informs you of a cheaper price on another site). 
Additionally, the network would be aware of a person's activities that are similar to others, and would be able to put those people in touch. Essentially, it would consist of a network of "machines talking to machines." 
This is where I would like to step in and suggest the future of community­based technology-extra-sensory per­ception, or ESP. Well, sort of. More like the ability for people in a network to access each others' thoughts, and, in a way, brainstorm. 
ESP is not some revolutionary new technology, and science isn't even sure it exists. But ifthe concept of ESP could be applied in technological terms, you would have the highest form of informa­tion communication. 
Essentially, it would be communica­tion sans effort. By allowing "machines" to do what they do best -that is, process information -and then interact with each other as well as with each particular user, a powerful network without rival will have been created. 
Microsoft's Zune allows sharing of music within a local network -so why can't that technology be applied directly to our mind's thoughts? 
Just think: In the future, you may hear your best friend say, "ESP me." 
Contact Jeff Albert at jalbertl@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE MOVIE OF ALL TIME? 




Anne Marie Giangiulio  James Aldridge  Kallen Wade  
senior Pasquerilla West  sophomore Keenan  freshman Knott  
'"A Few Good  '"Roots'  '"Godfather.' I  
Men'-I'm partial to any­thing Aaron Sorkin does."  because it's my ,roots.  like to see people get shot."  

OFFBEAT 
Dunking parakeet becomes Web video star 
BRADENTON, Fla. ­Teaching a parakeet to putt is no tap-in. Ask David Cota, who spent months training his Indian ringneck parakeet A.J. to use a tiny putter to sink putts on a miniature green, making the 5-inch tall bird an Internet video star. 
"It doesn't look all that tough nowadays, but try to get a a bird to hold a little stick basically in its beak. The first time, he snapped it right in half," Cota said. 
A.J. can also dunk a tiny basketball on a tiny court. 

He rolls over. He shakes. His play dead is spooky. 
A "Tonight" show dar­ling from the end of the Johnny Carson era, A.J. and Cota are staging a comeback thanks to such Web sites as YouTube.com. 
A.J. has a MySpace.com page and his own Web site.ermanent resident card. 
Woman takes potty break, falls in lake 
SANDUSKY, Ohio -A woman going to the bath­room outside lost her bal­ance and fell into Lake Erie, said police, who had to pull her out of the frigid 
Laura Martinez 
junior Howard 
'"Ferris Bueller's Day Off' I wish I could have done that in high school." 


Marcela Monsalve 
sophomore Pasquerilla East 
"I would need to check my facebook ... but 'Monsoon Wedding' (Bollywood) or 'My Fair Lady' 

water. Officer Kevin Youskievicz and the woman's friend helped pull her out early Monday and wrapped a blanket around her until an ambu­lance arrived. 
She was treated at a hospital and released. 
The woman's friend told police the woman needed to go to the bathroom and lost her balance near the water. 
The name of the 25­year-old woman was not released. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Vince Houghton 
graduate student offcampus 
'"Super Troopers."' 
, 

or ... 
IN BRIEF 
A reading of Homer's Iliad will take place today in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall at 6:10p.m. 
RecSports is sponsoring a blood drive today from 11 
a.m. to 5:30 p.m. and 
Thursday from  9  a.m.  at  
Rolfs.  Registration  is  
required.  
Today is the last day  to  

make changes to class schedules for the semester on lnsideND. 
The Academic Council Meeting is taking place today in the McKenna Hall auditorium from 3 p.m. to 5. Attendance is by invitation only. 
Kellogg institute visiting fellow Cecilia Martinez­Gallardo will give a lecture on "The Use of Appointment Strategies in Presidentialism" from 4:15p.m. to 6 Thursday in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, the event is free and open to the public. 
The 18th annual NO Student Film Festival will take place Thursday through Saturday at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The festival features 13 short films made as class projects during the past year. Tickets are $6 for general admission, $5 for faculty/staff and $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 33 HIGH 
18 

LOW 10 LOW 
6 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a::: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
..... 


~ 
<C 
(.) 
0 

HIGH 28 HIGH 15 HIGH 20 HIGH 30
..... 
LOW 15 LOW 5 LOW 13 LOW 22 
Atlanta 54 I 35 Boston 39 I 25 Chicago 29 I 19 Denver 43 I 18 Houston 49 I 42 Los Angeles 71 I 44 Minneapolis 24 I 15 New York 40 I 28 Philadelphia 42 I 27 Phoenix 64 I 41 Seattle 50 I 38 St. Louis 40 I 25 Tampa 67 I 51 Washington 42 I 27 
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 



Organizations' funds reviewed 
BySONIARAO 
News Wrirer 
Members of the Council of Representatives (COR) reviewed the 2006-07 reallocation budget in a brief meeting Tuesday night in LaFortune. 
The total budget of $41,037 was allocated to various organizations, including a $3,000 reim­bursement of the technology fund. 
"[The reallocation] is really a spending review and not a reallocation per se," said Student Union assistant treasurer Kadeja Gaines, who added that the treasury reserves the right to take money away from organizations that have not been spending requested funds. 
In the case of this semester, $3,000 was reallo­cated from the Class of 2007 funds to Senior Week, Gaines said. In addition, Judicial Council received $1,000, student government $5,000 and Student Union Board $21,018.90. 
In other COR news: 
The Class Councils of 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 were the collective "Organization Spotlight" for the week. Each class president took a turn describing recent and upcoming events for his/her class, including new freshman T-shirts, a service opportunity at a local soup kitchen for sophomores, care packages for transfer students, the junior class' Holy Half Marathon and future alumni events for seniors. Most notably was the. recent Freshman Class Mass, which drew partici­pation from 600 class members. 
Contact Sonia Rao at sraol@nd.edu 
Hispanic Outlook honors SMC 
College one of eight Ind. schools chosen for providing opportunities 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Wrirer 

Saint Mary's recently joined the ranks of only eight Indiana colleges and universities to be recognized by Hispanic Outlook magazine for providing the best educational opportunities for Hispanics. The publication hon­ored schools from each state by placing them on the 2006 Publisher's Pick List. Notre Dame was also included. 
For Saint Mary's to be included · in a list like this is an honor, said Melanie McDonald, director of media relations at the College. 
"Schools are selected based on interviews with students of the institution," she said. "The Saint Mary's students surveyed obvi­ously felt supported and felt that a network of programs and peo­ple are in place at the College to make a Latin·a student's experi­ence at Saint Mary's a positive one." 
With the aid of the National Center for Education Statistics, Hispanic Outlook compiles the list each year using student sur­veys as well as an important cal­culation: the number of degrees granted in proportion to the Hispanic population at the insti­tution. The list represents the magazine's "latest and b.est thinking about which colleges and universities offer Hispanic students a solid chance of aca­demic success," publisher Jose L6pez-Isa said on the magazine's Web site. 
The Admissions Department at Saint Mary's has been working diligently to increase diversity on campus. This fall, the Office for Enrollment Management pre­sented the most diverse class in 15 years, according to McDonald. 
"Prospective Latina students, who make up a portion of that underrepresented [minority] group, are learning that Saint Mary's offers support to Hispanic students in many forms," McDonald said. 
Latina students have various campus organizations and offices that cater to their continued suc­cess, such as the Office of Multicultural Affairs, the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership, the Mexico Study Tour, the Student Diversity Board and La Fuerza, a student­run group. 
Jeanne Choquehuanca, co­president of La Fuerza, sees inclusion on this list as a way for Saint Mary's to distinguish itself from other institutions. 
"The honors tell us that we are making a difference in our efforts for greater diversity and tolerance," she said. "Still, there is an obvious lack of diversity at our colle·ge, and this award hopefully will not indicate to our community that efforts for greater diversity should lessen." 
La Fuerza works to promote Latina culture both on and off campus. 
"This organization especially aims to reach out to incoming Latina· and minority students. These efforts are sometimes dif­ficult, but we always extend our welcome and support to all stu­dents," Choquehuanca said. 
Veronica Dominguez, a sopho­more Latina student at the College, said Saint Mary's offers a welcoming environment -to all its students. 
"I do not feel that Saint Mary's is only a good environment for Hispanics. It is a caring environ­ment with the common goal of preparin~ strong women for the future," she said. 
This recognition by Hispanic Outlook is not the first distinc­tion for the College regarding academic rankings. 
"Just like our number one ranking by U.S. News & World Report, recognition by Hispanic Outlook brings news of our excellence to a broader audi­ence," McDonald said. 
Hispanic Outlook Magazine has served as the premier news source for Hispanic education in higher education for 17 years. Published biweekly, the maga­zine reaches approximately 50,000 readers annually. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

I'm headed to Lehman... 

I know I won't be the only team player on the team. 
-

Please join us at our Finance Division recruitinent presentation. Notre Dan1e, F1anner Hall, Room 114, January 30, 2007 at 6:00 p.tn. 
\Ve will also be at the Diversity Reception and Winter Career Fair on February 1, 2007. 
Visit us online at www.lehman.com/careers/workatlehman/finance.htm. 
LEHMAN BROTHERS 
·L£hman Brother> is an equal opportunity employer M/F/DN. The Finn and its a-ffiliates do not discrirnirmte in ernp!oyrnpnt because of race, reliqio.n or beiie't, (j(-~nder, national or ethnic origin, disability, age, citizerrship, marit:<1! or domestidcivi! pattner•,hip status, ~exua! orientation, gender identity or gender expression. <1>2007 !..ehrnan Brothers Holdn;qs !nt. AH riqhts reserved. 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
kind of a hot topic this year on students [as well]." we will be involved with the NO Coffeehouse. To enroll in the campus," Pillarella said. Pillarella said that the World canned food drive and putting Wednesday Lunch Fast, send
Hunger 
Citing the program's current Hunger Coalition plans to together Easter baskets through your full name, e-mail address enrollment of 280 students -broaden its involvement later in the South Bend Food Pantry." and ndiD number to
continued from page 1 
down from 1,400 sign-ups in the semester. The World Hunger Coalition whc@nd.edu. 
2003 -faculty adviser E. Jane "Right now, we're focusing on will have its next meeting 
$2,000 a week, so it's a great Doering stressed the group's sign-ups for the [Wednesday] Thursday at '7:30 p.m. in the Contact Steve Kerins at 
moneymaker ... because we objective to renew interest in Lunch Fast," she said. "Later, Center for Social Concerns skerins@nd.edu 
don't have much overhead at the program this semester. 
all." "What I really do believe is The group was able to donate that the Notre Dame student 
$7,184 to provide  wants to partici­ 
food for the hun­gry last semester, which it collected  "One of the best things about us is  pate in a way that will be effective [in alleviating  
entirely from the lunch fast. Pillarella said the specific organ­izations chosen to receive funds vary each year. This year, money will be donated to Oxfam and the  that we steer clear of the politics ... I think anyone can agree that feeding the hungry is a good thing. " Jessica Pillarella  hu.nge.~]," _Doering sard. We re hop­ing [declining participation] is due to not know­ing, as opposed to not caring." Doering also emphasized the value of the  
South Bend Food Pantry. The World Hunger Coalition can also choose to  president .. World Hunger Coalition  Wednesday Lunch Fast as the start­ing point for fur­ther exploration of the roots and  
direct some of the  varied effects of  

funds raised from th{l world hunger. Wednesday Lunch Fast to initia­"What I like ab.out this pro­tives on campus combating gram is that it's not just giving world hunger. money," Doering said. "It's a 
"It's nice because poverty is small sacrifice on the part of 
with valuable insights that can help to mold and shape our
Actor 
future careers, whether on continued from page 1 stage, or behind the scenes." The Margaret M. Hill-endowed 
"What is particularly laudatory chair in theatre is sponsoring about [Smith] is the projects she Smith's visit. is involved in have been especial­Hill, a Broadway theatre pro­ly relevant," he ducer and 1961 said. "What she graduate of the
"Smith's presence will 
writes about are College, estab­
issues Amer­provide theatre majors lished the icans are deal­a glimpse into the endowment dur­
ing with, some­ing the College's
world of theatre
times success­sesquicentennial fully, sometimes beyond our in 1994, Pauley unsuccessfully." comfort zone here on said. 
Senior Kelly­"Every year
Saint Mary's campus." 
Lynn Plush said with revenues off she expects the endowment, Smith's visit to Kelly-Lynn Plush we can bring in be a relevant someone in the­
senior 

and beneficial atre and per-experience for formance studies herself and other theatre majors. to speak to the community and 
"Smith's presence will provide Work with theatre students in a theatre majors a glimpse into the rather short, concentrated for­world of theatre beyond our mat," he said. comfort zone here on Saint Mary's campus," she said. "Her Contact Laura Baumgartner at experiences can provide [us] lbaumgO I @saintmarys.edu 

SPRING BREAK 
INFORMATION 800-488-8828 
www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
fREE SPRING BREAK MODEL SEARCH CALENDAR* 
'VALID FOR FIRST 1000 RESERVATIONS. 
Consider the Carmelites... 

Editor & 
You? 
Author 

Pastor Teacher & Campus Minister 
Would you think ofjoining an 800 year tradition of walking in the footsteps of Jesus Christ? 
As Carmelites today, we have made a choice we treasure, emulating the contemplative spirit of Mary and Elijah, we build our relationship with God thru prayer, service and in community. We invite you to walk with us! 
Fr. William Wert, 0. Corm. Phone: 202-526-1221 Ccnmelite carmelites@carmelites. net 
Ftiats
www.carmelites.net 


~!J)v1 20041RONWOOD CIRCLE 273·8986 
www.womenscarecenter.org 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ethiopian troops start to withdraw 
MOGADISHU, Somalia-Ethiopian troops whose military strength was crucial to helping Somalia's government drive out a radical Islamic militia began withdrawing Tuesday, raising fears of a power vacuum unless peace­keepers arrive soon in this chaotic nation. 
Somali government spokesman Abdirahman Dinari said Ethiopia helped chase out the Council of Islamic Courts militia, which had taken over the capital and much of southern Somalia. But it was time for the neighboring forces to leave. 
"As of today, the Ethiopian troops have start­ed to withdraw from Somalia. We are grateful that they played an important role in the restoration of law and order in the country," Dinari said. 
Ethiopia's government spokesman, Zemedkun Tekle, confirmed Tuesday's pullout but gave no details. 
The intervention of Ethiopia last month enabled a military advance that proved a stun­ning turnaround for Somalia's 2-year-old gov­ernment. Without Ethiopia's tanks and fighter jets, the administration could barely assert con­trol outside one southern town and could not enter the capital. 
Canadian pig farmer faces charges 
NEW WESTMINSTER, British Columbia -A Canadian pig farmer whom prosecutors said confessed to killing 49 women told police in a videotaped interview shown to jurors Tuesday that the allegations against him were "hog­wash," yet concedes he's "a bad dude." 
Robert Pickton, 56, is charged with killing 26 women, mostly prostHutes and drug addicts who vanished from a drug-ridden Vancouver neighborhood in the 1990s. He has pleaded not guilty to the first six counts. A separate trial will be held for the other 20 murder charges. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Lawyer says: Ubby was sacrificed 
WASHINGTON -White House officials tried to sacrifice vice presidential aide I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby to protect strategist Karl Rove from blame for leaking a CIA operative's identity during a political storm over the Iraq war, Libby's lawyer said Tuesday. 
After Libby complained "they want me to be the sacrificial lamb," Vice President Dick Cheney personally intervened to get the White House press secretary to publicly clear Libby in the leak, defense attorney Theodore Wells said in his opening statement at Libby's perjury trial. 
The new details of behind-the-scenes conflict at top levels of the Bush White House, along with some previously unseen blunt language from Cheney, were the high points of a dramatic day in which the prosecutor and the defense dueled in multimedia statements to the jury. 
State Farm to settle Katrina lawsuits 
State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. agreed Tuesday to settle hundreds of lawsuits by policyholders and reopen and pay thou­sands of other disputed claims. a land­mark deal potentially worth hundreds of millions of dollars for Mississippi home­owners devastated by Hurricane Katrina. 
The settlement calls for State Farm to pay about $80 million to more than 600 policyholders who sued the company for refusing to cover damage from the Aug. 29, 2005, storm. State Farm also agreed to pay at least $50 million-but possibly hundreds of millions more-to thousands of Mississippi policyholders whose claims were denied but didn't sue the company. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Abducted mother, kids found safe 
ELKHART, Ind. -A mother and her four chil­dren were found safe Tuesday night at a motel, three days after police said they were abducted by the woman's former boyfriend. 
The man, Jerry D. White, 30, was arrested, Detective Sgt. Bill Wargo said. 
Authorities had issued an Amber alert for the four children, ages 16 months to 9 years, and their mother, 31-year-old Kimberly N. Walker, on Saturday. 
Bush tries to persuade Democrats 
Address calls for bipartisanship; covers health care, energy, education, immigration 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

President Bush faces long 
odds in trying to make 
headway in this divided­
government town with his 
latest batch of domestic 
initiatives-even though 
many appear tailored to 
address longtime 
Democratic concerns. 
Democrats, now the 
majority party in Congress, 
reacted coolly to Bush's 
effort to regain .control of 
the agenda with a handful 
of new and recycled State 
of the Union proposals on 
health care, energy, educa­
tion and immigration. 
Beyond fresh calls for 
bipartisanship from both 
sides, Bush faced s_keptical 
lawmakers and a nation 
mired in an unpopular 
war, with the 2008 elec­
tions increasingly becom­
ing a complicating factor. 
In his address, he con­gratulated the program and a path to citi­mentalists, but they said it last two years as not exclu­
new Democratic majority, sin­zenship always had more didn't go far enough to sively about Iraq," said gled out House Speaker support among Democrats combat global warming Bruce Buchanan, a Nancy Pelosi for praise than among fellow without a mandatory cap University of Texas politi­and called for bipartisan­Republicans. Noting that on carbon production. cal science professor. Ross ship. "Like many before "convictions run deep" on Bush also pushed a tax Baker, a political scientist us, we can work through immigration, Bush urged a plan to pay for health care at Rutgers, said that while our differences," he said. "serious, civil and conclu­costs, but that had already Bush's State of Union was Many of the goals he out­sive debate" on the issue. been received skeptically an attempt "to breathe life lined were "the kinds of Bush's comments on by Democrats, who sug­into this administration," it things Democrats would immigration brought more gested it wouldn't do mainly offered just a generally support," said Democrats than enough to help the poorest "large collection of non­Stephen Wayne, a profes­Republicans to their feet. of the uninsured and could starters." sor of government at In general, an unusually encourage some younger Bush achieved early suc­Georgetown University. subdued Bush signaled a and healthier workers to cesses in striking biparti­But for Bush, it's likely to "readiness for bipartisas­drop out of workplace san agreements with be a hard sell. hip" in his speech that had plans. Democrats in Texas when Polls suggest he failed to largely been missing in his Polls show that rising he was governor and in shift public opinion earlier past appearances, said health care costs are now the early days of his presi­this month when he out­Wayne Fields, a specialist the major economic con­dency, such as the No Child lined his plan t(') increase in presidential rhetoric at cern of Americans. And Left Behind law. But the troop strengths in Iraq. Washington University in Bush called for extending dynamics are now differ­And Democrats on St. Louis. "Otherwise, what and expanding the No ent and the parties more Tuesday sought to keep he was talking about was Child Left Behind educa­polarized. attention on Iraq. pretty familiar." tion law, which expires this In theory, the thin mar­"We go into this process Bush also proposed year. gins of Democratic control with no illusions about the reducing gasoline con­But critics suggested his should present an opening atmosphere in which we're sumption in the U.S. by 20 plan didn't go far enough for working toward bipar­operating in," said White percent over the next 10 to fully fund the program. tisan solutions to pressing House counselor Dan years through tougher fuel Bush's State of the Union long-term domestic prob­Bartlett. 
economy standards and agenda was clearly an lems, such as shoring up 
Perhaps Bush's best shot mandatory production of effort to try to change the Social Security and 
at success is immigration more ethanol and other subject away from Iraq. Medicare, both of which 
overhaul. But then his pro­alternate fuels. It was wel­Bush wanted "to get the are headed for serious 
posal for a guest-worker comed by some environ-public to see him and his fmancial difficulties. 

CHINA 

Country continues one-child limit 
Associated Press ernment is committed to solving gen­would help, but other financial 
BEIJING -China will not loosen der imbalance within 10 to 15 years incentives like school fees for girls, its one-child policy, despite a top with education campaigns, punish­would also need to be included. He family planning official's acknowl­ments for sex-selective abortions also thought the effects of such proj­edgment Tuesday that it was partly and rewards-like retirement pen­ects would take several years before to blame for a worsening problem of sions-for parents who have girls. families learned they could trust the too many boy babies and not enough "This problem is a reality of coun­government to deliver on their girls in the world's most populous try life in China," said Zhang. "We promises. nation. have a 2,000-year feudal history that Zhang said China's basic policy-in 
In 2005, some 118 boys were born considered men superior to women, effect since the late 1970s-was in China for every 100 girls. In some that gave boys the right to carry on reviewed and renewed without regions, the figure has hit 130 boys the family name and allowed men to change last month. The policy limits for every 100 girls; the average for be emperors while women could urban couples to one child and rural industrialized countries is between not." families to two to control the popula­104 and 107 boys for every 100 He called gender imbalance "a tion and conserve natural resources. girls. very serious challenge for China." Beijing says it has helped prevent 
Zhang Weiqing, minister of the Bates Gill of the Center for 400 million births and has aided the National Population and Family Strategic and International Studies nation's rapid economic develop­Planning Commission, said the gov-in Washington said pension benefits ment. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
Antonelli] because they are more 
McAlarney said. "Other stu­regular student. I think we 
dedicated to Saint Mary's." 
dents I know who the could accept that, understand­
McAlarney
Election 
[Residence Life and Housing] ing [he broke a law]," Janiee
Davis and Kennedy both said 
continued from page 1 committee met, they were sus­McAlarney said. "But two
continued from page 1 they wished they had further pur­
sued an appeal they sent to the 
pended for one semester. I'm semesters, and when he already 
municating well to the student elections appeal board during 
reapply for the fall 2007 semes­not getting an answer for why sat seven Big East games? And 
ter. he was suspended for two they did it without his team­
body about the changes we want their campaign. 
to make," Ferreira said. ".We Kennedy said the two attended 
Associate Vice President for semesters." mates around him, I mean, 
News and Information Don Maurer did say the University where is the compassion?" 
may have had the top turnout in the Dec. 12, 2006 mandatory 
Wycliff told The Observer makes no distinction between Two weeks ago, McAlarney
the votes, but tomorrow is a com­election meeting unopposed, but 
pletely new vote." the Hodges-Payne and Ferreira­
Tuesday morning he "can't talk athletes and non-athletes when entered the St. Joseph's Country 
about any individual's discipli­it comes to disciplinary matters. pretrial diversion program, a
That vote, Hodges believes, will Antonelli tickets were permitted 
nary or other records," and Students, like Kyle McAlarney, system that allows certain
have students reconsidering their to run despite their failure to 
Residence Life and Housing possess the opportunity to sub­offenders to have eharges even­
previous election decisions. attend the campaign forum. 
"I think some of the votes were Student body president Susan 
Associate Director Lori Maurer mit a case review if there's a tually expunged from their 
said under federal law she's "procedural defect in the disci­records. Janice MeAlarney and
loyalty votes to friends," she said. Mcllduff said although the tickets 
"!While] the principles of the did not attend the meeting, they 
unable to comment on tho spe­plinary process which would her husband had been with 
[Ferreira-Antonelli] platform are were allowed to run because they 
cific case of any individual stu­have been substantial enough to their son at Notre Dame for the 
dent. have changed the outcome" or previous three weeks. But
in line with ours, those who didn't explained their absence and sub­
But Janice McAlarney said "the discovery of substantial Janice McAlarney returned to
vote yesterday would have a voice sequently attended a follow-up 
by electing our ticket." election meeting after winter 
her son met with Ofl'ice of new information which was New York on Sunday night. 
While both tickets build on the break. 
Residence Life and I lousing olli­unknown to the student at the "I had left. I had just left town 
ideas of increased diversity and Mcllduff said elections commis­
cials Monday at 4:30 p.m. Brey time [of the hearing]," accord­a eouple hours before," she 
was only present for 10 minutes ing to page 184 of du Lac. said. ''I'm very angry that they
continuation of College traditions, sioner Christin Molnar maintains 
before he had to leave for New Students cannot submit a ease did not tell me, as the mom
Ferreira believes her platform the executive right to hold addi­
York City, Janice McAlarney review if they feel the punish­that, 'you know what, maybe
contains goals -such as campus­tional campaign meetings to 
wide wireless Internet -that increase the number of tickets in 
said. The Irish play tonight ment is too severe. you should stick around 
"can be accomplished" in her any given election. 
against St. John's at Madison According to page 94 of du because it's not good news."' 
Square Garden. Lac, "students who possess ille­Janice MeAlarney said the
term. "I think all in all, the more com­
She said her son received the gal substances including mari­family wouldn't eneourage Kyle
"It's not going to take five petition the better," she said. 
decision a little before 5 p.m. juana "shall be subjeet to disei­McAlarney to explore his
years," she said. "Having more than one ticket 
Regardless of the competition, allows [more voices to be] heard, 
"He's lonely, he hit the road plinary suspension or perma­options at other schools, and 
Payne said she is "extremely and people are elected because 
last night, my husband flew to nent dismissal." On the other that it's been her son's dream­
Ohio to meet him ... he can't hand, distributing illegal sub­as well as the family's -for
excited." they have earned it." 
drive all the way by himself," stances "is a serious violation him to attend Notre Dame.
"It shows that the student body Should Hodges and Payne win 
Janice McAlarney said. "He's whieh shall result in discipli­While she said that "[Kyle
is ready for a change and our the election, Davis and Kennedy 
heartbroken, he didn't expect nary suspension or permanent MeAlarney] still wears the
goals are attainable," she said. said they would consider serving 
this." dismissal." Notre Dame shirt proudly,"
"We're here to work for them." on their board, but neither has 
Janice McAlarney said she There is nothing in the specif­right now, they're unhappy with 
While the road to presidency yet decided their particular future 
understands Kyle McAlarney ie section of du Lac stating that the speeifie disciplinary proeess. 
continues for Ferreira-Antonelli involvement in student govern­
made a bad decision, but feels possession of marijuana is auto­"I think they made their deei­
and Hodges-Payne, Davis and ment. 
strongly that "the punishment matie grounds for suspension or sion three weeks ago and that's
Kennedy still have a strong desire Molnar did not return Observer 
does not fit the crime." dismissal from the University. what angers us," Janice
to serve Saint Mary's, Davis said. phone calls Tuesday night. 
Nobody has given her any Janice MeAlarney said she felt McAlarney said. "I think they
Davis, who called the results a 

answers, she said, as to why the deeision had something to strung us along for three weeks. 
"huge disappointment," said she Liz Harter contributed to this 
her son was suspended for both do with making an example of I think they should have just put
encourages students to vote for article. 
the spring and summer sessions her son, given his position as a it out on the earpet then."
the Hodges-Payne ticket in today's 
instead of only the spring term. public figure at Notre Dame. 
election. 
"Why did you suspend him for "I think he would have gotten Contact Bob Griffin at
She said she believes "they Contact Kelly Meehan at 
two semesters?" Janice one semester if he was just a rgriffi3@nd.edu
deserve it more than [Ferreira-kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Bush asks for bipartisanship positions on issues that the Early in his speech, Bush con­Democrats care about," Arnold
President 
gratulated the Democratic said. "He put forth Republican majority on its victory in the initiatives on Democratic
continued from page 1 
midterm elections, but stressed issues." dents huddled around televisions that the responsibilities the The president still made a in dormitories and the Congress has to the nation marked turn to the center -LaFortune Student Center. remain the same. Bush encour­best seen in his energy initia­
" ... [N]othing is more impor­aged the new composition of the tives, Arnold said. tant at this moment in our histo­House and the Senate to use "He started to sound like an ry than for bipartisanship as ecological president by calling America to suc­they work on their for reduced use of gasoline,
"It's good for the 
ceed in the Middle agendas. clean energy sources and even East, to succeed president to reach "Our citizens mentioning elimate change for in Iraq and to don't much care the first time," Arnold said.
across party lines." 
spare the which side of the "This was truly a more moder­American people aisle we sit on -as ate Bush tonight." from this danger," Sarah Way long as we are will­Arnold said the Demoerats Bush said. president ing to cross that must do something to address 
The speech's College Republicans aisle when there is both the domestic and foreign intent, said politi­work to be done," issues raised by Bush Tuesday in cal science pro-Bush said. the months ahead. 
fessor Louis Ayala, was "the In a return to his pre-presi­"At the end of the day, the desire to fmd consensus on some dential reputation as a "uniter, Democrats have to do business domestic policy issues and an not a divider," Bush delivered with the president if they want emphasis on making clear that his annual State of the Union him to sign anything. They ean't he has a specific goal for Iraq address in a calculatedly biparti­just strong-arm legislation and he really believes in the san tone, said Notre Dame politi­through all the time las they are surge." cal science professor and presi­with the minimum wage bill); 
College Democrats of Notre dential expert Peri Arnold. sometimes they do need to nego­Dame co-president Megan "I found notable Bush's rela­tiate," Arnold said. Hawley said Bush's new surge tive degree of moderation," Arnold said the Demoerats plan and his speech Tuesday Arnold said. "In the past, Bush must address the domestic and aren't enough to persuade the has taken pressure foreign issues Democrats -who now make up on him as a reason Bush raised in his a majority of both the House of to be even sharper address.
'/lt the end ofthe
Representatives and the Senate and more hostile. "I see lthe -to support the increased troop But tonight, he was day, the Democrats Democrats) most deployment. more moderate. He likely to be will­
have to do business 
"I think he is going back to the could've done a lot ing to do business 
with the president 
rhetoric of fear that he has been worse, and he has." with Bush on using forever," Hawley said. Because the ifthey want him to immigration and 
Hawley and other College Democrats control sign anything." edueation Democrats gathered in the base­both houses of issues," Arnold ment of Breen-Phillips Tuesday Congress, Arnold said. "In fact, the 
Peri Arnold 
night to watch the speech. said, Bush was president is dos­Hawley doesn't think Bush's forced to finally professor er to the plan to send 20,000 more troops address issues that political science Democrats on to Iraq will achieve peace in the Democrats care immigration than country -and she's fairly sure about, such as the he is to the the Democrats in Congress won't energy crisis, immigration and Republicans." think so either. health care. Notre Dame College 
"I don't think we have as many "The president was bipartisan Republicans president Sarah troops as he wants to send," in his speech by gesturing Way said the president's stance Hawley said. " ... I simply don't toward the Democrats, but he on immigration is not strong think this is going to work." still took his own Republican enough. But she said she believes "it's good for the presi­"In terms of public opinion dent to reach across party polls, this speech won't help the lines." president," he said. "But in 
"He's obviously learned some­terms of how the political class thing from the last eleetions and views it, yes, it was successful." it's a step in the right direction, Sophomore Jill Karas, who 
even though I don't  watched  the  
like the policy that  speech  at  the  
much," Way said. As part of his education agenda, Bush asked  "The highlight of the speech, for two female  Badin Hall State of the Union watch, said that she has more  
Congress to reau­thorize the No Child Left Behind Act ­a law enacted five  co-presidents, was hearing 'Madame Speaker."'  respect for the president after hearing him speak.  
.years ago that has  "He  came  
been "preserving local control, rais­ing standards and holding schools  Megan Hawley co-president College Democrats  across as more genuine and bet­ter presented this time than he did  
accountable  for  during the last  
results," Bush said.  speech  about  

Ayala predieted that some ver­Iraq, which was terrible," she sion of the Act "will likely sur­said. vive." Karas agreed with the presi­
But Hawley said the dent's position concerning Iraq Democrats won't support No that "we can't just give up." Child Left Behind. "I liked how Bush said that no 
"Most Democrats reeognize it matter how people voted on the as a failing program," she said. war, they didn't vote to lose," she Also on Bush's domestie agen­said. · da were balaneing the federal 
Pelosi makes history 

budget, fixing Medicare, 
Bush was not the only personMedicaid and Social Security people were watching Tuesday

and creating affordable and night. For the first time inavailable health care for all 
American history, the Speaker of 
Americans. In addition, Bush 
the House, who sits with the Vicesaid he wants to keep the coun­President behind the Presidenttry's borders safe while allowing during the speech, was female.foreign workers to enter the Bush called it a "high privilege 

eountry legally to work on a 
and distinet honor" to address temporary basis. Bush said the Nancy Pelosi as the Speaker ofUnited States must also develop the House of Representatives.

alternative fuel sources and 
For Hawley and her eo-presi­lessen its dependency on foreign dent Helen Adeosun, this was anoil. 

exciting moment for them asHawley isn't sure Bush will 

well.achieve all the objeetives. "The highlight of the speech,''I'm curious to see what he 

for two female eo-presidents,actually does with them," 

was hearing 'Madame Speaker,"' 

Hawley said. "A lot of these 
Hawley said. 

words are empty words to me." 
Arnold said the State of the Contact John Tierney at Union address was successful jtiemel@nd.edu and Kaidynn for Bush. Riely at kriely@nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow }ones  12,533.80  +56.64  
Up:  Same: Down:  Composite Volume:  
2,125  159 1,130  2,974,210,480  




COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR(QQQQ)  -0.25  -0.11  43.58  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -1.57  -0.09  5.66  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.15  -0.24  20.55  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.85  -0.49"  26.04  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.95 +0.045 4.804 13-WEEK BILL +0.30 +0.0 IS 5.005 30-YEAR BOND + 1.03 +0.050 4.897 5-YEAR NOTE +0.71 +0.034 4.800 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +246 55.04 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 11.80 645.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.18 96.05 
Excha Rates 

YEN 121.7550 EURO 0.7678 POUND 0.5047 CANADIAN$ 1.1820 
IN BRIEF 
Bolivian plans help raise gold prices 
NEW YORK -Gold futures hit a three-week high Tuesday as the dollar broke lower against its major rivals and news of Bolivia's possible nationalization of its mining sector hit the mar­ket. 
February gold settled up $11.80 at $645.90 a troy ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange. During the session the contract hit a three-week high of $646.90. 
George Gero of RBC Capital Markets Global Futures said the gold rally was due in part to news that Bolivia plans to hike taxes on mining, while also saying the government may national­ize companies that violated privatization rules. 
He added that news about two gold exchange­traded funds planned in India is also adding to the upside in the market. 
'That will take more metal out of the market," said Gero. "So with all that news, the path of least resistance has been up." 
Peter Schiff, president of Euro Pacific Capital, said gold has been holding key levels over the past few weeks despite a dip in oil prices and a bounce in the dollar. · 
AK Steel jumps even with losses 
CINCINNATI -Shares of AK Steel Holding Corp. jumped nearly 10 percent on Tuesday after the steelmaker reported a wider fourth-quarter loss than a year ago but an upbeat outlook for 2007. 
"They not only had a decent fourth quarter, but their guidance for the first quarter was very strong," said industry analyst Charles Bradford of Bradford Research/Soleil Securities in New York. 
The company, which has a plant in Rockport, Ind., also said temporary workers hired to replace locked out union employees at its Middletown Works plant are setting production and safety records and that more workers are being hired. 
AK Steel stock rose $1.63 to $18.40 in heavy trading on the New York Stock Exchange as the company reported a loss of $49.3 million, or 45 cents a share, in the three months ended Dec. 31, compared with $41.5 million, or 38 cents a share, a year ago. The stock reached as high as $18.68 on Tuesday. The low for the past year has been $7.71. 
The loss for the quarter widened compared with a year ago as higher average selling prices failed to offset weaker steel shipments and increased costs. 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 
Oil prices trigger stock rail y 
U.S. plans to-double Strategic Petroleum Reserve .create optimism for investors 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street rebounded Tuesday, rising moderately as crude oil surged more than $2 a barrel and triggered a rally among energy producers. Investors regained their optimism about corporate profits after a series of pos­itive earnings reports. 
Energy prices spiked after the Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman said the 
U.S. will double the size of the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Prices were already rising as a cold snap in the northeast United States was seen increasing demand for heating fuel in the region. 
Exxon Mobil Corp. led blue chips and was among the Dow Jones industrials' biggest gainers, while fel­low refiners ConocoPhillips and Chevron Corp. also surged during the session. The advance in oil stocks helped the Dow recover from an 88-point decline Monday, its biggest drop in two months and a reaction to investor uneasiness about earnings. 
The markets also got a lift Tuesday from robust earnings reports from United Technologies· Corp. and Texas Instruments Inc. This helped offset a warn­
ing from telecommunica­also advanced. The thing is OK, and there's a previous sessions, oil com­tions equipment maker Standard & Poor's 500 little upside left. But panies got a boost on the Alcatel-Lucent that it index was up 5.04, or 0.35 there's also a correction rebound in crude prices.would not post a profit percent, at 1,427.99, and out there considering the The refiners stand to bene­during the fourth quarter the Nasdaq composite kind of advance the market fit if the governmentbecause of a steep decline index added 0.34, or 0.01 bas undergone," he said. expands its reserves. in sales. percent, to 2,431.41. In economic news, the Exxon Mobil rose $1.59, or 
"Earnings are not coming Bond prices fell, with the Richmond Fed Survey 2.2 percent, to $74.49;in all that bad," said Brian yield on the benchmark 10-showed a slip in its manu­ConocoPhillips was upGendreau, an investment year Treasury note rising facturing index this month. $1.59, or 2.9 percent, at strategist with lNG to 4.81 percent from 4.76 Meanwhile, the Conference $64.97; and Chevron 
Investment Management. 
percent late Monday. Board said U.S. economic increased $1.34 to $72.88. "There is an absence of Bill Strazzullo, chief mar­activity is set to increase This helped investors any real bad news, leading ket strategist at Bell Curve slightly in the coming shake off Alcatel-Lucent's 
indicators are up, and 
Trading, believes the mar­months. statement that it post a loss companies are not falling ket might actually be at its The dollar was mixed for the first full quarteroff the table. That's consis­peak for the year. He against other major cur­since combining in last tent with the modest rise in believes stocks will pull rencies, while gold prices year's $11.6 billion deal the Dow." back as it becomes increas­spiked. A barrel of light, between France's Alcatel 
According to preliminary ingly likely that the Federal sweet crude rose $2.47, or and Lucent of the U.S. The calculations, the Dow rose Reserve won't cut interest 4. 7 percent, to settle at company blamed integra­56.64, or 0.45 percent, to rates. $55.04 on the New York tion costs and weaker sales 
12.533.80. "We're in a sweet spot Mercantile Exchange. because of consolidation Broader stock indicators right now where every-As has been typical in among its customers. 

Fund management leads to debate 
investing, had their moments. But S&P MidCap 400 index. 
Associated Press 

the contest-still a ways away from "Stock picking skills can easily be 
NEW YORK -To some it is a rival­becoming a Hatfield-McCoy-style swamped by a strong market move­ry for the ages, akin to the one feud as portfolio managers have yet ment," said Andrew Clark, an ana­shared by the Yankees and the Red to take up arms -mostly came down lyst at Lipper Inc. "It becomes diffi­Sox or those who debate whether irt favor of index funds in 2006. cult to beat your benchmark because their beer's most important attribute Mutual funds that mirror large and everything is going up." is that it tastes great or is less filling. small-capitalization indexes outpe­The S&P 500 did better than large­
As with any storied contest, the formed a majority of managed funds cap funds by more than 3 percent claims of the stalwarts on either side last year, figures from Standard & and the S&P Smai!Cap 600 beat often draw the most attention. So the Poor's Corp. show. The Standard & smallcap funds by nearly 2 percent. long-running .debate over whether Poor's 500 index-a widely used Actively managed midcap funds mutual funds managed by profe­benchmark for funds-beat 69.1 per­topped the S&P MidCap 400 by 0.34 sionals are any better than those cent of managed large-cap funds, percent. that simply mirror major market while the S&P SmallCap 600 index For the past five years, the S&P indexes can obscure a larger point showed a greater return than 63.6 500 has beaten 71.4 percent of for many investors: Neither side has percent of managed smallcap funds, large-cap funds, while the S&P to be right all the time to be a right according to S&P. Among midcap MidCap 400 has outperformed 79.7 fit. funds, however. managers beat their. percent of midcap funds. The S&P 
Last year, both str&tegies, often benchmark, with 53.3 percent of SmallCap 600 has done better than 
referred to as active and passive managed funds outperforming the 77.5 percent of small cap funds. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 8 
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
The lndepmdent, Daily N~apt!r Serving Notre Dame arul SaitU ~ry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF MikeGilloon 
MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESs MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITOR: Kate Antonacd 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 
SCENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Kelly Meehan PHom EDITOR: Dustin·Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CONTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

New kids on the block 
The Observer has graciously decided to allow two intelligent, charming and ridiculously good-looking men (Don't believe us? Check out our facebook pro­file.) To write a bi-weekly column for the Viewpoint. In 
Zach Finterz
addition to the semi­

and
nal columns written 

Mark Poyar
by Gary Caruso, Joey Falco and Liz Coffey, 

Bulletproof
among others, you 

Ideas
will find a new one authored by yours truly, Mark Poyar and Zach Einterz. Since we are a new column this semes­ter, we thought it would be prudent to begin by introducing ourselves and our ideas. 
First, let us explain the title of our column, "Bulletproof Ideas." Our inspi­ration for this title comes from the movie "V for Vendetta." (If you have seen this movie and thought it was a good movie, possibly the best movie ever, we congratulate you. If you haven't seen this movie, you should rent it as soon as possible.) In one of the closing scenes, the anti-authoritarian hero V becomes riddled with bullets from his assailants, including Mr. Creedy, and the following dialogue ensues: 
Creedy: Die! Die! Why won't you die? ... Why won't you die? 
V: Beneath this mask there is more than flesh. Beneath this mask there is an idea, Mr. Creedy, and ideas are bul­letproof. 
Of course, we did not choose this title because we believe that our ideas are bulletproof, or that our ar.guments are invincible, although that may be the case. We chose this title because we believe that social change has to come from ideas. Progress doesn't come from forceful coercion; .it comes from persua­sion by logic and reasoning. Unlike a Britney Spears marriage, or a dining hall meal that slides through your gut by the time you make it back to your dorm, good ideas can last forever. Our goal here is to give you some new ideas. 
We am both members of the College LibPrtarians, and as such, our columns will generally be written from a liber­tarian viewpoint. What do we mean by libertarian? Simply put, libertarians believe in the freedom or the individual. We believe that each individual has an inalienable right to life, liberty, property and self-government. We believe that the only moral function of government is to protect these inalienable rights and that government used for any other mean eonstitutes an immoral use of force. Each person should have the right to choose what is best for him­selli'herself, so long as his/her actions do not interfere with the rights of others. We also believe that the United States Constitution, as the founding document of our great Hepublic, should be regard­ed as relevant and not brushed aside to suit the political whims of a particular interest group. For a very general idea of the libertarian stance on political issues, libertarians usually oppose war, interventionism, taxes, gun control and censorship, while supporting free mar­kets, immigration and civil liberties . 
This is a very brief and broad overview of libertarianism, and we promise to elaborate in our future columns. Hopefully, by reading our columns you will be given a different look at the world. You won't only see the world as red and blue, Hepublican and Democrat. or conservative and lib­eral. We don't expect you to agree with everything we write -in fact you prob­ably won't-but at least you will have been given a new perspective on the world around you. We hope to make this a conversation of ideas, not a monologue, so please write back when you disagree with us. 
Finall~, if you find that you agree with a lot of what we have to say, don't be apathetic! Come out as a libertarian! Are you disillusioned and disenfran­chised by the current state of politics? Did you have horrible memories of put­ting your dog down as a child because he/she/it broke zoning ordinances? Do you like "South P-ark" and Clint Eastwood? If you said yes to any of the preceding questions, then you may already be a libertarian! Libertarians encompass a wide range of peoples. We include everything from anarcho-capi­talists, environmentalists, and potheads to fundamentalist Christians and athe­ists. The only thing necessary to become a libertarian is a commitment to liberty. For more information on the College Libertarians of Notn: Dame, visit our website at www.nd.edu/-liber­ty. Otherwise, stay tuned for our arti­cles, words of wisdom and rants. We'II be back again in two weeks. Look for us above that ever-present letter from grad student Dan Hicks. 
Zach Einterz is a junior majoring in economics and environmental sciences. He has turned to politics after giving up on an unsuccessful sports career. Contact Zach at zeinterz@nd.edu 

Mark Poyar is a junior finance major and vice president ofthe College Libertarians. Their Web site is http://ndlibertarians. blogspot. com. He is currently studying abroad in England and can be contacted at mpoyar@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned eclirorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Mike Gilloon. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Munday thmugh Fr.icl~y exc-ept during: exam and vacation periods. A subscription m The Observer fs $100 for on~:= academic year; $55 fur one scmesrer. 
Tile Observer 4s published <tt: POSTMASTER 
U24 South Dining Hall Se:nd address corrmions tO: 
N()tte Dllme. tN 46S56-0:n9 ThtObserver 
Per:iocfu:al postage paid at No(tc Dillllc: ~0. Bo, 779 
and additional mailing cyffices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-on9 
Tlu: Observer is a mt:mber ofthe A->sodared Press. All reproduaion right~ ate t~Served. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A revolutionary education? 
It's a comm.on scene early in the semester: students at their computers, shuffling around their elasses, some­times dropping a course or adding another. In an attempt to fultill the University literature, music or history requirement, a student will scroll through the course descriptions searching for an interesting, or -at the very least-easy, class. It was through this search that a friend alert­ed me of certain disconcerting choices being offered to fulfill those require­ments. 
One such class fulfilling the literature requirement in the English Department is called "Decadent Modernity" (ENGL 20405). A glace at the course descrip­tion reveals that the course aims "to explore visions of decadence spanning the last two centuries and more." Students are instructed to "bring a tol­erance for the grotesque and for authors who deliberately challenge deeply held Western attitudes about morality and values." Several "literary texts, visual arts and modern cinema" are to bn considered, but the "concep­tual groundwork" is to be laid with Freud and Nietzsche. 
I choose this particular class -there are several others -because I feel it well exemplifies many of the humani­ties courses being offered at universi­ties across the nation. These courses appeal to students' anti-authoritarian tendencies to draw them, ironically, to a not particularly tolerant, alternative orthodoxy. "Sticking it to the rn.an," as some have put it, does not necessarily imply liberation, for what if the new· "man" who replaces the old one brings even worse tyranny? 
There must always be a "man," an authority, and those who claim to free us from all authority in reality bind us to their own. Yes, rejecting traditional values sounds enticing, but this propo­sition raises an important question: what new set of values will replace the old ones we are so emphatically encouraged to abandon? Were this pro­posed new ethos original, empowering or socially progressive, as it claims to be, it would be worth consideration. But, upon closer examination, it seems to be merely a souftle of old Gnosticism of different flavors, marinated in the arguments of 1960s Cultural revolu­tionaries and spiced with some witty quotes from the Pre-Socratics. And, added to it all, in the manner of the Fairy Godmother in the latest "Shrek" film, is "just a hint of ... lust." 
An education such as this, of course, prepares us, in a strange but certain way, to be the leaders of the Twenty­First century, to carry on the torch ­there was a torch somewhere, wasn't there? -and, in general terms, to achieve the new, recasted American dream: becoming filthy rich without getting caught. 

Chris Spellman senior offcampus Jan. 23 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL

Eileen Duffy Chris Khorey Jennifer Metz Deidre Krasula 
If the Democratic 
Emma Driscoll Amy Dixon Viewpoint Scene primary were held today, Kara King Sean Sweany 
who would you vote for? 
Graphics Jeff Albert Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

~ Submit aLetter 
"Answer a fool according to his follJ!, or he will be wise in his-own eyes. '
;totbe EdiiOrat 
Proverbs 
26:4

}~ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
---------------------------------,-------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Revisiting ethics 
at Catholic 
university 
This letter is in response to James Welle's ("Ethics and morals not syn­onomous," Jan. 23) comment, "My point is that morals cannot and should not ever be used to justify ethics." 
Whose morals are we talking about? 
As written in DuLac, the mission statement of the University of Notre Dame states, "Notre Dame's character as a Catholic academic community presupposes that no genuine search for the truth in the human or cosmic order is alien to the life of faith ... There is, however, a special obligation and opportunity, specifically as a Catholic university, to pursue the reli­gious dimensions of human learning. Only thus can Catholic intellectual life in all disciplines be animated and fostered and a proper community of scholarly religious discourse be established." 
The founders of our university believe that truth is not alien to faith; they believe that truth and morality as established by faith are not foreign to one another. The search for truth about ethics at this university should be guided by a profound understanding of Catholic morality. The mission statement also states, "A Catholic university draws its basic inspiration from Jesus Christ as the source of wisdom and from the conviction that in Him all things can be brought to their completion." All things includes the examples of ethical dilemmas James provided; the founders of this univer­sity believe that ethical decisions can be justified by the moral ideas as established by the Catholic church. Catholics cannot have separate moral and ethical stances. 
Daniel Dugovic junior Knott Hall Jan. 23 
Raising wage has 
consequences too 
The silence from the living wage community had gone on for far too long, apparently, as even a South Bend resident felt the need to chime in. I don't doubt Louis Myers' good intentions, but his argument is plain sophistry. Mr. Myers calls for Notre Dame to pay its employees "at least a living wage, which would be about $12/hour now." Two questions come to mind after reading this statement. 
First, should we separate wages from earnings? Notre Dame employees, like other employees in a free society, earn their wages. We cannot dictate what one earns by circumventing the market wage. 
The second involves a more alarming concern with minimum wage arguments. Myers includes the words "at least" when ordering what the administration should pay its workers. Is it not obvious that we have scarce resources in a soci­ety and, therefore, in a university? As William F. Buckley Jr. once said, "Idealism is fine, but as it approaches reality, the costs become prohibitive." 
I can only hope that those students calling for an increase in wages will not be the same ones up in arms when it forces further increases in the already astro­nomical tuition hikes. Instead of rallying behind Myers' motivational effort, let's think about what it is we are doing when we undermine basic economic princi­ples. It is through flexible, not set, prices that capitalism functions most effi­ciently. That includes the price that an employer is willing to pay a given worker for his/her labor, and I have-yet to see a worker chained to a buffet line or a mop bucket, so I can only assume that Notre Dame is offering the most competi­tive wages for the necessary skills. 
Whether one likes it or not, Notre Dame must operate as a business-not to turn a profit, but to be responsible stewards of the students' tuition dollars. There is nothing theologically sinful about adhering to the competitive, market­clearing wages already in place. 
Brad Duffy 
junior Fisher Hall Jan. 23 

Sex is good, 
condoms or not 
Let us be frank about the fact that sex is good. In fact, sex is great. It is holy. God is a big pro­ponent. And I get the feeling that a lot of what God made is good, in and of itself, apart from its function. Creation was good before humans ever exploited it. 
I would agree with Eleanore Strong ("Contraceptive society morally harmful," Jan. 
21) that God knows best. But I take strong issue with the idea that the Catholic Church always knows best. Passive acquiescence to theology with such far-reaching implications, when the experience on the ground screams in pain for theological review, cannot be our best answer. 
Theology is the work of every man and woman trying to discern how to live their lives. I will not deny that 2,000 years of collective experience and wisdom, in many realms of life, is truly a great resource. But contraception is too new, and its theology is just being worked out at a time when there are life and death decisions riding on the Church's interpretation. 
People, including priests, make mistakes. It doesn't mean everything the Church says is wrong. Far from it. It just means we need to be careful. So with that said, the irony of the Church's position is that while attempting to uphold the sanctity of sex, it actually demeans it. Objectifies it, really, in the same way our worth as humans today tends to be tied to what we can produce for our efficient profit-driven society. For whatever reason, we are uneasy with the idea that something can be good just because it is, not because of what it can pro­duce. And the union of two people into one flesh through sex is something that is holy whether or not it can or does produce another human life. 
It is an expression of love, a very deep and binding one, and not one that condoms or a pill can even begin to defile. If you want culprits for "more abortions, fewer children, more divorce and more AIDS cases," I suggest something other than contraceptives as the scapegoat. Millions of lives are riding on that careless statement. 
Try looking at our society of material deca­dence, where we exploit what we want from people and the environment, and then discard without thought. 
Try looking at the general commercialization of sex on TV and every other sphere of our lives. The problem is deep within each of our psyches. Fewer children can be attributed to more women in the workforce due to greater empowerment, not least of which is our greater access to education, not just reproductive con­trol. 
I cannot tell you what causes higher divorce rates, but something tells me its not just con­doms. 'And AIDS could be prevented through greater education and access to preventive tools, and less stigma associated with the virus so that people might actually want to get tested. Even promiscuity probably has little to do with birth control -it probably has everything to do with chastity just being difficult. 
Talk about sex is so taboo that most sex edu­cation is left to schools, as I have a feeling that most of our generation never got a real sex talk from our parents. Coupled with the fact that our faith exposure to sex when we are young is pri­marily through warnings against carnal tempta­tion, which suddenly changes as sex becomes holy when we are to be married, it seems as if we are trying to coax our minds to jump through schizophrenic hoops once we have a ring on our finger, or else abandon the cause of not saying more than we mean -the concept of chastity -long before. Which is really a shame, because the Church has some great theology about sex, under the title of "theology of the body," which unfortunately is still relatively obscure. And for all of the Church's 2,000 years of struggling with chastity directly, if given the chance, it may have insights which we find helpful. 
But please do not try and tell me that con­doms remove "permanence from marriage." I'm sure there are a number of octogenarians still going strong, who in their heyday used birth control, but who nonetheless are now celebrat­ing their 50th anniversaries. A piece of plastic does not kill the significance of sex or cause societal destruction. We do, if we allow it. 
Amanda Tarkowski 
sophomore 
Lyons Hall 
Jan. 22 
Condoms are not the cause 

Eleanore Strong recently argued in her Letter to the Editor ("Contraceptive society morally harmful") that contraceptives threaten humanity as condoms and other forms of sexual-pro­tection "erode respect for human life." But there is something else plaguing the world, and it too has no "respect for human life." It's called HIV and this pandemic has already claimed the lives of 25 million people. 
We, however, can fight this disease with that which Strong finds so morally repulsive -condoms. To end this great death requires more than idealistic policies of abstinence. These have been proven to be insufficient and leave future victims without the ability to make personal decisions and to protect themselves. As she continues in her misguided approach to solving the world's moral afllictions, Strong contends that con­traception robs the human race of a "stable, loving family" structure. 
Guess what? There are 40 million AIDS orphans in Sub­Saharan Africa and I don't think condoms have orphaned any­one yet. You may find it morally wrong to protect the gift oflife and the promise of a family through sexual-protection, but I think otherwise. The letter continues with her attack on such preventative-measures, claiming contraceptives "implicitly condone promiscuity.'' This broad assumption lacks any empir­ical evidence. Sexual protection allows for couples to physically express themselves without the fear of death, disease or an unwanted pregnancy. In no means do they cause individuals to have sex. They simply serve as protection, not as encourage­ment. 
And she doesn't stop there. Strong alleges that the preva­lence of contraceptives in our society has also caused a terrible sequence of events: they lead to more abortions and the spread of AIDS. These claims are devoid of truth, any support­ive evidence, and are the result of reckless, misguided assump­tions. Contraceptives prevent unwanted pregnancies that could easily result in more abortions and condoms prevent the trans­mission ofHIV/AIDS. Such preposterous attitudes toward sexu­al protection have already claimed the lives of millions in Africa, where rumors suggest having sex with a virgin to cure AIDS. To further such lies is surely more immoral than choos­ing to protect oneself. To dismiss contraceptives as immoral is to call wearing a seatbelt a sin. They provide a healthy choice for individuals wishing to express themselves with a partner and encourage physical and mental well being. It is a blessing that we now have an avenue to stop the spread of AIDS. It is time to utilize it and we have a moral obligation to do so. 
Daniel Savage freshman Morrissey Hall Jan. 23 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 

AMERICAN IDOL FEATURE 

'American Idol' breeds talent, brings fame 
It's hard to avoid the "American Idol" phenomenon. Everyone knows who Simon Cowell is and can name at least one of the "Idol" winners or contestants. The show has produced a Grammy winner, a Golden Globe winner, a Country Music Award (CMA) female vocalist of the year and sev­eral platinum-selling recording artists. And it's only getting bigger and better. 
When the first season of "Idol" aired in 2002, it had nine million viewers. The premiere of the current sixth season enjoyed more than 57 million viewers. Its success single-handedly revived the talent show genre and gave rise to several suc­cessors, including "America's Got Talent," "Rock Star: INXS" and the latest, NBC's "Grease: You're the One That I Want." 
While "Idol" first began as a quest to find the best undiscovered young pop superstar, the show has since evolved and has lessened its age restrictions and opened itself to more genres, including rock and country. 
Even before the 24 finalists (12 males and 12 females) are named, the city open­call auditions are almost as popular to watch as the final contestants. As exciting as it is to see the young new talent, it is equally as fun to watch the delusional masses attempt to perform. 
The season three auditions introduced 
U.C. Berkeley student William Hung to the world, and he has since become a cult celebrity-even releasing his own album. Season five brought the Brittenum twins, Derrell and Terrell, and all of their accompanying drama. They both made it to Hollywood out of Chicago, and Derrell quit when he mistakenly heard that his brother had been cut. 
After he realized his error, he begged Cowell and the other judges to let him have his spot back. They agreed, but both twins were disqualified when they were recognized for being wanted for identity theft. Although the sixth season is only several weeks young, there have already been several (in)famous auditions, and several ambitious people have posted online guides to the MySpace profiles of some of the worst auditionees. 
The show has become so popular that appearing on "Ameriean Idol" is enough in itself to make the individuals almost instantly famous. They do not necessarily even have to win the contest to become a true American idol. 
As viewership has increased yearly, more and more of the finalists outside of first and second place have become exceptionally popular. Of the season live finalists, more than a third of them either already have a debut album on store shelves or are set to release one. Several more finalists, like Ace Young, have released singles online. 
Even beyond just selling albums, the "Idol" alums have met with success even outside the music arena. 
Most recently, season three contestant Jennifer Hudson won a Golden Globe and has been nominated for an Academy Award for her supporting role in "Dreamgirls." Season three winner Fantasia Barrino starred in a Lifetime movie based on her book, "Life Is Not a Fairy Tale." Season five contestant Kellie Pickler is getting her own sitcom, current­ly in production with FOX. 
Within the musical arena the original 

From his very first audition, Chris Daughtry made his presence felt during season five of "American Idol." While Bo Bice and Constantine Maroulis cracked open the door of the rock genre during season four, Daughtry blasted it open. His pulse-pounding performance of Fuel's hit "Hemorrhage" was praised by all three judges and was popular with the audience. 
His performance even impressed the members of Fuel, who asked him to be their lead singer after his departure from the show. His unforgettable renditions of Johnny Cash's "Walk the Line" and Bon Jovi's "Wanted Dead or Alive" cemented his fan base and earned him a spot among the "American Idol" greats. He finished the season as the fourth-place finalist. 
After the show ended, Daughtry declined the offer to join Fuel and instead chose to follow his own solo career. He formed his own band and recorded "Daughtry," a debut album that debuted at number two on the Billboard charts. His first single off of the album, "It's Not Over," is currently rated at 21 on the Billboard charts and is gaining in airtime popularity. The song, co­written by Daughtry and fellow "Idol" con­testant Ace Young, exemplifies his style of solidly blending together rock and pop qualities (much in the vein of artists such as Nickelback). 
Most of his album is a mesh of pop and rock, although individual songs vary on where they fall on th11 pop to rock scale. Songs like "Used To" and "Home" easily fall under the pop category, whereas "What I Want" and "Gone" are nothing but rock. ' 
Ilis version of rock, however, is much more blend1~d and stylized than some of his hard-rocking predecessors, and it is lairly easy to assume that Daughtry will find much more success in the pop circuits than in the rock. 
Although he tends to be grouped and compared to acts like Niekelbaek or Fuel, Daughtry still manages to impress upon his listeners his own unique sound -and it's obvious from the energy and enthusiasm of his album that he is doing what he loves to do. 
Daughtry's talent becomes apparent in the fact that there really isn't a bad track on the album. He wrot<~ or eo-wrote every song on the album with the exceptions of "Feels Like Tonight" and "What About Now," the latter written by Ben Moody 
Want," "Gone" 

from Evanescence. 
Daughtry's vocals are great on all of the songs, and he sounds even better than he did when he was on "Idol." The rest of the band is also excellent, with the guitarists specifically standing out. The song "What I Want" even features a special guest appearance by Guns 'N Roses guitar leg­end, Slash. 
The people behind "American Idol" never miss a beat, and this album is no exeeption. Every store carries the same "Daughtry" album except for one -Wai­Mart. Wal-Mart features a special "b_onus" Idol, Kelly Clarkson, garnered herself two Grammys and season four winner Carrie Underwood has twice won the CMA award for top female vocalist of the year, and has also been a Grammy nominee. 
With all of the success that "American Idol" and its contestants have enjoyed, it is a sure thing that it is not going away anytime soon and will continue to exist for the American public to enjoy ­William Hungs and all. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
CD REVIEW 

'Daughtry' a solid album from popular 'Idol' rockef 
CHRIS DAUGHTRY 
Daughtry 
RCA 

Recommended Tracks: "It's Not Over," "Over You," "What I 


edition of the album, which contains two extra tracks: acoustic versions of "Home" and "Crashed." 
"Daughtry" is a solid hit through and through -it has already gone platinum ­and its success only guarantees a promis­ing future for its artist. Chris Daughtry has managed to do what some former Idol con­testants struggle with -he transcended the "Idol" fan base and created an album that even non-Idol fans can't help but enjoy. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 
I' 

CD REVIEWS 
Personality helps Pickler after loss on show 
Jessica Simpson gained dubious fame for asking a now infamous question while pondering a can of Chicken of the Sea. "Is it chicken or tuna?" Following in Simpson's vein of dumb-blonde antics is Kellie Pickler, whose debut came in season five of "American Idol." 
Whether it was her confusing the meanings of "minx" and "mink" or her drawn-out Southern pronunciation of calamari, Pickler gained as much -if not more -attention for her naive per­sonality as for her musical abilities. 
She was so endearing and adorable, even when calling her fake eyelashes "tarantulas," that she warmed the hearts of all her viewers. Even the stone-cold Simon Cowell admitted that he was a Pickler fan. In the end though, her personality wasn't enough and she was eliminated from the competition in sixth place. 
Even after being bounced, the "Idol" producers recognized her lasting popu­larity and they filmed a recurring seg­ment called "Puck 'n Pickler," where chef Wolfgang Punk introduced Pickler to unusual food for comic relief on the show. She continued to be popular on the show, singing in the finale episode and doing several promotional spots for later shows. 
Although she finished in sixth place, Pickler has returned to the public eye with the release of her debut album, "Small Town Girl," which debuted at 

KELLIE PICKLER 
Small Town Girl 
Bna Entertainment 

Recommended Tracks: "Red High Heels," '1 W>nder" "'ne of the Guysn 
number one on the Billboard country chart. The album is standard fare as far as country music goes, and her catchy lyrics and upbeat voice will make the release instantly popular with country fans. 
Her first single off of the album, "Red High Heels," has consistently been in the top-20 of the country charts since its debut. A catchy and sassy song that talks about her love for collecting shoes, it is the perfect introduction for Pickler to the world outside of "Idol." 
In a break from tradition and a show of support for Pickler, the production company for the "Idol" contestants released her album two months before "Idol" winner Taylor Hicks was set to release his. In previous years, all of the contestants were under contract not to release their albums until after the first and second-place winners released theirs. 
"Small Town Girl" is full of energy, and Pickler celebrates everything that makes up her vivacious country personality. Although much of the album is upbeat and energetic, it also balances out these moments with more emotional, senti­mental songs. 
The tearjerker track "I Wonder," which is scheduled to be her second sin­gle release, is an ode to her mother, who left her when she was a young child. It's obvious that Pickler put her heart and soul into the song, and it is sure to be a successful country ballad in the future. 
Throughout the album Pickler ranges from sounding almost cynical on "Things That Never Cross a Man's Mind" to showing some heartbreak on "Didn't You Know." The song "One of the Guys" shows that she knows how to have fun, and then she goes back to being senti­mental on "My Angel," a tribute to her grandmother. 
Although Pickler puts together a great album and her performances are defi­nitely better than the ones she gave while on "Idol," she still doesn't have the wide musical appeal in the mainstream community necessary to become a big star. 
Pickler will find easy and rapid suc­cess in the country music circuits, but unlike her country-"Idol" predecessor, Carrie Underwood, she doesn't quite have the vocals to make an impact out­side of the somewhat self-contained country circle. 
Overall, "Small Town Girl" is a great country album, with both upbeat songs and ballads that hit all of the right notes. For fans of that genre, Kellie Pickler's album is a fantastic addition to any collection. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

Pop singer, basketball star has promising debut 
All it takes now is simply an appear­ance on "American Idol" to become a recording pop artist. Ayla Brown, who released her debut album "Forward" last year, is proof of that. Akhough she made the top-24 field of finalists, she was eliminated in week three of the finals. Even though she lasted a relative­ly short time on the hit television show, her brief stint sufficed to gain enough of a fan base to warrant recording an album. 
Typically albums can take a long time to record, but Brown and her team at Double Deal Records managed to record, mix and produce her debut CD all in less than two weeks. She only had a limited time to record her album because she is also a freshman at Boston College, which she attends on a full basketball scholarship. She only had a small window of opportunity between the end of her "Idol" contract and her official enrollment at BC, where she is obligated to follow NCAA regulations concerning the recording and promotion of music. 
"Forward" has a very contemporary pop feel to it. From the upbeat first sin­gle "Know You Better" to the inspira­tional ballad "Ten Cent Wings," Brown displays a decent vocal talent which is as good as most recording pop artists today -where it doesn't take the most amazing voice in the world to make a hit song. 
Much like "Know You Better," which is gaining in radio play, her covers of "I Quit" and "Sugah" are driven by up beats and catchy lyrics. Her version of "Sugah" is much more developed than the one recorded by fellow "Idol" alums Justin Guarini and Kelly Clarkson for their cinematic travesty, "From Justin to Kelly" (2002). Likewise, Brown's arrangement for "I Quit" is much more upbeat and faster than Hepburn's origi­nal release. 
Most of Brown's album is written by such well-known songwriters as Diane Warren ("' Don't Wanna Miss A Thing") and Tommy Sims ("Change the World"), but she did manage to co-write two of her songs-the love ballad "Falling Into You," as well as one dedicated to her family and friends entitled "Thanks To You." Both songs, while not terribly deep, are heartfelt and catchy. 
Two of the better songs on the album have a more theatrical feel to them: "Miles Aw"ay (Too Fast For You)" and "Ten Cent Wings." Both demonstrate a great deal of vocal maturity from an artist who has really had limited expo-
AYLABROWN 
Forward 

Cbuj Entertainment 

Rerommended Tracks: "Know You Better, • *I Qlit,• "'Ten CsJt Wings," "'Miles Away (roo Fast 

for You)" 
sure to singing. While they aren't quite radio-friendly -and are unlikely to ever be released as singles -they are easily the most thought-evoking and enjoyable songs out of the collection. 
The most unique track on "Forward" is the "Jock Jams"-esque "Breaking Away." The up-tempo, easy-to-workout­to song features the sound of a dribbling basketball as part of the beat and is well-suited as a tune coming from a bas­ketball player. 
The biggest downside to the album ­and for Brown in general -is that there isn't enough to make her stand out from the rest of the pop world. While it's a great pop album, it doesn't do enough to distinguish itself from the rest of the homogenous pop albums. Likewise, Brown isn't quite unique enough to stand out on her own, and she didn't make it far enough on "Idol" to have that built-in level of success. 
While Kelly Clarkson's first album wasn't terrific, she had the support of her "Idol" win to continuously put her name in the public eye until she truly was good enough to stand on her own. Brown's next release will surely be bet­ter, but the question remains as to whether this album will garner enough success to warrant another. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 

'lABYRINTH' WEAVES COMPLEX TALE OF FANTASY, REALITY 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Assisranr Scene Ediror 
Few films are able to meld the every­day world with a fantastical, mythical dream world better than "Pan's Labyrinth." This film tells its story through the eyes of a little girl who finds herself undergoing Herculean tasks at the bidding of a seven-foot faun while dealing with the after effects of the Spanish Civil War. 
The grittiness of the war is clear in the violence, the fantasy of her hidden king­dom is clear in her awe and the way these two worlds mirror each other is 
Pan's Labyrinth 


Director: Guillermo del Toro Writer: Guillermo del Toro Starring: Ariadna Gil, Ivana Baquero, Doug Jones and Sergi Lopez undeniably clear in the brilliant parallels director and screenwriter Guillermo del Toro weaves into this film. 
Few films this year will be as lush and beautiful as "Pan's Labyrinth." This, in relation to the story it tells, is the strongest aspect of the film. The lighting is beautifully done, especially during scenes shot at night. The proper amount of eeriness and fantasy is inserted into the film, which brings the war-torn real world together with the fantastic under­ground kingdom, a place described in the prologue as a world without pain or sadness. 
The. central driving force of the narra­tive revolves around a young girl named Ofelia who travels with her mother to live with her mother's new husband, Captain Vidal. Vidal is a captain in the Nationalist army that has just overtaken control of Spain. He's been assigned to a rural outpost to quell any opposition posed by Republican forces hiding in the forests. 
The actor behind the vicious and ruth­less Captain Vidal is Sergi Lopez, who puts in the best performance of the film. 
He is exacting and unbending in his quest to destroy the small Republican force and raise his son under his mili­taristic guidance. 
Vidal's bloodthirstiness is matched by one other character in the film -the Pale Man, a fearsome antagonist young Ofelia faces in the second task she is given at the labyrinth near her house. Only the imagination of a first-rate film­maker could have thought up the night­mare that is the Pale Man, whose eye­balls are embedded in his hands. The only way to truly experience the charac­ter is to see his inspired design on the big screen. 
The makeup in "Pan's Labyrinth" ­which was recently nominated for an Academy Award -is incredible. The fantasy elements are impeccable because they are not life-like. This may seem an odd assessment, but the make­up helps sell these creatures in exactly the way a young child might imagine them. The fantastic characters here do not attempt to be real in the way those in Peter Jackson's "Lord of the Rings" do. 
The faun and the denizens of Ofelia's fantasy world exist in her world, not in ours. This makeup also extends to some of the most gruesome bloodshed in a film to date. There is not much blood, but the mutilation some characters endure can be unnerving even for the strong of mind and stomach. 
However, this mutilation has a pur­pose, unlike that found in the rash of torture/horror films that have been released recently. The real world is full of tenderness but also war, bloodshed and pain and the fantasy world of "Pan's Labyrinth" reflects this. The two worlds are separate yet identical. 
"Pan's Labyrinth" can best be charac­terized as very sad and heart-rending, yet life-affirming and hopeful. It is not only a beautiful film to look at but also a beautiful story that transcends language. Uel Torn's vision shows how those who are young at heart can dream to rise above the mundane and cruel aspects of an everyday world. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

IMAGINATIVE FILM lACKS DEPTH AND MEANING 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Scene Ediror 
"Pan's Labyrinth" wants badly to be a great movie, but its reach exceeds its grasp. It is a creative and unique film, and its originality is admirable, but it never pulls together as a singular work, and that lack of cohesiveness ultimately prevents it.from being as good a picture as it could be. 
Set against the turmoil of 1944 Spain, when the Spanish Civil War was coming to a close, "Pan's Labyrinth" follows Ofelia (Ivana Baquero). a girl who accompanies her mother Carmen (Ariadna Gil) to a military camp. Carmen has married the brutal Captain Vidal (Sergi Lopez), who is attempting to weed out a group of rebels who have taken to the mountains. Carmen and Ofelia are looked after by Mercedes (Maribel Verdu), one of Vidal's servants. Mercedes' brother, however, is one of the leaders of the rebels, and Mercedes is secretly aiding them. During all of this, Ofelia is drawn to a nearby labyrinth and confronted by a mysteri­ous faun named Pan (Doug Jones, who also plays the eerie Pale Man). who informs her that she has the soul of a lost princess and must pass three tests to prove herself and take her rightful place in her true father's kingdom. 
The biggest problem with "Pan's Labyrinth" is that, despite its multifac­eted complexity, it's not nearly as immersive as it should be. The continual narrative shifts between the "real world" and the "fantasy world" are jolt­ing and the film's narrative footing is too dependent on Mercedes and the rebellion when it should concentrate on Ofelia. The three tests that Ofelia is given are simplistic in nature, and occa­sionally complicate (rather than clarify) her character. 
The film's lack of cohesiveness detracts from the movie as a whole, though there is much to admire, partic­ularly in its craftsmanship. The film is undeniably beautiful, especially in its art direction and sense of form. The script, penned by Del Toro, is humorless but complicated, brimming with ideas and creativity. Unfortunately, it too often lacks thematic unity, spiraling in several different directions without fully explor­ing most of them. 
"Pan's Labyrinth" is also quite dark and violent, with many disturbing scenes that are difficult and off-putting. For a film touted as an escapist fantasy, there's simply too much reality. The harshness and brutality of the "real world" threaten to overshadow what is ostensibly the narrative crux of the pic­ture, which dilutes much of the film's impact. 
Ivana Baquero, all of 12 years old, is superb as Ofelia. In many ways, the film rests on her shoulders, and her con­trolled, measured performance mixes innocence and wisdom perfectly. Sergi Lopez offers the other standout per­formance as the monstrous Captain Vidal, evoking shades of Ralph Fiennes' Amon Goeth from "Schindler's List." 
It's not hard to see why critics are rav­ing about "Pan's Labyrinth," since it 
Pan's Labyrinth 


feels like a picture specifically designed to make an artistic statement. Unfortunately, it never quite coalesces as a complete work, but it does hint at future greatness from a filmmaker starting to hit his stride. 
Del Toro has proven himself a director capable of great visual beauty, but he has yet to make a movie that fulfills his enormous potential. He is far more tal­ented than previous works like "Mimic," "Blade II" and "Hellboy" might have indicated, and "Pan's Labyrinth" is a great leap forward for him as an artisti­cally-minded filmmaker. The picture itself, however, is never as immersive or emotionally effective as it should be. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 



Wednesday, January 24, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
BROWNING 
CINEMA 
N D Student Film Festival (2007) 
Directed by NO Students 
NR, 120 minutes 
Thu, Jan 25 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Fri, Jan 26 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Sat, Jan 27 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Heaven (2002) 
Directed by Tom Tykwer 
R, 96 minutes 
Thu, Feb 1 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm 
Shut Up and Sing (2006) 
Directed by Barbara Kopple 
R, 99 minutes 
Fri, Feb 2 at 1 0 pm 
Sat, Feb 3 at 1 0 pm 
Sun, Feb 4 at 4 pm 
Iraq in Fragments (2006) 
Directed by James Longley 
NR, 94 minutes 
Kurdish, Arabic, and English languages 
with English subtitles 
Fri, Feb 2 at 7 pm 
Sat, Feb 3 at 7 pm 
Birth of a Nation (1915) 
PAC Classic 100 
Directed by OW. Griffith 
NR, 187 minutes 
Sat, Feb 3 at 3 pm 
FILM LINE: 631-FILM 
Watch The Final Cut 
An original movie review show, Wednesday nights at 11 pm on NDtv Channel 53 

page 14 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Nardi and Reynolds guide Nova to victory 
Auburn knocks off ranked team for second time in six days; strong defense helps Illini top No. 23 Hoosiers 
Alabama shot just 32 percent
Associated Press 

in the second half. 
Ronald Steele led Alabama 

PROVIDENCE, R.I. -Mike with 19 points, but he also had Nardi had a game-high 19 five turnovers. Jermareo points and Scottie Reynolds Davidson added 18 points and added 18 to lead Villanova to an 11 rebounds. He only scored 82-73 win over Providence on two points after halftime. Tuesday night. Alonzo Gee had 11 points. 
It was the third straight victo­Richard Hendrix played much ry for the visiting Wildcats (14-of the game in foul trouble and 5, 3-3). finished with just four points -
Sharaud Curry and Dwain 10 below season average -in Williams had 18 each for the 19 minutes. Friars (13-6, 3-3), who had Steele made 5-of-9 3-pointers. their 12-game home winning The rest of the team was 0-for­streak snapped. 10, unable to counter Auburn's 
Reynolds put Villanova ahead, aggressive, trapping defense. 55-42, on a 3-pointer five min­The Tigers churned out a utes into the second half. stream of breakaway dunks and 
Curry, who scored 11 of his fast-break scores, swiping 12 points after intermission, fueled steals and dishing out assists on a late Friar comeback. Geoff 22 of 34 baskets. Quantez McDermott stole the ball and Robertson led Auburn 10 dunked it with 1:28 left to bring assists. Providence within four, 76-72. By the end, Auburn fans 
McDermott couldn't convert weren't content with rare hoops on an attempted alley-oop play dominance in the rivalry. They and moments later Dante chanted "We want Saban," a Cunningham dunked on a reference to new Tide football breakaway and scored two coach Nick Saban. more points on free throws for The Tigers scored the first Villanova. eight points of the second half 
Herbert Hill, the Friars' lead­and led the rest of the way. ing scorer, was held to 12 points The Tide cut the lead to 43-39 on 4-of-5 shooting. on Steele's 3-pointer with 16:43 
Nardi, who scored 16 of his left, but did little else after that. points by halftime, made 4-of-5 Rasheem Barrett's 3-pointer 3-pointers, including one with capped a 17-4 run that started four seconds left in the first the rout, making it 62-45 mid­half, to put Villanova ahead 41-way through the half. 37 at the break. Alabama never came closer Hoosiers went cold from the court. They doomed themselves to a 
than 11 points after that. field missing their next nine As the game wound down, fourth straight loss with a slow Auburn 81, Alabama 57 shots. · Illinois' student section hit start, making just one jumper, 
Korvotney Barber scored 18 Illinois 51, Indiana 43 Mike White ended the drought Sampson with a chorus of one layup and one free throw in points and Frank Tolbert added Indiana coach Kelvin with a jumper to tie the game at "Cheaters never win." the first 13 1/2 minutes and 17 to lead Auburn to an upset Sampson didn't like the way the 23-all heading into the half. Both coaches said too much falling behind 19-6, an insur­of No. 12 Alabama on Tuesday Hoosiers played their first game "Their defense was good," was made by news media of the mountable deficit against the night, ending a seven-game los­as a ranked team. Sampson said. "I didn't think recruiting incident. disciplined Falcons. ing streak to the Crimson Tide. Rich McBride scored 15 our offense was very good "That's not nearly as big a Air Foree pushed its lead to 
The Tigers (13-8, 3-3 points to lead Illinois to victory either."· deal as you guys make it out to 33-15 at halftime, closing with Southeastern Conference) over No. 23 Indiana on Tuesday Illinois opened the second half be," Sampson said. an impressive 8-0 run over the scored the first eight points of night, the Illini's first win with a 10-2 run highlighted by final three minutes, including 3­the second half to overcome a against a ranked opponent in two 3-pointers by McBride. Air Force 72, TCU 39 pointers from Anderson and 36-35 deficit and shot 58 per­five tries this season. Indiana rallied back to elose to Dan Nwaelele scored 13 John Frye, who picked up the cent. "I didn't like our identity 39-37 on Armon Bassett's points and the 16th-ranked Air slack with seven first-half 
They hadn't beaten Alabama tonight," Sampson said. "I know jumper with 6:07 left. Force Falcons used sharp points when starting center (15-4, 2-3) since 2003 and have that we just got ranked ... But The Illini answered with a 10-shooting and a stilling defense Nick Welch got into foul trouble now won two games against we're not the kind of team that 0 spurt to put the game away. to cruise past TCU on Tuesday and took a seat just 5 minutes ranked teams in a six-day if we don't play with a chip on Illinois Bruce Weber said the night for their 27th straight in. stretch after ending an 0-for-15 our shoulder or an edge, we're credit belonged to his defense. home win. Air Force was coming off a stretch against then-No. 22 just not very good." "I just like how they fought," Matt McCraw and Tim season-low 39-percent shooting Tennessee. D.J. White scored 12 points he said. Anderson each added 11 points performance against San Diego 
Josh Dollard added 16 points for Indiana (14-5, 4-2 Big Ten), The game was Sampson's first for the Falcons (19-2, 6-1 State on Saturday but sank 60 and Quan Prowell 14 points and which had a five-game winning (rip to Champaign since a fall Mountain West), who turned the percent of its shots in the tone­10 rebounds for Auburn, which streak snapped. recruiting controversy over tables on TCU, which brought setting first half, when the held Alabama to just 21 points Both teams had horrific Indianapolis high schooler Erie the league's best field goal per­Horned Frogs shot 26 percent. after halftime. Tolbert made 6-shooting nights as Indiana was Gordon. Gordon orally commit­centage defense ( 41 percent) It didn't stop there. Anwar of-7 shots, the only miss an just 17 -for-44 (39 percent) and ted to Illinois in late 2005, then into Clune Arena but were Johnson's midcourt steal and errant 3-pointer in the final two Illinois was 17-for-42 (40 per­reconsidered and eventually quickly overwhelmed at both breakaway jam highlighted a minutes. cent). committed to Indiana. ends of the court. 10-2 spurt that made it 55-28 
The Tide's road struggles con­The Illini ( 15-7, 3-4) held the The Big Ten has said The Falcons shot 62 percent and Jacob Burtschi stole an tinued. Alabama has lost its Hoosiers without a field goal for Sampson broke no rules by from the floor and 50 percent inbound pass for an easy bucket first three SEC road games by almost 9 minutes -from the recruiting a player who had from beyond the arc. in a 12-0 run that made it 6 7­an average of 24. points to 12:21 mark in the first half until already orally committed to It was the Horned Frogs (10-32. By the time it was over,· unranked teams. Western the 39 seconds remained. After another school. But Illini fans 8, 2-4) who couldn't find an coach Jeff Bzdelik had used all Division teams are now 0-15 in Earl Calloway hit a 3-pointer to showered Sampson with boos offensive rhythm, shooting 32 15 of his players, 11 of whom SEC road games. give Indiana an 18-11 lead, the as he entered and exited the percent. scored. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be rrepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit al classifieds for content without issu­
ing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Newly remodeled 3 and 4bdrm  Luxury townhome,walk to ND. 3or4  
houses available for sale/rent  bed/3.5 bath. 07-08,08-09.  
WANTED  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  Contact Meredith Allsop; Milligan  $600/Bed/mo. 574-360-2569.  PERSONAL  
Real Estate 220-9817.  
House available for 2007-2008.  Better homes, better areas, better  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Very Large, Close to Campus, Just  Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15. Walk  deals. BlueGoldRentals.corn  not go it alone. If you or someone  
CASHIERS  2001 MERCURY GRAND  Renovated. Contact  to Univ. Call561-596-0194.  you love needs confidential support  
~  NEEDED. APPLY IN PERSON.  MARQUIS LS. 4-DOOR. EXCELLENT CONDITION.  MacSwain@gmail.corn  Houses for rent,  TICKETS  or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more  
UNIVERSITY MARATHON,  51,000 MILES.  Furn home avail. 2/15 to 8/15. Walk  3 to 6 bedrooms.  information. visit our web site at  
405 933N IN ROSELAND.  ONE OWNER,  to Univ. Call561-596-0194.  walking distance,  Wanted -3 tix ND hockey Sat Jan  http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg- 
HOURS WILL VARY  $6,500.  mmmrentals@aol.com.  27. Caii703-585-8663.You can also  nantshtml or see our bi-weekly ad  
AND NO CALLS.  CALL 243-5454.  andersonNDrentals.com  Call Gary 574-993-2208.  email us at recsport@nd.edu  in The Observer.  


OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 15 
Men's Basketball Associated Press Top 25 
team record points 

1 Florida 17·2 1759 2 Wisconsin 19·1 1720 3 UCLA 17·1 1679 4 North Carolina 17-2 1597 5 Ohio State 16·3 1470 6 TexasA&M 16·2 1438 7 Oregon 18·1 1387 8 Kansas 16·3 1248 9 Pittsburgh 17·3 1203 10 Duke 16·3 1091 11 Memphis 15·3 954 12 Alabama 15·3 937 13 Oklahoma State 16·3 867 14 Butler 17·2 856 15 Marquette 17·4 726 16 Air Force 18·2 676 17 Arizona 13·5 545 18 Nevada 17·2 534 19 Clemson 18·2 507 20 Washington State 16·3 418 21 LSU 13·5 392 22 NOTRE DAME 16·3 304 23 Indiana 14·4 210 24 Virginia Tech 14·5 177 25 usc 15·5 149 
Men's Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
1 Florida 17·2 763 2 UCLA 17·1 739 3 Wisconsin 19·1 714 4 North Carolina 17-2 691 5 Ohio State 16-3 632 6 TexasA&M 16·2 620 7 Oregon 18·1 580 8 Kansas 16·3 531 g Pittsburgh 11·3 522 10 Duke 16·3,,, 4.16 11 Butter 17-2 407 12 Alabama 15·3 397 13 Air Force 18·2 395 14 Memphis 15-3,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,... 369 
17-2\\\:::.::..
15 Nevada 16 Oklahoma Stale 16·3 17 Clemson 18-2 18 Washington Slate 16-3 
19 Arizona 13-5''''''''''''.:''' 20 Marquette 17·4 21 NOTRE DAME 16·3 22 LSU 13-5 23 Virginia Tech 14·5 24 Indiana 
14*4,,,.,.;,,., 25 Kentucky 15-4 52 
Men's Basketball Big East Standings 

Big East overatz.·ii 
team 
record record 

1 Pittsburgh 5-1 
11-3 

21. Marquette 4-2 
17-4 
Syracuse 4·2 
15·5 
Louisville 4·2 

14-6 5. Georgetown 3·2 
13-5 6t. NOTRE DAME 4-3 
16·4 
West Virginia 4-3 
14•4 

8t. Villanova 3·3 
14·5 Providence 3-3 
13·6 Seton Hall 3·3 
11-7 
DePaul 3·3 
12·8 

11. St. John's 3-4 
12·8 

12. Connecticut 2·4 
13-6 

13. Cincinnati 1·3 
10-8 14t South Florida 1·5 
10·10 Rutgers 1;5 
8•11 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
North Carolina at. Wake Forest 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 

ALAMEDA, Calif. ­After four miserable sea­sons, AI Davis knew the Oakland Raiders needed a fresh start. He couldn't have found a new coach much more fresh than Lane Kiffin. 
The Raiders officially hired the 31-year-old Kiffin on Tuesday, putting the former Southern California offensive coor­dinator in charge of restoring glory to a three­time Super Bowl champi­on that fell to the NFL's worst record last year. 
Kiffin, who took the job 
Monday, became the 
youngest head coach in 
club history and the NFL's youngest in several decades. If the job of rebuilding a 2-14 club intimidates him, Kiffin didn't show it while sit­ting next to Davis in a sharp black suit. 
''I'm extremely excited about this opportunity and where I see this place going," Kiffin said at the Raiders' training com­plex. "It's a historic fran­chise that has had great­ness and has fallen on tough times, but we will bring it back to where it was before. We will do that through hard work. I'm prepared to roll up my sleeves and go to work." 
Kiffin, the son of Tampa Bay defensive coordinator Monte Kiffin, has just one season of NFL experience as Jacksonville's defen­sive quality control coach in 2000. But the 78-year­old Davis wasn't afraid to hire a coach young enough to be his grand­son. 
In fact, Davis wanted another talented young offensive mind to lead the franchise where John Madden, Mike Shanahan and Jon Gruden excelled in their 30s. Shanahan and Gruden won Super Bowls with other teams after leaving the Raiders rancorously when their ideas clashed with Davis' vision for the franchise. 
"I think, '31 years old, wow, that's young,"' Davis said. "But you don't have to be old to be great. You have to be good. You have to want it. You have to have a desire, a passion for football." 
The Raiders also will retain defensive coordina­tor Rob Ryan, who built an above-average defense last season despite the offense's woes. Kiffin, who left for the Senior Bowl after Tuesday's news conference, plans to hire an offensive coordi­nator soon. 
And he has plenty of additional work ahead with the Raiders. 
IN BRIEF 

Mipnesot~ fires Casey due to IDCOnSIStency 
MINNEAPOLIS -The Timberwolves fired coach Dwane Casey on Tuesday, one day after Minnesota lost its fourth consecutive game and only 1 1/2 sea­sons since he took over. 
Casey, in his first head coaching job, was unable to solve the Timberwolves' inconsistencies and push them back into the thick of the competitive Western Conference, prompting vice president of basketball operations Kevin McHale to make the move. 
"We were at a point as a team where we were just treading water," McHale said. "The ups and downs, we just couldn't fmd any consistency." 
The Timberwolves looked to be turn­ing the comer at the start of the new year, when they opened 2007 with seven wins in their first eight games. 
But they lost their next four games, including one to Phoenix without lead­ing scorers Kevin Garnett and Ricky Davis. 
Bears' Johnson cleared to 
play in Super Bowl 
SKOKIE, Ill. -Chicago Bears defensive tackle Tank Johnson will play in the Super Bowl with court approval. 
Cook County Judge John Moran granted a defense request Tuesday to allow Johnson to leave the state as he awaits trial on gun possession charges. The Bears will play the Indianapolis Colts in the Super Bowl in Miami on Feb.4. 
Johnson's attorney, Lorna Propes, said Johnson will have no special restrictions placed on him while in Miami. 
"Terry Johnson is going to Miami to play football and represent the Bears," she said. 
Johnson was arrested Dec. 14 after police raided his home in Gurnee, about 40 miles northwest of Chicago. Prosecutors say officers found six weapons and ammunition in Johnson's home. He faces 10 counts of possession of firearms without a state gun-owner identification card. 
Roddick cruises to semifinal 
showdown with Federer 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Andy Roddick was ruthless, treating his close friend like little more than warmup fodder for his semifinal showdown with Roger Federer. 
The 2003 U.S. Open champion flat­tened Mardy Fish without blinking Tuesday, making only four unforced errors in a 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 quarterfinal win at the Australian Open. 
"I played pretty flawless, thought," Roddick said. "I feel good going into the semis." 
Roddick said he could remember making more errors in one game than he had in the entire match against Fish, who lived with him in Boca Raton, Fla., for a while and went to his high school. 
"I tried my best to kind of put our friendship to the back of my head," Roddick said. "You know, it's always difficult. It's a weird, weird situa­tion." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
NHL 

Young duo's charm expected to boost buzz 
Associated Press  left hockey even less of a fac­tor for sports fans in the  concentrate on our game and our team."  all the time in the basement. They have a great time. He's  teammate this week, Heatley added, "It gives us a good  
United States.  Crosby  plays  for  the  a great kid, a great person, a  chance."  
DALLAS  -Sitting side by  While  the  league spouts  Pittsburgh  Penguins  and  great ambassador for  our  During  a  light  practice  
side at a  table, facing ques­ attendance figures that show  leads the league  league. I feel  Monday night, Crosby (No.  
tion  after  question  about  popularity is zooming, the  with  72  points,  very fortunate  87) and  Ovechkin  (No. 8)  
being the faces of the new NHL, Sidney Crosby and Alex  reality is the entire NHL is counting on this exciting  five more anyone  than else.  "Those guys ...  to have chance  a to  shared a few passes without showing off too much. On  
Ovechkin flashed their grace and charm. Asked about trying to bring  young duo to get TV ratings up and to generate more buzz.  That's a whopping amount consider­ing the rest of the  could do a lot of damage."  watch him play." Ovechkin, of  Tuesday afternoon, they worked with other All-Stars to build a Habitat for  
the game to a wider audience,  That's why they were the  top-20 scorers are  the Washington  Humanity house, then were to  
Ovechkin smiled, turned to  only two players selected to  separated by  one  Teemu Selanne  Capitals,  has  log  more  ice time together  
Crosby and said, "Can you answer?" And the 19-year-old  meet the media Monday in gro'up setting.  a  or two points. In his bid  to  Ducks wing  65 points and 29 goals, one  during the skills contest; both were taking part in shootout  
delivered smoothly, giving a  And  it  explains  how  become  the  off the league  events.  
thoughtful  response  that  Ovechkin,  a  21-year-old  youngest  MVP  lead.  lie  also  "We've  seen  each  other  
included  the  line,  "We're  Moscow native, got stuck try­ since Gretzky, Crosby already  beat out Crosby last season  casually at events like this,  
going to do our best to make  ing to compare himself and  has become the youngest top­ for rookie of the year honors.  but we haven't spent a  lot of  
that possible."  Crosby  to  Larry  Bird  and  vote-getter for the All-Star  Yet as great as they are sep­ time together," Crosby said.  
Then  came  the subject of  Magic Johnson.  game.  arately, it's hard to talk about  "We're  on  the  same  team,  
the league's MVP thus far.  "I  feel  comfortable,"  And he lives with Lemieux,  one without mentioning the  we're sitting next to  each·  
Ovechkin leaned right into  Ovechkin said. "And I think  who  as  the  owner  of  tho  other.  other in the (dressing) room,  
the  microphone  and  said,  Sidney feels comfortable, too.  Penguins also is his boss.  "It's fun to watch the high­ so  I'm  sure I'll talk to him  a  
"Crosby!" Crosby laughed,  We concentrate on  the game  "It's been very exciting for  lights every night because you  bit."  
started giving  a  politically  and don't think about our  my family. My four kids really  know there will be a lot from  The better they are, the bet­ 
correct answer  about there  faces,  the  NHL  or  Magic  love  him,"  Lemieux  said.  both of them," Ottawa's Dany  ter for the NllL's long-term  
being "too many guys right  Johnson  or  Larry Bird. We  "They play hockey with him  Heatley said. Happily their  health.  
now," then broke into a smile  


and said, "I mean, the best answer would be Ovechkin right now, right?" 


Pretty good, eh? 


Hey, hey you'
Well, they should be even 


Hey, did you hear? 
more dazzling on the ice 
It's almost that time,
Wednesday night. "Those guys," said lQ-time 

the Revue's almost here' All-Star Teemu Selanne, "could do a lot of damage." 
The Gretzky and Lemieux of their generation (at least that's what the NHL is bank­




It's a comedy show, ing on) Crosby and Ovechkin 
their gift to ND! 
will be teammates for the 
It's three nights a year, Well, I need to know 
first time when they lead the 


a show you can't top, which nights will it be?

East's best against the West's best in the league's first mid­

the tickets are free I need a good laugh, season gathering since 2004 
and the laughter won't stop! and hell, it's free! -or since the lockout that 
110~ 1YJDMD~D(i)f! 
Thursday, January 25 SMC: 1-3 pm, O'Laughlin box office 

Be at O'Laughlin,ND: 4-6 pm, JACC gate 10 at ol' SMC, 
limit 2 tickets per ID, 2 IDs per student Seven pm sharp, 
Feb one, two, and three! 


Performances: February 1, 2, 3 O'Laughlin Auditorium (SMC) @ 7:00pm nightly 

Turtle creek Apartments 
IH~ place to be at ND!! 
Your favorite off-campus community is welcoming GREAT students for the 2007-2008 school year! Turtle creek is proud to offer the following amenities: *Renovated apartments *Carports available *24-hour laundry facilities -BRAND NEW! *Closest to campus *Sparkling pool with sun deck *Patios/balconies *Fun-filled volleyball court *Walk-in closets 
Turtle Creek was voted Sportslllustrated.com·s BEST PLACE TO TAILGATE! Come join the fun and LIVE AMONC THE LEGENDS! 
Call our professional and friendly staff to schedule your tour today! Leasing Hours: M·F 10·6, sat. 10-5 Phone: 574·272·8124 

Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
SPEND THE NIGHT WITH 13 AMAZING FILMS 
YOU'LL NEVER SEE AGAIN. 

The Observer +.SPORTS 
Al01a 
continued from page 20 
The last time these two teams met, Alma forward Ashley Matuzak paced her. team with 27 points and a contest-high 12 rebounds. Saint Mary's won that game at home by a score of 72-60. 
"Ashley Matuzak is a very good player. She creates prob­lems for us defensively," Saint Mary's head coach Jennifer Henley said. 
In order to neutralize Matuzak, Belles freshman cen­ter Anna Kammrath and sopho­more forward Erin Newsom will need to play well. . 
Newsom has been steadily improving throughout the sea­son and is averaging eight rebounds a game. Kammrath has become a dominant pres­ence in the paint and is also pulling down an average of eight rebounds per contest. 
"We are going to have to give more help on [Matuzak] when she attacks the basket and find her earlier in transition defense," Henley said. 
Kammrath and Newsom have been keys to Saint Mary's recent success. After a rocky start the Belles have turned their season around. 
"I think our early struggles were due to three factors: adjusting to a new coach, play­ing an incredibly tough non­conference schedule and our overall youth," Henley said. 
The Belles roster of 15 play­ers includes only three upper­classman. These elders -most notably junior guard Alison Kessler -have been key con­tributors ·throughout the sea­son. But the Belles have found success when their younger 

Hughes 
continued from page 20 
juice in Chicago, especially in the Chicago Public League." Frank said Brown's career path and style resonate with 
coaches in the league,. and that familiarity can trickle down to the top players as they decide what school to choose. 
National Signing Day -when high school seniors can sign binding letters of intent with their chosen colleges -is Feb. 7, but three recruits have already enrolled early for the spring semester at Notre Dame -Allen, quarterback Jimmy Clausen of Westlake Village, Calif., and cornerback Gary Gray from Columbia, S.C. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


Sunday, January 28. 2:30p.m. DeBartolo Performing Arts Center University of Notre Dame Zofia Glashauser -SBSO Concertmaster 
Gabriel Schlaffer -SBSO Principal Viola Salieri -Siu{onut in (D Sponsored by: Mozart -Symplw••g "-}io. 55 June H. Edwards Mozart -Siuji:milt Com:er!a11 le Gvest Artist Underwriters: 
The Healy Group llr.,.";;ftil·Z'UW£HI.Ji'lUR:tM Robert P. Curtis, CLU, ChFC 
~"Broadway ~ights 
Saturday, February 10, 8:00 p.m. Morris Performing Arts Canter Featuring Craig Schulman & Kim Crosby APops! performance to remember featuring the music by
5 1

of Rodgers & Hammerstein, Gershwin. Andrew Lloyd h ponsor<>< ' Weber and more of your favorite Broadway hits! ~!~-;\f!~~~-~: 
Guesl Arlisl Underwriter: 
9-l.nt Cuban {jazz 

Friday, March 9, 8:00 p.m. Morris Performing Arts Center 
Featuring Arturo Sandoval 
Sponsored by·

bum through an Afro-Cuban groove, bebop tune or Mozart 
• Free Haircuts • Free-Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts • Free Haircuts •Free Haircuts • 
Atria salon 2  
Specializing in Color  
271.8804  
Help us celebrate the New Year.  
We are giving away 100 complimentary haircuts  ~  
to students of Notre Dame & St. Mary's.  m ~  
This is our way of saying thank you  ~  
for all your support for the past 10 years.  ::r m ro  
I  
.  This Is a f!mlted promotion and certain t'E!stt1ctlons apply. Please call the salon to schedule your complimentary haircut and mention this ad to the receptionist at the time of booking your appointment.  ~· jt.  
2  Please present this ad to the receptionist before services are performed  ,  
~  ~  
i  Atria salon 2  [EXPIREs,  [  if  
~  2039 South Bend Ave .. South Bend. IN 46637  February 14. 2007  ~·  
~  ~  

• SlllOJ!eH aa.Jj• stnOJ!BH aaJ:J • stn:>J!BH OOJ.:I • Stn:>J!BH OOJ,d • Sl110J!BH OOJ,d • SlllOJ!BH aaJ_d • SJilOJ!P.H aaJ_d • 
man team members who hold the second-best times in their events, such as Edgell (200­meter backstroke), Vivian Healey (100-meter breast­stroke), Zeina Shanata (200­meter fly) arid Robak (one­meter dive). 
Despite their accomplish­ments in the pool, Carroll, who won three events at the Michigan Invitational, said their biggest impact has come out of the water. 
"They are a light-hearted and funny group," she said. "They don't take it too seri­ously, and they help lighten the mood." 
Carroll said the freshman group's hunger and work ethic has also encouraged the rest of the team to maximize its potential. 
"I train with Ashlee Edgell and Megan Farrell. They push me everyday. Their times are really good and are only going to get better." Carroll said. "It's so hard to single them out individually because all of them con­tribute in their own ways to the team." · 
The squad has two more events -the Shamrock Invitation at home Friday and Saturday and a dual meet at Louisville Feb. 3 -before the all-important Big East meet Feb. 14-17. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 

players came into their own. 
Having other contributors has allowed the Belles to spread the ball around and alleviate the pressure that opposing defenses devoted to stopping Kessler and senior guard Bridget Lipke. 
"[When] more people con­tribute to our offense, it really takes the pressure off Bridget and Alison," Henley said. "We are no longer a team that relies solely on our points coming from these two guards." 
Henley said that she has 
page 17 
emphasized the importance of establishing an inside game. 
"We have improved [our inside game] with the help of players like Anna and Erin," she said. 
Alma has lost its last two games -against Olivet and Hope -by a total of 35 points, but its has not lost more than two consecutive games this year. 
Contact Dan Cooper at dcooper1 @nd.edu 

Frosh 
continued from page 20 
has a lot of depth," Carroll said. "The points they are able to get definitely help us and they're only getting bet­ter." 
While the freshmen may not always win their events, their ability to finish strongly and score third, fourth or fifth-place points are essen­tial to Notre Dame's hope of capturing a Big East title next month. 
"There are quite a few of them going to the Big East meet," Carroll said. "It's good for them to get their feet wet and get experience." 
At the prestigious U.S. Open meet -an event that fea­tured Olympic quality compe­tition -freshman Natalie Stitt finished 11th in the one­meter dive, while Tiffany Robak placed 16th. Megan Farrell and Ashlee Edgell placed 48th and 58th in the 200-meter individual medley. Numerous freshmen also hold top team times in their respective events, including Lexie Shue (500-meter 
. freestyle), Farrell (200-meter fly), Stacey Nedrud (200­meter backstroke) and Stitt (one-meter dive). Right on their heels are other fresh­

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
Stor01 
continued from page 20 
view. "It slowed them down and changed their rhythm." 
So when Red Storm forward Anthony Mason Jr. dumped the ball inside to Hamilton with less than 20 seconds remain­ing and the score tied at 68, Irish forward Russell Carter cheated from his position out­side of the paint to prevent Hamilton from getting an easy bucket. 
Once Carter took a step inside, Hamilton spotted St. John's guard Larry Wright open beyond the three­

struggled from the free-throw line, shooting only 15-for-25 (60 percent). 
Defensively, the Irish kept themselves in the game, limit­ing St. John's to just 30 per­cent shooting in the second half. Their inability to put the ball in the basket late, howev­er, prevented them from taking a significant lead. 
Falls finished with 16 points on 5-of-13 shooting, but con­verted only one of his six sec­ond half 3-point attempts. 
Notre Dame forward Rob Kurz could not duplicate his 21-point, 10 rebound perform­ance against the Bulls. Kurz ended up with seven points on 
1-of-8 shooting 
Tuesday. · 

point line between "We gave ourselves Hamilton fin­the corner and the ished with 23
a lot ofchances to
wing. Hamilton for the Red
win the game.,, 
kicked the ball out Storm on 8-13 to Wright, who shooting and 12 drained the shot rebounds, with
Mike Brey
before Carter could all of his points
Irish head coach 
get back outside. 
Wright's clutch shot gave the Red Storm a 71-68 lead with 9.9 seconds left. 
"We gave ourselves a lot of chances to win the game," Brey said. "Wright made a big shot right there. We had our opportunities. We certainly had our opportunities." 
Notre Dame guard Colin Falls had tied the game at 68 by hitting one of two free throws with 40. 3 seconds left. The Irish (16-4, 4-3 Big East) had a chance to tie the game again after Wright's shot, but Carter's shot from well beyond the NBA three-point line missed, giving St. John's (12-8, 3-4) the win. 
"I don't want us hanging our head too much here," Brey said. "You just don't have time for that in league play." 
Despite missing the final shot, Carter led Notre Dame with a career-high 32 points and five rebounds, including an 11-0 personal run to begin the second half -in a game Brey wasn't even sure he'd play in. 
Carter hit the floor hard twice going after rebounds in Notre Dame's win over South Florida Sunday. 
"lie was kind of questionable for this game. He didn't prac­tice yesterday and was very sore this afternoon," Brey said. "I said tell me after warm-ups how you feel." 
Carter was "great," Brey said. "He gave us a great start ... I thought he was fabulous." 
Carter's early second-half spurt erased the Red Storm's 49-41 halftime lead, When Carter cooled off, however, the rest of the Irish could not pick up the slack. Notre Dame scored one bench point the entire game and, besides Carter's 10-for-20 perform­ance, shot just 27 percent from the field. The Irish also 
coming in the 
first half. 

Wright finished with 11 including the game­winner while St. John's guard Eugene Lawrence added 13. 
The loss drops Notre Dame from second to sixth place in the Big East standings as it prepares to face Villanova Saturday at the Joyce Center. The Wildcats defeated Notre Dame 102-87 last Wednesday in Philadelphia. 
"[Villanova's] very good and very hot right now," Brey said. "But they bumped us so I hope our guys remember that." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 


Eagles 
continued,from page 20 
finish." 
Notre Dame was unable to knock down shots when it needed to most, especially in the paint. As a team, the Irish shot only 35.5 percent from the floor, including 4-for-13 from beyond the arc. In the post, the Golden Eagles were able to outscore the Irish 36­26 as well as outrebound them 37-31. 
"I thought we lost the game 
on the boards 
"I thought we lost
and in the week honors. But post," McGraw the game on the Allen finished the game against the
said. "They boards and in the 
scored on the Golden Eagles a
post.,,
inside -I think meager 6-of-20 they got 36 shooting, missing points in the Muffet McGraw both of her 3­point tries. 
paint. Late in Irish head coach 
the game, they got like three or four offensive boards for put­backs. We just didn't do a good job boxing out." 
Despite the outcome, the Irish were able to keep the game close with Marquette throughout the first half, even taking a 13-12 lead at 13:44. The Golden Eagles would soon recapture that lead, however, and would hold on to it the remainder of the match. 
The Irish had one more chance at the lead after guard Melissa Le(;hlitner drove the lane for a layup and was fouled, making the score 42­
41. Lechlitner missed the free throw for the old-fashioned 

;; For tickets visit the Saint Mary's College .. Box Office or call (574) 284-4626. -~-­
z 

z $12 adults, s10 senior citizens, SAINT 
~ 
~

.. 19 SMGND staff, and 18students MARY'S 
• ~ 

-< COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN

MoreauCenter.com 
three-pointer and -even though forward Ashley Barlow grabbed the rebound -missed the go-ahead layup. After that, Marquette contin­ued to pull farther away from the Irish, eventually wearing out an 11-point lead with 3:42 to play that would be good enough to ride to victory. 
Another disappointment was the play of guard Charel Allen, who put up 17 points and eight. rebounds in the loss. Although this would be a good line on most nights, Allen scored 56 points in two games last week, a feat that earned her Big East player of the 

Allen did not give up hope late in the game. 
She continued to try and find her shot, and was inte­gral in keeping the score rea­sonable by making crucial baskets in the second half. 
"I was happy that [Charel] continued to shoot even though she was having an off night," McGraw said. "I was a little disappointed that nobody else could pick up the slack." 
Defensively, the Irish were only able to contain Marquette's potent offense, not effectively shut it down. Golden Eagle guard Krystal Ellis-the team's leading scorer -scored below her season average of 19.3 with only 12 points on 4-of-12 shooting. 
"I thought as a whole the whole team did a good job in guarding [Ellis]." McGraw said. "I think that was one of the things we did pretty well. We did a pretty good job on her." 
But forwards Christina Quaye and Efueko Osagie­Landry added 12 and 15 points, respectively, to help bolster the Golden. Eagle offense. 
Notre Dame's bench was also not the strong presence it has been in recent games. Against Marquette, the fresh­man trio of center Erica Williamson and guards Barlow and Lechlitner were effectively shut down, provid­ing the Irish offense only 17 points off the bench. 
"Our bench has been excel­lent this year and tonight they weren't," McGraw said. "Ashley Barlow gave us a lift early, but nobody really played well. We just didn't do anything well." 
After the loss, McGraw said that there was not one single thing the Ir-ish could do to improve after their perform­anc~ against Marquette before a matchup with No. 5 Connecticut. 
"You look at a game like that where you didn't do any­thing right, so you feel like you're stuck back at ground zero,'' she said. "But I just think everybody's got to come ready to play." 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpaS@nd.edu 
CENTER. 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY! DRESS TO ROW . 


QUALITY IN QUANTITY. 
BIG BURRITos. 0 C~ipotle. 

MAIN & DOUGLAS 
l 
I 
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
CROISSANTWORLD 
BLACK DoG 
utl.'fS '· 6 U'JS 1. 
LOO"'-W 1-\ Ptl I FoUNI)I_ A 'S\fl.P\i CA-r'. 1.00~ !! 

ADAM FAIRHOLM 
I FO-\Nt> \-\11'-\ t!>'i t\-\l;-\..J>.~E., S\\""T\NC.:, 
WI-n-\ 1\-\E. "DUC.\C.S. 01:-\! 01-\ f! CHI-\ !!1. . CN-1 WE. ~EE.E' 1-\lt-\ '? CAN WE. 
KE.E. f' \-\tt-\ !? ! H\..l\-\ ?? 
WE.ft..E:.NT \..\S.1"EN\t-1C:r lo-you 
Fb~ ""11-I\S C.OM.\<.., JE!.N\C...tt-IS. OF <.CURSE. WE q....N. 
MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
LIAMMORAN 


62 Hoops coach Thomas 63 Crowd sound 64 Kind of clef 65 Brings in 66 Yorkshire river 67 Cry out for 
DOWN 1 Painter of dreamscapes 2 Controversial 
spray 3 As many as 4 Plant yielding a 
fragrant oil 5 Point out the pluses and minuses of 6 Enter, as a 
record 7 Blew out 8 Washington 
chopping down the cherry tree, e.g. 9 Early 1Oth­century year 10 Went wild 11 Jim Carrey title role 
12 Emoticon element, for short 
13 Duel tool 
18 NASA scrub 
WILLSHORTZ

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Slap on 
5 
Kadiddlehopper, old TV hayseed 

9 Losing rolls 14 Mont Blanc, e.g., locally 
15 Classic theater name 16 Cousin of a cockatoo 17 Sign above a Tijuana A.T.M.? 20 2004 Will Smith thriller 21 Solver's cry 22 Campsite hookup user 23 "Oh Boy! What _" (1920's hit) 25 One listed on MySpace 
27 "Why did the chicken cross the road?," e.g., in Tijuana? 
31 "Excuse me ... " 
32 Letters before Choice or Prime 33 Web-footed mammal 36 Plastered 37 Pick up on 38 Co. informally known as Brown 40 Charlottesville sch. 41 Israel's Dayan 43 Bronte heroine 45 QB Tarkenton 46 Tijuana air freshener? 49 Morning hour 51 Japanese cartoon genre 52 Spot for a nap 53 Biblical verb ending 
55 He did not beware the Ides of March 
59 Advice regarding a good poker hand in Tijuana? 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

28 Where John 39 Spa treatment 49 Davis of 'The Glenn was Matrix
42 Baseball's Jose 
senator Reloaded"
Canseco, by 29 "Gimme a 50"_ luck!"
birth break" 54 Newbie
44 "Me?'' response
30 A Tolkien Dark 56 Realtor's goal Lord 45 Ex-slave 
57 Part of A.M. 34 Politico Bayh 47 First-floor 58 Chancel cross 
apartment
35 Go ballistic 60 Some A.L.'ers 
37 Trait carrier 48 Actor Epps 61 West. alliance 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
JJIJJMIDibJJ:. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KNUSK 
riJ I I 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
WARLD 
j
rJ r I I 
tBLOWEB I 
WHAT HAPPE:N!:O
IJ I I I 
TO THE: LIBRARY 
www.jumble.com 
THIE:F? 

t BELTOT 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I J I t J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: HE rI I ] "r I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: CLOVE CRANK MIDDAY FUMBLE Answer: How the mechanic described the coffee ­"BREAK" FLUID 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tiffani Thiessen. 31: Richard Dean Anderson, 55: Gail O'Grady, 42: Mariska Hargitay. 41 
Happy Birthday: This may tum out to be an emotional year. ·hut only if you haven't taken care of issues that have been hanging over your head for some time. Rid yourself of the burdens you have been carrying around with you, once and for all, and you will see the light at the end of the tunnel. It's time to stop letting negativity consume you. Instead. fight for the positive and you will find yourself in a new headspace. Your numbers are 3, 14, 28. 32. 38,41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't start anything today that will lead to a confrontation with someone you love. You have to keep things light and put your efforts into where you see yourself heading in the future. ** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Visiting a friend will lift your spirits and guide you down an interesting new path. You have plenty to contribute, and if you do. you will join forces with someone interesting. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Consider your past and the people you have met along the way. Someone from your past may be able to help you, but you must not let him or her take over. Pace yourself and stay in control. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Emotional matters may be difficult to deal with today. An older friend or relative may not understand what is going on. Your explanation will help and bring you closer together. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Sudden changes regarding your financial situation will surprise you. You can make good decisions regarding your health. The more you do to make improvements, the better you will feel. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Partnerships can be formed, but make sure that you are both on the same page before making any promises. Once you have your plans laid out. nothing will stop you from achieving your goals. **** LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct. 22): What you think is going on and what is really going on will not coincide. Back up and refrain from voicing your opinion until you have a better understanding of what everyone else is doing. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Today is all about love, creativity and getting to the bottom of things. You can fix a lot of the troubled areas in your life if you are precise, determined and dedicated. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): An older relative will appreciate what you do to help out. Your luck is changing, and you may find yourself in a windfall. You may have a change of heart. Grovel if you must. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get down to business and let whoever you care about know wbat you are thinking and how you feel. It may be your only opportunity to do what's right and to set the record straight. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have to take better care of yourself. Set a new regime that will help get you back into shape using exercise, proper diet and a healthier lifestyle. Take the initiative to improve. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love and romance are certainly in the picture. but so is your ability to produce something very creative and unusual. Strive to reach your goals and you will feel satisfied. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive and caring and know how to get things done. You strive to do your best and will take on more than your share in order to help. You are a thoughtful, kind and concerned friend. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 



19 Batty 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a -:;,.+.,:.+;,;.w•• 24 Like the Tin credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Man, upon 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
discovery 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 26 Ocho _, Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Jamaica past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 27 Conceal, as a Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young coin solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
I. 
I I 
I 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, January 24, 2007 
page 20 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Chicago running back Hughes co111111its to Weis, Irish 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
Chicago running back Robert Hughes, a highly regarded 5­foot-11, 228-pound bruiser from Hubbard High School, announced in a press confer­ence Tuesday he will attend Notre Dame. 
"I think he beings a very phys­ical style of play to Notre Dame," said Mike Frank, who covers recruiting for Irisheyes.com, a member of the Scout.com re<;ruiting network. 
"The one thing you know you're going to get from Robert is you're going to get 100 percent of his effort." 
Hughes chose Notre Dame over Illinois after an intense recruiting battle. 
With the pickup, the Irish now have 19 recruits in this year's incoming class, including two running backs. Miami-area prospect Armando Allen verbal­ly committed to Irish coach Charlie Weis at the beginning of December, and the addition of Hughes gives Notre Dame its second-straight recruiting class with two premier tailbacks. In 2006, the Irish signed current freshmen James Aldridge and Munir Prince. Aldridge ran 37 times in seven games for a 3.8 yards-per-carry average. Prince saw action in 10 games but had only 15 attempts for 21 yards. 
Allen is considered to be one of the fastest backs in this recruiting class. But in Hughes, Frank said, the Irish land a physical specimen with impres­sive size. 
"It's all solid muscle," Frank said of Hughes' large frame. "He's a very cut, very strong 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Red menace 

ND falls to St. John's on three­pointer with 9.9 seconds left 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
After St. John's forward Lamont Hamilton scored 23 points in the first half, Notre Dame shut him down in the second by making a key defensive adjustment. 
The adjustment, however, contained an Achilles heel that ultimately cost the Irish in their 71-68 defeat to the Red Storm Tuesday at Madison Square Garden in New York City. 
Notre Dame switched from man-to-man defense to zone midway through the first half in an attempt to stop Hamilton from scoring by keeping more defenders near the basket. 
"The zone gave us a chance," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said in a post-game inter-
see STORM/page 18 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Talented freshmen give squad depth, hu111or 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
No. 19 Notre Dame entered the final event of last week's Michigan Invitational -the 400-yard freestyle relay ­with a slim 7 .5-point lead over No. 10 Michigan for sec­ond place. Things looked up for the Wolverines when one of their teams touched the wall first and grabbed 40 points. 
A few seconds later, howev­er, the Irish broke any hopes 
the Wolverines had of catch­ing up. Four Irish relay teams managed to outscore the rest of Michigan's squad and preserve Notre Dame's finish over a higher-ranked opponent. 
And while the Irish upper­classmen were important to the upset, senior captain Katie Carroll said the keys to the event were the six Notre Dame freshmen who con­tributed to the scoring. 
"Overall the freshman class 
see FROSH/page 17 

kid. I just think he's going to bring a reitl toughness to Notre Dame." 
Hughes eclipsed 1,000 yards in his first three seasons at Hubbard, and his best perform­ances came in his third season, in which he rushed for more than 1,900 yards. 
"He brings a bigger back with some power, but he's also shifty," Frank said. "He's got the ability to cut right and left, which is not something all the bigger backs have." 
Full stats from Hughes' senior season were unavailable. 
Hughes, who is listed as run­ning the 40-yard dash in 4.6 seconds, played in the Chicago Public League, the high school conference of new Irish defen­sive coordinator Corwin Brown. Brown was an all-state player at Julian High School in Chicago and was scheduled to meet with Hughes Monday, Frank said. 
"Having Corwin Brown in Chicago is going to be a big thing," Frank said for long-term Irish recruiting in the area. "He's a guy who has a lot of 
see HUGHES/page 17 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles head to Alma for MIAA tilt 
By DAN COOPER Sports Writer 

After a big win over Adrian last Saturday, Saint Mary's travels to Michigan today to face the Alma Scots in an MIAA matchup with tournament implications. 
The Belles -5-4 in the MIAA and 6-10 overall -are cur­rently in a three-way tie with Albion and Olivet for third in the conference. Alma is sixth in the conference at 3-5 and 7-8 overall on the season. 
see ALMNpage 17 
ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Marquette tops ND, 71-62 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
In a night where every­thing had to go right for the Irish, nothing did. 
Notre Dame (13-6, 4-2 Big East) started its three-game road trip Tuesday with a loss to No. 19 Marquette (18-2, S-1) 71-62 in Milwaukee. 
"I don't think anything went right for us tonight," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said in a phone interview after the game. "It was just a bad game from start to 
see EAGLES/page 18 


NHI. NFL TENNIS NCAA BASKETBAll NCAA BASKETBAll NCAA BASKETBAlL 
w 

u Villanova 82 Auburn 81 Illinois 51 
z The NHL hopes The Oakland Raiders Andy Roddick Providence 73 Alabama 57 Indiana 43
c:c young All-Stars Sidney name USC offensive advances to the finals of Mike Nardi scores 19 The Tigers beat their The No. 23 Hoosiers
.... 

Crosby and Alex coordinator Lane Kiffin the Australian Open to in the Wildcats win over second ranked team in lose their first game= c:c Ovechkin can be the as new head coach. face Roger Federer. the Friars. six days with the win after appearing in the new faces of the league. over the Tide. Top 25 Monday.
!; page 16 page 15 page 15 page 14 page 14 page 14 


