
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By KELLY MEEHAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
When Saint Mary's senior Meaghan Herbst sat down to have lunch Monday, she near­ly choked when she saw the "Alito to address SMC grads" headline in The Observer. 
Her initial shock soon turned to anger as she shared her discontent with fellow stu­dents. Herbst, the president of College Democrats, quickly e­mailed the group's members and soon found support from others ready to stand up against the administration's 

OLUME 41: ISSUE 101 FRIDAY, MARCH 9, 2007 

Students protest collllllencelllent speaker 
Saint Mary's College Democrats create petition against conservative justice Alita 
commencement speaker selection of Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito -a jurist who Herbst said has made many court rulings against women's rights in the areas of family and medical leave, violence and sexual harassment. 
"I was emotionally shocked and angered," she said. "I couldn't believe we would have someone so polarizing and misrepresenting of our mission at Saint Mary's as our commencement speaker." 
Herbst, along with senior 
see SMC/page 4 


Ticket office avoids promoting tournament 
University: Class conflicts, lack of interest reasons to not publicize Big East tickets 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
The World's Most Famous Arena didn't get any extra publicity from Notre Dame. 
With the Big East men's basketball tournament underway at Madison Square Garden in New York and a significant number of students leaving campus early for spring break, it would be reasonable to expect a large Leprechaun Legion contingent to attend the games. 
But few students will attend Notre Dame's games 
this weekend, at least par­tially because neither the ticket office nor the athletic department promoted the availability of tickets for stu­dents. 
While the lack of publicity contrasts greatly with the high-profile nature of the December lottery system for Sugar Bowl tickets, the University made a conscious decision not to promote tick­ets. 
"As a general rule, the University does not promote off-campus athletic events that occur on class days," Notre Dame Ticket Office Director Josh Berlo said. 
Berlo also cited the lack of student interest in Big East tournament tickets over the past few years as a reason for not promoting the event. He said the ticket office has received fewer than 10 tick­et requests in the past two years, when the tournament has conflicted with class days. All of those requests, Berlo said, have been accommodated. 
While Berlo said student interest has never been high, senior and Leprechaun Legion president Johnny McDermott said he's gone to the tournament in recent years. 
"In the past, when the Big East tourney and spring break coincided, I have gone to Notre Dame's games in the earlier rounds, including freshman and sophomore year," he said. 
But McDermott did not attend the tournament's quarterfinal and will not make the semifinal because of "midterms and other assignments I have due Wednesday and Thursday," he said. He said he will only go to Madison Square Garden if the Irish make it to the championship game 

seeTICKETS/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Soulforce kicks off touratND 
By BECKY HOGAN 
NewsWrirer 
The Soulforce Equality Ride is making its way across the 
U.S. to spread awareness about religious intolerance of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender people -and its first stop among 32 Christian colleges and universities was Notre Dame. 
A bus arrived on campus Thursday with representatives from Soulforce Equality, a non­profit organization that pro­motes "freedom for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people from religious and political oppression through the practice of relentless non­violent resistance," according to the group's Web site. 
Last year, the organization began the Soulforce Equality Ride, a 50-day bus trip that visits schools across the nation. 
This year the tour will make stops at 32 Christian colleges, but Notre Dame is the first and only Catholic institution on the Equality Ride's schedule. 
Two buses with 25 riders and two co-directors will cover the country's territory. The first bus will tackle the West, while the second one will trav­el along the eastern regions of the United States. 
The West bus arrived at Notre Dame Thursday and will remain on campus today. 
The riders organized a press 
see EQUALITY/page 6 

Campus clears as spring break approaches 
Students head to beaches, fly overseas to relax for week 
By EVA BINDA 
NewsWrirer 
After a week of midterms and deadlines, students on spring break will leave campus to tan in sunnier locations, visit their homes or simply relax on campus to catch up on lost hours of sleep. 
For students who choose to go to the beach, popular destinations in previous years have included Mexico and the Bahamas. Junior John Cavanaugh plans to fly south of the border to Mexico with his family and girlfriend, a fellow Notre Dame student. 
''I'm looking forward to relaxing -noth­ing too big or crazy," Cavanaugh said. 
While students like Cavanaugh are in search of repose at the beach, other stu­dents will seek adventures in foreign coun­
see RELAX/page 4 


Service projects in Appalachia, Louisiana attract hundreds 
By MEGHAN WONS 
NewsWrirer 

While some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will spend spring break cruising the Caribbean or catching up on sleep, oth­ers will use their vacation to plunge into service seminars -one-credit experiential and service-learning opportunities led by the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and focused on national and international immersion experiences. 
CSC seminar assistant Rise Nelson Burrow said 283 students will participate in semi­nars this spring break in locations across the country. 
Appalachia is a popular destination for students every year, and courses introducing students to cultural and social issues in the region are headed by a team of student vol-
see SERVICE/page 4 
.. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, March 9, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Spring toil 
If you're reading this column it means you're on campus for the Friday before spring break. For this, you deserve much congratula­tions, for you are fulfilling one of Tim Sullivan the primary pur­
poses of your Photographer
time here at Notre Dame, being a student. I personally am not on campus today because I am ful­filling one of the primary purposes of senior year: finding a job. 
Many of you still on campus may have stuck around to finish up an exam or paper or to wait for a ride to your spring break destination. Yet some of you are lingering on campus to do something revolution­ary, something radical, whether you realize it or not. 
You're willingly throwing in your lot for the week of your spring break with a group of mostly, if not all, strangers to go on a road trip to a place that you don't know much about except that its not too warm or sunny. 
You don't have any tangible con­nection the people that you're going to be meeting and working with all week and can only presume good will. 
You're tgnoring the idea in popular culture that spring break is the time to worry about good ole number one and satisfying your pent up, snowed in, Office Space desires of sitting on the beach doing a whole lot of noth­ing. 
That's right, you're going to Appalachia with the CSC. While in Appalachia, be aware of and open to the different culture of the place where you are working. You should notice a striking contrast between the pace of life at Notre Dame and at your service site. · 
Don't resist this strange notion of "taking it easy," but instead embrace it and the chance to stop and smell the roses. When given the chance, throw yourself into that opportunity to learn a new dance step. 
Don't go in with the attitude that you are there to help out others in need-remember that you're on a service-learning trip. Even though the people of Appalachia are eco­nomically impoverished, they have much wisdom to offer us about how to live. 
I don't have much room to preach because I'll be putting my feet up in Cancun this week, but you passed on that chance to spend your time in Appalachia. 
Hopefully by week's end you will realize that in relinquishing the typi­cal spring break, you have opened yourself up to a much more mean­ingful experience. 
Tim Sullivan is a senior mathe­matics major, but he has forgotten how to prove Fermat's Little Theorem. He will be spending the next week sitting on the beach read­ing Joe Posnanski's brand new book "The Soul ofBaseball: A Road Trip Through Buck O'Neil's America," soaking in the warm weather, and waiting for baseball season to start. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tim Sullivan at tsulliv4@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU MOST LOOKING FORWARD TO FOR SPRING BREAK AND WHY? 









Alejandro Pellas  Kaitlin Devine  Elizabeth Adams  Colleen Beeler  Ryan Crane  Kristy Schlueter  
freshman Alumni  junior Walsh  junior Walsh  junior Walsh  sophomore Alumni  junior McGlinn  
"Hmmm ... "  ':4 Io-hour road trip with Elizabeth Adams."  "Kaitlin singing on our road trip."  "Flying and not driving to my destination. "  "Not snowblowing my driveway like I did last spring break. ''  "Going home so I can hang out with my sisters."  


Thompson said her par­ents, Robert and Elsie Whitson, were asleep in their bedroom at the rear of their home in the city about 30 miles northeast of Indianapolis when the fire broke out. The dog, which slept at the foot of the cou­ple's bed, licked and nib­bled at their hands until 81-year-old Robert awoke and the couple went out­side, she said. 
Anderson Fire Department Battalion Chief Larry Towne said firefight­ers found the dog's remains underneath some collapsed roofing. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Teacher allegedly whacks child with bow 
BOULDER, Colo. -A substitute music teacher has been arrested after allegedly whacking a 10­year-old student on the head with a viola bow after telling the class they were "the worst players I've ever heard." 
Newspaper and television reports said the trouble began when Carla Shinners, 63, a teacher for more than 30 years in the district, was interrupted by a call on her own cell phone. She allegedly began swearing Feb. 12 at the Creekside Elementary School, where she had earned the nickname "Mrs. 
Grumpy Lady." 

Principal Karen Daly said parents and students com­plained. 
The 10-year-old said Shinners also pulled her hair. 
Lassie saves family from fire, dies 

ANDERSON, Ind. -A collie named Lassie roused her owners and enabled them to escape their burn­ing home but died in the fire, relatives said. "The dog saved their life," said Judi Thompson after her parents' home burned Wednesday morning. "Even the firemen said that. Isn't that amazing? It gives me goose bumps." 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

..... 
<C 
(,) 






0 

HIGH 52 HIGH HIGH 45
.... 

LOW 36 LOW LOW 30 
42 
30 
41 27 
HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 

The film "Pan's Labyrinth" will be shown tonight at 7 and 10 in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart.will be having Stations of the Cross at 7:15 p.m. This will take place every Friday during the Season of Lent. 
The second round CCHA Hockey Playoffs will be held in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse tonight at 7:35 
p.m. Notre Dame will Alaska. Tickets are available from the athletic department ticket office. 
The men's and women's fencing NCAA Midwest regiona]s will be held in the Joyce Center at 8 a.m. Saturday. Admission is free. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will play Alaska in the CCHA playoffs Saturday at 
7:05 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Tickets are available from the athlet­ic department ticket office. 
The Basilica of the Sacred Heart. will be having a Solemn Mass at 10 a.m. fea­turing the music of the Liturgical Choir. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will play Alaska in the CCHA playoffs Sunday at 
7:05 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Tickets are available from the athlet­ic department ticket office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 50 LOW 41 

Atlanta 69 I 42 Boston 27 I 19 Chicago 38 I 14 Denver 63 I 36 Houston 72 I 50 Los Angeles 77 I 56 Minneapolis 31 I 11 New York 31 I 19 Philadelphia 35 I 17 Phoenix 80 I 53 Seattle 50 I 41 St. Louis 59 I 31 Tampa 72 I 57 Washington 41 I 22 
Friday, March 9, 2007 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Saint Mary's students to participate in Out of Darkness 
Two women to raise money, walk 20 miles overnight for the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention 
By KATIE KOHLER Assistant News Editor  During her freshman year at Saint Mary's, her depression relapsed and she was forced  and depression. "I have finally come to the realization of how serious  ond year participating in the walk. Last year, she walked with her mother, a friend  "Any help and any donation is greatly appreciated and will make a difference," she  
to take a semester of medical  this  illness  is,"  she  said.  who lost a  brother to suicide  said.  
Every 16 minutes in the  leave after a suicide attempt.  "Over just a year and a half,  and  a  friend whose father  The American Foundation  
U.S.,  someone  commits sui­ "All of a sudden, this illness  I have discovered how  com­ succumbed to the  same con­ for Suicide Prevention {AFSP)  
cide. This overwhelming sta­ crept its way into my body  mon  depression and suicidal  dition.  is the only national non-prof­ 
tistic was just the motivation  and became an active part of  feelings  are. It was very dis­ "This walk is  an extremely  it  organization  funding  
two Saint Mary's students  my  identity,"  she  said.  heartening to  come  to terms  intense event, but it is filled  research and  educational  
needed to take action.  "During my freshman year, I  with this."  with  so  much compassion,"  programs on  suicide preven­ 
On June 9-10, sophomores  changed  from  the  peppy,  While  Lazaroff said she  she said. "Everyone is there  tion and assistance to fami­ 
Dana Gatziolis and Pamela  bubbly, outgoing, fun girl I  recognizes how deeply per­ to support each other."  lies that have fallen victim to  
Lazaroff will travel to New  once was into someone who  sonal these illnesses are, she  The walk takes place from  this tragedy.  
York City to participate in the  felt unworthy of happiness."  hopes by participating in the  8 p.m. to 6 a.m. Throughout  The suicide rate increased  
Out of Darkness Walk,  a  20­ After returning to  Saint  walk in June, she will be able  the night, participants  are  last year from  one  victim  
mile overnight walk to collect  Mary's to complete her soph­ to inspire others suffering  encouraged to -share their  every 18 minutes to  one  vic­ 
funds  for  the  American  omore  year,  from depres­ stories and the stories of  tim every 16 minutes.  
Foundation  for  Suicide  . Gatziolis  sion.  members in their communi­ Gatziolis and Lazaroff plan  
Prevention and to create awareness and sympathy for  hopes to help other stu­ "All of a sudden this  "I think that many people,  ties, Gatziolis said. While both  students  to continue their fundraising efforts until June to bring in  
people affected by suicide and depression. Though each participant is required to raise a minimum of $1,000 in donations, Gatziolis has extended her  dents who may be going through the same experi­ence. "I have  illness crept its way into my body and became an active part ofmy identity.,  in this con­densed envi­ronment of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, may  already began fundraising drives at home, they are not limiting their efforts to those demographics. At Saint Mary's, Lazaroff has sent out letters to family and friends  as much revenue to the AFSP as possible. "I just think that based on mine and Dana's personal experiences, that it is inte­gral to our Notre Dame/Saint  
goal to $10,000 in her second year participating in the walk. She has raised $2,710  turned this experience into some­ Dana Gatziolis sophomore  have experi­enced depres­sion," she  and sold T-shirts to spread the word. "My goal is $1,000 as a  Mary's community to recog­nize how common this is," Lazaroff said.  
so  far.  Lazaroff has raised  thing  posi­ said. "In the  first-time walker," she said.  Gatziolis echoed Lazaroff's  
$535 to date.  tive,"  she  attempt  of  Gatziolis is using her expe­ call to action, praising her  
While suicide is not often  said.  "My  helping other  rience  from  last  year  to  friend's commitment to the  
discussed on the Saint Mary's  vocation  has  never  been  victims and their families, I  gauge her fundraising tac­ cause.  
and Notre Dame campuses as  more  clear. Being personally  have truly helped myself."  tics.  "Both Pamela and I feel  
much at other colleges, Gatziolis and Lazaroff said they hope to spread aware­ intimate with depression has given me a deep compassion and understanding for those  She said the purpose of the walk is to educate students to eliminate the "stigma" sur­ "After finals are over, I am planning to organize a garage sale, carwash, speak­ passionate about this cause, and I am so happy she will be participating with me this  
ness through their personal  who are suffering from the  rounding depression.  ing at churches in my area  year," she said. "It will be  
stories.  same thing."  "I heard about the walk a  and contacting local busi­ great to have each other's  
Two years ago, Gatziolis  Lazaroff  has  battled  couple of years ago and knew  nesses," she said.  support."  
was diagnosed with severe depression, anxiety and post­ depression as well. She was hospitalized her senior year  it was something I needed to be a part of," Gatziolis said.  Over the past few months, she has also sent letters to  Contact Katie Kohler at  
traumatic stress disorder.  of high school for anorexia  This will be Gatziolis' sec- close friends and family.  kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu  


..----------------~---------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, March 9, 2007 
Appalachia seminar next week about the region," Hoover said, aftermath of Hurricane participants in this seminar will in McDowell County, West preparing for her final seminar. Katrina. visit L'Arche communities,

Service 

Virginia. Other student volunteers will Angela Miller McGraw, direc­places where people with dis­continued from page 1 "My interest in the region spend week-long breaks in tor of seminars and educational abilities and people without 
has, because of the seminar, urban environments. That immersions at the esc. said the them "live and work together in unteers -The Appalachian developed into quite a deep and group of students includes the Center is committed to address­the spirit of the beatitudes," Task Force -throughout the personal academic interest, participants in the Children and ing the needs and supporting Nelson Burrow said. semester. especially in rural economic Poverty Seminar, which is being the communities in New Other students will travel to 
Nelson Burrow said members and community development," led by two graduate students Orleans that were affected by the country's capital to study of the Task Force are students Hoover said. "I went on my first this year, Nelson Burrow said. Katrina. the role of energy in society and who have participated in at trip because I had nothing bet­The program's goal is to edu­Elsewhere, participants in the the impact of the nation's cur­least one seminar and devel­ter to do for fall break. Now, cate participants in issues that Holy Cross Mission in Hispanic rent energy use on the environ­oped an interest in promoting five Appalachia seminars later, affect many American children, Ministry Seminar will head to ment. education about, and action I will hopefully be moving to including AIDS and healthcare, the West Coast to join Coordinated by junior Felipe within, the Appalachian region. West Virginia next year to vol­the juvenile justice system and Coachella, a rural southern Witchger and senior Ashley 
Students traveling to various unteer and learn more about education. Student participants California valley community. Braun, participants in this D.C. sites in Appalachia next week the issues that are really left for New York City Thursday The weeklong pilgrimage will seminar will have the opportu­will have a diverse array of important to people living and will spend the week visiting expose students to the culture, nity to interact with senators, a experiences, Nelson Burrow there." "both children and poverty pro­spirituality, and economic hard­regulatory agency and advoca­said. They may live on farms She said she never knew how gram administrators to experi­ships of the community. cy groups, Miller McGraw said. and work on home repairs, visit much the Appalachia seminar ence first-hand the realities of Similarly, th.e Migrant Although the CSC relies on strip mining sites, work in would change her perspective growing up in poverty," the esc Seminar will take students to the expertise of various individ­schools or thrift stores, attend about the U.S., her faith and Web site said. Immokalee, Fla., to experience uals who help lay the ground­local religious services, learn to her vocation. Besides Appalachia, other life as migrant farm workers work for the various seminars two-step to blue grass music, "I am really excited to get esc service options include the for one week. offered ever year, Miller visit centers for the elderly or back to the beautiful moun­Environmental Justice and Students who preferred to McGraw said students play an disabled communities and work tains, have the chance to recon­Human Rights in the Aftermath stay away from the field hand integral role in developing and on outdoor beautification proj­nect with some old friends from of Katrina seminar, which will lifestyle were also able to serve leading them. ects. the county, have a lot of fun expose students to the environ­through the L'Arche Seminar in 
Senior Katie Rose Hoover will with other Notre Dame kids, mental issues minority commu­Toronto and Washington, D.C. Contact Meghan Woos at participate in her fifth and continue to learn more nities in Louisiana face in the Throughout the week, student mwons@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 1 

Allison Beyer and junior Giuliangela Rosato, spearhead­ed a mission to address their concerns with the College administration -an undertak­ing that gained attention Thursday in the student center atrium. 
Armed with a formal letter addressed to College President Carol Ann Mooney, the three students took turns sitting at a small table in the student cen­ter to collect the signatures ol' those who shared their resent­ment of the administration's selection. 
Beyer said the goal of the let­ter is to get the College commu­nity talking about Alito, particu­larly how "a big name" does not automatically guarantee a speaker will correlate to the Saint Mary's identity. 
The three students said they realize Alito has already con­firmed his speaking engage­ment at the College, and said their protest is not against the judge but rather toward the administration. 
Community members were able to sign the letter from 10 
a.m. to 7 p.m. Thursday -an opportunity for those who are concerned with the selection to voice their opinion. Beyer said the letter will eventually be delivered to Mooney, who was unable to meet with the stu­dents before spring break. 
Executive Assistant to the President Susan Dampeer said "several students have asked to meet with President Mooney, and they are going to schedule an appointment with her." 
Rosato said this meeting would be an opportunity for students to explain why they are upset and to learn why Alito was selected to address 2007 graduates. 
"It will give Mooney the chance to hear directly from the students," she said. "We hope to 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 


Awareness Week. The event's organizers ­

Relax 

which include student gov­continued from page 1 ernment, the Office of Drug -------------and Alcohol Education, 
will be disrespectful and every­one will act with courtesy and civility." 
Associate Professor of Philosophy Patty Sayre said she believes the clash between cam­pus views presents a great opportunity for dialogue. 
"I believe that [Alito's] track record is sm~h that when com­pared to the sorts of values we hold at Saint Mary's, it raises serious questions," she said. 
Although Sayre said she does not take a particular stance on the choice of Alito as the speak­er, she said after sustained campus-wide dialogues she might be able to make a deci­sion. 
Herbst said she hopes to spark the campus debate through the letter-signing initia­tive and a chain e-mail that is circulating throughout the stu­dent body. 
A copy of the "To Concerned Students" e-mail sent to The Observer states Alito is a "polarizing figure" who contra­dicts the College's mission state­ment through his rulings "against women's issues such as sexual harassment, violence against women and family/med­ical leave." 
Rosato said this discussion will continue after spring break, but she was uncertain if it will culminate with any form of demonstration· during the com­mencement or senior week fes­tivities. 
"Some people mentioned a protest," she said, "but that would take away the impor­tance of the day. The focus should be on the graduates." 
Herbst, however, said she believes the administration's decision was focused not on the 2007 graduates but rather on the College's publicity. 
"The problem we have is not with Ali to himself," she said. "The problem we have is with the backing of the administra­tion's decision." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


11113 South Bettd }\venue South Be11d, ::JN 46637 (574) 271-4990 
tries, including freshman James Petrocelli. He will be spending the weeklong vaca­tion in the Bahamas and Cuba with a friend from his residence hall. 
''I'm very excited, but I'm also a little nervous because it's a different place," Petrocelli said. ''I'm looking forward to experiencing the Havana nightlife." 
Freshman Conor Troy will experience an unfamiliar nightlife when he visits his older brother, Sean, a junior studying 
T h e University is aware of the risks students may face if they travel abroad, especial­ly to countries where people are allowed to drink alcohol before they are 21 years old -a privilege some worry spring breakers may abuse. 
Notre Dame Security/Police sent an e­mail to students on Monday with spring break safety tips and links to Web sites for more travel advice. The list of tips encouraged students to stay alert at all times if they are in unknown regions and use the buddy system. The e-mail also advised stu­dents to limit their alcohol consumption. 
Further alcohol-related advice has been dispersed this week in a series of cam­pus events, a part of Alcohol Peers Inspiring Listening, Learning And Responsible Socializing (PILLARS) and the Coca-Cola Company ­arranged a blood-alcohol content (BAC) card give­away, an information fair at LaFortune Student Center and a Safe Spring Break T­shirt giveaway, among other activities, in an effort to pro­mote drinking in modera­tion. 

Not all students, however, will be partying in remote 
locations with 
lenient drink­
ing laws. 

abroad in "We're also going to For stu-London. dents who
Dublin for St. 

"We're also choose not to
Patrick's Day. It
going to Dublin cross the for St. should be pretty country's Patrick's Day," boundaries
awesome. Hopefully I 
Troy said. "It during spring
make it back. " 

should be pret­break, going ty awesome. home is a Hopefully I Conor Troy popular alter­make it back." native.
freshman 
Courtney 
Klosterman, a 

freshman from Arizona, is "looking forward to warmth, sunlight and sleep." 
Sophomore A.J. Sporinsky will also visit his family. As a resident of Granger, Ind., however, he will stay close to campus and plans to work at a campus laboratory throughout the week. 
''I'm doing nano research on campus so I'll be going between here and home," Sporinksky said. "But I also plan on going out with friends." 
After all, students are looking forward to getting away from the pressures of classes and focusing on relaxation. 
Contact Eva Binda at jbinda@nd.edu 
explain how many decisions Alito made [that] are not in line with Saint Mary's mission state­ment." 
Herbst said she hopes the administration will take stu­dents more into consideration in the future to choose someone more representative of the entire student body and some­one less polarizing than Alito. 
"Having Alito come here sends out a message to the country," she said. "It will allow people to associate him with us, and we need to make sure we are not sending the wrong message." 
Rosato said many community members have compared Alito to Notre Dame's commence­ment speaker General Electric Chief Executive Officer Jeffery lmmelt and deemed Alito a bet­ter speaker, without considera­tion of the deeper issues. 
While Hosato, Beyer and llerbst collected signatures in the student center today, they also distributed a packet of information from the National Organization for Women's Web site entitled "Samuel Alito's Track Record Threatens Women's Rights." 
Rosato said it was important that passers-by at least take a packet to review the informa­tion. 
"It is important to tell stu­dents that [Alitoj is more than a big name," she said. 
Dampeer said while Mooney is aware of the students who are not pleased with the selec­tion, she will not release a statement about the issue. 
"I believe that everyone has a right to their opinions," Dampeer said. "I would hope that those who are disappointed with the selection of Alito will realize that there are many people who are thrilled with the selection." 
As students and administra­tors begin to accept each other's opinions on the selection of Alito, Dampeer said she hopes "that while some may feel the need to protest, no one 
tlou~s: Mondt~y-SafuYday 10t~m-8pm Sunday 12pm~5pm 
Limited time offers for students:. $5 off a Deluxe Pedicure 
$5 off a Full Set of Nails 
. " ~ ' 
.. ' 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, March 9, 2007 CotvtP!UD FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Bush visit incites protest in Brazil 
SAO PAULO, Brazil -Police clashed Thursday with students, environmentalists and left-leaning Brazilians protesting a visit by President Bush and his push for an ethanol energy alliance with Latin America's largest nation. 
Riot police fired tear gas at protesters in Sao Paulo after more than 6,000 people held a largely peaceful march, sending hundreds of demonstrators fleeing and ducking into busi­nesses to avoid the gas. 
There were no immediate reports of injuries, but some protesters said they had been beaten by officers after marching two miles through the financial heart of South America's largest city just hours before Bush was scheduled to arrive. 
Clashes between police and anti-Bush protest­ers were also reported in Colombia, where Bush is scheduled to visit on Sunday as part of his five-nation tour to Latin America. 
Nazi war records to be released 
THE HAGUE, Netherlands -Moving more quickly than expected, the 11-nation body over­seeing a long-secret archive of Nazi war records set procedures in motion Thursday to open mil­lions of files on concentration camps and their victims before the end ofthe year. 
Member nations made the decision knowing that within a year 10 percent of all Holocaust survivors now living may be dead, one American archive director said. 
The governing commission of the International Tracing Service, the storehouse of an estimated 30 million to 50 million pages doc­umenting the Holocaust, concluded a two-day meeting with a set of recommendations for copying and transferring files to Holocaust insti­tutions for use. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Democrats vow troop withdrawal 
WASHINGTON-House Democratic leaders vowed Thursday to pass legislation setting a deadline of Sept. 1, 2008, for the withdrawal of 
U.S. combat troops from Iraq, a challenge to President Bush's war policy that drew a blunt veto threat in return. 
Little more than two months after Democrats took control of the House and Senate, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California said the bill would set "dates certain for the first time in the Congress for the redeployment of our troops out oflraq." 
Officials said the deadline would be acceler­ated -possibly to the end of 2007 -if the government of Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al­Maliki failed to meet commitments for taking over security operations, distributing oil rev­enue and opening his nation's constitution to amendments. 

Dems create global warming panel 
WASHINGTON -House Democrats, intent on making climate change a marquee issue, created a special panel Thursday to study and offer recommendations on how to deal with global warming. 
The Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, advanced by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, was approved on a vote of 269-150. A majority of Republicans voted against it, arguing the committee was unnecessary or that its budget could better be used by the ethics committee. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man claims mascot caused injuries 
INDIANAPOLIS -A man is suing the Indiana Pacers and the performer who por­trays its feline mascot, alleging that the 6-foot­tall performer tackled him during a free-throw shooting contest, leaving him with permanent injuries. 
After taking part in the free-throw contest, the lawsuit states that Jackson began to leave the basketball court but was tackled from behind by the team's mascot, "Boomer," a 6­foot-tall blue cat with gold whiskers 
Jackson's lawsuit seeks compensation for his medical bills, lost income, pain, suffering and "permanent injuries" which are not detailed. 
AUSTRIA 

-Iran continues nuclear defiance 


International Atomic Energy Agency resolves to suspend aid projects 
Associated Press 
VIENNA -Iran on Thursday shrugged off the latest punitive U.N. action -suspension of nearly two dozen nuclear aid programs -and showed no signs it was cowed by the possibility of even tougher penalties in the form of new Security Council sanctions. 
The decision by the 35 board nations of the International Atomic Energy Agency to deprive Tehran of 22 technical aid projects was symbolically important. Only North Korea and Saddam Hussein's Iraq had been subject to such action pre­viously. 
Still, none of the pro­grams directly applied to the Islamic republic's developing uranium enrichment program ­which Tehran refuses to mothball despite nearly three months of Security Council sanctions and the possibility that those puni­tive measures may be tightened: 
Ali Ashgar Soltanieh, Iran's chief delegate to the IAEA, said as much after the board agreed by con­sensus to suspend the pro­grams. 

"None of these projects are related to enrich­program only to generate Ahmadinejad, who last action blunted ment," he said of the sus­nuclear power, and month compared Tehran's Washington's sanctions pensions. "The enrich­enrichment is not prohib­enrichment program to an drive -and there was ment program will contin­ited under the Nuclear unstoppable train without evidence of the same in ue as planned." Nonproliferation Treaty. brakes. And the sanctions attempts to keep Security 
IAEA technical aid proj­But Tehran's secretive themselves are milder Council unity on new ects are meant to bolster nuclear ways-it hid sen­than what their chief pro­sanctions meant to punish the peaceful use of sitive activities from the ponent, Washington, Iran for ignoring last nuclear energy in medi­world for nearly two would like. month's deadline on sus­cine, agriculture, waste decades until revelations Instead of choking off pending enrichment. management, manage­four years ago of a covert Iran economically and Council diplomats on ment training or power enrichment project -led politically, they only com­Wednesday said the five generation. The technical the Security Council to mit all U.N. member coun­permanent Council mem­aid is provided to dozens impose sanctions Dec. 23 tries to stop supplying bers were again strug­of countries, most of them because of fears its Iran with materials and gling, with U.S., Britain developing nations -but nuclear activities were a technology that could con­and France pushing for none suspected of possibly cover for a weapons pro­tribute to its nuclear and tougher measures than trying to develop nuclear gram. missile programs and to Russia and China will weapons, like Iran. Still, there is little evi­freeze assets of 10 key accept. The impasse led .to 
Enrichment, by contrast, dence the sanctions are Iranian companies and 12 Security Council ambassa­has both pear;eful and mil­working, beyond generat­individuals related to dors sending the problem itary applications. ing some ·domestic criti­those programs. back to high level discus­
Iran says it wants to cism of hard-line Iranian Russian and Chinese sions among their capi­
develop its enrichment President Mahmoud opposition to tougher tals. 



Peds halt flights carrying detainees 
stop all flights out of Fort Devens they were. An agency spokesman has 

Associated Press 
immediately until we can be assured said ICE notified social workers 

BOSTON -Gov. Deval Patrick that all parents have been identified about the raids ahead of time, and urged federal authorities Thursday and appropriate arrangements made that no children were stranded. not to move any more factory work­for their children and dependents," At least 361 people were detained ers detained in an immigration raid Patrick said. in Tuesday's raid at Michael Bianco out of state until their children are Federal authorities postponed a Inc. in New Bedford, 47 miles south found and arrangements are made third flight that was to depart at of Boston. Owner Francesco Insolia, for their care. noon Thursday after Patrick twice 50, and three top managers were 
More than 300 people were called Homeland Security Secretary arrested, and a fifth person was detained for possible deportation in a Michael Chertoff seeking better coop­charged with helping workers obtain raid Tuesday at a leather factory that eration from Immigration and fake identification. makes equipment for the U.S. mili­Customs Enforcement officials. Authorities allege Insolia oversaw tary. About 150 have been flown Homeland Security Assistant sweatshop conditions so' he could from the plant at the former Fort Secretary Julie Myers said ICE agents meet the demands of $91 million in Devens military base to a detention asked each of the those arrested if military contracts to make products center in Texas, the governor said. they were sole caregivers to children, including safety vests and lightweight 
"I urged the federal government to and 60 people were released because backpacks. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, March 9, 2007 
Film: Filmmakers, groups like AllianceND." resistance from the Notre dents. Spectatorship and Narratives" Pacha said she became Dame community, the Paeha said as a Christian, the
Equality 

and this year the "Qlassics" involved in the tour and the University is still more accept­narrow-minded attitudes continued from page 1 film series. organization after a ing of their effort than some of toward LGBTQ students on cer­
"It is unfortunate that the Northwestern graduate she the other colleges on the tain religiously affiliated cam­conference at one of the Notre University put pressure on stu­knows founded the Equality schedule. puses influenced her decision Dame Avenue entrances dents to remove the word Ride. She also has a friend who "At other schools we are when she had to pick a college. Thursday, said Kelsey Pacha, a 'queer' from the !production's] participated in last year's kick­expecting a lot of resistance," Though she was admitted to lesbian junior at Northwestern title .... This speaks about off tour. Their experiences Pacha said. "We have already Notre Dame, she chose to University and one of the 25 silencing issues on [Notre inspired her to take a seat in gotten angry e-mails from peo­attend Northwestern, thinking riders on the western route. Dame's] campus," Pacha said. the bus this spring. ple telling us that they don't she may have struggled to find But she said Notre Dame While Soulforce Equality rid­"Some of the riders are in want us to come to their earn­support at the University. Security/Police did not wel­ers recognize the weight of the grad school, some are in the pus and threats that we will be "A lot of us are Christians come the demonstration. University's strong Catholic seminary, a few are social arrested if we do. The situation and a lot of us are gay 
"We were a little disappoint­identity on the administration's workers and most of us are [at these schools] is a little Christians,'' she said. "We ed," Pacha said. decisions, Pacha said there is college students," Paeha said. more volatile." should be able to enroll in She said NDSP officers gave an increasing number of She said approximately one She said she wasn't frustrat­these universities without feel­different riders citations. Catholic institutions willing to half of the riders are Christian ed with the situation, but ing like we are being con­
"It was a hurtful [message] officially recognize lesbian, and five out of the 50 riders rather thought it was unfortu­demned." that we were silenced," said gay, bisexual, transgender and are "straight allies." nate that schools would take The Christian disposition Delfin Bautista, another questioning (LGBTQ) groups. "Soulforee believes the best such an extreme view against toward LGBTQ students should Soulforce rider. "We were try­"Although we know that way to fight oppression built the creation of dialogue. be one of inclusiveness, not ing to simply engage students Notre Dame has to comply with into structures_of government The Soulforce riders will intolerance, Bautista said. in dialogue." what the Vatican says, we also and laws is to refuse to comply attempt to spark positive dis­"The purpose of our Notre 
Pacha said the Soulforce rid­know that comparable institu­with those rules in a nonviolent cussion again today. Dame visit is to try to get the ers hope to bring Notre Dame's tions -such as Georgetown way," Pacha said. "We have all "We will be giving a gift to University to take a stance on attention to two issues: the and Boston College -have been trained in civil disobedi­the University in the form of making the word 'catholic' University's failure to recog­recognized student groups," ence and what that looks like." wreathes in front of the Tom truly mean universal," he said. nize AllianceND -a gay and Pacha said. At every campus the Equality Dooley statue today,'' Paeha Each rider has a Web site lesbian support group on cain­As part of Soulforce's cam­Rides visits, two riders from said. that includes a Pay-pal link pus -as an official student paign on campus, four openly the group are selected to head Discussion arose nearly 30 where people can donate organization and its refusal to gay Notre Dame students spoke the organization and planning years after Dooley's death that money to the Equality Ride. allow the group to meet on about their experiences in the of presentations and arrange the renowned Notre Dame mis­Each rider's goal is to raise campus. Notre Dame community discussions with campus sionary was gay. $3,500 to cover the cost of 
"If there are 200 students on Thursday at LaFortune Student administrators, Paeha said. "The riders will offer a ride. campus that support Center. She and Bautista were put in wreath to honor those who are Approximately 16 other cam­AllianceND, then it should defi­"At Notre Dame things are a charge of organizing courageous and have fought puses -including Brigham nitely be able to be funded by little bit different than the Soulforce's visit to Notre Dame. for change and tried to make a Young University, Pepperdine University, publicize its events other schools which have poli­"Most of us who are in school difference," Bautista said. University, Yellowstone Baptist and meet on campus,'~ Pacha cies that prevent openly gay are either taking a semester off After today's events, the bus College and Wisconsin said. students from enrolling -or a quarter off," she said. "It will head to Wisconsin for the Lutheran College -are ahead 
Pacha also spoke about the Notre Dame doesn't do that," is definitely a sacrifice, but it is tour's next stop to continue on the tour's schedule. name changes to the Queer Pacha said. "We're expecting a worthy cause." spreading the message of toler­Film Festival, which last year that people will be willing to The Soulforee team said ance and acceptance among Contact Becky Hogan at became "Gay and Lesbian talk to us about this, especially although it met with some hetero-and homose;xual stu-rhogan2@nd.edu 

Iditarod racer takes w-rong turn 
Associated Press 
TAKOTNA, Alaska-A 61­year-old rookie Iditarod musher turned up on the wrong trail Thursday, hours after race offi­cials started to search for the woman thought lost along a treacherous stretch. 
Deborah Bicknell of Juneau was spotted from the air driving her team through Ptarmigan Pass, a route formerly used in the race, said race spokesman Chas St. George. 
"It appears she took the wrong trail," St. George said. 
She was seen driving her dog team 18 miles from the Rohn checkpoint. 
'That would be a pretty good indication that she's all right," St. George said. 
Sandy Bicknell, the musher's husband, was with lditarod offi­cials in Anchorage when he received the news that she had been spotted. He had no other information other than what the pilot had relayed. 
"We'll just have to wait and see," he said. 
He heard varying estimates of how many extra miles Deborah Bicknell had mushed by taking the wrong trail, but said it was at least 50 miles. 
He planned to rendezvous with his wife in McGrath, he said, "if I can get there fast enough to see her there." 
The Iditarod race marshal has the authority to remove mushers from the race if they are out of the competition, but St. George said reaching the Rohn checkpoint would indicate Bicknell was still able to race. 
Another musher also mistak­enly took the Ptarmigan trail in the race. 

An aerial search was started for Bicknell after she failed to show up at Rohn. Bicknell was last seen at 9:12 a.m. Wednesday, leaving the Rainy Pass checkpoint, 224 miles into the race from Anchorage to Nome, said Megan Peters, a spokeswoman for the Alaska State Troopers. 
The search for Bicknell included an Alaska State Troopers helicopter and two planes affiliated with the race. 
It was not immediately known if she carried any tracking device or two-way communica­tions, but for her to do so would have required prior approval from race officials. 
Rainy Pass Lodge is 1,835 feet above sea level and mushers climb another 1,325 feet in the 48-mile leg to Rohn, the sixth-of 24 checkpoints along the 1,100­mile race from Anchorage to Nome. 
According to Iditarod officials, the climb is gentle but the ter­rain is barren except for a few willow thickets. Wind packs the snow hard and the trail often is icy. 
After crossing a lake, the trail climbs to the summit, then starts a steep descent along Dalzell Creek. The creek runs to the Tatina River and contin­ues about five miles to the Rohn checkpoint. 
Concern for Bicknell was heightened after numerous mushers suffered broken bones and busted sleds along that part of the Iditarod trail. 
Veteran mushers say condi­tions this year -with icy trails, little fresh snow, bare ground 
-arc some of the worst they 
have ever seen. 
Paul Gebhardt said his sled _would not go on the bare tun­
dra, so he was forced to walk 
up the hills, get back in, and 
then get out again for thfl next 
rise. 

Gebhardt said that live-time 
winner Hick Swenson of Two 
Rivers, who is eompflting in his 
31st lditarod, said the trail this 
year was just about as bad as it 
gets. 

"Swenson says he's seen it 
worst. But he says it matches 
right up there with the worst," 
Gebhardt said. "It seems it's the 
worst to me." 
Mitch Seavfly, who won the 
race in 2004, said it's been a 
tough race. "If you actually 
think this is fun, you have a 
problem." 
Eighty-two teams started the 
race Sunday in Willow; since 
then, 15 mushers have with­
drawn, with many citing either 
poor trail conditions or weath­
er. The winner usually arrives 
in Nome nine or 10 days after 
the start. 
As far as the race was con­
cerned Thursday, there was lit­
tle movement among the lead­
ers. Six mushers were at the 
Iditarod checkpoint, the 
halfway point of 1,100-mile 
race from Anchorage to Nome. 
Lance Mackey arrived at 
12:11 a.m. Thursday, followed six minutes later by Gebhardt. Two other mushers came after 6 a.m., Ed lten and Seavey, and Tollef Monson and Cim Smyth arrived about two hours later. All appeared to be taking their 24-hour mandatory rest period. 

Tickets 
continued from page 1 
Saturday night. 
McDermott, who is from the New York area, will attend the championship game using privately acquired tickets, despite the availability of University tickets. 
"I have not heard about University student ticket dis­tribution,'' he said. 
Leprechaun Legion vice president Walter Machnieki is not going to the tourna­ment because he will not be in the New York area during spring break. 
"Either way, I was aware that the University had stu­dent tickets because I've been there before," he said. 

"But I haven't seen anything publicized this year." 
Berlo said the ticket office was happy with the turnout in years the Big East tourna-• ment was held during Notre Dame's spring break. 
"A few years ago, when the Big East men's basketball tournament was held over spring break we had tremen­dous support from the approximately 100 students that made the trip," Berlo said. "It was great to have a little bit of the Legion and its home court advantage at Madison Square Garden." 
Notre Dame plays Georgetown tonight at 7 in the conference semifinals. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierney@nd.edu 
ALlAN KITCHEN 
Saute~d Tilapia, Shrimp and Roma 

Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
TOTnatocs over Angel Hair rasla with White Win~ & Lemtm Dill 5110 Edison Lakes Parkway Butter Sauce: S~rved witl1 Mishawaka Crabmeat-5tuf£t·d Mushrooms 271-1692 www.qdi.com/papavinos/papavinos.htm 
Friday, March 9, 2007 


THE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 
Retailers report disappointing sales 
Merchandising, economy, cold weather blamed for weak sales in February 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-It wasn't just the snow on the ground that kept consumers from buying last month -it was also the clothes on the racks. 
Shoppers who went to stores in need of winter wear as cold weather arrived were disappointed -retailers had sold it off during January. But it also appears that those who wandered over to see the spring merchandise weren't happy with what they saw; fashions reminiscent of the 1960s, like baby doll tops and mini dresses, that are likely to attract mostly younger shoppers. 

The result was a disap­pointing February sales performance for many of the nation's retailers, espe­cially those who sell appar­el. As merchants reported their sales results Thursday, the weakness went beyond the usual stragglers like Gap Inc. and included stores like teen stalwart Abercrombie & Fitch Co. High-flying Bebe Stores Inc. reported its first monthly decline in 46 months, and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which has had apparel merchan­' 
. ' 
'
dising problems of its own, had sales below analysts' estimates. 

The fashions aren't the only issue retailers are con­Cohen noted that retail­bined to depress the by weakness at its name­tending with. Analysts ers' biggest mistake is that February sales tally at The sake discount stores, worry that stores catering stores are not in step with International Council of reported a slim 0.9 percent to the middle-to lower­customers' penchant for Shopping Centers-UBS gain in same-store sales, income shopper could suffer buying clothing to be worn sales, which rose a modest below the 1.5 percent esti­as the economy continues to immediately. Another prob­2.5 percent, at the low end mate from Wall Street ana­slow, and if gasoline prices lem, he said, is that fashion of projected 2.5 percent to lysts surveyed by Thomson shoot back up nationwide has become "too commodi­3.0 percent range. The Financial. as the summer approaches. tized," noting that the latest results are based on sales at The world's largest retail­
Marshal Cohen, chief ana­1960s looks can be found stores open at least a year, er blamed the sales short­lyst at NPD Group Inc., a everywhere at every price known as same-store sales fall in part to the continued Port Washington, N.Y.­point. He added that con­and considered a good weakness in the home and based market research sumers are becoming more gauge of a retailer's health. apparel· business and said company, said, "The retail individualistic in their While February is one {)f that area should remain market is in the middle of a styles. Not to mention that the least important months soft through the spring. storm. The weather is a some experts doubt of a retailer's calendar, Hival Target Corp. good excuse, but the truth is whether they will resonate merchants do hope to get enjoyed a 5. 7 percent weather is one direction. with most customers. some idea of which spring increase in same-store Another direction is mer­Merchandising, the econ­fashion trends are working. sales,above the 5.1 percent chandise." omy and the weather com-Wal-Mart, dragged down estimate. 
CHINA 


Paulson urges more open markets 
a much better return," Paulson said much on retail investors. The result
Associated Press 

of the limited investment options can be a more speculative environ­
SHANGHAI -China's path to open to Chinese citizens. ment and more volatile equity mar­prosperity lies in opening up its The worldwide jolt to financial ket." financial sector, U.S. Treasury markets last week triggered by a 9 Paulson, a former head of invest­Secretary Henry Paulson said percent tumble in Shanghai shares ment powerhouse Goldman Sachs, Thursday in a speech urging the reflected China's growing sway 'in chastised China for capping foreign country's business leaders to international financial markets -investment in local banks, securi­embrace Wall Street-style capital as well as rising volatility in mar­ties firms, insurers and other indus­markets. kets bloated with funds chasing too tries, saying its markets are in 
"While China's people work every few investment opportunities. many ways are less open than those bit as hard -if not harder -than Such volatility could be blunted by of other, smaller countries in Asia. people in other economies, they are greater openness to international "Nations that want robust, sus­not yet as well off." Paulson said in institutional investors and wider tainable, harmonious growth do not a speech at the Shanghai Futures use of a variety of financial prod­impose caps," Paulson said. "China Exchange, where only a handful of ucts including financial futures and is a large and powerful country, and commodities are traded, by local, corporate bonds, Paulson said. you should not limit your own brokers. "China's markets lack these potential by restricting your access 
"People in many other parts of the important elements," he said. to world-class financial expertise world have more choices of where "Without a meaningful institutional that can enhance your capital mar­and how to save and routinely earn investor base, the market relies too kets." 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, March 9, 2007 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Maddie Hanna 

MANAGING EDITOR BusiNFSS MANAGER Maddie Hanna Jim Kirihara 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Robert Griffin 
NEWS EDITORS: Kate Antonacci 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITOR: Ken Fowler 

ScENE EDITOR: Brian Doxtader 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Kelly Meehan 

PHOTO EDITOR: Dustin Mennella 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Jeff Albert 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Sharon Brown 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Nina Pressly 
CoNTROLLER: Kyle West 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Rob Dugas 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Alejandro Gerbaud 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
. SCENE DESK . 

(.571) 631-451Q scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as acrurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefMike Gilloon: 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obsetver (USPS 59, 2-4900) is puhlished Monday through Friday -except during elGU1l and vacation ptriods. A subscription ro The OhKrvcr is $100 fi1r one ac!.dc:mic year; $)5 fur om:: semcsu:r. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send addre5!i c:orrecrions ro: Notre Dame, IN 465%..0n9 TheObwvcr feriodical postage paid at Now: Da:me PO.&x779 and additional mailing offices. 024 Souili Dining Halt 
None: Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a mtmber of tht' Associated Press..All reproduction rights arc: reserved. 
An impeachment with two bad sides 
Notre Dame student government has lost sight of its objec­to stop pretending to be more than what students want it to tives. While the Student Senate did not remove Morrissey sen­be. ator Greg Dworjan from office, his impeachment a week ago Students don't want procedural tie-ups and undergraduate for campaign violations had little to do with improving student red tape. Students want peer representation and a profession­life or presenting a professional representation of the student al, unified voice. body to the community and administration. Dworjan's behav­The case of Dworjan and the Senate illustrates a larger ior, however, was equally ill directed. problem. Student government should be about students, not 
The senator was impeached both for using a student govern­about impeachment and ethics committees and convoluted ment copy machine to mak.c posters urging students to abstain run-oil' procedures. There is a side to student government that and for posting the flyers without approval from Student works for positive change while keeping student interests in Activities. But it's unlikely the impeachment was mind, and there is a side that pads resumes and 
O 
Th

the result of reasoned concern for the exact let­writes 59-page constitutions and impeaches
oserver 
ter of the 59-page student government constitu­when insulted by technicalities. Dworjan's tion. Imagine Dworjan had printed out and post­impeachment is only the most visible manifesta­
Editorial
ed flyers reminding students to vote and imagine tion of this second side to student government. It these flyers were unstamped and copied in the should come as no surprise that only 3,492 student government oflice. And now imaginn an dhies com­votes were cast a few weeks ago in the first election for stu~ mittee voting to impeach Dworjan if turnout was higher. dent body president. 
This lofty sense of internal importance in thn face of student In its history at Notre Dame, the Student Senate has been apathy is also highlighted in Dworjan's defense of his actions, abolished for nine years, reinstated, and again threatened where he eites both Alexis de Tocquevillo and "basic frm~doms with disbandment only four years later. In its perpetual quest we enjoy as Americans" ("Impeached senator speaks out," for relevance, it all too often ignores its constituents. If any­Letter to the Editor, March 7). Dworjan told senators thing positive comes from the actions of Dworjan and the Wednesday he made the posters to exereise his "highest Snnatn, it will be the push for an external governmental focus, ethic." However, student government is not a national govern­away from meaningless inlighting and toward the concerns o( ment, nor is it lighting to preserve democraey -and it needs tho student body it should strive to represent. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Remembering Rex 
Before I covered a slain police ofli­that no final decisions had been made. suspicious. But while I realize reporters cer's funeral, before I rode along in a Now that a big one had, he wanted to and cops have some interests that just squad ear during overnight DUI patrol, explain. don't intersect, I also know that we before I was hung up on by more desk We met outside Notre Dame Stadium, have enough humanity in common to officers than I can count, I met Rex walked up to the box seats and sat in an often bridge the divide. Rakow. unoccupied room near the president's I remember that when I call a police 
It was sophomore year, the sun­chair. As the Irish passed and tackled spokesman whose colleague has just soaked Blue & Gold Game weekend of below -the crowd roars nearly been shot. I learned it from Rex Rakow. 2004, and Notre Dame Security/Police drowned out Rakow when I played back I don't know if he had that effect on had just dropped a bombshell: The my tape recorder later -the NDSP other student reporters, of if he knew University was firing its security moni­director didn't watch the game. Instead, what that interview meant to me. I sure tors. The monitors, who had been he looked me in the eye and told me didn't know then. But when I read today guarding and patrolling inside women's about how the University had changed, about his death, I immediately thought residence halls ever since Notre Dame how security monitors hadn't, and how back to that afternoon, when he took went co-ed in 1972, were being eventhough he thought they made the the time to treat a young reporter like replaced with an outdoor-based force of right choice, it stung to dismiss the ded­an equal. community security officers. To would­icated women. "We're hoping to have As long as I'm talking to police, I be parietals-breakers, it was cause to done this as compassionately as we won't forget it. I hope Notre Dame won't celebrate. To the rectors and girls who can," he said. forget him. counted on the monitors to feel safe in That conversation still resonates in their dorms at night, it was deeply dis­my relationships with police. As I've The writer worked for The Observer turbing. So to NDSP, it was a very deli­moved forward in my reporting career, from 2002-06 and was the 2005-06 cate predicament. covering cops in South Bend, Chicago editor in chief She is currently a 
That's why Rakow e-mailed me that and New Jersey, I've run into plenty of reporter with the Star-Ledger in New Friday, remembering the Observer journalists who believe police officers Jersey. reporter who had spent January snoop­are paranoid, uncooperative, unneces­ing around the dorms late at night and sarily harsh. I've encountered police Claire Heininger publishing monitors' anonymous fears oflicers who believe journalists are alumna of losing their jobs. He had said then insensitive, untrustworthy and way too March 8 

Submit a Letter to the Editor or Guest Column to viewpoint.l@nd.edu or online at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
Letters to the Editor should than 3&Q words in length. Guest 
:.·: :·:·:::·::·{~) 


Columns should be no longer words and must include a byline with name, year, and major. All submissions must include the author's name and contact phone number. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Marcela Berrios Jay Fitzpatrick Liz Harter Deidre Krasula 
VVhat are you doing for spring break? Eva Binda Michael Bryan 
"Conversation should be pleas'ant without 
%of votes #of votes 
c. 
Viewpoint Scene 
scurrility, witty without affectation. free 
a. staying on campus 12% 41
Kara King Analise Lipari 
without indecency, learned without 
b. Service project 6% 19 
conceitedness, novel without falsehood." 
Graphics c. Going home 38% 126 Tom Hanculak d. Traveling 44% 148 
William Shakespeare English dramatist 
lllis poll is based on the re&ult of 334 
votes at http://www.ndsmcobserver.com/ 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Friday, March 9, 2007 page 9 
The death of Catholic culture 
We are now well into the second genera­tion of Catholics growing up almost entire­ly ignorant of the faith their Church pro­claims. The precipitous decline of Catholic school enrollment serves as one obvious indicator that fewer nominal Catholics are 
James receiving the basic Matthew catechesis necessary Wilson to understand what 
The Treasonous
goes on at Mass, or 
Clerk

Who it is we worship there. 
In a fashion typical of a culture in decline, most persons in the Catholic com­munity subsist in their observances by habit or listlessly fall away, while a small flowering of devout and engaged Catholics blossom in increasing isolation. The fruit­fulness of this group has been great, resulting in moving witnesses to life in Christ, and in an impressive emergence of attempts to address the crises of our age with the rich intellectual traditions of the Church. Most Catholics, however, float through their sacramental velleities, hear­ing nothing consciously and absorbing a little through proximity and habit. 
The greater numbers of young Catholics get their only exposure to the life of the Church at a weekly guitar Mass. They attend public schools, where they are told everything they need to know is taught in its classrooms. They watch their daily glut of television, where they see that every­thing they desire can be bought some­where. And they escape their childhood with at best a few years of weekly C.C.D. class, where they get their souls rubber­stamped for Confession, Communion and Confirmation. 
Those who go on to attend a Catholic university are likely to receive a couple semesters of theology and perhaps a cou­pie more of philosophy. This, in most cir­cumstances, gives them an understanding of their Church and its sacraments slightly inferior to that which their grandparents imbibed through the Baltimore Catechism by the fifth grade. 
Such ignorance of the narratives, creeds and traditions of Catholicism is itself grave. If asked, "Why do Catholics receive the Eucharist?" or "Why must they receive sacramental forgiveness for their sins?" most Catholics could not provide an answer. Indeed, many of the Catholics I know, practicing or not, would stare blankly at such questioning. It would never occur to them that there might be an answer to such queries. Moreover, they would be bored and in disbelief that any­one would bother to ask them. 
Ignorance of the Church's faith, howev­er, is just a symptom of an even more grave condition. It is one thing not to know the doctrinal expressions of particular sacred truths; it is another thing-and a more serious thing-to live one's life with a worldview blind to and uninformed by those truths. The great achievement of the so-called secularizing forces of modernity has been in reshaping the way in which we live in and perceive the world. Plenty of persons deny the religious truths their parents and grandparents approved and defended confidently. But plenty more per­sons affirm their belief in God, or confess they accept myriad other formal doctrines of our faith, while they see the world with the eyes of indifference and unbelief. One can claim to believe in the God Who died for our sins, while at the same time think­ing about the world as ifnone of that busi­ness had happened. I do not speak of hypocrisy, but of a loss of religious feeling. 
When a student at a Catholic university can write that dining halls should serve 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pornography views unrealistic, dated 
In his Letter to the Editor, ("Eradicate pornography," March 
8) freshman Ryan Slaney defines pornography as "images which cause males to lust over the female body." Does this mean that the women's undergarment sec­tion in the Sears catalog is porno­graphic? If so, I'm in trouble. Slaney also states with "clear and resounding" affirmation that the Sports Illustrated swimsuit edi­tion, the reason us subscribers squirm around our mailboxes like a Christmas tree every February afternoon, is indeed pornograph­
ic. If this is the case, then yours truly is not getting his money's worth. In fact, perhaps the great­est perk of living off campus is that I can finally browse porn sites without fear of losing my Internet privileges. Hey, if all those middle school health videos say its normal, then by golly it must be. 
Furthermore, do we really still think of women as the innocent "angel in the house" who could never be considered so barbarian as us men as to look at naked photos of guys? I heard that long­haired dude from last year's American Idol was in a Playgirl last month, and that certainly wasn't published for my sake. 
Still, Slaney does make a clean split between us hedonistic hea­thens and the morally sound Catholics such as himself. who "feel that a male should appreci­ate a woman's mind along with her body." That's why women are allowed to be priests, right? Now don't get me wrong, this letter in no way is intended to insult Slaney or the Catholic Church. Still, I just cannot imagine that Slaney's fellow Vermin, the men of Carroll, who live in the Alcatraz of dorms, would agree that they "feel embarrassed" of "the images of scantily clad women" found above the beds of young men such as myself, who need an extra little push to wake up on these frigid winter morn­ings. At least that's what my roommate, an apparent ex­Carroll legend who will remain anonymous, believes. 
Perhaps one who is truly con­cerned about the ever prevalent practice of condescending women should spend less time freedom­freedom fighting and presuppos­ing what it would take to make the campus a less-offensive place to live, and should spend a little more time participating in women-organized events that cel­ebrate feminism, like attending the National Women's Day Jamboree, which took place in front of Stonehenge yesterday at noon. Only three males were present. 
Joe Geglio 
senior 
off campus March 8 

meat on Fridays during lent because such "penance" is an individual activity, mean­ingless ifeveryone else does it, and a mat­ter of importance only between himself and God, ignorance and blindness con­verge in a monstrous concatenation. To be clear, that student seems unaware that one performs penance as an act of repen­tance for one's sins. One "abstains" from meat on Fridays during lent as an act of solidarity with the poor and hungry, and as a sign of unity with other Christians preparing for Easter. 
The ignorance that resulted in misnam­ing abstinence "penance" is easily correct­ed. I have just corrected it. But how can one correct a worldview that blindly believes one's life of faith is entirely private -an affair between the individual soul and God and nobody else? I am no Church historian, but I bet it took many genera­tions for the truth that Christians are "one body in Christ" to disseminate widely and become deeply meaningful. It has taken at most two generations to wipe out that truth, to make it appear repugnant to the average American, Catholic or otherwise. 
The great vision of Christianity is that no person is an individual and no one exists alone. God created all things and keeps them in being through a personal act of His love. He creates us not separately, but for each other and in His Kingdom. The families, clubs and countries of which we are children, members and citizens are legitimate but relative analogues to our role as subjects of that Kingdom. When we worship together in mass, we perceive . with our senses the fellowship of the Kingdom. When we pray in silence in a monastery, we experience that fellowship in the deepest part of our souls. Being part of Christ's spiritual body is what makes us most fully persons. From this perspective, there is no such thing as an individual, but only persons in one spiritual body (an ana­logue to the Blessed Trinity). 
Dana Gioia, chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, recently observed, "Most of what modernity has accomplished has been the secularization of culture and society. Contemporary con­sumer culture not only makes the individ­ual the center of value; it also caters to the lowest elements of human nature ­greed, vanity, gluttony, lust and sloth. Conformity, complacency, and creature comfort hardly represent the ideals of a great culture. They may be economically powerful motives, but they inhibit any gen­uine spiritual development." 
Historically, individualism began as a Protestant doctrine. Since it leads, by its very nature, to a thoughtless variety of atheism, it now may be called an atheist doctrine. When someone tries to explain a Christian practice like abstinence from meat on individualist, private grounds, it is not that person's misinformation that per­turbs me. I worry rather that such a per­son is merely one sign of the malformation of an entire culture. When Catholics can no longer perceive themselves as part of God's Kingdom, as intrinsically bound up in the sacramental movements of the Church's life, it is only a matter of time before they can no longer confess any belief in the Trinity. And unfortunately, it is far easier to inculcate a belief than it is to help someone to see creation anew. 
James Matthew ltllson is a Sorin Research Fellow and loves a good Fish Fry. He can be reached at jwilson5@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


One way to stop 'lusting' 
I think that Ryan Slaney made many excel­lent points in his recent Letter to the Editor, ("Eradicate pornography," March 8) but I feel that even he fell short of doing the lord's work to its fullest extent. 
He argues that "pornographic images are those which cause males to lust over the female body." He also says that the cultural acceptance of porn "leads to the cultural acceptance of objectification of women." These are both true, and I agree that pornography should be stopped. 
But Slaney's fault lies in his view that porn is only naked or nearly naked pictures. I feel that all pictures of attractive women are pornographic, since they may cause lust in men, even if fully clothed. And what about women not in picture form, but in person? 
Seeing an attractive woman on the quad can cause lust as well, and this must be put to a stop. 
I think that the only solution is to prohibit any woman, in picture or human form, from entering the line of sight of any man unless she is covered from head to toe in a burka and veil. I would also suggest that men shouldn't be allowed to see other men, in the event that one of the men may be gay, but I'm sure there are not gay people at our Catholic university. If there were, I'm sure they'd have an official club or something. 
Greg Howard junior Alumni Hall March 8 


Free sacrifice is worth it 
Dan Hicks' Viewpoint, ("Sacrifice is Worth It," March 8) drew attention to our respon­sibility to make "minor sacrifices for the sake of very dear goods." During the Lenten season, it is particularly important to contemplate our responsibilities to those who are in need, and I applaud Hicks for doing so. Unfortunately, he framed the entire issue in the context of increased tax­ation and government action, which is ulti­mately coercive in nature. 
We have the right to own private property in this country, and this is not only intrinsi­cally valuable as a form of freedom, but has provided our society with remarkable prosperity and personal independence. While we celebrate our right to hold prop­erty, we must also recognize the responsi­bility to use that property as a steward for our Lord who entrusted us with it. When we use our resources for luxuries while others are in legitimate need, we not only fail to meet our responsibilities as stewards but provide ammunition to those who seek to restrict or eliminate our rights to hold property. 
While you're out on spring break, think about whether you really need to buy that extra drink, because you probably won't remember it anyway. If all of us (myself included) choose fun but unnecessary pur­chases consistently over giving to those in need, Dan Hicks' school will grow stronger and eventually the taxman will take by force what we failed to give in love. 
Jonathan Klingler senior Keenan Hall March 8 


THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 10 
Friday, March 9, 2007 
lsc~&mRnl 
Celebrity shearings garner praise, scare fans 
DVD REVIEW 

Jack Ryan fights terrorists in new DVD release 
Photo courtesy of movies.yahoo.com Harrison Ford stars as author Tom Clancy's Jack Ryan in 1994's "Clear and Present Danger." The "3-Pack Giftset" Includes three Clancy adaptations. 
By SEAN SWEANY Assistant Scene Editor 

With the proliferation of superheroes in the movies today, plain old action heroes can sometimes be overlooked. John McClane ("Die Hard") and Jason Bourne come to mind for occasionally being over­shadowed by their mutated counterparts. 
Another such hero is Jack Hyan -a character crafted by author Tom Clancy who later became famous in ftlm adapta­tions of Clancy's novels. A CIA agent fight­ing terrorist threats, Ryan became famous in three 1990s movies: "The Hunt for Red October," "Patriot Games" and "Clear and Present Danger." The new "Jack Ryan 3­Pack DVD" combines these three classies in one set worthy of any Tom Oancy fan. 
The Hunt for Red October (1990) 
This John McTiernan film ("Die l-Iard") follows the early career of Ryan -played here by a young Alec Baldwin -as he tries to rise through the ranks of the CIA. When a new Russian submarine captained by Captain Marko Hamius (Sean Connery) 

The Jack Ryan 3-Pack Giftset 
Paramount 

heads for American waters, the U.S. gov­ernment fears an imminent attack. Ryan, however, believes that Ramius is planning to defect. and is sent to rendezvous with the sub while evading Russian forces. 
Perhaps less appreciated than the other Jack Ryan movies, "October" is the best and most compelling of the three. Baldwin's Hyan has doubts and fears that lend him a believable realism. Sean Connery's Marko steals the show as an icy commander treading a fine line between conscience and commitment. Thankfully, the film is suspenseful without being dull. 
Patriot Games (1992) 
With "Patriot Games," Baldwin left the franchise and Harrison Ford took over as an older Hyan. In "Games," Hyan acciden­tally thwart<> an IRA attack in London and incurs their wrath for the film's remainder. Ford's acting and high-octane action make up for the thinly developed plot. 
Here, Ford shows why he is one of the most bankable stars in lilm, and he con­trasts well with the IRA terrorist who hunts his family (Sean Bean). A<> the only film in the set to earn an H rating, "Patriot 
Games" has a high intensity level. While not the strongest of the Ryan flicks, Ford's acting and the action sequences keep the film entertaining. 
Clear and Present Danger (1994) 
Ford returns as Jack Ryan for "Clear and Present Danger," 
Maybe it's cabin fever from being stuck indoors during South Bend winters, or spring fever arising from the prospect of spring break and warmer weather. Or maybe it's just the onset of insanity. 
Hegardless, we all feel that temptation come springtime: The urge to grab some scis­sors and shear off our winter locks in favor of shorter, cooler styles. This is an equal oppor­tunity phenomenon: after Britney Spears, anyone is fair game for lawn mower jokes. 

However, shunning our customary coif­fures in lieu of shorter, more streamlined looks is a precarious undertaking, and there are some significant questions that must asked before going under the blade. 
Fortunately, our obsession with celebri­ties gives us significant fodder to point out good and bad examples of shearing. For some, taking a Mach 3 or a barber's No. 1 blade to the scalp is a career move, bump­ing them from boy-band status to pop star­dom, or rescuing them from film prequels to a return to form. For others, shorn locks can be a sign of mental instability. 
So without further ado, here's the good, the bad and the just plain ugly of celebrity head shavings and near-shavings. 
Demi Moore 

Pairing her close-cropped hair with a killer body, Moore proved that the only thing sexier than a man in uniform is a woman in uniform. As a tomboy with sex appeal, not only did the femme fatale man­age to kick butt, she's possibly the sexiest 40-year old on the planet who's robbing the cradle with Ashton Kutcher. Consider it a double "Punk'd." Clearly, less was Moore. 

Justin Timberlake 

JT's hairstylist has earned his or her pay throughout the years. With hairstyles rang­ing from bouncy blonde curls to David Beckham-esque "white man" cornrows, Timberlake's many hair-do's during his stint as the lead singer of 'N Sync turned out to be hair-don'ts. However, after saying "bye bye bye" to his curls and growing some chin stubble, JT has brought sexy back, landed a No. 1 album and even had a memorably hilarious hosting stint on Saturday Night live. 
Natalie Portman 

After being forced to spit out George Lucas-written love lines opposite I Iayden Christensen in the Star Wars prequels, Natalie Portman needed a change. Said change came while shaving her head onscreen during an intense torture scene in the film "V filr Vendetta," whieh got her career back on track. Sometimes you need to crack a few eggs to make an omelet, even if it means exposing some eggshell. 
Britney Spears 

The former wife of Kevin "Fries!" Federline became something of a head case in more ways than one after an impromptu "Britney shears" session left her looking like a deranged Teletubby or Nick Stahl's character from "Sin City." Spears has left both fans and the public 
courtesy 

Shearing one's locks is a common act during the final weeks of winter. However, celebrity stylings like Demi Moore's can raise concern about going under the blade. 
scratching their heads as they read about her latest exploit<> in the tabloids. Perhaps the old saying needs to be ehanged -"Hell hath no fury like a woman shorn." 
Jack Nicholson 

It's uncertain whether or not Nicholson was ever sane to begin with, but the star of "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" looked like he needed to be institutionalized after sporting his new 'do at this year's Oscars. The sight of Nicholson cackling away with his sunglasses and splotchy bald head was genuinely disturbing. 
So as you sit there, either with blade in hand or anxiously twiddling your thumbs in the barber chair, think long and hard about your choice of haircut. It's not like the stuff won't grow back, but you'll want to go for the Justin "do," as opposed to Britney's "don't." After all, what's hair today may be gone tomorrow. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

the best received film of the three. Now the CIA Deputy Director of Intelligence, Ryan finds himself in the middle of an illegal U.S. war against Colombian drug lords and must take matters into his own hands to expose the truth. 
The film's script is smart and tight, mak­ing "Danger" surprisingly brainy. Ford gives a stellar performance, as do co-stars James Earl Jones and Willem Dafoe. Also, stronger action sequences make "Danger" feel more complete. 
Each movie in the 3-Pack comes on a separate disc with new cast and crew inter­views produced specifically for the DVD. While these are the only substantial special features, they go into significant detail about the adaptation of Clancy's novels and the filming of the movies. 
The greatest feature of the "Jaek Ryan 3­Pack" is the collection of these three lilms in one place. Clancy fans and action movie lovers can rejoice to see Jack Hyan take on submarine warfare, terrorist threats and government corruption while going along for the ride. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Friday, March 9, 2007 page 11 
CONCERT REVIEWS 
Merrimans' Playhouse invites new audiences 
By MICHELLE FORD ICE 
Scene Writer 
Hidden in the back corner of South Bend's Century Center is an event that most Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents are unfortunately missing. Once a month, the Merrimans' Playhouse Jazz Performance Series exhibits jazz talent from around the area in a set­ting welcoming to both enthusiasts and first time listeners. The Merriman Trio features a new musician to fill their third spot for each show, which both allows long time listeners to 

Hidden in the back 
hear something new and March's concert fea­lets those less familiar corner ofSouth Bend's tured pianist Eric Clancy with the genre experi­from Fort Wayne, Ind.
Century Center is an 
ence the essentials of The show covered a
event that most Notre 
jazz music. wide range of music, Going to Merrimans' Dame and Saint Mary's from pieces composed Playhouse is less like a by Thelonius Monk, to
students are 
concert and more like a Cole Porter and Miles
unfortunately missing. 
special invitation to a Davis. While many of 
relaxed jam session. The music is entirely improvisational. One of the integral components of the playhouse is the series of guest artists featured in each performance. 
Regularly, the "trio" is actually a duo, consisting of upright bassist Mary Merriman and drummer Stephen Merriman. Every session, a new guest artist from around the area is invited to complete the trio, assuring a new sound. For Mary Merriman, this pro­vides a great opportunity to work with a variety of artists. . 
"[Each musician brings] their own way of playing this art," she said. This format is beneficial for the audi­ence as well; the listening becomes 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Dressed entirely in simplistic black, Notre Dame's Schola Musicorum per­formed a powerful selection of Gregorian chants Wednesday night in their latest "Abend-Musique" concert at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The Reyes Organ and Choral Hall, housing the University's impressively sized pipe organ, was a lovely venue for their concert, which featured a variety of pieces sung in their original Latin. 
The aesthetic of the Reyes Organ Hall calls to mind images of medieval monasti­cism and high church services, and the music, taken from the 15th and 16th cen­turies, fit that theme perfectly. 
The Schola Musicorum is led by Alexander Blatchley, director of the University's Chorale, and Daniel Stowe, director of the University's Glee Club and 
drawing from original medieval manuscripts for their pieces. The "Abend-Musique" con­cert, a biannual tradition for the group, takes its name from similarly-named con­certs held by 17th century German com­poser Dietrich Buxtehude. "Abend­Musique" literally means "Evening Music" in German and French, respectively. 
The history of the Gregorian chant alone makes the Schola's repertoire interesting more active than passive. Audiences get to watch a conversation between the artists that is often, especially for more formal concerts, done before­hand. The musicians, who have not played together regularly, listen and watch to stay together and trade solo moments. 
Furthermore, the artists joke and talk with each other and with the audi­ence throughout the evening, breaking the boundaries of the stage. The audi­ence gets the chance to sacrifice some of the customary polish in order to see 
more of the creative 
process that the music 
often undergoes. 
the songs were classics, 
the artists provided their own interpretation of each and, not surprisingly, many of them focused around the piano in an effort to display Clancy's artistry. 
This year's series will 
Sung without 
Symphony Orchestra. The Gregorian chants or Latin, Schola also features a accompaniment, the the concert's program number of students. The provided both the original
chants highlight 
ensemble was originally Latin words and modern
the vocal talents of
formed by the University's English translations of Department of Music in those performing them each piece. Following 1993 with the intent of along with the Latin was a
with simplicity. 
for the average audience member. As the "Abend-Musique" program indicated, Gregorian chants make up the most extensive body of liturgical or ritual music in world history. In the years since Vatican II, however, they are less commonly heard, as the use of Latin has decreased in Catholic practice worldwide. Sung with­out musical accompaniment, the chants highlight the vocal talents of those per­forming them with simplicity. 
The first piece performed was a selec­tion from Psalm 90, "Introitus: Invocavit me." Featuring a solo by Blatchley, the impressive vocals and ethereal sound of the piece both made for a strong opening to the evening's concert. The phenomenal acoustics of the Heyes Organ Hall added to the overall strength of the vocal perform­ances, with the full-bodied and phenome­nal music emanating from the group towards the audience. 
Thankfully for those audience members 
without an extensive 
background in either 
challenging but rewarding 
task, and having each piece's words, which were inspirational scripture passages and prayers, in English translation was much appreciated. 
The concert continued with further pas­sages from Psalm 90, each with their own variety of vocal gymnastics and solid per­formances. Anne Siebels' solo during the "Graduale: Angelis suis mandavit" was particularly memorable for its impressive 
Photo courtesy of menimansplayhouse.com From left, Stephen Merriman, Mary Merriman and a fellow musician perform recently in South Bend. The Merrimans form two thirds of the Merriman Trio. 
gender, socioeconomic class, age and race, and to unite people in a common love of the ever familiar but ever changing sounds of jazz. The location of the series, in downtown South 
eventually feature other This year's series will Bend, was chosen to artists such as saxophonist allow for greater
eventually feature 

Rich Cohen and pianist Jim access to the public. Steele. other artists such as "[At Merriman's 
Co-founder and drummer saxophonist Rich Cohen Playhouse] you're not of the Merriman Trio, going to get preached
and pianist Jim Steele. 

Stephen Merriman, to," he said. described the aim of the The relatively new playhouse as working to provide a Merrimans' Playhouse still has a lot of "neutral zone." The Merriman Trio room to grow as it slowly gathers a fol­endeavors to break down as many bar­lowing, but the essence of the series is riers as possible, including those of a wonderful opportunity to share music with the community. Attending concerts such as this one is an easy way for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students to get out and appreciate some of the talent to be found in South Bend. 
Tickets to Merrimans' Playhouse are $5 in advance and $8 at the door. The next performance, featuring saxophon­ist Rich Cohen, will be held on April 19 at the Century Center in South Bend. More information about other upcom­ing performances can be found at mer­rimansplayhouse.com. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edn 
Schola Musicorum showcases talent with chants 

The recent Schola Musicorum concert took place in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall at the DPAC. The Hall's acoustics accentuated the group's vocals. 
height and range. 

Other highlights included Orlande de Lassus' joyful "Psalmus: In exitu Istrael" during the Ad Vesperas, and the concert's final piece, "Hymnus: Te lucis ante ter­minum," during the Ad Completorium, ending the evening on a rich, uplifting note. 
Unfortunately for the high caliber of the performance, the Organ Hall was notably at less than full audience capacity. The idea of an evening of 15th century music might seem incomprehensible or uninter­esting to the average college student, but the sheer beauty, elegance and full depth of the Gregorian chants made Wednesday's Schola Musicorum concert something not to be missed. 
The music's evocative power leaves the audience with a rush of images and feel­ings. Thoughts of the opulence of pre­Reformation masses or the strict simplici­ty of monastic life centuries ago are inevitable when listening to such rarely­heard pieces, making concerts like the "Abend-Musique" both historical and excitingly new experiences. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
J 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, March 9, 2007 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duke falls in first round of tourney 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. -Freshman Brandon Costner already knows what makes a disappointing season bearable at North Carolina State. 
Try beating North Carolina during the regular season, then knocking off Duke in the Atlantic Coast Conference tour­nament. 
Costner helped the lOth-seed­ed Wolfpack (16-14) accomplish that Thursday night, scoring a career-high 30 points and grab­bing seven rebounds to help end No. 21 Duke's reign as tourney champions 85-80 in overtime. 
"As you all know, the rivalries are great on Tobacco Road, and nothing will make our fans and us happier than to beat Carolina and Duke," Costner said. "To succeed in beating them this year is a great accomplishment." 
Engin Atsur scored all 21 of his points after halftime to help avenge a 23-point regular sea­son loss to the Blue Devils (22­10), who had won seven of the previous eight ACC tournament titles, including the past two. 
But this time, Duke entered the league's signature event as the seventh seed, its lowest since 1995. 
"At this point, we've got noth­ing to lose. We just want to fin­ish our season strong," said Atsur, who didn't play in the regular-season game against Duke because of a hamstring injury. "We just don't want to finish our season as quick as losing in the first game of the tournament. I think we were mentally stronger than ever and we want to keep doing this." 
The Wolfpack advanced to Friday's quarterfinals against No. 2 seed Virginia. 
Greg Paulus led Duke with 18 points and Josh McRoberts and DeMarcus Nelson both scored 
17. The Blue Devils fell behind 73-70 on Costner's three-point play in the opening minute of overtime and never fully recov­ered. 
"It really hurts a lot because I've been here two years and we've won it," said Nelson, who fouled out late in overtime. "Not being able to have that opportu­nity this year really hurts. But we have to move on from this and make this a growing oppor­tunity for our team." 
Duke played without fresh­man Gerald Henderson, who served a mandatory one-game suspension for a flagrant foul that broke Tyler Hansbrough's nose during the closing seconds of a loss to North Carolina last Sunday. 
The loss was the third straight for the Blue Devils. 
"I don't know if our team's 

gotten  tired,  gotten  worn  
down,"  Duke  coach  Mike  
Krzyzewski  said.  "I  know  

they're still working hard, but that can happen at the end of the year. We've tried to take care of that over the last couple of days, but what we attempted to do obviously didn't translate into us doing a better job." 
North Carolina State rallied from a 60-54 deficit in regula­tion and had four shots to win in the final 10 seconds. But Costner misfired on a short jumper in the lane, then Atsur and Courtney Fells missed 3­pointers before Atsur's despera­tion tip flew over the rim at the buzzer. 
Costner got the Wolfpack ofT to a quick start in the extra period, and North Carolina State led 82-76 after Atsur, who was scoreless in the first half on 0-for-4 shooting, made a pair of free throws with 43.4 seconds left. 
Martynas Pocius converted a 3-point play to give Duke hope, but the closest the Blue Devils got after that was 83-80. Costner made two free throws to close out the third straight upset in the opening round of the tournament. 
This was a rare first-day appearance for Duke, which entered with its lowest seeding since a ninth-place finish 12 years ago. Thursday night's loss stopped a six-game winning streak in the ACC tournament, however the Blue Devils still have won 23 of their last 25 in the league's showcase event. 
Henderson, who has said he was not trying to hurt Hansbrough, watched from the stands at the St. Pete Times Forum. Although the 6-foot-8 freshman averages only 6.8 points, he was most effective as a scorer in his past two games, with 15 against Maryland and a career-high 16 against North Carolina. 
ND SWIMMING 

Eight swim111ers race in NCAAs 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 

They already made history this season by winning a con­ference-record 11th consecu­tive Big East title, but the Irish will try to rewrite the record books once again this weekend at the NCAA Championships in Minneapolis. 
The most participants the Irish ever sent to the NCAA Championships was nine in 2002, when Notre Dame sent eight swimmers -including current Irish coach Carrie Nixon -and one diver. That team accumulated 52 points on its way to 19th place -the program's highest finish at the NCAAs except for 2000, when the Irish finished 18th. 
Notre Dame will send eight swimmers to the Championships this year, but the Irish failed to qualify a diver at last weekend's Zone C Diving Championships. Only 15 schools are sending more par­ticipants than the Irish this year. 
"Our team is different this year, and the fact that we have more people going changes our demeanor and our confidence," Nixon said after the Big East championships. "The more girls you have going, the more emphasis you place on the Big East meet. The amount of girls going is the biggest difference between this year and previous years." 
Leading the way for Notre Dame will be senior captain Katie Carroll. Carroll is making her fourth consecutive appear­ance at the NCAAs, with her best result coming in 2005 when she finished 6th in the 400 individual medley -good enough to earn All-America honors. 
Carroll will have three chances to earn All-America honors this year, and her best chance appears to be in the 400 individual medley. Her time of 4:14.99 has her ranked 12th nationally in the event, and she also enters this weekends meet ranked 16th nationally in 200 butterfly. 
Another Irish swimmer famil­iar with the NCAA Championships is senior Julia Quinn, who will be making her third appearance at the meet but only her second with Notre Dame. Quinn qualified as a sophomore at the University of Minnesota. This year, she enters the championships ranked No. 33 in the 100 breaststroke and No. 73 in the 200 IM. 

The final returning member of Notre Dame's squad is soph­omore Claire Hutchinson, who is ranked 25th nationally in the 1,650 freestyle. 
Filling out the squad for the Irish will be first-time partici­pants Megan Farrell, Rebecca Grove, Caroline Johnson, Ellen Johnson and Christa Riggins. 
"It's a special time, and we're very excited to have our second biggest group going," Nixon said. "It's the culmination of your career to get to [the NCAA Championships], and it's very important to perform well there." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles face tough squads 
By GENE NOONE News Writer 
While many college students will travel to Florida to work on their tans this spring break. the Saint Mary's tennis team is headed to the Sunshine State to begin the 2007 season. 
The Belles travel to Orlando Sunday to take on several chal­lenging opponents. The pool of teams in Orlando will include Franklin and Marshall, Wisconsin-Lacrosse, Haverford and the University of Puerto Rico. 
Coming off a solid 2006 sea­son, the Belles will look to regain the success they had a few years ago in winning four straight con­ference tournament titles from 2001 to 2004. This edition of the squad looks poised to regain the title with a eombination of strong senior leadership and new fresh­man talent. 
Senior captain Kelly McDavitt, who claimed a fourth-place fin­ish in No. 2 singles at last sea­son's MIAA championship, will lead the team. The senior is already well versed in the lead­ership role after serving as a co­captain last year. The Belles will look to McDavitt's veteran expe­rience throughout the season. 
Other top returnees include sophomore Mary Elizabeth Campbell, who posted 11 singles wins last season, senior Tara O'Brian, who also posted an 11­win campaign, and senior Grace Gordon, who produced eight vic­tories as a member of last sea­son's No. 2 doubles team. 
Several freshmen will work to have an immediate impact on this year's team. Saint Mary's coach Dee Stevenson hopes some .of these freshman players will raise the level of competition during the spring trip. 
The Belles have a busy week ahead of them. The team will be playing multiple matches a day for most of the trip. On Sunday, the Belles take on Franklin and Marshall. They will then face Wisconsin-Lacrosse and Haverford Monday. After a break on Tuesday. the team will return to the court Wednesday to play the Hamilton and Haverford, fol­lowed by Bentley Thursday. Saint Mary's closes out the week with matches against Drew and Skidmore Friday. 
Although playing so many matches in a short amount of time may seem demanding, Stevenson said the team is excit­ed to get to Florida to play a number of competitive matches. He expects the most challenging tennis to be played against Wisconsin-Lacrosse and the University of Puerto Rico. 
The team hopes for a good showing in Florida so that it can gain momentum going into the MIAA season. 
"Our goals for the year include winning our conference, getting invited to the Midwest Tournament and fmally getting invited to the NCAA Tournament," Stevenson said. 
When the Belles return from Florida, they have their first home match against Olivet March 21 at 3 p.m. 
Contact Gene Noone at enoone@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
IMMEDIATE OPENINGS. PREGNANT OR KNOW SOME-KP bet that concrete hurt, huh? Like sports? Like writing about 
$15.50 base-appt ONE WHO IS? You do not have to Have fun in NM.-LH sports? Like breaking parietals at WANTED flexible schedules, FoR RENT be alone. We want to help. Call our least once a week ... LEGALLY? Wanted no exp.needed, 24 hour confidential hotline at 1-Joe's giving front hugs now...every-Call a Chris at 631-4543 SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: customer sales/service, conditions andersonNDrentals.com BOO-No-ABORT or visit our website body get in line. Make a difference in the life of a apply, all ages 17+, BETIER HOMES,BETIER at www.lifecall.org I'll never be your beast of burden child! Summer therapy camp for positions in all of I AREAS,BETIER DEALS. Captain America is dead. At least My back is broad but its a hurting children with physical disabilities. ndiana & Michigan, BlueGoldRentals.com Bottom: YOU CAN PLAY NO PART his death got some coverage ... from All I want is for you to make love to Located on shore of Lake Superior 273-3835. Now leasing for 2007/8. Great BUT PYRAMUSI PQ The Observer. me in Big Bay, MI. Positions available www.workforstudents.com houses close to campus. I'll never be your beast of burden for Counselors, Waterfront, For Sale Anlan~ro~erties@ comcastnet Looking for a JOB or INTERN-"I get up in the evening, and I ain't I've walked for miles my feet are Instructors for Nature/Arts & SHIP? Make your resume available got nothing to say hurting Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, to THOUSANDS of employers! Sign I come home in the morning, I go to All I want is for you to make love to Therapists, Food Service, and FOR SALE PERSONAL up for your FREE account on MON-bed feeling the same way me Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, Oakhill condo-3-4 bdm 3 full STERTRAK. the #1 student job I ain't nothing but tired, man I'm just responsible, and love children. June baths,2 levels,large deck. 312-933-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do search engine! Register now to be tired and bored with myself 6-1-2 in the Grapefruit League. 10 through August 5. Salary, room 7234 or email mstacey1 @nd.edu. not go it alone. If you or someone eligible for a $2,500 giveaway! Hey there baby, I could use just a Feel the Magic happen. & board, and experience of lifetime $210,000 obo you love needs confidential support xxx.monsterTRAK.com/2500. little help provided. Call or write for applica-or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Today in history: lion and information. Bay Cliff *ND CONDOS* NEW 2/3 BR,2 bath Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more "It's spring break! Wool!"-DK You can't start a fire, you can't start 1945: Bombing of Tokyo Health Camp, P.O. Box 310, Big condos Minutes from campus information, visit our web site at a fire without a spark 1959: Barbie debuts Bay, Ml49808, (906)345-9314, e-Starting in $130,000s 574-252-2427 http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg-Why would you make big This gun's for hire even if we're just 1964: First Ford Mustangs made mail BayCiiffHC@aol.com. Visit us ndcondos.com Reserve Yours nantshtml or see our bi-weekly ad classifieds? dancing in the dark" 1987: The Joshua Tree released at www.baycliff.org Today! in The Observer. Why would you do that to me? -The Boss 1997: Biggie is shot 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, March 9, 2007 CoMPILED FROM Tt-IE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICES page 13 
Women's· ·Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top. 25 
team t&.(X)rd ·points 
:·,:;)y:.
1 Duke 763 2 Connecticut 743 3 North Carolina 709 4 Tennessee 28•3 699 5 Maryland 27-5 622 6 Stanford 27-4 617 7 Ohio State 28~2 545 8 Arizona State 28·3 536 9 Vanderbilt 27-5 . 529 10 lSU 26·1 485 11 Oklahoma 23-4 479 12 Purdue 27·5 457 13 George Washington 26-3 412 14 Georgia 25·6 363 15 Texas A&M 23"5 354 16 Middle Tenn. St. 27-3 307 17 Baylor 24•.6 277 18 Bowling Green 26·3 213 19 Rutgers 20·8 180 20 N.C. State 23·9 155 21 Marquette 25·5 147 22 Wise. Green-Bay 25·3 146 23 Michigan State 23·8 89 24 louisville 26-6 86 25 California 23-8 46 
NCAA Baseball Baseball News Top 20 
team record points previous 
1 Vanderbfll 14•0 495 1 2 Florida Slate 1NI 494 2 3 North Carolina 11•1 492 3 4 South Carolina 104 491 4 5 Virginia 14c1 487 8 6 Clemson 7·3 484 5 7 Oregon State 13:3 480 9 8 Cal Slate Fullerton 12•5 476 11 9 Texas A&M 15·1 472 19 10 Rice 11-6 471 6 11 Arkansas 10·5 468 10 12 Pepperdine 13-4 466 13 13 Auburn 13•2 464 24 14 Arizona State 12·5 41i2 12 15 Miami {Fla.) 9·5 41i1 15 16 Mississippi a..r 458 16 17 Nebraska . 5"4 455 7 18 Kentucky 12"0 454 NR 19 Texas 22 20 long Beach Slate 
20 
NCAA Softball ESPN.comjUSA Today Top 15 
team record points previous 
1 Tennessee 9~0 494 1 2 TexasA&M 10~0.;lh 471 3 3 Arizona State 13"0 469 2 4 Arizona 9~2 . 433 4 
5 Alabama 10~0 ... 427 5 
6 lSU 1}~1 I :173 5 7 Oregon State s~~····:uJs···.········ 1 .. · 8 Stanford 
12 
9 louisiana·Lalayette 13 10 Oklahoma 14 11 Texas 11 12 Northwestern 8 13 Michigan 15 14 UCLA 9 15 Washington 17 
around the dial 
NCAA BASKETBALL Notre Dame at Georgetown 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Chicago at Phoenix 9 p.m., Comcast 
NFL 


Associated Press 

The Ravens and Bills agreed to a trade Thursday that will send running back Willis McGahee to Baltimore in exchange for the team's third and sev­enth-round picks in this year's draft, along with the . Ravens' third-round pick in 2008. 
Even without the option years at the end of the con­tract, the deal is worth $26.42 million over five years. 
Buffalo dealt McGahee in anticipation of difficulty re­signing him. 
For the Ravens, it's the second year in a row they pulled off a trade for a mar­quee veteran. Last year they dealt for Tennessee Titans quarteback Steve McNair, who led the Ravens to the AFC North title. 
"This is a runner who can make people miss and has the explosion and speed to take it the distance," Ravens general manager Ozzie Newsome said. "He also has the power and size to run inside. He's a viable receiver out of the backfield and is a good pass blocker, not something every back can do. 
"He also plays physical and with toughness, which are things we pride our­selves on here." 
The Titans were also 
reportedly interested in 
dealing for McGahee. 
The Bills, whose remain­ing running backs are Daimon Shelton and Shaud Williams, are now in the market for multiple backs. They have shown interest in the Colts' Dominic Rhodes and the Titans' Chris Brown, and both have visited the team. Former Patriots running back Corey Dillon has not visited Orchard Park, but the Bills are said to be interested. 
Buffalo's first-round pick out of Miami in 2003, McGahee is coming off a down season in which he finished with a career-low 990 yards rushing, but led the team with six rushing touchdowns in 14 starts. 
IN BRIEF 

Kresge leads by two after ace 
in PODS Championship 
PALM HARBOR, Fla. -Cliff Kresge nearly holed out from the fairway twice with a wedge in hand, so when his 5-iron from 184 yards headed toward the flag Thursday, his caddie instinctively said, "Go in this time." 
And it did. 

It was one of two eagles for Kresge, who was 8 under through 11 holes until a few errant drives down the stretch made him settle for a 6-under 65 and a two-shot lead in the PODS Championship, the first time he has ever led any round in 114 starts on the PGA Tour. 
Among those at 67 was Arron Oberholser, who believes he has a grip on his back problems with an innovative workout routine. 
"For 11 holes, it was a dream round," Kresge said. "And then I kind of got in my way a little bit at the end. Still, 6 under is darn good." 
I.SU women's coach resigns
amid allegations 
BATON ROUGE, La. -LSU's acting women's basketball coach said he was unaware of any improper conduct that would have caused Pokey Chatman to abruptly resign from a program she had coached the past three seasons. 
Bob Starkey said he could not explain the timing of Chatman's deci­sion. A day after she announced she would resign after the NCAA tourna­ment, Chatman said Thursday she was leaving the team immediately. 
"There's been 20 to 25 things that are just floating out there, and I think she thought if she just stepped away from it she could eliminate that from even multiplying," Starkey said. "She has her reasons, and hopefully, soon she'll address that herself." 
The Times-Picayune of New Orleans reported that the resignation was prompted by the school's discovery of alleged inappropriate conduct between Chatman and one or more players. 
----'-----------'------~~ 
In 2005, he had 1,24 7 · yards rushing and five touchdowns in 15 starts. He established himself as the Bills starter in 2004 with 1,128 yards rushing and 13 touchdowns in 11 starts. That performance led the team to trade former starter Travis Henry to Tennessee the following summer. 
McGahee sat out his rookie season recovering from major knee surgery. 
The Bills have been dis­appointed in McGahee for conducting most of his off­season workouts in his native Miami, rather than traveling to the team's Orchard Park headquar­ters. 
Braves pitcher Hampton
injured in batting practice 
Mike Hampton is hurt again, and this time it has nothing to do with his arm. 
The Atlanta Braves' left-bander injured his left side during batting practice, and won't be ready for the start of the regular season. 
Hampton, starting the seventh sea­son of a $121 million, eight-year con­tract, will miss the rest of spring training and could be out as long as two months. The Braves had been counting on him to bolster a rotation that includes John Smoltz, Tim Hudson and Chuck James. 
"I think I pulled it pretty bad," Hampton said Thursday in Kissimmee, Fla. "There's nothing you can do about it now except try to get it healed up and get it better." 
Hampton was taking batting prac­tice Wednesday at the Braves' com­plex while the team was playing the Detroit Tigers in nearby Lakeland. 

page 14 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 9, 2007 
SMC GOLF 
Sophs lead Belles 
•

In Myrtle Beach 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will be led by four sophomores as it travels to Myrtle Beach, S.C., March 17-18 to open the spring season. 
Sophomores Meredith Fantom, Perri Hamma, Meaghan Fontein and Molly Goldsmith are joined by junior Katie O'Brien and freshman Theresa Tonyan in the 1 0-team event at Fairfield University. Belles coach Mark Hamilton expects to see a fairly tough field. 
"There are five Division I teams, three Division II teams, one NAIA team and us," he said. "It will be pretty stiff competi­tion." 
Unable to practice outdoors in the winter, the Belles have made good use of indoor facilities. The team practices chipping and putting on Notre Dame's campus and takes full swings at Bobick's golf shop. 
Hamilton said the winter pro­vided the coaches and golfers with time to study videos of their swings and correct any prob­lems. Both Hamilton and O'Brien have said that the tight cuts around the greens will be crucial. 
"We worked pretty hard on the short game this winter, more than we ever have in the past, and that's usually the first thing that goes in the winter," Hamilton said. "We work on the short game and then we work on any mechanical issues that the ladies have in there swings. That's when we try to get that taken care of." 
O'Brien agrees that emphasiz­ing the team's short game is important because of the long winter months. She said the Belles have spent a lot of time chipping and putting. And, so far, her coach has seen it pay dividends. 
"To the person, I've seen improvement in talent," he said. "It's been a good off-season for working on the swings and short game." 
O'Brien said the winter has been a chance to recharge and get a fresh start to the spring season. 
"I think that the gap between seasons was a well needed break for our team," she said. "We are all refreshed and ready to start play again." 
Hamilton said he expects O'Brien to lead the team. O'Brien, who was second on the squad in the fall with an 87.3 round scoring average, missed a portion of the season with mononucleosis. 
"She would have been All-con­ference, but she didn't have the required number of rounds," Hamilton said. "So we're expect­ing her to lead the way." 
Hamilton acknowledges that the lack of real competition will have an efl'ect on the golfers. 
"Getting out on· the golf course, we're definitely going to be a little rusty," he said. 
To counteract that lack of playing time on the course, the team will travel to Pinehurst, N.C., to prepare for the tourna­ment. 
"Our team is looking forward to spring break in Pinehurst," O'Brien said. "This should be a great opener for our spring sea­son." 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

A DRIVEN LIFE 

ALLISON AMBROSE!The Observer Irish guard Tory Jackson drives against Syracuse center Darryl Watkins during Notre Dame's 89-83 win in the Big East tournament. 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish try to avenge loss versus UNC 
By PAT O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Notre Dame looks to rebound from its loss to Cornell last weekend when the No. 15 Irish (2-1) face No. B North Carolina (4-1) Saturday at 1 p.m. in Chapel llill, N.C. 
Last season, the Irish bested tho Tar llnels 9-7 in South Bnnd. Tho all-time serins betwenn the teams is even at thrnn wins apiece. 
"This is another test to prove how good we are," Irish junior goaltendnr Joey Kemp said. "It is vnry impor­tant to bounce back from a loss." 
Freshman attack Will Yeatman and junior mid­l'i eIder M ieh a oI I' o d g aj n y lead the Irish with nine points nach. Senior attack Brian llubsehmann has also bnen productive on offense, already netting seven goals to go along with one assist. 
North Carolina played well in its first three games but the Tar llnels received a rude awakening when they lost 19-R to No. 7 Navy. North Carolina got back on the right track, though, by beating Bellarmine Wednesday 10-6 for its fourth win of tjw season. 
Now, for the Irish, it's a matter of following in their footsteps. 
"It is never good to lose two games in a row in a short, 14-game season," Irish senior midfielder Lucius Polk said. "!Both teams! arc both coming off recent big losses. We need a big start to these four games 

UNLOCK A WEALTH OF POSSIBILITIES. 
Use the equity in your home to take a vacation, consolidate your high-rate debt, make home improvements, or anything else! 
Our PRIMEquity Advantage Line-of-Credit offers great low rates. Plus when you open one, we'll give you a $100 Visa® Gift Card!1
4
.90%APR* 
Apply today!
6-Month Introductory Hate 


•ll NOTRE DAME
b~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
574/631-8222. 800/567-6328 www.ndfcu.org 


that we have in a 10-day span." 
The Tar lleels have under­classmen loaders of their own in freshman attacker Gavin Petracca, sophomore midfielder Ben Hunt and sophomore goaltender Grant Zimmerman. Petracca leads North Carolina with 14 points, while Hunt and Petracca both top the squad with nine goals each. 
Zimmerman has started all five games in goal with a .515 save percentage. 
Notes 
+ 
North Carolina has already tied last season's victory total. It finished 4-10 in 2006 and failed to make the NCAA Tournament. 

+ 
Notre Dame is 1-1 away from home. North Carolina is undefeated at 3-0 in Chapel Hill. 


Contact Pat O'Brien at pobrien2@nd.edu 
Friday, March 9, 2007 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
WATCH liVE GAMES FROM THE 2001 NCAA® DIVISION I MEN'S BASKOBAll CHAMPIONSHIP ONliNE FOR FREE! 



-casSports{lle.com. 

PROUD PROJotOTIONitl PAR THEA 

*local blackout rules will limit availability to 37 games for most people. This product will not include the Opening Round game on March 13, 2007. 
NCAA March Madness on Demand is only available to registered users of CBS Interactive network web site thirteen (13} years of age or older. No cost to register for .any of the CBS Interactive networl! sites. Availably of NCAA March Madness on Demand is subject to local television blackouts and capacity restrictions. Minimum system requirements to view. Certain terms and restrictions apply. C Copyright 2007 NCAA. All rights reserved worldwide. The NCAA and March Madness are licensed by or trademarks of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. All other licenses or trademarks are property of their respective holders. Copyright C 2007 CBS SportsUne.com, Inc. All rights reserved. CBS SportsUne is a registered servicemarl< of Sportsline.com. Inc. CBS "eye device" is a registered trademark of CBS Broadcasting, Inc. All other licenses or trademarlui are property of their respective holders. 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 9, 2007 
TRACK AND FIELD 
-

Six to compete at NCAAs 
ND distance runners will race at nationals 
By BILL BRINK Sports Writer 
With a men's conference title already under its belt, Notre Dame will compete in the NCAA Indoor Championships today and Saturday in Fayetteville, Ark. 
Six runners at the NCAA Indoor Championships will represent Notre Dame -two individual runners and a four-person relay team. 
Head coach Joe Plane is incredibly proud of his team and has found a creative way to put the team's accomplish­ment in perspective. 
""There are 310 Division I teams," he said. "If everyone had five guys in the mile, that's 1,500 milers. They take 15 guys. That means one percent of all the ath­letes get into the meet. You have to be a pretty incredible athlete or pretty incredible relay just to get into the meet. 
"There are teams, like Alabama, that have one ath­lete in -and they're happy. It's hard to get in." 
Senior Thomas Chamney 

will run the 800 meters ­his best finish (1:47.82) is the second-fastest time in both the country and in the histo­ry of Notre Dame indoor track. 
Irish junior Jake Watson will compete in the mile. In the Meyo Invitational Feb. 3, he ran a 4:00.71 mile at the Loftus Center ­good for ninth 
overall in the "You have to be a invited to race ­nation and third Notre Dame was
pretty incredible 
fastest in school ranked 12th.
athlete or pretty
history. Piane said the The Irish dis­incredible relay intensity of prac­tance medley tice has
just to get into 
relay composed decreased in
the meel." 
of Watson, junior preparation for John Cavanaugh, the champi­senior Ryan Joe Piane onships. Postel and senior "You just don't
Irish coach 
Todd Ptacek will round out the Irish representation in Fayetteville. At the Alex Wilson Invitational last weekend, the group posted a season-best time of 9:35.71 -third-best in school histo­ry. Junior Adam Currie will also attend as an alternate for the distance medley relay. 
Of the athletes traveling, Piane feels that they all have a chance to score. 
"We've got kids that are very good, and quite frankly, I think Watson can get into the finals and possibly score," he said. "I think we can get some points out of our distance medley and hopefully some points out of Chamney -the kids that are going have the potential to score." 
The Irish mile relay team fell just short or the champi­
onships. The top 
11 teams were 
do a lot," Piane 

said. "At this point in time, you can't gflt them in better shape. You just want to make sure that they're sharp and they do have a little bit of speed, but you don't kill them this week." 
This is the largest squad Notre Dame has BVI>.r sent to the championships. In three of the past four yBars, thB team has sent five athletes. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
ROWING 
Irish season starts with races at Tennessee, UM 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Spring break will exist in name only for Notre Dame, as the Irish are only a week away from begin­ning their spring season with a schedule that indudes some of the top rowing teams in the country. 
Notre Dame is coming off the most successful season in its his­tory after winning the Big East team title in addition to achieving an NCAA team bid. The Irish will be look to garner their fourth con­secutive Big East team title in addition to their second consecu­tive NCAA team bid this season. 
But in order to reach these goals, Notre Dame will have to overcome a very challenging schedule. 
"We've once again put together a schedule that will be very ehal­lenging and will help us gauge our improvement throughout the sea­son," Irish coach Martin Stone said in February. "Every year we've tried to upgrade our sched­ule. I believe that this year's schedule is very tough and one that will test us throughout the spring." 
Notre Dame will open its season nflxt Saturday in Knoxville, Tenn., when it takes on Tennessee and Minnesota. The Volunteers fin­ished last season as the No. 2 team in the South region while the Golden Gophers were No. 3 in the Central region at the end of 2006. The Irish were No. 6 in the Central region last year. 
The schedule does not get any easier the following weekend when Notre Dame travel<; to Ann Arbor, Mich. for a regatta against Michigan and Michigan State. The Wolverines finished 2006 ranked No. 2 in the Central region, and the Spartans were No. 4 in the region in the linal poll. 
The other notable meet on the Irish schedule is a trip to Hedwood Shores, Calif., for the Windermere Real Estate Regatta -widely considered one of the season's top meets-on April 14­15. 
Among the participants will be Stanford, Washington, Washington State, California and UClA. who together account for live of the top six teams in the final poll of 2006 for the West region. 
The Irish will open up with two­time def(mding national champion California. Saturday morning before racing Stanford that after­noon and UClA Sunday morning. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
ND WoMi:N's GoLF 
Nakazaki to drive team during break invites 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Three underclassmen will round out Notre Dame's top­four as the Irish head into their spring break tourna­ments. 
. ,.. 
The Irish will travel to Boulder City, Nev., March 12 for the three-day, 17 -team UNLV Spring Invitational. The team will look to improve on its 1Oth-place finish at the Central District Classic last February. 
Notre Dame will travel south to Austin, Texas, following the event for the Betsy Rawls Longhorn Invitational. The Irish will be one of 15 teams to compete for the title. The three-day tournament begins March 16 and will be played at the University of Texas Golf Club. 
Notre Dame will compete with the same lineup in both tournaments. Senior co-cap­tain Noriko Nakazaki will tee off from the No. 1 spot for the Irish. Nakazaki is coming off a 15-ov·er 230 with rounds of 75-75-80 -putting her in a tie for 30th place in the field.
-
It marked her fifth team-lead­ing performance in the six tournaments of the 2006-07 season. . 
Sophomore Lisa Maunu will play from the No. 2 position in both tournaments. Maunu shot a 254 (89-87-78) putting her in a tie for 71st several weeks ago. 
Freshman Kristen Wetzel will represent the Irish at the third spot next week. Wetzel 
was tied in 46th place with an overall score of 234 (79-79­76). 
Fellow freshman Annie Brophy will tee off from the fourth spot. Brophy enters the tournament after shooting a 16-over 231 (79-76-76), which was enough for .a 36th place tie. 
Finishing off the list is fresh­man Julie Kim, who is golfing in her second collegiate tour­nament. Kim tied for 30th place alongside Nakazaki with a 230 (76-73-81) at the Central District Classic. 
Irish coach Susan Holt noted the challenges Notre Dame will face in the coming week. 
"We are going to face some competitive fields next week; which can put us in position for postseason play," she said. "Any head to head wins we can come up with would help our confidence on our way to the playoffs." 
The team has been working on getting back to basics. 
"As a team, we are trying to focus on playing one shot at a time, one hole at a time ­simplifying the game," Holt said. "We are trying to get back to the basics of executing the shot each at a time." 
Holt is hopeful that simplify­ing the fundamentals will result in the team's success next week. 
"If we can get all of our players to golf with that mind­set for 18 holes and three rounds, this play will drasti­cally help the team improve," 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 

ND heads west for tourneys 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
Notre Dame heads west to California once again to play in two tournaments over spring break. The Irish continue their tough early schedule next week with three ranked teams, induct­ing No. 2 Arizona State. 
The Sun Devils (22-2) have held opponents to two or less runs in 17 of their wins so far this season, including seven shutout victories. They will face Notrn Dame to open up the Judi Garman Classic March 15 at 9 a.m. 
The Irish will square ofT with No. 14 Louisiana-Lafayette in the same tournament and No. 12 UCLA Sunday in the second game of the Long Beach Invitational. 
The Irish are 0-3 so far this season against ranked oppo­nents, most recently losing a 1-0 pitcher's duel to No. 9 Michigan March 4. 
The Fresno State Bulldogs and Eastern Kentucky University round out the rest of Notre Dame's scheduled opponents over the break. The Irish will also play two more games that will be decided by how they fare in the round robin part of the tournament. 
First up for the Irish is Eastern Kentucky, who has been incon­sistent so far this season. The Colonflls still pose a quick scor­ing threat, with freshman Shyenne llussey leading the off(msfl. llussey has 12 RBis and four home runs with a .600 bat­ting average in her first 12 colle­giate games. The rookie was named the Ohio Valley Conference player of the week Feb. 26. 


Sophomore pitcher Brittany Bargar will have the task of shutting her down. Bargar is 6-3 so far on the season, tying her for the most wins of any pitcher in the Big East. She also leads the conlimmee in strikeouts with 58, averaging slightly more than one per inning. 
Senior Kenya Fuemmeler (1-4, 

4.25 ERA) will get the ball for the second game of the arter­noon against the Bruins. UCLA is in its first year under new head coaeh Kelly lnouye-Perez aftp,r long-time skipper Sue Enquist . resigned at the end of last sea­son. Enquist defeated Notre Dame three times -most reeently in 2005 -while coach­ing the Bruins. 
Inouye-Perez has her team off to a solid start so far this season with a 15-6 record. So far, UCLA has been getting it done with the long ball. As a team, the Bruins hit 31 home runs in their first 21 games. In Wednesday's 8-1 win over Cal State Fullerton, the team hit five dingers, inducting one in the very first at-bat from junior outfielder Krista Colburn. 
After Sunday, the Irish will have four days oft' before making the short 25-mile trip to Fullerton to play the rest of their games. 
The Observer could not reach team members Thursday. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
Friday, March 9, 2007 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
Regional 
continued from page 20 
American and women's sabre national champion in 2004, is recovering from bronchitis. At times in her final matches in last weekend's individual com­petition, Providenza walked slowly back to the on-guard position to take a few extra breaths before resuming her bouts. After finishing second in the tournament, she is confi­dent that she'll earn her fourth consecutive bid to the national tournament. 
''I'm feeling so much better," she said. ''I'm definitely tired, [but] my cough is almost gone, [and] I think I have a voice." 
Providenza said she wouldn't think about the pressures of trying to qualify for the NCAA Championships for a fourth straight year. And when she considered what the Irish squad has accomplished this year, she pointed to a fellow sabreist, sophomore Ashley Serrette. 
In the team competition last 
weekend,  Serrette  and  
Providenza each  went  2-1  
against  Ohio  State  in  the  

Buckeyes' 5-4 win over the Irish women sabreists. Serrette, who finished seventh 
in the individual competition year and we are not ranked by and went 18-2 the week before the polls as favorites in the at the Northwestern Duals, said tournament," he said before that she got over a mental block turning to the positive. "And we to spur on her recent run. And know our rivals escaped us ­now, with similar competition but not by far." as a week ago, she needs to Bednarski said the Irish might improve just two spots to secure benefit from the underdog role, a place at the national competi­especially against Midwest rival 
tion,  which  Ohio  State,  
would be more than just an accolade on her  "We are fighting for the spots -it,s  whose competi­tion with Notre Dame he com­ 
growing resume. D r e w University is only  already the national championships.,,  pared to the feud between Duke and North  
a  25-minute  Carolina, which  
drive  from  Janusz Bednarski  extends  into  
Orange, N.J., and  Irish coach  their elite fenc­ 

getting a chance to go home and see her family is something Serrette will fence for this week, especially since she is staying on campus for break. 
"I really want to qualify because I think that I am capa­ble of it," she said, expressing her confidence while avoiding a cocky tone. "I see it as some­thing that is possible." 
Serrette's evaluation of her own future is much like Bednarski's prognosis for his squad. After falling to several of the top teams already this sea­son, the Irish coach is neverthe­less optimistic. 
"We know that we had a hard ing squads. 
And nothing would be sweeter for the Irish than shutting the Buckeyes out of a spot or two for the NCAA Championships. 
"We are fighting for the spots -it's already the national championships," Bednarski said. 
Note 
+ Fencers who don't finish in the top spots of their weapon can gain entry to the national competition through one of two NCAA at-large berths. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Canisius 
continued from page 20 
tive goals to build a 4-1 lead. 
The Irish never surrendered that advantage, trading goals to take a 6-3 lead into halftime. Cornell played a more competi­tive second half, but Notre Dame protected its lead down the stretch to preserve the vic­tory. 
The Irish victory over the ranked opponent was even more impressive considering the team's lack of preparation before the game. Due to weather conditions, Notre Dame did not arrive at Cornell until midnight on game day and had little practice before the match. 
The Irish were led by junior Caitlin McKinney, who con­tributed three goals and three assists. Sophomore Jillian Byers and senior Lena Zentgraf also netted three goals apiece in the effort. 
Sophomore Erin Goodman had a brilliant performance in goal for the Irish, with a career-best 14 saves. Goodman recorded 11 saves in the first half, allowing Notre Dame to take a 6-3 advantage. 
After strong performances 
against Northwestern and Cornell last week, Jillian Byers was named Big East offensive player of the week. She had eight points on six goals and two assists. 
Byers became the second Irish player to be honored as offensive player of the week this season. McKinney won the honor in the only other week the award was given this sea­son. 
"Jillian has really gotten a lot of attention from opposing defenses," Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. "How she's been able to broaden her game and still score is a tribute to her talent and hard work." 
Last year the Irish easily dis­patched the Canisius at home, defeating the Griffins 18-2. Canisius has improved this year, winning three of its last four games. 
Despite Notre Dame's past dominance of the Griffins, Coyne said the team is not looking past Canisius. 
"We've been as focused in practice this week as before we played [No. 1] Northwestern," she said. ''I'm confident we'll be able to focus, go in there and get the job done." 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish head to annual tourney 

VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer 

Senior Stephen Bass runs down a volley at No. 1 singles in Notre Dame's 5-2 victory over Michigan Feb. 23. The Irish head to Montgomery, Ala. for the Blue/Gray National Tennis Classic. 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA Sports Writer 
The Blue/Gray National Tennis Classic in Montgomery, Ala. feels a little like home for Notre Dame. 
The Irish have participated in the tournament for the past 17 years with continued recent success-Notre Dame advanced to the finals last year before losing to Virginia Commonwealth. The players are also well acquainted with their host families, as the team stays in the same hous­es every year. 
"We feel like we're almost going home when we go down there," Notre Dame coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Even though the Irish are familiar with the territory, the team still has its chal­lenges ahead. Notre Dame will have to make the adjust­ment to playing outdoors after playing nearly all of their previous matches inside. 
The Irish will also have to make sure they are physically capable of enduring the heat and weather conditions. Bayliss said that in past years he has had some players suf­fer from dehydration, and he does not want to see that happen again. 
To make the transition to the heat smoother, Notre Dame will begin practicing in Montgomery several days before tournament play begins on March 15. 
And then there's the wind. 
"When you haven't played in the wind you get used to being comfortable without having to move your feet as much and then you go outside its more difficult to make that adjustment," Bayliss said. 
Besides the physical factors of the tournament, the team will face formidable competi­tors in the 16-team format. No. 25 Virginia Commonwealth and No. 22 Tulsa will be present. But despite facing tough competi­tion, No. 7 Notre Dame enters the tournament as the highest national ranking. 
The No. 2 player in the country, Tulsa's. Arnau Brugues -last year's tourna­ment most valuable player ­will likely challenge Notre Dame senior Stephen Bass. 
In doubles play, the Irish are likely to see Middle Tennessee State's Andreas Siljestorm and Marco Born. The No. 4 doubles team in the country is the tallest duo in NCAA history with both standing at nearly 7 -feet. 
Beyond getting a chance to compete against some of the nation's top teams and play­ers, Bayliss said the team is just looking forward to get a chance to play. 
"We are excited to be going," he said. "It's a great event for us and we're excit­ed about going." 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at d.krasula@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Team to play outside on San Diego courts 
By CHRIS HINE Sports Writer 
Over the past few weeks, No. 2 Notre Dame has settled into a groove. Playing most of their dual matches at home, the Irish have collected wins over multiple top-25 opponents on their way to a 12-1 record. 
This weekend, however, the Irish will leave the friendly 
·confines of the Eck Tennis Pavilion and hit 
"We are definitely
the road. First, "They play bet­the Irish travel to a better outdoor ter every match, 
Provo, Utah, to team.,, battle No. 29 Brigham Young 
Jay Louderback
before dashing to San Diego to play Irish coach 
in their first set of outdoor matches -against No. 21 Duke and No. 16 Tennessee, March 15 and 16. 
"Outdoors, you've got a lot of things to contend with," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. "You've got the sun [and] wind. 
Balls don't travel as fast. 
"Indoors you just don't have any of that.... It's just a lot different to go outside. Plus, if it's a little cooler, the balls don't travel as fast, points last a lot longer and you can't get as mt,tch speed on the ball." 
'1t,ll take us a match or two to get used to outdoors, 
then we,ll be fine.,, 
Jay Louderback Irish coach 
played awful. But they've played much bet­ter as they year 
went on.  They  
just  started  
slow."  

The Volunteers defeated No. 31 Michigan but lost to Wake Forest and North Carolina -two 

Louderback is not concerned that the switch from indoor to outdoor play will negatively affect his team. 
"We're definitely a better outdoor team," he said. "We have one or two [players] who are better indoors, but every­one else is better outside. It'll take us a match or two to get used to outdoors, then we'll be fine." 
The Irish still have BYU before they head to sunny California. The Cougars are 8­4 but have struggled against top-tier competition, losing to No. 25 Baylor and No. 8 Clemson. 
"They've played better lately. They struggled earlier in the year. They didn't have a real • good tournament at the [ITA 
National Indoor]," Louderback said. 

posted Arizona Indiana. 
though. It's a hard place to play because you have to play in the altitude." 
The Blue Devils (4-2) have wins over No. 18 State and No. 41 

"Duke started slowly, losing their first match at Northwestern 6-1," Louderback said. "They just 
opponents Notre Dame defeat­ed earlier in the season. 
"They're scrappy. They fight really hard," Louderback said. "They play very emotional and yell really loud. They're always up the whole time. They're a tough team to play." 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, March 9, 2007 

Big East 
continued from page 20 
off balance. 

Irish coach Mike Brey said he wasn't concerned that Notre Dame -which shot 13-of-34 from 3­point land as a team -took so many jump shots against the Syracuse 2-3 zone defense. 
"You've got to let your guys shoot," he said. "To beat that sys­tem ... you have to make some shots. That's the thing that sets the table." 
Inside the 3-point arc, freshman Luke Harangody battled for 20 points on 7 -of-14 shooting from the floor and 6-of-6 from the free throw line. 
"[Freshman point guard] Tory Jackson got inside the zone and [sophomore forward] Zach Hillesland and [junior forward] Rob Kurz on the high post got me some good lucks and I just tried to make the best of it," Harangody said. 
Notre Dame was deadly from the free throw line, hitting 22-of­26 from the charity stripe, includ­

• 
ing 12-of-14 in the last two min­utes of the game. 
The Orange, on the other hand, struggled at the line, making just 16-of-29 attempts. Forward Terrence Roberts had an especial­ly bad afternoon, going 0-for-6. 
Roberts made up for his poor free throw shooting in other areas of his play. He scored 10 points and dragged down 20 rebounds. 

The teams traded baskets for most of the early going, with six lead changes in the first six min­utes. With 14 minutes left in the first half, however, Orange guard Paul Harris took over, scoring seven straight points to give his team a 20-14 lead. His teammates continued the run from there, extending the lead to 26-16 with 
7:52 left in the half. 

But the Irish would not go quiet­ly. Aided by three Syracuse turnovers, Notre Dame went on a 13-2 run of its own, capped by a 3­pointer from Falls, to take a 29-28 lead with 4:54 before the break. 
The Orange bounced back with six straight points of their own, but another three by Falls with 10 sec­onds before the break cut Syracuse's advantage to 34-32 at halftime. 
The Irish exploded offensively after the half. They scored 11 of the first 16 points after the break, jumping out to a 43-39 lead with 
16:08 left, then extended the lead to 51-42 on threes by Falls and Jackson. 

The Orange climbed back into it with a 9-2 run on the backs of 3­pointers by forward Demetris Nichol<> and guard Eric Devendorf to pull within two, but the Irish responded with yet another burst -this time 12-4 -to go .back up by 10, at 65-55, with 10 minutes left. 
Notre Dame kept the lead around 10 for the next seven min­utes, but the Orange switched to a full court press and appeared poised to mount a comeback until Falls abruptly ended their momen­tum with his three with two min­utes left. 
The Irish closed out the game with free throws down the stmtch. 
Notes 

+Notre Dame moves on to play the top seed in the Big East tour­nament, No. 9 Georgetown, tonight at 7 p.m in the semifinals. The Hoyas beat Villanova Thursday 62-57 and delimtnd the Irish 66-48 in Washington, D.C. Jan. 6. 
"Last time, they whipped us," Carter said of the teams' previous game. "It's a tough challenge, but we're going to be up to it." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Shot 
continued from page 20 
But Notre Dame's shooting in the second half would not have been enough for the team to prevail had Syracuse not shot 55 percent (on 29 attempts) from the free-throw line for the game. 
During an eight-minute stretch in the second half, beginning with 11 minutes remaining, Syracuse had four chances to cut into the Irish lead at the foul line. The first time, Orange forward Terrance Hoberts missed both attempts. Irish forward Zach Ilillesland came down and hit a jumper to make the score 61-53 Irish. 
• Hoberts, who finished 0-of-6 from the charity stripe, returned to the line at 7:24 with the score 65-59 Notre Dame and missed the front end of a 1-and-1. Syracuse had missed an opportunity to put pressure on the Irish as Notre Dame failed to score on its next possession. 
At 6:07, Syracuse forward Paul Harris hit one of two free throws, but then Notre Dame responded as guard Russell Carter connected for one of his four 3-pointers, giving the Irish a 70-62 lead. 
But the most important set of misses came with 3:05 remaining. With the Orange down seven, Harris missed a pair from the line. Notre Dame came right down the tloor and forward Hob Kurz buried a three -inducing a big fist pump from Irish coach 
Florida 
continued from page 20 
sus Cleveland State on March 20 will not be played. 
Sacred Heart (2-2) will most likely send senior right-hander Chris Howard to the mound in Notre Dame's first contest. Howard thrllw seven shutout innings and got the win against PitL<>burgh in a 7-0 Pioneers vie­tory Monday. Schrage said his team is eoneerned with its approach but will not try to adjust iL<> game plan in antidpa­tion of' f'adng I loward. 
"Hight now I am mom eon­corned with how we'n~ playing than who we're playing," Schrage said. "We need to keep hitting the ball like we did last Sunday and improve our del~nse and keep getting bet­tnr. 
.Junior lel't-hander Wade Korpi will try to set thn tone for tho week as he takns the hill Saturday. Korpi will also look to find his own rhythm against Sacred lleart. 
Mike Brey -from the corner to put the Irish up 10. 
This five-point swing all but ended Syracuse's hopes of a comeback and ensured Notre Dame a spot in the Big East semifinals. 
Harris and Hoberts killed the Irish on the boards, com­bining for a whopping 35 rebounds, but could not hit key free throws down the stretch. If they had connected from the line during this stretch, the outcome may have been different. 
Notre Dame, despite its first half struggles, took advantage of Syracuse's missed opportu­nities and hit key shots when it mattered. The Irish were 22-of-26 from the line and kept an Orange comeback at bay during the final minutes. 
Still, Notre Dame had its problems. 
The Irish relied too much on the three. Luke 1-Iarangody did finish with 20 points, but half of Notre Dame's field goal attempts came from beyond the arc. All off guard Colin Falls' 17 field goal attempts were threes. It may not be a problem now, but the day will come in the near future when those shots will not fall. 
The Irish can take steps to correct this problem. Carter has shown the ability to get to the hole and draw contact, even against Syracuse. If he decides to drive more often, Carter will not only gain high percentage shots but also get other teams' post players in foul trouble. 
Falls is among the nation's best at using screens effec­tively to find an open shot. 

Opposing teams know Notre Dame is going to set double screens to get him open, but Falls usually manages to get open -with a few exceptions. Against Marquette Feb. 24, Falls had trouble,shaking Dominic James. James was able to beat Falls to the screens and fight over the top of them, rendering him inef­fective in these possessions. 
Most of Falls' points came from kick-outs off of rebounds or moments when James did not guard him. When the Irish run into another athletic team, such as Georgetown tonight with solid defenders like Marquette's James, Falls will lind it difficult to get open looks. Hunning Falls through some back door screens can keep an aggressive defender from blanketing Falls as James did. 
Lastly, Notre Dame allowed 26 offensive rebounds and 27 second-chance points against the Orange. Notre Dame's rebounding has been solid all season, but any dreams of a trip to San Antonio in a few weeks will die quickly if the Irish can't improve upon their interior play. 
With a little help from Syracuse, the Irish won their sixth contest in a row. If they hope to extend that streak, however, they still need to do some work, starting tonight against the Hoyas. 
The views of this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd. edu 
"Korpi needs to get a little bit against the Crimson. more consistent with his release After the four games in point and get the ball down Clearwater, the Irish \'Vill head to more, he's pitching to high in Fort Myers to take on Dayton in the zone right now," Schrage the Florida Gulf Coast University said. Invitational. Sophomore Sam 
Irish sophomore David Phelps Elam is slated to start against 
hopes to retain  the Flyers. Notre  
his form earned  that him  "This is a really  Dame will also face New York Tech,  
wins  against  crucial time for our  Florida Gulf Coast  
both TCU and Nebraska, not to mention a spot  team as far as development goes.,  and Harvard in the event. The squad's probable rotation  
on the Big East  for those contests is  
honor roll two weeks ago, Saturday morn­ Dave Schrage Irish coach  yet to announced. Including  be the  
ing  against  eight contests next  

Duquesne. week, the Irish have just 10 
"Phelps has been outstanding games remaining before they -he's pitdwd thrne rnally solid begin their Big East season ball games for us," Schrcige against South Florida March 24 said. at Frank Eck Stadium. Schrage 
Senior right-hander Dan knows that his squad must find Kapala will get the start against its form on this trip to Florida. Harvard Sunday afternoon. "When we get back the Big Kapala missed all of the 2006 East season will be upon us," he season with a torn labrum but said. "This is a really crucial has looked good so far this year, time for our team as far as Schrage said. Sophomore right­development goes." hander Brett Grally will take the mound for Notre Dame Monday Contact Fran Tolan at in the team's second game ftolan@nd.edu 


Friday, March 9, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 
BLAcK DoG 

fo.
\JOMEN .. 

KALEIDOSCOPE McDANIELS 
John Jenkins? If your name was John
Who you collin' 'son'? You will 
Jacob Jingleheimer Schmidt it wouldn't
address me as Father because 
make a damn of a difference to me.
I AM your daddy. I'm John 
You're a city boy and you're walkin' in a
"Leeroy" Jenkins. I'm a shark 
country zone here. My game is tighter
among men and I hustle the 
than a tick with lock jaw and I'm slicker
block hard. I wake up in the 
than snot on a door knob. You're as
morning and I piss excellence. 
confused as a baby in a topless bar-let
In case you didn't know I'm the 
me done set you straight, you're talkin' 
Sheriff in this here town. 
to Ray' F***in' Duncan here. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Broadcaster from 1995 to

1 Multiple-choice 
2006
choices 29 Hardly windy

6 "Then again" follower 30 Ships 
14 More within 33 Exclamation in reason a locker room talk
15 Something to 
get sent off with 37 River of Troyes 16 100 ore 38 "Phooey!" 17 "Possibly" 39 Through 
18 Ford's 40 Single or predecessor double, say 
19 Band's lineup 41 Tenor Bostridge 20 Collectible and others sheet 
42 Form 1040 fig. 21 Begin to form 
43 With 10-Down, 22 Drive away ocularist's offering
23 Where to go for a cup 46 Old boom makers
25 Bourbon flavorer 47 Choice for the indecisive
26 Response to an impatient person 48 What "-" may signify
27 Dating service datum 49 A sigh 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
50 Olympics event 51 Having no 
match 

54 Emerge 
55 It may be 
password-protected 

56 Derby wear 
57 They've been on the road many times 
58 Heretofore 
DOWN 1 Display some interest in 2 Frequent USA Today features 3 Like people in the front row of a group photo, often 4 Get further 
Details? 5 Company 6 Suit request 7 Stop or touch 
follower a Rocher of cosmetics 9 Cannonball Adderley's 
specialty 10 See 43-Across 11 "Eraserhead" 
star Jack 12 Home to Hill Air Force Base 13 Transformer creator 15 Yellowstone feeder 22 Lit 
WILLSHORTZ 

LIAMMORAN 

23 Receivers of  32 His self-titled  45 Period of douze  
cuts  book has 24  mois  
24 It helps one keep one's place 26 Trailer makeup 27 Indians, e.g. 31 Behind someone's  chapters 34 Cookout fare 35 In heat? 36 Some problems to solve 43 Infomercial cutter  46 Cut 47 Bottom 49 Geometric figure 50 You can get a charge out of it 52 Landing site  
back  44 Winds  53 Boxer's org.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKEARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 

letter to each square, Good thing my This is 
J 
to form four ordinary words. player runs on batteries romantic 
NIHKT 
rr I I
1 
©2007 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TUSEG 
1 
rJ b
tGLEMIN 


E:NJOYE:O BY THE:

IJ I 

www.jumble.com C.OUPL-E: WHE:N THE: POWE:R FAIL-E:D.
tCUGHAT J 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
{Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: SIXTY AZURE WEEVIL EYELIDYesterday's Answer: 
The sharp dresser got the job at the men's store because he was-WELL-"SUITED" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: James VanDerBeek, 29; Freddie Prinze Jr., 30; Aidan Quinn. 47; Lynn Redgrave, 63 
Happy Birthday: You can put an end to some of the problems that have taken their toll in the past. Letting go will clear your mind so you can proceed with what you do best. A chance to make some money through a property investment is looking positive. Your numbers are 2, 17, 27, 31. 36,49 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't look back--focus on the present and the future. Avoid the people who drag you down. Money matters can be cleared up and an investment will pay off. Discipline will be what counts today. ** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can expect to experience some worries or added responsibilities due to an older friend or relative. Do what must be done without complaining. Letting the little things get to you will only make matters worse. **** GEMINI (May 21-Jnne 20): You can get the help you need if you are willing to ask for it. Passion and pleasure should be on your mind and penciled in if at all possible. Take time out to enjoy the things you like to do and the people you like to spend time with. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Positive thought will lead to bigger and better things. You can make some personal changes that will make you feel better about your own self-image. Don't let your health suffer due to poor habits. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Just when you think you have everything under control you'll be faced with another small but annoying situation. Book a trip or spend the day at a spa where you can avoid life's little worries. If you can't be found it will be difficult for others to dump responsibilities in your lap.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep things out in the open or you may be accused of doing something underhanded. Partnerships will suffer if you are smug or continually criticizing. Start making the personal changes necessary to make your life better. **** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Expect the unexpected and don't count on things falling into place. Adaptability will be required if you want to accomplish anything at all. Work is where your focus should be so don't let your emotions come into the picture. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take the plunge and do all the things you've been putting off. Don't hesitate to ask for favors or promote your talent. Travel both short and long distances will lead to interesting information and clarification. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Life is simple--it's you who is making it complex today. The more time you spend taking care of business and the less time blaming others or complaining, the better you will do. Don't get sucked into an argument that can be avoided. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make headway if you concentrate on the job you've been assigned. A partnership will form if you are willing to give and take. An opportunity may lead you in a new direction. Don't be afraid to try something totally different. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can stabilize a partnership if you are willing to make a few concessions. You must not let someone dictate what you can and can't do. Money owed can be collected but it might put stress on the relationship.*** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A creative idea will lead to some serious cash. You will find out something interesting about someone you once knew. Consider starting over on a project you are passionate about. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You have a good imagination and a good heart. You stick to your beliefs and are not likely to reverse a decision once you've made it. You are inventive and gravitate to the unusual. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

-=..L.:..:..L.::..L..:...J 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, March 9, 2007 
page 20 
BASEBALL 
Irish to test southern weather in tournaments 
By FRAN TOLAN Sports Writer 

Notre Dame coach Dave Schrage said his team will wel­come the opportunity next week in Florida to play eight games outside after traveling back and forth between southern states and frigid Indiana for the first 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish reverse Big East fortunes with victory 
By CHRIS KHOREY Associate Sports Editor 

NEW YORK -The situation was tense. 
No. 16/22 Notre Dame had been leading for most of the second half of Thursday's contest with Syracuse, but the Orange had just switched to a full court press and were threatening to come back, down just 76-70 with two minutes remaining. 
It was then that Irish senior cap­tain Colin Falls calmly spotted up and knocked down his seventh three of the afternoon to put Notre Dame up by nine. The Irish hit their free throws down the stretch and came away with an 89-83 win -after scoring 57 second-half points -in the Big East quarterfi­nals at Madison Square Garden in New York Oty. 
Falls scored 23 points for the Irish (24-6 overall, 12-5 Big East) on 7 -of-17 shooting, with all of those shots coming from beyond the arc. The 17 three-point attempts set a Big East tourna­ment record. 
"I just think, spacing wise, I got a lot of clean looks," Falls said. 
Senior guard Russell Carter also lit it up from outside, hitting four threes and scoring 24 points to help keep Syracuse (22-10, 11-7) 
see BIG EAST/page 18 
four weeks of the season. 

"The main thing that excites me is that we are going to get some continuity outside and be able to stay outside for eight to 10 days, which is something that this team needs right now," Schrage said. 
The Irish have yet to fmd their rhythm this season, defeating then-No.12 TCU and No. 7 Nebraska while posting a 3-6 overall record. 
Schrage noted the team's need for consistency. He said Notre Dame's 16-1 win over Nebraska last Sunday might give the Irish confidence heading into this pro­longed southern swing. 
"We played probably the best game that we have [against Nebraska], and you just hope as a coach that that carries over ­the momentum carries over ­and we go down there and start winning some games and get on a little bit of a winning streak," Schrage said. "We are trying to build up our self esteem a little bit and build off that success." 
This weekend in the Clearwater Invitational in Jack Russell Stadium, the Irish will 
Off their backs 

face Sacred Heart on Saturday before playing a doubleheader against Duquesne and Harvard Sunday. The squad will wrap up its stay in Clearwater Monday with a rematch against Harvard, which was added to the official schedule because there's a possi­bility that· the home opener ver­
see FLORIDNpage 18 

Notre Dame's Orange nemesis deserves loss 
Teams that can't hit their free throws don't deserve to win games, and never was that · more apparent than Thursday afternoon at Madison Square Garden. 
Notre Dame did not shoot the ball as well against Syracuse as it has in recent games, but luckily for the Irish, their average afternoon Sports Writer shooting was not as bad as Syracuse's horrid free throw shooting. 
The Irish shot 27-of-67 from the field (40 percent), with 34 of those attempts coming from 3-point range. After starting out slow in the first half, shooting 36 percent, the Irish picked up the slack in the sec­ond half and hit timely 3­pointers to keep the Orange from overtaking the lead. 
The Irish converted 7 -of-15 attempts from the beyond the arc in the second half-a sig­nificant improvement from 6­of-19 in the first half. 

see SHOT/page 18 

FENCING 
Bouts for title start Saturday 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Editor 
The NCAA Championships are two weeks away, but the quest for the title starts Saturday as Notre Dame hosts the Midwest Regional at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse Saturday, beginning at 8 a.m. 
The top five men and women in each weapon -except for men's foil -will earn automat­ic berths into the national com­petition at Drew University in Madison, N.J., March 22-25. Four men's foilists will earn automatic bids. 
Four fencers in each gender and weapon per team can com­pete at the Regional competi­tion, but only two in each disci­pline can advance to the NCAA Championships. A season ago, the Irish qualified their full allotment of 12 fencers. 
"Usually we oscillate between 10 and 12," Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said of the team's expectations. "Everybody [is] working hard. I don't think we have people who are slowing down." 
Notre Dame enters the com­petition a week after hosting the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships, an event with a nearly identical field at the same location. 
"To me, it's the exact same tournament," Irish senior sabreist Valerie Providenza said. "There's the same people, the same seedings." 
Providenza, a three-time All-
see REGIONAL/page 17 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Tealll travels to NY for break in schedule 
Griffins team. The match will
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
be the first time Canisius has 
Sports Writer 
ever hosted a ranked team. The Irish started their No. 5 Notre Dame will con­stretch of away matches on a tinue its stretch of away games positive note Sunday, defeating in the Northeast Saturday, fac­No. 16 Cornell 13-9. Playing in 
ing off against Canisius in snowy conditions in Ithaca, Buffalo, N.Y. N.Y., Notre Dame responded to After starting out the season an opening goal by the Big Red 
with four games against with a streak of four consecu­ranked opponents, the Irish will travel to face a weaker see CANISIUS/page 17 
'. 
' •• t ,., • • • • • • •• • ·.·.--~ • ' ' • ..' 
. . . . ''. . . 
....... 

o o I "•' '' 
..

". , .... . , , .... 
• t t ''' 'I'' 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 9, 2007 
Brown named to All-Conference first team 
Senior alternate captain Jason Paige also recognized as Notre Dame's team scholar-athlete award winner 
with a 1.77 goals-against aver­Sciba was the leading goalBy KYLE CASSILY 
age in 1,997 minutes of play scorer for the Irish last season Sports Writer this season. The senior has live and has seven goals and 10 shutouts this season while mak­assists in 27 games this year. 
Notre Dame goalie Dave ing 708 saves. ''I've talked to coach a little Brown had a little surprise "[Van Guilder and Condra bit, and he said basieally go out waiting for him when he got off are] so consistent, they've just there and earn your spot back the ice after practice been the heart and soul of this in the lineup," Seiba said. "lie Wednesday -the news that offense," Brown said. "It would always likes to put those points only minutes before he had have been nice to get a couple in your mind to challenge you a been named to the CCHA all­more guys on it, for sure." little bit. " conference first-team. 
The senior Hobey Baker can­Sciba returns Jackson learns from mistake didate became only the second Irish forward Josh Sciba will The 1990-91 Lake Superior Irish player in history to be play at least one game this State team coached by Jackson named to the all-conference weekend for the first time since had a 29-game win streak, first team -de(enseman the senior was lost to an arm league regular season and play­Benoit Cotnoir was awarded injury over five weeks ago, off titles and a No. l ranking ­the honor in 1998-99. Jackson said. and then they hit a bye week. 
"It's a great honor, and I'm Sciba and Jackson both said That Lakers team -the best very excited and very proud to that he is healthy enough to team Jackson has said he ever be honored," Brown said. "I play against Alaska, but the coached -fell at home in the wouldn't be able to be on an Irish coach is reluctant to quarterfinals of the NCAA all-conference team without my remove players from the lineup Tournament to No. 12 Clarkson great guys on my team, espe­that have played well in Sciba's in a three-game series. And cially my defensemen who are absence. now Jackson's Irish are faced battling for me every night." "[We've] got some kids that with a similar situation after 
Irish sophomore right wing are playing really well right the team sat at home last week-. Erik Condra and senior now, so just ma:king the deci­end while the first round of the defenseman Noah Babin were sion to take them out of the CCI-lA playoffs was played out. also named to the honorable lineup isn't necessarily the Jackson said his Lakers team mention squad. Seven Notre right thing to do," Jackson said. lost because he failed to pre­Dame players have been "[Sciba has] worked extremely pare them for the game. The awarded second-team all-con­hard to get himself ready to Lakers were given too much ference status in Irish history. play this weekend." time off, lacked discipline and 
Three Michigan players -Sophomore Justin White did not take Clarkson seriously, void and did not allow any honor. forward T.J. Hensick and proved to be a capable replace~ he said. more goals, but Alaska Paige, who has been selected defensemen Jack Johnson and ment for Sciba, scoring a game­This time, however, Jackson advanced in the playoffs with a to the Dean's List two times, Matt Hunwick -joined Brown tying goal late in the third peri­has refused to make the same 1-0 victory anyway. will now be up for the CCHA's on the first team. Northern od in a Feb. 9 win against mistake twice. The Irish held This year, Pearce has worked scholar athlete of the year
/f Michigan forward Mike Nebraska-Omaha. White joined an intra-squad scrimmage extensively with Jackson to pre­award to be announced March 
·r Santorelli and Nebraska­with freshman Dan Kissel and Saturday night in the normal pare for another scenario in 15 at the Awards Banquet in Omaha forward Scott Parse junior Evan Rankin during sev­game-time slot and have held which the sophomore would Detroit. Paige was given the rounded out the all-conference eral games to create Notre hour and a half on-ice practices have to backstop the Irish at a Notre Dame Rockne Student­first team. Dame's fastest line. each day this week. moment's notice. Athlete Award in 2006 and has Notre Dame coach Jeff Junior defenseman Dan "I've prepared differently, all Jackson spent extra time a 3.612 cumulative grade-point Jackson said he was a little dis­VeNard was faced with a situa­you can do as a coach is learn," alone on the ice with Pearce in average. appointed that several players tion similar to Sciba's when he Jackson said. "You live and you the past two weeks to physical­"It's something that is defi­did not earn recognition -or returned from a leg injury sev­learn. And I didn't prepare a ly prepare the goaltender. nitely important to me," Paige enough of it. He noted that eral weeks ago. In his place, team to be ready at the end of "He's much better prepared said. "I want to excel in the Condra had one of the highest freshman Brett Blatchford had that bye [in 1991]." right now," Jackson said. "It's classroom because as far as my plus/minus ratios in the league, become a key component of the up to him to be ready emotion­future, I want to have all the while junior center Mark Van Irish blue line while paired up Pearce ready in backup role ally. Jordan has the ability to options I can. One thing I will Guilder and the entire defen­with fellow freshman Kyle In the third and deciding do it. It's just a matter of him say, over half the guys on this sive corps have been enormous Lawson. VeNard saw time in game of last year's playoff being mentally prepared to play team are definitely deserving of contributors this season. Saturday's season closing win series against Alaska, Brown -ready for the challegge." that award." "There's a reason why we against Ferris State. was taken out by a Nanooks After his hockey career is fm­have the best penalty killing "When you get injured right player diving to make a play at Paige named scholar-athlete ished, Paige said he might like unit in the country this year, now on our team -like Danny the puck at the top of the wing Irish alternate captain Jason to pursue a career in private and those defensemen get over­VeNard found out -it's not circle and the Irish goalie was Paige was named Tuesday as wealth management or real looked for doing that," Jackson easy to get back in because forced to leave the game with the team's scholar-athlete of estate. said. "To me, it's about the somebody was playing so well," an ankle injury. the year -the second straight total package." Jackson said. "It's the same Then-freshman backup goalie year in which the senior Contact Kyle Cassity at Brown has a 25-5-3 record thing with Sciba." Jordan Pearce stepped into the finance major has earned the kcassily@nd.edu 

Irish 
predictions 
Both teams will come out of the gates hard in game one, with each side having something to prove. However, Notre Dame will use its advantage in team speed to grab the early edge. The Nanooks have struggled to come from behind all year, Dave Brown and the Irish defense will have no problem holding them off. Alaska will start game two with a bit more des­peration but once again the more talented, more disciplined Irish club will outlast the Nanooks and advance to the semifinal round. 
FINAL SCORE: ND 4, Alaska 1 ND 3, Alaska 2 
If this series goes three games and the Irish are forced to play a steamrolling Nanooks team in a dead, half-empty Joyce Center on Sunday -they're done. But it won't happen. The Irish have been lurking too long at the top to drop the first chance they have to prove their playoff worth. The team is healthy again for the first time since December and Alaska flopped all year long up until last weekend. It's on to the Motor City. 
FINAL SCORE: ND 4, Alaska 1 ND 2, Alaska 1 (OT) 




r-----------------;-cc-;--,--------~.~--.-.-.-.-.-.----.-·-. ·-:-~c.~.~.,-.,..--;--.,..--;--~ -;o;-c---­
, 0 0 0 o;; \I I I 0 
. . . . 
I' ,I I> '\ \ ... o 

Friday, March 9, 2007 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Balance of experience and youth is key to Irish victory 
No. 1 Notre Dame needs to stay focused on task at hand in order to beat Alaska and advance to foe Louis Arena 
Over two-thirds of their ros­ter has never won a postse11:son game. Just over a year ago, they were easily swept by the same club, in the same build­
ing. Their 
opponent is 
coming off of 
a momen­
tum-building 
upset on the 
road while 
they collect­
ed rust dur­'ing a week 
off. They are 
swamped 
with enough 
distractions 
to throw off 
a bomb spe-
Dan Murphy 
Sports Writer 

cialist on Ritalin and yet, the Irish should be able to cruise past Alaska this weekend on their final stop before reaching Joe Louis Arena for the CCHA . finals. 
There is no doubt that the heavily favored, No. 1 Irish will be the more talented team on the ice this weekend. Notre Dame took all four games in 
the season series with Alaska, outscoring them by a total of 13-5. The Nanooks (11-20-6)  the game within striking dis­tance and wear teams down, a strategy that worked perfectly  need to come out at full speed. At the same time, the possi­ble jitters and negative aspects  ers have to stay intense. According to Jackson, they have been doing just that. The  
have struggled to win consis­tently all season. The last time they strung together back-to­ last year at the Joyce Center in a two-game sweep during the opening round of the CCHA  of their inexperience are hal­anced by the experience and knowledge of head coach Jeff  team looked sharp in an intra-squad scrimmage Saturday and has been skating hard in  
back victories was Oct. 27-28 against Ferris State. Playing in the Joyce Center  playoffs. It almost paid off again for the  They are swamped  Jackson. In his six years at Lake Superior State,  practice all week long. In a team meeting prior to their scrimmage the Irish redeflned  
should also be an advantage for the Irish, as they will be able to create favorable matchups among lines all night long. On paper, the Irish defense should have no problem getting the job done this weekend. But the end of the year accolades,  Nanooks earlier this season when Notre Dame needed a Dave Brown shutout and a Garrett Regan overtime goal  by enough distractions to throw offa bomb specialist on Ritalin, and yet the Irish should still be able to cruise past  Jackson dealt with the hype, he dealt with weeks off and he dealt with the distractions. His 12 All-American players, four  their goals for the rest of the season. They had only one thing they hoped to accom­plish as of that Saturday ­a trip to Detroit for the CCHA semiflnal game. And now for the flrst time in their 40-year history, the Irish  
conference championship and an all but certain NCAA Tournament berth looming in the near future make it perfect­ly feasible for Notre Dame to  to squeak out Alaksa this CCHA titles, and two wins in two nationalweekend ... Fairbanks Feb. championships 16-17. show that he So why does Alaska still not dealt with them pretty well.  have all the necessary tools to reach that goal and many more. They have the drive and the talent of some of the nation's top young players,  - 
overlook the most important game ­the one at hand. The Nanooks have already knocked off one team in their underdog role, defeating  have an Eskimo's chance in hell of pulling their second straight upset? This series is far from just another day in the office, as it  The one hiccup on his resume came in 1991 when his No. 1 Lakers were upset by Clarkson in the NCAA quarterflnals after having a bye the previous  and the veteran coach to guide them through it while focusing on one step at a time. Alaska is step one.  
Western Michigan in a three-game series last weekend. Alaska is known for their -phys­ical, defensive-minded hockey. Their style is designed to keep  might be for No. 1 teams in the past. Not a single player on the team has played in the CCHA semiflnals before, which gives them all the motivation they  weekend. Jackson has changed his approach slightly this time around, but he said there is only so much you can do in that situation ­the play- The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not those of The Observer. Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd. edu  

Nanooks lumber back into Joyce for playoff rematch 
Irish start best-ofthree series with physical Alaska team tonight 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
Alaska has always hit hard and hit often, but when it returns to the Joyce Center tonight, the rejuvenated Nanooks could bring a whole new world of pain to Notre Dame. 
The Nanooks enter their sec­ond-round CCHA playoff series with the Irish a weekend after they defeated sixth-seeded Western Michigan in the flrst round. The series victory was a major upset for 11th-seeded Alaska and put the first air under the Nanooks' wings since Notre Dame sent them into a prolonged tailspin back in early December. 
"[Alaska is] playing a lot dif­ferent than the last time they played in this building," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "They're playing a lot more aggressive on their forecheck, a lot more physical and the nature of that [type ofl game just gets the juices going. It's 
adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame players that have won a college playoff -game. Seven 
8 with the Irish in 2004, and one, Tom Sawatske, with the Wisconsin Badgers in 2004 and 2005. l J_ ,· 
Goals-against average of senior netminder Dave Brown, the best in the NCAA. Brown was recently named CCHA
1.77 

first-team All-conference for his work· between the pipes. 
Miles between South Bend, Ind. and Fairbanks, Alaska, where the Nanooks 
2,800
play their home games. 

21 
Goals scored by Alaska's Kyle Greentree on the season. The junior left wing leads the Nanooks in goals scored and in 
points (41). 

Gffoals ~llowed_ bytAtlhaska. ghoaiRtender W!1ey Rrtogfers ihn laNst yeakr's play­
1· 

o senes agams this year.  1e ns  .  ogers WI 11 sta  or t e  anoo s again  
24-4  Irish coach Jeff Jackson's record in the CCHA tournament. Jackson won four championships while coaching LSSU in the early '90s.  

Combined penalty minutes between Alaska and Notre Dame during last year's two-game, first-round playoff series. 
72 

like everybody wants to bang everybody else." 
The No. 1 Irish (27-6-3, 21­4-3 CCHA) and the Nanooks have played four times this season and Notre Dame has won all four games, including 3-1 and 6-2 victories Dec. 2-3 against then-No. 14 Alaska in South Bend. After that top-15 matchup, the Nanooks (11-20­6, 7-16-5 CCHA) dive-bombed to a 1-9 record in their next 10 games, plummeting to the bot­tom of the league standings ­a place where they remained until last weekend's upset of the Broncos in Kalamazoo-, Mich. 
But that means little to Jackson and the rest of the Irish -they have seen Alaska far too many times to expect an easy walkover into the semiflnals in Detroit. 
"Everybody has to under­stand that they weren't losing games 8-0," Jackson said. "The difference between them losing is scoring a goal at the right time. It's the nature of this league, there are just too many teams that are too close to each other." 
Notre Dame also will not for­get Alaska bounced them from the first round of last year's league playoffs in two straight games -in front of their home crowd 
"Last year [when] we went through the playoffs, we had a decent second half but we ran into a tough, gritty team," Jackson said. "And we're run­ning into that same tough, gritty team again this year. I believe we're a better team than we were a year ago at this time." 
Notre Dame may owe part' of its success this season to what the Nanooks did to them in that series. After being out­muscled in the corners and thrown around the ice in last year's playoffs, the Irish dedi­cated a large amount of their offseason workout to the kill and aggressive forecheck this season. 
When asked if the Irish seemed to hit a bit harder and a bit more against Alaska, Jackson said he had never noticed disrespect or nastiness between the two teams, but with the Nanooks it's hard not to make a few more checks. 
"Only because they do," he added. 
On paper, in every aspect of the game, the Irish own a sta­tistical advantage to Alaska, but when it comes to the intan­gibles -from playoff intensity to experience -the Nanooks carry more weight than their second-to-last place flnish sug­gests. 
Last weekend's defeat of Western Michigan was the third-straight year in which Alaska traveled to a higher­ranked opponenfs rink in the first round and moved on to the next round. The week after their playoff series with the Irish last season, the Nanooks took the flrst game in their set with eventual­champion Michigan State, 
before suc­"People can say what offs, shutting out 
cumbing to the the want about our the Irish in one Spartans in game and allow­
experience -we,ve
three games at ing only one goal
been doing it all year --
Munn Ice in the entire Arena. long.,, series. Notre Dame, A lot is at on the other stake this week­
Josh Sciba 
hand, has lost end for the Irish,
Irish forward 
four straight including a 
to win our playoff series." 
Another critical piece of the playoff pie with which Notre Dame will have to adjust, Jackson said, is the giant leap in intensity that the postseason brings. And that is something Alaska has already had a week to encounter, adjust and thrive under. 
"Our guys are going to be prepared to play," Jackson said. "But are they going to be prepared to play at that level that Alaska is probably going to be at? I don't know that." 
Irish goalie Dave Brown will be in net for the Irish from here to the end of the season and -with a two-week lay­over since his last game -he is more than rested, Jackson said. 
Wylie Rogers will most likely suit up between the pipes for Alaska. Wylie sports a 9-3 career postseason record and is coming off a relatively strong second half of the sea­son after he struggled and split time in the first half. Rogers stonewalled Notre Dame in last year's play­
CCHA playoff games dating back to a March 14, 2004 win over Western Michigan, including sweeps by Michigan and Alaska. But Jackson brings a CCHA pedi­gree to the Irish that was nearly flawless until last sea­son. He held a 24-2 CCHA tournament record in six sea­sons as coach of Lake Superior State -both losses came in the flnals. 
"People can say what they prime No. 1 seed 
in the NCAA 

Tournament and a shot at their flrst-ever CCHA playoff title. But Alaska is a large roadblock on the road to Detroit. 
"I want these kids to get the chance to experience playing down at Joe Louis and hope­fully have some success there," 
...
Jackson said. "But we got to worry about Friday night before that's possible." 
The puck will drop Friday at 
1:41  Minutes into overtime that Irish sophomore Garrett Regan scored the game-winning goal Feb. 17, the last time these two teams met.  weight room and subsequently added a serious amount of size up and down their lineup. That size has been a critical ingre­dient in Notre Dame's top­ranked defense, solid penalty  want about our experience -we've been doing it all year long, just playing our game and doing our thing," Irish senior Josh Sciba said. "And hopefully that will be enough  7:35 p.m., Saturday at 7:05 p.m. and Sunday at 7:05 p.m. (if necessary). Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu  
.'I:  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, March 9, 2007 
Big brothers help freshmen adjust to college 
Deeth, Thang, Lawson headline first-year players by claiming three of six spots on the CCHA All-rookie team 
questions or needed any
By DAN MURPHY 
advice, it was nice to be able Sports Writer 
to go to him." Deeth was recently named to 
There was never a doubt the CGIA All-rookie team that the Irish hockey class of along with linemate Ryan 2010 were a talented bunch. Thang and defenseman Kyle They key for Irish coach Jeff Lawson. Notre Dame becomes Jackson was providing them only the seventh team to place with a smooth transition into three or more players on the college -for All-rookie team both hockey and in CCHA history. life. "We all like to Michigan State 
So Jackson was the first
create stuff 
designated a team to register a
offensively, and we
senior to act as trifecta in 1990, big brother for all think the game and the each of the Wolverines have
very well." 
freshman. The achieved the 
senior brother honor five times 
Kevin Deeth
was responsible since then for making sure Irish forward including the his freshman was 1993-94 season as comfortable when they had as possible in his first year at four freshmen on the team. Notre Dame. "I think it's special, and it is 
''I've always tried to have an a good sign for where the pro­upperclassmen make sure our gram is going and shows all young guys get a feel for the the possible outcomes we campus, get a feel for the could have in the future," community," Jackson said. Thang said. 
~ "Also, I want them to become Out of those six teams with a part of the fam-several star ily, that is a big rookies, four scoring trio known by team­Condra. Since then, they have alternate captain Wes O'Neill. part of building have gone on to mates as "the little-guy line.." formed a chemistry that is evi­"I don't know if I could have the team." "I want them to win the confer­The little guys have put up dent both on and ofT the ice. had a better one to be hon­
I 
Jackson's become a part of ence champi­some big numbers all year for While Deeth and Thang have est," Lawson said. "lie's a methods have onship and three the Irish with a combined 46 given the Irish forwards a great player, and he showed
the family, that is a 
gone a long way have made it to goals on the season. spark, Lawson has also made me the ropes, so it went really in building what big part ofbuilding the Frozen Four. "We all like to create stuiT some serious contributions well." has become the the team." Those squads offensively, and we all think from the point, leading all This weekend the freshmen No. 1 team in the have set a good the game very well," Deeth defcnsemen with three goals will once again turn to their country. A lot of precedent for said. "It's been nice to have on the season. The Michigan senior brothers for advice as
Jeff Jackson 
1-that has to do what the No. 1 guys like that to play with." native has played in 32 of the they enter uncharted waters . with the major Irish coach Irish hope to The two freshmen forwards te.am's 36 games this year and The seniors will try to repeat contributions accomplish over were friends for a few years has been solid defensively in their performance from their freshmen have the next month before college and decided all of them. own rookie season, when the made in almost every aspect with help from their diaper together that Notre Dame was Lawson joined the Irish after team advanced to the CCHA of the game this season. dandies. a good opportunity for both of spending a year with the Super Six in Detroit. "My guy was [senior forward Deeth and Thang are joined them. The pair was almost USIIL's Tri-City Storm and has Josh Scibal," Irish forward by 2006 All-rookie selection immediately matched up with f'Jourished under the tutelage Contact Dan Murphy at Kevin Deeth said. "If I had any Erik Condra to create a lethal a like-minded playmaker in of his "big brother," senior dmurphy6@nd.edu 
HEAD TO HEAD 
COACHING GOALTENDING DEFENSE FORWARDS SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
L&J 
::E 
c:C Q 
L&J
a:: 
..... 
0 
z 
-·· 

There are barely a handful of coaches with the playoff pedigree of Jeff Jackson. His 24-4 CCHA playoff record is unmatched by any other coach in the conference. There is no equivalent.  First team All-confer­ence selection Dave Brown leads the nation in wins and goals­against average. Brown has been solid in big games all year for the Irish and is no stranger to the spot­light he will find him­self in this weekend.  It's hard to argue against the top­ranked Irish defense. The senior-laden unit has shut down the CCIIA's top offenses all season and helped Brown gain the recognition he has this year.  The "little-guy line" has combined for 46 goals and has jump­started an Irish offense that is now ranked eighth in the NCAA in scoring. All four ND lines are threats to score and open up tight games.  The Irish penalty kill is the best in the country, having allowed only 17 goals this season. The power play has been hot and cold all season, but Jackson continues to tweak the unit in order to create some opportunities for his goal scorers.  No. 1 Notre Dame comes in heavily favored but with little to no playoff experience outside of its coaching staff. The spring break exodus will leave the Joyce Center quieter than usual if the series goes to Sunday.  
MacMillan, in his third year at Fairbanks, has crafted a strong defensive ·team that only allowed 2.82 goals per game this season. His Nanooks have fought top teams like Michigan and Miami to a standstill all season.  Nanooks goalie Wylie Rogers stood on his head in last year's playoff series against the Irish. Rogers has since struggled to repeat his success from last season, but the junior is still a threat to become hot and steal the series.  Defense has led a big, physical Alaska team thus far in the tournament. Its neutral zone trap has slowed the Irish many times since Jackson's arrival and can keep the Nanooks in a position to steal a game with a few breaks.  Kyle Greentree and Curtis Fraser are both threats to hit hard and score often. The rest of the Nanooks, however, have failed to produce, especially down the stretch. Brown shut out Alaska in the teams' last meeting, Feb. 17.  Alaska special teams have been vanilla, ranked in the bottom half of the conference in both categories. The Nanooks take quite a few penalties and could find themselves in trouble if they spend too much time in the sin bin.  The Nanooks roll into South Bend fresh off their third consecutive first-round victory with wins over Western Michigan last weekend. The No. 11-seed is play­ing in glass slippers, and its recent success has it believing midnight may still be far away.  
Despite Macmillan's success, Jackson's experience is decisive. Two national titles in three appearances with Lake Superior State don't lie. He has what it takes to lead the Irish to the national elite.  Rogers has been solid against the Irish all season as well as in the playoffs last year. But with a Hobey Baker candi­date between the pipes, it would be tough to bet against the Irish in this category.  After being pushed around last season the Irish blueliners bulked up during the offseason and have reaped the benefits. Notre Dame will continue to dominate against a weak offensive team.  With Paige's line matching up with Greentree, expeet to see Condra and Co. get loose against Alaska's No. 2 unit and wreak havoc for Wylie Hogers and the Nanook defense down low.  Once again, the Irish hold an edge over Alaska due to their defensive prowess. The power play could play a big role for Notre Dame if Alaska is suc­cessful with their trap at full strength.  Both teams have plenty to play for, but Alaska carries the edge in momentum over the Irish, who have,been idle for the p~s~~­1The ofteri-chij)'f.Fy matchup is s:Ure•tO' be filled with emotions.  












