
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 42: ISSUE 16 -TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 18,2007 
City unlikely to require pennits yet 
Common Council delays ordinance vote a week to address administrative, wording concerns 
ments by numerous residents,

By KAREN LANGLEY 
two points were raised that 

News Editor 
prompted Kirsits and co-spon­
sor Timothy Rouse to suggest 

After nearly four hours of the Council postpone a vote discussion Monday night, the until it meets on Sept. 24. South Bend Common Council Council members assured seemed poised to vote into each other and the public that effect a dramatically revised the repeatedly tabled ordi­party permit ordinance which nance -originally proposed would not -for now in July -would finally see a require any permits to be vote at that meeting, as they filed. want its provisions on lawn 
But after discussions in the parking permits in place Community Relations before the Oct. 13 home game Committee, an illustrated against Boston College. 

PowerPoint presentation by sponsoring member Al "Buddy" Kirsits and com-
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Gan1bling problen1s discussed 
Task force will fight online bets, cheating 
By JENN METZ Assistant News Editor 
Members of the Campus Life Councif presented three task force reports about campus environment, student develop­ment and community relations in a short meeting Monday. 
Chief executive assistant Sheena Plamoottil reported on the first task force report, which focused on campus environment. In group sessions, the task force discussed the waste of food in the dining halls and environ­mental commissioners. 
The second report on student development concentrated pri­marily on gambling, cheating and the Freshman Orientation program, student body vice president Maris Braun said. 
Braun said an awareness cam­paign to highlight the dangers of compulsive online gaming, with the possibility of a speaker series emphasizing education, is in the works. 
These efforts will not be focused on occasional poker games played in dormitories but rather on "serious gaming ­money with a lot of zeroes bPhind it," Braun said. 
On the topic of academic cheating, she said council mem­bers are proposing to examine what constitutes cheating and the way Notre Dame's peer insti­tutions handle it. 
Braun mentioned not only the issues of cheating and violating 
see CLC/page 8 The twice-amended bill see COUNCIL/page 4 


Career Center preps for job fair 
"Basically, if the students ago," Svete said. 
By JOSEPH MCMAHON have done the work we laid However, some students 

News Writer 

out, they will be more than in past years have voiced 
adequately prepared." concerns over the diversity 
Employers and students The Career Center has of the companies that come seeking to become their focused on helping students to recruit. Many Arts and employees will meet find the companies that Letters students, especially Wednes·day in the Joyce best match their interests history, English and jour­Center for the Fall Career and research the available nalism majors, have strug­Expo -an event that will opportunities there. gled finding companies that bring hundreds of More than 700 represen­recruit students who spe­recruiters to campus and tatives from 196 global, cialize in those fields. anxiety to juniors and sen­national and local compa­Most of the companies iors who will vie for sum­nies will be at the event that come to the career fair, mer internships and full­recruiting upperclassmen they say, look for business time positions. and graduate students. Of students. But the lack of 
But the Career Center, these 700, a few are first­employment opportunities which is organizing the fair, time attendees, including for Arts and Letters stu­has been helping students Google, AT&T, Chevron, CDS dents may actually be prepare to make the right International, Egon inherent to the craft rather first impression on their Zehnder Consulting, HSBC, than a result of the Career potential employers. Maersk and Citadel -a tes­Center's handling of the 
"We have been working tament to the Career event, Svete said. with students, helping them Center's continued growth "This is simply a problem prep their resumes, setting over the last years. with these type of fields. up interview workshops," "We have come a long Newspapers and museums said Lee Svete, director of way from when we had just the Career Center. fifty companies, ten years 
see CAREER/page 3 

-NDSMCOBSE 



lavvstt1dent 
•

Wins ()fl 

Milliorlaire' 
Jaclyn Sexton competes on show, gets $25,000 
By NIKKI TAYLOR 
News Writer 
With the right final answers for host Meredith Vieira and an effective use of her three lifelines, first-year law student Jaclyn Sexton won $25,000 on "Who Wants to be a Millionaire?" Monday. 
A native of N o r t h Attleboro, M ass. , Sexton par­ticipated on the national TV show, testing her knowledge for a shot at the million-dollar top prize. She quit after stalling at the $50,000 question, which asked her how long it would take to type up the Gettysburg Address at a 40­words-per-minute pace. 
And while that was tricky, Sexton said getting on the show was more difficult. 
Aspiring "Millionaire" contest­ants first have to sign up online and take a 30-question multiple­choice quiz, Sexton said. If they receive a passing score, the net­work might then arrange a per­sonal interview. 
"They ask questions about what you would do with the win­nings and they just want to get an general overview of your person­ality," she said. "An application can be on hold for up to two years. Fortunately for me, it was a quick turnaround. The whole 

see MILLIONAIRE/page 8 


University addresses energy concerns 
paign and green building
By MAUREEN MULLEN proposals.

News· Writer 

Jim Lyphout, vice president 
of Business Operations and 
Several new initiatives chair of the Energy and 
addressing energy and sus­Environmental Issues 
tainability are underway at Committee, said the 
Notre Dame, though some University is committed to 
student environmentalists the environment and seeks to 
say this newfound activism impr"ove upon its energy use. 
follows years of indifference. In the College 
In January, Executive Vice Sustainability Report Card, 
President John Affleck­an environmental study led 
Graves created the Energy by a Cambridge, Mass. insti­
and Environmental Issues tute that reviewed campus 
Committee. and endowment policies last 
The new committee is semester at leading institu­
designed to boost conserva-tions, Notre Dame scored a . tion efforts on campus by D-overall for environmental working with students and practice. In the areas of cli­staff on a variety of new mate change and energy and 
environmental initiatives, 

including an awareness cam-see ENERGY/page 6 

page 2 The Obs(rver + PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I'd like to apologize... 
Dear n~adP.rs. this is the truth: I haw~ to write this column and il's almost 1 :47 
a.m. I am 1..,rrasping at straws. 
I've thought about writing about Vll1 's "Rock of Love," or I could share my Ann Arbor anm:dotns M 
1
with you. arce a 
But I have written Berrios 
about television 
bef(lrn and I'm sure Associate 
you've !ward bettor News Editor 
Michigan tales than 
minn. 
Britney Spears would be too easy. 
lrnmi!,rrat.ion rcl'orm would be too boring. 
So I'll just try something I've been 
thinking about lhr a long time now but 
would never really get around to doing 
unh~ss I worn working on a dnadlinn (like 
now) and I just wantnd to go to bed more 
than anything else (like now). 
I will publicly apologize to all the peo­
pln I think I've hurt in recnnt ynars. 
So here it goes. 
1) Mami: I'm always too busy to n~ally talk to you whnn you call. I either have a group nwnting I must run oil" to, or an Obsnrver artide due, or "Hoek of Love" to watch. 
Either way, this woman deserves a better daughter. She's a widow raising thren kids on her own and she prays morc than the Pope. 
Sure, she's filled my head with all this nonsense about how I'm a princess and I deserve a guy who treat'> me like one. So now, I expect <U1 impossibly perfect man and someday I'll probably have to settle lhr something more practical and less idnalistie, and I'll be misnrable until! die. 
Thanks, Mom. But I love you and I should tell you evnry day. 
21 Grandparnnt<;: Oh God, I've neglect­ed you so much since I came to collew~. A phone call a month wouldn't kill me, but again, "Hock of Love" is on. 
:{) M: I am sorry I was moan to you during Orinntation. I didn't know you tlwn. so let it go alrmtdy. 
Also, I'm sorry but I broke ono of your llonduran dishes. I was going to lin and say it broke when we did storagn. I know your sistnr bought it for you and I feel really bad. Can I buy you something with my Flex point'> to make it better'? 
4) f<:x-boyfrinnds: I'm sorry you could­n't see I am in fad a princess. 
5) Cracker Jack: I'm sorry too. 
(l) 
Migunl: Morn says you're the good son, and I a~,rrm~. I'm sorry I mako fun of your ugly backpack, your belly, your dwicn of Facebook stalkers, your obses­sion with wnaring socks and sandals at the same time, your slow eating, your ridiculously hairy legs, and your fascina­tion with Access I lollywood. 

7) 
t•:arth: I never reeyde and I never turn on· the light<; when I leave the room. Sorry. 

H) 
Obsnrver rnaders: We do make silly mistakes somotimes. Yes, tho front page may say tho story mntinues on page 4 but it's actually on pagn 6. But I'd like to SC(l you try to put out a daily nowspaper. So that'!-! not actually an apology. 

9) 
Justin Timbnrlakn: I didn't vote for you f(lr Male I lottie at this yoar's Teen Choice Awards. I picked Zac Efron instead. 


Well, now that I've gotten that oil" my shoulders I feel much better and ean finally go to sleep. Don'tjudge me-not for typos or f(lr that Zae Efron crush. I bnt you've done stupid things too. 
The l!iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Marcela Berrios at 
aberrios@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica· rion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please co mac! us at 631-4 54 I so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE MIDNIGHT SNACK? 


Dave Stedman  Michael "Biscuit" Lehmann  Tom Haunert  Katrina Epperson  Caroline Honsa  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  senior  
Keough  Keough  Carroll  offcampus  Walsh  
"Quarter dogs  "Biscuits. "  "Busch Heavy."  "Oreos and  "Strawberry  
-I'm going for  peanut butter. "  cheesecake Ben  





the record. " 


QUENTIN STENGER/The ObseiVer Alumni Hall residents face off in a section football game on South Quad. Resident Assistant Brian Bak throws a pass, which was then broken up by Resident 
Assistant Joe Varchetto. 
OFFBEAT 

Nebraska state senator 
sues God 

LINCOLN, Neb. -The 
defendant in a state sena­
tor's lawsuit is accused of 
causing untold death and . horror and threatening to cause more still. lie can be sued in Do~glas County, the legislator claims, because 
lie's everywhere. 

State Sen. Ernie 
Chambers sued God last 
week. Angered by another 
lawsuit he considers frivo­
lous, Chambers says he's 
trying to make the point 
that anybody can file a 
lawsuit against anybody. 
Chambers says in his 
lawsuit that God has made terroristic threats against the senator and his con­stituents, inspired fear and caused "widespread death, destruction and terroriza­tion of millions upon mil­lions of the Earth's inhabi­tants." 
The Omaha senator, who skips morning prayers dur­ing the legislative session and often criticizes Christians, also says God has caused "fearsome floods ... horrendous hurri­canes, terrifying torna­does." 
Lightning strikes church steeple-twice GHANTS PASS, Ore. ­

Tw"o lightning strikes on the same day didn't topple the steeple of the 117 -year­old Newman United. Methodist Church but they exposed something that might have. They blew out the siding and exposed dry rot that might have brought the steeple down. 
Scott Stegall of Stewart Hestoration Services said most of the steeple will have to be replaced because of the dry rot. 
Hepairs began last week and should be done in October. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

_, 
o< 
(,) 
0 



& Jerry's ice cream. 
IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame and University of Guadalajara students who interned in Mexico this sum­mer will present their reports today at 3::~0 p.m. in C-1 02 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The presentation is part of a pro­gram that the Kellogg Institute and the Mendoza College of Business have in Mexico. 
A panel discussion titled "Pursuing a Career in Industry after Graduate School" will take place today at 3::~0 p.m .. in DeBartolo Hall room 13H. Panelists will include Dr. Hobert Dunn, director or the Integrated Engineering and Business Practice Curriculum at Notre Dame; James Mason, Zimmer Corporation; and Suhas Vaza, project manag­er in the Government Programs Office at Edison Welding Institute. 
A webcast on "Exit or No Exit'? Morality & Withdrawal from Iraq" will take place today from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. This lecture. will be broadcast live from Fordham University. It will be shown in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, C­
103. It is sponsored by the Kroc Institute. 
An exhibit "The Camera and Hainbow: Color in Photography" will show in the Snite Museum of Art on Wednesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The exhibit is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
FRIDAY GAME DAY 

HIGH 87 HIGH 74 HIGH 85 HIGH 85 HIGH 80 HIGH 79
.... 

LOW 74 LOW 65 LOW 68 LOW 65 LOW 60 LOW 57 
Atlanta 80 I 59 Boston 69 I 50 Chicago 88 I 60 Denver 75 I 52 Houston 91 I 69 Los Angeles 76 159 Minneapolis 771 66 New York 72 I 55 Philadelphia 74 I 53 Phoenix 98 I 74 Seattle 62 I 49 St. Louis 90 I 66 Tampa 88 I 73 Washington 77 156 Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Representatives discuss SMC requirement changes 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
College administrators have dis­cussed the possibility of changing the general education requirements for a Saint Mary's degree, student body vice president Kelly Payne told the Board of Governance Monday. 
Payne said College administrators want students to be a part of the process. 
"They really want students involved since we are going through it right now," Payne said. 
She said the College was prepar­ing different sets of general course requirements that students would be able to review and vote on, guaranteeing student involvement in the administration's final deci­sion. 
The chief information officer of the Information Technology Resource Center (ITRC), Janice Thomasson, discussed the Center's importance to Saint Mary's han­dling of data and information, and its daily impact on students' lives. 
"[Technology] affects you in every way," Thomasson told the board. 
She also advertised a program that would allow students with a demonstrated interest in IT to shadow staffers in Thomasson's oflice. 
"We've got a shop very willing to work with you if you want to go into a very well-paying job in Information Technology," she said. 
Junior Whitney Young made a co­sponsorship request to the Board to help finance an upcoming lecture that will bring published author Courtney Martin to campus on Oct. 29. 
Young has been working with Feminist United to get Martin, the author of "Perfect Girls, Starving Daughters," to speak at Saint Mary's about topics she said were relevant to young women and their self-image issues. 

"The book talks about how women spend a large amount of time obsessing over becoming per­fect," Young said. "It discusses how women have better things to do with their minds and bodies than to scrutinize over all this." 
The lecture, she said, will be open to the public as well as Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's students. 

Kelly Maus, Student Activities Board coordinator, said the board will form a Food Services commit­tee for Saint Mary's. The purpose of the committee, she said, is to create a venue for students where they can voice their opinions about the dining hall. 
There will also be online surveys asking students about their levels of satisfaction with the services and Web sites where they would be able to leave suggestions for Food Services. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

special events for stu­dents possibly interested in covering the Beijing continued from page 1 Olympics, the Career Center will also host five do not know who they off-campus fairs in New want to hire next summer York, Chicago, Boston, right now, while the busi­San Francisco and ness world is much more Washington, D.C. over 
Career 
planned out and therefore they can start recruiting in the fall," Svete said. 
Nonetheless, Svete pointed out that many liberal arts­based institu­tions, includ­ing the Smithsonian Museum, W e b e r Shandwick (a large public relations firm), and the Field Museum, will be in atten­dance. 
Moreover, he said, this is by no means the final recruit­ment opportu­breaks in the school calendar. 

And the student b 0 d y 
seems to b e respond­ing well to the Career Center's efforts. Overall, 3,800 stu­dents have officially registered for this e v e n t since Aug. 23, Svete said. 
Senior Michelle Brintnall, president of the 

"I think the Career Center is doing an excellent job of preparation. They have reached out to the student clubs, like the Marketing Club, to really reach the students in an effective manner. Not a day goes by that I don't get an e-mail promoting the fair, or resume reviews, or giving advice." 
Michelle Brintnall senior 

nity for students. Svete Marketing Club, said she's said in addition to the been pleased with the winter fair and Time Center's outreach pro­Warner and NBC-hosted grams and its events 
leading to Wednesday's main event. 
"I think the Career Center is doing an excel­lent job of preparation," she said. "They have reached out to the stu­dent clubs, like the Marketing Club, to really reach the students in an effective manner. Not a day goes by that I don't get an e-mail promoting the fair, or resume reviews, or giving advice. I also utilize walk-in hours and appointments with the Career Center counselors." 
Brintnall safd she's looking heavily into mar­keting firms based near her hometown of Minneapolis, namely Target and General Mills. But some of the compa­nies on the Fall Expo's roster might make her think globally. 
"There are new over­seas opportunities open­ing up," Svete said. "With foreign companies like CDS International and Maersk coming, I don't see why an overseas internship wouldn't be possible." 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 






SENIOR PORT 
ITS! 
DUE TO OVERWHELMING DEMAND, SENIOR PORTRAJlT DATES HAVE BEEN EXTENDED UNTIL SEPTEMBER 28! Sign up on the internet NOW @ www.LaurenStudios.com 
to ensure your place in the 2008 DOME Yearbook (Use the school password DOME to access the Notre Dame Schedul~~) 
Who: Class of 2008 Students 
When: Pictures taken Now-Sept. 28 

Where: La Fortune 108 
Why: To be in your 2008 Notre Dame Dome Yearbook 


Remember 
Sign Up Today! 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 18, 2007 


Council 
continued from page 1 
would create a Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) of 21 leaders from the city and colleges, including Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross and Indiana University South Bend. Thn CCAC would be charged with identifying nnighborhood concerns relat­ed to college students and proposing relevant solutions. 
Student body president Liz Brown ealled the CCAC a "major achievement for com­munity relations." 
"While this coalition was created in response to the problnm of disorderly stu­dents, my hope is that this body will serve as an arena to discuss the range of issues affecting area neighbor­hoods," she told Council mem­bers. 

The bill would "Let's cut to the ages and also put on the chase. This is about supervising 
books -but not any minors at
those keggers. " 

implement the party. rules that would The ordi­require residents AI "Buddy" Klrsits nance retains 
of boarding Council member the original 
tially zoned building in which more than two unrelated peo­ple live together. 
The regulations would pri­marily address large student parties. 
"Let's cut to the chase," Kirsits said. "This is about those keggers." 
The party permit regula­tions would not go into effect without another vote by the Common Council. This could happen if there are more problems with off-campus stu­dent partying, Kirsits said after the meeting. 
If the party permit segment is voted into effect, event sponsors will apply for per­mits that carry newly pro­scribed conditions. By accept­ing the event permit, the sponsor would agree to take "all reasonable steps" to pre­vent underage drinking, including controlling the access to and quantity of alco­hol, checking guest IDs to verify their 
houses to file for a permit before hosting a gather­ing at whieh 25 or more peo­ple would have access to alco­hol. Unlike the previous pro­posal, however, this ordinance would require the permit be filed live rather than 10 days in advance. 
The ordinance defines a boarding house as a residen­

$500 fee for a 
first failure to 
file an applica­tion, with $1,000 fines for any subsequent failures to file. 
Kirsits was pleased with the amended ordinance, which he said represents compromise from both sides. 
"I've seen the University step forward more than they have before," Kirsits said. "[In 
past years], they would say if it's off campus, it's not our problem." 
The vote was delayed to allow two changes in the ordi­nance: to transfer permit administration responsibilities from the city clerk's office to the city licensing office and to 
refine language in the lawn parking section of the ordi­nance, which Mayor Stephen Luecke said could allow an individual to purchase 365 separate one­day lawn park­ing permits for his property. 
"It is naive to think dents threw a this dialogue is all we beer bottle 
through the
need." 
window of her home, where Don Snieowskl she has lived for years.
South Bend resident 

Kirsits introduced the amended bill at the Common Council meeting with a PowerPoint presentation fea­turing photographs of Solo cup-strewn lawns, which he said were scenes from the mornings after student par­ties. 
Though the event permit regulations would apply to off-campus parties, Kirsits spoke of the general dangers of excessive drinking. His presentation included the numbers of ambulance calls to the Notre Dame campus during each fall weekend in 2005 and 2006 -calls for "basically intoxicated" stu­dents, he said. 
He quoted extensively from a Sept. 13 Scholastic editorial charging students to improve their behavior, since, the edi­torial reads, "You can't be unjustly persecuted for things you are actually doing." 
Marguerite Taylor, a resi­dent of East Corby Boulevard, was unimpressed by claims of some council members and residents that students con­tribute to the city by bringing their spending money. 
"They don't bring me a 
dime," she said. 
The other day, 
she said, stu­
"I pay taxes," 
she said. "I 
vote. I have a right to live in peace." 
Former Notre Dame profes­sor Don Snieowski, a resident of St. Peter's Street, told council members he had doubts about the effectiveness of saving any implementation of' the event permit regula­tions until further dialogue occurs. 
"All these types of dialogue should happen," he said, "but the dialoguing groups are almost incommensurate." 
As "transient residents," students are not interested in investing themselves in their temporary neighborhoods ­and that makes sense, he said. 
"It is naive to think this dia­logue is all we need," he said. 
After the meeting, Kirsits and Brown both said the ordi­nance will be passed Sept. 24. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 
Write for news. 
Call Karen at 1-5323 or email obsnews @nd.edu 

LONDONPROG APPLICATION MEETING FOR FALL 2008 & SPRING 2009 Wednesday, Septetnber 19, 2007 101 DeBartolo 6:0() pn1 SOPHOMORES FROM ALL COLI~EGES ARE WELCOME!  



ORLD & NATIOl'J 
Tuesday, September 18, 2007 CoMPiLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pakistani term limits lengthened 
ISLAMABAD, Pakistan -Pakistan's Election Commission changed the rules Monday to open the way for President Gen. Pervez Musharraf to ·seek a new five-year presidential term without giving up the pow­erful position of army chief. 
Opposition parties decried the move as a brazen violation of the constitution and accused the U.S.-allied leader of trying to bulldoze legal obstacles to his staying in power amid increasing demands for an end to military rule. They predicted a surge in democracy protests. 
The ruling was likely to end up before the Supreme Court, which has proved an imped­iment to Musharraf this year and which many people hope can find a way to guide Pakistan out of a political crisis that some fear could lead to violent demonstrations and martial law. 
Sierra Leone elects new president 
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone -Opposition leader Ernest Bai Koroma was sworn in as Sierra Leone's president Monday and vowed to adopt zero tolerance on corruption, after officials declared him the winner of a tense run-off election. 
In choosing Koroma, the battle-weary citi­zens of this West African country voted against the party that ushered them out of a devastating war in 2002 and for the promise of a better peace with less corruption and more jobs. Koroma was sworn in after elec­tion officials declared him the winner with 55 percent of 1.7 million ballots cast, com­pared with 45 percent for the ruling party candidate, Vice President Solomon Berewa. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Democrats stall vote on war funding 
WASHINGTON -Democrats are not expected to take up President Bush's war spending request until November, giving them time to calculate their next move and see if Republican support for his policies deteriorates. 
The delay in passing the bill, which Bush says is needed by Oct. 1, is likely to intensify the standoff between the Democratic-con­trolled Congress and Bush, who says at least 130,000 troops are needed in Iraq through next summer. 

Ex-commander: 'Iran not suicidal' 
WASHINGTON -Every effort should be made to stop Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons, but failing that, the world could live with a nuclear-armed regime in Tehran, a recently retired commander of U.S. forces in the Middle East said Monday. 
John Abizaid, the retired Army general who headed Central Command for nearly four years, said he was confident that if Iran gained nuclear arms, the United States could deter it from using them. 
"Iran is not a suicide nation," he said. "I mean, they may have some people in charge that don't appear to be rational, but I doubt that the Iranians intend to attack us with a nuclear weapon." 
The Iranians are aware, he said, that the United States has a far superior military. capability. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Peterson ahead in Indianapolis polls 
INDIANAPOLIS -A new poll released Monday night shows incumbent Democrat Bart Peterson leading the Indianapolis mayor's race despite apparent dissatisfaction with his crime-fighting record. 
Some 52 percent of Indianapolis residents surveyed in a WISH-TV Indiana Poll said they would vote for Peterson if the election were held that day. Thirty-eight percent said they support Republican Greg Ballard and 2 percent said they would vote for Libertarian Fred Peterson. 

Clinton outlines health care plan 
Senator calls for more universal coverage without government involvement 
Associated Press 

DES MOINES, Iowa ­Democrat Hillary Rodham Clinton called for universal health care on.. Monday, plunging back into the bruising political battle she famously waged and lost as first lady on an issue that looms large in the 2008 presidential race. 
"This is not government­run," the party's front-run­ner said of her plan to extend coverage to an esti­mated 4 7 million Americans who now go without. 
Her declaration was a clear message to Republicans, the insurance industry, businesses and millions of voters who nervously recall what sank her effort at health care reform 13 years ago in her husband's first term ­fear of a big-government takeover. 
In unveiling her plan, she called for a requirement for businesses to obtain insurance for employees, and said the wealthy should pay higher taxes to help defray the cost for those less able to pay for it. She put the government's cost at $110 billion a year. 
Mindful of the lessons of her failed attempt, Clinton said that under her new plan anyone who is content with their health coverage required to offer insurance lead in offering a similar "She's running against can keep what they have. or contribute to a pool that plan. essentially not just the She insisted no new gov­would expand coverage. Clinton framed her quest other candidates but her ernment bureaucracy Individuals and small busi­as a moral imperative in own plan. She's trying to would be created even as it nesses would be offered which individuals, busi­convince you that this is a seeks to cover tens of mil­tax credits to make insur­nesses, the insurance new Clinton plan," said lions uninsured. ance more affordable. industry and the federal Robert Blendon, a profes­
"I know my Republican "I believe everyone -government each had a sor of public health at opponents will try to every man, woman and role to play. She said her Harvard Medkal School. equate health care for all child -should have quali­plan would be bipartisan To pay for her plan, Americans with govern­ty, affordable health care and would only be success­Clinton said the tax cuts ment-run health care," in America," Clinton told ful through negotiation -for Americmns making Clinton said. "Don't let an audience at a medical a sharp departure from $250,000 that were enact­them fool us again. This is center in Iowa, the early her earlier effort. ed under President Bush not government-run." voting state that launches Then, the Clinton health would be allowed to 
The New York senator the nomination process. care task force met in expire. She also projected said her plan would As the front-runner, secret and tried to drive she would identify $56 bil­require every American to Clinton drew swift criti­legislation through lion in savings through purchase insurance, either cism from Democratic and Congress. Now, Clinton, a computerized record keep­through their jobs or Republican rivals, includ­senator for seven years, ing, reducing the price of through a program mod­ing party foes Bill spoke of compromise prescription drugs and cut­eled on Medicare or the Richardson and John although she vowed to ting Medicare overpay­federal employee health Edwards who argued she accomplish her goal in her ments to hospitals and plan. Businesses would be was merely following their first term if elected. CEOs. 


Blackwater firm kicked out of Iraq 
wanted to gain a full understanding of the heavily fortified "Green Zone." 
Associated Press 
what happened," said deputy State State Department spokesman Sean 

WASHINGTON The State Department spokesman Tom Casey. McCormack said Washington had not Department moved quickly Monday to "She reiterated that the United States been informed of the cancellation of tamp down anger and possible reper­does everything it can to avoid such the license after the latest in a series cussions after the alleged killing of loss of life, in contrast to the enemies of incidents in which private contrac­eight Iraqi civilians in an incident of the Iraqi people who deliberately tors working for the United States involving a private security firm hired target civilians." have been accused of misdeeds. to protect U.S. diplomats in Iraq. Rice and al-Maliki "agreed on the There were conflicting accounts of 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice importance of working closely togeth­the incident, in which, according to telephoned Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri er in the time ahead on a transparent the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, a diplo­al-Maliki to express regret at the loss investigation," Casey added. matic convoy was attacked in of life and promise that the results of The 15-minute call came after Iraq's Baghdad, causing security guards to an internal investigation into Sunday's Interior Ministry said it had revoked open fire. incident would be shared with the the license of the firm, Blackwater While Iraqis blamed Blackwater for government in Baghdad. USA, to work in the country, a move the civilian deaths, the eompany said 
"She told the Prime Minister that we that could severely curtail the ability it acted appropriately "irl response to were investigating this incident and of U.S. diplomats to operate outside a hostile attack" by armed insurgents. 
r----------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
plant that uses steam to pro­renewable energy initiatives Environmental Issues a valid University ID. In 2006, 
duce both heating and cooling and is a leading emissions pro­Committee is open to working Notre Dame faculty, staff, and 
products, as well as electricity. ducer. with faculty and students on students took 96,000 one-way
Energy 

continued from page 1 This type of power plant is Kempf said the University is various initiatives, Witchger Transpo trips, Lyphout said. 
twice as efficient as traditional reviewing options for incorpo­said. "Energy Week" will be a Environmental issues may green building, Notre Dame power plants, making it both rating renewable energy. large-scale awareness cam­gain a greater prominence on received F letter grades. economically F e I i p e paign launched in early campus in coming years. 
According to University advanta­Witchger, a October by the Energy and There is much more that
"A lot ofuniversities
administrators, however, the geous and campus environ­Environmental Issues Notre Dame can still do, Sustainability Heport Card environmen­that have good grades mental activist, Committee, Students for Witchger said, to reduce ener­inaccurately assessed environ­tally con­on the Sustainability is a member of Environmental Action, and the gy use. Occupancy sensors mental practice at Notre scious. the Energy and Energy Center. that control lighting and heat­
Survey buy energy from 
Dame. "We are Environmental New construction on campus ing based on human presence 
The D-grade resulted from a getting twice renewable sources." Issues is planned to be environmen­should be installed in many lack of public information the energy, Committee. He tally aware, Lyphout said. The University buildings. about University environmen­thus creating created his new engineering building will "The University is planning
Thomas Furlong
tal practicns, Lyphout said. No half the energy studies carry an environmental certifi­on doing it, which is good," he
co-president
one from the Endowments emissions, major by com­cation, he said. The building said, "but it's a technology that 
Students for Environmental
Instituto ever spoke with any Kempf said. bining engineer­will feature solar panels, a cuts down on energy use that University representative, he Thomas Action ing classes witn source of renewable energy. has been available for years said, and so the evaluation Furlong, co­economic and Construction on the new and we have yet to see it was done by appraising what president of political science Center for here." information Notre Dame made Students for Environmental classes. Social Concerns A new ener­
"When it comes

publicly available on its Web Action, acknowledged the effi­Witchger said the building is gy proposal, site. ciency of the power plant. Sustainability Survey may have planned for to conscious supported by According to Lyphout, not all But, he pointed out, "ours is overlooked certain environ­winter break, environmental decisions Witchger, will University environmental prac­still a coal-burning power mental practices. He consid­and the be a topic of
and awareness, there

tice is publicly documented, plant." ered it, however, to be "a very University will the next leading to an uninformed eval­Furlong criticized the accurate assessment of the also apply for just haven't been big Student uation. University for University." certification for efforts toward Senate meet­Information failing to utilize "When it comes to conscious that structure. ing, he said. 
"It's a major conservation. " 
on certain envi­renewable ener­environmental decisions and "Until this Witchger ronmentally misconception that gy sources. awareness, there just haven't past year or said students friendly activi­"A lot of uni­been big efforts toward con­two Notre Felipe Witchger can help
the University hasn't 

ties at the Notre versities that servation," Witchger said. "In Dame wasn't Energy and Environmental reduce energy
done anything for the 

Dame power have good that sense, the letter grade is considering use by modi­
Issues Committee 

plant, for environment." grades on the justifiable." green build­fying their instance, was Sustainability Last year, he pitched an ing," Witchger own lifestyles not available to Survey buy energy proposal to the said. "These new structures and using energy efficiently
Paul Kempf

the survey's energy from University last year but was show that the University is and by pushing for environ­
director of utilities

authors, said renewable turned down. making a better commitment mental initiatives. Paul Kempf, sources, he "From a student perspective, to the environment." "In the past, students haven't director of utilities for the said. "We do not." the University hasn't in the The University has also really pushed for initiatives," University. About 60 percent of all elec­past been eager to move on encouraged energy efficiency he said. "But there are many 
"It's a major misconception tricity used on campus is gen­environmental proposals and by partnering with Transpo, leaders on campus now ... and that the University hasn't done erated by the University's has not been very easy to work which allows University stu­the University will probably anything for the environment," power plant. The remaining 40 with," he said. dents, faculty and staff mem­change because of it." he said. percent is purchased from That seems to be changing, bers to ride the Transpo bus 
The Notre Dame power plant American Electric Power -he said. system through the South Contact Maureen Mullen at is a combined heat and power which Furlong said has no The Energy and Bend area free of charge with mmullen1@nd.edu 
The beacon in multi-million dollar investment decisions 
RainCapital is one of the world's leading private investment firms, managing more than $50 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. Sankaty Advisors, the credit affiliate of Bain Capital, is one of the nation's leading private managers of high yield debt obligations. With approximately $22 billion in committed capital, Sankaty is a world­class team of over 65 investment professionals with extensive experience analyzing and managing high yield investments. 
Representatives from Sankaty Advisors will be visiting campus throughout .. the year, speaking with undergraduate students about internships and full-time positions that will put your education to work on global, multi­million dollar investment decisions. 
Please look for us on campus in the coming months to learn more about the great opportunities we offer in Boston and London. 
Info Session: Thursday, September 20th Reekers/South Dining Hall (Hospitality Room), 6:30pm 
Resume Deadline: Tuesday, September 25th 
1st Round Interviews: Friday, October 5th 

For more information, visit us at www.sankaty.com. 



p------------------=------------------=-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Tuesday, September 18. 2007 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 13,403.42 -39.10

.Jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 
1,792 95 1,442 2,652,294,645 

AMEX NASDAQ 2,581.66 -20.52 NYSE 9,607;75'!'""~§$:90 S&P 500 1,476.65 -7.60 NIKKEI (Tokyo) 15,960.82 -166.60 FTSE 100 (London) 6,182.80 -106.50 


COMPANY %CHANGE $GAIN PRICE 
S&P DEP RECIEIPTS (SPY)  -0.54  
POWERSHARES (QQQQ)  -0.83  
SUN MIROSYS INC (JAVA)  -0.70  
FORD MOTOR CO (F)  +3.11  

Treasuries 

10-YEAR NOTE +0.18 13-WEEK BILL +2.84 30-YEAR BOND -0.21 5-YEAR NOTE +0.60 

Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 

Exchange Rates 

YEN EURO CANADIAN DOLLAR BRITISH POUND 
-0.80  148.10  
-0.41  48.81  
-0.04  5.69  
+0.25  8.28  

+0.008 4.470 +0.011 3.990 -0.010 4.714 +0.025 4.202 
+1.47 80.57 +6.00 723.80 -1.55 89.48 
114.9800 0.7209 1.0281 0.5020 


IN BRIEF 
Commodities prices rise as stocks dip 
NEW YOHK -Commodities climbed broad­ly Monday, led by gains in agriculture, energy and precious metals as investors bet that an anticipated interest rate cut will stimulate eco­nomic growth and raise demand for raw materials. 
Investors largely expect the Federal Reserve to lower its benchmark federal funds rate Tuesday, a move that would feasibly improve prospects for economic expansion and the demand for energy, metals and agriculture products that sustain growth. While trading on Wall Street remained cautious as stocks slipped, investors sent gold, oil and wheat prices higher. 
Gold prices advanced as stocks stumbled and the U.S. dollar fluctuated against other world currencies. Stock investors, skittish ahead of the Fed meeting, sent equities lower. Still, no move is assured and nervous investors turlll'ld to precious metals. 

Fmish Une buys out Genesco for 1.58 
NASHVILLE. Tenn. -Genesco Inc. share­holders on Monday approved a $1.5 billion buyout by specialty retailer Finish Line Inc. after concerns about the financial health of Genesco were raised by an investment bank financing the deal.UBS Loan Finance LLC and UBS Securities LLC, which had committed to financing the deal for The Finish Line, said in letters released Friday that they were "extremely concerned about the apparent deteriorating financial position" at Genesco. 
Genesco said late last month it lost $4.2 mil­lion. or 19 cents per share, in the quarter ended Aug. 4. That compared to an income of $5.9 million, or 24 cents per share, in the year-ago quarter. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial had expected a profit of 31 cents per share. 
Genesco said its results included 13 cents per share in expenses related to its proposed acquisition by The Finish Line, retail store asset-impairment charges and costs related to closing some stores. 
Still. Genesco denied in a release that it had experienced any "material adverse effect" from the acquisition agreement. Seventy-three percent of shareholders voting approved the buyout, the company said. 



Investors fret over reces5•ion 
High inflationary pressures cause former Fed chairman to worry about future 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Wall Street fell moderately Monday as investors anx­iously awaited the Federal Reserve's impending deci­sion on interest rates. 
The market is betting on a rate cut from the Fed when the central bank meets Tuesday, but investors are not complete­ly sure what it will do and what it will say in its accompanying economic statement. Furthermore, with the major brokerages' third-quarter results yet to be released, investors are uncertain about how badly the summer's stock down­turn, souring home loans, and credit squeeze hit the banking industry. 
Adding to the uneasiness, Northern Rock PLC, Britain's fifth -largest mort­gage lender, saw its stock plunge and customers with­draw billions of dollars after it issued a profit warning Friday and requested emergency funds from the Bank of England. That gave U.S. investors an added impetus to pare their stock holdings, particularly in the financial sector. 
Talk from former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan of the possibility of a reces­sion amid high inflationary pressures also elevated Wall Street's jitters, as did job cuts at Merrill Lynch & Co.'s First Franklin Financial Corp. 
It's possible the Fed won't go through with a rate cut at all if it believes the econ­omy is still growing moder­ately and that inflation remains a threat, but most investors expect the Fed to cut the bench mark federal funds rate, now at 5.25 per­cent, by at least a quarter­point. And because negative economic data have trickled in over the last couple weeks -such as a decrease of 4,000 jobs in August and weaker-than­expected retail sales ­some anticipate a half-point rate cut. 
"A quarter-point is going 

AP Alan Greenspan, shown here receiving the Medal of Freedom from Pr•~sident Bush, told the AP Monday he fears the American economy is headed for a re•cession. 
to be disappointing. It's already priced in," said Ryan Detrick, senior techni­cal strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research. But the Fed probably won't want to lower rates by more than that, he said, and the central bank may not indicate in its statement that more reductions are in the offmg. 
"The big issue is gold and oil have been spiking high­er, which people could argue is inflationary, but economic data has been weak. The Fed's in a tough place." Higher interest rates prevent costs from rising; lower rates fuel growth but also tend to accelerate inflation. 
Alan Greenspan said the odds of a recession have grown since earlier this yea~ even though "the economy is not doing badly at this stage." 
In an interview with The Associated Press on Monday, the former Federal Reserve chairman put the odds of a recession at greater than one in three. "But best I can judge it is less than 50 percent," he said. 
Greenspan's one-in-three prediction earlier this year rocked Wall Street, which has been suffering through a period of turbulence. A deepening housing slump and a spreading credit crunch have raised fears on Wall Street, on Capitol Hill and on Main Street about the country's economic health. 
Many analysts are count­ing on the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates on Tuesday to provide some relief. 
On other issues, Greenspan said the United States must look at ways to reduce gasoline use both as a matter of national securi­ty and to protect the envi­ronment. 
Greenspan said he favors a tax on gasoline to help curb demand. But recogniz­ing that this could be an "undue burden" on poor people, he suggested a rebate of some sort. 
The interview with Greenspan dovetails with the release and promotion of his new book: 'The Age of TurbulencH: Adventures in a New World." 

Mars will not switch to cheaper oils 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO-The maker of M&M's and Milky Way bars says it would be a mistake to mess with its chocolate. 
Mars Inc. said Monday it will contin­ue to use 100 percent cocoa butter in its U.S. chocolate products, bucking an industry campaign to allow cheap­er vegetable oils to be substituted. 
The announcement comes amid a push by a dozen food industry groups to change long-established federal standards to allow for replacing cocoa butter with another vegetable fat, up to a level of 5 percent. The groups say the change, which would save money for manufacturers, would allow more flexibility and innovation. 
Manufacturers already can use veg­etable fats instead of cocoa butter, but they are not allowed by the Food and Drug Administration to call it choco­late. 
Mars, one of the largest chocolate manufacturers, disclosed the compa­ny's opposition to cocoa butter substi­tutes at the All Candy Expo in Chicago, North America's biggest candy trade show. 
"Changing the definition of what chocolate is would be a mistake," said Todd Lachman, president of Hackettstown, N.J.-based Mars Snackfoods US. "The bottom line is that we're not going to change our chocolate. Today, Mars US chocolate products are pure, authentic choco­late and they're going to stay that way." 
The company could have saved mil­lions of dollars by going along with the move, but allowing vegetable oil would have diluted the quality of its chocolate, he said. 
Mars' products include M&Ms, Dove Chocolate, Snickers, Milky Way, 3 Musl-'eteers and Twix. 
The Grocery Manufacturers Association, which is helping to lead the industry push for revised stan­dards, declined comment on the Mars announcement, spokesman Scott Openshaw said. Nestle USA Inc., another large U.S. chocolate manufac­turer, did not immediately respond to a message seeking comment. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 8, 2007 
CLC 
continued from page I 
tlw University's honor codo but also tlw iclna that "cheating can bn<~omn a lif(lstyiP." 
Thn task fon:n also discussod ways to improve Froshman Orinntation, including pairing the c;oruler Hnlations Center with past Frosh-0 student leaders and <~ommissioners to li>cus morn on in-donn programs and stop away from malo/female dorm a<~tivi­tins. 
Kmman senator (;us (;ari pre­sented idoas for tho improv~l­nwnt of community n1lations. He said the task f(m:e focused on tho saf"nty of studenL-; living oil' cam­pus and security issues at ofT 

Millionaire 
continued from page I 
procnss only took two months." 
In that two-month span, Sexton said shn prnparml f(>r her appnar­anen by brushing up on trivia. 
"I played Trivial Pursuit a lot, but othnr than that, thero is no nml way to study," Sexton said. 
Thn only other way to prepare hersolf li>r Vieira's questions was hnr careful selection of her phone-a-friPnd .lifeline. "Millionainl" allows its contest­ants orw phonn call to a friend from a prns<lt list of contacts if the play<1r on tho hot snat is stuck on a qunstion. 
Snxton said slw chosn fivn frinnds "who krww a lot about things I didn't." 
"My cousin Sl!we, tlw one I usnd I on tlw show I. knew a lot about gno1-,rraphy," slw said. 
Sinen thn show was tapnd in .July, Snxton had to sign a eonli­dnnl.iality agrnPmPnt saying she would not nwnal what happnnnd or how much money shn won r.ampus parties. 
lie emphasized the students' individual role in these situa­tions, and ho discussed the eon­<~opt of stud<mts as model citizens when it eomes to handling drugs and aleohol. 

Gari said he met with Scott Kachmarik. associate director of the Ollice of Hesidontial Life and I lousing, to discuss current alco­hol and drug policies and how they all"eet studont behavior. 
Both (;ari and student body president Liz Brown mentioned the importance and the contribu­tions of the Community Helations Coalition to ofl'-campus living sit­uations and the party permit ordinance proposed by the South Bond Common Council. Brown said Monday night's vote on the ordinance should be "a major 
until the npisode aired. 
Now free from that promise, Sexton said Monday she particu­larly enjoyed meeting Vieira, who also eo-anchors NBC's "The Today Show," backstage. She called Vieira "one of the nicest peopln I've ever met" and said the "Millionairn" host sent her a note af'tor S!lxton finished taping her segment, thanking her for partici­pating on the show and wishing her good luek at Notre Dame. 
Sexton said she would use her winnings to pay for law school. 
"Unfortunately, as a law stu­dent, I havn a lot of debt to pay ol'f," she said. "I paid off some credit card bills, ear payments, things like that." 
And despite not receiving the titln of "millionaire" from the show, Sexton had only positive things to say about her experi­<mcn. 
"I had a fantastic time," she said. "Thn stall' I of the show! was amazing. I'd do it again tomorrow if thny would let me." 
Contact Nikki Taylor at ntayloO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Lessons in percussion, drum set, timpai, and mallets 
For information call 



development and a good thing posters in dorms advertising for Ithe coalition's] eil'orts." events and dubs. "Everybody is trying to outdo In other CLC news: everybody else on a poster," he 
+ Brother Jerome Meyer, rec­said. tor of Knott I I all, expressed con­Braun said she hopes to recy­cern over the abundance of cle the masses of posters when groups finish with them. 
"That's a lot of paper to rncy­de," she said. "It ean hnlp rndueP our carbon footprint." 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


'SEPTEMBER 18 OR, OCTOBER 1 5~30 PM 116 DEBARTOLO 
::;..;:>::>>'!·· 
U.S..AIRFORCB 
TO COMMUNICATE MORE EFFECTIVELY WITH OTHER COUNTRIES, WE MUST FIRST BE ABLE TO SPEAK THEIR LANGUAGE. 
If you speak a foreign language or are currently learning one, we have countless opportunities awaiting you in Air Force ROTC. 
• Tuition assistance  • Officer commission  
• Monthly living allowance  • See the world.  
Our  current  language  needs  include  Chinese,  Persian.  Hindi,  

Indonesian and countless others. 
Call 1-866-4AF-ROTC or visit AFROTC.COM. 

Tuesday, September 18, 2007 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Gold1nan fa1nily tries for Si1npson souvenirs 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -If the Goldman family has its way, it may soon own the sports memo­rabilia that O.J. Simpson is accused of committing armed robbery to recover for himself. 
Since winning a multimillion­dollar settlement against Simpson in Hon Goldman's death, the family has waged a decade-long campaign to track down and claim Simpson's assets. 
That effort hasn't stopped with the NFL star's arrest fol­lowing a confrontation with memorabilia collectors in a Las Vegas hotel room. On Tuesday, the family plans to file request in Superior Court to obtain own­ership of the sports memorabilia seized. 
David Cook, an attorney for Goldman's father, Fred Goldman, said he believed Nevada authorities would turn over the items with a court order after Simpson's criminal case finishes. The items include Simpson's Hall of Fame certifi­cate, a gold Rolex watch and the suit Simpson wore on the day he was acquitted, Cook said. 
"Assuming that this case is resolved one way or another, at the end of the case, the stuff will never go baek to Mr. Simpson," Cook vowed. "lie's going to walk out of Clark County empty-hand­ed." 
Simpson was being held with­out bail Tuesday in Clark County Detention Center on six felonies, including two counts of robbery with use of a deadly weapon. If convicted, he could receive up to 30 years in state prison on each robbery count alone. 
Another man suspected in the alleged heist surrendered Monday. Clarence Stewart, 53, of Las Vegas, lived at one of the residences that police searched early Sunday to recover some of the memorabilia. 
Stewart turned over some of the missing goods, including footballs bearing autographs, police said. He was being held on six felony charges, including robbery with a deadly weapon and two counts of assault with a deadly weapon. 
Another man, Walter Alexander, 46, of Mesa, Ariz., was released without bail. He faces charges almost identical to Simpson's. 
A fourth man, Tom Scotto, was questioned and cleared of suspicion after police concluded he was not in the room, reduc­ing the number of outstanding suspects to two, police said. Both were apparently seeking attorneys and preparing to sur­render, police said. 
Simpson's arraignment was set for Wednesday. Yale Galanter, Simpson's lawyer, said he was preparing a bond motion and will ask for Simpson's release on his own recogni­zance. 






Rebuild lives. 

You can help. Find out how. 
Winter Break Trip to the Gulf Coast January 7 -January 13 


Information night: 
Thursday, Sept. 20 7pm 
Coleman Morse Student Loun e 

Applications available at http:fface.nd.edufout;reach. 
Domer DoggyWalk 
spoli\&OYetJ b~ tne u&M.veYStt~ of NotYe Da~~~A.e PYe-vet cLub a&MI( "Bl.olog~ cLub foy tne Mtcntaloi\.Q Co~~~A.~~~A.u.VIi.t~ 
September 23, 2007 St. Joseph's Lake University of Notre Dame 
(at Sacred Heart Parish) 
Benefits the Animals at The Humane Society of St. Joseph County Register Online at humanesocietystjc.org Open to the Public! SCHEDULE QUESTIONS? 
I 2:30pm Registration ($1 0) 

CONTACT: 
1:OOpm Blessing ofthe Dogs 
Kay Stewart 
1:OOpm Walk Dogs 
(Pre-vet Advisor) 
2:00pm Contests 
574-360-7829 
Best owner/dog look-a-like Leanna Steier 
Best trick (Event Chair) 
Friendliest dog Leanna.R.Steier.3@nd.edu
0..1Most pledges Best vocal Meghan O'Donoghue (Pre-vet President) ~~~ 702-460-6008 


OtiUH Jllo4:NY JOIUf!i FRANCHISE ll::: All ii:IGHTS Rl:SERVED. 

THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
-·------==--=--~======================================= 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. !lox 779, Nmrt D>m<, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining !fall. Notrt Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Maddi<· Hanna MANAI;IN(; EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Ken Fowler Kyle West 
A~sT. MANA<.lNG EDITOR: Kyle Cassity A~s·1~ MANA<;JNG EDITOR: Mary Kate Malone 
NI'.WS EDITOR: Karen Langley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Joey King 
SPORTS EDITORS: Chris Khorcy Chris Hinc SCENE EDITOR: li1e Andrews 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR> Kmic Kohler 
PHOTO EDITOR> Dustin Mennella 
GRAPIIICS EDITOR: Madeline Nies 
AllVI'.RTISING MANA<;ER; Jessica Cortez 
An DESIGN MANAGER> Kelly (;ronli CONTROLLER: Tim Sobolewski SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Christian Sagardia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (')74) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 ohmvad@nd.t·du EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (.574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 NEWS 0ESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l @nd.cdu VIEWPOINT 0ESK (574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS 0ESK (574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe indepmdcnt, daily n~-wspaper published in prinr and online by the studems ofthe University ofNoue Dame duLac and Saint Mary's 
College. Editorial comem, including advenisemems, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on comcm. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsignt·d editorials rcprcscnr the opinion of the majority ofrhe Ediror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editors and dcparrmmt editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observ<·r. 
Vicwpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lctrcrs is encouraged. Lcucrs ro the Editor must be signed and must include <.:ontact inf(>rmariun. 
Questions rrgarding 0/Jsm;er polici~s shou!LI br tfirrcmi to Editor in 0JiifMaddie ff11nna. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
'I h~ tll>" r~• r tl ''il''l 'i~I•J 1·1UOII) I\ f'tthl .. h .. cl Mumbr rluuu,;h 1-rio.L.y t"lt~<:ft! tlunur; tun• aud v.uo~rrou t"'ru"l• A .uh-.rrl'tl•>ll\!1 'l"hr (ll»o<:rvrr t!J SJO(lliu Uflt" .1<-.ldcmk 
\"("~[ S'o I li11 1>1\( lloo"IH<.-..hl 
Htr l ll~ rwr "pul•lt~hc:.l u J)( )~TMASTEI~ 
1121 \uutll ) )I fUnK tiJJI Stn.l ~d..Jrn.... (UIJC~IIHIIS tu: 
Nurrc I>.unr. IN 4/15"ib·II""'7'J TI1c: Oh""rvcr 
l'c:n<MIIUI] pu,f.tKC p.ml Jl Notrt D.tmc: I~U l\u)l 77? Jtul .ttldllluno~l nl.tlliuj:: ulllcr-02" ~~urh Llinmg ~IJJI 
Nout Doamc, IN "MSh-OntJ 
l"ht-{)1-..ervt:r i\ .& number t•llhc At..ot..J.ttc.l l'rcl>.'>. Alln-p!•~<luumn 11Khl~ .trc R:Krval. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Karen Langley Fran Tolan Marcela Berrios Greg Arbogast Joseph McMahon Kat eArnold Graphics Eugenia Alfonso Matt Hudson Scene 
Chris McGrady Viewpoint Jordan Gamble 

NO's Catholic don't be surprised 
Before transferring to Notre Dame, I spent two y1~ars at West Point. It's not just a well-known military academy­it's well known as a military academy. You couldn't possibly explain the place to someone without 
Greg

discussing its mili­
Yatarola

tary character. Even so, in my pla­
Dome and 

toon I had a class-
Domer 

mate who swore hn didn't know it was a military institu­tion prior to arriving for basic train­ing. Eric was from California and was by far the most laid-back, easy-going guy I'd ever met. According to him, his father had picked the school for him and taken care of the application process (talk about neat tricks to play on your kids!). The first day of basic training is traumatic and disorienting for all new cadets, but listening to Erie describe his experience was espe­cially entertaining. "What's everyone yelling at me for?" "Does 'barracks' mean 'dorms'?" "But I like my hair long"" 
I understand if' this story strains your cmdulity. I myself found it very hard to believe at first. But USMA cadets don't tell lies casually -lying violates the honor code, and often means separation from the academy. Besides, if you knew Eric, you'd see how the story just might possibly be true. 
I'm not telling this story because I think it's funny, but because I was reminded of Eric so often at Notre Dame. Granted, Catholicism isn't as central to Notre Dame's identity as the military is to Army's, and there's far more diversity of opinion about what Catholicism is or entails than about the nature of the profession of arms. But still, I kept coming across kids all the time who apparently had no idea that Notre Dame was a Catholic school. I can't remember how many times I heard somebody say something to the effect of "Notre Dame would be a great place if it weren't for all the Catholic bull#@$"-like all the 
Catholic bull#@$% were some sort of 
big surprise to them! 
Back in spring 2002, ResLife banned liquor in dorms. Mass outrage ensued -angry letters, demonstrations, van­dalism. Tllfm a smaller wave of protest, against the protests. The basic lament? Notre Dame students are quite apathetic and un-mobilize­able about important things, but take away their coolness-in-a-bottle, and they all turn into Martin Luther King. One alumna wrote to The Observer, recalling disappointedly what a hard time she'd had getting students to actively support abortion rights. 
The cynic in me was surprised at her lack of success. Hadn't she tried scholarship athletes? Theology majors? Once the cynicism subsided, I could only marvel. Here's a woman, smart enough to be admitted, appalled that a good share, maybe even most, of the student body at the nation's premier Catholic university wasn't especially P.nthusiastie about abortion on demand. 
I picked out the poor woman, bless her heart, not to piek on her, but because she's one of the more robust examples of what I'm describing. She's far from unique, though, based on my experience. And I'rn not just referring to sad PSA misfits. 
My point isn't that unless you're gung-ho Catholic, you don't belong at Notre Dame. Actually, those types worry me most. Like Father Hesburgh once said -and largely thanks to him! -Notre Dame is a great place to lose your faith. Serious Catholics have the most faith to lose. For the rest of you, though, please don't go hysterical when a Catholic institution runs itself according to Catholic principles. 
One of my best friends at Notre Dame was Jewish. Obviously, he was­n't behind all the administration's policies, or students' views. Good Catholic, no-he wasn't even a good Jew. But he came to Notre Dame freely, knowing what he was getting into. lie didn't pout on those six Fridays a year when ho couldn't get pork in the dining hall, and he didn't whine that the C.S.C. was shoving Catholicism down his throat because it made fornicating marginally morn dif­!1cult for students than it is at most schools. And he didn't consider fellow students elosed-mindod morons because they -go figure -assented to many or most of the toachings of the Catholic Church. 
II' you find Notrn Dame's Catholicity oppressive, ronwmber a fnw things. One, chances are, nobody roped you into coming here. Two, thorn's at least six othor kids out there who'd gladly follow du Lac to tho 't' just to bP in your shoes. No, I really don't care if something on campus is named for one of your relatives, or if you scored a goal in a lacrosse game nobody watched. You're not doing Notre Dame a favor by your presence. 
A somewhat popular stunt back in my days at Notre Dame, and one which sticks in my memory as particu­larly vile, was for couples to copulate on the hill outside the seminary. When I heard about things likn that, my first thought was usually. "I hope they go blind and crippled." But my second thought was always, "What (besides copulating) are they doing here?" If' you're one of those people, or would like to be, or think it would be cool if there were condom dispensers in the basilica, I have no right to say whether you should be at Notre Dame. But please try to understand how I might wonder what brought you here, and what makes you stay. And take it from me: transferring's not that bad. 
Greg Yatarola 's not really a mean, grumpy old grad, he just writes like it. He can be reached at gregpy@hol­mail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
Notre Dame Football 2007? Great? Greatest? No response? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"You can't build a reputation on what you're going to do. " 
Henry Ford founder of Ford Motor Company 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
U-WIRE 
Look out, Cornellians: Big Brother is watching. And his name is Mark Zuckerberg. 
At the beginning of the month, Facebook announced that it will begin publicly listing user's Staff Editorial 
profiles on main­stream search engines Cornell Daily such as Google, Yahoo Sun and MSN. 
If that's not an absolute invasion of pri­vacy -and a betrayal of corporate trust­we're not sure what is. 
Facebook Corporate Communications claims the change is part of an effort to allow non-registered users to access pro­files so they can find their friends and rel­atives. 
Et tu, Zuckerberg? 
But employers are increasingly using Facebook to help judge a job candidate's "character," to see if they are exercising "good judgment." The National Association of Colleges and Employers reported that in 2006, 27 percent of employers registered with the organiza­tion admitted to Googling job candidates. 
So you figure, you clean up your profile page, untag )lOUr questionable photos, or­if you're really serious-edit your name by a couple ofletters. But even this isn't enough to halt some employers from using backhanded techniques to dig up digital dirt about your personal life. Facebook isn't secure anymore, and there are ways to get around the privacy settings that we put up to save ourselves from parents, employers and overly-solicitous lab part­ners alike. 
At an age when most of us are just try­ing to enjoy college, it's unfortunate that we have to be so conscientious about our every move -and that Zuck feels the need to play the role of Main Cop. It's the latest in a string ofindications that Facebook isn't the plucky upstart of a cultural phe­nomenon it was three years ago. 
The Myspaceization of Facebook is clearly a ploy to increase the company's profits and resale value. The most recent move makes it abundantly clear that Zuckerberg and his minions have free rein to make any change of any sort at any time in the way Facebook works. Facebook is an institution we love, and we 
page 11 

want it to be successful-but not at the expense of the characteristics that define its genius. While Zuck seems cognizant and wary of the implications of this power, what he doesn't seem to understand is that a false sense of online security is one of Facebook's strongest points; Facebook can only play a brinkmanship game with users' privacy for so long-· before this dorm-room project becomes yesterday's news. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 17 editon ofthe Cornell Daily Sun, the publication ofCornell University. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Stick with your tea111 

After attending the first three football games, I am as disappointed as anyone. To dwell on reasons, to place blame, to criti­cize may feel good but ultimately is futile. A<> a student, I heard the chants to fire Dan Devine in 1975 after just three games and even Ara after a 55-24 loss in 197 4, despite winning two national championships. There is a great temptation to write off the 2007 Irish football team. DON'T. Show your true colors as fans, students and alumni. This team needs support desperately, not criticism -leave that to pundits like Mark "I hate Notre Dame" May. Anyone ean fol­low a winner. Tough times show the real mettle of true fans. Almost no one will give the Irish a chance against Michigan State. Are you ready to have the Spartans drive another stake into the stadium turf like 2005, or are you going to stay behind this team? The choice is yours. 
John ELushis, Jr., Esq. 
Alum 
Class of 1977 
Bethlehem, PA 
Sept. 16 

Co111ic 111isunderstood 
I am writing this as a response to the Sept. 17 Letter to the Editor written by Meghan Lueck ('Deuces Manor' in poor taste). Being one of the creative minds behind 'Deuces Manor,' I was baffied by some of the points that she brought up in her examination oflast Wednesday's comic. I feel that there may have been a misunderstanding more than anything because Meghan seemed to think that we were singling out overweight college girls who may like to eat ice cream during lunch. This however was not the intention of our comic at all. 
For those of you who are unfamiliar with our comic, we have run what we call a line-up once a week since the start of the semester. We lay out a question, show five people, and the readers are supposed to guess who they believe answers the question. The first week, we did "Which dining hall card swiper enjoys her job?" Four unhappy ladies were shown, and the fifth was smiling. Our intention was that people would guess the smiling lady. However, our answer read "None of them." Two weeks ago, our line-up question was "Can you find the Notre Dame athlete?" Following this, four elderly men were pictured, as well as Lupe Fiasco (one of the performers at 'The Show'). We assumed read.ers would pick out the young, handsome Fiasco, but one of the elderly men was actually Paul Hornung. 
So, for the first two weeks, we set up a scenario that let peo­ple quickly jump to their own conclusions, but our "answer" was probably not what they expected. What we did last week followed the exact same formula: we pictured five girls, one of whom was overweight. We did not say anything at all about the overweight girl; we simply let people form their own opin­ion. However, the answer was "All of them." To me this shows that young ladies of any shape or form can eat ice cream whenever they want. There was not meant to be any implica­tion whatsoever about body image at Notre Dame. We did not mean to poke fun at any eating disorders or any reasons for eating disorders, and I personally do not believe we did. 
None of us, my co-writers included, sit in the dining hall watching who goes to eat ice cream, mostly because we do not care. We have never judged anyone based on their eating habits; all the comic strip was meant to do was follow the same formula as the previous weeks. Yes, we did create scenarios wherein stereotypical conclusions were meant to be formed inside our reader's head, but the fact that our answers are dif­ferent from these stereotypes shows that we do not actually want to reinforce any of them. The first two people who talked to me about last Wednesday's comic had seen it but had missed the answer in the bottom corner. They had initially told me they thought it was cruel because they thought we were singling out the overweight girl; however, they both changed their opinion once I had informed them of the comic in its entirety. 
When we first started writing this comic strip, we expected to receive Viewpoint articles -all the comic stdps here seem to. However, I never expected to see one focused on the topic of body image at Notre Dame that we never had any implication of making. 
The author is a Deuces Manor cartoonist and graphics designer for The Observer. 
Matt Hudson semor offcampus Sept. 17 


Georgia Tech fan behavior absurd 
THE ISSUE: Georgia Tech fans behave violently at game. WHAT WE THINK: Need for better behavior at all schools. 
Fans watching this Saturday's foot­baH game from home Staff Editorial might have missed a rather violent dis­play of school spirit. The Heights The behavior exhib­ited by the fans at Georgia Tech made the crowd at Alumni Stadium look downright saintly. 
The crowd hurled water bottles at Boston College cheerleaders, and the officials were forced to stop stopped play not once, not twice, but five times over the course of the game. 
The worst came when fans chastised radio personality Jayme Parker, refer­ring to her as a "slut," telling her to go home, and using other graphic, demeaning, and crass language. Behavior bordered on verbal assault. 
Of course, badly behaved fans are not an anomaly at Georgia Tech or elsewhere. In fact, such conduct is a growing trend in university athletics. 
In recent years, similar incidents have occurred not only at schools across the country but within the ACC itself. In 2004, the University of Maryland landed itself in a nationally covered scandal when obscene and crude cheers from Terrapin fans were picked up by ESPN microphones and aired live. 
The media storm forced the school to respond with the creation of a sports­manship taskforce, among other initia­tives. Inappropriate language caused a similar problem at BU hockey games last year, when the administration resorted to banning inappropriate lan­guage altogether. Also in 2006, the Ohio State marching band was terror­ized by Penn State students who were throwing objects at them, making rude gestures, and swearing. 
Two things must be taken from the behavior of unruly fans at Georgia Tech and at other universities across the country. First, what might seem like harmless taunts (most likely shouted under the influence of alcohol) can greatly offend those toward whom they are directed. While some might brush off childish taunts as trifling or insignificant, some members of the BC travel party were genuinely concerned for their safety. 
At BC, administrators are upset when chants of "Tom O'Brien sucks" ring out from the student section. We could say, "BC fans are not that bad, this kind of behavior is not that big of a deal." Or, we could take the higher road and become a school exemplified by its sportsmanship, on the field and in the stands. Nobody would want to be treated the way that BC's travel party was at Georgia Tech, a fact we should learn from. 
Second, Georgia Tech and many other schools need to take action to end this ridiculous behavior. During Saturday's matchup, the referees stopped play and announced several times that legal action would be taken against those fans disrupting the game. 
Yet, the inappropriate actions com­ing from the Georgia Tech stands did not occur spontaneously; rather, such behavior is largely ingrained in the fan culture of the school. The administra­tion should take action to foster an environment of sportsmanship, rather than enmity, among fans. 
Perhaps fans should take a leaf out 
of Illinois' book. The Illinois student section, commonly referred to as the Orange Krush, is well-regarded for its use of clever, premeditated chants and creative team support. 
The behavior of Georgia Tech's fans was classless at best and criminal at worst. The athletic department should issue an apology to BC and the univer­sity should take swift action to address fan behavior. 
When BC returns to Georgia Tech in two years, we hope that the travel party won't fear for its safety on the field, cheerleaders won't need to duck from water bottles thrown from upper­tier seats, and the focus of fans will be on cheering for their team and not degrading the other. In the meantime, BC fans can offer an example of how respectable fans should aet for the rest of the season, especially when we wel­come Georgia Tech next year. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 17 edition of The Heights, the publication of Boston College. 
The views in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofJhe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 18, 2007 

By ANALISE LIPARI 
Assist;tnt Sn·rre Editor 
For a 1·oupln of assistant seene editors trying to makP predietions, Sunday night's l·:mmy Awards broadcast dnlinitnly lef'l sonw things to b1~ desirnd. 

Evnr-srnarmy "American Idol" host Hyan Snacrnst mlll:nml till' show on the Awards' IWW honw nPlwork, FOX, and "Boston l.ngal" nahhnd a cornplntnly unnxper.tml goldnn stattw fiH· iL-; lnad aclor . .lanws Spadnr, over .lamns ( ;andolfini of' thn now-dnf'unrl IlBO dassic "The Sopranos." Sornemw 's gomm bn slneping with llw lishns, and it ain't gonna be pretty. 
llowever, some of our prndictions from Friday's Observer thankfully eame through, including watching Cassie BPlek's pick f'or OuL<;tanding Lead Actor in a eomndy serif~s. major underdog Hicky c;nrvais, 1:orn1~ out on top amidst a strong group of nominees like Alee Baldwin and Steve Carrell. It appnars that Badin Hall will live to s1\e another day, since Tony Shalhoub lost and. thus. no tnlevision sets wern lit on lim by an irate Bnlek). 
I was psyched to see America Ferrera eome out on top as OuL<;tanding Lnad Actrnss in a comedy series, securing l'<~n 


Analise Lipari 
Assistant .'icene Editor 

favorite "Ugly Betty" some Emmy gold. 
Betty's fashion-savvy little bro Justin 
would be proud. 
On the whole, our prndietion lists had hiL<; and misses. Cassie's pick lilf Outstanding Comedy Series, NBC's hilari­ous "30 Hoek," won its category for the first time-granted, it triumphnd over my pick of "Ugly Betty," but I'm more than happy seeing Ferrera get her due. My dark horse pick for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a comedy series, Jeremy Piven, defeated former Doogie Howser, Neil Patrick Harris, and Dwight Sehrute (a.k.a. Hainn Wilson), giving the wildly popular east of "Entourage" credit and vindicating slimy agents like Ari Gold everywhere. 
I'm ollidally sending a Mrs. Weasley­style I fowler to ABC executives and Emmy voters for Sally Field's win for "Brothers and Sisters" over Carmela Soprano her­self, Edie Faleo. Granted, it'd be llollywood blasphemy to say that Sally "You like me, you really like me!" Field is undeserving of the trophies she's piled up over the years. But to keep Tony and Carmela off stage, after one of the strongest seasons of 'The Sopranos?" Fuhgeddaboutit! 
Both Cassie and I feel Stephen Colbert's pain after his loss to Tony Bennett -with fans of the "Report" still lamenting last year's Barry Manilow debacle, this is just cruel. Seeing "The Daily Show" win over the "Heport" didn't sting quite as badly, but hopefully Colbert fans will someday avenge this mishap. 
Setting the artistic merits of most brands of reality television aside, no one likes to see a show win out of pure voter laziness, which veteran series "The Amazing Raee" arguably did this year. Bravo's reality TV offerings are fresh, hip and stylishly done, and should have brought home the gold with either "Project Hunway" or "Top Chef." 

Then again, considering the broadcast aired on the venerable network that brought the world "Temptation Island" and "Hell's Kitchen," we should probably lower our expectations. Or ask "Hunway" judge Michael Kors to run around like a chicken with his head cut oft' with a dirty chefs hat and Coekney-style British accent. Then again, maybe not. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

Snub of son1e shows spells doon1 before avvards begin 
By CHRIS HINE 
Scene Writer 
I didn't havn to tune in to the 59th Prinwtinw Emmy Awards Sunday to be disappointnd by them. 
Inexplicably, tho show that daims to reward thn best of television, failed to rnc:ogniz1~ four of 
tnlnvision's best dra­mas-"Lost," "Batt\estar Calaetica," "The Wire" and "Friday Night Lights" -in the bnst drama eategory. Critks hail thnm as f'our of the bnst 


shows on tnlevision, Chris Hlne 
and ratn them high­nr than "(;my's Scene Writer Anatomy," "Boston 
l.ngal" and "House," 
thrnn shows that wen~ nominatnd in placn of' the four snubnes. 
Thn snub of "Lights" is especially shocking. It is on the vnrgn of' cancella­tion dun to low ratings, but has so much critical appeal that NBC decided to give it a sneond snason in the hope it can lind an audinneiL 
Usually, tlw Emmys try to give shows like "Lights" a boost by giving them sonw hardware. "All in thn Family" struggled with low ratings when it pre­miered but won Best Comedy in 1971 and went to on become the No. 1 rated show on TV for live years in a row. The same goes for "Hill Street Blues," and "Cheers" in the 1980s and "Arrested Development" four years ago. 
All received Lhe top prize at the Emmys despite low-rated first seasons. In each case, except for "Arrested Development," the shows found an audi­ence and stayed on the air for years. Even this year on the comedy side, the Emmys gave the top award to "30 Hoek" -a critically acdaimed. but low-rated show that was on the verge of cancella­tion after its first season. 
But sometimes, as in the ease of "Freaks and Geeks," critically acdaimed shows do not get that extra support from the Emmys. This happened to "Friday Night Lights" because people who vote for the Emmy nominations use a faulty system. 
Nominees this year were determined by a combination of popular vote and scores based on panels that screened one sample episode of each show. People who work in television are the people who votn for the Emmys and of'ten are too busy to watch every 
. episode of each show contending for an Emmy. So when they go into the panels and watch one episode of a series sueh as "Lights," "Lost," or "The Wire"-shows that require the viewer to know what 
happened in previous episodes to under­For fans of the show, this scene stand what he is watching-voters can­between mother and daughter shows not put the show in its proper context, Tami's worst nightmare-that her and the episode does not have its daughter was becoming her. Britton intended impact. portrayed this fear subtly 
Since voting is based on and let the tone of her one episode, other shows, voice and the expressions like "Boston Legal," whose Critics -or people on her face convey this episodes are mostly self­whose job it is to fear instead of coming contained, can steal a out and saying it. 
actually watch every 
nomination. Critics-or Of course, Emmy voters people whose job it is to episode ofthe top 7V did not have this frame actually watch every shows -have no of reference when watch­episode of the top TV ing this seene and Britton
voice in the process. 
shows-have no voice in the process. 
It is hard to grasp the depth of Connie Britton's and Kyle Chandler's performances in "Lights," without having the proper context of their stories. For example, Britton's sample episode contained a scene in which she yells at her daughter for wanting to have sex at the age of 15. (For referenee, go to youtube.com and search for "Friday Night Lights-The Talk.") 
On its surface, you see Britton as a mother trying to protect her child. But in the context of the show, you see much more on Britton's face and hear much more in her words. Throughout the series, the writers hinted that Britton's character, Tami Taylor, was not happy when she was a teenager because of her promiscuity. 
was not nominated. 
But TV critics took 

notice of her strong per­formance. They nominated her-along with her "Lights" eo-star, Chandler-as one of only five aetors or actresses in television drama to receive the top prize for acting at the Television Critics Assoeiatiim Awards. I thought the Emmys would help me out this year and give "Lights a top award or two so peo­ple would watch this wonderful show in season two. I was wrong. 
At one point in your life, you, too, will have your favorite show suffer from low ratings. Just don't count on the Emmys to help kPep it on the air. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris /line at chine@nd.l'du 

.------~------------~---------------------~-------------------~---------­
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
page 13 
Emmys struggle to adapt to new format, different host 
Supporting Actor in a Drama Series, By CASSIE BELEK ; but I think he should win an Emmy for Assistant Scene Editor his hot pink satin shirt and bedazzled 
black tie. He's a man who's not afraid 
7:59-Hey Scene enthusiasts! Here's to sparkle. my minute-by-minute reaction to the 8:23 -The winner for Supporting triumphs and disappointments of the Actress in a Comedy Series is about to 59th annual Emmy Awards. Can the be announced. If Vanessa Williams Emmys make it without a comedian doesn't win there will be consequences. hosting? Are Hainn 8:24 -Jaime Pressly? She's good on Wilson and Kanye "My Name is Earl" but she's no Vanessa West the unlikeliest Williams. The world better prepare pairing in Emmy itself for my wrath. history? Let's lind 8:51 -Tony Bennett and Christina out. Aguilera are performing. Bennett's 
8:03 -After an good, but I'm focused on Christina's opening number beautiful raspberry gown and blatant starring Stewie and baby bump. Confirm it already Brian from "Family Christina! Guy," Ryan Seacrest 8:53 -Alec Baldwin is presenting an finally walks out on award immediately after Tony stage to the sounds Bennett's performance. Does anyone of "Party Like a else want him to bust out his "Saturday Hock Star." That's Night Live" Bennett impression? not exactly a song I 8:58 -A Vanessa Hudgins joke, would associate with him. Seacrest? Heally? I'm a little disap­
8:07 -So the stage is circular and the pointed between that one and the but "The Sopranos" went on to win for Outstanding Drama Series Sunday. audience has to sit around it. I find a Hayden Panettiere joke from earlier. few things wrong with this setup. 1) I'm Junior high humor doesn't suit the 9:50 -And Helen Mirren ("Prime Carell to accept the award for Gervais. getting dizzy, 2) It looks like the set of a Emmys. Suspect: The Final AcC) wins for Lead What an emotional "Daily Show" game show and 3) Half of the room has 9:03 -Poor Queen Latifah. She's lead­Actress in a Miniseries or Movie. reunion this is! to face the backs of the presenters and ing a tribute to the 30th anniversary of Shocking. 10:41 -Sally Field ("Brothers & winners. All the pretty people deserve a "Roots" but the teleprompter is awk­9:51 -Mirren gives fabulous accept­Sisters") wins for Lead Actress in a good view, not just a select few. wardly too high for her line of vision. ance speeches doesn't she? She says, Drama Series, but she gets censored 
8:08 -We're spared a song and dance 9:09 -Ugh. Another sleazy joke about "''m going to keep talking till that very when she starts speaking out against number from Hyan Seacrest, but now Hayden Panettiere while standing next dramatic music comes in." I love that. war. I'm not a big fan of political state­we have to endure a humorless bit to Hayden Panettiere. I expected more 9:52 -My friend: "Whoa! The micro­ments at award shows, but I'm also not from Ray Romano. from you, Neil Patrick Harris. phone just got swallowed by the stage!" a big fan of censorship at award shows. 
8:10-Hay Homano is still talking. My 9:28 -Marcia Cross looks terrible. 9:53 -My friend's very thankful that 10:52-America Ferrera ("Ugly friend and I are losing interest fast. That is all. out of all the things she Betty") wins for Lead This doesn't bode well for the rest of 9:39 -It's a tribute to "The has said tonight, I'm Actress in a Comedy the night. Sopranos"! The cast of "Jersey Boys" quoting her on that Series. That's a beautiful 
8:13-Jeremy Piven ("Entourage") sings Frankie Valli songs while clips one. rm not a big fan of blue she's wearing. It's too wins for Supporting Actor in a Comedy from "The Sopranos" play in the back­9:54 -What is Lewis political statements bad her cast mates can't Series? I love Ari Gold, but this award ground. It's slightly strange, but I never Black talking about? see her face during her
at award shows, but
totally belongs to either Hainn Wilson turn down a performance from the cast What is he ever talking speech since they're stuck or Neil Patrick Harris. of a Broadway musical. about? rm also not a big fan behind her. 8:14-America Ferrera and Vanessa 9:44-"The Sopranos" family mem­9:55 -My friend: ofcensorship at 10:55-What? What just Williams look beautiful, but couldn't bers have come up through a stage trap "They're not funny, happened? I spoke too
award shows. 

the writers have given the actresses door. It's almost as if they rose from the these comedian peo­soon. The biggest upset of some "Ugly Betty" -like banter? I think dead ... Is this a secret clue, David ple." Touche. So far the the evening is James I'm going through Wilhelmina Slater Chase? Did the Sopranos clan perish comedians have disap-Spader ("Boston Legal") withdrawal. after the blackout? Am I overanalyzing pointed. winning for Lead Actor in 
8:15-Terry O'Quinn ("Lost") wins for this entrance? 10:08 -Brad Garrett's boob jokes are a Drama Series instead of James the most tasteless words spoken Gandolfini ("The Sopranos"). I'm actu­tonight. This is Disappointment No. ally speechless, but he's not and he's 
132. funny! He says, "You know I've been to 
10:09 -And Colbert loses to another thousands and thousands of concerts in legendary performer in the Individual my life, and I can tell you these are the Performance in a Variety or Music worst seats I've ever had." Thank you! Program. 11:02 -Eek! "30 Hock" j!ust won for 
10:10-Tony Bennett thanks Target. I Comedy Series. It's what I hoped and would also like to thank Target, just dreamed. Tina Fey thanks their dozens because. and dozens of viewers. Watch this 
10:12 -I now aspire to be as sassy show, people. Don't let it suffer the and wonderful as Elaine Stritch ("30 same fate as "Arrested Development." Rock"). After stumbling with words she 11 :08 -"The Sopranos" wins for says, ''I'm not faking this. I really don't Drama Series. At least something was know what the hell I'm doing." Can she predictable tonight. I don''t remember host the Emmys next year, please? the last time I wished for predictability 
10:24-Kanye West, Rainn Wilson at the Emmys, but too many of tonight's and Wayne Brady unite! surprises were unwelcome (to me at 
10:29 -Their bit is cute, but I still least). won't watch "Don't Forget the Lyrics." 11:11 -Seacrest didn't say "Seacrest, 
10:39 -Upset of the evening! Hicky out!" What a semi-disappointing ending Gervais ("Extras") wins for Lead Actor to a semi-disappointing Emmys. in a Comedy Series. I secretly wanted him to win, but didn't think it was pos­The views expressed in this column are sible with the popularity of Steve Carell those ofthe author and not necessarily 
The already highly decorated Helen Mirren, center, won the award for lead and Alec Baldwin. But wait! Jon those ofThe Observer. Actress in a Miniseries or Movie for her work in "Prime Suspect: The Final Act." Stewart and Stephen Colbert allow Contact Cassie BeZek at cbelek@nd.edu 



~-------------­
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
MLB -AL WRAPS 

New York cuts Boston's lead to 3 1/2 games 
Blake's walk-off homer lifts Cleveland over Detroit; Thomas hits three dingers in Toronto's win over the Red Sox 
.500. Derek Jeter singled and 
Associated Press 

doubled, passing Bnrnie 
NEW YOHK -A victory over Williams for fourth place on the Baltirnoro, a loss by Boston and dub's carenr list with 2,337 a defmtt for Detroit. It's almost hits. as though th1~ Nnw York "Bernie's probably rtot too Yankees won three times happy," Torre said. Monday night. "Bernie probably doesn't even 
llideki Matsui brokn out of a know how many hits he has," long slump with a go-ahnad Jeter countered. homer. Phil Hughes earned his Baltimore, which surprisingly first win at Yankee Stadium and leads the season series 8-5, has Nnw York bnal tlw Orioles 8-5 dropped 20 of 26 overall. The to move doser to a playotl' spot. 6-l'oot-IJ Cabrera fell to 0-5 in 
Hughes got hnlp from a hi~ past six starts and tied St. bullpen that escapml two bases­Louis' Kip Wells for the most loaded jams. Alex Hodriguez losses in the majors. rnat1:hnd his high for HBls in a "There's a lot of losing on my season and the Yankees got record right now and it's not a within 3 l/2 games of AL East­good feeling. Seventeen losses leading Boston with 12 remain­is tough for anybody," Cabrera ing. That's their smallest defieit said. sinee before play on April 22. Cabrera took a no-hit bid into 
New York also inereased its the ninth inning at Yankee wild-card lead to :~ 1/2 games Stadium last September before ov.~~r tl~e Tigers. . his buddy, Hobinson Cano, 
We vn como too far and broke it up with a one-out sin­worked too hard to start count­gill. ing your ehips," manager Jon "There's one inning or maybe Torre said. two in the game where he just 
Tho Yankees took two of three seems to lose it," Orioles man­at Fenway Park last we1~k1md to ager Dave Trembley said. eap a 7-2 trip. then quickly got "There's a lot of work for focused on Baltimore. No. IJ Daniel to do to become a suc­backs for the Cleveland Indians, step of the dugout, poured onto lead was cut to 3 1/2 games hatter Doug Minntkiewicz hit a cessful major league pitcher. who pulled off their most the field as Cleveland fans over the New York Yankees. two-run single, Jorgn Posada The numbers tell you what you important one yet. danced in the aisles. That's the smallest division had thrnn hits and Bobby Abreu are." "This symbolizes the way our Blake, who pumped his lists margin for the Red Sox since drove in two runs as New York year has gone," pitcher Paul in delight during a horne-run before play on May 2. waited out an ineonsistent Indians 6, Tigers 5 (11) Byrd said. "Just when you think sprint, was greeted at the plate "We've got to grind it out," Daniel Cabrera (9-17). Since April, they've overcome we're going to fold, something by his teammates, who pound­Tim Wakefield said. 
The Yankens (86-64) have bad weather, late-inning miraculous happens." ed him in celebration and then Thomas honwred twice off won 10 or 12, improving to a deficits and lingering doubts. Casey Blake homered with hopped in unison as fireworks the knuckleballer, then hit his season-best 22 games over It's been a season ol' come-one out in the 11th inning as exploded above Jacobs Field. third against rnlieV(U Kyle the Indians rallied for a come­"It's probably the biggest Snyder. Thomas had three from-behind win Monday night game we've played all year," homers one other time -hit­over the Detroit Tigers, who slid said Blake, who felt winning the ting all of them oil' Wakefield at 5 1/2 games back in an AL opener was imperative. "First. Eenway Park on Sept. 15, 1996. Central race that could soon be second, third. We need them "I remember it like it was yes­over. all. But to lose the first one terday," said Waknlield ( 16-11). 
Blake turned on a 1-2 pitch would have been tough. That's "There's a reason he's got 512 from Zach Miner (3-4) and why I was so fired up." homers. If you make mistakes drove it into the left-l'ield to him, they leave the yard bleachers for his second game­Blue Jays 6, Red Sox 1 pretty quick." ending homer in four days, a A milestone night for Frank Thomas said he had extra shot that lowered the Indians' Thomas meant more trouble for motivation on that day 11 years magic number to seven and the suddenly stumbling Boston ago. inched them eloser to their first Red Sox. "It was funny bncause Mo postseason appearance since Thomas hit three home runs Vaughn is a very good friend of' 2001. to lift the Toronto Blue Jays mine and he hit two that day," 
The Indians, who collapsed in over the Red Sox on Monday Thomas said. "We were really the final week of the 2005 sea­night, raising his total to 512 going at each other." son and missed the playoffs, and tying Ernie Banks and Thomas is a career .250 (12­trailed 5-2 in the eighth before Eddie Mathews for 18th on the for-50) hitter against Wakefield. rallying to take the opener of a career list. ''I've had my good days three-game series that could "It was one of those days against him but ovnr the whole decide the division. everything clicked," Thomas haul, he's had the best of me," 
As Blake's homer cleared the said. ''I'm just happy. Heally Thomas said. "Today a couple 
AP wall and he began rounding the happy." flattened out. That happens bases, the Indians, who spent Boston lost for the third time with knuckleball pitchers some­most of the game on the top in four games and its AL East times." 
The Observer accepts classifieds ev~ry business day from 8 a.m. ro 2 f.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 2 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SCHOOL BUS SUBSTITUTE DR I-Brick ranch w/walkout LL,gourmet 2bdrrn house wlbasement, wash-FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do VER NEEDED. Responsible, kitchen, vaulted ceilings. Park-like er/dryer. Corby at Eddy 574-232-ALL HOME GAMES. 574-232-0964. not go it alone. If you or someone WANTED dependable, safety conscious grad street. Close to ND. 574-217-1557 9084. www. victorytickets.com you love needs confidential support 
student sought to drive a school bus Tatiana or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Friendly smiling servers needed. for a private south-side SB school. 3 bdrm house. Walk to NO. Washer ND tickets for sale. Best Prices. Dunn, OP, at 1-7819. For more Full or part time openings. If you are Must be available when needed Call me for a list of properties near & dryer. $750/mo. Good neighbor-574-288-2726. information, visit our website at: friendly and smiling, we will train (flexible) from 7 a.m. to 8:15a.m., NO. 574-217-1557 Tatiana hood. Landlord does yard work. No http://osa.nd.edu/departments/preg­you. Some cook positions available and 3:15p.m. to 4:30p.m. Each trip Pets. No Section 8. Call 574-250-Buying BC/USC tix. 574-277-1659. nant.shtml or see our bi-weekly ad too. Apply in person 52285 US 31 N pays $33. Need a Commercial 1266. in THE OBSERVER. South Bend. Damons Grill eoe Driver License -will train around 
FoR RENT

your schedule and pay for your COL HOUSE FOR RENT CLOSE TO Mark from ABC Cab is Back!!! NOW

PERSONAL

STUDENT WORK $12.75 base-training, but must have residency in CAMPUS (North Shore Triangle Driving for American Cab Co On appt. Flexible schedules. no experi-Indiana. For application/interview LODGING FOR FOOTBALL neighborhood) 3 bedrooms, 1 bath, Wed,Thurs,Fri,Sat,Nights. Cell 574­ence needed, customer sales/serv-call574-291-4200. GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-AJC, dishwasher, washer/dryer, rent Spring Break 2008. Sell Trips, Earn 360-6480. ice, conditions apply, all ages 18+, trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and $750 per month plus utilities. Cash and Go Free. Call for group 
Breakfast Accommodations. Non-Available immediately. Call 243-discounts. Best Deals Guaranteed! "I thought what happens in Vegas 574-273-3835, smoking, Private Baths, Full 7763. Email cventer@nd.edu Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, stays in Vegas." 
FoR SALE 

Breakfasts. Bahamas, S.Padre, Florida. 800--OJ Simpson on his 6 felony www.workforstudents.com 648-4849 or www.ststravel.com charges last week Awesome riverfront new construe-Homes for 08-09. 4-6 b~drooms. 


TICKETS

Babysitter for 16-mo-old boy. lion 12 min. to NO.4 bdr,4bath,mar-Walk to NO. 574-876-7341. For If you or someone you care about Attention all Notre Dame students, Weekdays from 4·7 p.m. ble,ceramics,h/w floors. Football weekends, has been sexually assaulted, visit the football team will be holding Jacuzzi,deck,pier. 574-217-1557 WANTED-NO FOOTBALL TIX. http://osa.nd.edu/departments/rape. open try-outs for the offensive line. Call 574-229-3020. Tatiana call574-532-1408. PLEASE HELP! 574-251-1570 shtml All are encouraged to come. 




OUND THE NATIOl\J 
Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
NCAA Football AP Top 25 Rankings 

team  record  previous  
1  usc  2-0  1  
2  LSU  3-0  2  
3  Florida  3-0  5  
4  Oklahoma  3-0  3  
5  West Virginia  3-0  4  
6  California  3-0  8  
7  Texas  3-0  6  
8  Ohio State  3-0  10  
9  Wisconsin  3-0  7  
10  Penn State  3-0  12  
11  Rutgers  3-0  13  
12  South Carolina  3-0  17  
13  Oregon  3-0  19  
14  Boston College  3-0  21  
15  Clemson  3-0  20  
16  Alabama  3-0  NR  
17  Virginia Tech  2·1  18  
18  Louisville  2·1  9  
19  Hawaii  3·0  24  
20  Texas A&M  3·0  25  
21  Kentucky  3·0  NR  
22  Georgia  2·1  23  
23  South Florida  2·0  NR  
24  Nebraska  2·1  14  
25  Missouri  3·0  NR  
NCAA Football  
USA Today Poll  
team  record  previous  
1  usc  2-0  1  
2  LSU  3-0  2  
3  Florida  3-0  3  
4  Oklahoma  3-0  5  
5  West Virginia  3-0  4  
6  Texas  3-0  6  
7  Wisconsin  3-0  7  
8  California  3-0  8  
9  Ohio State  3-0  10  
10  Penn State  3-0  12  
11  Rutgers  3-0  13  
12  Boston College  3-0  19  
13  Oregon  3-0  21  
14  Clemson  3·0  20  
15  South Carolina  3-0  23  
16  Texas A&M  3-0  18  
17  Virginia Tech  2·1  17  
18  Hawaii  3-0  22  
19  Louisville  2-1  9  
20  Alabama  3-0  NR  
21  Georgia  2-1  25  
22  Nebraska  2·1  14  
23  Kentucky  3-0  NR  
24  South Florida  2·0  NR  
25  Missouri  3-0  NR2  
NCAA Women's Soccer  
NSCAA/adidas Poll  
team  record  previous  
1  Stanford  4-0-0  5  
2  North Carolina  2·1-0  6  
3  Santa Clara  2·0-1  8  
4  Portland  3-1-0  1  
5  Texas A&M  3-1-0  3  
6  UCLA  2·1-0  7  
7  Texas  3·1-0  4  
8  BC  3-0-0  10  
9  Florida  3-1-0  14  
10  Virginia  2-1-1  11  
11  NOTRE DAME  1-2-1  2  
12  Rutgers  4·0-0  12  

around the dial 
MLB 
Cincinnati at Chicago Cubs 3:30p.m., CSN 
WOMEN'S WORLD CUP SOCCER Nigeria vs. United States 11 p.m., ESPN2 

CoMPILED rRoM THE ()nsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 


AP lions quarterback Jon Kitna paces the field after suffering a concussion in the second quarter of Sunday's game against the Vikings. He helped lead his team to a 20-17 victory after returning in the fourth ~1uarter. 
Kitna leads cotneback -with concus:sion 
Associated Press 
ALLEN PARK, Mich.­Detroit quarterback Jon Kitna expected people to snicker and laugh when they heard his explanation for his comeback against Minnesota after getting knocked out of the game with a concussion. 
"It was a miracle," Kitna said Monday. 
Kitna left the game in the second quarter, returned in the fourth and led the Lions to a 20-17 win over the Vikings in overtime on Sunday. 
He said it was the third concussion of his NFL career, and the first since 2001. Kitna said he also had a concussion playing for Seattle against San Francisco in a 1997 presea­son game. 

''I've never felt anything like that, and for it to clear up and go right back to as normal as I can be, is noth­ing short of a miracle," Kitna said. "I just definitely feel the hand of God. That's all it was. You can't explain it. 
"I have no headaches, no symptoms, no lingering effects. But that was the worst my head has ever felt, and the worse my memory was in the second quarter. Yet, after halftime there was nothing." 
The NFL recently announced new guidelines on dealing with concus­sions, including creating a 
IN BRIEF Ecko collects votes to deter­
mine destiny of homerun ball 
SAN FRANCISCO -The fate of Barry Bonds' record-breaking home-run ball is now in the pub­lic's hands after its buyer announced Monday he was taking votes on whether to give the ball to the Hall of Fame, brand it with an asterisk or blast it into space. 
Fashion designer Marc Ecko revealed himself as Saturday's winning bidder in the online auc­tion for the ball that Bonds hit last month to break Hank Aaron's all­time home-run record of 755. The final selling price for No. 756 was $752,467, well above most predic­tions. 
Ecko had not even taken posses­sion of the ball before posting a Web site that lets visitors vote on which of the three outcomes they think the ball most deserves. He said he plans to announce the final tally after voting ends Sept. 25. 

telephone hotline to make it easier to report when a player with a head injury is being forced to practice or play against medical advice. 
Concussions have become an increasingly high priori­ty for Roger Goodell and team officials in the past year. 
"It's about players' safety, and it's good," Lions coach Rod Marinelli said. 
Kitna said the team's medical staff followed prop­er procedures, evaluating him with several questions and by shining a light toward his eyes. The team cleared him to play in the third quarter and he came back in the fourth. 
"They did exactly what they're supposed to do, and that's why I dlidn't push it very hard because I knew how touchy of a subject it is in the league right now," Kitna said. "Finally in the fourth quarter, basically I said, 'I don't have anything. I'm as clear as I was when the game started."' 
He was knocked out of the game in the second quarter and appeared to be out for the rest of the day, standing on the sideline without a helmet. 
"I was out of it. I didn't know anything. I lost coher­ence," Kitna said. "It's one of those things, you should­n't even been able to go back in the game, but it went back to normal and cleared up like it never hap­pened." 

Everett shows ~eater 
strength in hands, legs 
OHCHARD PARK, N.Y. -Kevin Everett is showing some movement in both hands and greater strength in his leg muscles, further positive signs for the BufTalo Bills tight end following a life-threatening spinal-cord injury. 
"Kevin Everett remains medically stable in the intensive care unit, and continues to make daily improvement in his neurological status," Bills doctor John Marzo said Monday in a state­ment released by the team. 
Marzo provided his evaluation after the player was examined Sunday evening by Bills orthopedic surgeon Andrew Cappuccino. 
"Kevin demonstrated increased strength in the muscles of his legs," Marzo said. "In addition, he was able to show some movement in both hands." 
Marzo added that doctors are now beginning to focus on his neurological and muscular system rehabilitation. 
Former Knicks VP testifies 
against Thomas 
NEW YORK -The former Knicks vice president at the center of an explosive sexual hara'isment trial te~;tified Monday that coach lsiah Thomas repmtedly rmled her a vulgar name during business meet­ings. 
"Ile started some sentences with the word bitch, and some sentences he ended with [expletive] bitch, and other times he was spewing curses," said Anucha Browne Sanders, who is seeking $10 mil­lion in damages on her claim that she was fired for accusing Thomas of harassment. 
Browne Sanders, testifying in a soft tone of voice, made her remarks during an aggressive cross examination by Thomas defense attorney, Kathleen Bogas. 
Asked for an example of profane sen­tences used by Thomas, Browne Sanders stated: "Bitch, I don't want these players out in the community" for public appear­ances, and "Bitch, I don't want anything to do with these [expletive] sponsors." 
Tuesday, September 18, 2007

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FooTBALL 

Despite perfect record, Spartans are unsatisfied 
Narrow wins over UAB, Bowling Green and Pittsburgh leave Dantonio, MSU with room for improvement 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mieh. ­Mark Dantonio was 2-0 as a Michigan State assistant in Notrn Damn Stadium. But he knows those numbers will moan even less than the cur­rnnt Spartans' 


:~-0 record on "We haven't about the fight their upcoming accomplished in the Spartans, trip to South the Fighting
anything yet." 
Bend. Irish arc still a 
The first-year team to take head coach at Jonal Saint-Die seriously. MSU isn't con­Spartans defensive end "It's the per­
cerned that 
each of his four 
predecessors 
won thnir first road games 
against the Fighting Irish, 
that the Spartans can become 
the first program to win six 
straight games in Notre Dame 
Stadium or that this year's 
Irish are 0-3 with no offen­
sive touchdowns. 
Dantonio has another objec­
tive for Saturday, and it isn't 
to worry about the following 
week's Big Ten opener 
against 3-0 Wisconsin in 
Madison. 
"We nnnd to become over­
achievnrs," Dantonio said 
Monday afternoon. "And we'll 
eontinue to take steps toward 
doing that, regardless of 
where we are record-wise." 
MSU has achieved as much 
as most people expected with 
wins over UAB. Bowling 
Groen and Pittsburgh, all in 
Spartan Stadium. But with 
each victory coming by a nar­
rower margin, no Spartans 
are satislled. 
"We haven't accomplished anything yet," said defensive end Jonal Saint-Die. named Big Ten Co-Defensive Player of the Week after recording two sacks and two forced fumbles against Pitt. "The last few seasons we were 3-0. One year (2005) we were 4-0. When that 12th game is over, that's when we'll start talk­ing." • 
The Spartans have been smarting for 12 months after squandt~ring a 16-point lead in the final 8:19 and losing 40-:H to Notre Dame, a game that sptdled the beginning of the end for .John L. Smith, the coach Dantonio replaced. It was a soggy, rain-and tear­soaked payback for MSU's 44­41 ovt~rtirne win in 2005. 
"It was a pretty big con­trast," quarterback Brian II oyer said. "Two years ago was on1~ of the top wins I've had at Michigan State. Then, last ynar was one of the low­est lossns." 
With the Spartans favored to win on the road, Notre Dame corning ofT a 38-0 beat­ing at Miehigan and both teams unranked for just the third time in their past 20 meetings, Dantonio vows not to let his team become dis­tracted. 
"From my perspective the Irish have excellent talent and always will," he said. "They have excellent coach­ing. They have tradition. They're backed into a corner a little bit. 
"They played us here last year. You guys know the score on that one. But it's a tradi­tional rival. And any time you have a rivalry game, you need 

to be prepared. So we'll go down there with that mind­set." 
The mind-set is one of respect but not fear. From Hoyer. who grew up thinking Notre Dame was in California, to Saint-Die, who is only concerned 
fect opportunity 
for them to 

really come at us hard," Saint-Die said. 'Trn not downing Notre Dame at all. Things happen. They expected to be good this year. Things haven't gone their way. But that doesn't mean they're not Notre Dame." 
··'"' 

invest in yourself 
You've worked hard on your education, now let GE help you build your career. GE has a world-renowned leadership training program and was named Best Company for leaders by Chief Executive Magazine in 2007. We invite you to invest in yourself with a career in engineering, finance, manufacturing, sales and marketing. human resources. or information technology. 
........ 

• imagination at work 
--------~-----~--------., 

Tuesday, September 18, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Mangini says Pennington will start if healthy 
Despite a 260-yard performance Sunday against Baltimore, Clemens will remain the backup if Pennington is ready 
"If he can, he will," coach Eric week, you assess it throughout
Associated Press 

Mangini said. "We'll just assess the course of the week. The 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -There's it throughout the week, but if progress he made was out­no quarterback controversy he's able to, he will." standing. I was really pleased with the New York Jets. Pennington injured his right with that and that's why he was 
Despite an impressive fourth­ankle when he was sacked in at the 2-spot." quarter performance by backup the third quarter of the Jets' Pennington was not in the Kellen Clemens at Baltimore, season-opening 38-14 loss to locker room Monday, and usual­Chad Pennington will remain the New England Patriots. He ly only speaks to the media on the starter -as long as he's missed one play, but came back Wednesdays and after games. healthy. on New York's next series and "Chad is one of our leaders, 
"Chad's the starter and I'm led the Jets to a touchdown one of our main leaders, espe­the backup. That's been clearly before pulling himself out of the cially on offense," receiver communicated," Clemens said game late in the fourth quarter. Jerricho Cotchery said. "To Monday. "Whoever's healthy He walked with a severe limp have our guys healthy and and ready to go will go on after the game and spent last ready to go for next week would Sunday and we trust the coach­week rehabbing the injury. He be a big plus." es to put us in the best position improved to the point that he Clemens said he wasn't ever to hopefully get that first victo­was listed as the No. 2 quarter­told he was going to start ry." back, even telling reporters against the Ravens -even 
Whether that means after the game that he was when the game started. Pennington, who didn't play in ready to play. "As soon as our defense the 20-13 loss to the Ravens "He did a really great job with forced that first punt, I just kind because of an ankle injury, will his rehab," Mangini said. "He of jogged out on the field and be healthy enough to start worked incredibly hard at it. It nobody told me not to," said against the Miami Dolphins was one of those things where, Clemens, wearing an Oregon­remains to be seen. just like we're talking about this themed T-shirt with the words 

<X:> 2007 KPMG LLP, the U.S. member firm of KPMG International, a Swiss cooperative. No phone calls or agencies please. KPMG is an Affirmative Action, Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/DN. KPMG maintains a drug-free workplace. 
"Getting The Job Done" printed on it. 
The second-year quarterback certainly made a case for him­self to see more action with an impressive second half against the Ravens. He was bottled up in the first half, going 4-of-9 for 
Clemens had three passes on the final drive that could've been caught for tying touch­downs, but were dropped. Receivers Justin McCareins and Laveranues Coles took the blame after the game, as did Clemens, for not coming through at the end. 
"There were some big throws that we had some opportunities to do something with and I missed," said Clemens, who fin­ished 19-of-37 for 260 yards a touchdown and two intercep­tions. "We'll work on that." 
When asked if he's confident he can be an NFL starter even if he might have taken his last snaps in a game this season, Clemens grimaced. 
"That's highly possible," Clemens said. "Gosh, on that one I can only speak on what I proved to myself, and that was in the fourth quarter, it was a nice boost of confidence against a very good defense. In a pretty hostile environment, we were able to move the ball in a game that wasn't going too smoothly. We battled back and made a pretty dang good game out of it. That helps confidence for me, considering the limited action that I've had." 
Clemens took some hard hits from the Ravens, especially in the first half. He was sacked four times and was forced to hurry a number of throws. 
"There's some soreness, there is, but it's a good soreness," Clemens said. "It's a lot better to be sore because you were playing than because you were standing around on the sideline the whole time. A little bit of soreness, but that just comes with playing, and it feels good to be a part of it." 

skills experience wealth character communities networks a life 
At KPMG, we network across the globe to help businesses respond to an always-evolving global economy. We're focused on Global Mobility ­with international internships, training and assignments that can broaden your abilities and help us share knowledge across 
borders. 
The KPMG International Network of Firms is the second-largest of the Big Four firms offering services outside of the U.S. Continuing success in this arena requires that our people think and act globally. 

From the moment you start building your career at KPMG in the U.S., you can be exposed to opportunities for international training, experiences and assignments that enable our people to be the very best at working in the business environment-in the U.S. and abroad. 
Find out more about how you can build your networks, your global experience, and your career at KPMG. 
kpmgcareers.com 
A great place to build your career. 
AUDIT • TAX • ADVISORY 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
NFL 

Kiffin disgusted with passing game 
of his ability to manage the
Raiders coach says 

game, McCown threw three McCo-wn still starter interceptions against the Broncos and has five throughdespite sub-par play two games. If that doesn't change soon, Culpepper eould 
get the nod. 
Associated Press 

"Josh has got to get better, 
that's no seeret, or he won't be 
ALAMIWA, Calif. -Lane our starting quarterbaek for K i ITi n is sticking with Josh long, nspeeially at this paee," McCown as his starting quar­Kiflin said. terback this week against Arter getting booed in his Cleveland even af'tor the debut with the Haiders despite Oakland coach called tho throwing for 313 yards and Haiders' passing ganw "embar­two touchdowns, McCown fig­rassi n~(' in ures to get more their latnst of the same loss. treatment this 
McCown wPnt week.
"Our passing game 
H-f'or-1 6 for 7:~ With a former yards and orw was basically Pro Bowl player touchdown and embarrassing." in Culpepper and throe intercep­thP No. 1 overall tions, failing to piek in JaMarcus
Lane Kiffin 

goneratn any Hussell waiting consistent Raiders coach in the wings, 
ofTenso through the air against tlu~ Broncos. But KiiTin said Monday that Md:own gives the team a bPt­tPr chanc1• to win than Daunto Culpnppnr and would rnrnain tho starter at least for this 
WIH~k. 
"Our passing game was basi­cally embarrassing," Kiflin said Monday. "That falls on all of us. from up front to the r·eceivcrs to the baeks to the quarterback to the eoaehes, all of us. It's obviously sornnthing we need to improve on." 
Given tho job in part because MeCown is dear­
ly not the fan 

favorite in Oakland. 
"I don't got caught up in it because it does me no good," McCown said. "It's just going to bring me down. I have to play to a standard that I want to and as bad as the fans may think that you play or whatever, this is just something they go and watch, and they go and get enjoyment from. This is my life, this is my job. If they want me to do better than just imagine how much I want to do better and how well I want to play." 
SMC VoLLEYBALL 

An1anda David helps Belles get back on track 
By SAMANTHA LEONARD 'Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's has had a roller­coastnr season so far, winning it<; season opener and then dropping it<> next live matchns. Aftnr going 2-2 in the Hiram Ohio Tournament last weekend, the Bellps seem to have finally settled into a groove. 
Saint Mary's has won four of it<; last five, largely due to better teamwork and the leadership of its more experienced players. 
One of the key catalyst<> in the tnam 's transformation has been senior setter Amanda David, who transferred to Saint Mary's her sophomore ynar. 
David was not a settnr before she arrived at Saint Mary's, but has seamlessly grown into the role, avflraging 9.72 setting assist<; a game. Slw also leads the tnam in snrvice aees with 15 in tho first 11 matches. She has con­tributed on def'nnsn. with an aver­age of . 79 kills and l.H7 digs a game. 
"She has done an outstanding job adapting to the sntting role," SdmH~dN-Biek said. "She trans­li~rred in <L<> a libPro. I love setters that arn dnf'nnsivn minded. She has t.he brain of a settnr -she knows thn gamn, she knows her hitters and also, knows when shn 

needs to be an offensive threat 
herself." 
But David said she was unsure not only about growing into a new position but also about con­tinuing to play the sport at all. I fer first days as a Belle showed her she would fit in on the team, she said. 
"Onee I visited campus and met .Julie (Schronder-Biekl for the first time I knew immediately that Saint Mary's is where I belonged," David said. "I could not picture myself anywhere else." 
Schroeder-Biek is also glad David chose to become a Belle. 
"Amanda is an amazing leader," the coaeh ·said. "She is a strong eompetitor, and the play­ers really fi~ed ofl' of her drive." 
David said she has eonfidenee in her team's blend of experience and youth. 
"Some of the younger players from last year are really stepping up, and the first years bring a unique competitive edge to the eourt," David said. 
In its last match, a win over Alma, Sehroeder-Biek said her team startnd to eliek. 
"I really liknd our fight," Sehronder-Biek said. "I felt that the tnam really bonded together with tlwir drive to win." 
Contact Samantha Leonard at sleonaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
NHL 

NHL to play outdoors in Buffalo 
New Year's Day clash will be first outdoor game played in U.S. 
Associated Press 

OHCHARD PAHK, N.Y. ­Sidney Crosby will show off his passing skills at the same place Jim Kelly did for years ­in front of shivering fans at Buffalo's Halph Wilson Stadium. 
It'll be pucks instead of foot­balls and the home team will be the Sabres and not the Bills. 
Crosby and the Pittsburgh Penguins will face Buffalo on New Year's Day in the first out­door NIII. game in the United States. It will be the second time the league staged such an event in tho regular season, eoming more than four years after the Montreal Canadiens faced the Oilers outside on a frigid November day in Edmonton. 
The olTieial announeement was made Monday at the 74,000-seat stadium, where the league attendance reeord is expected to be broken. 
''I'm excited," said Crosby, the 20-year-old reigning MVP. "I think it's going to be a great experience for everyone. We all watehed the Edmonton­Montreal game. We've all pre­pared for this at some point in our careers, playing outside, so I think it's going to be a lot 
o.f fun for us and for the fans." 

Preparations for the historic game are expected to begin on Christmas Eve, the day after the Bills play the New York Giants in Buffalo's final regu­lar-season home game. A refrigeration system will be installed to make the ice and the process will be supervised by Dan Craig, the NHL's ice expert. 
"There is something vnry special about taking hockey out into the elements, back to its roots, back to the place where so many boys and girls first learned to love the game," NHL commissioner Gary Bettman said on the stadium's bright green turf, which will be transformed into an ien rink. 
Buffalo was chosen for its dependably cold winters and proximity to Pittsburgh, from where fans are expected to honest," Crosby said of play­ing outsidP. "But to be part of it, we really feel fortunate." 
Sabres goalie Hyan Miller was in net for Michigan State for its 2001 outdoor "Cold War" with Michigan, when shadows and wind were unique challenges. 
"I got off tho ice after that game and I was red in the race, windburned, and my toes were frozen," Miller said. ''I'm hoping I learned a little bit and can make some adjustments and figure out how to stay warm." 
The Sabres have reached 
the Eastern 
Conference 

make the 225­ "There is something  finals each of  
mile trip in droves. The NIIL already is  very special abaout taking hockey out  the past two seasons. Tho Penguins, built  
making plans  into the elements."  around  young  
to organize bus  stars  Crosby  
excursions and hold hotel  Gary Bettman  and rookie of the year Evgeni  
rooms.  NHL commissioner  Malkin,  are  

"The average temperature in the beginning of January, end of December is 25 degrens," Bettrnan said. "That's exactly what we're hoping for. A little overcast ... We prefer that there be no lake-effect snow or any ollwr precipitation." 
A normal Jan. 1 snowfall in Buffalo is less than an inch, according to National Wnather Service records. Temperatures have varied from 0 degrees in 1970 to 63 in 1985. 
Tickets, ranging from $29 to $225, were scheduled to go on sale Tuesday morning. The game will be televised by NBC against college football bowls. 
"I never thought it was going to happen again, to be hoping to get to 
that level soon. 
"We have a young team so it's not that long ago that our young players were actually playing on ponds," Penguins president David Morehouse said. "Whether it be Sidney Crosby in Canada, Evgeni Malkin in Hussia or Hyan Whitney in the United States ... they're very excited and enthusiastie." 
Bettman said the NIIL will pay for the event, expected to eost "well into the seven figures." A eontingeney plan is in the works in case the weather doesn't cooperate. 
The league's only previous outdoor non-exhibition game drew 57,167 fans to Edmonton's Commonwealth Stadium in November 2003. 


lJNIVERSITY Of' NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL PROGRAM IN 
PARIS, FRANCE 
ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-9 
For Social Science and History majors with a good level of French 
INFORMATION MEETING 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,6:30 pm 202 DBRT 
APPLICATIONS: http://www.nd.edu/--ois 

.--------------------~ 
Tuesday, September 18, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
PGA 
Scary thought: Woods playing better than 1ever 
After four victories in last five starts, Woods reveals he has not needed extra practice since the British Open 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Four victories in his last five starts is proof enough that Tiger Woods is more dominant than ever, especially considering he won those four tournaments by a combined 20 shots and shattered tournament scoring records in consecutive weeks. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUUY l'ROGRAMS IN 
DUBLIN, IRELAND 
Fall 2008, SPRING 2009, A Y 2008-9, SUMl\tlER 2008 
INFORlJ.IATION MEETING 
Wednesday, September 19,2007 5: 00 pm 141 DeBartolo 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2007 FOR FALL. SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2008-9 MARCH I, 2008 FOR SUMMER 2008 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/"-''is 
Investment Banking. Equity Research. 
Baird is <1 leading investment bank creating tailored, objective solutions for the middle marker. Baird provides new Investment Banking ana lysrs unique opporrunities ro directly impact rhe success of projects including public equity offerings. sell--side and buy-side M&A and in­depth srraregic executions. In Equiry Research, we involve new an;llysts in a wide range of industry-and company--specific research right from the starr. \V'e are honored to be recognized as Middle Market Bank of rhe Year hlr 2006 hy l!ll!e;tment Detder/ Digm. 


Visit Baird at the Career Fait on September 19 from 4-8 p.m. 
414-765-55()3 
johs@rwbaird.~:om 
More evidence came from his caddie as he waited for Woods to arrive for the final round of the Tour Championship. 
"He hasn't hit a practice ball since the British Open," Steve Williams said. "I've been with him nearly 10 years now, and this is the best I've ever seen him hit the ball." 
No practice? Not quite. 

What he meant was that Woods has such command over his game that he stopped going to the practice range after his rounds since returning home from Carnoustie. 
Woods confirmed as much when he left East Lake with his two trophies -one for the Tour Championship, one for the FedEx Cup. 

"Hey, there was no need to go," he said with a shrug and a smile. 
Whether this is the best he has ever played is up for debate, but don't expect Woods to partici­pate. He is always looking for­ward, always trying to figure out a way to get better. That's what makes it so daunting for the guys trying to reach his level. They know they have to get better, and that's assuming Woods doesn't continue to improve himself. 
So far, that hasn't happened. 
Since his latest round of swing changes took root at the end of 2004, Woods has won 21 times on the PGA Tour. That's more than Phil Mickelson, Vijay Singh and Jim Furyk combined over the last three years. 
And the truly scary part is that Woods. at age 31, might still be years away from his prime. 
"I don't know  ''I've been with him  ter balance. That  
when it's going to  nearly 10 years now,  made it appear  
be," Woods said. "The whole idea is to try and keep  and this is the best I've ever seen him  he was standing closer to the ball. Swing coach  
improving. When  hit the ball. ,,  Hank Haney has­ 
all is said and  n't  seen  much  
done, when you rack the cue and  Steve Williams  change the last two years, with  
go  home  and  Woods' caddie  one  exception.  

retire, you can honestly say, 'These were my best years, when I was at my peak.' But when you're in it, you're always trying to improve that a little bit to get to the next level." 
As the trophies keep piling up, the numbers are simply stagger­ing. 
Woods now has won 61 times in just more than 11 full years on the PGA Tour. Jack Nicklaus was 36 when he captured his 61st tour victory. He has won 28 per­cent of the time since turning pro, and that if that number is hard to fathom alone, consider than Mickelson has won 9 per­cent of his tournaments, Singh is at 8 percent and Ernie Els at 6 percent. 
Woods' final putt for par at East Lake put him at 23-under 257 for the lowest 72-hole score of his career, and six shots better than the previous record at the Tour Championship. A week ear­lier at Cog Hill, he broke the tournament record by five shots at 22-under 262, winning by two over Aaron Baddeley. 
With his 2007 season in the books -all he has left is the Presidents Cup and his Target World Challenge in December ­Woods finished with a 6 7. 79 adjusted scoring average, equal­ing his record from the 2000 sea­son. 
And while the $10,867,052 was short by $38,114 of the record Singh set in 2004, the big Fijian played 29 times that year. Woods played in only 16 tourna­ments. That's an average of $172,493 per round. 
Woods said the latest adjust­ment since the British Open, where he tied for 12th, was sim­ply shifting the weight more toward the balls of his feet for bet­
\-\'hat he watched 

with regularity on the range at Woods' home course in Isleworth, he now sees more often inside the ropes on the PGA Tour. 
"I've seen him play like this and hit the ball like this the last couple of years -for sure the last year-but most of times I've seen that, it's been at Isleworth," Haney said Sunday from his home in Dallas. "It's only been bits and pieces in tournaments." 
It's still not perfect. 
Woods lunged at one tee shot on the 16th hole at East Lake in the opening round, scolding him­self when it sailed to the right. 
"Tiger Woods!" he said through clenched teeth. "Trust your swing." 
Haney believes that trust was evident at Oakmont in the third round of the U.S. Open, when Woods hammered a driver down the middle of the fairway on his way to perhaps his best ball­striking round of the year. He hit 17 greens in regulation that day. 
"I know what that hole feels like to him. It's really tight," Haney said. "On the practice tee, he said, Tm driving the ball in the fairway.' And he piped it right down the middle, then did the same thing ou Sunday. I felt that was big turning point in his confidence." 
Woods didn't see it that way. 
In his eyes, the turning point came at the Western Open last July. He had just missed the cut in a major for the first time, opened with a 7"2 at Cog Hill, then spent hours that Thursday afternoon on the practice range. It was hard work, but enjoyable. 
For the first time since his father died, it was fun. 


Hottrs. Tue.NJt.'<lif-t!.-9:00a.m.to5:00pm. 1l'.u.-12:001'1Cmto7:00p.m 
Sat --ld:OC«.m. m1:00 n.m. 
r-.1m.··{):Eied 
EWA HAIR STUDIO 
Te::{574,W.·3!;~{ 9f~S-~St 
S.."!Jt.PA:XI.lf\!4ff.A)1 
for women and children 25% off for students 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Walsh prepares to battle Cavanaugh 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer 
Both Cavanaugh and Walsh havn high hopns going into tonight's 8 p.m. game at Hiehle Field. 
The Chaos hope they can rnbound from a disappointing 2006 campaign. Senior captain Tarah Brown is confident about hnr tnam's chances this year. 
"[Our goal is[ to go to the sta­dium and win the whole thing," Brown said. "We were disap­pointnd with last season and want to avenge ourselves. Wn're looking a lot better so far." 

Cavanaugh has a number of experienced players rnturning from last ynar's squad, including junior starting quarterback Katie Dunn. Almost every start­ing defendnr, along with the receiving corps, is an uppnr­dassman. 
Tho Chaos know what they have to do to dnfnat thnir arch­rival. 
"[Walsh[ is usually pretty intensn. We just have to get out them and play hard at thn very beginning," Brown said. "We just havn to play hard and fast and do what we've been practking." 
The Wild Women, meanwhile, will look to build on Sunday's 13­7 win over l'asquerilla East. 

"Our offense was really con­necting well with one another, and our defense was really doing everything to stop them," senior captain Marie Brenner said. "We still havn a lot of stuff to imple­ment, but we really want to build on what we did [on Sunday[." 
The kny to the Walsh ollimse is senior quarterback Mary Sullivan, who had one rushing and one passing touchdown against Pasquerilla East. Sierra Smith, Sullivan's favorite target on Sunday, will likely have another big game at receiver for the Wild Women. 
The defense, which con­tributed two interceptions in the first game, also looks to continue its dominance and maintain the momentum gained from the first win. 
"We just need to keep up the enthusiasm," Brenner said. "The ofl'ense and defense need to keep doing what they've been doing." 
But while she is confident, Brenner is not underestimating Cavanaugh. 
"They have ~:,rreat athlet1~s and work together really well," she said. "They're a very similar team to us." 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

PVY~,P~y p~~ 
Appl;yt&S~Alw~L¥vS~ M~ 
2008·9 

· PUEBLA,MEXICO Fall semester pre·med program Spring semester general program INTERNSHIPS 
MONTERREY, MEXICO 
Business and Engineering courses available Beginning Spanish courses offered Business and Engineering, INTERNSHIPS 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Tuesday, September 18, 5:30 PM 
202 DEBARTOLO 

APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15, 2007 
APPUCATIONS AVAILABLE: http://www.nd.edu/""OiS 


AND FOR TI-lE STLIDENT VVI-10 ATTENDS TI-lE MOST GAMES... GRAND PRIZE: ROLIND TRIP AIRFARE FOR TVVO TO IRELANDI 
Plti!SI!NTI!D BY: 

!Qcrocs· 

FIRST GAME: OFFICIAL GOLD RLISI-1 T -SI-IIRT FIFTI-1 GAME: ADIDAS LANV ARD TENTI-1 GAME: NOTRE DAME CROCS 
Tuesday, September 18, 2007 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
roster and put Pangborn at a distinct two passing touchdowns and two took the lead on Jenkins' touchdown down to take a 19-0 lead into half­disadvantage. interceptions, earning praise from reception. The Ducks defense held time. The team then added two
Opener 
"When we're matching up num­many teammates. the Shamrocks offense at bay to seal quick scores in the second half to ber-wise, you'd see Welsh with only "She has an amazing arm," said the win. extend its lead to 3::-0. 
continued from page 24 
offensive players and only defensive sophomore receiver Mary Jenkins, One Duck in particular showed Breen-Phillips scored its two 
players and so during practice who caught the second touchdown outstanding toughness. Senior touchdowns after any doubt had think that's a big part of it," Welsh they're able to practice the whole pass. Catherine Krug took a blow to the been removed about the result of the senior captain Kelly Bushelle said. time," Goodwin said. 'We don't have Despite her strong showing, face in the first half and left the game. "We're all working together really enough players to do that, so we're Bishop remained humble and game with a broken nose. She Pasquerilla West captain Tina well right now." having to switch the whole time, so focused, citing areas in which she remained on the sidelines for the Martinek was plea:;ed with how the 
The chemistry among the on top of inexperience it's tough to wanted the team to improve. majority ofthe game to cheer on her Purple Weasels ph.yed and knows Whirlwinds upperclassmen was evi­learn when you don't have many "We would like to try and get teammates before finally being that the team now l1as a target on its dent between receiver Bushelle and people on the field." some more girls out to practice and escorted out by paramedics. back. her co-captain, junior quarterback Pangborn's offense was led by sharpen our game," she said. "We "People will be gunning for us Jenni Gargula. The pair hooked up sophomore captain Meghan really need to work on our run Pasquerilla West 33, Breen­now. We have to make sure that we for a key touchdown late in the sec­Bescher, a receiver, and freshman game in particular." Phillips 18 stay focused and continue to work ond half that helped seal the game quarterback Gabby Tate. The two McGlinn, meanwhile, watched a The Babes had no answer for for our goal," Ma1inek said. "We for Wel'lh Family. hooked up seven times, twice for 7-0 halftime lead slip away and was Grace Orians, Breen-Phillips fresh­cannot get cocky; we just have to 
Gargula also threw three more touchdowns and were consistently disappointed afterward. Shamrocks man quarterback, who ran for four continue to buc:de down each touchdown passes, two to sopho­the center of the Phoxes' offense. senior Katie Zedler cited her team's touchdowns and threw for another game." more receiver Mary Oare Rodriguez Despite some evident weaknesses lack of cohesiveness and experience as the Purple Weasels triumphed and one to junior Kricky for the Phoxes, Bescher said she felt as part ofthe reason for the loss. Sunday. Walsh 13, Pasq1.1erilla East 7 Szezepaniec. good about the game. "We have a really young team," The defense also played excep­Walsh got its se<Json off to a suc­
While Wel'lh Family had the luxu­"We saw some good things, and Zedler said. "We made some mis­tionally well for Pasquerilla West, cessful start by defi tating Pasquerilla ry of relying on experience, we'll just build on that," she said. takes, but at the same time, we need allowing only two first downs and East 13-7 Sunday. Pangborn returned only two starters "Not a bad first showing, could have to get the kinks worked out. We will forcing two interceptions. Walsh's offensr asserted itself from last year's second-plru::e squad. been better, but I just think we'll come out strong on Tuesday." The Purple Weasels' running early, driving the lnngth of the field The lack of experience, combined focus on defense and we can be The game had some bright spots game asserted itself during its first on its first posse~'sion before the with the fact that the team has had pretty effective. Now that [the fresh­for the Shamrocks, who have the possession. Orians was able to take Pyros stopped the Wild Women one practice all season, made the men] have a game under our belt pieces in place to rebound and make advantage ofsuperb blocking by her short ofthe goallintl. Phoxes' firSt game an adventure. we should be fine." a solid run for the rest ofthe season. offensive line for a 50-yard touch­After holding P.E. to a quick three­
Pangborn coach Kevin Goodwin Each team plays its next game Shamrocks junior quarterback down run on the first drive of the and-out, Walsh sophomore Sierra said the inexperience only com­Thursday, with Welsh Family going Sarah de Groot rushed for their only game. Smith returned the Pyros punt to pounded his team's difficulties. up against Breen-Phillips and touchdown and displayed flashes of After a missed extra-point midfield. A long pass from senior 
"lt wasn't that they don't know Pangborn taking on Badin. what could be a solid passing game. attempt, the Babes moved the ball quarterback Mary :;;ullivan to sopho­how to play-it's just that it leads to She connected deep to junior Lulu about 25 yards down the field until a more Meghan Hadley put Walsh on mnfusion when the other team has Howard 13, McGlinn 7 Meraz several times, but McGlinn Pasquerilla West interception the 5-yard line, anc Sullivan ran the so many set plays, and we're trying In a defensive battle, Howard could not find the end zone again. snuffed out the attack. ball in for a score Jn the next play. to sub people in and everyone's still picked up the come-from-behind In the second half, the Ducks After a sustained drive on the Another pass from Sullivan to unsure of their roles on the team," win over McGlinn Sunday. seized the momentwn and tied the ensuing possession, Orians was able Hadley gave Walsh the extra point he said. The Ducks rode their freshman game on a touchdown pass from to punch it in for the 13-0 and a 7-0 lead. 
Goodwin said the graduation ofso quarterback and defensive back Bishop to sophomore Priscilla Pasquerilla West lead. The Purple The Pyros put together a strong many key players led to a depleted Kayla Bishop to victory. Bishop had Longoria. One possession later, they Weasels scored one more touch-drive of their own .:tt the end of the 
first half that included four strong runs by freshman r mning back Jess Leiferman. But the drive ended when Wtld Women defender Kristen Keve intercepted l'asquerilla East freshman quart,~rback Caitlin Lynch's pass in the end zone. 
Walsh scored a;~ain on its f1rst drive ofthe second half, this time on a 35-yard pass from Sullivan to Smith. Smith made the catch in traf­fic and outran Pyros defenders to the end zone. Aftrr a failed extra point attempt, the Wild Women led 13-0. 
Smith, who had three receptions on the day, was named MVP of the game for Walsh. 
"Sierra really stepped up and made some big pla:IS for us," Walsh offensive coach Chris Cugliari said. 
Pasquerilla East :'tarted to find an offensive rhythm bte in the game, scoring on a long prss from Lynch to senior captain Caroline Nally with 
1:19 left. Leiferman's run to convert the extra point cut the lead to 13-7. 
Walsh was able to run out the clock on its next possession and secure the win. 
Coaches Dan Brwm and Jeremiah Herman attributed the Wild Women's success 11) their ability to shut down Pasquerilla East's passing game. 
'We matched up well defensively," Herman said. 'We didn't have to do too much blitzing or changing cover­ages." 
Pyros coaches named Lynch their game MVP. Despite being named the starter only late this week, she com­pleted nine of 16 passes while throwing for a touehdown. But like the rest of the Pyros offense, it took some time for Lynch to find her rhythm. 
"We started off a little shaky," Pasquerilla East assistant coach Brian Rycyna said. "But we definite­ly improved as the game went on." 
Pyros head coach Spencer Longhofer attributed the sluggish start to a lack of practice time and was confident the team will find a groove. 
"We expect to improve a lot by Tuesday," Longho~er said. "A one­loss season is our goal right now." 




THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR THE STUDY OF 
--u presents 
Cushwa Center Lecture 
A~nerican Catholicis~n in a World Made S~nall: The Fusion and Fracturing ofa Global Identity, 1945-1989 
Joseph Chinnici~ O.F.M. Franciscan School of Theology 
Wednesday, September 19, 2007 4:15 p.1n. DeBartolo Hall, Room 102 
Femicide at our us Border: 
To Be a woman 1n Juarez is a Death sentence 
~:~.-~ 

"" ' .~ .. ' ' ' . "-~.,
' ' 

y <t *<$ ',:. f'.. # ~ --X. ,::t...'l'.' 
Brought to yoiiby MultisuJ!ural Student Program$ 
,, :'Ge~~~~~~c:s Cen!e(,"artdthe:::neA~s ., 
/ • , uExpanding the Cros;'roads 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu, Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.4!du, Griffin Dassani at gdassatt@nd.edu, Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu and Peter Reisena.ur at preisena@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 18, 2007 
Executing 
continued from page 24 
first goal in each of their two 
contests. 
But neither first-half deficit kept the Irish from dominating or opened up the floodgates like the one in the Santa Clara game did. Notre Dame still had ample opportunities to win, and the team took advantage of enough chances against Princeton to do just that. Aftflr falling behind 1-0 in the 22nd minute, the Irish stormed back to win 4-2. 
But against No. 16 Oklahoma State, Notre Dame's luck ran out. The squad mustered nine shots in the first half but headed into the break trailing 1-0. When Irish junior forward Kerri llanks finally sent one into the baek of the net with about 22 minutes left in regulation, the team looknd rolitwed, knowing it should have tied the seore long bnli1rc that. 
"We dearly dominated," Waldrum said. "We should have scornd live in the second half." 

Irish midflelder Amanda Cinalli fights for a ball during Notre Dame's 2-1 overtime loss to Oklahoma State Sunday. 
And, even though they eouldn't strike again before the dock ran out, the Irish appeared to carry their seeond-halfmomentum into overtime. That is, until one of the weekend's numerous defensive miscues did them in. 
Just 79 seconds into the extra 
period, Oklahoma State senior 
midfidder Sa'ia Jaekson ended 
the contest after the Irish 
defense failed to dear the ball 
from inside the penalty box. 
"In that situation, you just have to get the ball out," Waldrum said. 
The attackers could have bailed their defense out earlier by converting one or two more golden opportunities. And the baek line could have given the offense a few more chances by playing smart soccer. 
But the bottom line is that nei­ther group played well where it counl'> the most-around the net. 
The oiews in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Obsemer. 
Contact Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd. edu 
VANESSA GEMPIS!The Observer 
Clark 
continued from page 24 
Riley, another of Clark's former players, joined the Notre Dame staff. Riley graduated from Notre Dame in 2004 in second place on the all-time assists list. He was named to the Big East all-conference team three times in his career. Riley spent 

two years coaching elsewhere before returning to South Bend. 
''I'm very lucky because both my assistants played for me," Bobby Clark said. "They know the game and they know our philosophy." 
The three-headed coaching monster was successful right away. Notre Dame advanced to the NCAA quarterfinals in its first year as a group, and so far in 2007, the No. 8 Irish are 3­1-1. 
Bobby Clark said neither of his assistants hesitate to vocal­ize their ideas, and he believes their youth helps them relate to the players. 
"They've been through it all," he said. "I really encourage them to have their own input." 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Tean1s prepare for shovvdowns 
By RACHEL PLASSMEYER and LAURA MEYERS Sports Writers 
McGlinn vs. Farley 
McGlinn hopes to bounce back from its 13-7 loss to Howard and start anew against Farley tonight. 
"We hope to come out strong," Shamrocks senior captain Taryn Lewis said. "It was a tough loss on Sunday, but we're still hoping to come out with a win against Farley." 
Lewis saw a few bright spots in the loss, including the performances of freshman Kathleen Stanley and junior quarterback Sarah deGroot. 
Farley presenl'i a tough test for the Shamrocks ommse. Finest jun­ior eaptain JHnny Holls pointed to the defense a'> one of the strongest parts of her team. 
"We have a lot of returning play­ers," Holf5 said. "We're pretty confi­dent in our team thi<; year." 
Farley, which has yet to play this season, plans to beat the Shamrocks by running simple plays and pro­tecting il'> defense. The Finest hope to begin a run to the playofls and repeat last year's trip to the semifi­nals, the team's best-ever fini'ih. 

As the Finest begin a season they hope will end in Notre Dame Stadium, the Shamrocks look for redemption. 
"We're just looking to be competi­tive in a really tough league," Lewis said. "We'll see." 
The two teams will meet at 9 p.m. at Riehle Field. 
Pasquerilla East vs. Howard 
Pa.squerilla East ha<; a chance to redeem itself against a talented Howard team t.onight at 7 p.m. 
While the Pyros are coming olf a 13-7 loss to Walsh. Ducks freshman captain Mary Jnnkins said hnr team will try to build on the momentum it gained in a 13-7 victory over McGlinn Sunday. 
"I was surprised at our last game," Jenkins said. "We played really well, considering our only practice was 45 minutes before 
kickofl'." She also made note of Howard's success in spreading the field. 
Against Farley, Howard junior Christina Sensabaugh helped run an elfective offense, and junior Kate Sylvia played well on both sides of the ball. Sophomore Priscilla Longoria, a quick running back, energized the running game. Freshman quarterback Kayla Bishop scored two touchdowns, one rushing and one pa<;sing. 
"Kayla is a driving force in the huddle. She's very composed for a freshman," Jenkins said. "Charlie Weis ean a'ik Kayla if hn's looking for the next quartnrba.ck -with her, our ommse isn't too shabby, and if I n~membcr right. lloward ha'i scored more touchdowns than Notre Dm11e." 
Pa'>qw~rilla Ea'it's eaptain, jw1ior Megan Beeker, could not be reached li1r comment. 
Contact Rachel Plassmeyer at rplassme@nd.edu and Laura Meyers at lmeyers2@nd.edu 



Men ofNotre Dame ...
Corby Night 
Is God calling you? Join us. 
Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, 
and informal discussion. 
Wednesday, Sept. 19, 8pm at Corby Hall 
vocation.nd.edu 
Questions? call 1-6385 

MICHAEL MIKUSKA 

BLACK DoG 

MATT HUDSON, ANDY MANZA & PAUL TASSINARI 
DEUCES MANOR 

RICH PROTIVA & ANDY SPANGLER 

TASTES LIKE FAILURE 
Nor THEFT... 

59 Goaded, with 
"on" 

60 Like notepaper or subjects of a . king 61 Fed. monitor of stock fraud 62 Midterms and finals 
Down 1 "Spare tire" 2 Content of some 
cones 3 Nailed 4 Farmer's 

headwear 5 Toiletries holders 6 Made amends 
(for) 7 Henry Clay, 
politically 8 Conger or moray 9 Army barber's 
specialty 1 0 Ran off to the marrying judge 11 Italian source of 2-Down 12 White House 
occupant: Abbr. 13 Snippiness 21 Midmonth time 22 Grandson of 
Adam 

24 Love, honor and 
25 Rear end 26 Heavens: Prefix 27Taken 
(surprised) 28 Religion with the 
Five Pillars 29 Small bite 30"Bali 
WILLSHORTZ 


Tuesday, September 18, 2007 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
J u··~11i.J13. 
U'!ir.M~t'blo<-t:I"~Q;;'l',. r .~ uijq,:;, 'll'l'l' lo;ol:t.o;f' t> "h':''l "'"~ IIU"l', ~ t"llln to"JJ r lli"II"Nf ~,>')l'o'i:<;, 
I ORRMA I r1 I II 
I~T.tN. .. IH!I>'.:I.....t.HI, .,., .>IIR!lllb.~ 
I BUICC 
b I
I I I 
TANECC 
I I I I ti] 
.........~-· 
SAUNAEj
[] [
I I I 
P'rl nt a.-.av.rei het"e: 

~[III:;rn 
-:,t..n: !,'.IQI'l; b'lll'l'li'Mio'.(lI.l••l'l:oiQ::;: ~¥.'!flY (':Pi.'fflt-J 'f~·; Et-J P..JlH:)R
~ii>J(,; 

Al'r:'A'JQf: 'lAW: ll ..:)t llo 111.:.11 'ttf';f I.,..;-Ii)IJ'lnl .. ,; IJ"l"l',; -A "H.t(~o;,· SJJjl 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Wade Robson, 2~;; Mark Brunell, 37; Rita Rudner, 54; Cassandra Peterson, 58 
Happy Birthday: This is a great year to update your skill•· or to grow in new di­rections. Don't let anger get in the way of making the right decision, especially with family matters. Remember that the best way to get what you want is by com­promise and hard work. Your numbers are 6, 24, 26, 29, 3~-. 46 
ARIES {March 21-Aprlll9): It's one step forward and tw·> steps back, however, 
. progress will be made if you don't give up. Money is in the• stars and an unusual opportunity will bring you closer to one of your life-long d: :cams. 5 stars TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A look at what you can do hr others will help you realize how well off you are. An older friend or relative wi: I appreciate whatever you can do to make their life easier. 3 stars GEMINI {May 21-June 20): You'll be torn between an emotional issue and doing what's necessary. Stop putting off the inevitable. Onte you've put things behind you, new doors will open and the chance to meet nc• w people and start new relationships will unfold. 3 stars CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take stock of things and yo1; will realize you are doing just fine. A little romance or doing things with family will help you con­vince everyone around you to do things your way. Don't be fooled by someone who is using you to fmd out personal information. 5 stars LEO (July 23-Aug-22): Get out and have some fun but don't let it cost you too much. Emotional matters will be difficult to deal with. Put 1hem on the back burner until you have a better handle O!J. how you actually J<~l. Don't commit to something you are unsure about. 2 stars VIRGO (Aug-23-SepL 22): Matters that concern your liviag arrangements may be challenged. Upset and anger will not solve the problem l:ut being understand­ing and compassionate will. You can count on a relative's or close friend's sup­port. 4 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your fast reaction will be what saves you from making a costly mistake. Travel may be enticing but do wh.;.t you can over the phone or Internet. Do something nice for someone and you •:an count on receiv­ing help in return. 3 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov_ 21): You'll be pulled in too man) directions, especially where money matters are concerned. If you take on too mu<:h of a financial burden, you will have difficulty recovering your losses. Fm:us on positive changes that will cut your overhead and reduce stress. 3 sta1s SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dee. 21): Don't let your emotion:: get the better of you. You will be quick to blame everyone around you for y~:ur own shortcomings. Before you dig yourself into a hole, do a reality check and make some minor ad­justments along with a couple of apologies. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dee. 22-Jan-19): Don't lend, donate or tak" on someone else's responsibilities. You have enough to contend with already a11d there is money to be made if you spend your time working on a deal. Don't ge . sidetracked. 3 stars AQUARIUS (Jao. 20-Feb. 18): Take advantage of any opp•>rtunity to learn something new, make extra cash or land an exciting job. Th•' time is right to expand your horizons and move on to bigger and better thin::s. Put your heart into whatever you do. 4 stars PISCES (Feb_ 19-Mareh 20): Think again if you have plana to travel or make expensive changes to your surroundings. You have to be mo·:e prudent if you don't want to end up in a tight fmancial spot. Someone with more experience will be able to guide you. 2 stars 
Birthday Baby: You are enthusiastic and eager to bring about change. You love a challenge. You are charming when you get your way and rel•mtless when faced with adversity. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun, eugenialast.cllmjor confidential consultations 

1H6.T :&X::8.61iroU:0 .,{( '1FD (~ AtiiE hy H ..ni X1111hll 
"""I ~.."" .>:l!jrim1 
u....,, II , ... I.,.J-'.• 
.) ..... i-... ... f'T/1"-N.: 
~ 'f,2,~! 
..... ,·II
It -f..'-'•!! 
...·....• -···· 
-,... , I 
~I
.:~-;." !:if.·,··
~::: ;·...\. 
~-_.:(.:
:-::.·::: .._/!~ 
r-"1 
.... / ,.
., ... ---. 
'I!! \'.7 ~_. 
EA5~' n:: 
\••i-.f:t..t c-_..r...:::: 


f-YNJ W!W'Ql' 1:1'1'1 o'jro:iQo"ll~ ~ M'lll t:l'l'l' ,;IIlli' I.... P.ol'r:'A'J>:If, Ill<:; ,;• ~wll'o'jt:l'l'l''' 
OO.oi;'oW.OO\ 
-

CROSSWORD 
Across Liquor holder in 
a coat pocket 6 Wonderment 9 Taxi sounds 14 Milk: Prefix 15 First word of 
every Robert Ludlum title but one 
16 Extreme 17 Ward off 18 Texas tea 19 Sectors 20 "Just like that!" 22 Electronic toll-
collecting system in the Northeast 
23 Walk in water 24 In the past 25 "Not on your 
life!" 30 Torment in Show (Westminster prize) 32 Temporary drop 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

34 Subj. in drawing class 
35 Cargo area 
36 Rick's "Casablanca" love 
37Holiday_ 
38 Planning detail 
40 Gold standards 
42 "Yeah, wanna 
start somethin'?" 45 War ender 46 Create, as a 
phrase 47 No-goodnik 50 "The Sopranos" 
clip? ... or where you might hear 20-, 25-and 42­Across 
54 Continent separator 55 Embargo 56 One of the Carpenters 57 Make joyous 58 Israeli-invented gun 
Puzzle by Daniel Kantor 33 Good time, slangily 35 Frequent target of engine wear 36 Circus animal 
enclosure 38 Tarnished 39 Walk to and fro 
40 Old TV feature 
41 Start of an Ella Fit;;:gerald standard 
43 Timely news bulletin 
44 Like some sacred art 
47 Afrikaner 
48 Legal rights org. 
49 Successful conclusion of a negotiation 
50 Labyrinth 51 Pieces of work? 52 Nair competitor 53 Conclusions 55 Vehicle with a 
route 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


-----~~----------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

Tuesday, September 18, 2007 page 24 
WOMEN's INTERHALL 
Lyons crushes Badin; Whirlwinds beat Phoxes 
the difl'cmncc for Lyons. The pair ;md she later eonnecu~d with Lundy needed some added motivation, he llowever, she also threw two
By SAM WERNER, MATT 
accounted lilr all 20 poinl<>. on a swing pas ..c; for a 3-yard score. decided that before every game, a interceptions, om~ to Lyons juniorGAMBER, GRIFFIN Along with a defimsc that allowed Connell !inished with five comple­difl'erent person will give a last­Shannon. Brady and another toDASSATTI, JARED JEDICK, just one first down in the second tions on seven attempts. She also minute pep ta.lk 111 his players. Lyons senior .Joanna Collins.
and PETER REISENAUR half, the Ijons ofl(msiVP unit domi­rushed nine times and converted Lorenz, one of Gelchion's dose Hackney was al'i<J scu~ked live~ tim1~s
Sports Writt•rs 
nated thn game. JM:o extra poin1s, one on the ground friendc;, got the eall on opening day, and rarely broke loosn on any of her "We've got a 'grnat mix of' young and one through tl1e air. but next week's speaker remains a 10 r.arrins. Lyons 20, Badin 6 talnnt, senior leadership and great Lundy had four receptions and six mystery. 
Sophomore Andrew Lornnz's coaching," Connell said. "IIaving a rlliTies, including an ankle-breaking "It was definitely a surprise," Welsh Family 27, Pangborn 12 humorous yet pownrful pro-game lot of people who didn't have experi­40-yard run. The stellar output Lundy said of Lorenz's presence. "I Expnrinnee played a large role in speech to I:)IOns sd tlu• tone early as ence, we knew we wanted to run came in her organized football think it may have been the X-lactor. Wnl<>h Family's win over l'angborn tim Lions rolled to a 20-6 victory ~he ball a lot. [Lundy)'s got speed, debut. We'll just have to see who it i<> next Sunday. ovnr Badin Sunday in th1~ season and I've played quarterback before "I knew I'd be getting the ball a lot, week." The u~am ha<; looked Ul VllUlrans opener. ... wn had r.hmnistry off the bat." so I'd really have to focus," Lundy Badin junior quarterback Katie of la'it year's U~<Ull, whieh went 4-0 
"Hememhnr, girls. Sweat is tho And that chemistry certainly said. "Once the game get<> going, it's Rosn I Iackney was the victim of a in Qle regular sna<>on and lost in tho pnrfumn of accomplishment," translau~d int11 rosull<> on the !ield. hectic and fa<>t-paeed. My mind wac; heavy pass rush and suffocating sec­quarterfinals of the playolls. for Loronz said to his squad. Either Connell or Lundy touched just going a hundred miles a ondary. Hackney managed to con­leadership tl1i<; season. 
A young but potent backlidd com­tim ball on 24 of the Uons' 29 plays ininute." nect on seven of her 15 pass "We've got a really good team prised of sophomoro quarterback lhnn scrimmage. Connell's 20-yard l,yons junior coach Matt Gelr.hion atu~mpt<>, inducting a 12-yard first­chnmi<>try going on right now, and I Claim Comwll and freshman run­umchdown run on the I jons' fourth had his team well prepared for the half touchdown strike that cut the ning back Neva I .undy provnd to be ollimsivn play gave them a 7-0 lead, season opener. Realizing hi<> team lead to 7-6. see OPENER/page 21 
MEN's SoccER 
Jamie Clark follows dad's footsteps to Notre Dame sidelines 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
They say thn apple doesn't fall from tho tree, and with Notn~ Dame assistant coach .Jamie Clark, hP couldn't got much doser. 
Clark. agn :w, is entering his second year as a part of the Irish coaching staff that is lwaded by his fatlwr, Bobby Clark. Tlw son, though, is no stranger to coaching the game. The younger Clark got his first taste of thn whistle at his 
.... father's rlinies when hn was 
~~ 
just 12 years old. ''lin's always been around it," 
Like father, like son 
Bobby Clark said. "He was always the organizer no matter what game he was playing." 
Clark was a three-sport ath­lete in high school and went to North Carolina to play soccer for the Tar I!eels. In his sopho­more season, he transferred to Stanford to play under their new head coach -his father. 
Under his father's tutelage, .Jamie was a two-time All­American and led Stanford to its first-ever Final Four appearance. 
lie was drafted by the Colorado Rapids of MLS when he graduated in 1999. 
After a nagging groin injury ended his career, .Jamie Clark moved to New Mexico where he got an assistant coaching job at the University of Nnw Mexico. Hobby Clark said he never pressured his son into coach­ing, but it seems that was just 
natural for him. 
"As a player I always felt he had great field awareness and great game awareness," Bobby Clark said. "I felt like he was a coach on the field at that time." 
His success followed him as the Lobos went 61-16-8 during his tenure and lost in the 2005 National Championship in his final game on the New Mexico sidelines. 
That year, the Irish lost two long-time assistant coaches, and Bobby Clark found himself with a void to fill. 
".Just out of the blue I thought, 'Well, Jamie would be an ideal replacement,"' he said. "I just didn't know if he would want to come baek to coach with his dad." 
.Jamie Clark jumped at the chance and, along with Chad 
see CLARK/ page 22 


NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Team struggles in front of both nets 
Allor giving up a combined nine goals to Stanli1rd and Santa Clara last wonk. Notre Damn m<u~h Handy Waldrum said he would bn shoc~ked if his dnlimsn did not pnr­limn bnttnr Fran Tolan at the Inn at Saint Mary's 
Sports Writer 

.. Classic this p<L<>t week­end. Ami if you looked at box scorns from tlw t.ournanwnt, it would seem that tlw back line showed marked improvmnnnt. Tlw Irish surnlndnrnd just six shol<> nach to Princeton and ( >klahoma State, whiln going 1-1 on the wneknnd. But, of those I 2 shot<>. linn· linmd thn bark of tlw net. In comparison, the Irish tallied 35 
shot'> in the two contest<> and managed to score just five times. Notrn Dame had it<> way with both the Tigers and the Cowgirls from cmn penalty box to the other but did not exeeute well rwar !lither net. 
Thn Irish lost 7-1 to Santa Clara I<L'>t Friday and gave up most of the goals whiln trying to dig t.lwmsPivns out of an early hole. 
"What fans Iwnd to under­stand about Santa Clara is we could have n<L<>ily kept it dose," Waldrum said. "But we li~ll bc1hind quiekly and had to keep gambling to try to tie it up." 
This wenkend, the Irish contin­ued t.lwir habitof litltering early in games. They surnmdernd the 
see EXECUTING/page 22 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish lead after two rounds of play 
Park paces squad with three-under par 141 on first day 
By LORENZO REYES Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is trying to keep its early season momentum going at the Napa Hiver Grill Cardinal Cup in Simpsonville, Ky., and those efforts arc paying off as the team sits in first place after two rounds on th1~ first day. 
The Irish played the first 36 holes Monday and ended with a comfortable eight­stroke lead. 
Their six-over par 582 (29 2-290) pnrformance topped host Louisville, which is in second place with a 590 (295-295) mark on the day. 

Augusta State is eurrently in third plar.e after carding a total score of 592 (289-303), two strokes better than Georgia State. Middle Tennessee State rounded out the top five with a 602 (302­300). 
Notre Dame's entire lirwup played consistently Monday, with freshman So-Hyun Park leading the charge. 
After placing second at the Cougar Classic, Park shot a thren-under par 141 at the Cardinal Club to take the lnad into Tuesday's final round. 
Middle Tennessee State senior Taryn Durham trails Park by just one stroke. 
A week after junior co-cap­tain Lisa Maunu set a team record at the Cougar Classie, she fired rounds of 70 and 76, putting her in a four-way tie for fifth place. Maunu's score was identieal to that of sophomore teammate Kristin Wetzel. 
Wetzel shot the top round of her collegiate career in the final 18 holns of the day on the way to her two-over par 146 (75-71) perform­
. ance. Fellow sophomore Annie Brophy ended the day as the third Irish golfer in the top 20, finishing in a tin for 17th with her six-over par 150 (77-73) play. 
Hounding out the Notre Dame lineup was freshman Kalin Conway, who sits in a :~2nd-place tie thanks to a nine-ovnr 153 (78-75). 
Th(~ third and final round of the Cardinal Cup will IH' played today at 8:30 a.m. Live hole-by-hole scoring of the tournament is availabl!l at www.golfstatresults.eom. 
Contact Lorenzo Reyes at lreyes@nd.edu 






